THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. INSTITUTED MDCCCLVIII. VOLUME XV.A year-booe: OF MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND THEIR ALLIED SCIENCES, 1861. liDlTED BV DB. liAELEY, DE. HANDFIELD JONES, mi. IIULKE, DR. GEAILT HEWITT, axd DE. SANDEESON. THE NEW Sn)ENILlM SOCIETY. LONDON. MDCCCLXIIi ■I ' ■ ROYAL. COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS uur. '.nY CLASS I OlCTfoT ACCM. SOUflCE i DATE I t. ADLAUU, li.VKTIlOLOlIEW CLOSE;1 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES Of MEDICINE. BY aEOEGE HAELEY, M.D., tEOFESSOE OF MEDICAL JTJEISPRUDENCE IN UXITEESITX COILEGE, HONOEAKT PHYSI- CIAN TO THE ST. PANCEAS AND NOETHEBN DISPENSAET, LONDON, COBEES. MEMB. OF THE EOTAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE OF MADRID, ETC. MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. Ellis.—Demonstrations of Anatomy; a Guide to the hno wledge of the Human Body by Dissection, ^tli edit., illustrated. 8vo, Loudon. Geat, Henkt.—Anatomy, Descriptive and Surgical. 2nd edit., en- larged, illustrated. 8vo, Londou, pp. 816. WiLSOX, Erasmus.—The Dissector's Manual of Practical and Surgical Anatomy. 2nd edit. i2mo, London. (25 additional woodcuts.) DuRSY.—Text-hook of Anatomy, ist part, Lahr, i860. DuTAL, MabcellijST.— General Atlas of Topographic Descriptive Ana- tomy and Operative Medicine, ^c. Paris, i860. GiEALDis, J. A.—Anatomical Researches on the Innominate hody. (Mon- thyon prize.) Plates. 8vo, Paris, 1861. FuNKE, Prof. Otto.—Text-hook of Physiology. 3rd edit., vols, ii and iii. 8vo, Leipzig, i860. LuDwiG, Prof. C.—Text-hook of Human Physiology. 2nd edit. 2 vols. 8vo, Leipzig. MoLEscuoTT, Prof. J.—Physiological Sketch-hook. i2mo, Giessen, 1861. Moquin-Tandon, a.—Elements of Medical Zoology. Translated and edited by Eobert Thomas Hulme. 8vo, London, 1861, pp. 423. Dalton, Johk, jun.—A Treatise on Utiman Physiology. 2nd edit. 8vo, Philadelphia and Loudon, 1861, pp. 690. I YiERORDT, C.—Elements of the Physiology of Man. 2nd part. 8vo, C Tiibingen, i860. BuDOE, J.—Handbook of the Special Physiology of Man. Revised edit., istpart. 8vo, "Weimar, i860. BoMicci, P.—Summary of Human Physiology. 8vo, Perugia, i860. EcKiiARDT, C.—Contributions to Anatomy and Physiology, vol. 2, part . 2. 4to, Giessen, i860. Gegenbaur, Q.—On the Boundaries and Differences of the Animal and Vegetable Kijigdoms. ^to, Leipzig, i860.REPORT ON THE INSTI'J UTES OF MEDICINE. Grant, Prof. Egbert E.—Tabula)' View of the primari/ Divisions of the Animal Kingdom. (A course of recent zoology.) 8vo, Loudou, 1861. Freke, Dr. H.—On the Origin of SiJecies hy means of Organic Affinity. 8vo, London, 1861. KoLLiKER, Prof. Albert.—History of the Development of Man md of the Higher Animals. 8vo, Leipzig, 1861. Ogilvie, Dr. George.—The Genetic Cycle in Organic Nature; or, the succession of Foi'ms in the Propagation of Plants and Animals. Small Svo, Aberdeen and London, 1861, pp. 216. Bathke, H.—History of the Development of the Vertebrata. "With a preface by Professor Kblliker. 8vo, Leipzig, 1861. "Wagner, Eudolph.—Zoological Anthropological Researches. 4to, Gottiugen, 1861. Saint-Hilaire, Is. Geof.—On the Anthropological Classification, and particularly on tJie principal Types of the Human Species. Journ. de la Physiol., Jan., 1861, p. 9. Dttnn, E.—Ujiity of the Human Species. London, 1861. Leslie, Dr. Datid.—The Laws of Vital Selection. Edin. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 250. Hessling, v., and Kollmann. Photographic Atlas of General Animal Histology, ist part. Leipzig, 1861. Humphrey,' G. M.—The Human Foot and the Hmian Hand. i2mo, Cambridge, 1861. Hunter, John.—Essays and Observations on Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, Psychology, and Geology; being his posthumous papers on those subjects. Ai-ranged (with Notes and Lectures on the Hun- terian Collection of Fossil Eemains) by Eichard Owen. Portrait. 2 vols. Svo, London, 1861. Beale, Prof. L. S.—(i) On the Structure of the Simple Tissues of the Human Body. London, pp. 203. (2) A Descriptive List of the Microscopical Sp)teimens illustrating seven Lectures on the Stnictu/re and Groivth of Tissues, S^c. Royal Coll. of Phys., Loudon, pp. 16. (3) Hoto to loorJc luitli the Microscope; a course of Lectures on the Practical Use of the Instrument and Microscopical Manipulation. Illustrated. London, 1861, pp. 124. The Wonders of the Microscope. Part 12. London, 1861. Merton, Dr. E.—The History of Medicine. Vol. i. Svo, Loudon. Harris, Dr. Chaplin A.—A Dictionary of Medical Terminology, Den- tal Surgery, and the Collateral Sciences. 2nd edit. Svo, London, pp. 800. SCHERER, Prof J. 3.—Text-book of Chemistry. Vol. i, parts 2 and 3. Svo, Vienna, 1859-60. Odling, "William.—^ Manual of Chemistry, Descriptive and Theo- retical. London, 1S61. Bowman.—Introduction to Practical Chemistry. Edited by 0. L. Bioxam. 4th edit. London, 1861. FOWNES, George.—.4 Manual of Elementary Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. 8th edit. Svo, Loudon, 1861, pp. 771.3 I MA>-UALS, GE.VKllAL TREATISES, LECTUKES, ETC. Galloway, Eobeet.—A Manual of Qualitative Amh/sis. 3i'd edit. 8vo, London. TitOMSoK, Dr. M.VB.-n^.y:.—Anal!jtical Tables for the use of Students oj Practical Chemistri/. Sutherland and Knox, 1861, pp. 20. Du LcXA, Prof. (Madrid).—Chemical Studies on the Atmosphere of Madrid, i860, pp. 54. x i Atkiksok, E.—Elementary Treatise on Physics. London, 1861, G-BOVE, W. 'R.—The Correlation of Physical Forces. 3rd edition. Svo, London. Hogg, Jabez.—Elements of Experimental and Natural Philosophy. 2nd edit., illustrated. London, 8to, pp. 560. rAEADAT, M.—Course of six Lectures on the various Forces of Matter; and their relations to each other. Edited by "Wm. Crookes. 3rd edit. i2mo, London, 1861. Smith, Dr. Edwaed.—Health and Disease, as influenced hy the Daily, Seasonal, and other Cyclical Changes in the Human System. Small 8vo, London, 1861. Hughes Beitstett, Prof. J.—On the Molecular Theory of Organization, Lancet, May 25th, p. 504. The author directs attention— 1st. To a description of the nafciu-e and loode of origin of organic molecules. 2nd. To a demonstration of the fact that these molecules possess inherent powers or forces, and are present in all those tissues which manifest vital force. 3rd. To a law which governs the combination, arrangement, and be- havioui' of these molecules duriug the development of organized tissue. In nature, the breaking down of one substance is the necessary step to the foi'mation of another; and the histolytic or disintegrative mo- lecules of one period become the histogenetic or formative molecules of another. "With regard to nutrition, food and all assimilable material must be reduced in the first instance to the molecular form, while the fluid from which the blood is prepared—viz., chyle—is essentially moleculai*. Most of the secretions originate in the effusion of a fluid into the gland-follicles, which becomes molecular and gives rise to cell-formation. In muscle, the power of contractility is inherently associated with the ultimate molecules of which the fasciculus is composed; and, lastly, the gray matter of the sensory ganglia and of the brain, which furnishes the conditions necessary for the exercise of secretion, and even of intellect itself, is associated with layers of molecules which are unques- tionably active in producing the various modifications of nei'vous force. These molecules are constant and permanent as an integral part of these tissues, as much as cells or fibres are essential parts of others, and their function is not transitory, biit essential to the organs to which they belong. These facts point to the conclusion that vital action, so far from being exclusively seated in cells, is also intimately associated with the elementary molecules of the organism, and that the development and4 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. growth of organic tisBuea are primarily oAviug to the successive for- mation of histogenotic and histolytic molecules. "Bennett tliinka, moreover, that not only development, hut growth and secretion, ah«orption and excretion, are only diflerent names given to histogenetic and histolytic processes, and these are hrought ahout hy formative and disintegrative molecules. In directing attention to a molecular theory of organization, it is not the author's wiwh to interfere in any way with the well-observed facts on which physiologists have based what has been called the cell- theory of growth. This last will require modification, in so far as un- known processes of growth have been hypothetically ascribed to the direct metamorphosis of cell-elements. But a cell once formed may produce other cells by buds, by division, or by proliferation, Avithout a new act of generation, in the same manner that many plants and animals do ; and this fact comprehends most of the admitted observa- tions having reference to the cell doctrine. The molecular, he says, is therefore in no way opposed to a true cell-theory of growth, but con- stitutes a wider generalization and a broader basis for its operations. Neither does it give any countenance to the doctrines of equivocal or spontaneous generation. It is not a fortuitous concourse of molecules that can give rise to a plant or animal, but only such a molecular mass as descends from parents, and receives the appropriate stimulus to act in certain directions. The author concludes by saying that the theory he has endeavoured to establish on histological and physiological groimds is fuUy supported by all the known facts of disease and of morbid growths, which further serve to show that pathology, so far from being cellular, is, in truth, molecular. Beale, Prof.—Lectures on tlie Structure and O-roivth of tlie Tissues of the Human Body. Delivered at the Royal College of Physicians, April—May. Micros. Journ., July, p. 183 , and Oct., p. 235. Med. Times and Graz., April and May. In speaking of connective tissue, the author remarks that the common theory is that it exists everywhere, as a common bond and matrix to all other tissues. But it can scarcely be said to exist in young animals or in very small animals—the mouse, for example. It is commonly described as consisting of cells and intercellular substance, the latter being identical with white, fibrous tissue ; and this has been assumed to be formed by the fibrillation of solidified exudation from the blood. Dr. Beale's researches led him to believe that white, fibrous tissue consists of masses of germinal matter, imbedded in formed material. Of connective tissues there are many varieties, Uie areolar, white, yellow in various forms, and the mucous tissue, as in the um- bilical cord and vitreous humour. All of these pass by imperceptible gradations into cartilage and bone, lu white, fibrous tissue the masses . of germinal matter are continuous; in cartilage they are discontinuous and isolated by the formed uiaterial. Most elementary parts pass into connective tissue. Query:—Is it, then, anything special, or is it ill- developed tissue ? A'irchow believes tlie cells of areolar tissue to com-5 MANUALS^ GENBUAL TRKATISJiS, LECTUllES, ETC. I municate by tubes as in boue, aud that tlie yellow elastic tissue is tubular, thus fonniug a tubular, anastomosing, nutritive system, capable also of propagating morbid processes; but such anastomoses are be- lieved by the author to exist only as deceptive appearances, and not as realities. The appearance of tendon is particularly shovni, with its rows of elongated particles rendered evident by acetic acid, coloured by carmine, and most numerous in the young. Dr. Beale believes that the true interpretation is to be found by calling the nuclei germinal matter, and the white, glistening fibres its formed material. The theory of morbid growths the author explains by saying that tissue may be supposed to have an unlimited potentiality of growth, but, in a normal state, it is restrained by vai'ious circumstances, of which the action of the lymphatics, and the growth of the lymph-corpuscles within them, whereby excess of nutrient matter is taken up, is probably one. But if the natural limiting powers be interfered with, any tissue may grow. A simple tissue, as the fibrous, may generate a tumour like itself; in the more complex, as muscle, the resemblance soon ceases. Thus, scirrhus of the pylorus appears to begin with an increase of the muscle-cells in number; next, they get a fibrous look, although they retain the structiu-al form, just as the muscular fibres of the uterus of the mouse may be seen to shade oft' into areolar tissue, by every possible gradation. Those structures which naturally grow the fastest may give rise to the most rapid and unrestrainable morbid growths; and in these two parts are distinguishable, viz., a matrix of exagge- rated fibrous tissue and descendants of the normal gland- or tissue-cells, in every degree of alteration. Between a cancer-cell and the natural cell or elementary part of the tissue there may be every gradation. With regard to the propagation or diftusion of morbid growths, he gave the analogous instance of transplantation of tissues, as of hair, teeth, and periosteum, and expressed his belief that exti-emely minute spherical portions of the germinal matter may find their way into the blood- vessels and lymphatics, and be deposited and grow in other organs. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' May 4th to 25th.) Satoby, Wm. S. (Bartholomew's).—On the relation of the Vegetable and Animal to the Inorganic Kingdom. Lancet, June 8th, p. 553 ; and June 15th, p. 579. In this lecture, which was delivered at the Eoyal Institution, Savory remarks that plants and animals, when viewed in the relation in which they stand to inorganic substances, may fairly be regarded as together constituting one gi-eat kingdom of nature—the organized. For how- ever Avidely their more advanced members may be separated, there can be no denial of the fact that plants and animals are connected by common characters—those very characters by which they are especially distinguished from the inorganic kingdom. Very many of the proposed means of distinction between organized and inorganic bodies apply with great force to the more advanced animals aud plants, but they are found to be at fault when tested by those cases in which organization and life appear to be reduced to their simplest terms. The supposed essential difference in structure between organized andREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF JIEDICINE. 6 inorganic bodies has been, and is still, very generally stated to be that, ■whereas the structure of an inorganic substance is homogeneous, the structure of organized bodies is heterogeneous, even the simplest forms presenting at least a distinction of cell-wall and cell-contents. The author not only believes in the existence of simpler tissues which have been de- veloped independently of the agency of cells, but also aHserts that it may be shown that in the development even of the most complex tissues cells liave no share. He says that muscular fibre, for example, is formed by the aggregation of cytoblasts, and their investment by surrounding blastema. No nucleated cells are concerned in any way in the process, and that further growth and development of the fibre is by the addition of fresh substance to its exterior. "When speaking of the " vital principle," the author remarks that our knowledge of the vital processes has not been in any measure advanced by the assumption of what has been styled a " vital principle "—an empirical term, which, like some others, when employed in physiology, is, even at the best, equivalent to nothing more than the final letters of the alphabet in an algebraical formula; for it is, when used in its least objectionable sense, a mere expression of something unknown. But the assumption of such an agent or principle, however designated, annihilating or suspending the operation of forces acting elsewhere, has not proved altogether harmless in its influence upon the progress of knowledge. By referring all vital actions to this obscure agency, whUe nothing was thereby explained, inquiry was, to a great extent and for a long while, checked. Many, dazzled by the idea that the nature of vital phenomena was exalted by thus associating them with some mysterious and peculiar principle apart from and opposed to those agencies which act elsewhere, missed the grander conception that even in the vital functions may be recognised the operation of forces, some of which, at least, are common to both kingdoms, while between these and others which appear to be peculiar to living tissues it is probable that some relation may exist like what we luiow exists between the chemical and physical forces. Finally, Savory clearly points out the fact that the gap between man and the animals around him is ever narrowing, that the separation of the animal and vegetable kingdoms is gradually becoming less distinct, and that the organized and inorganized worlds gradually approach each other as science advances, and knowledge becomes more extended. EiCHAEDSOK, Dr.—On tie Phenomena of Life. Lettsomian Lectures. Med. Times and Gaz., March and, p. 229. In the notice of the second lecture, given in the ' Medical Times and G-azette,' it is stated that four propositions were introduced into this lecture ;—(i) That caloric is the primary source of motion in nature, and that it is, therefore, the source of life in so far as motion represents life. (2) That the evolution of animal caloric takes place mainly in respiration. (3) That the combination of the oxygen of the air with the carbon of the blood is due to the extreme distribution of the carbon over the capillary surfaces ; and (4) that caloric is the primary source of animal motion, and is alone sufficient to restore miisculai* irritability.MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 7 These points were all fully elaborated, and many of _ the modem views, such as the view that the iron of the blood-cells is the carrier of oxygen for the production of heat in the systemic cii-cuit were closely combated. The last proposition Avas left for the concluding lecture of the course. The lecture on this occasion opened with an experiment. An animal destroyed before the lecture hour by chloroform was placed on the table, and a tube inserted in the aorta. Water of a temperature of 115° was then slowly injected, when the limbs, as well as the muscles of the trunk and neck, underwent rapid and vigorous movement. Helmholtz, Prof.—On the application of the Law of Conservation of Force to Organic Nature. Proc. Eoy. Inst., and Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, p. ^6g. In a lecture delivered at the Eoyal Institution, Helmholtz remarks that the most important progress in natural philosophy by which the present century is distinguished has been the discovery of a general law which embraces and rules all the various branches of pbysics, che- mistry, and pbysiology. This law at present is commonly known by the name of " tbe principle of conservation of force." It might be better, perhaps, to call it, with Mr. Eankine, " the conservation of energy." The meaning of the law of conservation of energy may be ex- pressed by saying that every force in nature, when it effects any alteration, loses and exhausts its faculty to effect the same alteration a second time. But while, by every alteration in nature, that force which liaa been the cause of this alteration is exhausted, there is always another force which gains as much power of producing new alterations in natiu'e as the iirst has lost. Although, therefoi'e, it is the nature of all inorganic forces to become exhausted by their own working, the power of the whole system in which these alterations take place is neither exhausted nor increased in quantity, but only changed in form. Some special examples will render this law more easily understood than any general theories. To commence with gravity, that most general force, which not only exerts its influence over the whole universe, but which, at the same time, is the means of moving a great number of our machines. By the force of a falling weight another weight can be raised, as, for example, the falling water in a water-mill may raise the weight of a hammer. The amount of work cannot, however, be gi-eater than the product of the weight of water which is falling down, and the height from which it falls. There is another form of mechanical motive power—velocity. The velocity of any body in this sense, if it is producing work, is called vis viva, or the living force of that body. There are many examples of it—for instance, the ball of a gun. "When shot off, with great velocity, it has an immense power of de- stroying, but when it has lost its velocity, is quite powerless. In the same sense, the velocity of the air is motive power, for it can drive windmills, and by the machinery of the windmills do every kind of mechanical work. Therefore, velocity in itself is a motive force. Another example is the elasticity of a bent spring. It can do work, it can move machines. The springs of the watch and cross-bow, for8 HEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. example, ai-o bent b}' tlie force of the liuman arm, and they become in that way reservoirs of mechanical power. The meclianical power which is communicated to them by tlie force of the luiman arm is afterwards ^iveu out, by a Avatch, gradually, during the next day, while by the cross-bow the power is spent suddenly. The elas- ticity of air can be a motive power in the same way as the elasticity of solid bodies; if air is compressed, it can move other bodies; for instance, the air-gun acts on the same principle as the cross-bow. The air is compressed by the force of the human arm; it becomes a re- servoir of mechanical power, and, if it is shot off, the power is commu- nicated to the ball in the form of vis viva, and the ball has afterwards the same mechanical power as is communicated to the ball of a gun loaded with powder. Tlie elasticity of compressed gases is also the motive power of the inightiest of our engines—the steam-engine, but here the case is different; the machinery is moved by the force of the compressed vapours, but the vapours are not compressed by the force of the human muscles, as in the case of the compressed air-gun. The compressed vapours are produced immediately in the interior of the boiler by the heat which is commimicated to the boiler from the fuel. In this case, therefore, the heat comes in the place of the force of the human arm, so this example proves that heat is also a motive power. On the other hand, heat can also be produced by mechanical power, namely, by friction and the concussion of inelastic bodies. A piece of iron can be brought to a high temperature, so that it may become glowing and luminous, by only beating it continuously with a hammer. In the steam-engine it is evident that heat is the origin of motive power, but the heat is produced by burning fuel, and, therefore, the origin of the motive poAver is to be found in the fuel, that is, in the chemical forces of the fuel and in the oxygen with which the fuel combines. From this we see that the chemical forces can produce mechanical work, and be measured by the same units and the same measures as any other mechanical force. The whcjle universe represents such a system of bodies, endowed with different sorts of forces and energy, and, therefore, we conclude from the facts above named that the amount of working power or energy in the w^hole universe must ever remain the same. The first exposition of this general jjrin- ciple was published in Grermauy, by Mr. Mayer of Heilbron, in the year 1842. Mr. Mayer, (a medical man) was much interested in the solution of physiological questions, and he found out the principle of the conservation of force while engaged in physiological inquiries. At first sight, it seems very remarkable and curious that a physiologist should have discovered this law. It Avould appear more natural had it been detected by a natural philosopher or engineer; there is, indeed,^ however, so close a connexion between the fundamental questions of engineering and the fundamental questions of physiology that the same law applies to both. In order to get a machine into motion it is necessary to have motive j^ower, eitiier in the shape of water, fuel, or living animal matter. If the living body be compared to a steam-engine, there is a complete analog3^ Tiie iiviiig body changes a certain amount of food into carbonic acid, water, and nitrogen,9 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. and in so doing gives out a certain amount of heat and performs a certain amount of work. The living animal, therefore, like the dead machine, changes chemical force into mechanical power. The laws of animal life agree therefore with the law of the conservation of force. The idea that the physical forces in the living body are under the power of a "vital principle" is gradually yielding to the opinion that aU forces in the living body, as far as they produce chemical and mechanical effects, are of the same character as those of inorganic nature. This is the fundamental principle of physiology alluded to in the beginning of this abstract. The author concludes by saying that physiologists in the beginning of the present century thought that it detracted from the dignity and nature of life to suppose that the blood was driven through the vessels by the mechanical action of the heart, or that respiration took place according to the common laws of the diffusion of gases. The present generation, however, is hard at work finding out the real causes of the different processes going on in the living body. They believe that there is no other difference between the chemical and mechanical actions in the living body and out of it than can be explained by the more complicated circumstances and conditions under which these actions take place, and we have seen that the law of the conservation of force legitimises this supposition, OSSEOUS SYSTEM, ETC. ViECHOW (Berlin).— On the Theory of the Vertelrate ShiU. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd, p. 537. "Wabd, p. O.— Otitlines of Iltman Osteologij. 2nd edit. 32mo, London. HoLDEK, Ltjthee.—Suman Osteology; comprising a description of the Bones, toith delineations of the Attachments of Mmcles. 3rd edit. 8vo, London. CxELAifD, Dr. JoHK.—On the relations of the Vomer, Ethmoid, and Intermaxillary Bones. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 44, p. 163. HxHTL.—On the Pnewnatic Process of the Occipital Bone. Trans. Brit, Assoc., 1861. "WiLKENS, M.—On the Chemical Constitution of Cartilaginotis Tissue. Zeitsch. £ w. Zool., vol. x, p. 467. Canst., vol. i, jjp. 40, 43. LiTSCHKA.—The Steo-no-pericardial Ligaments of the Horse, Verb. d. Wiirzb. phys. med. 6es., vol. x. IIes-ke, H.— The Mechanism of the Douhle Joints tvith intervening Cartilages. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., i860. Lanqer.—T7<e Articulation of the Lower Jaw of Man. Sitz. ber. d. "Wiener Akad., vol. xxxix, p. 457. EoBix and Magitot.—Memoir on the Origin and Bevelojmient of the Dental Follicles until the time of Cutting the Teeth. Journ. de la Physiol., Jan., 1861, p. 60; April, p. 145. Salteu, S James A., M.B.—0;^ the Structure and Growth of the Tooth oj- Echinus. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 44, p. 166. lIuMPHiiEY, Hr.—Observations on the Oroivth of the Long Bones and of St imps. Trans. Eoy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. xliv, p. 117.REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 10 In the first part of this paper the author gave the results of some ex- periments with madder upon the bones of pigs. They were confirmatory ot the observations by Hales, Duhamel, Hunter, and others, that the elongation is efifected by addition at the ends of the shafts, the addition being efi'ected by growth and ossification of the epiphysial strata of cartilage on the side next to the shaft. The experiments further showed that the growth at the two ends of the shaft is unequal; that it is visually most rapid at the larger end of the bone ; and that it is always most rapid at the end where the epiphysial cartilage remains latest—that is to say, the growth proceeds most rapidly at the end where it is longest continued. The proper relation of the soft parts to the bone during the periods of growth is maintained by the interstitial growth of the periosteum, and by the continual sliding or shifting of that mem- brane upon the bone towards the end at which the growth is most rapid. This is attended with a certain traction upon the medullary and other A'essels, and determines the direction of the canal for the medullary artery, which is always slanted towards that epiphysis which is last ossified to the shaft, in other words, towards that epiphysial line in which growth proceeds most quickly. The amount of growth in the respective epiphysial lines corresponds exactly on the two sides of the body, though that on the one side is not afi'ected by the other, and it appears to regulate the amount of growth of the soft parts, for, if it be either arrested or accelerated, the growth of the soft parts is affected in a similar manner. In the second part of the paper the author showed the common impression, that a stump keeps pace with the rest of the body in its growth, to be erroneous. He did this by measurements made upon persons who had undergone amputation in childhood, and by experiments upon animals. The rate of growth varies. The stump rarely maintains its relation to the corresponding segment of the other limb, and it fails to do so most markedly in those parts in which the growth of the bone takes place chiefly at the low^r end. The informa- tion derived from the measurements of stumps is shown to be quite corroborative of the observations made, in the first part of the paper, respecting the growth of the bones at their epiphysial lines. The instances in which the bone of a stump elongates so as to be troublesome and require a portion to be removed are regai-ded by the author as quite exceptional, the phenomenon being probably due to some irritation, and being, therefore, of the same nature as the spicules and exostoses which are occasionally found upon stumps and on other parts of the skeleton. Olliee.—On the Longitudinal Ch-oivfh of the Bones of the Limbs, and the share tvhich their two extremities talce in the process. Comptes Eendus, Jan. 28tli, 1861, p. 130. By inserting leaden nails into the centre of the longitudinal diameter of the long bones of growdng animals—rabbits, fowls, sheep, &c., and after the lapse of some weeks or even months obserA-ing the relative position of the nails, this experimenter has discovered that the bones do not increase equally in length at both ends. I St. The humerus increases in length more at its upper than at its lower extremity. 2nd. In the radius and nlnn, on the other hand, the increase in length 1OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 11 takes place more below than above. As regards tbe lower extremity tlie reverse is observed, thus— 3d. The femiu", which is the analogue of the humerus, grows more at its lower than at its upper end. 4th. The tibia, on the contrary, increases chiefly at its upper part. It thus appears that in long bones the growth is most vigorous at the extremity where the epiphysis remains longest free, a fact which the author does not, however, look upon as the mere mechanical result of fusion of the opposite epiphysis, for this preponderance of the growth of the bone in one direction takes place even before either of the epiphyses has become united to the bone. Neither is it the result of the direc- tion of the nutritious artery, for that varies in different species of animals, while the above-mentioned law of growth remains unchanged. The practical inferences from these data are that the resection of the elbow-joint, in the growing individual, will entail no great eventual abridgment, whilst in the resection of the knee-joint the efiects will be much more marked. By the same rule, excision of the shoulder-joint will shorten the limb relatively more than that of the hip-joint, and resection of the wrist more than that of the ankle. See also ' Journ. de la Phys.,' Jan., 1861, p. 87, and— BEOWif-SEQTJARD's Bemarks on the preceding Memoir. lb., p. 137. FiiOTTREiTS.—Note on tlie Lo7igitudinal Development of Bones. Compt. E.endus, Feb. 4th, 1861, p. 186. In this communication the perpetual secretary of the Academy re- capitulates his old experiments on the growth of bones, and, in refer- ence to Ollier's observations, remarks that each end of every bone, in a definite degree, contributes to the lengthening of the bone, and insists on the complete dependence of this law on the invariable periods at which the epiphyses of shafts become incorporated. Contrary to Oilier, he says that growiih entirely ceases when the epiphysis becomes united to the shaft. Hence it is that the greatest lengthening of a long bone is, as Oilier observed, at the end at which the union between the epiphysis and shaft is latest in occurring. LuscuKA.—The Medullary Cells in the Diaplujses of the Tubular Bones of Man. "Wiirzb. Verb., vol. x, p. 175. Canstatt, vol. i, pp. 41, 97. This observer remarks that the granular, nucleated, roundish cells, found to occur not only in the spongy siibstance, but on the surface of the medulla, of long bones, are of especial interest, inasmuch as in hyper- femia, for instance, their number may undergo vast increase, and purulent collections and cancer may originate from them. In birds the bones which do not contain air are occupied by a marroAV chiefly com- posed of such cells, whilst those which contain air are lined with a membrane of connective tissue, which is paved with them. Maktins.—New comparison of the Pelvic and Pectoral lAmls of Man and the Manwialia, grounded on the torsion of the Humerus. Mole- schott's Untersuch., vol, vi, part 5. Canst., vol. i, p. 96. According to this inquirer—(i) The head of the tibia, in man and most mammalia, represents the combined, heads of the radius and ulnaKEl'OKT ON THK INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE. 12 a View Kupportecl by the fuet tliat iu some inarsupiiils tlicre is no such union, and tho patella—Ihe homologue of the olecranon—is connected with the (moveable) fibula. (2) 'J'he surlace of the outer condyle of the tibia and that of the patella together eorresjjond to the Higmoid cavity of the ulna, whilwt the surface of the inner condyle answers to the glenoid cavity of the radius. (3) The anterior tuberosity of the tibia is analogous to the up])er portion of the posterior margin of the ulna below the olecranon. (4) The upper third of the fibula is, therefore] considered to express only the fore part of the ulna. The muscles of the limbs are classified by the author into—(i) such as are inserted at both ends into homologous points of bone, (2) such as have but one homologous attachment, and (3) those without trace- able homologues. The diiierences in the course of the main arteries, and in the division and course of the nerves, of the two extremities, are very plausibly traced to a virtual torsion of the humerus. Htbtl.—Pneumatic Occipital Bones. "VVien. Med. Woshenschr., i860, No. 4^. Canst., vol. i, p. 95. Among 600 skulls the author found three which, at the occipital in- sertion of the rectus capitis lateralis, presented a flat eminence, about the size of a hazel-nut, containing cells in communication with those of the mastoid process. In one of the thi-ee this structure existed only on one side. Adams, William (Eoyal Orthop.)—On Curvatmes of the Spine. Med. Times and G-az., Sept. 7th, p. 235. The author makes the following statements regarding the healthy anatomy of the human sjiine:—The moveable portion of the spinal column, above the sacrum, is composed of twenty-four vertebrae, the bodies of which, except the two first bones, are separated from each other by the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, through the medium of which it may also be said that the bodies of the vertebrte indirectly articulate with each other; but the bones are directly connected only by the oblique articular processes, the situation of which, posterior to the bodies and to the spinal canal, it is important to bear in mind, as we shall see that in various movements of the body in which the spine is bent sideways the weight is thrown upon these articular processes, which are therefore liable to yield and become altered in form in the earliest stage of distortion of the spine. In the erect position of the body the weight is directly transmitted through the bodies of the ver- tebrae and the intervertebral cartilages, which, including that between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, are twenty-three in number. In a male five feet ten and a half inches high the spine gave the fol- lowing measurements: Total length of the spine above the sacrum (the measurement following the Indies, curves along the centres of the bones and cartilages) .... 2y6 Total length of tlie spine in a straight line, taken by a cord strained from tlie upper edge of the sacrum to tlie summit of the atlas .... 23'i Sum total of tlie tliickne^s of the twcmly-tbree intervertebral cartilages be- tween the sacrum and tlic axis, measured through tlieir centres . . S'9 Sum total of the thickness of the bodies of the twenty-four vertebra;, at their centres T713 MUSCULAU SYSTEM. Adams further remarks that, from a careful measurement of fourteen adult skeletons in the Eoyal College of Surgeons, including the skele- tons of the Irish and American giants and the Sicilian dwarf, as well as those from the Bushmen, Negro, Polynesian, and Australian races, he has found that the average lengtli of the spine—that is, taking its ver- tical height from the top of the atlas to the upper surface of the sacrum —forms, as nearly as possible, one third of the total height of the skele- ton. In seven instances this relative proportion is exact; in five, the spine is half an inch in excess ; in one, an inch iu excess ; and in one, half an inch less. When the measurement is taken along the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrfe, the curved form of the spine generally gives from one to two inches more in excess of the one third taken as the vertical height. The spine, therefore, varies in length, according to the height of the individual, with great regularity, always maintaiuiug, iu well-proportioned individuals, the relative proportion of one third to the total height of the skeleton. TnoMMER, C.—Tlie Chemical JVaticre of Clionclrogenous {or time) and of Collagenous {or hone) Cartilage. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. In this paper the author opposes the conclusion of Friedleben ('Tear-Book,' toI. ii, p. 19), that bone-cartilage only diflers from true cartilage because, beiug extracted by muriatic acid, it thereby suffers a change. Trommer, however, remarks that the acid does not affect true cartilage at ordinary temperatures, if it be subsequently completely removed by washing and by neutralization with ammonia, whilst, under the same circumstances, bone-cartilage is collagenous in its reactions. AndWilkens (Zeitschr. f w. z., vol. x, p. 467) objects to the view that the presence of sulphur distinguishes genuine chondrin. MUSCULAE SYSTEM. Maego, Th.—Om the Muscular Fibres of the Molliisca. A Contribution to the comjmrative Structure and Development of Muscular Tissue. Moleschott's TJntersuch., vol. vii, p. 165. SczElKOW.—Totoards the Histology of the Striated Muscles. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 215. The author confirms the results obtained by Botteher, and stated in 'Year-Book,' vol. i, p. 24. BocKDALEK, '^mx.^Contribution to the Anatomy of the Laryngeal Muscles. Oest. Ztschr., Nos. 4 and 16. Canst., vol. i, p. 97. Under the name of " posterior crico-thyroid," the author describes a muscle arising by a partly fleshy and partly tendinous attachment iust above the inferior point of insertion of the posterior crico-arytenoid and proceeding m a round bundle outwards and upwards, to be inserted'into the posterior margin of nearly all the inferior coruu of the thyroid car- tilage. This muscle occurred to the author in one out of every six sub- .|cct,s, always on one side only, and invariably in females. It was once found on both sides, and iu a man, by Patruban. It has already been14 IIKVOIIT ON THJi INSTITUTES OP MEDIClNi). described by Merkel (' Anat. u. Pbys. der Menschl. Stimme,' Leipzig, 1857). Q-RUBER.—Supeniumemry Muscles of the Chest. Mem. de I'Acad. de» Sc. de St. Petersb., vol. iii, a. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. The followiug anomalous pectoral muscles were lirst observed by the author:—(i) The "prie-clavicular," which was found three times in 122 bodies, and extends between the anterior surface of the manubrium sterni and the lower margin of the clavicle ; (2) the " pectoralis mini- mus," attached to the middle of the first costal cartilage and the cora- coid process; and (3) a muscle proceeding from the ends of the first and second costal cartilages, and, inferiorly, from the margin of the sternum, to its membranous insertion into the deep lamina of the sheath of the deltoid. Ttjenee, W., M.B. (Lond.)—On the Irregularities of the Omo-Hyoid Muscle; tvith remarks upon their hearings on the SiM-gical Anatomy of the Muscle. Ediu. Med. Journ., May, p. 982. As the omo-hyoid is naturally divided into two bellies, an anterior and a posterior, by an intervening tendon, the author finds it most con- venient to class the irregularities of the muscle into two gi'oups, viz.— ist. Irregularities of the posterior belly. 2nd. Irregularities of the anterior belly. ' Deviations from the normal arrangement of the posterior belly are more frequent than those of the anterior; for, of the twenty cases re- corded, the posterior belly was affected in seventeen instances, and of these eleven occui-red in female and six in male subjects.* The depar- ture from the noi'mal ai-raugement of the muscle consists in the posterior belly assuming a connexion to some portion or other of the clavicle. In eight cases this clavicular attachment was found on both sides of the neck, in foui* cases on the right side only, in five cases on the left side. The part of the clavicle to which the muscle was attached was generally the inferior surface; in the greater number of instances it was connected to the middle thii-d of this surface, next in frequency to the outer third, and very rarely, only one case, to the inner third, its insertion in this instance being concealed by the clavicular fibres of the sterno-mastoid. These do not include those constantly occurring cases where the cervical fascia binds down the muscle close to the clavicle, without any distinct attachment, however, taking place between them. This clavicular attachment of the posterior belly may be the only one that it possesses, so that the muscle may be said to arise from the clavicle, as was seen in nine out of the seventeen bodies in which an irregularity of the posterior belly was met with. 2nd. Irregularities of the anterior belly. Deviations from the normal arrangement of the anterior belly al-e neither so frequent nor so important as those of the posterior. Of the numerous subjects examined, not more than five presented examples of any noteworthy irregularity; two of these were conjoined with a cla- * There are a much larger proportion of female than male subjects dissected. The proportion is, therefore, about equal in the two sexes.MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 15 viciilar attachment of the posterior belly; in the remaining three the posterior belly was perfectly normal. In four out of the five cases the anterior belly became blended by its inner border with the adjacent margin of the sterno-hyoid muscle, so that it appeared to form with it a single, undivided plane of fibres. This intimate ^union_ of the two muscles was generally accompanied by a peculiar condition of the sterno-hyoid, a fibrous band extending from the intermediate tendon of the orao-hyoid, so as to divide the sterno-hyoid into two portions, an upper and a lower. Weismank, Aug.—On the Gh'oicth of the Striated Muscles, from obser- vations on the Froff. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 263. Canst., vol. i, p. 48. Unlike Margo, who advocates the exclusively interstitial growth of the muscular fibre, "Weismann is led to the conclusion that muscu- lar increase is mainly due to multiplication of the fibres by division, an act preceded by multiplication and bi-linear arrangement of the nuclei, and repeated in each succeeding generation of fibres. Stepha^t, Ph.—The Nticleiform Structwes of the Primitive Mmcular Bundles. Erlangen, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 45. Welkee, H.—The Nttcleiform Structures of the Striated Muscular Fibre, and the question of the existence of a Flasmatic Vascular System in Muscles. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 238. Canst., vol. i, p. 45. Stephan, who contends that the nuclei of the muscular fibres are nothing but lacuna} containing coagulable matter, is corrected by "Welker, who has, in the proteus, even succeeded in isolating the body in question. The latter observer decidedly negatives the opinion that these struc- tures together form an intercommunicating system, though he believes they imbibe from the capillaries plasma destined probably to restore the constitution of the fibre after a period of activity. Habless.—On Chemical and Ph/sical Processes in Muscular Substance- Deutsche Klinik, i860, April 38th. Canst., vol. i, p. 5. According to the author's researches—(i) A frog's muscle contracts more slowly than natural if it is fatigued or anaemic, diy or injected with syrup, or cooled to 40°. (2) The contraction is most rapid when the muscle has lain a little while in water, or has been warmed to 95°. (3) Cooling slightly lengthens the frog's muscles, warming to 95° greatly shortens them. The muscles of the mammalia are shortened by a heat of 112°, and are killed by a slightly higher temperature. (4) These phe- nomena are attributed by Harless to the coagulation of a certain albu- minous substance. Eeiser, K. — The Oj}eraiion ofI>ifferent Beagents on the Striated Muscular Filament. Zvirich, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 49. Under the guidance of Erey, the author carried out a series of expe- riments in extension of the earlier researches of Hackel, tending to show that the sarcous elements of the muscular fibre are cemented16 KEPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. transversely and longitudinally by two distinct substances, differing very remarkably in their comportment towards reagents. IIaeless, E.—(i) On the Chemical Altcralion of the Muscular Juice Warmth and Movement. Bayer. Aer/.tl. lutell. BL, i860, March. (2) Besearchcs on Muscular Substance. Siz.-ber d. Bayer. Acad., p. 94. Canst, vol. i, pp. 152, 243. Tlie author found that—(i) The fluid freshly expressed from muscle or extracted from it by water, precipitates (at about 11.3° in the case of mammals, and about 95° in that of frogs) a substance essentially similar to casein. (2) In the intact muscle tbis substance coagulates, after the circulation has ceased, by the influence of an acid which the ab.sence of a current of blood permits to accumulate. (3) The amount of this acid depends («) on the period which has elapsed since death occurred ; (i) on the species of the animal, and its condition before death ; and (c) on the temperature, being somewhat inci-eased by its reduction and much more so by its elevation. (4) The acid is not volatile, and is extracted by water, but not by alcohol. It is proved not to be phos- phoric acid. (5) The acid fermentation is favoured by moderate degrees of warmth and galvanism. (6) During life the acid is constantly neutralized by the alkalinity of the blood. (7) Eigor mortis depends upon the combined effects of the coagulation of the albuminoid substance and the operation of the free acid in impairing the elasticity and pliancy of the muscles. (8) The presence of free acid enhances the susceptibility of muscles to irritants, whence the increased irritability of muscles which are ill-supplied with blood. AuERBACH, L.—On Muscular Contractions caused hy Mechanical Irrita- tion in the Living Subject. Ber. d. Med. Sect. d. schles. GeseUsch., 1859, i860, p. 32. Canst., vol. i, p. 162. The author suggests that the contractions excited in muscles by per- cussing them is the essential result obtained by the tapping and beating which form part of the Swedish medical gymrfastics. In two among more than one hundred persons examined, the contraction was observed to progress in undulations towards the ends of the muscle. One of the persons was suffering from tuberculosis, the other from the eflects of ex- cessive exertion. Ettingee, r. Gr.—The Eelations of the Blood to Muscular Irritability. 8vo, Niirnberg, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 153. In experiments carried on with Harless the author found that frogs' muscles, from which the blood had been removed in considerable quantity, were far more irritable than those well supplied with it, although the latter more quickly recovered from fatigue than the anajmic muscles. KuHNE, W.—(i) Mi/olof/ical Inquiries. 8vo, Leipzig, i860. (2) On the Chemical Irritation of Muscles and Nerves, and its import with regard to the qiiestion of Irritability. Verb. d. sachs. GeseUsch., i860, p. 315. (3) Inquiries on Movements and Alterations of the Contractile Sub- stance. Verb. d. sachs. GeseUsch., 1859, p. 564. (4) On Porrefs Phenomenon in Muscle. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1860, p. 542. Canst., vol. i, pp. 46, 54, 152.17 JIUSCULAE SYSTEM. The author's inquiries ou the mode of termination of the muscular nerves may he summed up as follows:—He states that the sartorius of the frof, after lying twenty-four hours in hydrochloric acid diluted to one-tenth p. c, is found to be so transparent that the branches of nerve may be clearly traced. These frequently form loops, from which issue primitive fibres, running between the muscular fasciculi, and bifurcating in their course. At the two ends of the muscle however, no nerve-fibres are to be seen, even with the best micro- scope. By separating the fibres of the fresh muscle the ultimate divi- sions of the primitive nerve-fibres may each be seen to form a nodule Avhich is intimately connected with the muscular fibre. _ All the nerve- fibres contain medullary substance. Having sought in vain to trace the intra-muscular terminations of the nerve in the mammalia, the author pui-sued the iuquiry in insects. The nerves of the Hydrophilus are essentially similar to those of higher animals. Just before they pierce the sarcolemma, the sheath, the medulla, and sometimes a rela- tively broad cylinder-axis are still visible ; but within the sarcolemma the axis, no longer surrounded by medulla, merges into a series of mole- cules, believed by the author to be a continuation of its substance, and eventually to become undistinguisliable from the contractile elements. With regard to muscular irritability the author states that:— (i) yince excitation of the motor nerves produces twitchings more easily than that of the muscular substance, it is found that tlie faintest electric currents capable of inducing contraction of the middle of tlie sartorius, (where the nerve enters) are ineff"ective when applied to the (nerveless) ends, though a stronger current there produces the same eifect as when addressed to the nerve. (2) The excitability of the tract sujiplied with nerves diminishes from the centre towards both ends of the muscle with the lessening supply of nei-ves. (3) Glycerine, however long applied to the nerveless region of the muscle, never pro- vokes a trace of contraction, whereas in the nervous portion it leads to tetanus. (4) Extremely faint electric currents produce local spasms wherever the nerves are wanting, whilst they excite powerful and ex- tensive contractions where nerves exist. (5) Owing to the subdivision of the primitive nerve-fibres, reversed conduction may be demonstrated in the motor fibres. It must be premised that heat of 104°, distilled water, dilute hydrochloric acid (one tenth p. c.) or solution of sulpho- cyanide of potassium (one p. c), are agents which destroy-the muscular, but not the nervous power. Now, if, after the operation of one of these upon a portion of the muscle, that spot be iri-itated, fibrillar twitchings ensue, but only at remote and unaifected parts. The atithor here relates an interesting experiment in illustration of tliis point. If one end of the sartorius be longitudinally divided, and a succession of cross sections be made in one of the heads, test-irritants being applied to each section as it is made, a nervous spot is at last reached, where the contractions, previously limited to one-half of the muscle, extend to the whole. Yet, even here, the twatching is unilateral if the irritants be such as act on muscle alone. With reference to the origin of rigor mortis, the author remarks— (i)'that its appearance is almost invariably heralded by acid reaction 218 REPORT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. oi the muscles, whicli during life have an alkaline one, though these wai/ (as in btarvcd rabbits) stiffen whilst they are still alkaline. (2) AVhilat the excitable nniscle is transparent, tlie rigid is (in the frog) white and opaque. A muscle continues transparent some time after its irrita- bility is gone, and at this stage, restoration of the circulation renews its contractility, a fact which gave rise to the statement that rigid muscles may recover their activity. If the hinder half of a living frog be immersed in oil at 104°, the rigor caloris produced in the hind limbs does not yield for even four or five weeks after the immersion. (3) The fluid expressed from bloodless muscles is alkaline, and some time after its extraction j)recipitates an albuminous coagulum ; whence the autlior infers that rigor mortis depends on coagulation of tbis substance. The article " On the Chemical Irritation of Muscles and !Nerves, <fec.," is occupied with a critique of the strictures made by Wundt, Schelske, and Funke, on a similar paper, reported in last' Tear Book,' p. 23. With reference to the effects of woorara, the author found that of a specimen obtained by Carray from the Ticunas Indians, on the banks of the Orinoco, -xs^^-^ of a grain suflBced to poison a frog. Ib his observations he employed a solution of one milligram in one cubic centimetre of M'ater, which was inti'oduced under the skin, or into the abdomen. A frog thus treated becomes motionless in a few minutes. " Tetanization" of the spinal cord or of the nerves causes no spasm. Tested with electric currents the sartorius is found to be most susceptible near the entry of the nerve, less so in the adjoining regions, and least of all ,iu the parts destitute of nerves. The irritability is inferior to that of the healthy muscle. If one niac artery be ligatured before, and the other after, the poisoning, the nerveless portions of both sartorii are equally ii'ritable, whereas in the nervous tracts the impoisoued muscle is the more sensitive. But if the nerve of the latter be brought into a state of an- electrotone, the muscle no longer replies to oui-rents which contract the poisoned one. The iutra-muscular nerves tire therefore assumed to remain unafl'ected. Concentrated glycerine applied to a section of the nerveless spots of the poisoned muscle produces contractions, which is not the case in the healthy muscle. Nervous sensibility, after its sus- pension by woorara poisoning or arrest of circulation, is observed to return in a centripetal direction. Aebt, Cn.—On the 82oeed tviih tvhich Muscular Contraction is Projja- gated: Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., p. 253, 1860. Canst., vol. i, pp. 5, 165. Prom experiments made by means of a peculiar apparatus on the fe- moral adductor muscles of the frog, the author finds that muscular contraction is transmitted at the rate probably, of less than a yard per second. Contractions resulting from excitement of the nerve appear to commence at the terminal distribution of its branches, pro- ceeding in the adductors from the ends towards the middle, and in the gastrocnemius from the lower to the upper end. BEOWN-S(iQTjAHT), Dv.— On ilie Belalions letweeii Muscular Irritabilifi/, Cadaveric Biffiditi/,and Putrefaction. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 44, p._204. This paper formed the subject of the Croonian Lecture, and in it IMUSCULAU SYSTEM. 19 the speaker endeavoui-ed to establish the foUoAving law :—The greater the deo-ree of muscular irritahility at the time of death, the later the cadaveric rio-idity sets in, aud the longer it lasts, and the later also putrefaction°appeai-s, and the slower it progresses. While on the con- trary, every cause which decreases the degree of muscular n-ntahihty before death, hastens the advent of cadaveric rigidity and the process of putrefaction. MuNK, B.—0» tie Influence of the Length of the Nerve on the Time of the occurrence of Muscidar Death. AUg. Med. Centralztschr.. No. 8, Jan., i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 165. This writer found that the gastrocnemius of the frog took two or three times longer to die, when its nerve was separated from it, than when it remained in connection with it. Du Bois-Eet3j:ond, E.—Modification of Stenton's Experiment. Archiv. f. Anat. u. Phys., p. 639, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 152. In order to compress the lumbar aorta and vena cava in the rabbit, the author pierces transversely that region about the fourth vertebra, with a semicircular, sheathed needle, carrying a silken ribbon. The circu- lation in the hinder limbs may thus be interrupted and restored at pleasure. Paralysis of the feet commonly sets in after five to fifteen minutes, but it may; occur within a few seconds. Budge observes that, in the frog, this effect takes a much longer time to supervene. I'lCK, A.—Frecursory Notice respectinrj an Inqiiiry on the Physiology of the Smooth Muscular Fibre. Wiener Med. Wocheuschr., p. 577, Sept., i860. Canst., vol. i, p. i6j. In experiments performed chiefly upon invertebrate animals, the author found that irritants throw the smooth muscular fibre into a con- tinuous contraction, which takes some seconds to attain its height, where it often remains several minutes before it again, more or less quickly, relaxes. Fifteen or twenty minutes may elapse ere it perfectly returns to its former condition. Every irritant produces tetanic spasm, not twitching. The degree of abridgment of the fibres is quite inde- pendent of the rapidity of the variations in density of the electric cui'rents. The duration of the current, however, essentially influences its effect, w'hich increases with its continuance. Thus the duration of the current is a far more powerful element than is its intensity in de- termining the force of the contraction. MoLESCHOTT.—A Coiitrihution to the Knoioledge of Smooth Mtiscles, Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vi, p. 380. Canst., vol. i, p. 43. The author states that the smooth muscles found in arteries of cue- tenth millimetre in diameter do not, on an average, exceed a third of the length of those existing in the vesicles of the lung. The follicular muscles of the scalp ai'c described as arising from the epidermis, and so densely encircling the sebaceous glands, that their contraction must necessarily cause the sebum to be evacuated into the hair-follicle. The author arrives at the most satisfactory results by the use of the reagents detailed in last year's 'Eeport,' (' Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 27.)llEl'OKT ON THE INSTITUTES Oi' MEIJICXNE. 20 VASCULAJl SySTEJl. Haleokl), Ur. aEOiiOE B.—On the Time and Manner of Closure of the Aiiriciilo-ventricnlar Valves. Loud., i8(5i. Addisox, Dr. Wu.—Chanf/es of Form in the Bed Corpimcles of Human Blood. Micros. Joiu-n., Jan., p. 20 ; April, p. 81 ; July, p. 166. Davy, Dr. Jouk.—On the Blood of the Common Earthworm. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861, jACOBsOiS", ri.— Contributions to llcemodynamics. Archiv f. Anat. u. Pliys., p. 80. Waters, A. T. H. (Liverpool).—Ohservations on the lihi/thmical Action of the Heart., and its Duration in As])hi/xia. Lancet, July 20th, P- 59- BiKDFLEiscH.—On the Development of the Vessels. Vii-chow's Archis', vol. XX, p. 213. Canst., vol. i, p. 71. In order to determine Avhether the filaments, in which the processes of the growing vascular loops end, are necessarily united with the sur- rounding corpuscles of the areolar tissue, the author made a series of observations at intervals of several days on the tail of the same tadpole, and found that although when the vessels' path brought it into proximity with those bodies, they took part in the construction of its wall, yet when its route lay between the cell-territories, it pursued an apparently isolated course. Billeteh.— Contrihutions to our Knowledije of the Origin of the Vessels. 4to, Zurich, i860. Caust., vol. i, p. 70. The author, whose observations were dii'ected by Prey, states that, both in the mammalia and the amphibia, the mode of development of the capillary vessels is twofold: either—(i) a system of ofl'sets from the growing tube connects it with similar processes from other capilla- ries ; or (2) a simple capillary network retains its arrangement whilst assuming a more complex structure by the deposition of numerous cells destined to construct the cellular coat of the .future lai-ger vessel. In the mammalia, the latter mode is infinitely the more prevalent. Letdtg.—On the External Coverings of the Mammalia. Archiv f. Ajiat. u. Phys., 1S59, p. 677. Canst., vol. i, p. 70. The author finds that the muscles of the veins of the bat's wing betray unmistakeable traces of transverse striation, and thus approach in character to the contractile elements of sanguineous aud lymphatic hearts. They form a single cu-cular layer, and have a plexiform arrange- ment around the inner coat of the vessel. They are broader and less sharply defined than those of the arteries. These observations are of interest in relation to Mr. "Wharton Jones' discovery of the rhythmical contraction of those veins. Setsciie>-ow.—(i) Conirilnlionstothe Pneumatologgofthe Blood. Zlsch. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. loi. (2) JS^o/ices on Pnnima/ologg. lb., p.2S6. Canst., vol. i, p. 4. In Ludwig's laboratory, this inquirer found that blood, deprived of 1VASCULAR SYSTE^r. 21 air by boiling at a low pressure, and by subsequent exhaustion, absorbed 16 to 20 i)er°cent. of its volume of oxygen. Nitrogen was found to be imbibed in the proportion of ,3 or 4 per cent. The blood of a dog, destroyed by closure of the trachea, yielded no oxygen, while the amount of free carbonic acid was increased, though not in proportion to the diminution of the oxygen ; the combined carbonic acid and the nitrogen were in the proportion found in common arterial blood. In three analyses of the gases contained in milk, the author foinid that the quantity of oxygen -was far less than that of nitrogen. EoBix, C.—Bescarclipn on some PecuUarUies in the Strnotwe of the a>j)iUai-ics of the Brain. Journ. de la Physiol. Ed. Med. Journ., April, p. 947. Dr. Gilclirist gives the following resume of the author's researches. Eobin says that there are three varieties of capillary blood-vessels :—ist. Capillaries from looth to 300th of a millimetre in size, consisting of a single tunic, homogeneous, Avith ovoid nuclei, the long axis parallel to that of vessel. 2d; Capillaries from 300th to 700th of a millimetre in size, consisting of two coats,—one continuous and identical with that of the first variety, the other consisting of fibre-cells with nuclei, whose long axis is ti-ansverse to that of the vessel. 3d. Capillaries from 600th to 1500th of a millimetre in size, presenting the coats of the second variety, and a third external coat formed of fibrils of areolar tissue, running longitudinally, parallel and undulating. This variety of vessel is visible to the naked eye. Eobin has made a particiilar study of the fibre-cells of the second variety, and of these he gives a most minute description. He also describes a structure never before noticed by histologists. Around a certain number of the capillaries of the brain, spinal cord, and pia mater, is a delicate adventitious tunic or envelope, consisting of a homo- geneous or slightly striated substance. This envelope may be found surrounding all the three varieties of vessels described. The space between this sheath and the wall of the capillaiy contains a colourless liquid, and a number of spherical free nuclei, which vary much in quan- tity at different points. In subjects beyond forty or forty-five years of age, masses of fat-granules are always found in this space. Very large gi'ains of amorphous ha?matosin ai'e also found amongst the spherical nuclei. Blood-globules he has never seen, and he supposes the hrematosine to be an exudation from the capillary walls, in the substance of which it may sometimes be observed. This peculiar envelope Eobin has observed in the vessels of the white and gi'ay substance only; it does not exist in all vessels, but is in general not diflicult to find. The structure is most minutely described, but no hypothesis as to its use or as to the function of the nuclei is offered. Sub.— On the Disirihtition of the deep femoral Artery. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 1S60, No. i. Canst., vol. i, p. loi. The following are the results of an examination of the profunda and its branches in one hundred bodies:—(i) The normal arrangement existed in 124 limbs, bilaterally in 42 subjects, and unilaterally in 40. Here the vessel arose from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament.EEPOE.T ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. (2) The internal circumflex sprang separately from the femoral artery in 41 limbs. And here the proi'unda generally arose lower down than in the former instances. (3) The external circumflex had an independent origin from the femoral in 26 extremities. (4) Both circumflex vessels sprang from a stem distinct from that bearing the perforating arteries, in 2 instances. (5) Each circumflex had a separate origin from the femoral in 7 limbs. It was found that the direction of the profunda was posterior and external to that of the femoral where there Avas an independent internal circumflex, whilst it was internal to the main artery when the separate vessel was the external circumflex. The internal circumflex generally arises from the inner arc of the profunda or femoral, though it may have an external origin; but the external artery always springs from the external periphery. LuscHKA.—The Thoracic Portion of the Inferior Vena Cava of Man. Miiller's Archiv, No. ij. Canst., vol. i, p. 102. This is a precise description of the inferior cava, and its connexions. The author remarks that—(i) The medial aspect of the lower cava receives the arched fibres around the fossa ovalis, which blend as they proceed to the vessel. (2) The left auricle is directly connected with the lower cava, by a muscular fasciculus hitherto unnoticed by anatomists, which rises thin and flat on the posterior wall of the atrium, and pierces the fibres connecting the septum with the vessel, into which it is inserted at the posterior arc of the outer coat. It is probably this belt that keeps the vein patent. In one instance it was found highlj developed. (3) The non-muscular part of the inter-auricular septum is agglutinated to the medial tongue of the tricuspid valve, and this wiU show the possibility of a morbid communication between the right auricle and the left ventricle without a breach in the wall of the right ventricle. (4) The right lung when distended, bears a slight farrow that marks the course of the iiiferior vena cava. Joseph, L.—The Physiology of the Cardiac Valves. Virchow's Archiv, vol, viii, p. 495. Canst, vol. i, p. 123. The author states that—(i) The muscular fibres in the venous valves of the heart contract at the end of the auricular systole and throw the segments into folds, while a circular elevation is formed aU round the venous opening, which at the same time slightly enlarges. (2) The semilunar valves remain during the ventricular systole at no incon- siderable distance from the walls of Valsalva's sinuses. Malheube, Dr.— Considerations on the Action of the Atiriculo-ventriailar Valves, and the Bruits of the Heart. Journ. de la Physiol. Ed. Med. Journ., April, p. 949. The following arc the conclusions the author has arrived at:—(i) The action of the auriculo-ventricular valves essentially difl'ers from that of the sigmoid valves, and can in no respect be compared to them. (2) The occlusion of the auriculo-ventricular valves taices place by a sort of puckering (froncemcnt), in which one cannot find the conditionsVASCULAE, SYSTEM. necessary for the production of a bruit, (3) The fii'st sound is not due to a valvular clapping (daqtiemcnt) ; it results from the shock of the blood against the walls of the ventricle, under the influence of the auricular contraction. (4) The shock of the heart against the thoracic walls is the consequence of this same contraction, which augments the volume of the ventricles in distending them, and imparts to them a forward movement. (5) Certain vivisections have shown that the ventricles, after their active contraction, remain in a state of tonic contraction. It is probably so in the human subject. (6) The second sound seems to depend on several causes, of which the principal are the percussion on the distended sigmoid valves of the column of blood contained in the arteries at the moment of arterial systole, and the sudden entrance of the blood of the veins into the auricles at the moment of auricular diastole. CHAUVEAtr.—On Vascular Murmurs, and on the Action oftTie Aimculo- ventricular Valves. Journ. de la Physiol. Ed. Med. Joum., April, p. 949. , Chauveau finds—(i) That the systole of the auricles has a very appreciable duration, and that it is always sharply distinguishable from the systole of the ventricles. (2) That this auricular systole is entirely aphonic. (3) That the first sound succeeds the auricular systole, and coincides exactly with the ventricular systole. (4) That the shock of the heart, is synchronous with the first sound, also succeeds the auricular systole, and coincides with the ventricular systole. (5) That the shock imparted to the valves of the heart by their sudden tension is strong enough to be perceived by tactile exploration on the exterior of the organ, as well around the auriculo-ventricular orifices as around the arterial orifices. (6) That the shock, and the bruit by which it is made perceptible to the ear, entirely cease if l^y some artifice the tension of the valves is prevented. Wagneh, E.— On a Simple Metliod of observing directly and for a length of time the Hearfs Movement in Birds. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 255. Canst., vol. i, p. 122. The writer " observes " the cardiac movements with the finger, ad- mitted by a 1" shaped incision below the sternum, w'hich is then raised, Maeet, Dr.—Tlie Law governing the Frequency of the Scarfs JPulsa- tions. Compt. Eend., July 15th, 1861, p. 95. The author states that if a manometer be applied to one of the carotids of a horse, so that the force of the heart's action can be exactly ascertained, it will be found that galloping the animal until it is out of breath, reduces the force of the heart's action, although it at the same time augments the number of its pulsations. On the other hand, it will be found that repose diminishes tlie number of pulsations while it at the same time increases the arterial tension. From this the author concludes that the acceleration of tlie pulse by muscular exertion does not originate in the heart itself, but depends entirely upon the increased facility of the passage of the blood through the muscular system. In a precisely similar manner Marey explains the effects of fever, as wellRKPOHT OX TlIK IXSTJTUTES OF JIKDIC'IXK. as of nioriil influeuces ou the rapidity and force of tlie circulation. So it may be said tliat according to tlie author, the lieart's action is regu- lated by the state of the blood-vessels throughout the whole body. Leahed, AiiTuuii, M.D. (Great North. IIosp.)—0/t the Sounds cavsrd h/ the Cirenintion of the Blood, pp. 22. This ])amphlet is n thesis read iu the University of Dublin for the degree of M..U., iu i860. In it tlic author nays that the first and necond sounds of the heart originate at tlie outlets of the two great vessels, and that they are essentially the same as regards their mechanism. ist Sound.—The first sound coincides Avith the ventricular systole, and is caused as follows:—Blood having been forcibly driven from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary artery, comes into forcible contact with blood in these vessels, which, supported by the semilunar valves, had attained a state of momentary repose. The'impact between the fluid iu motion and that in a state of rest gives rise to the sound. 2nd Sound.—The second sound, the author says, occurs during diastole, and iu its mechanism closely resembles the first. The blood having been driven with much force into the aorta and pulmonarj' artery, a portion of it recoils, but is checked in its rapid descent towards the heart by the semilunar valves. The sound is caused by the concussion thus induced, the force of which is, however, by no means sustained by the valves alone, for they are thoroughly supported by the ventricles and theii" contents. This is obvioiis, since there can be no approach to a vacuum in the heart. The valves are to be regarded as separating media, which do not themselves sustain the force of the descending blood. A valve thus supported is known in the arts as an equilibrium valve. Makkham, Dr. (St. Mary's).—Eemnvks on the Cause of the Closure of the Valves of the Heart. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 43. The author says—(i) The closure is effected during different periods of the heart's action, and may be divided into two stages. During the first stage (i. e. during the ventricular diastole) the valves gradually rise up towards each other, pari passii with the distension of the ven- tricles, so that their free borders come into loose contact. The second stage corresponds with the venti'icular systole, whereby the valves are suddenlj' and forcibly brought into firm and perfect contact by the pressure of the blood. (2) The valves are raised towards each other during this first stage of their closure by the agency of elastic tissue, so disposed in the valves as to act iu a manner at once most simple and efiective. The aiu-iculo-ventricular and the semilunar valves have aU essentially the same structiu-e. They are formed of elastic membrane, and inelastic white fibrous cords. In the case of the auriculo-ventricular valves, as observed iu a bullock's heart, a thickish layer of elastic mem- brane may be readily dissected from tlie auricular surface of the valve. This elastic membrane is retractile in all directions, but its fibres seem to run chiefly iu a direction from the attached to the loose border of .the valves. The lower (ventricular) surface of the valves may be said to consist of white fibrous cords—the prolongations into them of the chordso tendinese, united together by elastic tissue. (3) At the end ofA'ASCULAU SYSTEir. 35 Fio. 1. the ventricular systole the valves are pressed down into the ventricles and lie flat against the inner walls, and the elastic tissue is put on the stretch. Then, during diastole, as the blood flows into the ventricles, the weight of the valves is diminished, and so the elasticity of the stretched elastic membrane is permitted to come into play. This con- traction of the elastic tissue causes the closure of the valves during the first stage referred to. (4) Exactly the same disposition of parts occurs in the semilunar valves, with this necessary difference—that the elastic layer is spread over their ventricular surface. The object is here mani- festly the same as in the former case, namely, to assist in drawing the valves away from the arterial walls, so as to put them in a position of being readily brought together at the instant the ventricular systole ceases. At the end of the paper, page 49, Dr. Broadbent gives an account of the structure of the valves of the heart corresponding to the above. Halfoed, Dr. Geobge B.—On the Time and Manner of Closure of the Aunculo-ventricular Valves. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, The author says, there are two things necessary to the closure of these valves, viz., the shutting down of the semilunar valves and the auricular contraction. When the auricle is about to inject the ventricle, the latter is empty and con- tracted, with its distal or ven- triculo-arterial valves firmly shut dowTi by the pi-essure of the blood upon their upper surfaces. Immediately the auricle contracts, its contained blood passes into (distending and lengthening) the ventricle; the force which it transmits not being sufficient to over- come the arterial pressure and Aveight of blood upon the upper or arterial surface of the semilunar valves, is ex- pended in distending the ven- tricle and closing the auriculo- ventricular valve, which then forms one of the walls of the ventricle (seefig. i.) To this succeeds the ventricular con- traction, the auriculo-ventri- cular valve, being already closed, now becomes tense, the pressure in the ventricle over- comes that in the artery, and „?!!P; l -Bfck view of the heart; auricles cm away. Tlie tlie semilunarvalves are Raised, ^^"^^^ri^^^^^^ That the above is correct is " "''"^^'""'"''''^■c.an'lll'cnutral valve dosed. proved aa follows :-If we cut away the auricle and clear out the26 REl'ORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP JIEDICINE, Fm. coagulum from the ventricle, on placing the heart in fluid we find that the flaps of the auriculo-ventricular valve are borne up to a cer- tain extent towards the auriculo-ventricular opening (see fig. a) ; but the latter does not become closed without employing force, as with a streain of water thrown with a sy- ringe from the direction of the auricle, and this closure is not perfect nor sustained without first shutting down the semilunar valves, which is best done thus:—for a human heart an elastic self-supplying syringe, Avith a tube of like diameter with the aorta or pulmonary artery, is adapted to eitlier vessel and its semilunar valves shut down, gentle pressure being maintained by the fingers npon the bottle in imitation of the elastic pres- sure of the aorta or pulmonary artery. If the ventricle be now in- jected, the closure of the valve is instantaneous, its upper surface be- coming convex (not funnel-shaped), and its under surface deeply concave (see fig. i). From this it will be seen, Halford thinks, upon reflection, that the auriculo-ventricular valve must be closed previous to the systole of the ventricle, as in fig. i, otherwise the ventricle could not thoroughly be filled, nor could the valve itself perform its office properly, for as the ventricle contracts and its base descends, the valve would be made to yield towards the auricle at the very time it is required to be un- yielding. But with the valve closed by the end of the auricular con- traction there is not only no chance of yielding towards the auricle, but the ventricle is in that condition to exert its power most instanta- neously and effectively, as the prime mover—the fans et origo—of the circulation. The rajndiiy and poiver of its action ivould he impaired were any of its force expended in a haclcward direction, had it indeed to close the auriculo-ventricular, previous to opening the semilnmr, valves! Flo. 2.—A (liagram representing (he condition of the ventricle ;ind of tlic nuvicnlo-vcntricular vnlve, if, as is generally taught, the latter is closed by the contraction of the ventricle. The upper Blu-face of the valve is concave, t!ie capacity of the ventricle is thus lessened, and at the instant of its contraction not the semilunar, but the nnncnto- venlricular rnlve xoouUi he raised, by which both time and power would be lost. EiTfB-RODT.—On the Influence of the Bespiratory Movements on fJieSeart's Impulse and on the Blood-pressure. Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Acad., vol. X, i860, p. I. Moleschott's Untersuch.,vol.iii, p. 265. Canst., vol. i, pp. 8, 125. These elaborate researches were made in Ludwig's laboratory, on dogs. One scries of observations was made while the respired air was sub- jected to pressure, and another diiriug rarefaction of the air, by an ingenious apparatus connected with the trachea of the animal.VASCULAK -SYSTEM. 27 I. Increased pressure {i) raises the medium teusiouof the blood, (a) The respiratory movements are not impeded until the pressure balances from lo to 20* millimetres of mercury, when inspiration becomes quick and short, and expiration labored and slow, a pause of some dm-ation gene- rally ensuing. (3) If the pressure exceeds 20 millimetres the breathing movements frequently cease for several mimites. (4) Even if it rises other ten or fifteen millimetres no signs of suffocation appear. This is probably because much blood accumulates in the brain, supplying the medulla oblongata plentifully with oxygen, so that no automatic movements are induced. (5) The passage of the blood to the heart is impeded, and the tension in the aortic system is diminished. The heart and great vessels are compressed ; arterial pressure becomes at last equably continuous. (6) In the external jugular vein the pressure rises con- siderably. (7) If the pressure of the respired air exceeds thirty or forty millimetres the pulse slackens, but quickens with a further rise, again diminishing as it becomes yet stronger. Here there is a double me- chanism ; the pulse is quickened by direct irritation of the heart, and slackened from excitation of the vagi by encephalic congestion. In proof of this it is remarked that after section of these nerves no retard- ation of the pulse occurs. (8) Stupified by opium, the dogs bear ordeals of this sort long and repeatedly, and only die at very high pressures. The author imitated these experiments on himself, by closing the nostrils and holding the tracheal tube between the lips. Under low pressure the breathing movements were maintained by straining the muscles of expiration. Higher pressure caused a painful sense of oppression, and retardation of the pulse. Yet higher pressure pro- duced redness and swelling of the face and neck, prominence of the globes, flow of tears, tinnitus, and occipital pain. The experiment terminated, the pulse—imperceptible before—^was found to be full, strong, and infrequent. II. Diminished pressure.—Here (i) the respiratory movements never pause. (2) Inspiration is toilsome, but so long as the excess of the external atmospheric pressure over the internal, is not equal to more than about fifty millimetres of mercury, respiration still proceeds per- ceptibly. (3) The blood pressure rises in expiration and sinks with inspiration. Tet, since the overloaded heart drives more blood into the arteries, (4) the mean blood pressure is higher than natural. (5) The pulse becomes slower as the rarefaction increases. This is attributed to irritation of the vagus as well as to incipient paralysis of the heart from the effects of the rarefied air; for, after section of the vagi, the pulse does not slaclten until the rarefaction has been very long main- tained. III. At the ordinari/ pressure—(i) the breathing movements, when shallow and quick, do not influence the pulse and blood-pressure, but (2) when deep and slow, the pulse becomes more frequent during in- spiration, especially towards its close. Sinking at the outset of inspi- ration, the blood-pressure then rises, but does not attain its maximum tdl after tlie end of that act. During expiration the pulse becomes less frequent, while the pressure reaches its highest, and tlien falls con- siderably. Pulse and pressure remain unchanged during the pause. (3)38 KEl'OUT 0\ THK INSTITIJJ-KS OF T\fEl)lCIXF. After sectiou of the vagus tlie breathing movements are deep and slow, whilst tlie pulse is veiy rapid. The pulse remains perfectly uniform' throughout both acts ot respiration. The blood-pressure continues as above described. Thus, according to the author's conclusions, during expiration the pulse slackens from irritation of the vagus, caused by intra-cranial con- gestion. The acceleration of the pulse during inspiration is, presumablv, occasioned by the remission of excitation of the vagus, and not bv'a direct irritation of the heart by increased influx of the blood. The variation of blood-pressure depends ou the thoracic movements and the quantity of blood in the heart. Inspiration relieves the heart and great ve.ssels of tension, and, therefore, there is a diminution of blood-pressure at first, such as there is just after rarefaction is effected; but the heart speedily becomes fuller and more excitable, so that arte- rial tension is enhanced—a condition t^omewhat similar to that observed xinder gi-eat rarefaction. At the commencement of expiration, the chest-movement and the fulness of the heart combine to raise arterial tension to its maximum, but afterwards arterial efflux is promoted, whilst venous afflux is impeded, and the pressure falls. The influence of the breathing movements depends materially on the condition of the medulla oblongata and the excitability of the vagi. YlGOTJEOtrx.—On tlie influence of Sensibility on tlie Cireulation during Surgical Antestliesia. Comptes Eendus, Feb. 4th, 1861, p. 201. In analysing thirty-one detailed cases of death from chloroform the author remarks—(ist) In several cases death surprised the patient in an attitude very favorable to the occurrence of syncope—that is to say, in a sitting position, (and) The pulse ceased to beat at that step of the operation which, without chloroform, would have been the most painful. (3rd) The operations, although very far from being danger- ous, were, nevertheless such as produce intense and sudden pain. Now, pain being a cause of syncope, the question arises, " Does pain continue to exercise a similar influence even durirrg anesthesia ?" The author, on the strength of some experiments, replies that syncope is as readily induced by potential as by sensible pain; and, consequently, he advises that operations should be performed before the power of reflex movement is abolished. In order, still farther, to weaken the (potentially) painful impression, and to obviate the necessity of push- ing narcosis to its extreme, he I'ecommends the simultaneous employ- ment of local anaesthetics. It may also be remarked that the writer objects to a parallel being di-awn between the fatal eftects of chloroform on animals and on man, as in the former instance pain plays no part. Lastly, the conclusions arrived at by the author are—(i) The influ- ence of the nerves of sensibility on the heart exists during autesthesia. (2) This influence appears, indeed, to be increased. (3) It may be carried to the extent of arresting the heart's action. (4) This stoppage of the heart's action may be considered as the most frequent cause of death during anesthesia. ]\fAC?rAMAiiA, James (Calcutta).—Fost-inortem Contractu itg. jMed. Times and Gaz., Marcli 30th, p. 345.VASCUL^VR SYSTEM. 29 lu a letter to the editor of the ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Mr. Macua- niara relates a case of coutractility of the human heart, persisting fully twelve hours after death, and six and a half after injection of the arte- i-ies with an arsenical solution (the solution employed being of the streno'th of one pound of arsenic to six gallons of water). The man, a Hindoo ffit. 24 years, died in the Calcutta Police Hospital, and was hrouo-ht to the College for dissection about six a.m. Tebruary 1st, 1861. •\t seven a.m. the body was injected. At eleven a.m. Professor Part- ridf^e's prosector opened the thorax and abdomen for the purpose of dissectino- the sympathetic nerve. At noon the author by accident passed by, and on looking at the body he exclaimed, "his heart is beatiuo-"' and, upon further inspection,'he distinctly perceived a regu- lar rhythmical, vermicular action of the right auricle and ventricle. The pericardium at the time was open, the heart fully exposed and Ivino- to the left of its natural position. The heart's action although re<rular, was very weak and slow. The left auricle was also in action, but the'left ventricle was contracted and rigid, and apparently motion- less. The spontaneous contractions continued till about 12.45. The ri'^ht side of the heart contracted, however, on the application of a stimulus, such as the point of a scalpel, for three quarters of an hour louo-er. 'The author was unable to ascertain exactly the period of the man's death, but it is certain his body was sent away from the Police Hospital as early as six a.m. The liver was in a state of cirrhosis, and there was general anasarca. The viscera generally were healthy. Haelet, Prof. Gr.—On the Dead Heart JPulmtim/. The Eield, 'Nor, 16th, p. 448. The author cites the following experiment;—A frog was poisoned by introducing a small quantity of woorara under the skin. Its limbs gradually became paralysed, it ceased to breatlie, and, in the course of a few minutes, appeared perfectly dead. In about half an hour after life seemed extinct, the heart, on being exposed, was found beating slowly, but regidarly. The frog was now covered up with a damp piece of cloth and placed aside. On looking at it next day, the animal still appearing to be quite dead, the heart was found pulsating regularly as before. Porty-eight hours after death the heart still continued to act regularly. Seventy-two hours after death the action of the ventricle was stdl distinct though feeble. Ninety-six hours after death the left auricle alone continued to contract. Not only was the frog quite dead, but its lower extremities were now shrunk and withered. Exactly one hundred hours after death, Dr. Harley put the animal into a moist warm atmosphere, and kept it there until the temperature of its body was slightly raised. This had the effect of restoring the irritability of the heart; for on touching the ventricle with the point of a pen it resumed its pulsation, and the contractions (first of the auricle, then of the ventricle,) continued rhythmically during several minutes. Even the pulsations in the large vessels attached to the heart were well marked, and continued quite regularly for a quarter of an hour. When upas antiar was employed instead of woorara, the action of the heart was arrested, not only before the animal was dead, but even before it ceased to spring about.]IEP011T ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 80 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Flower, AV. H.—Jjiagrams of the Nerves of the Human Body, exhibiting their Oriffin, Divisions, and Connexions; with their distribution to the various regions of the Cutaneoits Surface, and to all the Muscles. London, 1861. Wagneb, E.—Critical and Experimental Researches on the Functions of the Brain. Journ. de la Physiol., April, 1861, p. 242. CiELAND, Dr.—On a Method of Craniometry. Brit. Assoc., Trans., 1861. G-AENEE, E.—On the Brain in Man and Animals. Brit. Assoc. Trans., 1861. Aenold, Prof. F.—The Nerves of the Dura Mater. Med. Jalirb., No. i, p. 26. Sclimidt., vol. no, p. 158. Down, Dr. J. Langdon (Lond. Hosp.)—Account of a Case in which the Corpus Callostm and Fornix were imperfectly formed, and the Septum Lucidum and Commissnra Mollis were absent. Proc. Boy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. iii, p. 404. Mesmee, a.—On some points of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain. AUg. Med. Ztschr., i860. No. 32. Canst, vol. i, p. 198. ScHMELTZ, J.—On the Texture and Function of the Spinal Cord, tfena, i860. Eeissnee.—Contributions to a Knowledge of the Structure of the Spinal Cord in the Petromyzon Fluviatilis. Arcliiv f. Anat. HoYEE, H.—On the Terminal Plexuses of the Nerve-fibres alleged to exist in the Nervous Layer of the Intestinal Mucous Membrane. Eeicliert's Arcliiv, i860, p. ,543. Canst., vol. i, p. 55. Eeicheet. Remarks on the above. MoEELL, Dr. J. D.—An Introduction to Mental Philosophy ; on the In- ductive Method. 8to, Loudon. Chauveau, a.—On the Excitability of the Spinal Cord, and particularly the Convulsions and the Pain produced by calling this excitability into play. Journ de la Physiol., Jan., 1861, p. 29. Hoffmann, Cael Eenest Emil.—Contribiitions to the Anatomy and Physiology of the Vagus Nerves of Fishes. Plate. 4to, Giessen, i860. Eemak, Dr.—On the Influence of the Sympathetic Nerve on Voluntary Muscles. Brit. Assoc. Trans., 1861. Hyetl.—On Nerves without End. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861. KoLLMANN, J.—On the Course of the Pneumogastric Nerves in the Ah' domen. Zeitschr. f. w. ZooL, vol. x, p. 413. Canst., vol. i, p. 55. Budge, Z.— On the Stoppage of the Heart by Irritation of the Vagu^: Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 857. Beenaed, a.—The Sensitive Properties of the Sympathetic and the Reflex Movements that occur under its iifluence. AUg. Med. Zeitschr., i860, Nos. 20 and 21. Claeke, Lockhaet J.—Notes of Researches on the In timate Structure of the Brain. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 359- The paper with the above title is in reality itself an abstract of a INERVOUS SYSTEM. 31 complete memoir on the same subject, which the author promises to publish iu the coiu'se of a few mouths. lu it the author describes the structiu-e of certaiu portious of the medulla oblongata, the corpora quadrigemiua and pineal gland. When carefully examined, he says, the latter organ is found to be composed of fibres, nuclei, and the well- known brain-sand. The fibres are arranged in two ways; throughout, the gland they form, by peculiar subdivisions and communications, an intricate network, in which the nuclei are lodged. Some of them are exceedingly fine, others rather coarse, but bear no resemblance to what Ave are accustomed to call nerve-fibres. They are frequently crooked,^ and apparently jointed or dilated at intervals, where they give oft' branches wliieh bear nuclei; in other places the nuclei are surrounded by flat riband-like fibres. Here and there the fibres of the network go oft" to form straight bundles, which unite into larger trunks, and have chiefly a transverse direction. The reticular structure bears a decided resemblance to the epithelium of the olfactory mucous membrane, and still more to what the author has elsewhere described as the foiurth layer of the olfactory bulb in the sheep, and particularly in the cat. Ploweb, Wii. H. (Eoy. Coll. Surg.)—Observations on the Posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum of the Quadrtmana, icith a Description of the Brain of a Galaxjo. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 376. Elower's observations extended to three families of the order Quad- rumana. Family i, Catarrhina; 2, Platyrrhina ; 3, Strepsirrhina. He concludes by saying that many links are still wanting iu the chain of evidence required to determine the true history and classificatoiy value of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle, and the peculiar dispo- sition of the cerebral substance constituting the hippocampus minor, but the conditions in which they have been found at so many distinct points of the series, appear to lead almost ii-resistibly to the following conclusions:—(i) That these parts, so far from being peculiar to the human brain, are common to man, and the whole of the Quadrumana,^ including even the lowest forms. (2) That they attain their maximum of development in species which do not belong to either extremity of the series. (3) That in the lower forms their diminution takes place chiefly in the antero-posterior direction, corresponding with the reduced length of the posterior cerebral lobes, the greater part of which is occupied by them. (4) That in the higher forms they are narrower in proportion to their length, and bear a smaller ratio to the surround- ing mass of cerebral substance. (5) That the extreme of the last condition is met with in man, where these parts are also characterised by their variability in size and form, want of symmetry on the two sides, and frequent rudimentary condition, or even entire absence. Plourens.—Neio experiments on the Belative Indej)e)idence of the CerC' bral Functions. Comptes Eendus, April 8th, 1861, p. 673. When engaged forty years ago in experiments tending to show that the intellectual and the motor faculties are connected with the cere- brum and cerebellum respectively, the author instituted several collate- ral researches, hitherto unpublished, which he has recently repeated,KEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. and now malccs public. Having, in several instances, removed tlie brain ot a rabbit, and inflicted severe injury on tlie pons, the animal commenced to revolve on its longitudinal axis as actively as if the braiu had not been removed. Injury of the cerebellum of pigeons which had been deprived of the cerebrum, produced the same disorder of move- ment as if the latter remained intact. After removal of the cerebrum in pigeons, it was found that section of each of the semicircular cauals (in difterent individuals), produced its ordinary effect; that of the horizontal canals causing liorizontal movements, and that of the antero-posterior and postero-anterior vertical canals respectively causin" vertical movements from before backwards and from behind forward" The author promises to give, in a future memoir, an explanation of these remarkable coincidences in the direction of the canals and the movements. . BoKSABELLi, Prof.—On the quantity of PhoHphorus found in the Brain of Man and AnimaU. Omodei's Ann. Universali, vol. dxxvi, p. 407. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 329. The conclusions at which Professor Borsarelli has arrived after various aualyses are stated in the Medical Times and Gazette to be—(i) That the medium quantity of phosphorus found in the brain of man and some other animals is more than triple the quantity assigned to this organ by Persoz and Opermaun. It varies from i\3_52 to 1790 per cent. (3) The phos- phorus of the animal economy is found in the largest quantity in the brain, in a less proportion in muscle, and in a still less proportion in the stomach. (3) In man, the quantity of pbosphorus increases in a decided manner in proportion to his years, in the braiu and in the muscular flesh, and in a less marked manner in the stomach. (4) The smaller quantity of phosphorus found in individuals under piibei'ty, whose de- velojmient is not com2)leted, arises from the greater quantity of this metalloid required for the solid parts of the frame. (5) The diflierence in the quantity found in an adult or a person of advanced age, and an individual under puberty, amounts for the brain to i'i4 as com- pared to I, and for the muscular substance to 3'19 as compared to 1. (6) The amount of phosphorus found in the adult or aged person, and in the ox, the calf, the sheep and the hog (with the exception of the flesh of the latter), is very much the same—the average being, as regards the brain, i"56o in man, and i\553 in other animals ; and as regards the muscular substance, 0-873 in the former, and 0-876 in the latter. In the hog, however, the flesh contains 1-012, being richer in phosphorus than that of the other animals. This may be one of the reasons why the flesh of this animal is more stimulating than that of the others. (7) Flesh by boiling in water loses one-half of its phosphorus ; so that the flesh of the hog, which uncooked contains roi2 per cent., after boiling contains only 0-567. Hence it is that boiled meats are found to be most suitable for the convalescence of those who have suftered from hyper£Esthetic diseases, and roasted meats to those whose strength has become exhausted by diseases of a debilitating character. The good eifects of meat so cooked do not, however, arise solely from the presence of a greater or lesser proportion of phosphoric compounds. They also contain aNERVOUS SYSTEM, 33 larger quautity of the proper nutritive principles of tlie flesh, which being soluble in water, become lost in boiling. Henz, Dr. II.— On some Chemical Constituents of the Brain. G-reifs- wald, i860. Caust., vol. i, p. 247. By chemical examinations of the brain of the ox, in Scherer's labora- tory, the writer established tlie presence therein of uric acid, inosite, hypoxanthin, xanthin, and lactic acid, and the absence of creatin. Peacock, Dr.—Specific Gravihj of the Brain. Lancet, June ist, p. 536. At the Meeting of the Pathological Society of the 7th May, Peacock gave an account of the specific gravity of the cerebrum in nine cases. Taking distilled water as 1000, the cerebrum, was 1034; cerebellum, 1041; pons varolii, 1040. The specific gravity of the whole brain together, 1039. One object also was to show that the brain increases in size and A^-eight after the age of seven years, although the contrary has been stated by Sir "William Hamilton. It increases up to, from the twenty-second to the twenty-fifth year of age. Stephant.— Oontrihutions to the Histology of the Cortical Substance of the Cerebrum. Dorpat, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 65. The matrix of the cortical substance of the cerebrum, hitherto regarded as finely granular, is resolved by this -writer into a network of fine filaments, terminatiug in the form of a membrane on the surface of the brain, and loosely enveloping free nuclei and other cells. The filaments of this network are connected both with the outrunners of cells and vdth nerve-fibres. As no connexion has been traced between this system and the penetrating processes of the pia mater, the author inclines to thiuk it nervous in its natm-e. In the cortical substance of the dog's brain, he distinguishes angular and round cells, the former in- variably, the latter never, connected with the network. The broad, darlf-bordered nerve-fibres which enter the gray substance of the con- volutions, pass, after repeated divisions, into fine pale filaments, and become connected with the fibres of the matrix, whicli thus link them with the cell-processes. A\''agneii, 11.—(i) Critical and Experimental Inquiries on the Mmctiuns of the Brain. Gottinger gel. Auz., i860. No. 4, p. 2/;; No. 6, p. 49 ; No. 7, p. 65 ; No. 16, p. 176. Canst., vol. i, p. 197. (2) Introduction to a Scientific jSlorpholocjij and Bhijsiologij of the Human Brain, as an Organ of the Soul. Part i. 4to, Gottingeu, i860. Canst., ib. In the first of these treatises, the author discusses the functions of the cerebellum, the difierent degrees of convolution of the cerebrum, and the varying weight of the encephalon. The second work treats more fully of the two latter subjects, and is accompanied by an Atlas containing beautiful delineations of the brains of eminently intellectual men. His chief results are that —(i) The cerebellum is merely a motor organ, regulating the locomotive act, capable of exciting contrac- tion in the abdominal viscera, and operating directly on the heart. (2) The cerebral convolutions possess in man a type of arrangement to Avliich only tliat found in the quadrumaua can be compared. There is an 331 REPOllT ON TIM INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. unmlMfcalceal)le parallel between the several stages of the embryonic braiu in man, aud the persistent forms existing in some classes of apes. In the human kind, the anterior lobes are those in which the convolu- tions diller most widely in different individnals, being few and simple in some, in others numerous and complicated. Either of these classes may coexist with high intelligence, but the former is most frequently met with in women. (.3) The relative Aveight of the cerebral henn- spheres in comparison to the other parts of the encephalon would not seem to be greater in high, than in ordinary, intelligences. Van Deen, J.— The Insensihilili/ of ilio Cerebrospinal Centres to Electric Irritation. Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vii, pt. iv, p. 380. Canst., vol. i, p. 193. On a former occasion the author experimentally demonstrated that chemical and mechanical irritation of the spinal cord do not produce motory or sensory effects, so long as the nerves are avoided. He now communicates a series of equally careful experiments on the effects of the electric current on the encephalon, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord; the conclusions deducible from which are, that those centres are insusceptible of irritation by that agent, and that their activities are only to be awakened by the stimuli of will and feeling. LirsCHKA.—The Fo vcce Glandiilares and Arachnoiclal Villi of the Middle Cranial Fossa. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xviii. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. Having noticed fovese glandulares in the middle fossaj of the skull, the author sought and found in the dura mater corresponding Pacchio- nian granulations, which he believes occur there only Avhen the mem- brane is reticulated, and receives them in its meshes. Mexee.—On the Import of the Pacchionian Ciranulations. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. After numerous obsei-vations, this inquirer states that: (1) The Pacchionian granulations are constantly in connexion with the arachnoid even when found on or in the dui-a mater, in which case they are pedi- culated. This view is based on numerous aud precise examinations, and is opposed to that of Luschka, who maintains their independent existence in the dura mater. (2) The bodies in question may be found, though less certainly than at the margins of the cerebral falx, {a) on the convexity of the anterior lobe so far as two inches from the falx ; (h) at the base of the middle lobe, commonly anteriorly, less frequently postero-laterally, by the meningeal vessels: sometimes at these spots penetrating the dura mater and inner cranial plate, and generally attended during life by profound cerebral disturbance, as epilepsy, melancholia, &c. ; (c) at the postero- and autero-inferior parts of the posterior lobe, where they are feebly developed, as they also are (rf) on the cerebellar arachnoid, especially at the margins. In discussing the ailiolocjy of these bodies, the author assumes that in cerebral au£emia, the sinuses of the dura mater are increased, in hyper- lemia, diminished, in calibre; changes which imply, on the part of the encephalon, a certain degree of locomotion, Avliich, as in the lungs, attains its maximum at certain points, such as the margins. On inquiry,NERVOUS SYSTEM. 35 it proves that the sites of the graiuilatioua coiucide witli those of greatest friction, which is therefore supposed to be their cause. Mautiikeb, Jj.—Contnbudons to a Knowledge of the Movplioloffical Ele- ments of the Nervous Si/stem. Sitz. ber. d. Math. CI. d. Akad. d. Wiss., vol. xxxix, p. .383. Canst., vol. i, p. ^i. This is au attempt to distinguish the diiierent microscopic elements of the nervous system, by the different degrees of colour produced in them by the carminate of ammonia. Beeh-A-HD, Vvot—Lectures on tie 8j)i7icd Cord. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 5, 1861, and succeeding numbers. Lecture i. On the general properties of the nervous system.—It has lonf been observed, that certain conditions of the body exert a peculiar influence over nervous sensibility. An irritation which at one time would scarcely be obsBrved, at another time may give rise to acute suffering, and even constitutional disturbance. Such a state, however, is not always to be regarded as the result of morbid action. Tor example, the pneumogasti'ic nerve may in the majority of fasting animals, be excited without giving rise to pain, while the same stimulus applied to the nerve duriug the digestive process is attended viath acute suffering. This is due to the increased vascularity of the mucous coat of the stomach during the digestive process and the corresponding effect it produces on the delicate terminations of the pneumogastric nerve. The properties of a nerve, may, therefore, be said to be modified by the state of the organ in the substance of which it terminates. Bernard makes the following interesting remarks on the eflect of pain upon animals. He begins by putting the question—"When an animal gives no expression of pain, are we entitled to conclude that none is felt ? We have frequently employed, says he, to our full satisfaction, an ingenious method of ascertaining the fact, in such cases,—we allude to the cardiouieter. This instrument merely consists of a delicate mano- meter, which is adapted to some large artery (the common carotid in general,) for the purpose of measuring the pressure of the blood, and the intensity of the heart's action; now the sensibility of this organ is such, that latent impressions (so to speak), or sensations which no outward sign betrays, are at once revealed by the sudden augmentation of its im- pulsive power; the well-known eftects of moral emotion afford a trite instance of this. A nerve after being laid bare, may be touched so lightly as not to provoke the least agitation; but the rapid ascension of the mer- cury contained in the tube of the instrument, immediately informs us of the impression produced upon the sensitive apparatus. On the other hand, when the posterior roots have been cut, all excitability being destroj^ed, the peripheral extremities of the divided nerves may be pinched, bruised, burnt, or otherwise acted upon, without altering the level of the mercm-ial column in the slightest degree ; an implicit reliance may therefore be placed upon tliis valuable instrument, which frequently enlightens, but never misgvudes, the physiologist. Prom this it appears that the pulse is the natural index of the amount of ])ain.UEPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 3C When spealdng of the action of ansestlietics on the nervous system, Bernard says, that tlie sensorial faculty would seem to lose its intensity by degrees, in proceeding from the i)rimitive origin to the ultimate ter- mination of tlie special fibres with which it is connected; for in animals submitted to the inhalation of cldoroform, the spinal roots liaving pre- viously been exposed to view, sensibility disappears in the anterior roots before abandoning the outer surlace of the body, and dwells in the posterior roots long after it has ceased to exist in all other parts. The reverse takes place when tlie animal is allowed to revive, the posterior roots being the first, and the anterior roots the last, to recover the sensorial power. We are, therefore, entitled to believe that in the immediate vicinity of the posterior columns, a higher degree of sensi- bility exists than in more distant points. (Lect. ii, Jan. 12th.) In the Lecture (XVI) devoted to the consideration of the influence of the nervous system on the chemical composition of the blood, Bernard recapitulates his statement ^regarding the fact that the blood returning from a gland in a state of activity is arterial in hue, while it is of the usual venous colour when the gland is in a state of rest. He now adds, that the reverse is the law with regard to the muscles. The venous blood is black during the period of activity, and red Avhen the muscles are at rest. These phenomena, are, he thinks, satisfactorily accounted for by the opposite action of the two classes of vaso-motor nerves,—those which dilate, and those'which contract the vessels. By direct experiment on animals, Bernard has ascertained— ist. That when a muscle contracts, the venous blood contains less oxygen, and more carbonic acid, than in a state of rest. 2nd. That, on comparing arterial and venous blood, the quantity of carbonic acid which the latter contains is not found sufficient to account for the total amount of oxygen which has disappeared; it would there- fore appear that the transformation is not directly efiected, but that various intermediate compounds are produced. 3rd. That the solid residue Avhich remj^ins after evaporation is larger in blood drawn from a muscle in full activity than in the fl.uid obtained from a muscle at rest. It is hardly necessary to say that inverse results are obtained in operating on the glands ; we know, in fact, that their period of activity coincides with the ruddy colour and arterial state of the venous blood. The foUovdng table exhibits the results of this analysis: Gases contained in the Blood. Vcuous blood. Artcriiil liluort. Stale of rest. Stutc of iictivity. , „ . r Oxygeu .... 9-31 8-21 3-31 Keutiis feinons . • | (j^^^^ic acid . . o'oo 2-oi X^i bubmaxilLiry gland I Carbonic acid . . 0-98 2 94 ^'lo Solid Besidue of the Blood. Venous Mowl. Ai tcrial blood. State of rest. State of uctivitj , n • r Less by evaporation 73'86 76 84 75'24 Rectus femoris . • | Solid Eesidiie . .26-14 23-16 24-7<'' In Lecture XX, it is stated that the differences supposed to exist87 XKRVOl'S SYSTEJr. between the sympathetic aud cerebro-spiual syistem of nerves arc more apparent than real. Modern pliysiology has shown that no absolute distinction exists between them, ibr tl)o sympatlietic, like most of the other nerves, originates in the spinal cord, and although it possesses ganglia, these ganglia cannot be viewed as distinct nervous centres. Indeed, according to Bernard, the nervous system contains only two great divisions—sensitive and motor nerves ; it matters little whether the subject is conscious of their action or not, their properties in both cases being identically the same. The sensitive apparatus is endowed with consciousness in tlie cerebro-spinal system, and does not enjoy this property in the organic nerves; but the difference is not an absolute and unconditional one ; for the -\ iscera frequently acquire a high degree of sensibility in acute diseases, and, on the other hand, the cutaneous surface, in paralytic subjects, is totally insensible to external impres- sions ; that is to say, the feeling of pain no longer exists, but the reflex actions which are still produced, inform us that the sensitive nerves still retain a part, at least, of their usual properties. "With respect to the motor nerves, Bernard's experimental researches have led him to distinguish two kinds of these; the first being destined to reduce the capacity of the vessels, the second to increase it. The former is derived from the sympathetic nerve, while the latter springs from the cerebro-spinal axis. To those of the first class he gives the name of vaso-motor nerves; we know them, in fact, to produce con- traction in the vessels by acting upon nniscular elements; but tlie powers of the antagonist system are infinitely more difficult of com- prehension ; it appears to stimulate the dormant activity of the tissues to which it sjireads, creating secretion in glands, contraction in. muscles, and phenomena of a different nature in other parts. Whether the nerves which give rise to these effects, and those Avhich dilate the vessels are identically the same, is a matter of doubt. The contraction in muscles, and secretion in glands usually coincide with a turgid state of the capillaines ; but these phenomena are not inseparably con- nected ; the circulation of a muscle may be accelerated, withoiit giving rise to contractions, and contractions may take place without exerting the slightest influence on the local circulation. The same being the case in glands, it may be questioned whether these various effects are all produced by the same class of nerves. The system of organic life appears to confine its action to the vessels. But the reciprocal influence of sensitive and motor nerves in the cerebro-spinal apparatus is too well known to reqiiire a proof, nor is it to be supposed that reflex actions are confined to the voluntary nerves. The vaso-motor appa- ratus equally enjoys this important property. The influence of cold on vascidar contraction evidently belongs to this class of phenomena; for on dividing on one side the cervico-cephalic branch in animals subjected to the process of congelation the eflects of cold are immediately felt on the non-mutilated side, and are slow in making their appearance on the other. The sympathetic nerve may be viewed as a complementary apparatus placed by the side of the cerebro-sjiinal system. Both are derived from the same origin, both enjoy similar properties, but the elements on which their action is exerted are of a different nature.88 REPORT OxV THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. The vessels are placed under the influence of the first, while the histo- logical dements obey the power of the second; nutrition may be said to depend on the former, and physiological activity to be aroused by the latter. Gon.—Contribulions to the Minute Anatomy of the Spinal Cord of Man. Memoir of the Med. Chir. Soc. of the|,Canton Zuricli, on occasion of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversaiy of its foundation, 4to, Zurich, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 66. * According to this author—(i) In the anterior (and whiter) part of the gray commissure of the spinal cord, the nerve-fibres proceeding from the anterior hoi'n (motor) clecussate, and then ascend to join the anterior columns. (2) In the posterior (and redder) part is a delicate vascular connective tissue associated with few medullated nerve-fibres. (3) The sensitive fibres do not directly enter the posterior horns, as commonly supposed, but pass on their inner side, some to be lost in the posterior columns, others in the extremity of the posterior horn. (4) The ganglionic cells were never ascertained to communicate with one another or to merge into nerve-fibres. Mater, Db. A. (Mayence)—On tlie Sensory Function of the Spinal Cord. Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. Ixix, p. 44, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, Some years ago Pfliiger called attention to the interesting fact that, when the thigh of a decapitated frog is touched vrith acetic acid, the animal immediately tries to remove the irritant with its foot. "When the acetic acid is applied to the loins, and the foot of the same side amputated, the frog still makes attempts to remove the source of irri- tation by means of the remaining stump, and if it is not successful in these endeavours it becomes very restless, and at last employs the foot of the opposite limb to remove the acid. These and other experiments of a similar character have since been made by many observers, and the general opinion has been that the spinal cord in the fi'og possesses in itself some of the functions of the brain. Mayer has now investigated this subject very fully, and he finds, that not only are the above-men- tioned results correct, but that decapitated frogs are capable of several other voluntary movements—for example, a decapitated frog will swim about in water, will spring away from any source of irritation, and when laid upon its back, will make violent efforts to regain its natural position. These and some other results of minor importance, have led the author to the following conclusions, (i) A decapitated frog still possesses, to a certain extent, sensation and the power of voluntary motion. (2) These functions in the decapitated frog have their seat in the medulla oblongata, and not in the medulla spinalis. (3) The me- dulla spinalis of the frog and animals of a similar class, as well as of animals higher in tlic scale of development, and more especially of man, is not sensitive. Kttkde, p.—The Influence of Heat and Electricity on the Sinnal Cord. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xviii, p. 357, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 19,5. The author finds that, in frogs poisoned by a small dose of strychnine, tetanus may be obviated by putting the animal in a warmer medium89 NEEVOTJS SYSTEM. than before; whilst it is induced by change to a colder one. After a large dose the converse effect is observed. It is also found that the tetanus caused bj' strychnine ceases when the frog is brought within the circle of an induced current, itself capable of causing tetanus. Chauveai".—0)1 tlie Convulsions of the Muscles of Animal Life; and on tlie signs of sensibility produced in tJve liorse hy localized me- chanical irritation of the surface of the spinal cord. Comptes Eendus, 4th Feb., 1861, p. 209. From the author's experiments on twenty-four horses it results that —(i) When the cord and encephalon are disconnected by a section inade in the dorsal or occipital region, and animal life maintained by artificial insufflation of the limgs, irritation of the antero-lateral surface of the exposed cord in the upper lumbar region is not followed by any contractions or signs of pain. On the other hand, the merest touch of the anterior roots of the nerves is followed by contractions in the muscles supplied by them, (a) However lightly the needle (the ex- periments were performed with a sharp-pointed needle) be applied to the posterior surface of the cord it never fails to induce involuntary contractions, in every respect similar to those which ensue from exci- tation of the corresponding roots of the nerves. (3) The extent of the muscular contractions is in proportion to the intensity of the irrita- tion employed. They may be limited to the vicinity of the seat of ex- periment, or propagated throughout the whole body. (4) Irritation of the sides of the cord generally induces movements exclusively on the side to which the stimulus has been applied ; when they occur on both sides of the body, those on the opposite side are always least energetic. (5) As the irritation is carried outwards from the median sulcus towards the side, the contractions are found to increase in vehemence, but when once the line of exit of the sensitive roots is overstepped the movements abruptly cease. As regards the second series of ex- periments, in which the spinal cord was not divided before the applica- tion of the mechanical irritation to its surface, the author found that irritation effected in the dorso-lumbar or upper cervical region yielded results identical with those just enumerated, but the movements were now attended by evidences of exquisite pain. Eesults similar to these (which, as the author admits, are not altogether new) were obtained in the sheep, goat, and rabbit. Colin.—On the different Degrees of Sensihility of the Ganglia and Fila- ments of the Bympathetic. Comptes Eendus, May 13th, i86r, p. 969. The results of the author's experiments are—(i) The ganglia of the great sympathetic are all sensible; the semi-lunar and thoracic much more so than the superior cervical. (2) The most voluminous ganglia seem more sensible in their thick homogeneous-looking portions than in those which are thin, striated, and plexiform. (3) Their sen- sibility is better elicited by pinching than by piercing, cutting, or cauterizing. (4) Irritation, if powerful, is perceived immediately; but It It be leeble some seconds elapse before its effects are observed.liKI'OIlT OS THE IMS'I'ITUTES OF MKDICINE. 40 I is) Grangliii cxtcusivdy injured cease to transmit imprcsijionb. (6) All the gauglionary ncrvc-n are sensible, though unequally so, and thty are less sensitive than the ganglia themselves. (7) Tiieir sensibility diminishes as their tenuity increases. (8) The lllameuts communi- oatiug Avith the cerebro-spinal system are most sensible; those con- necting the ganglia are less so, and the visceral nerves least of all. (8) The sensibility of the nerves is most readily aroused by pinching. EosENTnAt, J.—On the injluence of the J^iieumo-Gastric and the Supe- rior Laryngeal Nerves on the movements of tlic Diaphragm. Comptes llendus, April 15th, 1861, p. 7154. This physiologist announces that irritation of the superior laryngeal nerve arrests the movements of the diaphragm. If the proximal portion of the pneumogastric nerve, cut below the origin of the superior laryn- geal, be excited by electric currents of medium intensity, the diaphragm becomes strongly contracted; whereas by irritation of the laryngeal it is relaxed. Very weak currents applied to the pneumogastric cause remarkable acceleration of the respiratory movements, whilst, applied to the laryngeal, they constantly slacken them. Powerful currents acting upon either nerve, lilvewise arrest the movements of the diaphragm, sometimes in a contracted, sometimes in a relaxed condition. The author thinks it highly probable that those fibres of the superior laryn- geal, the excitation of which suspends diaphragmatic movement, are the same as confer sensibility on the mucous membrane of the larynx and cause cough; for, during cough, the diaphragm is always relaxed. The pneumogastric, splanchnic, and superior laryngeal appear to be the inhibitory nerves of the heart, intestine, and diaphragm, respectively; but whilst the influence of the two former takes a centrifugal direction, that of the latter is propagated centripetally. Waller, Dr. AuarsTtrs. JSxperimental Besearches on4he Functions of the Vagus and the Cervical Si/mpathetie Nerves in Man. Proc. lloy. Soc, No. 44, p. 302. .... The object of this memoir is to point out some results obtained by irritating the vagus and cervical sympathetic in man, in such a way as not only to ascertain their fimctions in a state of health, but also their condition in disease, and in various functional derangements to which they are subject. The method employed was mechanical irritation by simple pressure on the trunk of the nerve. Moderate pressure gave rise—(i) To the sensation of want of breath, which was followed by deep and laboured inspiration. (2) The heart's action became distiu-bed. (3) Uneasiness over the stomach, in some cases amounting to a feeling of nausea. (4) Tingling of the corresponding ear. (5) Dilatation of the pupil occurred once. All these symptoms quickly disappear after the removal of the pressure, but leave a feeling of lassitude and lowness of spirits, which may last for some hours. "Waller, Dr. Augtjsttjs.—On the Sensory, Ifotory, and Vaso-Motory Symptoms, resulting from the Refrigeration of the Ulnar Nerve. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 46, p. 436. The foUowiug are the principal results Waller obtained :—(i) TheNERVOUS SYSTEM. 41. first effect of tlie application of cold is the iuductiou of a state of liyper- festliesia in the course of the nerve. (2) The hyperajsthesia is suc- ceeded by aufesthcsia. (3) The hyperacsthesia is associated Avith increased excitability of the nerve ; the anaesthesia with paralysis. (4) In the paralytic condition tlie muscles remain contracted to some extent, and tlie inner fingers in a state of flexion. (5) The temperature of the inner part of the hand rises; tbat of the outer falls,—on account of the diversion of part of the blood of the radial into the ulnar artery. ^loiESCHOTT, Prof., (Zurich).— On tlie Nerves of the Heart. Med. Times and Gaz., July 27th, p. 94. From a series of experiments on the vagus and sympathetic nerves, the author has arrived at the conclusion that the inhibitory theory is untenable. He found, for example, that, on applying a weak mechani- cal, chemical, thermal, or electric stimulus to the vagus, the pulse rose considerably. Amongst the mechanical stimuli stretching appeared to be most eftective, as it can be easily graduated by the employment of different weights ; but friction and pressure also yield the same results. The chemical stimuli used were salt water, the bile of frogs, and the desiccation of the nerve ; tliese latter had the mo.st considerable eftect of all, as, on applying salt water to the vagus of a rabbit, the pulse rose from 166 to 231; that is, 65 in tlie minute, or two-fifths of the freqiiency observed during repose ; and on touching the vagus of a frog with frog's bile, the piilse rose from 18 to 40 (more than double). Thermal irritation caused an increase of one-eleventh in the rabbit (from 224 to 244); of one-ninth in the frog (from 36 to 40). The electric stimulus produced an acceleration amounting to two-ninths (from 190 to 232) in the rabbit, two-fifths (from 30 to 42) in the frog. In the frog a more powerful stimulus is generally necessary to eftect such results than in the rabbit. The frequency of the pulse is also in- creased if the vagus has been cut through, and the peripheric end of the nerve excited. The increased frequency is, therefore, no mere reflex; phenomenon caused in the cerebro-spinal centre, nor, if the central end of the nerve is excited, does the pulse become quicker. The excitation shoiild generally last from fifteen to thirty seconds if the ex- periment is to prove successful, and in many cases a considerable alter- ation in the heart's action is observed long after the excitation has ceased. Pulsus dicrotus is sometimes couseqneut upon a long-con- tinued excitation of the A-agus, after which the whole of the ^-entricles contract with two intermissions. Moreover, he found that while a feeble excitation of the sympathetic accelerated the pulse, a stronger electric excitation of the nerve dimin- ishes its frequency, and may even bring the heart to a temporary stand- still. "When the excitation ceases, the heart and the nerve may* recover from their exhaustion, so that, if a feeble current is afterwards applied, the frequency of the pulse may again be augmented. The sympathetic nerve has, therefore, the same influence upon the heart as the vao-us. Moleschott concludes from his experiments that the heart is animated by four very excitable nerves which may easily be over-excited; these foub nerves, two vagi and two sympathetics, have a peculiar consensus, ftUEPOH.T ON THE INSTITUTES OF MHDTCINE. 42 which IS Jio doulit due to the action of tlie ganglia of tlie liearfc, ko that the state of irritation or over-cxcitcmont, which is produced in one of the nerves, is transmitted to the three others; but it is not possible to exhaust permanently the other three by over-excitation of one nerve singly, as stimulants, Avhich would be powerful enough to eficct this, would soon kill the excited portion of the one nerve, and, therefore, lose their effect upon the other three; such an effect being only possible as long as the nerve acted upon retains part, at least, of its excitability. Keatjse, W.—Anatomicctl Eesearches on ihe modes of termination of tlie nerve fibres. Hannover, 1861, 8vo., pp. 1—98. Canst., vol. i, p. 56. (i) The author confirms (in the sheep) Herbst's unique observation, that Paccinian corpuscles do Kometiraea occur in connexion witli muscular nerves. (2) He finds that on an average about five of these corpuscles are connected with the nervous twigs entering the nipple in both sexes. (3) From his owu minute researches, and the inquiries of others, he concludes that, besides tlie cutaneous nerve twigs, ending about the hair follicles, and in the Paccinian corpuscles, some scattered fibrils are to be found terminating in tactile corpuscles. (4) In the sensitive mucous tracts (conjunctival, buccal, and genital), Paccinian corpuscles are absent, whilst iu place of the tactile bodies there occurs a super- ficial system of roundish terminal knobs, distinguished from the former by an absence of transverse striation. On the outer margin of the lip, these Imobs are mingled with scattered tactile corpuscles or forms ti'au- sitional thereto, whilst Paccinian bodies are absent. (5) In most mamma- lian orders, both the tactile corpuscles and the simpler terminal knobs are represented by oval bodies analogous to the latter, occurring not only in the mucous membranes, but iu the skin of the soles of the feet, where, in the squirrel, they lie under as well as in the papillae. They have been met with in the skin of the trunk (mouse). Paccinian corpuscles are found in the soles of the feet uf some mammalia, and under the mucous membrane of the clitoris. Iu the human conjunctiva bulbi, there are, on an average, two terminal Icnobs in a square line. (6) With reference to Hitter's intra-columnar retinal filaments, Krause abstains from pronouucing whether they ought to be regarded as natural structures or as the effects of immers- ing the eye iu acids. He also suspends his judgment Avith regard to the nervous or non-nervous nature of the rods and cones of the retina. (7) The fine anastomosing nervous trunks found throughout the human intestine, are connected with the muscular layer by offsets of some thick- ness, whilst single fibrils proceed to the interglandular spaces. The latter are supposed by the author to supply the smooth muscles of the mucous membrane and of the villi, and the former to proceed to the fibres of the muscular coat. The ganglia associated with the plexuses, contain from ten to thirty nucleated cells. The mode in which these nerves terminate remains inscrutable. KiiirxE.—Note on a New Organ of the Nervous Bxjstem,—Comptes ]{cndus, Teb. i8th, 1861, p. .316. With the object of ascertaining how the nerves terminate in muscles.48 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. and their ultimate connexion with the contractile substance, this ob- server has microscopically examined the muscles of batrachians, fishes, birds, mammals and man, and has arrived at the following results:—(i) Every primitive fibre entering a muscle soon divides in two. (2) All these secondary fibres again divide after separating from the intermus- cular filaments. (3) Another subdivision takes place when the last- mentioned filaments reach a muscular fibre. (4) From this last division ten or twenty branches spring. Here the ultimate termination of a motor nerve may invariably be found. On tracing these branches, which are aggregated in great mimbers on minute portions of the mus- cular fibre, it is found that—(a) The neurolemma constantly joins the sarcolemma, and thus far the nuclei of the envelope are observable, (h) The double contour of the nerve produced by its medullary envelope abruptly ceases, (c) The axis cylinder here passes beneath the sarco- lemma and comes into direct contact with the contractile substance. (d) The axis cylinder then becomes broader in parts where it is provided •with small highly granular bodies, called by the author the ^;e»v^jAe;v'c nervov.s nodules, (e) When the intramuscular axis cylinder is short, ifc ends with one of these corpuscles. When long, it possesses several such bodies, and generally ends with a very distinct point between the strite. The nodules form part and parcel of the axis cylinder, and vary from -YTiVo *o Too ^ millimeter. They never exhibit niicleoli, and by their agency the axis cyliuder of the motor nerve is in intimate contact with the contractile substance, into which the granulations penetrate. Hahi-ess, E.—Molecular Processes in ISferve Suhsfance. Third part: Mensuration of IrritahiUtI/. Munich, i860,4to. Canst., vol. i, pp. 21, 182. This continuation of the woi'k reported in 'Year-Book,' Vol. ii, p. 48, is chiefly occupied with the description of a delicate but complicated mecha- nism, designed to measure with extraordinary precision the irritability of nerves. It was observed that when one electric shock was quickly suc- ceeded by another, the muscular inertia yielded most readily to the second, i.e., the muscle responded to a weaker current than was required to excite it at fii-st. Harless, E.—(i) Neuro-iTliysiological Inquiries. Zurich, i860, 8vo. (2) On the Influence of Temperatures and their variations on the Motor Nerves. Ztschr. f. rat. Med., i860, p. 122. Canst., vol. i, pp. 18, 183. The author found that—(i) When'a nerve is reduced to a temperature between 14° and 32°, the muscle it supplies is seized with spasms, attributed by the author to pressure on the white substance of the nerve caused by the coagulation of the enveloping structures. (2) Heating the nerve to nearly 95" does not alter the irritability, which, liowcver, at a heat of 100", suffers a sudden diminution, referable to the melting of the nervous fat, shown to occur at that temperature. At this, heat it is also observed that the direction of the nen^ous current may be reversed. (3) Between 133° and 140° the nerve becomes iusen-44 llEl'OUT ON TUK INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. I Bible to the strongest shocks, until the temperature is reduced. At this stage tlie cohesion of the nerve is suddenly diminished. MuNK, II.—liescm-clics on llie. Conduction, of Excihtliuii in Nrrvrs. Arcliiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 798. Canst., vol. i, p. 186. These observations led to tlie results that—(i) The maximum of excitation of a nerve rises rapidly and considerably just after its separa- tion from the organism ; and that—(2) The proi)agation of excitement differs in rate in the cour.se of the nerve, the time occupied in its trans- mission through a given length of iierve, being more tiian double tliat spent in its passage throngU half that length. The author believes that liere, with an essential limitation, the law operates that all parts of the nerve conduct with the same speed when they are at an equal distance from the spot immediately excited, but that the rate decreases with the length of the conducting portion. SciTELSKE.—On llifi Qlianges effected in the Irritahility of Nerves h/ Warmth. TIeidelb., i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 18. Tiio author states that Avhen the movements of the frog's heart are suspended by heat or by cold, electric irritation, either direct or throiu/ii the vnffus nerve, causes a spasmodic twitching movement in the organ; but that when the heart returns to its original temperature, the vagus resumes its inhibitive character. Htrtl.—Paccinian Bodies on the Infra-orhitrtl Neri'e. Oe.st. Ztsch. 181JQ, No. 47. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. In three instances this anatomist found Paccinian corpuscles on the infra-orbital nerve. He conjectures that they may have been caused by capsular investment of the central end of a torn nerve fibre, (just as they frequently occur on the digital nerves of hands exposed to rough usage,) or, that injury of the nerve in its canal may have caused the periphery to be affected. Beondgast, p. T.—Researches on the Tone of tlie Vohmtary Muscles. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 703. Canst., vol. i, p. 187. Brondgiist instituted experiments on muscular tone (in rabbits and frogs) by dividing the cord near the medulla oblongata, and the sciatic nerve of one side. The animals being next suspended, in order that the ensuing movements might be unimpeded, it Avas observed in half an hour, that the lower limb on the injured side dangled loosely -whilst the other was moderately bent in all its joints. If the toes of the sound side were then pinched, the flexion of the limb was increased. But if the cord near the medulla and the roofs of one of the sciatic nerves were divided, though the limbs assumed the same attitude as just described, it was found on pinching the toes of the sound side, that both the extremities were drawn up. The author's inference is, that there exists a muscular tone dependent on the constant influence of the central nervous system, but that it is a reflex tone, since it ceases after section of the postei-ior roots of the nerves.45 NEUVOTJS SYSTEM. MaiteiTCCI.—On the Secondanj JElectro-motor Foioer of tlie Nerves, and its application to Electro-phi/dologi/. Comptes reudus, 1861, Eeb. 11, p. 231. As the result of a long series of researches, the author announces that the secondary electro-motor power of a nerve (or that which it acquires after the passage of an electric current, and Avhich takes a direction opposite to the latter) is much greater near the positive than next the negative pole, and that this diflerence is more considerable wlien the nerve is traversed by a centripetal current. It is well known that if a current be passed from one foot to the other (as, for example, through a frog's limbs connected by the lumbar nerves, and a portion of the°spiue), for fifteen or twenty minutes, the foot to which the posi- tive pole is applied, is seized with violent contractions on interruption of the circuit. Now, as stated in the above proposition, it is this nerve which is the seat of the stronger secondary power, which is moreover most marked in the part nearest the muscles. The author attributes the contractions in question to the passage of the secondary, and in this nerve direct, current. It ought to'be remarked that the author's observations were not limited to the frog, but extended to the sheep, rabbit, and chicken. NiA'^EMT.—Memoir on the different Plii/siolof/ical Action of the Positive and Negative Poles in the Voltaic and Induction Currents. Comptes rendus, 1861, May 13th, p. 971. Experiments on fishes and frogs, on cutaneous sensibility in man, and the organic tissues, lead to the following propositions:—ist. In the continued, the inductor, and the induced currents, the two poles act dif- fcrentl}^ on electro-muscular contractility, the positive producing flexion and resolution of the muscles, the negative their extension. 2nd. With all three currents, the ne(/ative pole acts most on cutaneous sensibility, but has the least local effect.* 3rd. The positive pole of the continued current coagulates, whilst the negative dissolves the tissues, &c. The induced current is almost powerless in this respect, but affects sensi- liiUli/ more than they do. Eroiu these premises, the author arrives at the practical conclusion, ihat in aneurisms &c., the positive (coagulating) pole is to be preferred, Avhilst in solid enlargements the negative (solvent) will be appropriate. Du Bois Retmond, E.—Toivards a Knowledge of Heniicrania. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 517. Canst., vol. i, p. 149. The author refers hemicrania, from which he is a sufferer, to tetanus in the muscular fibres of tlie vessels supplying the affected side—the tetanus being caused by the corresponding sympathetic. Philipeatjx and Vulpian.—Note on the Regeneration of Transplanted Nerves. Comptes rendus, 1861, April %gt\\, p. 849. As reported in the last Year-book (p. 45), these experimenters found that after division of a nerve, the distant segment, after degenerating and losing its properties, is yet capable of regaining, sooner or later, its •? The original is, " L'action du pole negatif est bien plus prononcee sur I.1 sensibilite cutaru'e que celle du pole nogatif" (sic). 1heport on the institutes oi' medicine. 46 structure and functions. This result has even ensued after the central portion liad been toru out. IM'ore recently the authors excised a portion of tlie lingual nerve, two Indies long, in two nearly fuU-growu dogs, inserting it under the skin in the inguinal region. Six months later, the peripheric part of the lingual, still isolated from tlie central portion, contained numerous restored tubes; tlie transplanted segment was of a grayish colour, united with the couuective tissue of the part, and contained a number, fifteen to twenty, of slender restored tubes scattered among othei-s in dill'erent stages of transformation. In one of the cases it was ascertained tliat pinching the transplanted segment elicited no sign of pain, which renders it improbable that it communi- cated with the nervous filaments of the region. Weissmank, Aug.—On Nerve-formation in a Neuroma, Zschr. f. rat. Med., vol. vii, p. 209. Canst., vol. i, p. 68. Erom his examination of a traumatic neuroma on his own thumb, the author arrives at the result, that the new nerve-fibres originate, not by the division of those already existing, but irom the neurilemma (likewse formed anew) and from series of spindle-shaped nuclei. Hjelt, Otto.—On tlie Begeneration of the Nerves. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 352. Canst., vol. i, p. 51. Hjelt's conclusions are—(i) that the first step towards the regene- ration of a divided nerve, is a formation of connective tissue originating in the nuclei of the neurilemma (i. e. in the connective-tissue corpuscles), and (2) that the filaments connecting these nuclei blend with the old nerve-tubules, eventually to assume the character of nerves. ISIatteucci.—Lectures on I^Iectro-phjsiologi/ delivered ai tJie Universiti/ of Turin. Comptes rendus, 1861, May, p. 954. Treating of the polarities and secondary cm-rents developed in the nerves by the passage of the electric current, the author shows that such polarization is especially powerful in thd nerve traversed by the inverse current, and in the proximity of the ])ositive electrode and of the muscle from which the nerve issues. The experiment consists in taking the nerve after the passage of the inverse current, cutting it in half and opposing the two pieces to one another. There thus arises a strong diflerential current belonging to the portion nearest the positive pole, although both portions, tested separately, give a secondary current in the same direction. The result is, that on the interruption of the circuit, a nerve, previously the seat of the inverse current, will be traversed by a direct one. And thus it is explained why a nerve, traversed by the inverse current, is excited with the interruption of the circuit. To demonstrate that a mnscle Avhich has been contracting, has lost electro-motor power, and that such loss is repaired by rest, let two similar muscles on the same frog be opposed to one another, and when their electro-motor power is found to be the same, let one be made repeatedly to contract. AVith the double opposed pile a powerful differential current is discovered in tlie direction of the unexcited muscle and if the pile be left to itself, that current gradually disappears.FOOD, MEDICINE, AND I'OISOK. 47 i The author insists upon the opposition in tho deportment of a muscle and that of the electric organ of the torpedo, after excitation. If two pieces of the electric organ be opposed, and the nerve of one piece be excited to several discharges, it v?ill be found on recomposing the pile with the two opposed portions that there exists a strong differ- ential current in the direction of that portion which gave the discharge. The author thei-efore concludes that the electro-motor power of muscle depends on the chemical actions that preside over muscular irri- tability, and which are wealcened with contraction, whilst that of the electric organ is sustained by nervous action, as might happen if such action gave rise in each cell to the secretion of materials capable of chemical reaction. PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, MEDICINE, AND POLSON. Laxkesteb, Dr. 'E.—Oii Food. Illustrated. 8vo, London, pp. 400. Ellis, Charles.—Hisiory of the Origin and Nature of Wine; its use as a Beverage, lawful and needful, to Civilized Man. A Lecture, l)p. 56. London, 1861. Metcalfe, Johnson.—Letter on the Alcohol Question. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 168. Cleboene, Dr. C. J. (U.S. Navy).—Experiments to determine the effect on the System of the Asclepias Syriaca. Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., July, p. 46. NivisoN, Dr. N.—0« the antagonistic effects of Opium md Sulphate of Qtiinia. Amer. Joiu-n. Med. Sc., July, p. 51. Smith, Dr. II.vneubt (New York).—Papers on Mineral Waters. Amer. Med. Times, Aug., Sept., and Oct. numbers. Eynd, E. (Meath Hoh^).).—Description of an Instrument for the Suh- cutaneous Introduction of Fluids in Affections of the Ner ves. Dublin Quart. Journ., August, p. 13. Lystee, Dr. D. J. (New Yovk).—BemarJcs on the use of Tobacco. Amer. Med. Times, July, p. 55. Bains, Isl.k..—Infant Alimentation, or Artificial Feeding, as a suhstiitite for Breast-milk, considered in its Physical and Social Aspects. Lancet, Jan. 12th, p. 33. Headland, Dr. Ebedeeic W.—0« the Action of Medicines on the System. 3rd edit. 8vo, London. TUENBULL, Dr. James.—0« the Bhysiolor/ical and Medicinal Properties of Sulphate of Aniline. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1S61. Lente, Dr. r. J).—Sulphuric Ffher and Chloroform as Ancesthetics, considered ivith reference to their relative safety and efficiencu. Philadelphia, 1861. ^ j Cutter, Dr E. (Wobm-n, Mass.).—theneio AnwstheticKerosolene. Amer. Med. Times, August, p. 86. KuHN-E W.—the Action of Woorara. Archiv f. Anat. u Phvs 1800, p. 517. ■' STEnmo.-i?m«;7*-s on the Action of Atropine. 8to, Breslau,IIEPORT ON 'J'lIE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Hammond, \V. .\.— 0n1h(: Nulvitivr. Vahin mid Phi/aiolofiical E[fccl>s of Albiimnt, kil(irc]i,(tnd Gum. Lo Speriiiiciitale,"p. i68. CauHt., vol. i, p. 226. The following observations -were made by the authoi- upon hiinself— (i) "When albumen was employed as the sole article of nounsliment, it appeared after live or six diiys in the urine. The animal heat sank, emaciation set in, the proportion of albumen and fibrin in the blood increased, as did the azotized ingredients of the urine. In twelve days diarrluiM and piiins in the abdomen and head forbade the continuance'of the experiments. (2) SUirch formed for ten day.s the only aliment. The body-warmth rose, sugar was discharged with the urine, in which the nitrogenous substances Avere nuich dimini.shed, the albuminous sub- stances of the blood were reduced, whilst its non-azotized constituents were augmented. The body lost far more weight than when albumen was the ouly food, and there was much headache and pyrosis, with weakness. (3) Gum could be continued alone for only four days, on account of great loss of weight and strength, reduction of temperature, and derangement of every fimctiou. He considers gum to be unassimilable. VoiT, C.—Researches on the Influence of Salt, Coffee, and Exercise on Tissue-change. 8vo, Munich, i860. Canst., vol. i, pp. 149, 220. The author's observations on the etfects of saJt given to a dog kept on a unifoi-m meat diet, led to the following results—(i) If the tissues are not already saturated Avith this substance, a certain quantity of it is retained in the organism ; but if they are saturated, a greater quantity than that administered is discharged by the kidneys, which, in the dog, are the only excretory channels. (2) Salt increases the oxydation of the systemic albumen, and the excretion of urea. (3) Even if drink be withheld, the urine becomes more abundant. The experiments with coffee were made on a dog and on frogs. In the dog its assimilation, instead of diminishing the excretion of urea, rather increased it. In the frogs catfein first enhanced and afterwards lowered nervous excitability. The pupils and the.vessels were considerably dilated; and the cutaneous capillaries, laden with blood, imparted a rose-colour to the surface. Exercise (mensurable, because taken on the treadmill) was found in dogs considerably to increase the consumption of the fat, but hardly, if at all, to affect that of the albumen, in the system. The source of animal power, therefore, which, according to these observations, does not lie in the transformation of albumen, is supposed by the author to be explained by the correlation of physical forces—animal electricity being transmuted into mechanical work. MoSLBR, Fbed., M.D.— On the Influence of Water on the Metamorj)hosis of flatter. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th, p. 565. In a letter dated Giessen, Oct. 2 5th, the German correspondent of the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' gives the following account of JDr. Hosier's experiments on the influence of common drinking-water on the human body :— The experiments, he says, were made on a number of men, women, and chilcb-eu; in one series the food and the general mode of livingi VOOD, MEDICINii, ANX) POlsiOX. 4-9 remained uucbaugetl; in another, the liquids whicli had been \isually taken, were withdrawn; and in a third, various quantities of common drinking-water Avere added to the usual consumption of liquids. The water u°ed in these experiments had been carefully analysed, and was found to contain 27 grains of solid constituents, amongst which the carbonates of lime, iron, and magnesia, and chloride of sodium predomi- nated. One grain of carbonic acid was contained in sixteen ounces of ■water. . The disturbances observed after withdrawing liquid food were very striking, and ensued more rapidly if the solid food which was taken contained only a trifling quantity of water; in persons m whom the metamorphosis was comparatively more energetic than in others; if exercise was taken, and if in consequence of previous indisposition, there was no great power of resistance to morbid influences. In every case the secretions and excretions were diminished, especially the excretion of urine, which, although its specific gravity was considerably increased, was nevertheless found to contain amuch smaller amount of solid constitu- ents than the quantity of urine which had been previously discharged. The urea was very much diminished ; after that came the chloride of sodium, phosphoric and sulphuric acids. Effete matter was therefore retained in the blood, in consequence of a diminished action of the kidneys; and to this the morbid symptoms, and especially the fever Avhich was observed, were, no doubt, to be ascril3ed. The excretion by the skin and the lungs was also much diminished; costiveness, loss of appetite, and a dry longue, were complained of—symptoms evidently due to a deficiency in the secretion of the mucous membrane of the mouth, the stomach, aud the intestines. If, on the other hand, a larger quantity than usual of water was administered, the metamorphosis was greatly accelerated. The quantily of the urine, of urea, of sulphates, phosphates aud chlorides, and of the ficces, was much augmented, while the lu-ic acid appeared diminished. As regards age, sex, and constitution, the same quantity of water had a much more considerable and lasting effect in boys and girls tlian in adult males; if water was administered for a somewhat lengthened period to males of a feeble constitution, the metamorphosis was in them more increased than in very vigorous persons ; aud febrile symptoms set in which were, in a few instances, of a threatening character. The temperature of tlie atmosphere and of the water which was taken had also a certain influence. If the air Avas warm, and if at the same time exercise was taken, the metamorphosis increased more considerably; warm water appeared more eftecti\ e than cold, and there were also differences according as the several quantities of water were druulc at long intervals or in rapid succession. In cases where the increased appetite was indulged by a more abundant administration of food, the waste of the system was com- pensated, aud the long-continued use of water made less inroad upon the constitution than when tlie food was not increased; the wei'^-ht of the body was also not so much diminished under such circiunstances. In som^ cases tlie action of the water was chiefly diuretic, in others it was more diaphoretic. As regards the intestines, generally only a very trifling quantity of water was eliminated by them; but in one boy 4hepout ox the institutes of medicine. 60 nnd two girls a larf^o amoiiut of water lalten caiiwed profuse diarrhoea, whioli waa aluo observed in a few adult iiialcH, after the use of the water had been long continued. AiTHAUS, Dr.—0)1 certain points connected with the Nature and Action of Mineral Waters. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, p. 422. The author pointa out how hot mineral spriugB posBesB curative properties beyond those possessed by ordinary waters at the same tem- perature, also the great benefit resulting from the presence of carbonic acid in many of these springs. The carbonic acid plays a most important part in retaining certain salts in a soluble condition, which would othei'wise be deposited, and besides, it renders the waters much more palatable. Eegarding the physiological action, the author says that, in judging of the therapeutical action of spas, the mistake is fre- quently committed of merely taking into account the principal con- stituents of the water, and of concluding from theii' known medicinal etFects upon the action of a special spa in which they predominate. A mineral water is a complex medicine, which has a peculiar mixture, a certain temperature, and in which a great variety of solid and gaseous constituents are intimately blended together. The only means by which to arrive at a satisfactory explanation of the curative effects pro- duced by them is, therefore, to study their action when administered to healthy subjects, and to draw conclusions from the physiological effects which these waters produce. Hassali, Dr. Aethttr Hill.—■ Adulterations Defected; or, plain in- structions for the discovery of frauds in food and medicine. Second edition, London, 1861, pp. 712. The author states that the object of the work is to give—ist, a description of the various adulterations to which each article of con- sumption, and many medicines, have, vip to this date, been subjected; and, 2ndly, the details of the various methods by which these sophis- tications may be discovered. The M^ork is copiously illustrated with microscopical dra^dngs of the objects described. Jacksok, Dr. C. T.—Action of Chloroform on the Blood; probable causes of its fatal effects ivhen inlialed as an anaesthetic. Boston Med.-Chir. Journ., March, 1861. Some six years ago the author reported a case of death from chloro- form, where, on analysis, the blood of the right side of the heart was foimd to contain foi'mic acid, but no chloroform. In that case the blood-corpuscles were withered up in a very remarkable manner. The chemical action of chlorofonn on the blood the author says is this :— Chloroform consists of one equivalent of formyle and three of cidorine. Formic acid consists of one equivalent of formyle and three of oxygen. When chloroform is inhaled the blood takes chlorine from, and gives oxygen to, the chloroform, thereby changing it into formic acid, and a portion of the blood is at the same time chemically changed, and rendered unfit for the purposes of nutrition. As this blood is no longer an appro- priate stimulus to the vital organs, sudden death is likelv to take place from a cessation of their action. According to Jackson, the great disad- vantage under which chlorofonnizatiou labours if, the introduction ofFOOD^ MEDICINE^ AXI) POISON. 51 cUorine into the blood. He thinks we can greatly diminisli tlie danger in employing this agent by mixing it with a large proportion of pure ether—at least, three fourths of its bulk. We tlius not only dilute the dangerous with a safe anajsthetic agent, but we overcome the deadly depressing influence of the chloroform by the stimulating effects of the ether. BnowiT, Dr. BEDrOBD.—Ilffect of Chloroform on Cerehral Circulation. Amer. Joura. of Med. Sc., Oct., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th. Compound fracture of the frontal bone occurred in a boy aged ten, with laceration of cerebral substance and free hfemorrhage. Chloroform was administered to facilitate the removal of the depressed portions of bone. When full aucesthesia was produced, the brain-pulsations diminished, the cerebral surface receded, the bsemorrhage ceased, and vascularity diminished in a ratio corresponding to the diminution of consciousness. Mabcet, Dr. (Westminster Hospital).—0« Death from Chloroform. Med. Times and Gaz., July 20th, p. 56. The author makes the following physiological remarks on chloroform, When inhaled, and consequently broiight into contact with the air-cells of the lungs, it passes rapidly into the blood, by means of which it ia carried to the brain. If the administration of the anfesthetic agent be suspended, the chloroform will be eliminated from the body by the re- spiration, each inspiration displacing most of the vapour contained in the blood exposed by the lungs to the action of air during that inspi- ration. The elimination from the blood of any very volatile substance possessed of a stable chemical composition may be considered, as a rule, to take place through the lungs. If the air inspired be pui'e, the displacement of chloroform from the blood in the lungs will be very great; if this air should contain chloroform the displacement will be less, just as when ail* containing a large proportion of carbonic acid is breathed, the removal of the carbonic acid of the blood is checlced. When a patient begins to inhale chloroform, a portion is absorbed by the blood, the remaining is expired ; but shortly after- wards, in addition to the expiration of that part of the chloroform which has not been taken up by the blood, a certain quantity of that which has been absorbed is also ejected, being displaced by the air mixed with the chlorofonu inhaled. At this stage, however, there is still an accumulation of the aufesthetic agent in the blood, more being taken into the circulation than given out; gradually complete insensi- bility is produced, and the handkerchief is removed from before the face of the patient; he now begins ridding himself rapidly of the chlo- roform, and recovers consciousness, unless more of the anaesthetic agent be exhibited. Marcet has come to the conclusion—(i) That chloroibi'm must be administered cautiously, and its effects watched with particular attention, if, although the vapoiu' be freely inhaled, the patient does not become insensible within the usual time, (a) That in every case where chloroform is administered, as soon as the state of insensibility is obtained the vapour must be exhibited diluted as much as possible with-pure air; and air free from the ansesthetic agent ought to belUCPOllT ON TlIK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINK. I 5^ Irequontly admitted inlo tlic luuii^s in order to remove the excess of the vapour prosoiiL in the bk)<)d. (3) That during,' the udmiuiBtratioii of chlo- rolorm great atlontiou should be paid to the state of the rewpiration, which ought to guide tlie exliibition of the anaesthetic agent still more than the condition of the pulse. If tlie inspirations become less deep and respiration appear failing, air free from clilorofonn ouglit to be imme- diately admitted into the lungs, not only because this state of the resj)i- ration is an indication of there being an overdose of chloroform in the blood, bnt also because the diminished respiration is in itself a cause of danger, by preventing the blood from ridding itself of the chloroform it contains. (4) That when a patient has sunk under the effects of poi- soning by chjoroform the only means of restoring animation is by artificial respiration, adopting such a method as is best calculated to introduce as nnich air as possible into the hnigs, in order to remove the poison from the blood, and at the same time stimulating the action of the heart. Sansost, Dr.—Oil the Action of Chloroform. Med. Times and Graz., April 20th, p. 433. After alluding to several theories regarding the action of chloroform, the author related some experiments which he had performed with it on non-cireulatijig and on circulating blood. His conclusion is that chloroform exerts a caustic action upon the proteinous cell-wall of the blood-corpuscle; this action being manifested in the following progressive manner:—(i) Corrugatio]i of cell-wall; alteration of shape. (3) Coherence of corpuscles. (3) Coalescence of cell-contents ; an actual solution of the corpuscles. Instant stasis of circulating blood is effected if fluid chloroform permeate the lining walls of the vessels. The circulation in the web of a frog's foot, as seen by the aid of a microscope, is thus modified by ana?sthetizing the frog by the vapour of chloroform :—(i) Increase of velocity of circulation. (2) Dilatation of arteries and capillaries. (3) Decrease of velocity of circulation. (4) Alteration of cell-w'alls of corpuscles ; cohere^ice. (5) Interruption by cohering masses to capillary circulation. (6) Stasis of the blood. The enlarged capacity of the arterial system and the decrease of the velocity of the circulation account for the aujemia of the brain observed during narcotism. ('American Journal of Medical Science,' Oct., i860, p. 400.) The author summed up his conclusions as follows—ist. That chloroform-narcotism is due to the imperfect stimulus to the vital functions of a mal-oxygenated blood. 2nd. That this mal-oxygenation is due to the direct influence of the vapour of chloroform upon the blood, and especially upon the blood-corpuscles. 3rd. That the vapour acts caustically on the cell-walls of the blood-corpuscles, and thus impedes the en'dosmosis of oxygen. 4th. That if the blood be so de- teriorated as to supply an insufficient stimulus to the heart, death is by syncojK"; whilst if stasis be primarily eff"ectcd in the huigs, death is by apncea. SAXSOir, T)v.—On the Modes of Death from Chloroform. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 179. The author concludes from bis researches that in cases of daiiger■pOOVj JfEDICINE, AST) POISON. 53 from c-hloroform we ought to rely almost wholly on the state of the pulse. AVhcn the pulse is good, dyspnoea may, to some extent, be dis- regarded, but if the pulse shows signs of failing, the condition is to be regarded as one of danger, and the chloroform ought instantly to be Avithdrawn. ' KiDD, Dr. Charles.— (i) CMoroform Accidents. Brit. Assoc. for Adv. of Science, and Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. aSth, p. 341. (2) Eules for guidance in Chloroform Accidents. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. ^th, p. 362. The respiration as well as the pulse should be attended to in all cases of accident. There is now no reason to doubt that cardiac syncope is a mere accident. Death has been found to arise in animals from tetanic fixing of the respiratory muscles in the early stages of chloroform administration; to meet tliis danger, those means which imitate or assist respiration should be put in practice. Tracheotomy is doubtless a very severe remedy, but should never be lost sight of in accidents from chloroform. In the second communication Kicld says that, as to resuscitation, the means adopted at first should be as gentle as possible; a candle-'svick gone out is to be blo^vn in, not smothered by the nimia dilir/entia. Fanning the patient with cold, fresh air is of the first importance; the hands dabbed with cold water, which has a powerful influence in exciting the brachial and heart nerves. Too much cold water is not advisable. The patient should be brought at once into the open air, if summer, or into a very warm room, if winter; turned on his right side; the soles of the feet and interior of the ear tickled with a pen; his left arm held up, smacked with a wet towel, and that axilla and side of the chest dashed Avith cold water; then artificial respiration tried by " up and down " pressure rather than " rotations." Two or three needles next stuck where the omo-hyo'id lies at the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid, so as to hit, if possible, the phrenic nerve; then the vioist pole of a Faradization apparatus applied over the part or along the spine, the other pole being inserted under the floating ribs. It is probable, the author imagines, that in the milder cases, the previous measures will succeed, especially in the instances of apnoea; but if, after five minutes' trial, little progress is made, then tracheotomy is to be performed, and a small tube (a No. 10 india-rubber catheter) passed, and air gently bloAvn into the lungs (a large tube causes emphysema). Some anunonia and warm water should be thrown into the rectiun. In syncopic cases injection of warm water with a little soda in it into a vein may arouse the heart. In apnoea (asphyxia as regards the licart, the right cavities gorged) opening a vein is useful. These measures should be continued for at least from foin- to six hours, the body kept warm by hot blankets, in a semi-recumbent position, and the batteiy, gases, and impure air rigidly excluded ; even pure oxygen gas is to be avoided. » PrTHA, Prof—0« tJie Anmthetic Effects of Belladonna. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd. The foreign correspondent states that in a case of incarcerated hernia recently operated upon by Professor Pitha it was found that neitherEEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' JfEDICINE. 51 chloroform nor etber Avas able to induce a BulBcient degree of narcosis. After tlio patient had inhaled a very large quantity of both of these soporificf) for about two hours, no ana'sthcsia liaviug been induced, encmata with a scruple of the extract of belladonna were adminis- tered. Somo time afterwards the patient appcai-cd to be in a state of deep intoxication, and herniotomy was then performed. The sopor re- sembled a deep and tranquil sleep ; the fuccAvas placid, the features calm, the respiration regular, tlie pulse good; neither spasms, contractions, nor paralytic symptoms being observed, and the only signs which ex- cited anxiety, were the excessive dilatation and immobility of the pupils and the absolute impossibility of rousing the patient. Neither the re- moval of the patient irom the bed to the operating table, nor the operation itself, induced any return to consciousness ; and it was not until twelve hours after the operation that the patient awoke. He had no recol- lection of anything w^bich had passed, and, with the exception of a slight irritation in the throat and dilatation of the pupils, all traces of the action of belladonna had disappeared. When he awoke (at three p.m., on a bright day) he believed it to be still night; but towards the evening of the same day the vision was entirely re-established. Pro- fessor Pitha thought that the anfesthesia was due to the combined action of the chloroform, ether, and belladonna ; and he recommends a mixture of atropine and chloroform to be administered for inducing anaesthesia in cases of chloroform refractaires. Wii/MSHUEST, John.—A neio AncBsthetic. Lancet, March 2nd, p. 227. The author recommends the employment of the 01. Terebinth, rect., which, he says, produces a calm, anaesthetic sleep, ■without deranging the action of the heart. Smith, Dr. Edwaud.—On tlie Detection and Use of Alcoliol. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. and and i6th. The following is a summary of the author's A^iews on the action of alcohol upon the system :— 1. It increases the force of the heart's action, as proved by the ful- ness and sharpness of the pulse, and by the pulsation at the temples, and in the small arteries of the hands as they lie upon the table, and the height to which the foot is jerked when, after taking a glass of spirit and water, we sit "with the legs crossed. 2. It determines the blood to the extremities and to the surface, the latter fact being proved by the increased redness of the hands and face, \vith which all are familiar. This Ave presume to be due to the first action. 3. It lessens, or tends to lessen, the action of the skin, as proved by tiie etfects of rum and alcohol in the experiments, by the state of skin in those with Avhom it has disagreed, Avhether in health or disease, and by the ordinary condition of the skin in persons Avho habitually drink much alcohol. The action of the skin^;^;- excellence is the ebmiuation of vapour, and Avhen this aclion is lessened the skin becomes dry. It is not aflirmed that the skin always becomes dry under the influence of alcohol ; but tliat it commonly does so, and that as such is its actioujFOOD;, JIEDICINBj AND POISON. 55 when taken iu excess, such will necessarily be the direction of its action TV-hen taken in a less degree. 4. It increases the heat of the skin. This will follow from the three former statements; for if more warm blood be sent to a surface iu contact with air, and which, tlierefore, must, at ordinary tempera- tures, be cooler than the blood, there will be an addition to its heat; and also, if the vaporization by the skin be lessened, and by it the abstraction of heat from the surface in the supply of the latent heat when a fluid is converted into vapour, as in the perpetual action of the skin, be lessened, it follows that, with a less dispersion of heat and an increased supply of heat, the skin will become hotter. This is based upon physical laws which cannot be controverted, and accounts for the sense of increased heat, withoiit in any way aftecting the question of increased production of heat, by the metamorphosis of the alcohol. 5. That alcohol renders the hands and face red, hot, and swollen, is matter of common observation. 6. When alcohol is taken in a moderate state of dilution, it produces a sensation of heat in the mouth, throat, and stomach ; and, from what we know of the action of various stimulants to the mucous surface, it will increase the action of the surface if diluted, or it ■will arrest the action if it be concentrated, and in this respect its action is doubtless analogous to that of warm or hot water. 7. It lessens excretion of water by the kidneys. This has been as- serted by all experimenters, as Vierordt, Bocker, Hammond, and Smith; and in the author's recent experiments in prisons, he found the urine was reduced twenty ounces per day on the average of three days by two ounces of alcohol daily, in four prisoners working the treadwheel, and who for months had not taken alcohol. Some alcohols, as gin, increase the action of the kidneys, at least, for a time; but that action is not due to the alcohol. When alcohol ajypears to do so, it is by lessening the power of the sphincters. 8. It lessens the excretion of urea by the kidneys. This also has been universally admitted, and will follow from the diminished excretion of urine. 9. It lessens the excretion of chloride of sodium in proportion to the diminution in the quantity of urine. 10. It lessens the excretion of faces, as has been observed by all ex- perimenters, and particularly by Hammond and the author; and this is apparently due to 1 he Avithdi-awal of fluid from the bowel; for when the fffices are passed, they are imusually hard, and passed with some difficulty. 11. If there be less fluid emitted under the action of alcohol by the skin, kidneys and bowels, and the quantity of fluid introduced into the body be not lessened, does it not follow that alcohol has the power of causing the retention of an increased quantity of fluid in the tissues, and thus of increased bullc and weight ? What is meant by the popular obsen-ation that a person rapidly fed up and bloated by alcohol has not sound fat, but that the rapidity -vvith which it often passes away proves that the bulk is chiefly due to fluid ? 12. These effects occur during a limited period, since the period ofUKPOUT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 50 the duration of nil actions in Jimilcd; and after one hour and a lialf the force of the heart suhsidcH; in less than an hour the sensation of heat diminishes; after several hours, the skin regains its normal degree of action; and after one or more days, the normal excretion by the kidneys and bowels is re-established. 13. We need not refer to the action of alcohol in lessening con- sciousness, the perception of light and sound, ajid tlie diminution of muscular power ; for when a full ordinary dose is taken, they may be perceived in every half-drunken man ; and Smitli has already minutely described the period of this occurrence in experiments upon himself and others. In less doses, these effects are either less evident or they are not at all perceptible ; but in whatever dose, the direction of the action of the alcohol must be the same. It is impossible that a small dose of alcohol shall direc/li/ increase muscular power, for example, whilst a larger yet au ordinary dose decreases it; and if men half drunk have sometimes exerted unusual strength, it has been from the same cause as is seen iu the efforts of a madman, not from increase of muscular power, but from increase of the effort of the will. LiTELin-G, E.—0« flte Phijsiologiccd and Thcrajjeutical Action of Al- cohol. Brit. Med. Journ., p. 157. In a pa])er read before the Jvinior Medical Society of London, the author said that the action of alcohol cannot be regarded as essentially different in health and disease, and that its therapeutic effects can be best explained by the consideration of its physiological action. He thinks tlie substance is eliuiinated from the body unchanged, and that it acts by diminishing the excretion of solids. The effects of alcohol in acute disease, he'thinks, are of two kinds, viz., injurious or beneficial, as re- gards the natm-al progress of the case. Among the former are placed the following:—(i) its tendency to prevent the excretion of morbid poisons ; (2) the hindrance it offers to the aeration of the blood; (3) the impediment to general nutrition; (4) its directly injurious effects on mucous membranes. Among the class t>f beneficial effects were enumerated—(i) the increase iu^power and diminution in tlie rapidity of the heart's action; (2) the dinmmtion in the waste of the tissues of the body; (3) the not uufrequent sedative effect of alcohol on the nervous system, promoting sleep. HooPEE, Di-.—The Alcohol Question. Lancet, May, 25th, p. 507. The author thinks that, in estimating the value of alcohol, the expe- rience and testimony of healthy persons who use it habitually and in moderation, ought to be taken into account; also the fact that in all_ ages, and in every corner of the globe, man has discovered a method of preparing it. There are persons who do very well without alcohol, but this'^is no proof that it is useless to others. There are countrv districts Avhere the labourers are healthy and strong without meat, and with beer almost as weak as water ; but does it follow that the same fare would suit the London lawyer, barrister, judge, or member of Parliament ? A\^c all find, says 'the author, Avheu on our tours in Switzerland or the Highlands, where we enjoy pure air, good food, rest and recreation of brain, when, in short, we arc living rather au57 FOOD, HrEDICINR, AND POISON. I aiiinuil than an intellectual life, we care uothiiig for aud do not require auy sort of alcoholic liquor; whereas, when engaged iu our profes«iouB or "business in Loudon, iii the midst of bad air, noise, hurry, bustle, competition, and excitement, we are conscious of au iiumistakeable craving for a certain amount of alcohol with our daily food ; the reason being that, in the one case, we are doing everything to refresh and fortity, and in the other to exhaust and wear out, the nervous system. This "fact goes far to prove that alcohol, in some peculiar but as yet \mexplained way, does repair nervous tissue. TitoirpsoN, Dr. E SriiES.—On the Influence of Ozonized Cod-liver Oil on the Pulse. Med. Times and G-az., March 9th, p. 266. The author found that the influence of the oil on the pulse increased in proportion to the dose in which it was given, the etfect of half-ounce doses, two or three times a day, being more marked than that of smaller quantities. The following table exhibits, as simply and concisely as possible, the results: Tahle showing the Ohantjes of Pvlse imde^' Ozonized Cod-liver Oil. Xanic. J. P J. s. AV. B. M. H. E. A. AV. C. H. K. N. E. D. J. O'D. M. ]Nr. E. R. M. S. E. H. W. S. P. R. S. E. G. M. H. C. W. H. J. ]J. M. M. M. P. P. P. M. M. M. P. P. P. P. M. M. P. U. P. M. M. Disease. Phthisis, first stage Ditto Tuberculous larynx Phthisis, second stage Ditto Phthisis, first stage Phthisis, third stage Phthisis, second stage Emphysema Phthisis, second stage Anasmia Phthisis, third stage Phthisis, second stage Phthisis, first stage Phthisis, third stage Phthisis, second stage Phthisis, third stage Phthisis, first stage Phthisis, first stage Phthisis, first stage Time of taking Oil. Pulse. Before. After. Days. 7 116 98 7 I 20 108 21 112 93 7 80 80 »4 140 I 12 14 100 104 7 ISO 116 7 X38 112 4 104 86 !i 140 108 4 120 116 2 94 92 10 104 88 7 104 J 04 4 104 9O 20 120 92 4 140 120 2 108 9s 5 120 96 9 120 98 The author also records the effects of ozone in another form. He had made use of the ozonized water (as prepared by Condy), and found its influence in retarding the pulse considerable, 'in reference to a belief still prevalent amongst some members of the profession, that ozone was a high oxide of hydrogen, the author remarks that he had used the peroxide of hydrogen (prepared by Messrs. Bullock), and found that it exerted no special influence on the pulse, which was more often acce- lerated than retarded under its use, which seems to corroborate the conclusions of Dr. Andrews, who showed (in the ' Philosophical Trans-HEP011T ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINK. 58 actions of the Eoyal Society,' vol. cxhi, p. i et seq^.) that ozoue is not an oxide of hydrogen, but nimply an allotropie modification of oxygon. Of the 20 cases in which ozonized oil \vu« given, in 11 the ulso was reduced more than 20 boatn a minute ; in 4, upwards of 10 cats ; in I, no effect was produced; and in i only was any permanent acceleration observed, and this could only be fully accounted for by disturbing circumstances. Of the 7 cases in whicii ozonized water was given, in .3 the pulse was lowered more than 2c beats, in 3 about 10 beats, and in i it was at one time retarded and at another accelerated. IIiLL, Dr. "W. B. (Bath),—A jew liemarhs uj)on the s%q)2)oaed Influence of Ozone on the Pulse. Ed. Med. Jouru., July, p. 41. • The author considers the influence.of ozone upon the pulse extremely doubtful. He tried the effects of ozonized oil on the pnlse in one case (pulse 130 per minute), and failed to obtain any reduction in its rapidity. Althatjs, Dr. J.—The Lithia Springs of Baden-Baden. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd, p. 527. The author states that the amount of lithia which has been found in mineral waters up to the present time is very trifling ; and it is the great rarity of this substance which prevented Mr. TJre from following up his researches on it. Quite recently, however, Professor Bimsen, of Heidel- berg, has shown, by a new method of investigation (see ' Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 5), that lithia is, indeed, a substance which is most univei'sally encountered in nature. It is well known that many substances when introduced into a flame, have the property of imparting to the spectrum of the flame peculiar and brilliant rays, which are especially striking when the heat of the flame is very great and its light insignificant. Upon this fact the Professor of Heidelberg has based a method of qualitative chemical analysis which has considerably enlarged the domain of che- mical investigations, and has allowed us to solve problems Avhich were hitherto believed to be unapproachable. By means of this method Professor Bunsen discovered in the mineral springs of Durckheim two new metals, to which he has given the names of ctesium and rubi- dium, which are closely related to potassium, and are the most electro- positive substances knoAvn. Concerning lithia, the same philosopher found that its compounds give rise to two quite distinct rays, one of which is of a feeble yellow, and tlie other of a very brilliant red. By this method 150,^50 o^^^ ^ milligramme of carbonate of lithia may be distinctly traced, and one fourth of a grain of the same salt causes the red ray to continue for a whole hour. The nature of the compound in which the metal exists has no influence upon the position of the rays in the spectrum, it being the same with the chloride, the bromide, the iodide, the carbonate, the sulphate, the phosphate, and the silicate of lithia; but the intensity of the rays increases in proportion to the volatility of the compounds. Professor Bunsen has by this means discovered litliia, not only in triphylline, triphane, and petalitc, but also in a large number of feldspaths, in the granite of the Odenwald, in a common spring at Schlierbach, near Heidelberg, in sea-water, in fucus which had been carried by the gulf-stream to the shores of Scotland, in the ashes59 FOOD; MEDICIXE, AND POISON. of tobacco, of grapes, of viue-leaA-es, of grain of every description, of the milk of animals wbich had been fed upon grain, &e. Lithia bas also been discovered in the ashes of the human blood and muscles. A very large quantity of it was found in tAvo of the thermal springs of Baden-Baden, namely, the Tettquelle and the Murquelle, of which tbe former contains o"3,3i5 graiiis of chloride of lithia in sixteen ounces of Avater, and the latter 2-3649 grains of it. In one htindred pounds of tiie salt extracted from the Murquelle nine and three quarter pounds of lithia are contained. This amount is not equalled by that contained in any other mineral spring Avhicb has yet been examined. In speaking of the physiological effects of these waters, Althaus re- marks, that at first they promote digestion, and a feeling of well-being is induced; but after they have been taken for some time, and espe- cially when in large doses, siclmess, disposition to vomiting, and diar- rhoea ensue, which in most cases, however, gradually disappear, but sometimes continue as long as the water is drunk. A constant effect is an increased elimination of urine, the quantity of which is often doubled or even trebled; it becomes turbid after some time, and large quantities of a reddish sediment are deposited in it. In some of the patients treated by Dr. E,uef profuse perspiration came on after from five to ten days, and continued as long as the water was drunk ; in the case of a lady who had not freely perspired for years, this perspiration even continued two months after the course had been finished. It therefore appears that the water is a diuretic as well as a diapboretic. Armand, Dr.—The Boot of Qinseng. Med. Times and Graz., May 4th, The Paris correspondent of the above journal states that this root is, as a remedy, so highly esteemed in China, that it is almost valued at its weight in gold. The plant grows in Tartary, and when broken, the root has a semi-transparent appearance. It is light and without smell, and tastes lilce liquorice-root, first sweet, and afterwards rather bitter. "When iised, it is cut into very small pieces, and boiled in a water bath. The decoction of one drachm to half an ounce is taken every morning before breakfast, for from three to eight days together, and sometimes it is also taken in the evening before going to bed. I^o change is made in the diet or the general habits of tbe patient, with the exception that tea is forbidden for, at least, a month, as by its use the beneficial effect of the ginseng would be counterbalanced. This would lead to the supposition that the ginseng restores the digestive functions which have been weakened by the immoderate use of tea. It is chiefly used by Aveakened men and youths, and it, therefore, seems to be an exciting and probably aphrodisiac remedy. Dtbkowskt and Pelikan.—Ph/siolocjical Researches on the Action of different Cardiac Poisons. Compt. Eend., Aug. 26tb, 1861, p. 384. The poisons employed were antiar, tanghinia, digitalis, and green hellebore, and the results obtained were— I. The movement of the frog's heart is arrested, while the rest of the body is unaffected, and the animal still capable of voluntary move- ments.60 i UKPOliT 0\ TIIR INSTITHTKS OP irRDICIN'E. 2. All the poisons acted lirst upon tlio heart, whither they were iulro- diiccd by the mouth, or by a wouud. 3. The duration of the heart'H action, after the introduction of the poison, waH from five to ten minutes in the case of the antiar, tau- ghinia, and hellebore, and from ten to twenty minutes after the adminis- tration of digitalis. 4. The ventricle is always arrested while in a state of contraction, and remains pale and empty, whilst the auricles are distended and full of blood. 5. The cardiac contractions at the end of the experiment are some- times accelerated, at other times they gradually become slower from the very commencement. 6. The passage of the heart iuto complete paralysis is not gradual; after the number of the pulsations has been reduced to ten, fifteen, or twenty in the minute, the ventricular movements cease suddenly, and a little later the auricular movements gradually cease. 7. At the commencement of the experiment the heart's action is rhythmical, but towards the end it becomes irregular. 8. All the poisons exert their toxic effects upon the heart, indepen- dently of the intervention of the cerebro-spinal nervous system, so that the destruction of the medulla oblongata or cervical pneumogastric does not retard the action of the poisons. By galvanizing the pneu- mogastric of the frog, either before or after the animal has been poisoned, the action of the heai't can be stopped. If the ventricle has ceased to beat and the auricles are still pulsating, the galvanism causes their action to cease likewise. 9. Galvanizing the abdominal sympathetic after the action of the heart has ceased, does not cause it to begin again. 10. The lymphatic hearts of frogs cease to heat after the blood heart has stopped, and before reflex movements have disappeared. Geemaik, Dr.—On the Actio7i of Digitalis. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 44. Med. Times and Gaz., vSept. 7th, p. 250. The result of the author's investigations has led him to the follow- ing conclusions :—(i) Notwithstanding the isolated opinion of Sanders, in contradiction to all that has been observed before and since his time, digitalis does diminish the frequency of the contractions of the heart. (2) Nothing proves that it diminishes the strength of the heart's contraction, while theor^^, physiological research, and the author's own experiments, demonstrate that one of its mediate effects in Jiarrowiug the orifices of the heart is to increase such strength; and that, con- sequently, there is no danger in administering it in cases in which the energy of the heart appears diminished. (.3) The frequency of the contractions of the heart in cases of narrowing of its orifices prevents this organ from recovering its normal function, and disorder of the circulation being thus produced, the amelioration which follow.s the administration of digitalis is explained simply by the power it possesses of diminisliing the frequency of the contractions. (4) There is no proof that digitalis is possessed of diuretic properties, the reputation conferred upon it to this effect by Withering having been accepted61 I'OOD, aiEDJCXNE, AND POISOX. I without discussion. (5) The diuresis Avhich often follows when an amelioration of llie condition of the circulation has been produced in organic allections of the heart through the administration of digitalis, is only a mediate eifect resulting from the return of the circulation to its normal condition. (6) All authors are unanimous in admitting that digitalis exerts a powerful action on the stomach, stimidating the appe- tite ill small doses; but in those which are recjuired to act upon the heart, inducing anorexia, or eveji nausea, so as to become in many cases the cause of dangerous dyspepsia. From the above it follows that digitalis should be employed in afl'ec- tions of the heart consisting in narrowing of the orifices of this organ. But, in other affections, accompanied by palpitations, great care must be takeii not to give it, inasmuch as the relief it gives rise to is in such cases insignificant, and so far from acting on the primary cause of the disease, it would, in the majority of cases, only keep this up by derang- ing the functions of the digestive organs. Lastly, it should not be administered in dropsy which does not depend upon an affection of the heart, for it possesses no diuretic properties, and given in such cases, imder this false idea, it may become a cause of dyspepsia, and place new obstacles in the way of recovery, or hasten the fatal termination of the disease. iNiiAJf, Dr. T.—Coloration of Fceces after faJciiiff ATercurials. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 12th, p. 397, and Nov. and, p. 478. The author gives the following deductions as the result of his own and others' experience:—(a) That the peculiar colour of the stools in each animal does not depend upon a variety of colour in the bile ; (b) that the colour is due to some change which occurs in the colon; (c) that the colour varies Avith the food, the bile remaining the same; (d) that no change occurs in the colon in the total absence of bile. ScuNJiinEii, Dr.—On the JtCliminatioii of Mercury from the System. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 281. The Vienna correspondent states that Dr. Schneider's researches have yielded the following results :—During the internal administra- tion of such preparations the electrolytic exaniination of the urine shows always traces of mercury ; but the' quantities are so small that the amouiit of urine discharged within twenty-four hours is often not suffi- cient for a satisfactory result, and the metal must be searched for in the whole of the urine discharged within from three to six days. Traces of luercuiy were also found in the urine of a patient who had not taken it internally, but had been treated with mercurial ointment. The elimi- nation of the drug by the urine lasts for some time after the mercurial treatment has been discontinued. In the first weelc afterwards it is invariably found, and in two cases it was even discovered in the fourth and the sixth week afterwards. After six weeks Dr. Schneider has never succeeded in discovering traces of mercury by electrolysis The elimination of it is not promoted by the administration of iodide of potassuim, as the quantity of mercury contained in the urine was not at all increased, but rather diminished, when that dru<^ was given • and62 hepoiit on the institutes of jiedicine. if it was taken n few monlha after the termination of tlie mercurial treatment, mercury did not reappear in the Hystem, probably because none was left behind. One patient who had sulTercd from syphilis for five years, and had been three times treated with mercury (the last time very energetically), having used twenty drachms of ointment, equivalent to more than 120 grains of mercury), died of pericarditis two months after the third course, and Dr. Schneider searclied for merciu-y in the internal organs. The residt was that the bones, the brain, and the sjileen, whicli are generally believed to retain mercury for years, did not contain a trace of it, while the kidneys showed an infinitesimal quantity of the metal, and the residt of the examination of the liver w.aa doubtful. It is, therefore, evident that mercury entirely disappears from the system a short time after the end of the treatment, and cannot, therefore, cause secondary syphilitic symptoms; nor can it be eliminated from the system years after the treatment by electro- chemical baths. In two cases of hydrargyrosis considerable quan- tities of mercury were discovered in the urine, and in one of them, which ended fatally, also in the internal organs, especially in the liver. Urine which contains mercury does not necessarily contain albumen also, but in the two last-mentioned cases of hydrargyrosis there was albumen in the rn-ine. Saliva collected during a mercurial treatment does not contain any mercury. The quantity of mercury which is eliminated after the end of the treatment amounts to about one fourth of that actually administered. TtJENEE, W., M.B.—0)1 tlie Mode of Mimination of the Metal Man- (janese loJieii employed medicinally. Ed. Med. Journ., April, ■p. 903. The author analysed the urine of two persons to whom the perman- ganate of potash had been administered during three weeks for the treatment of diabetes, and found that manganese is freely eliminated from the system by the kidneys. He did not ascertain in what state the metal was in the urine, but thinks it probable that it was in the form of a chloride or sulphate, or perhaps of both. Turner says that, while his observations do not preclude the possibility of a pai-tial elimi- nation of the metal taking place by the liver, as has been generally stated, yet the evidence upon which that statement has been made is neither very clear nor very extended, for it seems rather to have been based upon a siipposed analogy between the mode of excretion of manganese and such metals as arsenic and antimony, than upon a direct e.xperimental inquiry. Spender, J. K. — The Syimlermic Action of Atropia. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 23rd, p. 554. The physiological eflects of this alkaloid must, in a certain measure, be produced if benefit is to follow the hypodermic use of the drug. Dry- ness of the fauces, sensation of enlargement of the tongue, dilatation of the pupils, and intellectual hallucinations, have been observed after veiy mocferate doses.ORGANS OP SENSE. 63 TliBK, C.—Experiments on the use of Opium. 8vo, Breslau, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 192. _ It was found that, when solution of opium was applied to the surface of the brain (in i-abbits), the animals were speedily seized with tetanic spasms, and afterwards died. Bezold, a. a'ON.—Bescarclies on the operation of the Woorara Poison. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, pp. 168, 387. Canst., vol. i, p. This communication is in continuation of the author's previous inquiries (see 'Year-Book,' vol. ii, p. 67). He finds—(i) that if the temperature of the air be raised, it hastens the occurrence of the gradual retardation and final cessation of the heart's action, observed to occur in frogs poisoned by woorara. (2) The poison acts only through the blood, for if it be administered after complete interception of the cir- culation in the leg of a frog, irritation, either of the poisoned or un- poisoned surface, excites contractions in the corresponding foot—con- tractions which may be elicited during six or eight hours, imless the event be hastened by elevation of temperature. (3) Direct application of a solution of the posion to the spinal cord, after ligature of the heart, is shortly followed by tetanic spasms on every attempt at voluntary movement. WuNDT, W., and Schelske.— On the Influence of Woorara Poison on Nerves and Muscles. Verb. d. naturhist. Vereins in Heidelberg. Canst., vol. i, p. 192. These inquirers state that, in poisoning by woorara, (i) there is always a stage of increased reflex irritability; (2) reflex movements may be elicited after the abolition of direct irritability; (3) the heart's beats increase in frequency; and now (4) tetanic excitement of the vagus does not arrest, but accelerates, the pulse, and this in proportion to the strength of the current. OEGANS OF SENSE. Hicks, Dr. J. Beaxton.—0« the Homologies of the Eye, and of its parts in the Invertehrata. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 43, p. 81. EosE, E.—-Ort Colour Blindness produced by Santonin. Vrrchow's Archiv, vol. xviii, p. 15; vol. xix, p. 522. Nagel.— On the Simultaneous Action of the two Eyes. Verb. d. Natur.- hist. Ver., vol. xvi, p. 9. Fechner.—On some relations of Binocular Vision. Leipzig, i860. MiiLLER, 'R.—On Darlc-hordered Nerve fibres in the Retina. "Wurzb. Natur. Zeitschr., vol. i, p. 90. ScHULTZE, Prof Max (Bonn).—0?j the Structure of the Betina. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. a4th, p. 205. BuEOW.—0« the influence of Peripheric Portions of the Betina on the regulation of the adjusting Movements of the Eye. Grafe's Archiv vol. vi, pt. I, p. 105. ' Ammon, Y.—Aids to a more accni-ate hnoioledge of the Optic Nerve especially its Intra-ocular End Prager Vierteljahrsscb., yol i p' 140. Canst., vol. i, p. 99.KEPORT ON TIIJJ INSTITUTES 01' MEDTCINJi:. tipolar cells, (c) cells with medullary sheath only (bipolar cells of the BiOHiLRDSON, Vlv.—On ike Artificial Fmluclion of Calaracl. T tioiiH Brit. Ahsoc, i86i. Ksxvi\—0)i the situation and curves of the Surfaces of the Human Cri/s- talline Lens, and the effect of its c/ianr/es during accommodaliun on the Dioptrics of the Ei/e. Grale's Arcbiv, vol vi, part 2, p. 1, and vol. vii, part 2, p. 53. ZoLLNER.—Contributions to the Chromatic and Achromatic Aberration of the Human Ei/e. Pogg. Ann., a'oI. iii, p. 829. ZdLi.NER.—Ort a new relulion of the Retina to the Movements of the Iris. Pogg. Ann., vol. iii, p. 481. Helmiioltz.—P7/yA7o%/crtZ Optics. In Karwten'w PhyMikal. Encyclo- piidic, Leipzig, i860. Troeltscu, Dr. A. \o^.—The An(t.tomi/ of the Ear in its practical application to the Diseases of the Organ of Hearing. Contributions to a scientific foundation of aural medicine and surgery. AVurz- burg, i860, p. io5. Deiters, O.—llesearcJics on the Lamina Spiralis Memhranaeea A con- tribution to the knowledge of tbe internal ear. Bonn, i860. EvHEL, Ehanz.—Phjsiohgi/ of the Human Voice. A text boolc on tbe cultivation of tbe voice and speech of man. 8vo, Leipzig, i860. Peliiger, B.—Precursor;) communication on the Law of Electric Sensa- tions. Med. Centralztg., vol. xxviii, p. 69. Peluger, E.—Papers on the Electric Sensation. 4to, Boiui, i860. Schttltze, M.—Observations on the intimate Structure of the Bctina. Bonn, 1859. Tbe author's very minute investigation of tbe anatomy of the retina leads liim to tbe following results, namely—(i) Tbe " radiating fibres " recognised by Miiller consist of connective tissue, for they are neitber similar to, nor blended witb, tbe nervous elements. (2) The " limiting membrane" is formed by tbe multiplication and retiform expansion of those filaments. (3) This retiform arrangement is not confined to tbe surface, but exists throughout the substance of the retina, as far as tlic radiating fibres extend, /. e. as far as tbe outer granular layer, forming a network of extreme delicacy, enclosing and protecting tbe nervous elements. (4) The radiating fibres arc not, as Kdlliker thinks, con- nected in the outer granular layer with the granules, and thus indirectly wdth the rods. Tbe network only contains the granules in its meshes, and abruptly ceases at tbe outer surface of the colunniar layer, in an expansion analogous to the limiting membrane which it forms at its opposite termination. (.';) The nerve-fibi-es of tbe retina are, as Bowman correctly teaches, free cylinder-axes, without medulla or neurilemma. (6) The ganglion-cells, which are in direct conjunction witb the optic fibres, are supported by tbe net of filamentous tissue above described. (7) They are simple, nucleated intumescences of tlic cylinder-axis, like ganglion-cells in general, which, it may be mentioned, the author distinguishes into four kinds—{a) naked cells (brain, cord, retina), (&) cells witb neurilemma only (peripheric ganglion, with mul-ORGANS OF SENSE. 65 acoustic), (cf) cells with both sheath and neurilemma (bipolar cells of spinal ganglia). With these correspond in structure four orders of nerve-fibres, the second and third orders occurring respectively in the sympathetic, and in the whit-e substance of the brain and cord as well as the optic and part of the acoustic nerves. (8) The retinal nerve-cells are all multipolar, and some of the processes anastomose with neigh- bouring cells, whilst others traverse the molecular layer to unite with the granules (regarded by the author as true nerve-cells) of the inter- nal granular layer. (9) Nerve-filaments then pass through the inter- granidar space to become connected with the elements of the outer granular mass, which, in their turn, communicate directly with the stratimi of rods these therefore (unlike the cones) form the true ends uf the retinal nerve-fibres. Beewstee, Sir BA YW.—TIie Ojptical Studi/ of the Betina. Trans. Brit. Assoc. for Adv. of Science, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 5th, p. .367. Optical means have been found available for exhibatmg two structures in the retina—the one a field of hexagonal patterns, shown by the suc- cessive impulses of light, the other consisting of dark, quadrangular lines, separated by parallel lines of bright light, and shown by the action of faint light produced e'ither without or within the organ. Masz.—On ilie Structure of the Betina in the Frog. Zeitschi*. d. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 301. Canst., vol. i, p. 63-1 This observer (i) demonstrates in the retina of the frog the fralue- work of filamentous tissue traced by Schultze in that of man (see page 64). (2) He has not, however, succeeded in discovering the i-adiating system of nerve-fibres described by that histologist. (3) Although he has not met either with multipolar cells or unquestionable nerve-fibres, the optic layer excepted, he does not hesitate to regard Eitter's fi.la- ments (see page 66) as nervous elements. Webee, 0. 0. — On the Structure of the Vitreous Body, and its patho- h(jical changes, esjjecially those of an inflammatory nativre, Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 382. Canst, vol. i, p. 35. "VVeber states that (i) the vitreous body consists of the variety of connective tissue called by Virchow mucovis tissue; (2) the celliilar elements are discoverable throughout its substance ; (3) in the anterior part of the humour the cells form distinct meshes, whilst centrally and posteriorly they appear as roundish bodies, scattered in the matrix like cartilage-cells, and hardly betraying any offsets, which, however, become distinct in disease; (4) neither in man nor in mammalia has the author detected septa, whether concentric or centrifugal; certain rigid fibrous tracts of the matrix have given i-ise to such an appearance; (5) epithe- lial cells are absent; (6) the cells are to be regarded as the nutritive canals of the vitreous substance. Mi;LLER, H.—On Smooth Muscles and Nerve-plexuses in the lEtiman Eye. Verb. d. Wiirzh. Phys.-med. Ges., vol. x. Canst., vol. i, p. 100. Numerous observations have convinced the author of the presence of (in all-probability) smooth muscular fibres in the choroid, especially in 566 REPOIIT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. the track of the arteries; as also of plexuses of dai-k and pule uei-ve- fibres, mostly derived iroui tlie ciliary nerves, aud euclosiug guuglionic cells. SonwETOOKit, C.—On the Oanf/lion-cells and Pale Nerves of/he Choroid. Archiv f. Oplith., vol. vi, part 2, p. 320. Canst., vol. i, p. 61. The author corroborates Muller's discoveiy of the nervous plexuses in the choroid, cousistiug of pale nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells. RiTTEE.—0;t fhe Structure of the Bodn and on the external terininalions of the Badiating Fibres in the Froc/s Retina. Archiv f. Ophtb. vol. V, part 2. p. loi. Canst., vol. i, p. 58. lu the retinal columns of the frog this observer traces delicate fibres connected severally with a nucleus of the external granular layer, and ceasing a little distance from the outer end of the rods. In eyes hard- ened by chromic acid it is, he avers, very evident that the rods consist of an external, consistent, homogeneous envelope, open at its inner and closed at its outer end, a narrow filament lying in the axis of that tube, and a medullary substance surrounding the filament. Henke.—Tlie Ilechanism of Accommodation for Short and Long Distances. Grafe's Archiv, vol. vi, part 2, p. 53. Q-EAEE.—A Case of Traumatic Absence of the Iris, as a contribution to the theory of Accommodation. Grrafe's Archiv, vol. vi, part 2, p. 150. Canst., vol. i, pp. 12, 170. In Grafe's case one iris had been entirely removed in the ti-eatment of an injury, yet the eye was ascertained to possess the adjusting power of a normal organ. This proves that the iris does not participate iu the act of accommodation. In the instance in question, where the ciliary- circle coidd be directly observed, no contraction or dilatation thereof was seen to attend the focal adjustment of the eye, a circumstance opposed to a theory of the mechanisui of accommodation originally advanced by M. Langenbeck, and now supported by Heuke. Becker, O.— Observation of a Reflected Image in one's oion Eye. "Wiener Med. Wochenschr. No. 42, p. i. Canst., vol. i, p. 174. Coccius ha\-ing stated that, if a candle be passed across the field of vision, a second and reversed image of the flame may be seen moving iu the same direction as the true image, and attributable to reflection from the hyaloid membrane, Becker repeated the experiment, but found the movements of the reversed image were in a direction opposite to those of the candle, whence he refers it to reflection of the image of the posterior surface of the lens (Purkinje's third image) at the concave aspect of the cornea. DoNDEES.—Contributions to a knowledge of the Anomalies of Refraction and Accommodation. Grafe's Archiv, vol. vi, part i, p. 62, part 2, p. 210; vol. vii, part 8, p. 155. Canst., vol. i, p. 12. This author's extensive researches have satisfied him that the power of visual adjustment (measured by the diftereuce between the respective values of the short and long focal distances) diminishes in astonishingly .clo.'je proportion to advancing age iu all healthy eyes. This, he believes,67 ORGANS OF SENSE. is so true that, given the distance of the long focus and the age of the person, a knowledge (by Bonders' law) of the power of accommodation proper to that age enables us to calculate the distance of the short iocus. Gibaud-Teuion.—On the Movements of Lateral Decentratioti of' the Crystalline Jjyparatiis. Comptes rendus, 1861, March 4th, p. 383. The author argues that the muscular ring in which the crystalline lens hangs sufSciently indicates that the latter is not, as has been hitherto assumed, merely a passive fixture in the globe of the eye, but a body possessing in its movements a certain independence of the external muscles of the eyeball. He states, indeed, that he has, by observing the changes undergone in reflected images, experimentally determined that in the passage from monocular instrumental vision to binocular vision the lens experiences such alterations in form and situation as are adapted to eifect the coalescence of double images. Vallee, L. L.—Note on the Theory of Vision. Comptes rendus, 1861, April 8th, p. 702, and May 20th, p. 1020. Magendie found that a taper moved further and further from the extirpated eye of an albino rabbit gives an image which continues of imiform intensity, instead of varying, according to optical laws, inversely to tlie square of the distance. Magendie thought that this fact would overturn all the ordinary theories of vision. The simple fact is, hovsr- ever, says M. Vallee, that none of the current theories recognise the real tenuity of the efl&cient pencils of light, or that the field of vision open to the human eye would not exceed two or three hundred metres if those pencils all occupied the entire pupil. ToxjTBEE.—On the Action of the JEustachian Tube in Man. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 29th, p. 334. At the meeting of the British Association Mr. Toynbee stated that the Eustachian tube is always closed except during the act of deglu- tition. In proof of this he showed that, by filling the mouth and chest with air, closing the mouth and nostrils, and making a forcible efi'ort at expiration, a sensation of fulness is produced in the ear, due to the pressure of the air enclosed in the tympanic can ity. The sen- sation continuing until an act of swallowing is accomplished, when, the tube being opened, the air escapes and the feeling of oppression vanishes. Mi.QSVs.—Contributions to the Anatomy of the Middle Ear. Yii-chow'a Archiv, vol xx. Parts 1 and 2. Canst., vol. i, pp. 97, 178. The principal results of the author's researches are that—(i) The long process of the malleus is a structm-e originally distinct from the malleus, and is not preformed in cartilage. (2) The articulation between malleus and incus is a synarthrosis. (3) The ligaments of the malleus, reckoning the tympanum as one, are equally tense in every direction. (4) The tensor tympani is firmly attached to the bone where it bends over it. (5) The ossicula arc, therefore, not susceptible of special loco-JIEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP JfEDICINE. G8 motion, such as lever-movements, but only of the vibrations common to all tcuse structures. Pessel—Ort the SensibilUy of the Ear to the Pilch of Mmicnl Tones. Pogg. Ann., vol. cxi, p. 500. Canst., vol. i, pp. 9, 178. Pcssel lias inado the reiiiarkablo observation that tlie ears of the saiiu; person hear tlie same tone at diderent pitches. It is usually the riglit ear in which the tone sounds highest. The test is to lie made by applying to each ear one of two tuning-forks whicli an; as nearly as possible in unison. Battaille, Cn.—New Eesearches on Vocalimlion. Coinptes rendus, April 15th, 1861, p. 716. . The following are the results of, and inferences from, this author's inquiries :—(i) In the production of voice the vocal cords are invariably tense in the antero-posterior and supero-lateral (or ventricular) di- rections, though infero-laterally they may be slack (falsetto). (2) The insensible gradations of such tensity correspond to the varying pitch of the sounds produced. (3) The degrees of tension may become compensatoi'y of the varying force of the air-current. (4) The glottis closes posteriorly for a variable distance in voeali.sation, which, indeed, would be impossible without such closure. ( 5) The increase or dimi- nution of this occlusion may, like the varying tensity, compensate for lessened or intensified breath-current. (6) The progressive apposition of the arytenoid cartilages may take place either inferiorly, as in the chest-notes, or superiorly, as in the head-notes. (7) Intensification of the air-current tends to raise pitch by stretching the cords, but, if produced whilst one tone is maintained, it diminishes the tension and extends the rima backwards. "With regard to the comparative me- chanism of the natural and Msetto ranges, the author observes that in the chest-voice the glottis is linear, the arytenoid cartilages are in inferior contact, and the cords are tense in all their three regions aforesaid; whereas in falsetto the glottis is ellipsoid, the tartilages are in superior contact, and the infero-lateral region of the cords is relaxed. The very different extent of the singing-voice of diff"erent persons is thus ex- plained :—The progressive occlusion of the glottis is due to the meeting of the arytenoid cartilages, and, after them, to certain fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle which are inserted in and bring together the cords. During the approximation of the cartilages the elevation of the voice is easy, but if the muscular fibres just specified be feeble or absent, the whole strain will fall upon the mechanism destined to effect longitudinal tension. Now, all singers, it is added, who command an extensive range of chest-notes possess long arytenoid apophyses and Toluminous larynges, containing highly developed vocal cords, conditions under which longitudinal tension is less required. The tenor, barytone, or other character of a voice is due to special size, density, and intimate structure of the cords. In falsetto the sub-glottidean region relaxes, i.e. tlie vibrating surface is reduced a full thii-d. Thus, less tension will be necessary to produce a given high note, and, as the rima glottidis has simultaneously become further open behind, the arytenoid carti-KESl'IllATOUY SYSTEM. 69 lages may again be apposed, aud the voice will bo increased in extent by the amount of tension and occlusion yet available. LoBB, Hakky.—On the Cutaneous Sensibility of the Hand and Foot in different 2^crts of the Surface, as tested bi/ the continuous galvanic current. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 356. In these experiments a 60-element Pulvermacher's bath battery was employed, (i) On placing the metal conductor upon the skiu of the arm or back of the hand, the burning yensation is unbearable. (2) On placing it on the palm or under surface of the fingers, no pain is ex- perienced. (3) There is a line running down the side of each finger where the painful sensation commences. (4) This line can be detected by the eye, the smooth, papillary slcin being insensible, the hairy, poly- gonally reticulated skin being acutely sensible, (j) The same holds good in respect to the foot. FiCK, A.—Experimental Coviributions to the Physiology of the Sense of Touch. Moleschott's TJntersuch., vol. vii, No, 4, p. 393. Canst., vol. i, p. 179. It was observed that, in the less sensible parts of the skin, the im- pression of heat proceeding from a body not in contact with the surface is occasionally mistaken for the touch of a solid body. UESPIEATORY SYSTEM. Salteb, Dr. Hyde.—On the Nature and Cause of the Respiratory Mw' mur. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., April, 1861, p. 502. Hyutl.—On Portions of Lungs icithout Blood-vessels. Transactions Brit. Assoc., 1861. Deichleb.—Do the Pulmonary Vesicles possess an UjnthelitMn or not ? Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 109. TiJBK:, L.—Practical Quide to Laryngoscopy. Svo, Vienna, i860. Mebkel, L.—The results of Recent Inquiries in Laryngoscopy and Phonetics. Schmidt's Jahrb., i860, vol. 108, No. 10, p. 81. EoBixsox, Dr. G-.—On the Connection between the Functions of Respi. ration and Dige.ition. Transactions Brit. Assoc., 1861. CnniSTiAir, Jiv.—The Marshall Ball Method. Lancet, April 13th, P- 375- B.vuMLEB, C.—Observations on the Action of the Intercostal Muscles, with an historical account of the subject. 8vo, Erlangen, i860. ScHOEMACKEE, A. H.—On the Action of tlie Intercostal Mtiscles. Archiv f. d. Holland. Beit. z. Natur. u. Heilk., vol. ii, No. 3, i860, p. 197. Canst., vol. i, p. 132. Baumler observed the actions of the intercostal muscles in several persons whose chests were particularly favorable to their inspection, viz., a youth in whom the sternal portion of the pectoralis major was absent, a woman from whom a part of the same muscle had been re- moved with the mamma, and two very emaciated persons, (i) In theKEPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 70 first-mentioned subject the contraction of the uncovered portion of the internal intercostal muscle during inspiration was very obvious. In coughing, the interspaces became bulged, the intercostal muscles being relaxed. (2) The transit of an electric current along an intercostal space caused contraction of its muscles and elevation and prominence of the lower rib, a condition not reversed in either act ot forced breathing nor modified if a rib was first fi.\ed by pressure with the finger. (.3) It ■was remarked iu a boy five years old, when under the influence of ebloroform, that at first the breathing was eosto-abdomiual, when the internal muscles were seen to contract during inspiration. (4) Sub- sequently the respiration became purely abdominal, and then the same muscles ceased to contract and the upper spaces fell in during inspiration, which was attended with detraction of the lower ribs. (5) It was observed in aotherized rabbits that, if air was admitted to the pleural cavity by a puncture, the intercostals acted more vigorously. But although expiration is here very forcible, it was never accompanied by contraction of the internal muscle. (6) The author infers from these facts that both orders of intercostal muscles act simultaneously, and only in inspiration, calm or forcible, whilst in every mode of expi- ration they are relaxed. Schoemacker is of opinion, from clinical and anatomical considera- tions, that in thoracic expiration and abdominal inspiration the internal muscular stratum approximates and detracts the ribs, although it may sometimes co-operate with the external (inspiratory) fibres. GrEEHAEDT, C.—The Position of the Diaphragm. Tubingen, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 132. ■ The only observation of the author's which need be quoted is, that the diaphragm, by its contraction, expands the base of the chest in pro- portion to the resistance of the abdominal wall, but that when the abdomen is laid open it draws the ribs inwards. OwsJANNiKOW.—On the stoppage of the Bsspiratory Process in Expi- o-ation during Irritation of the central end of the Vagus. Virchow's Archiv, i8(5o, vol. xviii, p. 457. Canst., vol. i, p. 189. The author's experiments on dogs showed that (i) faint electric currents applied to the proximal portion of the vagus have no effect in modifying the respiration ; (2) currents of medium intensity only mo- mentarily check it, though in some cases inspiration becomes more and more shallow, until the breathing stops in deep expiration, and (3) strong currents arrest the chest-movements in expiration for periods of three to ten seconds. Budge, J.—Efects of dividing the Phrenic and Vagus Nerves. (Extracts from his physiological lectures.) Deutsche EQinik, No. 32, i860, This experimenter observed that—(i) If all the roots of the phrenic nerve of one side be divided (in the rabbit), the sound half of the diaphragm alone contracts, whilst the intercostal muscles act more ■vigorously. If the animal's i\pse and mouth be obstructed, the para- 1^-sed half of the diaphragm is raised. (2) If a rabbit survives the71 RESPIRATOItY SYSTEM. section of the vagus for about twelve hours, the lungs are found to be partially hepatised, which is also the case, though to a less extent, when the windpipe has been ligatured, but not completely closed. Leavis, Dr. T.—The Hi/clro-sjrirometer. Brit. Med. Assoc., 1861, and Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 7th, p. 255. The author has inA cnted a new form of spirometer, constructed on the principle of displacing a certain quantity of water from a graduated glass jar by an extreme effort of expiration. Several advantages over the older form (Hutchinson's) would seem to be secured by its use. Fewer precautions are necessary while experimenting, and higher re- sults are furnished by its employment. Dcscriptio7i of the instrument.—The jar is about sixteen inches in height and five and a half inches in diameter. It is closed at the top 1. The glass iar. Sixteen inches in height; live and n half inches diameter. 2. The metallic rap cemented to the jar. 3. The emptying largest tube. 4. Short tube for pouriii'; m tlie water; closed by a cnrk during an exneriiiicnt An fto'c.l"!''^-'|'.'-«!'S;I' which tlie air is blown, and which 13 attached to a small tnbe opening nto the jar lliis 13 seen in dotted lines through the outline of the largest tuljc (/ 'Hie jrauuatcd scale. ■JlEPOllT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 7S by a metallic cap, whicli is perforated by three holes, into which are inserted corresponding tubes, as will be seen in the diagram (Fig. 3). While in operation, the instrument is laid on a reclining board hori- zontally on the table, having been previously filled with water up to the level of the mark which indicates the commencement of the graduated scale. The glass mouthpiece at the extremity of the elastic tubing is then placed in the mouth, and, after an extreme inspiration, the fullest expiration is made. There is no necessity for any precautions at the close of the expiratory effort. After the effort the instrument is re- placed in the erect position, in order to read off the amount of air in- troduced into the jar. There is no necessity for any correction on account of temperatiu-e, as it is assumed that the air proceeding from the lungs is nearly always of the same temperature. BoCHDALEK.—On the relation of the Mediastimm to the Anterior Tho- racic Wall, the Lungs, the Heart and Pericarditm, Sfc. Prager Vierteljahrsschrift, i860. Using extraordinary precautions against error, this anatomist has endeavoiired, by the examination of the bodies of eighty-one new-bom infants and children, to determine whether Luschka's results (' Tear Book,' vol. i, p. 91), which have been disputed by Hamernjk, be correct. He arranges the cases in five categories:—(a) The right pleura extends only to the right border of the sternum, or to a variable distance towards the left margin, which it sometimes attains, whilst the left pleura reaches that edge in its upper portion only, diverging inferiorly, so as to leave a mediastinal space behind the sternum, and especially behind the cartilages of two to four of the left lower true ribs, where the thymus and pericardium are in part uncovered. (Thirty-three cases.) (6) Both pleurae more or less nearly meet at the left margin of the sternum, so that the mediastinum almost or quite disappears. (Twenty- two cases.) (c) Each pleura reaches the corresponding sternal border, or thereabouts. The space thus left generally narrows more or less from before backwards, or towards the pericardiiun. (Six cases.) (r?) Both pleura3 approximate or arrive at the middle line of the sternum, especially in the body of the bone. (Six cases.) (e) Fourteen cases could not be ranked imder any of these heads. The author engages to publish the results of equally extensive researches in adults. EiCHABDSON, Dr. B. W.—Paper on Itesuscitation. Read at the Meet- ing of the British Association at Manchester, Sept., 1861. Death, in the cases which the author considered proper for attempt at resuscitation, was defined as a condition in which both the beat of the heart and the force of respiration had entirely ceased, and in which the animal, if left alone, would pass into putrefaction and dissolution. There was a limitation as to time after death, during which the means of resuscitation could be applied with a chance of success. This time was limited by one of two occurrences—coagulation of blood in the vessels of the body, and putrefaction of the tissues. The first of these events rarely occurred in cases of death, such as had been described, within twenty minutes; the second was often deferred as many hours. I73 RESPIBATOBY SYSTEM. A perfect means of resuscitation ought, therefore, to be successful up to, at least, a period of twenty minutes after death. There are four methods at present known by which endeavours have been made to produce reaniination:—(i) Artificial respiration. (2) Galvanism. (3) Injection into blood-vessels. (4) Artificial circulation. Artificial respiration is almost a certain means of restoration when the action of the heart has not stopped; but if the heart has ceased, then the process, however long continued, is of no avail, inasmuch as the column of blood which should be passing from the heart to the lungs is checked, and no blood is presented to the air which the patient is made to inspire. The author gave the results of sixty experiments in which he had employed common air, and of several other experiments in which difterent substances, such as oxygen, chlorine, oxy-hydrogen, and ozone, had been mixed with the air lised; but in all these cases the results were negative, because the action of the heart had stopped. There was, nevertheless, this great fact to be remembered, that in instances where the respiration had ceased, the influence of artificial respiration in restoring the failing heart is materially increased by making use of an air heated to 130° Fahrenheit. Dr. Richardson therefore suggests that in all receiving houses for persons Avho may have been drowned, or acci- dentally killed by other means, a hot-air bath should always be kept ready, in which the patient should be at once placed, and tlie air of which should be used for artificial respiration. Galvanism, as applied to purposes of resuscitation, was first iTsed by Aldini; but the galvanic current was generally applied in a very empi- rical manner. The two important points to be solved were—(«) Whether galvanism could be used to start the respiration ? (h) Whether it could be used to start the heart after that had stopped ? The author had made numerous inquiries on these points, and came definitely to the conclusion that galvanism, however carefully applied, tends to exhaust rather than to restore the heart, and that although it might be made to induce respiration by directing the current in intermittent shocks through the chest, from the laryux to the diaphragm, yet that the mus- cular exertion it produced exhausted the muscular force more quickly than the mere rest or natural death of the muscle. Dr. Richardson, at this point, exhibited some newly constructed apparatus which he had used in hia researches. The idea of injecting fluids into the blood- vessels as a means of restoration was first thrown out in the seventeenth century. Recently it had been shown by Dr. Brown-Sequard that the injection of blood into the limbs of the dead subject would restore muscular irritability for a long time after dissolution, and even after rigidity. The author had himself determined that, three hours after death, in inferior animals, active muscular movements could be excited by the injection of water heated to a temperature of 115° to 120°. P. The injection of fluids into the blood-vessels (arteries) might there- fore be turned to account; but there were certain practical difiiculties in the way, for if blood were to be used there would be difficulty of ob- taining it in every case, and all other fluids which the author had tried produced too destructive an effect on the blood remaining in the body to prove of effective service. The author had tried the injection ofUEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICIXE. 74 various agents, bucU as oxygen, peroxide of hydrogen, and certain of these had promised, at first, useful results, but in the end they had failed from physical reasons. _ The last metliod was described under the term " artificial circula- tion." This method was invented by the author, and named by him. It consisted in an attempt to suj)plement the forcing power of the heart for a short time by mechanical means, so as to cnal)le him to drive or draw a stream of blood over the pulmonic circuit. The various contrivances and instruments employed in tliis endeavour were par- ticularised, the difHculties of the pursuit explained, and the failures accounted for. In one experiment it was shown that, when artificial circulation was established in an animal, the blood traversed the lungs, made its way afterwards over the arterial channels, and repro- duced muscular action, and even sensibility. As yet, however, the operation for artificial circulation was too formidable to be used in the human subject; it was, nevertheless, the point to which attention should be specially directed. Dr. Richardson's conclusions were as follows:—In cases of suspended animation, if there is the merest attempt at breathing, place the patient in a very warm atmosphere, but do not meddle further ; if the respiration has quite ceased, set it up artificially, u.sing warm air for inflation, and continue this for at least fifteen minutes, for the heart may not have ceased to beat, and if not, the operation will often succeed. Avoid galvanism; it is a deceptive and dangerous remedy. The great desideratum is an improved method of producing artificial respiration, and so of supplementing the heart. Jennings, J. C. S.—Galvanism, Sfc, versus the "Beady Method." Brit. Med. Journ., March pth, p. 265. (2.).—The Treatment of Apncea. Brit. Med. Assoc., Canterbiiry, 1861, and Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 14th, p. 278. In the first paper the author recommends mouth-to-mouth inflation of the lungs, and galvanism, applying one wire to the side of the neck, the other to the region of the heart. In the second much stress is laid on the fatal efi'ects of the hot bath when applied to the treatment of apnoea in drowned persons. Experiments conducted on animals showed that where the hot bath had been used the liuigs were much darker and more congested than Avhen other remedial means had been employed. In the apnoea of stillborn children the "ready method" failed in four cases; in each case, however, direct inflation of the lungs from mouth to mouth, alternating with compression of the thorax, was ultimately successful. Immersion of the lower part of the body in a warm bath is recommended as a useful adjunct. Q-AERAWAT, EnwAUD.—Ca^e of Resuscitation. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 28th, p. 330. The "ready method" of Dr. Marshall Hall, alternated with the hot bath and the sprinkling of cold water on face and chest, proved effectual in resuscitating an infant apparently bom dead, J75 EESPIEATORY SYSTE3X. BaoDiB, Sir Benjamin, Bart.— On the " MarsJmll Hall MetliocV^ Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 529. In a letter addressed to the secretary of the Humane Society, Sir Benjamin Brodie remarks—(i) That the interval during which arti- ficial respiration can be employed is A-ery limited. (2) That if the Eoyal Humane Society's apparatus be at hand, and a medical man pre- sent kno\rs how to use it, this affords by far the safest and surest method of imitating natural respiration. (3) That there is great dan- ger that the rolling and tumbling about the body, as proposed by Dr. Marshall Hall, would interfere with the natural process of recovery; at the same time that it is very doubtful whether by this method a sufficient quantity of air could be drawn into the lungs to answer any useful purpose. (4) That, at any rate, of the two methods, that of Dr. Silvester would be more effectual, and much less calculated to do injury. Haeeison, Dr. James B.—On the employment of the" Iteacl'ij Method " of madntaining Artificial JRespiratioti antecedent to the snt/r/estions of Dr. Marshall Sail Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 2nd, p. 478. A case of opium poisoning, admitted into the Manchester Eoyal Infirmarj^ in 1839, was treated by tlie following novel method, and with success:—Two ojoerators, one standing on each side of the patient's bed, placed their hands on the thorax, curving the fingers round the carti- lages of the ribs. The respiratory movements were then imitated by the alternate raising and depressing of the ribs. It was necessary to continue the process for two hours. Watehs, Dr. (Liverpool).—Researches on Asphyxia; with ohservations on the effects prodv. ced hy the Sot Bath in Asphyxiated Animals, and its nse in restoring suspended animation. Trans. Eoy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. xliv, p. 135. After the numerous researches which have been made with reference to asphyxia, the author says that two important points still remain to be decided—first, the period after asphyxia has commenced during which treatment is likely to be successful in restoring animation ; and, secondly, the value of the hot bath as a remedial agent. Experiments had been instituted by the author with reference to the following questions:—(i) How long does the heart continiie to beat in asphyxia ? (a) What are the effects of the hot bath on an asphyxiated animal—firstly, after all respiratory movements have ceased, and are not re-excited; secondly, when respiration has been re-excited, and is being feebly carried on ? The following conclusions are drawn by the author from his experi- ments:—(i) That in asphyxia by submersion the ventricles of the heart do not, as a rule, cease to contract " in a few minutes after the cessation of the functions of animal life," but that in many instances their action continues for a very considerable period, and that this serves to explain how recovery has taken place after lengthened sub- mersion. (2) That in cases of asphyxia where respiration has altogether stopped, the effects of tlie hot bath are—to produce an accvmiulation of blood in the lungs and in the left side of the heart, together with a ten^KEl'Oirr ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. I 70 dency to coagulate on the part of the blood; that it does not tend to prolong the action of the heart, but rather to paralyse its movemejits, and diminish tlio duration of its contractions ; that it does not excilo respiratory cllbrts, and prevents artificial respiration being properly carried out. (3) That in cases of asphyxia where respiration has been re-excited, and is being feebly carried on, the hot bath, although in son^; instances it seems to ]\ii\o no immediate bad result, yet has a tendency to produce a fatal issue some hours after its use, by causing extreme congestion of the lungs, together with consolidation and collapse of the pulmonary tissue. _ The following practical inferences arc drawn from the above conclu- sions:—(^7) That elforts to restore animation should be made in all cases where asphyxia has not been of very prolonged duration, {bj That the prolonged use of the hot bath iu'asphyxia is not only ineffi- cacious but dangerous; and that its tem])orary use appears to be attended by no direct benefit. So far as any means similar to that of the hot bath are likely to produce respii\atory movements, the alternate dashing of hot and cold water on the body is probably the most effi- cacious, (c) That it appears safer jiractice to omit all artificial treat- ment, when respiration is going on feebly, than to make use of the hot bath, (d) That in the treatment of asphyxia all effiarts should be primarily directed to restoring or continuing the respiratory movements, and all measures tending to load the lungs or embarrass the respiration should be avoided. The author believes that ,the best method of per- forming artificial respiration we are yet acquainted with is that recom- mended by Dr. Marshall Hall. Hepwoeth, Johit.—Treatment of Asphyocia. Brit. Med. Joum., July 20th, p. 78. In this paper a case is given where tracheotomy was successfully per- formed for the relief of asphyxia dependent on a foreign body sticking in the glottis. Artificial respiration is considered by the author the sine qua non in the treatment of asphyxia. Gralvajjism is also, he thinks, of advantage. TooGOOD, .ToxATirAN.—Artificial Bes^nration. Brit. Med Joum., Peb. 9th, p. 156. The medical attendant is directed to inflate the lungs of a stillborn child or of a drowned person from his own chest, mouth to mouth. CiiristiAjS', Dr.— On the restoration of Snspenclcd Animation in Persons apparently Drowned. Lancet, Feb. 2nd, p. no. After giving Marshall Hall's method atrial in about fifteen cases, the author states that he became so satisfied of its incfliciency to restore ani- mation, and of the difficulty of properly carrying out the manipulations, that he felt himself justified in representing those facts to the committee of the Eoyal Humane Society, and in adopting the plan recommended by Dr. Silvester, which he believes in every way to be superior, inore manageable, less likely to injure the patient, will fill the chest with and expel air from it more fully, and will not force the contents of the stomach upwards and in the way of respiration. After many experiments the77 IIESPIUATORY SYSTEM. author had come to the conclusion that inflation of the lungs by Dr. Silvester's method or by the Society's apparatus is the first remedy, and the shock of the warm bath the second; that after eight minutes' complete submersion recovery is hopeless, and that when ten minutes elapse after being taken from the water without any effort at respi- ration it is equally so. On the subject of the warm bath, which has excited so much discussion as a remedy, he remarked that it must be understood that it is used as an immediate and powerful excitant; and it had so frequently happened (twice while he was actually present) that a person brought in as asphyxiated, who to the bystanders was apparently quite dead, immediately on being placed in the bath gave the sob or gasp which is the precursor of respiration, that it might be boldly stated to be a most valuable adjunct to treatment, and, properly managed, in no way pernicious. IIuji'TEK, Charles.—(i) On tlic " JlamJiall Hall" and other Methochin cases of Drowninfj. Lancet, Feb. 9th, p. 144. (2) The Hot Bath; its physiolog;/, use, and abuse; especially in connection with the treatment of JDrownim/. Lancet, vol. i, pp. 383, 430; vol. ii, pp. 132, 417. The author sti'ongly recommends the " Marshall Hall method," for he thinks ample proof can be furnished, from experimental inquiry and from well-authenticated cases, that—ist. The mere pronation is itself a most important point, having often made the difference between life and death, and. That pronation and semi-rotation effect fully sufhcient respiration for the purposes of life. Moreover, he says, pressure upon the chest of the dead subject in the supine position has caused expi- ration of air, and on removing this pressure no air has returned to the luugs; but pronation with pressure on the spine, followed by semi- rotatioi], has been accompanied by both free expiration and inspiration. In the second communication, after relating several experiments, and comparing them with the results of other observers, the author gives the following conclusions:—(i) That hot air applied, with or without inhalation, to the skin is not a respiratory stimulant; and (2) that very hot air oppresses the respiration. (3) That hot air, with or without inhalation, accelerates cardiac action, and the more according to the heat of the air. (4) That the ordinary ratio between heart and lung action is destroyed, and that to the diminution of the rate and power of lung action, which ouglit the most to be renewed. ( 5) That languor and muscular debility are also results. (6) That nerve power generally is diminished. (7) That thougli the skin may be heated, there is no physiological increase of the animal heat. And with regard to the water bath, the conclusions are even more imfavorable, for— («) It is a cardiac stimulant, and (h) a direct depressor of respi- ratory action to a much greater extent than hot air is, and therefore more injuriously so; for, besides preventing cool air playing on the surface of the body, it impedes cuticular transpiration and persjiiration, which miyht cool the body in some measure. And, what is still more injurioiis, (c) it causes the respiration to be even more difficult than7S llEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. usual, from tlie mechanical itressure thai the water exerts upon everij inch of the chest, aud also of the abtloineu. The hot-air batli fails to assist the respiratiou, wliilst the water bath, with all the bad qualities of the hot-air, directly impedes it. There is, theu, a treble tendeucy to death by apnoea it the di-owned person is placed iu the hot bath. There is— (i) The partial or complete apnuja already occasioned by submersion; (2) the increased congestion of the lungs by the heat (from the heart stimulation) ; and (3) the mechanical barrier to lung action from the pressure of the water. OsBOiiNE, Dr. Jonathan.—PF% is not the I^xpired Air Be-insnired? Dublin Quart. Journ., Med. Sc., Nov., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 26th, p. 100. The expired air is divided by the septum of the nose into two currents projecting downwards at an angle of 4 5°, and separating from each other at an angle of 80°. The inspired air is taken from the fresh air lying between the two jets. Traube.—On the Penetration of particles of Oharcoal into the interior of the Respiratory Apparatus. Deutsche Klinik, i860, Nos. 49,50. Canst., vol. i, p. 135. This physician examined microscopically the dark-coloured sputa of a man aged fifty-four who had for twelve years been engaged in carrying charcoal, and found that they contained particles of that sub- stance, many of them enclosed in cells. These foreign bodies produced no serious derangement in the lungs. Subsequent examination, post mortem, revealed the presence in the bronchi and vesicles of numerous molecules which had penetrated into the epithelium-cells. CzEEMAK.—The Laryngoscope, and its practical ap)plicationin Physiology and Medicine. 8vo, Leipzig, 1860. As this monograph is now in the hands of every member of the New Sydenham Society, it is unnecessary tp give an analysis of its contents. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Bkinton, Dr. "W.—On Food and Digestion; heing an introduction to . Dietetics. Post 8vo, London, 1861. TuBNER, "Wii. —0/i ^/«e Chemical Properties of the Smnan Pancreatic Juice. Journ. de la Physiol, April, 1861, p. 221. His, "W.—Researches on the Structure of the Lymphatic Glands. Plates. 8vo, Leipzig, i86i. EoLLESTON, Dr.—On the Homologies of the Loles of the Liver in Mam- malia. Transactions Brit. Assoc., 1861. BoTTCHEE, A.—Some Facts tending to harmonise the conflicting views regarding the Follicular Olands at the root of the Tongue. Yir- chow's Archiv, vol. xviii, p. 190. Canst., vol. i, p. 82. Eegarding these glands, which he holds to be new formations, thisDIGESTIVli SYSTEM. •writer states—(i) that in some tongues they do not exist at all; (2) that wherever they are well developed tlie mucous membrane is other- wise demonstrably diseased; and (3) tliat in one and the same organ they may be found in all stages of transition, from the smaller and vaguely limited mass to the larger and accurately circumscribed sac. Ordensteik, L.—On the Parotid Saliva of Man. 4to, Giessen, 1859. Ebsteik, W.—Oil the Microscojjio Changes in loiled and unboiled Starch suljected to tlie action of the Saliva. 8vo, Berlin, 1859. Canst., vol. i, pp. 116, 117. Ordenstein, who worked under Eckhard's guidance, obtained the saliva by means of a canula introduced from the mouth into Stenson's duet, (i) Its specific gravity varies from I'ooji to i'oo43. (2) Or- dinarily alkaline, it becomes acid or neutral when the person is fasting, and its secretion is not very abundant. (3) The per-centage of solid residue varies from 5'02 to 6'02. (4) It contains an albuminous sub- stance. (5) Its power of converting starch into sugar is destroyed by a heat of 130°, or by the addition of mineral acid or spirit. (6) Its flow, usually small, and apparently suspended during sleep, is most increased by the mastication of dry substances. (7) Its average hourly quantity was, in {a) an ill-developed lad, living almost wholly on vegetable diet, 11'8 grammes; {b) a healthy working man, aged forty-nine, i"i ; (c) a student, 4-5 ; and (d) a robust young person, i. Ebstein states that the saliva acts most readily on the contents of the starch-granules, whilst it affects the cell-membranes but little. He also asserts that it is not deprived of its conversive action on starch by the mineral acids, unless in excess, or by spirit, though heat has that effect. Maecet, Dr. ("Westminster Hospital).—Researches on the Constituents of the Gastric Juice. Journ. Chem. See, Oct., p. 256. Marcet derived the following results from his researches :—(i) Gas- tric juice possesses the property of rotating, more or less, the plane of polarization of light to the left. (2) This optical property of gastric juice is due to its containing peptone. 0-024 grammes of this substance, dissolved in 25 c.c. of water, rotates the plane of polarization 1° in Soleil's saccharimeter. (3) Gastric juice, obtained by exciting its se- cretion by means of non-digestible bodies, such as pebbles, exerts no action whatever on polarized light, thereby confirming the second con- clusion. (4) There is reason to believe that peptone is the only con- stituent of the gastric juice possessed of the property of acting upon polarized light. Meissner, G.—JResearches on the Dujestion of Alhminous Substances. 2nd and 3rd articles. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., i860, vol. viii, p. 280; vol. X, p. I. Canst., vol. i, p. 118. These papers on the digestion of albumen, syntonin, and casein are the continuation of a previous article reported in ' Year Book ' vol ii p. 85. We here give the most interesting results. ' ' ' I Mbumen.—U uncoagulated white of egg be added to dQute hydrochloric acid (2 per cent.), abundant translucent shreds are producedHEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES Ot MEDICINE. 80 which, on slinking, gnulually impart a inilkinosa to tlie whole. Tin- clear, tiltered Ihiid contaius much albumen, tliough it does not become turbid by heat. On the addition of potash or soda, however, it forms a little precipitate, preveutiblc by pepsin, and ceasing to be produced as the neutral point is reached, when heat coagulates all the remain- ing albuminous substances save one, which is precipitable by alcohol or tannin. It was found that, when insoluble, albumen is more readily converted into peptone and parapeptone than when soluble, whence, probably, the use of coagulated albumen as food. Tlie author finds that the digestion of albumen also produces a ?«ete-peptone. II. Si/ntonin, digested by artificial gastric juice (containing 2 per cent, hydrochloric acid) gives opalescence to the fluid, which, on the ad- mixture of potash or soda, precipitates the flocculent parapeptone. The filtered fluid contains syntonin, peptone, and metapeptone. The meta- peptone is precipitated by acid ulation with muriatic or acetic acid. The solution of peptone now remaining does not yield a precipitate to muriatic acid. Metapeptone is not afiected by artificial gastric juice or long boiling with dilute muriatic acid. The ^JwjY/peptone, insoluble in water, dissolves easily in acids and alkalies. Syntonin was found to yield 45 per cent, of peptone and metapeptone and 18 per cent, parapeptone. } III. Casein digested in artificial gastric juice containing i per cent, muriatic acid forms a jelly which afterwards liquefies and finally pre- cipitates dyspeptone, retaining, however, peptone, parapeptone, and meta- peptone, which are obtainable as described under syntonin. The dys- peptone is insoluble in water and alcohol, just soluble in dilute acids, and readily in dilute alkalies. Ether extracts from it a crystaUizable fat. Casein contains 78 per cent, pejjtone and metapej)tone, 2 per cent, parapeptone, and 20 per cent, dyspeptone. The latter contains i to 2 per cent. fat. By continued boiling, casein and syntonin are resolved into the same constituents aa they are by artificial digestion. • g ScHirr, M.—J^ew Inquiries on the Influence of tlie Vagus on the Functions of the Stomach. 8vo, Bern, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 188. In order completely to cut off the influence of the vagus from the stomach, the author makes an incision round the oesophagus down to the muscular coat. Dogs and rabbits may survive this operation for an indefinite period. Dysphagia exists for the fii'st fcAv days, yet digestion is not entirely interrupted, and when deglutition is per- fectly restored it again becomes quite normal. But where the vagi are divided in the neck, the contents of the stomach are often found to be neutral or faintly alkaline, even when ligature of the oesophagus prevents any admixture of saliva. It is not the kind of aliment, but probably the general condition of the animal, that determines this result. In animals which did not sufler much from dyspnu?a the contents of the stomach were usually slightly acid. The stomach is capable of secreting an alkaline fluid, for such is occasionally present after ligature of the gvdiet and pylorus. So-called alkaline indigestion (in man), therefore, is not always the result of the admixtiu*e of saliva. 181 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Paralysis of the gastric branches of the vagus does not in the least iuteriere with the various processes of digestion, which may, in fact, under favouring collateral circumstances, proceed more actively than in a normal organ. ° The first depression is entirely the result of the animal's feneral state. Experiment proves that absorption from the stomach goes on with vigor whether the vagi have been severed in the neck or the abdomen. In the former region the operation has the effect of abolishing the sensibility of the stomach and duodenum. Centripetal rellex excitations may take place by the branches of the sympathetic. The sensations of hunger and repletion depend neither on the vagus nor the sympathetic. Wherever the former is divided, the gastric move- ments are not enfeebled in consequence. Davidsojt and Dieterich.—Aids to the theori/ of Gastric Digestion. Eeichert and Dubois' Archiv, i860, p. 688. Canst., vol. i, p. 117. Under the superintendence of Heidenhain, the authors ascertained that not only muriatic and lactic, but the nitric, phosphoric, tartaric, and acetic acids eifect artificial digestion. They consider that the gastric acids act by disintegrating the albuminous substances, so as to expose them to intimate contact with the ferment of the mucous mem- brane, by which they are transformed into peptones. Beintok, Dr. "W. (St. Thomas's).—Experiments and Olservations on the Structtire and Function of the Stomach in the Vertebrate Class, Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 357. The author states—(i) That the pecidiar dimorphous structure pos- sessed by the tubes of the cardiac and middle parts of the stomach in the dog exists in the whole vertebrate class. (2) Many of the vai'ia- tions of the stomach throughout the vertebrate class are essentially oesophageal developments, having a mechanical office. (3) The secre- tion of pepsine is by the dimorphous cell-growth, and of acid by the columnar. (4) The protection of the stomach from its own secretion is effected mainly by the salivary and other secretions which enter it from the oesophagus and duodenum. (5) For units of mucous mem- brane, fishes seem to have the most powerful gastric digestion. (6) " The action of the gastric juice is a transfer to albumen, &c., of a molecular change going on in the gastric juice, pepsine and peptone being essentially analogous to each other in properties." (7) The for- mation of peptone is a hydration of albumen. (8) The pancreatic juice converts albumen into a substance akin to peptone, the change being, however, an incident of putrefaction only, and therefore not a function of the healthy living organ. (9) The intestinal juice neither converts albumen into peptone nor starch into sugar. Mahtitt, P.—The Peristaltic Movements of the Intestinal Canal. 4to, Giessen, 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 116. Under Eckhard's superintendence, the author found—(i) In animals poisoned Avith woorara, for the purpose of excluding nervous influence, the intestinal movements did not differ from those of animals not so destroyed, (a) In poisoning by strychnine the tetanic convulsions were always associated with lively vermicular movements, whence the 6heport on the institutes of medicine. 82 expentnentev concludes that the spinal cord materially affects peristaltic action. (3) Ligature of the vessels ami nerves of the root of the mesen- tery causes extraordinary constriction of the tract tl.::- supplv. (4) Irritation of tlie nerves proceeding from the sympathetic gaugliou to the intestine gave rise, in a tortoise, to increased movement there, and to contractions of the stomach. (5) Excitement of one or both vagi in rabbits and dogs made the movements of all parts of the intestine wore active, and sometimes in the sheep and tortoise originated pro- gressive contractions in the stomach and duodenum. Basslingek.—Ehythnic Cojitractiom about the Carclia of the Babbit. Sitzgsber. d. Wien. Akad., vol. xxvii, p. <;(58. Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vii, p. 359. Canst., vol. i, p. 115. If during active digestion the stomach and the extremity of the oesophagus are removed from a rabbit, the vault of the cardia soon becomes deeply retracted, and then resumes its former situation. These actions continue to alternate for some time. Every movement of de- glutition is followed by this cardiac contraction, and'if such act is arti- ficially provoked, rapid pulsatory movements of the funnel-shaped end of the gullet are afterwards observed, the cardia remaining quiescent. These movements were never witnessed in the dog, and in the cat only once in a slight degree. Bbaune, W.—A Case of Preternatural Anus, toith contributions to the Fhysiology of Digestion. Virchow's Archiv, i860, vol. xix, p. 470. Canst., vol. i, p. 119. On a woman aged forty-nine, who had an artificial anus at the lower end of the ileum the following observations were made:—(i) The mucous membrane of the lower part of the small intestine did not distinguish heat from cold, and was notably less sensible to pain than the skin. (2) The matters collected, which were usually liquid, and of a yellowish-brown, were acid, althoi;gh the mucous membrane in the vicinity was alkaline, except early in the morning, when it was neutral. (3) They contained biliary acids, but no cholepyrrhin. (4) Their watery extract did not attack coagulated albumen, but converted starch into sugar. (5) The extract contained no sugar, and although the patient toolc a good deal of milk, acetic acid caused no precipitate. It contained butyric acid, leucin, and tyrosin. (6) Meat tooic three to six hours to reach the outlet, grape-skins three to four hours, and parsley two and a half to three and a half hours. PliANEE, Prof.—The Oases of the Alimentary Canal, and their relations to the Blood. Sitzuugsber. d. Acad. d. W., vol. xlii,p. 308. Canst., vol. i, p. 255. "With a view to determine the composition of the gases contained in the different portions of the intestinal canal, and to ascertain how far they depend on the diet, the professor employed dogs whicli had been fed'for some days exclusively on animal or on vegetable food, and were killed some hours after their last meal. The diflerent portions of the intestine were ligatured and smeared with grease, and the gas was collected under mercury. The results of hia researches are these:—(i) Tlie83 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. gastric gas consists of nitrogen derived from atmospheric air, the oxygen of which in great measure disappears, and is replaced by two volumes of carbonic acid. (2) In the small intestine fermentation sets in, attended with the evolution of equal volumes of hydrogen and car- bonic acid, which are less abundant with animal than with vegetable food. In digestive derangements, the carbonic acid and hydrogen may be as 2 : 1. Tree acid retards the hydrogen fermentation. (3) In the large intestine carbonic acid only is developed, except with an animal diet, when sulphuretted hydrogen (never exceeding 1 per cent.) and a fetid matter are also evolved. (4) "With an animal diet the gas in the small intestine is much smaller in amount than with a vegetable diet, but in the large intestine this distinction does not exist. (5) As hydrogen is never normally present in the stomach, and the car- bonic acid gas is in proportion to the atmospheric air admitted, an excess of gas must be the I'esult of abnormal decomposition. (6) It was ob- served that, after neutralizing with magnesia a portion of the chyme of a dog which had been kept on a jmlse diet, an abundance of carbonic acid and hydrogen was evolved in the proportion of 2 : i, whilst the strongly acid chyme remained thirty-six hours before it began to de- velop a little carbonic acid. Similarly, when magnesia had been given with the food, hydrogen was found in the stomach. (7) Although gas is not secreted by the blood into the empty intestine, yet diffusion takes place between the gases of the blood and those of the intestine or its contents. Into an empty portion of intestine air was admitted, and in an hour and a half the gas was found to consist of 6'4i COg, 5"48 O, 43'37 (8) Fifteen minutes after sulphuretted hydrogen had been introduced into the large intestine, it was found in the blood. (9) After artificial faecal retention of a week's duration, it was found that the hy- drogen and sulphuretted hydrogen had disappeared and carbonic acid diminished, an observation confirming the statement that considerable collections of gas may disappear without escaping by the extremities of the alimentary canal. (10) Carburetted hydrogen was always absent. The gases found in the human intestine (post mortem) were ascertained to be similar in nature and proportion to those of the dog. Faces. Smith, Dr. JEd., and Milner. Eeport on the Influence of Prison Dis- cipline and Dietary over the Bodily Functions of Prisoners. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861. The authors obtained the following results from experiments upon prisoners condemned to treadwheel labour three days per week, and fed upon a full dietary, with brown bread, at Coldbath Fields: I. The average daily weight of the faeces was double of that found in ordinary life, and varied on the average of the different prisoners, from 7-1 to lo-i oz., and gave so large a total average as 8-55 oz. The extremes of single observations were 175 and 26-59 oz- The proportion to the solid food was 22^ per cent. 2 The weight was increased on Sunday by 44-3, 70 and 74 per cent. 31 that on all days. ^ 3. The. weight waa lessened on the treadwheel-days from that observedheport on the in,stitutes of medicine. 84. on SimdayH, by 41, 53-3 nnd 42-6 per cent, in three cases, and from the average of all days by 14-8 and 211 in two cases, whilst in the third case the weight Avas equal on all days. 4. The least evacuation occurred on tlie Saturday (which was also u treadwheel-day), and the diuiiiiulion froiu the weight of all days was 26-1, 57-6 and 34-6 per cent., and from that on (Sundays no less than 48, 75, and 62 per cent. 5. The proportion of w^atcr contained in the fseces was very uniform from day to day, viz., 73-5 per cent., and varied only from 71'8 to 77-6 per cent, on dilfereut days. It was above the average ou Sundays and a little below the average ou treadwheel-days. 6. The quantity of nitrogen in each ounce of fresh fpcces varied from 4-36 to 4-9 grains, and was, on the average, 4-646 grains. The total daily quantity thus evacuated was, on the average, no less than 41-8 grains. There was a considerable increase on the Sunday, and a marked decrease on the Saturday, and it was below the average on treadwlieel- days, and in both of these respects it corresponded with the gross weight of the faeces. The actual amounts under the three conditions Avere 59*9, 35'8 and 40-53 grains, giving an increase of 43-3 per cent, and a decrease of i4'3 and 3 per cent. There was a very interesting fact noticed iu reference to the relation of nitrogen in the m-iue and fajces on the Sunday, and which showed, probably, that the assimilation of food was lessened ou a day of perfect rest foliowiug one of hard labour, viz., that the iuci'ease which was observed iu the nitrogen iu the fnsces on the Sunday corresponded accurately with the decrease observed in the lu'ine ou that day, viz., a decrease of 13 and 18 grains of urea in the urine, and an increase of uitrogeu, reckoned as urea, in the fa;ces, of 71-33 grains. 7. The case wliich had the extra allowance of 6| oz. of bread daily evacuated the largest amount of ftcces, both ou the total average and ou Suudays, a fact of great significance iu reference to the kind of food Avhich should be selected for extra diets. In similar inquiries made at Wakefield Gaol by E. Smith and W. E. Milner the geuei-al character of the fasces was homogeneous and moderately cohesive, but ou a few occasions there was a variety in the consistence. In the 52 observations, 32 exhibitedfseccs formed, but soon subsiding, 7 well-formed, i scybalous, 2 soft, and 9 of mixed character, and no one person ofl!"ered any raai-ked diftereuce iu those characters. The bran of the brown bread was easily seen iu the faeces. The average daily evacua- tion was 6-98 oz. iu the tailors, and 8 52 oz. in the weavers, giving a total dail}^ average of 7-75 oz. There were somewhat considerable daily variations, so that the maximum and minimum quantities were in the tailors, regarding separately, 11-41 oz. and 4-32 oz., and in the weavers, i4'42 oz. aud 1-72 oz., but in no instance was there the omission of a daily evacuation. The quantity of uitrogeu per cent, found by Mr. Man- ning by the volumetric method varied from -71 grs. to i-i6 grs. in tlie tailors, and from -97 grs. to 1-35 grs. in the weavers ; but the total aver- age iu the two classes was -93 in the tailors, and i'i2 in the weavers, giving I'025 grs. in the whole. The total daily elimination of nitrogen by the fscces was found to be 27-43 grs. iu the tailors, aud 4°'93 gi's-DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 85 in the weavers. The A aviiitiou in the amount of fieees ou Sunday from that of other days Avas not uniform, since it was less in the weavers and was equal in the tailors. Budge.—Ort tlie Course of the Bile-ducts. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 18^9, p. 462. Eeicheet, 0. 'Q.—N'ote on Budge's Paper. lb., p. 6^6. Theile.—O/i Budge's Paper. 'Schmidt's Jahrb., i860, p. 11. Canst., vol. i, pp. 73, 104. Budge alleges tliat the bile-ducts, far from becoming dilated within the lobules, as Beale teaches, are considerably constricted there, form- ing a network traceable almost to the vena centralis and enclosing the liver-cells. In this view, therefore, the lobules contain a double set of capillary vessels, sanguiferous and biliferous, the interspaces being occupied by the hepatic cells, which the author believes to be devoid of an enveloping membrane. Eeichert considers the vessels described by Budge to be lymphatic, not biliary. He believes that the hepatic duct arises in a cavernous struc- ture comparable to that of the penis, the septa of both systems being analogous, and the vasa vasorum of the penis corresponding to the capillaiy network betwixt the vena portae and hepatic vein, whilst the hepatic cells represent the blood in the other case. Theile takes Budge's " ducts " for intercellular spaces. "Wagxer, C.—Contribution to the Normal Structure of the Liver. "Wagner's Archiv d. Heilk., i860, p. 251. Canst., vol. i, p. 74. "With Beale the author maintains that the liver-cells found amid the venous, arterial, lymphatic, and biliary capillaries, which with them form the acini, are enclosed in a special membranous sac, best seen in exceed- ingly thin sections of fresh, uninjected livers. The envelope is elastic and homogeneous, containing neucleolated neuclei in its substance. The granules, yellow corpuscles, fat, and cell-fragments found within it by Beale form no part of its normal contents. If, as the author inclines to believe, the cells disappear and are replaced by successive generations, the new ones probably originate by division, not of the old cells, but of the parietal nuclei. Pavy, Dr. F. "W.—Contributions to the Physiolocjij of the Liver.— (1) The influence of an Acid in irrodticinc/ Saccharine Urine. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 3.3.5• (2) Lfluence of AlJcaliea. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 43, p. 90. The author relates a number of experiments made with the view of ascertaining the power of phosphoric acid in producing artifi- cial diabetes. He finds that, by injecting eight, twelve, or sixteen drachms of pharmacopceial pliosphoric acid into the general circula- tion of dogs, a saccharine state of the urine can be readily induced. The same result also follows the introduction of the acid into the duodenum. When, however, the acid is injected into the portal circula- tion, it coagulates the blood, and fails to produce artificial diabetes. The • conclusions advanced in the second communication are—UEPOUT Oy THE UTSTITUinS OF MEDICINE. sc (i) Carbonate of eodn introduced into the circulation prevents the pro- duclion of saccharine urine after lesions of tlie sympathetic. (2) It dees not prevent the urine becoming saccharine after the destruction of life when the circulation is kept up artificially; but when injected into the portal system, so that all may pass by the liver, it keeps the urine free from sugar. (3) Carbonate of soda injected into the portal system during life causes glucogen to disappear from the liver without pro- ducing sugar. (4) The action of the carbonate of soda is probably of the nature of catalysis. (5) Carbonate of soda injected into the liver after d.'ath holds the Baccbarine metamorphosis in check. V. Eeieulandeh and BA.uiscn.—Ilhcstraiio7is of the Secretion of the Bile. Arcbiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 646. Canst., vol. i, p. 138. These observations, wbich were confrolled by Heidenhain, were made on guinea-pigs by the assistance of a canula introduced into the gall- bladder, the excretory duct of which was ligatured, (i) The bile is of an amber colour, becoming greenish after long abstinence, and turn- ing green by exposure to the air. (2) It is always alkaline, and does not betray the presence of the usual acids. (3) The pressure in the gall- bladder is expressed by about 200 mm. on the water-manometer. (4) Water injected into the gall-bladder is absorbed with some activity, if the fall in a column of the fluid connected with that reservoir be a safe test. Neukomm, J.—On tlie Demonstration of the Siliary Acids, and ihei/r transformation in the Circulation. Arcbiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i86o, p. 364, Canst., vol. i, p. 146. In order to test the trutb of Kiihne's statement (' Year Book,' vol. i, p. 260), that the biliary acids pass into the urine, the author examined two specimens of that secreted hy icteric patients, and found that they con- tained mere traces of those acids. The same result was obtained with the urine of dogs, after the injection of fifteen to thirty grains of glyco- cbolate of soda into the circulation. The opposite assertion of Kiihne is probably due to the circumstance that he did,not extract the residue of the urine with spirit, and therefore obtained, in addition to the reaction of the acids, that of colouring and extractive matters whicb give a red or violet colour on the addition of sulphuric acid. The biliary acids introduced into the blood are probably converted, under favorable conditions, into bile-pigment, which passes into the urine. Possibly a trace of the acids reacbes the saliva, for, after their injection, dogshaveagreaterflow of saliva, and seem to experiencea disagreeable taste. Thudicum, Dr.—On the Putrefaction of Bile and the Formation of Gall- stones. Chem. Journ., July, p. 114. Lancet, March 9th, p. 243. The author had observed casts of biliary ducts occupying the very centres of gall-stones, from whicb he inferred that the morbid process by whicb these gall-stones bad been formed was not confined to the gall- bladder. Tiiese casts were constituted of the brown modification of cholochrome termed cholophteine. According to the author, the essen- tial constituents of gall-stones are cholochrome, cholic and choloidic acids, and earthy salts, being the products which are precipitated during the putrefaction of bile out of the body; Avheuce he inferred that gall-87 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. stoues were formed by a process allied to putrefaction, wlipreby an acid state of the b.le was produced. Human gail-stouas usually contain, in addition, a large quantity of cholesterine crystallised around tlie true biliary calculi. The author described, from his own observation, the process of the putrefaction of bile, and agreed generally with Gorup Eesanez, but diflered from him in considering tiiat the choloidie acid resulted from a metamorphosis of the cholic, and not the cholic from a metamorphosis of the choloidie acid. CouviSAiiT, L.—On the Influence of Gastric Digestion on the Functional Activity of the Pancreas. Comp. rend., March 4th, i85i, p. 385. This experimental physiologist teaches that the amount of the pan- creatic ferment secreted keeps pace witli the activity of gastric diges- tion, to which it is subordinate, and to which it is related as effect to cause. But which element of the complex process of digestion is ita veritable and necessary cause ? The author refers it to the formation of the gastric peptones. The quantity and activity of the secretion of the pancreatic ferment depend, up to a certain point, on the quantity of absorbed peptones. At least, there seems to be a constant relation between the rate of its formation and that of the formation and ab- sorption of the peptones. It is, however, a remarkable fact that the intestinal peptones are impotent in provoking the formation of the pan- creatic ferment; and it is also noteworthy that even the gastric peptones, if absorbed solely by the intestines, are equally powerless in exciting the secretion. The author concludes by saying that these facts give origin to a new theory of secretion, entirely different from those founded on the power of nervous excitation or on vascular dilatation. Skehbitzki.—On the Operation of the Pancreatic Jidce on Fats and Alhiminates. 8vo, Dorpat, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 105, No. 2, p. 153. CoETiSART, L.—The powerful Action of the Pancreas in the Digestion of Azotised Alimejils, shoivn ly exi^erimettts with natural pancreatic juice. Moleschott's Unters., vol.vi, p. 77. Canst.,vol. i,pp. 120, 121. In his principal experiments, conducted with the assistance of Bidder and Schmidt, Skrebitzki employed juice obtained from dogs by means of canuliB temporarily introduced intoWirsung's canal, (i) Albuminous substances were subjected to its influence at 104°. The following table includes some comparative observations on tbe effects of solution of potash: „. .. Tiiir-ifinn nf I^osa per Cent. Flmd. exMi-imcnt Substance employed. In tlie frcsli In the dry ■ ^ ■ substance. Liq. Pot. ("005) 48 hours Coagulated albumen 35-0 72*5 Pancreatic fluid 48 „ „"''" ''SV' 35'i 74'S 37-0 79-9 7^87 [sic]86-o i i8o 84-4 Duration of experiment. Substance employed. 48 hours Coagulated albumen " . .■" 48 „ 48 „ 16. „ Ditto of blood. ii48. Eibrin of blood. ?4. Casein ^5 » 10 „ Be'ef 6 „ 6 „ ft 6 ; 1* Liq. Pot. (-005) ^ ,1 . 3,4 .„ Casein 9-0 Pancreatic fluid 40\S 237 97-4 5-9 23- Distilled water 6 „ „ 5.3 Liq. Pot. (001) 6 „ „ o-O ir-2 3-9 i5"2 24-5 Panoreatiofluid aadblle'5;;;,; -:ito)agulated.albu«ieiii • S'S .i8-^REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 88 (2) After iiijectious of oil into the alimentary canul of the rabbit, even the lacteals above the embouchure of AViruuug's canal are iilled with chyle, (j) During vigorous digestion the ])ancreus ia milk-white. (4) Alter digestion it is cither lleclced witii red, or swollcji and reddened throughout. (5) Tlic juice is opalescent, viscid, and alkaline. {6) Its specific gravity was, in one case 1012, and in another 1023. (7) If the ratio between the body-weight and the pancreatic secretion of the dog be transferred to the case of a man weighing about nine stones, he would secrete from seven to eleven ounces daily. The excretion of the juice is most abundant after food, especially after liquids. Corvisart still maintains that infusions of the pancreas, when prepared with the requisite precautions (see ' Year-Book,' vol. ii, p. 84) lead to results far more trustworthy, in regard to the digestive action of the juice, than those obtained by means of fistulae. Maggiobaki, Prof, (of Eome).—Memoir on the Fmctiom of the Spleen. Comptes rendus, Feb. i8th, 1861, p. 318. The writer calls attention to the formation of fat during the fermen- tation of sugar, determined by the splenic pulp ; and to the modification of the blood in rabbits from which the spleen had been removed six months before ; the main difference being diminution of the colour and of the proportion of iron. Trom these results the author concludes that the spleen has the double function of presiding over a metamor- phosis of organic material, and of accumulating iron for the preparation of hfematin. PiiiLiPEAUx.—JSfote on the Begeneration of the Spleen. Comptes rendus, March i8th, i86i,p. 547. Sixteen months after exiiirpation of the spleen in three albino^rats, the author foimd the organ reproduced and of normal structure, though somewhat different in shape and size. LiJDWiG, 0.—On the Movement of the Lymph. Oesterr. Zeitschi*. f. prakt. Heilk., i860. No. 5. Canst., vol. i, p. 122. Having, by a ligatui-e, caused Q3dema of the upper lip (in dogs), the author found, on removing the ligature (after introducing a canula into the principal absorbent trunk of the neck), that the flow of lymph in- creased with the subsidence of the swelling. He says that ligature of the ureters often causes lymphoid oedema around the kidney. Htetl.—On a neio Method of injectin(/ Parenchymatous Lymphatic Vessels. Oest. Ztsch., No. 18. Canst., vol. i, p. 103. If a steel tube be thrust deeply into a lung, either by way of an artery, a vein, or a bronchus (say the latter), and a lancet-pointed sound be passed through it into the tissue beyond, this may be lacerated by moving the organ about. If the blood-vessels be now tied and the bronchus be injected, the mass finds its way into both the deep and superficial lymphatics. In the case of the liver, spleen, thyroid gland, and brain, this method has been equally successful. HyjiTi,.—The Origin of the Lacteals. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f prakt. Heilk., i860, vol. i. No. 20. Canst., vol. i, pp. 71, 103. Having succeeded in injecting the lacteals of the ostrich and other89 DIGESTIVE SYSTEJr. lar^e birds, Hyrtl fouud the iutestinal villi to contain from three to six vessels, running nearly to the free extremity, anastomosing on their course, and finally terminating in one another. At the bases of the villi the vessels join large submucous trunks. LvsciiKA.—The Fiiuitari/ Bodij and Coccygeal Gland of Man. "With two copper-plates. 4to, Berlin, i860. Canst., vol. i, pp. 86, 105. This work contains an elaborate account of the coccygeal gland (discovered by the author) and the pituitary body,—structures, he re- marks, situated at the opposite extremities of the (transcendental) ver- tebral column, and forming, Avith the suprarenal capsules, his class of sympathetic nerve-elands. The posterior lobe of the pituitary body, like the iufundibulum, con- sists in the main of connective tissue and degenerated epithelium, with exceedingly few nerve-tubules and ganglion-cells. Thus deficient in cerebral characteristics, this body is regarded by Luschka as analogous to the central ligament of the spinal cord. The anterior lole, which owes its heterogeneous aspect to unequal distribution of the blood, is more or less distinct from the infundibulum and posterior lobe. It is surrounded by a proper capsule of areolar tissue, from which processes enter it and form alveoli, containing nucleolated glandular vesicles and other cells. This lobe receives its abundant supply of blood from the internal carotid by twigs which break up into a capillary network, sup- ported by the alveoli. Its delicate nerves spring from the carotid plexus. The coccygeal gland, situated just in front of the tip of the coccyx, in a space between the fibres of the levator ani, is oval in form, grayish- red in colour, and -J" in length. It possesses a very resistent stroma of filamentous tissue enclosing gland-vesicles, and irregular tubular structures, some of which resemble those in the pituitary body of reptiles, and some passing into the filamentous tissue. Both the vesicular and tubular cells are nucleolated, and possess a structureless wall, enveloped by nucleated fibrils similar to the connective tissue embracing the cells of the sympathetic ganglia. The vessels of the gland come from the middle and lateral sacral arteries. Its nerves, which form plexuses Avithin it, are derived from the coccygeal ganglion. One tubule was seen to pass into a nucleolated ganglion-cell. The gland may degenerate into cystic tumours. In function it is probably intimately allied with the sympathetic. KuAUSE.—Anatomical Investigations. Hannover, 1861. Canst., vol. 1, pp. 84, 89, 90. The structure of the coccygeal gland, as delineated above by Luschka, is confirmed on almost every point by this liistologist, though he thinks the envelope of the vesicles and tubules consist of smooth muscle, not of areolar tissue, and has failed to discover any ganglion-cells. With respect to the follicles of the tongvie, the author, unlike Bottcher (see p. 78), finds them constant in the healthy organ. He>-le.—On the Anatomy of the closed {Lenticular) Glands or Follicles, and the Lymphatic Glands. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. viii, p. 201. Canst., vol. i, p. 79.90 EEPOUT ON' TITE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Thi3 anatomist's general account of the fullieular and lymphatic glands is in essential agreement with that of Hiss, given below. He especially insists—(i) that none of them possess a closed capsule, but merge insensibly into the neighbouring cellular tissue; (2) that the globular form, ajiparent on tiie surface, is not essential, for they often blend together below; and (3) that there is no ground for supposing that the follicles stand in less intimate relation to the absorbents than do the acini of the lymphatic glands, for which reason he classes both Orders together, under the name of conglobate (/laruk. Hiss.—ConIribnfions to onr Tcnowledge of ilie Glands appertaining to the Lijmpliaiic System. Ztschr. f. Wisseusch. Zool., vol.i, p. 333, Canst., vol. i, pp. 70, 78, 85, 140. This observer regards as essentially allied, the lymphatic glands, the thymus, Peyer's and the solitary glands, the tonsils, follicular glands, and Malpighian corpuscles, (i) Septa of connective tissue divide these glands into their alveoli, acini, or follicles; from these septa capillaries enter the enclosed spaces, and there anastomose. (2) Amid these vessels, and nnited with their connective tissue and tliat of the septa, lies a network, formed in the main of ramified and anastomosing, uni-nucleated cells, and enclosing lymph-corpuscles. (3) A second system of reticulation found in these glandular organs is formed by the continuations of the lymphatic vessels. (4) A third trabecular system consists of straight and sparingly branched filaments, extended from vessel to vessel, or from these to the septa, nucleated at their vascular insertions, and often midway in their course. All these structures appertain to the connective tissue, merge into one another and blend Avith the septa. (5) Numerous researches have convinced the author that the vessels do not inosculate with any of these struc- tures, though the capillaries are encased by nucleated and multicau- date cells similar to and continuous with the network first delineated. The various systems here reviewed are destined, the author thinks, for the ti'ansmission of the sap concerned in the glandular metamorphosis. The author has carefully studied the thjmns in calves, pups, and kittens. He finds that—(i) All the lobules are connected with a central spiral cord, or with its ramifications, the vessels entering with the cord by a hilus. (2) Each lobule consists of some fifty acini, which blend with one another towards the centre of the lobule, and have each a cavity con- taining fluid. (3) These cavities communicate with one another, and with (4) the oft-denied central canal, which, as a careful preparation will show, unites with the areolar tissue and blood-vessels, to connect the lobules with one another, and is beset from place to place with acinuli. This central canal, which resembles a lymphatic vessel, is -J-'" in diameter, has walls of delicate areolar tissue, and is filled with lymph-corpuscles. With respect to the minute structure and the function of the acini— (1) Their capsule, externally limited by connective tissue, consists of delicate blood-vessels supported by a dense network of ramified cells, similar to that of the lymphatic glands, the intervals of which are occupied by an albuminous fluid holding lymph-corpuscles in slispeusion. (2) Their contents consist of cells and ""concentric bodies." (3) TheDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. autlior concludes from his observations that Ijinpli-corpuscles are con- tiiuiallv produced (by division) within the capsules, thence proceeding to the central cavity, where they are taken up by the lympliatics, finally reaching the blood, and being transformed into blood-corpuscles. The involulion of the thymus depends on atrophy of the glandular sub- stance, caused by the deposition of fat on and between the acini. BoDECKEB, C.—The Composition of Human Milk. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med.,'vol. X, p. i6i. Canst., vol. i, p. 241. A specimen of healthy milk obtained a fortnight after parturition was found to contain—water 88a-2, milk-sugar 64-6, fat 31, protein matters 19, salts 3-2. The author recommends as the best substitute for human milk—8 oz. cow's milk, 2 oz. cream, 6 oz. water, and \ oz. milk- sugar. Eexkes.—On Milk. 4to, Montpellier, i860. Setschenow.—Pnewmatological Notices. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 285. Canst., vol. i, p. 240. Persuaded that a knowledge of the gaseous contents 'of secretions which are retained within the organism without exposure to the at- mospheric air will throw light on the physiology of parenchymatous respiration, the author commenced with an examination of (cow's) milk, which was drawn while the teat w^as immersed in olive oil, in order to prevent absorption of air. In two specimens he obtained the following per-centage: Free Carbonic Acid. Oxygen. Nitrogen. I 672 016 i*4i 3 S'oi o'32 i'34 Harris, Dr. J. (Savannah).—Case in loliich Milk was secreted hy Tumours in the Axillce. Amer. Journ. Dental Sc., vol. x, p. 569. Med. Times and Graz., April 13th, p. 397. A negro woman, aged thii'ty-eight, who had always enjoyed good health, and had eight children, soon after commencing the suckling of her third chUd, noticed tumours about the size of pigeons' eggs in each axilla, w'hich did not diminish after weaning. When she began suckling the fourth child they increased in size, and were accompanied by a sense of distension and hardness. After the birth of the filth child the tumours were tapped, and about a pint of a milk-like fluid was di-awn off. After the birth of tlie sixth and seventh children, they again enlarged, but were not tapped, and subsided somewhat after weaning. During the nursing of the eighth child the woman was seen by the author. The tumour in the right axilla was tapped, and about a pint of milk-like fluid was discharged, allowing a hard, lobulated structure to be felt at the base of the tumour. The tumour, after the discharge of the fluid, much resembled a flaccid mamma which had ceased to secrete milk. On puncturing the tumour on the left side, about an ounce of fluid was discharged, but as fluctuation was still perceptible, the tumour on this side was concluded to be multilocular. When the woman was last heard of, three months after the last puncture had beenUKPORT ON rm INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE, 93 made, uo reaocumulatiou of fluid liad taken place, although she wan still iiursiug tiie child. A chemical and microscopical exauiination of the fluid completely proved ita iniliv-y character—its true composition being intermediate between that of normal milk and colostrum, except that it contained an excess of salts. Davis, Prof. (Chicago).—On the injluence of Prer/nancif on the quality of the Milk of the Human Female. Clin'. Med. Exam,, Oct i860. Trom several analyses Davis infers that the occurrence of pregnancy during the ordinary period of lactation either speedily reduces the quantity of milk secreted or lessens tlio proportion of solid or nutritive constituents to such a degree as to render it insufficient for the proper nourishment of a cliild over six months old. In a small proportion of cases, however, the milk secreted continues abundant and of good quality, but the health of the mother rapidly declines, while in a still smaller proportion of cases the mother and child both continue well nourished and healthy. GENITO-rUINAEY SYSTEM. Beale, Prof. L. S.—On Urine, Urinary Deposits, and Calculi. London, PP- 443- Dickinson, Dr. W. H.— On the Diseases of the Kidney accompanied by Albuminuria. Trans. Royal Med. and Chir. Soc, p. 169. Eade, Dr. Peteji.—On Syphilitic Albuminuria. Lond. Med. Eev., Sept., p. 106. Haxjghton, Eev. S.—On the Phenomena of Diabetes Mellites. Dublin Quart. Med. Journ., vol. xxxi, p. 317. Caetee, W. C. (Clifton).—On Diabetes. Lancet, August 17th, p. 157. Hill, Dr. W. K. (Bath).— On the occurrence of Glucosuria in cases of Burn. Archiv. of Med., No. vii. ' Eade, Di*. Petee.—Case of Diabetes Insipidus; loitli analysis of the Urine. Archiv. of Med., vol. ii, p. 5. Faeber, B. H.—The effect of Draughts of Water on tlie quantity of the Urine and of tlie Chloride of Sodium contained' in it. Archiv f. phj-siol. Heilk., i860, part 3, p. 244. Canst., vol. i, p. 140. GlBB, Dr. Geoege. — Large amount of Chlorides, with deposits of Cystine, Urates, and Oxalates of L ime, in the Urine of a case of long- continued Siceating. Archiv. of Med., vol. ii, p. 281. Smith, Dr. Edwaed.—On the Elimination of Urea and Urinary Water, in their relation to the Period of the Day, Season, Exertion, Food, and other influences acting on the Cycle of the Tear. Proc. Boy. Soc, No. 44, p. 214. VOLUAED, J.—On the Ureas of the Diamines. Proc. Roy. Soc., No. 44, p. 268. RoBEETS, Dr. W.—On the Solvent Poivers of weak and strong Solutions of Alkaline Carbonates on Uric-acid Calculi. Trau.s. Brit. Assoc., 1861.GENITO-XJEINAUY SYSTEM. 93 Beali:, Prof.—Lecture on Urinarij Calculi. Bnfc. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th, and succeeding numbers. The cau.se of tlie deposition of a calculus musfc not always be looked for in the cliaracters of the urine; the urine may be healthy while yet a stone is in process of formation. Deranged chemical changes in the system will not unfrequently account for the tendency to calculous disorder. Even in the purest calculi a certain amount of animal matter exists. This often serves to bind the particles together. For convenience of descrip- tion calculi are arranged in two classes :—(i) Those leaving only sliglit residue after ignition. (2) Those leaving a considerable residue after ignition. Any solid matter may form the nucleus of a calculous concre- tion. Microscopic calculi of uric acid, phosphate, and oxalate of lime, arc noted as not uncommon. Dr. Beale has seen an oxalate-of-lime calculus not larger than the ^-^jth of an inch ; he believes that small aggrega- tions of dumb-bell crystals occur first in the uriniferous tubes of the kid- ney ; b}' further addition a small crystalline mass of oval form is developed, and this, if retained either in kidney or bladder, will slowly increase in size, the material subsequently deposited upon this centre varying according to the condition of the urine. Many small uric-acid calculi which appear to be composed entirely of this substance will be found to possess a nucleus of oxalate of lime. By the action of liquor potassae on this, dumb- bell crystals may not unfrequently be obtained, insoluble in potash and acetic acid. For determining the actual character of the nucleus it is advisable to examine the smallest calculi recently passed, and, therefore, thoroughly moist. The author points out the advantage of thorough washing out of the system, by giving large quantities of fluid during a considerable period of time. The most successful results of electrolysis in tlie solution of calculi have occurred to Dr. Bence Jones, bv the use 01 a solution of nitrate of potash, and the decomposition of this by a battery of from five to twenty pairs of Grove's plates. The nitric acid set free at the positive electrode would decompose the uric acid, the pota.^sa evolved at the negative electrode would dissolve it, so that the calculus would be disintegrated at both points. Phosphatic calculi were dissolved most easily, uric acid in a slighter degree, and oxalate of lime with an action four times as slow as that of the uric-acid calculi. Jones, Dr. Hakdfield.—Cases of Baruria {eight). Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. lath, p. 380. All the cases noted presented, more or less, nerve-debility, with coinci- dent excessive excretion of solids by the urine. In ten out of fifteen cases reported by the author and Dr. Bird, unduly high specific gravity and oxalate-of-lime deposits were both present. The debility would seem to be the primary condition. This view is favoured by the benefit obtained from tonics and sedatives—speciall^^, the combination of nitric acid with opium. The exact pathology of the affection is as yet a matter of doubt. Hammoxd, Dr. William (Maryland).—Or^ Urcemic Intoxication. Ee- print from the American Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861 pp 31 The author has arrived at the following conclusions—(i) That the inject^ion of urea ni limited quantity, into the blood of animals, produces a certain amount of disturbance in the nervous .system, similar in it.sREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 94 symptoms to the first stages of uraemia, but that this condition disap- pears if tlio kidneys are capable of so depuratinj,' the blood as to r?Hmi- nate the toxic substance. (2) That urea, when introduced into the cir- culation in larger quantity than can in a limited period be excreted liy the kidneys, induces deatli by uraemia. (3) That by ligature of the renal arteries, or removal of the kidneys, the elements of the urine being re- tained in the blood, render thi.s fluid unsuitable to the requirements of the organism, and, consequently, induce a condition of system not essentially distinguishable from the uraemic intoxication of Bright's disease, or that caused by the direct introduction of urea into the blood. As, however, was pointed out by Bernard and Barreswil, so long as the urea, or the products of its metamorphosis, are discharged by the stomach or intes- tines, urremia does not take place, but that, when these channels become closed, convulsions and coma are produced, and death soon follows. (4) That the inti-oduction of urea or urine into the circulation of animals, the kidneys of which have been ablated, shortens the life of such animals, as Frerichs and others have already shown. (5) That there is reason to believe that the urine, as a whole, is more poisonous than a simple solu- tion of urea, for, in those cases in which urine was injected into the blood the amount of urea thus introduced was much smaller than that pre- viously thrown in in a pure state, and yet symptoms of as great intensity followed. (6) That urea, or the elements of the urine, as a whole, induce such a condition of the nervous system, as strongly to predispose to con- gestion and inflammation of the viscera, especially the lungs, pericardium, and spleen. (7) That urea, when directly injected into the blood, or suffered to accumulate in this fluid by extirpation of the kidneys, deranges, in some manner, the process of sanguification, so as to disturb the normal relation of proportion existing between the white and the red corpuscles, and either to hasten the decomposition of these latter or to interfere with the due removal from the blood of such as are broken down and efiete. (8) That there is no reason to suppose that, under the circumstances specified, urea undergoes conversion into carbonate of ammonia, but that, on the contrary, there is sufficient evidence to warrant the conclusion that no such pi'ocess ensues. The fact that in the foregoing experiments a larger amount of urea was generally found in the blood taken from the body after death than in that abstracted during life is, of itself, conclu- sive against any such hypothesis. Jones, Dr. Bence (St. George's Hosp.)—Siigar in Urine. Quart. Jouru, of Chem. Soc, April, vol. xiv, p. 22. Lancet, Jan. 19th, p. 61. The results obtained by the author are as follows :—(i) Lehmann's pro- cess for detecting sugar in urine by extracting the evaporated residue with absolute alcohol, and precipitating the sugar therefrom in the form of potash-sugar by means of alcoholic potash, cannot be employed when small quantities of sugar are present in large quantities of urine. (2) The process of fermentation is stopped by the residue of the urine, by much urea, and still more decidedly by oxalate of urea. (3) Half a grain of sugar in water can be detected by the alcohol produced by fermentation, and may be estimated by the carbonic acid produced; but much larger quan- tities may be overlooked in concentrated urine. (4) In decolorizing uriue for95 QENITO-TOINABY STtSTEM. examination in the polarizing sacchnvometer some sugar is always lost. (^) Animal charcoal retains sugar in proportion to the amount of charcoal used. This sugar may he recovered hy washing with boiling water. (6) By Eobiquet's method of decolorizing with basic acetate of lead and ammonia, two thirds of the sugar may be lost. (7) Pettenkofer's test for sugar by means of cholic or glycocholic acid and sulphuric acid, is the most delicate known. Two thirds of a milligramme can be detected in a little distilled water, and the presence of a small amount of the colouring matter of m-ine does not affect the reaction. (8) Trommer's test with sulphate of copper and potash is capable of detecting one twentieth per cent, of sugar in urine ; but when very small quantities of sugar are in solution with muriate of ammonia or urea, the reduction of the oxide is not perceived. (9) Briicke's alcohol process was not found to be satisfactory, but his lead process furnished excellent results. The urine is precipitated first with neutral acetate of lead, then with basic acetate of lead, and lastly with ammonia. The ammoniacal precipitate contains the sugar, which is extracted by treating the precipitate with oxalic acid, or preferably with sulphuretted hydrogen. By Briicke's process one seventh of a grain of sugar, added to 200 cubic centimetres of urine, could be detected ; and two thirds of all the sugar added could be recovered. Moreover, the sugar is obtained free from salts, so that it can be fermented ; and free from colour, so that it can be examined in the saccharometer. In examining healthy urine by this process, the presence of sugar could be readily ascertained in 1000 cubic eentimfetres of urine. The sugar separated by Briicke's process from 1000 cubic centimetres of the urine of a healthy man was estimated by the reduction test to vary from i"4 to 2*2 grains; and in that of another healthy man, to vary from 2-3 to 3'0 grains. The sugar separated from 5000 cubic centimetres of the urine of one healthy man gave from seven to eight degrees of rotation in the sacharometer; and that of another healthy man, from ten to eleven degrees. The sugar extracted from 14,000 cubic centimetres of healthy urine yielded by fer- mentation I"8 grains of carbonic acid, together with a recognisable quan- tity of alcohol. These and other experiments fully confirmed Briicke's statement as to the habitual presence of sugar in healthy urine. Hence diabetes must be considered as an exaggeration of a healthy state, and not as a distinct and peculiar condition of the system. In health and in diabetes the same chemical changes seem to take place in the system; but the greater amount of change in the one case constitutes health, and the lesser amount in the other case constitutes diabetes. QiBB, Dr.—Crystals of Diabetic Stigar. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xji, The author says that when the urine is very rich in sugar, and contains but little urea and other salts, the characteristic form of diabetic crystal is obtained, namely, rhomboidal prisms, existing either in detached masses or in tufts ; the latter may partake of true arborescence. When such is the case, with a low power of the microscope, branches runnino- in various directions from a central stem are seen, and from these the crystals are observed to shoot in different directions. The branched form of crystallization varies very much, but it is one of the most beautifulREPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 96 objects submitted to microscopic examination. Wiicn tlie diabetic fluid contains a larger proportion of salts, tlie sugar crystallizes in little cir- cular masses?, with minute crystals projecting from' the surface. The.-e masses appear to bo made up of an aggregation of flat plates of sugar, and, when examined on a dark ground, they resemble lumps of the well- known barley sugar. ROBEnTS, Dr. Wjt.— On a new Clinical Method of cdimalinr/ (he quanlilji of Siufar in Diahetic Urine. Edin. Med. Journ.," Oct., p. 326. The autlior recommends the estimating of the sugar by calculating the loss of density as described in last 'Year Book,' p. 106. In the present communication he proposes the following mode of procedure : 1. Four ounces of urine are placed in a twelve-ounce phial, with a lump of German yeast of the size of a small walnut. 2. This is loosely corked, or covered with a slip of glass, and placed in a warm place to ferment. 3. A companion phial filled with the same urine—say a three-ounce phial—is tightly corked, and placed beside the fermenting phial. 4. In about twenty-two hours, when fermentation has ceased, the two phials are removed, and placed in some cooler part of the room. jj. Two hours after—that is, about twenty-four hours from the com- mencement of the experiment—the contents of the phials are separately poured into cylindrical glasses, and the density of each observed. 6. Tlie difference between the two densities is thus ascerta,ined, and every degree of " density lost " indicates one grain per fluid ounce of sugar in the urine. Gilchrist, Dr. (Torquay).—On Indigo in Urine. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 535. A labourer's wife, ajt. 58, first noticed a blue deposit in her urine about fourteen years ago, at which time she suffered from acute pain in the region of the heart. The urine was very offensive, and has continued so up to the present time. There is now considwable pain about the neck of the bladder, accompanied with frequent calls to micturate (occasionally every five or ten minutes). The total amount of urine passed in twenty- four hours is about three pints. It is of a dirty, greenish-yellow colour, strongl}' ammoniacal, and of sp. gr. loio. On standing, it deposits a greenish-blue sediment, consisting of triple phospliates, ejDithelium-cells, amorphous hluc matter, and some masses of a yellowish-brown colour. The blue and yellow matters are insoluble in water, acetic acid, ammonia or cold alcohol; but soluble in nitric acid and hot alcohol. The former destroys the colour. On adding sulphuric acid to the clear urine a faint- pink or copper colour is produced, thus proving that only a small amount of urine-pigment is present. WOOD^'AEU, Dr.—0;( ihe Adion of Opium on the Qenito-urinary Organs. Boston Med. Journ., vol. Ixv, p. 158. The ' Medical Times and Gaz.,' of the 30th November gives the following extract from Dr. Woodward's paper:—The author states that an accidentGENITO-UIUNAEY SYSTEM, 97 led him to notice in his own person the incorrecbness of the assertion so generally made, that opium arrests the urinary secretion. On the contrar}^, he found, by repeated experiments, that his urine, while taking small doses of sulphate of morphia, doubled in quantity and decreased in specific gravity from 1014 to 1003. Five young men were also experi- mented upon, and in four a largo increase in quantity and a lower specific gravity were observed. In the other the quantity remained the same, but the speciiic gravity \^ as markedly lessened. He did not obtain the same results when he used opium itself, but they followed whether he employed the muriate or sulphate of morphia. Acting upon this hint, he has several times used morphia in irritable conditions of the nervous system, where a diuretic was required, and with good effect. " I think it will be found, saj's he, that, in many cases of disease, the m-inar}-secretion is arrested by the state of nervous tension which has been superinduced, and that, instead of a resort to stimulant diuretics, sedatives will relax the tension and allow the secretion to be restored." Another marked action of opium, Dr. Woodward observes, is as an anaphrodisiac. He has found that among opium eaters, both male and female, the sexual desire becomes almost extinct; while he has prescribed it with good effect in persons suffering from lustful propensities. Seligsohn, Max.—On the Seaction of Cinchonine and its detection in Urine. Med. Centr. Ztg., vol. xxx, p. 17, 1861. Seligsohn has extended the researches on the test with the yellow ferro- cyanide of potassium, and finds that it never fails when the cinchonine solution is neutral, and that the yellow precipitate thereby obtained is not readily soluble even in acid solutions. On heating the liquid the precipi- tate is dissolved, but it reforms in the shape of little yellow crystals on the liquid being slowly cooled. In 250 cub. cent. (8 oz.) of water, to which 0*292 grms. (4^- grains) cinchonine was added, the substance was easily detected; but in the morning urine of a person who had taken 10 grms, (^55 grains) of the salt none was found. (Schmidt, No. 111, p. 6.) Smith, Dr. 'E,.—Experiments loith Fat, Tea, Coffee, and Alcoliol. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861. Smith found the following results from the administration of 3i ozs. of extra fat, i oz. of tea, i i- oz. of coffee, and 2 ozs. of alcohol, diluted"with water, when added to the dietary of prisoners, for successive periods of three days each. 1. During the period of the administration of 3^ ozs. of extra fat daily, the amounts of urea and urinary water excreted were 529 grains, and 6g-i7 ozs. on the average of all the cases, showing that no notable change had been produced. 2. During the withdrawal of f of an ounce (328 grains) of chloride of sodmra daily, the quantity of that salt excreted by the urine was reduced Irom 5o<5 to 184 grains daily, the difference being almost exactly the amount which had been withheld. After the full supply was renewed it I was some days before the whole again appeared in the urine ' 3- The excretion of urea was lessened during the administration of the Jtea to ,io;i grams ou the second, and 508 grains on the third, which was a 7repout on the institutes of medicine. 08 treadwlieel-day. The exact amount of tlie diminution could not be deter- mined, since in the three preceding days two treadwiieel-days were included, and thus this basis of comparison was unduly elevated. The excretion of chloride of sodium was increased to f,42 grains per day. The quantity of urinary water evolved remained unchanged. 4. The urea, which had fallen during the action of tea, remained below the average during the action of colFee (which was administered after the experiments on tea), but it rose 42 grains daily, and at the end of the period was scarcely below the quantity normally evolved. The quantity of chloride of sodium evolved was 50 grains daily less than with the tea, viz., 494 grains. The quantity of urinary water was not changed. 5. The urea was also lessened during the action of alcohol, to the extent of 26 grains per day below the normal quantity ; but it was still 14 grains r per day higher than the quantity to which it first fell with the tea. The effect was much more evident with treadwheel-labour on the first day, for instead of an increase with labour there was an elimination of 43 grains less than occurred on the previous day with rest, but on the third day the increase with labour was iii grains over that evolved on the Sunday. On the first day the barometer fell greatly and tended to prevent the elimina- tion of urea. The greatest efl'eet was upon the elimination of urinary water, and caused a diminution of no less than 20 ounces per day on the average of the three days ; and as there was an unusual thirst during the administration of the alcohol (without, however, any additional fluid food being allowed), it is easy to see in how great a degree alcohol tends to temporarily fix fluid in the tissues of the body, and in doing so to restrain the emission of urea. Hence the effect of tea, coffee, and alcohol, in lessening the emission of urea, appeared to be temporary only, and in the case of alcohol was associated with retention of fluid in the body, and consequently with an increase of weight. Smith, E., and Milnek, W. E.—Report on tJie action of Prison Diet and Discipline on tJie Bodily Functions of Prisoners. Trans. Brit. Assoc. Prison lahotir and seclusion.—The authors found that the prisoners emitted much more urea than occurs in ordinary life. On Sundays, with entire rest, the amount of urea was commonly lessened, but the nitrogen in the I'seces was increased in the same degree. With treadwheel-labour there was a small increase in the amount of urea and of urine evolved, whilst there was a small decrease in the evolution of chloride of sodium in the urine. Of two sets of prisoners making very different amounts of exertion, viz., the tailors and the weavers, it was found by Smith and Milner that the weavers of cocoa matting, when compared with the tailors, were older, taller, heavier, and broader ; thej^ took more bread, milk and water. They lost weight, whilst the tailors gained weight. They emitted more urine, urea, chloride of sodium, and faces. The authors affirm that a dietary of bread and water or gruel only cannot be enforced without injury to the system. They also state, in reference to the necessity for extra Ibod, that bread is far iuferior to milk as an article99 GENITO-UKINABY SYSTEM. of extra diet. The detention in prisons lessens tho power of assimilating food- and hence it is quite possible that a quantity of food which would sustain a man out of gaol would not sustain him with the same labour in s^aol. ^ . . . - . • /-< n Urinary xcater.—la the first set of inquiries four prisoners in Cold- bath Fields Prison were selected, who had been some time in prison, and who worked the tread wheel on three days in each week. The quantity of urinary water evolved was, on the total average, 10-4 per cent, greater on tread wheel than on other days. The quantity of fluid drank was the same on each day, but the amount lost by perspiration was much greater on treadwheel-days. , , , j In the experiments at Wakefield, four men of regular habits and m good state of health were selected. Two were weavers of cocoa matting, which is a very laborious occupation, and two were tailors. The largest quantities which were evolved iu one day was 25,321 grs. (56-6 ozs.) and 26,6a4grs. (59-17 ozs.) in the tailors, and 27,791 grs. (62-3 ozs.) and 32,924 grs. (74 ozs.) in the weavers. The average daily quantity was 41-2 ozs. in the tailors, and 47*51 ozs. in the weavers. The average decrease from the Saturday to the Sunday was io'29 ozs. Specific gravity.—The specific gravity of the urine varied from 1016 to 1027-5, but there was singular uniformity in the general results. In the tailors it was 1023-7 ^""^ 10^5. "'^ weavers 1024-37 and I024'6, giving a total average of 1024-35 in the tailors and 1024-45 i'^ weavers. Weight of lody.—The average weight of three of the prisoners during the inquiry was greater than that recorded on the day preceding the com- mencement of the inquiry, but there was a loss of weight in the four. The average gain was, in the tailors, 15-^ ozs. and I7f ozs., and in one of the weavers 3^ ozs., but in the other weaver there was a loss of 3^ ozs. The greatest gain in the different cases was i lb. 134 ozs. and i lb. 71 ozs. in the tailors, and 8| ozs. and i lb. 11 ozs. in the weavers ; and the greatest loss i:^ oz. in one tailor, i lb. 2j ozs. and 4^ ozs. in the weavers. There was no unvarying progression in the weight during the week, but in every case there was an increase from the Saturday to the Sunday. Urea.—At Coldbath Fields the total daily excretion of urea was least oil Sunday, greater on the days of light labour, and greatest on days of treadwheel-labour, on which occasions the average quantities were 494, 512, and 528 grains, giving a daily increase on treadwheel-days of 16 grains over that of days of light labour, and of 34 grains over that of perfect rest. The quantity of urea to each pound of body-weight, both on days of treadwheel-labour and on those of rest, was much above that found in the ordinary conditions of life, viz., from 4*39 grs. to 4-74 grs., or an average of 4-58 grs. to each lb. of body-weight. Smith found in himself, with about the same food, but with much greater weight of body, an average proportion of only 2-75 grains to each lb. The probable expla- nation is that already referred to, viz., that the nitrogenous tissues in the bodies of prisoners, after a certain term of imprisonment, bear a larger proportion to the weight of the whole body than is found in health upder ordinary conditions, since, by the labour and discipline of theUEl'OUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE, 100 gaol, much of the fat is lost, and the fluid contained in the tissues is reduced to a nuiiimuni quantity. The analysis for urea was made by Liebig's method. Lawson, Robeut (Dep. Insp.-Gren. Hosp.)—Some Observations on the Urinari/ and Alvine Excretions, as they appear tvithin the Tropics. Med.-Chir. Ecv., Oct., p. 48.3. Lawson found—(i) that when the quantity of vapour in the atmosphere is great, the amount of solids as well as of water excreted is increased. (2) Moderate exercise diminishes the quantity of urinary fluids and solids, while it increases the action of the skin and lungs. (3) Ilippuric acid is a normal constituent of the urine of Europeans as well as of the blacks inhabiting Jamaica. (4) The urohtematin excreted by the urine appears to be increased in the tropics. Bamberger, Prof. H.—Is Ammonia a Normal Constituent of the Urine? "Wiirzb. Med. Zeitschr., vol. i, p. 146. Canst., vol. i, p. 253. In order to answer this question the author boiled normal urine in a distilling apparatus, and variously tested the vapour for ammonia. In none of a series of experiments could he detect so much as a trace. In Bright's disease, unaccompanied by urajraic symptoms, the albuminous urine, when distilled, distinctly yields ammonia, as does also normal urine to which white of egg has been added. BoDECKER.—A Contribution to the knowledge of Tissue Change in the Healthy Organism. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 153. Canst., vol. i, p. 254. The following table shows the results of the author's examination of the urine discharged in twenty-four hours by nine healthy young men : I. II. III. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII. IX. Specific gravity. . 1028 1019 a. 1023-5 h. 1019 » ioiS'3 1024 1015-5 1023 1017 Quantity in centira. 14.30 2160 1150 1600 1370 1030 1380 1050 1150 Urea, in grammes . 38-9 38-1 35'3 33'o 31 "4 30-2 28-1 23-8 22'4 20-3 Uric acid „ . . I'3 0-6 0-5 V2 0-7 o"3 "•4 s 04 03 Sulph. acid,, . . I "9 4'4 4'I 1-9 2-9 26 2-6 2'3 2"3 I "3 Pliospli.acid,, . . 4'i 3'2 2-3 2'0 2-8 3'2 2'3 29 29 1-8 Chlorine „ . . 6-3 I 2'6 6-0 47 II-6 S-8 8-2 69 97 •6-9 Lime „ . • 0-4 0'2 06 0-2 o-S 0'2 o'3 03 0-3 0'2 Magnesia ,; . . 0'2 O'l Solid residue . . . 65-8 767 60-4 S6-8 ^6-8? 52-8 388 According to the author, the daily quantity of hippuric acid excreted by healthy persons is more than double that of the uric acid. LiiCKE, A.—On the presence and detection of Hippuric Acid in Human Urine. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 196. Canst., vol. i, p. 252. Liicke states that i)roportionaliy small quantities of cranberries or blackberries greatly increase tlie amount of hippuric ncid in the urine, and impart their respective colours to it. He detected the acid in the fluidGEXITO-URINAUY SYSTEM. 101 ofii hydrocele, along with iron and manganese. When boiled down with nitric acid, the vapour of the residue gives off a powerful odour of nitro- benzoin. Neubaueb.—Contribitiions to ihc Analijsis of the Urine. Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, vol. V, p. 319. Canst., vol. i, p. 253. From a series of inquiries this chemist computes the daily amount of cre<itine discharged by healthy adults to be about eight grains. Stockrts, D. .J. E.—The Ph/.'siolocji/ of Uric Acid. Archiv v. Bonders u. Berlin, vol. ii, part 3, p. 260. Canst., vol. i, p. 251. In order to ascertain whether uric acid becomes transformed into urea, the author, whilst maintaining a uniform diet, took several doses of urates, carefully determining, before and after the experiments, the amounts of uric acid and urea in the urine. He concludes, from the results obtained, thnt uric acid does become metamorphosed into urea within the organism, and the seat of that metamorphosis he believes (from experiments with, the liver of animals) to be the liver. WiTTicii.—On Secretion of Urine in Babbits. Schmidt, vol. 108, No. 12. Canst., vol. i, p. 139. The author observes that, in the rabbit's kidney, nerves with numerous ganglia may be traced as far as the cortical substance. Extirpation of the renal nerve or plexus, or of an entire kidney, was not found to cause hsematuria or to aSect the quantity of the urine, which, in the rabbit, nor- mally contains albumen. Hetn-sitjs.—On Diffusion of Albumen. Bonder's Archiv, vol. iv, part 3. Canst., vol. i, pp. 3, 109. The author finds that the exosmosis of an albuminous to a saline solu- tion is retarded by acidity and accelerated by alkalinity on the part of the latter. He infers from this that the acidity of the fluid bathing the renal glomeruli prevents the transudation of more albumen than Bu°ffices for the nutrition of the epithelial cells, whilst it facilitates the regress of water from the cnnaliculi into the blood, as required in Ludwio-'s theory. ° Levy, .T.—Om the Seminal Vesicles of Man. 8vo, G-riefswald, 18-to. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. After an examination of seventy-eight bodies, the writer, whose inquiries •were supermtended by Budge, comes to the conclusion (expressed long smce by John Hunter), that those structures do not constitute reservoirs ior the semen, but are secretory organs, into which that fluid accidentally passes m tnflmg amount. Their contents are, in elderly persons, always alkalme, and contain much albumen. Davis Geouge.—C%Zow* Urine cured by Iodide ofPota-rnvm. Madras Med. Journ., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 12th A man, ajfc^ 33, who had passed for three years urine resembling milk, was seen, m September, 1858, with rheumatism ; the urine was then devoid of urmous odour, milky in appearance, and deposited, on boiling, a white.EUPOTIT ON THE rXSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. curdy substance, soluble in etber. Iodide of potassium was administered for the rheumatism, and given, for twenty-seven days, at the rate of (ll'teen grains per diem. At the end of this time the chylous state of urine had disappeared, and up to June, i860, had not returned. Eobehts, Dr. W.—On the occurrence of Deposits of Crystallized Phos- phate of Lime in JLealthy Urine. Brit. Med. Journ., March 30th, P- 332. According to the author, the prevailing arrangement is that of crystalline rods or needles grouped round a centre. About two grains of crystals, col- lected from diabetic patients, were thus examined:—(i) Treated with caustic potash, they evolved no ammonia, nor were they in any way afiected by boil- ing, even in caustic alkalies. (2) They dissolved slowly in acetic acid, with- out effervescence. After addition of oxalate of ammonia a precipitate fell, presenting minute octahedra of oxalate of lime. (3) They were dissolved rapidly by mineral acids; ammonia added afterwards in excess, threw down an amorphous sediment. Such cr^'stals have been obtained by the addition of chloride of calcium to healthy uj-iue, and reducing its acidity to near the neutral point with caustic soda. Tlie appearance of a crystal- line deposit of phosphate of lime is not common. It would seem to be the accompaniment of some grave disorder. A depressed acidity of the urine is an essential contingent to the formation of these crystals. Clemens.—The action ofJBaths on the formation of the Urine. Froriep'g Not., i860, vol. ii, No. 2. Canst., vol. i, p. 140. The author found that all baths diminish the specific gravity of the urine which is passed during, or just after, the bath, and that the urine passed for several hours afterwards is rich in phosphates and poor in uric acid and water. PARASITES. Andehson, Dr. M'CalI/.—On the Parasitic Affections of the Skin. Wood- cuts. London, pp. 1^52. Letjckaet, Prof. Ettdolp.— On the Structure and Development of the Pentastoma, luith special researches on the Pent, tcenioides and P. denticulatum. Plates. 4to, Leipzig, i860. KiiCHENMEiSTEE, M.—The Cysticercus cellulostis transfoiined within the Organism of Man into the Icenia soliwn. Lancet, January 12th, p. 39. To a condemned criminal a quantity of cysticerci were given on the a4th of November and i8th of January. The prisoner was decapitated on the 31st of March, and at the autopsy it was found that half the cys- ticerci that had been swallowed were transformed into flat worms, of which eleven presented mature segments. Some of the latter were still connected ; the others were detached, and had moved towards the lower part of the canal. There were eight other worms, which had not ripened as yet. All the parasites were comparatively small, the longest not reach- ing beyond five feet.103 GEKERATIO' AND DEVEL0P31E>'T. ViBCHOW.—Helminthological Notices on TricMna spiralis. Virchow's Archiv, i860, pp. 330, 543. Canst., vol. i, p. 204. Recent experiments lead the author to the result formerly obtained by him, that the trichina is not allied to the trichocephalus or trichosoma. He finds that in a month after the introduction of trichinse into the stomach of the rabbit they are four lines in length, and are to be met with in the mesenteric glands, and also in the muscles, where they lie within the primitive fasciculi, and subsequently become encysted by means of condensed sarcolemma and altered contents. None are to be found in the brain, heart, lungs, liver, kidney, or blood. The presence of these parasites causes the death of the rabbits. Leuckart, R.—(i) Besearches on Tnchina spiralis. 4to, Leipzig and Heidelberg, i860. (2) The Mature Condition of TricMna spiralis. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., i860, pp. 259, 334. Canst., vol. i, p. 204. Accordmg to the author's observations, tlie trichina, which he regards as a nematoid in an early stage, attains sexual maturity two days after its entry into the alimentary canal. Tlie young pierce the intestinal wall, and, guided by the intermuscular connective tissue, reach the intei-ior of the muscular fasciculus, where they attain their full size within a fortnight. The muscular tibres become granular, and when the creature is full grown, the sarcolemma becomes condensed. Peritonitis, paralysis, and death, are frequent results of their presence in the organism. Waldenburg.— On Extravasation of Blood and Aneurism caused hy Parasites. Archiv f. Anat. u. Pliys., i860, p. 195. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. The author states that various parasites which infest the frog pierce the vessels and cause aneurisms, in which they frequently become encysted. RiCHTEB, B.—Dissertation on Favus and its Fungiis. Svo, Breslaw, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 203. The author, under Goppert and Cohn's direction, succeeded in propa- gating favus by inoculation with the oidium in rabbits and also in apples, Brassica annua, and Allium cepa, but not in birds and lizards. He remarks that the propagation of the achorion by inoculation does not prove that it forms spores in our climate, for it may be reproduced by other germinal parts. GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Serres.—Observations on tie Centripetal Development of the Vertelral Column. Original duality of the vertelral elements of the Skeleton. Comptes rendus, Aug. 26th, 1861, p. 353. 'R,o■B^v.—Note on a peculiarity in the Development of tlie superficial Fpidermic Calls of the Foetus. Journ. de la Phvs., April i85i p. 228. . ' 1 ' t Cruise, Dr. Y.n.—Case of Arrested Development of the Female Genital Organs. Dub. Quart. Journ., August, p. 21,uepout on the institutes or jiEniciNE. 104 BAL13IANT, G.— Researches on ilic Sexual Phenomena of Infimria Journ. do la Phys., April, 1861, p. 194. Rainey, George.—(SbjHC further Experiments and Observations on the mode of Formation and Coalescence of CarhonatcofUme-qlohules, and the Development of Shell-tissues. Micros. Journ., Jan.', p. 23. Tight.—Ort the Colour imparted to the Bones of the Fostus ly Madder mixed with the Food of the Mother dvrinr/ Gestation. Comptes rendus, 1861, February 4fch, p. 214, and 2 i;th, p. .367. The writer maintains that the dye is transmitted by the liquor amnii, which he supposes is swallowed by the fa^tus. In the human fretus he believes this process to commence regularly between the seventh and eighth month, to be a nutritive act, and to be the source of the meconium. Flotjueks.—The Coloration of the Foetal Bones h/ the medium of the Mother's Circulation. Comptes rendus, 1861, Januarj', p. 103. This physiologist has demonstrated the passage of fluids from mother to foetus in the rabbit, by introducing, during one or two days, a solution of prussiate of potash in small quantities at a time through an opening made in the trachea. By this treatment a greenish-blue tinge is imparted to the liquor amnii, and even to the stomach, kidneys, and urinary bladder of the foetus itself. Coinde.— Cases of Albinism. Comptes rendus, 1861, Feb. 4th, p. 214. The author narrates an instance in which a man, besotted and almost cretinized by indulgence in brandy, had three albino children successively, by two different mothers. The father had not the slightest appearance of an albino. Physiological Effect of Carbonic-acid Baths on the Develojjmenf of the Foetus in tttero. Foreign Correspondence of Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 209. In a letter from the correspondent at Driburg, in Germany, we find the following marvellous physiological results attributed to the action of carbonic-acid baths. Quite recently, says the writer, Dr. Briick had a lady under his care whose general health was perfect, and who in her first con- finement was delivered of a microcephalus. Being enceinte for the second time, she took the baths at Driburg, and afterwards gave birth to a healthy child; in the third pregnancy she neglected the baths, and was again delivered of a microcephalus. When pregnant for the fourth time she came to Driburg, used tiie baths, and a health}'- child was the conse- quence. It seems almost incredible, but still it is a fact, that, being enceinte for the fifth time, she did not think it necessary to have recourse to that treatment, which had twice proved so eminently successful, and the consequence was that her former misfortune recurred. Since then she has been a regular visitor here, and her last confinement, which happened in the spring of i860, was perfectly satisfactory. One pound (7680 grains) of these waters contain— Free carbonic acid i / • i ,^43 grains. Bicarbonate of iron 07862 „ Bicarbonate of manganese .... o'i094 „ Bicarbonate of limo I4'89ii „105 GENEIJATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Bicarbonate of magnesia o'S30S gvaias. Sulpliato of potash 0-0822 „ Sulphate of soda 7-9688 „ Sulphate of magnesia 4-7810 „ Nitrate of soda 0-0048 „ Chloride of sodium 06982 „ Chloride of lithium 0-0189 „ Sulphate of lime 10-1571 „ Silica 0-0234 „ Alumina 0-0019 „ Sulphuretted hydrogen 0-0004 „ Arsenious acid ...... 0-0002 Water 7622-8208 „ In the cases of mal-developmcnfc from a deficiencj' of lime for the forma- tion of the skeleton of the foetus, the waters are supposed to act hy supplying it. CuELiN&, T. B.— Undeveloped Testes from an Idiot. Path. Soe. Trans., P- ^43- A young man, jet. 19, of weak intellect and diminutive stature, died in tlie asylum at Earlswood, of general tuberculosi.s. The external organs of generation were not more developed than those of a boy of three years of age, and he had no hair on the pubes or in the axillaj, whilst the hair on his head was of a light-brown colour, and curly, like t!ie hair of a negro. The right testicle was found in the abdomen, two inches from the external ring. It weighed only twenty grains, the epidid^^mis being nearly as large as the body of the gland. The left testicle was in the scrotum, and, though much larger than the right, weighed only thirty-seven grains. There were no adhesions and no marks of disease about the organs. The glandular structure resembled that in the testicles of an infant, the tubuli being inseparable. The cerebellum weighed five ounces and a half. The fornix was softened, the ventricles contained serum, and the cineri- tious matter of the cerebrum was pale, the hemispheres were unsym- metrical. B07D, Dr. EoBEET (Somerset Lunatic Asylum).—Tables oftlie Weights of the Human JBody and the Internal Organs in the Sane and Insane ofhoth sexes at various ages. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 43, p. 124. Among the poor of the parish of Marylebone—(i) the average weight of the males was greatest at from seventy to eighty years of age. (2) The mean weight of the brain at all periods of life was greatest in the male. (3) The highest average weight of the brain in both sexes was from fourteen to twenty years. (4) The abdominal organs were generally heavier in the male than in the female. (5) The mean weight of the left kidney was generally greater than the right. The general results obtained from an examination of the insane gave— (x) a preponderance of six pounds to the weight of the insane male, and eight pounds to the weight of the insane female over that of the sane adults dying at the same period of life. (2) The average weight of the riglit cerebral hemisphere is less than the left, both in the male and female. (The author says that it is a singular fact, confirmed by the examination of nearly 200 cases at St. Marylebone, in which the hemispheres wereKEPORT Oy THr, INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 106 weighed separately, that ahtiost invariably the average weight of the left exceeded that of the right by at least the eighth of an ounce.) (3) The average weight of the cerebellum varied in the males from 5-42 to 5 06 oz., and in the females from 5 to 474 oz. (4) The weight of the ence- phalon varied in males from 48-17 to 43'8y oz., and in females from 44'55 to 40'5.') oz.; in the saue at the same period of life the average varied in the male from 48'2 to 45-34 oz., and in the female from 43-7 to 3977 02- Chossmak, E.—Intermarriafje of Relations as a cause of Degeneracy of the Offspring. Brit. Med. Journ., April 13th, p. 401. The intermarriage of relations is not always attended by injurious results; this is?, however, only the case where the uniting parties are not impressed witli the same hereditary imperfections, in consequence of a previous cross having neutralized the tendenc}'. Gaedneu, James.—On the Intermarriage of Belations as a cause of De- generacy of the Offspring. Brit. Med. Journ., March i6th, p. 290. Gardner believes that the cause of degeneracy must be looked for elsewhere than in blood-relationsliip. Jolt, N., and Mtjsset, Charles.—New Experiments on Spontaneous Generation. Comptes rendus, Jan. 21st, 1861, p. 99. The authors took the cecums of two sheep and boiled them during an hour along with a few pieces of meat. Tiiey then removed the cecums, and filled thera with the fluid in which they had been boiled. Three quarters of the liquid was next disj^laced by pure hydrogen gas, the caecums tightly ligatured, and put aside in tepid water (20° to 25° C). After twelve days the bags were opened and found to contain infusoria, Teereil.—Olservations on so-called Spontaneous Generation. Comptes rendus, April 29th, 1861, p. 851. The author states that urine introduced into jaj-s, the tubes leading to which had previously been heated to 120° or 150° C, and then gradually cooled, remained free from vegetation even after the lapse of two months, whilst the fluid contained in other jars, the tubes of which had not been heated, speedily became mouldy. PjaADiEB.—Note on the Beprodtcction of the Nails. Gaz. des Hop., No. 37. Having observed the growth of one crop of his own finger-nails, the author states that those of the right hand are renewed somewhat more speedily than those of the left. Panum.—Researches on the Origin of Malformations. 8vo, Berlin, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 210. Panum'.s woi-k forms an epoch in the science of normal and abnormal devcliipnient. V/e can l-.ere only indicate its contents. After a general introduction, the author proceeds to treat of monstrosities among birds. Variations of temperature here form the main cause. In the abstraction107 VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. of warmth, which is less hazardous than its undue elevation, we possess a means of producing at pleasure various monstrosities. The effect of un- favorable mechanical conditions in giving rise to malformations is minutely detailed and delineated in the work, which then takes up the subject of the abnormities of unhatched eggs and the development of their embryoes. The book is accompanied by numerous lithographs. Jageb, Gr.—On the Sjponta7ieous Disintegration of the Fresh-water Poh/ps, loith some remarks on Alternate Generation. Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Acad., vol. xxxix, p. 321. Canst., vol. i, p. 203. This inquirer states that the mature Sydra grisea falls, in autumn, into a number of separate cells, which are afterwards multiplied by division, are presumed to become encysted, and perhaps in the spring give rise to new polyps. You>'G, Edwaed Pahkee.— Complete Transposition of all the Thoracic and Abdominal Viscera. Lancet, June apth, p. 630. The case was that of a lady, aged eighty-five, who had, previous to her deatli, with the exception of a slight cold, enjoyed good health, and who was found dead in her room. On opening the thorax and abdomen, a complete transposition of all the organs presented itself. The heart lay with its base towards the left side of the spinal column, the apex pointing towards the right side, and reaching to the lower border of the fourth rib under the right mamma. The vense cavse were situated on the left side, ])assing into the pulmonary cavity of the heart, which was also on the left side; the aorta and systemic ventricle to the right; so that not only was the heart reversed in position, but also in formation. The left phrenic vein was lying on the superior vena cava; the right innominate was seen passing over the aorta to the left, and emptying itself into the superior vena cava. The lungs were healthy, but old pleuritic adhesions existed on both right and left sides, especially the former. The larger lobe of the liver was in close proximity to the left ribs, the smaller lobe extending only slightly to the right of tlie sternum. The spleen was situated on the right side, just beneath the heart; the oesophagus lying to the right of the aorta. The stomach was situated on the right side, with cardiac extremity touching the ribs, and the pyloric end extending to the left side of the mesial line ; the sigmoid flexure of the colon was on the right side. The heart was healthy. VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. Ukgee, Dr.—Botanical Letters to a Friend. With engravings. 8vo, London, 1861. SowEEBY.—(i) British Wild/lowers. Part I. To be completed in twenty monthly parts. London. (2) The Uspfil Plants of Great Britain. Part I. To be completed in twelve parts, coloured. London. Bentley, Kobeet.—.4 Manual of Botany, including the structure, func- , tions, classification, properties and uses of plants. 8vo, Loudon, 1^61, pp. 811.ItEPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 108 BOCTCLEDEH, v.—On ilie Pro.rimnfp. Annh/sis of Plants and Ter/clahh Substances. Tiansktecl by William Brastich. 8vo, London,' iS'ji. Daubent, Prof. CuAin.ES.—0«, the Power ascribed to the Boots of Plants of rejertinr/ poisonous or abnormal substances presented to tliem. Quart. Journ. of Chcm. Soc, Oct., p. 209. Daubcny's investigations seem to establish the fact tliat, whenever abnormal substances are taken up by a living plant, it is in consequence of some interfLM-ence with the vital functions of the I'oots, caused, perhaps, in the first instance, b}"- the deleterious influence of the agent employed. Mangon, Hebte.—On the production of the Green Matter of Leaves under the influence of Electric Lifjld. Comptes rendus, Aug. ijth, 1861, p. 243. Mangon finds that the green matter which is so easily developed in young leaves exposed to the sun's rays is produced with equal facility when the plants are placed under the influence of a strong electric light. Jolt and Musset.—Besearches on the Orujin, Development, and Fructi- fication of the Yeast Plant. Comptes rendus, Aug. 26th, 1861, p. 368. The authors say—(i) The yeast plant is not a true vegetable, but a mass of spores, which are not only produced in yeast, but even in urine passed after the ingestion into the stomach of a large quantity of beer. (2) The spores, called until now by the name of Torula, or Crj/ptococcus eerevisice, are capable of giving birth to a mycelium, which is by Desma- zieres improperly regarded as a peculiar species of Mycoderme. (3) To the phase of mycelium is succeeded that of fructification, that is to say, the production of the Penicilliu/m glaucum of botanists. (4) Malic or cider yeast passes through an exactly similar process. (5) The origin of these yeasts, as well as of all others, is most probablj' spontaneous. It thus appears that the yeast plant passes through three stages:—ist, the state of spores (Oryptococcus or Torula cerevisic^) ; 2nd, the state of ger- mination, being then the Mycoderma eerevisice of Desmazieres ; and 3rd, the state of fructification, that is to say, the Penicilliiim glaucum of botanists. PotrciiET.— On the Nature and Genesis of Yeast in Alcoholic Fermen- tation. Comptes rendus, Feb. 18th, 1861, p. 284. This author avers that, having mixed equal parts of beer (without yeast) and of cider, he obtained a hybrid yeast, which was neither that of beer nor that of cider, which observation he regards as a conclusive proof of the spontaneous generation of the plant. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. GnAnAM, T. (Master 0^ iheWini) .—On Liquid Transpiration in relation to Chemical Composition. Proc. l^oy. !Soc., No. 4/;, p. 381. Murray, Dr. John.—On the Laics of the 3Mual Interpenetration of Fluids. Glasgow Med. Journ., July, p. 180, Oct., p. 287.109 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Davt, Dr. John.—On Sudden Change of Colour of Human Hair. Ti-aiis. Brit. Assoc., 1861. (JoRE, George.—PreUminarij Note on the production of Vibrations and Musical Sounds hj Electrolysis. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 44, p. 177. lioBERTS, Dr. WiM. (Manchester).—0/i the Histology of a recurring Fibroid Tumour. Archiv. of Med., Oct., 1861, p. 66. BuROW.—On the Preservation of Bodies hy Acetate of Alumina. Deutsche Klinik, i860, No. 8. LuDWiG, C.—On the Atmospheric Air in the Human Organism. Wiener Med. Wochen., March, i860, p. 207. Stricker, "\V.—The Action of Lightning on the Human Body. Virchow's Archiv, vol xx, i860, p. 45. Graham, Thomas (Master of the Mint).—Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 44, p. 243. Ill last' Year Book,' page 5, we called attention to a new method of chemical analysis by spectrum observations of a delicacy hitherto unknown. At present we have to bring under the notice of our readers another new method of chemical investigation, which is applicable in various ways to medical research. Graham lias discovered a means of separating crystalline salts, such, for example, as arsenic, from non-crystallizable organic mixtures, by a method to which he has given the name of dialysis. It is founded upon the unequal diffusibility of different substances in water. Indeed, according to Graham, there are two great divisions of chemical substances with distinctive properties. The first, or diffusive class of substances, are marked by their tendency to crystallize, either alone or in combination with water. When in a state of solution they are held by the solvent with a certain force, so as to affect the volatility of water by their presence. The solution is generally free from viscosity, and is ahvaj-s sapid. Their reactions are energetic and quickly effected. This is the class of crystal- loids. The other class, of low diffusibility, may be named colloids, as they appear to be typified by animal gelatine. They have little, if any, tendency to crystallize. In their chemical reactions the crystalloidal ajjpears the energetic form, and the colloidal the inert form, of matter. Among the colloids rank hydrated silicic acid and a number of soluble, hydrated, metallic peroxides, of which little has hitherto been known ; also starch, the vegetable gums and dextrin, caramel, tannin, albumen, and vegetable and animal extractive matters. The material for analysis is placed on a gutta-percha sieve with a vegetable-parchment bottom, and the sieve put into distilled water; in the space of twenty-four hours or more the crystallizable substance has passed through the membrane, the non-crystallizable substance remaining behind. Dialysis proves highly useful in separating arseiiious acid and metallic poisons from organic fluids. Defibrinated blood, milk, and other organic fluids, charged with a few milligrammes of arsenious acid, and placed upon the dialyser, are found to impart the greater proportion of the arsenious acid to the external water in the course of twenty-four hours. The diffusate is so free from organic matter that tiie metal can be readily precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the quantity weighed.REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 110 Leumann, L.— What injliience oti the JTiman Oir/tinism, and in partieular on Tissue-chanr/e, is exerted under different circtt/tnstances by Futir/uina Exercise { Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, 1860, p. 484. Canst., vol. "1, p. 147. Tliis and the following communication form replies to the question con- tiiined in the above title, which was put by the Society of Co-operation. The author's observations, which were made on himself (aged thirty- four), his brother (aged forty-two), a labourer (aged twenty), a lady (aged thirty-two), and a boy (aged ten), led to the following results:—(i) Ex- hausting exercise frequently, but not always, causes a loss in weight; (2) gaseous excretion is considerably augmented, though not in every case; (3) the effect of exertion in increasing the quantity of urea has hitherto been exaggerated; in some instances it is trifling or null; (4) the uric acid undergoes no regular increase or decrease ; (5) the chloride of sodium of the urine decreases, but veiy irregularly ; (6) the sulphuric acid, and frequently the phosphoric acid, increases; (7) the acidity of the urine remains in statu quo, whilst its specific gravity rises in some cases; (8) the mean daily frequency of the pulse, and commonl3'- that of the respi- ration, is raised by exercise ; (9) the mean temperature rises, but only in some cases; (10) thirst is more increased than hunger, which, indeed, is sometimes diminished. Speck, C. (of Sfcrassebersbach).—On the influence of Fatiguing Exercise on Tissue-change. Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, p. 39. Canst., vol. i, pp. 148, 220. The observations upon wliicb the author's conclusions regarding the influence of exertion on textural waste depend were made on a healthy, intelligent, and reliable rustic, aged twenty-eight, who was submitted during different periods to diffei-ent conditions of nourishment, activity, &c., as follows:—(i) October iith to 20th, full diet, with systematic laborious exertion ; (2) November ist to loth, same diet, with the utmost continued repose; (3) January 17th to 21st, sparing]^' nitrogenized aliment, with labour; (4) January 31st to February 3rd, same diet, with uninterrupted I'est. Since perspiration always attends effort, its isolated influence was as nearly as possible determined by requiring the man to undergo (5) from November 29th to December 3rd (a period of inactivity) several hours' sweating dail}'. The ingesta and egesta, the weight, pulse, respiration, and temperature, were accurately noted, and the urine exactly analysed. I. A comparison of the first and second series shows that (i) with a diet which in conditions of repose causes an obvious rise in the weiglit of the body, exertion produces an equally perceptible l;ill; (2) the sum of the excretions is augm.ented during, but most of all immediately after, labour; (3) in a period of inactivity that sum is greater by night than by day, and the urine increases in amount at the expense of the perspiration —•conditions the reverse of those observed during the active period; (4) in a state of continued rest textural consumption is far more lavish than during the more profound repose that ensues upon toil. II. From the third and fourth series it appears that (i) when the diet is poor, exertion causes a comparatively greater loss of weight than whenSTJBIECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Ill it is generous; (a) the excretion of urea and sulphuric acid is less, that of phosphoric acid is more, increased by activity when the aliment is im- perfectly azotized than when it is rich in azote; and (3) in the former case uric acid is absent, in the latter it is invariably present. III. The fifth series discloses (i) the remarkable fact that with several hours' sweating daily during a period of repose the person gains more weight than he does in conditions otherwise identical, but without stimu- lated perspiration ; (2) under the former circumstances the proportion of the urinary ingredients is not disturbed, except that the chloride of sodium is diminished and the uric acid is increased ; (3) excretion is greatest by night, with the exception of that of uric^acid. IV. (i) The mean daily temperature of the body is lowered by exertion, but somewhat raised by sweating. (2) Respiration is less frequent during rest, and is less accelerated by labour, when the food is poor than when it is rich in nitrogen. (3) Sweating slackens the respiration, but throughout the day quickens the pulse. (4) The mean frequency of the pulse is retarded by exercise, but quickened by continued rest. (5) A given amount of labour causes far less waste of the hydrocarbons when the diet is abundantly than when it is scantily nitrogenized, thougb even in the former case their consumption greatly exceeds that of the azotized matters. (6) With the perspiration little solid matter except potash is removed, but less urea is formed during the day, whence probably the increase in weight. LlEBEBiiEiSTEE.—Physiological inquiries on the Quantitative Changes in the prodtiction of Seat. Arcbiv f Anat. u. Phys., i860, pp. 520, 529. Speck.—Some JExpeHments on the influence of Cold Plimge Baths on the Temperature of the Body. Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, i860, p. 422. Canst., vol. i, pp. 17, no, in. Liebermeister confirms by a new series of experiments the results of his former researches (see 'Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 131), showing the enormous increase in the production of animal heat on exposure of the surface to cold. He states that a bath at a temperature between 70° and 85° mul- tiplies the production of warmth three or fourfold, and that exposure of the naked body to air between about 55° and 70° increases calorification by about one half Speck's observations, so far as they go, are confirmative of Liebermeister's law. Hatjghton, Dr. Edwaud.—TAe Turlcish Bath. Brit. Med. Journ., March pth, p. 267. So high a temperature as 150° or 160° can only be borne with impunity when the air is dry. The dryness of the air necessitates the increase of temperature. WoLLASTON, Dr. R.—T/je Turkish Bath. Brit. Med. Journ. Feb 2qrd p. 211. > • O ) States that 150° or 160° will be found the best heat for the sudorific chamber and that a preparatory temperature of 110° in the first room is absolutely necessary.llEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 312 VlTENOT, R. \.— 0n the iiijluencc of the r^inatmi of A/wospherirj I'ressure on the Kuvmn Orguaism. Viix-how's Archiv, vol. p. 492. Canst., vol. i, p. 109. According to tho results of the author's inquiries— I. Biminution of atmospheric irressure, (i) augmenting evaporation and oxidation, accelerates respiration and the pulse; (2) drives the blood to tho circunirerence; (3) weakens the cohesive power of the joints; and (4) diminishes the secretion of urine. II. Auiimentcdpressure, again, so far as appears from rejjeated observa- tions made on lour delicate-chested young persons in Nice at a pressure of \l atmosphere (i) slackens the pulse, on an average, ten beats, the redue- tion continuing an hour or two after return to the ordinary atmosphere; (2) also renders respiration less frequent by the mean quantity i-i—eflects which diminish by repetition ; (3) lessens evaporation; (4) increases renal secretion ; and (5) forces the blood from the surface, Moffat, Dr.—Loss of Colour of Ozone Test-papers. Lancet, April 20th, ^ p. 391- The author found that iodine test-papers in sick rooms lost their colour more rapidly where the beds had curtains than where the beds were without them, and more rapidly in the bedrooms of fever patients than of others. In one of the experiments test-papers were hung in a house where there were two cases of fever. One of these cases assumed a diphtheritic character. Papers were suspended in each room, and in the apartments occupied by the family. In the apartments occupied by the fixmily the paper lost a shade in forty-eight hours, that in the room of the milder case of fever was lighter, whilst that in the room of the diph- theritic patient was bleached nearly to whiteness. Remak.— On the JEndogenott^ Origination of the Cells of Pus and Mums. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xx, p. 198. Canst., vol. i, p. 27. Abandoning a view long and strenuously advocated by him, this histolo- gist is now persuaded that, like all other cells destined to become free, those of pus and mucus originate from the contents of the mother-cell, independently of the original nucleus. Clinical observation leads him to the conviction that pus-cells may arise both in epithelial and connective- tissue cells, and that even in non-purulent blennorrhcea, mucus cells are formed within epithelial cells. ToEDOS, M.— On the nature of Blue Pus. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, p. 203. The Paris correspondent of the ' Lancet' states, that M. Fordos has lately attempted, and with success it would appear, to ascertain the nature of the principle which gives to the pus of certain abscesses a blue colour. This principle has been supposed by some chemists to be a modi- hcation of the green colouring-matter of the bile, or of the bluish ingre- dient occasionally detected in the urine; but Fordos maintains that it has no connexion with either. The means by which this gentleman has succeeded in isolating this principle is as follows. The linen stained with the peculiarly tinted pus is soaked for several hours in water, to which a small quantity of solution of ammonia has been added. A liquid of a light bluish-green hue is thus obtained. Chloroform is added to the solution, and the blue principle, together with the yellowish foreignSUBJT)CTS OP GENERAL lyTEltKST. matter producing the green tint, is extracted from the water. The chloroform is then drawn off, filtered, and evaporated. To the residue is added distilled water, which takes up the colouring principle, leaving the fatty material. A second admixture of chloroform is effected, and the ethereal solution is again drawn off, filtered, and evaporated as before. Thus are obtained the blue principle and the yellowish material. A few drops of hydrochloric acid are added (which reddens the blue principle), and the chloroform then dissolves the yellow matter, leaving untouched the blue, which is triturated with carbonate of baryta,^ in ordpr to get_ rid of the acid and is on evaporation of the chloroformic solution deposited in prismatic crystals of a beautiful blue colour. These crystals are soluble in water, alcohol, ether, and chloroform ; and the solution is reddened by the addition of an acid, the original tint being restored on the further admixture of an alkali. This principle M. Fordos has called pyocyanine. MATTEircci, Prof.—Electro-physiological Researches. Eleventh series. On the secondarij Electro-motor Power of JVe7-ves, and its application to the explanation of certain Electro-physiological Phenomena. Proc. Eoy. Soc., No. 45, p. 384. The object of this paper is to show, by experiment, that when a nerve is traversed by an electric current, it acquires in all its points a secondary electro-motor power, and consequently becomes capable of producing in a conducting homogeneous circuit, whose extremities touch any two points of that nerve, an electric cun-ent in an opposite direction to that of the original current. This result is independent of the vital properties of the nerves, but is affected in greater or less degree by their physical condition. A similar effect, indeed, the author says, is produced by the passage of an electric current in all porous substances imbibed with a conducting liquid, and this phenomenon has been studied in its generality by other physicists ; bat the purpose of the present paper is to determine the conditions of the secondary electro-motor power of nerves, in order to make a due applica- tion of these conditions to the explanation of the phenomena exhibited by nerves on the opening of a voltaic circuit which has traversed them. ScnrLTZE, Max.—Chemical Researches on the Electrical Organ oj the Torpedo and Caudal Organs of the Skate. Journ. f prakt. Chem., vol. Ixxxii, p. I, 1861. , The electrical organs of the living fish have an acid reaction, and this I they retain for a certain time after death. In an aqueous extract of the : organ the author found a considerable quantity of phosphate of lime, but no magnesia. It also contained a small quantity of sulphates, a large amount of chloride of sodium, but no potash. Among the organic sub- stances found may be mentioned urea (in large quantity), creatinine, from the creatine, taurine (?), and a new substance, the exact nature of which was not ascertained. ^Bevertdge, E. (Aberdeen).—On the Function of the Epiglottis. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug., p. 144. The author observes that the epiglottis is itself of a triangular or leaf- like form, having its broad upper end immediately behind the tongue. This upper end is rounded, the central portion of it being free, while the 8 I114. heport on the institutes of mjjdicine. lateral have attached the aryteno-npiglottic folds. Immediately below this the epiglottis is placed in the hollow or curve formed by the hyoid bone, to the body of which it is attached by elastic tissue, and, nairowin" rapidly below this, is connected by its lower end with the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage. Its position is thus vertical, and, so long as it remains so, it will keep tense tiie aryteno-epiglottic folds. Beveridge says that the function of the epiglottis might be shortly .stated to be the keepin.'^ open the superior opening of the larynx by its elasticity, maintaining the aryteno-epiglottic folds in a state of tension ; and when bent npon itself I)y the jerking upwards of the thyroid cartilage, to slacken these folds, and so momentarily to close that orifice during deglutition. GiBB, Dr.—Oartilages of Wrisherr/ in the Larynx of a Mom MonJcey. Trans. Path. Soc, p. 244. The author showed the larynx of a Mona monkey as exhibiting a con- siderable development of the cuneiform or Wrisbergian cartilages in the fold of mucous membrane between the arytenoid cartilages and epiglottis. These small bodies are known to be either very minute or wholly wanting in man. MuLLEH, W.—Contributions to the hnoidedge of the Ifolecular Structure of Animal Textures. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 172. Canst., vol. i, p. 37. A detailed inquiry into the optical properties of the connective, cartila- ginous, and bony tissues, leads the author to the establishment of a new analogy between them, which is, that the primitive fibrils of connective tissue and the intercellular substances of cartilage and bone consist ol numerous monseial, positively bi-refractive structures, the principal axis of which is parallel to the long axis of their respective cellular elements. Lake, L. Coopee.—On the oltaining of Inosite. Ann. d. Cheni. u. Pharm., vol. cxvii, p. 118. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. i, 1861. The method recommended by the author is'to add three or four times the volume of alcohol to the boiling liquid under examination, to filter from the precipitate, and put the clear hquid aside during twenty-four hours, by the end of which time a quantity of the inosite will have crystallized. To the liquid is then added ether, until it becomes somewhat milk3'-, and after again standing twenty-four hours, all the remaining inosite will have crystallized. By ibllowing this method the author has obtained inosile from the brain, spleen, pancreas, and lung of the ox. Boedeker also obtained inosite from the brain of the pig. De Ltjoa, S.—On /he Trnnitformaiion into Suf/rir of the Sh'n of the Silh worm. Compt. rend., July i ';th, 1861, p. 103. By the repeated treatment of the skin of the silkworm with mineral acids, De Luca has obtained a white substance possessing many of the characters of vegetable starch. It is non-nitrogenous, becomes blue on tl)e addition of iodine, and is readily transformed into sugar, which reduces the oxide of copper and combines with chloride of sodium to form a cr^'stalliz- able salt of the following composition :—2C,oH,oO,2, 2II0 + NaCl.SUBJECTS OP GENEUAI; INTEREST. 115 Lki-jdig Fk.— 0)1 the External Coverings of tie Mammalia. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 677. Caust., vol. i, pp. 31, 37, 39, 49, Amon<^ the\-esults of the author's extended researches on the integu- ments ofthe mammalia may be cited the following :—(i) In the upper strata of the epidermis the cells posses.s no nucleus, whilst those of the reto mucosum are nucleated and (2) even where the hair is white, contaui pio-ment, which in some cases is also deposited in the upper layers of the corium. (3) The deepest, filiform cells of the epidermis do not simply rest on the papillae, but are firmly attached thereto. (4) The fasciculi of the filamentous tissue of the corium are of variable consistence, even in the same animal, and become very dense in the pachyderms; the corium of the rhinoceros is histologically allied to fibrous tissue. (^) In many animals, among which is the dog, sweat-glands, though absent on the general surface, occur on the soles of the feet. The sweat-canals discovered by the author on the head of the bat always terminate in the upper end of a hair-follicle. (6) Contrary to the general opinion, that the cuticular scales of the hair never contain pigment-granules, the author has found then^ in considerable quantity in the case oiBradypus cuculliger. (7) In many mammals {e.g. pachyderms, dog) several hairs spring from a common multilocular follicle, Davt, Dr. JoHJr.—Is Hair subject to sudden Changes in Colour ? Brit, j Assoc. for Adv. of Science, Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 5th, p. 367. Nothing, other than recorded evidence, can be adduced in favour of the popular and affirmative answer to this question. The conclusion come to is, that the idea of fallacy is unavoidable as to the hair being subject to change of colour from mental impressions. Chapuis, p., and Moleschott, J.—On soine points relative to the Struc- ture of the Hair-follicle and the Hair of the Htman Scalp. Mole- schott's Untersuch., vol. vii, p. 325. Canst., vol. i, p. 92. In this paper are detailed the results of numerous precise measurements of the various parts of the hair-follicle and its contents. The other results obtained are these:—(i) The follicle ends by a rounded point, and not, as ; hitherto assumed, hy a bulb. (2) The papilla, one fifth of a millimetre in average height, conical in form, with a somewhat constricted base, docs not consist of areolar tissue, but of polygonal cells, with distinct nucleus * and pale contents. (3) The fibres of the follicular muscles are entwined i with reticulated elastic fibres. (4) The outer root-sheath (rete mueosim) (leaves the follicle uncovered for the lower fourth of a millimetre of its extent, and, accordingly, terminates above the apex of the papilla, whilst (5) the inner sheath ends at the level of the entry of the sebaceous duct, the contents of which thus pass between the outer (now the sole) root- sheath and the hair. (6) The medulla\-y cells are irregular polyhedra, with rounded angles, and contain globular nuclei and several glistening corpuscles imbedded amid fine granules. (7) The root of the hair, com- monly straight, is sometimes bent. WuNDT.—0« the Masticitg of Organic Tissues. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med. i860, p. 267. Canst., vol. i, p.IIG IlEPORT O.N TIIK l.Nsri'iLTKS 01' MEDICINK. Wliilst iimiiitiiiiiing, generally, lluifc botli organic and inorganic sub- stances obey the same laws in regard to elasticity, the author yet admits, with Volkmann, who has raised objections to this view (see 'Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 130), that this parallelism ceases beyond a certain limit, which, ho finds, is reached when degrees of traction are employed which effect a greater change in the form of organic than in that of inorganic bodies. ValentiNj G.—Contrilntions io our knowledge of the Hijhernalion oj Marmots. Ninth srction. Pulse and Blood-pressure. Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vii, part i, i860, p. 30. Canst., vol. i, p. 128. The author says that in marmots blood-pressure begins to rise during •/nspiration. This fact, which agrees with Einbrodt's statements (see p. 26), is referred to the effect of aeration of the blood in increasing the heart's action, so as more than to compensate the lowering effect of the chest movement. Batjde;ment.— Observations on the o'elations existinr/ between the Thoracic Development, the Conformation, and the ap)titudes for Fatteninc/, oj the different races of Cattle.—Comptes rendus, i86r, Feb. iith, p. 23 5; March ist, p. 508. In order to test the value of a common opinion, that the volume of the chest is the surest indication of an animal's capability of fattening, the author made a series of observations on 102 oxen, of various breeds. Before being slaughtered each animal was weighed, the girth of its chest, the height to the withers, and its length, ascertained. After death the weights of the four quarters, of the visceral fat, and of the lungs and heart, were severally determined. The author (i) confirms the belief that thoracic development is a measure of the assimilating power and weight of the animal. (2) As the animal gains in weight its chest attains a bulk pro- portionall}'' greater than the increase in length and height of the trunk. (3) The development of the trunk generally is determined by that of the chest. (4) The weight of the animal increases in proportion to the size of the chest. (5) Short-legged cattle, with jarge, round chests, make most flesh. Thus it seems that the total weight and the proportion of flesh to fat are determined b}"^ the thoracic bulk, the length and rotundity of the trunk, and short stature. To ascertain the relation existing between the volume of the thorax and that of the lungs, the latter were weighed directly after death, and it was found that—(i) thoracic development is no measure of that of the lungs. (2) For a given live weight, the volume of the lungs is greater the higher the animal stands and the younger it is. (3) In beasts fairly comparable in size and otherwise the relative weight of the lungs diminishes as the thoracic girth increases. (4) In cattle of the same race the lungs weigh relatively least in individuals giving the highest live weight. (5) In races of rapid growth the lungs weigh, abso- lutely and relatively, less than in less precocious species.9 REPORT ON I^IUCTICAL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. BY CHARLES HANDFIELD JONES, M.B., F.R.S., KKLLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS; PHYSICIAN TO ST. MARy's HOSPITAL J &C. GKNEUAL PATHOLOGY. Bekeke, F. W.—On Eiichondroma and Carcinoma, Arch. f. Wissenscli. Heilk., V. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 17. The Chemistry of Amyloid Begeneration. Brit, and For. Med.-Cbir. Rev., Jan., p. 52. Barthez.—Very large Cancerous Tumour developed in the Bight Ovary of a Child, cet. ii. Gaz. des liopit. Soc. de Chir. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. iig. Lambl.—Formation of Pus on the Ependyma Ventric. Observations and Residts, ^-c.jVart i, Prague, i860, p. 71. JSfeiv formation of Choroid Plexus 'Tissue,'^. 58. On the Pathology of the Lytnph-glands; Hy- pertrophy of the same ; Glandular Sarcoma ; Amyloid Degeneration ; Sarcoma of the Lymph-glands, and Osteosarcoma of the Vertebral Column; pp. 336—264. Three cases of Leuccemia, Tp^. 16^—392. Glandular Tumours of the Stomach and of the Ileum; Papillary Glandular Polypus of the Rectum; p. 3 71. Cases of Carcino7natous, Muscular, Colloid, and Enchondromatous Timota-s of the Limbs; Nerve-knots in the Thalamus Opticus; p. 67. On Amyloid and Colloid Degeneration, p. 319. Lipoma of the Pharynx, ivith der- moid covering, p. i8i. Case of Macroglossia, p. 184. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 20. On pathological conditions of the Ependyma of the Cerebral Cavities, pp. 48—85. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 26. Pahkot, Jul.—On Apparent Death. Paris, 1860, Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 66. Stbickeb, W.—On the Effects of Lightning vjjon the Human Body. Virchow's Archiv, vol. x.x, p. 45. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861.118 EEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. MuLLEii, II.—On some peculiar Discoid Corpuscles, and their relulion to Connective Tissue. Verhandl, d. pbysilc. med. Ges, zu Wiirzb., X, i860. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. iii, p. iijo. Neumann, E.—On the Bevelopme7it ofneio Formations. Virch. Arcliiv xXj I, 3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 11 j, p. 159. Wagneb, E.—Pft;3!7/a?'7/ Cystoid Tumour of'the Base of the Brain. Archiv d. Ileillc, ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 1159. Sand.—Hydatid Cyst from the Neck, conlaininy Echinococci. Amer. Med. Times, June 8th, Hasse, C.—Anatomico-pathological Studies of Hydro-meningocele. lb., Aug. 3rd. Aldekson and Mackenzie.—Remarkable case of Mollities Ossium in a Woman cet. 40, the mother often children; fatal result; state of the bones after death. Lancet, Oct. ^th. KUHN.—Transmission of Cancer by Inoculation {accidental) from an Ox to Man. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug., 1861. Litzmann, C, C. T.—Contributions to the Knowledge of Osteomalacia. Edin. Med. Journ., Nov., 1861. Remak.—On the Endogenous Origin of Pus- and Mucus-cells. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1861. Virch. Arch., vol. xx, parts i and 2. Walemann, II.—Three Cases of Acephalo-cyst-sacs. Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, Nov., 1861. Wochenbl. d. Zeitsch. der k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien. Samuel, S.—The Trophic Nerves. Leipzig, Wigand, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, pp. 53—57. Samuel argues for the existence of fibres, distinct from the motor of muscles and vessels, and from the sensory, which preside over nutrition, and are divisible into a centrifugal and centripetal set. The former, when excited, increase nutrition ; when paralysed, decrease it. Paralysis of the centripetal fibres is regarded by Samuel as the cause of the diminished resisting power (to injuries, &c.) of ansesthetip parts. Fever and inflam- mation he explains as states of excitement of the trophic nerves. Some remarkable experiments are related in evidence of the influence of nerves over the nutrition of parts su))plied by them. Irritation of the auriculo- temporal produces (in the rabbit) an acute and intense inflammation of the whole auricle, issuing in puriform effusion, and inducing death by ex- haustion. This inflammation begins from three to six days after the operation, and is most evidently not traumatic. Irritation of the tissue in the vicinity of the sciatic nerve produced healthy suppuration along the course of the nerve and its divisions, but did not extend to the lower part of the leg and foot. The skin and muscles were not inflamed. Prolonged irritation of the sciatic nerve, on the contrary, caused prodigious swelhug and inflammation of the whole limb, with ofl"ensive sanious exudation and discoloration of the muscles. Irritation of the superior laryngeal nerves produced severe and fatal laryngitis; irritation of the recurrent had nearly the same efi'ect, while paralysis of the same nerve produced only slight hypersemia. Irritation of the gangliform plexus of the vagus, of one or both, caused general and intense pneumonia. Irritation of the pes-GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 110 terior spiual nerve-roots and their ganglia in the lumbar region caused great swelling and hypersemia of the leg and thigh, Samuel reviews the various theories of inflammation, and concludes that the attraction theory is the only one that will bear criticism. He admits, however, that in cer- tain localized inflammations the irritation is conveyed to the tissue affected, not by the blood, but by nerves. WuNDEiaiCH, C. A.—Exposition of some elementary facts determined in Clinical Thermometry, and introduction to the ajiplication of the same toprivatcjiractice. Arch. d. Heilk., i860, part 5. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 63. Wunderlich states his conclusions under twenty-seven heads, of which we give some of the most important. Although the normal temperature, 98-5° Fahr., is no guarantee of the existence of health, yet all elevation above 99*5°, or depression below 97'a5°, may indicate disease. Devia- tions from the normal temperature are never causeless or without signifi- cance, either in regard of their first appearance or their magnitude or the mode of their fluctuations. They are strictly regular, and result from determinate external influences on the one hand and internal morbid processes on the other. In a healthy person, the most various influences, so long as they do not cause disease, scarcely alter the temperature. The converse is also true; the discovery of accidental fluctuations of tempera- ture in persons who are normally warm is a means of recognising or con- firming the existence of disorders which would otherwise be latent. The more typical and developed morbid processes are, the more permanent are the changes in temperature which they produce. In abnormal eleva- tion of the temperature the degree attained at any given time must be considered, and also the changes that take place in it. Elevation of tem- perature is usually associated with disordered sensations, as of fatigue, heat, thirst, headache, chill, and with increased rapidity of the pulse; it may, however, coincide, even when amounting to four or five degrees, with a normal pulse and apparently perfect health. The degree of eleva- tion of temperature is a safer guide in judging of any case than the rate of the pulse. The temperature in almost all cases of disease in which it is elevated undergoes daily variations, which, in part, follow certain rules, in part are determined by the kind, stage, and severity of the disease, or by its aggravation or decline. Continuous regular observation of the pro- gress of the temperature through the whole course of a disease (febrile) affords the most important means of estimating it aright; and when con- tinued only throughout one period, it may still be our best guide iu diagnosis. Examination of the temperature curve of a disease indicates its periods and stages, the irregularities that are induced by various causes, and the certainty or non-certainty of its having terminated. A relapse, or some secondary disease, is to be expected if the temperature does not l)ermanently subside to the normal figure. Sinking of the temperature below the normal figure is not common ; it is observed temporarily during morning remissions, in states of acute collapse, iu chronic marasmus, sometimes in the agony. Adi.er, a.—Oft the Increase of the Temperature of the Body before and afta' Death. Wien. med. Wochenschr., No. 48, 18^9.120 IIEPOIIT ON PIUCTICAL MKDICINJ5. In five cases the temperature was found to increase on the day of, or the day before, death. In two of these the maximum was attained three and eleven minutes after the last breath. TiioussEAu.—0« Contagion. Gaz. des H6pit., No. 133, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 67. Trousseau contends for the existence of infectious germs of disease, analogous to seeds, and seems to believe in the dissemination of disease by their agency rather than by miasmata. FoKSTER.—On Osteo-malacia in Cancerous Patients. Wurzh. nied. Ztschr., ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 17. Forster relates four cases in which there was probably primary cancer of the vertebral column ; in one of these every vertebra, from the atlas to the last lumbar, was infiltrated and softened. He states that osteo- malacia, independent of cancer, is very rare in persons who labour under the latter disease. FoRSTEB.—iJ?ionHOM5 Gvowth of the Ependyma in Chronic Internal Hy- drocephalus, tvith remarks on the formation of Pus in the Ependyma. Wlirzb. med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 113. Tuberculous Peritonitis e.vcited by Tuberculous Inflammation of the Fallopian Tube, with remarks on 2'iiberculoiis Inflammation, and on Pus Formation on Serous Mem- branes. Ibid. On the Pathological Anatomy of large Tubercles occurriiig in the Brain. Wiirzb. med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 128. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 20. In two cases of suppuration of the ependyma Forster found that the pus-corpuscles were not developed from the epithelium, but from the mono-nucleated connective-tissue-corpuscles, which multiply by division. In the case of inflamed serous membranes the' pus-corpuscles appear to be developed both from the epithelial layer and from the superficial con- nective tissue, but not from amorphous exudation. He admits, however, that the epithelium in some parts remains normal, and that tlie changes in it seem scarcely extensive enough to account for the formation of the quantity of existing pus. On mucous surfaces covered with pus the superficial layer of cylinder epithelium is, for the most part, quite un- altered, but in the deeper layers multiplication of nuclei and division of cells goes on. The new cells thus formed are pushed upwards to the surface between the normal cells. In tuberculous inflammation of serous membranes there is partly a new formation of connective tissue with vessels, in the form of villi, threads, pseudo-membranes, and thickening, and partly a development of cells and nuclei from the normal and new- formed connective tissue, out of which proceed both gray miliary tuber- cles and cheesy infiltration. Large cerebral tubercles appear in most cases to be formed, not by a conglomerate of small miliary ones, but by a more uniform mass, surrounded by a soft, grayish zone, which Forslcr regards as the primitive tuberculous new formation, as it contains the young, fresh elements of tubercle. Meyer.—On the Corpora Amyloidea of the Animal Body. Virch. Archiv, vol. xix, p. 230. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 20.GENERAL SYSTEM. 121 Meyer maintains that, by feeding animals witli potatoes, especially forcibly, so as to produce small erosions, numerous masses and globules, coloured blue by iodine, -were found in the blood. The real corpora amyloidea of the animal body are simple vesicles, not laminated like those of the vegetable. The latter only get into the body accidentally, as the above experiments show. Neumann, C.—Neio Observations on Amyloid Degeneration. Deutsche Klinik, 35, 37, 39. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 20. Neumann reports eight cases, five of whom had pulmonary phthisis, one a large hepatic abscess, one an empyema, and one was affected with tertiary syphilis. He finds amyloid degeneration for the most part asso- ciated with pulmonary phthisis and morbus Brightii. The pulmonary disease often is regressive, while severe diarrhoea, with dropsy and albu- minons urine appear. After death the liver, spleen, kidneys, intestines, and other parts, show traces of the above degeneration, especially in their small arteries and capillaries. Heynsius a.— On the Periodicity of Vital Phenomena. Arch. f. d. Holland, Beitr. zu Natur. u. Heilk., vol. ii, p. 436. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 50. Heynsius finds, as the result of experiments, that the osmosis of liquid albumen through an animal membrane is impeded by the presence of various acids (phosphoric, lactic, acetic) in the surrounding fluid. He remarks that during the functional activity of the muscles, stomach- glands, liver, and nerves, an acid is generated, which he supposes, after the analogy of the above experiments, to diminish the amount of albumen supplied to the functioning part by the blood. The active condition of the organ is thus impeded, and a state of quiescence induced, during which the acid is neutralized by the alkaline liquor sanguinis, and so the free osmosis of albumen again permitted. He considers the above as only one of the causes of periodicity. FousTER, A.—Ore some Rare Forms of Epithelial Caiicroid. Verhandl. d. phys.-med. Gesell. zu Wiirzb., x, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb, vol. II I, p. 159. In the first form the cells of the tumour, shortly after their formation, dry up and contain air, so that the growth is specially characterised by Its dryness and lightness. In the second, complete calcification and ossi- tication IS the prominent feature. The stroma of the growth ossifies, while the cells cretify. The ossified stroma, being nourished by vessels, is capable of vital changes, as inflammation and ulceration. GENERAL SYSTEM. '^''''T:L^'~^fif^'T'' '^'f^'tory, Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Pro- gnosis, and Treatment. Amer. Med. Timesf J^n. 12th.nEPORT 0>' PRACTICAL MEDICIJIE. Kneeland, J.—Report on Diphtheria in Onondaga Co., New York. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 26th. Metcalfe, J. T.—Bromide of Iodine as a Topical Application in Diph- theria. Amer. Med. Times, Feb. 2nd. Hunteh and Friend.—Diphtheria in Alabama. Amer. Med. Times, Mnrcli iCtli. Slade, D. D.—Diphtheria ; its Nature and Treatment, with an Account of the History of its Prevalence in various Countries. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., 1861. Goldsmith.—Some account of Diphtheria, as it occurred at Oakland College (Miss.) and Vicinity. Id., April, 1861. Carr and Monckton.—On Diphtheria. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 7tb. Ne-wman.—On Diphtheria. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 23rd. Hunt, E.—Oh Diphtheria. Amer. Med. T., Oct. 19th. Lemmon, R. T.—A Singidar Ejndemic in Virginia {Dengue?). Amer. Med. Times, Feb. i6th. Reid.—Acute Rheumatism, with unusual Complication. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 15th. Steinhausek, H.—Clinical Report of a Case of inverted position of the Viscera. Inaug. Diss., Giessen, i860. Schmidt's Jaiirb., vol. 112, P- 1.57- PiRRiE, W.—On Erysipelas, and its Treatment hy the Perchloride of Iron. Edin. Med. Journ., July, 1861. Aran.—Rapid Cure of Cachectic Erysipelas by Perchloride of Iron, Edin. Med. J., April. J, de Med. et Chir. pratique, Feb., 1861. Bennett, R.—Case of Scorbutus. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2otb. Sistach.—Rides for the administration of Arsenic in Intermittent Fevers. L'Union, 30, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 23. Buntzen and Bamberger, H.—Cases of Glanders-poisoiiing. Hosp. Tidende, No. 14, i860. Wiirzb. med. Ztschr., i, 2, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 35. Flechsig, R.—Report on recent Contributions to Balneology. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, pp. 89—115. Smith, Arch.—On Yellow Fever in the West Indies and West Coast of America. Lancet, Aug. 24th. Moore, W.—On the more prominent Causes of an Excessive Mortality in Early Life. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th. Laveran.—On an Epidemic of Measles at Val-de-Grace. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3 ist. Gaz. hebdom., Nos. 2 and 4. Phelan, D.—Suggestions for the Prevention of Smalljiox in Ireland. Dublin Hosp. Gnz., Sept. 2nd. Waters.—Two Cases of Acute Rheumatism with Pericarditis, treated by Opium and Sthmdants : recovery. Lancet, Sept. 7th. Alienza.—Chloroform in Intermittent Fever {useful, but not curative). L'Union Med., May 23rd, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 28th. Page and Annandale.—Death while under the Influence of Chloroform ; Autopsy—Two Cases. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th. KuTTLlNGF.R.—0« the Statistics and /Etiology of Ague, Hooping-cough, Measles, Scarlatina, Smallpox, and Varicella. Bayer iirzll. intell. Bl., 1—3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 29.-;.GENEHAL SYSTEM. 123 Report on the Sanitary State of the Population and the Working of the Civil Hospitals in the Russian Dominions for the Fear 1858. St. Petersburg, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 360. Fron JIULLER, B. — Case of Combination of Variola and Syphilis. Wiirzb. .Ztsclir., I, 2, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 48. Woodman.—Case of Variola, with Vaccinia, in an Infant. Med. Times and Gaz., June, 8th. BoMTZEN.—Case of Glanders-poisoning. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May 15th. Hervieux.—On the Suppression of Siq^puration, and the absolute Disin- fection of Wounds by the permanent application to their surface of a Sponge soaked in a Chlorinated Solution. L'Union Medicale, Oct. 25'th, 27th, 30th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. GuyoT, J.—On the Employment of Alcohol {Rum) as an Abortive Agent in Intermittent Fevers. L'Union Med., Sept. iitb, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. lie v., Jan. Sedgwick,—On Sexual Limitatioii in Hereditary Disease. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April and July, 1861. Dickinson, W. H.—Annual Report of Cases admitted into the Medical Wards of St. George's Hospital during the Year ending December 31st, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April. Carey.—On the Prevalence of Ague in the neighbourhood of Cork, in Ireland, and Ballincollig. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., Feb., 1861. Cummins.—Remarks on the treatment of Acute Disease. Id., May, 1861. Grisolle and Botjchardat.—Report made to the Academy of Medicine on a Memoir of M. Moutard-Martin, entitled ' On the Value of Sulphate of Ciiichonine in the treatment of Intermittent Fevers.' Ann. de Therap., 1861, p. 155. GiBBs, 0. C.—A. Report on Epidemics and Endemics. N. Amer. Med.- Chir. Rev., Jan., 1861. Two Cases of Hydrophobia. G. degli Osped. di Genoa. Dublin Med. Press, March 20th. Richardson, \Y.—Clinical Lecture on the treatment of Acute Rheu- maiis/n, Pericarditis, and Pneumonia, by the Eliminative Method. Dublin Med. Press, March, 27th. TuRNBULL, h.—Observations on the Medical Use of the Vin. Sambuci {useful in Chronic Rheumatism and Acne). Id., May 8th. Farre.—T/-aH5t7ory Cerebral Symptoms in Acute Rheumatism. Lancet, Oct. 5tli. Lamprey, 3.—Summary of Cases treated at the Chinese Hospital at Tien I sin. Lancet, Oct. 12th. Jewell, Vf.—Report on Meteorology and Epidemics for i860, read before the College of Physicians of Philadelphia. Amer. Q. J. of Med Sc., Jul J', 1861. Peacock.—CVinicaZ Remarks on a Case of Ague complicating Phthisis .anrf owe of Hectic Fever simulathig Ague.^Med. T. and Gaz., Oct! ^'''''X^rZ" ^^'""'ij'^^f'^^f persons having Secondary S T' ^^^'^'^''^^^^-^ ^7, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb.,repout on practical medicine. 124 LOOMIS, A. S.—Report on the Female Fever Wards of Belleme Ilospiial, for J%me and July, 1861. Amer. Med. T., Aug. 24th. IIautsiiornEj H.— Case of Cold Stroke. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Oct., 1861, p. 432. Ross, W. II.—Symptoms of Typhoid and Brain Fever induced hy Worms. Lancet, Nov. ptli. Seveuance, C. E.—History of a Case of the Guinea Worm {Filaria medi- nensis). Glasgow Med. J., Oct., 1861. BoTTOMLEY, G.— The Type of Disease which has been prevalent in Croy- don and its neiyhbourhood during the past summer. Brit. Med. S., Nov. 16th. O'Connor.—Scarlatina complicated with Acute Rheumatism, Bronchitis and Pericarditis supervening ; recovery. Lancet, Nov. i6tb. Geigel.—Results of eighty four Autopsies. Wiirzb. med. Ztschr., ii, 4, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 172. Mautin, C. A.—On Diphtheritic Inflammation of the Vidva as a sign of Secondary Syphilis. L'Union, 96, 98, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 186. Chambers, T. K.—Clinical Lecture on the Renewal of Life in Continued Fever. Med. T. and Gaz., Nov. 23rd. Gentles, T. L.—On the Citric-acid Solution of the Magnetic Phosphate of Iron as an excellent Tonic. Lancet, Nov. 30. See.—Remarks on certain of the early Symptoms of the Eruptive Fevers. Ediub. Med. J., December. J. de Med. et de Chir. pratique, Oct., 1861. Hamilton.—The Fever in Liverpool. Lancet, April 6th, 13th. SiGMUND.—0?2 Syphilization. Med. T. and Gaz., April 6th. Hardwick.—Typhoid Fever ; after a fortnighfs interval, a second attack of Typhoid Fever, ivith distinct Rose Rash. Med. T. and Gaz., May iith. » Pfeueer.— On Typhoid Fever and its Treatment. Ztschr. f. ration. Med., 3rd series, vol. v, Nos. 2 and 3. Hardwick.—2'?/p/i02(^ Fever; sudden collapse and death; autopsy; no perforation; blood thin and ivatery, and of a dirty-brown colour. Med. T. and Gaz., May nth. MiLROY.—On the Influence of Contagion in the rise and the spread of Epidemic Diseases. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 9th. Hutchinson.—Large Carbuncular Boil folloiued by Pleurisy and by Pycemic Abscesses ; recovery. Brit. Med. J., April 13th. WiLDBORE.—Case of Syphilis, arising probably from Secondary Inocula- tion; Infection of Wife and Offsnring. Brit. Med. J., May 4tb. Sercombe.—,SoH?<? of the Afections depending apparently upon Diseased Conditions of the Teeth. Brit. Med. J., May 4th. 'Rovom'i.—Arsemate of Soda in Scrofulous Affections. J. de Med. et Chir. prat. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., March 15th. 'QvtiTZ-E.v.—Observations on, and Clinical Illustrations of Spontaneous Gangrene. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April ist, i^th. May ist. BULLAR, 3.—A Case in which tioo ounces of the Wine of the seeds of Col- chicuni were accidentally taken, and which relieved a Gouty Diathesis. Edin. Med. J., March.GENERAL SYSTEM. 125 Aran.—O/i the Grape-cure. Bull, gen. de Therap., Oct., i860. Edin. Med. J., March. , ,r t- G viRDNEK, W. T.—On the use of Alcoholic Stimulants in Hospital Medi- cal Practice; with illustrations from the Records of the Royal In- firmary of Edinburgh. Edin. Med. J,, April. L\NCEi{EA.ux and DuB-ximih.—Multiple Melanotic Tumours, general Melanosis. Gaz. de Paris, 41. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 162. DucHEKand HussA.—On J^TMe. Spit. Ztg., 12—20, 1859. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. ii, 41, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 292. EscoL.iK. —On Chuguiragua in Intermittent Fever. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 287. ,• , -I Hamoi-ecki.—Phosphate of Ammonia in Rherimaiism. Prag. Vierteljahrschr., vol. i, 1861. N. Amer. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, 1861. Deslandes, p. E. C.—An Account of the Disease of Count Cavour. Amer. Med. T., Oct. 19th. L'Union Med. WooDWABD.—Ort the Pathology of Rheumatism. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug. Philad. Med. and Surg. Reporter. Considers it as a neurosis, and uses nervine remedies. Yearly Report on Medical Matters, on the Hospitals, and the Ptiblic Sani- tary Conditions of the Free City of Frankfurt, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 243. Contains much useful detail. Skoda, Sciiiff, Zimmeiimann.—On Fever. Allg. Wien. med. Ztg., 23, i860. Id., 42, 1858. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N. F. ii, 14—40, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 220, Skoda believes it to be positively established by clinical observation that fever, in cases of local inflammation, is the primary phenomenon, and therefore cannot be produced by the latter. SchifF insists that febrile heat and congestion are active conditions, the results of the activity of dilating nerves, just as the rigor is of the contracting nerves. His main fact seems to be, that if fever be set up by the injection of irritating matter into the pleural cavity or vessels, the temperature does not rise nearly so high on the side where the sympathetic is divided as on the other. Zimmermann argues to show that there is no such thing as essential fever, that it is always and in all cases the result of local lesion. VooT.—On the employment of Sulphate of Quinine and Veratria in Typhoid Fever. Bullet. Gener. de Therap., May 30th, i860. Br. and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. Veratria is a powerful antipyretic, and is to be preferred in all febrile diseases which show a rapid and impetuous progress. In typhoid fever it should be employed at the commencement, more particularly when the fever is very acute and the congestion in the head very active. In cases which are more slow in their progress, with a less intense febrile reaction, with hyperemia more dependent on venous stagnation, and in the latter periods of the disease, when adynamia or anaemia predominates, then quinine is preferable.REPOllT ON ntACTICAL MEDICINB. Bell, Jos. —ContribuHoits to the Pathology and Therapeutics of Typhus Fever. No. r^. Treatment of the Intestinal Lesions. Glasgow Med. J., Jan., 1861. Bell considers it of the utmost importance to adapt the treatment to the various stages of the lesion. These he enumerates as—(i) of congestion, commencing about the third day after the rigor; (2) stage of effusion into follicles, occurring about fifth day; (3) stage of consolidation of the effusion and secondary congestion, sixth to ninth day; (4) stage of soften- ing and sloughing, tenth to thirteenth day; (5) stage of ulceration, twelfth to fourteenth day; (6) stage of cicatri'zation ; (7) stage of chronic ulceration; (8) stage of peritonitis; (9) stage of perforation. He attempts to point out a diagnostic relation between the symptoms and these different stages, and then considers the adaptation of the treatment which is requisite. In (i) and (2) he advises a perfectly fluid diet, with fomentations and sinapisms. In (3) frequent and regular appUcation of turpentine stupes, sinapisms or blisters ; the patient is to take less beef tea, but whej"-, mucilage, or acidulated water. In (4), if the symptoms are severe, Acet. Plumbi and opium, diet still very restricted. In (5), if the action of the heart become feeble, the first sound nearly lost, stimulants are to be given freely. In (6), although the appetite returns, the diet is still to be very restricted until after the seventeenth day. In (7) astrin- gents and blisters perseveringly employed. In (8) starvation, blisters, opium, with leeches in the case of the young and strong. In (9) opium and starvation. If hsemorrhage occur before the tenth day, 15ell gives Plumb. Acet. or gallic acid; between tenth and fourteenth, during the period of softening and sloughing, turpentine; after the fourteenth, tur- pentine or lead. The danger is great in this last case, as the bleeding generally proceeds from the erosion of a blood-vessel; if it be a large one, death may ensue rapidly. ' No. 6, Affections of the Brain and Nervous System. Diseases of the Pulmonary Organs. Bell describes five varieties of brain affections—(i) Slight rambling, occurring from tenth to fourteenth day. Careful watching is all that is necessary. (2) A state of sopor, attended with "cerebral respiration," coming on about the twelfth or thirteenth day, and ending, if not clieclced, in profound coma. Purgation, a blister to the scalp, and strong tea or coffee, are advised, with small doses of antimony if the heart's action is good. (3) Sleepliness, with delirium and subsnltus, coming on about the fourteenth day, with or without weakened action of the lieart. In the former case wine, and perhaps an opiate, are called for. In the latter, purgation, tartar emetic, and leeches to the head. (4) Delirium, with con- stant excitement, coming on about eighth day, either in sthenic or asthenic general condition, and requiring accordingly either wine and opiates or tartar emetic and blisters. Both classes, however, are to be restrained by the strait waistcoat. (5) Intense and constant headache from the outset, followed on fifth or sixth day by fierce delirium, ending in coma. An autopsy shows severe cerebral congestion, and often eflusion into ventricles. Leeches to head and purgation are to be used in the enrly period, tartar emetic in the stage of delirium, a blister to the scalp and tea or stimu- lants in the coma, The diagnosis from cephalitis is not easy. The lesionsGENEEAL SYSTEM. 127 of the respiratory organs are noticed under tbe heads of—(i) extensive and severe congestion ; (2) pneumonia and pleuro-pneuraonia ; (3) deposit of tubercles. Some epidemics are distinguished by a remarkable liability to pneumonia. In February, 1853, there were twenty-four attacks of this kind out of twenty-eight admissions, and in March, twenty-four out of fifty. These compUcatious were also most severe, extensive, and cxceed- ino-ly rapid in their development. In some instances the action of the heart is impaired, and stimulants are required; in others, mild antiphlo- "■istics, with Acet. Plumbi. Rapid tuberculization occurs in the predis- posed'as a sequel of typhus. The paper closes with an estimation of the practical value of the clinical facts observed in typhus. Brady, T.—Medical Report of the Cork Street Fever Hospital. Dublin Med. Press, April 3rd. Brady states that the type of febrile diseases has been, since 1847, remarkably uniform, but very different from that which prevailed for many years previous to the famine and fever period. The same forms of disease occur, but of a low, asthenic character, with moderate or weak reaction. Previous bad sanitary conditions modify these diseases un- favorably. Alcoholic treatment, if at all freely employed, causes dete- rioration. Thierfelder.—On Changes in the Temperature during Typhoid Fever. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th. The temperature rises gradually for tUe first three or five days. If it rises for five days, it will not fall before the seventeenth day. The stage of maximum heat lasts from one to four and a half weeks, with slight remissions in the middle of the second or third week. The amount of the daily remissions is very different, and an important means for judging the violence of the fever, as it is inversely proportional to the latter. If the morning remission is only 1° Fahr., the prognosis is bad. The tempera- ture may rise before death to 109° Fahr. Return to the normal tempera- ture never occurs suddenly. It is sometimes continuous, but oftener an increase of the matutinal remission. Such fall of temperature mostly occurs on the seventeenth, but sometimes on the twenty-first, twenty- fourth, twelfth, or thirteenth. Uhle.—On the course of Typhoid Fever in Aged Perso7is. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th. The temperature in them is mostly lower, the stage of maximum heat is short, that of return to the normal heat protracted. Headache, delirium, sopor, &c., are usually absent; but there is great tremor and debility. The intestinal ulcers are slow in healing. WuNDERLicH.—On the Changes of Temperature in Typhoid Fever, Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th. Wiiuderlich believes that there are two perfectly distinct stages of the disease, which may be recognised by means of the thermometer. In the first exudation takes place, in the second eUmination of the morbid matter and healing. The former extends, on an average, over two weeks, but may be shorter in mild and longer in severe cases. The latter variesEEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 from one to six weeks. Within the first week a certain diagnosis may often be made by tlie thermometer alone, as the temperature rises in (he following characteristic manner, shown in the table: Initial Stage of Typhoid Fever. Morning. Evening. First (lay 98.3° F. 100.6° F. Second day 99-4° 101.7" Third , 100.6° 102.8° Fourth „ 101.7° 104° In the second half of the first week the evening temperature remains at 103.3° F'llii"- or 104°, while the morning temperature is 1.125° Fahr. less. There is no typhoid fever when the temperature rises to 104° Fahr. on the first or second day of the illness; when the evening temperature in a child or in an adult does not rise to 103.3° Fahr. between the fourth and si.\th days ; when during the second half of the first week, a considerable or progressive decrease in the evening temperature lakes place. On the other hand, if the case be apparently one of mild indisposition, we may, by finding the temperature permanently increasing, especially in the evening, be led to assume the existence of typhoid fever. Regarding prognosis, it may be said that an enormous increase of temperature in the first week indicates a very severe disease and great danger. Irregularities in the course of temperature during the first week are always a very bnd sign. During the second week the diagnosis may be made of no typhoid fever if the temperature is, on one or several evenings between the eighth and eleventh day, below 103.3° Fahr., and the mild or severe form of the disease, and its probable course, may be ascertained at a time when no other symptom can give a decisive clue in this respect. If the second week appears favorable, the third week will be sfill more so, and conva- lescence will begin in the latter, or at all events in the fourth week. If, on the contrary, the second week is severe, there will be no decided im- provement in the third, and the course will be very dangerous. Every irregularity in the second week is awkward, temporary remissions as well as exacerbations. In such cases the further course of the disease is also generally irregular ; and though rapid recovery may sometimes take place, even under these circumstances, relapses, fresh exacerbations, complica- tions, and hypostrophes, are more frequent. It is also an especially unfavorable sign when there is no trace of remission in the second week, even if the morning temperature does not exceed that of the evening. It is a certain sign that the course will be very severe if the morning temperature is at or above 104° Fahr., and if the evening is at 106° Fahr., especially if the increase is considerable towards the end of the week; and it is a most dangerous sign if these symptoms alternate with sudden remissions. The approach of death is more certainly shown by the state of the temperature than by any other symptom. There is either an unusual increase of temperature (above 106° Fahr.) in the period of acme, or there is a sudden increase to 108° Fahr. or more; or there is a sudden and very considerable fall of temperature (96° Fahr., and below), together with great coUapsus ; or there is in the period of healing a decrease of temperature, which is in contrast with the other symptoms.GENEllAL SYSTEM. BuDD, W.—Observations on Typhoid or Intestinal Fever : the Pythogenic Theory. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 2nd, ptb, i6th, 23rd, 30th; Dec. 7 th, 14th. Budd argues that ther* is abundant proof that sewage per se cannot cause fever, but that this is tlie result of a special miasm contained in the alvine discharges. On this view a satisfactory explanation can be given of the incomparably greater ravages which typhoid commits when it attacks rural communities, and of its vastly greater apparent contagiousness in country than in town. In the town the discharges are speedily removed from the dwelling by means of the drains ; in the country they accumulate day by day on the open soil around the dwelling. He contrasts the state of London when tlie Thames was so offensive with that of Windsor during the fever epidemic. In the former case the most offensive emanations of mere sewage produced no fever; in the latter, the specific effluvia from the bowels of fever patients reproduced fever largely. Budd further argues for the specific origin of typhoid fever from the human intestine, and the non-generation of its miasm from mere filth, from the circumstance that animals, though in daily contact with the poisonous excretions, are not infected thereby. He then adverts to the necessity for predisposition that the poison may take effect, and to the well-known immunity afforded by a previous attack of the disorder. As to the question whether typhoid fever ever arises spontaneously, Budd pronoimces in the negative, inasmuch as from the invisibility of the poison provision is made for its dissemination in a thousand unseen ways. Cases therefore will constantly arise in which the disease, to all appearance, originates spontaneously. He appeals to the history of smallpox in con- firmation of his argument, and to the general refutation of the theory of spontaneous generation in the case of plants and animals. To the argu- ment that because fevers at first originated spontaneously, they continue still occasionally to do so, he rephes that the same may be said of itch and of syphilis, which all allow to be propagated solely by contagion. Clark.—An Interesting Case of Insidious Secondary 'Pneumonia. Amer. Med. Times, Sept. 14th. Besides the pneumonia, which was not recognised during life, Clark notices the existence of a well-marked typhoid eruption, and an entire absence of the usual intestinal lesion. Death ensued about three weeks from the commencement of the disease. FuEMY.—C/-o^o« 027 Liniment in Typhoid Fever. Repert. de Pharmacie, Oct., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th. M. Fremy believes that he obtains great advantage by rubbing in this hninient over the abdomen, so as to produce an eruption. MiMioY, G.—The Case of the Egyptian Frigate at Liverpool, with Remar/cs on the Causations of Fevers, ^c. Med. Critic and Psycholo'^. Journ . Oct., i86i. ° ' Milroy concludes-(i) that the fever and dysentery were generated or self-engendered on board, and that their diffusion among the crew was mainly caused by the poisonous atmosphere from the crowding of them together in filth and misery; and (2) that its extension to the attendantsKEPOUT ON phactical medicine. 130 ill the hospital and baths on shore was due to the transmission of con- tagious miasmata from the sick and their clothing, lie remarks that the only safety upon the appearance of sickness consists in enlarging the breathing-space to all on board to the utmost, and at ihe same time rendering the ventilation more complete, especially at night and during the hours of sleep. The dispersion of the well and unattacked is of even greater importance, in a preservative point of view, than the segregation of the sick, however right and necessary this precaution also always is. He advocates, strongly the appointment of a sanitary medical officer to supervise all vessels arriving with sick on board, and to enjoin the adoption of the necessary hygienic measures. Walkeh, W.—On an Epidemic of Typhus in the North-west Provinces of India. Ediub. Med. Journ., May. Walker remarks that typhus has generally been considered a rare disease in India. The epidemic in question prevailed extensively, and was extremely fatal, destroying often from one half to one third of the popula- tion of a village. The symptoms wei'e essentially those of a low fever, with complications affecting one or other of the visceral cavities. Dysen- tery or dysenteric diarrhoea was by far the most common sequela of the fever. No special or constant alteration was found in 104 autopsies ; in particular, the glands of the small intestine were healthy. No typhus eruption was discovered, though it would be very difficult of detection on the swarthy skin of an East Indian. The contagious character of the disease was strongly marked. BiirsoN.—On the recent hitroduction of Telloto Fever into Port Rorjal, Jamaica. Lancet, March pth. Bryson relates some very cogent evidence to show that, from one central focus, and within the space of a few weeks, yellow fever radiated in three distinct and distant directions, establishing at each point a fresh nidus of infection, capable of propagating itself to all susceptible persons coming within the sphere of its influence, and contributing another unequivocal and conclusive proof of the communicability of the disorder. BuDD.—On the Contagion of Yellow Fever. Lancet, April 6th. Budd insists on the importance of preventing healthy persons from being in any M^ay exposed to the emanations from the matters discharged either from the stomach or bowels of the sick. MiLROT, G.—Outbreaks of Yellow Fever in Ships of War. Lancet, April t3th, 20th. Milroy relates several instances, and discusses the best means to be adopted for the prevention and arrest of the disease. KiciiAUDSON.—FurMe;- Observations on Scarlet Fever. Lancet, April 6th. Richardson comes to the conclusion that the variety of type of scarlet fever is not dependent upon differences of poison, not on meteorological condition, locality, physical condition of the patient at the time of infection, age, nor hereditary taint. BoucnUT.—Pathognomonic Sign of Scarlatina, 3. de Med. et CLir. pratiq. Dublin IIosp. Ga^., May ist.GEXEKAL SYSTEM. 131 This consists in fin enduring white stripe, produced by pressure with any hard substance on the skin occupied by the eruption. Bouchut attributes this to au increase of the contractile power of the capillaries pro- portionate to the intensity of the disease, the regularity of the eruption, and the amount of vital power. M'Nab, J.—0)1 the Therapeutic Action of Sesquicarb. Amman, in Scarlet Fever. Edin. Med. Jour., October. M'Nab finds this remedy very beneficial in all forms of the disease, both as a gargle and internally. The former is made with 5ij ad Aq. 5^]- Hammond.—Nitric Acid in Intennittent Fever. Maryland and Virginia Med. Jour., February, i86i. Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, i86i. He states that nitric acid, v\x ter die, was equally successful with quinine. It cured three cases which had resisted quinine. In enlarged spleen it is also very useful. Livingstone.—OnFever in the Zambesi. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th. Livingstone has found the following treatment invariably successful:— At first. Calomel, Jalapi resinse, aa gr. viij ; Quinse, Rhei, aa gr. iv. M. et ft. massse in pil., sit dosa gr. x—.\x. The violent headache, pains in the back, &c., all are relieved in from four to six hours, and with the operation of the medicine there is an enormous discharge of black bile; the patient frequently calls it blood. If the bowels are slow in acting, 5ij of salts may be given. Quinine is then given till the ears sing. The patients do not lose their strength, and are often able to pursue their journey on foot the day after the operation of the remedy. Regnauld.— On the Special Value of Quiimim. Indications for its Use in the Treatment of Intermittent Fevers. Ann. de Med, et de Chir. pratiq., 1861, p. 10. Regnauld praises highly Vinum Quinii in obstinate agues and the resulting cachexia. It acts as a tonic purgative, and cures the fever more slowly, but more surely, than quinine, and is much better borne by the stomach, Simon,—When should Quinine be administered in Ague? Ann. de Med, et de Chir. pratiq., 1861, p. 19. Simon thinks it best to give a full dose, enough to affect the hearing slightly, about five hours before the commencement of the paroxysm. In pernicious fevers, however, we must not thus wait, but bring the system as rapidly as possible under the influence of the remedy, CiiAPPLE, R. A.—Report on the Treatmetit of Intermittent Fevers by large doses, of Arsenic. Med. Times and Gaz., March 2nd, Out of 220 cases 80 were treated with quinine, the cure being effected witli from eight to twenty-four grains; t4o were treated with Liq. Pot Ars^nuis, of these 85 were cured, and 55 had to resort to quinine. The arsenic was most successful when given in doses of -[^ xxx—xl 2dis horis ad vices tres. 59 being cured out of 87 treated; while with m xx doses at the same rate, 26 cures were obtained out of 5,3 cases. The large doses aid noo produce intestinal derangement.IllSPOllT ON I'llACTlCAL MKDICINE. TuiiNEii, J,—Itemarks on Arsenious Acid in large doses in Fevers as a substitute for Quinine. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. zStli. Tu rner administers Liq. Pot. Arseu. 58s, Tr. Card. co. 5s8, adis Iioris ad vices iv—v, the last dose at least two hours before the expected paroxysm. But little liquid should be taken. He finds arsenic as efFectual, or even more so, than quinine, and quite as safe. He treats neuralgia similarly. L'Union Med., March 9th. Brit. Med. Jour., April 27th. The commission reports that arsenic is a most powerful febrifuge, and that it has unquestionably the property of reducing engorgements of the spleen. BARTELS.— On an Epidemic of Measles at Kiel in i860. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, p. 615. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th. Bartels treated at the dispensary 573 cases, of which 39 were fatal. In private practice only 2 among 50 died. The chief cause of death M'as a peculiar state of the luugs, which in part were collapsed, with foci of purulent infiltration in various parts, or in other cases a carnified condition. Intense bronchial catarrh was present, extending to the minuter rami- fications, but not of a croupal character. Leeching and emetics, employed moderately, were unsuccessful, but the alternate application of towels dipped in hot and cold water had very good effects, but required to be continued for hours or days. The disease was very prone to relapse, and never pursued the typical course of simple pneumonia. Barensprung, N.— On the Period of Incubation in Smallpox. Annalen des Charite, Krankenhauses, vol. xix, p. IP3. Brit, and For. Med.- Ghir. Rev., July, 1861. Barensprung records seven cases all infected on the same day from the same source. In all the outbreak occurred between the thirteentli and fourteenth days after the exposure. Some were vaccinated, others not. Druitt.—What is a Man^s Security against Smallpox? Med. Times and Gaz., December 14th. Druitt urges the necessity for periodic repetition of vaccination, on account of the imperfect protection afforded by it. Out of any number of men with good vaccine marks, 40 or 41 per cent, only are protected; with doubtful marks the per-centage of protection is 33. Hall, A.—Will a Child born after the Mother has had Smallpox, and contracted after she has conceived, be liable to contract the disease ? Brit. Amer. Jour. Dublin Med. Press, March 20th. Hall records a case in which a child (male) born under the above conditions, but unmarked, was found quite unsusceptible of vaccinaiion, •which was performed twice. Another case is referred to from the expe- rience of Dr. Stranaghan.133 GENERAL SYSTEM. BuiiY, G. W. F.—A Statistical Account of 476 cases of Acute Rheuma- tism admitted into the wards of Middlesex Hospital during the years 1853-59. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Of 256 males, 46 had some form of recent heart affection ; of 220 females, 83 only escaped without heart complication. Pericarditis at- tacked 13 males and 22 females; endocarditis 56 males and 82 females; cndo-pericarditis 42 males and 29 females ; endo-pericarditis with pleurisy 5 males and 4 females. In 67 cases, of the whole number an hereditary tendency was apparent, much more often derived from the father than from tlie mother. With regard to age, 227 of the cases occurred in the decade 15—25 ; and 354 in the period from jo to 30 years. The greatest per-centage of cardiac attacks (68'5) occurred between the ages of 15 and 20, the next below the age of 10 years, the next between 10 and 15 years, the next between 20 and 25, after which the ratio decreases rapidly. The upper extremities were affected alone in 51 cases, the lower in 102, both in 323. The disease shows a marked tendency to commence in the feet and travel upwards. The date of the supervention of heart compli- cation was observed in 103 cases ; in three it commenced as early as the second, and in one as late as the twenty-seventh day. In only 30 cases was the commencement of the attack later than the thirteenth. Previous attacks had occun-ed in 207 cases. As regards the season of the year, the fewest admissions occurred in February (23), the highest in June (65), in October 56, in December 47, and generally the total in the warmer six months exceeded by ten the total of the colder half year. Aran.—On unusual Forms of Rheumatism, and the Remedies to he em- ploijed in them. J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p.38. Aran records a case of mild rheumatism, proving suddenly fatal, with no other structural change than a moderate congestion of the lungs. He is inclined to believe that the quinine treatment of rheumatism has rendered unusual forms of the disease more frequent than formerly. In such instances (cerebral or thoracic attacks) he advises the free use of C.C. to the neck or chest, sinapisms to the lower limbs, and of Mayor's hammer (iron heated by Ijoiling water). O'DoNOVAN, R. W.—Observations on the Treatment of Bheumatic Fever. Dublin Quart. Jour, of Med. Sc., Aug., 1861. O'Donovan relates five cases, in two of which opium was of great ser- vice, while in the others it was injurious, and Pot. lod. or lemon juice was found beneficial. O'Donovan indicates a temperament marked by a sallow complexion, dark areolee round the eyes, bushy brows, and heavy eyelids and constipated habit of body, as 'unfavorable to the use of opium. Inman, T.—O/i Sovr-smelling Perspiration in Rheumatism, and its sif/ni- ficance as a Symptom. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861 Inman distrusting the theory that the disease results from lactic acid in the blood, argues that the sour smell proceeds from decomposition of the perspiration, and that it ceases when the liuen is frequently changed. 10IIEPORT ON PJRACTICAL MEDICINE. SxROMEYEii.—Treatment of Acute Jtheumatism. Maxim of Military Surgery. N. Amer. Med.-Cliir. Rev., May, 1861. Stromeyer finds keeping tlie patients cool to be of tlie greatest import- ance, tidministers nitrate and bicarbonate of soda to reduce the force of the pulse, and as soon as the tongue is moist and clean gives opium, which he believes to be the only intrinsically effective internal remedy for rheu- matism. Calomel gr. j is adis horis given in acute heart affections, and leeches applied. McDonald, F. R.—Actea Racemosa in Acute Rheumatism. Edin. Med. Jour., Oct. The author gives v]_ xxv—xl of the tincture ter die, and finds it very successful in all forms of rheumatism. Schmidt and StIirzwege.—On the Influence of Arsenious Acid on Meta- morphosis. Moleschott's Untersuch. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1861. The authors found that small doses caused a considerable diminution la the excx'etion of COg and urea, from £o to 40 per cent. GuENEAU DE MusSY.—Arsenical Baths in Chronic Rheumatism. Gaz. des Hopit., Aug. loth, 1861. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 28th. In the more chronic cases Gueneau de Mussy employs baths containing 100 grammes of carb. sod. with i—2 grammes of arseniate of soda. In the more recent and acute the latter salt is used alone. Temporary in- crease of the articular affection is observed in some cases when the soda and arsenic bath is used, and may be avoided by omitting the soda. The baths are to be employed alternate days, or daily. The number of cases is not given. ' Hermann, Jos.—The non-existence of Constitutional lodism. Qilester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vii, 18—21,1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iia, Hermann's observations on the action of iodine were made on the sy- philitic patients at the Vienna hospital, who were exclusively treated with iodine. The secondary and tertiary forms of syphilis Hermann regards as chronic hydrargyrosis. The effects produced by the administration of iodine were the following:—(i) The quantity of the urine was increased, and its sp. gr. lowered, all the solids becoming considerably diminished. At the same time traces of albumen often appear in the urine, and pretty certainly foreshow that mercury will be detected by electrolysis. (2) In about 10 per cent, of the cases of chronic hydrargyrosis copious saliva- tion occurs, and mercury is discovered in the saliva. (3) In about 5 per cent, of the cases sweating takes place. (4) In many cases cutaneous eruptions. (5) In some cases old cicatrices dissolve, and fresh ulcers form in consequence of the increased vital action induced by the iodine. (6) In rare cases non-exhaustive diarrhoea takes place. No symptoms have been observed corresponding to the acute or chronic iodism of Rilliet. PetuY.—Secondary Symptoms communicated hy Tattooing. Allg. Wieu. Med. Ztg., V. 14, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 44.135 GENERAIv SYSTEM. Nine persons, after being tattooed by a discharged soldier, had, after au interval of six to fourteen Aveeks, cliaracteristic symptoms of syphilitic infection on the same part, followed by those of constitutional syphihs. The local affection was the indurated chancre, the general consulted of sore tliroat, eruptions, enlargement of the lymphatic glands, condylo- mata, &c. MuLLEB, C.—On the Influence of Mercurial Treatment of Syphilitic Parents on their Offspring. Wien. Med, Wochenschr., i, 1861. Muller affirms that mercurial treatment is in no wise prejudicial, but the contrary, even when carried on during pregnancy. In eleven cases recorded by the author the children begotten after the treatment were healthy at birth, and remained so. Pacchiotti.—Syphilis conveyed hy the Vaccine Lymph to forty-six Chil- dren. Gaz. dell. Assoc. Med., Oct. 20th, 1861. Lancet, Nov. x6th. G. C—, set. II months, was vaccinated, being in good health, with lymph contained in a tube sent from Acqui. Ten days after, 46 children were vaccinated from G. C—, and ten days later 17 more from one of the 46. Of thefir3t47, including G. C—, 39 became affected with syphilis, and of the 17 seven. At the time of the report 7 had died, 3 were ia danger, and 14 recovering under antisyphilitic treatment. Pacchiotti warns against using lymph contaminated with pus or blood, and advises careful inquiry as to the source of the lymph. Barensprung, v.—i2e/3or^/7-om the Section and Clinic for Syphilitic Patients. Ann. d. Berl. Char., ix, i, i860. According to Barensprung's experience, the proportion of cases of con-' stitutional syphilis to those of chancre, has greatly diminished since mer- curial treatment has been discontinued, viz., 180: 114. Barensprung adopts Bassereau's, Clerc's, and Ricord's view as to the non-syphilitic nature of the soft chancre. With regard to the primary syphilitic ulcer, he differs wholly from Ricord, stating (i) that the indurated chancre is not the cause, but actually the consequence of constitutional infection ; (2) it does not appear until four weeks after infection ; (3) the induration precedes the ulcer; (4) persons who are once syphilized are incapable of fresh in- fection. The commencement of the indurated chancre is not a pustule, but a small, low nodule, which ulcerates by forming a thin, soft scab on its surface. When it heals its cicatrix, after some months, quite disappears. It does not secrete pus. The induration of the inguinal glands is of the same character, inapt to suppurate. A soft-chancre poison can be inocu- lated on the individual or on anjr person syphilized previously or not, that of the indurated cannot. Soft chancres have a tendency to multiply themselves by infecting adjacent excoriations, hard chancres remain single. The latter are always followed by constitutional syphilis, the former never, except in the not very frequent case where syphilitic poison and soft- chancre poison are communicated simultaneously. This may happen, just as a gonorrhoea and a hard chancre may result from the same coitus. With regard to treatment, the soft chancre is to be dealt with as a mere local affair, the indurated requires general remedies, and is only worsened by cauterization. As to the contagiousness of secondary sypliilis, Btiren-llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 136 sprung regartis Waller's experiments as quite affirmatively decisive. The opposite opinion rested on experiments made with soft-chancre secretion, which does not infect. Syphilis, as n rule, like the exanthemata, occurs only once. Admitting the rapidly curative action of mercury on almost all syphilitic symptoms, as one of tlie most striking tiierapeutic pheno- mena, Biirensprung has, nevertheless, abandoned its use. He avows that syphilis can be thoroughly cured without mercury, while under its use the disease is often rendered latent for months and years, and its complete cure delayed. Mercury also deteriorates the constitution and favours the development of destructive local affections. The non-mercurial treatment, in short, is slower, but surer. Starvation and Zittmann's decoc- tion are the means he employs. Syphilization he thinks inadvisable. Barton, J. K.—Case ilhistrating the power of Pot. lod. to remove the Symptoms of Tertiary Syphilis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. and. Barton advocates the use of large doses of Pot. lod. in cases of obstinate character. PoLAK.—Oti the Use of Mercury as a Remedy for Syphilis in Persia. Wien Med. Wochenschr., 36, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. p. Polak obsei-ved—(i) that after some stay in warm climates, a large quantity of mercury can be taken without apparent injury to the consti- tution ; (2) that the bad consequences which have lately been ascribed to mercury are greatly exaggerated; (3) that mercurial inhalations are one of the most rapidly effectual means of administration, and highly recom- mendable ; (4) that in warm climates syphilis, for the most part, can be radically cured; (5) that an individual thoroughly cured by mercur)-, though still bearing the scars of syphilis, may, beget or bear quite healthy children. Hoffmann (Bayer Aerzt. Intell. Bl., 17, i860). Sigmund, K. L. (Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, 51, i860). Fieber (Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, 36, i860). Paul (Jahresb. d. Schles. Ges. f. vaterl. Kult, xxxvii, 1859). Fronmuller (Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 6, i860). Kaltscher (Berlin, i860).—On Syphilization, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, P- 53- Hoffmann attempts to compare smallpox and syphilis. Sigmund states his experience of fifteen cases, which goes to show that syphilization is inferior to other curative measures ; it causes the disappearance of the symptoms, and improves the general health, but does not prevent relapses. Sigmund agrees with Paul, that when the successive inoculations have ceased to produce any effect, results are again obtained when the inocu- lations are resumed after a certain interval. Fronmiiller warmly advo- cates syphilization as a specific against constitutional syphilis, and Ka- lischer seconds him. Jeltschinsky (Leipsig u. Heidelberg, i860). Monigetti (Med. Z(g. Russl., 47, 48, i860). Kaminsky (Med. Ztg. Russl.,48, i860).—On the Cure of Syphilis by Vaccination. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. m, P- 55- ..... Jeltschinsky does not consider vaccination as a specific in syphilis ; it137 GENERAL SYSTEM. has no dynamic or chemical action on the poison. It provokes a general reaction in the body, and rouses the dormant powers of the system to contend with the poison. Monigetti thinks Jeltschinsky's procedure severe, inefficient, and somewhat dangerous. Kaminsky defends vacci- nation. A. Guerin, the reporter of a French commission to investigate the question, considers the antisyphilitic power of vaccination as a myth. ViENNOis.—On Syphilis from Vaccination. Gaz. des Hopit., Sept., i860. Edin. Med. Jouru., Jan. Vaccination of a person in whom syphilis is latent may cause the de- velopment of constitutional eruptions. Vaccination of a healthy person with lymph from a syphilitic, unmixed with blood, produces only the vaccine vesicle. But if the lymph be mixed with blood, syphilis is also communicated, and appears at the point of inoculation in the form of an indurated ulcer resembling true chancre. SlGMUND.—On the use of Sarsaparilla in Syphilis. Wien. Ztschr., N. F, iii, I, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 45. Sigmund has tried sarsaparilla carefully in recent and chronic gonor- rhoea, in primary syphilitic ulcers, in secondary ulcers, and eruptions in disease of the throat and periosteum, and comes to the conclusion that this remedy, used by itself alone, does not exercise the slightest demon- strable influence on the course and issue of these various forms of disease. Zittmann's decoction he finds to act quite as beneficially when the sarsa- parilla is omitted. Lauber and Kraxjs.—Cases of Secondary Syphilis. Bayer. Aerztl. Intel]. Bl., 52, i860. "Wien. Ztschr., 24 and 31, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. no, p. 47. ^ Lauber's case is a striking instance of the curative effect of mercurial inunction. Kraus's refutes the notion that secondary syphilis is the result of mercurial treatment. Galligo.—On Syphilis. Gaz. Hebd., vii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 306. Galligo does not think that Ricord's views can be adopted as invariably true. Thus he affirms that a soft chancre may be followed by syphilis, and a hard chancre (untreated) by none, that bubons d'emblee may be followed by constitutional syphilis, that gonorrhoea may in rare cases give rise to syphiHs, and that secondary affections may in exceptional cases be communicated. Hekmann, Jos.—Report of the Patients treated during the year 1858-59171^6 Syphilitic Wards of the Vie7ina Infirmary. Spital Ztg., 1-9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 306. Hermann makes out that the non-mercurial is mucli more speedy and successful than the mercurial treatment; that no relapses occur ; that cuta- neous eruption is much more frequent and severe in patients'who have taken mercury ; that serpiginous ulcers, pustules, and bullce, general glandular enlargement, periostitis and caries, alopecia and cachexia, are not the results of syphilis, but of mercury. In eighty-four cases 146 analyses were made to find whether mercury was present iu the systemREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 It was detected seventy-five times in thirty cases in the urine, saliva, tissues, or secretions. Hermann believes it is not always eliminated by the same channel. ViVENoT.—On the Jvfluence of Changes in the amount of Pressure exerted by the Air on the Human Organism. Virch. Arch., xix, 5 and 6. Schmidt's Jnhrb., vol. 109, p. 335. Diminution of the air-pressure causes increased evaporation and oxy- dntion, accelerates the pulse and breathing, causes dilatation and even rupture of the vessels, a feeling of weariness, and diminished secretion of urine. Increase of the air-pressure (in a compressed air-bath) slows the pulse and respiration, diminishes the pulmonary and cutaneous exha- lation, but increases in consequence the urinary secretion, and prevents congestion of the parts on which it acts. Vivenot concludes, on the whole, that the barometric variations which ordinarily occur produce no effect, objective or subjective, on the human system per se, but that the attendant changes in the temperature, degree of humidity, and currents of air, are much more effective. ToDLMiN.—On the Pathology of Cholera, with an Exposition of the Causes that necessarily render all Medicine inoperative in that Disease. Lancet, Aug. 17th. Toulmin believes that all metamorphosis of tissue is arrested in conse- quence of the " absolute cessation of the circulation of the blood," so that no medicine can be absorbed and become active. He recommends that the patient should be packed in a wet sheet and allowed to drink water freely. His remarks specially refer to the stage of collapse. Delvadx.—On the Employment of Cajeput Oil. Med. Times and Gaz., ** Aug. 17th. Presse Med. Beige, 1861, Nos. 12, 13, 17, 23, 25, 30. Delvaux finds it very useful in various forms of chronic rheumatism, especially such as occur in persons who have resided in hot and humid climates, in whom the digestive canal has become involved in the disorder, and who are much emaciated. It is also very useful locally applied in acne rosacea, pityriasis, and psoriasis, Ltjdwig, C.— The Effects of Baths. (Ester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, ij, 6, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 161. With respect to the direct effects of baths, Ludwig arrives at the fol- lowing conclusions :—(i) that baths inducing perspiration act more power- fully at first than they do after the person has been in them some time; (2) that the animal body loses most water by evaporation in a warm, dry, moving atmosphere ; (3) that the loss of heat is probably considerably greater at the same low temperature of the surrounding medium when the skin immediately before has been artificially warmed, and less when it has been cooled previous to entering the cold medium; (4) the bath alters the excitement and the excitability of the cutaneous muscular tissue directly by its temperature, as well as (5) the excitability of the sensory nerves. As to the reaction of the direct effects of the bath on the general svstem, notice is first taken of the altered condition of the cutaneous vessels, which may be either contracted (by the cold) or dilated (by the warni bath). In the first case accumulation of blood will take place inGENEBAL STSTE3I. 139 internal capillary tracts, but it will depend on the state of the respiration and circulation whether this increased amount of blood move slowly or rapidly. In the second the amount of blood in internal parts will be diminished. These changes in the circulation probably affect both the transposition of organic atoms and their oxydation. (2) Ludwig considers that the variations of evaporation and perspiration will affect the urine, and when its aqueous part is diminished cause further chemical changes in the retained matters. (3) The reflex effect of loss of heat must affect the oxydation of the body, which must increase if the tem- perature is maintained in spite of cooling. If the rate of cooling is di- minished the temperature of the blood will rise, unless the oxydation diminish. (4) Stimulation of the sensory nerves will influence the nervous centres, and through them the various internal organs. (5) Bathing affords a means of modifying the excitability of the cutaneous muscles, and consequently lessening the changes of the circulation thereby induced. DuscH, V.—Report of the Medical Policlinic at Heidelherg from 1857 to 18.59. ■'^rch. f. Wissensch. Heilk., vi, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., yol. 112, p. 171. Dusch states that pertussis prevailed twice epidemically, and gradually passed into measles. In many cases this transition was marked by the appearance of a measly exanthem, attended with conjunctivitis and coryza, which at first was neither severe nor extensive, and very transitory, scarcely excited general symptoms, and did not stop the progress of the hooping-cough. According as the latter became less prevalent the exan- them appeared in those children who had not been attacked by it, and became gradually more severe and extensive, was attended with a more profound feeling of illness, and finally passed into fully developed measles. Dusch coincides in Buhl's views as to the origin of miliary tuberculosis of the lungs from tuberculous bronchial glands. Report of the Public Health in Norvoaxj. Christiania, 1859, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 236. In the parish of Hvaloerne in 1857 there was an epidemic of quartan ague during August, the weather having been very hot during the two pre- vious months. Large doses of quinine, six to eight hours before the attack, were most effective. In children aged from seven to ten years the fever was especially obstinate. The causes of spedalskhed are described as tiie influence of the sea-air and of the bad hygienic conditions prevalent among the residents of the coast. Their dwellings are damp, low, dark, small, and dirty; their clothing is insufficient; the state of their skin neglected ; and their food wretched, scanty, and badly cooked. Here- ditary tendency and infection exert also some influence, but are not the essential causes. Improvement of the hygienic conditions of the popu- lation appears to be the most hopeful means of preventing the disease, recommendT'^"' " '"^^ instruction is much ^'"^ wLffs'/o ^rr'"\ ^^^'^"^ ^''^-^^ for 1859. Wien, ia6o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 248.REPORT ON PRACTICAL SrEDICINE. 140 A chart is given of the course of the six most important forms of disease, viz., typhus, pulmonary and digestive catarrh, pneumonia, variola, and ague. Compared with former years, this shows (i) tliat almost all the forms on the present occasion culminated togetiier in the winter of 1858 and 1859, soon subsided, and from March remained at a very low figure ; (2) that the almost constant increase observed at the approach of winter in former years (excepting 1853) did not occur, and that after a slight autumnal increase all the forms extraordinarily di- minished. Dysentery prevailed much, and was very intractable in August and September. A case of sanious inflammation of the pancreas, and one of the liver, are recorded from their rarity. In cases of variola water dressing to the pustulating surfaces was beneficial. The covering, how- ever was ill-borne on the face, and in consequence the plan was devised of continually irrigating the whole body with lukewarm water. In scar- latina ice pills and cold external applications were found useful in severe angina tonsillaris. Psoriasis was treated very successfully by baths, washing with sulphuret-of-lime lotion, subsequent tarring, and arsenic in- ternally. Prurigo patients spent two houi's a day in the bath, used the S; Ca. lotion, and were wrapped in 01. Morrh. dressings at night. Eczema was treated, if the skin was infiltrated, by frictions with schmier-soap, if not by tarry, cod-oil, or cold-water dressing. Sigmund's experience of syphilization leads him to doubt of the advisability of employing it. Re- lapses occur after this, as after other remedial procedures. Ormerod, E. L.—Notes on Diphtheria as ohserved at Brighton, Lancet, Dec. 7th, 2ist. Ormerod states that inflammatory afi"ections of the fauces during the last eight years have risen from 0*3 to 4-4 in private, and from i"i to 3*o per cent, in hospital patients (croup, laryngitis, and syphilitic sore throat being excluded). Children are mostly the subjects of diphtheria, and among them the weakliest, and specially those who are adopted. Bad ventilation appears to have more to do in causing diphtheria than bad drainage. Ormerod distinguishes—(i) the form with well-marked mem- branous exudation ; (2) that characterised by swelling, ulceration, and sloughing, where exudation may or may not exist; and (3) a quinsy-like afi'ection. These forms in many instances are more or less blended together. After describing the general course of the disease, Ormerod notices the danger of sudden fatal collapse, from overtasking the powers of any important organ or the system at large. He mentions three fatal cases of this kind. That the disease is difi'erent from scarlatina Ormerod is convinced, but he is equally clear that the two have much in common. Fresh air, and common wholesome food he believes to be the best pre- ventives, and that anything in the way of over-delicate nurture predis- poses to it. Ventilation, especially of the sleeping-apartment, he considers most important, as well as domestic cleanliness. The treatment of the patient, if seen early, he commences with an emetic of ipecacuanha and zinc and a purge. It is, however, necessary to resort speedily to tonics, quinine, iron, or ammonia. lie prefers the former with nitro-hydrochloric acirl. Stimulating liniments or fomentations to the neck are recommended, and chlorinated lotions to the throat.141 GENERAL SYSTEM. r^^^^XY,—Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Journ., June ist. Budd trusts, in the matter of treatment, to Beaufoy's undiluted solution of chlorinated soda applied to the affected part three or four times a day ^4h 'nnct. Ferri Munat. 5s8 4tis horis, and a generous diet. 'Ihe chief pit in his communication is that he insists strongly on the con agious iiature of diphtheria, and the importance of adopting all possible pre- cautions to prevent the disease being communicated to healthy persons by the excretions from the affected parts. Livingston, R. n.—Diphtheria and its Treatment. Amer. Med. Journ., Li^n^'sfon^ distinguishes between a sthenic and asthenic form of the disease, and directs his treatment accordingly. He is sure it is contagious. Clakk, a—Lectures on Diphtheria. Amer. Med. Times, March 23rd, 30th; April 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th ; May 4th. Clark describes the false membrane as consisting of cells and granules, imbedded either in a woof of fibrils or in an homogeneous medium. The vegetable spores found in it he regards as accidental productions. The disease, after it had prevailed some time, no longer commenced regularly with acute symptoms, but often very insidiously. Death in some cases ensued from prostration apparently of the heart's power, the general muscular force not being much impaired. The occurrence of paralysis is illustrated by various examples, and it is shown that apparent amaurosis mav really depend on paralysis of the adjusting muscular apparatus. Clark thinks that precautions should be used against the communication of the disease by contagion. The age at which diphtheria is absolutely and comparatively most fatal is from three to ten years, the mortaUty increases from the first to the third year, and diminishes after the tenth. Clark strongly opposes the tendency of the French writers to consider true croup and diphtheria as the same disease. He also separates the latter from scarlet fever. The plan of treatment is to support the system till the peril passes by. Of tlae eflficacy of local applications he is doubtful. Eddie, W. H.—On Diphtheria and its associated Diseases, as they ap- peared at Barton-upon-Humber and the neighbourhood in the years 1858 and 1859. The character of the disease varied much; even in the same family one member would have it very mildly, while in others it was most malignant. In some cases death ensued in a few hours from complete prostration of the vital powers. In some heemorrhage took place from the throat, and destroyed life. At its commencement the disease seemed intimately con- nected with scarlatina, but subsequently the distinctness of the two affections was very apparent. One form of the disease Eddie terms the cutaneous, from the occurrence of eruption on the skin, either as large buUte or ecthymatous pustules. Another form presented the phenomenon of purpura, petechiae on the skin, and blood in the stools and urine. Paralysis occurred as a sequel in some cases. The usual treatment was adopted. Newman, W.—Diphtheria, Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 14th.142 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. In six months of this year, January to June inclusive, Newman has met with 35 cases of diphtlieria, 12 sporadic with 2 deaths, 23 endemic ■with 5 ; Six of the seven deaths occurred in children under ten years of age. Only three of the cases belonged to tlie better-circumstanced classes. In two cases, both fatal, considerable hsemorrhage took place. In one case incomplete paraplegia supervened. Unfavorable hygienic circum- stances aggravated the disease. Walker, J. W.—The Treatment of Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Joum., Dec. 2i8t. Walker gives the following mixture, stating that he considers guaiacum as the remedy/jfl?" excellence iox diphtheria. Pot. Chloratis 3iv, Tinct. Cinch. CO. 3SS, Tinct, Guaiaci co. 5iv—5'j> Mellis q.s.. Aqua ad %su]. M. 5j ad 5SS vel 3] 0. horsl, vel 2dis vel 3tiis vel 4tis vel ter die. HiRTZEL.— Clinical Observations on different preparations of Aconite, Henbane, Belladonna, Stramonium, Conium, and Digitalis. Gaz. de Strasburg, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 18. Hirtzel selects those parts of the plants which he believes to contain most of the active principles (the roots of aconite and belladonna, the seeds of conium, digitahs, henbane, and stramonium); prepares from these, reduced to powder, a spirituous extract, which is evaporated, again dissolved in alcohol, and again evaporated. The extract of aconite root thus obtained is twenty-five times as strong as that of the leaves ; that of belladonna root is five times as strong as that of the leaves ; the extract of conium seeds is twenty times as strong as that of the leaves; those of digitalis and henbane seeds are ten times as strong as those made from the leaves ; that of stramonium seeds is five times as strong as that of the leaves. ' Opitz, E.—On Scurvy. Prag. Vjhrschr., Ixix, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 33- Opitz describes with considerable detail an epidemic of scurvy which prevailed in 1852 among the Austrian troops forming part of the garrison of Rastatt, and remained almost confined to them. Out of 4300 men 610 were attacked, 497 by primary scurvy and 113 by scurvy consecutive to ague and eye catarrh ; the deaths were 25. The epidemic prevailed especially from April to June. The year was wet, and there was much water round the fortress, which occasioned a damp and cold state of the atmosphere. To this and to the impure air of the overcrowded bar- racks the anthor thinks the disease is chiefly attributable. In eleven cases all that were bled, the blood was alkaline; in one febrile case the fibrine, blood-globules, and iron, were abundant, but the albumen and salts diminished. In the symptoms, pathological appearances, and treat- ment, there is nothing unusual. Clkborne, C. 3.—Experiments to determine the Effects on the System of the Asclepias Syriaca. Amer. Joum. of Med. Sc., July. Cleborne finds it to be a stimulant tonic, a diuretic and aperient, alterative and anthelmintic. Doses of 5ss quater die caused violent vomiting.GBNEEAL SYSTEM. 143 HoMOLlE.—Om ilie External JEmployment of Simple Sulphate of Alumina and of Sulphate of Alumina and Zinc. Anu. de Therap., 1861, p. 288. Homolle finds the above remedies to act as modiCyiug agents, whose mode of action is intermediate between that of catheretics and caustics. The experience of fifteen years has proved to him their utihty as topical applications in various maladies, among which he specially notices angina of the throat and tonsils, and certain affections of the neck of the uterus. In ulcerated cancer these salts have a special action, arresting or modiiying its progress, acting at once in this particular instance as caustics, disin- fectants, and hfemostatics. They are often more successful than narcotics in calming the pains of cancer, and they notably retard the development of the cachexia. Mitchell, S. "W.—Ow the Treatment of BattlesnaJce Bites, with experi- mental criticisms upon the various remedies noio in use. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., March, 1861. Mitchell points out, first, various fallacies in regard to the use of antidotes of all kinds. These depend on the circumstance that the bite of the snake is by no means always effective, either no sufficient wound being made or the venom not being injected. (2) He shows that we are very liable to fallacy in judging of the value of antidotes, inasmuch as the great majority of bitten persons recover. Of fifty-seven cases reported in the journals only five died. The qualities of the venom are stated as follows : —"It is a yellow, albuminous fluid, of an acid reaction; sp. gr. 1044, and coagulated by a heat of 140° to 160°. Its toxic activity is unaffected by freezing, by acids, alkalies, alcohol, or by drying, and but little, if at all, by boiling. It contains two albuminous substances, one coagulable by boiling, the other, containing the active element of the venom, by alcohol only. The symptoms and pathological changes that occur after poisoning are described in considerable detail, and illustrated by experi- ments on animals. The efiicacy of various therapeutic measures are fully examined, and among them of Bibron's antidote. Mitchell states that only three out of eight dogs to whom it was given after the bite recovered. Iodine injection into the bitten part was, however, found to prevent the occurrence of the usual local phenomena, such as swelling, ecchymosis, haemorrhage, &c. Tannin had the same effect. The constitutional action of the venom, however, remained. The use of the ligature (intermittingly), 'incisions, the actual cautery, and free stimulation, seem to be the best means of counteracting the poison. DucHEK, A.—On Scurvy. Wien. Ztschr. Med. Jahrb,, xvii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 298. Duchek objects to Garrod's view, that the cause of scurvy is a deficiency of potash in tlie blood, the results of six examinations. He found in all these patients that the potash and soda, as well as all the constituents of the urine, diminish during the increase of the disease. The potash, how- ever, was notably less diminished than the soda. Citric Acid in Acute Rheumatism. Repert. de Pharmacie, Jan., 1861. 5s8 o. hora, day and n^ght, produced rapid improvement in forty-three out of forty-five cases.144 EEPOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Animal Baths. QEsterrh. Ztscbr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 36, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 37. The contents of the first stomach of recently killed animals are poured into a tub in which the bather sits, the temperature being maintained or elevated by the introduction of steam. Arthritic, rheumatic, and strumous affections, sprains, periostitis, contractions, and various other diseases, are said to be treated in this manner with great advantage. Phosphate of Ammonia in Rheumatism. Deutsch Klinik, 34, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 17^. Bergson has found this remedy efficacious when others have failed. He gives 5ij in 7 oz. of vehicle daily. Arseniate of Soda in Scrofulosis. Bull, de Therap., hx, i860. Bouchut recommends this remedy strongly. Extract of Olive Leaves {spirituous). Ann. de Therap., 1861, p. 187. Found effectual in agues, neuralgias, and hectic fever. Glycerole Chlorate of Potash. Ann. de Therap., 1861, p. 114. Recommended as a topical disinfectant of unhealthy wounds. NERVOUS SYSTEM. Leubuscher, R.—The Diseases of the Nervous System. Leipzig, Engel- mann, i860. Hasse. Exposition of the Diseases of the Nervous Apparatus from the Anatomico - pathological point of view. Second half of the first division of vol. iv of Virchow's Manual of Special Pathology and Therapeutics. Erlangen, F. Enke, 18 ■59. Calmeil.—Treatise on the Inflammatory Diseases of the Brain. Paris, J. B. Ballifere and Son, 1859. Canst. Jahrsb., vol. iii, p. a. KOEHLER, H.—Monograph of Spinal Meningitis from Clinical Observa- tions. Leipzig and Heidelberg Winters Verlag., 1861. Canst. Jahrsb., vol. iii, p. 16. ^ , , Laboulbene.— Visceral Neuralgias. Paris, Labe, i860. Canst. Jahrsb., vol. iii> p. 28. SiGARET, Gn.—On Muscular Anaesthesia. Thesis, Strasbourg, i860. Canst., Jahresber. vol. iii, p. 34- Sellteii, Em.—Ore the Nature and Seat of certain isolated Palsies of Sensibility. Thesis, Strasbourg, i860. lb. Heine, J. v.—Spinal Paralysis in Children, and edition, Ootta, istutt- gart, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 70. Image, W. E.—Softening of the Left Cerebral Hemisphere around a hard Cretaceoxis Nucleus. Arch, of Med., Jan., 1861. Child, G. \N.—Extensive Softening of the Left Posterior Lobe of the Brain, with Symptoms like those of Delirium Tremens. lb.NEUVOUS SYSTEM. 145 VoGT, W.—0?! Cerebral Apoplexy, and its Treattnent. Schw. Mon. Schr., V, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol, iii, p. 295. Gomez DE Valle.—Thvo Cases of Acute Ascending Paralysis. L'Union, 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 299. Donaldson. — Case of Tetanus treated by Stimulation; recovery. Madras. Q. Journ. Lend. Med. Rev., Aug., 1861. DupUY and Pescheux.— Traumatic Tetanus treated successfidly by Sub- cutaneous Injections of Sidphate of Atropine. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, May. Journ. de Progres, 16. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 46. Buchanan and Watson.— Cases of Traumatic Tetanus—(a) ivith Vale- rian, died; {b) with Cannabis Indica, recovered. Glasgow Med. J. Jan., 1861. Reid, Jos.—On the Treatment of Tetanus by Liquor Potassce. Lancet, Jan. 29th. Grantham, J.—Case of Idiopathic Tetanus. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th. Crane.— Cases of Idiopathic Tetanus treated by Belladonna internally and by subcutaneous injection of Atropine; death. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th. Conway.—Traumatic Tetanus cured by Tartarized Antimony in large doses (2 cases). Bullet. Gener. de Therap., May 30th, i860. Brit. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1861. Wells.—Chronic Trismus in a Child; Absence of the "arbor vitae^^ of the Cerebellum. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 21st. DuRRANT, C. M.—Case of Chorea from Fright, in a Child. Brit. Med, Journ., Oct. 12th. Labrie.—Case of Chorea (severe), successfully treated by large doses of Tartar Emetic. Lond. Med. Rev., 1861. Paris, H.—Case of Rebellious Chorea cured by the application of Flying Blisters to the Neck. Gaz. des H6pit., 57. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 41. PEA.COCK.—Clinical Retnarks on Chorea. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd. Five Cases of Chorea, one fatal. Lancet, March 2nd. Handfield Jones.—Cases of Chorea. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th, MosLER. — On (a Case of) Chorea preceding the appearance of the Catamenia. Deutsche Kliuik, 30, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 45. Ellis, R.—Om a Case of Chorea. Lancet, June ist. Long.—0« the Comparative Value of the Antimonial and Arsenical Treatment in Chorea {latter succeeded best). Bullet. General de Therap., Oct. 15th, i860. RoDRiGUEs. —i?ewe/«aZ Action of Cotyledon umbilicus in Epilepsy. Gaz. Med. de Lisbon, No. 12, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii p 74 llo^mvG.—Epilepsy cured by severe Counter-irritation; Inflaimnation and brangrene from Tartar-emetic Ointment. Berliner Med Zto- No. 13. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 74. ' °'' LALon.J.-CasesofDeathin Epilepsy from Suffocation, caused by the Regurgitation of Food from the Stomach into the Larynx. Journ. of Mental Science, Oct., 1861.hepout on practical medicine. 146 Demeaux.—On Bnmkenness considered as a Cause of Epilepsy. Monit. des Sc. Med., No. 120. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. ai. Rabe.—Epileptoid Attacks, Hemiplegia caused by an Insect in the Exter- nal Auditory Meatus. Gaz. des Hopit., 123. Caust. Jaliresber., vol. iii, p. 21. Eiyht Cases 0/Epilepsy associated with Syphilis. Med. Times and Gaz., June 23nd, July 20tli. Crosby, T. B.—Report of a Case of Epileptiform Convulsion; death. Deposit of bone on the surface of the brain ; rupture of aneurism of the basilar artery; history of hydrocephalus in early life; cure by paracentesis capitis. Med, Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd. Sankey.—Beneficial Effects of Belladonna in Epilepsy (case). Brit. Med. Journ., March 23rd. Thiercelin.—Treatment of Epilepsy by Curare. Bull. Gdn. de TWrap., Dec, i860. Edin. Med. Journ., March. Meissner, H.—Case of " Catalepsia Cerea," Epileptic Convulsioris of the Right side, with Paralysis of the same; Death after four days ; Epithelioma of the Dura Mater. Zeitschrf. Nat. Med., ser. iii, vol. i. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 77. WiLKs.—Cases and Clinical Remarks relative to the Use of Bromide and Iodide of Potassium in Epilepsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Decem- ber 21 St. TaoussEAO and Lecoq.—On " Ataxic locomotnce progressive." L'Union, 12, i^, 20, 1861. Arch. Gen., June, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 11 a, p. 26. Lecoq.—Two Cases of " Ataxic locomotrice progressive." Arch. G^n. de Med., June, 1861. NoKAT.—Cuse of " Ataxic musculaire," loith Diseased Kidneys, but Somid Nervous Centres. Gaz. des Hopit., 78. ' Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 21. LuYS.—Progressive Muscular Atrophy, with Disease of the Gray Sub' stance of the Spinal Cord. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 46. Van Holsbeck.—On Sempstresses' Palsy. Bull. Gen. de Th^r., July 16th. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 12th. HoBAiiT, H.—Severe Headache cured by the use of the Turkish Bath. Dublin Q. Journ. of Med. Science, August. Hemming, J. H.—On the Prevention of Tuberculous Meningitis in In- fants. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 26th FiEDLEK.—Case of Atrophy of the Cerebellum. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 25. Henle and Pfeuf. Ztschr., ix, 1861. Savignac, Delioux de.—Cases of latent Cerebral Affection. Gaz. de Paris, 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 25. WuNDERLiCH, C. A.—Nitrate of Silver in progressive S2nnal Palsy. Arch. d. Heilk., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., 112, p. 26. Jackson, E.—Singular Case of a Tumour of the Brain, probably of a Scrofulous Nature. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. Henoch.— On the Syphilitic Paralysis of Infants. Deutsche Kliuik. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Betbeuer.—Ether Compresses in Neuralgia. Ann. de Therap., 1861. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861.NERVOUS SYSTEM. Bauracu, i.—l!fficacy of Strychnia in Hay-fever. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. • ■ o Falcone 11, R. yf.—Saturnine Poisoning, Colic, Gout, Constrictive bpasm of the Fingers; cure by the Bath Mineral Waters. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 2nd. . , z 77 Enos and Clark.—Two Cases of Uncysted Disease of the Cerebellum ; rotation in one, hemiplegia and loss of co-ordination in the other. Amer. Med. Times, Sept. 14th. WooDHOusE, T. J.—Coma from an uncertain Cause {Scarlatina ?) Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. loth. Grisolle.—Ow the Employment of Opium in large doses, and Inhalations of Chloroform, in Idiopathic Tetanus. (Prefers opium.) Bullet. Geu. de Therap., Jan. 15th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. BoURGUiGNON.—Some Observations on the Functional Disorders induced by a prolonged abode in Great Cities. L'Union Med., June iith, 1861. Abbotts Smith, W.—Paraplegia occurring in Young Children, induced by Exposure to Wet and Cold. Lancet, Aug. 17th. Carey, F. E.—Four Cases of Delirium Tremens successfully treated by large doses of Tincture of Digitalis, Medical Times and Gaz., Aug. 24tb. Stanislas, M.—Local Application of Valerian as an Antiperiodic, Bull. de Therap., Ix, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 167. AVESi.— Camphorates of Quinine, Morphia, and Strychnine. Bull.de Therap., Ix, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 167. RiNTEL.—Two Cases of Nervous Disease. Med. Cent. Zeitung, xxix, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p. 170. Mayer, A.—Case of Cholesteatoma of the Brain. Wien Med., Halle, i, 8, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p. 170. Oppolzeh.—Two Cases of Convulsive Spasm of the Facial Nerve. Wien. Woclienbl., 6—8, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p. 171. Ramskill.—Paraplegia from Spinal Meningitis ; recovery. Paraplegia from Spinal (Rheumatic) Congestion and Effusion. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st. Marston, J. A.—Case of Acute Cerebral Softening occimnng in a Patient the subject of Acute Morbus Brightii, and attended with contraction of the flexors of the upper extremities and paralysis of the tongue. Edin. Med. Journ., Sept. Handeield Jones, C.—On Simple or Neurolytic Paralysis. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 7th. EcHEVERRA, G.—Lectures on Diseases of the Nervous System. Amer. Med. Times, May nth, i8th, and 25th; June ist. Hammond, W. A.—Clinical Lecture on Chronic Myelitis. Amer. Med, Times, June 15th. SAiiT>9.—Fibro-nucleated Tumour of Brain. American Medical Times June 22nd. * EcHEVERUA a.—Remarks on Atrophic Fatty Palsy in Infancy. Amer. Med. Times, July 13th. " j PxoiiRY.—Case of Muscular Pain of old standing rapidly cured byllEPORT ON PRACTICAL JfEDICINE. 148 Shampooing. Gaz. des Hopit., No. 49. Ciinst, Jaliresb., vol. iii, p. 27. Beau.—On Hepatic Colic. Gaz. des H6pit., No, 74. Canst. Jahrsb., vol. iii, p. 31. BoURGUiGNON.—Neuralgia of the Bladder. L'Union Mdd., Noe. 33, 35. Canst. Jahrsb., vol. iii, p. 32. Thielmann.—Case of Sempstresses' Cramp cured by Quinine and Opium. Med. Ztg. Russlands, 1859, ^o- 44- Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 46. IIoPPE, J.—Case of Clonic Spasm of the Aural Muscles and of the Oc- cipito-frontalis. Berliner Med. Ztg., No. 26. Canst. Jahrsb., vol. iii, p. 46. Gauchet, a.—Two Cases of Idiopathic Contraction in Pregnant Women. Union Med., 98, 99. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 49. Beiinard, Cl.— Case of Spasm of the Glottis in a Man cet. 52, cured by the endermic application of Morphia, Union Med., 18^9, No. 144. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 5^. NoTTA.—Case of Neuralgic Facial Paralysis cured by the endermic appli- cation of Strychnia. Union Med., No. 30. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 56. Remak.—Extraordinary Case of Facial Paralysis. Deutsche Klinik, No. 20. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. ^7. KcssMATJL, A.—Tivo Cases of Paraplegia without demonstrable Anato- 7nical or Toxic Cause. Erlangen, 1859. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 60. Gubleb, a.—On Palsies in their relations with acute Diseases, and spe- cially on the asthenic, disuse Paralyses of Convalescents. Archiv. Gener., March, April, May, June, Aug., Dec. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 68. ' Horning.— Case of Degeneration of the Pons Varolii. Berlinen Med, Ztg., 9. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 5. DcpuY.—Note on a Case of Abscess of the Cerebellum. Arch. Gen., Aug. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 5. Fritz and Luton.—Note respecting two Cases of Coagulation of the Blood in the Cerebral Sinuses. Bull, de la Soc. Anat., Feb. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 8. Jakscii.—Thi-ee Cases of Traumatic Cerebral Inflammation. Prag. Vier- teljahrschr., vol. i. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 14. Oppolzee.—Acute Inflammation, with partial Softening of the Spinal Cord. Spitals-Zeitung, Nos. i, 2, 3. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 18. Baierlachek.— Contribution to the Symptomatology of Tumours in the Spinal Cord. Deutsche Klinik, 31. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 19. \incuow.— Case of Malignant Neuroma. Deutsche Klinik, 39. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 20. , r • Brochin.—Polydipsia and Polyuria consecutive to Cerebral Lesions. Gaz. des Ilopit., March lolh. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 22. BoNS.—Case of Periodic Loss of Coiisciousness, caused by Assafoetida. Berliner Med. Ztg., No. 3. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 22. Clasen.—0?i Oleum Terebinth, as a Specific in Neuralgia. Deutsche Klinik, No. 25. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 23.149 NERVOUS SYSTEM. KicUAitD and Veuhakgue.—Subcidanous Injections of Atropine and Morphia in Neuralgia. Gnz. Ilebdom., No. 27. Jonrn. des Connais. MtJd., July 30th. Annales de la Soc. Med. de Bruges, May and July. Canst. Jaliresb., vol. iii, p. 23. BETBEDEii.-^T/ra/'wew^ of Neura/ffia by local application of Ether. Gaz. Hebdomad., i860, No. 13. Canst. Jaliresb., vol. iii, p. 23. Bergson.—On Brachial Neuralgia. Annali Univers., Jan.—Oct., i860, Milan. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 26. BouiiGUiGNON.—Neuralgia of the Skin. Gaz. des Hopit., Nos. 41, 42. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 27. Maljisten.—C«z>ii;?/ in the Cerebellum. Ilygiea, Aug., 1859. Dub. Med. Press, April 24tb. Duake, N.—Case of circumscribed Encephalitis terminating in BamoUisse- ment and purulent Infiltration. Amev. Med. Times, Jan. 26th. Lente, F. D.— Cruveilhier's Atrophy of the Upper Extremity from Injury of the Wrist-joint {?); recovery under the use of Faradization. Amer. Med. T., Feb. ptb. EcliEvEiiRiA, G.—Cases of Reflex Paraplegia, Amer. Med. Times, March 30th. BiERBAUM.— Oil the diagnosis of Essential Paralysis (^Functional). Berliner Med. Ztg.^Nos. 11, 12, 13. Canst. Jaliresb., vol. iii, p. 70. Marquez. — Paralysis succeeding Non-diphtheritic Angina. Gaz. de Strasb., 10, i860. Scbmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 295. BoURGAiiEL.—Case of Somnambidism. L'Union, 6, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 297. MosLER, r.— Case of Catalepsy. Virch. Arch., xx, i and 2. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. no, p. 297. Legeoux.—Sulphuric Acid as a Caustic in Sciatica, successfidly used after the failure of 'narcotic hypodermic Injections. Gaz. des Hopit. Ann. par Jamain, i86i, p. 75. D'Eggs.—Report of an Epidemic Convidsive Neurosis obsei'ved at the Training School for Primary Teachers at Strasbourg. Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 82. Vautier.—Neuralgia accmnpanied by Beafiess cured instaiitaneously by the Extraction of a Tooth. Gaz. des Hopit. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 90. Aran.—Note on the remarkable effects produced by Chloroform adminis- tered internally and externally in the treatment of Spasmodic Con- traction of the Extremities. Bullet, de Thcrap. Ann. par Jamain, i86x, p. 105, Newman, W.—Case illustrating the antagonistic effects of Opium and Belladonna. Brit. Med. Journ., July 13th. Meissner, H.—Case of one-sided Chronic Hydrocephalus. Archiv d. lieilk., ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p. 28. WiLKs and O'Connor.— Cases of Hemiplegia following Shocks of Elec- tricity. Lancet, July 27th and Sept. 14th. Vmw^.—Hemiplegia suddenly induced by Spo7itaneous Coagulation of Blood in the Anterior Cerebral Arteries; death. Lancet, July 27th. Seventeen Cases of Paralysis associated with Syphilis. Med.' Times and Gaz., July 27th, Aug. loth, Nov. 2nd. 11150 nEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Boone, IT. W.—Hemicrania with Epileptic Attaclcs cured by hypodermic Injections (if Morphia. Aiiier. Med. T., Sept., i860. Bratscii.—Statistics of Resections of the Brtniclies of the Fifth Pair. Bayer Aerztl. Intell. BL, 41, i860. Schmidt's Jaliib., vol. 109, RoESKR.—Advantage of the Actual Cautery and of Pot. lod. in Para- plegia. Memoinb., v. n, i860. Scliinidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 30. ScilOLZ.—Case of Prosopalgia from a Cranial Tumour. AVien. Med. Wchiisclir., 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 31. Schramm.—On {Malarious) Neuralgia Mesenterica. Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. Bl., 42, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 31. Chambers, T. K.—On Bloodletting in Apoplexy (Clin. Lect.) Brit. Med. J., June 8th. Mayne, R.—Acute Softening of the Medulla Spinalis; Tumour in the Medulla Oblong. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May 15th. Ejpilepsy and Paralysis from Artificial Teeth. Boston Med. and Surg. J. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May i,5lh. Du Bois-Reymond, E.—On Hemicrania (^observed in his own person). Arch. f. Anat. Pliys. u, Wissensch. Med., Part 4, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. MouTAUD Martin.—A Case of Polydipsia following Cerebral Disturbance. Arch. Gene'r. de Med., March, i860. Br. and For. Med.-Chir. Kev,, Jan. O'Connor.—Cases of Facial paralysis. Symptomatic, Organic, Mecha- nical. Dublin Q. Journ. of Med. Sc., Feb., 1861. Levick.—AncEmia from prolonged Lactation, Softening of the Brain. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861. Lente, F. D.—Sulphuric Ether and Chloroform as Ancesthetics, considered with reference to their relative safety and efficiency. (Prefers ether.) Amer. J. of Med. Sc., April, 1861. Gore, W. R.—Case of Hydrophobia. Dublin Med. Press., Jan. 9th, 1861. Ord, J. L.—Chloroform and Tinct. Opiiin a Case of Traumatic Tetanus; recovery. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., April, 1861. Roberts, W.—On some of the more unusual Forms of Paralysis. Loud. Med. Rev., Jan. and Feb., 1861. Macswiney, S. M.—Case of Cranial Extravasation. Dublin Med. Press, Jan. 9th, 1861. Moore, W.—Clinical Observations on the Paralysis and Atrophy from Lead-poisoning. Dublin Med. Press, July 3rd, 17th, Aug. ;th. Death of a Sausage-eater from Hydatid Sacs (4) in the Pons Varolii. Dub. Med. Press, July 3rd. Pickells, W.—Notes of Cases of Hydrophobia. Dublin Med. Iress, July 17th, 31st. , ^ . . , Robinson, A. \\.—Affection of Vision from Spinal Irritation, lierk- shire Medical Journ., July, 1861. Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, Oct., 1861. Russell, J.—On Sleeplessness. Brit.Med. Journ.,Mny25th,Nov.9th, i6tli. Paxton, 3.—On Spinal Irritation. Glasgow Medical Journal, Oct., 1861.151 NERVOUS SYSTEM. V. GiiAEFE.—On the Antagonistic Action of Opium and Belladonna. Deutsche Kllnik, i6, 1861. Sclimidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 165. De Saviunac— Case of Cancer of the Brain. Gaz. de Pans, 24, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 174- Du Bois-Reymond, E., and Brown-Sequakd, E.—Ow Hemicrama. Arch. f. Annt. u. Phys., i860. Journ, de Physiol., iv, I861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 175. Boys de Louiiy. — Syphilitic Tumour of the Cranial Bones. Gaz. Hebd., vii, 39, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 183. Blachez and hvxs.—Case of Meningitis, probably of Syphilitic Origin. Gaz. Hebd., viii, 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 183. Beyean.—On Syphilis and Syphilitic Paralysis. L'Union, 88, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 184. Burdel.—Cff5e of Syphilitic Hemiplegia. Bull, de Therap., Feb., i86i. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 184. Spender, J. K.—On the Hypodermic Action of Atropia. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 23rd. * Leared, a.—On Acupuncture in the treatment of Muscular Rheumatism, and on Galvanism in Rheutnatic Paralysis. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th. BouDiN.—On Rabies Canina. Union M^dic, No. 136. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th. O'Connor.—Cases of Paralysis in Syphilitic Patients. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 7th. Kennedy, H.—Some further Observations on the Paralysis of Early Life. Dublin Q. Journ. of Med. Science, Nov., i86i. McDowEL, B. G.—History of a Case of Paraplegia depending on a Tumour in the Spinal Cord, with observations. Dublin Q. Journ. of Medical Sc., Nov., 1861. Weber, H.—^ Contribution to the Pathology of the Pons Varolii. Med.- Chir. Trans., 1861. Down, J. L. H.—Account of a Case in which the C. Callos. and Fornix were imperfectly formed, and the Septum Lucidum and Commissura Mollis were absent. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Hutchinson, J., and Jacksok.—Cases of Paralysis of the Portio Dura. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th. RiCHET.—Vast Abscess of the Brain, without Symptoms. Gaz. Hebdomad., No. 46, Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th. Gairdner, \V. T.—Epidemic of Hyst eria in a Reformatory Listitution; Hysterical Mania from a severe mental shock, ynoral treatment of such cases. Delirium Tremens; three characteristic cases; treat- ment should be for the most part without drugs or stimulants. Lancet, May 4th. Discussion at Berlin on Diphtheritic Parahjsis. Med. Times and Gaz . May 18th. Gairdner, W. T.—ParaZy«i« of the Portio Dura {peripheral) on loth sides of the Face. Lancet, May i8th. Eight Cases of Abscess of the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd.UEPOllT ON PHACTICAL MEDICINK. 152 Skaii'e, 3.—Case of Abscess of the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9tli. Burrows.—.^cMife Myelitis and Paraplegia. Med. Times and Gaz., I\lnrch 9th. Greenhow, Huadlam.—0?z the Treatment of the Local Irritation earned hj contact with certain species of Acelephai. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan, 5th, DUNCALFE.—On Chronic Cerebral Disease. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 13th. Gore, W. ^i.—Remarkable Case of Hydrophobia. Dublin Med. Pres?, Jan. 9th. Case of Incised Wound of the Spinal Cord. L'Union M6d., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 9th, Chambers, T. ^.—Clinical Lecture on Sciatica. Brit. Med. Journ., March 9tli. Baillarger.—Case of Acephalo-cyst of the Brain. Gaz. des H6pit., Jan. 15th. Brit. Med. Journ., March i6th. Waters.—Case of Disease of one Corpus Striatum. Brit. Med. Journ,, May 4th. McSwiNEY.—Obscure Case of Lesion {meningeal extravasation) within the Cranium. Dublin Hosp, Gaz., Jan. Ist. Mayne, R.—On the Cerebral Complications of Phthisis; Case. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March ist. Gairdnek and Haldane.—Two Cases of Tumour at the base of the Brain, with remarkably contrasted symptoms. Edin. Med. Journ., March. Trousseau.—On Neuralgia as complicating Chlorosis. Journ. de Med. et de Chir. pratique, Feb., 1861. Edin. Med. Journ.. April. Little, R.—A short account of two Fatal Cases of Heat Apoplexy, which occurred in August last on board the Steamer " Colombo" on her voyage from Sues to Aden. Edin. Med. Journ., May. Meyer, L.—On the Lnport of the Pacchionian Granulations. Virch. Archiv, xix, i, 3, 3, 4, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 43. Zeller.—Hemiplegia after (supposed Arsenical) Poisoning. Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., 32, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 44. HiLLAiRET. — Softening of the Cervical Enlargement of the Spinal Cord, with Motory and Sensory Paralysis of the Legs, Gaz. de Paris, 32, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 45. Mayer, A.—The Import of Dorsal Pains in Diseases of other Organs, and in General Diseases. Arch. d. Heilk., i, 4, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 47. J»Ierriman, S. W. J.—Ihjdrocephalus of fifteen years' duration, Tuber- cles at the base of the Lungs only, Gangrene of one Lung. Brit. Med. Journ., June ist. ScuEEiss, V.—Influence of the Nervous Force on the Process of Inflam- mation. Bayer, iirztl. Intell. Bl., 5, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p 219. Meyeii.—0« Electricity in the Treatment of Bisrree. V.qA. Time tiv.A Gaz., June 8th.NEUVOUS SYSTEM. 153 De Ricci.—Case of Chronic Subacute Arachnilis. Dublin Quart, Journ. of Med. Sc., May, 1861. • ^ , , JjEGRAND 1)U Saulle.—Case of extraordinanj JSeiirosis; Catalepsy. Annal. Med. Psychol., Jfin. Canst. Jahresb., vol. 111, p. 77. PuTEGNAT.—0?i Sliontaneous Hydrophobia. Gaz. Hebdom., No, 23. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 78. , j a -i Guos.—Cose of Hydrophobia. Bullet, de la See. Anat., March and April. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 78. Beau.—0« Hysteria. Gaz. des Hopit,, 88, 90. Canst, Jahresb., vol. in, CuAJiiBEUS, T. K.—Clinical Lecture on Hysteria. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec, 2ist. Veacock—Hysterical Contraction of Neck and Bach; treatment by large doses of Sulphate of Zitic and Chloroform Inhalations. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 21st. LiGEOis.—Physiological Study of the Phenomena observed in a Female affected with Hysterical Paralysis. Gaz. des H6pit., 24. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 78. Mesnet.—Case of Somnambulism. Arch. Gen6-., Feb. Canst, Jahresb., vol. iii, p, 78. Philippson.—Case of Idio-somnambidism. Deutsche Klinik, 29. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 78. LuiGi, C.—Hypochondriasis and primitive Spontaneous Chronic Dilata- tion of the Stomach. Gazz. Med. Ital. Stati Sardi., 12—16. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p, 84. SiEVEKiXG.—Clinical RetnarTcs on Neuralgia. Lancet, Jan. 12th, 19th, 26th ; Feb. 2nd, 9th, Sieveking remarks that neuralgia is essentially a disease of middle life, prevailing most in the fourth decennial period. Out of sixty-five cases thirty were males. He gives several cases illustrating the usual modes of treatment. Bedford Bkown.—Effect of Chloroform on the Cerebral Circulation. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Oct,, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th. Brown found, during the inhalation of chloroform, the exposed brain of a boy, ret. 10, to become anaemic and shrunken, while previously it had been florid, injected, and bulging. D YCE Duckworth.—Observations on the Physiological Action ofAconitina. Brit. Med. Journ., March 2nd. Duckworth considers that, as a rule, the pupil is more or less contracted, dilating enormously a few moments before and at the time of death. The mode of death, wlien a large dose is given, is either by direct cardiac syncope or by a powerfully sedative impression on the nervous system, the nction of the heart ceasing, and no convulsions taking place. With smaller doses the heart's action is gradually enfeebled, ancUhe pulmonary and systemic circulation go on very slowly, while the respiration becomes slow and the venous system engorged.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154. Trousskau.—On Apojilcctifovm Cerebral Congestion. L'Union Med., Jan. 17th, 22ncl, 31st, nnd Feb. ^tli. Brit. Med. Journ., March 161I1. Troiissenu lins been gradunlly led to the conclusion that in tlie cases to which this term is commonly applied there is no cerebral congestion at all, but that the phenomena are of an epileptic nature, or even allied to syn- cope. The symptoms in the cases alluded to are as follows:—A man suddenly falls down as if stricken by apoplexy, is taken up in a state of stupor, and for a quarter of an hour, or even longer, remains more or less in the same condition; or there may be sudden giddiness, loss of sight and speech, and staggering, which pass away in a few seconds or minutes. Alderson, J.—Case of Clot in the Cerebellum. Brit. Med. Journ., March 23rd. In this case there were uo symptoms except intense boring pain in the occipital region and constant bilious vomiting. Within two hours of her death she was pei'fectly sensible. The pain set in suddenly fourteen days before death. Thamhayn, 0,—Report on Tetanus, embodying the most recent Researches, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, pp. 210—234. Thamhayn has collected from various sources 778 cases, and from these he deduces inferences and conclusions as to the main points in the history of the disease. He seems to estimate highly the researches of Rokitansky and Demme as to its pathological anatomy, which he thinks explain many symptoms, though they have not revealed the cause of the disease. The zymotic view of its nature seems to him most probable, the poison being generated in the wound or in the system. In the way of treatment he finds nothing new to recommend ; in particular, curare has not, in his opinion, yet established its claim to 1)6 used as a remedy. Meadows, D.—A Case of Tetanus of nearly fourteen months' duration. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Meadows's patient was a strong fisherman, set. 36, who had been kicked on the back of the neck during a quarrel about two months before the symptoms began. No trace of any injury was visible. Sedative treatment, which was of much avail for some time, lost its effect, and he died in a paroxysm. The brain was sound, there were several spots of effused blood on the cord, and a flattened clot, not recent, about the size of a sixpence, was found on the front of its cervical portion, opposite the fifth vertebra. Flechner, a. E.—Three Cases of Tetanus. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 13, 15, Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 46. In these fatal cases Flechner found in the spinal cord those new growths of connective tissue described by Demme and Rokitansky {vide 'Year-book' for i860). The lateral and anterior parts of the cord were chief seat of the deposit. Trousseau.—On Tetanilla. Gaz. des Hfipit., No. 44. Canst. Jahresb.. vol. iii, p. 49.NEEVOrS SYSTEM. 155 Under the above name Trousseau describes a paroxysmal disorder pre- ceded by formication, and consisting in contraction of the hands, arms, or lower limbs, one or all being affected, unattended with pain or fever. Tliis is the mildest form, but in graver the whole body becomes involved, and the condition merges into tetanus. The fingers are invariably drawn up into a cone. The duration of the disease is from ten to fourteen days. Trousseau regards the disease as of rheumatic character ; its most frequent exciting causes are diarrhoea and lactation. Death has only occurred in one case. Venesection, if the strength permit, followed by quinine, is the best treatment. McDowell, R.—Tetanus in Ceiitral America. Lancet, Sept. 7th. McDowell mentions that the disease is very fatal in these regions, and that there is a popular conviction that it is always induced by exposure to currents of cold air or to wet. WoAKES, E.—Case of Traumatic Tetanus, successfully treated by Tinct. Aconili; ivith suggestions on the use of Aconite in Strychnine Poison- ing. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. a6th. Woakes recommends aconite on the ground of its establishing an exactly opposite physiological condition to that which exists in tetanus, one, that is, of muscular repose, while its anodyne influence is undoubtedly advan- tageous. It is no antidote to strychnia in the sense of chemically destroy- ing it, but as a neutralizer of its action, the contractile power of the muscles being strongly excited by the one and powerfully relaxed by the other. While aconite is being administered the system should be sup- ported by stimulants. Hanna Thompson, W.— The Pathology of Tetanus. Amer. Med. Times, Feb. and and 9th. Thompson argues that tetanus results from the action through the circulation, in the nervous system, of a poison which, in traumatic cases. Is generated during the processes of healing or decomposition of the fluids about the wound. This poison multiplies itself like other zymotic poisons, till an explosion of symptoms occurs. He thinks the disease very analogous to hydrophobia. Medicines which act on the blood, as mercury, iron, or iodine, are, in his opinion, the best remedies. SiEVEKiNG, E.—Analysis of fifty-two Cases of Epilepsy observed by the Author. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. There were 29 males and 23 females ; 37 were below the age of twenty- one (dating from the time of the first paroxysm), 10 were from twenty- one to forty, and 5 from forty-one to sixty-eight years old. Hereditary taint was traced in 14. In 13 no predisposing or exciting cause could be de- tected; in the remainder uterine disorders or some exhausting nfl'ection were noted in the mnjority. Premonitory symptoms were observed in 21 cases, headache in 23. The tongue was bitten in 28. In the urine there was Nothing peculiar. Gray, E. B.—Crrse of Epilepsy, with lo^s of Speech and other complica- tions; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 9th. The fits occurred almost every hour of the day and night, were rather I3 56 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of the petit mal kind, and seemed attributable to excessive mental exertion. Tiieir recurrence seemed to be promoted by the recumbent posture. After four months they gradually ceased, pustulation of tlie neck having been induced by antimonial ointment. Gray believes that the cause of the fits was vascular congestion and disordered function of the medulla oblongata. Ayres, D.— On a Case of JEpileptiform Convulsion. Med. Crit. and Psycholog. Journ., Oct., 1861. Ayres's case had received a lacerated wound from a stone over the right frontal eminence, which left an indurated cicatrix. After the accident his temper became greatly altered—morose and irritable; he had vertigo and headache, and some dragging of the left leg. Occasionally he lost con- sciousness and fell. No treatment was of any avail, but, after trephining over the seat of the injury and removing a piece of healthy bone, recovery ensued. Ayres explains tiie good result of the operation on the view that it removed the irritation existing in the cicatrix, which bad always been the seat of painful sensations before the vertigo. Jakbch.—On Chorea, Prager Vierteljabrschr., vol. ii. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 41. Jaksch says that chorea essentially consists in a disturbance of the law of isolated conduction of nervous impulses. The will acts not only on the muscles necessary to execute the intended act, but upon others also. The more complex is the muscular act, the more extensive are the invo- luntary movements. The essential concernment of the will is apparent from the cessation of the movements during sleep. Tdrnbull, J.—On the Physiological and Medicinal Properties of Sul- phate of Aniline, and its use in the treatment of Chorea. Lancet, Nov. i6th. TurnbuU records six cases, two of them very severe ones, in which the drug effected a cure. He has tried it also in epilepsy and in a case of jerking of the bead with benefit. • It produces, after several doses, a peculiar blueness of the lips, the tongue, and the nails, and a dusky appearance of the complexion, which disappears within twenty-four hours after leaving off the medicine. Turnbull believes this effect to result from the production of a blue dye during the oxidation of the aniline in the blood, in the same way as carbazotic acid produces a yellow. DucHENNE.—Progressive Muscidar Paralysis of the Tongue, Soft Palate, and Lips. Gaz. llebdom. de M6d. et de Chir., Jan i8th, 1861. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. The muscles of the tongue are generally first affected ; some months later those of the soft palate, and after them the orbicularis oris. At a later period paroxysms of dyspnoea and of syncope supervene, and become more frequent as the end of the disease approaches. Before ibis arrives articulate speech is wholly lost, as well as deglutition, and the patients become gradually weaker from inanition. The shortest duration observed157 NEIIVOTJS SYSTEir. is one year, the longest three. No treatment has as yet_beeu of any avail. ■ . DUCHENNE —On Functional Cramp and Functional Paralysis of Muscles. Bull de Tlie'rap., Iviii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 299. Duchenne gives these names to a disease, winch is characterised either by k'^tin"- painful, or painless contractions, or by clonic spasm and tre- mulous m°ovements, or by paralysis. Tlie commonest example of it is the "writer's cramp," but it may appear in any part where the muscles are over-exerted. Instances are given of its affecting the arm, the foot, and even the abdominal muscles. It is distinctive of the disorder that it only shows itself when certain voluntary or habitual movements are made. Duchenne is inclined to consider the actual seat of the disorder to be, not in the aiTected muscles, but in some point of the nervous centres. Local Faradization is unavailing in most cases, and no other treatment is more successful. The prognosis is consequently unfavorable. DCCHENNE.— Autopsy of a Case of Progressive Paralysis of the Tongue, Palate, and Lip. Gaz. Hebd., viii, 12, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 26. ^ , . , , . No change discoverable by the naked eye could be found in the brain or in the cord. The arteries at the base were atheromatous. The para- lysed muscles were normal. Haupt.—On Writers' Cramp, loith respect to Pathology and Treatment. Wiesbaden, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 44. Haupt adopts Zuradelli's view, that this affection depends primarily on a paralysis of certain muscles used in writing, and that the spasm of their antagonists is secondary. The disorder is associated with squinting, stuttering, choreal symptoms, and various other neuroses, and the rheu- matic seem to be predisposed to it. Electricity to the palsied mus- cles, cold douches to the spine, regulated gymnastic exercises, are advised as remedies. TUPPERT, A.—On the Treatment of Writers' Cramp. Aerztl. Intell. Bl., No. 24. Canstatt's Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 44. Tuppert has obtained some benefit from dividing the tendons of the affected muscles, and recommends the early and constant employment of a bandage to the wrist. Klencke, H.;—The Cure of Stuttering. Leipzig, KoUmann, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 43. Klencke views this disorder as essentially dependent on a scrofulous habit or tendency. His method of cure consists in systematic exercise of the organs of speech. The patient must first learn to breathe regularly and di-eply; then to practise the formation of sounds; and, lastly, they proceed to exercises in speech. In fifteen years he has cured 146'out of 148 cfTses. Friedberc—Oh the Semiotic Import of Involuntary Circular Movement {reitenhahngang), and on Involuntary Rotation on the Lo7ig Axis of theBody. Arch. d. lieilk., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 24.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIKE. 158 Friedberg's conclusions are—(i) The two symptoms in question indi- cate an nffection of the varolian criis cerebelli mostly combined with one of the hemisplieres of the cerebellum on the same side ; (2) it is not shown that the above symptoms appear when the cerebellar hemisphere alone is affected ; (3) nor are the symptoms constant in cases of disease of the hemisphere and of its crus ; (4) when other symptoms of cerebral irritation are present, the seat of the irritating cerebellar affection may be located on tliat side towards which the curve of the circular movement is directed, or from which the rotation starts; (5) "when other symptoms of cerebral irritation are present we may look for the seat of a paralysing affection of the cerebellar hemisphere and its varolian crus on that side from which the curve of the circular movement starts, or to which the rotation of the body is directed. Franque, V.—O71 Hysterical Convulsions. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 5, i860. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 110, p. 30. From examination of seventy-three patients, Franque maintains that the convulsive attacks are always occasioned by determinate external causes, that they always set out from a determinate point, and follow a determinate direction, which is *dependent on the physical and psychical idiosyncrasy of tlie patient. More than half were induced by psychical influences, the remainder by bodily affections. Tardieu.— On the Preventive Treatment of Hydrophobia. Ann. de Th^rap., 1861, p. 286. Tardieu insists on the immediate use of the actual cautery as the sole reliable means of preventing the risk of fatal mischief. Gull, W.—On Paralysis of the Loioer Extremities consequent upon dis- ease of the bladder and Kidneys {Urinary Paraplegia). Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, 1861. Gull maintains that the symptoms of urinary affection are not the cause, but the consequence, of commencing disease in the nervous centre, just as gastric symptoms are often the first indication of cerebral disease. He insists strongly on the dependence of the normal functions of the sympa- thetic on the integrity of the spinal system. He further charges writers on the subject with accepting the mere muscular weakness often asso- ciated with prostatic and vesical disease for partial p.iraplegia. On repeat- ing Brown-Se'quard's experiments, Gull was unable to produce any con- traction of the spinal vessels, which, indeed, are very scanty, by irritating the renal nerves, nor did paralysis ensue in the lower limb corresponding to that side on which the kidney was irritated or the supra-renal capsule removed. The recorded cases of urinary paraplegia show, in Gull's opinion, that it is the inflammatory condition of the affected organs which leads to paralysis, and not mere irritation. This inflammatory condition extends through continuous structures to the cord itself, and causes the paralysis. EcHEVERRiA, G.—What is Uefex Paraplegia? Amer. Med. Times, July 20th. Echeverria, admitting that contraction of the blood-vessels of the cordNERVOUS SYSTEM. 159 has an important share in the production of reflex paralysis, maintains that its over-excited incitability through the sympathetic has no less in- fluence. Gaiednek, Lockhart Clarke, Adamson, and Bell.—0« an important Case of Muscular Atrophy, accompanied with Disease of the Spinal Cord. Arch, of Med., Oct., 1861. P—, set. 65, suffered about five years before his death from neuralgic pains in the balls of the thumbs, which extended ere long to the forearms and arms. After some months marked weakness of the hands was appa- rent, as well as wasting of the muscles of the thumbs and index-fingers, which became habitually bent towards the palms, while subsequently the hands were flexed on the wrists, and the forearm pronated. His general health at this time was good, but it declined, and the pulse became acce- lerated before his death. Latterly he complained of the most intense pain in the arms and hands and throughout his body. No trace of lead afl'ection. No remedies were of any avail. In the later periods of the disease the patient manifested a pitiable state of mental irritability and hypochondriac depression. No disorder of intellect or of the special senses. At the autopsy no morbid change was found except some in- flammatory congestion and oedema about the larynx, some undue sub- araclinoid effusion, some shrinking and granular change of the right third nerve, and some granular alteration of the wasted muscles. The cerebellum, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, were examined minutely by Mr. L. Clarke, who detected in the posterior gray substance of the latter unnaturally transparent streaks, patches, or spots, occupied by a granular substance. These spots appeared to be most numerous about tlie middle of the cervical enlargement, and diminished upwards and downwards. In one of them a vacant space was found, with broken ends of nerve-fibres projecting into opposite sides of the space. Around the central canal of the cord and the medulla oblongata, and in the spinal anterior and posterior commissures, there was a considerable deposit of corpora amylacea. The floor of the fourth ventricle was covered with minute granular elevations, consisting of aggregations of the ordinary epithelial cells. Meyer.—On Pacchionian Gramdations. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th. Meyer considers that these are hypertrophied villi of the arachnoid, which are developed in consequence of the pulling and dragging produced by hypersemia and anaemia of the brain. They are sometimes highly developed in the median cranial fossa, and may then cause injury to the fifth nerve, attested in one case by neuralgia of all its branches and de- structive inflammation of the eye. Peacock,.T. B.—Notes on the Treatment of Delirium Tremens by large doses of Tincture of Digitalis. Med. Times and Gaz., August 3rd, 1861. Peacock adopts provisionally the following conclusions:—ist, that the drug, when exhibited in full doses, does not by any means produce the amount of depression which our previous experience of its action, in small and frequently repeated doses, would have led us to expect; and, and, that the remedy in conjunction with other means may probably be veryllKPOliT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIXK. Hserully employed in tlie treatment of certain cases <./ the disease, and especially wlien it occurs in young and robust persons, whose strength has not been broken down by prolonged habits of intemperance, and particu- larly when it arises as the immediate result of excessive spirit-drinking. Dawson, W.—On the use of Turpentine in Delirium Tremens. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. Dawson administers §ss of 01. Tereb. and gss of 01. Ricini in this dis- order, " with invariable success." Inman, T.—Ort some points of Cerebral Pathology. Lond. Med. Rev., March, 1861. Inman argues that the state of the brain in impending apoplexy ap- proaches to that of senile gangrene, and that the correct practice is to improve the nutrition of the enffebled part. Barclay and Janes.—On the Natural History ofInsolatio." Amer. Med. Times, July 6th. The predisposing causes are—(i) plethora and unacclimatization ; (2) all debilitating causes ; (3) inaction of the skin and bowels; (4) exposure to an atmosphere highly charged with electricity. Death occurs—(i) from the affection of the nervous system alone; (2) from (i) with arrest of the pulmonary circulation, or (3) with cerebral congestion; (4) from a subsequent severe febrile attack, with serous effusion within the cra- nium. The cold douche, blisters to the neck, sinapisms to the extremi- ties and chest, and purgative enemata, were found useful remedies. Inha- lation of chloroform was beneficial in some cases seized with convulsions from the first. BoNSDORFF. — Case of Alcoholophilia Pei;iodica, Hygiea, vol. xx. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 178. Bonsdorff regards this affection as a paralysis of the sympathetic nerves of the stomach. Huss relates a similar case. Hessert.—On Tuherculous Meningitis. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 5, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 28. Hessert communicates eight cases of meningeal tubercle which he ob- served. In tA\ but one chronic tuberculosis preceded, and in this there was rachitis and syphilis. Five of the eight patients were between two and ten years old. The first stage of the disease, i. e. to the commence- ment of somnolence, occupied three to thirteen d.iys ; the second, to death, one to five days. The course and symptoms of the disease were very various, the variety appearing to depend chiefly on the previous state of health. Continuous pain in the foreiiend or vertex, with exacerbations, •was always the first symptom, and lasted until consciousness was lost. Recovery is possible ; at least, obsolete tubercle has been found in the pia mater of children dying of other diseases. Hessert avoids ail lowering treatment, applies ice to the liead, keeps the bowels open, and gives, if the vomiting cease, quinine, and if the strength fail, vine. BOURROUSSE.—lofl^ne in Tubercular Meningitis. Monit. des Sc. Med., No. 73. Med. Times and Gaz., July i3lh.NEIIVOUS SYSTJiM. 161 Bourrousse thinks tliat all, or nlmost all, cases of tubercular meningitis are curable by Pot. Tod. IlEiiAKD. —Ort Menmgitis. Lancet, Sept. 14th. Herard draws attention to the existence of a sporadic form, which is strictly inflammatory in its character, and an epidemic, which is typhoid, and often attended with other typhoid symptoms, as diarrhoea, tympanitis, lenticular gpots, splenic enlargement. KoBERTSON, k—Cases of Induration of the Brain. Glasgow Med. Journ., Oct., 1861. The patients (three) were all drunkards, and suffered with gradual im- pairment of the mental faculties, accompanied by a steadily increasing stupor and paralysis of motion, and deficient sensation, and an eventual subsidence into a partial or complete comatose state. Treatment was useless. Di3 Ricci, H. R.—On Acute Arachnitis. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Aug., 1861. De Ricci relates two cases of non-tubercular acute meningitis, one fatal, the other saved by leeches to the head, mercurialisation, counter-irritation, preceded by active purgation. ScHULZ.—On the Behaviour of the Muscles, in Paralysis of the Facial Nerves, towards the induced and constant Electric Current. Wiener Med. Wochenschr., No. 27. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 57. Schulz finds that a weak continuous current, which scarcely affects the muscles of the sound side, produces in the paralysed niuscles manifest contractions on closing and opening the circuit. The induced current, on the contrarj', causes contractions of the healthy, and not of tiie para- lysed muscles. Schulz has succeeded in curing six cases of grave facial paralysis.by the continuous current. S£e, G.—On Paralyses consecutive to Diphtheria, Anginas, and Fevers. Union Med., No. 133. Canst. Jaliresber., vol. iii, p. 68. Se'e afiirnis the essential dependence of these disorders of motor power on anaesthesia, which occurs primarily. Treatment of Colic. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, Feb. i6tb. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th. Spt. yEth. S. CO. 5j, 01. Ricini, Syrupi, aa 5]. M. 5SS 0. i-hor^l. Cyanide of Potassium in NeuraUjia. Rev. de Th^rap. Med. Chir., 11, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 286. Roche recommends the application of a solution of about four and a half grains in one ounce of water to the affected part. Digitalis in Epilepsy. Bull, de Tlierap., li.x, i860. Duclos gives two cases of cure by one to three grains of the extract daily. • Treatment of Uemicrania hy Bebout's method. R. Qiiin. vel Cinclion. Sulph. gr. xlv, Pulv. Digitalis gr. x.xii, Syrupi q. s. M. ft. in pil. xx.x, sumat j 0. n. per trcs menses.lllLl'ORT ON PBACTICAL MEDICINK. In Lecture II stress is laid on the value of anatomical observation, as 16a Gkiesinger.—Diagnostic Remarica respecting Cerebral Diseases, Arch, d. Heilk., part i. Canst. Jaliresber., vol. iii, p. 3. Griesiiiger insists, first, on the distinctions between local and general diseases of the brain, and then lays down special marks whereby to dia- gnose the situation of tumours, &c. Pills of Assafoetida gr. ij, and Sulph. Morpli, gr. \, bisvelquater die sd., recommended in nervous sleeplessness. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, No. 19. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 23. Lamare-Picquot.—On the use of Arsenious Acid in Apoplectic Conges- tion. Bullet, de Therap. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 65. Lamare-Picquot administers arsenious acid in doses up to about one fifth of a grain in the day in all cases where he has reason to believe that the red globules are in excess in the blood. When they amount to more than 54 in 100 parts, signs of cerebral congestion ensue. By the use of arsenic the globules are diminished. Beown-S^quaud, C. E.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of the various forms of Paralytic, Convulsive, and Mental Affections, con- sidered as effects of morbid alterations of the Blood, or of the Brain, or of other organs. Lancet, July 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th; Aug. 17th, 31st; Oct. 26th. Brown-Sequard argues that the old view is quite untenable, which re- gards the various symptoms met with in cases of brain disease as directly depending on the loss of function of tlie diseased part. Hemiplegia, paralysis of the face, loss of speech, anaesthesia, alterations of the senses of sight, hearing, &c., epilepsy, catalepsy, loss of memory, delirium, various forms of insanity, may all, he says, be produced by some injury or disease of almost every part of the brain. He ascribes such pheno- mena—(i) to direct injury or disease of the brain; (2) to alterations in the quantity or quality of the blood ; (3) to a reflex influence propagated from an altered part of the brain or its meninges, the mucous or cuta- neous membranes, viscera, &c. The necessity of distinguishing between symptoms of loss of function and symptoms of irritation is strongly in- sisted on, as the two are often confounded, and, in consequence, great mistakes are made in treatment. Symptoms of irritation may be divided into two groups, according as the irritation acts on the central termina- tion, or the more peripheral part of various kinds of nerve-fibres. Sen- sations of pricking, formication, &c., are characteristic of irritation in the brain. Alterations of the blood are shown to be capable of producing ex- tremely grave symptoms, which it may require much care and skill to distinguish from the results of organic disease. The most frequent cause of local paralysis, he affirms, is an irritation in certain parts of the nervous centres or in the trunk or periphery of nerves. This may produce para- lysis in very diff'erent parts in different cases, according to the particular fibres on which the irritation has acted. Instances are given of paralysis of the upper and lower limbs and of the face, of hemiplegia, of insanity and delirium, of contracture and rigidity, produced by reflex influence.163 NERVOUS SYSTEM. enabling U8 to explain the varieties of paralysis which are met -with. Thus, owing to the decussation of the facial nerves at the base of the brain', an organic alteration in one half of the pons Varolii will produce paralysis on both sides of the face, or on the affected, or on the opposite, according as the lesion is situated in the middle part of the right side of the pons, or in the lower, or in the upper; while in all three cases the paralysis of the trunk and limbs is limited to the side opposite to that of the alteration. The symptoms of disease at the base of the brain may be ranked as—(i) those due to a loss of action ; (2) those due to an irrita- tion. Brown-Sequard then proceeds to point out the means of distin- guishing the exact seat of the lesion in various instances. Thus, if the alteration be situated below the decussation of the anterior pyramids in a lateral half of the spinal cord, the trunk and limbs are deprived of volun- tary motor power on the same side, but are anaesthetic on the opposite. If the alteration is at the level of the decussation of the anterior pyramids in a lateral half of the medulla oblongata, anaesthesia will exist only in the opposite half of the body, but both halves will be paralysed of motion. If, again, the alteration be above the decussation of the anterior pyramids in a lateral half of the medulla oblongata, the motor and sensory paralysis are both in the opposite half of the body. With regard to organic disease at the base of the brain, its precise seat v?ill generally be determined by observing what cranial nerves are paralysed. Thus, hemiplegia of one side, and amaurosis and facial paralysis (all on the same side), with palsy of the opposite fourth nerve, indicate lesion of the corpora quadrigemina. As to paralysis of vaso-motor nerves, it appears that the consequent in- crease of temperature is on the side of the lesion when it is in the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, or pons Varolii; and in the opposite side when the lesion is in other parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. With regard to irri- tation symptoms, muscular contractions are scarcely produced unless the fibres are affected by inflammation ; the muscles of the upper and lower extremities are most frequently affected, those of the l.irynx, phai'ynx, and organic life, most rarely. Irritation of vaso-motor or nutritive nervous elements may produce inflammation in remote parts—the lungs, the eye, or the face. Irritation of incito-motor and sensory nerve-fibres may also give rise to signs which aid in determining the seat of disease. Lec- ture III treats of the diagnosis of haemorrhage in the cerebellum. The following points are indicated as available in diagnosis. Local paralysis is loss frequent, but a general weakness is constant. In particular facial paralysis is absent. The facial muscles lose their expression. The tongue does not deviate to one side. The ocular and masticatory muscles are not paralysed, but the state of the pupils is usually altered, they being either dilated or contracted. Hypersesthesia has been observed in several cases, anaesthesia is rare. The four liead senses are much less often affected in cerebellar than in cerebral haemorrhage. Convulsions are frequent. Vomiting is frequent and persistent. Coma, when present, is simply tlie effect of pressure on the brain. Disorder of voluntary movements has been observed in only a few cases. Hemiplegia is clearly dependent on the pressure of the effused blood on one side of the pons Varolii, and anseslhesia, when it exists, is owing to the same cause. Convulsion's are usually produced in the same way, sometimes also from irritation of anKEPOIIT ON PEACTICAL 5IEDICIKK. inflamed firea around the clot. Lecture IV treats of the Rymptoms and diagnosis of wounds, softening, and abscess of tlie cerebellum. Brown- Scqnard finds no symptom tlint can serve to show that this organ is wounded e.\cept loss of sight, which has been observed in two or three instances. Bending of the head towards the injured side is not a si^n of injury of the cerebellum, but of its crura. Eleven cases of softening are cited, and the great dilierence between the symptoms is pointed out, not two of the cases being alike. They concur, however, in showing that in- flammatory softening of the cerebellum produces very different effects from softening of the cerebrum. The absence of referred or local sensa- tions or pains in the paralysed limbs, and of cramps, twitchings, &c., in cerebellar disease, are the chief points of difference. Headache, amaurosis, hemiplegia, paraplegia, are the symptoms oftenest observed. Simon.—On the Pharmacology of Quinine. Gaz. des Hopit., 126, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 166. Simon lays stress on the importance of giving quinine in such dose, and at such time, as that its physiological effects shall be developed simul- taneously with those of the disease. In some cases it produced in pretty full doses notable hsemoptysis. Reynolds, R.—On the Administration of Cannabis Indica. Arch, of Med., Jan., 1861. From the results of twenty-two cases, Reynolds concludes—(a) that Indian hemp is useless in mere functional, psychical, sensory, or motor disorders, without demonstrable organic change; {b) on the other hand, it is essen- tially beneficial in cases of congestion, softening, meningitis, or hasmor- rhage; (c) the drug appears to diminish the over-activity of the nerve- centres without disturbing the animal or vegetative functions. BoisoN (Bullet, de la Soc. de Med.de Gent., May and June) praises a pill of Musk gr. j, Ext. Digitalis gr. iss. Ext. Opii gr. ss, as having a magical effect on neuralgia. Becquerel, a.—On the Treatment of Neuralgias by Electric Currents. L'Union Med., Nos. i and 4. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 33. Becquerel maintains that a current of induced electricity passed through a nerve in its long axis will always cure neuralgia if the stream is sufii- ciently strong, and the intermissions very rapid. The apparatuses ordi- narily used are not powerful enough. FiiiEDBEiiG, H.—On the Cure of Pain in the Face by extraction of the Teeth. Virchow's Archiv, xvii, parts 5 and 6. Four cases were cured bv the extraction of teeth, which, though carious, had not been painful, while other carious teeth which had been painful were extracted without relief. Serhe.—On the good effects of Digitalis and Quinine in the treatment of Hemicrania. Serre has cured several long-standing cases, including his own ot fifteen years, by Debout's pill—Quinine gr. iss, and Digitalis gr. |, m aPSYCHLmUK. 165 pill—every night for three months. Bull, de Therap., April 15th. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 29. Lei-evke.—0/i Dry Colic. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 27. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, Lefevre adduces evidence to show that the colic so frequent on board men-of-war, and especially steamers in the tropics, is the result of lead poisoning. Lead is found in the drinking-water, and in many cases there is a blue line on the gums. Chapuis.—Observations on the Cases of Dry Colic which have occurred in the Hospitals of French Guyana. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 36. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 31. Chapuis shows that this disorder occurs more frequently in some places, when there is no possibility of lead poisoning, thau in others, where lead is used for water-pipes, &c. It alternates with hemicrania and other neuroses, and is cured by leaving the country. Sentek, L.—Treatment of Neuralgia by Cauterization with SO3. J. de Boru., May, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iia, p. 27. Of ten cases rebellious to other means, nine were cured and one improved by superficial painting of the acid. Schramm.—On Cardialgia. Bayer Aerztl. Intell. Bl., 29, 30, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 27. Of 75 cases (acute) observed in six years, 16 were males, 59 females. Cold and bad drinks, but especially malaria, were the most frequent causes. The period of the disorder coincided with that of intermittent fever, both being most prevalent in June and November. Shivering, weariness, and a sense of discomfox-t, were commonly the precursors of the attack. These symptoms increased sometimes even to syncope and a sense of annihila- tion at the time of the paroxysm. In two interesting cases a deep sopor replaced the cardialgic paroxysm. PSYCHIATRIK. Leidesdouf, Max.—Pathology and Therapeutics of Psychical Diseases. Erlangeu, i860, F. Enke. Baillarger.—Cases of Communicated Insanity. Gaz. des H6p., 38, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p. 86. Major.—Mental Disorder after Delivery in the ninth month {by forceps') occurring iyi a Primipara who suffered with Convulsions. Wiirtemb. Corr. Bl. 40, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p. 88. -iOWE, W. II.—Insanity considered in relation to the ordinary Physician and the general Practitioner. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug., 1861. iAiLLARGER.—On the Responsibility of Epileptics. L'Union Med., March 2i8t, 1861. ' 'Condition 'of the Lunatic Asylums in the Department of the Seine. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24th. Unking, W. 11.—Case of General Paralysis of the Insane, with Re- marks. Brit. Med, Journ., Aug. 31st, 12166 EEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. Third ylinntiil Report of the Commissioners of Lunacy, for Scotland, pre- sented to both Houses of Parliament by command of Her Majesty, 1861, Mautin, Duncan —Notes on Idiocy. Journ. of Mental Science, July. Geeuus.— On the Origin of Psychical Diseases. AUg. Ztsclir. f. Psy- chintrie, xviii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 355. AUZOUY.— Case of Hallucinations of all the Five Senses; Sympathetic communication of the disorder. Gaz. des H6pit., 43, x86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 35^. BouissoN.—Becovery of the power of Sight and of Reason in a demented Patient the subject of double Cataract after Operation. Bull, de I'Acad., xxvi, Oct., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 359. MUNDY, J.—On the Educational Treatment of Cretinism. Med. Critic and Psycholog. J., Oct., 1861. On the Statistics of Insanity. Amer. J. of Insanity, July, 1861. Legoyt.—Statistics of Insanity in France. Amer. J, of Insanity, April i860, April, i86i. Fifteenth Report of the Commissioners in Lunacy to the Lord Chancellor, Bhie Book, June 7 th, 1861. Reports of the Hospitals for the Insane at Clo)nnel, Armagh, Belfast; of the Devon, Suffolk, Wilts, Worcester, and Nottingham County Asy- lums; of the Edinburgh, Aberdeen, and Perth Asylums, for i860. Boyd, R. — Vital Statistics and Observations on the causes of Death amongst the male patients in the County of Somerset Pauper Lunatic Asylum, from an analysis of 295 post-mortem examinations. Jour. of Mental Science, Oct., 1861, Ritchie, R. P.—An Inquiry into a frequent cause of Insanity in Young Men, Lancet, Feb. i6th, 23rd; March 9th, 23rd. Barclay.—On Hysterical Mania. Lancet, April 20th. Dunn, R.—Medical Psychology. Brit. Med^ Jour., March i6th, 23rd; Nov. 9th; Dec. 28th. JoFFE.—The principal forms of Progressive Paralysis. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, I, 2, 3, 5, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 82. FiNKELNBURG.— On Osteomalacia combined with Insanity. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatric, xvii, 2, x86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 83. ScHLAGEii.—On the Hereditary Transmission of Mental Derangement, "Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 84. Laycock, T.— The Scientific Place and Principles of Medical Psychology. Edin. Med. Jour., June. Report of General Board of Lunacy in Scotland. Edin. Med. Jour., June. American Insane Hospital Reports. Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., Jau., July, 1861. Stanley, W. S.—Cases of General Paralysis. Dublin Med. Press, April 3rd, 24th ; May 15th. Vix.—On the occurrence of Entozoa in the Insane, jiarticidarly with re- spect to the Oxyuris vermicularis. Allg. Ztsch. f. Psychiatric, vol. xvii. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Jour., Jan., 1861. Bbo-vvne, W. a. F.—On Cottage Asylums. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Jour,, April, 1861. Bertuier, S.— On Fever in its relations ivith Mental Alienations, Med. Critic and Psycholog. Jour,, April, 1861.PSYCHIATUIK. 167 ToRCnio Y.—Statistics of Suicide at Turin during the years 1855—1859. Annales Med. Psychol., Jan., 1861. Med. Critic aud Psychol. Jour., April, 1861. ^ , Til -1 Ti 1 1 Belloc—0?i the Legal Responsibility of the Insane. Ann. Med. Psychol., Jan., 1861. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Jour., April, 1861. LiNAS.—0« Belirium as a precursory sign of General Paralysis. Arch. Geuer., Dec, i860. Med. Critic and Psychol. Jour., April, 1861. RoRiE, 3.—On the Medicinal Treatment of the Insane. Edin. Med. Jour., July, 1861. mT t 1 Du Maury.—0« Animal Magnetism and Somnambulism, Jour, ot Mental Sc., April, 1861. Arlibge, J. T.—The Circxdation within the Cranium in relation to Mental Disorders. Jour, of Mental Sc., April, 1861. LocKHART Robertson, C.—A Case of Homicidal Mania, with Auditory Hallucinations. .Tour, of Mental Sc., April, 1861. Steinthal.—iJepor^s in Psychiatry. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., N. F. 43, 44, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 84. Baillarger.—Acephalocysts in the Brain; Mania with magnificent De- lirium; transition of the Mania into acute Belirimn at the Cata- menial Periods. Gaz. des Hopit., 6, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 87. GuDDEN.—Hcematic Swelling of the Ears of the Insane. Allg. Zeitschr. f. Psychiatric. Brit. Med. Journ., May 4th. Gudden believes that this condition is only the result of violence employed by the attendants. Thomson, J. B.—Statistics of Prisoners, their Mental Condition and Diseases. Edin. Med. Journ., May, Aug., Dec. Thomson has formed the opinion that prisoners, as a class, have intel- lects much below the average, and that a large proportion are congenitally of imbecile mind. Fully 12 per cent, of the inmates of the General Pi-ison for Scotland during a period of ten years were reported for various degrees of mental weakness, while the deaths from decay from insanity, paralysis, suicide, brain disease, and gradual decay of mind and body, amounted to nearly one third of the whole. Compared with the civil population, the ratio of insanity among criminals is high (^ij- : -^^g). Homicidal patients, though apparently recovered, can never be safely discharged. Meyer, L.—On Opium in Mental Diseases. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatric, xvii, 4, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 81. Meyer has endeavoured to obtain indications for the administration of opium from the experience of whole populations who resort tait habitually. His conclusion is that opium is especially useful in those forms of reflex insanity which, in the development and final grouping of their pheno- mena, are naturally referable to a primary neurosis of the sexual organs, i. e. in hysterical insanity. He begins with a dose of gr. ij repeated 2dis horis ad vices iv, then intermits its use for 6—12 hours, and resumes it again at the same rate, if necessary. In more chronic cases he gives gr. i—iij every night an hour before going to bed. If opium causes anorexia, furred tongue, and constipation, it is to be omitted.llEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 168 Lisle.—On Spermalon-Iioea and Insanilij. Arch, Geucrales, vol. xvi. Med. Times nnd Gaz., June 8th. Lisle states that sperniatorrhcea ia a frequent cause of insanity, which, again, is constantly and rapidly cured if it have not advanced to paralysis or dementia. He demurs to the theory that insanity is primarily and essentially a cerebral disease, and says that facts prove that in this condition the brain may be only sympathetically affected from disease in another part. McCoKMAC, II.—Metanoia, a Plea for the Insane. Dublin Med. Press, March 20th. McCormac insists on the importance of moral treatment, of cultivating the faculty of self-control. The will is to be disciplined, and constant, wholesome occupation of body and mind maintained. The author does not believe that insanity depends "on the absence of phosphorus, the alteration of cerebral tissue, but in the aggravation to extremity of the inanities, follies, crazes, and shortcomings of dady life." WoRTHiNGTON, J. H.— On a form of Insanity for which the name of Congestive Mania has been proposed. Amer. Journ. of Insanity, Oct., i860. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., Jan., 1861. In this disorder intellectual impairment is marked from the commence- ment, the memory being especially affected ; the ideas are confused and the language incoherent. The delusions in some cases are of a gay and magnificent, in others of a depressing and painful kind. The acuteness of perceptions is diminished, and the muscular power more or less dimi- nished. In some cases the disease commences with one or more attacks of unconsciousness. The system has a strong tendency to marasmus, from depression of the vital powers, Worthington is much inclined to believe that the disease in question and paralytic insanity are closely allied, if not identical. ' Hysteria and Hysteromania. Amer. Journ. of Insanity, Oct., i860. The author would restrict the term hysteria to a perversion of the emotional nature, with more or less impairment of the voluntary powers. By hysteromania he means a true mania, developed upon a state of hysteria, to which it bejirs the same relation that mania a potti does to habitual drunkenness. Mayo, T.—On the Moral Phenomena of Insanity and Eccentricity. Med. Crit. and Psychol. Journ., April, 1861. Mayo admits that intellectual aberration must be proved before irre- sponsibility in regard to crime can be admitted ; but he contends that moral aberration, when existing alone, should be regarded as "the early period of yet imperfect insanity," and subjected to coercion and sur- veillance. Snell.—On the Confounding of Persons as a Symptom of Insanity.' Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatric, vol. xvii. Snell states that this is one of the most frequent, certain, and easily detected symptoms of psychical disturbance. (2) It is proportionate to the degree and general character of the mental excitement, and it is, inPSYCHIATRIK. 160 general, a favorable prognostic sign. (3) It is most frequently observed in cases of recent occurrence. (4) In the passage of the primary forms of psychosis into tlie so-called secondary forms, the confounding of persons not uufrequently disappears, and its doing so is here an un- favorable sign. (5) In the passage of the primary forms of mental disturbance into recovery, such disappearance is one of the most certain tests of recovery. Sutherland, A. J.—Croonian Lectures on the Pathology, Morbid Ana- tomy, and Treatment of Insanity, 1858. Journal of Mental Science, Jan., April, July, 1861. Sutherland contends that no single theory of the pathology of insanity is adequate to account for the phenomena. The causes of the disease may be mental or physical, and in the latter case may be of very various and even opposite Iciiids. He first examines the relations of the nerve-force to insanity, and then those of the blood. In two cases which he cites, disease about the origin of the nerves supplying parts which had been the seat of morbid sensations was discovered after death. Some forms of paralysis may be distinctly traced to excessive expenditure of nerve-force or to sudden shocks. After considering the state of the nerve-force in cases of dementia and mania, Sutherland remarks on the effect of certain atmospheric states on the condition of the insane. At certain epochs (quoting from Foville) he observes that a general and unwonted excite- ment is remarked in a lunatic asylum, while, again, on other days everything is unusually tranquil. Yet he admits that the accurate barometrical and thermometrical registers kept at Colney Hatch have at present failed to show that the fits of epileptic patients are influenced by the mere weight and temperature of the atmosphere. Insanity, in his experience, has some- times supervened on influenza, as a consequence of the extreme nervous depression attendant on that disorder. With regard to the blood, the results of various analyses go to show that the blood of acute mania cor- responds with that of idiopathic anaemia, and the blood of paralysis of the insane, as far as the diminution of albumen is concerned, with that of symptomatic anaemia. Lect. II treats of the morbid anatomy of insanity. Casts were shown proving that the shape of the head in the insane may be actually superior to that of the sane. A summary is given of the alterations which occur in the cranium, the meninges, and the brain, and various specimens were exhibited and described in illustration. Sutherland notices Dr. Boyd's statement, as to the average weight of the brain in lunatics being heavier than in health, and confirms it as regards cases of mania, melancholia, and epilepsy, but not as regards dementia and paralysis of the insane. He says it is not always possible to distinguish acute from chronic cases by the appearance of the cortical structure, for even in acute cases we find sometimes the appearance of commencing softening and of atrophy, and occasionally the cut surface maybe as pale as in a chronic case. But cer- tauily, in the majority of recent cases, the cortical structure is of a greater depth, of a deeper colour, and presents a more defined margin, than in a chronic case; and in recent cases we can generally trace the wliite l)ands separating the vesicular structure sometimes into three, sometimes into six layers. In a well-marked chronic case we find the aufractuosities wide,EEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 170 the external layer of cortical structure soft, and separating in patches with the detached pia mater; or it may he firm, when the internal layer is softer tlian in liealth. The deptli of the cortical structure is shallow, and its colour so pale that it sometimes is difficult to distinguish it from the fibrous structure. The white bands have disappeared, and the cut surface presents a uniform, dirty white appearance. Speaking of general paralysis, Sutherland affirms that the loss of power results partly from pressure of effused fluid, and not only from atrophy and disintegration of nerve-substance. With regard to the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the chief facts stated are that in 42 autopsies the heart was found diseased in .34, and the kidneys were granular, marbled, and mottled in 27. As to treatment, Sutherland counsels in acute mania sufficient doses of opium, not heroic, or some other sedative. Muscular fatigue in some cases, and ale at bedtime in others, have proved eflectual in procuring sleep. Food is to be frequently administered. Chloroform is sometimes of service. Warm baths are often useful. In acute dementia the douche produces sometimes striking beneficial eflfects, but a generous diet, tonics and sti- mulants, with minute doses of opium, are also requisite. Cases of acute melancholia require the diligent administration of food, the repugnance to which may sometimes be overcome by inhaling etlier. In the acute stage of the paralysis of the insane a vegetable diet and active purgatives are requisite, but not often C.C. or leeches. Bichloride of mercury with bark is a useful means of controlling the chronic meningeal inflam- mation which is so commonly present. In the later stages of mania tonics are always necessary, and generally suitable remedies must be adminis- tered, according to the existing condition. The possible dependence of mania upon some eccentric irritation should not be forgotten; a striking illustration of this connection is related. Directions as to moral treatment conclude the course. SiBBALD, J.—The Cottage System and Gheet. Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1861. Sibbald, from his visit to Gheel, was led to the conclusion that two classes of cases more than any other derive benefit from this system. One class comprises the milder forms of acute mania, the other consists of partially demented persons. The most fruitful cause of the present defects of Gheel appears attributable to the mistake of sending there unsuitable cases, who require more care and attention than can be bestowed upon them. No injurious eff'ect seems to be produced on the inhabitants themselves by consorting continually with 'the insane. Browne, W. A. F.—Endemic Deyeneratioii. Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1861. Browne describes the state of nine children, the ofi'spring of healthy parents, of whom two were not viable, one died in infancy, one was hydrocephalic, a dwarf and idiot, and died at the age of twenty-one, while four living are hydrocephalic, dwarfs, idiots, distorted, puny, and diseased, and one only is healthy, robust, and intelligent. They inhabit the island of lona, are in great poverty, but not circumstanced very differently from their neighbours, who are not similarly aflected, Browne adds reflections on pellagra, cretinism, &c.PSYCHIATEIK. 171 Cretinism and Idiocy. Review of Works hy Zillner and Firchow. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Zillner distinguishes idiocy according to its causes as follows:—(i) Constitutional, family, or hereditary idiocy. Such is apt to prevail where epilepsy, chorea, deafness, dumbness, &c., are common. (2) Traumatic, where the skull or its contents have been injured by a blow, or fall, or pressure, or any other such accident. (3) Congestive idiocy. (4) Idiocy from exhaustion, as after hydrencephaloid disease. (5) Toxic idiocy, as from laudanum and brandy. (6) Malarial idiocy, which appears es- pecially in the form of cretinism. Virchow and Zillner both trace a con- nexion between marsh fever and acute affections of the thyroid gland. Zillner also distinguishes the chamber or house miasm as a cause of idiocy. This is identical with bad sanitary conditions. (7) Idiocy from other and accidental causes, as pertussis, and, as the reviewer states, from the exanthemata which, according to him, very frequently give rise to idiocy. The skulls of idiots show diminished length, but increased breadth and height. The frontal arch is flattened, and the whole frontal bone small. The sutures are apt to become united prematurely, and if this condition affect one while growth continues on the other edges of the bones, various deformations of the skull result. Thus, synostosis of the sagittal suture, with growth on the anterior and posterior margins of the parietal, produces a long or dolico-cephaUc head ; synostosis of the coronal gives rise to the platycephalic variety of the brachycephalic head; of the lambdoidal to the pachycephalic variety, and so on. Microcephalus may be the result of premature, general synostosis. The form of the skull of the cretin is not specific, but may he variously misshaped. Virchow shows that pre- mature synostosis of the bones at the base of the skull has an important influence on the position and development of the bones of the face, and even on the arch of the head. A skull with a short compared with one which has a long basis shows recession of the frontal wall, depression of the root of the nose, diminution and flattening of the anterior and spheno-temporal fossae, and enlargement of the posterior. Sadze, a.—On Remissions in the course of General Paralysis, Anuales Medico-Psycholog. Journ. of Mental Science, July, 1861. Sauze sums up his conclusions as follows:—(i) That the intermissions which occur in the course of general paralysis present themselves under three principal forms ; (2) under the first form there is an entire disap- pearance of the symptoms of paralysis, and a persistence of dementia; (3) the second form is, on the contrary, characterised by signs of para- lysis and by the apparent absence of intellectual lesion; (4) the simul- taneous amendment of the symptoms of dementia and of paralysis constitutes the third form ; (5) besides the three principal forms, w» find certain intermissions to which it would be difficult to assign a precise place in the pathological plan ; (6) in all intermissions, whatever their dominant form, we meet with one common symptom, namely, the enfeeble- ment in a greater or less degree of the intellectual and moral faculties; (7) this dementia is sometimes difficult to discover, but it never evades the observation of the physician who knows how to seek for the signs of it; (8) in some less favorable cases, not only do we meet with a certain172 nEPOIlT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. degree of denientin, but there yet remnin some delirious conceptions, some ideas of grandeur; (9) these patients being wholly demented, there is also lesion of the free will; (10) if they commit a more or less grave offence, they ought to be considered as irresponsible; (11) they are not competent either to administer their own affairs or to make a will; (12) for their own sakes and for the interests of their family, it is needful that they should be interdicted; (13) sequestration, even in an asylum, is a measure favorable to their health. Harrington Tuke.—On General Paralysis. Journ. of Mental Sc., July, 1861. Tuke distinguishes the mental symptoms into three stages—(i) that of excitement, with loss of self-control and reasoning power; (2) absolute delusion, with or without violence; and, lastly, complete insensibility. The leading characteristic of this insanity is the sense of beatitude and contentment. The paralysis is peculiar by its slow progress and its first affecting the tongue. It rarely supervenes before the thirtieth or later than the sixtieth year of life. He combats Esquirol's opinion, that general paralysis is only a complication of insanity, and not a special disease. Baillarger (L'Union, 113, i860). Moreau (Bull, de I'Acad., xxvi, Dec, i860; Jan., 1861).—Hypochondriacal Belusions the forerunners of General Paralysis. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 356. The delusions to which Baillarger adverts are very various, but some of them are so frequent that they may be regarded as specific. Such are those of annihilation, complete alteration, internal obstruction, being dead, blind, unable to speak, see, or swallow, &c. These may precede the paralysis for years. Moreau does not think Baillarger's views are as yet established by evidence, but that they are very probable. He considers that there is an intimate connection between the'special delusions, as signs of a general and deep-rooted morbid state, and the general paralysis. Brierre de Boismont, a.—On Deterioration of the Morals and Mind in the prodromal period of General Paralysis. Ann. d'Hygiene, 2 ser., xiv, Oct., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 357. These changes, according to Brierre de Boismont, are chiefly charac- terised by gi"eat irritability, signs of passion and impatience, which may be foreign to the natural disposition or an exaggeration of it. Strange expressions are di'opped, and there is a remarkable volatility of thought. This state is sometimes replaced by apathy and dulness, which unfit the person for any serious work. Such persons often give themselves up to dissipation, commit acts of dishonesty, and render themselves liable to prosecution. They are easily taken in by sharpers, and bring their families to ruin. The early recognition of these tendencies, and the right appreciation of them, is of great importance. Legrand dv Saulle.—On the Special Forms of Delirium which supervene in General Paralysis. Arch. Gc'u6rales, Dec, i860. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., April, 1861. Legrand du Saullc aflirms that grandiose delirium can be demonstratedPSYCHIATKIK. 173 iu four fifths the cases of mania which terminate in general paralysis, and that hypochondriacal delirium is met with ahout as frequently iu melancholic paralytics, while it is rare among those attacked with simple melancholy. B.u-L-L\nGETi.—Simple General Paralysis (case). Gaz. des H6p., 38, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 87. Baillarger remarks of these cases that they begin with congestion and end with atrophy. The cerebrum was much atrophied, the cerebellum normal. KiESER.—Post-mortem appearances in the Insane, Wurtemb. Med. Corr. Bl., 40, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 84. Autopsies were made of twelve melancholies, eleven maniacal, and ten paralytic patients. In all these were found very manifest alterations in the brain and cord or in the membranes, but no kind of morbid change was peculiar to any one of the three forms, so that it appeared that profound anatomical lesions were much more dependent on the duration than on the specific form of insanity. Softening was more common than induration, capillary apoplexy was common, more extensive was rare. FiNKELNBURG.—On the influence of the Imitative Tendency on the Diffu- sion of Sporadic Insanity. Ztschr, f. Psychiatr., xviii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 85. Finkelnburg relates twelve well-marked cases of communication of insanity from one relative to another, the person second affected usually nursing or attending upon the first. In only a small number of the cases was there any hereditary tendency. Finkelnburg observes that the insane ought never to be attended by their relatives, and that even in asylums the attendants, especially the female ones, should be changed occasionally. Ltjnd.—Skulls of Idiots. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Lund exhibited two contrasting specimens, one in which there was great hypertrophy of the diploe, the consequence of rickets, the other thinned, so as to be in some places translucent from atrophy. The average thickness of the first was '75 inch, of the latter 'i inch. LocKiiAKT Robertson, C.—Some 7-esidts of Night-nursing. Journ. of Mental Science, Oct., 1861. Robertson requires the night attendants to visit all the habitually dirty patients at fixed times, and to observe their condition. Soiled sheets are to be changed, and the patients made to attend to the calls of nature. These enforced habits of cleanhness at night result in cleanly habits by day. LocKnART Robertson, C.—On the sedative action of the Cold Wet Sheet in the treatment of recent Mania, with cases; a contribution to the curative treatment of Mental Disease. Journ. of Mental Sc. July, 1861. Rohertson says the wet sheet abstracts heat and lowers the pulse, and, while cooling the surface of the skin, also, by reaction, determines the blood to the surface, and so restores the natural pirspiration. It furtherEEPOUT ON phactical medicine. 174 acts as an eliminative, exciting the alvine aud renal secretions. Its seda- tive efficacy is shown hy the fact that patients suffering from violent maniacal symptoms actually fall asleep in the wet sheet. Its use is appro- priate to cases of recent mania, attended with febrile and congestive symptoms, but not to those of more asthenic character, where pyrexia is less marked and nervous excitement predominates. For these morphia and porter are better. The state of Lunacy in England. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., Oct., 1861. The author in this article analyses the fifteenth report of the Com- missioners of Lunacy, and states the following as the conclusions which the details contained in the report lead to :—(i) That the increase of known lunacy for several years back has been confined almost solely to pauper lunatics; (2) that the amount of known lunacy among those classes of the population who are raised above pauperism, or are liable to pauperism from lunacy—the wealthier classes, in short—has been diminishing, or, at least, has been stationary, for some years; (3) that it is probable that lunacy is not increasing in the kingdom in greater proportion than the increase of population; the apparent increase, as shown by the steadily growing population of our asylums and the need for still more and more asylum accommodation,being dependent mainlyupon certain circumstances incidental to the provision made for the care of lunatics in late years. These circumstances relate—(i) to the large number of cases previously unre- ported, and only I'ecently brought under observation; (2) the increased number of those sent to asylums ; (3) the prolongation of their life when thus brought under care. Beljloc, H.—On the moral responsibility of Lunatics, Annales Medico- psychol. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., Oct., 1861. Belloc argues that lunatics are by no means fo be regarded as destitute of free will or irresponsible for their actions, but that in each case it ought to be considered how far the person can be considered accountable. McIntosh, C.—On the subcutaneous injection of Morphia in Insanity. Journ. of Mental Science, Oct., 1861. Mcintosh advocates from his experience the restricted employment of this procedure in every asylum. It acts as a sedative to the furious, and a calmative to the depressed and despairing, and is also suitable to cases where restlessness, excitement, and dirty habits, occur at paroxysmal periods. MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Skinner.—Ca«e of Ossification of the Muscles. Med. Times and Gaz., April 20th. Ramskill.—Case of Wasting Palsy. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th. Althaus, J.—Two Cases of Wry Neck treated successfully by Electricity. Med. Times and Giiz., May 25th. DucHENNE.—On progressive Muscular Paralysis of the Tongue, Velum175 MUSCULAE SYSTEM. Palati, and Lips. Arch. Gen^r. de Med., Sept., Oct., i860. Br. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan, , , Legouest.—Case of intermittent Wry Neck. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th. Oppolzee.—O;^ Muscular Atrophij. Spitals-Zeitung, Nos. 11, 12, 15. Canst. Jalirb., vol. iii, p. 85. Anstie.— Case of Muscular Atrophy following Acute Rheumatism. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 2nd. Inmann, T.—0?i the Pathology of Sciatica. Brit. Med. Journ., March 30th. luman thinks that sciatica may be, and very frequently is, dependent upon muscular contraction in enfeebled, unusually irritable, or imperfectly palsied muscles, and that the pain is often in direct proportion to the •weakness of the muscular fibre. Jago, J.—Obsciwe Trunk Paiiis ; or, chronic pains in the Abdominal and Thoracic Walls. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April. Jago examines the effect of the weight of the upper part of the body on the parts that have to support it in producing pain, and describes a kind of chair contrived so as to obviate such uneasiness. Pahmentieb.—Cancer of Muscular Tissue. L'Union M6d., Aug. .22nd, 29th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 19th. The symptoms of primary cancer in its ordinary form are the following. There is at first a tumour of the size of a pea, hard, moveable, and yet adherent to the muscle. It may exist a long time without causing incon- venience. At length, however, it becomes as large as a pigeon's or hen's egg, is soft, elastic, and moveable when the muscle is relaxed, but fixed when the muscle is contracted. If the tumour be not soon removed it rapidly increases in size, and passing beyond the muscle, may affect the neighbouring parts. Pain may not be felt for a long time, until, in fact, the tumour has begun to affect the skin. The cancerous tumour of muscle has to be diagnosed from syphilitic tumour, hydatid, and some forms of cold abscess. Kuchenmeister.—The Symptoms and Treatment of Trichina Spiralis, at an early period of the development of that form of parasite. Deutsche Klinik, i, 1861. Patients thus affected are in a sub-typhoid condition, but neither diarrhoea nor typhoid eruption, nor any notable enlargement of the spleen, is present; they experience violent muscular pains on the least movement; sometimes dysphagia, hoarseness, and strabismus, or a very limited mobility of the eyeball, are observed. If such symptoms are present the muscular tissue of the patient should be microscopically examined. The treatment is to consist of purgatives, frequent and small doses of 01. Tereb., with powdered fern-root.—' Lond. Med. Rev.,' March, i8(5i. Bambekgek, H.—Remarks respecting progressive Muscular Atrophy. ■ Oesterrh. Ztschr, f. prakt. Heilk., No. 7. Canst. Jahresb, vol. iii, p. 85. Bamberger records three cases, with analyses of the blood and urine of the third. The chief results were that the sulphuric acid of the urine was176 REPORT ON PRACTICAL IffiDICINK. increased, and the phosphoric much diminished. The albumen of the blood was also much below the normal amount. Bamberger believes that these two latter facts are essentially connected. Symes Thompson, E.—Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Brit. Med. Journ., May 4th. The author believes wasting palsy to be a blood disease, somewhat, but not altogether, analogous to lead palsy. He recommends as remedies strychnia, iron, and Faradization of the wasted parts. CIRCULATORY SYSTKM, AUBURTIN.—Clinical Researches on Diseases of the Heart, from the Lec- tures of Prof. Boriillaud. Paris, Delahaye, p. 273. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. I ''fi- Cockle, 3.—On Insufficiency of the Aortic Valves in connection with Sudden Death. Pamphlet. Brit, and For, Med.-Chir. Rev., July, Hyde ^Salter.—Concurrence of Purpura with Valvular Disease of the Heart: three eases; recovery. Lancet, Jan. 19th. Jtenort of a Case of Aneurism of the Aorta; Double Aneurismal Sac - compressed bronchus and oesophagus; stretched and fattened pneumogastric nerve; destructive inflammation of lung; fatty heart. Lancet, Feb. 16th. . Chambers, T. ^.—Prognosis and Treatment of Thoracic Aneurism. Bnt. Med. Journ., Jan. 19th. t^h- ti n Hamilton, E.—Case of Abdominal Aneurism. Dublin Hosp. baz., JiMV^K^fi.—Case of Aneurism of Ascending AoHa. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dalt^n,"e. ^S!—Aneurism of Thoracic Aorta (case). Amer. Med. Times, Jasinsky—Case of Aneurism of the Heart. Wien. Med. Halle, ii, 2, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 180. , ^ w.RD —Cases of Thoracic Aneuristn. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th. TiiNGEL.—Cases of Dissecting Aneurism. ^ irch. Arch., xvi, p. 356- Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 304- , ^ ^ „ ., RnsE C Y—Aneurism of the Aorta, and Laryngotomy. Hospit.- Tidp'nde Nr 2 i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 304- BaiNTON, ^'.-Clinical Lecture on an Aortic Aneurism. Lancet, Oct. JoNE'sfj^is.-Cases showing the value of Iron in Organic Disease of the Heart Med. Times and Gaz., April 6th. Clark AL0NZ0.-i««^6a'- Abscess communicating ^oith the Pleura; ex- te'n^ve Pericarditis, undetected clur^'ff^ ^ •"''^t,"! Surg. Reporter. Nov. 24tb, i860. Bnt. Med^ Journ Jan. 5th Handfield JoNES.-Cases of an uncommon form of Inflammation. Brit Med. Journ., Feb. i6th. . , t t? u Ktu Bennett; H.-Case of Lcucocythcmia. Bnt. Med. Jouru., Feb. i6th.177 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. SiEVKKiNG, E. E-.—Case of Persistent Epistaxis, Brit. Med, Journ., Feb. 23rcl. . , , y COKRIGAN.—IJwease of Aortic Valves proving fatal; enormous Ascites arising from an unusual cause. Brit. Mecl. Journ., March 9th. Hinds, W.—Doe* the Pericardium become invuriabhj adherent to the Heart after Acute Pericarditis and Recovery ? Brit. Med. Journ., Marcli i6tb. -a MooiiE.W.—On Diseases of the Heart in Earbj Life. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March ist. r? • u Klob, i.—MiUanj Tubercle in the Substance of the Heart. Zeitschr. der K. K. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte zu Wien,49, i860. Edin. Med. Journ., March. Klob, J.—Free Bodij in the Cavity of the Pericardium, lb. lb. Plazek, N—Tivo Cases of Fatty Degeneration of the Heart. Spit, Ztg., 21, i860, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 180. TviTEL.—Case of Pneumo-pericardium from (Esophageal Ulceration. Deutsche Klinilc, 37, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 181. Heuzfelder, H.—On Myocarditis; two cases. Wien. Ztschr., N, F, iii, 30, i860, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 189, Maurice and Gautier.—Sudden Death from Insufficiency of the Aortic- Valves. Essay, Paris, Leclerc, Gaz, des Hopit., 77, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 109, p. 300. Walljiann.—Abnormal number of Valves (2) in the Pulmonary Artery. Oester. Ztschr. f, prakt. Heilk,, vi, 27, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 19. Arlidge, J. T.— Case of Rupture of the Heart, consequent upon IVasting and Softening of the Muscular Tissue. Arch, of Med., Oct., 1861. Malmsten.—Case of Rupture of the Heart. Hjgiea, vol, 21, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 19. Maier, Rud.—Case of Rupture of the Heart. Verhandl. d. naturf. Gesell, zu Freiburg, ii, p, 207, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in, p, 14. Neuffkn,—Sudden Death from Rupture of the Heart. Wiirtemb, Corr, Bl.,xxxi, 24, 1861, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 162, Ohsolate, G.—On Spontaneous Rupture of the Heart. Annali Univers. di Medici, Milano, i860. Canst, Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 165. Charcot and Vulvian.—Case of Leucocythccmia, peculiar forms in the Blood, Liver, Spleen, ^-c. Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Rev., April. Gaz. Hebdomad., vol. vii, No. 47. Najiias.—Case of Leukcemia, with Milky Urine. Giornali Veneto d. Scienze Mediche, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 23rd. Cummins,—Case of Pulmonary Apoplexy, tvith Fibrinous Clots in Left Ventricle and Partial Pericarditis. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., Feb., x86i. Bishop, C. S.—Rupture of Aorta communicating with (Esophagus. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., 1861. Potts, R. S.—Dilatation and Softening of Heart; rupture ; autopsy, Amer. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th. Flint, h.—Clinical Lecture : Disease of the Heart and Epilepsy. Amer, jMed, Journ,, Jan. i2tl), i9ih.nEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 178 Metcaipe, J. T.—Two Cases of Angina Pectoris, with Valvular Disease of the Heart. Amer. Med. Times, M.ircli and. Gairdneu, W. T.— Clinical Lecture on Pericarditis and Allied Diseases ; fatal case of Pyccmic (?) Pericarditis, Lancet, June 22nd, Hallet, a.—Persulphate of Iron as an Internal Ilcemostatic. Amer. Med. Times, April 13th. Todd, II. C.—Case of Cyanosis in a Girl aged fifteen. Amer. Med. Times, April aoth. Smith, A. H.—Severe Hemorrhage from the Stomach arrested ly the use of Persulphate of Iro7i. Amer. Med. Times, April a7th. Robinson Hill, \V.—A few Remarks upon the supposed Influence of Ozone on the Pulse. Ediu. Med. Journ., July, 1861. Lambl.—Case of Communication between the two Ventricles. Obser- vations and Results, &c., p. loi. Canst. Jahresb., vol, ii, p. 31. Lambl.—Suppurative Endocarditis. Obs. and Results, &c., p. 146. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 31. Hyrtl.—Vascular Communications through Adhesions between the Peri- cardium and the Heart. Oesterrh. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., No. 48. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 31. Cases of Dilatation of the Veins and of the Lymphatic Vessels. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd. Fauconnet.—On the employment of the Sulphuret of Antimony in the treatment of Diseases of the Heart. Gaz. M^d. de Lyons, May i860. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Gairdner, W. T.—A Short Account of Cardiac Murmurs. (Gives an ex- cellent summary of the means of diagnosis.) Edin. Med. Journ., Nov., 1861. Owen Rees, G.—Obstruction of the Superior Vena Cava at its termi- nation in the Heart {four cases). Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, SoUTHGATE, R.—On General Bloodletting. Atlanta Med. and Surg. Journ., July. Dublin Med. Press, July 34th. BiAVJj^s. —Physiological and Therapeutical Properties of the Vei-atrum viride. Philad. Med. Reporter. Dublin Med. Press, Aug. 28th. Cutter, E., Rickard, T., and Ingalls, W.—On Veratrum viride as an Arterial Sedative. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Oct., 1861. Strange, W.—On a Case of Aneurism of the Heart, with Remarks upon its Efficient Cause {half-cured Pericarditis). Lancet, Nov. 9th. Wagner, E.—Primary Softening of the Heart. Arch. d. Heilk.,' i, 2, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Rev., Oct., 1861. Wagner. New Formation of Lymphatic Elements in the Connective Tissue of the Pleura and Lungs. Arch. f. Phys. Heilk., iii, 3. Brit. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1861. Oppolzer. Case of Mitral and Tricuspid Insufficiency, ivith Granular Liver, Dropsy, Venous aiid Thoracic Duct Thrombosis. Allg. Wieu. Med.'ztg., vi, 19, 1861. Schmidt's JaUrb., vol. 112, p. 180. Oppolzer.—On Pericardial Exudation and Adhesion. Spit. Ztg., 10, 13, 14, i86i. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 181. Baker, W.—On soine Discordances in the Arteries and Heart. Lancet, Nov. 23 rd. Hervieux.—/inoma/y of the Heart in an Infant; both Auricular and Ven-179 CIUCULATORY SYSTEM. tricular Septum deficient; no Pulmonary Artery or Duct. Arter. Gaz. Hebdom., April 12th, 1861. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. hyiCOCK.—Contraction of the Mitral Valve; Hypertrophy of Heart ; Hemipleyia of left side; Hemiplegic (Edema. Clot m left ven- iricle; obstruction of middle cerebral artery on right side. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 28th. Simon, i.—An Essay on Inflammation. Holmes' System of Surgery, ist vol. Hoffmann.—Ore the Theory of Infammation. Bayer Aerztl. Intell. Blatt., No. 32, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 57. Beview (analytical) of Works by Cohn, Lindstrom, and Brunmche, on Emboli. Brit, and For. Med.-Cbir. Rev., July, 1861. DUROZIEZ, P.—On the Double Intermittent Souffle in the Thigh, as a sign of Aortic Valve insufficiency. Arch. Gener. de Medecine, April and May,.i86i. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. MoLLWc—Ca«e« of Congenital Heart Disease. Virch. Arch., xix, 3 and 4. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 152. Smith, J. h.—Ditto. Amer. Med. Times, n. s., i, 11, Sept., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. m, p. 152. Le Bariluer.—Ditto. Journ. de Bord., 2nd ser., vi, Jan., 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 152. ScHuTZENBERGEE.—Ditto. Gaz. de Strasb., 3, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 152. Heschl, R.—Partial Cretif cation of the Muscular Tissue of the Heart. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vii, 4, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 156. Bellard, H.—Administration of Ferri Curb, in Statu Nascendi. Gaz. des Hopit., 42, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 156. Beuford, F.—Successful termination of Purpura Hcemorrhagica under the use of Quinine. Amer. Med. Times, May 25th. Clark.—Closure of the Iliac Arteries by Coagula in a Case of Ovarian Dropsy. Amer. Med. Times, July 6th. Mann.—Stenosis of the Descending Aorta. Deutsche Klin., 12, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 302. Meek, J.—Air in the Blood. WUrtemb. Corr. Bl., 19, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 361. Witt, C.—On Atiasarca. Lancet, Oct. 19th. Aran.—On Exophthalmic Goitre. (Regards it as a neurosis of the sympa- thetic.) Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. Gaz. Med. de Paris, No. 49, i860. Malherbe.—On Contraction of the Right Auriculo-Ventricular Orifice of the Heart. Echo Med., Jan. ist, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 158. Traube.—Case of Renal Contraction with Hypertrophy of the Left Ventricle. Deutsche Klinik, No. 49, 1859. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 163. Rauchfuss.—Case of Stenosis of the Aorta at the junction-point of the Duct. Arteriosis in an Infant three weeks old. Virch. Arch. vol. xviii, p. 544. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 179. ' Broca.—Obstruction of the Abdo7ninal Aorta by a Clot (detached from the left ventricle) ; gangrene of the foot; death, Lond. Med. Rev., Sept., 1861.180 KEPOIVr ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Worms.—Acute Endocarditis, Einholia, Gangrene of the Ley. Wiener Allgem. Med. Ztg., No, 41, i860. Canst. Jabresber., vol. iii, p. 158. OppolzEll.—Cases of Embolism. Wien. Med. Wocbenscbr., 50, 51, 53, 1859 ; I, 2, 5, 7, 9, 35, 26, i860. Scbmidl's Jabrb., vol. 109, p. 89. Canst. Jabresber., vol. iii, p. 179. Abdison and IIees.—Ditto. Lancet, May, i860. Jenner and Frames.—Ditto. Lancet, July, i860. TiiUDiciiUM.—Ditto. Brit. Med. Journ., May 5tb, i860. Walthen, 0. —Ow Hemiplegia resulting from Embolism. Lips., 18,59. TUngel.—Ditto. Vircbow's Arcb., xvi, 3, 4, p. 3^6. Bristowe.—Ditto. Patb. Trans., x, p. 44. Ogle.—Ditto. Id., p. a8. Buhl, L.—Ditto. Wien. Med. Wocbenscbr., 34, 1859. Luton.—Ditto. Gaz. Hebdom., vii, 22. Kapff.— Ditto. Wiirtemb. Corr. Bl., 26, i860. Lancereaux.—Ditto. Gaz. de Paris, 36, i86o, Jenner.—Ditto. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. ist, i860. Fritz.—Midtiple Emboli of the Branches of the Pulmonary Artery. Bull, de la Soc. Anat., Marcb, April, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 179. Teost, Cl.—Case of Throinbosis of the Aorta. Union Med., No. 31, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 179. Lebert, H.—Symptoms of Endocarditis, with insufficiency of the Mitral and Aortic Valves, Apoplectic Attack, Albuminuria, Splenic Engorye- ment. Terminal Pneumonia, Death. Double embolia of the Sylvian artery, loith corresponding ramollissement, valvular alterations at the two orifices of the left heart, apoplectic foci, probably of embolic nature, in the spleen and Jcidneys, 2}neumonia, Bright's disease. Gaz. Med. de Paris, No. 6, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 180. The above form the list of works prefixed to Meftsner's report, v. p. 70. RArCHFUSS. —Cases of Plugging of the Pidmonary Arteries in Infants. Vircbow's Arcb., vol. xviii, p. 557. Kraus, G.—Cases of Thrombosis. Ztschr. d. Ic. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, i860, No. 10. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 179. Mayr, F.— Case of Obturation of both common Iliac Arteries and Veins. Oesterrh. Ztscbv. f. prakt, Heilk., No. 7, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 179- SiMONlN.—Spontaneous Gangrene attributed to Emboli. Gaz. Med. de Paris, No. 27, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 179. GouN. Clinical Account of Embolic Diseases of the Blood-vessels. Berlin, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 180. Adams, A. 1^.—Embolus of the Femoral Artery, followed by Sphacelus of the Leg and Foot; amputation and recovery. Edinb. Med. Journ., Deer. Lauorue.—Co«^n5K<(ons to the History of Spontaneous Gangrene. Gaz. M6d. de Paris, No. 40, i860. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 180. Legroux.—Oh Venous Polypi, or on Coagidation of Blood in the Veins, and Spontaneous Obliteration of these Vessels. Gaz. Hebd., 1859, Ncs. 51, 52 ; i860, Nos. 2, 4, 6. Canst. Jabresb., vol. iii, p. 189.ClKCLLATOlti: SYSTJiif. 181 Spokek.—The Abortive Treatment of External Acute Fhlebitis by ex- ternal apjjlication of Tinct. lodinii, repeated every three hours. Med. Ztg. Russlauds, 1859, Nos. 49, ,50. Canst. Jaliresb., vol. hi, p. 189. Lancereaux.—Pyelitis, Benal Phlebitis, Abscess of the Bight Kidney ; Purulent Infection, Albumen in the Urine. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, No. 37. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 189. lioTTO.—New mode of curing Varicose Veins. (Pressure is applied to the vein in two spots). Annali Univ. de Med., Milan0, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p, 192. DuscH.—Thrombosis of the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. Zeitschr. f. ration. Med., ser. 3, vol. vii, No. 2. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th. Duscb concludes, from his inquiries, that coagulation of the blood in the sinuses maybe due to propagation of a coagulum from the neighbour- ing veins in cases of caries, necrosis, and wounds of the cranium, and of extravasations of blood into the substance of the brain ; or it may be owing to any cause, either of a local or general nature, which impedes the circulation of blood through the sinuses, such as a feeble heart, ansemia, the compression of the sinuses by tumours. The diagnosis is difficult during life, but the lesion may be suspected when cerebral symptoms supervene in a feeble infant upon an attack of profuse diarrhoea, and there is at the same time bulging of the fontanelles and distension of the jugular veins. Germaine.—On the Therapeutic Uses of Digitalis. Gaz. Hebdomad., vii, 42, 44, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., April 13th. Germaine does not believe that digitalis enfeebles the contractions of the heart, but, on the contrary, while it slows them it augments their force. He'thinks it is only a diuretic by its beneficial effect on the circulation. Trousseau.—On the use of Digitalis in large doses in the treatment of Menorrhagia. Gaz. des H6pit., 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Trousseau administers 5SS of a strong infusion (gj of the leaves to 3XXV of water) every half hour, ceasing the medicine as soon as signs of gastro- intestinal irritation appear. After ten doses in the case he relates the hsie- morrhage was arrested. Pfaff, E. R.—On the employment of Digitalis and its different prepa- rations in the treatment of Organic Disease of the Heart. Bullet. Gener. de Thcrap., Feb. 15th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Pfafl' states that digitalis contains two active principles, viz., digitaline and skaptine, which exert different kinds of action. The former, especially iu large doses, increases at first the activity of the heart, and then depresses it; while the latter first depresses the action of the venous and lymphatic absorbents, and of the glandular system in general, and afterwards excites them. Pfaff recommends the drug to be given in decreasing doses, dimin- ishing the amount as soon as its paralysing action on the heart is apparent. It ought not to be given in any form more than six to eight days; its calmative effect is often prolonged for five or eight weeks, and may be sus- 13182 DBPORT OX I'EACTICAL MEDICINE. tnincd by the ndniinistrntion of squills or colcliiciim. In nged pmonR it sliould he given willi ciiiclionn, in the phthisical with opium. The suhse- quent administration of arsenic in cyanotic heart disease is often very beneficial. Gekhaiidt, C—Cases of Heart Disease. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jnlirb., vol. 111, p. 173. In thirty-six cases the mitral valve was affected twenty-six times, in five the aorta, in one there was stenosis of the pidmonary orifice, in one co- existence of mitral and aortic insufficiency, in three tricuspid insufiiciency. Acute rheumatism was the cause in fourteen cases, chronic in one, ague in one. In five cases the valvular disease came on gradually with palpi- tation and dyspnoea. CEdema occurred in half the cases, but the urine •was alhuminous in only four. The author believes that rapid dilatation of the cavities, with corresponding hypertrophy, prevents tension of the venous system, while an unyielding condition of the walls, on the contrary, induces dropsy early. The impulse was increased in all the cases, in seven it was heaving. In eleven instances it was felt in the line of the nipple, in twelve to the left, in three to the right. In twelve cases a systolic thrill was felt, in one at the same time a diastolic. Murmurs were fourteen times systolic, ten times systolic and diastolic, in two cases there never was any. Intensification of the second pulmonary sound was constant. In eleven patients the pulse was irregular, in nine surprisingly small, and this always together with diastolic murmur. Digitalis was of use in most cases. Five cases are related in detail. Skoda.—On the Complications of Valvular Disease of the Heart, and their treatment. Allg. Wieu, Med. Ztg., v, 47, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 178. * Skoda lays down that dropsy, irregularity of pulse, &c., are not to be considered necessary results of cardiac disease. Treatment can do much to remove such complications, though it is powerless against the organic lesion. Morbid innervation of the heart is a frequent cause of deranged action; it can often be successfully treated, but the appropriate means in each case can only be found out by experiment. In most cases quinine is eff"ectual, in some digitalis, in others the combination of the two. Digitalis should be given in sufficient doses, and not too long. It is most useful when the heart's action is very frequent, and signs of arrest of the circulation appear. Cold applications are more efi'ectual than leeches, sinapisms, or venesection. The latter, however, is essential in cases where suffocation is imminent from venous engorgement. Purgatives and diuretics are of no avail in this case, but in less grave states are service- able as well as diaphoretics. FofiGEi, and Campana.—On the Etiology of Hypertrophy of the Heart, with cases. L'Union, ci, 1859. Inaug. Diss., Paris, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 179. Forgel, after relating two cases of cardiac dropsy, in which, with dilated hypertrophy of both ventricles, the aortic and mitral valves were found healthy, but the tricuspid incompetent, lays down the law, " thatCinCULATOEY SYSTEJI. 183 as the dilatation of the left ventricle can dilate the right through the medium of the pulmonary circulation, so can the dilatation of ihe right dilate the left through the medium of the systemic circulation. In Canipana's view the mechanical obstructions to the circulation are of" very subordinate consequence; the hypertrophy results from a congenital tendency. Power, J. K.—Observations on Disease of the Aortic Valves, j)roducing both Constriction of the Aortic Orifice and Regurgitation through it iuto the Left Ventricle, accompanied loith abnormal enlargement of the two Internal Mamnumj Arteries and atrophy of the Abdominal Aorta and its Iliac Branches. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1861. Power believes that his case establishes the following conclusions:— (i) It is possible to have regurgitant disease in its very early stage without having the second or regurgitant murmur taking the place of the healthy second sound of the heart. (2) Visible pulsation may be distinctly mani- fested without the regurgitant murmur. (3) In this early stage of regurgi- tant disease the functions of the brain may be seriously involved. The patient had paraplegia, palsy of the left arm and of the sphincter ani, and detrusor urinse, with stupor. BiiisTOTVE, J. S.—On Mitral Regurgitation arising independently of Organic Disease of the Valve. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Bristowe relates six cases which presented all the general symptoms and condition of viscera characteristic of this form of disease, and postulates incompetence of the mitral valve as the cause of the systohc bruit which was heard at the heai't's apex during life. As to the cause of the incom- petence, he reviews—(a) spasm of the muscuii papillares, (b) the presence of coagula in the cavities of the heart, (c) dilatation of the auriculo- ventricular openings, and (d) disproportion between the size of the ven- tricular cavities and the length of the chordse tendinete and muscuii papillares. Of these the latter appears to him the most probable, though he admits that dilatation of the orifices may also play in some instances a subordinate part. He believes that just as, according to W. King's view, regurgitation very commonly occurs in the healthy right ventricle, it may also take place in the dilated left ventricle, especially as, by assuming a rounded form, the origin of the papillary muscles become laterally displaced. Debility of the heart, set up by various grave disorders, as typhus, variola, diphtheria, is probably the cause of the dilatation. Skoda.—On the Diagnosis of Cardiac Disease. Deutsche Klinik, 24, 31,37, 42, 48, 1859; 20, 25, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 295. This article gives a detailed summary of Skoda's views, drawn up by Abelles from the professor's lectures. A few of the more novel points arcf all we can notice. More or less depression of the thoracic wall at the time of systole is always observed in adherent pericardium. Bulgino- of the thoracic wall is not dependent on increased impulse in hypertrophy,Klil'OllT OX I'llACTlCAL MEllIClNE. but on pericardial inflanmintion affecting the ribs and ligaments, and making them to yield more readily to the pressure of effusion. Excluding the effect of roughnesses, a systolic murmur indicates insuffidency, a diastoHc murmur stenosis, of the cavity or artery to which it is referred. Intensification of the pulmonic second sound is almost indispensable to the diagnosis of mitral insufficiency. The peculiar brief pulse of aortic insufficiency may be absent when there exists at the same time stenosis of the aortic orifice or either stenosis or insufficiency of the mitral. Jakscii, a.— On the Spontmieous Cure of Diseased States of the Valves of the Heart. Prag. Vjahrschr., Ixvii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 298. With regard to the aortic valves, recovery may ensue—(i) when one only has become thickened and puckered by previous endocarditis or atheroma, the other valves becoming deeper and wider to occupy its place; (2) when all the valves are affected, two of them may adhere together by their contiguous margins, while the aortic attachment which would form a septum disappears, so that the two valves are fused into one, which closes the orifice pretty effectually ; (3) in very rare instances the altered valves are rendered capable of their function by contraction of the aortic canal in their vicinity. Clinical observation of such cases shows that the regurgitant murmur disappears more or less completely, and is replaced by a defined, dullish sound. These curative processes are scarcely to be hoped for except in early life, and require for their com- pletion months or years, as well as the most favorable circumstances on the part of the patient, A residence in the country, perfect quiet, cold applications to the chest, and infusion of digitalis, are the means advised. Three highly interesting cases of such recovery are recorded. With regard to the mitral valves it is shown that, after they have been ren- dered incompetent by disease, they frequently adapt themselves to their altered condition, so as to fulfil their function again more or less perfectly. GiKAED.—Case of Cyanosis. Gaz. des Hopit., Aug. 24th, 1861. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec. Girard records the case of a female who had uninterrupted good health till the winter of 1859, when she began to have dyspnoea and palpitations. The following winter slae got bronchitis, and died January 13th of this year. Three openings were found in the auricular septum, and the right side of the heart was hypertrophied considerably. The arteries were normal. Girard believes that the pulmonary disease, by deranging the circulation, was the essential cause of the fatal event. MiiHLTG.—Penetrating Wound of the Heart perforating the Wall of the Right Ventricle and the Literventricvlar Septum. Monit. des Sc., i860, No. 123. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 165. A man was stabbed, and died ten years after from insufficiency of the aortic valves, leading to hypertrophy and venous stasis. At the post- mortem there was found an aneurismal sac of the size of a nut, formed by the two layers of pericardium only, containing an indurated mass of fibrine, and communicating with the right ventricle. Opposite the185 CIRCULATOllY SYSTEM. opening of this was a hole traversing the septum and leading into the left ventricle. The margins of this hole were surrounded by cicatrix- tissue. Ba5[berger.—O/! the Position of the Heart in Pulmonary Emphysetna. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., vol. i, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 77. Bamberger maintains the view he formerly expressed regarding the horizontal position of the heart in emphysema, notwithstanding the objections raised by Klob {v. 'Year Book' for i860, p. 191). In many cases during life he discovers a weak pulsation a little more to the left or lower down than the usual site of the heart's impulse, as well as the usual more perceptible pulsation in the epigastrium. In cases where this is absent he supposes the covering borders of the lungs, or the thoracic walls, are too thick, or the heart's action too weak. Long needles intro- duced into the epigastrium and the site of the weaker pulsation pierced, the former the right ventricle near the right auricle, and the latter the left ventricle near the apex. Depression of the diaphragm, he argues, must necessarily induce a horizontal position of the heart. MiiHLiG, H.— Cases of Pericarditis. Gaz. d'Orient., iv, June, July, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 188. Miihlig relates six cases, four of which recovered well with blisters, diuretics, and purgatives, and states his preference of a symptomatic and expectant treatment to venesection and mercury. Gairdner, W. T.—On Pericai'ditis. Edin. Med. Journ,, Jan. Gairdner, as the result of six years' experience as hospital physician in Edinburgh, has come to the conclusion that the principles of the safe treatment of pericarditis are as follows :—(i) To make large allowance for the insignificant and spontaneously healing class of cases, revealed moi'e by physical signs than by symptoms, and to reg.ard them as demanding little active treatment. (2) To consider rheumatic pericarditis, in general, as a disease susceptible, to a great extent, of cure under mild palliative local remedies and fitting constitutional treatment. (3) To hold the constitutional treatment as subordinate to that of the disease with which the pericarditis is associated. Ringer, S.—On the influence of Change of Posture on the characters of Endocardial Murmurs; with an attempt to explain the causes. Edin. Med. Journ., Feb. Ringer finds, as a rule, that endocardial murmurs are louder, harsher, and lower pitched in the lying than in the sitting or standing posture. He relates experiments wliich lead him to believe that the cause of the difference is the blood being then impelled with greater force. Meissner, H. —Om Thrombosis and Embolia, especially of the Cerebral Vessels. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 89. After some remarks on the connection between embolia, metastasis and eepticscmia, Meissner proceeds with the details of his subject. He states that an embolon is, in the great majority of cases, formed within the vessels, either out of constituents of the blood or from pathological pro-REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 186 ducts of the walls of the heart and arteries. In some rare instances it may, however, be produced by erosion or wound of a vein, and introduc- tion of sanious or other matter into the blood. As a general rule, emboHa arises in the venous system from the formation of a thrombus; in the arterial, from morbid conditions of the cardiac and vascular walls. The seat of venous embola is limited, because they cannot pass beyond the next capillary plexus in the course of the circulation, while arterial embola may be found in almost all parts of the body, (i) Venous embola in the hepatic ramifications of the portal vein are, on the whole, rare; they are mostly observed in Iisemorrhoidal thrombosis after operations on the rec- tum, in periproctitis, ulcerating cancer, or decay of the coagulum of an hsemorrhoidal varix. They rarely originate from thrombosis in any other parts of the intestinal tract, but sometimes from disease of structures behind the peritoneum surrounding the portal vein and its branches. The symptoms of this affection are various, and usually obscured by those of the primary disease. Sudden pain in the region of the liver, jaundice, and swelling of the liver, are said to be characteristic, but the diagnosis can only be justified when some cause capable of giving rise to thrombus previously existed. (2) Embola in the ramifications of the pulmonary arteries mostly come from the branches of the inferior cava, from a crural or uterine-vein thrombosis ; less frequently from the superior cava or the right heart. The thrombus of a crural vein may become adherent to the wall by secondary inflammation, or be gradually broken up into molecular masses, which cause no furtlftr injuiy to the organism, or it may induce embolia in consequence of suppurative inflammation in cachectic systems, causing rapid disintegration, or as the result of strong exercise or of dis- placement by the examiner. The blood-current itself may also detach particles from a thrombus, especially if it project from the right iliac into the inferior vena cava. Embolia from thrombosis of the uterine veins scarcely occurs except in puerperal metrophlebitis or metritis. The effects pro- duced by an embolon in the pulmonary artery are very various. If it is large enough suddenly to arrest the flow of blood to the lungs, death en- sues almost instantaneously, with phenomena of cyanosis and asphyxia. One pulmonary artery may, however, be obstructed without any striking symptoms being produced. Smaller embola are generally arrested at the point of bifurcation of an arterial branch, and, increasing by fresh deposits, at last produce anaemia of the capillaries to which the branch leads, and hypersemia in the collateral branches. The result of this is serous effu- sion in the pulmonary parenchyma, or the formation of a larger or smaller patch of apoplectic extravasation, or pneumonia, or gangrene. Acute pulmonary oedema is especially apt to occur when a largish vessel is sud- denly obstructed. Apoplectic extravasation occurs under similar circum- stances when the pulmonary capillaries are very fragile and the heart's action increased. Pneumonia and gangrene are believed by Oppolzer to result, not from obstruction of the pulmonary, but of the bronchial arteries. Cases do occur in which a considerable-sized embolon produces none of the above-mentioned changes. (3) The results of embolia in an artery depend on the size of the plug, and on the size and number of the communicating collateral branches. If the latter do not sufl5ce to carry on the circulation, the part deprived of blood mortifies, mummifies, while at the same time the hyperscmia produced in the adjacent parts issues in187 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. serous or plastic exudations or bloody effusions. Embolia is most com- mon in the splenic artery, usually in one of its divisions, the original em- bolon, which is overlaid'by fresh deposits, being furnished by vegetations from the cardiac valves, endocardial exudations, bony particles, and the like. The partial infarctum has usually the form of a cone, with the base turned to the surface of the spleen ; it mostly soon becomes pale yellow, and by a pro- cess of fatty metamorphosis and molecular decay partly undergoes absorp- tion, while anotiier part changes into contracting cicatrix-tissue or bony substance, and forms a depression in the atrophied organ. In many cases of pviemic endocarditis Oppolzer has observed a sanio-purulent breaking up of the splenic infarctum, with perforation of the capsule and fatal peritonitis. The diagnosis is difficult, and only can be rested on the con- currence of splenic enlargement and sudden pain in the region of the spleen with the physical signs of disease of the heart or vessels. Renal embolia is nearly as common as splenic, and occurs under the same cir- cumstances. The diagnosis is rendered easier by the constant existence of albuminuria, and often of hrematuria, except in the case where a whole renal artery is obstructed. Figment embolia, which is observed in per- nicious intermittent fevers, even in our climate, deserves special mention. The formation of pigment sometimes goes on very rapidly, so that after some violent febrile paroxysms, with delirium, convulsions, and even ma- niacal phenomena, death takes place with stertor and coma, by miliary apoplexy. Sometimes the cerebral symptoms do not occur until the fever has lasted a long time. Sometimes the whole process is chronic, with or without notable functional disorder. According to the results of autopsies the pigment in most cases is formed in the spleen, whence it is carried to the liver, where the larger flakes are detained, while the smaller penetrate through the pulmonary capillaries and pass in the arterial stream to all parts of the body. In the brain, however, such large pigment-flakes are often found that they could not have passed through the hepatic and pulmonary capillaries, but must have originated in the blood itself. The deposit of pigment in the cutaneous capillaries imparts an earthy tint to the surface. It is less rare in the brain than in the spinal cord, where it may occasion either temporary paraplegia, or, if attended with extensive effusions of blood and atrophy, permanent contractions and palsies. Pigmentary accumulation in the liver induces at first enlargement from reactive or passive hypersemia and exudation ; subsequently atrophy ensues from contraction of new-formed connective tissue or from fatty degene- ration of the cells. In the renal vessels the pigment may remain a long time without deranging the urinary secretion or causing injury to other organs, but in some cases it induces acute morbus Brightii. Microscopi- cal cxiimination of the urine often discovers casts containing pigment. Embolia of the arteries of tbe lower limb is not uncommon. The symp- toms are immediate paralysis, gradual loss of heat, formication, and, soon after, violent pains, with increasing loss of sensibility in the skin. The limb becomes continually colder, blue, gangrenous, and dry, as in the senile form, only much more quickly, up as fur as the part where a col- lateral circulation has in the mean time become developed. In ca.se of a thrombus having, however, aUo formed in the crural vein, the gani>rene may be moist. The diagnosis essentially rests on losa of pulse in one limb, with188 REPORT ON I'UACI'K AIEUK INK suddenly sujiervening pnrnlysis and an absence of symptoms of spinal or cerebral disease. The aU'ection is almost always fatal. Treatment is use- less. Embolia of the cerebral arteries has often been observed. If the arteries proximal to the circle of Willis are plugged, tbc circulation is soon restored by means of the anastomoses, but if the distal ones are affected the results are permanent. The ansemiated part of the brain mortifies, while in its vicinity, owing to increased force of the blood-cur- rent, inflammatory exudation (red softening) or serous effusion (white softening) takes place. These three conditions often concur, a necrotic, yellow patch of softening being surrounded by an inflamed, red area, and this again sepai'ated by cjcdematous brain from the healthy structure. In embolia of the carotid the symptoms are loss of consciousness and hemi- plegia, often preceded by general convulsions. These symptoms soon disappear as the supply of blood is restored. When, on the other hand, the more peripheral arteries are affected, graver symptoms occur. The patients mostly drop down unconscious, as if struck with apoplexy, and hemiplegia and death may ensue immediately, or (after the return of con- sciousness) blindness, deafness, or loss of speech remain, or most violent eclamptic and maniacal attacks set in, succeeded at a later period by mo- notonous delirium. Complete recovery, even after the establishment of a collateral circulation, rarely ensues ; generally, phenomena of encephalitis supervene, which may prove fatal. A partial recovery (a cyst or a cicatrix having been formed) is usually attended with a pecuhar uninteUigible articulation. Pigmentary embolia, affecting almost exclusively the ca- pillaries of the gray matter, impaii's the mental functions much more than the locomotive. If the pigmentary flakes accumulate rapidly, death mostly ensues with typhoid phenomena or in the form of icterus gravis, and the gray substance is found covered over with numerous minute, bloody effusions (apoplexia disseminata), each of which contains in its middle a flake of pigment. In chronic cases there is rather a gradual impairment of the intellectual functions, or the jrtugging of the capillaries remains quite latent, until an occasional attack of congestion leads to escape of blood. The diagnosis of cerebral embolia is difficult, especially in aged individuals. The prognosis is unfavorable. The treatment is that of cerebral haemorrhage at the commencement, subsequently of en- cephalitis. Forty cases, with remarks, are added, which may be perused with much advantage. A table is also given of the principal circumstances observed in thirty-two cases of cerebral embolia. Sibley, S. W.—Cases illustrating the Causes and Effects of Fibrinoxis Obstructions in the Arteries, both of the Brain and of other organs. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Sibley divides his cases into four groups—in (i) there are eleven cases, in which a plug in one of the cerebral arteries has been found associated with disease of the brain or hemiplegia; in (2) are placed three incomplete cases, in which softening of the brain has been found associated with warty growths on the valves of the heart, but in which the state of the cerebral arteries was not ascertained; in (3) are two instances of cicatrix of the brain ; in (4) are twelve examples of fibrinous deposits in the in- ternal organs without brain affection. Sibley argues against the view thatCIllCUIiATOEY SYSTEM. 189 the arterial obstruction is tlie effect, and not the cause, of the disease in the part supplied by the vessel. He admits that the obstruction may be in some cases produced by local arteritis, though more usually their origin is to be sought in a diseased state of the cardiac valves, or in the existence of loose clots in the heart, or of pneumonia. Trousseau and Dumontpelliek.—On E7nboli of the Pulmonary Artery. L'Union Medicale, Dec. 13th, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 2.3rd. The following are their conclusions :—(i) Fibrinous obstructions of the pulmonary arte°y are lesions of very common occurrence. (2) Sponta- neous coagulations in the pulmonary artery, formed in situ, may generally be distinguished from migratory clots derived from the peripheral venous system. (3) There are thus two varieties of pulmonary coagulations- one primary, due to some disease of the lung, such as pneumonia, cedema, apoplexy, &c.; and the other secondary, resulting from the mi- gration of a peripheral venous clot. (4) Every condition of system which causes an increased amount of fibrin in the blood is favorable to coagula- tion. (5) Local causes of a mechanical nature may act as determining causes. (6) Organic diseases of the heart are most influential in inducing obstructions of the pulmonary artery, partly by the general cachectic condition of the system wliich'they induce and partly by the mechanical obstacle which they offer to the pulmonary circulation. Conrad.—On Auscultation of the Vessels. Giessen, i860. Canst. Jahresbcr., vol. ii, p. 77. Conrad's conclusions are, that of the two sounds heard over the arteries of the neck, not only the second, but in a great number of cases also the first, is only to be regarded as a conducted heart-sound, and that the same holds good of sounds audible even as far as the crural or the middle of the brachial artery. He also observed gentle post-diastolic, intermitting venous murmurs in the neck, which were convertible by pressure into loud bruits de diable. Moore, W. D.—Additional observations on Sudden Death after Fttruncles of the Face. Translated from the Hospitals-Tidende, March 5th, i860. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. ist. Two cases of this kind are recorded in detail, with careful autopsies. From the furuncle veins were traced to the ophthalmic vein, and thence to the cavernous and adjacent sinuses, which contained more or less distinctly purulent matter. The walls of these veins and sinuses were thickened, their inner surface discoloured and roughened, and the epithelium abraded, while their contents were decomposed blood, pus-cells, and elementary granules. In one case suppuration had taken place within the arachnoid, in the other there was only some congestion of the veins of the pia mater. The course of the disease was rapid (two to three days) ; the symptoms were very uniform, viz., headache, delirium, stupor, dilatation of the pupil, difficulty of swallowing, and incontinence of urine. The writer discusses the causality and consequences of cerebral sinus phlebitis, but does not think tliat they have yet been fully elucidated, or that this affection per se sufficiently accounts for the symptoms above mentioned. {Vide also a case by Weber, 'Virch. Arch.,' xi. •Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. no, p. 304.)190 RFPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. NiEMEYER, V.—Report on Internal Aneurisms. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 237. The general results of 49 cases which Niemeyer details are as follows:—In 2 cases the heart itself was affected ; in one the ascending, transverpe, and descending aorta all together ; in 13 the ascending aorta, including some- times the arch, in 14 the arch of the aorta, in 3 the arteria iunominata, in one the right subclavian, in five the thoracic aorta, in 6 the abdominal aorta, in a the mesenteric artery, in one the internal carotid, in one the left middle cerebral. Two of the cases of the third set were dissecting aneurisms. In 41 cases 35 were males, 6 females. The youngest patient was aged nineteen, the oldest eighty-four. Between the ages of nineteen and thirty years there were 5 cases, between thirty and forty there were 15, between forty and fifty 8, between fifty and sixty there were 9, between sixty and eighty-four only 4. The disease seems to be most prevalent in England, as 37 of the cases are credited to us. The duration is very various, from above twenty years to fourteen days. From 36 cases of thoracic aneurism, the following are the principal deductions. In 18 cases there was visible tumour, ten times at the stei-nal notch or at its side, eight times at the anterior tlioracic wall. In 2 cases there was pulsation without tumour. A peculiar thrill was observed four times. Murmurs, not of cardiac origin, were heard seven times ; once the murmur could only be heard in a certain position of the body. In 5 cases there was disease of the heart of the left ventricle as well as aneurism. Ine- quality of the radial pulse was observed six times, four times the right was absent or weakened, twice the left. Haemoptysis prior to the fatal issue occured in 4 cases, in one of these from pulmonary tuberculosis. More or less marked paralysis was observed in six instances, always on the right, and once in both upper extrenjiities. In a cases there were also similar nervous symptoms on the right side of the head. In 8 cases of abdominal aneurism permanent, violent pain, vomiting, and dulness, were constant symptoms. Tumour was discovered only four times, and in one of these it had another origin. Pulsation was absent three times, and mui-mur six. The locality of the pain in individual cases varied much. Once a sternal neuralgia was the prominent feature, once a quasi-sciatica. Wade, W. F.—On a Case of Aortic Aneurism, in which a communication with the Pulmonary Artery was recognised during life by means of Physical Diagnosis. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. In Wade's case two loud murmurs were heard in place of the usual sounds over the cartilage of the left fourth rib, that with the second sound being of a hissing character, and so prolonged as to continue till the commencement of the next ventricular systole. The second murmur was attended with a very considerable purring tremor. The first murmur was of loud bellows character. Both murmurs were audible high in the neck, in the back, and over all the upper part of the chest. At the apex of the heart there was only a single murmur with the cardiac first sound, the second sound was very distinct and quite natural. At the autopsy an aneurism was found springing from tlie origin of tlie aorta, and commu- nicating with the pulmonary artery by a vertical slit, with regular margin and smooth edges, and with the right ventricle by another opening with ragged thin margins. Valves healtiiv. Wade's diagnosis was based onCmCULATOUY SYSTEM. 191 the non-conduction of the second murmur to the heart's apex. The aneurismal opening into the right ventricle occurred about fourteen days before death, when he had an attack of faintness, and preecordial oppression. Pathogenesis of Chlorosis.—Loni. Med. Rev., May, 1861. An American writer advocates tlie view that chlorosis is owing to want of sugar-making action in the liver, and is to be cured by supplying in the diet the deficient aliment. Mayee, Alex.—Note to serve in the History of Rheumatism. Amer. Med. T., Aug. 34th, 1861. Mayer relates three cases, all ending fatally, with symptoms of apoplexy. No post-mortem was made. He offers the following conclusions:—(i) That muscular rheumatism may consecutively attack the heart in the muscular element and give rise to unnatural symptoms of excessive gravity. (2) That this rheumatism of the heart differs from pericarditis and endocarditis, concomitant of acute articular rheumatism, in auscultation revealing nothing abnormal except palpitations, in presuming that they throw the patient into an inexpressible anguish. (3) That under the influence of deep grief this affection of the heart predisposes probably to apoplexy by cerebral haemorrhage, which, in the cases observed by me, caused death. WiLKS, S.—Report on Pycemia and some allied affections. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, 1861. With regard to the nature of the disease, Wilks states his opinion that pus or its elements or germs give rise to purulent deposits or inflammatory materials which are the earlier stages of the purulent process, and in the same way as fibrin in the blood gives rise to fibrinous effusions elsewhere, or cancer-germs in the same fluid set up cancerous growths at a distance. The channel of infection is probably some small vein which has taken up the morbid matter. The effect of this matter being introduced into the blood is to cause coagulation, either in the large vessels or in the capillary system of the viscera, with congestion. This congestion passes through various stages till it terminates in suppuration or sloughing. In fatal cases death cannot always be accounted for by the morbid changes, but results probably from the effect of the blood disease on the nervous system. The lungs are the organs principally affected, often exclusively; it is only in rare cases that they escape while other parts are attacked. The heart suffers only in the worst cases; the brain very rarely. The old opinion, that the liver is especially affected in cases of injury to the cranium, is not confirmed. A firm, granular exudation may be eflused on the mucous surface of the ileum. Serous membranes are only inflamed by their contiguity to visceral foci of disease. In the more chronic cases abscess often takes place in the joints and on the surface of the body. Yellowness of the skin, amounting to actual jaundice, is not unfrequent, but is not easily accounted for. A series of fifty-five cases illustrates pyscmia following injury to the bones on amputation. Six are given of pysemia following injuiy to the cranium. The histories of twenty-one relate to external abscess, followed by pycemia. Series v contains ten192 llia'OIlT ON JMiACTlr.U, MKUICIN'E. cases of pyaimia following superficial wounds, internal abscesses, &c., also the so-styled idiopathic. Series vi consists of eighteen cases of pyaemia following disease of the urinary organs, connected with stricture, lithotomy, extravasation of urine, &c. Series vii gives three cases of pyoemia resulting from carbuncle. Series viii, ix, x, xi, treat of pyaemia from aural disease and ocular, from burns, and from uterine afi'ections. Series xii, xm, xiv, relate to the association of pysemia with erysipelas, gangrene, and phlebitis. Series xv contains cases and remarks on death by exhaustion in connexion with pyoemia. Series xvi and xvii illustrate the occurrence of fibrinous concretions in the pulmonary artery and in the arterial system and viscera. With regard to these, Wilks considers that it is quite possible the concretion may be produced by excess of fibrin in the blood, with a general cachectic condition, or may be deposited secondarily to the affection of the viscus to which the vessel leads, or in consequence of disease of the coats of the latter. lie says—"Just as pus propagates pus, so does fibrin appear to produce fibrin." Series xviii contains some cases and remarks tending to approximate the secondary deposits of pyaemia and new growths. Series xix treats of pyaemia cured. RiGLER.—On Ammonicemia. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., ii to 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 175. Rigler considers that ammoniaemia and uraemia cannot be accurately separated, inasmuch as tlie first gives rise to the second, and the converse. He gives, however, nine points of distinction between the two states; some of these are the greater thirst and more frequent vomiting in ammo- niaemia, as well as rigors ; the earlier occurrence of epileptoid paroxysms and of intellectual and sensory disorder in uraemia ; the tendency to maras- mus, mummification, and general erethism in ammoniaemia. FoNSSAGRiVES and Woillez.—On Engorffemeht of the Bronchial Glands in Adults as a cause of Asphyxia. L'Union Med., Oct. loth and 15th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 30th. After describing (i) tubercular engorgement, (2) melanic hyper- trophy, (3) simple hypertrophy, (4) cancerous engorgement, Fonssa- grives points out the following as the principal diagnostic symptoms:— increasing dyspnoea, accompanied by a crisis or an attack of suffocation; cough habitually dry, or followed by frothy expectoration, occurring in paroxysms and accompanied by attacks of suffocation ; pain either absent or very severe and obstinate, and when acute, referred to the side of the chest corresponding with the seat of disease; most commonly a siqiple sensation of oppression in the anterior part of the chest; weakness of voice, or asphyxia, which in one case appeared suddenly; and jerking, irregular respiration at the moment of the attacks of suffocation. The percussion sound is normal or exaggerated. Palpitation often detects an increase of the normal thoracic vibrations, and, under one or the other, clavicle frottements, due to large, sonorous rales, which are audible even at a distance, and to which Fonssagrives attaches much importance. There is also weakness of the respiratory murmur, which Woilkz regards as a valuable sign, but Fonssagrives does not. The subacute or chronicK ES PllJATU UY S Y riTEAt. 193 progress of the disease in itself usefully aids the diagnosis, regard being paid to the permanent dyspnoea gradually increasing in intensity, and to the return, at shorter and shorter intervals, of the paroxysms of suffoca- tion, which form the most prominent and most painful features of the disease. The duration of the malady has been found to vary from four- teen days to six months. Males from the ages of twenty-four to forty- two have been found affected—not females. Brinton, \V.—On the Treatment of Tubercular Hcemoptysis. Lancet, Nov. 30th. Brinton states that the slighter forms belonging to the first and second stages spontaneously cease, but that the graver attacks of the third stage are best treated by Tinct. Digitalis ^ss—5iss, in four or six doses daily. Michel.—On certain Transformations of Erectile and Cavernous Tissue. Gaz. de Strasb., 5, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 16. Michel records four cases, in the first of which cystic transformation occurred spontaneously, in the others after cauterization or simple puncture. RESPIKATOUY SYSTEM. Seitz.—Auscultation and Percussion of the Respiratory Organs, with an Introduction by F. Lammimen on the physical theory of the subject. Erlangen, i860. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 70. TiiiiCK.—Practical Introduction to Laryngoscopy. Wien, i860. (Titles of eleven other communications on the same subject, the matter of which is contained in the first cited.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 81. Alison, S. S.—The Physical Examination of the Chest in Pulmojiary Consumption and its intercurrent diseases, pp. 447. Priduam, T. L.—On Asthma; the result of treatment of nearly one hundred cases. Pause, H.—Pneumonia, its nature and rational treatment. Leipzig, 1861. De Coxjesquelan, R.—On the Treatment and Curability of Pulmonary Phthisis by Caustics. Rennes, i860. Beunard, W. p.—Case of Pneumonia and Fetid Abscess of the Lung. Dublin Q. Journ. of Med. Sc., Feb., 1861. Belchek, F. \V.—Treatment of Pneumonia. Dublin Q. Journ. of Med. Sc., May, 1861. Chamb ERs, T. K.—Clinical Lecture on Broncho-pneumonia. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. and. Oppolzer.—On Pneumonia. Allgem. Wiener Mod. Ztg., i860, No. 6 ct-seq. Canst. Jahresber , vol. iii, p. 201. (Clinical lectures.) Laycock, T.—On the Treatment of some common forms of Pnetmoina. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th.hepout on practical medicine. Jones, Handfield.—// record of Ihirty-two Cases of rneumonia. Brit. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1861. WUNDEHLICH and GziasLV^n.—Report from the Leipsic Med. Clinic on Pneumonia, for the ivinter of 18 59-60, and the swnmer of i8(5o. Arch, de lleillc, i, 3, 6. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 201. BouiiGEOis.—On the Treatment of Pneumonia without Bloodleltiny. L'Un ion M6d., i860, N08. I, 2. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 201. Bkandicoukt.—Case of. Pneumonia terminated by an internal purulent collection in the Lmnbar Region. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860. No. 17. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 201. ScHWARZ.—Case of Intermittent {Aguish) Pneumonia. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, Bernard.—Case of double Pneumonia treated by Stimulants, Med. Times and Gaz., May, 1861. Waters, A. T. H.—Two Cases of Pleiiro-pneumonia; recovery. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 28th. Forget.—On the influence of Warm Climates on Phthisis. Dublin Q. Journ. of Med. Sc., May. Gaz. Hebdomad, de Med. et de Chir., June 8th, i860. Keller, W.—Empyema, with consecutive Pneumothorax, without perfo- ration of the Pleura. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861. Ayer and Cabot.—Two successful Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Feb., 1861. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, 1861. Johns, C.—Report of a Case of Diphtheria terminating in Membranous Croup; operation of Tracheotomy; recovery. Amer. Med. Times, July a7th. IsHAM, R. N.—Successful Laryngotomy for Tonsillitis inducing oedema of the glottis. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 12th. Thompson, H.—Tracheotomy for Laryngitis i/i a ease of Labour. Lancet, April 27th. HiLLiER, T.—On Tracheotomy and Laryngotomy in Diphtheria. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 33rd. Russell and Bolton.—Case of Syphilitic Inflammation of the Larynx ; acute oedema; tracheotomy; death from haemorrhage; idcer in the trachea. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th. Edwards, A. M.—Notes upon Tracheotomy, ivith cases. Edin. Med. Journ., March. Peacock.—Subacute Laryngitis; tracheotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., July 27th. , Martint, 0.—Report on Tracheotomy. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 111, p. 203. \}-Lvac'B..—Experience of the Artificial Opening of the Air-passages. Ztschr. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, i860, Nos. 13, 14. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 195. Marsh, Sir H.—Clinical Lecture on Pleuritic Effusions; empyema. Dublin Med. Press, Jan. 2nd, i6th, 30th, 1861. Marsh, Sir II.—Thoracentesis in Pneumothorax. Dublin Med. Press, Feb. 20th. Marsh, Sir II.—Emphysema of the Lungs. Dublin Med. Press, March 13th.BESPIEATOEY SYSTEM. 195 Maksh, Sir E.—Laryngitis, acute and chronic; aphonia. Dublin Med. Press, April lolli. , . , ..i 7 Begbie, J. Waiibdrton.—Case of fatal Croup in the Adult, withremarks. Ellin. Med. Journ., April. t , Bruce, R.—Case of Croup in the Adult. Edin. Med. Journ., July, 1861. Cases of Tracheitis and Laryngitis. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24th. SaMUELSon.—T/je Abortive Treatment of Diphtheritic Croup, and the Mechanical Removal of Croupous Exudations. Konigsberg. Med. Jalirbucb, vol. ii, i860, p. 308. Canstatt's Jahresber., vol. ui, MoLLEB.—jS'a'^erna^ and Internal Abscess of the Larynx in a Child, terminating favorably. Konigsberg. Med. Jahrb,, vol. ii, i860, p. 170. Canstatt's Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 195. Maush, Sir R.—(Edematous Laryngitis. _Dublin Med. Press, May 8th, Aug. T4th. Marsh, Sir H.—Spastn of the Glottis. Dublin Med. Press, Sept. 4th, i8th. Walker, T. 3.—Report of a Case of Polypoid Growth of the Larynx, diagnosed and removed by aid of the Laryngoscope. Lancet, Nov. 9th. Degranges.—Quotidian Hcemoptoic Fever, the hcsmoptysis constituting apparently the sole interfnittent symptom. Ann. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., 1861, p. 4. ToMSON, J. J.—On the use of Looped Wire in the removal of Foreign Bodies from the Air-passages, with a report of tioo cases. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. lath. Flikt, a.—Clinical Lecture on Functional Aphonia ; the pathological relations of Chronic Laryngitis. Amer. Med. Times, Feb. 2nd. Lente, F. D.—Case of Hysterical Aphonia cured by Etherization. Amer. Med. Times, April 6tb. WuTCKiCHOVVSKY.—Hydrothorax Scorbuticus ; paracentesis ; death. Med. Ztg. Russl., 43, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 299. Chabrely.—Serous Cyst which had invaded almost the whole extent of the left Lung. L'Union Med. de la Gironde. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 68. Chambers. —DnYZ for Auscultation. Lancet, March 30th, April 6th, Oct. 19th. Seven Cases of Croup (Cynanche Trachealis). Lancet, April 6th. Gairdneb, W. T.—A Case of Empyema ; symptoms of choleraic collapse; difficulties of diagnosis; what is a diagnosis? treatment. Lancet, April 27th. Gaibdner, W. T.—Double Hydrothorax or Pleurisy, rapidly improving under Diuretics ; leading points of diagnosis. Lancet, May nth. Langenbeck.—On a new Respirator for Medicinal Purposes. Med. Times and Gaz., April 20th. Padley.—Two Cases of Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages, with remarks. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. ^ih. Waters.—Cases of Acute Diseases of the Chest. Brit. Med. Journ. March 9lh, April 27th. Reybard's Operation for Paracentesis Thoracis, as modified by M» Trousseau. Brit. Med. Journ., May 4th.19(5 ajii'OUT OS I'HAC'l'lCAL MKOlCl.NJi. BiERBAUM.—Case of universal Emphijsema in Pertussis. Dublin l^o^l). Gaz., Feb. 15t.l1. Case of Enchondroma of the Lung, Amer. Med. Times. Dublin Hos]). Gnz., April i^tli. TuKLE.—Chlorate of Potash and Sugar in Phthisis. Med. Times and Ghz., June 1st. Clo^tta.—Dermoid Cysts in the Lungs. Vircliow's Arch., xx, 1 and 2. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 162. Meckel, L.—Report of the most recent investigations relating to Asthma. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 325. LbsciiNEii and Lmibi,.—Papillary Tumour of the Larynx ; fibroid nodule on the lower Focal Cord. Observations and Results, pp. 86, 8;. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 32. Tbaube.—Results of Laryngoscopic Examination in a Case of Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta. Deutsche Klinik, 41, i860. Canst, Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 81. VoLTOLiNi.—Illuminating Apparatus for Laryngoscopic Examinations. Virch. Arch., vol. xviii, i860. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 81. SxoKK.— On Laryngoscopy. Ztschr. d. k. k. gesellch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, Nos. 46 and 52, 1859; No. 23, i860. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 81. TiiRCK.—Notice respecting Rhinoscopy. Allg. Wiener Med. Ztg., No. 34, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 81. Begbie, W. J.—Case of Mediastinal and Pidinonary Cancer, attended by great local Dropsy and Hydrothorax, for lohich Paracentesis Thoracis was performed on ten occasions. Archives of Medicine, Jan., 1861. BiERMER.—On the Cure and Diagnosis of Ptieumothorax. WUrzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 6, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 218. JuNQUET.—Case of Traumatic Pneumocele. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i86o, No. 19. Traube.—On Abscesses in the Lungs. Deutsche Klinik, i860, 2, j. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 310. Skoda.—On Hcemoptde. Allgem. Wiener Med. Ztg., i860, No. 8. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 210. Gui;NEAU DE MussY.— On the particular Odour of the Breath in certain cases of Ptdmonary Apoplexy (sourish, garlick-like). Union Med., i860. No. 99. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 210. Gastaldi, B.—Salutary influence of JSlountain Climates on the cure of Incipient Pulmonary Phthisis. Gazz. Med. Ital. Stati Sardi, i860. No. 30. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 211. Leroy de Mericourt, a.—Bronchial Phthisis, or Peribronchial Adenitis in a state of Suppuration diagnosed during Life; absence of tuber- cles in the Pidmotiary Parenchyma; slow Asphyxia by compression of the lower 2}art of the Trachea. Union Med., i860. No. 85. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 211. 7 7 • T&AVBE.—Ami/loid Degeneration of the Kidneys after Juberculosis. Dcutsclie Klinik, i86o, No. i. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ni, p. 211. Forget.—Ore Tuberculous Cachexia without Pulmonary Phthisis. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860. No. 60. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 211-EESJPlRATOIll' SYSTEM. 197 PiETRA S\NTA.—0/i the Climate of Algeria in Chronic Affections of the Chest. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, No. 46. Canst. Jahresb., vol. 111, PjETiiA Santa.—Ort Lacto-chlorureted Medication tn Chrome Uiest Diseases. Union Med., i860, No. 57. Canst. Jahresb., vol. 111, p. 211. Ahuhs.—Studies on the Climate of Madeira and on Phthisis. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, Nos. 7, 8. Canst. Jaliresber., vol. iii, p. 3ii. ^CK\Ki.-szio. —Sub-pleuritic Traumatic Emjihi/sema, with manifest friction sound. Aunali Univers. diMed. Milano, Feb., March, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 214. Ki;REDA\, A.-Ort the efficacy of Fine Juice in Pulmonary Affections. Monit. des Sc., i860, No.48. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 215. _ DiuxY.—Prophylactic Treatment of Singers' Hoarseness (nitric acid inter^ nally). Gaz. Med. de Lyon, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 215. Lanelongue.—Case of a Pleuritic Effusion evacuated through the Bronchial Tubes; cure. J. de Med. de Bordeaux, March, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p.'ai5. BauNNicHE.—Tivo Cases of Empyema, with remarks. Hospit. Tidende, Sept. 2ist, 18^9. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., July ist, 15th, 1861. Skoda.—0« Pleuritis. Wiener Med. Ztg., i860, No. 25 et seq. Heyfeldeu.—Case of Pulsatile Empyema {communicated cardiac im- pulse). Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, No. 35. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 215. WuNDERLiCH, C. A.—On Peripleuritis. Arch. d. Heilk., ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahib., vol. iii, p. 37. GfiiGEL, A.—Cases of Empyema Necessitatis. Wlirzb. Med. Ztschr., i, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 183. Woodfall, J. W.—Case of Paracentesis Thoracis; successful. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. i6th. HoussARD.—Pulmonary Ilcemorrhage from mere Hypercemia. Bull, de I'Acad., Nov., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 182. Report on the alleged dangers from Inhalation of Sulphuric Ether, Boston Med. and Surg. Jouru.,* vol. Ixv. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 7th. McCoiiMAC, H.— On the true Nature and absolute Preventibility of Tubercular Consumption. Dublin Quart. Jouru. of Med. Science, Nov., 1861. Sandwith, II.—Two Cases of Apnoea, showing the value of direct Infation of the Lungs. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 28th. Trousseau.—On Ozcena. Gaz. des Hopit., i860. No. 25. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 195. Ozanam. —Ore the curative action of Bromine in Pseudo-membranous Affections. Gazz. Med. Ital. Lombard., i860, No. 16. Canst: Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 195. FoUHNllJ.—Note on Cauterization of the Larynx, followed by a description of a Laryngeal Caustic-holder. Union Med., i860, No. 133. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 195. De Lai-anue, h.—(Edema of the Glottis. Anna!, de la Soc. Anat. Chir. de Bruges, Jan., Feb., i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. m, p. 199. 14198 REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. WoLTEttSOHr.—A Case of (Edema of the Glottis successfully treated by Scarijication. Med. Zeituiig, lierausg, v, d. Vereine f. lleilk. in Preusseii, No. 37, i860. Cimstatt's Jalirebber., vol. iii, p. icjij. Flint, A.—Lectures on Auscultation. Amer. Med. Times, Oct. 5th, 12th, 19th, 26tli, Nov. 2nd. Flint distinguishes the intensity, quality, and pitch of percussion sounds. He affirms, as a general law, without exceptions, that whenever the vesicular quality in percussion sounds is morbidly diminished or lost, the yjitch of the sound becomes higher than that oF the resonance of health. The vesicular resonance differs in different persons. It is greater in most cases at the left apex than at the right. Vesiculo-tympanitic is a peculiar form of resonance heard in the upper part of one side of the chest when the lower is occupied by fluid or by hepatized lung, or when in the upper part of the lung a notable amount of tubercular deposit inter- venes between the bronchial tubes and walls of the chest. Church, W. H.—Description and use of the tiaryngoscope. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th. Church describes a contrivance by which the tongue is kept depressed without it being necessary to hold it down by a spatula. He confirms Czermak's statement, and gives some cases of his own where local treat- ment directed by the laryngoscope was of great service. Gebhabdt.—On the application of the Speculum Laryngis. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., vol. i, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 81. The most novel observations made by Gerhardt relate to derangements of the movements of the larynx, e.g.—(i) A triangular, open space is observed between the arytenoid cartilages during the closure of the glottis, with coexisting aphonia or hoarseness. (2) The vocal cords, even in deep respiration, remain parallel close to each other, as during the action of the thyro-arytenoids. (3) An oblique, fixed position of one arytenoid cartilage and its vocal cord, or lessened mobility of one vocal cord. (4) Defective vibration of the vocal cords on uttering a deep tone. Semeleder.—On examination of the Naso-guttural Space. Zeitschr. derk. k. gesellsch. d. Aerztezu Wien, No. 19, i860. Canst. Jahresb., voi. ii, p. 81. Semeleder gives full details as to the mode of managing the soft palate and tongue, and getting a view of the posterior nares and Eustachian tubes. The velum is to be raised and carried forwards and upwards, the tongue depressed. Gerhardt, C, and Roth, Y.— On Syphilitic Diseases of the Larynx. Yirchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, p. 7. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. , , Out of fifty-six syphilitic patients the authors found eighteen affected by disease of the larynx. According to Ricord, the proportion of cases of laryngeal disease is greater among those who have ternary than those who have secondary svmptoms. Laryngitis is often considered as the result of cold or other irritation when it is really produced by syphilis.199 RESPIUATOUY SYSTEM. Becker (of Dorum).—Remarks on the Nature and Treatinent of Croup. Deutsche Klinik, No. 24, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 195. Becker states that, in a district near the mouth of the Weser, on the coast of the North Sea, there died within twenty-five years 21a children, out of a population of 8000, with symptoms of croup. The whole number of patients with cervical affections during the same time amounted to 848, the chief forms of disease being—(i) acute catarrh; (2) inflammation of the trachea and larynx; (3) diphtheritic ulceration of the throat, larynx, and trachea. The first is the commonest, and prevails in the spring. The second prevails at all seasons when there is a cold, keen wind. The third attacks children from two to six years old, in misty, damp, cold weather. It is infectious and very dangerous, and requires caustics. Whittle, E.—On Croup. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Feb. Whittle divides croup-like affections into seven varieties—(i) Cynanche trachealis of CuUen, true croup, with formation of false membrane. (2) Angina stridula of Bretonneau, pseudo-croup of Guersant, acute asthma of Millar; it is characterised by intense inflammation of the lining membrane of the larynx and trachea, but without formation of false membrane. (3) Croup, complicating diphtheria- (4) Sympathetic croup, occurring in the exanthemata, disappearing when the eruption comes out. (5) Croup caused by an ulcerated condition of the larynx, either syphilitic or following the ulcerated throat of scarlatina or variola. (6) Mechanical croup, depending on a puckered condition of the glottis from oedema, &c. (7) Nervous croup, laryngismus stridulus. In the treatment of the first two forms. Whittle advises a warm bath and emetic, followed by nitre and Dover's powder, and not to delay tracheotomy if the symptoms do not yield. In the other forms, except (4) and (7), tracheotomy, or topical applications are mostly requii'ed. KiDD, G. H.—On the Pathology of Asthma, Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., May, 1861. Kidd dwells on the following points, which he thinks he has proved :— ist. That during the paroxysm of asthma, the chest is distended to the greatest possible extent. 2nd. That all the muscles of inspiration are in spasmodic action (tonic spasm). 3rd. That the bronchial muscles are muscles of inspiration, and associated in the spasmodic action with the other muscles of inspiration. 4th. That breathing is carried on by bringing a voluntary effort to aid the muscles of expiration, and that as soon as this is relaxed, the muscles of inspiration, like so many stretched bands of India rubber, distend the chest again. The spasm he traces to some morbid action in the medulla oblongata. DucLOs.—iVa^wre and Treatment of Asthma. Bull. Gen. de Therap,, April 15th. Brit. Med. Journ., May iith. Duclos regards asthma as the manifestation in the air-tubes of an her- petic 'diathesis, the varieties of asthma corresponding with various forms of skin disease. He gives as remedies sulphur or arsenic.HEl'OllT OK PllACTICAL JlEDIflNE. Saltkr, H. U.— Ou the JPatJioloyy of Asthma. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. yth, i6th. Salter, adverting to Kidd's view, shows that tlie clinical phenomena on •which the latter principally relies are all equally explicable on his own. Thus, the chest-di.stension is dependent on the demand for air, and is observed in all states of insufficient aeration of the blood. The locked- up condilion of the air naturally results from bronchial spasm. The special difficulty and prolongation of expiration depends on tiie expiratory force being mucli weakei*' than the inspiratory. Further, the following facts are opposed to Kidd's view.—(i) The bronchial muscles are not muscles of inspiration, and if they were, they would, by contracting in inspiration, obstruct the access of air. (2) The evidence we have that in asthma a partial vacuum is formed in the chest is inconsistent with the view of tetanic rigidity of the walls. (3) The kind of contraction of the respiratory muscles in asthma is not that of tonic spasm, but intermittent, regular, rhythmical, and co-ordinated. (4) The promoting eflfect of pul- monary disease as regards asthma points to the bronchial system itself, as being primarily affected. He replies to Dr. Kidd's argument in favour of the bronchial muscles being contracted in inspiration, from the greater length of the inspiratory act, that this is so because the inspiratory force has to overcome resistance, while the expiratory is unopposed. Delioux.—Bull, de Thurap., 60, Feb., 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 168. Recommends resin in chronic laryngeal and bronchial aflectious, and in granulous pharyngitis. It may be taken internally or smoked. Beau.—On Pertussis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th. Beau believes pertussis to consist in a purulent inflammation of tlic infundibulum above the glottis, and the paroxyijms of cough to be caused by drops of pus falling on the vocal cords. Laryngoscopic and post- mortem examination have verified his views. GiBB, G. D.—Ucemorrhage from the Ears in Hooping-cough; its real cause. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 26th. In four cases Gibb has met with heemorrhage of this kind, in two the bleeding came from both ears. Examination showed that laceration of the membrana tympani had occurred in all the affected ears. In four the laceration was near the margin, and in two it extended towards the middle. All healed up by adhesion, except one, which was followed by suppuration and permanent deafness of the one ear. Wright, H.—The Treatment of Hooping-covgh. Lancet, May 2 5th. Wri"ht recommends the following combination—Vini Antinionii D^xx, Tinct. Aconiti niiv, Ferri Pot. Tart. gr. viij, Aquce 5], M.—thrice in the day and twice at night. The above is the dose for an adult, (hat for a child will, of course, be less. Either ingredient is to be increased ac- cording as the inflammatory element, the muscular spasm, or the nervous impressibility predominates.201 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. AcKmmxv.—Cerebral Ciirulatioti in Asphyxia. Arcli, f. Patli. Anat., torn. XV, p. 401. Lond. Med. Rev., May, 1861. Ackerman induced asphvxia in an animal into whose cranium lie bad inserted, after trephining, a piece of glass. The brain was invariably in a state of ansemia during asphyxia,-especially when the head was raised above the trunk. Smith, A.—On the Treatment of Dyspnoea. Amer. Med. Times, March 30th. Smith recommends in severe cases inhalation of oxygen or prot- oxide of nitrogen. In protracted cases the diet should be animal, and the compensatory action of the skin and lungs brought into play. Oppolzeb.—On Pulmonary (Edema. Allgera. Wiener Med. Ztg., i860. Nos. 36, 38. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 209. Oppolzer locates this effusion in the interstices of the air-cells. The acute form is very dangerous, and may cause death in a few minutes. To diagnose it correctly one must consider, not only the apparent symptoms, but the kind of diseases in which we are taught by experience that pul- monary cedema is most frequent. These are pneumonia, bronchitis, acute exanthemata, cardiac disease, and morbus Brightii. Dyspncea, cyanosis, loud rhonchi, are the signs which generally announce pulmo- nary oedema. Venesection, emetics, drastic purges, or diuretics, are the remedies advised. BiERMEK, Ant.—On the Theory and Anatomy of Bronchial Dilatation. Virch. Arch., xix, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 180. Biermer discusses separately the influence of the probable causes, of this disorder. Of the mechanical, he thinks that the outward pressure of stagnating secretion, and increased pressure of the air in the tubes, are not of themselves sufHcieut to cause dilatation. Inspiratory efforts in non-expansible states of the lung, and extra-bronchial traction of the con- densed pulmonary tissue, he regards as more efficient. Of the textural clianges produced by mal-nutrition, he considers successively those of the bronchi, pulmonary tissue, and pleura, but does not decide which of these has most to do in causing dilatation. In eighteen of fifty-four cases the pulmonary tissue was healthy, but pleural adhesions existed. He seems inclined to attribute to these some causative influence, but if this be not admitted, the bronchiektasis was independent. Traube.—On the Penetration of fine Carbonaceous Particles into the interior of the Respiratory Organs. Deutsche Klinik, 49, 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 299. Traube gives in detail the case of a man, aged fifty-four, who had been exposed for twelve years till tlie last three months to the dust of charcoal, and had often observed that his sputa were black. In his expectoration were found numerous free, black particles, of very irregular, angular shape, and sometimes of large size. Some of these presented structural peculiarities identifying them with the wood of Pinus sihesf. Occasionally the black particles were contained in pulmonary epithelial particles. At the autopsy the lungs M'ere found free from structural lesion, but almostEEPOET ON PUACTIOAL MEDICINE. 202 everywhere of ft dark-black colour. A copious amount of black fluid exuded on pressure, staining the finger like indian ink, and exliibiting the same particles as had been found in the sputa. Traube is inclined to believe that derangement of the ciliary action of the bronchial surface is essential to the accumulation of carbonaceous matter in the lungs, inas- much as many persons continually inhale a dusty atmosphere of this kind without sulTering. ♦ Strohl.—071 the Treatitient of Pneumonia hy the Acetate of Lead. Gaz. M^d. de Strasbourg, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev,, Julj"^, 1861. ' Strohl gives the drug in full doses to the exclusion of all other remedies except bloodletting in cases of great congestion. As soon as resolution begins Strohl discontinues the lead, and convalescence goes on sponta- neously. Flint, A.—Clinical Lecture.—Pneumonia ; physical examination of Pul- monary Cavities. Amer. Med. T., April 6th. Flint dwells on the distinctive character of cavernous as compared with bronchial respiration, the former consisting of alow-pitched, non-vesicular, inspiratory sound, with an expiratory still lower in pitch, while the latter is marked by a high-pitched, tubular inspiration, with an expiratory sound still higher. Between the bronchial and the cavernous whisper there is a similar difference. Flint, A.—Clinical Report on Pneumonia, hased on an analysis of 133 Cases. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861. Flint examines his cases with regard to locality inhabited, season, sex, oc9«pation, habits, seat and extent of disease, complications and duration. With regard to treatment, his experience leads him to abandon blood- letting, tartar-emetic, mercury, counter-irritants, cathartics and la.x'atives. In place of these he uses opium and quinine pretty freely, with alcohohc stimulants and concentrated nourishment. The total mortality was thirty- five, or 26 per cent. At Buffalo it M'as about 17, at New Orleans 32, and at Louisville 63 per cent. In three cases recovery ensued without any treatment. Flint, A.—Abstract of a Clinical Lecture on Pneumonia. Amer. Med. T., March 9th. Brit. Med. Journ., May iith. Flint dwells on the prodigious amount of material often effused into the pulmonary cavities, and tlie consequent diminution of the mass of the blood. In correspondence with this is the fact that such patients do not generally die by apnoea, but by asthenia. He therefore considers the best proceeding to be—(i) to give opium in sufficient doses to tranquillise the system, to render it as tolerant as possible of the local affection, and to promote sleep ; (2) to support the system by alcoholic stimulants and concentrated nourishment. Griesinger.—Resume of Seventy-tivo Cases of Pneumonia. Arch. d. Ileiik., i, 5, i860. Canstatt's Jahresbcr., vol. iii, p. 201. These cases occurred in the three years from IMay, 1854, to April, i860. In the last two and first two months of the six years there occurred 42,203 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. in June and July'7. in August and September o. Forty-five per cent, of all the cases were under tliirly years. Left-side pneumonia was notably more frequent among females than males. In 66 cases the disease set in rapidly, mostly with sharp rigors. A pulse of 120 and upwards was observed in 9 cases below the age of fourteen, who all recovered; the same was noted in 31 adults, of whom 10 died. Delirium occurred in 8 of the 10 fatal and in 11 of the 62 recovered cases. Icterus occurred twice among the fatal (10) and twice among the non-fatal (62) cases. Herpes of the nose or lips was noticed in 2 of the fatal, and in 35 of the non-fatal cases. The mortality rose with advancing age ; of 33 patients under the age of thirty, o died; of 10 between thirty and forty, i ; of 7 between fifty and sixty, 3 ; of 6 between sixty and seventy, 3. Treat- ment was essentially symptomatic; venesection was resorted to only twice. . Roth, F.—Contribution to the Statistics of Pneumonia. Wurzb. Med. Zeitschr., i, 3, 4. Canstatt's Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 201. Among Roth's patients in the course of three years from May, 1857, to April, i86oj the pneumonic cases amounted to 4*79 per cent. The mor- tality was 18-94 per cent., 45 dying out of 237. Comparing Roth's results with those of Bamberger, Lebert, Griesinger, Rigler, Hirsch, Hamernjk, and the Vienna Hospital physicians, it is evident that the mortality in different years varies considerably. Social influences are also to be taken into account, e.g. whether patients are brought from a distance in the country or from the immediately adjacent town. In some places double pneumonias are more frequent than in others, and in these there will be a heavier mortality. The mortality among females is much greater than among males, 23*59 • i6"2i per cent. Veratrin was tried in four.cases, and the results seem to be favorable. Williams, T.—On the uncertainty of the Sputum as a Diagnostic Feature in Pneumonia. Lancet, Sept. 7th. Williams observed thirty cases, of which twenty-six occurred in the same season, and therefore under the same climatal conditions. In five only was there rusty expectoration, in one it was hsemoptysical, in one it was prune-juice, in two the sputa were slightly tinged, in three they were simply clear mucus, in twenty there was no cough or expectoration. Russell, J.—On the use of Stimulants in Pneumonia. Brit. Med. J., March 2nd. Russell believes that disease at the present day does not endure de- pleting or even depressing treatment to the same extent as in former days. He also believes that inflammation need not run its course, but that it may be cut short. With regard to stimulants, he considers that their use must be regulated by the circumstances presented to us, and that they may be therefore positively injurious, or, on the contrary, abso- lutely necessary. In particular, he observes that full doses of brandy, where required, cause no intoxication, and that under their use the local symptoms disappear very rapidly. lie gives eight very illustrative cases of difterent kinds of pneumonia and of the correspondingly difierent treatment found beneficial.204 IIKPOIIT ON I'H.VCTKAI, .MEDTCTNK. Beutin.—Baths of Compressed Air in the treatment of Emphysema and Jsthma. Gnz. Med. de Lyons, Feb. ist. IJrit. Med. J., March i6lh. Of ninety-two cases of long-stnnding emphysema, sixty-seven were completely cured, all the others were greatly relieved. Macakio.—On Pneumonic Paralysis. Union Med., 1859, ^0, .32. Cnnst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 201. Four cases of pneumonia were treated with emetics, leeches, and vesicants successfully, but during their convalescence were affected more or less by general paraplegia (allgemeine paraplegic). Macario believes this to have been of dynamic character. Drasche.—On Icterus in Pneumonia. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., i860. No. 23. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 201. Drasche states that in some well-marked cases biliary pigment cannot be demonstrated in the urine. The stools are rarely pale. The jaundice sometimes appears before the lung affection has declared itself, usually not till hepatization has set in. In thirty-four cases icterus was observed nineteen times. In eight of these the right lung was affected, and in five of these, again, the base, in one the whole lung, in one the apex, in one the lower lobe. In seven cases of left-sided pneumonia jaundice occurred, and in four of double pneumonia. The cause of icterus in pulmonary inflammation Drasche ascribes mostly to hepatic congestion, the return of the venous blood to the heart being delayed by the dimin- ished permeabihty of the lungs. The congested portal veins compress the adjacent biliary ducts, and so in a mechanical way give rise to jaundice. Icterus produced in this way has no especial value in prognosis. It may, however, be produced also by acute tumefaction of the mucous lining of the duodenum, and is then attended with gastric symptoms. There is yet another variety, associated with typhoid symptoms, in which the urine is fiery red, contains no bile-pigment, but albumen and fibrinous casts. Hepatization in such may not be extensive, and nothing is found to explain the appearance of jaundice, but they are more dangerous than others. Out of nineteen cases of icterode pneumonia bile-pigment was present in the urine of fourteen, and of these three only died, while of the five in which the urine contained no bile two died. Charcot.—On Chronic Pneumonia. Thesis, Paris, i860. Canst. Jahres- ber., vol. iii, p. 207. This disease may either be a sequel of an acute pneumonia, which happens most often, or it commences with insidious, obscure phenomena. In bad cases it is attended with hectic fever and uncontrollable diarrhoea, and the patients die in a state of marasmus. The duration of the disease is from two to twelve months. Its causes are very obscure, but seem to be such as give rise to general cachexia;. Gray induration, with fibroid thickening, are the anatomical changes which are most characteristic. The indurating matter is amorphous and very granular. Treatment must consist of revulsives and tonics. J^ji^t^—Medico-Chirurffical Treatment of Pleurisy. J. de M6d. et de Chir. Prat., June, i860. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 32.205 RESPmATOUy SYSTEM. ivm contents liimself, if the effusion is moderate, with rest in bed, wnrm drinks, and restricted diet. If the case is more urgent he performs thoracentesis, which he has practised above 250 times without any disaster. . RosTAN —On Thoracentesis, its Indications, and Contra-indications in Pleurisj/. Gaz. des Hop., i860, Nos. 98, 99. Canst. J.ihresber., vol. iii, p. 215. , a- • • Rostan holds the operation advisable—(i) when the effusion is very copious, (2) when it is increasing rapidly, (3) when it has existed three or four weeks. The only centra-indication is gangrene of the lungs or pleura. GERnAKDT.—On the Position of the Diaphragm. Tubingen, t8(5o. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 74. Gerhardt examines in considerable detail the various causes that affect the position of the diaphragm, and of the heart, liver, and spleen, and states twenty-two propositions respecting them. He says the position of the diaphragm depends on the elastic traction of the lungs and the tension of the abdominal organs on the one hand, and on the amount of its muscular contraction and its weighting by the adjacent organs on the other. The true upper boundary of the liver, corresponding with the most elevated position of the diaphragm, cannot be accurately determined in the living subject, but any considerable alterations in tlie above may be ascertained from the position of the lower border of the liver. Paraly- sis of the diaphragm can only raise its position, and, therefore, can in no way explain its altered position in emphysema or empyema. Gerhardt.—Observations bearing on Physical Diagnosis. Archiv f. Physiol. Heilk., N. F., vol. iii, 1859. Canst. Jaliresber., vol. ii, p. 74. Gerhardt designates as complementary portions of the thoracic space those which, during quiet breathing, are unoccupied by lung, and where the costal and parietal layers of pleura are in contact, but which, on deep inspiration and in favorable positions, are occupied by expanded lung. In the left lateral posture the liver descends more on the right than on the left, drawing down the diapliragm, and if a deep respiration be now taken, the pulmonary resonance will be distinctly recognisable on per- cussion as far down as the tenth rib in the axillary vertical line, it being presumed that the lung is healthy and free from adhesions. Deep inspi- ration alone, or position alone, will produce only half the effect. Adhe- sions may, however, by possibility, fix the lung at any part of the complementary space. According to Hamernik and Donders, the whole of the region of the heart's dulness is to be considered as a comple- mentary thoracic space. V. Zdekatjer.—On the Treatment of Pulmonary Hcemorrhage. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., xi, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 182. By means of Mntlhieu's liquid pulverizer, Zdekauer introduces dilute Tinct. Ferri Mur. xx ad Aq. gvj) with the inlialed air into the lungs. He relates five cases of grave character, in which the treatment was suc- cessful. In one, which subsequently died, an unusual amount of iron was found in the lungs.REPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 206 Hill, \V, R.—An Analysis of 220 Cases of Pulmonary Consumption. Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Rev., Oct., 1861. Of these (observed at the Brompton Hospital) 15a were males and 68 females. Of the whole, 104 were decidedly improved, 2 5 unimproved, 41 got worse, and 50 died. Hill follows Virchow's account of the cellular nature of tubercle. The female sex is attacked in a much larger proportion than the male before the age of thirty, and in a still larger ratio befoi-e twenty. As to hereditary predisposition, 46*5 per cent, had con- sumptive relatives, while 53-5 per cent, had none. The predisposition is greater in females than in males—(3 12). As to physical signs, Hill admits that dull percussion may be absent—(i) when emphysema exists, (2) when the other side is greatly more diseased, (3) when miliary tubercle is scattered through the lung. He has noted deficient respiratory murmur, rough or uneven, and harsh, as deviations from the normal state, which at a later period have been proved to result from com- mencing tubercular deposit. Haemoptysis occurred in 75 per cent., 5 deaths took place where it was very profuse, and in 4 of these there were large vomicae. It is difficult to ascertain whether haemoptysis may not precede the cough ; patients are positive that it does, and that by many months. Among Hill's cases the right lung was most diseased in 65 per cent, of the males, and only in 457 per cent, of the females. Staveley King, H.—On the relative value of the Physical Signs of Early Phthisis. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Staveley King dwells on the little value of percussion in the early stages, as above the clavicle a great variety of sounds can be elicited by sUght variations in the mode of percussing, and below the clavicle the sound is naturally duller on the right side. With regard to breath-sounds. King is of opinion that simple deficiency of the secretion proper to mucous mem- branes is sufficient to convert the vesicular into dry types of respiration, from the simple manifestation of the expiratoi^y sound to unmistakeable bronchial breathing. Jerking respiration he considers a valuable sign, and also vocal fremitus. The preponderance of elevation over expansion movements he considers very significant. Flint, A.—Clinical Report on the treatment of Phthisis hy Pot. Chlorat. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Oct., 1861. In full doses—5iij—5iv per diem—Flint found the drug to exert no special efficacy in arresting or retarding the disease. No bad effect was produced. Cotton, R. V.—On the action of Phosphorus upon Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., July 6th. • -m \ Cotton gave to 25 patients in.v—x of 01. Phosphor. (Prussian Pharm.) for some length of time (1—8 weeks) bis vel ter die. The result was, that 4 improved greatly, 5 slig^itly, and 16 either remained stationary or became worse. He concludes that the drug exerts no specific action upon phthisis. Harkin, Alkx.—Ow the use of Chlorate of Potass in the treatment of Consumption and Scrofula. DubUu Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1861. i207 EESPIEATOUY SYSTEM. Harkin considers that, in conjunction -with the ordinary hygienic, dietetic, and moral means, Pot. Chlor. is a specific for consumption in its first and second stages, and that for the last it will be found most potent in controlling the hectic symptoms and the colliquative diarrhoea. Bouchard AT.—On the Etiology and Prophylaxis of Pulmonary Tubei'cu- ligation. Supplement to the 'Annuaire de Therapeutique' for 1861. Bouchardat lays down in the first part of his paper the following law:— " Under favouring conditions of age a continuous loss of the aliments of calorification, or a continuously insuflicient supply of them, regard being had to the external temperature and to the requirements of the organi- zation, or even their being insufficiently consumed for a length of time, leads to pulmonary tuberculization. The same law lie expresses also more briefly in another way, viz., a continued insufficient production of heat or exhalation of carbonic acid, regard being had to the requirements of the organism, leads to pulmonary tuberculization. He examines then the influ- ence of age, sex, constitution, temperament, contagion, profession, exertion of the lungs, vaccination, bronchitis, or pleurisy, measles, typhoid fever, depressing moral causes, dress, climate, season, the sea, and hereditary predisposition, and endeavours to show that the effect of all these condi- tions, in so far as they are productive of phthisis, is explicable according to tlie law he has laid down. His rules of prophylaxis are summed up in the direction to " utilise the greatest possible amount of good aliments of calorification." Davis, N. S.—Report on the injlueiice of Alcoholic Drinks on the develop- ment and progress of Pulmonary Tuberculosis. Trans, of Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. xiii, i860. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Oct., 1861. Of 210 phthisical cases, 51 were total abstainers, 15 drunkards, and the remainder had used alcohoHc drinks to a greater or less extent. Cotton, R. Y.—On the action of Fin. Ferri upon Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th. Of 2_5 patients, 1,3 were greatly improved, 3 slightly, and 9 not at all. The dose was 5ij —l] bis die. The remedy seemed most advantageous in the cases of children and young persons. Beau.—On Tubercular Phthisis. Lancet, Aug. loth, 17th. _ Beau points out the existence of pain in four different regions in this disease —(i) in the middle of the back ; (2) in the three upper intercostal spaces, extending, perhaps, to the cervical or brachial plexuses ; (3) in the hepatic region, produced by pressure; (4) a pain felt on shampooing the thigh a little above the knee. The latter is a very characteristic sign most often met with in young, febrile females. He advocates the use of Plumbi Carb. internally as jiu effective remedy. SiMOK.—Ora the employment of Iodine Inhalations in Pulmonary Phthisis L'.Union Med., March 16th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med -Chir Rev ' July, i86i. " Out of 28 patients, 17 derived positive benefit from the inhalations,HKPORT on PnACTICAL MKnrriNE, 208 both ns (0 the general and pulmonary symptoms, and 4 might be regarded as cured. Dkscamps.—On the use ofPulv. Doveri in Phthisis. Gaz. Med. de Lyons, Jan., 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., .luly, 1861. Descamps states that it is uniformly successful in arrestino- the sweating. Cotton, R. P.—On the Action of certain substances upon Phthisis. !iled. Times and Gnz., April 1.3th. Cotton found moderate doses of Liq. Potass, to be almost inert. Bennett, J. R.—Results of some trials of the Hypophosphites in the treatment of Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., April ayth. May 4th, I ith. Bennett adduces twenty cases under his care, of which there were onlv nine in which the disease did not steadily advance while under treatment", or in which there was any evidence at all of improvement. Of these nine only four manifested any decided improvement, which, however, is not known to have been permanent. ToULMiN, A. — On the importance of the Skin in the pathology and treat- ment of Tubercular Consumption. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. Toulmin regards the breathing of impure air, especially during the night, as the chief cause of tuberculous deposit. He advises in the way of treatment—(i) that by the aid of the hot-air bath all the functions of the skin be kept in healthy action; (2) that the whole surface of the body be anointed daily with some oily matter; (3) that a local ulcera- tion on some part of the surface be kept always patent by means of an issue or seton ; (4) the " ringing the changes " on cod-liver oil. Pot. lod , mineral acids, tar, creasote, and naplitha, iodine and chlorine, iron, arsenic, and quinine, and, indeed, the class of antiseptic medicines generally, all of them admirable adjuvants in improving the general health (if selected in conformity with the functions most sympathising with and reacting on the disease), but powerless in arresting the specific lesion in question ■without the previous "open sesame" of the hot-air bath, followed by the aspersion of cold or tepid M ater. Hannon.—Caoutchouc in Phthisis. La Presse Med. Beige, Jan. 2 7tli. Brit. Med. Journ., March i6th. Hannon states a solution of caoutchouc in turpentine eases the cough, diminishes the expectoration and dyspnoea, checks the fever, night sweats, and diarrhoea, and causes the patient to gain flesh. Maisch and Hanbury.—On Anacahuite Wood, a reputed remedy in Con- sumption. Amer. Journ. of Pharmac., March, i86r. London Pharmac. Journ., Feb., 1861. This wood is imported from Tampico, in Mexico, and has been used with much advantage in Beriin. From 5vij—5viij of the wood are boiled in twelve ounces of water down to five ounces, and this is taken from twice to four times daily, combined with other remedies. Treatment of Phthisis by Chlorate of Potash. Amer. Med. Monthly, Sept., i860. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., i8<5i.RESPIRATOUY SYS'lKJr. 209 Fountain, after 01. Morrh. and iron had failed, administered in one marked case 5^^s daily for six weeks, and 5ij daily for four weeks more, with the result of complete recovery^ ^ Rui.LMANN.—0« the Therapeutic Influence of the Southern Climatic Sanatoria, parlicularhj with reference to Chronic Tuberculosis of the Lungs. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., May, 1861. RuUmann considers that such sanatoria are certainly useful in chronic bronchial catarrh and chronic pulmonary tuberculosis of patients from the northern and central parts of Europe. They should, however, only be used as winter residences. Summer in these places, and still more tropical heats, are often very pernicious, by developing and aggravating such diseases. Jloist and moderately warm climates are more suitable to cases of disease attended with a sensitive state of the bronchial mucous mem- brane, viscid expectoration, frequent and dry cough, and an easily excitable condition of the vascular and nervous systems. Dry and moderately warm climates appear to be secretion-limiting, tonic, gently exciting, and especially promotive of the general nutrition, and are, therefore, suited to the more torpid forms of disease. Garimoni).—Statistics of the Montpellier Hospitals, with respect to the influence of Climate on the development and progress of Pulmonary Phthisis. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, Nos. i, 2. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 211. Garimond's figures show that the Mediterranean coast, and especially" that part to which Montpellier belongs, really exercises a favorable influence on chest affections, and especially on phthisis. WuNDERLTCH.—The curability of Acute Miliary Tuberculosis. Arch. d. Heilk., i, 4, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 211. "Wunderlich insists on the possibility of distinguishing acute miliary tuberculosis from typhus by means of temperature observations methodi- cally conducted. The disease in question commences gradually, the fever does not increase regularly as in typhus, the pulse is not so constantly di- crotous, and the same difference in the sitting and lying postures is not perceptiljle. Herpes labialis may be present, or the tongue may be unusually clean, the type of respiration may be unusual, the spleen may not enlarge, diarrhoea and roseolous eruption be absent, while there is notable sweating and highly sedimentary urine. After the disease has lasted some time there begins, what Wunderlich calls " the amphibolous stage," in which there is an alternation and a mingling of partial bad symptoms. The fever may persist, or considerably remit, the patients become very emaciated and pallid, there is great thirst, often distressing cough, more or less dyspnoea, and cerebral disorder. Inflammatory changes of limited extent take place in the lungs, and predominate during this period. Some absorbent glands enlarge, and there is a remarkable tendency to lisemorrhagcs and to thromboses. This stage may last several weeks, and either gradually give way to returning health, or be succeeded by a stormy outburst of bad symptoms ending in death, or pass into a condition of chronic tuberculosis.UEPORT ON phactical medicine. 210 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Wright, H.^ 6.—Some remar/cs on a Case of Poisoning ly Sir W. Burnett's Solution of Chloride of Zinc. Lancet, Jan. i2tli. The patient, set. 7, female, had become greatly exhausted and emaciated, all nutriment being rejected, whether given by mouth or rectum. She was gradually restored to health by milk baths, taken night and morning, absolute rest, a diet of asses' milk with lime water, cautiously improved as the digestion permitted, and supporting the abdominal muscles with thick chamois-leather plaster. Miles, E. J.—Report of a Case of Sarcina Fe)itriculi, with vomiting of Gall-stones. Lancet, Jan. 19th. The sarcinous vomiting ceased after the ejection of two large gall-stones from the stomach and the adoption of a fluid diet. Inman.—On Sore Throat. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 26th. Inman maintains that the pain of sore throat and dysphagia is due to the muscles pf deglutition being unusually irritable or inflamed, and in the way of treatment he finds great advantage from soothing applications, as gargles containing laudanum. These are applicable to all forms of cynanche, even scarlatinal or diphtheritic. Gaiedner, W. T.—On Ileus. Lancet, May 25th. Gairdner relates a case in which a very healthy girl, set. 10, had no proper alvine evacuation for sixteen days, with, after some time, faecal vomiting, hiccup, prostration, collapse, but no fever or abdominal ten- derness. No tumour could be discovered, but it seemed probable that there was some obstruction, probably an intussusception in the colon. At last faecal matter began to ooze away, and gradually the stools became more and more copious, but no slough was passed nor any trace of blood. She recovered completely. ZiMMERMANN.— On Dysentery, especially ivith regard to the participa- tion of the Kidneys in the Disease. Deutsche Klinik, 42—45, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 3^. Ziramermann believes that the relation of the kidneys to the bowel aff"ection may be one of the four following :—(i) There is no albumen and no casts in the urine during the whole course of the dysentery, which always terminates favorably. (2) The dysentery is severe, but it lasts a long time before exudation appears in the urine, the occurrence of which is preceded and attended by putridity of the copious stools, by status nervosus, collapse, and paralytic phenomena. Death may ensue, or recovery. (3) The disease is similar, but the renal affection occurs sooner, and death usually ensues speedily. (4) The dysentery commences with symptoms of paralysis and nervous disorder, and the urine from the first is scanty and contains abundance of exudation-products. If speedy im- provement does not take place death follows, and the kidneys are found hio-hly congested, and the tubes filled with exudation, cells, and detritus.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. .211 CuXxS'iNGHAM.—Ort the Treatment of Acute Dysentery hy Ipecacuanha. Ediu. Med. Journ., July, 1861. _ ^ m- ^ ^ •• In one hour after a sinapism to the epigastrium and ^ss of Tinct. Opn, from to 5iss of ipecacuanha is given in powder. This causes consider- able nausea, and vomiting occurs in one or two hours. During the nausea copious perspiration takes place, the pulse becomes fuller, softer and less frequent, tenesmus and abdominal pains cease, and the patient has no more stools for twelve or twenty-four hours. The next evacuation is easy, fluid, but free from blood or mucus. Sometimes the dose of Ipe- cacuanha may require to be repeated. M.K^o^—Ipecacuanha in Dysentery. London Med. Rev., July, 1861. Indian Lancet. • e < Mahon reports the results of this treatment from an experience of 436 cases, occurring in twenty-one months. There were only six deaths, and in only one of these could the remedy be fairly said to have failed. Under other plans of treatment the mortality has varied from 12 to 22-3 per cent. Speck.—On a Diarrhcea Epidemic of 1859. Arch. f. Wissensch. Heilk., vol. V, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 37. The chief point of interest in this paper is the apparent dependence of the disease on the exhalations from a lake, which during this hot summer became half dried up. The lake is situated in a valley running north and south, the prevailing wind during the existence of the disease was north or north-west. The places situated to the north of the lake escaped almost entirely, those to the south suffered earlier and more severely in pro- portion to their proximity to the lake. Fox, E. L.—Five Cases of Intestinal Perforation. Brit. Med. Journ., June 8th. Four of the above were cases of fever (typhoid), in the fourth asso- ciated with dysentery. The fifth was one of chronic dysentery. In the second and third cases perforation was repaired as shown by the autopsy in the second, and recovery in the third. Diarrhoea was absent in at least three of the typhoid cases. Mental depression appeared to have much to do with the fatal event in two. LuscHKA, H.—On T?olypous Vegetations of the lohole Mucous Membrane of the Large Intestine. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xx, i, 2. A case is described in which the whole surface of the large intestine, from the ileo-c£Ecal valve to the end of the rectum was covered with polypous growths, club-shaped, with terminations of the size of a hemp- seed or bean, and mostly provided with pedicles. These growths were made up in great part of glandular tubes, simple or ramified. In some parts there were diffuse elevations of the mucous membrane, which ap- peared to be an early stage of the same polypous formations. Death ensued from exhaustion, in consequence of recurring hEemorrhagic diarrhcea. Another case is noticed, in which cysts were found in similar polypi and in the submucous tissue. They appeared to have resulted from transformations of Lieberkiihn follicles.llEPORT ON I'KACTICAL MEDXCINB, 31^ CoURBON.—On the Remedies for Tapeworm in Abyssinia. Bullet. Gtu^r. de Tlierap., April 30th, May 15th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Cbir. Rev., July, i86j. Besides the kousso, there are six other remedies employed for this dis- order, (he most cfficnciotis of which is the mesenna. This is tlie powdered hark of a leguminous shrub, three or four feet high, which is taken in tl;e dose of about 3ij. The worm is not completely expelled until two or three days after the dose, which produces sero-mucous evacuations. BoucHARDAT.— On the best ivay of administering Kousso. Ann. de Therap., 1861, p. 249. Bouchardat insists on the following precautions :—(i) That joints of tlie worm have been passed the evening, or the evening but one, before taking the dose ; (2) that very little food should be taken for twelve hours before the kousso is given. Mayk.—On the use of Faullinia sorbilis. Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk,, iv, 2, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 21. The powder of the seeds mixed with sugar aii p. aeq., in doses rising from six to twenty-four grains 4tis horis, was found very efficacious in inflammatory catarrh of the large, but not of the small, intestine. IIabershox, S. 0.— Vomitiny as a Sign of Disease. Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. vii, 1861. Habershon comments upon vomiting from the following causes:—(1) Gastritis; (2) indigested food, blood, &c. ; (3) irritant medicines; (4) peculiar irritability ; (5) ulceration ; (6) obstructive disease of pylorus; (7) cancer; (8) acute peritonitis; (9) pressure on the stomach; (10) disease of duodenum; (11) disease of liver and gall-bladder; (12) disease of supra-renal capsules ; (13) hernia ; (14) renal and (15) uterine disease ; (16) regurgitation; (17) spinal disease; (18),commencing exanthemata ; (16) cerebral disease ; (20) pulmonary disease. Is it necessary to operate for Fistula in Ana in Consumptive People t Prgsse Med. Beige. Dublin Med. Press, July 3rd. Tlie writer is decidedly in favour of keeping up the fistula, which he regards as salutary, and as not debilitating the patient. Martin, Stanislas.—Bull, de Therap., Julj', 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 164. Martin recommends for the euro of fetid breath, which does not depend on any evident disease of the buccal cavity, a moderate dose of Pot. Chloras after each meal, and rinsing the mouth with a lotion of the same. GiBB, G. D.—On the Diseases and Injuries of the Hyoid Bone. Loud. Med. Rev., Oct. Gibb considers—(i) inflammation and its consequences, such as necrosis mid expulsion ; (2) sub-liyoid abscess ; (3) thyro-hyoid inflammation and abscess ; (4) thyro-hyoid cysts ; (5) osseous tumours of the hyoid bone ; (6) tumours springing from the hyoid periosteum ; (7) eburnation of the hyoid ; (8) diseases of the thyro-hyoid articulation ; (9) general displace- ment of the entire bone ; (10) disease of tlie bone, or of its periosteum,DIGESTIVE SYSTEjr. by extension from til e tongue and neighbouring parts; (ii) hyoid neu- ralgia; (12) fractures of the bone; (13) laceration of structures attached to it; (14) wounds of the hyoid bone. 1 A^orx.—Jdmiiiistratioii of 01. Morrh. andiron. Pragev Vierteljahrschr., 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 12th. The iron is combined with the oleic acid of the oil, precipitated car- bonate of iron being first mixed with four times its weight of oleic acid, gently boiled, and then mixed with cod oil. Marten.—On ihe Operative Treatment of Peritonitis. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., Aug., 1861, Virchow's Archiv, vol. xx, parts 5 and 6. Marten advocates the removal of abdominal inflammatory effusions of puriform character by valvular incision with the knife when resorption does not occur and the general symptoms are urgent. Olivier.—Paracentesis of the Stomach for Acute Tympanitis ; recovery. Gazz. Lomb., 29, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 308. Olivier states that he operated on twenty patients, of whom eight recovered completely in three weeks. The others died probably from not having been submitted to treatment till too late. The symptoms are those of extreme distension of the stomach, producing death by suffo- cation. The cause of the disease appears to be overloading the stomach Mith half-cooked vegetable food, and drinking badly fermented liquid, called chicha, prepared from maize. Paracentesis gives exit to a great quantity of most offensive gas (US) and fermenting chyme. The cases occurred in Bohvia, South America. Chapuis.—Dry Colic in French Guyana. Gaz. Hebd., vii, 36, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 309. Of thirty-one cases, met with in a quarter of a year, only six were in- stances of lead colic, twenty-five of dry. Vinous enemata, as hot as can be borne, are the best treatment in both classes. Aran.—0« the Grape Cure. Bull, de Ther., lix, Oct., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. iii, p. 164. Aran does not admit that the grape and whey cures are to be compared with each other. He thinks the former chiefly useful as giving rest to the alimentary canal. Clarus (the reporter) differs from him, noticing the troublesome aphtha; and excoriations in the mouth and anus it produces, the derangement of appetite and diarrhoea, and the possible impaction of grape-stones in the processus vermiformis. PoLAKSKY.— On Balneotherapy in Chronic Gastric Catarrh, Zeitschr. d. Wiener Aerztc, No. 18, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 241. Polansky regards the gastric disorder as an expression of the dyscrasic character of tuberculosi.o, and its cessation, consequently, as a favorable sign. He seems to trust more to chfingc of climate and mode of life tlian to mineral waters. 15214 uepout on peactical medicinb. Melchiort.—Om Volvulus of the Sit/moid Flexure. Annali Univers. di Medic. Milnno, Oct., Nov., iSijp. Canst. Jahresber, vol. iii, p. 245. Melchiori describes how an elongated loop of the sigmoid flexure in a dead body was made by alternate insufflation and emptying (spontaneous) to twist on its own axis, so that its canal was obstructed. SECEETOEY SYSTEM. Cahdinale.—Case of Diabetes succeeding a Fall, treated successfully by Tinct. Li/ttee. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug., i8(5i. Bennett, H.—Case of Diabetes Mellitus, treated with Sugar beneficially. Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. i6tb. Cakteb, W. G.— Case of Diabetes, treated successfully. Lancet, Aug. lyth. Reid.—Case of Disease of Pancreas ; no Fatty Stools; Vomiting. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., July ist. Davis, G.—A Case of Chylous Urine (cured by Pot. lod.): Madras Quart, Jour, of Med. Science, July, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Pavy, F. W.—Researches on the influence of various articles of Food upon the Elimination of Sugar in a case of Diabetes, with reports of other cases treated with success by restriction to a purely animal diet. Guy's Hosp, Reports, vol. vii, 1861. A male, set. 33, was kept under close observation from February ist to March 23rd, and his urine examined at intervals of four hours. He had all the time Opii gr. j, ter die, brandy and soda water, with water ad libitum. His diet at first was the ordinary fulj mixed. Under this the quantity of sugar passed was 10,573 grains, that of the urine 259 oz., of sp. gr., 1037. About a week later when his diet was purely animal, he passed 127 oz. of urine, sp. gr. 1030, containing 2471 grains of sugar. On a diet of fish and beef tea the amount of urine was 163 oz., and that of th*sugar 1696 grains. With Oij of jelly, two chops, and Oij of beef tea, the amount of urine was 108 oz., of sugar 569 grains. During five days Oiij of milk were substituted for the beef tea; the patient did not feel so well, and the amount of sugar rose to 2225 grains the last day. With 8 oz. of suet, three chops, and Oiij of beef tea, the quantity of sugar was 886 grains, of urine 103 oz. With bran biscuits, meat, and beef tea, sugar 3291 grains, urine no oz. Sj^mptoms worse. After he had again im- proved on a purely meat diet, gluten bread was given with meat and beef tea—sugar 4539 grains, urine 173 oz. Rice, potatoes, and arrowroot, all increased the sugar pretty equally, but not so much as ordinary bread, ■which raised the figure to 3521 grains. With 2 lbs. of carrots the amount of sugar was 2,371 grains. Being now kept solely on animal foot, a trial was made of large doses of phosphoric acid, carbonate of soda, and tartrate of potash and soda. None of these had any marked efi'ect. He was discharged at the end of four months, looking and feeling perfectly well, the quantity of sugar in the urine varying from 959 to about 1127S15 SEOBJETORY SYSTEM. grains in the twenty-four hours, the quantity from ^4 to 62 oz. In another, case on a purely meat diet, with Opii gr. j, ter die, the sugar completely disappeared. Seager, J.—On Sugar in the Urine. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, p. 218. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Seager gives fourteen cases of diabetes, in each of which the daily amount of sugar was determined once at least weekly. His conclusions are—(i) That elimination of sugar by the urine is either an independent disease or a symptom of another morbid process. Of fourteen cases, twelve were independent, two were symptomatic. (2) In some of the cases the sugar apparently originated from the starchy food, the in- creased use of flesh food causing a speedy disappearance of the urinary sugar. In others, however, the sugar-formation occurred at the cost of the gelatinous parts of the body, and remained even on an exclusively flesh diet. (3) Of the fourteen cases, eleven were men, and three women; the youngest man aged twenty, the eldest seventy-three. C4) and (j) The use of a flesh diet was found of the greatest importance, but had no efiiect on the disease itself, the cause of sugar-formation. Carlsbad waters were the most eflBcient remedy; by their use the elimi- nation of sugar was always essentially reduced or entirely prevented, though not in all cases to an equal extent, or with the same rapidity. (6) In the earlier periods of most of the cases the reaction of the urine with Fehling's test solution was very clear and unequivocal, but in the later periods the reaction was by no means similar, and quantitative determination impossible. Foster, M.—Case of Diabetes ; cure. Brit. Med. Jour., Oct. 19th. The disease appeared to originate from exposure to excessive cold; it ceased under abstinence from farinaceous food, and the use of chlorodyne X(\xx quatuor die. Hill, \V. R.—On the occurrence of Glucosuria in cases of Burn. Arch; of Med., Jan., 1861. Hill relates four cases in which sugar was detected in the urine some hours after the occurrence of the injury. He propounds the theory, to explain the supervention of the mellituria, that this morbid excretion is a mode of eliminating effete matters which can no longer escape by the cutaneous outlets. LuYS.—Changes in the Fourth Ventricle in a case of Diabetes. Bullet, de la Soc. Anat., vol. v. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug., 1861. The anterior wall of the ventricle was found highly vascular, and in a state of gelatinous softening of a brownish-yellow colour. The situation of the lesion corresponds with that which is found by experimental inquiry to produce (when injured) saccharine urine. KoRNEB.—On Albuminuria in the course of Acute Diseases. Pra^-. Vierteljahrschr., Ixvii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p.'47. Kofner states that albuminuria under the conditions referred to is preceded by signs of failure of respiration and circulation. The inspi- ratory action is lessened, and the expiratory becomes loud and blowing. ThellEPORT ON PIIACTICAL MEDICINE. 216 left venlriclu becomes distcndcil, and the impulse of the heart weakened. Tlie pulse becomes soft, full, and slow, and notably retarded in the arteries. The two aortic sounds lose in strength and purity, and the second sound is often reduplicated over the pulmonary artery. Koruer, as the result of his inquiries, denies the possibility of mere venous conj^estion giving rise to albuminuria, and attributes this solely to cardiac debility. Morbus Brightii he regards, not as an independent malady, but as a part of a general one. His treatment consists in Avithholding'liquids, and improving the tone and action of the heart and lungs. For the latter intentions he specially recommends trichloride of methyl. Hamburger.—On the Albuminuric Anasarca in Scarlet Fever. Viertel- jahrschr. f. d. prakt. Heilk. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Hamburger describes three stages of the disorder—(i) a febrile, cha- racterised by fever of an intermittent character and by rapid serous ex- travasation and infiltration ; (2) a chronic stage, in which the affection follows a slowly progressive course; (3) a period of resolution. He recommends quinine as a remarkably efficacious remedy, giving gr. iss bis die to children, and twice as much to adults. Makiano-Semmola.—On the Nature and Cause of Albuminuria. Lancet, Sept. 7th. Mariano-Semmola states that the quality of the precipitated albumen distinguishes idiopathic from symptomatic albumiui\ria, it being in the first case like white of egg, and in the second caseiform. In the latter, also, the amount is scarcely influenced by the kind of diet, in the former it is doubled by a nitrogenous and reduced to a minimum by a fari- naceous. In idiopathic albuminuria the blood, according to Jlariano- Semmola, contains an accumulation of an unassimilable, crude albumen, which simply drains off by the kidney. The organic changes in the kidney develop themselves iu a ratio proportionate to the quantity and quality of the albumen excreted and to the duration of the malady. Disturbance of the functions of the skin is regarded as the cause of albuminuria, and hydrotherapy is the best treatment. Dickinson, W. H.—On Disease of the Kidnetj accompanied by Albumi- nuria. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Dickinson offers the following conclusions:—The smooth, mottled kidney is the result of chronic nephritis. This disease maybefal any person, the youthful being most susceptible. It results from cold, from scarlatina, or some similar cause of renal hyperoemia. It begins with marked symptoms, and usually terminates under a year. It is often temporary in its nature, or amenable to treatment. The granular kidney is the result of a degeneration which is pecuHarly apt to take place in gouty or tuber- culous persons. It is never seen except in adults, and is most frequent after the age of forty. It commences gradually, and is quite indefinite in its duration. This state of organ is irreparable. Chronic nephritis is characterised by dropsical effusion ; a great liability to inflammatory attacks, affecting the serous membranes and the lungs ; diarriicea, especially iu the later stages; pain in the loius; and, finally, coma, preceded by epileptic convulsions. The urine is scanty, often bloody, the albumenSECRETOHY SYSTEM. 217 ftbnnclant, and tlie sp. gr. comparatively liigli. Casts imbedding entire epithelial cells are characteristic of the disorder. Granular degeneration is to be recognised by a gradual failure of health, with sharpening of the features, and discoloration of the sldn, M'hile dropsy is often absent or of small extent. Frequency of micturition is observed, especially at night and there is great liability to bronchitis. There is also a tendency to valvular disease of the heart, as well as to extravasation of blood within the cranium. Epileptic convulsions sometimes occur, but a fatal state of semi-coma often comes on, without any such antecedent. The urine is increased in quantity except in the later stages, of low sp. gr., and often containing only a trace of albumen. The casts most commonly found are of coarse, granular texture. Dickinson does not consider cardiac as a frequent cause of renal disease. Stewart, T. G.—On the Waxij or Amyloid Form of Bright's Disease. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb. Stewart, after noticing the observations of Virchow, Pagenstecher, and Meckel, describes the renal disease as follows—" A kidney which has un- dergone the waxy or amyloid degeneration is generally heavier and larger than natural; its capsule is easily separable ; the surface uniformly pale, or marbled here and there with red, stellate vessels. On section, the cortical substance is seen i-elatively increased in size, pale and antEmic, of a dim, waxy appearance, but containing here and there small, shining granules the Malpighian tufts. On microscopic examination, the Malpighian bodies are seen to be remarkably pale and translucent, and the convoluted tubes around them filled to distension with a dense matter. The tufts of vessels cannot be seen in the Malpighian bodies. The contents of the urinary tubules present no recognisable structure, or only epithelium in a state of fatty degeneration. The Malpighian bodies and their afferent arteries, and sometimes the basement-membraue of the tubes are coloured of a violet-blue or reddish-purple by the addition of solution of iodine and sulphuric acid, but the dense material filling the tubes does not give this reactiou. Stewart considers it to be a coagulated exudation. The urine is increased in quantity and is of low sp. gr., contains albumen, and deposits hyaline casts. The white corpuscles of the blood are increased in number, and the red appear flabby, with a marked tendency to stretch out into long, spindle-shaped bodies. Dropsy occurs mostly in the latter stage of the disease. Diarrhcea is a frequent and severe symptom, and is thought by Stewart to depend upon degeneration of the arteries of the intestines. The liver and the spleen are often enlarged by the same morbid process. Persons who have long suff'ered from wasting disease, such as scrofula, caries, necrosis, or syphilis, are prone to become the subjects of this affection. Eade, p.—On Syphilitic Albuminuria. Lond. Med. Review, Sep., 1861. Eadc records three cases of morbus Brightii treated by Pot. lod. and Sarza with more or less complete success, symptoms of constitutional syphilis being present in all, and being ameliorated by the same treatment that .benefited the renal affection. He concludes—(i) that syphilis may be classed as a distinct and special cause of Bright's disease; (2) when so acting, its presence will be determined by the co-occurrence of other andREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 218 more distinctly recognised forms of secondary venereal disorder; (3) the renal affection, like the associated secondary symptoms, is amenahle to the influence of antisyphilitic treatment, and if the morbid process has not advanced too far, would appear to be susceptible of complete cure. Hamon, L.—On the Nervous Nature of Albuminuria. Gaz. de Paris, 7—23, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 29. Hamon finds—(i) that activity of the voluntary mucles causes an increase of the albumen in the urine, proportional to the degree of exertion. (2) Digestion also increases the amount of the albumen in proportion to the indigestibility of the food. (3) Purgatives increase the albumen according as they excite the intestinal peristalsis. (4) Diuretics do not aggravate, rather diminish, albuminuria. (5) Emetics cause mostly an increase, sometimes a diminution of the excretion of albumen. (6) Attacks of dyspnoea aggravate the renal disorder. The author's general conclusions are the following:—Albuminuria is not a primary renal disease, for there is albuminuria without pre-existing renal disease,and albumen often disappears from the urine while the renal disease persists. Albuminuria is a sign of a cerebro-spinal affection, and can be produced by directly acting on the nervous system, or by diseases of the same. Albumen is made up of two factors, the pathognomonic flux and the general derangements of nutrition and nervous energy. Hamon proposes the name of " nevrose albuminu- rbeique " for the disease. BiERMEB.—An unusual Case of Scarlatina. Arch. f. path. Anat., 5 and 6. Canstatt's Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 259. Biermer's case, that of a boy set. e,^, ended fatally on the 35th day with ursemic symptoms and convulsions. No urine was passed from the 21st day of the disease to the 26th, and extremely little for five days more. Yet during these ten days there were no ursemic symptoms nor any notable dropsy. The former first appeared, after the urinary secretion was restored, which was but slightly albuminous. Mi)LLER, H.—Case of Choroidal Affection in Morbus Brightii. Verhandl. d. Wiirzb. Med. Phys. Gesellsch., vol. x. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 259. Miiller found the epithelium of the arteries increased in quantity and fattily degenerated. The mass thus formed and mixed with pigment blocked up the canal in some parts, producing the " peripheral embolia." The retinal fibres were hypertrophied. Jaccoud, Sig.—On the Pathological Conditions of Albuminuria. Thesis, Paris, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 359. Jaccoud gives a critical history of morbus Brightii, and states his view that the primary malady is a derangement of nutrition, in consequence of which albuminous matters are not duly assimilated. The renal alteration is secondary. Williams, 1.—Recovery from Bright's Disease. Lancet, Nov. 23rd. Williams records six cases of dropsy, attended with bloody and albumi- nous urine, all of which recovered. He advocates an antiphlogistic treat-219 SECBJSTORY SYSTEM. ment, including venesection if the general power is good, whenever the case is seen early. Such cases are the desquamative nephritis of Johnson or the htemotrophy of Prout. HocnY,.—Amaurosis considered as a prognostic sign in Albuminuria. Lond. Med. Eev., March, 1861. Amaurosis ordinarily exists in well-marked cases, accompanied by grave symptoms, such as general and persistent oedema, convulsions, the chronic progress of the disease &c., and terminating in the death of the patient. It is therefore a serious prognostic symptom, and is perhaps, more frequent than convulsions in fatal cases. Oppler.—Contributions to the Doctrine of TJrcemia. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, part 3. From his experiments, Oppler concludes that French's theory, as to the production of ursemic phenomena by carbonate of ammonia, derived from decomposed urea, is incorrect. The injection of carbonate of ammonia in place of causing depression of the nervous system, acted as an irritant, it never produced coma, but, on the contrary, convulsions, which are only occasionally met with in uraemia. He gives the details of twelve experiments in which the kidneys were extirpated, or the ureters tied, or urea injected into the stomach or the blood. From these he arrives at the following conclusions:—(i) That decomposition of urea into carbonate of ammonia cannot be regarded as the cause of uraemic phenomena, for these were not produced by the injection of this salt, nor could a trace of it be detected in the blood of eight ursemic dogs ; (2) chemical examination of the blood and the muscles demonstrates the presence of a large quantity of kreatiu and leucin in the latter, and an enormous increase of the extractive matters in the former. He believes this to depend, not upon a simple mechanical retention of renal excreta, but upon decompositions going on in various organs in consequence of a change in the crasis of the blood. From two lbs. of muscle of a dog deprived of both kidneys thirty-four grains of kreatiu were obtained with a large quantity of leucin, while five grains only of kreatin were found by Neubauer in the same amount of human muscle, and the daily amount of the same passing off by the kidneys was seven and three quarters grains. Oppler infers from these facts that analogous products of decomposition are formed and accumulated in the brain and spinal cord, and that these chemical changes account for the disordered nervous functions, the giddiness, dull headache, unconsciousness, stupor. Oppler further shows that his experiments afford strong evidence against the commonly received doctrine of the exclusive formation of urea in the blood. After extirpation of the kidneys 2 lbs. of muscle gave i grain of nitrate of urea, but after ligature of the ureters i^^ lb. of muscle gave nearly 62 grains. After extirpation of the kidneys 3+ oz. of blood gave 4 grains of nitrate of urea, while after ligature of the ureters 6^ oz. of blood contained 7 grains. " How can this great difference be accounted for, except on the supposition that the great excess of urea after ligature of the ureters is the expression of the amount formed inde- pendently by the kidneys?"i!i;rni;T ox im!ACTicai, jiebicine. IIamaioni), W. a.— On Urcemic Intoxication. Amer. Journ, of Med. Sciences, Jiui,, i86i. In his experiments with dogs, Ilanimoud determined that urea in small amount was normally present in their blood, and ammonia in their breath. If a solution of urea was injected, symptoms of iiricmiawere soon apparent, severe in proportion to the amount injected, but the amount of ammonia in the blood was not increased. If the renal vessels were tied the amount of urea in the blood was increased threefold in a short time, and there was no evidence of any of it having been converted into carbonate of ammonia. As long, however, as vomiting and purging continued, the urea did not accumulate in the blood, and there was no intoxication. Congestion and inflammation of important viscera occurred, especially of the lungs, pericardium, and spleen. Injection of urine into the blood produced death more rapidly tiian injection of urea alone. Moss, W.—On the action of Potash, Soda, Lithia, Lead, Opium, and Colchicum, on the Urine. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, April, 1861. The results are given in the following table, the quantity of urine being expressed in cubic centimeters, and the various solids in grammes: Quantity of urine. TotHl solids. Organic solids. Inor{;anic BoliUs. Urea. Uric acid. Specific gravity. Average of normal urine 801 51-36 4I"I2 I0'22 29-97 •346 1028-61 )j Pot. Acet. . 1200 67-08 44-34 22-71 32-33 •379 1025-27 >> Sod. Acet. . 1020 S7-i6 38-59 18-56 ^29-41 •170 1026-82 j> Plural)! Acet. 772 50-47 39-13 11-.33 2788 •296 1025-57 j» Carb. Lithiee. 1262 6l'^2 45-61 15-70 32-16 -370 1018-75 i> Opium. . .1175 54-68 42-95 11-70, 27-50 •191 1018-35 )> Colchicum . 890 54-98 42-23 12-73 29-75 •329 1025-24 Weikart, H.—Experiments on the mode of action of Diuretics. Arch. d. Heillc, ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 164. Weikart has experimented with various sahs, to discover the relative facility with which each passes through an animal membrane under a constant pressure, which was made as nearly as possible equal to that of the blood. The result was that the carbonates of soda and potash much surpassed all others in their percolating power. The amount of distilled water which passed through being taken as 100, a 2 per cent, solution of Pot. Carb. gave 99-69, and of Sod. Carb. 88-42 parts ; a4 per cent., 75-16 and 76-31 parts. If the pressure was augmented, the fluid permeated the membrane more rapidly. Weikart infers from the above result that the alkaline carbonates are the most eftcctive of all the saline diuretics, and that the vegetable salts of the alkalies only act as diuretics by becoming converted into carbonates. He believes digitalis to produce diuresis by its power of increasing the force of the heart's action, and consequently the amount of pressure on the walls of the capillaries. Clanis, reporting on the above experiments, deems it necessary to takeSECRETORY SYSTEM. 221 into consideration other possible causes of diuretic action than those in- vestio-ated by Weikart. He states that Pot, Acet. causes diuresis only wheu it is given in dropsies from renal disease, where it acts by dissolving the casts that obstruct the renal tubules. He also adduces proof, that agents such as alcohol, which increase the blood-pressure, by no means constantly promote diuresis. Genoves y Tio (El Siglo Med., June, i86t) praises Cainca root as an efficient diuretic in dropsy. It is also aperient and tonic. The dose is sixty grains a day of the powder. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 167. Debout, Trousseau, and Caudmont.—On some of the Therapeutic Effects of Cubebs. Bull, de Therap., 61, July, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 167. Debout recommends it in atonic flatulent dyspepsia, in giddiness and weakening of the memory, and in chronic inflammation of the neck of the bladder. Trousseau gives it in catarrhal urethritis, which mostly occurs in females. Caudmont advises its use especially in neuralgic and inflammatory aff'ections of the deeper parts of the urethra. Feuon, a. li.—On Primitive Perinephritis. Thesis, Paris, i860. Feron states this to be a very rare disease, but has observed two cases himself and collected some others. It affects the fat bed round the kidney, and issues usually in suppuration. The pus tends outwards oftenest in the lumbar region, but sometimes diff'uses itself among the muscles, or makes its way along the ureter to the prostate or to Poupart's ligament; occasionally it escapes into the colon, or through the diaphragm into the bronchi, or into the cavity of the peritoneum. It arises either spontaneously or from an injury. Surgical interference is generally needful. Oppolzeu.—Inflammntion of the Pelvis and Calyces of the Kidney. Spitals Ztg., 17, 18. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 266. Oppolzer lays down that the acid reaction of the urine is characteristic of pyelitis, distinguishing it from cystitis, in which the urine is always alkaline. Another characteristic sign is the presence in the sediment of imbricated, caudate, epithelial cells, detached from the aff"ected mucous surface. These arc most likely to be found in acute cases. In chronic the urine is copious, and contains pus. Thompson, H.—On a new Remedy in Irritable Conditions of the Bladder. Lancet, October 12th. This is the underground stem of the Triticum repens, which should be gathered in the spring, shortly before the leaves appear, and slowly dried without artificial heat. An infusion is made of 5] of the stem to Oj, of which 5xij —Oj is to be taken in twenty-four hours. It is useful in various conditions of acute or subacute inflammation of the urinary passao-es, with mucus in the urine. Smo)-er, M.—Studies of Oxaluria. Vierteljhrschr. f. d. prakt. Heilk., vol. Ixx, 1861. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc. Smolcr states that all diseases in which sediments of oxalate of lime occur ill the urine may be ranked as either (i) lesions of respiration,BEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. (a) lesions of digestion, (3) impairment of both these processes. He admits the frequent coexistence of mental depression in cases of oxaluria, but does not explain it. Diagnostically the presence of oxalate of lime in the urine aids in distinguishing between typhus and intermittent fever; typhus and acute miliary tuberculosis; in determining the co-existence of overlooked nocturnal epileptic fits; in the recognition of incipient tuber- culosis ; and in establishing the existence of pregnancy. Its prognostic signification is important (a) in pneumonia, as to its duration and violence; (6) in melancholia and (c) in mania, its disappearance from the urine being a favorable sign ; (d) in pleuritic effusions, if the deposit is constant, tuberculosis is to be apprehended; (e) in gastric cancer, where its notable increase is characteristic of incipient ulceration; (/) in conditions of wasting, &c., with irritable temper, in the absence of anaemia, its presence gives reason to fear the development of tuberculosis; (^f) as a negative sign (if absent) in cases of malingering. Smoler examined altogether 400 patients. In 229 it was present constantly or temporarily ; in 21 out of 30 cases of diseases of the brain and nerves; in 67 out of 85 of diseases of the lungs and heart; in 26 out of 54 of diseases of the digestive organs; in 11 out of 16 of diseases of the kidneys and sexual organs ; in 3 out of 6 of diseases of the bones and joints ; in 3 out of 8 of diseases of the skin; in 41 out of 81 general afl'ections ; in 57 out of 120 mental diseases. - Otterson, W. (N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, x86i) treats gleet suc- cessfully by the introduction twice a week of a grooved metallic bougie as far as the glans penis extends. The groove is filled with calomel or citrine ointment. Schneider.—On the Elimination of Mercury dwing and after its Thera- peutic Employment. Med. Jahrb. Ztschr. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien, 1861, part 3. Edin. Med. Journ., Oct. Schneider employed electrolysis for the dete9tion of the metal as the most deHcate test, proving at the same time the nature of the deposit by chemical tests. He never found mercury in the urine of syphihtic patients who had never taken any. But it always was present, not only while mercurial preparations were being taken internally, but for some time afterwards, in one case six weeks. The administration of Pot. lod. does not seem to favour the elimination of mercury from the or- ganism. Examination in the case of a man who had suffered from syphilis for five years, had been three times treated with mercury, and died of pericarditis a few weeks after the last mercurial treatment, gave the fol- lowing results :—In the kidneys alone a minute, but undoubted, trace of mercury was found ; in the liver the reaction was doubtful; the bones, the brain, and the spleen, contained no mercury. In the case of two indi- viduals under treatment by mercury the saliva, faeces, and urine, were examined. No mercury was detected in the saUva, and in the other excretions a quantity less by a notable amount than that which was admm- istered. In one case, out of 25 grains of calomel 7-35 grains were thus unaccounted for. Wolff, G.—On the Symptomatology and Diagnosis of Gall-stones. Virch. Arch., XX, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 39.SECEITORY SYSTEM. 223 Wolff observed forty-five cases, in all of which a stone was passed. Two thirds were males. Jaundice was absent throughout in twenty-five of the cases. Pain, mostly followed by rigor, situated in the region of the liver, and slowing of the pulse, are the surest signs. VoLLANT.—Treatment of Gall-stones and of Hepatic Colic. Journ. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. VoUant recommends at first frequent change of position to favour the descent of the calculus into the duodenum. If this do not avail, he prescribes absolute rest and repeated doses of morphia. To prevent the formation of new calculi he gives Sodse Bicarb, gr. xv—5s8 daily in Deo. Taraxaci. Martin.—On an Epidemic of Jaundice in Italy. Recueil de Memoires de Med. Milit., vol. iii, p. 374. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th. The disorder occurred during very hot weather, and affected 71 men out of 1022. Great increase in size of the liver in most cases, and of the spleen in many, was observed, and all complained of pain in the epi- gastrium and in the hypochondria. All the patients recovered. Neukosim, J.—On the detection of the Biliary Acids, and the changes they undergo in the Blood. Reichert and Du Bois Reymond's Archiv, part 3, i860. Arch, of Med., Jan., 1861. Neukomm concludes from his researches that the biliary acids can only appear in traces in the urine, when injected into the veins. In three out of seven instances there was decided proof of the existence of bile pig- ment in the urine. He doubts, however, that this conversion of the biliary acids is an invariable result. Neither does he consider it proved that the bUe pigment proceeds from dissolved and altered hsematin. Wagneb, E.— The Structure of Hepatic Cancer. Arch, d, Heilk., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 16. After a description of the stroma and cell growth, Wagner states that he agrees with Schroeder v. d. Kolk, that the capillaries of the portal vein are destroyed by the cancerous growth, while others are developed in connexion with the hepatic artery, and empty themselves into the radicles of the hepatic vein. DoDEELEiN, Max.—On the Diagnosis of Cancerous Tumours in the Right Hypochondrium, especially those of the Kidney and Supra-renal Capsule. Inaug. Essay. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 47, After relating a case in great detail, Doderlein describes how the liver becomes displaced by the pressure of the tumour, being pushed forwards and to the left, and rotated on its transverse axis, so that its right border advances downwards and to the left, and can be felt or even seen, in the abdomen. The notch in the anterior border is pushed even as far as the left mammary vertical line. As the tumour increases, the left lobe of the liver comes more forward, the heart recedes upwards and to the left, the intestines are pressed downwards and to the left. The liver cannot be moved by the hand, but its upper border descends in inspiration unless the diaphragm is paralysed by pleuritic affections, or abscesses between it and the liver.224 ItKPORT OX PU.UTrCAL AfEDlClNR. WuNDKULlcil.—The Clinical differences, and the import of acute priinuriiij pernicious Jaundice. Arch. d. Ilcillc, Ileft .3, i860. Canst. Jalircsber., vol. iii, p. 248. Wunderlicli insists on the importance of attending to certain characters and tendencies of disease apart from any particular situation or grouping of symptoms. General affections, running a rapid course, with essentially pernicious character, he names acute tkerioid constitutional diseases. The common character of all such diseases is rapidity of progress to a fatal issue, and impossibility, except in rare cases, of arrest. The most constant symptom is an unusual sense of prostration. Such diseases may run their course without involving specially, or causing the destruction of any particular organ, or the reverse. Rouis.—Researches on Suppuration of the Liver, from observations mwle in the North of Africa. Paris, Bailliere, pp. 460. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 252. Rouis's work contains 156 cases of abscess in the liver. In 122 the right lobe was affected ; in only 3 the left alone ; in 23 the right and left; in 2 cases the right lobe and lob. spig., and in 7 all the lobes mentioned. In 103 cases there were 62 deaths, 39 complete, and 2 partial recoveries. In 17 cases the abscess opened through the abdominal parietes, in 15 into the bronchi, in 3 into the stomach, and in 4into the transverse colon. The youngest patient was twelve, the oldest seventy-three. Most cases occurred between the ages of twenty-three and twenty-seven in the military, and thirty to forty-five in the civil service. Trousseau.—Pathology and Treatment of Goitre with Protrusion of the Eyeballs. L'Union Me'd., 1S60, pp. 485, 500, 513. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. ptli. Trousseau maintains that the malady is entirely a nervous one. The palpitations, the enlarged thyroid, and the protruded eyeballs he regards as produced by local congestions, brought about by deranged nervous action. In the way of treatment, iodine and iron are disallowed, and abstraction of blood, drastic pui-gativcs, digitalis in large doses, and ice to the part are recommended. kVik-H.—On Goitre Exophthahnique. Gaz. Hebdom., Dec, i860. Aran believes this affection to consist of an irritable condition of the heart and arteries of the neck, on which dilatation with hypertrophy soon supervenes. This state, as well as the exophthalmos he ascribes to an affection of the sympathetic. Ice to the region of the heart, veratria and digitalis, pure air, and at a certain period perchloride of iron arc the means he advises. Klob.—Ow the Pathological Anatomy of the Pancreas. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 33, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 36. Kiob thinks that primary disease of the pancreas is rare, but secondaiy, very common. The most frequent form is the result of obstruction in the portal circulation, which causes congestion and a state of chronic inflammation, issuing in an increased development of connective tissue,225 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. and subsequent contraction and wasting. In some parts li£Emorrhage occurs, and leaves rust-coloured cicatrices. On Leukcemia. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 33. Meissner (the reporter) arranges a series of cases frorn various sources under tlie head of lienal leukfemia, lymphatic leukaemia, and leuksemic new formation. The latter he compares to a malignant tumour, whose products (cells) resemble the white corpuscles, and are mingled with the blood. He quotes Gohtzinsky's conclusions ('Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' iv, 2, p. 90) relative to Leukaemia in children ; these are—(i) Lymphatic leukemia belongs chiefly to the earliest age, from birth to the second month, while the splenic form is oftener met with in childreu one year old. (2) Both forms are equally destructive, iron, quinine, and acids, can only stay the disease for a time, but not remove it. (3) Pneumonia is a common termination, (4) Leukaemia runs a more rapid course in suck- lings than in adults, sets in with febrile symptoms, and kills in two to three weeks. (3) The proportion of white corpuscles to red is smaller in children than in adults, 2 : 30, instead of 2:3. (6) In sucklings, at least in the lymphatic leukajmia, the enlargement of the mesenteric, sometimes of Peyer's and the solitary glands, appears to be connected with diarrhoea and inflammatory intestinal disorder. FoRSTER.—On Tumours of the Thyroid Gland. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 1. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 192. Forster remarks on the rarity of tumours in the thyroid, excepting such as result from alterations of its own structure. Among 300 cases of carcinoma there were only two of secondary affection of this gland, and one of primary cancroid. Fibroid, enchondromatous, and lipomatous growths do not occur in it. When tumours do form in it, they contract adhesions with the surrounding parts and sex-iously impair the natural mobility of the larynx, or exert on it injurious pressure, and perhaps perforate it, or the trachea, or oesophagus. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Anderson, Mac C.—On Parasitic Affections of the Skin. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 5th, 19th; Feb. 2nd, i6th ; March 2nd, 9th, 23rd; April 27th; June ist, 8th; July 13th, 27th; Aug. 10th. Anderson enumerates four affections, which he believes to be due to the presence of a vegetable parasite :—(i) Tinea tonsurans, of which there are three varieties, viz., herpes circinnatus, sycosis, herpes tonsurans ; (2) favus ; (3) alopecia areata; (4) pityriasis versicolor. His reasons for regarding herpes circinnatus, herpes tonsurans, and sycosis as mere varieties of the same disease are that in all the same parasitic growth is found, and that one may give rise to the other by contagion. Full details are given of the appearances, the diagnosis, causes, and prognosis. The essential point in the treatment is the removal of the diseased hairs with the adhering parasitic growth, and the immediate application of sub- stances capable of destroying this cause of the disease, as Hyd. Bichl., sulphur, Turbith mineral, huile de cade. The best way of conductinghepout on practical medicine. 226 depilntion is with forceps made for the purpose, having broad ends with fine and blunt transverse grooves. Tliis method is extremely efiicacious in sycosis, but it is much more difficult to obtain success in dealing with herpes tonsurans. Favus is most frequent by far in the hair-follicles, es- pecially those of the scalp ; it also may affect the epidermis and the nails. Dirtiness is its sole predisposing, and contagion its sole exciting cause. The parasitic growth is disposed as small cups, which are perforated by one or more hairs. When these are wide apart the name of favus lupinosa, when they are thickly set and encroach upon each other, that of favus scu- tulata is given to the affection. In favus squamosa the crusts have lost their original form and colour, and assuraei a dirty-whitish tint. Favus of the epidermis appears as a thin, whitish, scaly crust marked by yellow streaks. Treatment is identical with that of tinea tonsurans. Alopecia areata is regarded by Anderson as occasioned by a fungus, and as con- tagious, and to be treated in the same way as its congeners. Pityriasis versicolor consists of minute spots which enlarge and coalesce into irre- gular patches of brownish colour. The skin of the neck, chest and abdomen is mostly affected. It is undoubtedly contagious, but seems to require a peculiar state of system for its growth. The microscope detects among the epithelial scales spores and filaments, which constitute, in Anderson's opinion the essential cause of the disease. An account is given of pedicular affections, and of scabies, including scabies crustosa. Hutchinson, G.—A Clinical Report on true Ringworm {Tinea Ton- surans). Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. _5th, 12th. After giving short reports of about fifty cases Hutchinson discusses the diagnosis, contagiousness, character, and treatment of the disease. His opinions are almost identical with those of Mr. Anderson. ^kii^.—Treatment of Tinea Favosa.—Tresse^ Med. Beige, July 27th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Sep. 28th. Bazin brushes the scalp over night and morning with a solu- tion of Hyd. Bichl. (5ss in Aq. ^xvi with a little alcohol). He then applies an ointment of Turbith mineral (gr. vij—xv, ad 3] Adipis). The hairs are to be removed by forceps as long as any sign of the disease remains. HiLLiEB, T.—On Ringworm and Vegetable Parasites. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 23 rd, 3otb. Hillier states that certain atmospheric conditions seem to favour the occurrence of tinea tonsurans. In St. Pancras' workhouse there is fre- quently an almost entire absence of the disease for two or three years, and then, for several months, every second or third child in the buildmg gets attacked by it, while all external conditions and the class of children remain the same. He does not adopt Dr. T. Fox's view that there is one fungus common to all the tinese,but believes that a soil which is favorable to the growth of one fungus, may encourage the growth of another dis- tinct one ; and also that the eruption produced by different fungi inay resemble each other. He notices and combats Mr. Hogg's view that parasitic vegetation is not the cause, but the result of disease.CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. pigment is regulated. (6) That structural diseases of the abdominal FenGEB.—On the Abortive Treatment of Zona. Bibliothek f. Lager, vol. xiii. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 143- . . Fenger paints the patches with collodion, either alone or mixed -with a strong solution of lead. The vesicles speedily collapse, and the inflam- mation diminishes, as well as the pain and fever. Forget.—On the Treatment of Zona. Bull, gener. de Th^r., Oct. 30th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 30th. Forget discountenances the use of blisters, Arg. Nitras, collodion, &c., leaves the eruption to follow its course, and treats only the complications. Hakdy.—On the Treatment of Eczema. Gaz. des H6pit., Oct. 24th, 3i8t, 1861. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec. In the acuter stages. Hardy employs emollient and mild purgatives, m chronic, arsenic, sulphur, and alkalies. The ointments are always to be dilute, gr. ij—xij of the salt to 1] of lard. Sulphur internally and ex- ternally is particularly useful in cases of pityriasis, which have succeeded to eczema. FoRRER.—On the different Forms of Erysipelas. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 310. Forrer distinguishes a simple and complicated form; the former (a) limited to the skin, the latter (S) extending to the subcutaneous tissue. In each of these there are various grades of severity. He gives four fatal cases, in two of which there existed meningitis with purulent exudation. In treatment he praises the application of collodion. Bell, Jos.—On the Prevention of Pitting in Smallpox by the application of the Liniment. Aquce Calais, and Cotton Wool. Glasgow Med. Journ., July. The wool is soaked in the liniment, and applied all over the face. If applied early it prevents swelling, and in all cases allays irritation, reduces febrile excitement and swelling, and prevents pitting. Laycock, T.—Clinical Researches into Morbid Pigmentary Changes in the Complexion. Brit and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. and April. Laycock arrives at the following conclusions, which he illustrates at length.—(i) That besides blue and green, of rare occurrence, there are two common, well-marked and distinct forms of morbid discoloration due to pigment deposit—the yellow or sallow, and the black or swarthy. (2) That both yellow and swarthy discoloration of the skin will occur from the action of local irritants—as heat, light, cutaneous parasitic fungi, blisters, sinapisms, and the like, or in the progress of various cutaneous diseases of the skin and its appendages. (3) That the absence of pigment (leucopathia), as well as its deposit, may be caused by inflam- matory and other diseases of the skin affecting its chromatogenous func- tion. (4) That morbid states of the cerebro-spinal centres will influence the deposit, or non-deposit of pigment. (5) That morbid states of the genito-urinary organs in both sexes, acting probably, through the nervous system; will determine the election of locality of pigment deposit, ac- cording to the same law by which the development of sexual hair and228 hepout on puactical medicine. viscera nnd peritoneum also exei'cise an influence througli Uie nervous system upon the local deposit of pigment in the skin. (7) Tliat in disease of the supra-renal capsules, the bronzing of the skin, whetiier swarthy or yellow, is partly nervous, and due to the direct or indirect influence of the capsules on the kidneys and nervous system ; partly hrcmic, and in so far, due to the morbid influence of "dyscrasic" blood. (8) That pigmentary changes in the skin of both whites and blacks may be the result of morbid causes, and yet may remain after the operation of the causes have ceased, and assume a physiological character. (9) That although local morbid pigmentation of the skin may occur exclu- sively from local causes, or the influence of the nervous system, in the majority of cases there is a morbid condition of the blood. (10) That the morbid conditions of the blood associated most commonly with pig- mentary changes arc characterised by those changes in the blood-cor- puscles (leukrcmia, ieucocytosis) which are observed in cachectic states of a constitutional character (pregnancy, chlorosis, tertiary syphilis, chrouic rheumatism, cancer, &c.), or which are intimately connected with "dys- crasic," visceral, or glandular diseases (of the spleen, supra-renal capsules, lymphatic glands). (11) That the tendency to discoloration increases {rceteris paribus) with age after a certain period of life. (12) That the morbid pigment deposits proper, as distinguished from masses of altered blood-corpuscles; are carbonaceous excretions, and are often vicarious with the suspension or imperfect elimination of other carbonaceous excretions, as the carbonic and lactic acids, and the pigment constituents of both the in-ine and bile ; and are consequently associated with morbid states of assimilation, as well as of elimination (througb the skin, lungs, liver, kidneys). (13) That among the morbid states of assimilation, the rheu- matic and gouty, are specially to be classed, as well as those coincident with ansemia. - * Day, Y.—On Elephantiasis, or Cochin leg. J^adras Quart. J. Med. Sci., No. I. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. In 93 per cent., of all cases, the lower limb was diseased. In all there was a peculiar fever, resembling a quotidian, but uncontrolled by quinine. During each attack of fever the local swelling generally becomes more marked, and it may be hot and throbbing or only itching. There is generally a hardened reddish or dusky line along the course of the ab- sorbents between the local effusion and the glands, one of which is mostly enlarged and painful, but does not suppurate. Tonics with Hyd. Bichl. and opium are useful, and removal to an unafl'ectcd locality essential. IIebra.—0?( the Applicatio7i of Sulphur in Skin Diseases. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 47, 48, i860. . . , , , HM Ilebra thinks the internal administration of sulphur quite useless. 1 lie external he regards as a kind of irritant, causing hypercemia of the skin, and more rapid formation of epidermis. The purer the sulphur, the milder is its action, preparations containing selenium, arsenic, sulphurous acid, act more irritatinglv. In acute recent inflammations sulphur is not to be used, only in the more chronic. In itch he prefers Viemmgkx s sulphuret of lime solution, or sulphur ointments and soaps. In prurigo he also prefers Vlemingkx's solution followed by a warm bath and simple229 CUTANilOUS SYSTEM. inunction. In eczema, when chronic, he uses tlie above solution and subsequently tar. Psoriasis is also eiiectually treated by the same means as prurigo. " In acne disseminata, and rosacea, and in sycosis, sulphur is very usel'ul, Vlemingkx's solution may be used when a strong appUcation is needed Lac Sulphuris, with equal parts of glycerine and alcoliol, when a milder is desirable. Pityriasis versicolor and Ichthyosis are be- neficially modified by sulphur. On syphilis sulphur has no efiect. Bergh, R., and Bambergeb, H.—0?i Scabies Crustosa. Hosp. Tidende, 50, 51, 1859. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., 1, %, i860, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 49- „, Bergh details a case of this disorder with exceeding minuteness. The patient was a man, set. 66, who had suffered from itching all over him for two years. The skin everywhere was, more or less, rough, furrowed, and desquamating, but on the scalp especially there was a thicldsh scab, firmly adherent. In this region numerous acari were found, and their eggs and excrements, and burrows in some other parts. The formation of scabs is the distinctive character of this disease, which seems to have been mistaken for others, and thus named by Plenck, Lepra scabiosa, and by Willan, Impetigo scabiosa. The continued irritation produced by the acari causes a rapid formation of epidermic cells, while the older layer, traversed by burrows and containing the dead parents of younger acari, eggs, &c., is pushed outwards, but still remains adherent, being saturated by fluid exuding from beneath. Bamberger also relates a case, but is inclined to believe that the disease is essentially different from ordinary scabies, probably from some difference in the organization of the acari. Barwiukel suggests that the greater or less degree of sensitiveness of the cutaneous nerves may be concerned in causing the different conditions. Anderson, T. McC.—Hoio is syphilitic {or specific) to be distinguished from non-syphilitic (or non-specific) Psoriasis? Glasgow Med. Journ., July. (i) The patches of the non-specific disease are usually larger than those of the other form, and its extent is greater ; (2) it almost invariably affects the elbows and knees, which the syphilitic does only occasionally; (3) the colour is more coppery in the syphihtic, and itching is mostly absent; (4) the scales of this form are usually much thinner and less imbricated than in the non-syphilitic; (5) The latter is of longer dura- tion, and occurs earlier than the syphilitic, while its relapses are more constant; (6) syphilitic psoriasis originates from a hard chancre, or pro- bably from secondary sores, it is attended mostly by other syphilitic symptoms, while in the non-specific disease the health is perfect. (7) In the one form mercui'y is curative, in the other arsenic. Chambers, T. K.—On a case of Bloody Sweat. Lancet, March 2nd. The patient, a female, act. 27, had suffered for four yeai's from this affection, the catamenia having only appeared twice, and the general health being indifferent. The hccmorrhage commences as an erythema, the surface, after a sliort time, becomes covered with a crop of fine vesicles, and a serous dew, which soon becomes blood-stained and tlien is succeeded by actual blood drops. A feeling of soreness and tenderness precedes the 16REPORT ON PllAOTICAL MEDICINE. 230 eruption. Tlie face was the part most often affected, especially when she lay clown nuicli during tlie day, but the upper and lower limbs and the clu'st have also presented the same phenomena. Venesection and local leeching had most effect in arresting the disorder. Beau.—The condition of the Nails as a Semeiological indication. Gaz. des H6pit., Aug. 25th, i86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 339. Beau draws attention to furrows which are observed running across the nails (especially of the thumbs), of persons who have recently passed through severe diseases, such as typhoid fever. The depth of the furrows indicates the violence—their length, the duration of the disease. Their distance from the matrix corresponds to the time elapsed since their formation. Warburton Begbie, J.—On Ichthyosis; with special reference to the particular forms in which it occurs. Edin, Med. Journ., July, 1861. Warburton Begbie joins with Devergie in considering that true or white ichthyosis ought to be regarded as a distinct affection, different from the so-called porcupine disease, and from brown ichthyosis. The first is always a general disease, affecting the whole skin, unattended by heats, itching, or inflammation, and characterised by a farinaceous, or actually fish scale-like appearance. Brown ichthyosis is always a partial affection ; the morbid epidermis forming a hard, warty, or horny surface, splitting irregularly on pressure being applied. It results, as well as the other variety, from a diseased action of the sebaceous glands, the exuded matter in the one case forming plates, in the other spines. On Linear Atrophy of the Skin : Purpura preceding smallpox, syphilitic keloid, general dermatitis. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, 1861. The first affection exactly resembles the linece gravidarum, but is observed in cases where no distention of the skin has ever existed. Tiie skin appears wasted in streaks, and replaced by a softer substance, of a dead white colour. The change occurred gradually. Haedy.—Experiments with Baths 'h Vhydrofh-e.' (Pidverizafion appara- tus.) Gaz. des H6pit., May 26th, June 5th, 12th. Canst. Jahresb,, vol. iii, p. 137. Hardy administered these baths in prurigo, pityriasis, psoriasis, eczema, and scrofulous ulcers, and speaks favourably of their action, especially in the two last-mentioned disorders. The water, medicated or not, is reduced to a spray, which fills a chamber in which the patient sits. Hebka and Mullnek.—0« Pemphigus. Spitals Zeituug, No. 3, 4. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 144. Pemphigus foliac. is a very rare but fatal disease, which begins with a single flaccid vesicle on the breast. This gradually extends at its margins, and new ones form, until at length the whole cutaneous surface is deprived of epidermis, and the patient sinks, worn to a skeleton. Majer.—On the action of Arsenic in Psoriasis Inveterata, and on its partial excretion by the iirine. Wurtemb. Med. Corrcsp. Bl., No. 13. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 14(5.SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 231 Majei- states tlint arsenic always appears in the urine, from six to twelve hours after a dose, and disappears in four to six days after leaving off the remedy. The quantity excreted amounts to about two thirds of that taken. V. Barensprung.—0?i Area Celsi. Aunalen de Charite, viii, 3- Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 153- • 1 u \ Von Barensprung distinguishes calvities (naturally occurring baldness), defluvium capillorum (loss of hair after fevers, &c.), and alopecia (a local affection). The latter may be produced by inflammation, by parasitic fungi, by the presssure of tumours, and by disordered nerve influence. This last he believes to be the cause of porrigo decalv. (area Celsi). He admits that the hair-bulbs are atrophied, but thinks that this is a secondary result of paralysis of trophic nerves. Treatment must be stimulant, local and general. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Irwin, B. J. D.— On Euphorbia Prostrata as an Antidote to the poison of the Rattlesnake. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861. Adrian.—New method for obtaining a neutral and unalterable Solution of Perchloride of Iron. Ball. Gen. de Therap. Glasgow Med. Journ., April, 1861. Smith, Hanbury,—Mineral Waters and their Uses. Amer. Med. Times, Aug. roth, 17th, 24th, 31st; Sept. 7th, 14th, aist; Oct. 12th. DuNDAS Thomson, R .—On the In^uence of Impure Water in the produc- tion of Disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. i^th. De PiETRA Santa.—071 the Climate of Algeria. L'Union Med., Dec. iith, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 9th. The author describes the climate as happily intermediate between a temperate and tropical, and recommends it as specially adapted for cases of phthisis and chronic pulmonary disease. The atmosphere is very pure, its amount of moisture moderate, and the variations of its density slight, ■while the temperature also is not subject to any great alternations either daily, or at different seasons. Lemaire.—The Uses of Phenic Acid. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 15th. It will preserve anatomical specimens, if smeared on the surface of air- tight jars, or injected into the vessels. A solution of i part of phenic acid and 40 parts acetic, in 100 of water, cures tinea (fa\ us ? ) in thirty or forty days, and scabies immediately. Lallemand.—On the Peculiar Action of different Anaesthetics in pro- ducing Insensibility. Gaz. des Hopit., Sept., i860. Edin. Med. Journ., Jan. Lallemand and his coadjutors found that alcohol and amylene, like chloroform and ether, abolish the sensibility and motor function of the spinal cord, while the inhalation of COg or CO leaves these functions intact until the moment of the animal's dcatli. These latter ao'ents alter the qualities of the blood, and so impede or arrest sensibility. The former accumulate remarkably in the brain and liver.232 IIKPOIIT ON I'llACTICAL MEDICINE. Sampson, A.—On the Diaynosis of Hydrophobia. Philad. Med. and Surer Reporter. Dublin llosp. Gaz., May 15th. The voice of the rabid dog is peculiarly altered, and this may be the sole and earliest symptom of the disease. SciiuciiAiiDT.—The Action of Aniline on the Animal Organism. Virch. Archiv, xx, 5 and 6, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 290. Aniline in doses of 50—100 drops killed rabbits in 4—6 hours with violent convulsions. It produces auicsthesia especially of the hinder limbs and lowers the temperature of the body. The pupil was unaffected. It is not eliminated by the urine. Krajewski, Y.—The Effects of Great Cold on the Animal Organism. Gaz. desllopit., 140, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 530. Krajewski states from observations of men, and experiments with animals, that the power of enduring cold varies greatly with the individual constitution, some being much better able to resist the cold than others. The chief peculiarities observed in tiie bodies of persons dead from cold are—(i) Unusual degree of rigor mortis, and a brittle condition of promi- nent parts, as the nose, ears. (2) Congestion of the brain and its mem- branes, and often serous effusion into the ventricles. (3) Hypostatic congestion of the lungs. (4) Coagula in the heart, especially in the right side. (5) Portions of ice in the subcutaneous vessels, ventricles of the brain, bladder, and cardiac cavities. (6) Separation of the sides of the coronary and sagittal suture (a characteristic sign). JosEPiisoN, C.—Mine Disease. Pr. Militararztl. Ztg., i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 334. The men employed in working these mines or galleries have frequently to inhale the gases produced by the combustion of cbai'ges of gunpowder, which seems to be the cause of the following symptoms :—Sudden, vio- lent, boring pain in the middle of the forehead. Sudden loss of con- sciousness and motor power, temporary arrest of breathing, followed by retching and vomiting. Sudden attack of tonic convulsion, lasting two minutes, followed by signs of severe frontal pain, then sopor attended with copious salivation. Recovery seems always to have occurred. Josephson distinguishes three degrees of severity in the attack, correspond- ing to the symptoms here enumerated. A dose of brandy was found useful as a preservative and restorative. Quarantine.—Brit, and For. Med.-Chir, Rev., July, 1861. The first quarantine regulations were put forth at Venice in 1448. The old classification adopted of susceptible, non-susceptible, and doubtful substances, is now found to be altogether worthless. The question of the mode of propagation of the plague, cholera, and yellow fever, whether by contagion, infection, or in some other way remains undecided. Quarantine is enforced with great laxity in some places, and stringently in others, while the state of the lazarettos where detained persons have to remain, is often abominably bad. It seems to be decided at present that articles of mer- chandize are incapable of transmitting contagion, inasmuch as those whose duty it is to air the goods have never contracted disease, cither plague,SUBJECTS OF GENEUAL INTEREST. 233 yellow fever, or cliolcra. Even a stringent quarantine proves in- sufficient to exclude undoubtedly contagious diseases, as smallpox and other exanthemata. Steadine. • c A substitute for hog's lard is prepared by dissolving grams of soda deprived of its COg by lime in 5SS of water, and adding the solution to 3I oz. of lard mixed gradually with 3 oz. of water. It is a whitish fatty compound, inodorous, insipid, and intermediate between cerate and lard. It is very permanent unless constantly exposed to the air. , Hanbury Smith, E.—Observations on Chlorate of Potassa. Amer. Med. Times, June 8th. . . Hanbury Smith has found this drug useful as a prophylactic in fevers, curative in furunculoid affections, and very effectual in certain cases of dementia, when all other means had been tried in vain, " speedily re- moving or diminishing the lividity, coldness, and sluggish movement, with a corresponding improvement in the health of both body and mind." In all cases of similar venosity, and in one of bfonchorrhcea, its effects have been very decided. Lee, C. a.—Retnarlcs on the Experiments of the late Prof. Tulley on the Effects of Chlorate of Potash. Amer. Med. Times, July 6th. TuUy regards the remedy as a pure reducing antiphlogistic or refrige- rant. In large doses it produces symptoms of more or less severe abdominal irritation and vomiting. Hutchinson, J.—Is Inherited Syphilis protective against subsequent Contagion? Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 21st. Hutchinson gives three cases, in none of which were there any consti- tutional symptoms, nor any proof that the chancres contracted were indurated (in two they certainly were not). The evidence goes to show that inherited syphilis, if severe, is protective. On the Hygiene of Habitations. Brit, and For, Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1861. The air of London contains 0*037 COg per volume, of Manchester from o'045 to o'o8 per cent, on a windy day, and o'i2 per cent, on a still day. In the latter town, especially, the atmosphere contains notable amounts of SOg and SO.j. The amount of organic matter in the air of close parts of Manchester was i grain in 8000 cub. in., on the high grounds north of the town there was only i grain in 200,000 cub. in. Some remarkable facts are mentioned, showing the much greater putres- cent tendency of animal matter in certain states of the atmosphere than in others, and similarly the bleaching power of the air varies greatly, irre- spectively of the season and time of day. The writer believes that periodical observations of what may be called the septicity of the air, that is to say, its power of exciting putrefaction, would lead to most important results as regards the causation of disease. He suggests using for this purpose solutions of urea or cane sugar containing a ferment, and observing at different times and places the length of time required for the in- duction of alkalinity or the development of CO.,. As to tiie morbific effects of septic contamination of the air he "cites Dr. Greeuhow'snUPORT ON I'llACTICAL MEDICINE. Adrian's Process. V. Annuaire de Therapeut., j86i, p. 199. resenrelics, ns tending to show that they consist not in tlie production of specilic disease, but rather in depressing or impairing the functions of the whole body, and manifest themselves constitutionally by fever accom- panied with prostration, locally by affections of the respiratory and digestive mucous membranes. Tatlor, J.—On the Alhaline Hypophosphites, and their Medici7ial Pro- perties. Lancet, Nov. 30th; Dec. 7th, 14th, Taylor aflirms that 5j of pure hypophosphite of potash or soda is a poisonous dose, even gr. ij causes some irritation of the stomach. He agrees, however, with Dr. Churchill to some extent, as to the good efi'ects they may produce in increasing nervous and vital power, and the forma- tion of red globules. He gives detailed directions as to the mode of preparing an hypophosphite, the chief points being that the temperature should be below 220°, and equally applied round the vessel, and that the air should be excluded. Several cases are related of debility and anaemia, in which the remedy was of marked efficacy. Obersalzbrunn in Prussia. Med. Times and Gaz., May iith. These waters are found useful in tuberculosis, in respiratory and intestinal catarrh, liEemorrhoidal affections, and lithiasis. They contain chiefly Garb, and Sulph. Sod. and COj. Topical Febrifuge. Monit. des Sc. Med., Feb. 23rd, 1861. Jl. 01. Terebinth., 5iv. Vini Opii, 5iss. Camphorse, 5j. 01. OlivEe, gij. M. To he I'ubbed for ten minutes along the spine every six hours during the intervals of the attacks of ague. PouiLLET, M.—On Sulphurous Poivder. Kepert. de Pharra., Feb., 1861. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Sulphuret of Calcium, Bicarb, of Soda, Sulphate of Soda, Sulphate of Potassa, Tartaric Acid, Gum Arabic, are to be mixed together after being well dried, in equal parts. Of this powder aboift gr. viij, added to Oij of water, give after standing 15 min. an excellent imitation of the natural sulphurous waters. Baths ofDriburg in Germany. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd. The water contains a notable amount of COg, some iron and manganese, besides salts of lime, and the alkalies. The use of the baths is found beneficial in cases of paralysis, albuminuria, anaemia, and even as a preventive of malformations of the fcetus, when employed during pregnancy. Pine-leaf Treatment at Grund-am-Eartz. Med. Times and Gaz., March 2nd. ... , Cases of gout and rheumatism, of sciatica, of hemicrania and scro- fulosis, of asthma and chronic pulmonary catarrh, of hysteria and hys- terical paralysis, and various skin diseases, are treated by this method with great advantage. The leaves arc used in water, vapour, mud, and douche baths, and in inhalations, and their expressed juice is given internally. Perchloride of Iron Chemically Neutral and Permanent, j)repared byREPORT ON SURGERY. BT J. W. HULKE, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT-SrRGEON TO THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, AND TO THE EOXAIi LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL. TEXT-BOOKS, MANUALS, LECTURES, TREATISES ON GENERAL SURGERY, NEW APPARATUS, ETC. Holmes, T.— A System of Surgery, theoretical and practical, in Treatises ly various Aiitliors. AiTanged and edited by T. Holmes. 4 thick 8vos, a is. each. London, Parker, Son, and Bowen. Lane, S.—Cooper^s Dictionary of Practical Surgery, and JEncyclopcedia of Surgical Science. New edition, brought down to the present time, by S. Lane. 8vo, London, Longman, Grreen, and Co. Leclerc, L.—The Surgery of Albucasis. 8yo, Paris, Bailli^re. Chassaiqnac, E.—Clinical and Practical Treatise on Surgical Opera- tions. Svo, Paris, Masson et Eils. Two very large and coi^iously illustrated volumes. Heath, C.—A Manual of Minor Stirgery and Bandaging. London J ChurchiU. Stme, J.—Observations in Clinical Surgery. Svo, Edinburgh, Edmonston. Heyeeldeb, Dr. O.—Operative Swgery and Statistics of Besections. Svo, Wien, 1861. Webb, A.—Beady Bulesfor Operations in Surgery. London. GiiNTHEB.—(In continuation.) Study of the Bloody Operations on the Human Body. Leipzig and Heidelberg. 4th part. Pelvis, Belly, and Breast. Maunder, C. F.—Operative Surgery, adapted to the living and dead Subject. Part 2. London, 1861. Amputation and certain special operations. AOATZ, G-. J.—Manual of Surgical Anatomy and Operations. "With an Atlas of 136 steel plates, and 52 lithographed sketches in outline, mostly drawn from nature, by Dr. J. Greb. Vol. iii. Enke, i860. Otxo and Reynders.—The Conical Trephine. Amer. Med. Times, July 2nd, p. 87. ' A letter (with cuts) from these surgical instrument manufacturers, dis-236 KEPOUT ON SURGERY. proving Dr. Gait's priority in the invention of conical trephines, which are figured in Heister's ' fSiirgery,' 174,3. Smith, H.—On a new and uniform Oauge for Outhelers. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 194. ' Smith considers that the cxistrug gauges are not minute enougla in their increments, nor of uniform scale, and i)roposeB a new gauge, the increments of which equal one seventy-fifth of an inch. MiTSOHEHLicn, Dr. A..—On Waterproof Bandatjes. Langenbeck's Ai-cbiv fiir Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 456. Mitscherlicli aims at rendering plaster of Paris and other fixed bandages proof against fluids by saturating them with an alcoholic solu- tion of shellac. Where great resistance is required, a Portland-cement bandage, saturated witli water-glass (siKcate of soda dissolved in water) lias great advantages. CliPET, P.—On tlie me of Mastic Materialsfor Siirgical Bandages. Bull, de Ther., Ux, p. 102, Nov., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112,1^0. 11, p. 206. Langenbeck.— AreJdve of Cflinical Surgeri/. Vol. i, 2nd part, 3rd part. Vol. ii, parts i and 2. Contents.—The employment of cold in sm'gery. By Dr. Pr. Esmarch. —Two cases of enterotomy. By Dr. C. Tungel.—On atheromatous cysts of the lymphatic glands. By Dr. A. Liicke.—Criticism on partial amputations of tbe foot, based on a new anatomical signification of the architecture of the foot. By Prof. Szymanowski.—On the catarrhal forms of suppuration of joints. On adhesion of the uvula and lower edge of tbe soft palate with the posterior wall of the pharynx. By Dr. J. van der Hoeven.—Congenital smallness of the lower jaw, associated with anchylosis of the jaw, cured by resection of the coronoid processes. By B. Langenbeck.—On waterproof bandages.' Cases of interesting fractures. By Dr. J. "Waeckerling.—Lesser surgical contributions. By T. Billroth. 3rd part. Beport on the Contributions to Surgery, md on its progress, during 1859. Vol. ii, ist and 2nd parts.—Contents.— On the pathogenesis and cure of salivary tumours. By Dr. P. Pauli.—Eemarks on abnormal descent of the testis. By Dr. Ed. Zeis.—Some cases of interesting recovery from injuries to the head, with some remarks on the correctness of the opinion of greater brittleness of the lamina vitrea of the skull. By Prof. H. Meyer.—Appearance of multiple sarcoma, and its relation to thej^wall of the bowel. By Dr. E. Vix.— On absorption of bone. By'"Dr. Th. Billroth.— On purulent peripleurisy. By Dr. Th. Billroth.—Traumatic augiectasis of the left arm. By Dr. Krause. — Observations on the origin of loose bodies in joints, and the operations they demand. By D. C. Pock,—On dislocations of the hip- joint, and their reposition. By Dr. Bartmer.—On recurrent neuromata. By D. E. Blasius.—Uranoplasty by separation of the mucous-periosteal gum-covering. By B. Langenbeck.— The odontologie of harelip. By Dr. 11. Volkinan.— On atheromatoid and puritbrm softening237 TEXT-BOOKS, MANUALS, LECTtJUES, ETC. of entire cancroid tubers. By the same.—The treatment of wounded arteries in the forearm. By Dr. Ahlenberg.— Eadical cure of a hydrocele, by suppuration, in a man set. 88. Eesection of the hip- joint. ■ Gastrotomy for the relief of presumed internal obstruction. For- mation of an artificial anus iu the left loin, in sarcomatous obstruc- tion of the rectum. By Dr. Pagenstecher. Hospital 'Reports. Vol. vii. Stm/ical contents.—The surgery of the mouth, pharynx, abdomen, and rectum, including hernia. By T. Bryant.—On syphilitic blotch of the conjunctiva. Case of diabetic cataract. By J. F. France.—Report on pyaemia and some allied affections. By S. "Wilks.—Case of severe mutilation of the forearm, with extensive loss of bone; with practical observations on injuries to the forearm. By E. Cock.—Description of a case of intra-parietal inguinal hernia, with reference to cases which were probably of a similar kind. By J. Birkett.—Case of compound fracture and dislocation of the astragalus. By F. Bryant.—Contribu- tions to the practical surgery of new growths or tumours. Series iv: cysts (continued). By J. Birkett. SpE^fCE, J.—Report of Clinical Cases treated during the Session 1860-61 in the Surgical Wards of tJie Royal Infirmary, under the care of J. Spence. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec, p. 505. This report embraces cases of injuries of the head, tracheotomy, amputations, excisions of joints, hernia, diseases of the genito-urinary organs, tumours, and fractures. Spekce, J.—Report of Clinical Cases treated dti/ring the Session 18_59-6o in the Surgical Wards of the Royal Infirmary. Edin. Med. Joum., Jan., p. 593. This, part 2, comprehends tumours, diseases of bones and joints, and diseases of the genito-urinary organs, together with some miscellaneous cases, and a resume of the principal operations. The table of amputa- tions contains one at the hip-joint, for injuries to the thigh by explo- sion of gunpowder. The patient, set. 38, died. Bryant, T.—The Surgery of the Moutli, Rha7-ynx, andRectmi, including Hernia. Gruy's Hosp. Reports, p. i. An analysis of 940 cases of injuries and diseases of these parts admitted into Guy's Hospital from October ist, 1853, to March 30th, 1851, with practical comments on their surgery. The author tliinks that sublingual cysts probably originate in an obstruction of Eivieri's glands (Birkett, vol. v). He finds that a moderately free opening into the cyst and packing its cavity generally ensure the destruction of the cyst-wall and bring about a cure. In twenty cases of chronic enlargement of the tonsils, excision of one or both was performed. For this operation the guillotine is recom- mended. AVhjere the abdominal viscera are ruptured in contusions of the belly the liver is the viscus most commonly torn. In 50 per cent, of lacerations of the jejunum the rent occurs at its junction with the duo-238 EEPORT ON SURGERY. denum (Poland, vol. iv, 3rd series). la a chapter on hernia Bryant states " that inguinal hernia is by far tlie commoneet form of hernia; that half the cases of strangulated hernia are of this nature, and that of these one only in every three requires operative relief, the large pro- portion of two thirds being reducible by the taxis." lie alludes to a former paper (18156), in which this form of hernia was shown to most frequently appear between the ages of twenty and forty, and to most often become strangulated between forty and sixty, the average dura- tion of the rupture previous to strangulation being twenty years. Arranging his cases in two classes, the first containing those reduced by the taxis, and the second comprising those requiring herniotomy, Bryant shows that 3-8 per cent, of the first class ended fatally. In all cases of strangulated hernia of long standing he advocates the imme- diate employment of chloroform. 52 per cent, of the cases which were operated on died. The mortality where the sac was not opened was 22 per cent.; where it was opened, 60 per cent. Herniotomy is most successful in congenital hernia, about two thirds recovering. Half the cases of old hernia recover, but an operation is mostly fatal in recent hernia. Femoral hernia is less common than inguinal by 74 per cent.; it is far more liable to strangulation than the latter, and, when strangulated, 73 per cent, of the cases require operation. At least one fifth of the cases of strangulated femoral hernia are recent, and these are 50 per cent, more fatal than older cases; for though the taxis in recent cases is generally successful, yet herniotomy is more than twice as fatal as it is in old cases. The advantage of operating without opening the sac is proved by a large per-centage in its favour. Hilton.—A Course of Lectures on Fain and the Therapeutic Infiuence of Mechanical and Physiological Best in Accidents and Surgical Diseases. (Delivered in the theatre of the Eoyal College of Sur- geons.) Lancet, Jidy 6th, p. 3 ; and following Nos. PmcHAED, A.—Ten Tears of Operative Surgery in the Provinces. Brit. Assoc. Journ., Jan. 5th, p. 10; 12th, p. 32; Feb. i6th, p. 165; April 13th, p. 383. PmcHABD, A..—Operations on the Eye. Brit. Assoc. Journ., May 18th, p. 518 ; June 15th, p. 625 ; July 27th, p. 85. Walker, T. J.—The Qalvano-caustic Apparatus: its applications in Surgery. Brit. ]\ted. Journ., April 20th, p. 409 ; 27th, p. 437. A description of Zsigmondy's apparatus, with a figure, and mdications for its use. Amongst other examples, a case of amputation of the thigh is given, where death took place on the fifth day. The wound was black, dry, and without any sign of reaction. EsMAKCH, Dr. Fk.—O/i the Employment of Cold in Surgery. Archiv flir Chir., vol. i, part 2, pp. 275—333, Berlin, 1861. ^ For a translation of this valuable memoir see ' Selected Monographs, published by the New Sydenham Society during the current year. Zeis 'Ed>—Permanent or prolonged Local Paths in various Local 'Diseases. Bvo, Leipzig and Dresden, Winter, i860, pp. 43.239 MILITARY SI3EGEEY. Szr-MA.^ovr&KX.—Contrihution to Amputation, togetler with experiences ill Immersion, and Irngation. Prag. Vierteljahresschr., i860. MILITAEY SUllGERY (INCLUDING GUNSHOT WOUNDS OCCUUUING IN CIVIL practice). TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. Post and Van 'Qvkes.—Abstract of Beport of Committee on Military Surgery to the Surgical Section of the New York Academy of Medi- cine. Amer. Med. Times, July 20th, p. 43. TntPLEB and Blackman.—Handhoolc for the Military Smgeon, Sfe. i2mo, Cincinnati, Eobert Clarke and Co., 1861, pp. 121. Hamilton, P. H.—^ Practical Treatise on Military Surgery. New York, Bailliere Brothers, 440, Broadway, 1861, pp. 234. Hamiltok, p. H.—A Course of Lectures on Military Surgery. (De- livered at the Belle Vue Medical College Hospital.) Amer. Med. Times, April 27th, p. 269, and following numbers. PiTOHEE, Z,—Contrihitions to Military Surgery. Amer. Med. Times, June ist, p. 351. GrROSs, S. D.—A Manual of Military Swgery. iSmo, Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott and Co., 1861, pp. 186. Trowbridge, A.—Ckmshot Wounds. (Being portions of a Lecture delivered by the late A. Trowbridge.) Amer. Med. Times, May 24th, p. 334. Short, practical remarks (copied from the author's notes by his son) on the force of balls, wounds of joints, fracture of bones, injuries of arteries and nerves, wadding in wounds, wounds of the thorax and head, illustrated by cases from the siege of Fort Erie, 1814. Amongst these is a remarkable recovery, with partial anchylosis, where a ball had laid open the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and carried away a portion of the condyle of the femur. Trephining is recommended where severe blows on the skull are followed by threatening symptoms, par- ticularly couvxdsions, although there is no depression of the outer sur- face of the bone. bayonet wounds. Clements, B. A.—Bayonet Wound through the Abdomen; reooveiy. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., July, p. 37. Todd, R. C.—Complete Transfixion of the Abdomen by a Bayonet; re- covery. Med. Times and Graz., March 30th, p. 320. 4 NEW BULLET EOROEPS. TiEMAN, Gr.—A new Bullet Extractor. Amer. Med. Times, May 2 5th p. 346. A slender, bulldog forceps, with crossing shanks, and incurved teeth which are concealed when the blades are closed.REPOUT ON SUllGEEY. 240 GUKSHOT WOITNDS. (a) Of the Head. Ctjbtis, C. E. S.—Gunshot Wound in the Mouth; secondary hcemor- rhage; ligat^tre of the common Carotid Artery; recovery. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, p. 601. (b) Of the Chest. Balch, Gr. B.—Case of Otmshot Wound, in which a leaden bullet re- mained twenty years in the tvalls of the heart. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jiily, p. 293. Sim, E.— Ca^e of Gunshot Wound of the Lung. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. ptli, p. 141. Adams, E.—Account of a case in lohich the Left Ventricle of the Heart was 'perforated tlirough and through hy a Gamshot Wound made hy a leaden slug the size of a small sioan-drop; tvifh a feiv observations 0)i small ivounds penetrating the pericardium and inflicting injury on the heart or its vessels. Dublin Med. Press, April 3rd, p. 227. The patient survived the wound half an hour. (c) Of the Upper Extremity. GoUEBEili.—Shot Injury of the Left Shoulder ; star-lihe fracture of tlte head and upper third of the Sxmerus; exarticulation of the Shoulder-joint; attacks of pernicious fever; recovery. L'lJnion, 112, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii. No. 7, p. 81. Ibwik, J. D.— Cki/nshot Wound of the Arm; Am2mtation at the Shoulder- joint ; severe effects to the operator from inoculation %oith matter from the wound. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., No, Ixixiv, new series, Oct., p. 337. FiNKELL.—G^mshot Wound. Amer. Med. Times, May nth, p. 305. Severe laceration of the hand by the bursting of a gun. Pancoast, J.—Extensive injury of the Sand from the discharge of a Pistol through the Palm; conservative surgery. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 49th, p. 429. Pancoast, Z.—Injury of the Hand from the bimting of a Gun; Amputa- tion at the Wrist. lb. The arteries were secured by acupressure. ft (d) Lower Extremity. Cbompton, D. "W.—Case of Gunshot Wound of the Knee-joint; primary excisio7i; sticcessful. With clinical remarks on other points in con- servative surgery. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 518. Hutchinson, J.— Severe Gunshot Injury to both Legs; priinaiy excision of the right Knee-joiiit; tetanus; death. Lancet, Aj)ril 20th, p. 386.SUPPUUATION. 241 A charge of No. 6 shot, fired from a gun at a distance of twelve feet, passed through the condyles of the right femur, obliquely downwards, then entered the left leg behind the inner edge of the tibia, and lodged beneath the skin at the outer side of the leg, without injuring the vessels. The condyles of tlie right femur were much comminuted, but the damage to the soft parts was limited to the immediate borders of the wounds of entrance and exit. The main vessels and the nerves appeared to have escaped injury. This determined Hutchinson in favour of resection of the knee-joint. The condyles and lower part of the shaft of the femur were found shattered to atoms; about a hundred fragments of bone, with many shots, were removed. A thin slice only was taken from the tibia. The patella had escaped injury. Nearly a teaspoonful of shots and two wads were taken out of tlie left leg. On the sixth day rigors; on the seventh, trismus; on the eighth, acute tetanus, ending fatally in two days. Spasms were excited by the slightest touch on the left leg. At the examination of the body the right knee was found in a satisfactory condition. Two or three shots were discovered in the sheath of the posterior tibial nerve in the left leg. SUPPURATION. EosEN, Wu.—On tlie Mechanism of Abscess. Archiv d. Heilk., ii, i, p. I, ]86i. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 59. This paper contains an inquiry into the value of drainage tubes. Stanley.—BemarJcable simulation of a Fatty Tumour hy an Abscess, in two instances. Lancet, April 27th, p. 409, Jessop, "W.—The Surgical Treatment of Sinuses. Lancet, March 9th, P- 235- Jessop reports two cases of obstinate sinuses in the groin successfully treated by making small cuts into each sinus at several points in its course, and then applying pressure so as to obliterate the sinus by adhesion of its opposite surfaces at the incised spots. BEEcn, E.—On Panaritium. Hospitals Tidende, No. a<, 18 Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 63. The author describes three kinds—the cutaneous, subcutaneous, and deep, together with then- complications and treatment. CiDT, C. E.—Lmnlar Abscess opening into the Bowels. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 27th, p. 9^. VoiLLEMTEE. —Treatment of Cold Abscess of the NecJc, and of Critical Abscess by Capillary Puncture. Journ. de Med et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Oct., part 10, p. 447, art. 6099. The success which had attended this treatment in sanguineous tumoura has led Vo.llemicr to adopt it in abscesses of thi above- mentioned kmds. He repeats the puncture li-om day to day, and immediately afterwards covers the abscess with a poulticeREPORT ON SURGERY. 242 Van Holsb^ek.—Abscess of the Bight Iliac Fossa; escape of pus hf the Ccdcum and Anus; recoveri/. Ann. de la Soc. M^d.-Ghii-. de Bruges, Jan. and 'Feb., i860. Echo Med., No. 8, April, p. 207. Sket.—On Aldominal or Pelvic Abscess. Lancet, April aytb, p. 406. After describing at some length the Bymptoms and diagnosis of these abscesses of the iliac fossa, Skey concludes ^^ith the following remarks on their treatment:—" The indication to which the treatment in such cases clearly points is that which will most readily convert a chronic into an acute abscess. Any attempt to ' resolve' or ' discuss' these morbid deposits would be futile, and quite unworthy the advanced progress of scientific surgery. To what end would mercurial ointment, iodine, and similar agents, point ? What is their power ? Do they possess any ? And if they do, could mercurial inunctions induce the circulating system to reverse its action by taking up the morbid deposit it had previously got rid of?" " The condition is that of weakness." " All we can hope for, all that the best resources of art can achieve, is to change the chronic into an acute abscess, to advance the formation, of pus, and to compel the abscess to select that locality through which it can most readily discharge its contents on a surface of the body." Skey endeavours to effect this by improving the appetite and by a liberal supply of food, stimulants, and plenty of fresh air. The abscess shoiild be opened at the earliest moment fluid can be detected. He considers bark as the most valuable therapeutic agent in promoting suppurative action. "WiiiKS, Dr. S.—Beport on Pycemia and some allied affections. Gruy's Hosp. Eeports, vol. vii, p. 119. An exhaustive report, founded on aa analysis of 173 cases. GANGtRENE. ' Lawrence.—Mortification of the Tbot and imrt of the Leg; great general sioelling of the Thigh from effusion of blood; amputation of the Leg; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, p. 161. BuLLEN, K. St. J.—Case of Gangrene of both feet from Frostbite. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept, 14th, p. 269. Applet, W. L.—Case of Spontaneous Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. Amer. Med. Times, Jime 8th, p. 369. April I jth, 1861.—A girl, set. 6, had her arm crushed in a " see-saw." She received a compound fracture of the ulna, and dislocation of the elbow-joint. The hand and arm having become cold, the same evening warm alcohol and spirits of turpentine, with fi-ictiou and artificial heat, were employed. Next day gangrene ensued, and extended to the shoulder and over the scapula whilst Appley waited for a line of demarcation before amputating. 24th.—Nine days after the accident the mortified limb was removed three inches below the head of the humerus. 29th.—Bleeding from the axillary artery occurred, and in turning the child on her side, in order to get at the vesseJ, the remainingINJUEIES AND DISEASES OF THE SKULL AND BEAIN. 243 portion of the humerus, with the scapula and the soft parts covering them, fell off. A ligatm-e was put on the artery, which bled freely. May 2oth.—The child was able to walk out, and had nearly re- covered. BURNS. ScHOK, C.—Solution of Nitrate of Silver in Burns.—TJgeskrift for Laeg., Bd. xxviii, p. 225. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 11, p. 206. The author advocates its immediate application in burns, even where considerable stripping of the epidermis or exposure of the deep structures has occurred. He dissolves grs. xxiv of the salt in 3viij _Aq. destilh, and covers the burned surface with lint dipped in this solution. Pj3ASE, p. C.—Three cases of Burns treated loith Oil and Cotton Batting. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 7. TETANUS. HtJTCHijrsoN and Jackson.—Beport on cases of recovery from Trav/matio Tetanus, Med. Times and G-az., April 6th, p. 360. This comprises a tabular statement of twenty-two cases. O'Beiene, J.—An exposition of the Natim'e and Treatment of Tetcmus. Dublin Med. Press, July 24th, p. 59. CooTE, H.—Tetanus following a WovAid of the 'Finger; removal of the finger; treatment hy cathartics; recovery. Med. Times and Graz., March 23rd, p. 304. Eead, "W.—Puncture of the Foot followed hy Tetanus ; subcutaneous injection; death. Boston Med. and Siu*g. Journ., Jan. loth, p. 469. INJUEIES AND DISEASES OP THE SKULL AND BRAIN. (a) Miscellaneous Papers, Sfc. ScHNTDEE.—{Contribution) to the Pathology and Treatment of Injuries to the Head. (Schw. Mon. Schr., vol. iv, pp. 97—117, i860.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 56. Six cases of slight and grave injuries of the head. Moll, Hill, Zaggl, Gunthee, Gortz.-—Ofeses of severe Injury io the Skull. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, No. 6, p. 319. Meter, Prof. H.—Some cases of interesting Becovery from Injuries to the Slcull, together ivith observations on the correctness of the assumption of a greater hrittleness of the so-called Lamina Vitrca of the Skull-cap. With plates. Langenbeck's Archiv £ Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 85.244 UEPOUT ON SURGEllY. HuTcnOfsoN.—Cases of Abscess in the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., l^eb. 2,3rd, p. 196. In two of these cases the cerebral abscesses followed injuries to tlie skull, uud in the other ear-disease. Lawkence.—Injury to the Head; cerehral symplovis, with otorrhea. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. i6th, p. 173. (b) Concussion and Compression. QuAiN.—Concussion of the Brain, with Paralysis of the Left Arm ; ^persistence of the former ; recovery, with invpavred intellect. Lancet, Oct. iptb, p. 372. Mason, E.—Heport of a case of Compression of the Brain; symptoms comdnrj on nine days after a fall on the occiput. Lancet, June 8th, P- .559- Death took place on the sixtieth day after the accident. A clot of blood, the size of two small walnuts, was found under the left side of the pons Varolii. The skull was not fractured. The substance of the brain, and its arteries were healthy. IIoLTHOTJSE.—Symptoms of Concussion, afterwards of Compression; ex- tensive laceration of the Brain-substance, with extravasation of blood. Lancet, Oct. 19th, p. 373. Touwa, J.— Case of Concussion of the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th, p. 673. (a) Cases of Fracture of the Skull in which the trephine was not u^sed. Hewett.—Compound Tractu/re of the Skull below the Occipital Protuber- ance; escape of cerebrospinal fluid; recovery. Lancet, Oct. 26th, p. 398. Lawson.—Fracture of the Base of the Skull, with a discharge of watery fluid from the Ear; recovery. Lancet, Oct. 26th, p. 399. Eyans.—Fracture throuyh the Base of the Skull; absence of any toell- marked symp)toms; fatal result. Lancet, Oct. 26th, p. 399. Sato EX.—Fracture of the Base of the Skull, tvith serous oozing from both Fars; recovery. Lancet, Oct. 26th, p. 587. MoTT, A. 'B. —Fracture, Contusion, and Caries of the Cranium. Amer. Med. Times, May nth, p. 305. Little, J. L.—Th7-ee cases of Compound Fracture of the Skull, and one of 'Practure of the Base of the Skull. Amer. Med. Times, May 18th, p. 321. 'Qnoo-K.s..—Compound Fracture of the Skull, ivith protrusion of the substance of the Brain; recovery. Lancet, Oct. 19th, p. 373. Needham.—Cffse of Fracture of the Skull from a Rocket. Med. Tuucs and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 214. Ekichsen.—i^aZZ of a Hydrocephalic Infant from a Third-floor Window, fracturing the Skull; hemiplegia; fatal result. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, P- 447-245 I>"JDBIES AND DISEASES OF THE SKULL AND BRAIN, (js) Gases of Disease and Injuries of the Shull and its contents imvJdeJt, the Trephine luas used. -Kvicuism^.—Statistical Beport of cases of Trephininff peiformed in Provincial Hospitals during i860. Med. Times and Gaz., June This embraces five cases of compound fracture of the skull, with depression, two only of which, boys of four and thirteen years, recovered. Le G-bos Claek, 'S'.—Necrosis of the Frontal Bone; sjjmpto^ns of com- pression ; trephining ; recovery. Bemoval of dead lone a year after ; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd, p. 107. MTKE-R,J.F.—Dej)ressedFractm'eofthe Skull; trephining; recovery. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 19th, p. 44. Three inches by two of the frontal bone, with dirt, and one ounce of cerebral tissue, were removed. Thirty-two days afterwards it is reported that the patient is nearly well. Adams.—Compound Fracture of the Skull of a Boy; use of the trephine; erysipelas; recovery. Lancet, June 15th, p. 585. Lawson.—Depressed Fracture of the Skull from a kick hy a horse; removal of hone; fatal result. Lancet, Oct. 19th, p. 374. Holt.—Compound Fracture of the Skull; trephining; removal of sixteen sjnculce of hone; death on the twelfth day from cerehritis. Lancet, Oct. 26th, p. 400. Bkyant.—Compound Fracture of the Skull, associated ivith epileptiform eotivulsions; trephining; fatal result. Lancet, Oct. 26tli, p. 401. Bryant.—Compound Fracture of the Skull; epileptiform convulsions; trephining; death. Autopsy. Med. Times and G-az., March 9th, p. 251. Johnson.—Compound Comminuted Fracttire of the Skull, with depression; convulsions; use of the trephine; meningitis; death. Lancet, June 15th, p. 585. Holt.—Compound Fracture of the Skull, and laceration of the Brain ; convulsions; use of the trephine; fatal result. Lancet, June i5tb, p. 586. Ayres, D.—Injury of the Frontal Bone, followed hy epileptiform symptoms; trephining; complete recovery. Bemarks and dedttctions. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., July 20th, p. 356. Fillings, J. S.—Surgical Fi-eatment of Epilepsy. Cincinnati Lancet and Observer, June, 1861. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 299. Contains a tabular statement of seventy-two cases of epilepsy, resulting from an injury to the head, where the trephine was used. Of these, sixteen, or 22A per cent., were fatal; forty-two are reported as cured, four unchanged, and the remainder improved, but not entirely relieved. 17246 uepout on suegehy. Maskol.—TUpilqm/, tie result of injury to the Skull ; trephming; cure. Amor. Med. Times, Jan. 19th, p. 45. The left parietal bone had been injured by a blow two years previously. A spicula of bone was removed, after which the fits ceased. BuBEN, Vak.—Trephining vn Epilepsy. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 388. In some comments on a case where this had been done, Van Buren remarks that this operation is comparatively a simple and li armless one, and explains the current opinion as to its seriousness by the fact that it is usually performed in cases which, from their nature, are fatal. Sateb, L. a.—Trephining for Epilepsy. First trial of Gait's Conical Trephine. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 6. This trephine " consists of a truncated cone, with spiral peripheral teeth, and oblique crown teeth ; when applied, the peripheral teeth act as wedges so long as counter-pressure acts on the cro\vn teeth; upon removal, however, of that pressure, by the division of the cranial walls, its tendency is to act on the principle of a screw; but owing to its conical form and the spiral direction of its peripheral teeth, its action ceases." In many experiments on the dead subject it could not be made to injure the coverings of the brain, notwithstanding the great force used. In Sayre's case the epilepsy was thought to be connected with an old injury of the occipital bone, but nothing unnatural could be detected on the inner surface of the disc of bone removed. The issue of the case is not stated. THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND AIE-PASSAGES.—OPEllATIONS, DISEASES, AND INJUEIES. The Lips. » roTTOHEE—Atresia Oris after SciM'vy, successfully treated hy an ope- ration. Gaz. des B[6p., 106, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, No. 4, p. 74. Toucher enlarged the mouth by slitting it at either angle into the cheek and stitching the skin to the mucous membrane. ExND, r.—Operations for remedying Deformities of the Lips consequent on congenital malformation, accident, or disease. Dublin Quart. Journ., No. Ixiii, Aug. i, p. 45. The Tongue. Httlkb, J. W.—Wart and Corn of the Mucous Membrane of the Tongue. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th, p. 556. Leggatt.—^ case of Acute Glossitis. Lancet, Teb. 2nd, p. 113- The tongue was about three times its natural size, and of a deep- livid colour. The application of several leeches to the enlarged organ was followed by rapid diminution of the swelling.MOUTH, PHAUYNXj AJID AIR-PASSAGES, ETC. 247 Uij^TOTS.—Acuie Glossitis {Mercm-ial?), Med. Times and Gaz.,Marcli i6tli, p. 277. 7Epithelial Cancer of the Tongue; ecrasetir. Amer. Med. Times, June 8tb, p. 376. There Avas some trouble in stopping the bleeding. HuTCHiKSOif.—Cancer of the Tongue; rapid progress; death within seven months. Cancer in the Limgs. Med. Times and G-az., March i6th, p. 276. A case of epithelioma remarkable for secondary deposits in a distant internal organ. Tonsils and Salivarg Organs. Lawbekce.— Great Hypertrophy of the Bight Tonsil, hloeJcing up the Fharyncc; removal by the ecraseur, ivitliout any hcemorrhage. Lancet, Oct. 19th, p. 372. The tonsil, after removal, is described to have been of the size of a hen's egg. * Pauli, Dr. E.— On the Pathogenesis and Cure of Salivary Tumours. Langenbeck's Archiv flir Klin. Chir., vol. ii, part i, p. i. The author discusses the various theories of the formation of these tumours, all of which he considers non-proven. He divides ranulsB into primary and secondary; the former are dilatations of Wharton's duct, the latter are cystic cavities formed by the rupture of the distended duct, and the escape of its salivary contents into the surrounding cellular tissue. These two forms, or rather stages, of ranula he de- signates Ptyaloectasia and Ptyalocele. The latter Pauli treats with a tubular metallic ring, which consists of two halves united by a hinge- joint ; each half of the ring is perforated near the hinge and near the snap, so that in the complete ring there are two pairs of holes leading into the tube. The open ring is inserted in the ranula through two parallel incisions of three lines long, and then closed in such a manner that the hinge lies inside the tumour, whilst the snap is in the mouth. The indications for discontiuning the ring are—sinking of the granu- lations round it, and the more purulent nature of the discharge (less mixed with spittle) which flows through the holes in the ring. The advantage of Pauli's ring over Dupuytren's cylinder is the ease with which it may be removed from time to time for cleansing, and the im- possibility of its displacement. Together with this treatment Pauli employs iodine injections, by which the cure is hastened. AVeak solutions should be used at first, and afterwards stronger. Pauli gives Tinct. lod., i part to 4, 3, 2 and i of water, as the strength of those he uses, and attributes the evil consequences which occasionally attended this use of iodine by other surgeons to the employment of too strong mixtures. Ko^s, J. J.—Case of Salivary Calculus. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May ist, p. 129.IlEPOUT ON SURGERY, 24S Vinciio-w, E.—Barer Stones from Man. Virchow's Archiv f. Path. Auat. II. Phys., vol. xxi, part i ; second series, vol. i, part i, p. 116. A description of a salivary calculus, one inch and three eighths long, removed from Wharton's duct, and of two stones from the ureters. WoiiMAi-T).—Injlammatioii of the Parotid Salivary Oland. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 1524. This treatment consisted in deep punctures. The Hard and Soft Palates. Langenbeck, B.— TIranoplasty ly detachment of the Mucous-])eriosteal Covering of the Palate. Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin, Chir,, vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 20^5. The author discusses the several plans hitherto practised for closing cleits in the hard palate, and shows, by some most successful cases, the great advantage of using the periosteum together with the mucous membrane covering the defective bony arch in making flaps for the remedy of this deformity. HuLKE, J. W.—Case of Closure of a Cleft of the Sard and Soft Palates. Med. Times and Graz., Aug. 31st, p. 213. HoETEK, J. TAN DEB.— On tlie adhesion of the Uvula and Loioer Porder of the Soft Palate loith the Posterior Wall of the Pharynx. Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 448. This adhesion resulted from syphilitic ulceration of tlie fauces. The soft palate was also perforated in three places (illustrated by a drawing). Pancoast.—Soft, Brain-liJce Tumour in the Velum Pendulum Palati. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 19th, p. 431. An encapsuled tumour, the size of an egg, in the substance of the velum, pressing down the tongue and hindering deglutition. It had already been twice opened. Pancoast passed a strong thread through it, and then cut it out. Its consistence was gelatinous, and its minute structure resembled that of fibro-cartilaginous tumours. The Pharynx. Levebtin, Dr.—Case of Betro-pharynyeal Abscess, Hygiea, Bd. xxi, p. 692. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 62. A peasant, set. 46, after recovery from typhus and gastric fever, was attacked with dysphagia October 13th. Nothing wrong was found in the neck. Next day the difficulty of swallowing was so great that not even a drop of water could be swallowed; fits of suffocation also oc- curred. 17th.—A swelling was discovered in the pharynx, and tra- cheotomy was performed by Professor Santesson. This was followed by some improvement in breathing and swallowing, but death took place on the 19th. The oesophagus having been laid open beliind, two yellow points were found in its anterior wall, over the arytaenoid car-249 DISEASES OF AND OPERATIONS ON THE JAW. tilao-es A probe passed iuto the point on the right side slipped into° the cavity of an abscess of the size of a hazel-nut This did not, however, communicate with the larynx, which was highly mflamed. Stanley—-FVs!!«7o?w Openinc/ in the Neclc commimicatmg loith the Pharynx. Med. Times and G-az., May i8th, p. 524. Bxry^tt:.—Lodgment of a Shillmg in the Pharynx, and afterwards swailoiued, withotit any ill ejects. Lancet, Feb. 9th, p. 137. The (Eso]}hagus. SxiTE, Z.—(Esophagotomy. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. a4th, p. 193. This was performed for the removal of a piece of mutton bone, ex- tremely thin, but nearly an inch square. The patient was completely recovered at the end of a fortnight. Jones, Dr. H.—Lodgment of a Farthing in the (Esophagus of a Young Child; ejection through the influence of emetics. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, p. 188. Hamilton.—Strictwe of the (Esophagus. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. i5tb, p. 58. Lewis.—Carcinomatous Btrictu/}-e of the (Esophagus; enormous passive distension of the stomach; death. Autopsy. March 30th, p. 333. DISEASES OF AND OPERATIONS ON THE JAW. (a) TJie Upper Jaw. Hutchinson. — Statistical Heport of Operations for Tumom's of the Upper Jaw. Med. Times and Graz., June 15th, i860, p. 629. EoSEE.—Resection of the Jaw, witli preservation of the Palate. Archiv £ Heilkunde, part 3. Canstatt's Jahresb., vol. v, p. Gaebetson, J. G.—Diseases of the Mouth (continued). Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Aug. 24th, p. 459; Sept. 7th, p. 508; Sept. 21st, p. 552 ; Oct. 19th, p. 36. The pathology of osteo-sarcomatous and osteo-earcinomatous tumours. The antrum, and its diseases. Feegtjsson.—Excision of the Superior Maxilla. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 550. Paget.—Fibrous Tumour of the Antrim, successfully removed. Lancet, March 30th, p. 313. The tumour, which filled the antrum and had caused absorption of the floor of the orbit, was excised through an opening above the alveolus • the cheek was slit from the angle of the mouth. Butchee.—Successful Excision of the entire Upper Jaio and Malar Bone for an enormous Tumoui-, involving both and filling the Parotid Region. Dublin Quart. Journ., Feb. ist, p. i.250 REPOET ON SURGERY. WoEMAiD.—of the Upper Jaw in a Lucifer-matcU Maker. Meci. Times and Gaz., July 20th, p. 57. Bryant.—Cyst in ilie Anirum; puncture on two occasions; cure. Lancet, Aug. 31st, p. 201. Ferqtjsson.—J'/6ro«s Tumour of the Antrum, extendinq through the Hard Falate into the Mouth; snccessfid removal 'Lancet, Aug 31st, p. 206." 'PA.a-ET.—Fibrous Tumour of the Antrum, with ^mhation; excision; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th, p. 251. Peegusson.—J'/iroz/s Tumour of the Left Superior Maxilla, in- volving the Antrum, of fifteen years' growth ; successful removal. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 6. Feegussok-.—^/5ro?;s Tumoui' of the Left Superior Maxilla in- volving tlie Antrum; removal; fatal result. Lancet, Jan. 5th, r. ^ QuAiN.—Fibrous Tumour of the Superior Maxilla in a Girl; successful removal. Lancet, July 5tli, p. 9. Maisonneuye.—Enormous Ulcerating Cancer of the Face and Jaw; simultaneous removal of the left upper jaw, of the greater part of the lower jaio, and all the corresponding soft parts. Comptes rendus, No. 24, p. 50. PAlfCOAST.—Extensive Medullary Cancer of the Antnim; removal of the tmnouA' with the superior maxillary bone and soft parts. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 19th, p. 432. Sket.—Malignant Disease of the Upper Jatv, involving the Antrum, Nose, amd Orbit; partial removal. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 8. (6) The Lower Jaw. Lakgeitbeok, B.—Congenital Smallness of the Lower Jaw, associated with Anchylosis of the Jaw, cured by resection of the Coronoid Pro- cesses. Langenbeck's Archiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 2, P- 451; The patient, a lad, ^t. 17, first came under Langenbeck's notice in 1853, at which time the incisors of the lower stood behind those of the upper jaw, towards, but not quite reaching, the hard palate. There was motion in the joint, but so slight that no solid food could be passed between the teeth. After subcutaneous division of the masseter muscles and forcible separation of the ja-w^s with a speculum, under chloroform, a finger could be passed between the teeth, but no further improvement could be obtained, and the lad left Berlin. In time the mobility which had been gained was lost, so that in i860, when he returned to Langen- beck, a slight approximation of the incisors to the hard palate, and swelling of the muscles of mastication during attempts to chew, were the only evidences of movement in the joint. The lower could not at this time be separated from the upper jaw. June i6th.—Both masse- ters were completely divided (the patient having been thoroughly nar- cotized with chloroform), and the lower jaw was attempted to be forced apart from the upper with elevators, but ineftectually, though so much violence was employed that a canine tooth was loosened from its socket.DISEASES OF AND OPEEATIOXS ON THE JAW. 251 At each attempt with the lever Langenbeck felt a movement in the joint, and experienced a sensation as if the lower jaw were jammed against some strong impediment, by which all further movement was prevented. No stretching of the temporal muscle could be felt above the malar bone whilst the lever was acting, but, on the other hand, the lower jaw (its coronoid process) was felt impinging on a firm obstruction, the posterior surface of the nialar and superior maxillary bones. The proposed division of the temporal muscles now became objectless, and the idea occurred to Langenbeck that possibly a faulty shape and direc- tion of the coronoid process was the cause of the difBculty. That this was the correct explanation was proved by the perfect success which followed the division of these processes a week afterwards, when the punctures of the first operation had healed. (Illustrated by drawings.) Thomsok, J.—Case of accidental removal of the greater part of the Lower Jawhone. Edin. Monthly Journ., Dec, p. 587. A man, whilst ploughing, was thrown down by bis bullocks running away, and the coulter, catching his throat, tore away the entire horizontal portion and more than half of the right ramus of the lower jaw. PiTHA.—Resection of the Lower Jaiv. "Wiener Medic. "Wochenschrift, i860, Nos. 39, 40, 41, 42. Canstatt's Jahresb., vol. v, p. 248. Ti^msG-E..—Eemoval of the Loioer Jaio on account of a considerable Ttmoiir. Gi-az. des Hdp., No. 77, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, No. 7, p. 77. Stanley.—Necrosis of the Loioer Jaw occurring in a Lucifer-match Maker. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. i6th, p. 173. Cooper, E. S.—Eeproduction of the left half of the Loioer Jaw. Amer. Med. Times, Eeb. 23rd, p. 129. This occurred after the exfoliation of half the jaw, including the coro- noid and condyloid processes, which had perished from mercury. JOHNSOM-, J. Gr.—Bemoval of one half of the Maxilla Lnferiorfor Ne- crosis ; complete hony restitution and restoration of tlie fimctions oj the Jaw. ^ Amer. Med. Times, May 25th, p. 338. The necrosis was consequent upon an injury received in the removal of a tooth. The portion of bone removed included the coronoid and condyloid processes, the ramus, and body of the jaw on the left side as far forwards as the lateral incisor tooth. The periosteum was turned aside with the handle of a scalpel. One year afterwards the restoration 18 said to have been complete and the articulation perfect. MoTT, A. 'B.—Necrosis of Inferior Maxilla; plastic operation. Amer Med. Times, June 8th, p. 371. Phosphorus-necrosis. The entire lower jaw was removed The sub sequent cicatrization drew down the lower lip and prevented the closure of the mouth. For the relief of this a plastic operation, by slidino- and transplantation, was performed. & "^-^ BOWMAIT, -W.-Fihrous Qroxoth imhedded in the Alveolus of the Loioer Jaw; successful extirpation. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 6.llEPORT ON SUllGEEY. 252 Paget.—C//.V//6- Dimtsc of the Lower Jaw, of Iwclcc i/carti' duralion; extiquUioii of the ri(/ht half; recovery. Jjaiicet, Jau. 5th, p. 7. CooTE.—Concienital Cystic Tumour in the Lower Jaw of an Infant; re- moval. Lancet, Aug. 31st, p. 207. The right half of this bone, enormously enlarged, formed a tumour that reached downwards to the chest. Its rapid growth threatening suffocation at an early period, Coote laid bare the tumour, cut through its thin, bony wall, and turned out a nest of cysts. The infant, only six mouths old, died from the exhaustion caused by the profuse drain of pus from the wounds. Adams, Wm.— 'Epithelial Cancer of the Loiver Jaw, for which one half of that hone toas excised; yood recovery. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 8. AIE-PASSAGES. Various Affections of the Nose. HlAET DE MiTGEOK.—Ejyisfaxis arrested by Diyital Compression. Journ. de Med. de Bordeaux. Journ. deMed. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Oct., part 10, p. 465, art. 6106. Believing that the bleeding iisually comes from a point of the septum ■within reach of pressure with the fingers, H. de Mugron directs the alse of the nose to be pinched with the finger and thumb, and says that at the end of five minutes the bleeding is infallibly stopped. Betant.—Adhesion between the Septum JVasi and the Lower Turbinated Bone. Lancet, Aug 31st, p. 207. This probably resulted from ulceration of the mucous membrane. Demaequat.—Hypertrophy of the Mucous Ifemhrme of the Inferior Turbinated Bone. Gaz. des Hopit., 29, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. II, p. 200. ' Pancoast.—Plastic Operation for the formation of a Neio Nose. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. 9th, p. 509. A short historical account of rhinoplasty. Demaequat.—Deviation of the Septmn of the Nose, in consequence of a bloio with a fist; cure by a new 02)eration. Gaz. des Hop., 118, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 71. Demarquay split the nose in the middle line to the upper lip, dissected off the mucous membrane from the triangular cartilage which projected into the left nostril, and cut away so much of this cartilage as obstructed the nostril. Uee.—Polyploid Bony Growth from the Septum and Floor of the right Nostril; successful removal. Lancet, Api'il 27th, p. 411. Edwaeds, E. S.—Operation for the removal of a Naso-pharyngeal Poly- pus. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 265. Edwards passed a loop of strong iron wire along the floor of the nose into the fauces, opened it with his fingers, and slipped it round the tumour. By strong traction the upper part of the tumour was dragged253 LIUYNX AND TBACHEA. forwards, seized with a polypus forceps, guided aloug the wire, and wrenched off The patient spat the tumour into his hand. It measured three and one eighth inches in length, four and three quarters inches round at its broad end, and three inches round at the centre. THE LAKYNX AND TEACHEA. The Laryngoscope. CnuHCH, Dr. "W. H.—Description mid tise of the Laryngoscope. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 173. This is a paper read before the Academy of Medicine, March 6th, i860. J Geehaedt, C, and Eoth, P.—On iSy^Mitic Diseases of the Larynx. Virchow's Archiv f. path. Anat. lind Phys., vol. xxi, part i; second series, vol. i, part i, pp. 7—44. An account of various affections of the larynx, observed by the authors with the laryngoscope in persons affected wath constitutional syphilis. In the earlier stages of this cachexy condyloma is the commonest affection. AVaxkee, T. J.—JReport of a case of Polypoid Growth of the Larynx, diagnosed and removed hy aid of the Laryngoscope. Lancet, Nov. 9th, p. 445. Laryngeal Pneumatocele and Fistula. Htjtchinsok.—Case of Perforation of the Larynx, and formation of a circmnscrihed Pnetmatocele in tlie Neck. Med. Times and Gaz., March 30th, p. 329. A fluctuating, tympanitic swelling, the size of a pigeon's egg, over the lower part of the larynx and front of the trachea, disappearing on compression, and refilling when the patient coughed. EnicitSEif. — 'Extensive Wound of the Larynx and Nech, followed hy an Aerial Fistula. Lancet, Dec. 7th, p. 547. 'Tracheotomy. Maetim,Dr. O.—On Tracheotomy. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in. No. 8, p. 203. A third and very voluminous report of the recent literature of this operation. The first and second reports appeared in Jahrb., vol. 98, p. 102 ; and vol. 102, p. 73. MAryDEE.—A Word on Tracheotomy. Lancet, March i6th, p. 263. The trachea having been incised, the point of a double hook is to be inserted through the incision into the windpipe, which is to be raised and fixed. The clasp being slipped, tlie halves of the hoolc separate and widen the slit ui the trachea; this done, the tube may be passed with ease and the hook withdrawn. Whilst the inner tube is removed forBEPOET ON SUllGBUY. 254 cleaning, a small elastic catheter should be introduced through the outer tube into the windpipe, to prevent the serious obstacle to breath- ing caused by the accumulation of inspissated mucus at the end of the tube. Edwards, A. M.—Notes wpon Traclieotomy, ivitJi cases; to winch are added two cases of Hernia. Edin. Med. Journ., March, p. 799. After reviewing the discrepant opinions which prevail respecting the relative advantages of laryngotomy and tracheotomy, and the part of the trachea which should be opened, Edwards states it as his experience that laryngotomy is seldom intentionally performed. He prefers to open the trachea low in the neck, giving as his reason that in this situ- ation the opening is far from the disease and from the sensitive mucous membrane of the larynx. He begins his incision over the upper margin of the sternum, and regulates its length by the thickness of the neck and probable depth of the trachea. He recommends the lips of the tracheal wound to be held apart, with the handle of the scalpel turned half round, so as to allow the patient to breathe a few times before the insertion of the canula. He objects to chloroform wOiere tracheotomy is done for dyspnoea untU after the insertion of the tube, when he finds a few drops on a handkerchief very useful in allaying troublesome paroxysms of cough. The danger of the surgeon sucking out the tube when obstructed with the tracheal secretions is enforced by his own case and that of his assistant, both having had serious inflammation of their own throats by doing this. If there is proper attendance the tube should be taken out when sputa come through the rima glottidis, or the exudation softens, but if the patient is at a distance from assistance great caution is necessary. The reproduction of the tracheal cartilage is illustrated by a case, and a drawing is given of a case of stricture of the oesophagus with laryngeal abscess, where tracheotomy was performed, and where the patient died some days afterwards from haemorrhage. At the autopsy it was found that the internal jugular vein had been opened by the abscess. HuTcnixsois'.—Statistical Beport of cases of Tracheotomy occiirring in Provincial Hospitals dtvrinr/ the year i860. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th, p. 598. This comprises five cases, four of which were fatal—one, oedema of - glottis; three, pressure on the larynx from without by tumours; and one, tubercular ulceration. Bronchotomy in Diphtheria. HiLLiEB, T.—On Tracheotomy and Laryngotomy in Diphtheria. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 194. A report of tAvo cases. Bronchotomy in various Discuses and Accidents accompanied iy (Edema of the Larynx. HiLLES, M. 'W.—(Edema of the Larynxc. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 169. For this Hilles suggests tlie free exposure of the interior of this organ, by slitting up the thryroid and perhaps also the cricoid cartilage along the median line.255 LARYNX AND TEACHEA. llviCKi-s!SO-s(.—Scald from drinJcing Boiling Water; Tracheotomy ; death six days later. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24th, p. 188. loHAM, E. 1^.—Successful Laryngotomy for Tonsillitis, inducing (Edema of Glottis. Amer. Med. Times, Jau. 12th, p. 2^. Peacock and Le Gkos Cla.-ry..—Subacute Laryngitis; Tracheotomy,- recoverif. Med. Times and Gaz., July 27tb, p. 815. Datet, J. G.—Laryngitis; death under Chloroform, administered prior to and during Tracheotomy. Brit. Med. Jour., May 25th, p. 549. rERGUSSOif.—Disease of the Larynx ; Tracheotomy; recovery. Relapse of the Dyspnoea; second Tracheotomy; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24tli, p. 187. Payt.—Neurosis of th e Cricoid Cartilage, loith severe attacTcs of Dyspnoea from pressure on tlie Bectorrent Laryngeal Nerve; Tracheotomy; fatal results. Lancet, Oct. i2tli, p. 348. Leahed.—Laryngeal Phthisis; Tracheotomy ; death. Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24th, p. 189. Ulcerative destruction of the entire laryngeal miicous membrane, with thickening of the epiglottis ; tubercle in various stages, and congestion of the lungs; emphysema of the anterior mediastinum. PoESTEE, C.—Abscess of Larynx; Tracheotomy; death Jive iveeks aftei' the operation. Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24th, p. 188. Necrosis of cartilage. Betaijt and Gull.—Syphilitic Laryngitis; Tracheotomy; death. Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 24th, p. 188. Death from pneumonia nearly two months afterwards. The epiglottis was gone, the glottis thickened, and the pharynx was scarred and warty. Bryant.—Syphilitic Disease of the Larynx; Laryngotomy. Lancet, June 29th, p. 627. ErssELL and Bolton.—Syphilitic Lnjlammation of tlie Larynx; amte (Edema; Tracheotomy; death from hcemorrhage occasioned by an ulcer in the Trachea. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th, p. 355. The ulcer was most probably caused by the fretting of the mucous membrane of the trachea by the back of the tube. Daeke, p. E. p.—Case of Laryngotomy. Lancet, April 20th, p, 388. A case of syphilitic laryngitis. The crico-thyroid membrane was incised with H. Thompson's laryngotome. The patient recovered, but could not leave off the tube. Tracheotomy in Croup. Geeene, H. B. Qi. — Gase of Croup; Tracheotomy; recovery. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 31st, p. 529. Cabot, S.—Successful case of Tracheotomy in Croup. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Peb. 7th, p. 22. Axers, J .—A case of Croup; Tracheotomy; recovery. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Peb. 7th, p. 18.256 KEPOUT ON SUKGEllY. Watsos.—Fatal case of Traclieotomy in Croup. Edin. Med. Journ Feb., p. 678. ' Miner, J. F.—Tracheotomy in Croup; death. Amer. Med. Times Jan. 19th, p. 43. ' This Avas performed in the last stage of the disease. After death, Avhich took place thirty-one hours after the operation, croupous exudation was found in the trachea and smallest bronchial tubes. Fabbe.—Cm^/j; Tracheotomy; death four tveeJes afterwards. Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 34th, p. 187. Hajmorrhage on the twenty-sixth day after the operation was the immediate cause of death. The tracheal mucous membrane was very vas- cular, and on the posterior wall were several small ulcers. There was also a large abscess in the anterior mediastinum, and evidences of recent pleuro-pneumonia and pericarditis. Badclipee, Dr. — Tioo cases of Cynanche Trachealis ; Tracheotomy in the second, followed hy death twenty four hours after. Lancet, April i3tb, p. 339. Jojtes, Dr. H.—Four cases of Cynanche Trachealis; Tracheotomy per- formed in two, with recovery in one. lb. EES, Dr. V.—Cynanche Trachealis, siibseqxiently velapsing into Sron- chitis; recovery. Lancet, April 13th, p. 360. In three of these seven cases tracheotomy was performed, with one recovery. Of the four remaining cases, two lived. Bronchotomy for the removal of Foreign Bodies. MooEE, Dr. Adamson.—Stone in the Trachea. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, p. 39. On the fifth day the child was first brought into the hospital, and turned head downwards; this was repeated two days afterwards, but without success. The trachea was then opened, and the point of the knife struck the stone. Immediately there was a convulsive efibrt at swallowing, and the stone probably got into the stomach, for next day it was passed in a stool. The child died on the second day after the operation. Padlet, G-.—Two cases of Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th, p. 7. Chittenden, G-. W.—Foreign Substance in the Larynx; Tracheotomy. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., April 25th, p. 267. A pin. It slipped from a forceps introduced into the larynx through the wound, and was expelled by cough. ToMSON, J. J.—On the use of Looped Wire in the removal of Foreign Bodies from the Air-passages, with a report of two cases. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. lath, p. 25. In two cases of tracheotomy, where all previous attempts to seize the foreign bodies (in one case a piece of clay pipe, in the other a grain of corn) with forceps had failed, Tomson succeeded in Avithdrawiug them257 CHEST. with a bit of wire bent in a loop, in the way that corka are extracted from bottles into which they have slipped. Tracleotomy for Obstniciion of the Larynx hy a Tumour. Ceosse, T. W.—Tumour of the Larynx. Brit. Med. Jonrn., Oct. 19th, kt 'ihl autopsy a considerable number of smaU, warty vegetations were found on the mucous membrane just above the chordfB vocales. Tracheotomy, had been performed several months before death on account of the urgency of the dyspnoea. CHEST. (a) Penetrating Wounds. LiTTlE, J. Jj.—Stal-iooimds of the Chest; loound of Biaphraym and Liver; wound of Intercostal Artery; death. Autopsy. Amer. Med. Times, June 22nd, p. 403. Mx^u.—Punctured loound of the Chest; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June 15th, p. 629. Although the lung was traversed by the prong of a hay-fork, there was no bloody spit. FiNNELL.—Punctured woxmd of the Limg. Amer. Med. Times, May iith, p. 304. (b) Abscesses. BiLiBOTH.—On Abscessing Peripleuritis. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chii'., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 131. Under this name Bilboth describes two cases of inflammation of the sub-pleural cellular tissue, ending in abscess. "Without close observation and a thorough knowledge of the case from the commencement, the diagnosis is not always easy. Periostitis of the ribs with consecutive pleurisy is the most likely affection to be mistaken for it. Lent, F. D.—Fistulous Opening in the Walls of the Chest. Amer. Med. Times, May i8th, p. 317. The consequence of empyema pointing between the third and fourth ribs, below the collar-bone. Pebrijt.—Peculiar form of Lu,nq-shinfistula. Gaz. des Hop., 9, 10, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 79. Abscess opening into the thoracic cavity, as well as externally, and communicating with the lung. Shank.—L arge Abscess in the right Loin, openinci into the right Lung ; exjpectoralion of large quantities of purulent matter; subsequent external evacmtion; death. Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 218.258 REPOET ON SURGEEY. AMPUTATION. (a) General Beporis, Essays, Sfc. HuTOniNSON.—Statistical lieport of Anqmiations performed in Pro- vincial Ilosjjitals during the year i860. Med. Times and Gaz., April 20th, p. 416; April 27tli, p. 442. COOPEK and Holmes.—Statistics of Amputations at St. George's Hos- pital during seven years. Med. Times and Gaz., April 6tn, p. 338. Tealb, T. p.—Statistics of Amputations at tlie Leeds General Infirmary during eiglit years. Med. Times and Gaz., July 6tli, p. 5. This report contains an analysis of 189 amputations, forty-five of which were fatal, and an interesting comparison of the relative value of the circular, double flap, and rectangiilar methods of amputating. PoiJCHEE.—On Laugier^s Method of Bandaging Amputation Stump)s. Gaz. des Hop., 138, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 74. Poucher recommends this method, which consists in the application of two splints of cork that project beyond the end of the stump, and are deeply notched, the fingers being pierced for a tape with which each pair of fingers is tied together. These splints are intended to fix the soft parts, and keep the edges of the wound in good apposition. Pembeeton, 0.—On Amputation hy Mectangular Flaps, Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 21st, p. 631. A critical review of Teale's method of amputating, with statistics of twenty-two cases where this had been followed, and of twenty-two cases where the ordinary flap or circular amputations had been performed. Hexfeldee, J. F.—Amputations ivith preservation of the Periosteum for covering the ends of the sawn Pones. . Bull, de I'Acad. Eoy. de Med. de Belgique, deuxifeme serie, vol. iv, No. 3, p. 165. The periosteum can be more easily preserved in flap than in circular amputations. In a healthy state it is not easily separated from the bone, and sometimes is torn, but this does not appear to influence the result. EoTTX, J.—On Secondary Amputation after Chinshot Wounds. Gaz. des Hop., 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 74. Eoux was, during the Italian campaign, superintendent of the Hos- pital of Mary, in St. Maudrier, in the roads of Toulon, which received more than 2000 wounded and nearly 3000 fever patients. 220 men had undergone amputation on the battle-field, or in the ambulances and nearest hospitals. Twenty-six secondary amputations were performed by Eoux. In every shot-woimd two circumstances come into conside- ration—ist, the injury; 2ndly, the consecutive inflammation which developes itself in the soft parts and bones. Inflammation of the medullary membrane, osteo-myelitis, occui-s when a bone has been bruised or crushed, especially if the shot has struck the spongy tissue of the short bones, or the extremity of a long bone, or the medullaryAMPUTATIOK. 259 canal. The inflammation, at first local, aftei'wards spreads, and finally involves the whole bone. Eoux recognises three degrees or periods— (i) congestion, resolution, recovery; (2) softening, amputation; (3) suppuration, death. The shot-wound is at first an accident, but with the occurrence of inflammation and reaction we have a disease which presents two phases—(«) the phlegmonous, embracing several weeks, during which the inflammation spreads in the soft parts, but con- tinues local in the bone; (b) the osteo-myelitic, extending over several months, or even a year, in the course of which the inflammation spreads in the bone, and is limited in the soft parts. "When in extensive osteo- myelitis secondary amputation is performed according to the generally accepted rules, a portion of the disease is necessarily left with the ad- ditional injury done by the saw. In order to effect a real cure, the entire diseased part should be taken away, and this, as a rule, necessitates the ex- articiUation of the whole bone affected with osteo-myelitis. The correct- ness of these views is supported by the fact that six out of eight patients died in whom amputation or resection was performed in the continuity of a bone, whilst of twenty-two secondary exarticulations all recovered. Eoux concludes with the following aphorisms :—(i) Osteo-myelitis is unavoidable after shotwounds, but in most instances gets well. (2) It commonly invades, more or less quickly, the entire bone. (3) Se- condary amputation or resection in the continuity of an injured bone is open to the risk of not removing the whole evil, and but too fre- quently leaving a part of the diseased bone. (4) To these partial operations on the primarily afl^ected bone the imperfect results which bring about the death of the patient are to be attributed; perhaps they are the principal causes of the failure of secondary amputations in general. (b) Amputations in the Upper Extremity. HvTCKTSSOif.—Statistical Seport of Am])utations at the Shoulder-joint performed in the Provincial Hospitals during the year i860. Med Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 547, 'Fs^s.QV&ms.—Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for a Medullarij Tumour of the tipper end of the Humerus; recoveru. Lancet July 13th, p. 32. CoOTE.—Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for a severe injury inflicted by machinery. Lancet, July 20th, p. 61. J J J ^ovir-Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for a recurrent Fihroid lumow of the Arm; recovery. Lancet, July 20th, p. 61. hniCKSE^.—Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for extensive injtmes to the entire Arm produced by machinery; fatal result. Lancet, July 20th, p. 33. ^ ./ J Ckoskeex ^.~-0n Excision of the Tendons in Amputation of the Fore- arm at the loioer third. Dublin Med. Press, May ist, p. 301. (0) Amputations in the lower Extremity. Femw, with anchylosis of the Knee-joint; remarks on the pathologyUEPOUT ON SURGEEY. 2G0 of the climtse, i^c. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Uep., Marcli 16th, p. 644. The ieinur had been fractured eight mouths previously ; union did not take place, and the limb was three and a half inches shorter than its fellow. Attempts were made to procure union by extension, appo- sition of the ends of the bone, and occasional irritation. After three months Pancoast sawed oiF the ends, and then, making the fresh ends overlap, drilled them and bound them together with a silver wire. In doing this it was found that the fractiu-e had run across the nutrient forearm and destroyed the artery, in consequence of which the upper fragment had undergone atrophy, and had become hollowed into a large cavity. At the end of five months there was still no union, and the limb was amputated. DolmAjS', a. II.—Amputation through the Knee-joint. Brit. Med. Jouru., June 15th, p. 628. The operator, M. Pearn, made a long anterior and a short posterior flap, and left the patella. Tenderini, J.—Simultaneous Amputation of hoth Legs and the Itight Arm. Griorn. della E. Acad, di Med. di Torino, 28 Pevr. Echo Med., No. 8, April, p. 207. The patient, a lad of seventeen, made a very rapid recovery. Hutchinson.—Statistical Report of Amptdatimts helow the Knee per- formed ~in Frovincial Hospitals during i860. Med. Times and Graz., May iith, p. 492. Pancoast.—Oase of Firogoff's Operation. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 20th, p. 64. Agnew, IE.—Amputation through the Metatarsal Bones. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Press, Jan. 5th, p. 368. SzxiiANOWSKi, Prof—Criticism of the Partial Foot-amptitations, based on a new anatomical explanation of the Architecture of the Foot. Archiv fur Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 366. Berlin, 1861. An elaborate ivtudy of the mechanism of the foot, with reference to the disadvantageous consequences of partial amputations. Szymanowski regards the two feet together as a dome-vault, which is only interrupted in front, and which has its bearings in the inner and lower process of the tuber calcanei, the tuberositas metatarsi v., and the ossa sesamoidea hallucis. SzTMANOWSKi, 'Svoi.—Modification of Pirogofs OsteoplastiL Med. Zt<y EussL, ID, 18^59. Schmidt, v-ol. 109, No. 2, p. 212. Szymanowski takes his flap principally from the inner side, protects the posterior tibial artery with the handle of a scalpel pushed between the vessel and the bone, saws through the malleoli from behiud or- wards, and lastly saws the calcis off straight just behind the astragalus. He begins his incision behind the outer ankle, at tlie border of tlie tendo Achillis, carries it downwards and forward, under the heel, and prolouffs it upwards over the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, m I'-ont ol the inner malleolus; the extremities of this incision are connected by a horizontal cut across the front of the ankle-joint and the outer mal-HONES. 361 leolus. The advantages of this modification are the certain preservation of the posterior tibial artery and its greater length, and the facility which the lateral flap affords to the escape of discharge. BouTiEB.—O'W Chopart's Amputation, tvitJi especial reference to division, of tlie Tench AcJdllis. Gaz. dea H6p., 74, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 2, p. 208. At a meeting of the Societe de Chirurgie, June 13th, i860, Bouvier, in some remarks on this operation, gave the difiiculty of avoiding elevation of the heel during the after-treatment as the principal reason ■why the operation had not been more widely accepted. This evil was observed soon after the first introduction of the operation into practice. In order to remedy it M. A. Petit cut the tendo Achillis, 1799. Ac- cording to Bouvier, the heel becomes raised in a very large number of cases, and the various modifications in forming the dorsal and plantar flaps, though not unimportant, fail to prevent it. Bouvier also con- siders the di^dsion of the tendo Achillis to be only a temporary remedy; when the cut tendon unites, the heel is again drawn up. He recommends removal of the sharp lower border of the anterior ex- tremity of the calcis, which presses the lower flap when the patient tries to walk, and causes pain. Streubel criticising Bouvier's remarks, shows that German assign a higher value to the operation than Trench surgeons, but adds that, on the whole, it has not been very frequently practised. This Jilger ascribes to surgeons being too often misled, by the upward extension of the swelliag and fistulas, into amputatiug higher than necessary. According to Jiiger and Textor, the wound is well disposed for healing, and the prognosis as regards mortality, and also the usefulness of the stump, is, in general, favorable. The heel is di-awn up less commonly and to a less extent than the French surgeons would have us believe. In successful cases the formation of a firm scar on the upper surface, intimately blended with the tendons and the plantar flap, prevents the injurious action of the muscles of the calf. The plantar flap should be large, and the tendons in both flaps should be cut long. During the after-treatment the foot should be kept at a right angle to the leg. Streubel notices the occasional super- vention of inflammation of the ankle-joint. The preventive simultaneous division of the tendo Achillis, recommended by some, is unnecessary ; its division ^yhilst the stump is acutely inflamed is also deprecated. "VVheu cicatrization begins, if the contraction of the tendon is great, its di- vision may be practised with advantage. Patients should not begin to walk too early, and should wear a carefully padded boot. BONES. Operations, Diseases, Injttnes, SCIIILLB.VCK, Ij.—Contributions to Besections of Bones. Third division, ■—Resections m the Trunk and Head. "With a lithogi-aphed plate. Jena, Manke, 1861, ix, pp. 243-438. Canstatt's Jahreab., vol. v, p. 244. 18REPORT ON SURGERY. 26a These comprise a partial resection of the shoulder-blade, one of the fifth rib, of portions of the cranial bones, of the malar bone, and of the xipper and lower jaw. BuTCllEB.—JExcinion of (he Radius from one orlictilar surface to the oilier; recovery, luilh almont licrfecl moiions and funclionn of the limhpreserved. Dublin Quart. Journ., Feb. ist, p. 29. Bone-rjrowth. Humphry, Gt. M.—Ohservations on the growth of Long Bones and of Stumps. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 417. Bone-alsorpiion. Billhoth, Dr. H.—On Bone-ahsorption. Langenbeck's Archivf. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 119. Billroth adduces some well-marked examples of the absorption of ivory pegs driven into living bone—a now well-known fact—in disproof of Virchow's theory of the origin of the pits seen in exfoliated bone, according to which, through the agency of the living bone-cells, the bone falls to pieces into ifs separate cell-territories, of which it was originally constructed. Billroth thinks that the granulations convey a solvent of the bone-earth, which, when dissolved, is absorbed by their vessels and removed. Absorption does not go on where the living granulations are separated from the dead bone by a layer of pus. Diseases of Bone. Le Gkos Clark, F.—Diseases of Bone. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 16th, p. 165. A clinical lecture. , Caries and Necrosis. Senftleben, H.—On the Predilection-places of Partial Necrosis. Yir- cbow's Archiv £ Path. Anat. u. Pliys., vol. xxiii, part 3 j new series, vol. i, part 3. From the results obtained during three years at the Berlin Surgical Clinik the author shows the slight danger of operations for necrosis compared with that which attends other operations on bones, <•.//. resections ; no death liaving occurred during this period in cases of the first kind, whilst one third of the cases of resection had ended fatally from pyajmia. He explains the safety of operations for necrosis by the fact that fresh bony surfaces are not exposed, the cavities from which the sequestra are removed being lined witli granulations or, in some instances, with condensed bony tissue. Where the latter happens recovery is retarded, because the eburnated tissue, from want of suflioicnt vascularity, cannot form granulations, and continues to exfoliate. Eburnation is chiefly observed where the necrosis is slow and gradua , particularly in central necroses, operations for which are attended Avilh more injury to the soft parts than those undertaken for other forms.BONES. 263 Senftleben recommencls the applicatiou of the hot iron to the condensed bone after removing sequestra, iu order, if possible, to destroy it as far as the vascular layers, and render granulation possible. The differ- ence between total and partial necrosis is said to depend essentially on the intensity of and the rapidity of the preceding inflammation of the bone and periosteum; and the extent of the necrosis, as regards the peripheral layers of a bone, to depend on how far the vessels piercing the bone from the periosteum have remained uninjured. The locali- zation of partial necrosis " depends principally on the histological pro- perties of the periosteum in different situations." The cortical layer of bone has a coA^ering of three kinds :—(i) Perios- teum. (2) Pasicse and tendons at the processes and crests, the smaller vascularity of which predisposes to suppuration and death, in conse- quence of which the hard, bony tissue becomes bathed in pus. The causes of inflammation of these tendinous and periosteal structui'es are rheumatism, scrofula, syphilis, and violence. The diagnosis and removal of sequestra in the neighbourhood of joints have their difficulties; the joints themselves are often involved, but recover after removal of the source of irritation. In suppuration of a joint, consequent on necrosis of a portion of one of the articular surfaces forming it, extraction of sequestrum may often replace complete excision of the joint. Sathes, L. a..—Case of Necrosis of Left Femtir; elongation of the same hy three and a half inches in excess of its felloxo ; the extremittj four inches longer than the riqU; removal of the sequestrum; secondary hccmorrhage, and death the patient. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., June 15th, p. 247. Feegusson.—iVecjwzs of the Femur; removal of aver i/larqe sef/uestrim. Lancet, April 20th, p. 387. J J. The sequestrum was nearly seven inches long, and comprised the whole thickness of the bone. CooPEE, E H.—Bemoval of over five inches of the loiver end of the Femur ; reproduction oftlichone; subsequent disease; amimtation; recoveru. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., July nth, p. 481. ihe patient a boy, a^t. 16. The nature of the disease is not given, from if ^^•^'^^'^^.^"fte^efand the periosteum was readily separable I ^^'^ periosteum longitudinally, turned it aside and cut out the lower end , of the shaft as far as the condyles. Sit montlis aftei;wards, burrowing abscesses, reaching from the knee to the hip, rendered amputation necessary. ^^"^Gl^Ln^fT?'"'''^^^^^^^ % Enucleation close to the Glenoid Cavity. Philadelphia Med. and Sm-g. Eep., Sept. 21st been'cut "ImII^I 'f'^ T\ ^'^'^^^^ Process having been cut through with forceps and cham-saw, the body if the scapulf264. EEPOET ON SURGEUY. was shelled out of the thickened and loosely attached periosteum. The patient retained a very useful limb. HiTOir COCK, H. O.—Case of Iiitemal Necronis uflev severe injurij oj' the Thigh, with extensive chronic sub-periosteal ahucess; operation; cure. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxxiv, new series, Oct., p. 424. Hilton.—Ifecrosis of the entire Shaft of the Clavicle. Med. Times and Graz., May iith, p. 495. TuQUA, W. M.—Excision of the Clavicle {for caries). Maryland and Virginia Med. Journ., Nov., i860. Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, Jan., p. 298. HiLLMAN.'—Necrosis of the Astragalus; successful removal. Lancet, Sept. 28th, p. 295. CooPEB, E. S.—Death from 'Pyaemia after exsecting a portion of the Tibia. Amer. Med. Times, June ist, p. 353. JaCKSOK.—Superfcial Caries of the loiver part of the bade of the Femur, the result of a diffused Aneiirism. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., July 4th, p. 470. A negro, £Bt. 18, ■whilst poising a heavy weight, felt sharp pain in the left ham, which became swollen. Six weeks afterwards, the circum- ference at the knee was thirty inches, the skin being distended by clots almost to bursting. The leg was mottled and cold. Amputation at the upper third of the thigh. After lingering some weeks, the boy died. The popliteal artery was lost in a vast sac, containing several quarts of coagula. The tibial and peroneal arteries were contracted at their origin, but of full size and healthy below. Babtok, J. K.—Excision of a ^^ortion of the Os Calcis for Caries; recovery, tvith a useful foot. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., July ijtli, p. 215. TJee.—Extensive Caries of the Asti agalus and Os Calcis in a Child; Symes's Ampittation at the Ankle-joint. Lancet, Dec. 7th, p. 547. Paget.—Disease of the Tarsus; Pirogoff's operation ; recovery. INIcd. Times and Gaz., April 6th, p. 365. Brta^'t.—Disease of the Anlcle- and Tarsal-joints; Pirogoff's amputa- tion; rapid recovery, icith an e.vccllcnt stump. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th, p. 251. Circumscribed and diffused Suppuration tcithin Bones. Hodge, Dr.—Abscess in the Head of the Tibia. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxxiv, new series, Oct., p. 446. Baitb, Dr. — Case of Endosfitis of Left Tibia of si.vieen years' standing; formation of bone-abscesses; failure in trephining; sub- sequent amputation; recovery. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Aug. loth, p. 423. 8asj)S.—Extensive Disease of the Tibia, Sfc. Amer. Med. Times, IMay 18th, p. 329. A case of suppur.ative inflammation of the medullary membrane, with secondary inflammation of the knee-joint.BONES. 265 Simple and Oanceroiis Tumours of Bone. Scnuu, Fr.—Extirpation of the Scapula on account of Osleo-carcinoma. "Wieu. Med. "Wchnschr., 36, i8(5o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 7, p. 78. A semi-globulav tumour, the size of an ostrich's egg, formed, in five months, on the right shoulder-blade of a previously healthy girl, eight years old. It was boimded above by a line drawn from the acromion to the middle of the side of the neck, at its inner side by the inner edge of the scapula, and at its outer side by the outer border of this bone. It sent a process into the armpit. Schuh exposed the tumour thoroughly by a crucial incision in the integuments, and severed the neck of the scapula with a chain-saw. The cut surface of the bone being diseased, several slices were removed with forceps, and in doing this the joint was opened and the head of the humerus was exposed. On the twenty-first day after the operation the wound was healed. BYX'K.—IJ.vtirpation of a Peripheral Enchondroma oftlie Bight Shoulder- Hade, of the size of a child's head. Deutsche Klinik, 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii. No. 7, p. 79. Tliis tumour sprang from the infra-spinous fossa. Beck laid it bare by a crucial incision, severed its attachment to the dorsum of the scapula with a chain-saw, cutting from below upwards to the spine parallel to the surface of the bone, and then completely detached it by cutting it across at the spine with a common saw. In five weeks the patient, a ^voman, left the hospital, and at one year and a half afterwards con- tinued free from a return of the growth, the cartilaginoid characters of which were well marked. Taget.—Medullar!/ Cancer of the Tihia ; amputation; recovery ; death subsegnently. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 88. Cancer of the Femur,- death in about five months. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 88. ^K^^^CE.—Medullary Cancer of the Filula; amputation; recoveru. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 88. ^oc^.— Osteo-cysto-Sarcoma of the Head of the Tibia; mnputation; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, p. 579. CuRLiXG.—7¥erfe£«ry Cancer in the upper part of the Filula; amputa- tion. Med. Tunes and Gaz., May 18th, p. 521. ^ Wood, J. "R.—Malignant Disease of tlie Periosteum. Amer. Med Times, May 18th, p. 327. femuJ.''"^ ^""^ encephaloid cancer originating in the periosteum of the Exostoses. ^^^.l^^.-.^^o'^osis on the Temporal Bone. Lancet June 00th ti rt.fi Of the ivory kind, the size ot a walnut. It w2 mZ^d vvith"bon. phers, and convalescence took place in a monthREPORT ON STJRQERY. CooTE, II.—Pressure on the AxiUan/ Ycsseh and Ner ves hj an Exontosia from a Cervical Bib ; interference ivilh the circulation of the arm ; removal of the rib and exostosis; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz' Aug. 3rd, p. 108. ■ ■' 'P.\Jsco\HT!.—Exostosis of the Thumb. Philadelphia Med. and Surg Eep., .Tan. 19th, p. 431. Short remarks on this affection. P.VIS-COAST.—^:^ro.s/os/s on the Middle Phalanx of one of the Finqers • removal. Philadelpliia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 2nd p cgi 'P.K^'COAST.—Exosto.'iis of the Terminal Phalanx of the Bin Toe; ope- ration. Philadelphia Med. Surg. Eep., Peb. and, p. 476. Post, A_. Q.—Subungual E.vostosis. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 8. The size of a currant, on the great toe. Osteomalacia. Paementiee.—CWs of Osteomalacia. L'Union, 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 11, p. aoi. FRACTURES. S-wiifBTJENE, J.—Extension in Fractures. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 263. A reply to criticisms of an article by this author, entitled " Hall's Eeady Method for the treatment of all the Long Bones by Simple Extension." Betain't, T.—Contributions to the subject of Compound Fracture, being an analysis of 302 cases. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 19.. * BErxs. —The treatment of Padlij-healed Fractures of Bones. Deutsche Klinik, 14, i^, 17, 18, and 19, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 69. Bruns groups the cases of this kind which had occurred in his klinik under two heads—(i) Badly united fractures. (2) Palse joints. The greater number of badly united fractures happened in very young children, which is attributable to the greater difficulty of diagnosis aud efficient treatment at this early age. He holds the fundamental rule, never to propose interference unless the probable advantages out- weigh the difficulty and danger of the operation, which consists in breaking the bone in the situation of the fracture, and maintaining it in the correct position. Palse joints are most successfully treated by subcutaneous tearing asunder the new bond of union, and roughly working the ends of the bones against each other. In one case Bruns followed Dieffenbeck's plan of drilling and pegging the ends of the bone, but unsuccessfully; and in four cases he resected the extremities, one only of which terminated satisfactorily. SwiNBUEKE, J.—Treatment of Fractures of Long Bones bg Simple Extension'. Amer. Med. Times, March 2nd, p. 143,FEACTDEES. 2G7 A paper read before the Medical Society of the State of New York, in wliicli the author shows that this method cau be successfully applied iu all fractures of long bones. YoiLLEMiEB, Dr.—Oil Fractures, uith Impaction of ilie Fnch of tlie Bones. G-az. des Hop., 137, 128, 1860. Schmidt's Jahrb.,vol. 109, No. 3, p. ,320. The author distinguishes these fractures from those where the broken ends of the bones are locked together by jagged indentations and pro- jections. Fractures with impaction occur only at the ends of some Ion" bones, and the following conditions are requisite for their occur- PgQce:—(i) The end of the long bone must be considerably larger than the body. (2) The body of the bone must consist of compact, solid, bony tissue, which runs into a thin layer towai-ds the injured eud. (3) The axis of the end of the bone must lie nearly in a line with that of the body. (4) The force causing the injury must act in the direction of the length of the bone, so that it tries to approximate the ex- tremities of the bone. This sort of fracture is most common at the lower end of the radius, where all the conditions for its production are present. The fractures of the neck of the femur and the formation of callus are lastly treated of. "WAECKEULiifG, Dr.—Cases of interesting Fractures; from tlie Surgical Clinic at Zurich. Langenbeck's Archives of Clin. Surg., vol. i, part 2, p. 467. These cases comprehend fractures of the spine, pelvis, and tarsus. O'EiELLT, Dr.—Case of Fracture disunited It/ Gout. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 183. Cooper, G. P.—Statistics of Compound Fractures at St. George's Hos- pital. Med. Times and Caz., Teb. i6th, p. 167. These comprise all the compound fractures that have been admitted into this hospital during a period of seven years, from 1852 to 1859 inclusive. Qovw^.—Clinical and Practical Treatise on Fractures in Infants. Eevised, and preceded by a Preface, by Dr. Marjolin. Paris, 1861. "Waters, \Y^.—A case of Ununited Fracture successfully treated ly Frof H. H. Smith's Apparatus. Philadelphia Med. and Surg Eep., March 9th, p. 615. This apparatus was described in the ' American Journal of Medical cciences, January, 1855. Fractu/res of the TrunJc. Ei ^ ^ ^ p. 410. . - - . Lancet, April 27th, ■Wakley, Zxm.-Fracture of the Mis, toith Emphysema; concus sion of tlie spine, and paraplegia; recovery. Lancet, Ai268 PEPOUT ON SUROEBY. Wakley, Jmiv.—I'racturf} of the liibs, wUh Eiajiikijxcma; mjmploms of fracture of the base of the al-iill; recovery. Lancet, April 27th p. 410. y^VThii.H.—Fracture of the Bibs, Pelvis, and Skull; laceration of the brain; fatal result. Lancet, IMay 4th, p. 433. Cvr-LEn.—Fracture of the liibs; bronchitis; diseased Jcidneys and hj2^ertrophij of the heart; fatal result. Lancet, May 4th, p. 433. Mtjubat, J. I.—Case of Wound of the Sternum. Edin. Med. Joui-n., J"ly, P-43- A stab through the sternum. The right pleura contained a few ounces over a gallon of fluid and clotted blood which h;id come from the veins of the bone. FiscHEE, J.—Fracture of the Sternum. Spital. Ztg. J., 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 6,3. CoHRANT, Dr. S.—Fracture of the Twelfth Dorsal and First Lumbar Vertebrce. Amer. Med. Times, June ist, p. 359. Paraplegia. A splinter " from the lamina of the first lumbar ver- tebra had entirely cut oiF the spinal cord." HrTCHisojf, J. C.—Case of Exsection of im-tions of the Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Dorsal Vertehrw, with a summari/ of twenty cases in tchich the operation has been performed. Amer. Med. Times, July 13th, p. 19. Hutchison describes a case of fracture of the spine, with symptoms of compression of the spinal cord, where he removed the spines of the eighth and ninth, and the arch of the tenth dorsal vertebrje. The patient died on the tenth day after the operation. The spinal marrow was torn, and in a state of disorganization opposite the junction of the ninth and tenth vertebrse. Of the twenty reported cases only two survived. Lawson, Gt.—Fracture of ilie Pelvis, u'ith laceration of the Urethra. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 2nd, p. 464. Hamok, L., and Merciee, A. Two cases of Fracture of the Sacrum. L'TJuion, 115, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 323. In both instances the patients fell from considerable heights upon their bottoms. In both paralysis of the bladder and rectum was present. Eeichsek.—Fractu/re of the Bibs and both Clavicles from a Squeeze; recovery by rest alone. Lancet, Sept. 7 th, p. 229. Marshall.—Case of Fracture of the Sternum; fracture of the ribs; scalp-iuoiind; paraplegia; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct., P- 375- Fractures of the Upper Extremity. Little, J. L.—Two cases of Compound Fracture of the Clavicle. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 177.PUACTURES. 269 CvLBEiiTSOT^i.—AvjMion of Adhesive Straps Fmctureaf^^ vicle, and to accidental division of the Tendo Achillis. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 6th, p. 8. , , ^ Bitot, VvoL—Splitting of the Upper Epiphysis of the Humerus in a New-horn Child. Jouru. de Bord., 26 ser., iv, p. 5, Janv., i«59. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. -n, -i i 1 t ^vc-K..—Fracture of the Anatomical JVeck of the Rnmerns. Philadelplua Med. and Surg. Eep., Dee. spth, p. 350. Pancoast.—Tn-o cases of Fracture of the Condi/le of the Htmerus. PhUadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Eeb. 23rd, p. .'J^^- These cases were treated with au angular side splint, the lorearm being midway between pronation and supination. CooPEB, E. S.—Cflse of Ununited Fracture of the Os Humeri of four I/ears' standinf/; cure hij the use of silver ligatures. Amer. Med. "Times, May 25th, p. 337. The false joint, and one and a half inch of the ends of the fragments having been removed with a sharp chisel. Cooper drilled the fragments, strung a wire through them, and twisted it, so as to keep them in apposition. The incision, four inches long, by which the bones were laid bare, was made to heal by granulation (a point on which Cooper insists), the free escape of the discharges being provided for by a tent, and the formation of abscess in the neighbouring parts being prevented by bandaging. Masoit, E.—Fracture of Badius; ttnion delayed by pregnancy. Anier. Med. Times, Nov. 17th, p. 347. SwiXBrHiTE.—A neiv method of treating Barton and Colles^ Fracture. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 9th, p. 609. niis is the application of a single thin splint to the back of the forearm, reacting from the point of the elbow to the metacarpo-pha- langeal joints. This splint has two compresses, one which fills the lioUow at the back of the carpus, the other at the elbow, " to supply the deficiency in the straight line." The splint is fixed firmly with plaster straps to the elbow, the forearm is then extended till the broken radius and displaced ulna are brought into proper position, and when this is effected the hand is strapped to the lower end of the splint. Lastly, the carpal end of the forearm is pressed gently backwards against the splint, and fixed so with a strap. The author had treated eight cases in this way with great success. Gray.—Colles^ Fracture of the Badius; dissection of the injitred limh. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 220. Hutchinson, J.—Fracture of the Badius in its lower third; dissection of the parts. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 7th, p. 254. Lecqmte, 0.—On the indirect Fractures at the lotver end of the Badius. Arch. G6n., 5e ser., xvi, Dec, i860, p. 641 ; xvii, Janv., Fevr., pp. 52, 157. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 9, p. 339.270 BEI'ORT ON' SURGimv. GoHDON-, A.—O/i the Treatment of Fracture of the lower extremiti/ of the Badins. Eclin. Med. Journ., May, p. cjijg. Grordon recommends a slraiglit wooden sjilint, to the radial side of Avliicli a piece of Avood is littod, m bevelled as to fill up tbe natural concavity of the front of tlic radius. Pabmentieu.—T7/^ oUifiue Fracture of the Jlimerus above the Con (hit es L'Uniou, 65, i8!5i. Sclimidfc's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 65'. llVTOUTS^O-^.—Detachment of the Fpiph/sis of the Bailius in loth Arms. Lancet, Aug. 24tb, p. 184. _ A boy, a?t. 8, in falling from a tree was supposed to have pitched on his outstretched hands and to have dislocated his wrists. jN'o crepitus Avas felt, and the deformity Avas removed by extension. Three Aveeks afterwards botli epiphyses had firmly nnited to the shafts, but Avith much thickening and some displacement backAvards. GiOY-RK^-D.—Splitting off the Einphysis of the lower end of the Badins. G-az. des Hop., 124, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, No. 3, p. 324. The differential diagnosis of this injury, Avith cases. The lower fragment follows the movements of the hand. Crepitation is not felt when the hand is moved, nor in effecting reduction. The replaced bones have no tendency to displacement. Fractures of the Lower Extremity. Le G-eos Claeit, r.—Fractures of the Lower Extremity. Med. Times and Gaz., March i6th, p. 271. Smith, N. E.—The Anterior Suspensory Ajpparatus for the treatment of Fractures of the Loiver Extremity. This is a wire splint bent to the inclinations of the thigh, leg, or foot. It is secured to the front of the limb AA'ith starch bandages, and the limb is slung by two hooks that catch the Avire splint, one above, the other beloAv, the knee. SwrNTJrEJTE.—Treatment of Fractures of the Femur hy Simple Extension. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. i6th, p. 539. A paper read before a meeting of the Medical Society of the State of New York. SAvinburne fixes the pelvis Avith a perineal baud, the ends of which are fastened to the head of the bed, and extends the broken thigh by means of a cord which passes through a loop of plaster, the ends of Avhich are attached to the leg and is secured to the foot of the bed. The patient can move more freely and more safely than Avhen the long splint is used. In compound fractures the Avound is accessible, and perfect cleanliness may be preserved. The author appends a report of eighteen cases treated in this Avay, in only one of Avhich was there visible shortening or distortion of the thigh, and in none inversion or eversiou of the foot. CoTTiwa, Dr.-—Simptle Apparatus for Fractures of the Thigh. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept. 19th, p. 129.FEACTURES. 271 Counter-pressure is made by a broad band of stout linen closely en- circling the peMs, and extension, is made by a long outside splint Avith a foot-piece, to which two tapes are affixed, the other ends of which are secured to the patient's stocking. TiroiTAS, E. P.—Eeport of two cases of Fracture of the Thigh, with an account of a new apioaratus. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., p. 97. This apparatus consists of a fracture-box, the upper end of which has a large iron arc, to which the extremities of the perineal band are secured. Extension is made with a small windlass, pulling on the leg by means of a broad loop of plaster. Two woodcuts of this box are given. Its advantage over the long, straight splint is the readiness with M^hich it allows of the dressing of wounds on the outer side or back of the thigh. HiLTOX.—Olinieal remarks on a case of TTnunited Fracture of the Femur of ten years' standing; great shortening. Med. Times and Graz., Mai'ch i6th, p. 276. HjU?TSiroRXE, H.—Case of Fracture of the Thigh successfully treated by new apparatus (Dr. E. P. Thomas's). Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., p. 123. CooPEH, E. S.—Fracture of the Fenmr treated tvith Starch Appiarafus and Fxtension. Amer. Med. Times, Peb. 28th, p. 130. CoEXAZ.—On Fracture of one of the Condyles of the Femur, toith reference to a case of this accident. Echo Med., No. 19, Oct. loth, P- 473- A memoir read before the Medical Society of Neuchatel. Br.ACK, Dr. 0.—Fracture of the Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, icifh rupture of theposteri or tibial artery. Lancet, Sept. 7th, 1861. Si'MOXDS.—-Frrtc/^o-e of the Femur; death, with typhoid synqotoms on the sixteenth day; autopsy; phlebitis of femoral vein, 'and ^peritonitis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, p. 242. Terht.—p))-omng the possibility of walking after Fracture of the Neck of the Femur. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 220 M\.^n.—Fracttire of the Thigh; dry gangrene of the foot; amputation; recovery. May i8th, p. 523. Struthehs, J.—Crtse of Amputaiion at the Middle of the Think for spreading Gangrene after Compound Fracture of the Leg, in which acupressure loas employed to secure the arteries. Edin. Med Journ Peb., p. 692. ■' G^:lC^\x^xv,JJ.—Transverse Fracture of the Patella, in consequence of a direct blow Wien. Med. Halle, 16, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb vol. 110, No. 6, p. 319. ' TuFXELr, -Double Fracture of the Patella {stellate and transverse) in the same individual, occurring at the same moment from diiTerent causes; perfect recovery in fourteen weeks. Dublin Med Press 405. 'llEPORT ON SUUGEllY. 272 EsMAECH, Dr.—JDeformUij of the Ler/, consequent on hadhj-united Frac- ture of both Sones, cured lij Osleotomij. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 271. The patient a little girl, a)t. ,3J. The fracture took place about six weeks after birth, and was unrecognised. On the front of the leg there \yere two considerable prominences, the upper caused by the projection of the broken end of the tibia, at an angle of 125° three and one eighth inches below the lower border of the patella ; the lower, three and one eighth inches lower down, caused by the overlapping of the fibula, at an angle of 110°. As the refracture of the two bones could hardly have been effected at the same time, in both places, Esmarck cut out a small wedge of bone from the site of the faulty nnion, and secured the cut bony surfaces in perfect appo- sition with wires passed through drill-holes. The child made an ex- cellent recovery. TowN-SEXD, M. "W.— Ununited Fracture of the Tibia, successfully treated. Amer. Med. Times, March 9th, p. 161. " The tibia was bowed outwards ten inches from the axis of the limb, and projected anteriorly one and a half inch." A large quantity of callus had formed between the tibia and fibula. Townsend cut out nine sixteenths of the fibula at the angle, and drilled the 'callus and the ends of the broken tibia in several places, tiU the parts were so weakened that he was able in the next few days to bring the limb straight. Two and half months afterwards the fracture had firmly united. Meaciiam, J. G.—Ba^nd union of the Tibia and Fibula in an individual ninety years of aye. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 6. " At the end of four weeks union was perfect." Cook.—Fracture of the Tibia; Delirimn Tremens ; treatment by large doses of opium; recovei'y. Med. Times and Gaz., March 23rd, P- 303- Ure.—Hudden Fradure of the Leg, the result of former scorbutic dis- ease; recovery, uith union of the broken bones. Lancet, Jan. 19th, P- 59- Rupture of Tendons. Mason, R. 0.—Rupture of the Tendons of the Sectus Femoris Muscle. Amer. Med. Times, April 6th, p. 226. Adams, J.—On a case of Rupture of the Tendons of both Recti Fe- moris. Lancet, Sept. 7th, p. 227. The patient was sixty-three years old. The rupture occurred close to the patella. Perfect coaptation of the ends was efiected by raising the heels on a pillow, and no retentive apparatus was necessary. Perfect union took place. Adams figures a contrivance by the aid of which the patient could raise himself in bed.JOINTS. 273 JOHXSON, J. G.—Buptnre of the Tendon of the Rectus Femoris Muscle above the Fatella; recovery, tvith partial anchjlosis of the knee, without the patient's losing a dai/'s work. Amer. Med. Tunes, May 25th, p. 338. . . . 7 r' j tj\ TovCET.—Btqjticre of Left Beetles Abdominis Muscle, (raz. des JlOp., 76, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 58. JOINTS. (a) Diseases. SohLX, S.—Clinical lectures on Diseases of Joints. Lancet, Jan. jth, p. I; 19th, p. 51. VoLKM.i:y, Dr. E.—On the Catarrhal Fjrms of Joint-suppuration. Arcbiv fiir Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 408. Berlin. The author controverts a commonly received opinion that suppu- ration of a joint is necessarily followed by anchylosis, and cites cases where perfect mobility was recovered. He ascribes the easy production of catarrhal pus-corpuscles on the inner surface of the capsular liga- ment to the thick clothing this has of pavement epithelium. He does not accept as strictly accurate in the case of joints, the most recent attempts to arrange superficial suppui'atiou of this kind in two sharply defined classes, the destructive or connective-tissue, and the catarrhal or epithelial suppuration, which are based on the assumption that either the younger epithelial cells, by repeated subdivision, are resolved into the elements of pus, or an endogenous formation of pus takes place inside epithelial brood-cells. And he traces the origin of the pus in catarrhal articular inflammation to the metamorphosis of the most superficial counective-tissue-corpuscles into small foci filled with pus- corpuscles, which empty themselves into the cavity of the joint after exfoliation of the superjacent epithelium. He sums up the results of his observations in these words :—" Joint-suppuration has in many cases at first the secretory (catarrhal) character. Probably pus-corpuscles are found in moderate numbers in all the more acute arthro-meningites, and produce here the universally known, in many cases more or less pronounced, yellowish turbidity of the inflammatory products. The for- mation of pus-corpuscles is often so abundant that the effusion appears to tlie unaided eye puriform, although all deeper (parenchymatous) alterations of the constituent tissues of the joint are absent. In all these cases the pus may disappear either by disintegration of its cor- puscles and absorption, or by evacuation, and a cure result, without any trace of the former disease being left." In all cases of acute formation of pus in previously healthy joints, the suppuration in the synovial membrane has always at first, only this secretory character the deeper and irreparable chauges occurring later. Tiie author next reviews at some length the course of joint-suppurations, and concludes with scfme remarks on the treatment, with especial reference to the subcutaneous puncture and injection of joints. He considers the speedy evacuation of a large quantity of pus in a joint desirableHEPOUT ON SURGERY. because pus makes pus, that Avliicli already exists maintains a pyogenic state of the synovial nicnihrane, and in lonf^-pi'otracted suppuratioji the deeper parts become involved, lie regards it as probable that, even Avithout the access of air, the products of disintegration of ])U8 may act deleteriously on the cartilages. Another beneficial eflect of evacua- tion by puncture is the relief of tension; some of the worst compli- cations in inflammation of joints are produced by a kind of strangu- lation. The infrequeucy of suppuration after luxations is cvplained by the lacerations of the capsular ligaments favouring the escape of the synovia and preventing over-tension. The indications for puncturing inflamed joints are precisely stated, and throughout the paper numerous cases are quoted in support of the author's opinions. Baewell, H.—A Treatise on Diseases of' the Joints, 8vo, John Churchill. Loose Cartilages. Pock, Dr. C.—Observations on the Origin of, and Operations for, Loose Cartilages in Joints. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, p. 163. Fock places the origin of these loose bodies in the appendices of the synovial membrane, and shows by several successful cases that there is little danger in removing them through a direct incision, provided that a valvular wound is made by drawing the skin aside before dividing it, and air is effectually excluded by the most accurate adjustment of its edges. Fock places the limb on a spliut immediately after the operation, and never operates till any excitement present in the joint has been removed by rest in bed and other antiphlogistic measures. HuTCHisow, J. C.—Operation, for the removal of a Loose Cartilage from the Knee-joint. Amer. Med. Times, June 15th, p. 383. This was easily removed through a valvular incision, after au attempt to displace it, into the cellular tissue through a subcutaneous incision of the capsular ligament, had failed. Smart inflammation of the joint ensued, but the patient fortunately recovered without any impairment of its fuuctious. SQUAHa3, J.—On Loose Cartilages in the Knee-joint. Loudon Med. Eev., Oct. p. 163. A report of nine cases of this kind successfully treated by subcuta- neous incision of the synovial membrane and expulsion of the false cartilage into the cellular tissue outside the joint, whence it was removed after a few days, when the wound into the joint had healed. In none of these cases was the operation followed by pain, inflammation, or other serious symptoms. Square warmly advocates the superiority of this method over direct incision into the joint. In a large proportion of cases he thinks these loose bodies are the result of local injury.JOINTS. 275 (b) Penetraling Wounils. ^■sxsh-^Y.—Wound hy a Ilatcltet pcnetrcding the Knee-joint; recovery. Med. Times and'Gaz., Aug. .31st, p. 219. ^ , . Bauee.—CWse of J^erforatincj Wound of the left Knee-jomt; Gelatinous Deaeneration of the Synovial Memhrane ; peculiar appearance of the Articular Cartilac/es ; Fehble-stone in the Joint; amputation. Plnla- delpliia Med. and Surg. Kep., May 4tli, p. 114- PuEEPOY, 1.—Extensive Laceration of the Knee-joint; recovery. Dublin Med. Press, Dec. iSth, p. 424. GoEE, W. E.—Aids to the Conservative Surgery of the Joints. Being the details of a few remarlcahle cases of recovery from dangerous and extensive accidents of these structures. Dublin Med. Press, Jan. 23i'(i, p. 55- Pateubak, Prof. V. —A case tuhere a piece of a Bough remained for a long time in the neighbourhood of the Shoulder-joint. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.jVi, 25, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 71. A man fell backwards upon a shrub. On rising he felt violent pain sbootiug through the whole left arm to tbe tips of the fingers. The pain subsided after a quarter of an hour, and the man thought he had come off with merely a hole in his coat and shirt under the armpit. But the fingers of his left hand soon became stifi", and in the evening the wrist and elbow-joint were acutely painful. This the patient attributed to rheumatism, and wrapped up the joints in wadding. In spite of this the pain in the whole arm grew more severe. The fifth ]iight was passed with out "sleep, and on the sixth a violent twitching of the nape and side of the neck began, and there was slight trismus. The fingers were swollen; the left shoulder-joint could not be moved; the patient was feverish and jaundiced. In the armpit, which was now for the first time examined by a surgeon with the finger (in consequence of the great swelling and the tetanic rigidity of the muscles of the shoulder, it could not be brought into sight), a hard, immoveable body Avas detected near the origin of the long head of the triceps, touching wliich threw the patient into the most violent pain. The conviction that this was a foreign body was confirmed by the presence of blood on the shirt, which had been previously overlooked. Patruban cut down on it, and pulled out a piece of branch 2i" long and ,3"' thick. This was followed by recovery, and the man returned to his occupation of turner. Six montlis afterwards an abscess formed at the scar, and discharged a splinter of Cornus sanguinea 21-" long. (c) Forcible Rupture of Anchylosed Joints. Bxvn.-r-Iicflections on the method of Immediate Reposition in the treat- ment of White Swellings, and particularly of Hip-joint Disease, Thesis, Strasbourg, 1859.27'G HEPORT ON suncEny. Bauer, Dr. L.—CW of PerioslUis of Ihe left Thirjli-hone, with consecu- tive Synovitis and Fibrous Anchyloniis of the correspondinrj Hip.joint; contractions of Ihe sartorius, tensor varjince femoris, and external diiplicatitre of the vayincefemoris muscles; successful treatment by brisement force and myotomy of the contracted muscle. The account of tliis case is illustrated by two woodcuts. Bauek, L., and Wualey.—C«ses of Contraction and Fibrous Anchylosis of Joints. Amer. Med. Times, March 9th, p. 161. Clinical remarks, in which the forcible disrupture of adhesions and straiglitening of the limb, after previous division of any opposing tendons, are recommended. The Operative Treatment of Anchylosis of Temporo-maxillary Joint. EsMABCii, r.—Formation of an Artificial Joint on account ofimmove- ability of the Jaw-joint. Beitriige ziir praktischen Chirurgie, 2 Heft., Kiel, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5. p. 204. In cases where the lower jaw is immoveably fixed by contracted cicatrices (as those which follow cancrum oris) Esmarch has practised with great success the formation of an artificial joint by cutting out a piece of the bone in front of the cicatrix. DiTTIi.—Anchylosis of the Siyht Maxillary Joint, of fifteen years' duration, successfully treated by the above method. Oester. Ztschr. f. Prak. Heilk., v, 43, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, Jso. 5, p. 205. Vekneuil, a.—A Memoir on the above subject. Arch, gen., 50 ser., xv, pp. 174, 284, Fevr., Mars, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 206. Diseases of the Hip-joint. Post, A. C.—Discussion on the treatment of Morbus Coxariu^. Amer. Med. Times, April 27th, p. 279; May 4th, p. 297; nth, p. 309; 25th, p. 344. A discussion on the pathology and treatment of diseases of the hip- joint, at the New York Academy of Medicine. The occurrence of tubercular infiltration of the cancellated tissue of the head of the femur was denied by Bauer and Sayre, who had examined a large number of specimens with this particular object. There was a general concm-reuce of opinion in favour of the treatment by extension and counter-extension in all stages of the disease, and splints and apparatus specially con- trived for this purpose were described by Drs Davis, Bauer, and Sayre. Besection of the joint was strongly deprecated by Dr. J. "Watson. Patients, according to his experience, rarely died of morbus coxarius; in the last twenty-five years he had not seen more than three fatal cases. Hughes, J. S.—Clinical observations on Morbus Coxa, or the Chronic and Scrofulous Diseases of the IBp-joint. i\mo. 6d.277 JOINTS. Taylor, C. F.—Improved Coiinter^extension Sjilint for Morbus Coxarim. Amer. Med. Times, July aoth, p. .37. The stated cadvautages of this splint are that it makes no pressui-e on tlie femoral vessels, and reaches only to the knee, the motion of which is perfectly free. Sathe, L. a.—Clinical Lecture on Morhis Coxaritis. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 29th, p. 411. The report of this lecture contains woodcuts of Davis's and Sayre's splints for the treatment of this disease by extension and counter-, extension. Saybe, Dr. L. A.—Ftmclitre of the Cajpsiile of the Hip-joint. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 182. A remarkable case of acute inflammation of the hip-joint, following a severe blow. A tenotomy knife was thrust deeply behind the tro- chanter major, and pus escaping, the puncture was extended five inches. Nearly a teacupful of pus escaped. "With the finger in the capsule, no roughness about the head of the bone could be felt. The joint was thoroughly syringed with warm water, and covered with oil silk. The case did well, and at the date of this report, four years after the capsule was laid open, the patient was in perfect health, and there was " complete motion of the joints CLEA'ELAJfD, AV. K.'—Morbus Goxaritis, its treatment, as practised by G. Leiois and A. Saijre, M.D. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 2. Sayre, according to Cleveland, regards hip-disease simply as a local aftection, not necessarily connected with tuberculosis. Eest and the removal of irrigation are the principal points in the treatment. These are attained by means of a peculiar metal splint, which is figured and described. The treatment recommended in the several stages of the disease is fully detailed, and illustrated by cases. PjilCE.—The advantages of the use of the Long Side-splint in tlie treat- ment of Morbus CoxcB in some of its earlier and more chronic forms. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 288. (d) Dislocations. Crttisi;, p. k..—Observations on tlie Reduction of Dislocations, toith the description of a new Apparatus for making Extension. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. i6th, p. 273. This apparatus consists of a drum, upon which a leather strap is wound by a cogged wheel and endless screw. Dislocations of Bones of Face and of Spine. Eaoieeske, C—Luxation of both sides of the Lower Jaw ; Concussion of the Brain. Med. Centr. Ztg., xxix, 80, i860. Mahttki Dr Alvii.—Complete Laceration of all the Uqaments between thejourlh and fifth Cervical Vertebrce. Ztschr. f. Chir u Geburtsh., xui, I, p. I, j86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 195. 19UEPOHT ON SURGERY. 278 Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint. Smith, H. II.—On the lieduction of Lu.vations of the Head of thc^ JIumerus, simply hj manipulation. IlluKtrated by twelve cases. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., July pth, p. 497. Smith's method consists in raising and rotating the head of the bone, lie divides it into three periods:—ist. Elevation of the arm and flexion of the forearm, and. Kotation of the head of the humerus upward, outward, and backward, as far as possible, by using the forearm as a lever. 3rd. Eotation of the head of the humerus upward and inward by a reverse movement, whilst the elbow is brought to the side. The paper ia illustrated by four woodcuts. Smith, N. R.—On Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint, with a description of a novel and efficient mode of Beduction. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., July, p. 17. The author considers that the scapula of the dislocated limb is best fixed by fixing that of the other member, by counter-extending from the wrist. He used formerly to reduce these dislocations by horizontal traction on both wrists, the patient sitting in a chair. Where, from muscular development, or the age of the dislocation, he expects resis- tance, he places the patient in a chair, passes a piece of stout, folded muslin round the chest and under the armpit of the injured side, carries its ends horizontally to the opposite side, one in front, the other behind, and extending the arm horizontally, bandages them firmly to the wrist of the sound side, leaving the ends projecting to be secured to the wall or otber fixed point. An ordinary roller is then passed over the top of the injured shoulder, backwai'ds and forwards, twice under the muslin band, to prevent its slipping down, and then the same roller is carried under the bottom of the chair and over the shoulder three or four times. This helps to steady the scapula and prevents the involuntary rising of the patient. Extension is now made horizontally by the Avrist of the injured side, until the head of the humerus slips into its place or the surgeon lifts it into the glenoid cavity with his Itnee in the axilla. WiiiSOK, J. H.—deduction of an Axillarj/ Dislocation ly H. K. Smith's method, after failure hy Extension. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Eeb. i6th, p. 531. DotroHEHTT, A. N.—Beduction of an Axillary Luxation hy Dr. S. H. Smith's method. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 2nd, P- 587- Cooper, E. S.—New mode of treatiny long-standiny Dislocations of the Scapula-clavicular Articulation. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, P- 3^9- This consists in removing the articular surfaces with a bone forceps, and tying the fresh bony surfaces together with a silver wire passed through holes drilled in the extremities of tlic acromion and collar-bone. Three cases treated with success by this method are reported.JOINTS. 279 rLEMiiiJfO, Chr.—Ckises of JDislocalion of the Shoulder-joint, tvith re- marks'. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April i^th, p. 113. SimIjS'GTON.—Reduction of Dislocation of the Shoulder, of four months' standing. Philadelphia Med. and Siu-g. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 348. Dislocations of the Elbow-joint. Heitzman>-, Dr. Kael.—Luxation of loth Forearms haclcioards ; reduction. Spitals. Ztg., 2, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 197. Clemext, B. a.—Lateral Dislocation of the Head of the Radius con- verted into tlie Dislocation forward and hacktvard. Arner. Journ. of Med. Sc., July, p. 43. Eessel, Dr. —Cflse of complete Luxation of the Head of the Radius hack- ward. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 10, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 62. A tall and large-boned schoolmaster, at. 40, slipped on some ice, and fell upon his extended right hand and elbow, I)ecember3 ist, 1859, and this was followed by great pain in the elbow-joint, inability to move the arm, and considerable swelling. Eeposition was attempted by a shepherd who was consulted, and cold dressings were applied. On examination, Pebruary 24th, 1860, the end of the oecranon and the inner condyle of , the humerus were found iu their proper places, but there was a consider- able swelling at the outer and back part of the joint. Supination and pro- nation were hindered. In passive rotation of the hand the projection at the back of the joint was felt to revolve, and the biceps moved with it. The forearm could not be fully extended, nor flexed beyond an angle of 100°. Eeposition was effected by traction iu the direction of the long- axis of the radius, and by pressure with the thumbs upon its bead. The forearm was flexed in order to relax the biceps. Dislocations of the Hip-joint {from external violence). I'li'iELD.— Dislocation of the Hip; manual reduction. Boston Med. and Surg. Jom-n., Jan. 31st, p. 541. Taking the knee and ankle in his hands, Pifield " flexed the thigh on the pelvis, so as almost to touch the body, bent it over towards the left ilium, rotated it outwards, gave a slight lift Avith the hand at the knee, when with an audible shock the head of the bone left the (sciatic) notch, a,nd came upon the dorsum of the ilium. He then depressed the whole limb, and with another audible shock it entered the socket." Swi>-BUHXE, Z.—Reduction of Dislocation of the Femur hj the Reid method, loith olservations upon its universal a])plication to all kinds of Dislocations of the Hip-joint. Philadelphia Med. and Sur^^. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 453. ° Ecid's instructions arc- " to place the patient on his back—table or other convenient position for the physician. Then seize the ankle with one hand, the knee with tlic other; then flex the leg upon the thigh,280 REPORT OX SLltGKJlY. Bti-ongly lultlucting it, carrying it over tlie souud oue, aud at the same time upward over the pelvis by a seuiicircular sweep as higli as tlie umbilicus ; tlien abduct the kuee gently, turn the toe outward, the heel inward, and the foot across tlie o])posite and sound limb, making gentle oscillations of the thigh, when tlie head of the bone will slip into * its socket witli a slight jerk and an audible snap, and the whole limb will slide easily down into its natural position beside tlie other." A critical examination of Eeid's method as compared with Smith's. ■Waoensellee, B. Dislocation of tlic Femur reduced hj Beid's metliod. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Kep., March 2nd, p. 585. Hewson.—Beduction of the Femur hj Manipulation {Beid's method). Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., May 4th, p. 113. Baetmer, Dr.—On Luxations of tlie Hip-joint, and their reduction. Arcliiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 183. SniES, S.—Dislocation of the Femur reduced without having recourse to Forcible Fxtension, Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Marcb 4th, p. 74. The patient having been put thoroughly under chloroform, the leg was flexed on the thigb and this on the belly, the limb being at the same time adducted. It was then quickly abducted, firm pressure being made over the great trochanter. Tabee, a. — Tlvo cases of Luxatio Femoris from Guersanfs Clinic. Gaz. des Hop., 151, i860. Schmidt's Jahi-b., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 197. Leteniietje.—Case of Suh-cofi/loid Luxation forward. Gaz. des Hop., 84, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 197. Sedillot.—Dislocation of the head of tlie Thigh Bone into the Foramen Ovale, tvith j^reservation of the usefulness of the limb. Gaz. des Hop., 24. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, No. 6, p. 319. An account of five cases of this luxation. Fractures and Dislocations of the Knee-joint. HOLTnousE.—Dislocation of the Patella upward. Lancet, July 6th. The ligamentum patella? had been ruptured by a fall; " the lower margin of the patella was faii'ly above the articular surface of the con- dyles of the femur." AVaklet, I. H.—Fracture of the Patella in a Pregnant Woman; union hy the sixth week, miscarriage in the eighth iveelc; and death from Typhoid Fever. Lancet, May i8th, 1861. Packaed, J. H.—Case of Fracture of the Patella treated succrssfullg by means of Malgaigne's Hooks. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, p. 395. Paxcoast.—Th ree cases of Fracture of the Patella. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Hep., March 23rd, p. 683. Pancoast at first uses leeches and astringent lotions, and when the efi"usion into the joint subsides approximates the fragments with straps of plaster. The limb is elevated.281 JOINTS. GnsEXniLL. Partial Dialocalion of tie Femur inicarcl at the Knee- -joint; reduction. Med. Times and Gfiz., July i6tli, p. 173. Ltman, H. M.—Dislocation of the head of (he Tibia inwards. Amer. Med. Times, July 20th, p. ,39. A labourer was buried by the accidental fall of a bank of earth. When extricated, a deformity of his left knee was discovered. J' The outer condyle of the femur projected under the skin at the outside of the joint, and the inner condyle could be felt as it rested upon the extreme outer portion of the articular surface of the head of the tibia," directly over the tibio-fibular joint. Eeduction was easily effected by adducting the leg so as to relax the quabiceps extensor and making pressure on the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Eecovery, withoiit anchylosis. Dislocations of the Tarsal and Metatarsal Joints. GiBBES, E. "W.— Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-joint; complete recovery after reduction, without anchylosis. Charleston Med. Journ., Nov., i860. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., p. 298. L.\jrE.—SimjyJe complete Dislocation of the Astrayalus forward and out- ward reduction; recovery. Lancet, Dec. 7th, p. 546. CnASS.viGNAC.—Case of Luxation of tlie Astrayalus, in lohich removal of this hone urns necessary. Gaz. des II6p., 60, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. I, p. 63. Pkllarix, Dr.—A case of Luxation of tJie first Metatarsal Bone iipivard. L'Union, 63, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 62. A child, set. 6, fell from the first story of a house into a paved court. At the middle of the inner side of the foot a considerable depression was felt, in which the thumb could be put, and there was a corre- sponding projection on the instep. The metatarsal bone of the great toe projected beneath the skin, and the toe was rotated slightly outward ; the articular surfaces of this metatarsal bone and of the first cuiieiform bone could be felt. The replacement was easily effected. BELiif, Dr. Ed.—Case of complete Luxation of the second Metatarsal Bone tqnvards and lachvards. Gaz. de Strasb., 6, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 63. A cuirassier was tripped up by his sword. He felt his left foot bend outward, and found himself unable to stand on it. On exami- nation shortly afterwards, an outward and backward luxation of the second metatarsal bone was found. The whole metatarsal bone was rominent, and its triangular articular surface projected considerably eyond the margin of the second cuneiform bone. The replacement was difficult'; after two failures, the head of the bone was pushed into its place by a screw tourniquet. Cold dressings were used for a few days, and then a plaster bandage was applied. The patient was well in three weeks.282 EEPOET ON SUllGERY. (e) ^Excisions of Joints. HuTCHnrsoir.—StalisHcal ItcpoH of Hxciaions of Joints pcrformrd in Provincial Hospitals, 1860. Med. Times and Gaz., April 24111, p. 444. Excisions of the Slmilder-joint. Peak.—On Disease of the Shoulder-joint and ScajniloJimneral Sesecfion, mthrpference to the treatment of the Shoulder-joint Disease. Thesifi, Paris, i860. Canstatt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 127. Post, A. C.—Curious Deformity ; JExsection oftlie head of the Bone. Amer. Med. Times, Eeb. 9th, p. 100. Dislocation of the humerus, with fibrous anchylosis. The arm Avas rotated strongly inward, the hand behind the back. The head of the humerus was found upon the dorsum of the scapula. Excisions of the Elhow-joint. Feegussoit, W.—Excision of the Elbow-joint. Med. Times and Q-az., May 18th, p. 524. AVhalex.—Case of Exsection of the Elbow-joint. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March i6th, p. 651. Eecovery, with a useful limb. Wood, Dr. J. E-.—Successful case of Resection of the Elboiv-joini. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 183. "Wood chose the H incision, and spared the 'periosteum as much as possible. TuTEifELi, J.—Excision of the Elhoto-joint in consequence of Explosion hy Grunpoivder in Blasting; yreat removal of bone; perfect recovery of the use of the Arm. Dublin Med. Press, Jan. 2nd, P-4- EmCHSEiS'.—Necrosis of the Itadiiis, tcith Disease of the Elbow-joint; resection of the diseased 2)ortions of the Bone. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 470. Excision of Carpal and Metacarpal Bones. CooPEn, E. S.—Case of successful removal of all the Carpal and parts of the 3Ietacarpal Bones. Boston Med. and Surg. .Journ., June 2 7tb, P- 446. ... Cooper exposed the bones by an incision six inches long, the centre of which was crossed by a second cut one and a half inch long. Some of the extensor tendons were divided. At the end of a year this hand was nearly as useful as tlie other.283 JOINTS. FoBSTEn, C.—Compound Dislocation of ihe TJiumh; Eesection of articuJar end of Phalanx; recovery. Med. Times and Graz., Aug. 17th, p. 163. Excision of the Si])-joint. WiXKE, C. K.—Statistical inquiri/ as to the expediency of Excision of the Head of the Femur. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 26. Petehs, Gt. a.—Fracture of the Acetahulum; Impaction of the Head of tlie Femur, ^c.; resection. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 260. An injury from blasting. The patient, set. 30, was hit on the left hip by a large fragment of rock. On admission into the New York Hospital, four weeks afterwards, " the thigh was fixed upon the trunk, strongly abducted and rotated outwards, making a right angle with the plane of the body." A sinus ran from behind the left superior spinous process of the ileum directly downwards for foiu" inches. In the fol- lowing months other sinuses formed, and the discharge of pus waa profuse. Sis months afterwards, as the man's condition did not improve, one of the sinuses was laid open, and bare bone was detected, with a fracture of the acetabulum, the head of the femur fixed, the deformity closely resembling a dislocation into the thyroid foramen. On the fol- lowing day, the bone being exposed by a second incision, the femur was cut through with a chain-saw just below the lesser trochanter, and again through its neck, and the intermediate portion, including both tro- chanters, removed. The limb could then be brought straight. The patient rallied for a few days, then sank, and died on the ninth day from the operation. The left ileum was procured for the hospital museum. The acetabulm had been fractured, the head of the femur impacted, and by " ulcerated action" had perforated into the pelvic cavity. The rami of the pubis and ischium had also been broken. BoAVMAjs.—Extensive Strumous Disease of the Sip-joint; excision; the head and neck of the fevmr lying loose in tlie articulation; recovery. Lancet, Peb. and, p. 108. P.\j{TiUDGE.—Old-standing Disease of the Sip-joint; excision. Lancet, Ych. 2nd, p. 109. Ebtchsen.—Disease of the Hip joint, tvith partial Anchylosis; excision of the great trochanter; recovery. Lancet, Feb. 2nd, p. 109. FEROUssoy.—Extensive Disease of the Hip-joint, toith jMrtial dislocation and absorption of the head of the hoiie ; excision; good recovery. Lancet, Jan. 26th, p. 84. Partridge, R.—Disease of tlie Hip-joint, ivith detachment of part of the head of tlie femur; excision; recovery. Lancet, Jan. 26th, p. 85. ?Rlcr..—Disease of the Hip-joint, of four years' standing, in a child aged five years; excision; immediate and progressive benefit. Lancet •Jan. 26th, p. 85. ' ' De Mov.qa2(.—Disease of the Hip-joint, with dislocation of the head of the femur; excision; recovery. Lancet, Jan. 26th, p. 85.284. UEPOUT ON SURGKRY. Pagexstfx'iiki!, Di'.—(T/t'o cascn of) Jiescclion of the Ilip-joint. Laugeubeck'H Arcliiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 313. CoLLis, M. II.—Case of Excismi of tho Hip-joinf. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April isfc, p. 102. A boy. Disease of two years' standing. Progress afterwards favorable. CoLLis, M. II.—Excision of the Rip-joint. Dublin Med. Press, March 27th, p. 212. Description of a case (then under treatment) communicated to the Surgical Society of Ireland. Excision of the Knee-joint. Stmpsoit, T.—Sesult of a case in which Excision of the Knee-joint was performed three years ago. Brit. Med. Jouru., Aug. 17th, p. 171. Smith, H.—The present condition of a limb where Excision of the Knee- joint was performed six years ago. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 5th, p. II. The shortening was two and a half inches more than at the time of the first measurement. Peith.—Excision of tlie Knee-joint; report of the state of the limb four years afterwards. Med. Times and Gaz., July 20th, p. 59. Pirm consolidation of the parts, slight displacement of the tibia backwards, and slight outward bow of the limb, which was flexed at 135°. It was also four and a half inches shorter than its fellow. The boy could walk a long distance. # Cantox.—Two cases of Excision of the Knee-joint for forcible separation of the Ejnphyses from the shaft of the Femur. Dublin Quart. Journ., Peb. ist, p. 75. Peequsson, AV.—Re-excision of the Knee-joint tvhere the primary operation was zmfavorable ; successful result. Lancet, May i8th, p. 483. J. B—, a}t. 17, had had the right knee-joint excised, in the north of England, in December, 1859. Several sinuses remained obstinately open. The limb, however, gained strength, and Avith a stick she became able to ■walk across the room. At the time of her admission into King's College Hospital, October 4th, i860, under Pergusson's care, the upper extremity of the tibia was displaced behind the lower end of the femur, the front of which lay exposed at the bottom of a large sinus. November 17th, the ends of the femur and tibia were cut oft'. The girl was discharged from the hospital at the end of the month. Tlie left lower extremity was five inches shorter than the right, and quite straight. There -was slight movement at the knee, but already so firm union that she could walk half the length of a long ward without splint or crutches.JOINTS. 285 LUCET-5'/.<.- cases ofHesecfion of the Knee-joint performed hi/ Brofessor Esmarch at Kiel, four of which terminated favorably. Deutsche Klin., i860. No. . . nr, i t Hewett, F.—A case of Excision of the Knee-jomt. Bnt. Med. J ourn., Nov. 23rd, p. 5^1. T,r J m- J Y^uGVS5oy.—Excision of the Knee-joint; recovery. Med. limes and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 219. _ . Tr Pouter, G. H.—C«se of Excision of the Knee-jomt. Dublin Jiosp. Gaz., April ist, p. loi. _ _^ ... Smith, B. AV.—CWse of Excision of the Knee-joint. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. i^th, p. 49. . - Bauer, Tj.—Diastasis of the loiver E^nphysis of Left Femur ; sinyular deformity of the extremity ; total exsection of the knee-jomt; re- covery, ic it'h a useful limb. Philadelpbia Med. aud Surg. Eep., March i6th, p. 649. Fekgusson-.—Excision of the Knee-joint; recovery, icitJi a false joint and useful limb. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th, p. 601. Price.—Three successful cases of Excision of the Knee-joint. Lancet, June i^th, p. 589. The respective ages of the patients were six, fourteen, and six years. This report was made on the forty-fourtb day of the first and on the twenty-third day of the other two cases. Whalet.—Circumscribed disinteyration of the External Condyle of the Femur; ^^ulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane of the knee- joint; attempted exsection of the same; subsequent amputation. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 20th, p. 71. The previous history of this case is given in vol. ii, No. 13, ' Amer. Med. Times.' - BuTcnEK.—On E.xcision of the Knee-joint. Dublin Med. Press, Eeb. 20th, p. 122. A communication to tbe Surgical Society of Ireland, iu which Butcher briefly records the cases where he has himself operated, and lays down rules for the selection of fit cases aud for the performance of the operation. Smith, E.—Case of Excision of the Knee-joint. Dublin Med. Press, Peb. 13th, p. 105. A report read before the Surgical Society of Ireland ; the patient at the time was progressing favorably. Porter, G. II., and Smtlx.—Excision of the Knee-joint. Dublin Med. Press, March 20th, p. 195. Exhibition before the Surgical Society of Ireland of the parts re- moved in two cases of excision of the knee-joint. Coo VSR, E. B.—Case of Exsection of the articular faces of the Knee- joint, for disease of eleven years' standing; cure of the patient. Amer. Med. Times, June 8th, p. 369.UEPORT ON SUEGERY. 286 Pope, C. A.—Complete Osseous Anchylosis of ihc Knec joinl; success- fully operated on hj Barton's method. St. Louis Med. and Surg. Joiiru., May, 1861. Anier. Jouru. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 298. The limb was permaueutly flexed at a right angle. A wedge of bone was cut out of the anchylosed knee, in order to straighten it. "Williams.—Cases of Excisions of Joints performed in the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. Med. Ti'ires and Ga'z., June ist, p. 1577. Two cases of excision of the knee, in the second of which ampu- tation was subsequently performed; and one of the elbow, wliere am- putation was done on the thirty-fifth day after excision. BLOOD-VESSELS. Operative Means for the Arrest of Hcemorrhaye. Ligature of Arteries. HiJTCHiNSOK.—Statistical Report of Licjahire of Arteries in Provincial Hospitals, i860. Med. Times and Gaz., April 27th, p. 445. FouCHEE.—Five cases in tvhich Aciqyressure was employed for the arrest of hwmorrhage. Bull, de I'Acad., xxv, p. 1085, Sept., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., a-oI, 109, No. 8, p. 73. Two of these were amputations of the leg, one of the thigh, and the other two injuries of the radial and temporal arteries. Beck, Dr. B.—Case of arrest of Hccmorrhaxje from a Vein hy deligation of the corresponding artery. Deutsche Klin., 48, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 79. Beck tied the posterior tibial artery in the lower third of the leg to atop venous ha5uiorrhage in Chopart's amputation. A good recovery took place. Nelatox.—Venous Hcemorrhage, treated hy introducing a cylinder of agaric, soaked in perchloride of iron, into the tube of the vein. Journ. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Nov., nth part, p. 499, art. 6118. An account of a very remarkable case of thrombus in the neck from spontaneous rupture of the internal jugular vein, occurring during scarlatina. The swelling was opened to relieve the extreme dyspnoja produced by its pressure on the air-passages, under the supposition that it was an abscess. The haemorrhage which foUowed was so copious that tlie incision was prolonged in order to bring into view its source, which was found to be an oval opening in the internal jugular vein. This Nekton plugged with the agaric cylinder, and the bleeding did not return. Aneurisms of the Innominate, Sulclavian and Carotid Arteries. Broadbent, J.—Report of a case of Aneurism of the Arieria Inno- minata, in which the carotid artery teas tied; death fifteen weeks afterwards. Lancet, April 13th, p. 35^.BLOOD-VESSELS. 287 A mm, tet. ijo, of intemperate habits, in the summer of 1858 had hoarseness, difficulty in swallowing, and pains in the right arm. Early in 1859 a tumour appeared above the clavicle, which m the following December had attained the size of a large egg. In January, i860 it suddenly increased to twice its former dimensions, and his right arm be- came powerless. The tumour reached from the cla^acle to the cricoid cartilage, pushed the larynx to the left, one and a half inch beyond the median line. Tlie right carotid artery could be felt along its inner side. April 8th,—This vessel was secured below the omo-hyoid muscle. There was no perceptible ditference in the tumour. Secondary haemor- rhage took place on several occasions, and the man sank on the 3i8t of July. HlLTO?f.—Aneurism of the Suhclavian Artery ; treatment ly dir/ital com- pression, manipiihttion, ice, Sj'c. Lancet, June, p. 561. A labourer, a;t. 38. This aneurism followed a sudden, severe jerk of his left arm. It was the size of half a small orange, and reached over the first and second ribs. January 14th,—Hilton confined him to his bed, and had ice constantly applied. 17th,—From the intense cold, the skin over the coracoid process was excoriated. A layer of lint was placed between the ice and the tumour. Digital compression maintained from 6 a.m., 31st, to 10 p.m., Eebruary and. The tumour became smaller, and the impulse less. Tenderness of the skin neces- sitated the discontinuance of the pressure. 7th,—Pressure resumed for nine hours continuously. loth,—Tumour more diff"used, and im- pulse greater. Pressure was again applied during several hours, on two occasions, but without decided change. April,—Forcible manipu- lation. Maj^ 2ud to 15th,—Ice for three hours continuously at night; afterwards pressure. May 28th,—Patient in statu quo. Holt.—Aneurism of tlie Carotid Artery; ligature of the lower part of the vessel; successful result. Lancet, .]une 8th, p. 560. The aneurismal tumour at first deceptively simulated an enlarged lymphatic gland, but subsequently its real nature became apparent. Holt tied primitive carotid artery about an inch above the bifiu'cation of the art. innominata, November loth, i860. The ligature separated on the sixteenth day ; the tumour had become much smaller, harder, and did not pulsate. A month after this the neck was much swollen, and a large quantity of healthy pus escaped through the upper part of the ■wound. Arterial bleeding occurred, but was stopped by pressure on the tumour. Pebruary 4th.—Great diminution of the tumour, and not much discharge. Ligature of the Carotid Artery for Kcemorrhage from Wounds. HvTCiiiNSOX, J. Q,.—Ligature of the Primitive Carotid Artery for ivound of the internal maxillary artery; recovery. Anier. Med Times, April 20th, p. 254. Mebce-R, A.—Ligafi0-e of the Primitive Carotid for tcomid of the occipital tn the occipital groove. Araer. Med. Times, May i8th p. 321. ! J 7EEPOllT ON SUEGEUY. 288 The patient', iii a brawl, received a stab bebiud the mastoid process. The bleeding from the wound was very free, but was controlled by direct compression till the fifth day, when it recurred so profusely that IVIercer tied the common carotid artery above the omo-hyoid. The effect of this was only temporary, fresh hasmorrhages took place, and death ensued twenty-three days after the receipt of the wound, which was found at the autopsy to pass between the mastoid process and the transverse process of the atlas, and to involve the occipital artery. Lawrence.—Self-inJJicted tvound in the Throat in Delirium Tremens; lifiatxirc of the carotid; death on the fourth day. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 89. A wound with a penknife, a little above and to the right of the thyroid cartilage, producing very free bleeding, which was controlled by pressure on the common carotid. As Lawrence could not discover the bleeding vessel he tied the common carotid artery just where it is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. At the autopsy the wounded vessel could not be discovered. Wounds of the Arteries of the Upper Extremity. Krause, Dr. "W.—Traumatic Angiectasis of the left Arm. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 142. Taylor, J. M.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Brachial; ligature of the axillary artery; recovery. Dublin Med. Press, Dec. iith, p. 408. BiCKERSTETn.—Lacerated ivound of the Arm; rupture of the middle and internal coats of the hrachial artery; ligature of the artery; trismus; death. Med. Times and Graz., June 29th, p. 675. Paxcoast.—Amputation ahove the Wrist; haemorrhage from the radial artery; ligature of the hrachial. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 447. The interosseous artery had been tied, and the radial secured again at a higher point, in consequence of secondary hemorrhage from the stump. These measures and Monsel's salt proving insufficient, the brachial artery (which was double) was tied. Uhlenberg, Dr.—Contrihitions to the Treatment of Wounded Forearm- Arteries. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 300. Two cases of deligation of the brachial artery for puncture of the ulnar and radial arteries, with comments on the treatment of these injuries. Clement, B. A.—Wound of the Sadial Artery ; compression; secondary hcemorrhage; ligature. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, MarsdenI A.—7Fo?m<? of the Palmar Arches; recurrent haemorrhage; ligature of ulnar and radial arteries; cure. Lancet, Aug. 17tl), p. 160,289 BLOOD-VESSELS. Aneurism of the Gluteal Artery. Si-iiE.—Z«;-<7e Gluteal Aneurism; ligature of tlic gluteal artery. Lancet, June 22116, p. 611. . , , • -.i A uiiddle-a"-ed raau received a deep puucture m the liip with a prunmg knife. The bleeding, which was very free, ceased, and au aneurism formed. Seven years after this, when he came under Syme's care, tlie tumour, a hirge, blunt cone, was as large as a man's head at its base, and occupied the Avhole hip. Syrae freely exposed the cavity by a long incision, turned out the clots, foimd and tied the gluteal artery. Emlolus and Aneurismal Varix of the Femoral Vessels. Adams, A. Ij.—Emlolus of the Femoral Artery, followed hy Sphacelus of the Ley and Foot; amputation; recovery. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 538. Pembeetois-, 0.—On a case of Aneurismal Varix in theiippei'partof the Thigh, following the employment of 2Jressure for the cure of an aneurism of the posterior tibial artery. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 189. In this case a direct comuiuuication was established between the femoral artery and the femoral vein. Aneurism of the Femoral Artery. Eawsox, T. J.—Case of Traumatic Anewis^n of the Femoral Artery. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. ist, p. 229. Solly.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery at tlie Groin; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. Lancet, June ist, p. _^32. A carpenter, a;t. 32. The tumour lay just below Poupart's ligament; it measured five inches in its vertical and three and a half inches in its transverse diameter, and was red and tender. As pressure could not be endured, the external iliac artery was tied January ist, i860. The thread came away on the thirtieth day. The tumour became very small and hard, and the man was discharged cured on March 9th. SoLr,T and Joxes.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery, compression; liga- ture of the vessel; secondary hmmorrhage; ligature of the exter- nal iliac artery; fatal result. lb. A groom, at. 33. The aneurism occupied the middle of the thigli; was five inches long, and three across. It commenced nine months before his admission into St. Thomas's Hospital. November i6th,—Pressure with a "horse-shoe tourniquet;" Tr. Digitalis, 5j thrice daily, with opium at night. ]3eing unable to bear the pressure, 28th, Jones tied the femoral artery above the profunda. December 2nd,—The separation of the thread was followed by arterial hfemorrhage, and this recurring several times next day, Jones tied the art. iliaca ext., which stopped theItEPOllT OX SURGERY. bleeding. 26th,—The aucurismnl sac was laid open, having suppurated. After tliis lueuiorrhagc occurred several times from the first wound, and could not be arrested notwithstandiug that the femoral artery was exposed as high as Poupart's ligament, and all bleeding points were secured. No post-mortem examination was allowed. Cantox.— Aneurimn of tlie Femoral Artery; ligature of the trunk above it; fatal result. Lancet, May 25th, p. 512. A carpenter, a)t. 29. The tumour three and a half inches long and two inches broad, at the lower and inner part of the thigh, extended be- neath tbe tendon of the adductor magnus muscle into the ham. It had been noticed only one month. November 3rd,—Canton tied the super- ficial femoral artery at the lower part of Scarpa's space. 7th,—Py- rexia. 9th,—Slight haemorrhage from the wound. 12th,—More bleeding. i4tb,—Pain and swelling of right shoulder and elbow. i6th,—Death from exhaustion. Paget.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery at the Groin; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. Lancet, June ist, p. 531. A sawyer, a3t. 32, strumous and rheumatic. The tumour, the size of a small hen's egg, was situated just below Poupart's ligament. The ligature came away on the eighteenth day. The patient left St. Bartholomew's Hospital four months afterwards. The condition of the aneurism is not stated. King.—Anetmsm of the Femoral Artery; ligature of the external iliac ; suppuration of the sac, and death two months afterwards. Med. Times and Gaz., April 13th, p. 387. A warehouseman, set. 42. The aneurism, just below Poupart's liga- ment, was as large as filled the palm of the hand. A silver-wire ligature was used. Paget.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. Mecl. Times and Gaz., April 2otb, p. 419. Solly.— Aneurism of the Femoral Artery ; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. lb. Erichsen.— Buptured Femoral Aneurism ; ligature of the external ■iliac. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. loth, p. 136. Holt.—False Aneurism of the Femoral Artery in Hunter''s Canal; opera- tion hy cutting into the aneurism, and tying loth ends of the wounded vessel; subsequent inflammation of the knee-joint; recovery. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 609. J • 4.1 A servant lad, jet. 18, received a thrust with a bcated iron rod in the inner and back part of his thigh. Blood spurted profusely from the wound, but soon stopped flowing, and the thigh became swollen. Seven- teen weeks afterwards, when he came under Holt's care, the swellmg reacbed from three inches below Poupart's ligament nearly to the knee, and involved nearly two thirds of the circumference of the limb. It was elastic and fluctuated obscurely, but did not pulsate. A bruit was heard about half way down, and again where the superficial femoral artery291 BLOOD-VESSELS. enters Hunter's canal. On two occasions after his admission into hospital a sudden increase of the swelling took place. Holt made an incision nine inches in length along the middle line of the tumour turned out four pounds of clotted blood, and discovering a wound in the femoral artery in Hunter's canal, isolated this vessel and tied it Ihe knee-joint inflamed and suppurated. The patient was convalescent at the end oi a month. Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. P^TEHS, Dr. G. A~Case of false Popliteal Aneurism occtm-ing three years after clehgation of the external Uiac artery for iLZml aneurism. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 261. ^'".S". ''i^'^^;^^^'^'^^^^^^^ Aneurism; spontaneous tuiirmii^^S'f'' ^itl^ ulcers on her legs. The J ^^lled the ham, reached considerably above and belovf t and ?otr:^t^os^s^^h!}d^» ..topped entirei;' Sifrnth^rft^et.^^^^^^^^^^^ oTtt'2'^'^^ M-as a small, hard lump, the size of half a walnut ^"T^^^^'T'l ^^41^ '^^^^^^-^^ treate, ly com- .8l51^;:^^S;^iiexUu£dr'T"v ^^^-^^^ was about three inches lont ^ . *° ^'^ ^'lo^e"* trench in 1854, tion of the arten I eSdSJir^o'? ^^'^^^^ef^^-'it the upper {or- during twelve hours dai^y S'nf """t ^^'^^^"^'^ occasion flexion was tried forV^-pp 1 *"^"'^quet. On one of the extreme pain it caused i6th Tl^'? chBcontinued on account smaller and harder. '^^t^-Pulsation ceased. Tumour much CovK.—Aiieicrism of the Vonlifpnl An engme-driver a^f •' " ^ P-.13,3- fifteen n.is an Cr^lJS&fo^'S 'l'^ T^^^f' ^"^"^^ ^"^^^ He mstantly felt such •. «l 1 P • ^^^^^S' December 17th i860 he had brokL a bon A feCfV '"./'^V^°^' '"''^'^ '"^^^ ^^o^gU liam. January nth -^fWi J tins he noticed a swellin- in his against the pubL'^iemlT^'n^^.^^^ ^7^^^^ tamed umnterruptedly dur n'four dnJ^ ^'"^r" ^^^^ maln- ;ce M-asput to the turnout The si n h^T ""'^i^^^ ^he same time iiealed, pressure was returned bnf nJ r""'"^ abraded; when it had and sleeplessne.ss. The ^u^. oA "had °beco 1"^*^"'^'^^^^^^ «f P^- Cock tied the femoral artery The liVnff ^ February ^th,— dny, and the mnii left Guy's ifer^^^^^^ of the tumour at this time i not descrfbef' ^^'^^ '^^^'^^^ion292 llErOllT ON SURGERY. Adams—ylneMr/swi of the Popliteal Arlcnj in an old man tcifh an arcun senilis; treatment ly com^rression; ctirc. Lancet, May 2'\i\\ p. 511. ' A storekeeper, a?t. 67. The aueuriHin, of tlie size of an orange, liad been first noticed only ten days before be was sent to Adams. December 21st, i860,—A bladder of snow (afterwards of ice) wasr applied to the tunioiir, and an inen'ectuul attempt Avas made to compress the artery against the pnbes with a weight. January ist, 1861,—A Signorini'a toui-niquet was applied one incii below the groin and the ice was dis- continued. Pebruary 6th,—The tumour is the size of a large walnut, hard and firm. April 19th,—He left the hospital cured. UiiK.—Aneurism of the Popliteal; treat went first hj compression, suhse- qiienthj hrj ligature of the femoral artery ; recovery. Lancet, May 25th, p. 510. The aneurism was as large as a turkey's egg. Compression was effected by a " double compress, well padded, applied along the middle third of the femoral artery beneath a tourniquet." Subsequently the pressure was alternated between the groin and the middle third of the thigh. After a few days, increasing oedema of the limb and irritability of the patient led Ure to tie the artery. The thread separated on the seventeenth, and the man left St. Mary's Hospital on the fifty-fourth day after the operation. PoLAifD.—Case in which a (PopliteaT) Aneurism icas cured hy compression nine years ago. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. i6th, p. 175. Eddowes, J. H.—Case of Poj^lifeal Aneurism ; ligature of the femoral; secondary hcemorrliage ; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th, p. 25a. A gamekeeper, ajt. 3 ^J. The aneurism measured five inches by two. Pressure was tried, at first with the ordinary tourniquet (with pad and strap) and afterwards with Signoriui's; but the skin threatening to slough, the vessel was tied. CoENEX.—Popliteal Aneurism ; compression ; cure. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. A shipwright, fet. 38. The tumour, in the right ham, measured four inches by three. Carte's instrument Avas first employed, but afterwards a common sasli-bolt weighing seven pounds. Peters, G. A.-—Popliteal Aneurism occurring in the course of a ligated vessel. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 261. Peters amputated the leg of a man, jct. 41, for a diftused popliteal aneurism Avhich had suppurated and burst. The patient's external iliac artery had been tied three years previously by Dr. Hosack for inguinal aneurism. LocKWOOD, A. P.—Case of Popliteal Aneurism, successfully treated hy compression. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 531. CniTciiETT.—Pq/zZ/VraZ Aneurism, cured hy pressure in twenty-one days. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th, p. 333.293 BLOOD-VESSELS. Pkitchaed, a.—Case of Popliteal Aneurism, cured hy forcible flexion. Brit. Med. Joiirn., Mai-ch 3otli, p. 335. . . . . A railway servant, a>t. 34. Extreme flexion was too pamtul to be continuously borne. A horse-shoe tourniquet was apphed Avhenever the flexion was relaxed. A cure was eftected in twenty-five days. '^mKS.iT.—Aneurism of the rigid Popliteal Artery; compression ; liga- ture of the femoral artery; cure. Lancet, May 25th, p. 509. The patient a dockyard artisan, set. 42. The aneurism, which had been only noticed three weeks, entirely filled the ham, and contained a considerable mass of fibrine. Pressure with a clamp and weight was tried for a week, but producing oedema and heat of the limb and fever- ishness, Birkett tied the (superficial ?) femoral artery. The ligature separated on the nineteenth day. The anem-ism slowly shrank and hardened. BiEKETT.—Aneiorism of left Popliteal Artery; pressure on the femoral; ligature; acre. lb. A shipwright, set. 39, received a very violent blow on tlie outer side of the knee; one month after this he had an aching pain behind the joint, and in another month found a lump in his ham. Three months after the accident the tumom*, which filled the ham, pulsated very strongly; by stopping the circulation through it, it could be entirely emptied. Pressure was relinquished after a few days, on account of the restlessness and irritability induced by it, and the artery was tied at the usual place, October 9th. The thread came away on the twenty-fourth day.—November 9th. The man left the hospital, scarcely a trace of the aneurism remaining. Wbtmd of the Tibial Arteries. Wakley, T. H.—Extensive loound of the Leg, dividing the Anterior and Posterior Tibial Arteries; compression of the femoral artery; cure. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 609. VARICES. ^Ta-sroTS.—Varicocele of the Leg. Amer. J. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxviv, new series, Oct., p. 440. A notice of an injected specimen exhibited at the Path. Soc. of Philadelphia. The deep as well as the superficial veins were enormously dilated. Q-Eoss, S. W.—A remarkable case of Congenital Aneurismal Varix of the Leg and Foot. Amer. J. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxxiv, new series, Oct., p. 441. Great dilatation and tortuosity of the superficial veins, from the base toes to the knee, attended with aneurismal thrill, piUsation and a whilfang bruit de souffle. A deep, excavated, foul ulcer on the dorsum ol _ the. toot occasionally bled. The limb, utterly useless and very pamtul, was amputated, and the patient, a woman, ^t. 43, cUed on the twenty-eighth day, of pyajmia. ; 20294 UEPOET ON SUEGEEY. Uee.— Varicose Veins and Ulcer cured hj the use of blisters after failure bi/ needles. Lancet, July 20th, p. 61. Ure considers that blisters cure by causing contraction of the veins and the deposition of libriue into the surrounding structui-es, and he haa found the cure to be permanent. Ube.—Saccular expansion of the Internal Saphcna Vein, with a narrow, ■pedicular attachment; removal. Lancet, Sept. 7th, p. 228. Skkx.—Notes of Cases in Surgerij. Lancet, Oct. 5th, p. 327. Skey had treated twenty-five cases of varicose veins in the leg with Vienna paste, and says from twelve to eighteen eschars will usually suffice for a leg somev/hat largely aftected. Wood, J.—New operation for the cure of Varicose Veins. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 12th, p. 377. The principle of this operation is the obliteration of the veins by compression between two needles, of peculiar construction, one of which lies behind and the other in front of the vessel. BoiSKOT, J. M.—Remarks on Dr. Levies application of the metallic liaature to the cttre of Varicose Veins; ivith report of two cases. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 2nd, p. 583. ABDOMEN. Injuries of the Abdominal Viscera. AxEES and Baavee.—Three cases of wounds of the Intestines. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jime 29th, p. 293. ILEicn.—Double perforation of the Duodenum., caused b\j a fall. Aerztl. Mitth. a. Baden, xiii, 28, 1859. BiEKETT.—Ruptured Intestine ; death ; autopsij. Med. Times and Oaz., Sept. 14th, p. 271. The injured bowel was Heum, about six feet from the caecum. Smith, S.—Extensive Rupture of the Liver, from a hick hy a horse; death in half an hour. Lancet, Aug. 31st, p. 208. 'S.UJZOS.—Laceration of the Liver ; death on the ninth day ; partial cicatrization. Med. Times and G-az., Sept. 7th, p. 241. ^msiETT:.—Laceration of the liver ; fracture of the skull; death ; autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, p. 242. Sudden death on the foUowing day, probably from haemorrhage mto the abdomen. Caetee, E. 'W.—Extensive Rupture of the Liver from the recoil of a nun-stock. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, p. 242. Death shortly afterwards from ha>morrhage. The peritoneum was found filled with dark, fluid blood. The liver was very extensively lacerated.ABDOMEN. 295 Waited A. G.~Trmimfio Injnnj of the Liver, mith profuse Heeding ; recovery. PhHadelphia Med. aud Siu'g. Bep., June i jth, p. 245. A deep stab with a broad-bladed knife. Cases of Abdominal Section. {Qastrotomy and Enterotomy.') SuAEEZ T GoJiEZ, Dr. 'E.—A case of successfcl Gastrotomy in the nght Kypochondriim for tlie extraction of a foreign lody. El Siglo Med., 291, 1859. Scbmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 72. A man fell from a wagon of hay upon a stake. At first unconscious, he afterwards discovered that the point of the stake, on which he had spitted himself, was wanting, and as it could not be found it was assumed that it was buried in the large wound beneath the right hyi^ochondrium. Tliis was ascertained by a surgeon to extend from the middle of the false ribs in an inward and upward direction. A splinter was pulled out, but the principal piece of the stake- point was not detected. The wound gradually closed; at the ex- piration of fifty days it had only the diameter of a quill, and constantly discharged a large quantity of stiuking pus. The man became weaker, and had constant pain in the region of the liver. In this condition he came under the care of the reporter, who traced the wound with a probe through a quarter circle, which reached from the epigastrium along the convexity of the liver and the diaphragm to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. At these points there were indistiuct sensations of foreign bodies ; behind, this seemed to be caused by the transverse process of a vertebra, and in front by the lower border of the false ribs. Gomez, satisfied of the presence of a foreign body, enlarged the wound freely with a bistoury, and exti-acted a pointed piece of wood 3^—4" long, and f" broad. It lay in a cavity inside the second and third false ribs, with its point in the internal intercostal muscle and its base, between this and the liver near the gall-bladder. Pagenstechee, Dr.—Operation (belly-cut) for tlie removal of a pre- swmed Internal Strangulation. Archiv f Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, p. 318. Supposing that he had to deal with an intra-abdominal rupture, Pagen- stecher laid open the left inguinal canal by an incision three inches long, parallel to Poupart's ligament. After dividing the muscles, the peri- toneum protruded from the wound and was opened; some cloudy, floccu- lent serum ran off, and a brown-blue object, covered with turgid veins, the supposed hernial sac, came into view. On tracing this with the fingers numerous soft adhesions to the inner wall of the belly were broken down, until the finger could be passed roimd the entire lower end, but no connexion with bowel was discovered. Thinkino- that the obstruction lay higher, the surface of the tumour was cautiously fol- lowed till what seemed to be its upper end was reached. At this pomt_ some cods of intestine were found tightly squeezed against the antenor abdominal walls, and partiaUy adherent. These were freedBEPOUT ON SURGEKY. 206 and displaced towards the navel. The tumour was now found to extend still higher, and the fingers lastly arrived at the edge of the liver, the interlobular fissure, and the gall-bladder, in which last the diminishiug end of the tumour lost itself The base of the gall-bladder was now stitched to the bottom of the wound and punctured. The abundant contents were broth-like in appearance, and contained fat and choles- terine. The woman recovered. TiijSGEL, Dr. C.—Two cases of I^nterotomi/. Archly fiir Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. ,33 ^, Berlin, i86i. Two cases of internal intestinal obstruction, in which the descendiug colon was opened. The first, complicated with fistulous communication between the gut and the bladder, died. In the second case the bowel again became pervious, faeces were passed per anum, and the artificial opening closed; the patient recovered. Lawsox, G.—Abdominal section for the relief of Intestijial obstruction ; fatal result. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th, p. 675. The obstruction was caused by scirrhus of the ileo-csecal valve. Death occurred nine hours after the operation. Bauer, L.—Case of Artificial Anus at the left Flexura C'oli; repeated operations; final closure of the aperture. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Bep., June 15th, ■\). 246. The artificial opening followed exfoliation of a portion of the eighth rib, consequent on a blow. Fajces were passed naturally per anum, once a week, but most escaped through the flank. The operation con- sisted in freshening the edges and closing the skin over the hole. Pagensteciiee, Dr.—Enterotomy for the formation of an Artificial Amis in the left groin, for sarcomatous obstruction of tlie rectum. Lan- genbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 3, p. 321. Hernia. Hatden, Th.—On the Structure and Patliology of the Hernial Sac. Dublin Quart. J., No. Ixiii, Aug. ist, p. 53. CoLLis, M. H.—Contributions to the Smyeri/ of Hernia. Dublin Quart. J., p. 287. Strangulated Hernia. Hutchinson.—Report on twenty-five cases of operations for Strangu^ lated Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., April 13th, p. 386. CoOPEB and Holmes.—Statistics of operations for Strangulated Hernia at St. George's Hospital during seven years. Med. Times and Gaz., May 15th, p. 624. Steettbel, Dr. C—On Hernice and their Treatment. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no. No. 6, p. 337. A retrospect containing—(1) observations on the disquahhcntion lor military service caused by hernia; (2) an abstract of radical cures by Ogier, "J. Wood, Spencer Wells, and Eiggs; (3) a report of cases of297 ABDOMEN. o.c flllprl wi'th serum, rupture of tlie sac; (4) rare forms li;\!^v: tS:n^-i-^ln. am .ts treatment by taxi, and herniotomy. . Le Geos Clabk, T.-Clinieal Lecture on ^^t'Tf" contraction after him; tracleotomy. Med. limes ana Ixaz., oan. lath, p. 3i' NicoLLs, ^.-Opitm in Strangulated Hernia. Dublin Med. Press, AnTcco'unt''o?-ttee cases.of [strangulated hernia reduced by the taxis after the exhibition of opium. HiLixAED, K.-Opiwn m~8U^^^ted Hernia. DubUn Med. Press, EepOTt if'a cas" of strangulated hernia reduced by the taxis after the administration of opium. Pattebsok, K.—Hernia. London Med. Eev., Jan., p. a^i- . Eeport of two cases of strangulated hernia, the first an inguinal one, the presence of which was overlooked by the medical attendant, and the patient allowed to'die ; the second a very small femoral rupture, which was successfully operated on. HuLKE, J. 'W.—Four cases of Strangulated Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 2nd, p. 115. ■ • ^ x. Two congenital scrotal hernias, where the sac was subdivided by septa, and two crural hernise, one of which was in a male. Edwaeds, a. M.—Ttuo cases of operations for Strangulated Hernia. Edin. Med. Journ., March, p. 809. In the second case the patient had undergone herniotomy more than twenty-three years previously. Strangulated Inguinal Hernia. BiEKETT, J.—Description of a case of Intro-parietal Inguinal Hernia, ivith references to cases which were probably of a similar kind. Guy's Hosp. Eep., vol. vii, p. 270. The term intra-parietal, according to the author, " implies that the peritoneal hernial sac extended into the walls of the abdomen; that it was circumscribed by the muscular and fascial coverings of that caAdty." HernijB of this kind Birkett arranges in two classes—(i) In which the sac extends upwards in front of the internal abdominal fascia, and behind the aponeurosis of the external abdominal oblique muscle, either in the direction of the crest of the ilium or towards the rectus muscle and umbilicus. (2) Where the sac extends into the inferior abdominal walls, into the iliac fossa, resting on the iliacus muscle, beneath the internal abdominal fascia, or where it passes inwards behind the horizontal ramus of the pubes to the side and front of the bladder. To a detailed description of his own case, which was one of oblique inguinal scrotal hernia, complicated with a second sac situated in theREPORT ON SURGERY. 208 anterior abdominal wall, near tlie crest of the ilium, Birkett appends accounts of three other cases where the sac with its contents had been inislied upwards by the taxis through the inguinal canal (which was found empty at the operation), and was found lying upon the outer surface of the peritoneum. He next cites some cases of intermuscular hernia, published by Luke, 'London Med. Graz.,' March, 1850, p. 458, with others from German periodicals, and concludes with practical remarks on the operations necessary in cases of this sort. Billroth, Dr. K.—A case of simultaneous external and internal Strangulation of the Boioel; hernio-lapa/rotomy. Archiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. i, pai-t i, p. 485. A large scrotal hernia, containing several loops of small intestine and the caecum, which was strongly blown up with gas and quite irre- ducible, hanging from a strong cord-like mesocsecum. All manipulation failing to expel the gas from the caecum, its replacement being impos- sible, the gut was punctured, the gas let oif, and a ligature placed round the small hole. Though collapsed, the gut was stiU not properly irreducible. The incision in the abdominal walls, which had been pro- longed to three inches, was closed. Death followed six hours after- wards. At the post-mortem examination the obstacle was found to be a double twist of the bowel. CuELiira and Htjtchikson.—Inguinal Hernia, with undescended Testis; partial reduction ; operatioii; recovery. Lancet, March 9th, p. 236. The stricture was formed by the neck of the sac, which had been thrust up within the internal ring by the taxis before the patient was admitted into the hospital. The testis, enclosed in the lower part of the sac, was just outside the external ring. Paitcoast.—Hernia; non-descent of the right Testicle. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Peb. 9th, p. 507. Short, explanatory remarks on this condition. ErEESB, B. P.—Strangulated Inguinal Hernia successfully treated hy an eiiema of Tobacco Decoction. Amer. Joum. of Med. Sc., April, p. 602. Datle, O. M.—Strangulated Inguinal Hernia successfully treated ly la/rge doses ofOpitm. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., j). 293. BoWMATsr.—Beduction of Hernia assisted hy placing tlie patient on his head. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2nd, p. 117. A large inguinal Iiernia. The taxis assisted by chloroform had been ineffectual, but on inverting the patient, and bringing tlie pelvis into a vertical position, compression of the tumoui' with the hands for half a minute sufficed to reduce it to three fourths of its bulk, but the whole of its contents were not returnable till the patient had been again placed in the recumbent posture. Power, H.—A case of Strangulated Oblique Inquinal Henm, treated by inverting the patient. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 287.ABDOME^^ 299 PorXD Gr —Case of Strangulated Hernia, treated successftdli/ hj tie inverting method. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 17th, p. 169. An oblique inguinal hernia of old standing, and not very acutely strangulated. ^ Hutchinson, J. G.—Gase of Congenital Inguinal Hernia, strangulated. Amer. Med. Times, May i8th, p. 319. . ■Ro-LT.—Strangulated Congenital Hernia in an Infant; herniotomy,- recovery. Lancet, Sept. zStli, p. 295. Vn^.—Congenital Inguinal Hernia of the right side; operation; conva- lescence on the fourtli dag. Lancet, March 9th, p. 237. TAmm-Daji.—Strangulated Congenital Hernia in an Infant; operation; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Eeb. 2nd, p. 117. A hoy, 17 months old, was admitted into King's College Hospital, November 26th, i860, with a swelling in the left groin and scrotum, which had existed from birth, but had, till the preceding day, always dis- appeared when the child was laid down. Eestlessness, constipation, and bilious vomit. Swelling in scrotum irreducible, and very tender. Herniotomy; the stricture was at the external ring. The testis was deeply congested. Wil-SON,"W. J.— Unusual complications of an Oblique Congenital Inguinal Hernia in a patient twenty-seven years of age, prohahly the result of a freak of development. Lancet, June 15th, p. 583. These complications were—testis retained in the inguinal canal and an oval mass of omentum occujaying the natural position of the testis (which it most deceptively simulated) enclosed in a sac, the neck of which had become contracted. Stanley.—Inguinal Hernia partially reduced en masse; operation; death. Med. Times and Gaz., Telj. 9th, p. 145. A man, set. 32, long the subject of hernia, whilst drunk, felt the bowel protrude, and tried himself to reduce it. The swelling disappeared, but symptoms of strangulation continued. Stanley operated; found the sac at the upper end of the canal, opened it, and divided the stricture, which was in its neck. HvssEL, N. C.—Case of Inguinal Hernia, in tvhich the contents of the sac was the sigmoid flexure of the colon; operation; recovery. Amer. Med. Times, JiUy 6th, p. 7. A labourer ruptured himself by lifting a heavy gate; the following evening (the taxis having failed, though perseveringly tried several times, for periods of one and two honrs) Hussel operated, and after slitting up the inguinal canal and sac, returned the bowel, which is stated to have been the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The patient recovered. Bbadfoed, P, J.—Successful operation for Inguvnal Hernia, loith the Testicle and Sac loth above Pouparfs Ligament. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxxiv, new series, Oct., p. 432. Herniotomy for a large strangulated bubonocele. The undescended testis (small and long) was " immediately under the sac."UEPORT ON SUHGERY. 800 Osbohne, C. II.—Formation and spontaneous cure of Arlificial Anus. Amer. Med. Times, May 4tli, p. 291. A remarkable case of recovery from a strangulated direct inguinal hernia which had sphacelated. Holt.—Strangulated hernia; strictn/re of the Urethra; Hamorrhoids ; previous consfijyafion for twenty-one days; operation for hernia ; operation for stricture ; recovery. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 183. CoOTE, H.—On Inguinal Hernia in the Female. London Med. Eev., Jan., p. ,317. Account of herniotomy performed by Coote for a small, globular, strangulated rupture, the size of a walnut. The entire hernial sac slouglied and was thrown oiF. The patient, aged forty, recovered. Coote notices other similar cases, and offers some remarks on the anatomy of this form of rupture. Strangulated Femoral Hernia. Hoi/MES, J.—Strangulated Femoral Hernia attended toith obstinate consti- jmtion. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 31st, p. 225. The bowels were not moved till the fifteenth day after the operation. Lake.—Strangulated Femoral Hernia; operation without opening the sac ; persistence of symptoms; second exploratory operation; recovery. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, p. 421. Lane, J.—Strangulated Femoral Hernia; operation; recovery. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, p. 421. NuKK, J.—Foil/)'cases of Femoral Hernia operated on ly a single vertical incision over the neck. Lancet, May i8th, p. 48_5. The ages of the patients were 74, 46, 40, and 62 years. The first three recovered; in the fatal case and in one of the successful ones the sac was opened. MuEKET.—Case of Strangulated Femoral Hernia. Dublin Hosp. Graz., June ist, p. 167. Hamilton, E.—Strangulated Femoral Hernia in the Male; operation and recovery. Dublin Quart. Journ., Feb. ist, p. 287. Mason, F.—Strangulated Hernia in a Woman aged seventy-two; operation on the fourth day of strangulation; sac opened; rapid recovery. Med. Times and "Gaz;., July 27th, p. 87. 'Bx-RKKii. —Strangulated Femoral Hernia for four days; operation; recovery, tvi'th an artificial anus. Lancet, March 9th, p. 237. Heath, C.—On Cysts ivithin the crural canal simulating Femoral Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, p. 238. Strangulated, UmUlical, Ventral, Vaginal Hernia. BuTANT, T.—Strangulated Umhilical Hernia in an aged Female; operation and reduction tvithout opening the sac; recovery. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, p. 189. The neck of the sac was opened and divided.301 ABDOMEN. BRYX^r—Sfranguhfed TJmhilical and Incjuinal Hernia, reduced lij tlie taxis under Ijdoroform. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd, p. 108 \BBOTT and BvcKi^QnA^L.-Two cases of Ventral Hernia. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept. 26th, pp. 161 and 164. Heavett, v.—Case of Vaginal Herma. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 7th, P- 254- Operations for the Radical Cure of Hernia. Edwabds, a. M..—Notes on the history of attempts to oUain radical cures of Inguinal Bupttires. Edin. Monthly J., Dec, p. ^41- Baewell —Three cases illustrating the results of a neio operation for the radical cure of Umbilical Hernia. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, p. 419. The contents having been carefully returned, the skin and sac are slit open so as to expose the opening into the abdominal cavity. This is closed with two or three silver-wire sutures, as may be required, the bowel being guarded with the tip of the finger or some convenient instrument during the passage of the needle. The slit in the hernial coverings is closed with stitches of the same material. Baewell, E.—On a new operation for the cure of UmUlieal Hernia. Lancet, Nov. i6th, p. 471. A. more detailed statement of the plan of the operation, and the indications for undertaking it. Field, A. G.—Suggestion for a modification of Wood's operation for the radical cure of Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 12th, This consists in cutting off a circular patch of the scrotal skin, in- stead of separating it from the subjacent tissues, as Wood does. SxME, J.—On the radical cure of Beducihle Hernia. Edin. Med. Journ., April, p. 865. Syme takes any convenient elongated body, as a piece of bougie with a hole drilled through one end of it, and a piece of strong thread and a needle, such as is used in sewing up dead bodies. The string having been passed through the hole in the end of the body, " the needle is threaded with one end of the string, and laid with its concavity on the forefinger of the left hand, which is passed up along the cord within the external ring; the needle is then turned round so as to bring its point upwards, and passed with an inclination to the left through the textures, and brought out on the surface of the abdomen." The other end of the string is passed in a similar way, but with an inclination to the right. The body, smeared with cantharides ointment, is then drawn up into the canal by the thread, the ends of which are tied upon a piece of bougie. Syme states this proceeding to be simpler and more eftectual than Wutzer's. "Wells, J. S.—Note on the alleged failure of Wutzer's operation for the cw)-e of reducible Inguinal Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 19th, p. 59.UEPOET ON SUEGEEY. 802 "Wells considers want of success to be attributable to three causes— (i) The performance of the operation in cases for which it is not suitable. (2) Imperfect performance. (3) Want of precaution in the after-treatment. Wood, J.—Clinical remarks on a case of radical cure of Hernia; modified mode of operatiw/. Med. Times and G-az., June ist, , P-578. In this case Wood used wire instead of thread, than which it causes less pain and less discharge. Clement, B. A.—Wufzer's operation for the radical cure of Hernia; tmsuccessful. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 42. Chisholm, J. J.—A new operation for the radical cure of Hernia. Amer. Med. Times, Eeb. 2nd, p. 79. Wood's original operation, with the omission of his scrotal incision, and the passage of the thread once instead of twice through the inner column. Chisholm uses silver wire, twists the loop tight, and cuts off the ends close to the skin. The loop remains permanently buried in the tissues, and in cases where it had been tied had caused no irri- tation. Bbowne.—Two cases of Wiitzer^s operation for the radical cure ofredu- cille Hernia. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 15th, p. 181. In one case this operation is reported to have been completely suc- cessful. Injimes and Diseases of the JRectum. Demabquat.—The Treatment of Heemorrhoidal Tumours hi/ the Cautery and hij linear ecrasement. Gaz. de Paris, 41, 42, i860. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 75. ' Demarquay regards the application of the cautery to haemorrhoids as a real progress. He does not burn off the pile, as Eoger did, but merely passes the hot iron a few times over its surface, so as to produce a superficial eschar. A recorded case shows, however, that this plan of treatment is occasionally followed by pyemia. When internal haemor- rhoids have protruded, and cannot be replaced in consequence of great swelling, Demarquay recommends the subcutaneous division of the sphincter ani. When the internal piles protrude in waUiing or on making any exertion, and when the sphincter loses its tone, and the mucous membrane of the rectum, or the rectum itself, comes down, so that tlie tumour cannot be replaced, or if replaced, will not remain up ; when the mucous membrane is swollen and vascular, and has a fungous aspect, and secretes a bloody mucus; then tlie cautery is preferable. When, on the other hand, piles only protrude on defecation, remain do\vn for a while, bleed, and tlien can be replaced; when the sphincter is not relaxed ; when the mucous membrane of tlie rectum is not prolapsed ; linear ecrasement is indicated. The removal of too great an extent of mucous membrane leads to cicatrization and contraction of the rectum.803 ABDOMEN. Smith H —On tJie Treatment of certain forms of Prolapsus Ani, lolere tiie ligature is not admissible. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, Th^'treatment recommended by Smith consists in the application of strong nitric acid to the prolapsed bowel, and the removal of folds of the loose skin from the verge of the anus. Clements, B. A.—Prolapsus Ani, tvith chronic inflammation of the Eectu'm, cured by the local application of pure nitric acid. Amer. Joiirn. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 38. Htjlke, J. '^.—Polypus of the Bectum. Med. Times and Gaz., JN ov. 30th, p. SSS- CouLSON.—2%e Treatment of Plat iTlcers of the Bectum. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 161. Coulson recommends regulation of the bowels with castor oil, great cleanliness, and the topical use of a mild mercurial ointment. CcBLiNG.—Extensive Ulceration of the Bectum, followed hy Stricture ; recovery. Med. Times and Graz., May i8th, p. ^21. Agneat, H.—Stricture of the Bectum. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 5th, p. 369. TuPENELL, J.—Practical remarks upon Stricture of the Becttm, espe- cially in relation to its connectioji with Fistula in Ano and Ulce- ration of the Bo wel. "With plates. Svo, Dublin, Fannin and Co., x*. Nelaton.—Burn of the Anus, folloioed by Incontinence of Faces, tuhular narroioing of the rectum. Journ. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, 8th part, August, p. 348. The usual folds of skin were absent, the anus was simply a hole in the middle of a dense, resisting cicatrix. The finger passed within it entered a cavity filled with faeces, which Nelaton regarded as a pouch of mucous membrane drawn downwards through the natural anus by the contraction of the scar communicating with the gut above, and opening through the scar externally. Nelaton supposed that in defe- cation some of the contents of the rectum were retained in this cavity, from which they were afterwards expelled by the movements of the patient. ! CoTJLSON.—Syphilitic Abscess ending in Fistula in Ano. Lancet, Aug. ; 20th, p. 135. Chisholm, J. J.—A sure mode of ensuring the proper healing of Anal FistulcE after incision; avoiding the necessity of daily plugging the XKOund, which is so troublesome to the surgeon and so painful to the 2)atient. Amer. Med. Times, April 13th, p. 239. This co'nsists in thoroughly painting the incision, throughout its entire extent, with perchloride of iron. Wood, J. E.—Cancerous Disease of the Bectum. Amer. Med. Times , MAj 18th, p. 329. > Schtjitzlek, J.—A case of Cancer of the Bectumi and Artificial Anus. Deutsche Klin., 22, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., yoI. 109, No. 5, p. 202.KEPORT ON SUHGERY. 304. Demakquay.—Mdanolic Cancer of Iho Itectum ; extirpation; measure emploi/ed to avoid hwmorrhac/e. .Tourn. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Sept, part 9, p. 397, art. 6082. This was a tumour, the size of a hen's egg, growing from the back of the rectum above the internal sphincter. Demarquay, by a semi- circular incision, detached the sphincter from the coccyx, and cut ofl' the back of the rectum with the tumour, which he pulled down witli a forceps. The bowel was then stitched to the skin, in order to avoid infiltration of the surrounding tissues by the faeces. Notwithstanding that several arteries were tied, so much blood was lost during the day that plugging was necessary. The patient died of exhaustion the second day. EtATFT, Dr.—Bemoval of a Wooden Fork from the Rectum. Joum. de Toulouse, 3 ser., v, p. 75, Mars, i860. lb. GoTTEiET, Dr.—Removal of a Ressary from the Rectum. Gaz. des Hop., 153, 18^9. lb. This had been forcibly thrust into the bowel by a midwife by mistake, instead of into the vagina. Btjhl, Prof. —Case of penetrating Wound of the Rectum; death four years afterioards; a vesical calculus, the nucleus of tvhich tvas a piece of lone. H. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., 3, Eeihe vii, p. 82. Schmidt's Jahrb.,vol. 109, No. 4, d. 73. NxE, J. M.—Case of Pins in the Rectum. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., July 31st, p. 545- • 1 n:!, j . ^ These had probably been swallowed m childhood some twenty years before. GENITO-UIUNARY ORGANS. 'RvTCis.Tisnos.—Statistical Report of ca^es of Puncture of the Bladder, i860. Med. Times and Gaz., June 15th, p. 628. Slade, D. D.—Injections and Irrigations of the Bladder. Boston Med. and Surg. Joui-n., July 31st, p. 537. Yan Btjeen, Prof. W. H.—Injection of tie Bladder for Chronic Cysfifis. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 178. Slade D. D. Ohservations upon a morlid condition of the JVeck of the Bladder not described hi/ surgical authorities. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 3ist>'p- 53h and following numbers (continued from page 5^°)- n 1 • 1 This morbid condition is " contraction," the presence of which is ascertained by urethral exploration; it is to be treated by methodical dilatation. Thompson, Tl.—On a new remedy in IrritaMe Conditions of tlie Bladder. Lancet, Oct. 12th, p. 345- , , , ^ f i,- ^ ■ t-^h^ Triticum repens, one ounce of the underground stem of which is to be put into a pint of boiling water. From twelve ounces to a pint ot the filtered liquor are to be drunk in the twenty-four hours.GENITO-UUINAUY ORGANS. 805 PiGET. On an operation/or Perviotis Urachis, with StiUicidiitm TIrinw. Med.-Chir. Traus., vol. xliv, p. 13. Paget describes two cases which he treated succejgfully by parmg the edges of the umbilical opening, and then uniting them with a twisted suture. MiLLEB.—Case of Cancer of the Bladder. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Feb. 28th, p. 81. rEiCKHOFFEE, Dr.—Punctwe of the Bladder in a case of Cancer of this Visctis. Nass. Corr. Bl., 6, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 331. JoHNSOK.—Prostatic Tumour lyrojecting into the Bladder; fatal result. Lancet, June 29th, p. 628. THOMPSOir, H.—The diseases of the Prostate, their pathology and treat- ment. London, John Churchill. HuTCHiNSOjr.—Statistical Report on lithotomy, for i860. April 13th, P- 385- . ... This comprises thirty-seven cases of lithotomy performed in provincial hospitals. Paget, T.—Cystotomy without a Stone. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 14th, p. 631. Intense symptoms of stone, but the click with the sound doubtful. Allarton's operation. Death on the third day. At the autopsy no stone found in the bladder. Tortuosity and dilatation of both ureters, the left forming a pouch the size of a pigeon's egg, beneath and around which suppui'ation extending into the recto-vesical pouch. It was ascer- tained that the click had been produced by the point of the stafl" striking the iliac portion of the brim of the pelvis. Todd, A.—Five cases of Lithotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 7th, P- 575. Dec. 14th, p. 605. !Peiigtjssox.—Lithotomy in Children; clinical remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 524. Cadge.—Calculus encysted in the Walls of the Bladder; lithotomy; recovery. March 23rd, p. 305. 'Q^LKE.—Case of Allarton's Operation. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, p. 160. The stone was so large that it had to be broken before it could be extracted. The patient made a good recovery. Holt, B.—Stone in the Bladder; lithotrity ; subsequent lithotomy hi/ the median operation; removal of ninety (twenty?) seven small calculi. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 156. These calculi were contained in a small pouch immediately behind the prostate. :E,v.icii^Y.^.—Twenty.one Calculi removed from a Man's Bladder hi the median operation of Lithotomy. Lancet, June 8th, p. 563. Enchsen used a rectangular staff, which was more readily felt throu'^h the rectum and perinceum than a curved one.30G EEPOUT ON STJRGDIIY. WiurjEY.—Case of Lithotomy. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., May nth, p. 133. Here the bilat|ral incision \vas adopted; tlie diameter of the stone was one inch and two fifths, and its composition oxalate of lime. Van Buren, W. H.—Successful case of Lateral Lithotomy. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 178. A child. The neck of the bladder was divided with a probe-pointed knife. Geoss.—Stone in the Bladder; Operation of Lithotomy for its removal. Philadelphia Med. and Sui'g. Eep., April 6th, p. 15. Post, A. C.—Mulberry Calculus; lithotomy. Amer. Med. Times, Feb. 2nd, p. 81. The bilateral operation was performed in this case. This stone weighed fifteen grains. "Waklet, J.— Calculus in the Bladder of a Male Child; lithotomy ; rapid recovery. Lancet, April 13th, p. 340. Kendal and Humphuet.—Tiuo cases of Stone in the Female. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 551. Stttbbs.—Dilatation and division of the Female Urethra uptoards, and extraction of a Stone. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. Cockle, Dr.—Large Fneysted Urinary Calculus in a JPrimipara, pro- bably inducing Premature Lahour; craniotomy; death by metro- peritonitis. Lancet, Sept. 7th, 229. Htjtchinson. — Statistical Report on Lithotrity performed in Pro- vincial Hospitals during year i860. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 548. BowEN, E.—A case of Foreign Body in the Male Bladder. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 21st, p. 636. A gutta-percha bougie which came away piecemeal through an incision made as in the lateral operation for stone. Baenes.—Female Catheter in the Bladder; retroversion of the Uterus. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 26th, p. 434. For the removal of the catheter, which was five and a half inches long, the division of the anterior two tliii'ds of the urethra with the knife in an outward and downward direction towards the left side was necessary. Holt.—Stone in the Bladder of a Female Child; lithectasy; recovery. Lancet, April 13th, 361. TnOMPSO?!', H.—Bemoval of a mass of Sealing-ivajs from the Bladder by median lithotomy ; recovery. Lancet, April 20th, p. 381;. A man, ajt. 23, was accustomed to pass a bougie, formed by himself of sealing-wax. On one occasion from two to three inches broke oif, and slipped into the bladder. A fortnight afterwards micturition be- came frec^uent and painful, and the urine got thick and ropy. Some307 GEXITO-ITEINAUY ORGANS. time after tliis, wlien he came under Tliompson's care, the urethra was found filled vnth chalky fragments. Each piece had a reddish mside, and rough, phosphatic coat. A foreign body was detected in the bladder with the sound, but precise information of its size and character could not be obtained, in consequence of the absence of an audible sound and the extreme irritability of the organ. A quantity of softish, gritty, tenacious material was removed by median lithotomy, evidently con- sisting of the sealing-wax mingled with phosphates. Heete, H. p.—Three cases of Catheter broken in the Bladder, and removed b/the Zithotnte. Brit. Med. Joum., July 20th, p. 59. Tnoaipsojr, H.—Recently observed facts relative to the Pathology of the Prostate. Brit. Med. Journ., June 22nd, p. 653 ; 29th, p. 681; July 6th., p. 4; 13th, p. 29. Thompson shows, from an analysis of a large number of cases, that hypertrophy of this organ exists in about 34 per cent, of men at and above sixty years of age, and that it produces marked symptoms in about 15 or 16 per cent., but that under favorable hygienic conditions and careful medical supervision it does not necessarily shorten life. He had never seen hypertrophy at so early a period as fifty years of age, and considers that enlargement before this age is unquestionably due to chronic inflammation. Cancerous tumoui'S are extremely rare, but benign ones very common. Simple tumours are most commonly found in the lateral lobes. They are either imbedded in the substance of the gland, the tissue of which they resemble, or lie just beneath its capsule, or are outlying. They are generally, but not always, associated with hypertrophy of the organ. It is important to know that they may encroach upon the urethra and obstruct the flow of urine, without the presence of enlargement being detectable by rectal exploration. Out- gi'owths stand between isolated tumours and general hypertrophy; the typical example is the so-called enlarged " middle lobe." He recognises six forms of atrophy:—(i) The atrophy of exhausting general disease. (2) The atrophy of old age. (3) The atrophy caused by pressure. (4) The atrophy caused by disease in the prostate itself. (5) The congenital atrophy. Chronic inflammation, wliether uncomplicated or secondary to disease of the bladder or urethra, is of frequent occurrence. When there is tenderness of the prostate and pretty constant pain in the perinaeum, Thompson blisters the perinajum. Calculi and Foreign Bodies introduced into the Urethra. Boss, J. J.— Cases of Calculus in the Urethra. Dublin Hosp. Q-az., May 1st, p. 129. Tatum.—Calculus in the Urethra of a Male Child; successful removal. Lancet, April 13th, p. 861. "Waklet, J.—Calculus impacted in the Urethra of a Female Infant, causing retention of urinie. Lancet, April 13th, p. 340. 'SjlScok^t:.—Removal of a small Calculus from the Urethra. Philadel- phia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 23rd, p. 685.308 UEPORT OX SURGEEY. Hunt, J. "VV.—Eie/U Calculi removed from the Urethra of a Boy fee years old. Aincr. Med. Timea, Feb. 23rd, p. 129, Jackson.— Urethral Calculm. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., July 4th, p. 471. Stuubs.—Forviyii Body introduced into the Urethra and removed eiyhleeii months afterwards by incision in the Berinceum. Med. Times aud Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. 8EQA.JjA.s.—Bemoval of a Hair-pin from the Urethra. Bull, de I'Acad., t. XXV, p. 52. Schmidt, vol. 109, No. 4, p. 72. Affiections of the Urethra. Hvrcuisso-S.—Statistical Bejjort of Operations for Stricture, 1860. Med. Times aud Gaz., June 15th, p. 629. Yan BunEN.—Lectures on Stricture of the Urethra, preliminary to the clinical course on disease of the yenito-urinary organs. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. i. Lyman, H. M.—Two cases of Laceration of the Urethra. June 15th, P- 385. Both fatal, from extravasation of urine. Lawrence.—Extravasation of Urine in a Child; free incisions; re- covery. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 89. Hunter, J.—On Lrritation of the Urethra in Females, its description and treatment. Lancet, May i8th, p. 481. A report of three cases of this affection, in one. of which the urethra was observed to be red and congested. Hunter's treatment consisted in restricting his patients to the recumbent posture, and the topical application of nitrate of silver, and dilute nitrate of mercury ointments. Pemburton, 0.—On Traumatic Destruction of the Urethra, and its relief hy a suitable apparatus in the Berinceum. Lancet, March 16th, p. 258. A boy, set. 16, at work in a rolling mill, was struck by a red-hot rod of iron, which pierced the left side of the scrotum, outside the cord and testis, and passed backwards obliquely towards the right, traversing the urethra at the bulb, and ending at the ascending ramus of the ischium. The catheter could not be introduced, and the vesical part of the urethra could not be found by dissection in the perinseum. He recovered, with several fistulsB in the perinaeum. Subsequent attempts to find the vesical part of the urethra having also failed, the bladder was punctured with a double-edged scalpel through the perinaeum ami prostate, and a female catheter was fixed in the bladder. This was finally replaced by short, straight, double catheter, with a stopcock. M Barton, Dr.—Case of Stricture of the Urethra; disease of the bladder and Jcidneys. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, p. 37. Mason "Warren, J.—OnBerincal Section. Amer. Journal of Med. Sc.. April, p. 371- A critique on Bryant's paper on this subject, published in the ' Guy sGEXlTO-UaiNAUY OB.GANS. 809 Hospital Eeports.' Warren recommends the operation m cases of SiSous stricture, causing retention of urme where Bryant advises puncture of the rectum as the only proper treatment. Gat, J.—On Incisions foi^'^M^rr^o^crred with Dilatation. Brit. Med. Journ., June 8th, p. 603. .1, . 4. 4. The author does not attach a high value to incisions m the treatment of strictures of the urethra; he considers the knife to he only excep- tionally necessary, and gradual and methodical dilatation with the catheter most satisfactory. ^ Fj3EGUSS0\ —Frohahle OhUlemtion of the Urethra after Injury; for- cible catheterism. Med. Times and Gaz., June 39th, p. 676. PAifCOAST — 0;wc Stricture of the Urethra cured by Division; Cir- socele in the same patient; operation for radical cure of by subcu- taneous ligation; remarls. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. 2.3rd, p. 566. Vx^fCOX^i—Stricture of the Urethra, with Varicose Enlaryement of the Corpus Pampiniforme. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March pth, p. 619. This stricture, just in front of the bulb, was treated by internal urethrotomy. Paxcoast.—C'«se of Organic Stricture of the Urethra. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March i6th, p. 646. Internal urethrotomy. Three days after this operation the patient passed water in a larger stream, but a catgut bougie could not be passed beyond the obstruction. TnoMPSOX, H.—Stricture of the Urethra of twenty-two years' standing; perineal section; cure; death from disease of the liver two years later; post-mortem examination of the parts. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. liSth, p. 173. In the axis of the urethra there was a fine line, but no puckering, no scar, no narrowing. HriKE, J. W.—Case of old Stricture of the Urethra, divided through the Pcrinceum ; three years afterwards an abscess in the scar, burst by a blow; urinary fistula; nearly complete obliteration of the urethra for tliree qiiarters of an inch; operation for the re-establishment of the canal; successful result. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 200. Holt, B.—On the immediate Treatment of Stricture of the Urethra. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, p. 397. General remarks on stricture, together with an illustrated description of the author's dilator, and the indications for its use. Jacksox, V.—Cases of Strictwe of the Urethra. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 19th, p. 405. Bryast.—Five cases of Perineal Operations on the Urethra. March 23rd, p. 303. Case I.—Contusion of the perinseum ; hasmorrhage from the urethra; illhepobt on surgeuy. 810 suLseqiient extravasation of uriue; catheterism imposwible; perineal ineisiou; recovery. Case 2.—Fracture of the pelvis, aud laceration of the urethra; catheterism impracticable; perineal incision; death from other injuries. Case 3.—Indurated stricture of the urethra anterior to the scrotum; internal uretlirotomj^; recovery. Case 4.—Stricture and extravasation of urine; free incisions; recovery; subsequent contraction of the stricture; perineal section; recovery. Case 5.—Retention of urine in a boy; difficult catheterism ; abscess in the perinteum ; perineal section; recovery. Heath, C.—Cases illustrating the treatment of Strictwe of the Urethra hy sudden and forcible dilatation. Lancet, Aug. ,3i8t, p. 203. Pour cases of xu'ethi'al stricture split with Holt's dilator. All did well. Aenott, Dr. J.—On Incision of Stricture of the Urethra. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 264. General observations on this practice, to which are added some remarks on the author's urethrotome and the mode of using it. Thompsok, H.—Treatment of three cases of so-called Impermeahle Stric- ture of the Urethra. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 183. AU these cases were treated by " tying in " tbe catheter. Hilton.—Strictuo-e of the Urethra; retention of urine; puncture of the bladder by the rectum. Med. Times and Gaz., March i6th, p. 277. Cambell de Morgan.— Clinical Lecture on the use of Potassa Fusa in the treatment of Stricture of the Urethra. Brit. Med. Journ., March 2nd, p. 217. CUELING.—Stricture of the Female Urethra, caused by an injury in Childbirth; ctired by dilatation. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, p. 188. # POXLOCK.—Tumour mar the Meatus Urinarius of a Female; removal. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 183. A stalked, fibro-plastic gi-owth from the areolar tissue siuTOunding the urethra; it was removed by ligatm-e. Penis. p^VNCOAST.—Phimosis; operation hy ruiHure of the Mucous Membrane. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. 2ud, p. 477. Where the glans can be uncovered to some extent, but the prepuce cannot be brought back to the corona, Pancoast draAvs the foreskin for- ward over the glans, getting sufficient room to introduce a pair of dressing forceps, one blade on each side of the glans, inserted between it and the mucous membrane of the prepuce; this (the forceps) is to be pushed back, then opened, and drawn out open, thereby rupturmg the mucous membrane. The tension being overcome, the prepuce is freed, and can be drawn back^ Lee, Yi..—Amputation of the Penis toith tlie Fcraseur, Lancet, Aug. 3iBt, p. 208.GENITO-UUINAllY ORGANS. 311 The stiimp is said not to have bled, yet a few vessels were tied as a precaution against future hasniorrhage. Scrotim. KiHBALL, Of—Large, fatty Tumour removed from the Scrotum. Boston Med. and Surg. Jom-n,, Oct. i7tb, p. 222. It was composed of several lobules of pure fat, and weighed two pounds. Feegtjsson.—Me^hantiasis of the Scrotum, of the size of an adult's head, and weighing six poimds ; successful removal. Lancet, Sept. 28th, p. 294. Testis. Va^t Bueex, Prof W. H.—Concealed Testis removed from the Inguinal Canal. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 178. The right testis lay in the lower part of the inguinal canal, and could be pushed down through the external ring; it was aboiit one third of the size of the left testis, and the seat of paroxysmal neuralgic pain rendering the patient, ajt. 20, miserable. Van Buren removed it; the tunica vaginalis was closed at the internal ring, and did not extend into the scrotum. Zeis, Dr. Ed.—Hemarks on Abnormal Descent of the Testicle. Langen- beck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, part i, p. 81. This paper contains the description of a case of descent of the testis into the perinseum, and is illustrated by a plate. JoEDAJf, F.—A case of Ttibercular Orchitis, with indications of Seredi- tarij Syphilis; castration; recovery; comments. Med. Times and Gaz., June 22nd, p. 646. Lee, H.—Varicocele. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 7th, p. 602. Lee recommends subcutaneous division of the veins with a narrow knife at a point above and below which they have been secured with a needle and twisted thread. A drawing is given of a case where the varicocele was associated with a very pendulous state of the testis. For this Lee cut out a wedge-Uke piece of the scrotum and veins between the twisted sutures. Lee, 1^.—radical cure of Varicocele. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 611. The dilated veins were compressed at two points Avith twisted sutui'es i the intermediate portion of the vessels, with the skin, -was then removed in a wedge-shaped piece, by transiixion with a narrow blade, and cutting outwards. The wound thus made was closed by approximating: the two needles. Davies, E.—On the radical cure of Varicocele. Lancet, July 20th. p. 61. y J i Unable to disengage a double loop of wire which he had placedEEPORT ON SUEGEEY. 812 around tlio veins teu days previously, he cut the ends of tlie loopH short oft', and allowed the skin to heal over them. Pajtcoast.—Hydrocele; tapping; clinical remarks. Philadelphia iled. and Surg. Eep., Peh. i6th, p, 534. CiUTCUETT.—Inpcino-scrolal Tumottr of riijhl aide. Brit. Med. Jouru., Oct. 5th, p. 351. CoLLis, M.—Case of Rcemorrliacjic Fibrinous Tumour of the Testis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March ist, p. 67. A section of this tumour shortly after removal showed a number of cysts filled with lymph and coagula; the latter seemed to be the result of small hiemorrhages into the substance of the testis. Stme. J.— Abdominal Hydrocele. Brit. Med. Jouru., Ang. loth, P- 139- A boy, set. 4, was brought to Syme labouring under wliat appeared to be incarcerated, if not strangulated, inguinal hernia. A bandage had been worn between two and three years. The scrotal swelling suddenlv enlarged, and the belly became distended. There was some constipation. The abdominal swelling, though large and tense, left a small space, in which the intestines possessed their natural laxity, and from this Syme diagnosed a hydrocele. Dividing the scrotal tissues layer by layer, he found that the fluid was in the cord, and not in the tunica vaginalis testis. The abdominal part of the tumour did not immediately empty itself, but after two or three days drained oif, at first clear, but after- wards turbid with lymph. EocuARD, Dr. J.—On Smmatoceles of the Tunica VayinaUs, which have ascended through the Inguinal Canal into the cavity of the Abdomen. L'TJnion, loi, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb.,^vol. iii, No. 8, p. 194. A detailed account of a case of this kind. The scrotal portion of the tumour was oval, and reached downwards to the lower third of the thigh ; it commuuicated by a cylindrical prolongation in tlie course of the inguinal canal, with a second swelling within the cavity of the belly. This reached upwards to the uavel, stretched to the right across the middle line, and lost itself in the bottom of the left iliac fossa. The patient, set. 51, had, six years before, had a clap and swollen testicle; he also had an inguinal rupture of the same side. The hsematocek' began suddenly, and was of nine months' duration. The treatment con- sisted in repeated tapping and injections of iodine. Ievine, Dr. H.—Case of Medullary Carcinomu of the Testis. Dublin Hosp. G-az., Jan. 15th, p. 21. Betant.—Medullary Cancer of the Testicle of remarkably rapid growth ; amputation; recovery from the operation. Lancet, Aug. loth. The tumour is said, in sixteen weeks, to have grown to the size of a newly born infant's head. The cord appeared to be free from disease. The patient recovered from the operation.313 TUMOUllS. TxycoxST.—Clinical rcmarlcs on Ence^ilialoid Cancer of the Testicle, loith a case. Delivered at the Pennsylvania Hospital, Jan. 19th, 1861. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Kep., Feb. 2nd, p. 467. The ecraseur was used to divide the cord. Wakd, St.—Cancer of the Testicle; excision; death from Cancer in the Lumhar Glands, Sfc, five years afferivards. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 19th, p. 62. TUMOURS. 'KvTCnvssois.—Statistical report of cases of Operation for the removal ofFatti/ Tumours. Med. Times and Gaz., June 15th, p. 629. HuTCHixsoV.—Statistical report of Operations for the removal of Malignant Tumours performed in provincial hospitals, i860. Med. Times and Gaz., June 1st, p. 575. HuTCHixso?^.— Operations pe)formed for the removal of Non-malignant Growths. Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, p. 576. HvTcnijS"so>'.—Operations for removal of Tumours of the Breast. lb. "WiBLiK, J.—On a case of extensive Hypertrophy and Ulceration of the Cellular Tissue of the right lower JExtremity, complicated loith Anchylosis of the Knee- and AnJcle-joints ; amputation of the thigh as high up as the trochanter minor; rapid recovery. Lancet, May 18th, p. 481. Tnosipsox, H.—Elephantiasis of the Foot and Ankle; amputation. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 19th, p. 63. Fi:nxell.—Erectile Gluteal Tumour. Amer. Med. Times, May iith, P- .304- Nefmajs", Dr, E.—Contribution to the study of the Cavernous Tmnoiirs. A^rchow's Archiv f. Patli. Phys. nnd Anat., vol. xxi, part ,3 ; second series, vol. i, part 3, p. 280. Eemarks on the histology of a partly fibrous, partly cavernous, naso- pharyngeal polypus. Price, P. C.—On tlie Surgical Treatment of certain forms of superficially situated Vascular Tumours, knoivn as JVcevi, Aneurisms from Anas- tomosis; Erectile Tumours. London Med. Eev., July, p. 21 ; Aug., p. 63. The author uses the terra nsevus to designate every kind of vascular growth which is a more or less distinct variety of aneurism from anas- tomosis. He arranges najvi in three classes—the capillary, tlie arterial, and the venous. Pehoitsson.—Filrous Tumour over the Parotid; removal; recovei^. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 7tli, p. 581. Pa>-coast.—JJewomZ of an Anomalous Tumour from the Side. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg, llep., April 20th, p. 64. This tumour weighed several pounds, and reached nearly from tlie spme to the linea alba; from the description, it waa probably of the314 JIEPORT ON SUROEHY. fibro-cellular kind. The immense wound was covered and filled with wheat-bran, Avhich was renewed when it became soaked with pus. 'NOTTX.—Fimffm of the Sheaths of the Tendons of the M. Adducto)- Longus and jExtensw Pollicis Brevis. G-az. des Hop., 134, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 8, p. 195. A fibro-ccIlular tumour. Vix, Dr. E.—Occurrence of MuUijjle Sarcoma, and their hearinr/ on the Intestinal Wall Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, p. 103. BiEKETT, J.—Contrihutions to the Practical Surgery of Kew Growths or Ttmours. Series IV. Cysts (continued). Guy's Hosp. Eep., p. 332. Practical remarks on cases of cysts in the glandular and non-glandular organs. Hewett, p.—Eemoval of Sebaceous Tumours from the Scalp,-followed by diffuse cellular inflammation, erysipelas of the face, and diphthe- ritic inflammation of the pharynx ; fatal result. Lancet, Feb. 9th, P- 1.36. Jacksok, a. E.—Hydrocele of the Necic, and its treatment by Excision, loith two cases. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., p. loi. The author regards it as an established fact, that these watery cysts are formed by an expansion of the natural spaces of the .areolar tissue, and by the retention within them of an excess of the fluid which they normally contain. He describes their structure, progress, and develop- ment, the symptoms, etiology, diagnosis, and prognosis. He discards tapping, in consequence of the danger of serous infiltration of the cellular tissue which attends it. Mild injections produce no effect on the walls of an old cyst, and very stimulating ones cause alarming spasm. The seton ranks next to excision, Aviiich the author considers the best mode of treatment. Betant.—Cyst in the Thyroid Gland cured hy tlie Injection of Tincture of Iodine. Lancet, Feb. 9th, p. 137. MoCbaith, J.—Melanotic ? Encysted Tumour simulating Bronchocele. Med. Times and G-az., Dec. 7th, p. ^77. M'Whinnie, a. M.—Observations on Bronchocele, and notes relating to the surgical anatomy of the Laryn^v and Trachea. Lancet, July 13th, p. 30; Aug. 3rd, p. 107. Hawkes, J.—On Enlargement of the Thyroid Gland, with Proptosis, Lancet, Aug. loth, p. 130. Hawkes traces these associated morbid conditions to a derangement of the ganglionic nervous, and vascular systems. CoTJLON.—Tumour in the region of the Coccyx. Gaz. Heb., ^aii, 3, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 11, p. 199. A congenital cyst attached to the tip of the coccyx, but not commu- nicating with the spinal canal815 TUMOUKS. Hexey M —True Ri/datid Ci/sls developed in the left Ireast of a looman 'who, when, a child, teas suhject to tapeworm; removal. Lancet, Nov. 23rd, p. 497. . ^ 7 -CT 7 EicnABDSOX, B. '^.—Olinical Lecture on Cystic-sarcoma oj the J^emale Breast. ' Dublin Med. Press, Nov. 6th, p. 321- GfOWLi2Sii.—Cystic Tumov/r of the right Breast in a Male; successful removal. Lancet, Nov. 2,3rd, p. 498. Brta^^t.—Very hmje Cysto-sarcomatous Timour oftlie Breast; successful removal. Lancet, Aug. 3rd, p. 14. Bniciis-E^.—Hasmafoma situated over the Symphysis Ptibis, attributed to pressure. Lancet, July 20th, p. 62. MooEE.—Bare form of Filro-muscular Suiclavicular Twmov/i: Lancet, March i6th, p. 264. Externally this tumoui' deceptively resembled a medullary cancer, but on removal it proved to be a fibrinous infiltration of the pectoralia major muscle. The patient, a woman, about forty years old, had been struck on this part four months previously. Oasst, Dr. J.—A Contribution to the History of more or less general simple Hypertrophy of Lymphatic Glands, without Leuk(smia. Echo. Med., No. 14, July, p. 353. Price, P. C.—Scrofulous Diseases of the JE.vternal Lymphatic Glands. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 19th, p. 59. Continued from p. 915 of volume for i860; Feb. 9th, p. 141; March 9th, p. 250; 23rd, p. 194 ; April 6th, p. 358. Sket, CrRLiNG, HuTCHiNSOif.—Cases of enlarged Lymphatic Glands. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd, p. 109. Sket.—Successfid removal of a mass of enlarged Lymphatic Glands from the Axilla. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 1^9. CuRLiXG.—Enlargement of the Glands in the Axilla ; partial diminution by the use of iodine. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 160. HoLTnotrsE.—Timour beneath the loiver Jaw; successful removal. Lancet, Aug. 31st, p. 207. Apparently an enlarged lymphatic gland. Price, P. C.—On Sci'ofuloiis Diseases of the external Lymphatic Glands, their natu/re, variety, and treatment. 8vo, London, John Churchill. LijcKE, Dr. A.—On Atheromatous Cysts of the Lymphatic Glands. Archiv fiir Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 357. Berlin, 1S61. The deep situation of the atheromatous cysts of the neck, and their frequent connexion with the sheath of the large vessels, led the author to suspect some other than a tegumentary origin ; and the discovery of a structure identical with that of lympliatic glauds in the walls of an atheromatous cyst which had been removed from the neck by Professor Langenbeck ('Archiv f. Chir.,' yol. i, part i, p. 16) has conx-inced him of the glandular origin of those atheromatous cysts in the neck which are developed m the neighbourhood of the great vessels.REPOUT ON SURGERY. SIG Skey.—Treatment of Ilousomdirs Knee by the Thread Scton. Lancet, April 37tli, p. 409. SIcey applies the seton to all forms of the housemaid's knee; he thinks it best suited to the hard and indurated burase. The accession of inflammation is made known by a little redness around the entrance of the thread, and the swelling either subsides altogether or, what is more common, an abseess forms, which is opened, and the cavity becomes obliterated. MoBTOX.—Cases of Excision of Bursa. Grlasgow Med. Joum., No. xxxiv, July, p. 9 [. Nelatok.—On Partial Extirpation and some other palliative measures in the treatment of Incui'able Cancer. Journ. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Oct., part 10, p. 447. Art. 6098. A report of three cases in which Nclaton advantageously removed, with the ecraseur, large portions of cancerous tumours, the total extir- pation of wliicli was impossible, which, by their size and on account of the fetid ichor oozing from their ulcerated surfaces, occasioned extreme distress. The surgeon should be provided with perchloride of iron and cauteries wherewith to stay the free bleeding when he uses the knife in cases of this kind ; when the ecraseur is used, however, styptics are rarely necessary. Topicall}^, Nelaton employs a belladonna pomade, with or without the addition of iodide of lead. CoLLis, H. M.—On Cancer. 8vo, Dublin, Fannin and Co. Pamphlet, IS. 6d. Pancoast.-—Cases of Cancer, tvith remarks. Philadelphia jNIed. and Surg. Eep., March 2nd, p. 591. Moore.—Development of a Cyst in front of a Scirrhous Tmnotir of the Breast; removal, together unth diseased Axillary Glands. Lancet, April 20th, p. 387. Parker.—Cancer of the Mammary Glands. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 339. Smith, H. H.—Three cases of Carcinoma of the Female Breast. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860. Gmoss.—Itapidly recurring Cancer of the Breast; eighteen ojjerations in the course of three years and a half; thirty-four Tumours removed. lb., p. 337. Macnamaea, Prof. E.—Case of reproductive Encysted Tumour. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. 1.15th, p. 19. Pan-coast.—Encephaloid Cancer of the Mammary Gland ; operations for its removal. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 451. Pancoast.—Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast;" removal; post-mortem. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 9th, p. 619. M-OOViV..—Scirrhous Cancer of the Male Breast; crcision; recovery. Lancet, Aug. 3rd, p. no. Feegtjsson.—Scirrhoxis Cancer of the Male Breast; excision, lb., p. III. WoBMALD.—Scirrhous Cancer of the Male Breast; refiml to suhmt to an operation. lb.TUMOURS. 317 LiDDEHDALE, J.—Caucer of the Male Breast. Lancet, Aug. i-jth, A scirrhous tumour of the size of an orange, and of thirteen months' growth. The axillary glands were not enlarged, and there was no .cachexy. BnT AJif T.—Medullari/ Cancer of the ric/U Breast, forming a large Tumour; successful excision. Lancet, Nov. 23rd, p. 497. Po-LhOCVi.—MeMlari/ Cancer of the right Breast, within tvhich was develojyed a large Cyst; excision; recovery. lb., ^. 498. MAESDE^^—(ScMv/zoics Timour of the Female Breast of six months' dura- tion ; successful removal. lb. 'F^nGVSSoy.—Iledidlary Timour of Cheek in an Infant aged three months. Med. Times and G-az., Dec. 7th, p. 581. Smith, H. YL.—Medullary Cancer of the left Temporal Begion and of the Eye; imlliative treatment. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec.j29th, i860, p. 337. Paxcoast.—Case of Encephaloid Cancer of the Head; death; autopsy. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 6th, p. 6. A child, a;t. 5. The growth began in the temporal fossa, caused absorption of the bone, and encroached on the brain. Salva, E.—On Cancerous Tumours in the Neclc. Graz. de Paris, 6, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 7, p. 75. Edwaeds, a. M.—Congenital Cancer of the Arm. Edin. Med. Journ., July, p. 85. Hewsox.—Malignant Timour of the Thigh simulating an Aneurism ; ligature of the external iliac artery; death; autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 273. EsicnsEN.—Encephaloid Cancerous Timour, of the size of an adult's head, developed within the sheath of the sartorius muscle, successfully removed. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 287. Cook.—Malignant Tumour of the iqyper part of the Tibia, supposed to he Medullary Cancer; amputation through the Thigh. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 289. Haxcock.—Large Malignant Tumour of the Scapula; removal with the greater part of the hone; fatal result from Cancer of the Lungs. Lancet, Sept. 14th, p. 253. FEncvssoN.—Melanotic Tumour of the left Arm, growing from the Cicatrix of a Mole, eradicated by caustics. Lancet, March 16th, p. 262. BiBKETT.—Melanotic Timour of the Thigh; removal, followed by cicatri- zation of the ivound. lb., p. 263. Hewett, Vry.9,cqtt.—Sequel to a ease of Becurrent Melanosis of both Groijis and Back; the disease reappearing in the brain, heart, pancreas, liver, and other organs. lb. Hewett, VnEScoTT.—Melanosis of the Laiium and Glands of the Oroin and JPuhes. lb., p. 264. Hutchinson.—C7micrtZ Report on Epithelial Cancer. Med. Times and G-az., Jan. 19th, p. 60,818 EEPOET ON SUHGERY, This embraces tabular statements of fifteen cases of epithelial cancer on various parts of the truuk and limbs ; of seven cases occurring on the forehead or temple ; of twenty cases of operations for primary, and of three cases of operations of recurrent, epithelial cancer of the lip. Macmurbo.—Cancer in a Cicatrix left hj Lupus. lb., p. 6i. A warty, canliflower-like grovrth. HuMPHBT.—Four cases of Ejiithelial Cancer occurring in Cicatrices. lb., p. 62. Of these, Case 2 was " epithelial cancer in a cicatrix of sixteen years'duration. Disease of femur. Amputation at the hip-joint. Re- covery. No return of the disease five years afterwards." DEMjV-EQrAT.—Extirpation of the Parotid Gland for E2nthelioma. Gaz. des Hop., 147, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 77. Geoss.—JEpitheJial Cancer of the Lip. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 453. Staklet, Cock, Humphry.—Five cases of Epithelial Cancer. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 523. HlIiTON.—Epithelial Cancer involving the tchole of the loioer Lip; ex- cision; formation of a netv lip. Med. Times and Gaz., March 30th, P- 330- Htttchikson.—Tahular statement of forty-four cases of Soot Cancer. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 87. VoiKMAN, Dr. 11.—On Atheromatoid and Fimform Softening of entire Cancroid Tillers. Langenbeck's Archiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, 9, 29^. Peors.—Epithelioma of the Lip. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 6th, p. 14. BuLiET, P. A.—Cancer of the Face folloioiitg Epithelial Cancer of the Lip, ivhich had been removed, and returned five times. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, p. 239. Beck.—Extirpation of an ossified Enchondromatous Tumour, of the size of a chiMs head, of the right shoulder-blade. Deutsche Klin., i860, No. ^o. Canstatt's Jahrb., vol. v, p. 244. Lankat.—Enchondroma of the Farotid Region in the stage of Softening. Gaz. des Hop., 47. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 78. This seems to have been an outgrowth from the cartilage of the auditory meatus. Hargeate, Dr.—Enchondromatous Tumour on the Dorsum of tlie Left Hand. Dublin Med. Press, July 6th, p. 91. A globular, cartilaginous tumour, of sixteen years' growi;h, three inches in circumference, attached to the third metacarpal bone. Thompson, Ti.—Colloid Disease of the Mammarg Gland, and a Fatl^ Tumour on the Shoulder; successful removal. Lancet, IMay nth. P- 461- Fergtjsson, Large Colloid Tumowr on the left side of the BachSYPHILIS AND GONOEUHCEA. 319 simulating a Fatty Grotvth; successfnl removal. Lancet, May ii, A laro-Stalked tumour hanging from the left side of the spine over the lowest ribs. Its greatest circumference was twenty-seven inches. No skin was removed, and the operation was done without chloroform, by the patient's desire. EnicnsEK.—Ae?o/f? occurring in tlie Cicatrix of a Bimi. Lancet, Aug. loth, p. 13 5. 77/. Feegttssok.—Large, recmrent, Fibroid Tumour, situated above the left Breast; successful removal. Lancet, Nov. 20th, p. 496. HuLKE, J. W.—Eemoval of a recurrent Fibroid Tumour from the front of the Leg. Med. Times and G-az., Sept. 20, p. 321. Blasius, Dr. E.—0« recurrent IVeuroma. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 188. SYPHILIS AND GONORRHCEA. KusMArL, A.—An investigation of Co7istitutional Mercurialisin, and its relation to Constitutional Sgphilis. 8vo, p. 433. "Wiirzburg. 1861. The author, by a comparison of the symptoms produced by mercury in persons engaged in manufactures in which this mineral is used with the symptoms produced by constitutional syphilis, proves the essential distinctness of these cachexia. Lee, H.—Sgphilitic Inoculation, and its relation to diagnosis and treat- ment. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 227. Lee, H.—A Clinical Lecture on Syphilis. Brit. Med. Jour., April 20th, p. 407 ; May iSth, p. 543 ; June ist, 571. Lymphatic absorption. lIuTCHixsoN, J.—Is inherited SyiMlis protective against subsequent. Contagion? Brit. Med. J., Sept. 21st, p. 307. From three cases which Hutchinson had attentively watched, he. in- clines to the belief that, if severe, inherited syphilis is protective against I subsequent contagion, and that its subjects are not liable to contract the indurated form of chancre. Matjndeb, C. r.—Is inherited Syphilis p)rotective against subsequent Con- tagion ? Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 5th, p. 353. The author is disposed to answer this question in the affirmative. Hammond, W. A.—A course of Lectures on Chancre. Amer. Med. Times, July 6th, p. i ; 13th, p. 17 ; 20th, p. 33. Lecture I contains the history of syphilis, and a description of the soft chancre; Lecture II, the treatment of soft chancre; Lecture III. treatment of phageda;na and buboes from soft chancres. Cooke, T. W.—On the relative influence of Nature and Best in the cure of Syphilis. London, 1861.RKl'OltT OX SURGEEY. Clements, ]B. A..—Communicctlion of Secondary 8i/phiUs; Irammission of iufection from a secondari/ sore. Amer. Journal of the Med. Sc., July, p. 40. ' ViENirois. A.—On the transference of Si/jjhilis in Vaccination. Archiv. Gen., 3 si'r, xv, p. 641 ; xvi, pp. 32, 297 ; June, July, Sept., i860. Schmidt'tt, Jalirb., vol. 109, jNo. i, p. 50. IVom the retrospect of the cases which have been recorded since the commencement of the present century the author tries to show that in numerous instances syphilis has been observed to follow vaccination. That vaccination of a healthy person with lymph unmixed with blood, taken from a person with syphilis, is productive of the vaccine pustule only, but that if blood be mixed with the lymph then both vaccine and syphilis are communicated. An artificial mixture of vaccine lymph with chancre pus produces the same results as the mixture of lymph and syphilitic blood. Lawglebert.—Chancre 2y>'oduced hy tlie transfer of forms of Secondary Syphilis. Gaz. des Hop., 85, 94, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109. No. I, p. 51. Agneav, 'A.—Tertiary Syphilis. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 5th, p. 367. DmoN.—Frima)'y Syphilitic Vlcer of the loioer Uyelid; treatment ly mercurials ; recovery. Medical Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. Adams.—Chancre on the lower Lip; constitutional symptoms. Med. Times and Gaz., May iith, p. 49,5. WoEMALD and Qoot^.—Primary Syphilitic Sore of the upper Lip; enlarged cjland under the angle of the jaiv; recovery under the use of mercury. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 470. CoOTE.—C7;awcre on the Lip of a Girl, ivith suUingual Bubo. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 288. Two thirds of the upper lip were occupied by an excavated ulcer, with a hard base and true syphilitic aspect. Conjointly with the ulcer a swelling appeared beneath the lower jaw, on the right side, which, March i6th, fluctuated and contained pus. There was also a second lesser swelling on the left side of the jaw. The reporter considered these genuine syphilitic buboes, but added that no venerea^history could be obtained from either the patient or her mother. Adams and Maundee.—TZ/ree ca.ses of Indurated Chancre of the Lip. Lancet, Nov. i6th, p. 475. GuliBix A —Practical Bemarhs on the Treatment of Bubo. Bull. Gen. de Therapeutique, June. Echo. Med., No. 18, Sept., p. 641. Gu^rin tells us that inflammatory or virulent bubo may be cured without suppuration, which it is never too late to prevent. His ti-eat- inent consists in the application of blisters coup sur coup. Lanze lyr.—Chromic Acid for 2mnted Fig-tvarts and Warts. Deutsche Klin. 32, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 41- Lanze applied chromic acid to pointed fig-worts in thirty-two women,821 SYPHILIS AND GONOllEHQU. twenty of whom were at the same time aftected with primary syphilis or broad condylomata. A solution of 9iiss to 3SS of water was of little service ; in no instance was a single application of it successful, hut a stronger solution, of 3vss of chromic acid to 5SS of water, was used in nine cases with success. Hassing, Vrol—Gonorrhcea in Women, with es^jecial reference to ohser- vations made in the General Hospital in Copenhagen in 1856. Behrend's Syphilidologie, 11, 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb.,vol. no, No. 5, p. 185. Hassing recognises the essence of gonorrhoea in its specific secretion and contagiousness, and by these would distinguish it from all other secretions of the vaginal aiid urethral mucous membranes which depend on simple mechanical or chemical irritation. The signs by which it is to be distinguished are not given. The following forms are described:—(i) Gronorrhcea of the urethra. (2) Gronorrhcea of the vulva, with gonorrhcea of the sinus Bartholinianus, and gonorrhoea of the anus. (3) Vaginal gonorrhoea. (4) Uterine gonorrhoea. The treatment is simple, and essentially the same in all forms of gonorrhoea. Perfect cleanliness, baths, washing, and injections, quiet, and the horizontal posture, are enjoiued. Except in urethral gonorrhoea, balsams are useless. As local applications, Hassing uses lead and alum solutions and solid nitrate of silver. Davve, p.—Tlie Treatment of Clap with tsntall doses of Balsams, and the injection of basic saltpetre, oxide of hisinulh. Bull, de Thcr., lix, p. 299, October, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, No. 5, p. 183. A thick cream, made with thirty grmm. of bismuth, was injected into the urethra, and retained there during five minutes. Two grmm. of copaiba balsam and two grmm. of powdered cubebs were taken morning and night. The average duration of treatment in eleven cases at Valence was nine days, and in nineteen cases at Versailles fourteen days. Did AY, P.— On Blennorrhoea of the Mucous Follicles of the Male Urethra. Gaz. Hebd., vii, 45, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, No. 5, p. 183. The gonorrhoeal iufiammation of one of these follicles considerably protracts the duration of a gonorrhoea, and may furnish a new focus o'f contagion. Diday obliterates the inflamed follicle by passing a needle as far as possible into it, shielding the glans penis with a piece of paper, and holding the free end of the needle in the flame of a candle. A slight hissing shows that the cauterization is sufficient. Behrl-ti, L.—The Treatment of Orchitis Blennorrha(/ica. G-az. Sarda, 36,37.38, i860 ; and Mlihlig, Gaz. d'Orient, iv, 8, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no. No. 5, p. 184. Berruti reviews Dr. Timmerman's proposed treatment of this afl'cclioii with ice-cold lead wash. From the observation of many cases treated in this way, Timmerman concludes that ice-cold applications do not induce diseases in other parts of the body (ophthalmia, parotitisUEPORT ON SUllGBBY. 822 arthritis,) as has been feared, and that they are the more efficient the earlier they are used. They are, liowever, useless whei-e there is hardening of the epididymis and cord. Dr. Sella, intrusted by the Academy with the examination of Tiramerman's statements, reported favorably. Miles, H. C.—On the cure of Gonorrhoea ly Misters. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 605. Miles places a blister, six inches by four, " very high up towards the front and inner aspect of each thigh." A cure is said to be effected in seven days. OPHTHALMIC SUEGERY. HASinsE. — CZmzcffZ Lectwes on the Treatment of Eye-disease, ist divi- sion. Diseases of the Sclera and of the Eyeball; concerning spectacles and Ophthalmoscopy. Prague, i860. EuETE.—Pictorial representation of the Diseases of the Human Eye. With coloured copper-plates, and numerous woodcuts printed in the text. Complete in nine parts. Folio, Leipzic, i860. Wedl.—Atlas of the Pathological Histology of the Eye. ist part. Leipzic, i860. PiNKUS.—On Light-polarizing Spectacles. Konigsb. Med. Jahrlb., iii, IJ P- 37> 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 11, p. 209. Gieaud-Teulon.—A Binocular Ophthalmoscope, Annal. d'Ocul., xlv, p. 233. Mai et Juin, 1861. With this instrument the observer gets a stereoscopic view of the fundus oculi. Becker, Dr. O.—On Percej)tion of a Meflex Image in one's own Eye. Wien. Wohnschr., 42, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii. No. 8, p. ao2. Wilde.—An Essay tipon the Malformations and Congenital Diseases of tlie Organs of Sight. Dublin Quart. Jour., Feb. i, p. 50 (con- tinued from vol. vii, p. 289). This contains a very full description of malformations of the lens and capsule, illustrated by several well-executed woodcuts. Laueekce, J. L.—The Utrecht School of Ophthalmic Surgery. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 85. This communication (continued from p. 635, i860,) comprises—(1) The method of applying eye-drops. (2) Trachoma. (3) Treatment of lachrymal obstructions. (4) Iris-operations. (5) Extraction of cataract. A woodcut of Snellen's entropion forceps is given. Wilde, W. E.—Aphorisms and observatiotis it^mi certain Diseases of the Organs of Sight. Med. Times and Gaz., July i6th, p. 169. Bye-drops. Wilh:e.—Aphorisms. Med. Times aud Gaz., April 13th, p. 382.OPHTHALMIC SUEGEUY. 323 Ointments, belladonna. March asrd, p. 3oo.-Vapours, stimulating liniments, ointments and pomades, salves. The Orbit. Si-ME.-to ofFuUating Tumour of the OrUt cured hj ligature of the common Carotid Artery; with remarks. Edm. Med. Journ., June, p. 1065. Perhaps a diffuse aneurism. AVyatt J.— Cystic Tumour of the Orbit connected with disease of the Orbital Flate oftlie Frontal Bone, communicating with the Fro7ital Sinus. Med. Times and G-az., March i6th, p. 275. The Eyelids. Hessee, Akt.—On oi^erations for Trichiasis in Chronic Conjunctivitis with contraction. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 38, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 109, No. 4, p. 80. In JjEger's clinic, where Hesser is junior surgeon, it is an accepted principle°not to operate for the entropion, because the result of this is not lasting, but to excise the eyelashes with their bulbs. Davschee, Herm.—A case of Cysto-sarcoma of the Upper Fyelid. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 30, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 331- Debeow.—Froceeding for the prevention of Ectropion after Malignant Fustule. Gaz. des Hop., 133, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, Nov. 7th, p. 81. This consists in stitching the edges of the eyelids to each other and keeping them united during the cicatrization of the wound left by the detachment of the eschar. SiCHEL, J.—On Sarcomatous Ectropiimi. Bull, de Ther., Iviii, p. 533, June, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 331. According to Sichel, besides the common form, in which the whole palpebral conjunctiva is thickened, there is another, essentially distinct. This is caused by an exudation under the epithelium into the tissue of the conjunctiva, and is due to chronic inflammation. It forms a more or less prominent, hard, dark-red fold, which occupies the whole length of the lower eyelid, or is limited to a portion of it. By its weight it t pushes the lid outwards. Excision effects a radical cure. WiLLLurs, J.—A new and effectual Cure for Entropion and Trichiasis. Dublin Hosp. G-az., January 15th, p. 18. This consists in puncturing the edge of the eyelid, to the depth of one eighth of an inch, along the course of the faulty hair, with a fine needle or small knife dipped in liquid caustic potash. The pain is ■fling, and may be instantly removed by brushing the lid with cold ater. The lashes are to be removed on the second or third day with anisronT on surgeuy. 324 foi "ceps; the}'' aro pulled out without difficulty, aud are never repro- duced. Uulcss the whole row of lawhes is to be i-enioved, uo inflamiim- tion follows. Cuujuiictiva. FuANCE, J. P.— On 8yphiUtio Blotch of the Conjunctiva. Guy's Howp. Hep., vol. vii, p. 109. A description of three cases of discoloration of the coujuuctiva oc- curring in persons affected with constitutional syphilis, with five coloured illustrations. The coppery mucous membrane is slightly thickened aud raised ; its vascularity is scarcely, if at all, increased. rnOiiBELiNS.—Pterygium Sitrconiatomm Siiperius of the right Eye, with complete overgrowth of the Cornea; cit,re hy dissecting it away, and subsequently ahrading the Cornea. Med. Ztg. Ausiil., 20, i8'5o. iSchmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 331. The Lachrymal Apparatus. Macdoxald, J. E.—jKodification of Sowman's operation for the cure of Obstruction of the Lachrymal Duct. Amer. Med. T., Nov. 17th, i860. Macdonald slits up the canaliculus witb a blunt-pointed, narrow, and slightly curved bistoury, the blade of whicli is about three quai'ters of an inch long, the heel about three sixteenths of an inch broad, and which tapers to a fine, blunted point, slightly probe-shaped. SoLOMOX, J. V.—Kote on a sequela of Lnfantile I'urulent Ophthalmia, and a cause of Epiphora not previously noticed. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 36th, p. 89. The author has discovered that the continuance or reappearance of the purulent secretion, after the conjunctiva of the lids has recovered completely, or to a great extent, its tone, depends on the extension of the suppurative inflammation to the tear-sac. This is also one cause ( f epiphora. Cornea. Just, 0. H., Dr., Jun.—Case of Malaciaof the Cornea. Oesterr. Ztschi'. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 44, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. ;. p. 333. Hesseu, i3r. Aktox.—Cases of Vesicular Corneitis. AVien., Ztschr., N. P. iii, 11, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 333. i HiLDiGE, J. 0-.—Semarks on fixing the Eye during the oj)erationfom Cataract. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Nov. 15th, p. 337. ■ A review of the different instruments which have been invented fofl this purpose. ■ Tuhnbull, Jj.—Lecture on the Crystalline Lens, and its diseases. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Oct. 27tb, 1S61, p. 79; Jan. iptU, p. 411.325 OPHTHALMIC SUEGBliY. ILvTcmmo-s.—Beport on cases of Dialeitc Cataract. Med. Times and • Gaz., March i6th, p. 249. riiANCE, J. 'F.—Case of Diabetic Cataract. Guy's Hosp. Eeports, ' vol. vii. Here linear extraction was followed by intractable inflammation. W^ORDSWORTU, J. C.—On a case of Fenetrating Ulcer of the Cornea, producing a fistulous opening into the anter ior chamhei' and partial collapse of the globe, cured by Iridectomy. Lancet, Oct. _5tli, p. 328. Operations on and Diseases of the Interior of the Eye. CuENUTY, L.—On Paracentesis of the JEye. Annales d'Oculist, xliv, p. 61. Aout et Sept., i860. Twenty-two cases where the eye was tapped, all successful ones, are reportedby the author, who recommends tapping in—(i) glaucoma; (2) hydro-capsulitis; (3) corneal affections; (4) iritis; (5) hypopion; (6) hydrophthalmiae, conical cori^ea, partial staphylomata of coruea and scle- rotic; (7) phlegmonous inflammation of tbe globe. Sperino, from whose hospital practice the cases were taken, uses a small, double-edged knife, slightly curved on the flat and hollow along the middle on one side. He punctures the margin of the cornea and regulates the escape of the aqueous humour by the introduction of a small whalebone probe. Blodig, C.—Aconite in Inflammation of the Eye. Wien. Ztschr., N. P. iii, 43, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 2, p. 218. According to Schroflf's experiments, aconite produces considerable and prolonged dilatation of the pupil and slowness of the pulse and breathing, as well as increased secretion of urine. Blodig, with ten-drop doses of the tincture, obtained excellent results in cases of ophthalmitis and iritis. BuHRLEif, Dr.—On Ophthalmia Intermittens. Wdrtemb. Corr.-Bl., 37, i86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 332. Biihrlen, from his observations made during the extensive spread of intermittent fever in i860, describes the following forms of the above afiection: _ (i) That vascular excitement of the eye which accompanies the or- dinary neuralgia of the first branch of the nervus trigeminus. It often disappears before the complete cessation of the pain, and the eye remains free till the next attack. (2) Simultaneously with a malarious neuralgia of the trigeminus there is a corresponding injection of the eye, which does not disappear during the intermissions, and is aggravated with the returning pain. (3) Inflammation of the eye is present, and during its course a ruduucntary or complete intermittent fever is developed. An irritable state of the eye seems to increase the susceptibility of a person dis- posed to mahiria. Flemino.—0/i ^cH^e Ophthalmia. London, 1861. 22REPORT ON SURGERY. 326 Med. Times and Gaz., Miiy 4th, p. 465. HiLDiQE, J. G.—Case of Encysted Abscess in the Vitreous ITumour, Med. Times and Gaz., May 4tli, p. 468. Laurence, J. Z.—Traumatic Ophlhalmiiis; Abscess in the Vitreous Chamber ; detachment of the Ectina; removal of the Eyeball. Brit. Med. Joum., July a6th, p. 87. BxJHSTEAD, Dr. r. J.—Olaueoma ; ITancocFs operation for the division of the Ciliary Muscle; result successful. Amer. Med. Times, April 6th, 1861. Sight had been lost for several years ; the operation relieved the paiu. DjXOiK.—Acute Glaucoma of the right Eye ; indirectomy. Acute Glaucoma in the left Eye; indirectomy. Bestoration of perfect sight in both eyes. Med. Times and Gaz., March i6th, p. 275. Ntjknelet, Tnos.—Remarks on Iridectomy; loith a descrijytion of a new method of operating for Glaucoma. Lancet, July 19th, p. 55. The author thinks that the true position of iridectomy has not yet been determined. He punctures the sclerotic coat with the point of a sharp, thin knife, not less than one eighth of an inch behind its junction with the cornea, and carries it on to about the same extent through the cornea, making altogether an incision about one third of an inch long. The outer margin of the iris is divided. Sometimes the iris bulges through the section. The result in about twenty cases was in favour of this operation. WoEDSWORTH, J. C.—Case of Laceration of the JRetina produced by a blow on the Eye from the cork of a ginger-beer bottle. Brit. Med. Jour., jN^ov. 9th, p. 490. HTJTCHrKSON.—Report on Syphilitic Inflammations of the Retina, Choroid, and Vitreous Body. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. i4tli, p. 269. HiLDiGE, J. G.—Case of Eccudation into the Retina in Diabetes. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist, p. 355. Begbie, J. W.—On partial and complete Loss of Sight in Diabetes ; icilh a notice of two cases of Diabetic Cataract. Edin. Med. Journ., June, Notes, H. D.—On Loss of Sight from effusions under the Retina. Amer. Journal of Med. Sc., Jan., p. 91. HiLDiGE, J. Gr.— Case of Snow-blindness. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, BUBIHELLI.—^Tjt'O cases of Amaurosis, tvith temporary swelling and pro- minence of the Optic Nerve Disc. Spitals-Ztg., 17, 19, 1860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 324. This is an inflammatory change in the optic nerve, consequent upou P- 35- 4 and produced by some brain affection.ORTHOPEDIC SURGEEY. Accommodation. "Wells, J. S.—Practical hints on the Accoinmodation of the Eye, its anomalies, and their treatment. Lancet, April 20th, p. 414. Wells, J. S.—Practical hints on the Accommodation of the Eye, its Anomalies, and their treatment. Med. Times and Graz., April i3tb, p. 38'5; May nth, p. 490. HuLJiE, E. C—Case of Iridemia Totalis. Med.-CLir. Trans., vol. xliv, P- 273- Eetsiw.—Temporary Presbyopia with Makropia and Mikropia, during an Intermittent Fever, in a child. Gaz. des H6p., 137, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 2, p. 218. A lively and inteUigeut child, eleven years old, in the last stage of an intermittent fever, was frightened by seeing objects eight times their natural size. At the expiration of five minutes this was followed by a diminution, until the objects became almost microscopically minute, and appeared to be situated at a great distance. Dui'ing the makropia the pupil was contracted, and during the mikropia dilated. GossELiK.—Two cases of Spo7itaneous Mydriasis in both Eyes. Bull, de I'Acad., XXV, p. 1094, Sept., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 2, p. 219. Lawson, G.—Ihur cases of temporary Paralysis of the Ciliary Muscle of the Eye; perfect recovery. Lancet, May nth, p. 459. SoLOMOX, J. V.—A71 experimental inquiry into the value of Incision of the Ciliary Muscle in the treatment of certain diseases of the Eye and disorders of its accommodation. Med. Times and Gaz., July 19th. P- ^4- The author describes the structure and relations of this muscle, his mode of dividing it, the absence of danger, and the after-treatment. The effects of its division on the accommodation of the eye are illus- trated by cases. KuGEL, L.—0/i tlie causes of the different sizes of the Pupil in different {degrees of) Intra-ocular Pressure. Wien. Ztschr N F iii 27 i860.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 8, p. 202. ' Lizfi A. D.—Oh, the diferent farms of Paralysis of the Oculo-motor Nerve. L Union Med-, 59, 60, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 100, No. 4, p. 80. ' ^' w^' P""-—^^'^^ f''o»>' tTie class of Motor Disorders of the Eye Wurtemb. Corr.-Bl., 8, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 100, No 4' p. 80. ^' T"' Hutchinson, Z.- Clinical Lecture on Paralysis of the Muscles of the Eye. Delivered at the London Hospital. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan 26th, OETHOPjEDIC suegery. Adams, ^^i.-Leclures on tie Patliology and Treatment of Lateral anddelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 6th, p. 12. llliPOIlT ON SUDGEUY. other forms of Curvature of the Spine. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. .3i8fc, p. 211, and following numbers. Hughes, li.—On Diseases and Deformities of the Spine, Chest, and Limbs. Part I. Disease of the Spine causing posterior angular projection, ahscess, and imralgsis. London, John Churchill, 1861 PP- 40. Elliott, "W. A.—On Contraction of the Palmar Fascia, and its mode of treatment. Dublin Med. Press, Feb. 13th, p. 101. Practical comments on two cases treated by division of the contracted fascia (in one instance subcutaneously), and subsequent extension with a machine. The paper is illustrated with six woodcuts. CooTE, H.—The Treatment of Deformities. Lancet, Jan. 12th, p. 25, and following numbers. A course of clinical lectures on chronic diseases of the bones and joints, chiefly in relation to the treatment of deformities. Panooast.— Deformity of the lower Extremities—one leg crossing the other; operation for its relief ly division of the tendons of the pectinei muscles. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, P- 451- Baeton, J. K.—Observations on the Treatment of Deformities resulting from severe Burns. Dublin Quart. Joum., No. Ixiii, Aug. let, P- 1- Bhown, J. H.—Remarkable case of acquired Deformity; treatment; {successful) result. Amer. Med. Times, March 23rd, p. 193. A girl, jet. 13, with lateral curvature of the spine, which was almost a semicircle, thighs at a right angle with the pelvis, and legs at acute angles with the thighs. By tenotomy and methodical extension these distortions were overcome, and the child could stand erect without crutch or cane, and walk without artificial aid. MoTT, A. B.—Two cases of Tenotomy for the relief of the deformity caused by Anchylosis of tlie Knee-joint. Amer. Med. Times, July 13th, p. 25. Batjee, Dr. L.—Case of double Genu-valgum, or Knock-knee. Philadel- phia Med. and Surg. Eep., Oct. 12th, p. 37. Beown, J. B.—Case of Talipes Varus Duplex Conyenitus. Philadelphia Med. and Surg, liep., April 6th, p. 7. m E.0SEE, Wm.— The Treatment of Flat foot, Archiv d. Heilk,, i, 6,1 p. 481, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, Wo. 4, p. 78. ■ Eoser has obtained great success in the treatment of that form of ■ flat-foot which is so common in errand- and school-boys. With the aid of ■ chloroform the foot is addueted, and kept for some time in this position ■ by a plaster of Paris bandage. ■ Pancoast.—Two cases of Clubfoot; division of the soleu-s muscle in one case, of the .foleus and anterior tibial tendon in the other. Phila-329 DENTAL AND AUEAL SURGERY. DENTAL SURGERY. Vasey, C.—0)1 the supposed Influence of the Cementum in sustainvng the vitality of transplanted Teeth. Lancet, June 8th, p. 557. The author refers at some length to John Hunter's experiments of transplanting human teeth into the combs of cocks, and to Owen's account of the structure of the cementum in growing teeth. He is convinced that successful transplantation depends on the presence of two formative organs—the internal or dental pulp, and the external or cemental pulp ; and that in all cases where these are not present, or in which ossification is nearly complete, successful results are not to be anticipated. He thinks that, were the cementum able to support the vitality of a tooth, necrosis would not so frequently follow a slight injury, and shows that a change of position may be slowly effected by continuous traction, without the tooth perishing. ToFGHE, A.—On Exostosis {of the Teeth). Communications of the Cen- tral Union of the German Dentists. Part i, i860. VoLKMAN, Dr. E.—Odontolocjij of Harelip. Langenbeck's Archiv f Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 288. Q-AEEETSON, J. E.—Odontocele and some kindred lesions. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., May 4th, p. 106.—Alveolar Abscess. Lb., May 18th, p. 155. Q-AEEETSON, J. E.—Anomalies of Dentition, and their surgical relations. lb., May nth, p. 127.—Trismus. June ist, p. 197. AURAL SURGERY. BoNNAFONT, J. B.—Theoretical and Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Ear and the Organs of Hearing, i vol. 8vo, of 665 pages, with 22 cuts intercalated in the text. Paris, i860, J. B. Bailli^re and Son. YoviO-Li-si.— Anatomical and Pathologico-anatomical Examinations of the Auditory Organ, with five dissections. Virchow's Archiv, vol xym, i860. Canstatt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 113. Meineee, p.— On Auscultation as a diagnostic auxiliary measure in Diseases of the Auditory Organ. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 22, i860. Canstatt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 115. ToYNBEE 3.—Clinical Observations on Injuries to the External Auditory Meatus^ Brit. Med. Joum., March i6th, p. 271 bMiTH, ^.—Diagnostics of Aural Disease. 8vo, with a plate and 22 woodcuts. London, 1861, Bailliere, 35. 6d.830 REPORT ON SURGERY. ToTNBEB, J.— Sebaceous Tumours in the External Auditory Meatusi their effects upon the organ of hearing, the petrous hone, and brain, ivith suggestions as to their treatment. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, According to the author's investigations, these tumours are not con- nected with the hair-follicles, and occur most frequently in the inner- most part of the meatus. They cause absorption of the bone, and vary in size from a millet-seed to a hazel-nut. They commonly attain a large size without causing pain, and often the attention of the surgeon is first called to them on account of the deafness produced by occlusion of the meatus, or in consequence of fetid discharge, or symptoms of cerebral irritation which too often end in death. Pressure with a probe ■will readily distinguish them from osseous growths, for which alone they are likely to be mistaken. The proper treatment consists in their complete extirpation. Particulars are given of several cases of these tumours, and the post-mortem appearances are illustrated by drawings. Semeleder.—Catheterism of the Eustachian Tube, and RMnoscopi/- Oesterr. Zeitschrift f. prakt. Heilk., No. 21, i86o.| \ Canstatt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 117. Semeleder says that the introduction of a catheter into the trumpet- orifice of the Eustachian tube has its difficulties, and that the instrument often gets astray into Eosenmullei''s pit; this may now be avoided by using the rhiuoscope, a reflecting apparatus with which the operator illuminates the pharynx and sees what he ia doing. 9REPORT ON MIDWIFEEY AND THE DISEASES OE WOMEN AND CHILDEEN. BY GEAILT HEWITT, M.D. Lond., M.E.C.P., PHYSICIAN TO THE BEITISH LYING-IN HOSPITAt ; LKCTtTEEK ON MIDWIIERT AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN AT ST. MAEY's HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL. Paut I.—MIDWIFEEY. WOUKS, PAPERS, ETC., RELATING GENERALLY TO MIDWIFERY. Obstetrical Transactions.—Transactions of the Obstetrical Society of London, vol. ii,the year i860, with a List of Officers, Fellows, ^•c. 8vo, London, Longmans, 1861, p. 368. One plate and numerous woodcuts. Absti-acts of the various papers and essays contained in this volume appeared in the ' Year Book ' for i860. SWAYNE, Dr. J. G.—Obstetric Aphorisms; for the use of students commencing Midwifery Practice. 2nd edit. London, Churchill, i86i, p. 130. This work contains brief and practical instructions to the student concerning the management of ordinary labour, and directions as to what to do in extraordinary cases. Eram, Paul.—Practical Considerations on Midwifery in the East. Paris, i860, pp. 431. Marsh, J. C. Lory.—Instructions to Mothers and Nurses in the Lying-in Chamber. Pamphlet. London, Davies, 1861, pp. 22. Elliot, Dr. George "^.—Difficult Obstetric Cases. Amer. Med Times Feb., March, April, &c., 1861. The author relates in brief terms the particulars of a very large number of difficult cases in obstetric practice.REPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 832 Lee, Dr. IRoB^m.—C/tnical Midwifery.—m-A. Times and Gnz., July 20th, Aup;. 171I1, Nov. 2nrl, Nov. pih, 1861, pp. 54, 156, 451, 474. Tins is a continuntion of the series (Cases 679 to 741 inclusive) of " consultation " c.nses published in the same journal, reftrence to which will be found in 'Year Book' for 18.59 '^"'^ 1^60. Ltjmpe.—Cases in Obstetric Practice. Oesterr. Ztsch. f. prakt, Heilk., vi, 43, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 310. A case of eclampsia, of pregnancy combined with medullary cancer of the vagina, a case of twins, and a case of uterine fibroid with amenorrhoea. CoPEMAN, Dr.—Rare Cases in Midwifery. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 9th, 1861, p. 495. The first was a case of oedema from pressure impeding delivery; the second a case of occlusion of the os uteri, in which an opening was made by scraping by the finger-nail; the third case was one of obstructed labour from congenital hydrocephalus. GENEEAL ANATOinr AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MOTHER AND FCETUS. LiTZMANN.—The forms of the Pelvis, especially of the narrow Female Pelvis; together with an appendix on Osteo-malaJcia. 4to, Berl., 1861. This is an account of the vnriations preseuted by the female pelvis as regards measurement, &c., based on a very extended series of investiga- tions, and illustrated by drawings. The author examined 1000 women at tlie lying-in institutions of Kiel, and found that in 14 per cent, of these there was what might be termed a narrow pelvis present. The results of the measurements made are given in full detail. The causes of the variations observed are systematically discussed. The author classifies the various forms observed under a number of heads. Thus we have the flat pelvis, characterised by narrowing of conjugate diameter, and of which there are two forms, the simple flat pelvis and the rickety flat pelvis. An extreme case, the generally narrowed, flat pelvis, forms a third sub- division. The next basis of division is contraction in the transverse diameter, the sacrum being narrow, and in bad cases inseparably con- nected with the adjoining bones. Next we have the obliquely distorted pelvis, due to lateral spinal curvatures, excessive use of one leg, from whatever cause, or originating at a more early period in defective develop- ment of one side of the sacrum. Lastly, the " compressed" form of pelvis is described. (Respecting the appendix on "osteo-malakia," see P- 33<5.) NivET.—On the Functions of the Placenta. Gaz. Hebd., 1861, 5. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 51. Braun, Prof.—On Superfoetation. Wien. Ztschrift., 6, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 54. Braun believes that the hypothesis of superfoetation is not tenable in face of the results of careful examination of the parts of the ovum. A case is related bearing on this question.333 genehal anatomy and physiology. Wilson, Dr. J. G,—Case of early Maternity, with remarks. Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p. 332. , T^ v The age of the patient was thirteen years and six months. Delivery took place at the full time. The labour only occupied three hours. Wntf^-K.—Observations on the Foetal Pulse. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. Report of meeting of German naturalists, &c. (Obstetric section), at Spires, 1861. The author finds the foetal pulse increased in frequency under certain circumstances. He associates this change in the frequency of the pulse ^vith—(i) Febrile condition of the mother, e.g. in a case of lung tuber- culosis, in a case of pleuritis, in a case of severe metro-peritonitis, in a case of pneumonia, in a fifth case where there was no evident cause for the febrile condition. He counted thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen beats of the fcetal pulse in five seconds—a method of counting he has found very convenient. (The normal ratio is stated as eleven beats in five seconds in 83 per cent, of all cases, as twelve beats in 10 per cent., and ten beat.s in 7 per cent.) He never found a feverish condition of the mother without corresponding fcetal pulse acceleration. (2) Diseases of the foetus, as in cases of intra-uterine smallpox, of which instances are recorded by Hohl and Depaui. (3) Protracted labour, a cause of fcetal pulse accelera- tion. Thus, in three cases, owing to deformity of pelvis, the children were born dead. Here the frequency of the foetal pulse depends on asphyxia of child inducing respiratory movements, and these respiratory movements, only partially effectual, creating acceleration of the heart-beat. Ravn.—On the duration of Pregnancy, Copenhagen, 1856. Canst., vol. iv, p. 415. After examining the various theories which have been broached on the subject of the cause of labour, the author concludes that it depends on impressions, direct or reflex, on the nerves. The irritation probably proceeds from the whole ovum, the movements of the child being in- sufficient to account for it. Pa JOT.—Pelvimetry. Gaz. des Hop., Jan. 8th, 1861. Earle, Dr.—Neiv Pelvimeter. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. It consists of a pair of curved blades seven inches long, ending in two small bulbs, and kept in apposition by a steel spring placed between the handles. Fixed to one of the handles is a steel plate, engraved as an index. By compressing the handles the blades are separated, and made to touch the sacrum and pelvis respectively. On the index ex- ternally is expressed the extent of the separation of the arms internally. Byford, Dr.—Ow Pelvic Measurements. Amer. Med. Journ., Jan 1861 p. 293. The author uses Baudelocque's callipers. He measures, first, the thick- ness of the pelvis; then the thickness of the sacrum ; thirdly the thick- ness frofn pubis to sacrum externally ; and obtains the diameter of the superior strait by subtracting the two first from the third measurementRBPOET ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. 831 MECHANISM OP DELIVER-Sf. Duncan, Dr. J, Matthews.—TAe obliquity of the Fatal Head in the mechanism of Parturition. Ed. Med. Journ., Aug., 1861, p. 127, and Sept., p. 245. Tlie author's object is to show that the obliquity or lateral obliquity of the foetal bead, when passing through the brim of the pelvis, described by Naegele and others, does not exist in natural parturition ; and that obliquity or lateral obliquity of the fcetal bead, when passing through the outlet of the pelvis, not described by Naegele, docs occur in natural Inboui'. An extended observation has convinced him that the entry of the head is direct, the error combated having probably arisen from previous observers taking the position of the head after it has passed the brim for position at the brim. The doctrine enunciated is supported by an elaborate reasoning. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews.—On the Caput Succedaneum, the presenta- tion, and their relations in cases where the head comes first. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1861, p. 8. The author draws a distinction between the caput succedaneum of the former and of the latter part of labour. The term " presentation " he would define as "that point on the surface of the child's head through which the axis of the pelvis passes." Adopting this definition, the caput succedaneum may or may not correspond to the presentation. The relations of the two at different stages of labour are then discussed. UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PREGNANCY. Alb-evls.—Contribution to the History of Calcified Foetuses. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., 1861, p. 42. The essay refers to ten cases. In none was the pregnancy uterine or tubarian. Life was prolonged from seventeen to thirty-two years after the pregnancy. The pregnancy ended five times at the end of the ninth, and once each in the seventh, sixth, and fifth months respectively. The changes which took place in the foetus consisted in cretaceous metamor- phosis and fatty degeneration. A great portion of the soft parts, and some of the hard parts, disappeared. Adhesions frequently took place between the surface of the foetus and adjacent parts. Rektorzik.—Graviditas Extra-abdominalis. Oesterr. Zt., 18, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 192, . In this remarkable case a tumour appeared in the right inguinal region, which increased in size until it reached the knees. The fcetal movements and other signs present made it evident that the tumour contained a foetus The normal period of pregnancy having been a few days ex- ceeded the tumour was opened, and a live child extracted. The placenta was fimly adherent, and was left behind. The mother died the same day The author believes this to have been a case of uterus unicornis,335 UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PEBGNANCY. the stunted cornu of which projected through the inguinal opening, and became pregnant and fixed in the sac of the hernia. Chessman, George.—On a case of Extra-titerine Gestation, continuing, without suspicion of Pregnancy, to the full term. Lancet, Sept. 14th, 1861, p. 250. . This -svas a case of tubal gestation. The patient was a woman aged forty, who had had four children ; the last eleven years previously. The case" had been treated as one of dropsy of the abdomen. Death took place at (probably) eleven months after conception. The foetus was found in a firm cyst, perfectly distinct from the uterus ; the placenta was involved in a dilatation of the left Fallopian tube. The uterus was the size of a child's head ; its walls 2\" thick; its lining membrane presented a cou- o-ested appearance, and the uterus was pushed down towards the right side of the pelvis. Fetid gas and a large quantity of grumous fluid were found in the abdomen. The foetus had apparently lived to the full term. Davis, Dr. Tuos.—A case of Extra-uterine Fcetation, of eight years and three months' standing, counting from the expected period of delivery ; the foetus removed by operation. Dublin Med. Press, Dec. i8th, 1861. The foetus lay to the left side below the umbilicus. Here an abscess formed and burst, opening by two sinuses. The woman was much emaciated and hectic. Recovery followed the operation. The woman had been delivered of a healthy child, the dead child being still in the abdomen. BiRNBAUM.— On Abdominal Pregnancy, and especially on the Internal Hemorrhages connected therewith ; loith cases. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 331. Two cases are related, in which, death having occurred, the condition of the parts could be carefully examined. Walter.—Cases of Extra-uterine Pregnancy. (With drawings.) Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1861, p. 171. Three cases are related—(i) Primary ovarian pregnancy, secondary ventral pregnancy. (2) Case of abdominal pregnancy. (3) Graviditas extra-uterina ? tubaria? or tubo-nterina? HiNK.—Case of Pregnancy attended by extraordinary symptoms (cer- vical gestation). L'Un. Med., Jan., 1861. Adams, John.—A Case of Gastrotomy for Extra-uterine Gestation. Med.- Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. i. (See Year Book for i860, p. 341.) Levy, Prof.—Extra-uterine Pregnancy, with adhesion of the sac to the intestine. Bibliot. for Laeg., i860, p.316. Schmidt, vol. iii,p. 321. SiDEY, 'Dr.—Case of Tubal Pregnancy. Ed. Med. Joura., July, 1861, p. 88.336 KEPOKT ON JlIDWIFKIlVj KTC. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PELVIS. LiTZMANN.—On Osteo-inalakia. [This nppendix to Litzmann's work on the femnle pelvis, translated by Dr. Matthews Duncan, will be found in Ed. Med. Journ., Nov, and" Dec, 1861.] The first part contains an account of osteo-malakia generally ; the second, that of child-bearing women. Of 131 cases, 85 became ill during pregnancy or childbed. With the exception of four, all had already borne children before invasion of disease. The disease almost always began in the pelvis, and was frequently confined to this part. The lesion commences with characters of a local inflammatory irritation. All lowering influences appeared to favour its appearance—repeated pregnancy, nursing, low diet, &c. Influence of new pregnancies in already existing disease was unfavorable, as a rule. In fifteen cases the bones appeared to give way during labour. The results of and kind of labour in the cases in question are stated. In forty women the Csesarean section was performed. The uterus was ruptured in seven women, one of whom had been before a subject of Csesarean operation. The disease generally began with pains, chiefly situated in the sacrum and loins, or round the hips, but not confined thereto ; these pains, not seldom very severe ; the next symptom was usually alteration of the manner of loco- motion with a tendency on the part of the patient to sit down. Cramps were less frequent. The stature was generally diminished, but later on in the progress of the disease; the extent of the same in bad cases was a foot or more. Respiration was aflFected when the thoracic bones were implicated. When the disease was estabUshed fever was noticed, but not before. Breisky.—On Osteo-malakia at Gummersbach.—Prag. Viertel., 1861, 2, p- 73- The author paid a visit to Gummersbach to see Winckel's cases of osteo-malakia. He examined eight well-marked cases. The de- tailed results of these examinations are given. Two other cases, well marked, are also reported upon. The conclusions drawn are stated as follows :—Osteo-malakia affects women during the period of sexual vigour, primiparse rarely. Pains in the loins and extremities are the first symptoms, usually appearing during lying-in, and are not at first severe. The deformity in the pelvis is produced gradually. It becomes exacerbated after childbed, the deformity increasing after each labour. The patients are usually "fruitful." The position of the child is often changed; the walls of the uterus unusually thick. Pliability of the bones of the pelvis now and then, but by no means always, exists. In one case a woman was delivered naturally in whom extreme deformity existed. The cause of the great frequency of osteo-malakia in this place it was diflicult to detect. It was the practice to suckle the children a very long time. The children were healthy. There was no white sediment in the urine, but the patients suffered frequently from diarrhoea and gastric disturbances. A characteristic sign of the disease is a difficulty in walking, especially m abducting the leg.887 TUMOURS EXTERNAL TO UTERUS. ScHMiTZ.—C«5e of Labour in a Woman affected with Oateo-malakia. Scanz. Beit., vol. iv, p. 42. , , , , , j , . During her fif'ili pregnancy a woman, who had had good labours pre- viously, became affected with osteo-malakia of the pelvic bones to such a degree tliat the Csesarean section, it was thought, would be necessary. Labour, however, set in ; the pains were severe, and the child was forced through, the bones yielding to the pressure. The child was thus delivered (dead) naturally. The mother did well. Cruger.—On the influence of the anterior Pelvic Wall on the Mechanism of Labour, especially in slight narrowing of the Pelvis. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., 1861, p. I. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTERUS. Simpson, Prof.—On Cauliflower Excrescence of the Uterus during Preg- nancy. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861, p. 762. In a patient, pregnant, the subject of this disease, labour was induced at the end of the eighth month. The patient died of puerperal phlebitis three days after, but the child was saved. The author considers the best treatment of such cases, when the diseased mass is very unyielding, is to incise the tumour at each side, in preference to craniotomy. Keating, Dr.—Large interstitial, cancerous Tumour of the Impregnated Uterus, rendering Delivery impossible. Am. Med. Journ., April, 1861, p. 405. The patient died after being in labour nine days, attended with fearful sufferings. The nature of the obstruction was not diagnosticated during life. The CcEsarean section was not performed, because none of the conditions laid down by authorities as indicating that operation were ascertained to be present. The foetus was found in a state of decompo- sition ; the OS uteri, cartilaginous, hardly admitted two fingers ; portions of vagina and uterus in a state of sphacelus. The lower globe of the uterus was found to be an immense interstitial, cancerous tumour, five and a half inches in transverse diameter, six and a half vertically. Cra- niotomy was attempted, but the narrowness of the os prevented its effectual performance. Dilation of the os was also attempted, but could not be performed. Dubois and Pa jot.—On Rigidity of the Os Uteri during Labour. Gaz. des Hop., Feb. i6th, 1861. Dubois recommends minute incisions in cases of labour impeded by the presence of spasmodic rigidity of the os uteri. TUMOURS EXTERNAL TO UTERUS IMPEDING DELIVERY. Spatit, Prof.—Pedunculated Fibroid on the peritoneal surface of the Fundus Uteri. Wien. Zt., 10, 1860. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 57. This is a iiighiy interesting case. The patient, set. 38, became preg- nant in-Apnl, 1859, and on January 29tli, i860, the pains of labour set in. The pelvis was found occupied by a hard, resisting mass, the size of aUEPORT ON MIDWIFEKY, ETC. 888 child's licnd, the os uteri not to be felt. Tiie uterus lay to the right, and contained n foetus, the head to the left, the back to the front. The right arm of the foetus could be felt from the vagina in the small space left behind the pubis. The upper surface of the round, hiird tumour could be felt through the abdominal wall. Under chloroform strong pressure was made against the tumour from the vagina and rectum, and, finally, it was pushed up into the abdomen ; the os was then found open, version efl'ected, and a live child extracted. The patient died three days after, of puerperal fever. The tumour is believed to have been originally small, and to have increased greatly in size during pregnancy. After death it was the size of a child's head, somewhat elliptical in shape. Mayeu, L.—Gradually increasing Pelvic narrowing, from the growth of a Fibrous Tumour attached to the first sacral and last lumbar Vertebrae; induction of artificial premature labour by Cohen's method. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 354. Ojlshausen.—Fibrous Tumour in the smaller Pelvis; artificial Prema- ture Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 362. Cockle, Dr.—Large, encysted. Urinary Calculus in a Primipara, pro- bably inducing Premature Labour ; Craniotomy ; death from Metro-peritonitis. Lancet, Sept, 7th, 1861, p. 229. TOO GREAT RAPIDITY OE LABOUR. KuBY.—On Precipitate Labour from a Medico-legal Point of View. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., i86i. Keport of meeting of German Natu- ralists, &c. (Obstetric section), at Spires, 1861. Two cases are related in which labour took place very rapidly; in both cases the mothers were very young (18 and ijf). In the first case the child was killed probably by falling on the edge of a vessel; in the secoud, the child was born whilst the mother was in "bed, and was born with one pain. Professor Ilecker stated, in reference to this subject, that twelve such cases had come under his observation ; in three of these birth took place in the standing posture. Rarely had bad results followed ; laceration of the funis and slight haemorrhage were the most common of these accidents. PLURAL BIRTHS. Spath, Prof.—Ore Tviins. Wien. Zt., i860, 15, 16. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 314. . This is an essay containing the results of previous observations lu regard to the diagnosis, the proportions of the sexes, the period of develop- ment, mortality, &c., in cases of twins. UNNATURAL PRESENTATIONS. Von Helly.—Om Frontal Presentations. Mediz. Jahrb. Wien. 1861, 5. Eight cases are related, in five of which the children were born alive,339 4 TJNNATTJUAL PRESENTATIONS. in three dead. The Inboiir was terminated by natural process in six cases, forceps used once, in one case craniotomy. Veit.—0« the varieties in the Position of the Foetus in Premature and in Twin Births. Scanz. Beit., vol. iv, p. 279. One conclusion come to is that the death of the foetus has an influence on its position ; cranial presentations are less frequent in the case of dead than in live foetuses ; this is, perhaps, owing to the compressibility of the head in the former case, allowing the extremities to sink down by its side. In cases of twins the first child is much more rarely in an unusual position than the second. Braun, Prof.—On a very unusual event in Twin Birth : simultaneous presentation of the Feet of one and of the Head of the other Foetus. Allg. Wien. Ztg., 1861, i. Schmidt, vol. in, p. 192. The difficulty occurs when, the pelvic extremity of the first foetus being delivered, the two heads lock. The author relates a case in which this happened, and refers to thirteen similar recorded cases. In five of tiiese the second child was first delivered naturally; in five the second child was first delivered by aid of the forceps. In one case the second child was decapitated ; in one case the head was perforated. All the rest were delivered by manual assistance. The author believes the proper treatment to be to rupture the membranes of that child whose head presents ; if both heads present, to rupture the membrane of the lowest, and apply forceps. If the heads become hooked together as above described, to apply the forceps to the head of the second child ; craniotomy of the head of the second child only necessary when there is narrowing of the pelvis or unusual size of the head. MuKKAY, J. Jardine.—Impeded Labour from Dorsal Displacement of the Ann. Med. Times and Gaz., June 15th, 1861, p. 627. The difficulty alluded to consists in the forearm of the child being thrown across the back of the head and neck, the arm being thrown up- wards in a line with the body. The displaced elbow forms a projection which hitches on the brim of the pelvis. A case is related in which the difficulty occurred. Podalic version was performed, and the case did well. Demeaux.—Note on Shortness of the Cord as cause of Abnormal Pre- sentation. Gaz. des H6p., Feb. 9th, 1861. Jacobs, Henuy.—Difficult Positions of the Head in Twin Labour. Lancet, June Slh, 1861, p. 566. The head of the second child was impacted between the pelvic brim and shoulder of the first. By holding the second head up for a time the shoulder of the first was permitted to advance. The labour was there- upon completed. CREQEtiK, Dr.—Difficult Position of the Head in Twin Labour. Lancet May 4th, 1861, p. 446. 'REPOET ON lIIDIVIFEttY, ETC. Pollock, T)r.—Difficult Position of the Heads in Twin Labour. Obst. Traus., vol. iii. Wilson, Dr. J. G.—Ihscription of a French Instrument for effectiuy re- duction or rejwsition of the Umbilical Funis when prolapsed, viilh cases illustrative of its sxiccessftd application. GJasg. Med. Journ., April, 1861. The instrument consists of two finely polished M'halebone rods, one quite straight, one ending in a hook, the two so adjusted as to glide parnllel to each other; movement of one rod on the other limited to one inch. The funis is placed on the hook, and by pushing the straight rod the hook is converted into a ring, and the reposition then effected. After reposition the funis is liberated from the hook byan obvious manoeuvre. Including the handle, it measures eighteen and a quarter inches. Two cases are related in which it was used with advantage. DISEASES, MALFOEMATIONSj ETC., OF THE CHILD, IMPEDING LABOUK. Heoker.— On Dilatation of the Foetal Bladder as a cause of impedi- ment to Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. Report of Meeting of German Naturalists, &c. (Obstetric section), at Spires, 1861. Hecker had a case in which the urinary bladder formed a tumour which was punctured before the child could be delivered. He found the urethra impermeable. abnormal conditions of the placenta, FCETAL APPENDAGES, ETC. Read, Dr.—Placenta Prcevia; its history and treatment. Svo, Phila- delphia, J. B. Lippincott and Co., 1861, pp. 340. This work is an analysis of all the known recorded facts relating to the liistory and treatment of placenta prsevia. After discussing the history of the subject, and comparing the accounts qf authors as to its mode of production, the question of treatment is considered. In order to arrive at a proper conclusion on this point the author brings together in a tabular form the results obtained by different methods of treatment; original documents, it is stated, have always been consulted in framing these tables. Table i includes 52 cases where the placenta was spon- taneously expelled and the child born by unassisted uterine contractions. Table 2 includes 26 cases of spontaneous separation of the placenta, with artificial delivery of the child. Table 3 contains 31 cases of artilicial separation of the placenta, with natural delivery of the child. Table 4, "ji cases in which both placenta and child were artificially delivered. Table 5 includes 123 cases where the placenta was partially detached, and natural delivery followed. In Table 6 are 557 cases where partial detachment of the placenta was performed, but resort to artificial delivery was necessary. Table 7 includes 39 cases in which the pla- centa was perforated and the child variously delivered. Table S con- tains those cases in which the mother died undelivered. In an appeudi.v numerous other less perfectly recorded cases under each of these heads are placed. Copious analyses of the tables themselves are given. Ergot, galvanism, bleeding, &c., &c., are each separately discussed.341 ABKORM-VL CONDITIONS OF THE PLACENTA^ ETC. The author believes that the old practice of turning and delivering by the feet, without disturbing the connexions of the placenta any more than is necessary for the purpose, must, after all, be our mam resort, the method most likely to he required in the large mass of cases. The general results of the inquiry are stated as follows:—The danger to the mother increases as the pregnancy advances; it is less when the os is completely covered, least of all when the attachment is central. As regards prognosis, the condition of the patient is a better guide than the actual quantity of blood lost. The pains being vigorous, head presen- tation, OS in good condition, and strength not impaired, rupturing the membranes is in most cases sufficient to stop hsemorrhage. Artificial delivery increases danger to mother, but this is because it has been per- formed when the patient was in a very feeble condition ; hence the im- portance of early artificial interference. If artificial delivery be impos- sible from rapidly failing condition or other reasons, the placenta should be totally separated and remedies (transfusion one of them) used to restore patient to a condition admitting of operation. The transfusion is very valuable, but we must recollect that there is a fear of its action inducing a temporising policy in some cases which are not suited for it. Ergot is not to be given when there is a probabiUty of necessity for operative procedures. SiRELius, Dr.—On Placenta Prcsvia ; its natm-e and treatment. 8vo, Ilelsingfors, 1861. Extracts from this memoir are published in the Arch. Gen. de Med. for September and October, 1861. A point in the anatomy of the placenta, to the substantiation of which the author has devoted some attention, and to which he attributes con- siderable importance, is the dipping inwards of the cellular layer of the decidua between the placental cotyledons. The decidua sends pro- cesses downwards as far as the foetal aspect of the placenta. Thus it is impossible, he contends, for the maternal blood to pass from one cotyledon to another. Thomas, Dr. T. Gaillard.—Placenta Prcevia. Am. Med. Times, Jan. 19th, 1861. If the OS is dilatable and the patient not exhausted, delivery by the forceps or version is recommended. If os dilatable and patient exhausted, a part or the whole of the placenta should be detached, styptics applied, and stimulants given. If the os be rigid and the patient not exhausted, the portion of the placenta nearest the cervix to be detached, styptics, and the tampon or colpeurynter, employed, if necessary. If the OS be rigid and exhaustion present, the whole or part of placenta to be detached, styptics applied, and stimulants given. Clay, Dr. Ciiaki.es.— Observations on Placenta Prcevia. Glasg. Med. Journ., July, 1861, p. 129. Tlie author contends that the results of experience conclusively show that iu the treatment of placenta prsevia the mortality is infinitely less in cases where the placenta is separated than in cases where version and immediate extraction arc performed. Ilijemorrhage is slopped by the separation nineteen times out of twenty. The child survives once in five 23llEPOM OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 343 cnses. The niitlior Btntcs liis conviction tlint he would consider any person reckless indeed of liumun life who would advocate turning and delivering in cases of placenta prajvia in preference to detaching the pla- centa, if at all aware of the ditference iu the statistical results. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—Clinical Lecture on the Treatment of Placenta Prcevia. Lancet, June ist, 1861, p. 1527. The author states that his views on the subject of the treatment of placenta praevia have been somewhat misunderstood. The separation of the placenta from the lower zone of the uterus cannot of itself arrest hiemorrliage ; there must be contraction of the uterine muscles. Whether the operation for partially detaciiing the placenta or other means be adopted, the contraction is the object to be secured. Two cases are related in order to illustrate the positions taken up. A third case is related to illustrate the treatment to be pursued when the cervical detacli- ment of the placenta and the evacuation of the liquor amnii may not be sufficient to produce full hsemostatic contraction of the uterus. In the case in question a caoutchouc dilator was introduced into the cervix (after detaching the placenta from the lower zone), water was injected into this; the cervix thus dilated, the membranes then ruptured, the child turned, and delivery effected. The dilatation by this method is far preferable to that by the hand, as there is less liability of producing pyaemia; the dilator is especially valuable where there is deficient uterine contraction from loss of blood, the patient being much exhausted; moreover, the dilator excites the uterus to contract. Woodman,"W. B.—Two cases of Placenta Prcevia treated by Br. Barnes's Method. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, 1861, p. 405. In the first case no haemorrhage occurred after the artificial separation of the placenta. The child had, as it afterwards appeared, been some time dead. In the second case the haemorrhage'was very profuse; it was arrested by the separation. Turning was performed soon after, and the child extracted dead. Both mothers recovered. Roberts, Dr. D. Lloyd.—Clinical History of three cases of Placenta Prcevia in which Podalic Version was performed, Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861, p-' 707. The author draws the following conclusions from the three cases :— that if rigidity be absent, turning may be performed when the os is only the size of a shilling, and that it is unnecessary to wait until it be larger : that full and decided doses of laudanum, with Indian hemp, are beneficial in preventing the syncope from severe haemorrhage ; and that when the child is dead forcible extraction of the head, after turning, is un- called for. Manz (Freiburg.)—P/ffce«f« Prcevia, artificial Premature Labour, ^-c Aerzt. iAlit. a. Baden, 14, 7, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 56. An interestiug case. The child was stillborn, but was recov( after lapse of half an hour. The cord was pulseless for some time an*" to this.H/EMOUMAGE BEFORE, DUMNGj OU AFTEU L^^BOUR. 34-3 Martyn, Dr.—Cases of Placenta Prcevia. Lancet, April 2'jth, 1861, p. 412. Three cases of placenta previa are here related. UisSA.—ExpulsioJi of the Placenta before the Child. Gaz. des Hop., 1861. The patient had been pregnant twice previously; on one occasion the forceps were employed, on the other the delivery was effected by cepha- lotripsy, the pelvis being contracted. Labalbary.—HcBmorrhage during Labour from abnormal attachment of Placenta; uterine inertia; syncope; efficacy of the utero-vaginal douche. Journ. de Med. et Chir. prat., July, 1861. Janssens.—On Anomalies of the Umbilical Cord considered as cause of the death of the Fcettis before Labour or of Lntra-uterine Suicide. Journ. de Brux., Oct., 1861, p. 344. Si.x cases are here cited in -which the circulation througli the cord being interfered with, by twisting or otherwise, the foetus had died. DoHRN, Dr.—On Torsion of the Umbilical Cord and Stenosis of the Vessels. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., 1861, p. 147. This essay is accompanied by drawings showing the effects produced on the foetus by torsion of the umbilical vessels. Davis, Dr. J. Hall.—A case of Hydatid Mole expelled from the Uterus immediately after a Living Foetus and its Placenta, at about six months^ gestation, the hydatid growth being the degenerated ovum of a Twin Conception. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The hydatid-like growth was developed from the chorion of a second ovum, perfectly distinct from the ovum in which the foetus was pre- sent. HiLDEBBANDT.—Hydatid Mole, together with a normally developed Ovum. Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1861, p. 224. HAEMORRHAGE BEFORE, DURING, OR AFTER LABOUR. SiDEY, Dr.—Case of Accidental Hcemorrhage. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1861, p. 1044. Stan GEB, G. E.—Accidental separation of the Placenta at the Seventh Month of Pregnancy; alarming syncope; induction of premature labour; recovery. Brit. Med. Journ., April 27th, 1861, p, 440. Mahtin, Prof. En. — Transfusion successfully employed in Uterine HcBmorrhage. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 269, The case was that of a woman £et. 20. Tlie hcemorrliage was due to separation of the placenta before the birth of the child. The os uteri was undilatable. [ILTON, Dr. G.—Practical Observations and Suggestions in Obstetrics, Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p, 314.844 llEPOKT OX JUDWll'-KUY, ETC. To arrest " aiite pnrtum lucinorrliagc," the author recommends an India-riibhcr viigiiinl plug, to be distended with M'ntcr. Post-partuni liBcmorrhage is best arrested by introducing one hand in the vagina and phicing the otlier on the abdomen, and pressing the uterus between tiie two. The uterus should be emptied of clots first, and cold, wet, cloths applied. Respecting the " use of the forceps in difficult labours," the author contends that their more frequent use would very probably lessen foetal mortality. He has used the forceps about once in eight deliveries. llUPTUUlij LACERATION, INVEllSION 01'' THE UTEHUSf. Edjiundson, Dr.—A successful case of Rupture of the Uterus. Dub. Med. Press, July loth, 1861. Head impacted, labour-pains had been severe. There had been hae- morrhage, sudden shock, fainting, and collapse. A foot was felt through abdominal walls. Craniotomy performed, and foetus extracted. For three days patient in extreme danger from peritonitis ; final recovery. M'KiNLAY, Dr. W. B.—Rejm-t of a case of Rupture of the Uterus in the fourth month of utero-gestation. Glasg. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p. 324. A very well-formed woman, in a perfect state of health, without using any exertion, and apparently without receiving any personal injury, in the fourth mouth of pregnancy became ill at night and died early next morning. The uterus was ruptured across the fundus, and much clotted blood found in the abdomen. The stomach very much congested, the uterine tissue apparently quite normal and healthy. DuNSMURE, Dr.—Case of Rupture of the Utems. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1861, p. 1044. The patient's age was thirty-nine. She had had seven children. The rupture took place after labour had lasted a little over twenty-four hours. The head presented, and was hydrocephalic. It was punctured, and delivery effected. Death ten hours after. PuTEGNAT.—Double complete Rupture of the Uterus during Lalour; severe consecutive accidents and cure ; subsequent i^regnancy, termi- nating easily and favorably. Journ. de Brux., Jan., 1861, p. 14. CoiiSE, Dr.—Rupture of the Uterus, and Death from Hcemorrhage, in the sixth month of jvegnancy. Am. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 109. The cause of the rupture was not apparent. Death, Robert.—Case of Inversion of the Uterus. Lancet, Oct. 2(5tb, 1861, p. 411. Death took place from haemorrhage. A midwife had apparently used force in extracting the placenta.LACERATION OF THE PBRINJ^UM. 345 LACERATION OF THE PERINmTM DURING LABOUR. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—On " Supportinr/ the PerincBtun practical con- siderations respecting the causes and jvevention of laceration of the perinceum during labour. 8vo, London, Churchill, 1861, pp. 70. The operation known as "supporting the perinseum " during labour, and practised with a view to prevent the occurrence of laceration, is the subject of this essay, the object of which is to determine, by analysis of the operation itself and of its effects, whether it really effects the pur- pose intended. Having first shown, by reference to the teaching of various obstetric authorities, that, respecting the rationale of the action of the operation in question, opinions the most contradictory are maintained, the author proceeds to examine the effects produced by the operation, —(i) on the head of the child, and (2) on the perinseum itself. The con- clusions arrived at are that, as regards one supposed effect—retardation of the head—it is very questionable whether it is produced at all; under some circumstances quite the opposite effect resulting, and that the sup- posed advantage of the operation in directing the head forwards is imaginary. An analysis of the action of the operation on the perineal structures themselves shows that, so far from the operation being useful in preventing laceration, the effect is quite the reverse; that the dilatation in the natural direction is actually interfered with ; and that the safeguard from laceration—gradual and natural expansion of the structures by the equable and proper pressure of the foetal head—is removed. As regards the " causes " of perineal laceration, it is contended that, wliile unusual rapidity of labour is one of the principal of them, the accident has a different cause in different cases. The author believes that " sup- porting the perinseum" as preventive of laceration is certainly worthless, and may in some cases be suspected of having produced what it was intended to prevent: the proper treatment of the perinseum in labour is to abstain from all active interference of any kind. Precautions recom- mended are, to see that there is no impediment, by closure of legs, &c., to passage of head forwards after passing the outlet. Where the perinseum is not elastic—elasticity being regarded as a condition of safety—and labour action is very violent, retarding pressure against the head itself may prove useful. If laceration be actually threatened, short incisions of the perineal structures on each side of, and at a short distance from, tho fourchette are recommended. Murphy, Dr.—On Supporting the PerincBum. Brit. Med. Journ., April 20, 1861, p. 426. The object of supporting the perinseum is—(i) to prevent or aUay irrita- tion and to diminish congestion, so that the act of dilatation may not be interfered with ; (2) to counteract too violent action of the uterus. The tissues of the cervix uteri and the perinseum have, the author says, a power of expansion independent of the force employed against them. ' Gray, Dr. James. —Ore Laceration of the Perinceum. Brit. Med. Journ., June 32nd, 1861, p. 654. It is here contended that the varying position, length, and relation toIlEPOET ON MIDAVIFEllY, ETC. 31.6 the pubis and coccyx, of the pcvinccum, in different subjects, accounts for the inceration taking place in one case and not in another. IIervteux.—Neiu method of Treatment of Laceration of the Perinceum. L'Un., April, 1861, p. 258. The author's metliod is to retain, in apposition with the raw surface, sponge saturated with chlorurettecl water. Two cases of cure by this means are related. Skinner, Dr.—Case of Ruptured Perinceum duriny unassisted Labour. Brit. Med. Journ., August 17th, i86t, p. 170. The author advocates the use of the twisted or quilled suture when the accident has occurred, not trusting to unaided restorative power. Robinson, Dr.—Laceration of the Perinceum into the Rectum, Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th, 1861, p. 336. In the passage of a large child the perinseum was torn into the rectum. A perfect cure was obtained by maintaining perfect apposition of the parts by rest, binding of the knees together, and use of opiates to produce con- stipation, for seventeen days. The parts had then perfectly healed. The vagina was washed out daily. Edwards, Dr. Chas.—Contributioiis to the Science of Obstetric Surgerij. Lancet, Dec. 14th and 21st, 1861, pp. 566 and 592. These contributions consist of practical remarks on the treatment of laceration of the perinseum as an effect of labour. ESCAPE OF LIQUOR AMXII DURING PREGNANCY. Danyau.—On Serous Bischarges during Pregnancy. Gaz. Hebd., Dec 2ist, 1860. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861. A patient had had serous discharge for fifty-six days. After delivery, it was found to liave proceeded from a perforation in the membranes, which had allowed the escape of amnionic fluid.' OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. INDUCTION OP PREMATURE LABOUR. EsTEULE, Prof. Carlo.—On the propriety of extracting the Foetus hy way of the genital passages, and ivhen viable, before death, in cases ivhere the death of the Mother is imminent and certain. Ann. Univ. di Med., Nov., 1861. In the contingency in question the author argues that extraction before death is far preferable to the Cscsavean section after death, and he adduces six cases, in four of which the children were thus saved, whereas in post- mortem Csesarean operations only 2 per cent, are saved. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—On the indications and operations for the Induc- tion of Premature Labour and for the Acceleration of Labour. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Tiie author gives a.systematic, historical account of the various operative methods which have been had recourse to. These are, puncture of the347 OBSTETraCAL OPERATIONS. ' fimnionic stic, use of ergot of rye, separation of the membranes; intro- ducing a sound and tapping the sac ; introducing a flexible catheter into the uterine cavity and leaving it in situ; dilatation of the cervix ; introducing a calf's bladder into the vagina and distending it with water, the modern adaptation of which is the colpeurynter ; the air-pessary ; the employment of galvanism, the application of sinapisms to the breast, or employment of cupping-glasses; injection of carbonic acid into the vagina ; the warm douche to the vaginal portion of the uterus (Kiwisch) ; employment of intra-uterine injections, first devised by Schweighauser, but now known as Cohen's method; the true uterine douche. The author believes it very difficult to get at the truth as to the respective merits of these me- thods ; the vaginal and uterine douche, however, appear, from statistics, to be far more fatal to the child than the other methods. The recent expansion of the principle of dilatation of the cervix by caoutchouc dilators (Keiller and Murray), as a method of inducing labour, is next considered. Tbe author has devised instruments on this principle, and details the following cases in which he has successfully employed them :— in two cases of placenta prsevia ; in a case of contracted pelvis, with cicatri- zation of the OS uteri, where labour, having been induced by the douche, was accelerated by the caoutchouc dilator and turning ; in two cases where labour was induced and accelerated by its means. The elastic cervical dilator, in the form contrived by the author, offers, he contends, a means of effecting delivery safely and at will, the douche being very uncertain in its effect. Tbe instruments employed by him are, in the preparatory stage, short metallic bougies, next cylindrical caoutchouc dilators, some of which are of a fiddle shape, and are injected with water after introduction into the OS uteri. In connexion with this subject, the importance of Dr. Hick's method of external turning is alluded to as a means of terminating labour advanced to a certain stage. In conclusion, the author advocates the fol- lowing new classification of labour-inducing agents—(a) preparatory measures ; (b) lai)our-provocative measures ; (c) labour-accelerating mea- sures ; as affording a basis for the better selection and adaptation of remedial means. Farre, Dr. Arthur.—Induction of Premature Labour; successful result. Lancet, Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 158. The labour was induced at the thirty-third week by separating the membranes around and near the os by an elastic catheter. The child was born alive, weighed three pounds four ounces, and, together with the mother, did well. Simpson, Prof.—Induction ofPremature Labour ; neio indications for it; modes of production. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., 1861, p. 289, A patient had been twice delivered of hydrocephalic children, in both cases puncture of the head being required. Labour was pre'niaturely induced, and a live child obtained. The method employed was injection of carbonic acid into the uterus. The author, however, is stronglv opposed to tins operation in future cases, from the fatal effects reported to have resulted m other instances from a like procedure. After discussin-r the several methods of inducing premature labour, he expresses himseff in348 ]ti;P()KT ox MIDAVU'ERY, ETC. favour of flie iiilrodiiction of a gum-clastic catheter, or other flexible body, and separating tlie membranes from the uterus by its means. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.^—Cases of hiduction of Premature Labour. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th, j86i, p. 609. Case I, contraction of the brim of the pelvis; labour induced at seven and a half months ; child born alive; recovery. Case 2, contraction of the brim of the pelvis ; induction of premature labour at seven and a half mouths ; child born alive ; death next day ; recovery of the mother. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Cases 0/ Induction of Premature Labour (Lancet, Oct. ijth, 1861, p. 33); transverse presentation ; cephalic version by Dr. Hicks' method; forceps ; child alive ; recovery. In the first case there was transverse presentation ; cephalic version was effected by Dr. Hicks' method, the forceps used, a live child extracted. In the second case the shoulder presented, podalic version was effected by the same method, the child was then extracted, but dead. James, Henry.—On the Induction of Premature Labour. Lancet, March 2nd, 1861, p. 210. Seven cases are related in which the following plan for the induction of premature labour was adopted. The os first dilated slightly by means of the finger; a male catheter, large size, then introduced, and the mem- branes carefully separated, to the extent of five or six inches, by means of an elastic bottle attached to the catheter: cold water was next injected through the catheter into the uterus. TURNING. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Further illustrations of the new method of Version. Lancet, Feb. 9th, 1861, p. 134. Six cases are related in which version w^s performed by external, assisted by internal manipulation, after the method described in former papers by the same author. C^SAEEAN SECTION. PiHAN-DuFEiLLAY.—On the Statistics of the Ccesarean Operation. Arch. Gen., Aug. and Sept., 1861, pp. 148, 304. The author states that statistics on the subject appear to be more unfavorable than they really are^ and that in very many cases the unfavor- able result was due more to the anterior accidents, or rather to prolonged manipulations of other kinds and other circumstances, than to the opera- tion itself; hence the mere figures give no clue to the real mortality from the Ccesarean operation per se. The chief causes of the mortality arc h£emorrhage, nervous shock, and peritonitis. The latter is very much more to be dreaded in hospitals thau elsewhere. The author then appends a tabulated list of the operations performed during the fifteen years, 1845—1^59- Tliese are 88 in number; and there were 50 cures and 38 deaths. Eight of these deaths were due to other stated causes. In 5 cases instruments had been long and fruitlessly used; 4 of these died.349 OBSTETRICAL OPEUATIONS. Where tlie patient's strengtli Lad not failed, success was very frequent. Only three were cured when there was great prostration. The length of the 'labour previous to operation is of very great importance as causing mortality. Four fifths die where the patient is prostrated, three fourths are cured under opposite conditions. The cases in which gastrotomy have been performed for ruptured uterus and escape of foetus afford re- markable results of cure. Lastly, the Cesarean section is compared with other operations, and shown to be much more favorable in its results than many of them. Baiiker, Dr. FoRUYCE.—On the Ccesarean Section. Am. Med. Times, Jan. 26th, 1861. WiNCKEL.—Results of thirteen Operations of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, i860, p. 401. In nineteen years the author has operated thirteen times, in eight cases for osteo-malakia, in five for rachitis. The frequency of osteo-ma- lakia in tlie neighbourhood (Gummersbach) is stated to be due to the want of cleanliness, to poor living, to want of attention after labour. In four cases the abdomen only was incised, rupture of the uterus having occurred. This occurred twice in one woman, who previously had been delivered by the CfEsarean section. Two of these three women were saved. The results of the thirteen operations are eight recoveries and five deaths. Of the recoveries, three belong to the same individual. The author attri- butes his success to the simplicity of his treatment. The wound is closed very carefully with large and small sutures. Protrusion of the intestines he prevents by directing an assistant to hold the upper angle of the in- cision in the uterus in apposition with the angle of the external'wound. Chloroform given in all cases. WiNCKEL.—Cases of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., 1861, p. 27. Two cases are related in which the pelvis was affected with osteo-malakia The first patient died two days after the operation ; in the second case the issue was fortunate for both mother and child. Vambiancui and Alimonta.—Case of Ccesarean Operation. Gaz. Med. Ital. Lombard., Dec. 24th, i860. The child was saved ; the mother died on the sixth day. This was a case of osteo-malakia. YLxns.-Cesarean Section. Wien. Ztg., 8, 1861. Schmidt vol no p. 191. ' ' This case was successful both for mother and child. Chloroform not used. BlRNBAUM. Ccesarean Section in a case of Oblique Distortion of the lelvis mlh occlusion of the Uterus; result unfavorable. Mon f Geb., Dec, i860, p. 402. The child was saved. The mother died four days after the operation. Newtox, Dr. J. J.-Case of Ccesarean Section. New Orleans Mprl nn l Surg. Journ. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist, 1861 ^' ''"^ The patient^was a negress ; the mother and child both survived.350 EE PORT ON SIIDWIFERY, ETC. GovtTRO\.—Ccesarean Oj)evation J success. Gaz. des II6p„ Sent srd 1861. 1 ■ • The woman was rachitic ; arm presentation ; waters escaped ; version impossible. Levy, Prof.—Case of Ocesarean Section. Bibliot. for Laeg., Oct., i860, p. 331. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 318. The operation was rendered necessary by the presence of complete closure of the os uteri and vagina, the result of ulceration and cicatriza- tion, the nature and cause of which was doubtful, at the sixtli month of pregnancy. The operation was performed at the full time. The child extracted alive. The mother died two days after. Edmunds, James.—On a case of Ccesarean Section. Lancet, Jan. 5th, 1861, p. 4. The patient's age was thirty-eight. There was hard cancer of the 03 and cervix uteri, and the patient had been six days in labour without any dilatation of the os occurring. The placenta was situated in front, but was rapidly cut through. The child and the mother both lived ; the wound was united on the eleventh day. There was severe peritonitis, treated simply. No mercury or brandy were given. Hess.—Ceesarean Section successful for Mother and Child. Nass. Med. Jahrb., 1859, p. 705. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 193. Patient, set. 41, had been delivered naturally three times ; in a fourth also naturally, but had been ill for three years. Glisczynski.—Report of a successful case of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1861, p. 81. The patient, a primipara, had been three days in labour; the conjugate diameter was two inches; contraction due to rachitis (between the ages of three and seven). It was considered impossible to deliver, even after per- foration and lessening of the head. The opei'ation was performed under chloroform. The patient would not give her consent to the operation, and the friends only reluctantly assented to its performance. The child (a boy) and the mother were saved. Hjort, Prof.—Case of Ccesarean Section. Hygiea, March, 1861. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 318. The patient had been previously delivered instruraentally, the labour having been very severe. The conjugate diameter was 2-5" It was intended to induce premature labour, but the reckoning was difficult, and the patient went her full time. Cscsarean section was performed. The mother died twenty-one days after. The child, a male, weighing lbs., was extracted alive, and preserved. Kergaradec—0« the duty of performing the Ccesarean Section after the Death of the Mother. (Acad, de Med.) Arch. Gen., Feb., 1861, p. 241. I BiNANT.—On the Post-mortem Cesarean Operation. Gaz. des H6p.». 1 April i6th, 1861. Binant records a second case of post-mortem Csesareau section, m351 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. ■which, however, the child was not, as in the first case, extracted alive. The first case, which originated a long series of discussions before the Academy of Medicine as to the duty of performing the operation, is here again related DIMINISHING THE SIZE OF THE CHILD. S?oiiT)Ll.—On Perforation and Cephalotripsy. Mon.f.Geb., March, 1861. The cases of cephalotripsy here and in a former paper (Mon. f. Geb., May, i860) recorded are ten in number. In all but one perforation was employed previous to cephalotripsy ; in this case there was spontaneous perforation. The cranioclast of Simpson the author considers vastly inferior to the cephalotribe. Martin, Prof. E.—On the various methods of Diminishing the Size of the Child's Head in Delivery. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1861, p. X03. The operations are to be divided into two classes—(i) those in which the head is simply perforated, the rest of the delivery being left to nature; and (2) those in wliich further efforts are necessary to effect delivery. The respective merits of Van Huevel's " forceps-saw," by which the head can be cut in two—of Cohen's instrument, which is a strong forceps, adapted for at once diminishing the head and extracting it—of Simpson's instrument, by which the bones can be broken up—and of the cephalo- tribe, by which strong compression is exercised — these are severally discussed. Kristeller.—Forceps vnth Dynamometrical Apparatus. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1861, p. 166. The instrument is supplied with an ingenious apparatus, by means of which the exact amount of tractile force exercised by the operator is indi- cated, and the operator enabled to ascertain whether the traction he is using is such as is considered justifiable and proper. Further, by means pf the instrument, the operator will be enabled to judge of the respective indications for the forceps or the cephalotriptor. Chassagnt.—On a Forceps with Sustained Traction and Progressive Pressure. Gaz. Hebd., March 8th, 1861. The apparatus consists of a peculiarly constructed forceps, by which compression is exercised, and a contrivance by means of which, using the inees of the patient as fixed points, continuous traction can be employed. vViNCKEL, Franz.—Mesnard's Cranial Forceps advantageously used in the extraction of the Head after perforation in Osteo-malakial Pelvis. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 392. The author relates a case in which this instrument was found very Useful, and its more extended application is recommended in certain cases ')t pelvic deformity. 5INCLAIR, J)i-.--Some practical observations on the timely use of the Ob.ftetr,c Forceps. Dub. Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861, p. 60. ihe expectant line of practice is still too often, in the author's opinion, mrsued, and the rules laid down by some of the best authorities on thisHEPOUT on MIDWIFETlYj ETC. 852 subject are not consonant witli sound principles. The object of the practitioner sbould not be simply the preservation of the structures of both mother and child, but the prevention of fever and infliimmation. The timely use of the forceps would often prevent the latter accidents. • To prove the latter point the author adduces the statistics of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital during periods when tiie practice as regards the fre- quent use of the forceps differed, and afforded grounds for compa- rison. Hewitt, Dr. Gr.^ily.—On unusual Elongation of the Fcetal Head as a cause of difficulty in the application of the ordinary Obstetric Forceps; ivith description of a modified form of instrument to he used in such cases. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The difliculty alluded to is liable to arise in the application of the forceps ordinarily used in British midwifery in cases where the head, having been forced through unusually narrow or unyielding passages, thereby assumes a very elongated form. A case is related in which the author found it impossible, under these circumstances, to apply the forceps most commonly in use in this country. The head measured six inches in the occipito-mental diameter half an hour after birth. The author proceeds then to show—(1) that such elongation of the bead is to be expected to occur in a certain proportion of cases ; and (2) that when it is present there must be—owing to the shape of the curve of the side of such a head — a difficulty in applying any forceps the blade of which measures less than eight inches in a straight line from one exti-emity of the curve of the blade to the other. It is pointed out that the measurement of the blades most in use in this country varies from a maximum of seven inches to five and a half inches, or even less. The instrument actually used in the case related measured seven inches. ' The author urges the recognition of a new principle — the necessity of adapting the shape of the curve of the blade to the varying shape of the curve of the side of the head. This principle had not yet been laid down by obstetric authorities. In this country it was cus- tomary to speak of a "long" and of a "short" forceps. The modi- fication so expressed referred, however, only to the length of the handles and to the position of the head in the parturient canal; the length of the blade itself was the same both in the "long" and "short" forceps. The author exhibited an instrument, straight, measuring eight inches between the extremities of the curve of the blades, the curve of which was that of a circle of fourteen inches in diameter. This instrument is adapted for use in cases of undue elongation of the head, and will be found most serviceable in the long, tedious labours of primiparse. So far as the measurement of the curve is concerned, the new instrument nearly resembles Levret's forceps. REMOVAL OF PLACENTA. Ckede.—0/i the best method of Bemoving the Placenta. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 274.OBSTETUICAL OPERATIOIirS. 353 The autlior strongly recommends the following procedure instead of that ordinarily adopted. After the birth of the child, friction over the fundus uteri, at first gentle, then more forcible, to be employed, and as soon as the uterus is felt contracted it is to be grasped by the whole hand and slow pressure made downwards. This procedure is followed by the im- mediate expulsion of the placenta, without necessity for introduction of the hand or traction on the cord. PiiiESTLEY, Dr.—On the treatment of cases of Abortio7i in lohich the Membranes and Placenta are retained. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author, after stating that obstetric authorities differ widely as to the treatment which ought to be adopted in such cases, and particularly as to the propriety of manual interference, goes on to state the conclusions he has arrived at. Cases are related to show the danger to the patient of allowing the placenta or membranes to remain in cases of abortion, these dangers and inconveniences being flooding, decomposition of the uterine contents, leading to inflammation, phlebitis, phlegmasia dolens, &c., sub- involution of the uterus, generation of moles, and haemorrhage attending expulsion of latter. He concludes that the proper course is to prevent these consequences by removing tlie placenta or membranes retained, and that the safest and best means of so removing the retained uterine contents is to introduce gently and gradually one or two fingers into the uterus, the patient being laid on the back and under chloroform. If the os is too contracted for this method the sponge-tent should be employed. Spiegelbeeg, Prof. 0.—0)i disturbances in the process of Expulsion of the Placenta. Wurzb. med. Ztsch., 1861, p. 39. Schmidt, vol. 111, p. 60. The author states that the normal contractions of the uterus are fre- quently disturbed by a practice midwives have of dragging at the placenta as soon as the child is delivered. Hence the necessity for laying down some rules on the subject. He approves of the practice adopted in England, of following down the uterus with the hand as the expulsion of the child occurs. Undue traction of the cord may produce partial con- traction of the uterus and incarceration of the placenta. Adhesion of the placenta he believes to be rare. When there is hsemorrhnge, not severe in character, the object is to induce general contraction of the uterus by out- ward pressure. If this does not succeed, the ordinary treatment to be had recourse to, and the placenta removed. To allow the placenta to remain is very dangerous. Subsequently the contraction of the uterus is to be carefully looked after ; pressure by the bandage, and internal use of ergot, are the means to be had recourse to for this end. Habit.—Retention of the Placenta after Premature Delivery. Wien. "Wohnsch., 14, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. ^9. Habit's opinion is that, after delivery at term, the dangers from retention of the placenta are so considerable that interference is necessarv while in retention after abortion an expectant treatment is to be preferred. When in tlie latter case the placenta is retained a very Ion"- time, attended with profuse discharge and other severe symptoms, further interference is required. Two cases are related bearing on this question.REPOUT ON iriDAVIFEny, ETC. 35i POSITION IN LABOUE; AIDS IN LABOUK. HouL, Prof.—On Position during Labour. Deut.Kl., i, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 188. The author beUeves the position on the back is, as a rule, the best, both for enabling the woman to help herself and because in this position the mechanism of labour is least likely to be disturbed. OssiEUR.—On the Knee and Elbow Fosition, Journ. de lirux., April, 1861, Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 53. The author sets forth the advantages which this possesses over the other positions in facilitating certain obstetric manoeuvres, Keating, Dr.—Emploi/ment of the Colpeurynter for dilating the Os Uteri during Labour. Am. Med. Journ., January, i86i, p. 124. The author finds this instrument most valu.ible in all cases where the parts are otherwise undilatable, and frequently uses it as a substitute for ergot to shorten the labour, also to dilate the vagina and perinseum in advance of the head. Valenta, Prof.—Catheterization of the Uterus as a means of exciting Uterine Contraction. Wien. Med. Halle, i86o, 10, 11, 14. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 189. The author believes that in catheterization of the uterus we have a means of exciting uterine contractions, botli in order to bring on labour artificially and in cases where, the labour having begun, the pains are •weak, so long as the waters have not escaped. The instrument to be used is a thick, English catheter, it is to be introduced between the posterior wall of the uterus and the membranes. Ten cases are related in which this method was employed to hasten or originate parturient action. ' Wmm.—On the "Prager Ha)idgrif." Deut. Kl., 44, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 317. The author states that for the last thirty years a peculiar mancEuvrc has been practised with great success in the Prague Hospital in order to deliver the head in cases of breech presentation. It consists in first drawing the trunk of the child down as low as possible, and then carrying the feet forward toward the abdomen of the mother, exercising at the same time moderate traction. ANiESTHESIA IN MID\^^FEEY. Bakkeii, Dr. Foudyce.—On the use of Anaesthetics in Midwifery. Trans, of New York Ac. of Med., 1861, p. 2^1. The author has employed anaesthesia 786 times : chloroform 759, sul- phuric ether 27 times ; 577 of them were private, natural cases. On the whole, he has found chloroform accelerate rather than retard labour. Hie general conclusions are—(i) That anaesthesia is of the greatest value ni ob- stetric practice j that chloroform is generally preferable. (2) It exerts uoOBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 355 iniurioxis effect, xvhen properly administered, upon either mother or child. (A It is quite iustifiable to use chloroform in natural labour simply to relieve pain (4) It is especially useful for calming extreme agitation and mental excitement in nervous women. (5) It should be administered in those cases of natural labour where the progress is suspended or much re- tarded by the pain occasioned by previous disease, or such as may super- vene during labour, and in those cases when the irregular and partial con- traction occasions intense and almost constant pain, without eftect in ad- vancin'' labour. (6) It is of great service in spasmodic contraction and ri<^idit? of the cervix uteri, in tetanic rigidity of the perineeum, m certain forms of puerperal convulsions, and in the various obstetrical operations. Martin.—0« i7ihalation of Chloroform in Midwifery Practice. AUg. Med. Cent. Ztg., i86r, 20. The results of 1000 cases are given. The narcosis is much more easily produced in women in labour than in others ; 5j of chloroform was rarely exceeded. The progress of the labour was not interfered with ; no un- favorable results were noticed. The author considers it important that the sleep following the exhibition of the chloroform be not disturbed ; that the chloroform be given in very small quantities, especially at first, and largely mixed with air. CiiosKEiiY, Hugh.—Ancesthesia in Midwifery. West Indian Quarterly Magazine, Aug., 1861, p. i. The author advocates the employment of anaesthesia in midwifery practice. GuELMi.—Ancesthesia, and particularly in cases of Labour. Ann. Univ. di Med., 1861. The author examines the objections made to the use of anaesthesia in midwifery, and shows their futility. He has derived most advantage from its employment when the uterus was rigid, and introduction of hand for version, &c., difficult. ERGOT OP RYE, ELECTRICITY, IN LABOUR. West, Dr. Uvedale.—Is the Ergot of Rye, when administered to the Mother during Labour, dangerous or not to the life of the Child? A practical inquiry. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. This is the continuation of an inquiry of which some results were pub- lished in December, 185^. The cases formerly published were 69 in number. In consequence of certain criticisms on those cases, made by Danyau on the part of the Academy of Medicine of Paris, to the effect that in a more extended series of cases more unfavorable results would be obtained, the author had continued his inquiries. The cases now brought forward extend over six years, and include 173 cases in which ergot was given on a total number of 734 cases attended. Only 5 of these were stillborn from all causes, viz., 3 putrid at birth, i with placenta prsevia and profuse hfiemorrhage, premature, and 1 with prolapsed funis. Including the cases of both series of investigations, there were.1013 labours, 242 ergot cases (one a case of twins). In the whole there were 14 still-births from all'^^^ niCPOIlT OK JriDAVIFERY, ETC. causes, viz., .5 put.id at birth, i footling, i prolapsed funis, 3 Lu^nior- rhnge during kbour from placenta prajvia, 2 difficult instrun.ental labours I suspected latent compression of the funis, i cause not mani- fes . On the wholcjmmbcr of cases, ergot and not er^^ot cases, of 1026 children born, there ^vere ,50 still-births, of which 5 were deaths without manifest cause, ihc author concludes, therefore, that as only one in five of these was born under ergot, there was no evidence to justify the doc- trine that ergot was dangerous to the life of the child. In the present paper tiie whole of the ergot cases are minutely tabulated, and all details given, liie author observes that the tables show it to be quite immate- rial when the ergot is given, but that it is essential that actual labour be present, and that the accoucheur be competent to meet any emero-ency lilcely to arise ; that ergot can only be dangerous wheu uterine actTon is dangerous. P.UOT.—0;j JSr//ot in retention of the Placenta. Gaz. des Hop., 48, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 60. ' Pajot considers that ergot is not indicated in cases of retention of the placenta at the seventh or eighth month, or in cases of abortion occurring earlier than this. J3aer. — On Electricity in Midwifery/. Mon. f. Geb., Oct., 1861, p. 273. ^ The uses of this agent in the induction of premature labour, in the checking of haemorrhage from defective uterine action, &c., and in ex- citing respiration in cases of asphyxia neonatorum, are severally discussed. The phrenic nerve is considered by the author the best to operate on. pAiiT II.—DISEASES OE WOMEN. PHYSTOLOGY OF PEMALE GENEKAriTA^E ORGANS. Meissneh, E. a.— On the frequency of Conception in Ancemia and some other constitutional diseases of Women. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., i860, p. 120. The author, adopting Eichstedt's theory of the siictional power exer- cised by the uterus during coition, and by which the spermatic fluid is made to pass into this organ, makes it for the most part the bases of the explanation here given of the greater frequency of conception in women suffering from chlorosis, leuksemia, general anaemia, cardialgia, hysteria, tuberculosis, &c. Strohl.—On the relation hetioeen Menstruation and the Lunar Phases. Gaz. de Strasb., 1861, 6. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 49. The results of a very extensive inquiry are as follows:—(i) The mooDj appears to exercise a great influence on the occurrence of menstruation. (2) During the full moon only a small number of women menstrunte. (,3) The maximum menstruate during the flrst quarter. (4) A second, butj less number, menstruate at the period of the new moon. (5) Theperigeej and the apogee have apparently no influence. (6) The southern luni- 1.357 DISEASES OF WOMEN. stltium has more influence than the northern. (7) Increased barometric pressure, probably, has an influence in diminishing menstruation. GENERAL TEEATISES, LECTUEJSS, ETC.; ON DISEASES OF WOMEN. Gardner, 'Dr.—Translation of Scamo7ii's Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Sexual Organs in Women. (From the French). 8vo, New York, De Witt, 1861, pp. 669. This, the American edition of Scaiizoni's well-known work, contains additions made by the French and American editors. It is illustrated by sixty woodcuts. Brown, Baker.—0« Surgical Diseases of Women, and edition, 8vo, London, Davies, 1861, pp. 410. In this new edition the author has added new chapters or sections on some subjects, and incorporated the cases, with their results, which have come under his notice since the puldication of the first edition. There are histories of forty-two cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, fifty-five cases of cystocele, enterocele, and prolapsus uteri. Twenty additional cases of ovariotomy are recorded. The work is copiously illustrated, the new instruments and procedures for the cure of vesico-vaginal fistula are described and delineated. Hodge, Dr.—On Diseases peculiar to Women. 8vo, Philadelphia, Blan- chard and Lea, i860, pp. 469. Aran (edited by Gauchet).—Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of the Uterus and its Appendages. 3 vols. 8vo, Pai'is, 1858-60. Priestley, Dr. — Two Lectures introductory to the Clinical Course on the Diseases of Women and Children. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 9tb, i6th, 23vd, pp. 135, 161, 189. The author here draws attention to some of the leading characteristics belonging to the two classes of patients (women and children) which exert a marked influence on the production and progress of the morbid affections to which they are liable, and points out some of the principal difficulties which are encountered in investigating their diseases. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases of \Vo?nen, delivered at St. Mary's Hospital Medical School. Brit. Med. Journ., from July 6th to Dec. 14th, 1861, pp. i, 55, 139' 193, 247> ^99> 349. 403. 460, 547, 627. The plan of these lectures is to take the various symptoms or condi- tions of the patient, one by one, and to point out the different diseases or conditions which such symptoms may indicate, and the mode of dis- tinguishing them one from the other. The arrangement of the subject is thus a symptomatic, not a pathological, one. The lectures published include considerations of the following data—the age of the patient; sexual relations; disorders of menstruation; unusual discharges of blood from the generative organs when coincident and when not coincident with menstruation ; and the nature and diagnostic signifi- cance of "substances" expelled from the generative organs. The treat- ment of the various diseased conditions present is described. 24,858 EEPOET ON MIDWIPEEY, ETC. MISCELLANEOUS. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—Clinical Lectures on Abdominal Collapse or Shock from Abdominal Disease. Lancet, Aug. 3rd, 1861, p. 105, and Aug. 24tli, p. 177. The author's remarks apply to the effect of exposure of a large super- ficies of the peritoneum to irritation in producing fatal collapse or shock, usually the result of some severe injury occurring suddenly. In the first lecture are considered various conditions of the ovary which may cause this shock or collapse. A case is related in which a pregnant woman had a blow on the abdomen. Death took place some days after, and it was found that an ovarian cyst had been ruptured, causing peritoneal irritation and shock. Other conditions of the ovary capable of causing the same shock are then alluded to and illustrated by cases. They are—lisemorrhage from an ovarian cyst into the peritoneum ; haemorrhage into the cyst with- out rupture of the same, causing sudden dilatation and irritation; bursting of an ovarian cyst with puriform contents ; irritation due to in- jection of iodine into an ovarian cyst producing sudden impressions upon the interior; blood poured out from the surface of a healthy ovary, or a newly burst Graafian follicle, as in cases of retro-uterine hsematocele. In a second lecture the author considers conditions of other organs causing abdominal shock or collapse. These are—rupture of the uterus ; sudden and violent displacements of the uterus, whether gravid or not [an in- teresting case is related, in -which a polypus of the uterus, in conse- quence of a fall, suddenly became external, dragging and injuring the uterus and producing haemorrhage and shock : the tumour was removed, but the patient died] ; retroversion of the pregnant uterus; entry of air into the peritoneum by way of the Fallopian tubes; eff'usion of pus and inflammatory products from the tubes, or from the uterus itself along the tubes into the peritoneal cavity ; ulceration of the Fallopian tubes themselves ; cases of tubal gestation in which rupture occurs. Various conditions of other abdominal organs are next mentioned as capable of giving rise to the symptoms in question. The author concludes by remarking on the diagnosis of abdominal from other forms of collapse. lu abdominal collapse the intellect is clear; this distinguishes it from cranial collapse, while in pectoral cases the circulation and respiration afford distinctive symptoms. Edwards, Dr. St. John (Malta).—On "Abdominal Shock." Lancet, Oct. 5th, 1861, p. 336. The author relates a case illustrating some of the positions of Dr. Barnes on this subject. The patient died of collapse a few days after delivery of a seven months' foetus. The membranes of the sac of an ovarian cyst were found ruptured, due, as the author believes, to twisting of the sac by expulsive action of the uterus. On certain conditions of the Sexual Oi-gans as certain indications of the practice of Onanism. Discussion on this question, and decision of the Obstetrical Society in Berlin. Mon. f. Geb., 1861, August. The queatioa was put to the society whether the following changesDISEASES OF WOMEN. 559 shonld be considered as certain signs of onanism :—(a) as regards external sexual organs, gaping condition of the vulvar aperture, clitoris red and swollen and strongly prominent, nymphse swollen and assuming a wing- like form, vaginal aperture intensely red, hymen lax or torn ; (6) as regards internal sexual organs, chronic metritis, ante- and retroversion or flexion of uterus, descensus uteri; these changes having been observed in certain girls, set. 12—15, suspected of the practice in question. The discussion of the subject occupied several meetings of the society. A commission was appointed to report on the subject; the report, on being brought up, was discussed, and the society finally resolved on a reply to the questions put, which was to the efi'ect that—(i) the appearances of the external generative organs alluded to could not be considered as positive signs of the practice of onanism, inasmuch as they might be produced by other causes ; and (2) that in the present state of knowledge it cannot be held as proved that the alterations of the uterus described as present was produced by onanism. Beatty, Dr.—Plastic Operations on the Female Genito-urinary Organs. Dublin Quart. Journ., May, 1861, p. 273. Six cases are related, one of operation for laceration of periuseuni, three for vesico-vaginal fistula, and two for prolapsus uteri. GuEKiN. — Clinical Lectures on the Venereal Diseases of Women, and on the Diseases in general of the Female Sexual Organs. Med. Oirc, July loth, 17th, 24th, 1861; Aug. 7th, 21st, 28th; Oct. 30th. Chambebs, Dr. — Clinical Lecture on Systeria. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 2ist, 1861, p. 651. The cases of three patients form the basis of this lecture. The author concludes that hysteria is a disease aa much of the mind as of the body; that the mental phenomena preponderate in some cases, in others the bodily; that moral or physical treatment must be applied accordingly ; that in the moral treatment the chief object should be to teach the patient to exert the will; that the organ which most aids us in the physical treat- ment is the stomach. Barclay, Dr.—On SysteHcal Mania. Lancet, April 20th, 1861, p. 391. The case of a lady, set. 27, is here related, in which there were slight paralysis, fits, convulsions, and mania. The nature of the affections pre- sent is commented on. Bonnes.— Hysteria, treated and cured by prolonged Etherization; trials of Hypnotism. Gaz. des H6p., April 30th, 1861. Gairdneb, Dr. W. Epidemic of Hjsteria in a Reformatory Insti- tution; Hysterical Mania from a severe Mental Shock; moral treatment of such cases. Clinical Lecture. Lancet, May 4th, 1861, p. 429. Engelmann.—On the Mineral Waters of Kreutznach in Affections of the Uterus and Ovaries. Journ. de Brux., Sept., 1861, p. 250.KEFOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 360 SPECIAL DISEASES. UTEllUS.—CONGENITAL DEFECTS, CiiulSE, Dr. F. U. — Case of Arrested Development of the Female Genital Organs. Dubl. Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861, p. 21. The subject of this case was a girl, set. 16, wlio died of measles. Externally the body was that of a well-developed woman ; the nymplise vestibule, and orifice of urethra natural ; the ovaries well developed. The vagina was absent; the only trace of the uterus was a tliickenii.g of the peritoneum lining the recto-vesical pouch, situated at the convergence of two cords which were the representatives of the Fallopian tubes, imper- vious. Round ligaments absent. The author concludes that the arrest of development occurred before the end of the third month, that the Wolffian body was the blighted organ, and more especially its excreting duct. GiNTRAC.—Congenital Absence of Uterus. Journ. de Bord., Jan., 1861. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 186. The absence of the uterus was ascertained post mortem. The patient, set. 18, had no vagina, the ovaries were present, also the breasts. The clitoris was very large. RoKiTANSKY, Prof.—Second case of Atresia of the left half of a Uterus Bicornis. Zt. d. Ges. d. Aerzte z. Wien, 31, i860. VEESIONS, DISPLACEMENTS, ETC. AvELiNG, Dr.—Historical Notes on Displacement of the Utiimpregnated Uterus as a cause of Displacement of the Gravid Organ. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The object of this paper is to show that the ^istence of malposition of the uterus, as a cause of displacement of tlie gravid uterus, was known to and pointed out by Morgagni and others. Massmann.—On the Treatment of recent Flexions of the Uterus by means of the Uterine Sound. Mon. f. Geb., June, 1861, p. 436. The difficulty of curing old cases of flexion renders it necessary that the disease should be treated as early as possible. The flexion usually occurs after labour or abortion. The author recommends that the moment it is detected the uterine sound be used to reduce the dislocation. In four cases the sound was thus employed, used once in each case; rest and the horizontal posture completed the cure. The flexion prevents the due invo- lution of the uterus after delivery. Keillee, Dr.—Clinical Report on the Diseases of Women, with ob- servatio?is. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 618. Twelve cases are here recorded in which the operation for prolapsus uteri resulting from perineal lacerations, &c., was performed. All the cases were cured. ScHUH, Prof.—Complete Prolapsus of the Uterus and Vagina in a Virgin. Wiener Med.-Halle, i860, 13. Schmidt, vol, iii, p. 187.861 DISEASES OP WOMEN. Go YON.—Inversion of the Uterus of twenty years' duration without alteration of health. Journ. de Med. et Chir. prat., Feb., 1861. Roberts, Dr. D. L.—Procidentia Uteri from Perineal Laceration of many years' standing; operation; perfect cure. Dubl. Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861, p, 19. APFECTIONS OP CERVIX UTERI. Ellis, Robert.—Phases of the Uterine Ulcer. Lancet, July 6th and 27th, Aug. 24th, Nov. 2nd and pth, 1861. The author describes—(i) The diphtheritic ulcer, in which tbere are small, -whitish, smooth and shining patches of different and irregular forms. The affection is very intractable; mild, local treatment is not successful. The Potassa cum Calce or the electric cautery are effectual, the constitutional fault present having been attended to. (2) The fungous ulcer, occurring chiefly in women who have been pregnant. It is depend- ent, the author believes, on fatty degeneration, with arrest of the invo- lution process after parturition. At first the acid nitrate of mercury is recommended for the cure of this form of ulcer, and afterwards the Potassa cum Calce or the electric cautery. (3) The inflamed ulcer, irri- table, red, with small granulations hot and tender to touch, resting on a basis also red, swelled, hard and sensitive. Alteratives, leeches, rest, emollient injections and diet at first, and afterwards recourse to caustics, are recommended. (4) The indolent ulcer, the most common. Stimulants are here to be given internally, also sesquichloride of iron, with nitro- muriatic acid; quinine and strychnia. The local treatment consists in application, at first, of nitrate of silver; at a later period, of Liquor Potassse. (5) The senile ulcer, an intractable, often small ulcer, not often seen under the age of fifty, accompanied with much sympathetic disturbance, though not much pain. The strongest caustics are necessary for the cure. The author, in conclusion, states that his object is to show that a prac- tical value will be found to lie in a more careful diagnosis of the varied phases of the uterine ulcer. Charriek.—On Ulcers of the Cervix Uteri and on Leucorrhcea in Preg- nant Women. Bull, de Ther., Jan., 1861, p. 54. Schmidt, vol. in, p. 188. The author records the results of his observations on 100 pregnant women, some of whom were affected with leucorrhcea and ulceration. Leucorrhcea is frequently present in pregnant women who are affected with chloro-ansemia. The leucorrhcea present under these circumstances produces ulcerations. Of 100 pregnant women examined at the eighth month, 56 had leucorrhcea, and 46 of these had ulcerations; of 44 who had no leucorrhcea at that time, 16 had leucorrhcea at the ninth month, and 10 of these ulcerations. That the ulcerations are caused by the leucorrhcea is shown by the position of the ulcers, by the frequent pre- sence of erythematous swelling of the upper parts of the thighs, and by the acid character of the secretions. The indications are to improve the strenorth and general health of the patient; local measures are obiec- tionable. *'^^-i HKVOK'r ox MinWlPERY, ETC. JOULIN.—0/j Pemphigus of the Cervix Uteri. L'Un., March, 1861, p. 44. Sims, Dr. Maiiton.—Amputation of the Cervix Uteri. Trans, of Med Soc, New York, 1861. The author records tliree cases in wliich he operated in a somewhat novel manner. Alter cutting away the cervi.x by scissors, he brings the opposite edges of the vaginal mucous membrane together so as to cover the raw surface, securing them by silver sutures. The parts heal by (he first intention. In the reprinted edition of the paper six additional cases are related in which this procedure was adopted. Mayer, C.—On Amputation of Cancroid or Cauliflower Excrescence of the Cervix Uteri. Mou. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. 12, Tlie case of a patient set. 52 is related. The amputation was per- formed with curved scissors, and the cut surfaces touched with the hot iron. Greenhalgh, Dr.—On the Removal of the Cervix Uteri. Med, Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, 1861, p. 237. A case is related in which an hypertrophied cervix was amputated by the ecraseur. The patient did well. Wells, Spencer.—Lecture on some Remediable Causes of Sterility. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th, 1861, p. 601. After enumerating the various causes of sterility, the author alludes particulai'ly to the treatment of cases in which there is contraction of the canal of the cervix uteri. He recommends dilatation of the canal by means of Simpson's metrotome. In cases where this instrument cannot be introduced, the enlargement of the canal is to be effected by means of Coghlaa's probe-pointed knife. Rotter.—Case of Occlusion of the Os Uteri and Vagina in a Pregnant Woman, with the results of the same. Wien. Wochensch., i860, 15. Waller, Dr.—Induration of the Cervix Uteri; Uterine Leucorrhaa. Med. Circ, Feb. 6th, 1861. INFLAMaiATION AND TUBERCLE OF THE UTERUS. Tilt, Dr.—On the Antiphlogistic Treatment of Uterine Inflammation. Lancet, Jan. 12th, 1861, p. 31. In the treatment of uteriiie inflammation Dr. Tilt believes bloodletting to be frequently efficacious. The application of leeches, and the circum- stances under which they are indicated, are here discussed. Tilt, Dr.—Treatment of Uterine Inflammation by Injections, External Applications, Resolutives, Counter-irritants, Sedatives, Baths, and Dietetics. Lancet, Feb. 2nd, 1861, p. 106. Tl>e author gives a summary of his views on the treatment of uterine inflammation by the means jn question.863 DISEASES OP WOMEN. Tilt, Dr. —On the Treatment of Uterine Inflammation hy Nitrate of Silver and other substitutive agents. Laucet, Feb. 23rcl, 1861, p. 183. The author here discusses the treatment of uterine iufliimmation by- caustics, and lays down rules as to particular cases. He does not con- sider nitrate of silver a caustic at ail. Applied in dilferent ways, this agent is generally sufficient for the treatment, but in a certain number of cases the stronger are necessary. The author specially alludes to hypertrophy of the cervix as one of the conditions requiring " stronger caustics." Tilt, Dr.—On the Treatment of Uterine Inflammation by the Acid Nitrate of Mercury, Potassa fusa cum Calce, and Potassa caustica. Lancet, April 27th, 1861, p. 407. The author uses the Potassa fusa cum Calce in the majority of cases ; in a few cases the Potassa Caustica is considered necessary. The curative effect of the strong caustics is dependent on the healthy inflammatory action they set up. Tilt, Dr.—On the Dangers attending the use of Potassa fusa cum Calce and of Potassa caustica. Lancet, June 8th, 1861, p. ^56. The dangers alluded to are,—acute inflammation of the womb, flooding, pelvic abscess, partial or complete retention of the menstrual fluid, owing to agglutination of the opposite lips of the os, production of bridles of nodular tissue in the walls of the vagina, perforation of the vagina. These have resulted from the use of Potassa fusa cum Calce. These acci- dents occur, it is contended, only in very exceptional cases, and the author defends tiie use of this caustic on the ground that he feels obliged to try to cure patients by stronger remedies when milder measures fail. The author states that it is his belief that in most of the cases brought forward as instances of the injurious effects of caustic treatment, the Potassa caustica itself had been used. RoKiTANSKY, Prof.—Acute Tuberculization of the Puerperal Uterus ; Tubercles in the Ovaries. Wien. Med. Ztg., 21, i860. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 61. Tubercle of the uterus originates in the mucous membrane. Not rarely it shows itself on the site of the placenta after the cessation of the puer- peral process. It is not unfrequently primitive, but more often secondary. A case is related of a woman, set. 34, who, having miscarried at the eighth month, died three weeks afterwards. The uterus was the seat of acute tuberculization; lungs tuberculous. In another case related the ovaries were tuberculous. NEUEOSES ; SYMPATHETIC AFFECTIONS OF UTERUS. Tilt, Dr.—Ore the Treatment of Sickness in Uterine Inflammation and in Diseases of Menstruation. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author believes that nausea and vomiting are especially observed in connection with affections of the lining membrane of the uterus, as in- ternal metritis, whether chronic or acute, whereas these symptoms are rare if neck of uterus alone affected. Continued nausea is more fre-364. REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. quent than nctunl vomiting. The sickness is a reflex nervons pheno- menon. Uterine trentmcnt, as leeches to the womb or application of Potassa cnm Calce, sometimes checks the vomiting for a period. Besides the reguhir treatment of the nterine affection, it is necessary to adopt other remedial means. As a preliminary, a full dose of calomel once, with alterative doses of blue pill for a week or ten days after. The known remedies for sickness should then be tried. Other remedies, each of which the author has found very useful in particular cases, are, strychnine; solution of morphine in effervescing draughts ; blisters to the epigastrium, dressed with morphine; as a last resource, an issue to the pit of the stomach. When vomiting is protracted, a small quantity of food to be given frequently in the course of the day. Mayer, C.—Cure of Epilepsy pi-oceeding from the Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., 1861, p. 105. The treatment consisted in leeching the cervix uteri, application of nitrate of silver, &c., whereby the hypersemia and extreme sensibihty present were removed. Anciaux,—Nymphomania in a Woman sixty-one years old; its conse- quences; reflections, medico-legal and pathological, on this subject. Journ. de Me'd. de Brux., March, 1861, p. 249. MENORRHAGIA. Roche.—Menorrhagia occurring at the third menstrual period, and quickly fatal in a Girl aged seventeen; the Uterus empty, and-patient in a perfect state of health. Gaz. des Hop., Dec. 14th, 1861. NoURSE, "W. E.G.—On Uteri7ie Fluxes; their causes and consequences. Lancet, June 29th, 1861, p. 629. The author enumerates the fluxes from the ntero-vaginal tract as—(i) Menorrhagic discharges (excluding those of pregnancy or parturition). (2) Menstrual discharges, menorrhagia, and dysmenorrhoea. (3) Altered discharges, leucorrhoea. Examples of the different varieties of these are given. DYSMENORRHOEA. Tilt, Dr.—Clinical RemarJcs on the Exfoliation of Mucous Membranes from Ihe Womb and the Vagina during menstrual periods. Beale's Archiv., Oct. 9th, 1861, p. 26. , J ■ , The author relates a case in which a membrane resembling the decidua was passed every month, or nearly so, by a married lady the subject of dvsmcnorrlicea. A case of exfoliation from the vagina is also related. The author considers that exfoliation from the womb occurs as a comci- dence of uterine inflammation, that leeches are useful, that use of nitrate of silver is necessary. Wiien stricture of the womb is present dilatation is recommended. Tilt, Tir.—Case of Exfoliation of the entire Mucous Membrane of the Womb during Menstruation. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 149-DISEASES OF WOMEN. 365 CoGHLAN, Dr.—0?i Dtjsmenorrhoea and Sterilily. Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, 2861, p. 573. , . . . c p . • *■ e The author advises the treatment by incision of cases ot constriction ot the cervix uteri. He describes a probe-pointed metrotome which he has successfully employed for this purpose. The edges of the incision made are kept apart by a piece of sheet lead rolled in form of a tube. AMENOEEHCEA. Simpson, Prof.—Clinical Lecture on Super-involution of the Uterus and Amenorrhosa. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, Feb. i6th, and March 3oih, 1861, pp. 137, 163, 3215. The term super-involution of the uterus is used to designate that con- dition where the disintegrating process set up after delivery goes on to such an excessive degree as to reduce the organ to a size below the normal dimensions. The uterus is smaller and usually also more friable than it should be, and it is an occasional cause of amenorrhcea. Other causes of anienorrhcea are then considered—congenital malformation of the genera- tive organs, retarded menstruation, premature cessation of the menses, constitutional afi'ections, diseases of the organs of generation themselves. The semeiology of this disease is next considered. In addition to those symptoms more usually recognized, the author describes a peculiar form of dyspnoea—'"asthma uterinum" — as occasionally associated with amenorrhcea. Simpson, Prof.—On the Treatment of Amenorrhcea. Med. Times and Gaz., May iSth and June 15th, 1861, pp. 515 and 621. The author considers seriatim the symptomatic, the constitutional, and the specific treatment of amenorrhcea. Under the latter head are enume- rated emmenagogues, of which iron in the form of syrup of the perphos- phate is most recommended ; external applications, as cupping, leeches, baths; injections into the rectum or vagina. The local treatment is next discussed. This comprises applications of local emmenagogues, as pessa- ries, medicated or otherwise, to the vagina; applications to the interior of the uterus, as nitrate of silver to the cervix or interior of the body of the uterus; dry cupping of the interior of the uterus by a peculiar instru- ment; the wearing of intra-uterine pessaries composed of two metals, copper and zinc ; galvanic pessaries ; and the use of electricity and galva- nism in the ordinary form. Lastly, the author alludes to tlie treatment of amenorrhcea dependent on an undersized uterus, for the relief of which intra-uterine pessaries are recommended. RlZET.—On Iodine as an Hmmenagogue. Gaz. Hebd., Jan. 2';th, 1861. Three cases related in which iodine, internally absorbed, produced men- struation. Baillot.—New facts in relation to the employment of Apiol in the treat- ment of Amenorrhcea and Dysmenorrhoea. Bull, de Ther., 1861 vof. I, p. 217. In four cases this drug was very advantageously employed.JIEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 366 Gallico and Poggeschi.—Jpiol in the treatment of Amenorrhcea and Dysmenorrhoea. L'Impartial. (Florence) July, 1861. These observers find the remedy efficacious. FIBROUS TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS; UTERINE POLYPI. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—Fibroid Tumour of the Cervix Uteri. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The tumour, of very large size, was external to the vagina, which latter was everted, and the case resembled inversion of the uterus. The large mass was removed by transfixing the neck and tying by double iron-wire ligatures. It came away in five days, and the patient recovered. Brown, Baker.—On Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus treated by Sur- gical Means. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The cases considered are those in which intra-uterine fibrous tumours of the non-pedunculated form, grow from the interior of the uterus by a broad base. The author's practice consi^s in incising the os and cervix uteri, and then gouging out a portion of the tumour by means of an in- strument specially devised for the purpose, the remainder of the growth becoming then disintegrated and gradually expelled. Tins is done once, twice, or more, as may be required. Six cases in which these procedures were carried out are related. Beneficial results are stated to have followed iu four cases ; one had died of pyaemia, and one was still under treatment. The instruments used, devised by Mr. Harper, consist of a hollow tube of steel, with cutting knives, and within which is a hook which holds the tumour while the gouging is performed. Tanner, Dr.—A case of Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. There was a fibrous tumour in the posterior wall of the uterus, which gave rise to frequent dangerous haemorrhage, controlled best by mercurials to the extent of salivation. The patient finally died exhausted. There was a large cyst adherent to the fundus of the uterus, and close to it a smaller one. Habit, C.—On the inftuence of Tumours of the Sexual Organs on Pregnancy and Parturition. Wien. Zt., 41 and 42, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 314. The influence of these tumours (fibrous tumours, ovarian cysts) is very variable. Cases are related showing that sometimes they have no disturbing influence on pregnancy or delivery, while iu other instances the reverse is the case. Valenta, Prof.—Cotnplete Inversion of the Uterus and Vagina in con- sequence of the spontaneous expulsion of a large Fibrous Polypus. Wien. Med. Halle, 1861, 19. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 50. The polypus measured 21" in circumference. The pedicle was tied and then cut across, and the uterus and vagina replaced. The patient did well.DISEASES OF -VTOMEX. 367 Tanner, Dr.—On the Treatment of Intra-uterine Fibrous Tumours. Lon d. Med. Rev., July, 1861. The author relates six cases of fibrous tumour of the uterus growing into the cavity of the same, and of a more or less polypoid form. In the first case a fibrous tumour of eight years' duration, was removed, and the patient cured. A second case was also successful, the tumour being small. Ill the third case an attempt to remove the tumour failed, and death occurred. In the fourth a firmly attached tumour was successfully removed ; in the fifth an attempt to remove the tumour failed. In the last case death occurred from hsemorrhage, a small fibrous tumour being present, and no attempt at removal liaving been made. There was an external cystic growth present in this instance. LuMPE.—Unusual termination of a Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus. Wien. Aerzt. Zt., i860, 29. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861. The tumour, of considerable size, was observed gradually to diminish, and calcareous concretions from time to time escaped from the vagina. Harper, Philip.—Instruments for removing Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus. Lancet, March 23rd, 1861, p. 292. Latjnay.—Hypertrophic Elongation of the sub-vaginal portion of the Uterine Cervix, complicated ivith Fibrous T'umour. Gaz. des Hop., Aug. loth, 1861. RoKlTANSKY, Prof. — On new formation of Uterine Glands in Uterine and Ovarian Sarcoma. Ztsht. d. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, 37, i860. Rokitansky finds on the surface of polypi uterine glands, either en- larged or new formations : these may change into cysts, and between them the sarcomatous tissue grows. Lee, Dr. Robert.—Further obsei-vations on the Structure and Treatment of Uterine Polypi. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 73. A history is here presented of 105 cases of uterine polypi, being all which have ever come under the author's observation. Of ninety-three cases operated on, eight died and eighty-five recovered. The operation performed was that of applying a ligature round the pedicle of the polypus. The particulars and history of each case are given in a tabulated form. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews.—Large Uterine Polypus. Ed. Med. Journ., April, 1861, p. 954. The patient was single, set. 47. The tumour measured 5^" by 4!". It was removed by traction, the pedicle separating as the tumour was being drawn down. Smith, Dr. Tyler.—Instrument for the removal of Polypi in the Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. It is essentially the instrument of Gooch, but made of steel, and therefore much stronger and capable of carrying wire, which is used with it instead of cord. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—iVew Instruments for the removal of Uterine Polypi. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The principle of the instruments consists in the adaptation of rope maderepout on midwiferYj etc. 868 of annealed steel -wire to tlie shaft of a Fcrew (-crnseiir, the flexibility of the rope is thus combined with the strength of the chain. RoKiTANSKY, Prof.—On Abortion and Fibrinous Uterine Polypi. Wien. Zt., 33, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 310. The possible occasional origin of fibrinous polypi of the uterus in alterations of the membranes after abortion is here discussed. Sarell, Dr. R.—On the Excision of Polypi in the Cavity of the Uterus. Gaz. Med. d'Orient., iv, 2, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 311. In three successive operations the whole of an intra-uterine polypus of enormous size was removed by the scissors. The bleeding following the operations was inconsiderable. Greenhalgh, Dr.—On the Diagnosis and Treatment of Intra-uterine Polypus. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct., 12th, 1861, p. 373. The author relates a case in which a polypus was removed from the interior of the uterus by the ecraseur, the os uteri having been previously dilated by sponge-tents. Bbaun, Prof.— On Intra-uterine Placental Polypi. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., i860. Braun believes that a retained placenta is often the cause of formation of polypus-like bodies in the uterus. Cases and facts are related bearing on this question. Smith, Thomas.—A Fibro-muscular Polypus growing from the Uterus, and containing a Cyst and a small fatty Tumour. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 148. McClintock, Dr.—Polypus Uteri; Pudendal Scematocele. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., June i6th, 1861. ScHOLZ.— On Intra uterine Placental Polypi. Oesterr. Zt. f. prakt. Heilk., i860, 47. Schmidt, vol. 112, p., 189. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—Polypus of the Uterus removed by the Ecraseur. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Steiger.—Severe Metrorrhagia produced by the presence of an old Blood- coayulum in the Uterine Cavity. Verb. d. phys. m. Gesell. zn Wiirzb., 2 and 3, p. 243, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 311. The patient had been the subject of profuse menstruation following pneumonia. Hfemorrhage, which subsequently occurred, was found to be due to the presence of a clot forming a mould of the uterine cavity; this was removed, although with some difficulty. PEEI-TJTEIlIlSrE DISEASES. Trousseaxj, Prof.—On Hcematocele. L'Un., Dec, 1861, pp. $66, &c. Trousseau relates tiie case of a girl set. 16, who died on the nineteenth day of typhoid fever. On opening the abdomen, there were found reddish serosity'and a large hsematic cyst of the rigiit ovary which latter had pnrtuiily burst info the cavity. The hseniatic cyst was the size of a hen's egg, and con- tained a large clot. He then proceeds to discuss the subject of hcematoceleDISEASES OF WOMEN. 369 in general. He admits two great varieties—the one wliich has its origin in the ovary, the most rare ; and the other tuhal or cntamenial, which has its origin in the mucous membrane of the tnt)e or its free extremity, and •which'takes place at the moment of the menstrnal flow. In the case of obstrnction at the cervix, tliere may be reflux tliroiigli the tubes. A case is next related where the effusion of blood took place in the peri- uterine cellular tissue, and was sub-peritoneal, the_ ovary itself being diseased. The diagnosis of hsematocele is carefully pointed out. Haemor- rhage and peritonitis are the two sources of danger ; hsemorrhage is to be treated by hseuiostatics, local and general, use of ice, rhatany, sulphuric acid, ergot ; peritonitis by narcotics, stnpifying agents, opium, bellatlonna. Puncture is reprobated. MAnCE, Dr.—On Uterine Hcematucele. Obst. Trans., vol. iii (with plates). The author relates a case which proved fatal, and eives a full account of the history and of the post-mortem appearances. The patient, 8et. 24, had had three children, the youngest six yenrs old. The aitack began with violent hypogastric pain on the second day of menstrual period, a week after, while recovering she took a walk, during which, the discharge re- I appeared ; faiutness and extreme collapse set in ; peritonitic symptoms ; appearance of a large, tender abdominal tumour next noticed ; the tumour I filled the pelvis, pushing back the uterus and reacliing up to the umbilicus. I A few days later discharge of blood from rectum. At next menstrual period, anaemic condition, collapse, &c., again noticed, and following this phlegmasia dolens; after further profuse discharge of blood from rectum, exhaustion supervened, and death. A large cavity forming the hsematocele occupied the pelvis ; above, the intestines, matted together, formed limit of the cavity ; a large clot. The left ovarian capsule was distended and divided into two cells containing clots, and communicating with the : hsematocele cavity. There was much thickening of the broad ligaments I and lining of the pelvis. Both Fallopian tubes impervious ; an opening from the cavity of the hsematocele into the rectum at its upper tliird. The case was one of " intra-peritoneal" uterine hsematocele, produced by bleeding from the ovarian vessels at menstrual periods, and in which I operative measures would have been ineffectual. The differential diag- nosis of the affection is touched upon, the author expressing his belief that many cases pass under observation, but are not recognised as such, owing to the limited knowledge of the subject. PaiESTLEY, Dr.--Case of Pelvic Hematocele. Med. Times and Gaz,, Feb. i6th, 1861, p. 173. The patient was married, and had had a child. After rtienorrhagia of four Nveeks' duration, severe pain set in, profuse hsemorrhage, suppression of urine, and appearance of a swelling above the pubis. A tumour of large size was found in the pelvis behind the uterus. Hsemorrhage after- wards occurred from the rectum, the tumour gradually diminishing in size. The patient was reported as recovering. Hegar, Alfred.—A case of Feri-uterine Haematocele, with remarks on the' History and Diaynoiis of the Affection. Mon. f. Geb., June 1861, p. 418. ' IllEPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 370 The nge of the patient was eighteen ; recovery took place. The author considers it to have been a case of "hDcmulocele extra-peritonaealis peri-uterina." Magron, Martin, and Sovui.—Case of Pevi-uterine Hematocele com- municating with the Intestine and the Bladder. Gaz. des H6i> Feb. 2nd, 1861. The patient, set. 18, had been a mother at fourteen. Tiie attack came on during menstruation, the discharge then ceasing. Death. Max. —Case of Retro-uterine Haematocele. Jouni. de Brux., June, 1861, p. 567. Gauc iiET.—Retro-uterine licBmatocele. Gaz. des Hop., 105, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 196. DISEASES OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. Turner, William.—On Separation and Transplantation of the Ovary, due to atrophy of the Broad Ligament and Fallopian Tube; and on the spontaneous separation of sub-peritoneal Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861, p. 698. The case was that of a dissecting-room subject, set. 79. One of the ovaries was found attached to, and deriving its nourishment from, the omentum and peritoneum. The ovary was separated, the author supposes, in tills way:—Tiiere were formerly adhesions between the uterus and pelvis; the ovary had then undergone enlargement, and rising out of the pelvis had become finally separated from the uterus. The ovary in ques- tion was the seat of calcareous degeneration, and the Fallopian tube on that side was atrophied and filled with a cretaceous style. In the next place, a calcareo-fibroid tumour, the size of a walnut, was foiind attached to the bladder, and connected by a thin pedicle with the anterior surface of tiie uterus. The author gives the result of his yiquiries into the history of fibrous tumours of the uterus, founded on an examination of seventeen preparations. The uterine tissue of the upper part of the organ is espe- cially liable to be the seat of these tumours ; they have a great tendency to calcareous degeneration; they have considerable vascularity, the vessels, however, lying in spaces between the more compact portions ; if a sub-peritoneal tumour be attacked by inflammation of its outer surface, it may easily become separated from the uterus. RoKlTANSKY, Prof.—On Separation of the Fallopian Tubes from the Ovaries, and on strangidation of the latter by twisting on then- axes. Allg. Wien. Ztg., 2—4, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 306. The author here records a number of cases in which various—hitherto undescribed—alterations in the relations of the tubes and ovaries had taken place. They are classed as follows :—(i) Atrophy and separation of a tube due to dragging by its ovary (three cases). (2) The same thing produced by pseudo-membranous dragging (two cases). (3) Separation of the tube and ovary due to the latter cause (seven cases). (4) Strangu- lation and separation of the ovary and tube by axial twisting (six cases).871 DISEASES OE WOMEN. DISEASES OF THE OTABIES. Meadows, J)r—Inguinal Hernia of the Right Ovary successfully treated by Operation. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Corse, Dr.—Fungus nematodes, involving the Ovaries and Uterus, at the age of twelve years. Am. Med. Juurn., Jan., 1861, p. no. BoECKEL.—On Menorrhagic Cysts—a variety of Ovarian Cysts. Gaz. de Strasb., 1861, 5. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 47. Under this title the author distinguishes a tumour resulting from ovarian disease conjoined with obstruction in the Fallopian tube, the Graafian follicles emptying themselves into the ovarian cyst. The tumour so found incre?ises in size at the menstrual periods. A case is recorded in which a large tumour supposed to be of this character existed in the left ovary. Bertrand.—Case of Ovarian Cystic Disease tapped thirty-three times. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. The patient had been under treatment nine years, and then died. She was forty-eight ye.irs old when she first came under treatment. LowENHARDT.—Death after injection of an Ovarian Cyst with Iodine. Mon. f. Geb., Oct., i860, p. 241. The cyst was a large, simple one. The fluid allowed to remain four or five minutes only. There was much pain from the first moment of injection, and death took place in fourteen hours. A small quantity only of the injected fluid was found in the fluid external to the cyst. Death is attributed to the shock to the nervous system. Davies, Dr., and Curling, T. B.—Case of Ovarian Dropsy, treated by the Injection of Iodine; subsequent evacuation into the rectum, Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, 1861, p. 143. Wells, Spencer.—Ovarian Cyst, luhich pi'oved fatal by spontaneous rupture. Trans. Path.Soc, vol. xii, p. 155. Hunter, John.—Report of a case of Ovarian Disease combined with Pregnancy ; tumour got rid of by discharge from the bowel. Lancet, Jan. 26th, 1861, p. 83. Barry, Dr. Milner.—OyarzawDz-o^wy; rupture of the Cyst internally; case. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th, 1861, p. 30. Bristowe, Dr.— Ovarian Tumour ; discharge of contents into Abdominal Cavity ; condition of Peritoneum simulating Colloid Cancer. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 150. The left ovary was much diseased, and contained several cysts, some of which had become ruptured, others ready to rupture; the abdomen con- tained much jelly-like matter. The author takes occasion to observe that there is, contrary to what is usually supposed to be the case, a great tendency in ovarian tumours to undergo spontaneous rupture, and that such rupture is exceedingly common. N^laton, Prof—0»i Ovariotomy. L'Un., Nov. 30th and Dec. 7th, 1861. Nclaton describes in a clinical lecture the operation of ovariotomy asheport on midwiferYj etc. 87a practised in London by Mr. Baker Brown, and witnessed by liimself. He urges the propriety of adopting the operation in Franee. Success has attended the operation in England because the conditions under wiiicU the patients are placed are the best, the patients operated on being kept in snn\ll hospitals, free from the vitiating influence peculiar to the atmo- sphere in large hospitals. He urges the establishment of small hospitals in the environs of Paris for sucii operations as ovariotomy. Smitit, Dr. Tylek.—Ovariotomy, with cases; and remarks on the different steps of the operation and causes of its mortality. Obst. Trans., vol. lii. The author justifies the operation on account of the favorable compari- son whicli can be made between the mortality from it and that from other capital operations. The results of other modes of treatment of ovarian cystic diseases were shown to be very unsatisfactory. The author relates four cases in all of whicii the operation was successfully performed. The short incision was employed, the cysts tapped and brought out at the wound. Opium was given sparingly, stimulants on the third or fourth day, in absence of inflammatory symptoms. Especial care was exercised to prevent the operation of miasmatic or contagious influence. The ligature, not the clnmp, was employed. Shock or collapse are the cause of death in 17 per cent, of the fatal cases. Hence it is important to operate before a state of exhaustion has been reached. Breaking down of adbesions of extensive character alone necessarily produces dangerous shock. Haemor- rhage has been fatal in 16 per cent, of the deaths from ovariotomy. This would be prevented by exercise of care in applying the ligature. The liga- ture should not be left till all bleeding has ceased, and the pedicle should always be transfixed. Peritonitis kills 43 per cent, of the cases as yet recorded unsuccessful. This is due, the author believes, to miasmatic or contagious influence, which can be prevented, and does not necessarily belong to the operation. The peritonitis is like puerperal fever, and is due to some poison introduced from without. ' This explains the fact that the operation has been far less favorable in general hospitals. Each patient should be treated as we should guard a lying-in woman. Smith, Dr. Tyler.—Four additional cases of Ovariotomy. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. This is an appendix to the former paper. Three out of these four patients recovered. In one case, where recovery took place, the course was adopted of returning the stump and ligature, after cutting it oft' as closely as possible, into the abdomen, and closing the wound entirely. Wells, Spencer.— Three cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, 1861, p. 545. In the first case the operation was successfully performed on a patient, -single, set. 22, with a large, mullilocular cyst of four years' growth. In the second, on a patient, set. 55, also successfully. In the third case, that of a married woman, set. 42, a large compound cyst was removed, but the patient died twenty-four hours after. In the latter case seven pints of a very irritating serum were found in the abdomen, and the author expresses his opinion that where such a secretion is formed it should beDISEASES OF WOMEN. 373 allowed to escape by means of an opening made for the purpose ratlier than run the risk of its being absorbed. In conclusion, the author dis- cusses the question of the propriety of operating at all in what may be termed "unfavorable" cases^ Wells, Spencek.—7%ree cases of Ovariotomy. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. In two of these cases recovery followed the operation ; in one, death. Wells, Spencer. —Ovarian Cysts and Tumours removed by Ovariotomy. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 156. Specimens from seven cases in which ovariotomy was performed are here described. The cases themselves are related in ' Med. Times and Gaz.' for i860 and 1861. Wells, ^v&^c-e.^.—Compound Ovarian Cyst; ovariotomy; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, 1861, p. 145. Wells, Spenceb.—Five cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd, 1861, p. 528. These cases include cases No. 25 to 29 inclusive, of this operator. The first case of the five was an unfavorable one for operation, and ter- minated fatally four days after. The second died on the second day. The third and fourth cases made perfect recoveries; the fifth died. Wells, Spencer.—On the Treatmeiit of large Ovarian Cysts and Tumours. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 21st, 28th, 1861, pp. 656, 679. The author gives the conclusions at which he has arrived respecting the treatment of these cases of oviirian disease. When the cysts or tumours are so large as to seriously interfere with health and comfort, and when ordi- nary medical or palliative treatment is of no avail, the average duration of life does not, under such circumstances, exceed two years. In specific treatment the autlior has no confidence. When surgical aid is required we are to be guided by the nature and connexion of the tumour in se- lecting one or other of the following methods :—Simple tapping through the abdominal wall, through the vagina, or through the rectum; tapping, followed by pressure; tapping and formation of a permanent subcutaneous opening in the cyst-wall, or formation of a permanent opening through the skin, vagina, or rectum ; incision ; tapping, fol- lowed by injection of iodine; and ovariotomy. The respective value and dangers of each of these procedures is then canvassed. Tapping is not free from danger. Injection of iodine seems chiefly advisable where the cyst is a single, large one, and where simple tapping has proved useless, and where ovariotomy is forbidden. The author has constructed an in- Btrument by means of which entry of air before or during the injection vith iodine is absolutely prevented, and one source of danger removed. A watery solution (20 gr. of iodine and 30 of iodide of potassium in I oz. of water) is preferred to the alcoholic. Ovariotomy is a danger- ous operation, but it is, the author contends, quite as favorable in its results as many other capital operations. When a cyst is single, it should not be performed until simple tapping, or tapping and iodine, have both bejen tried. The total number of cases in which ovariotomy was performed by the author is thirty; of these, nineteen recovered, eleven874 BEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC, died. The precautions to be taken in performing the operation are next enumerated, and great importance is attached to tlieir due observance. Clay, Dr. Charles.—Ovariotomij and its Results. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug., 1861, p. 157, and Nov. p. 201;. The author here gives a retrospect of liis operations from 1842 to the present time. Respecting the question as to the propriety of tlie opera- tion, he believes that, with the single exception of cases where a single large cyst is present—which he would treat by tapping and iodine injec- tion—all other methods than that of ovariotomy are futile, and some of them dangerous. The etiology and the pathology of ovarian cystic disease are next discussed, and the differential diagnosis of ovarian from other tumours pointed out. The whole number of cases operated on by Dr. Clay was 104; of these, 97 were under his treatment throughout, the others not so entirely. The deaths were 32, the recoveries 72. Alto- gether, the author thinks we cannot reasonably hope to extend our success beyond 70 per cent. Brown, Baker.—Five cases of Ovariotormj. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Of the five cases one had died, one was cured. The other three cases were doing well. Brown, Baker.—Ovariotomy. Lancet, April 6tb, 1861, p. 343. Four cases of ovariotomy are related, in three of which recovery took place. Brown, Baker.—Seven examples of Ovarian Tumour in which Ova- riotomywas successful. Lancet, Nov. 20th, 1861, p. 521. The success obtained is considered to be to some extent dependent on the course of preparatory treatment here carried out, consisting of warm baths twice a week for three weeks prior to operative measures, and the administration of the tincture of arnica and muriated tincture of iron during the same period, with attention to the general health. GiBB, Dr., for Mr. Baker Brown.—Polycystic Ovarian Tumour of right side, and Fibrous Tumour of left side successfully removed from the same patient at one operation. Trans. Path. Soc, vol, xii, p. 154. Borlase Childs.—Unilocular Ovarian Tumour in a Woman who had borne six children; ovariotomy; recovery. Lancet, Nov. 30th, 1861, p. ^21 ; andMed. T. and Gaz., Nov. 2nd, 1861. Miller, Dr. Henry.—^ case of Ovariotomy. North Am. M.-C. Rev., March, 1861, p. 112. (Patient recovered.) NUNN, T. W.—Ovariotomy; death from hemorrhage and peritonitis. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. ptli, 1861, p. 143, and Lancet, Jan. 12th, 1861. Qoov^Vi.—Ovariotomy ; death. San Francisco Med. Press, Jan., 1861. Davies, Dr., and Curling, T. ^.— Unilocular Ovarian Tumour at one time associated tvith Pregnancy; ovariotomy; death from pento- nitis on the third day. Lancet, Nov. 30th, 1861, p. 519, and Med. Times and Gaz., April 6th, 1861, p. 363. Keiller, Dr.—Case of Ovariotomy {fatal). Ed. Med. Journ., July. 1861, p. 91.375 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Maunder.—Pohjeystic Ovarian Tumours, noticed six months; ovario- tomy; recovery. Lancet, Nov. 30th, 1861, p. 520, aad Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. and, 1861, p. \SS- Barnes, Dr., and Critciiett, My .—Suppurated Cyst in the Abdomen ; removal of a ball of hair; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz,, Dec. 14th, 1861, p. 608. A woman who had had children, presented a tumour the size of a child's head at the left side of the abdomen, above the groin; fistulous openings near the umbilicus. Hairs and pus were discharged from the openings. The fistula was enlarged ; a mass of hair and much fetid pus removed ; the woman recovered. This is considered to have been a case of suppuration of an ovarian hair-growing cyst. Barnes, Dr., and Hutchinson, Jon.—Unilocular Ovarian Tumour, ad- herent to the abdominal toalls ; ovariotomy ; fatal result on the nine- teenth day. Lancet, Nov. 30th, 1861, p. 522, and Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 2nd, 1861, p. 455. Hutchinson, Jonathan. — Ovarian Dropsy; ovariotomy; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th, 1861, p. 31, and Lancet, Nov. 30th, 1861, p. 522. In this case a violent attack of retching occurred on the fourth day; the central part of the wound gave way, and prolapse of a portion of the omentum occurred, the pins having been removed the previous day. The case, nevertheless, did well. Hicks, Dr. Braxton, and Bryant, Thos.—Polycystic Ovarian Tumour, previously treated by tapping and injection of iodine; ovariotomy ; death in twenty-seven hours. Lancet, Nov. 30th, i86i, p. 520; also Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, 1861. Hicks, Dr. Braxton, and Forsteu, T. Cooper.—Case of Ovariotomy; death; autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 2nd, 1861, p. 454, July pth, 1861. Erichsen, Prof.—Ovariotomy ; death on the fourth day. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. pth, 1861, p. 143, and Lancet, Jan. 12th, x86i. Hamilton, Dr. Frank H.— Case of Ovariotomy. Am. Med. Times, April 2otb, 1861. The patient died. Bennett, E. P. and W. C.—Ovariotomy successfully performed on a Lady seventy-five years old. Am. Med. Times, Aug. loth, 1861. Cooper.—Ovariotomy successfully performed. Cine. Lane, and Obs., 1861, No. I. Roberts, Dr. D. L.—Pseudo-colloid Ovarian Tumour, weighing twenty- eight pounds, in which the operation of ovariotomy was performed successfully. Dub. Quart. Journ., Feb., 1861, p. 43. DISEASES, ETC., OV VAGINA, BLADDER, AND EXTERNAL GENERATIVE ORGANS. GuERiN, Alph.—On Fulvitis. Gaz. des Hop., Sep. loth, i2lh, 1861.376 REPORT OX MlDWIl'JiRY, KTC The diagnosis of vulvitis from syphilitic and other affections of the vulva is very fully pointed out. Thibieuge.—Vegetations of the Genitals during Pregnancy. Gaz. Hebd Feb. 8th, 15th, 1861. The vegetations appear on the external genitals, and are liable to be con- founded with syphilitic excrescences, LoiiENT.—Case of "Lupus Hypertrophicus" of the Vulva. Mou. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 350. The treatment finally adopted was amputation ; a cure was obtained. Martin.—Case of " Lupus Exulcerans" of the Vulva; cured. Mon. f Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 348. The patient's age was twenty-five. Fuming nitric acid was applied under chloroform inhalation, and subsequently solution of nitrate of silver. Mayer, L.—Clinical observations on the development of Cancroids of the Female Sexual Organs. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 241. PUECH, A.—On Atresia of the Genital Passages in Women, and the results of the same. Comptes Rend., Dec. 9th, i86i, p. 1066. In 258 cases analysed, rupture from distension by menstrual fluid oc- curred in eighteen cases ; in fifteen others the Fallopian tubes became dilated, and in five of these also rupture occurred. Patry.—Complete absence of the Vagina, with presence of normal Uterus; two operations; cure. Gaz. des Hop., 18, 1861. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 186. The patient was seventeen; the uterus was felt from the rectum, dis- tended with fluid ; no vagina. Below the meatus urinarius the mucous membrane was slightly incised, and by means of the index-finger a boring process persevered in at this situation at intervals during eleven days, at the end of which an artificial vagina, three centimetres long, was pro- duced. This orifice was enlarged by sponge-tents, and a trochar then plunged into the fluctuating tumour. The menstrual secretion then escaped ; a severe attack of metro-peritonitis followed, but was recovered from. Some months later the closure of the os uteri necessitated a second operation. The patient has been married eight years, but has not been pregnant. Menstruation is regularly performed. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Congenital absence (?) of Vagina ; retention of Menses; puncture by the rectum; great relief. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 164. The vagina was natural as far as the hymen j no passage could be found above this point. Hicks, Dr. 'QvLh.yiTon.—Retention of Menses from imperforated Hymen; operation ; recovery. Med. Timesand Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 163. Long. — Operation for imperforate Vagina ; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 12th, 1861, p. 378. The patient was seventeen years old, well-developed, the vagina very377 DISEASES OF WOMEN. short, the uterus large and full of menstrual blood. The vagina was first lengthened a little by cutting and by use of tents ; a trochar was then used, and the uterus emptied. Subsequently, it appeared that the uterus had been opened behind the cervix, for the patient afterwards menstruated per rectum. Recovery perfect, Bx-RBiEm.— Conffenital Atresia of the Vagina, with probable absence of the Uterus and Ovaries. Gaz. Hebd., Sep. 27th, 1861, from Bull, delle Sc. Med. Breasts well developed ; mons Veneris prominent, covered with hairs. No menstruation or supplementary hfemorrhages. Patient aged twenty- seven. Vagina entirely absent. Geaf.—Atresia of the Vagina, with abnormal Me7istrual-path. Virch. Arch., i860. Brit, and F. M.-C. Rev., April, 1861, p. 550. Sims, Dr. Mabion.—On Vaginismus. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Under this term the author designates an involuntary spasmodic closure of the mouth of the vagina: the parts are so extremely sensitive as to ojffer an almost insuperable obstacle to intercourse. Cases are related in which the affection was present, and in which the treatment adopted and recommended was successful. It consists in removal of the hymen, incision, and subsequent dilatation of the vaginal orifice. Debout.—On Spasmodic Contraction of the Vaginal Sphincter, and its treatment. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, p. 110. Debout relates particulars of cases which he has observed, and quotes others. His conclusions are:—(i) That spasmodic contraction of the vaginal sphincter must be admitted as one of the diseases to which the vulva is liable. (2) That after removing the cause dilatation is the proper treatment, although the cutting operation is more speedy. (3) Bladders of caoutchouc are the best means of dilatation. (4) If the sphincter be divided, it should be done on both sides, near the vulvar commissure. Debout.—Further remarks on the Spasmodic Contraction of the Sphincter of the Vagina, with neto cases. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, p. 300. MiCHON.—On a rather rare and generally little-recognised Affection of the Vaginal Orifice. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, p. 154. The author relates eleven cases in which extreme sensibility and con- traction of the vulvar orifice existed. A simple operation was successful, consisting of incising the vulva near the commissure in three places, in- serting a tent, and maintaining the dilatation for some days. Simpson, Prof.—Painful Muscular and Fascial Contractions along the Vaginal Canal—Vaginodynia. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, 1861, p. 594^ Appia.—On Hypertrophy of the Clitoris; case cured by ligature in twenty-four days. Journ. de Brux., Aug., 1861, p. 14a. The patient was fifty-eight years old; the tumour, of very considerable size, had been growing for ten years. It was removed by a combined process of cutting and tying. Cabadec —CmWom* ca«e of Fibro-plast.ic Tumour of the Clitoris, in a young woman cet. 24 years; removal. L'Un., Oct. 17th, 1861.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 378 The tumour was of very considerable size, and was re noveJ by lli knife and scissors. The patient did well. Pollock, G.— Tumour near the Meatus Urinarius of a Female ; removal. Lancet, Aug. 24th, 1861, p. 183. HuNTEii, John.—On Irritation of the Urethra in Females. Lancet, May 18th, 1861, p. 480. The author relates three cases as examples of an affection not, as far as he knows, particularly described in books. The chief symptoms are —in- continence of urine or frequent desire to pass water ; much irritation along the urethra and pain, the orifice and canal of the urethra red, con- gested and tender. Alteratives, rest, astringent injections, and the use of the catheter, were found successful in removing the affection. Curling, T. B.—Stricture of the Female Urethra caused by Injury in Child-birth ; cured by dilatation. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, 1861, p. 188. RoSER.—Incontinence of Urine in a young Woman, due to congenital Epis- padias, cured by an operation, Wurzb. Corr. Bl., 1861, 20. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 47. The clitoris was represented by two small, warty prominences ; the urethral orifice was very large, and the upper and anterior portion of the canal wanting. The patient, set. 18, had had incontinence from birth. A plastic operation was performed with the object of bringing the sepa- rated parts together; the result was perfectly successful. Hewett, Prescott.—Case of Vaginal Hernia. Brit. Med. Journ., Sep. 7th, 1861, p. 254. Paget, James.—Profise Vaginal Hcemorrhage of tivo years' standing ; Fibrous Tutnour of the Vagina; enucleation ; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 161. The tumour was larger than a hen's egg,'hard, fibrous, situated in front of the os uteri, beneath the mucous membrane of the vagina. Letenneur.—Muscular Tumour of the Vagina. Gaz. des H6p., 83, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 49. The tumour was the size of a hen's egg, attached to the anterior wall of the vagina, in a woman set. 40. It was easily removed. Martin, Prof.—Case of isolated Caiicer of the Vagina. Mon. f. Geb., May, 1861, p. 321. The patient died, set. 25. Verneuil.—Malignant Tumour of Vagina, removed by the Ecraseur. Gaz. des Hop., Sep. 21st, 1861. M'Clintock, Dr.—Removal of a large Vesical Calculus during Preg- nancy. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., March 15th, 1861, p. 82. The urethra was dilated under chloroform, and a mulberry calculus, two inches and a half round in its smallest circumference, extracted, in the seventh month of pregnancy. The case did well.DISEASES OF WOMEN. 379 Wells, Spencer.—Fma^e Bladder showing the results of Retention of Urine after Delivery. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The coats of the bladder were loose iu the cavity; a mass composed of the whole of the mucous membrane detached was found. It was con- sidered tliat death occurred, and these results followed, in consequence of the catheter not having been sufficiently promptly used. Wells, Spenceb.—^ Cast of the Female Bladder. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Sims, Dr. Marion.—Clinical Lecture on the Operations for Fesico-vaginal Fistula, delivered at La Charite Hospital, Paris. Gaz. Hebd., Nov. 22nd, 1861. The principal points insisted on by the author are—that the best posi- tion for the patient is the lateral, that the edges of the fistula should be well pared, that the sutures should be numerous. BozEMAN.—Urethro-vaginal, Vesico-vaginal, and Recto-vaginal Fistulce, ^c. New Orleans, i860. The results of treatment by wire sutures in thirteen cases, are here re- corded. A permanent closure was obtained in nine out of these. Wells, Spenceb.—Lecture on Vesico-vaginal and Recto-vaginal Fistula. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 31st, Sept. yth and 14th, 1861, pp. 223, 256, 275. The author describes the various instruments and manoeuvres which have been used for the closure of these fistulae. The use of the simple wire suture, without clamps or bars, the avoiding injury to the mucous membrane of the bladder, the bevelling of the edges of the newly made raw surface, careful after-treatment,—these are the points insisted on. The lecture is copiously illustrated by woodcuts. Brown, Baker.—On Fesico-vaginal Fistida. Lancet, Nov. 23rd, 1861, p. 494. The method pursued of late by this operator for the cure of vesico- vaginal fistula is here described. Clamps and buttons are rejected, and the only apparatus used to maintain the apposition of the pared surfaces is the wire simply twisted round by the fingers or by the forceps. Seven additional cases form the subject of this paper, of which five were cured by the first operation. Duncan, Dr. Matthews.—The Operation for Fesico-vaginal Fistida. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, 1861, p. 520. Great and unnecessary complications have been introduced into the operation. The operation consists simply in paring the edges of the fistulous opening, uniting them by interrupted silver sutures, and keeping the bladder empty of urine until union has taken place. The duck-bill speculum and the sigmoid catheter are recommended. CoLLis, Maurice II.—Further Remarks upon a new and successful mode of treatment for Fesico-vaginal Fistula. Dubl. Quart. Journ., May, 1861, p. 302. '380 REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. The author's method consists in separation by dissection of tiie margins of the fistula all round, so aa to 8e])arate the septum into two portions, before applying the sutures. For sutures thread is used, double, and tightened over a piece of vulcanized india-rubber cord on each side. Tiie object of the separation of the septum is to procure a large raw surface. Ten cases of operation by the author are related; of these, three were cured by his own method, two were under treatment, in one partial closure effected, in one failure after Bozeman's operation had been per- formed : in two others, cure almost, but not quite, complete. Jackson, Edward.—On a Cure of Vesico-vayinal Fistula. Lancet, June 15th, 1861, p. ^Sj. The fistula lay deep, iron-wire sutures and leaden clamps were used. The wound sloughed. A second operation was also ineffectual. After a third operation, the aperture having at that time become much smaller, a cure was obtained. Lane, James.—On Plastic Operations on the Vagina and Ferinceum ; illustrated by cases. Lancet, Jan. 12th, 1861, p. 37. Mr. Lane records the histories of five cases of vesico-vaginal, recto- vaginal, and urethro-vaginal fistula, adding practical remarks upon each. FOUCHER.—Two Fistulce, one Utero-vesico-vaginal, the other Fesico- urethi-o-vaginal, in one Patient; cure by the American method {Boze- man's). L'Un., April, 1861, p. 6. JoBEUT (de Lamballe).— Vesico-utero-vuginul Fistula, cured in fifteen days. Gaz. des Hop., April a3rd, 1861. James, John.—Successful Operation for the cure of Vesico-vaginal Fistula with Iron-wire Suture. Lancet, Oct. 19th, 1861, p. 371. Merger Alder, Dr. J.—Three cases of Vesico-vaginal Fistula success- fully treated by Sims's method. Am. J. Med. Sc., July, 1861, P- 58. Leishman, Dr.—Cases of Vesico-uterine Fistula ; with an analysis of a calculus found in the os uteri. Glasg. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p. 314. After remarking on the great rarity of the lesion, and alludmg to cases recorded by others, the author relates a case in which a few days after a very severe labour incontinence of urine was noted. Lying on the side the patient could retain the urine for a quarter of an hour, but when on the back it came away incessantly. The fistulous opening remained for a considerable time, but at the end of a year the incontinence had quite ceased, a natural cure having resulted. A case is then related in ■which Dr. J. G. Wilson removed a calculus from the os uteri which im- peded delivery. There had been incontinence previously, and the calculus, on analysis, was found to be composed chiefly of ammoniaco-magnesiaa phosphate and phosphate of lime.DISEASES OF WOMEN. 381 DISEASES OF THE BUEAST. NuNN, T. W.—On Inflammation of the Breast and Milk Abscess, with an analysis of seventy-two cases. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Fifty-eight of the seventy-two cases occurred during lactation, seven during pregnancy, and seven in women neither pregnant nor lactating. Of the first series the larger proportion, j6 per cent., occurred during the first two months of lactation; during the next seven months only 14 per cent., but after the ninth month 29 per cent. ; thus there is evi- dently a special proneness to the disorder brought about by over-lactation. The latter point it is the author's object specially to substantiate. The hyper-lactation cases were cases marked by presence of physical and mental lethargy, drowsiness, constipation, dyspepsia, &c. The author found each breast equally liable, but that the lower lobes were twice sis often affected as the upper ones. As regards treatment, the author repro- bates continuous poultices, admitting their occasional beneficial effect where there is great pain present. The recumbent position is of first importance. Belladonna had not given encouraging results. As to incision, the moment for making it should be vigilantly watched for ; the opening should be only large enough to ensure sufficient evacuation of the abscess. Galvanism of low intensity he had found especially use/ul in the treatment of sinus and painful oedema. Abegg (Dantzic).—The Uterine Douche in the treatment of Galactor- rhcea. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, i860, p. 424. In two cases, after the uterine douche (warm) had been used for some days, menstruation occurred, and the secretion of milk ceased. Gairdneu, Dr. A. K.—Lecture on Lactatics. Am. Med. Times, Jan. 12th, 1861, p. 19. This is a systematic account of " galactics," or promoters of lactation, and " anti-galactics." Under the first head the author refers to liquid food, stimulants, fceniculum, ricinus, and jatropha curcas. Under the second head, belladonna, conium, iodide of potassium, salvia, camphor, and some other less active agents. Medicines are also referred to which act as " e.xpellers" of milk, and also those which act as " dispersers" of milk. Uee, Alex.—Irritable Tu7nour of the Breast; absorption under the use of bichloride of mercury. Lancet, March 30th, 1861, p. 316. Walton, IIaynes.—Cawcer of the Female Breast, with Ulceration; operation; long immunity from recurrence of the disease. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 14th, 1861, p. 632. MooKE, C. H.—Development of a Cyst in front of a Scirrhous Tumour of the Breast; removal, together with diseased axillary glands. Lancet, April 20th, 1861, p. 387.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 883 DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILD-DED. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. M'Clin TOCK, Dr.—Hemarks on the Semeiological Value of the Pulse in Child-bed. Dubl. Quart. Journ., May, 1861, p. 257. The author points out those cases which form exceptions to tlie general rule that, when the pulse is not above 80, the patient is going on favorably, and that a pulse of 100 or upwards indicates danger. Where ergot has been giveu in quantity, the pulse is less frequent by ten or twelve beats. In the early stage of metritis, occasionally, the pulse ex- hibits no advance in frequency. It is sometimes lowered by an ap- proaching rigor. In pyaemia, although rapidity of pulse is constant, the pulse sometimes falls temporarily very low from extreme exhaustion. With reference to cases where the pulse is rapid, and yet the patient is not dangerously ill, the author mentions three classes of cases ; those in which the acceleration is—i, transient; 2, temporary; 3, permanent. Temporary rapidity is often due to sleeplessnes or improper use of stimu- lants. Rapidity of more permanent character is noticed after hsemorrhagic losses, inordinate use of tea, soreness of the nipples ; sometimes, when there is valvular disease of the heart; from mental disturbances and other causes. Webtheimer, Max.—On the Physiological Relations of the Lochial Se- cretions. Yirch. Arch., 1861, 21, p. 314. In eighteen cases the lochial secretion was examined from day to day microscopically, chemically, and otherwise. The results of the observa- tions made are here related. At first the lochial secretion consists of blood with loose clots; after the first day begins an exudation of serous nature, mixed with vaginal mucus and blood, the lochia rubra; or whitish red, the lochia serosa ; the first of the two lasts two or three days, the second, until the third, fourth, or even fifth days. After the third day the secretion contains many flakes, has a peculiar smell, and an alkaline reaction. From the fifth to the seventh or eighth day the secretion is still in part serous. Afterwards it becomes a greenish yellow, white or grayish, and its reaction is neutral or acid. The peculiar smell is almost constant after the fourth or fifth day. Cylindrical epithelium was not detected, con- trary to Scherer's statement. The trichomonas vaginalis occasionally present. HuTER, V.— On Prolapsus of the Uterus in Pregnant Women and during Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Sep., i860, p. 186, and Oct., p. 259. Prolapsus may occur at the early part of pregnancy, then spontaneously righting itself or requiring artificial assistance. It may occur in the latter half of pregnancy, or it may occur during labour. Of sixty-nine cases of prolapsus of the gravid uterus, ten were in primiparse and twenty-seven ia multiparse. In fourteen cases the prolapsus first occurred during labour; in eight of these, however, there had been prolapsus before pregnancy took place. In eight cases premature delivery took place, and in two death resulted from incarceration of the uterus, the result of the prolapsus.383 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Artificial help -was generally necessary to complete the delivery, the di- latation of the 08 uteri taking an unusually long time. Reduction of prolapsus during pregnancy should always be attempted and usually succeeds. Pessaries to retain the uterus in situ are to be used. In no case did the use of a pessary bring on premature labour. If reduction cannot be effected, a suspensory bandage to be worn. If strangulation occur, premature labour to be artificially induced. Attempt to reduce prolapsus occurring during labour succeeded six times. Incisions of the os uteri are necessary in a certain proportion of cases of the latter kind in order to expedite delivery. Meissneb, E. a.—On Rheumatism of the Gravid Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. 39. After a preliminary historical examination of the subject, the author relates a case which came under his observation, the subject of which was a patient aged twenty-four. Tbe affection is, he believes, a sensorial and motorial neurosis of the uterus produced by peripheric irritation of cold. The case was treated by repeated warm applications to the abdomen, and small doses of ipecacuanha and opium. PiGEOLET.—On Peritoneal Dropsy as a complication of Pregnancy, Journ. de Brux., Oct., i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 52. The prognosis in such cases is very much more unfavorable when the effusion occurs at the early part of pregnancy for the first time. The general ti-eatment indicated depends on the condition causing the dropsy. Tapping may become necessary as a local measure. The several methods of performing this operation are then described. Gauchet.—Idiopathic Contraction of the Extremities during Pregnancy. L'llnion, 98, 99, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 55. Liz^.—On the Lumbo-abdominal Neuralgia of Pregnancy. Gaz. dea Hop., April 23rd, 1861. EXCESSIVE VOMITING IN PIIEGNANCY. Turner, Dr. W. M.—On Vomiting in Pregnancy; considered especially in regard to Etiology. Am. Med. Times, March i6th, 1861. The pressure exercised by the gravid uterus on the blood-vessels is, the author believes, the cause of the vomiting. Perkin.—Case of Irrepressible Vomiting due to the presence of a "Mole degeneration." L'Un., Feb. 1861, p. 444. Ferrand.—On obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. L'Uuion, 58, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 197. Two cases are related in which cure followed, in one case application over the stomach of Vienna paste and tincture of iodine, and in the other of moxas. AuBENAS.—Case of obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Gaz. de Strasb. 6, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 197. * In this case artificial abortion was induced, but the patient died the operation having been, in the author's estimation, too long deferred. 'itEPORT ON midwifehy, etc. 384 PUEEPERAL FEVEU, PUERPERAL PERITONITIS, PULEGMASIA DOLENS, PUERPERAL THROMBOSIS, ETC. Semmelaveis.—The Etiology, Nature, and Prophylaxis of Child-bed Fever. 8vo, Pesth, 1861, pp. 1539. This elftboratc work contains data collected from all available sources respecting puerperal fever, the statistics and mortality of lying-in hos- pitals, &c. The author's opinion is that puerperal fever arises from in- troduction of putrescent matter into the system, the origin of the infecting materies being various. All the facts observed by the author go to prove that the disease is produced by infection from putrescent matters, intro- duced by means of the finger into the genital passages or conveyed by the air of the chamber. In Pesth the disease was produced by handling of the genital passages of parturient women after performance of surgical operations ; two epidemics which occurred later were produced by use of towels unwashed and impregnated with blood and discharges. The author considers the disease to be a " resorption-fever," the infection being in by far the majority of cases introduced from without, and that in ouly a very few cases is the individual herself the producer of the infecting material. Child-bed fever is thus a variety of pyaemia. To a more accurate appre- ciation of this fact the author attributes the more favorable results obtained in the lying-in hospitals in England than in those on the Continent. The placing a large number of lying-in women in one chamber is in the highest degree favorable to the production of the puerperal miasma. West, Dr. Uvedale.—Illustrations ofPuerperal Diseases. Glasg. Med. Jours., April, July, October, 1861, and Jan., 1862. (Published separately, 8vo, London, Churchill.) The author first alludes to the view expressed by Cazeaux, that in puerperal fevers we have a disease presenting itself with the most varied lesions, that we usually have with it an ansejnic and even uraemic con- dition present, and that it is in the blood that we must seek the point de depart of puerperal diseases. A large number of cases, seventy-one in all, which occurred under the author's observation are then related in detail. These are arranged in groups, and are intended to illustrate to some extent, the truth of the position taken up by Cazeaux. The first group described are cases of cerebral excitement and disorders of mind in the puerperal state regarded as a variety of puerperal fever. Other groups are,—illus- trations of the pyogenic diathesis; salutary elimination of a materies morbi; diarrhoea as a variety of puerperal fever; puerperal fever regarded as a sthenic disease, &c. The groups so arranged melt insensibly one into the other, although each are distinguished by certain salient features, and hence the proof of the oneness of the disease. But although nearly all puerperal febrile aflfections are one disease, the author emphatically insists on the fact that the various manifestations of that disease require V rying and shifting methods of treatment, the main distinction to be made being that between the sthenic and the asthenic varieties of them. Fox, Dr. Tilbury.—Puerperal Fever. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author here relates the history of puerperal fever as it was observedDISEASES OF WOMEN. 385 in tlie General Lying-in Hospital from 1833 to 1858. The mortality on 5833 labours was 3*085 per cent. The author insists on the fact that much has been mixed up with puerperal fever which is foreign to it; that puerperal fever is a compound of acute specific diseases, local conditions, severe pain, with excess of reaction. The author contends that, after elimi- nating these the large majority of the cases in the hospital alluded to were attributable to erysipelas, and he draws the deduction that the poison of erysipelas is the cause of the phenomena witnessed, the slight laceration often occurring being the starting-point. A number of cases are related to prove the various positions taken up by the author. The following are some of the practical conclusions formed by the author:—Tiiat in the treatment attention has been directed aluiost entirely to the local conditions, to the neglect of the general blood-state ; that the saline treatment is rather injurious than beneficial, decidedly so where tympanitis exists, and the latter is increased by the former; that the ex- hibition of calomel is not followed by any definite good, but frequently induces uncontrollable diarrhoea, intestinal irritation, &c.; that the symptoms of puerperal fever frequently set in after, and seem to specially follow, the free action of purgatives; that constipation is the rule after haemorrhage, and is conservative; that the erysipelatous poison spends itself, as it were, upon the internal rather than the external tissues, its outward evidences being deficient, partly, perhaps, on account of retar- dation by haemorrhage, bleeding, &c., and that all lowering treatment, except at the earliest stage, is absolutely bad. PiHAN-DuFEiLLAY.—Contributions towards an account of the relations which subsist between Puerperal Fever and Epidemic Erysipelas. L'Un., Aug. 24th, 27th, Sep. 7th, 1861. The author adduces observations at the St. Louis Hospital in Paris to show that the two affections, puerperal fever and traumatic erysipelas, act one upon the other, and engender each other mutually. Eetzius, Prof.—Puerperal Erysipelas Phlegmonodes. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1861, p. 191. The disease was observed in the lying-in hospital at Stockholm in the spring of the year i860. The institution was at the time over-crowded, BO much so that due attention could not be paid to cleanliness. The disease assumed a very severe form. Von Franque.—Om Puerperal Fever. Wiirzb. Med. Zt., i860, p. 360. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 63. During the first half of i860, 188 women were delivered in the ob- stetric clinic, of whom forty-four had puerperal fever, and fourteen died ; nineteen others were taken to the St. Juhus Hospital, of whom seven died. Out of the 188 deliveries, twenty were terminated artificially ; five of the deaths belonged to those operated upon. Webeb.—On an Epide?nic of Puerperal Fever at Prague. Mon, f. Geb. Dec, 1860, p. 419.' The causes of the spreading of the disease were to be found in the over- crowded, imperfectly ventilated state of the hospital. Women were most likely to be affected who had lost much blood, during or after labour.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Those were most severely nffccted in wliom there was a microsconicallv proved increase in the colourless corpuscles of the blood. Lange.—On the theory of Semmelweis as to the cause of Puerperal Fever. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. Report of meeting German Naturalists &e. (Obstetric Section), at Spires, 1861. ' Lange's experience at Heidelberg enal)les him to confirm tlie truth of the theory in question. A great diminution in the mortality followed the adoption of preventive means suggested by this view of the case. Hoffmann.—On Puerperal Fever. Bayer. Aerzt. Int,-T31., 3, i86x. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 188. The author enumerates the arguments to be adduced respectively in favour of a " parasitic" theory of puerperal fever, of a chemical theory, of the theory which asserts the identity of puerperal fever with pyaemia. Druitt, Dr.—J case of Puerperal Fever complicated with Diphtheria in which life was saved by the Tincture of the Sesquichloride of Iron. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The patient, in an exhausted state and sinking from diarrhoea, uncon- trolled by other treatment, got well after taking three fluid ounces of the tincture in five days. The author considers much was due to the quantity of the drug administered. Martin, Prof. E.—Epidemic of Puerperal Colpitis and Endometritis. Mon. f. Geb., Sep., i860, p. 161. The epidemic occurred in the winter of 1859-60, attacked thirty-one patients, of whom eleven died. Metritis and diphtheritic colpitis were constantly observed. Imperfect contraction of the uterus; congula in uterine veins either wanting or converted into purulent masses. Pus also in lymphatics. Martin, Prof.—On Salpingitis as a cause vf Puerperal Peritonitis. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1861, p. 163. Two cases are related in which the peritonitis followed the inflammation of the tubes. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—On a case of Peritonitis caused by escape of Pus from the Fallopian Tube into the Abdominal Cavity, following on Abortion artificially induced. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. In the case related the patient died of metritis and peritonitis following artificial premature labour. The symptoms of this affection, of which this is, the author believes, the first case recorded in tiiis country, are, as follows:—At a stage when the involution of the uterus has reached a cer- tain point, the enlarged tubes may be felt; on escape of pus occurring, sudden pain follows, then fever. An account of the researches of others on the same subject precedes the account of this case. Cady, Dr.—Puerperal Perito7iitis successfully treated with large doses of Opium. Am. Med. Times, Aug. 3rd, 1861. SiDEY, Dr.—Case of Recurrent Puerperal Erysipelas. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1861, p. 88.DISEASES OF WOMEN. 387 Padovani.—Puerperal Fever from Thrombosis of the Uterus. Ann. Univ., Aug. and Sept., 1861, p. 498. De Latour.—Rapid cure of Phlegmasia Alba Dolens by Collodium. L'Uuion, 7, 1861. The collodion, mixed with castor oil, was applied over the whole limb, and appeared to have a beneficial effect. CuMBERBATCH.—Case of Phlegmasia Dolens. Lancet, April 27th, 1861, P-4I3- PUERPERAL CONTCJLSIONS. Breslau (Zurich).—On Eclampsia in Child-bed. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, i860, p. 414. In a case related eclampsia occurred five days after labour; after the attack albumen was found in the urine, but not before. After the attacks ceased the albumen disappeai'ed. The convulsions set in with so-called ursemic symptoms. The author states that the facts are adverse to the theory of Frerichs and Brauu, for no unusual quantity of urea was found in the blood examined during the attack, and no carbonate of ammonia, while the quick cessation of the albuminuria was against the presence of Bright's disease. The albuminuria, he believes, was caused by the distended condition of the lower vena cava produced by the convulsions. Harper, Robert.— On three cases of Puerperal Convulsions. Lanceti June 22nd, 1861, p. 607. In the three cases the convulsions commenced respectively before labour began, during labour, and eleven hours after its completion. In the first case the patient was extensively bled, and did well. In the second the patient was not bled, and recovered. In the third leeches were employed to the head and abdomen; the patient died. The author believes that the non-employment of bleeding has become a "fashion" in this affection, and that the old treatment will, after a time, be re- turned to. Lansdown.—Chloroform for Puerperal Convulsions during Labour. Lancet, June ist, 1861, p. 544. The author relates three cases in which chloroform was used with marked benefit. LiEGARD.—On the employment of Ancdsthetics in Eclampsia and Hysteria. Gaz. des H6p., March i6th, 1861. Chloroform always prevents eclampsia when imminent, and almost always cures it when present, but it must be given immediately, and in full doses. Wilson, F. W.—On a case of Epileptic Puerperal Convulsions. Lancet, May 4th, 1861, p. 432. The case is recorded as interesting, from the fact of chloroform having exerted a marked influence in arresting the fits both during and after labour.388 llEl'ORT ON MlDWll'EllY, ETC. An DREWS, Dr.—On Puerperal Convulsions. Lancet, Aug. lolh, 1861, Five cases of puerperal convulsions are here related. The patients sur- vived iu all the cases. JoLlCLERC.—Eclampsia; complete loss of consciousness for ftfty-six hours; death. Gaz. des Hop., Feb. 7th, 1861. Chloroform was used and the forceps applied ; a child was extracted, which had been dead three days. The motlier died. Sailly.—On Albuminuria as a means of diac/nosis of Epilepsy from the Eclampsia of Pregnant Wotnen. Gaz. des Hop., April 27111, 1861. GouiiiET.— Unusual case of Eclampsia; employment of Fumigations of Nitrate of Polash and Stramonium. Gaz. des H6p., April pth, 1861. Low, Dr. W. C.—Case of Puerperal Epileptic Convulsions. Ed. Med, Journ., April, 1861, p. 898. West, Dr. Uvedale.—A case of Epileptiform Convulsions wi the third week of the Puerperal State. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Bruce, Dr.—Case of Puerperal Convulsions. Ed. Med, Journ., Sept., 1861, p. 285. Kehreb.—Eclampsia Puerperalis in connection vnth Fungus of the Dura Mater. Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1861, p. 228. Duncan, James.— Opium in Puerperal Convulsious. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. loth, 1861, p. 147. The author has found large doses of opium remarkably efficacious ; seventy to ninety drops of the tincture in one large single dose is preferred, WiTTEN, E, W.—Opium in Puerperal Convulsions. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th, 1861, p. 683. Page, Dr, Fred.—Puerperal Convulsions successfully treated by Chloro- form. Brit. Med. Journ,, April 13th, 1861, p.386. Lemarley.—Eclampsia during Pregnancy ; death ; Ccesarean Operation two hours after. Gaz. des Hop., April 20th, 1861. The child was extracted stillborn, apoplectic. Eiforts to resuscitate were continued during forty minutes, at the end of which the heart ceased to beat. Auscultation detected the heart-beat before the operation was begun. new insteuments. Ellis, Robert,—On Cauterization by Electric Seat in certain Disease of Women. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author advocates the employment of cauterization in preference to other methods of treatment in certain diseases of women, one great advan- tage being the remarkable contraction following in the course of healing and subsequently. He contends that the pain produced by cauterizing at a white heat is probably net so great as that produced by the use of less powerful caustics. Hitherto the great obstacle to the employment of the electric cautery has been the size, cost, and complicated form ofDISEASES OF "WOMEX. 889 battery required. The author has invented and produced a new form of battery, a single cell, in which the platinum is-so arranged as to offer a very large surface, and the heating power is very intense. The platinum roll is, on section, of a stellate form. The whole instrument is very inex- pensive, extremely portable, and most efficient. As made by the author, its cost was under twenty shillings. The new instrument will be found of value for the treatment of obstinate ulcerations and congestions of the cervix uteri, vascular growths from the os and canal of cervix, for the removal of vascular tumours of the urethra, and in the treatment of certain other conditions giving rise to intense pain and pruritus. GRiiNEVALDT, Dr.— The Gahano-caustic in Gyncecohgy. Petersb. Med. Zt., 1861. Naedelin. — Observations on the various foi'ins of Pessaries ; de- scription of a new Hysterophor. Memorabil., y, 10,1860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 311. The new pessary here described is a modification of the Kiwisch-Roser instrument. It has its fixed point on a moulded plate outside the vulva, and allows the use of injections. [To be procured of Gwinner, the maker, Stuttgart.] Combes, E.—The Elytroid, a neiv form of Pessary. Gaz. des H6p., Dec, i860, and Jan., 1861. The peculiarity of the pessary consists in its shape, which is made to resemble that of the vaginal canal. Weiss.—Improvement in the Speculum. Lancet, April 37th, i86i. The improvement consists in covering the speculum by a thin caoutchouc sheath, by which pinching of mucous membrane is avoided, and in substi- tuting for the wooden tampon a caoutchouc bag filled with water. ToBOLD.—On an Illuminating Apparatus adapted to Gynecological Pur- poses. Mon. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. 6. Spengler.—The " Colpoluter a Gynceko-balneological Listrument. Balneol. Ztg., i860, 31. Schmidt, vol. in, p. 186. This is a speculum to be used while the patient is in the bath, and by means of which the fluid obtains access to the os and cervix uteri. AtiERBACH.—The " Pharma/cophor." Preuss. Ver. Ztg., iii, 47, i86o, Schmidt, vol. 109, p. .310. Under this name the author describes an instrument by means of which injections can be retained in the vagina, and thus more efliciently applied. Simpson, Prof.—New Injecting Apparatus, Ed. Med. Journ,, Dec, 1861, p. 595. A caoutchouc tube is adapted to the mouth of a bottle, or to a tin vessel, and being placed above the patient the fluid is propelled by the action of gravitation alone. 1 263d0 REPOaT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Part III.—DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. GENERAL TREATISES, HYGIENICS, FEEDING, STATISTICS, ETC. QEHUi.Rm\—Text-book of Diseases of Children. Tubingen, i860, Laupp, pp. 320. BouciiUT.—r/ic Laws of Infantile Mortality. Gnz. des Hop., Oct. 29111, 1861. VoOEL.—Manual of the Diseases of Children. Eriangen, i860, pp. 592. Bakiiier.—Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Infancy, based on larye clinical experience. 3rd ed. Paris, 1861, pp. 720, 736. Gerhaudt.—Manual of the Diseases of Children. Tubingen, 1861, PP- 501- Little, Dr.—On the iiifluence of Abnoi-mal Parturition, Difficult Labour, Premature Birth, and Asphyxia Neonatorum, on the Mental and Physical Condition of the Child, especially in relation to deformities. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. This is an essay, the doctrines propounded in which are based on a large number of observations and cases; the latter are given fully and in a tabulated form. The object is to show that, during the period of birth, very serious and peculiar evils are occasionally imprinted upon the nervous and muscular systems of the nascent organism. Premature birth, difficult labours, mechanical injuries to the head and neck where life is saved, and convulsions following the act of birth, are, the author believes, and as he has on former occasions asserted, apt to be succeeded by what he terms "spastic rigidity." He has met with probably 200 cases in orthopaedic practice, of spastic rigidity or paralysis from tiiis cause. At the moment of birth, the placental circulation-having ceased, if pulmonary respiration be not directly established, " asphyxia neonatorum" follows, and necropsy has proved in many instances the presence of ecchymoses on the serous surfaces, intense internal congestions, blood extravasationr in the cranial cavity, in the sinuses, beneath the membranes, &c., and these results independently of mechanical injury. When death does not occur and the infant survives, these conditions having been present, spastic rigidity, paralysis, or even idiocy, may result. This spastic rigidity is an impairment of volition, with tonic rigidity and ultimate structural shortening of certain muscles. In the forty-seven cases of persistent spastic rigidity appended, some abnormal circumstances had attended the act of parturition or the process of birth. The presence of convulsions also after birth was frequently noted. In one case only was opportunity afforded by post-mortem examination for confirming the position taken up, and for ascertaining the condition of parts when spastic rigidity was present. The anatomical conditions expected to be found would be—atrophy of the brain, chronic meningitis with effusion, chronic meningeal hypersemia or myelitis. This was confirmed by what was observed in this single case. The author next proceeds to trace the connexion between these accidents during birth and other atfec-391 DISEASES OF CHILDREN, tions of early life,—protracted inability to suck, liability to laryngismus stridulus, &c. Hall, Dr. A., and David, Dr.—Will a Child bom after the Mother has had Smallpox, and contracted after she has conceived, be liable to contract the disease? Brit. Amer. Journ., Feb. and March, 1861. Two cases are related in which vaccination was attempted and failed, when the mother had had smallpox as above. No pitting of the children's skin was observed. Dr. David relates a third case precisely similar. BoucHUT.—On Groivth in relation to the Diseases of Children, L'Un., Dec. i2tb, &c,, 1861. The author has made an extended inquiry into the rate of growth in health and disease in children. The results of these inquiries are here given :—Under tlie influence of eclampsia, the simple febrile state, and some acute diseases, t!ie growth appears considerable, and the increase in height is from one to three or four centimetres. During the convalescence a portion of this increase is again lost. The author's conclusions as regards treatment are:—Where the child does not grow, rachitis may be suspected, and the whole regime and manner of living must be changed. Milk diet is to be given, meat not to be given, or vegetables or wine, and the patient must have country air, salt baths, and cod-liver oil. If the growth be too rapid, milk is to be given in less quantity, cold affusions and baths to be employed, and the patient directed to take walking exercise: sleep to be limited to seven hours on a hard bed. Fauke.—Some facts relative to the Vitality of the Foetus. Gaz. des Hop., May 14th, i86r. The facts cited show that even the cessation of the sound of the heart- beat is not necessarily indicative of death. Ploss.—On Mortality in Childhood, as affected by elevations and by the fridtfidness and mode of employment of the population. Vogel and Nasse's Arch., 1861, vol. vi, p. X17. Ploss.—Statistical Researches on Mortality in Childhood. Schmidt's Jahrb., 1861, vol. 112, p. 323. Gaiudner, Dr. W. I.—On Infantile Death-rates in their beat 'ing on Sanitary and Social Science. Glasg. Med. Journ., April, 1861. Moore, Dr. W.—On the more prominent causes of an Excessive Mortality in Early Life. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th, 1861, p. 246. The most prevalent causes are summed up as follows :—(i) Defective vitality at birth, transmitted by parents. (2) Mismanagement of parents or nurses with regard to food, dress, &c. (3) Deficiency of light, air, ven- tilation, ignorance of physiological laws and pathology and therapeutics of early life. Le Barillier.—Ok Vaccination of New-born Children. Gaz. des Hod Sept. 14th, 1861. LvzsimKY.—Fifth Report of the Children's Hospital(Mariahilf). Journ. f. Kind., March and April, i86x.392 REPOET OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. This report refers to the year 1859, nnd contains Btatistics of 4166 cases treated. BiERBAUM, Joseph.—Observations on Diseases of Children. Jouru. f. Kind., 7 and 8, i860, p. 56. Cases of ceplialhffimatoraa, chronic hydrocephalus, tubercular meningitis, spina bifida, trismus and tetanus, sclerema, essential paralysis, general emphysema in hooping-cough, zoster, pseudo-erysipelas, umbilical hernia, &c., are here related. Faye, Prof.—On the Diseases of Infants observed in the Lying-in Insti- tution at Christiania during the years iS 'J^—18^7. Baurnfeind.— On the Mortality in Children in Vienna in theyear 1859. Jahrb. f. Kind., i860. Kronenberg.—Repoi-t of the Children's Hospital, Moscow, for the year 1859. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., 1861, p. 89. Le Barillier and Bitot.—Report on the Children's Hospital at Bordeaux for the years 1859 and i860. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., 1861, p. 96. Widerhofer.—Report on Prof. Mayer's Clinic for Children's Diseases in St. Ann's Hosjntal, Vienna. Jahrb. f. Kind., i860, vol. iii, P- ^55- Bi ERBAUM.—Selections from Observations of Diseases in Childhood. Journ. f. Kind., Sept. and Oct., 1861, p. 161. ZuiiiEK.—On the dietetic value of " AuerbacJis Malt-powder." Journ. f. Kind., and 6, i860. According to results of careful analysis, this powder contains nutritious matters in the proportion nearest resembling that of human milk, and is therefore well adapted as a food for infants. Baines, Mrs.—Infant Alimentation ; or artificial feeding as a substitute for breast-milk considered in its physical and social aspects. Lancet, Jan. i2tb, 1861, p. 33. ScHARLATJ.—On the Feeding of Infants. Med. Cent. Ztg., 29, 22, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 61. Hervjeux.—Simple and practical means of vanquishing the resistance offered by Infants to Ingesfioii of Food or Medicaments. Bull, de Ther., 1861, p. 246. The infant or child is to be laid on the back across the knees of the mirse, with the head a little down. The nostrils being then held by the fingers, and the substance inserted in the mouth, the necessary act of swallowing is at once performed. DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, SPINAL CORD, AND ORGANS OP THE SENSES. 'R,il.Lim\—Historical and critical researches on yluscultalion of the Cranium in Children. Journ. f. Kind., July and Aug., i860, p. 1, and Brit, and For. M.-C. Rev,, April, 1861, p. 374.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Jenneii, Dr.—On Tuberculosis, and the evidences of the deposit or for- mation of Tulercle in the Child. Med. Times and Gaz., July 6th, Oct. 261I1, 1861. The eye is the great inlet of knowledge as regards the presence of tuberculosis in the child ; its characteristic features are best marked when the tuberculosis is transmitted hereditarily. The child is lovely, tall, limbs straight and thin, skin delicate and transparent, eyes bright, pupils large, lashes long; the child is forward, intelligent, clever, lives rapidly, cuts its teeth early, runs alone soon ; the bones are thin, the cartilages weak and at the end of the long bones deficient in thickness, the ribs are firmer than in hcaltli, contrasting thus remarkably with the condition present in rickets. The lungs are small, the vesicles some of them dilated. The thorax presents three varieties in shape, the long, the long and narrow, and the pigeon-breasted form. The latter is the effect of repeated catarrhs affecting the lower lobes of the lungs of a child whose lungs are small, and the driving forwards of the sternum by the indrawing of the lower ribs. The characteristic of tuberculosis in the child is this, that it affects a large number of organs, though there may be a small deposit only in each. The deposit may occur rapidly or slowly. In acute cases, the diagnosis rests mainly on irregular febrile disturbance, i. e. the high but variable temperature lasting for some time, and the steady loss of flesh, with the absence of local lesion of a grave kind. The gravity of the case is often overlooked till too late. The acute form is frequently recovered from. The subject of chronic tuberculization is next considered. Cutaneous and subcutaneous tubercles are important as evidence of a profound consti- tutional taint; the bones are frequently affected in these cases. The lym- phatic glands arc more often than any other organs the seat of tubercle in the child. The diagnosis of enlargement of lymphatic glands due to tubercle from other kinds of enlargement is very fully indicated by the author, who describes the characters of tubercular enlargement, first as regards the superficial lymphatic glands, and secondly as regards the in- ternal lymphatic glands, the bronchial and the mesenteric. Tubercular disease of the mesenteric glands is very rarely the cause of a large ab- domen in the child ; children under three years of age have rarely large deposits of tubercle in the mesenteric glands, while they have often an ex- ceedingly large abdomen. The only positive evidence of tubercle in this position is detection by the hand of the large glands. The tumour is to be distinguished from fsecal accumulations by its seat, shape, by the odour, colour and consistence of faeces passed, and by the effect of enemata. Diarrhoea is frequently present in mesenteric tuberculosis; there may be ascites, and there is generally emaciation. Tuberculosis of the peritoneum is next described, the symptoms of which are usually those of chronic peritonitis—the abdomen is distended, hard, resonant, painful and tender, there are emaciation, digestive derangement, constipation or diarrhoea. After a time, when adhesions occur, a solid, massy sensation is communi- cated, and there is fluctuation. A peculiar expression of face, a worn, anxious look, and a care in movement, are characteristic symptoms. The diagnosis of bronchial tuberculosis is often obscure. Tubular breathing, distension of veins of neck, slight oedema of face, cough, spasmodic breathing, noisy inspirations like those of hooping-cough or laryngismusEEPOUT ON MIDAVIFERY, ETC. 804 stridulus, these nre some of the more important signs. It is only when very large that the presence of tubercles in these glands can be actually ascertained. West, Dr. Chaules.—On Cerebral Symptoms independent of Cerebral Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., April 6th, 1861, p. 353. In this lecture the .nuthor calls attention to symptoms of disturbance of the nervous system arising during the course of various chronic ailments. Those folio\Ying on convalescence from some serious illness, such as typhoid fever, are first alluded to. Overtaxing of the mental powers in the case of weak children may give rise to cerebral symptoms. Intense headache of neuralgic character is witnessed in dyspeptic children during the second dentition period ; here the symptoms frequently resemble those of the first stage of tubercular meningitis. The diagnosis of such cases is pointed out. Another large class of cases are those in which con- vulsions occur. These are frequently due to ascarides ; tlie author calls particular attention to the fact that in a certain number of cases they occur concomitantly with the second dentition just as they occur in the first. Chorea presents occasionally difiBculty in a diagnostic point of view. A symptom the author has observed two or three times, not as yet described, is an involuntary sighing respiration, which did not appear to be connected with cerebral disease. Lastly, essential paralyses, not dependent on cerebral disorder, are alluded to. West, Dr. Charles.—On Cerebral Disease unattended by Cerebral Symptoms, Med. Times and Gaz., April. 20th, p. 409. The tiuthor calls attention to cases in which the disease of the brain is marked by the absence of oi'dinary symptoms. Thus cases are related of tubercular meningitis with absence of usual premonitory symptoms ; the importance, in a diagnostic point of view, of steady persistence of any one symptom, such as sickness, headache, constipation, drowsiness, heat of head, &c., is insisted on in reference to this disease. Persistent pain is most of all important. It is further pointed out that the occasional rapid advance of the disease in subjects of phthisical constitution is a source of error in diagnosis ; and that in chi'onic tubercular disease the symp- toms are not seldom very obscure. Wertheimber.—TheHydrocephaloidDisease of Lifants. Jahrb. f. Kind., iv, I, 1861, p. 43. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 57. The anatomical character of the disease is an anosmia of the brain and venous stasis in the cerebral sinuses. In the acute form the brain is dry, in the chronic form it is moist, ccdematons. There is a stage of cerebral hyper£Esthesia followed by one of cerebral torpor, the first characterised by restlessness, crying, want of sleep, screaming, moaning, weak, fre- quent pulse, pallor, with slight lividity, convulsive movement of muscles, feverishness, boring of head in pillow, application of hand to head, &c. In the second stage come somnolence, passing on to deeper coma, general eclamptic attacks, sometimes tetanic: convulsions may be absent. The prognosis is worst in the chronic form in its second stage. The treatment of the different varieties of the disease is next discussed.895 DISEASES OP CHILDREN. BEVXVh.—Hijdrocephalus in a child five months old; 1800 gramines of fluid in the Ventricles. Gaz. des Hop., Dec. 10, 1861. Merriman, 'Dy:.—Hydrocephalus of fifteen years duration; Tubercles at the base of the Lungs only; Gangrene of one Lung. Brit. Med. Journ., June I, 1861, p. 575. » ■ PoLiTZEH.—On the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the JSram and its coverings in Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., 3, p. is5> Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 196. Simpson, Dr. Alex. U.—Case of Acute Meningitis. Ed. Med. Journ., March, 1861. Stanistreet, Dr.—Case of Hydrocephalus. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 9, 1861, p. 491. Chassaignac.—On a peculiar form of Infantile Paralysis. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 9, 1861. The paralysis attacks the upper extremities, occurs suddenly, is pro- duced by an external injury, chiefly by pulling about by the arras. It is of partial character, and is of short duration. Brunniche.—On the so-called essential Paralysis of Children. Journ. f. Kind., May and June, 1861. The author has seen the disease in seven out of 400 patients. He does not believe in the existence of &\\ idiopathic disease of this kind. It is the result of a central, or more rarely, of a peripheric disturbance of the nervous system. The only peculiarity in the disease is the age of the patient, six to twenty-four months. These opinions are supported by arguments very fully set forth. In the treatment of the ^ffection, local measures are of most sei'vice; electricity, passive or active gymnastics, and baths. BRiiNNicHE.—On Korea. Journ. f. Kind., July and Aug., 1861, from Hosp. Tidende. Ollivier.—Case of Tetanus Neonatorum. L'Un., Sep. 21, 1861. Deyal.—On the treatment of the Purident Ophthalmia of New-horn Children. Journ. de Med. et Chir., Dec, i860. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861. This consists in application of solution of nitrate of silver (2^—^4 gr. in one ounce of water) six times daily, frequent fomentations with solution of borax, sulphate of copper, or sulphate of zinc, each morning; if pur- gatives are necessary, to give two and a half teaspoonfuls each of syrup of chicory and sweet almond oil, the eyes to be kept covered by cold moist linen, or cold poultices of rice or starch. In very acute cases, scarifications. organs of respiration. GoLiTziNSKY.—Account of a local Croupo-diphtheritic Epidemic. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1861, p. 95. Bromine administered internally and exhibited by way of inhalation V?as found extremely useful.ilEPORT ON WID-WIFEIIY, ETC. BoucilUT.— On (he treatment of Croup hy large and rapidly succeedinrj doses of Turlar-emeiic. Journ. f. Kiud., May and June, 1861, ^.P- 435- Five cases are related sliowing the efficacy of tlie metliod in the second and even in the tliird stages of the disease. Tlie object is to procure methodically and as quickly as possible an emetic effect. If the emetic effect is not produced, it must not be continued. A three-ounce mixture is prepared, containing four to eight grains of tartar emetic, a little syrup and mucilage; of this a teaspoonful to be given hourly. This treatment is to be continued several days till all trace of the disease is gone. Watson, Dr. (Edinburgh.)—Case of Tracheotomy in Croup. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 678. Mautini.—On Tracheotomy. Schmidt, vol. m, p. 203. This is an essay containing a very full and complete analysis and ac- count of the more recent writings and works on the subject of tracheotomy, especially in cases of croup. RoElilG.— On the relation between Croup and other diseases of the Res- piratory Organs in Children. Yogel and Nasse's Arch., 1861, vol. 6, This essay contains in a statistical form an account of the cases of croup and other respiratory organs in children during the eight years i8';3 to i860, in Waldeck. Pasquali.—On Croup in Infants and Youny Children. Ann. Univ. di Med., June to Dec, 1861. On Biphtheriamn general, and especially on the treatment of Diphtheritic Angina and Croup by Iodine and Bromine. Journ. f. Kind., Sep. and Oct., 1861, p. 211. Hervieux.—Researches on Infantile Pulmonary Emphysema. Arch. Gen., June and July, 1861, p. 673 and 48. ' These observations are based on thirty-seven cases, nineteen of which were infants under twenty days, the rest under the age of three years. The account of these cases is given at some length, together with the con- clusions resulting from the enquiry. The most habitual complications were, progressive algidity, icterus neonatorum, measles, tubercular dia- thesis, erysipelas, rachitis, syphilis. SiiELTON, Dr.—Treatment of Whooping-cough. Am. Med. Times, July 20th, 1861. The combination of belladonna and sulphate of zinc was found very efficacious by the author. WooDWAKD, Dr.—Hooping-cough, its Pathology and Treatment. Dub. Med. Press, June 19th, 1861, from Phil. Med. and Surg. Rep. A combination of cofice, peat-oil, and conium, with tinct. verat. virid. the whole made into a syrup, was found to arrest and cure the cough in 8—io*days. Laeonde, Ch.—Account of an Epidemic of Hooping-cough. L'Union 61, 1860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 319.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 39r Gooj)\r.—Hoopinff-couffh: its proper treatment. London, 1861, pp. 19. GiBB, Dv.—Hcemorrhaffe from the Ears in Hooping-cough : its real cause. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. a6tli, 1861, p. 434. The author has had opportunity of ascertaining that the real cause of the hemorrhage is rupture of the tympanic membrane. Such rupture was observed in four cases. Foster, Michael.—iVejw Remedy for Hooping-covgh. Med. Times and Gaz., May a-Jth, 1861, p. 561. x • • c • The new remedy is common clover hay {Trifolium infano), m infusion or syrup. The author states that the remedy has acted very favorably in a large number of cases. ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Moore, Dr. ^.—On Diseases of the Heart in Early Life. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March ist, 1861, p. 69. ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Jacobi, Dr. A.—Lectures on Dentition and its derangements. Am. Med. Times, August, Sept., 1861. JouLiN.—Inanition as a cause of Death of Newborn Children, and its treatment by Pepsine. Journ. de Med, etChir. Prat., Aug., 1861. Moore, Dr. \Y.—The Atrophy of Children from Dirt Eating. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, 1861, p. .33. Six cases of this affection are related. A fixed, vacant, or downcast look is a diagnostic mark of the presence of this tendency. Enemata, and calomel or gray powder, are recommended. Careful watching is necessary. | IjOMBakd.—Peculiar Neurosis of the Stomach in Children. Journ. f. Kind., March and April, 1861. In children so affected vomiting is repeated every quarter or half hour, the matters ejected are colourless, and after the vomiting has lasted some hours a little mucus is brought up. Thirst, constipation, and fever, accompany these attacks. The disease is very liable to recur after inter- vals of some weeks. Emaciation is usually present. One girl, set. 7—8, died of this chronic vomiting, the stomach appearing perfectly healthy. Tlie disease is, the author believes, a neurosis. The disease was observed seven or eight times, and in individuals fet. 5—17. GoLiTZlNSKY.—0?i the Leuhcemia of Sucklings. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1861. KiDD, Dr. Q,.—Worms. A new theory of the origin of Ascaridesi^ Med _ Circ, Sept. i8th, 1861. The author believes that ascarides are produced by the ova of the com- mon " house-fly," and especially of the " blue-bottle" fly.JIEPOET ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. 898 Ross, Dr. W. H. (Cape Town).—Symptoms of Typhoid and Brain Fever induced by Worms. Lancet, Nov. 9th, 1861, p. 458. Baiulliee.—On the Enteritis of Sucklings. Journ. de Bord., Aug., Sept., i860, and March, April, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 64. The author's conclusions are drawn from observation of 127 ciises. The study of the causes of the disease he considers most important. The disease is most fatal in the first month, it is most fatal in males. Weakly children are predisposed to it. It is most frequent in the summer. Partial chilling of the body is a cause. Residence has a very important influence, the children in the hospital at Bordeau,x were more affected than others. Most important, however, is the nourishment the child obtains. Gastric disturbances are frequently observed in children deriving nourish- ment from nurses who are menstruating. Artificial feeding is a frequent source of enteritis. The symptomatology and the treatment of the affection are then fully considered. Dysentei'ia in Infants at Borne. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 9th, 1861, p. 487. RliDEL.—On Invbgination of the Intestine. Mon. f. Geb., May, 1861, P-3a4- TiiOBOWGOOD, Dr.—Account of a fatal case of Intussusception in an In- fant nine months old. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 160. At the junction of the transverse and descending colon a large complex knot of invaginated bowel was found, consisting of the colon, csecum, and part of the ileum. Rose, Dr.—Case of fatal Intussusception in an Infant five months old' Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th, 1861, p. 597. The seat of the invagination was the junction of the transverse and descending colon. ' PENaUER. Invagina tion of the Cceciim and its appendix in the descending Colon through the transverse Colon in a child aged four months; autojjsy. L'Un., Aug. 22ud, 1861. FouCHEB. Cure of Prolapsus Ani in Children by subcutaneous injection of Sulphate of Strychnine. Rev. de Tlu'r., ii, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 61. A case is related in which this method of treatment was successful. DotBEAU Prolapsus Ani cured by subcutaneous injection of Sidphate of Strychnia. Bull, de Tlier., Dec, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 195. In two cases reported a favorable result was obtauied. In a third no such result was obtained, after repeating the injection four times. Ke6ne?cbekg.—On Polypi of the Rectum in Children. Journ. f. Kinderk. Jan. and Feb., 1S61, p. i. . ^, The author relates four cases of this alTection. The nature, causes, history, and treatment pf the aflection, are considered at length.DISEASES OP CHILDUEN. 899 KIDNE'XS AND GENEBATIVE ORGANS. Behrend, Fr. J.—On Initation of the Sexual Organs, and particularly on Onanism in very young Children, and the treatment of such cases. Journ. f. Kind., Nov. and Dec, i860, p. 321. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 58. The means of diagnosticating the presence of the habit are here pointed out, also the effects produced by its continuance. The essay contains a resumd of the observations of Johnson (Athol), Barthez and Rilliet, Marjolin, Fournier, Zimmerraann and Van Bambeke, in reference to the treatment of such cases. The diagnosis, causes, and treatment, are severally discussed. Pro- longed cold affusions, cold hip-baths, belladonna given internallj', operation for phymosis in males, cauterization of the labia in girls, are means of treatment alluded to; the two latter are curative by rendering onanism painful to the child. Urcemia produced by disease of the Kidneys after Scarlet-fever. Cases observed at the St.Ann^s Children's Hospital. Jahrb. f. Kind., N. 3, p. 204. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 206. Hambubsin.—On the treatment of the accidents and complications of Scarlet-fever, and especially of the Dropsy and the Albwninuria. Second article. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., 1861, p, 11. BONES AND JOINTS. Morel-Lavallee.—On Coxalgia in the Foetus, and its relation to con- genital luxation of the femur. Arch. Gen., Aug,, 1861, p. 172. The author analysing the facts related by others, and two cases of his own, concludes that congenita] luxation of the femur is generally due to an affection of the hip in the foetus, correctly represented by the ex- pressions coxalgia, arthritis, hydrarthrosis. The fluid found in the joint is the cause of the displacement.* Friedleben —Ow the physical and chemical constitution of groiinng Rachitic Bones in early Childhood. Jahrb. f. Kind., i860, part3. In brief, the alterations of the bones consist in—(i) increased succulence, or moisture ; and, in consequence of this, (2) deficiency of earthy salts' and (3) altered chemical relations of these salts. The special cause of rachitis, the author believes is to be found in disturbance of the functions of the respiratory organs; the blood is thereby altered, and rachitis so produced—bronchial catarrh is thus the forerunner of the disease. Grandidier.—Jn/amwa^jow and Necrosis of the Upper Jaw in a Child SIX weeks old, from the effects of phosphorus fumes. Journ. f. Kind 1861, May and June, p. 364. ' Blake Robert H.-^ P^Zctical Treatise on Diseases of the S/cin in C^hildren. From the French of Caillault. London, 1861, Churchill,REPOllT ON MIDWIFEliy, KTC. 400 Hutchinson, Jonathan.—C/n«V«/ Report on True Ringworm {Tinea Tonsurans). Med. Times and Giiz., Jan. 5th and I2tli, 1861. Forty-nhie cases observed by the author form the basis of tiiis report, the facts concerning which are succinctly stated. The conclusions drawn by the author are as follows:—i. True ringworm, or tinea tonsurans, is a disease affecting either the scalp, or the general surface. Circular patches are formed, on which the hairs break off short, and a slight branny desquamation is seen, both hair and epidermic scales exhibiting under the microscope the sporules and thalii of a fungus. 2. llingworm in the scalp is rarely seen excepting in children ; but, on the general sur- face, is not very infrequent in young adults. 3. It is contagious, and spreads by contagion only. 4. It is not attended by any peculiar form of dyscrasia, but on the contrary often attacks children in perfect health, ij. It is much more easily curable when on the general surface than when on the scalp, owing to the circumstance that in the latter situation the fungus has obtained access to the follicles of the hairs. ^, Being a purely local disease, ringworm does not require per se any constitutional treatment. 7. A purely local treatment if efficiently pursued is always and rapidly successful. 8. Epilation and the use of one or other of the known parasiticides are the measures of treatment required. 9. There is no real difference between ringworm on the scalp and ringworm on the general surface. 9. It has no true analogy with herpes. Vanveiits.—On the Syphilitic Pemphigus of Newborn Children. Gaz. des II6p., Nov. 7th, 1861. Waiil.—Fatal Bleeding from a Ncevus. Med. Ztg. Russl., 42, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. ly^J. The bleeding followed the application of a blister to the chest (on which the neevus was situated) for the cure of a cough, in an infant 11 months old. The child died. , Legroux.—On the treatmeiit of the Umbilical Erysipelas of Newborn Children. Gaz. des Hop., 57, i860. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 64. The author recommends that the surface be painted with glycerine, and that a powder be then applied, composed of equal parts of fine flour, oak bark, and calomel. SwiTir, Dr. J. Lewis.—J^j/i/nfiYe Erysipelas. Am. Med. Times, June 22nd, 1861. c. 1 • 1 QiiK'X:-e.^\n.—Cephalha;maloma. Gaz. des H6p., 125, i860. Schmult, vol. "Kiv-V^^!—Fatal Case of Cephalhcematoma. Mon. f, Geb., May, 1861, p. 326. JiEVWL.—CephalhcEmatoma. L'Un., April, 1861, p. 96. Fergusson, Vvol—Medullary Tumour of the Cheek in an Infant aged three months. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 7th, 1861, p. 5S0. Biermer.—^« unusual case of Scarlatina. Yirch. Arch., Canstatt, vol. iv, p. 385. , There was complete anuria for 108 hours, and an almost completeDlSBASESj ETC.j OF THE TCETUS. 401 absence of urtemia, or of considerable dropsical symptoms during 104 hours. When the urine had begun to be secreted freely, then the uruemic brain symptoms set in. The urine was very slightly albuminous. Part IV.—DISEASES, ETC., OE THE ECETUS. Panum.—^Researches on the origin of Malformations, especially in the Effff of the Bird. With 107 figures. Berlin, i860. This is ,1 work containing the result of extended and novel researches on the origin of malformations. The author found that addled eggs mostly contained malformed embryos; he found that by alternating the tem- perature he could produce malformations at will, and abundant oppor- tunity was thus afforded for studying the subject. The various malforma- tions observed are systematically described and discussed. Lammekt.—On Malformations. Virch. Arch., 1861, 22, p. 336. Newman and Harlev, Drs.—Case of a patient who, in eighteen preg- nancies, gave birth to only seven Uuing children, the eleven others having been expelled dead at various periods of gestation, Obst. Trans., vol. iii. There was no evidence that the parents had ever laboured under syphilis, or of their being the subjects of hereditary disease. Cooke, Louis H..—Cases illustrative of the independent liability of the Foetus to Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, 1861, p. 401. In one case related, a child was born covered with well maturated pustules of variola. The mother had been vaccinated, and M'as then well. Four days after the mother became affected with variola. In a second case related, a child was born with well-marked eruption of herpes zoster, the mother being free from any affection of the kind. ' New cases illustrative of the influence of Lead-poisoning on the lirodiict of Conception. Gaz. des Hop., March 23rd, 1S61. RiCHET.—Double Hare-lip and Irregular Formation nf Lower Lip. L'Uu., April, 1861, p. 190. Hanks, Dr.—./ case of United Children, or Double Monstrosity. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Waklev, TnoiiAS.—Cases of Supernumerary Thumb, Imperforate Va- gina, and Imperfect Development of the Far. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, 1861, p. 421, Sciiui/rzE.—A case of Ileterotaxie of the abdominal and thoracic viscera, and probably Patent Foramen Ovale, with Remarks. Virch. Arch.' 1861, 22, p. 209. ' Young, Ed. Va-rki^v..—Complete Transposition of all the thoracic and 'abdominal viscera. Lancet, June 29th, 1861, p. 630. Tlic subject of the ca.se was a lady, aged 8 f;.402 REPORT ON MimVIFERYj ETC. QxcilKr.—lVansjmition of the Viscera. Gnz. des Hop., Aug. 3i8t, 1861. ViRCHOW, Prof.—A case of Transposition of the Viscera, and extensive diseased changes in a Newborn Child. Viich. Arch., i8()i, 22, p. 426. SciiLAGEu. — The latest researches on Idiotcy. Jabib. f. Kiud., 1860, 8. Barillier.—Cya;iO««; one Ventricle; Pidmonary Artery contracted at its origin. Gnz. des H6p., March 2nd, 1861. Contributions to the study of Cyanosis. Journ. f. Kind., Sept. and Oct., 1861, p. 203. Strassmann.—Two neiv cases of Congenital (simple) Cyst-hygroma of the Sacro-perinceal region. Mon. f. Gab., Aug., 1861, p. 130. Tbe two new cases were—(i) that of a female where the tumour ren- dered labour difficult; (2) that of a child which died shortly after birth from bursting of such a tumour, labour having been unimpeded. Beraud.—Congenital Goitre in a foetus of five months and ahalf. L'Uu., Feb., 1861, p. 352. Martin, Prof.—Congenital Compound Cystic Tumour of the Sacro- perinceal region. Mon. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. i. Bartscher.—Congenital Tumour of the Sacrum. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1861, p. 121. The tumour weighed six pounds, was hard, firm, fibrous, having some cysts in its interior. It was removed by operation, and the child recovered. GiRALDES.—Congenital Tumour of the gluteal region. L'Un., April, 1861, p. 189. Friedleben.—Tivo cases of Congenital Anomalias of the Femora. Jabrb. f. Kind., i860, vol. 3, p. 220. Allix.—On a mixed and congenital Tumour of the Testicles. Journ. de Brux., Jan., 1861, p. 35. Bruce, Dr.—Congenital Ulcer of the loiOer extremities. Ed. Med. Journ,, Nov., 1861, p. 492, Storch.—O71 Congenital Hygroma of the Neck, loith Remarks on a case observed in the General Hospital, Copenhagen. Journ. f. Kind., July and Aug., 1861, from Hosp. Tidende. GlBB, Dr.—Inflammatory disease of the S/cin of the Head and upper part of the Body of an eight tnonths' Foetus, ivith exudation of plastic lymph. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Hamilton, Dr-—Case of extraordinary deficiency of the Cerebral Struc- ture. Dub. Hosp. Gnz., March i, 1861, p. 66. The corpus callosum was totally absent. The patient, a woman, set. 27, died of acute phthisis. Down, Dr. J. Langdok H.—Account 6f a case in which the Corpus Callosum and Fornix wefe imperfectly formed, and the Septum Luci-■DISEASES, ETC., OP THE FOSTUS. 408 dum and Comrnissura Mollis loere absent. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. a 19. V J 1 The boy the subject of the case, and who died set. 9, had been an inmate of aa idiots asylum for four years. The author remarks that his researches have led him to attach a physiological importance to the soft commissures in the mental development of the individual not insisted on by previous observers. Dxmw.—Anencephalous Foetus, with tumour of Fronto-parietal Region ; membranous prolongations from that tumour around the left leg; in- complete amputation of the leg; insertion of the membranous bridle on thefcelal surface of the Placenta. L'Un., July 13, 1861. CA.iisos,'Dr.—Brai7iless Infant. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 12, 1861, p. 390. AvELiNG, Dr.—Case of Hydrencephalocele. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th, 1861, p. 596. GiNTRAC.—Absence of Uterus and Vagiiia. Gaz. M^d., Jan. 26, 1861. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews.—A case of Encephalocele, with the theory of its growth, Ed. Med. Journ., Ap., 1861, p. 900. The whole of the cerebellum -was contained in the tumour, -which was nearly the size of the cranium. Death took place seven weeks after birth. The tumour contained fluid, both in the arachnoid space and in the interior of the fourth ventricle. Bird, William.—Report of a case of Encephalocele of extraordinary dimensions ; death on the fifth day after birth. Lancet, Aug. 3, 1861. Michael, AV. H.—Case of Encephalocele. Beale's Arch., 7, 1861, p. 162. GiNTRAC.—Anatomico-pathological studies on Hydromeningocele. Journ. de Bord., June, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 56. The disease is constituted by a protrusion, through an opening in the skull, of the dura mater distended with fluid. The author has collected eleven cases, and adds another by himself. The diagnosis from hydren- cephalocele is not always easy. The cure is very difBcult when the pro- trusion is large, there being usually concurrent, considerable abnormities of the brain itself present in such cases. Thompson, Congenital deficiency of the Anus. Lancet, Nov. 2, 1861, p. 420. The child was three months old. The faeces passed entirely through the vagina. An artificial anal opening was made, and the vaginal com- munication closed up. The case did well. Olsuausen.—Imperforate Anus with abnormal communication between the Bladder and Rectum; Penis wanting. Mou. f. Geb., Aug., 1861, p. 98. Debout.—Practical considerations on Congenital Umbilical Hernice and their treatment. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, pp. 391, 4^1. SACid.—Description of a monster " Ag6nosome." Journ. de Brux., Jan.i 1861, p. 41. Hernife of all the viscera. No genitals.KEPOIIT OX MID^-IFEBY, ETC. 'RiGKT.—Ecfrojihij of the Bladder. Gnz. M6d., An. 6, 1861 llie subject of the case a girl set. 8 days. Max, 0.~llHdimeiilarij Bladder in a case of nrelhro-vaginal FUtulu Arch. Gen., Jan., 1861, p. loo. Holt, W.—Acephalous Hermaphrodite monster. Lancet, Marcli 30 1861, p. 328. ' ^i-LiA.— Com/enital umbilical Hernia comidicated with Anus " Cottlro Natura." Ann. Univ., Aug. and Sep., 1861, p. 492. -Leopold. —C«5e 0/defective formation of the Bladder, Cloacal formation and HydrorachiK. Mon. f. Gob., May, j86i, p. ,357, SiJii'soN, Dr. Alex. W.—Congenital absence of Gall Bladder. Ed. Med Journ., May, x86i, p. 1045. Simpson, Dr. Alex. R.—of Spina Bifida. Ed. Med. Journ., Marcli i86i, p. 844. ' Brainaud, Dr.—Spina Bifida, treated by Iodine ; cured bu one injection Am. J. Med. Sc., July, 1861, p. 65. Le V,v.\-e.ko.—Congenital absence of right External Ear. Gaz. des Hop., March 14, 1861. CuiiLiNG, T. 'R.—An account of the Structure and Secretions of a Testicle detained in the Inguinal Canal. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 143. The examination confirms the views of Godard, that a testicle so arrested in its passage never secretes spermatozoa or a fluid capable of impregnating. CciiLTNG, T. B.— Undeveloped Testicle from the body of an Idiot. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 143. This was an instance of the relation between defective development of the brain and presence of undeveloped testicles, which the author has previously remarked upon. Balfour, Dr. Tuos. A. G.—Description of two cases of Exomphalos, loiih observations on Foetal Malformations. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 611. The first case M'as that of a foetus born at the seventh month ; the sub- ject of several malformations, of which the principal were : —double hare- lip, cleft palate, left hand presenting two bundles, each containing two fingers, left arm attached to side by fold of integument, sternum wanting, the liver, stomach, and intestines projecting through an aperture in the abdominal wall. The liver, intestines, &c., covered and matted together with lymph ; club-foot on right side. There was arrest of development combined with inflammatory action. In a second case, the child was born alive , there was deficient tcgunicntary formation around (he umbilicus over a space four inches across, which was covered in by a thin membrane only. One arm of tliis foetus was malformed. Blagden, Robert.—Account of a Monstrous Birth. ]Med. Times and Gaz., Sep. 28, 1861, p. 336. There was imperfect development of the genitals, also of the spinal canal and of the anterior wall of the abdomen. IDISEASESj ETC.; OF THE FCETUS. 406 Wilde, Dr. W. 11.—^« essay upon the Malformalion and Congenital diseases of the Organs of Sight. Part 3, Dub. Quart. Journ., Feb., i860, p. 50. This is a portion of a continuation of a series of papers on tbis subject. The malformations of the lens and capsule are here described. FoRSTER, Trot—Death of a Fcetusfrom penetration of the Vernix Oaseosa and Meconium into the Pulmonary Vesicles. Wiirzb. Med. Zt., vol. i, p. 216. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3, 1861. The child, well developed, died after making a few feeble inspiratory efforts. The brain was very hypersemic, the lungs sank in water, and in many parts contained meconium and vernix caseosa. The question of the manner in which these matters got into the lungs is discussed by the author, who concludes that the hyperaemic condition of the brain excited in- spiratory efforts prior to birth, or that during the passage of the head through the vagina, inspiratory movements occurred. Panthel.—Injury to the Foetus inutero. Nass. Med. Jahrb., xv and xvi, p. 733. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. ,53. A woman received a blow on the abdomen in the seventh month of pregnancy. Some days after, labour set in, presentation pelvic, birth of a foetus which had been dead some days. On the upper part of the head was a tumour 3—4" wide precisely like that known as the "cranial blood- swelling," having a border of hardened material. It contained liquid blood which at the borders of the tumour had become clotted. The connection between the blow, the death and the production of the swelling as cause and effects appeared to be substantiated. Bartscher.—Strangulation of the Foetus by knotting of the Cord. Mon. f. Geb., May, 1861, p. 364, (with plate.) 27REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. BY J. BUEDON SANDEESON, M.D., MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS; LECTURER ON MEDICAL JURIS- PRUDENCE AND PUBLIC HEALTH AT ST. MARY's HOSPITAL; ASSISTANT- PHYSICIAN TO THE HOSPITAL FOR CONSUMPTION, BllOMPTON ; MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR PADDINGTON. JLVIJUALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. Anthon.—Dictionary of Chemico-pharmaceutical, Technico-ckemical, and Pharmacognostical Nomenclature ; a Synopsis of all the Latin, German, and French names of every commercial chemical preparation and of raio drugs. Leipsic, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 3. This work contains the names and synonyms of 15.52 substances; the articles are alphabetically arranged according to the ordinary Latin de- signations of the substances to which they relate. The principal name is followed first by other Latin names, then by the German, and lastly by the French, no reference being made to English nomenclature. At the end there is a very complete alphabetical index.' Gottlieb.—Text-book of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, with special refe- rence to the Pharmacopoeias of Austria, Pj-ussia and Saxony, Canst., vol. V, p. 2. The purpose of this work is to furnish the practical pharmaceutist with a hand-book of chemistry which will enable him to keep up with the rapid progress of the science, in so far as it bears upon his art. According to Von Wiggers, the author has completely succeeded in his object. The work treats both of organic and inorganic chemistry, and includes every subject which is of the slightest interest in pharmacy. The work is profusely illustrated with woodcuts, and the theories of chemical processes are explained by simple formulae. Pharmacopoeia Belgica Nova. Translated into Latin by command of his Majesty, and authorised by royal edict. Brussels, 1861. WiTTMAACK.—Pharmacopoeia Germanica. With emendations and coloured plates. Leipsic, i860. Schmidt.—Introduction to the testing of Chemical Substances used in Pharmacy. Erlangen, i860.407 MANUALS AND GENEEAL TEEATISES. The Pharmaceutical Calendar of Northern Germany for:.i%6i. Berlin, ^nuA.—Therapeutics and Materia Medica. A systematic Treatise on the actions and uses of medicinal agents, includiuff their description and history. 8vo, Philadelphia, i860, in 2 vols,, pp. 1788. GuiBERT.—iVa^Mrfl^ and Medical History of the new Medicines introduced into Therapeutics from 1830 to the present time. (Prize Essay.) 8vo, Bruss?ls, i860, pp. 577. Hagen.—The Remedial Agents introduced hito practice since 1830, and the modes of preparing them. 8vo, Leipsic, 1861. Krahner.—Pharmacy for Medical Practitioners. 8vo, Halle, i86ij pp. 123^. Berg.—Characters of the most important Plants itsedin Medicine and the Arts. 2ncl ed. enlarged. Berlin, 1861, pp. 115. Berg.—Pharmaceutical Botany. 4th ed. revised. Berlin, i860. Tardieu.—Course of Lectures on Poisons. L'Union, vol. x, p. 4771 et passim. Pulverization of Liquids for Therapeutic Purposes. FouRNii.—On the penetration of pulvendent, gaseous, volatile, solid, and liquid Bodies into the Respiratory Passages. L'Union, vol. xii, P- 598- On this subject, -which is now exciting so much attention in France, the author's conclusions are to the following effect:—Impalpable powders con- tained in the air penetrate into the respiratory channels during in- spiration ; in the healthy state of the mucous membrane they are expelled by ciliary action, but not when the mucous membrane is in a state of catarrh ; no penetration occurs if respiration is performed through the nose exclusively. Pulverized liquids (that is, liquids reduced into a state of such extreme division* as to be suspended in the air breathed) enter the larynx and trachea, but do not reach the bronchial tubes. Numerous experiments are related, showing that pulverized solutions of salts having characteristic reactions could not be detected in the expecto- ration of patients who had inspired them. Demarquay.—On the penetration of Pulverized Liquids into the Air- passages. L'Union, vol. xi, p. 605. Demarquay has made similar experiments to those above related as to the inhalation of pulverized solutions. He found however, that, after administering to rabbits by pulverization a solution of perchloride of iron, and examining the respiratory organs immediately after, the salt could be detected by ferrocyanide of potassium throughout the whole of the bronchial ramifications, and even in the parenchyma of the lung. Sales-Giroks, Bouillaud.—Ort the "Dihte Respiratoire" in Diseases of the Chest. L'Union, vol. ix, p. 46. * This is accomplished by an apparatus In which the solution to be " pulverized" is impelled from a capillary tube in a minute stream with great force (under a pressure of four or five atmospheres) against a convex disc. In the administration of pulverized solutions, the tube and disc are introduced into the mouth.REPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEHIA MEDICA. 408 PiETRA Santa, Brian.—O/t the Pulverization of the Eaux Bonnes. L'Union, vol. x, pp. 312 nntl 490. Sales-Gikons.—On the Pulverization of Mineral Waters, and the criticisms thereupon. L'Union, vol. x, p. 490. Anthelmintics. CoURBON.—Ok tJie Tcenifages of Abyssinia. Bull, de Thdr., vol. Ix, p. 352. The author, after describing the source, botanical characters, and mode of administration of kousso, notices seven other anthelmintics wliich are less generally known. Of these, the two most important are designated mesenna and mitcha mitcho. Mesenna is the bark of a leguminous plant resenibling an acacia. It is said to contain an alkaloid. As an antlielmintic, it is taken in doses of about two ounces three hours before the first meal. It is said to create no nausea, and to be painless in its operation; the entozoon is discharged "in a broken or pounded state " in each stool for some days after. Mitcha mitcho is the bulb of a species of Oxalis, the powder of which is much used, and in the same dose and manner. It appears to be inferior to the former, which, according to Courbon, is the most certain tsenifuge known. INOEGAlflC SUBSTANCES. Sulphur. Hebra.—On the application of Sulphur in Diseases of the Skin. Allg. Wien. Ztg., Nos. 47, 48, 1860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 204. Hebra employs sulphur externally only. He holds that it acts thera- peutically by inducing hypersemia of the alfected integument, stimulating the growth of epidermis, and thus accelerating the metamorphosis of tissue in the part; and that this action is excited more energetically by alkaline sulphurets and sulphur contaminated with sulphurous acid, selenium, or arsenic, than by pure sulphur, which he uses only in cases in which a feebly stimulant action is indicated. In scabies he has ob- tained no good results, either by fumigations or by baths. He strongly recommends Vlemingkx's solution of sulphuret of calcium, as destroying the acarus scabies with greater rapidity and no less certainty than sulphur ointment. In chronic psoriasis it is recommended that the same solution should be rubbed in energetically until the scales are removed and tlie surface begins to bleed. The patient is then to be placed in a bath, and the affected parts dressed with simple ointment. Two other affections of the skin in which Vlemingkx's solution is found useful, are pityriasis versicolor and ichthyosis. It is prepared by boiling two pounds of sulphur with half its weight of unslaked lime in a pint of water until it is reduced by evaporation to twelve ounces. The hquid is then filtered, after which it is ready for use. Phosphorus. Blondlot.—On the toxicological detection of Phosphorus by the colour of the flame. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xl, p. 25. Three years ago it was shown by Dussard that phosphuretted hydrogen, as disengaged when phosphorus or any oxygen compound thereof, ex-INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 409 cepting phosphoric acid, is introduced into Marsh's apparatus, may be recognised by the fact that the flame, when deflected by a porcelain plate, acquires an emerald-green colour. M. Blondlot finds that although this reaction is very characteristic and of extraordinary delicacy, it is entirely prevented by the presence of animal matters such as exist in the contents of the stomach and intestines. In order to overcome this difficulty, he. first introduces the liquids to be tested into a large hydrogen apparatus, passing the gas through a solution of nitrate of silver; the brown pre- cipitate (containing phosphide of silver) is then introduced into a second apparatus of smaller dimensions, and yields the reaction with certainty. Mascarel.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. L'Union, vol. xii, p. 201. A miller's wife, eet. 45, while at work sent a servant boy to the cellar for a draught of rape, a common drink among the country people near Poitiers. She at once recognised the acridity of the liquid and the taste of phosphorus. In half an hour vomiting supervened, with intense pain. On the arrival of her husband he observed that the vomited matters were phosphorescent. She was first seen by M. Mascarel, at eleven on the following morning, when there were fever, agitation, headache, thirst, vomiting, and great epigastric tenderness and diarrhoea. These symptoms continued for three days, after which they declined. On the seventh day the patient appeared so well that attendance was discontinued, but on the following morning she became suddenly worse. On the arrival of Dr. Mascarel, two hours after, she was dead. An autopsy was made by order of the procureur imperial, but no morbid appearances were revealed excepting that the blood was com- pletely fluid, and that the pleura and pericardium contained a con- siderable quantity of sanguinolent serum. All of the organs and the contents of the digestive cavity were submitted to analysis. Traces only of phosphorus were discovei'ed. The two servants of the deceased were suspected. At the trial M. Mascarel expressed the opinion, founded on the facts above related, that her death could only be attributed to poisoning, probably by phosphorus. On the admission of the accused that they had introduced about a thimbleful of powdered ends of matches into the rapS, they were convicted and severally sentenced to twenty years of penal servitude, and ten years' imprisonment. Frickhoffeb.—Poisoning hy Phosphorus. Nass. Med. Jahrbb,, vols, xv, xvi, p. 745. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 24. A man, £Et. 50, took a pint of elder tea for some slight ailment, into which there had been accidentally introduced a box containing lucifers ! Soon after, he experienced burning pain at the epigastrium, sensation of heat at the chest, with anxiety and confusion of thought. He was not seen until six hours afterwards, before which time free vomiting had taken place after drinking milk. Under a sedative and antiphlogistic treatment, combined with magnesia, he got gradually well. Zeidler.—Case of acute Poisoning by Phosphorus. Ann. d. Berl. Charity vol. ix, p. I. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 24. ' A female, jet. 25, was brought into the hospital who had taken at in- tervals of about twelve hours three quantities of phosphorus paste, ob-410 REPOKT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA, tained from looo matclies. Her condition was as follows:—The skin was pale and cool, the lips were reddened, the tongue coated, the epigas- trium tender on pressure and somewhat hard, and the helly tympanitic but painless ; respirations forty per minute, interrupted by attacks cf dyspnoea; pulse frequent, almost imperceptible. The patient complained of constant shivering, and vomited frequently ; the vomited matter and the breath smelt strongly of phosphorus, and the former was luminous in the dark. No urine was passed, either by the catheter or naturally. The vomiting was somewhat alleviated by the exhibition of magnesia and opiates, but death took place about thirty hours after the last dose of the poison. It was preceded by cessation of pain, cold and clammy sweats, difficult and noisy respiration, and delirium, which assumed a markedly erotic character. The principal facts brought to light by the examination of the body (eighty hours after death) were the following :—There was no sign of inflammatory action in any part of the alimentary canal, excepting the ileum, the mucous membrane of which was red and congested ; the blood was completely fluid ; the liver was of firm consistence, and exhibited "advanced fatty infiltration, with yellow colouring of the centres of the acini." On opening the abdomen there was a strong smell of phosphorus. Ogston.—Poisoning by Lucifer Matches. Poisoning by "Phosphor paste." Brit, and For. Med.-Chir.Eev., Oct., p. 490. Poisoning by Phosphorus, Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 293. Iodine. Orth.—Case of Poisoning by Iodide of Potassium. Nass. Med. Jhrb., vols. XV, xvi, p. 747. A man, ret. 38, who had suflered for eighteen months from lumbago, took, at the recommendation of an unprofessional person, four doses of nine grains each of iodide of potassium, dissolved in water. After the third dose the patient began to feel unwell; three hours later his symptoms were as follows :—Heat of head, swelling of the face, particu- larly of the eyelids, and of the submaxillary region, injection of the con- junctivse, great restlessness, buzzing and ringing in the head, intense headache, flow of mucus and saliva from the mouth, without alteration of the gums or mucous membrane, and retching; The symptoms declined after twelve hours, and convalescence was estabhshed in two days. The patient was previously in good general health ; there were no signs what- ever of gastric irritation. The case is remarkable from the severity of the symptoms produced by so small a dose. FoNSSAGiuvES.—^cM^e Poisoning by Iodine. L'Union Med., No. 7, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 103. _ • • x j Tincture of iodine diluted with an equal quantity of water was injected into the tunica vaginalis of a man Euff"ering from traumatic inflammation of that membrane, with eflusion. Two hours after the injection the tumour was double its former size, and fever declared itself with an intensity which was out of all relation with the local inflammation. On the following day there was excessive bronchial irritation, sneezing, redness of the eyes and fauces, furred tongue, salivation, dysphagia, and oedema of the glottis.411 INOEGANIO SUBSTANCES. Iodine was found in the urine, perspiration, and saliva. The patient reco- vered after twenty hours' iUness^ ViOLETTE.—Double compounds of Iodine tvith Iron and Quinine. Gaz. des Hop., No. 59, i860. The compound thus described has been recently introduced by KebiUon. It is a resinous mass, of a beautiful green colour, crystalline fracture, and bitter styptic taste. It is said to possess very great advantages in all cases in which it is desirable to combine iron and quinine. The author adduces cases illustrative of its efficacy as an analeptic. GoNOD.—On the administj-ation of Common Salt in combination with Iodides and Bromides. Journ. de Chem. M6d., July, i860. Metallic Chlorides. Bryk.—On the local action of Chlorine on the Tissues. Virchow, vol. xviii, p. 377. Canst., vol. v, p. 106. Brylc's inquiry relates to the action of chlorine and the chlorides as caustics. The author has investigated, by experiments on rabbits, the anatomical and chemical changes -which are directly produced by these agents, and the peculiarities observable in the processes of sloughing, sup- puration, and cicatrization. He finds that two kinds of anatomical change are produced in the tissues, according to the nature and degree of con- centration of the chloride employed. The metalUc chlorides, and particu- larly those of platina, gold, and mercury in strong solution, convert the tissues into a dry mass, in which, however, all the anatomical elements can be distinguished on microscopic examination. Chlorine itself, on the other hand, and the alkaline chlorides * {sic), or weak solutions of the metallic chlorides, have a "colliquative" action on the tissues, by which, according to the author, their anatomical characters undergo a change resembling fatty degeneration (Verfettung). By chemical investigation he has deter- mined that this change is dependent upon the conversion of the albuminous constituents of the tissues into a soluble form (alkaline albuminates), whereas the dry sloughs produced by the metallic chlorides consist mainly of insoluble metallic albuminates. The author attaches much greater therapeutical importance to the colli- quative than to the escharotic action of the chlorides, recommending their application to mucous surfaces, suppurating wounds and tumours, in all of ■which cases he maintains that they possess a remarkable power of limiting cell-growth. Alkaline Bases. Poisoning by Chlorate of Potash. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i, p. 159. Chlorate of potash was given to a phthisical patient by a physician at Bergen (New Jersey, U.S.), in doses of 300 grains daily. In four days violent symptoms of irritant poisoning supervened, and were rapidly fatal. After death the mucous membrane of the stomach was found to be stained of a yellow colour, and much softened. * From the context it appears that the author means chlorinated soda and chlorinated lime.—Ed.nEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 412 Chevalier, De Luynes and Deveiwie.—Death of a Policeman conse- quent on the impnideiil %isc of two ounces of Nitrate of Potash as a purgative. Ann, d'llyg., vol, xv, p, 400, Earthy Bases. HoMOLLE.—On the therapeutical application of Sulphate of Alumina and of Double Sulphate of Alumina and Zinc. Journ, de Pharm,, vol, xxxix, p. 289, Homolle describes minutely the preparation of these two salts, and their use in concentrated solution as external applications. He has employed them in affections of the cervix uteri and in pharyngitis, and describes their action as intermediate between that of detergents and caustics. He has also used them with great success in cancer. Chromium. Lange.—Chromic Acid as an application io Conical Condylomata and Warts. Deut, Klin., No, 32, i860. The author used chromic acid in thirty-two cases of conical condy- lomata, of which twenty were associated with primary syphilis or flat condylomata. In most instances several applications were necessary. The main advantage of this over other caustics of equal efficacy consists in comparative painlessness of its application, Ogston.—Poisoning by Bichromate of Potash. Brit, and For, Med.- Chir, Rev., Oct., p. 492. Zinc. Falck.—Investigation of the actions of the Soluble Salts of Zinc. Deut. Klin., 45, 47, 49, 52, i860; and 2, 6, 13, 28, 1861, Schmidt, vol, 112, p. 18, ' All or nearly all of the author's experiments relate to the acetate of zinc, which he gave in strong solution to rabbits and pigeons, and found that in that state it is an active, ^irritant poison, resembling in its effects other metallic irritants. From other experiments it appears that acetate of zinc produces a permanent precipitate in milk, but that the precipitate which it determines in solution of albumen is dissolved in excess of the precipitant. For this reason it is recommended to give milk in preference to albumen in cases of poisoning by salts of zinc. Poisoning by Chloride of Zinc.—Pharmac, p. 584, Von Veiel.—On the external application of the Chloride of Zinc. Wien, Ztsch., vol. xvii, parts 3 and 8. The author uses chloride of zinc in alcoholic solution (equal parts of rectified spirits and chloride of zinc), in acid solution in water (i in 50), or in the solid form, as a stick (prepared by pouring the fused chloride into moulds). Its advantages are as follows :—it combines with all the elements of the tissues, particularly with the albuminous compounds, and by its stimulant action induces contraction of the neighbouring413 INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. parts and diminution of the wound, accelerates suppuration, favours the rapid separation of the slough, and determines the formation of a healthy granulating surface. From the regular and symmetrical action of the caustic the resulting cicatrix is satisfactory. The pain is severe, but of short duration. In all the preceding respects the author has found it superior to the mineral acids, caustic potash, lunar caustic, or to the pre- parations of iodine. He has not compared it with other metallic chlo- rides. Iron. Skinner. — Ferri Carhonas Effervescens, a new and elegant form of Chalybeate. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 627. This preparation is made as follows : 9=. Acidi Tartarici, 3iij ; Sodse Bicarbonatis, ^v ; Ferri Sulphatis, 5x; Fulveris sacchari, 5ij 5vj ; Acidi Citrici, 5ij. The sulphate of iron is to be mixed with the sugar and part of the tartaric acid, and the citric acid with the remainder of the latter and with the bicarbonate of soda. The two mixtures are to be united and thoroughly incorporated by sifting. The result is then to be thrown into a metallic pan set in the water-bath and briskly agitated while hot, by which means it is caused to assume the granular form. It is administered in doses of a teaspoonful several times a day, and is found to produce a chalybeate effect with great rapidity, and to be therefore adapted for the treatment of neuralgia arising from anaemia. Owing to the soda salts developed during effervescence, the preparation is slightly aperient. Co^^er. Gallo.—Fatal case of Poisoning by Copper, Nass. Med. Jhrb., vols. XV, xvi, p. 743. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 24. A robust house painter took by mistake for brandy an ounce of a solution of copper. He immediately experienced intense abdominal pain, with vomiting and purging of green matter, which continued until on the third day the author was called in. The patient was then much emaciated, and the complexion was leaden; there were extreme muscular weakness, a foul and dry tongue, excessive thirst, abdominal tenderness on pressure, and abundant saHvation. On the sixth day he became jaundiced. The bowels not having been relieved, castor oil was given, which produced free evacuations containing traces of green matter. From the eighth day he became progressively weaker, and was ordered chaly- beates, arnica, valerian, ether, and beef tea. He gradually sank, and died on the sixteenth day. No autopsy. Lead. Freytag.—0« the actions of Compounds of Lead on the Human Body. M.schrftder Gewerbevereins zu Coin. Jiinner, i860. Canst, vol. vii" ■ p. 11. • » Freytag and Richter found that in certain cases of poisoning, in whichBEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. •1.14 Inrge quantities of basic acetate of lead were discovered after death, various shades of grey or slate colour were observed in the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, the discoloration being most intense in tlie colon. In all the discoloured parts evidence was obtained of the presence of a compound of basic acetate of lead with organic matter. FouauET.—Case of Poisoning by Acetate of Lead. Wien. Wchnschr., No. II, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 24. A healthy man, set. 63, took an ounce of solution of acetate of lead by mistake for lycopodium, ordered for spasmodic dysury. He suffered in consequence from diarrhoea, with paroxsyms of colic. The evacuations were watery, and contained much mucus. He became coni valescent in a few days, under appropriate treatment. Poisoning ly a Lead Plate used for the purpose of dyeing the Hair. Bull, de Th6r., vol. Ixi, p. 280. Poisoning by Acetate of Lead. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 199, Duchesne.—On Lead Colic in workmen engaged in enamelling Iron. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 298. The process of enamelling iron, for the purpose of protecting it from oxidation {controxidation), is carried on to a large extent near Paris in the manufacture of the supports for telegraph wires. These are prepared by covering the surface of the iron with a thin layer of a fusible enamel, containing 24 per cent, of oxide of lead. The process consists in pulverizing and sifting the enamel, and in dusting the powder on the articles to be enamelled, which are then exposed to a heat sufficient to fuse the coating. The author describes various methods actually em- ployed in one or two of the factories, by which the workman is enabled to escape entirely the inhalation of the poisonous dust. Among other appliances he gives drawings and descriptions of masks or respirators, which, from their cheapness, lightness, and effi6iency, appear admirably adapted for all occupations in which the health is liable to injury from similar causes. As regards the effects of the occupation, his account agrees with of M. Archambault. More than fifty cases of lead colio arising from this cause are now on record. Archambault, Potain.—On Lead Poisoning by the Poioder of Glass among the worhnen engaged in the Controxidation of Iron. L'Union, vol. xi, p. 151. The workmen who are employed in this process are constantly exposed to an atmosphere impregnated with flint-glass (silicate of potash and lead) in a state of impalpable powder, in such quantity that water through which it is passed becomes in a very short time covered with a white film. Of twenty-one persons employed in this process in a factory at Bercy, nineteen suffered within six months more or less severely from lead poisoning, and three died. The afiection commenced with slight exaggeration of the appetite, which was succeeded by salivation. The subsequent symptoms were those observed in cases of lead poisoning, but the phenomena of colic were less marked. M. Archambault, finding that glass-dust, even in a pulverulent state, is only soluble in liquids having anINOEGANIC SUBSTANCES. 415 acid reaction, concludes that the lead it contains must enter the system in the process of digestion. With a view of determining how far the dust is soluble in the gastric juice, he took a meal while exposed to the air of the factory, and followed it by an emetic during the process of digestion. The sputa were found to contain a soluble salt of lead in considerable quan- tity. "When the meal was accompanied with acid wine, the quantity was much larger, Arsenic. Yon Veiel.—On the internal administration of Arsenic in Diseases of the Skin. Wiirtemb. Corr. Bltt., No. 24, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 115. The author, who is in charge of a hospital for diseases of the skin, has given arsenic (in pills containing one thirtieth of a grain each of arsenious acid) in 700 cases of skin disease. He has not met with a single instance in which gastro-enteritis, chronic vomiting, tenesmus, or any of the cerebro- spinal phenomena beginning with treraorsor cramps, and ending in paralysis, have presented themselves. He, however, frequently met with those well- known symptoms of irritation of the mucous membranes which indicate the discontinuance of the drug (conjunctivitis, dryness of the throat and nose, and irritative cough, &c.). Strangury occurred in one case, and salivation in two others. In some of the patients the appetite and embonpoint increased in a marked degree, and the general health and appearance improved. Massaut.—On the therapeutic applications of Arseniate of Gold. Rev. de Ther. Med. Chir., No. 21, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 23. This preparation is obtained by mixing a solution of pure chloride of gold with arseniate of potash. The precipitate is separated by filtration and dried. It is given in pills, in doses increasing from one tenth to one third of a grain twice a day. Massart finds it useful in the advanced stages of phthisis, and in cancer, as a powerful tonic. Gehmain.—Arsenious Acid in Dyspepsia. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 7, p. 29, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 116. Germain administered arsenious acid in pills, each containing one sixth of a grain. One pill was given daily before dinner in cases of chronic gastric catarrh characterised by anorexia, vomitings gastralgia, diarrhoea, or constipation. The results were very satisfactory; the author at- tributes the favorable action of bismuth in similar cases to its containing . arsenic. Bloxam.—On the Electrolytic Test for Arsenic {Chemical Society). Chem. News, vol. iii, p. 77. In a paper, of which an abstract is given in the 'Year Book' for i860. Prof. Bloxam showed that when arsenical compounds mixed with diluted sulphuric acid were acted upon by the current, produced from four or five cells, arseniiiretted hydrogen was liberated from the negative pole, but that arsenic acid did not respond to this test, and that the presence of mercury interfered with it. The author has now obviated these difficulties by adding a small quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen to the liquid during its electrolysis. By this means a ring of tersulphide of arsenic, followedllEPOUT OX TOXICOLOGY AND MATEUTA MEDICA. 416 by one of metallic arsenic, is readily obtained either from solutions of arsenic acid or from organic substances containing arsenic which have been destroyed by chlorate of potash and hydrochloric acid. It was further found, that wlien organic substances containing both arsenic and antimony treated as above were introduced into the cell, antimoniuretted hydrogen was evolved in the first instance free from arseniuretted hydro- gen ; and that, on the subsequent addition of sulphuretted hydrogen, the latter was given off free from the former. The process thus affords a means of successively detecting both metals. LiPPEKT.—0« Reinsch's method of detecting Arsenic. Journ. f. prakt. Chem., vol. Ixxxi, p. 172. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 78. Lippert demonstrates that the deposit is not, as has hitherto been sup- posed, pure arsenic, but an alloy having the constitution Cn^As. Heated in a current of hydrogen, the deposit loses arsenic and is transformed into a white alloy, having the constitution CugAs, identical with that of the mineral domeykite. Reynolds.—Case of Poisoning by Arsenic near Wakefield, with remarks on Dr. Taylor s new process. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 511. A single lady (whose household consisted of herself and two servants, a man and a maid) suffered at various periods, and particularly during the week preceding her deatli, from the symptoms of gastro-enteritis. Subse- quently a suspicion arose that these symptoms, which had been attributed by the medical attendant to natural disease, were caused by poison, in con- sequence of which the body was exhumed by order of the coroner. The viscera and their contents were placed in the bauds of Mr. Nunneley for analysis, who gave evidence that the pathological appearances were such as the administration of arsenic would account for, and that arsenic was found in all the viscera examined. It having been stated at the inquest by a medical practitioner who had also examined certain of the organs, that no arsenic was present, the body was re-exhumed previously to the trial, by order of the Home Secretary. A second'analysis of the remaining viscera was performed by Mr. Nunneley, who found arsenic throughout the whole body, even in the brain and uterus. An independent analysis of parts of the liver, kidneys, lungs, and intestines, was made by Mr. Reynolds, who also obtained the clearest evidence of the presence of arsenic. Alleged Poisoning by Arsenic. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 614. At the coroner's inquest on the body of a child supposed to have been poisoned, evidence was given by a medical practitioner to the effect that by Reinsch's process he had obtained proof of the presence of arsenic in the contents of the stomach and intestines, as well as in the viscera. He had added ammonio-sulphate of copper and ammonio-nitrate of silver to liquids containing organic matter, and obtained what he supposed to be characteristic reactions. He had made other equally inconclusive experi- ments, on which he founded the opinion that arsenic had been admi- nistered. The organs were subsequently sent to Mr. Horsley, who found that they contained no arsenic. Poisoning by Arsenic.—Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. 385, 386, 485, 486, 535, 582 ; vol. iii, p. 198.417 OEGANIO ACIDS. mvEKER.—Researches on the transformation of the Arsenic emploxjedin the Manufacture of Glass. Pappenheim, part ii, 1861, p. 68. _ This inquiry Avas uudertakeu at the suggestion of Dr. Pappenheim, with reference entirely to the question whether or not the arsenic largely employed in the manufacture of some kinds of glass, assumes any form likely to be injurious to the public health. The author analysed the glass, the scum (consisting mainly of sulphate of soda, sand and carbon), the deposit in the flue, the dust of the glass-house, the snow in the neigh- bourhood, &c. His method was as follows :—The arsenic was in every case separated as sulphuret; the precipitate was dissolved in weak ani- monia and evaporated ; the residue was treated with fuming nitric acid, and again evaporated; the product again dissolved in ammonia, and the solution treated with ammonio-chloride of magnesium. The resulting crys- talline precipitate (AmO,2MgO,As05 + lallO) contains 39-17 per cent, of metallic arsenic. The results were as follows :—In the glass-works investigated, arsenic was employed in the proportion of f tli per cent., of which quantity the analysis showed that ith was retained in the glass, and iths was either removed with the scum or sublimed. In the scum arsenic exists in a soluble form (arsenite of soda), in the deposit from the flue in an insoluble state (arsenite of iron). It was found that no arsenic was contained either in the snow or water in the neighbourhood. Mercurij, PoLAK.—On the employment of Mercury in Persia as a remedy against Syphilis. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., No. 36. The author gives the following as the conclusions to which he was led by observations made during his nine years' practice in Persia. Mercury can be given in much larger quantity and for a longer time without affecting the mouth than in temperate climates. Tlie natives use calomel as a universal remedy, and take it in enormous doses, even for the most trifling ailments; but no bad results, either direct or remote, are observed from its use. As a remedy against syphilis it is administered by inhala- tion. For this purpose a lozenge containing two drachms of cinnabar is added twice a day to the moist tobacco usually smoked in the Narghile. The author found that in this way the constitution is aifected more rapidly than in any other. He believes that the cure is radical, founding that belief on the observation that in Persia the children of infected persons who have been thoroughly mercurialized are healthy. ORGANIC ACIDS. Oxalic Acid. LiTTLEJOHN.—Case of criminal Poisoning with Oxalic Acid, in which Perforation of the Stomach took place. Edin. Med. Journ,, July, P- i3- An unmarried woman administered to her infant, twelve days old, an undetermined quantity of oxalic acid ; death took place in less than an hour, but whether immediately or at what interval of time couldnEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERU MEMCA. not be ascertained. The most remarkable appearances due to the action ot the poison observed at the autopsy were the following;—" The lips were of a blackish colour, and exhibited a puckered and corroded ap- pearance;" the upper surface of the tongue was grey and sodden and covered here and there with pasty-looking matter ; the mucous membrane of the pharynx was highly congested, that of the oesophagus macerated, and towards the cardia of an ashen colour. There was a perforation im- plicating a considerable part of the posterior wall of the stomach, the adjoining mucous membrane being dark (in the accompanying drawing black) and softened. The mucous surface of the pyloric end of the stomach and of the duodenum was congested, that of the remainder of the small intestine healthy. The oxalic acid remaining in the alimentary canal was determined quantitatively to be four grains. From the post- mortem appearances, the speedy death, and the character of the stains on the child's clothing, the author concludes that the acid was given in concentrated solution. On opening the abdomen the contents of the stomach were found in the cavity of the peritoneum, so that perforation could not have been produced in the process of dissection. Sanionine. Rose.—On the phenomena conseqiient on large doses of Santonine and Setnen-contra, Bull, de Ther., vol. Ixi, p. 234. The author found that santonine, in doses varying from three grains to a drachm, was without toxic action either on man or animals, whereas the santonate of soda, in doses of a drachm, induces death, preceded by cou- vulsions. The difference he attributes to the fact that scarcely any of the santonine is absorbed, while the salt passes into the circulation with great rapidity. Three hours after taking santonine, M. Rose observed that all surrounding objects appeared yellow; larger doses produced only a peculiar kind of headache and a great desire to micturate. The urine passed was orange-coloured, and became purple on the addition of alkaline. ALKALOIDS. Lafakgue.—Hypodermic inoculation " par enchevillement" of Sulphate of Atropine, Muriate of Morphia, Siiljjhate of Strychnia, and other similar substances, in the treatment of Neuralgia, Partial Paralysis, ^c. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ix, p. 22. The new method recommended by M. Lafargue consists in the intro- duction, under the integument of the affected part, of a solid but perfectly soluble needle-shaped cylinder, resembling a filament of uncooked vermi- celli. These cylinders are prepared by rolling a pill mass made of the alkaloid, intimately mixed with white sugar and a small proportion of mu- cilage ; those of sulphate of atropine contain about one thirtieth of a grain of the salt. In order to introduce the cylinder, the author passes a sharp needle, previously ground to a lance-shnped point, under the integument to a sufficient distance ; the needle is then withdrawn, and the cylinder, which must be of less diameter than the needle, inserted in its place, where it is confined by a bit of sticking plaster, The advantages claimedALKALOIDS. 419 for this method are its great simplicity and its consequent adaptability to country practice, and the certainty with which the dose is measured. ScHOLZ—0« the sub-cutaneous injection of various Alkaloids. Wieu. Med. WchnbL, vol. xvii, No. 2, 1861. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 293. The author successfully injected one to one and a half grain of acetate of morphia in nine cases as an anodyne, and one twentieth grain of vale- rianate of atropia in two cases as an antispasmodic. The injection was made by first introducing a lancet-edged needle immediately under the deep surface of the corium for five or eight lines, having previously raised the skin into a fold to avoid wounding subjacent parts, and then with- drawing the needle and immediately replacing by the tube of Anel's syringe charged with the solution. SjiMELEDER.—On the subcutaiieous injection of Alkaloids. Wien. Med. Halle, vol. ii, p. 34. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 286. This paper is a report on roore than 300 cases of various forms of neuralgia, observed by the author in the General Hospital at Vienna. A solution of five grains of acetate of morphia in a drachm of distilled water was employed. Of 'this, —20 milligrammes (= i-^Sth—i-42nd grain of morphia) were injected by a glass syringe, furnished with a steel, lancet-pointed canula, and having its graduation on the piston rod. The rod is also furnished with a stop, which screws up and down upon it, and can thus be fixed at any point, so as to limit the stroke of the piston and consequently the precise quantity delivered by the syringe, at the will of the operator. The injection is performed in the usual manner. The results were satisfactory, with one exception, in which sleep continued for fifty-four hours, interrupted by restlessness and screaming. Almost all the patients, half an hour after the application, experienced slight head- ache, vertigo, malaise, nausea, and simultaneous cessation of pain, followed by sleep; they attributed the sleep not to the narcotic action of the drug, but merely to the relief of suffering. The author concludes from his experience that subcutaneous injection is more certain and efilec- tual than the internal administration of morphia with a view to the relief of pain, but that in private practice it is liable to two drawbacks, viz.—(i) that the practitioner must always perform the injection himself; and (2) that it is impossible to guard against the occasional occurrence of very inconvenient consequences in persons who are abnormally susceptible to the action of the alkaloid. HcniiOTF.—Aconitum Lycoctonum in its pharmacognostical, toxicologicalt and historical relations. Wien. Ztsch., vol. xvii, pp. 57 and 161. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 15. The toxicological part of this inquiry is founded on twenty-two experi- ments on rabbits. As regards the physiological action of the dru*, the author finds that the alcoholic extract of the root exercises its general action most rapidly when introduced into the peritoneal cavity, less so when injected into the cellular tissue, and least of all when taken internall3^ Its general action manifests itself in—(a) depression of the functions of respiration and circulation, either immediately or after previous excitement (manifested in increase of temperature of the ears and neighbouring parts); I420 nEPonT oir toxicology axd mateeu medica. i (i) dilntfttion of the pupils; (c) tremor of the integuments, and pro- gressive impairment of function, terminating in paralysis of the voluntary muscles ;*and (d) increased reflex activity, at first, with subsequent coma vigil. In these respects the action of this corresponds to that of other species of monkshood, but it difi'ers strikingly from Aconitum napcUus in not increasing the excretions either of the bowels or kidneys. Whereas both in poisoning by aconitine and by the root of the A. napcllus death is preceded by considerable dyspnoea, violent convulsions, and a prolonged agony, the action of the present species is purely sedative. Spasm is either entirely absent or manifests itself very feebly. After death no appearances were observed of congestion or inflammation, either of the brain or its membranes, or of the mucous membrane of the alimen- tary canal. As regards the comparative activity of different parts of the plant, it was found that the leaves of this species are less poisonous than of any other (five grammes of the extract had no marked effect), but that the root is by far more active than in any other indigenous aconite. Thus, •j^ths of a gramme of the alcoholic extract of the root of A. lycoc- tonum was fatal in from four and a half to six hours, whereas the same quantity of the same preparation of the root of A. neomontanum re- quired from seven to twenty-two hours. In the rapidity of its action it •was only surpassed by the Himalayan species {A. ferox). As regards the effect of the period of growth of the root, it appeared that iu June and July the root was much more active than in Sejptember. The author concludes from his experiments that the acrid principle which is so abundant in A. ferox is absent in A. lycoctonum, while the bitter narcotic principle exists in greater purity and abundance than in any other species. It is shown that alcohol is the best menstruum for extract- ing the latter, and that water is entirely unfit for the purpose. It is how- ever soluble in water, and is taken up, along with fermentescible sugar, from the alcoholic extract by that agent. Schroff" has not yet determined in what state of chemical combination it exists^in the plant. DccKWOBTH.—On the physiological actio7i of Aconitina. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 224- Mr. Duckworth's conclusions, from experiments on cats and rabbits, are as follows :—In rapidly fatal cases death is caused either by direct cardiac syncope or by a powerfully sedative impression on the nervous system. Before death the pupils, which are at first contracted, become excessively dilated When given in somewhat smaller doses, aconitina gradually re- tards the action of the heart and respiration, the latter at the same time becoming irregular and suspicious. The phenomena which precede death appear to be referable to a combination of asphyxia and syncope, the former being indicated by venous congestion, the latter by the impair- ment of the action of the heart. Skinner.—Pot«o?iiM</ by Aconitum Napellus. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, A Srong'and healthy woman, Eet. 30 (who a week previously had taken a smaller dose without'effect), was ordered two table-spoonfuls, three t.mes a day. of a mixture containing m iu sj of Fleming's tmcture of aconite.421 ALKALOIDS. Throe hours after the second dose lier condition was as follows :—" Coun- tenance pale and exsangtiine; pupils widely dilated ; the muscular systena was so weak and relaxed that she could barely stand or walk ; the pulse and the heart's action were very slow and faint, and the respiration kboured." She further complained of lipothymia, drowsiness, and loud noises, as if of rumbling wheels, in her ears, and experienced numbness and tingling of the tongue, hands, tips of the fingers and soles of the feet. On the administration of emetics and stimulants she rapidly recovered. It thus appears that symptoms of poisoning were produced by not more than four minims of Fleming's tincture. The author adds that his patient was neither sensitive nor hysterical, and free from organic disease. Atthill.—Case of Poisoning by Aconite. Dublin Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 193. Half an ounce of a liniment containing half a drachm of tincture of aconite to an ounce of Lin. Saponis was taken by mistake by an adult. He was first seen two hours afterwards. He then complained of prostra- tion and a feeling of dry heat and tightness of the skin, accompanied by the sensation of numbness and tingling. The pulse was at first inter- mitting, and subsequently became more and more irregular and feeble, until it was no longer susceptible. These symptoms were interrupted by several paroxysms of convulsions (the patient had been subject to epileptic fits). After several hours he gradually rallied. The treatment consisted in emetics, stimulants, and artificial respiration by Silvester's method. Stuachax.—Case of accidental Poisoning ly Fletning's Tincture of Aconite. Edinb. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 259. Poisoning by Aconite. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 486; vol. iii, p. 199. Kay.—Poisoning by Aconite. Lancet, Aug. 17th. Morphia. NxvisoN.—On the antagonistic eff^ect of Opium and Quinine. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 377. From clinical observations Dr. Nivison concludes that, in many inflam- matory aflections, large doses of opium may be safely given in combination with quinine (with a view to its sedative action) without danger; that its tendency to reduce the secretions of the liver and kidneys, and to diminish respiration, is thereby counteracted ; that the after-effects are averted ; that in cases of extreme exhaustion the combination of opium with full doses of quinine is of great value; that many person.s, unable to take opium alone from constitutional idiosyncrasy, are able to do so when it is combined with quinine; and lastly, that many of the occasional in- conveniences of the administration of quinine are obviated by combining it with opium. Lefort.—Chemical and Toxicological Studies on Morphia ; ivilh obser- vations on its transmission in the animal organism. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xl, p. 97. This paper contains a single new fact—namely, that the brown-yellow colour produced by iodic acid in solutions of morphia is not due to the 28nEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND IIATEHIA MEDICA. liberation of iodine, m lins been generally supposed. This follows from the observation that it is heightened by the subsequent addition of am- monia, Avhercas the brown colour produced by tlie addition of iodic acid to otlier organic compounds wliich decompose it is at once discharged by that reagent. With this modification M. Lefort recommends the iodic acid reaction as the most delicate test for morphia, being applicable to solutions containing only -j-jj J-^-gth of tlie alkaloid. VowiNKEL.—A case of Poisoniny hy Opium; leffal jvoceediuffs respect- iitff it. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xv, part a. Canst., vol. vii, p. 14, The author relates a case in which a child, set. 2 years, suffering from bronchial catarrh, was ordered a mixture containing tartar emetic, cherry- laurel water, and tincture of opium. After six doses the child died. It was found that the remainder of the mixture contained no antimony, but an undue proportion of opium; so much, indeed, that it was estimated that one .sixth of a grain of morphia had been taken. Death was pre- ceded by drowsiness and stupor, terminating in coma and paralysis of the sphincters. After death tlie blood was found fluid ; the membranes of the brain were congested, and there was much effusion in the ventricles. There were also extensive adhesions of the left pleura, and tiie right lung was partially impenetrable to air in consequence of compression {(italectasis) of the upper lobe. The mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes was injected to their smallest ramifications, which contained red and frothy mucus. The evidence showed that tincture of opium had been inadvertently substituted for antimonial wine. Zepuder.—Case of acute Poisonirig by Morphia in a child of eleven weeks. Wien. Med. Halle, vol. ii, No. 14, 1861. A female infant, set. eleven weeks, received at about nine p.m., by mis- take, one twelfth of a grain of acetate of morphia. Sleep followed almost immediately, and continued, interrupted by convulsions, till next morn- ing. The face was dusky, the lips livid, the pupils contracted, and the countenance staring. Emetics were given without effect, and strong coffee, both by the mouth and in injections, at short intervals. Sleep con- tinued till evening, still interrupted by paroxysms of tetanic convulsions (opisthotonos^. Leeches were then applied to the mastoid processes,.after wliich the spasms ceased, and the child slept quietly. Next morning it was well. Duncan.—Accidental Poisoning by Opium. Lancet, June 29th. A lady, set. 6^, took, at 8.40 p.m., about an ounce and a half of laudanum by mistake for a purgative draught. The patient was seen by Dr. Duncan half an hour after, when she was perfectly conscious. Copious vomiting was induced by scruple doses of sulphate of zinc in warm water, and the stomach-pump was used. During the action of (he emetic fatal syncope was several times threatened. An hour after the accident, narcotism came on ; the usual expergefacient treatment was maintained for twelve hours, and beef tea was injected at intervals. After this the patient became capable of being roused, but there was extreme prostration, so that death appeared imminent. Under an appropriate treatment she eventually recovered.ALKALOIDS. 423 Neavjian.—Crtse illusfratinff the antagonistic effects of Opium and Belladonna. Brit. Med. Jouru., vol. ii, p. 30. A female, set. 5^, took, at an interval of three hours, two doses, each of a quarter of a grain, of acetate of morphia, the last being taken at mid- night. She slept heavily till 6 a.m., when, in order to procure more sleep, she took two pills made from a plaster, (Emplastrum Thuris c. Bella- donna,) which had been applied some days before. Shortly after the pupils became dilated, and delirium supervened, which assumed the characteristic features of that produced by belladonna. Poisoning hj 0/«w?h.—Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. ,386, 486, 536,584,616} vol. iii, pp. 45, 46, 151, 199, 292, 294, 341. Alkaloids of the Solanacece. St, Auge.—Poisoning hy Hyoscyamus. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p.383- A gentleman took by mistake for borage two cups of infusion of hen- bane. When seen a short time after, he was in bed, in a state of profound sleep. The features were pale, the lips blue, the breathing tranquil, and the pulse full (82). On being roused, he muttered and became irritable. On attempting to make him drink, he resented it violently, and soon fell into a state of hallucination, in which his countenance assumed a menacing aspect, and he called on various absent persons by name, with whom he imagined himself to be in debate. When left to himself he relapsed into a lethargic sleep. Sinapisms were applied to the thighs and legs, and five grains of tartar-emetic given by the mouth, after which he rapidly recovered. Evans.—Poisoning by the Berries of Belladonna. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. ii, p. 305. A child, iel. p, who had taken four berries of belladonna, was admitted into the General Hospital at Birmingham at three p.m., with dilated pupils, quick pulse, and heat of skin, but no other symptoms whatever of poison- ing. Three hours afterwards, as no symptoms had occurred, she was allowed to get up. On doing so, she became "giddy and confused," and "so(3n began to make snatches at imaginary objects," which appeared from her talk to be chiefly articles of work, and various insects, &c. From this time the delirium rapidly increased—at one time expressive of joy, at another of terror. The tongue became dry, the heat of skin increased, the pulse became more rapid, and the voice became singularly clear. This condition continued until the evening of the following day, when, after the action of a stimulant enema, given to relieve tympanitis,* she fell asleep, and awoke next morning convalescent. RoTix.—Poisoning hy yltropine. Ann. de Ther,, p. 13. Dehizi,.—Preparation of Nicotine. Ann. de Th6r., p. 28. The method employed consists in passing steam through a quantity of tobacco mixed with lime in powder. The steam becomes charged with nicotine, and is condensed. The distillate is then exactly neutralized with4^4! IIEPOIIT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEKIA MEDICA. siilpliiiric acid, rciliiccd l)y oviiporniioii, mikI trciiied uilh tllier containiii"- ammouiii, which hbeinies niid laUcs up the uicoliue. ° Strychnia. Guy.—On the Colour-tests for Strychnia, and the rliagnosis of the Alka- loids. Plinrninc, vol. ii, pp. 558, 602 ; and vol. iii, 11 luid 112. This pnperis founded on observations originally given to the prolession in the 'Croonian Lectures' for 1861. Dr. Guy proposes the four fol- lowing questions for solution :—(i) The best form'and mode of application of tile colour-tests. (2) Of the colour-tests, which is to be preferred? (3) Are tbc colour-tests, or is the selected test, open to any serious ob- jection ? (4) Is it possible, by means of the colour-tests, or by any simple modification of them, to distinguish the alkaloids from each other? To the first question he answers, that the best mode of applying tiie test is to dissolve the alkaloid in the acid, and then to add the colour-developing substance, and that it is best to use the acid concentrated, and the reagent in substance. He finds that, in testing for strychnia, permanganate of potash is the best reagent. In answer to the third question, the author's researches have led him to the conclusion, as regards strychnia, tiiat the evidence yielded by the colour-tests is open to no valid objection, and that the " development of a rich blue colour," "passing, after a few seconds, into other colours, affords undeniable proof of its presence." In pur- suance of the fourth branch of his inquiry, Dr. Guy has investigated the action of sulphuric acid (alone, and followed by the solution of per- manganate of potash) and nitric acid under various conditions of tempera- ture. On the results he has founded a classification of the alkaloids, which he believes will be found serviceable in the discrimination of these bodies. Tscu£PKE.—Case of Poisoning by Nitrate of Strychnia, Acetate of Mor- phia, Bitter Almonds, and the inhalation of Chloroform. Deut. Klin., No. X, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 26. An apothecary's pupil took eight to ten grahis of nitrate of strychnia in an ounce of Aqua Amygd. Amar. J^fo efifecfc following in half an hour, he took ten grains of acetate of morphia in another ounce of the same solvent. Ten minutes later he poured chloroform on his pillow, and lay down. This produced slight narcotism, which, however, passed off in a quarter of an hour. He then had twitches of the nose and wrists, but no pain. The patient tried to get up, but was unable. At a quarter to ten he was first seen. On being spoken to, he fell into a violent con- vulsion, on which Dr. Tschepke was sent for, and arrived at eleven. The eyes were then closed, the countenance pale, and the features rigid. On the patient's hand being grasped, his whole body was jerked up as if by an electric shock, the pulse l)ecame imperceptible, and respiration ceased. After a few minutes he opened his eyes (the pupils of which were dilated), and stretched out his hand to Dr. Tschepke, who thus was enabled to observe that his pulse was small and frequent. In answer to the question what poison he had taken, he lisped with difficulty "strychnia." Before an emetic could be adininislcred, a large quantity of a reddish liquid, containing white portions, was vomited, which smelt strongly of bitter almonds, and was found to consist of a pottage of hurtle-berries, andALKALOIDS. 425 remains of some dumplings which hnd been taken for supper. Suljee- quently, vomiting of similar matters was twice induced by emetics. Shortly'after, the patient began to tear violently at his nose and hair, and scratched his face, wrists, and other parts of his body. A few seconds later, clonic spasms came on, which lasted some minutes. Then he crossed his arms over his chest, breathed noisily, stretched himself out at full length, arched his body backwards, and then lay like a corpse, breathless and pulseless. On feeling the wrist, another paroxysm was induced, which began with clonic spasms, gradually becoming tonic, and terminating in opisthotonos. After the fit he became conscious. The treatment consisted in the alternate exhibition of tannin and emetics, at intervals of a quarter of an hour. The paroxysms continued, but became less severe and of shorter duration, the patient tearing and scratching himself as above described in the intervals. About halt-past twelve the emetic was discontinued, and the patient was able to relate the previous circumstances. The tannin was continued in doses of three grains, com- bined with a quarter of a grain of codein. At four a.m. both the vomiting and the convulsions had ceased. The patient had snatches of sleep, and towards morning complained only of oppression and dryness of the throat. The tannin was continued for the first day every half hour, and subse- quently every hour. In three days the patient's convalescence was estab- lished, and no after symptoms presented themselves. The author attri- butes most of the spasmodic phenomena observed to strychnia, but he considers the twitching of the nose and wrists, and the dilatation of the pupils (?) observed at the beginning, to the morphia. That recovery should have followed after such enormous doses of morphia and strychnia he considers explicable, partly by the circumstance that he had eaten heartily immediately before of a food calculated to envelope the poison, and moreover containing tannin (the hurtle-berries), partly by the antago- nistic action of the two alkaloids. Part.—Case of Poisoning by Strychnia. Lancet, March 30th. On the I St of October, i860. Dr. Part was called to see a female servant, set. 31, who was then in a state of tetanic spasm. On the cessa- tion of the contractions, an emetic of sulphate of zinc was administered, which for three quarters of an hour produced no effect, while "slight tetanic spasms, like electric shocks," recurred from time to time, espe- cially when she was touched, and she frequently ejaculated, " Oh, hold me !" A second emetic was then given, and the patient, at her own request, was hiid on the floor. A paroxsym of greater violence than any that preceded it was thereupon induced, which was marked by contortion of the features, cyanosis, proptosis, and mydriasis, rigid extension of the arms, extension and abduction of the legs, and opisthotonos. On relaxation of the spasm a gasp took place and she appeared to be dead, but another gasp followed and respiration was thus established. In ten minutes more she vomited freely, after which she improved, the paroxsyms rapidly diminishing in violence, and in eleven hours she was convalescent. In one of the intervals she confessed that she had taken a packet of " B.ittle's Vermin-killer." In the remainder of t!ie paper J)r. Part investigates tiie claims of various substances to be regarded as chemicalheport on toxicology and materia medica. 420 or physiological antidotes to strychnia, and after pointing out the benefi- cial action of vomiting in the case related, and the conclusions of Dr. Harley as to influence of strychnia in destroying the capability of the blood to support respiration, concludes that " we have in vomitiug a real and true antidote to poisoning by strychnia," a means of combating those "morbid cfTects of the poison which are said to tend to death—the diminished capacity of the blood for oxygen and the consequent falling of the animal heat." Harley, Tarleton.—Fatal case of Poisoning by three grains of Strych- nitie in a hoy aged twelve years. Lancet, Nov. i6th. In this case the patient had, out of childish mischief, taken a pill con- taining three grains of strychnia, from a box of such pills employed for poisoning dogs. From the facts related it appears that cramps came on about two hours and a half after swallowing the pill. Death occurred about forty minutes later, consciousness remaining unimpaired to the last. In one of the intervals the patient distinctly confessed having taken the pill. The prolongation of the period of latency in this case may be accounted for by the fact that the pills, which were made with mucilage, had been prepared for eight months. Harley.—Fatal case of Strychnine Poisoning in a girl aged eleven years. Lancet, Oct. 26th. The patient, first seen at seven p.m. on the 6th June, i860, was "in a violent tetanic spasm" (trismus and opisthotonos). On recovering, her intellect was clear; she willingly and easily swallowed an emetic of sulphate of zinc, and admitted that she had taken a quantity of strychnia. Vomiting was produced, after which she lay on her back with her eyes closed. On raising the eyelids to ascertain the state of the pupils (which were natural) a violent spasm was induced, the patient at the same moment crying out: "Hold my legs, hold my legs! I am dying, I know I am !" Daring the attacks, which rapidly succeeded each other and gradually increased in severity, the pupils were dilated and the countenance became livid. During the last convulsion the lividity was extreme, and the muscles of the chest were so firmly contracted that the respiratory movements were completely arrested. The spasm passed off, but the heart had ceased to beat. Death was followed immediately by rigor mortis, commencing with the muscles of the hands and arms. The most important facts revealed by the examination of the body, which took place forty hours after death", were the following:—Lividity of the fingers and nails; bright-scarlet colour of the thighs and arms on the inside; rigid extension of the legs ; firm clenching of the hands and arching of the feet; fluidity of the blood ; flaccidity and emptiness of the heart; con- gestion of the lungs ; absence of any abnormal appearance in the diges- tive organs. It was ascertained that the patient, after taking the poison, sat down at table, poured out tea for her father, eat and talked in her usual manner, until the spasms commenced. Strychnine administered by mistake. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 400. Strychnia was administered by direction of a medical practitioner in mistake for santonine. The child became convulsed in half an hour, andALICALOIDS. shortly afterwards died. It appeared that the bottles containing the two drugs stood side by side in the surgery, and that the labels were illegible. It had been intended to give snntonine as an anthelmintic. SciinLEU.—Poisonviff by Strychnia injected into the Lachrymal Canal. Gaz. de Paris, No. 6, 1861. ... A tenth of a grain of strychnia was introduced at various times into the eye of a man, set. 'Jo, who had suffered from amaurosis, without result, a fact attributable to the slight solubility of the alkaloid. Thereupon one twentieth grain was injected into the lachrymal canal. From three to four minutes after, the countenance became blue and pale, and the patient had spasmodic twitchings, vertigo, and an inclination to fall forward. Soon after, there Avere complete aphonia, difBcult and interrupted breathing, and tetanic shudderings, all of which symptoms declined in half an hour. TiLLlER.—Strychnia in Diphtheritic Paralysis. Ann. de Ther., p. 31. In the paper several cases are given illustrative of the good effect of combining strychnia with iron, although the latter alone was unsuccessful. Quina. KbsTER.—On the Action of Sulphate of Quina. Med. Ztg. Russlands, No. 37, i860. The author made experiments on himself under the direction of Dr. Booker, from which he concludes that the analysis of the urine discharged within sixteen hours of the exhibition of the drug affords no evidence of increase or diminution of the quantity of any constituent of that excre- tion. The results, however, afford no proof that the exchange of material is unaffected by quinine, for in several respects the products of the metamorphosis of tissues cannot as yet be accurately measured, and, moreover, in this instance no attempt was made to determine the excreta of the lungs, skin, or liver. It therefore remains an open question whether or not quinine exercises any influence on the processes of organic life. Coffein. Cellahier.—Neio observation on the action of Coffee in Strangulated Hernia. Bull, de Thcr.,vol. Ixi, p. 270. Coffee has of late attracted much attention in France, as an auxiliary (0 the taxis. With a view to the special application, M. Cellarier treats of its general therapeutical actions in large doses. He is of opinion that most of the phenomena observed are referable to its power of inducing muscular contraction, particularly of the muscular fibre of organic life. Thus we may account for the increased firmness of the pulse and strength of the impulse of the heart observable after moderate doses, and the tumultuous excitement of the circulation produced by larger quantities. The action of coffee as an antidote to opium admits of the same explanation. The author holds that its " marvellous" effects in hernia are due to its power of exciting contractions in the strangulated intestine, by which reduction is favoured or determined. KuBZAK.—Ore the action of Cofein on Animals. Wien. Ztsch., vol. iii, p. 40. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 172.KEPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 4-28 Kurzfik administered citrate of coffein to rabbits and frogs. In rabbits doses of less than 2-7 grains produced no perceptible effect, four grains produced marked effects, and six grains were fatal. Death, however, did not take place for several hours (thirteen hours after doses of ten grains). The effects were as follows :—(1) Exaltation of excitability, at first imper- ceptible, subsequently manifesting itself in increased susceptibility to slight stimuli, in a terrified manner and in excessive restlessness; (2) the heart's action was accelerated from 160 to 240, and remained excited for some time afterwards ; (3) after large doses the respiration was retarded, from 64 to ,32; C4) the temperature of the body was scarcely altered ; (5) tlic pupils were unaffected ; (6) as the case advanced, voluntary mus- cular movement was diminished. Death was preceded by tetanic spasms. In frogs the results were somewhat different. The respiratory move- ments were at first accelerated, but became retarded after the first hour, and in four hours had become imperceptible ; life, however, continued for one or two days; Tetanic spasms occurred in an hour, and were induced in great intensity by the slightest stimulus for some time afterwards. Voluntary movements ceased after four hours, but slight reflex actions could still be induced, even on the second day. Veratrine. NiVET and Giraud.—Cases of Poisoning by Veratrum Album. Gaz. Hebd., vol. viii, No. 31. Three members of a family of villagers suffered at various periods Id the months of August and September, i860, from severe symptoms of irritant poisoning; two of the cases were fatal, the third recovered. In the most severe of the former the symptoms were—burning epigastric pain, acid ructus, vomiting and purging, with bloody and dark-coloured evacuations, tenesmus, emaciation, anxiety and prostration, without delirium or other synoptoms referable to the nervous system. Portions of hellebore root were found in the house, and on chemical examination of the liver, heart, pancreas, and intestines, evidence was obtained of the existence of an alkaloid, probably veratrine. £las.—On a case of Poisoning by Veratrine. Verb. d. naturf. Ges. in Freiburg, vol. ii, p. 173. A child, set. 3I, took from six to eight ounces of a decoction of the root of Helleborns albiis, prepared for the destruction of lice in cattle; an infant, set. ii, took a smaller quantity. Both children recovered ; the symptoms were as follows :—Vomiting of an acid liquid containing half-digested food with yellow mucus; countenance pale, head hot, but general surface cold; pulse small, slight convulsive twitches of the limbs, dilated pupils, eyes staring, with revolving movements of eyeballs. The vomited matters yielded, on extraction with alcohol and evaporation, a yellow substance, which possessed the physiological (investigated by administering it to dogs and cats) and chemical (sulphuric acid with bichromate of potash) characters of veratrine. Vannaire.— Veratrine in Dysjnenorrhoea. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 67. The author uses an ointment containing one hundredth part of veratrineALKALOIDS. 429 by weiglit, which is to be applied below the umbilicus. The results stated appear to be satisfactory. Proprjlamine. Gdibert (de Louvaiii).—Ow the Chemical and Therapeutical Properties of Propyl amine. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ix, p. 60. This remarkable substance, recently introduced as a therapeutical agent by Dr. Awenarius, is an alkaline principle resembling ammonia, and is regarded as constituted of an equivalent of ammonia combined with an equivalent of propylene (NH,, + CgHg). It is a colourless, transparent, and volatile liquid,"having a penetrating smell like that of ammonia when concentrated, but recalling the smell of herring or anchovy brine. In order to obtain it, herring brine, previously rendered strongly alkaline by potash, is to be distilled. The distillate is then to be saturated with hydrochloric acid and evaporated to dryness. The crystalline mass thus obtained consists of hydrochlorate of propylamine along with sal ammo- niac, from which the propylamine salts may be separated by treating the whole with absolute alcohol, in which it is soluble. Propylamine also exists in several plants, particularly in the various species of Cheno- podium, from one of which (C. vulvaria) it may be obtained by distillation with weak solution of potash. Its presence explains the peculiar smell of stinking fish which characterises this plant. From repeated experiments which Dr. Guibert made on himself, it appears that in the condition of health the only action which the drug exercised, when taken in doses varying from twenty drops to three drachms, was that of diminishing the rapidity of the pulse. This effect was produced with great constancy in all the experiments. As regards the good effects of propylamine in rheumatism. Dr. Guibert confirms the experience of Awenarius. He recommends that it should be given in distilled water. A drachm would be a medium dose. Curare. Thieroelin.—Curare in Epilepsy. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 81. As the products imported under the name of curare differ widely in their energy, the author found it necessary, before using a new specimen, to test its strength by experiments on dogs. From a large number of such experiments he concluded that a dog weighing twelve pounds is killed in twenty to twenty-five minutes by five centigrammes of good curare well powdered and introduced into the cellular tissue of the thigh. Three centigrammes produce only transient paralysis of the hind legs, and smaller doses even less marked symptoms. In the therapeutic adminis- tration of the drug, M. Thiercelin uses the endermic method, the quantity of the powdered curare applied to the bhstered surface being three to five centigrammes. From the cases related it appears that the paroxysms of epilepsy are diminished in a very marked manner, both in number and intensity, during the exhibition of the remedy. No inconveniences re- sulted Irom its use iu any of the cases.REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 430 OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. Ramtnculacece. Bentley.—On Actcca or Cimicifuga racemosu. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 460. The black snake-root, or bugbane, an lierbaceouB, perennial plant, is used in the western states of America as a remedy in several affections. It is imported in slices or fragments of the rhizome, which, as collected in the autumn, is most active, and somewliat resembles the root of the serpentaria (Virginian snake-root), a plant of entirely different character. It is principally used in acute rheumatism, and is spoken of as a certain remedy, its action being manifested in disappearance of the pain, and pyrexia, without either diuresis or diaphoresis. It may be given in tincture, infusion, decoction, or extract. Of the first, which is the best preparation, the dose is from 5j to 3] three or four times a day. The paper contains a minute analysis of the botanical, chemical, and pharniaco- gnostical characters of the drug. MacDonald.—Aetcen racemosu in Acute Rheumatism. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., p. 334. Draper.—On Podophyllin. Pharmac, vol. iii, 331. The resinous alcoholic extract of the rhizome of the mandrake (Podo- fhyllam pellatum), a ranunculaceous plant, indigenous in the United States, improperly called podophyllin, is used in large doses (two to four grains) as a drastic purgative. It is said to produce nausea and griping, but this may be obviated by combining it with hyoscyamus, In small doses it is used in America as a sedative in phthisis. Leguminosce, Berg.—0?i Anacahdte Wood. Vjhrsclir, f. prakt. Pharm., vol. \, part 2, p. 241. BucHNEB.—0?i the same mhject. Bayer. Aerzt. Intell. Bltt, No. 13, i86j. Hanbuuy.—On the same subject. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 407. ZiUREK.—On the same stibject. Pharm. Ztg., part 4, 1861. Seemann.—On the same subject. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 164. Walz.—0« the same subject. Verb. d. Naturh. Med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. ii, p. 89. Schmidt, vol. m, p. 22. The paper of Berg is devoted to the investigation of the structural characters of anacahuite wood, a drug which has been lately imported from Tampico (Mexico), and has acquired in Germany an extraordinary reputation as a remedy against phthisis. Its botanical source is unknown, but the author is led by his researches to refer it to the natural order Leguminosa:. The other papers, above enumerated, relate entirely to the chemical properties of anacahuite. Buchner found that but very small quantities of soluble matter can be extracted, either by water or alcohol, from the wood or bark. The only fact of any importance elicited by hisOTHER VEGETABLE PUODUCTS. 481 inquiries was, that the liber yields on incineration no less than twenty per cent, of ash, consisting mainly of carbonate of lime, which is attri- buted by the author to the existence therein of large quantities of the oxalate of the same base. It is supposed that this fact may have some relation to the remedial uses of the drug. Ziurek found in the wood, deprived of bark and liber, resin, gum, gallic acid, and tannin, but, with the exception of 2-1 per cent, of bitter extractive, no constituent to which importance can be attributed therapeutically. Experiments on the thera- peutical actions of anacahuite have been made at the Charite Hospital at lierlin without decisive results, the form employed being an infusion of shavings of the wood. Weikakt.—On the action of the Balsam of Copaiva. Arch. d. Heilk., vol. i, part 3, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 14a, It has been long known that nitric acid produces in the urine after the administration of balsam of copaiva a precipitate which much resembles albumen. Weikart's researches were directed to the determination of the nature of this precipitate. He found that it was not dependent on the presence of the essential oil of the balsam of copaiva, for on submitting the urine to examination with the polariscope it was found to have no optical reaction, and consequently to contain none of that compound. On examining the precipitate itself, he found that it w'as soluble in alcohol, and that by evaporating the solution a crystalline substance was obtained, soluble in alkalies, which had the character of an org.mic acid (copaivic acid), of the constitution C^QHgjO^. From these and other facts he draws the conclusion that the copaivic acid of the balsam, on passing into the circulation, combines with the potash and soda of the serum, and tliat, unlike the salts of other organic acids, these compounds pass as sucli into the urine. On the addition of nitric acid they are decomposed, and give rise to the precipitate referred to. The author founds upon these facts a chemico-physical theory of the action of the drug in arresting suppuration. Fliigel.—On the use of Lotus Corniculatus in Intermittent Fever, Bayer. Corr. Bltt., No. xvii, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 21. In tlie malarious district of Mitwitz this plant is constantly used as an antiperiodic, and is said to be as effectual as quina. Terehinthacece. MiLLON.—0?i the Pharmacology of Rhus Toxicodendron, Bull, de I'Acad., vol. xxvi, p. 501. Millon adopts the opinion of Bosc, that the two species are identical differing in the form of the leaf, just as do the young and old plants of ivy. He s-hows experimentally that the common statement as to the poisonous action of the plant at a distance is unfounded. Althouo'h the juice is slightly rubefacient, an ounce injected into the stomach of a rabbit had no action; the concentrated decoction, the officinal extract and aqueous destillate, were also inert. A crystalline product, obtained by the spontaneous evaporation of the ethereal extract, had no effect when applied432 REPORT ON TOXICOLOOY AND MATERIA. MEDICA. externally to the skin. The nutbor is inclined to infer provisionally that thus toxicodendron is without action. Hapindacece. Patruban, v.—On the therapeutic uses of Paullinia sorhiliit. Oest. Ztsclir., vol. V, No. 41. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 287. The ripe seeds of Paullinia mrhilis (Sapindacea;) are collected in the province of PaiJi, North Brazil, and arc pounded and kneaded into a paste by the natives of the districts bordering the rivers Uraguay, Ibicuy, and others. This paste is made into cakes of about a pound weight, whicli are dried in smoke. In this form it is known in commerce as Giiarana paste. It contains an alkaloid guaranin, supposed to be identical with colfein. It is given in powder as an astringent tonic, in doses of fifteen to twenty grains, several times a day. In larger doses it is said to produce vertigo, diplopia, sleeplessness, &c. It has been successfully used by various practitioners in menorrhagia and haemoptysis. The author (fol- lowing the recommendation of Trousseau) has found it valuable in mi- graine. In South America it is employed as a preservative against diarrhoea and dysentery. Mayee.— On the therapeutic applications of Paullinia Sorbilis. Jhrb. f. Kinderhlk., vol. iv, part 2. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 21. Graseh.—Fatal case of Poiso7iing hy the seeds of Eno)it/mus Europwus. Nass. Med. Jhrb., vol. xxxvi, p. 745. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 25. The seeds of the spindle tree are used in Germany as a popular emetic, in doses of two or three seeds. A man, set. 43, took one evening eighteen seeds, and as many more the next morning fasting. Soon after the last dose he was seized with frightful abdominal pain, profuse diarriicea, and eventually bloody stools. He was not seen till evening, when he was in a state of profound collapse, with involuntary evacuations of blood and mucus. On lifting him up, tetanic convulsions were induced, which im- mediately preceded death. No autopsy took place. Vmbelliferce, Baillot.—New facts in support of the employment of Apiol in the treatment of Jmenorrhcea aiid Dysmenorrhoea. Journ. de Pharm.. vol. xxxix, p. 456. Apiol is the active principle of parsley seeds, discovered twelve years ao'o by Ilomolle. The paper contains observations illustrative of its value as an emmenagogue, and an appreciation of the cases in which it is applicable. It is given in doses of four grains twice a day, immediately before and during the catamenial period. Primnlacece. YvLVJU-a.—On the physioloffical and toxical influence of Cyclamen and Cyclaminc. Giiz. de Paris, No. 86. A Commission of the Medical Faculty of Naples has been recently433 OTHEU VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. nppointcnl to inqniiT iiiio the qMesiioi. \\ licili. r or not tlie cniplox tneiit of cvclanu-ii in catcliiiig H-h is iijiiriotis to llie lit-alili ot ilie coiisiitiu-r. In fliillifraiice of l\m inquiry. cxiJennients were niiide l)y Vnlpian on froa;.', salamanders, and fisli. In a very weaic solution of cyclannne frogs die'^in about twenty hours. The first effect observed is tlie loss ot the transparency of the skin, particularly of tlie legs and eyelids ; this is followed by intense injection, first of the webs and conjunctivae, and eventually of tlie whole integument. Death is not preceded by convulsion. Similar effects are produced in fish. From these and other experiments the nnllior concludes that the poisonous action of cyclamen is owing to its direct effict on the iiite<:nment and mucous membrane of the respi- ratory organs, but that it has no direct action on the nervous system. Fish poisoned with cyclamen pass rapidly into putrefaction, and are on this account unfit for food. Solanacece. ScHiiOFF.—On the Taft-root of Persia. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vii, Nos. 27, 28, 29. Sclimidt, vol. 11, p. 162. This root is known in Persia under the name of Risch-e-Taft. Its botanical origin has been hitherto uncertain. From experiments on rabbits with the alcoholic extract, the author was led to infer that it is rel'erable to that class of vegetable poisons which is characterised by the combination of delirium and stupor with dilatation of the pupils (bella- donna, stramonium, hyoscyamus). This inference received unexpected confirmation in consequence of the curiosity of a servant of Dr. Schroff, who idly swallowed a grain of the extract, and although he eventually recovered, exhibited the action of the drug in an intense degree for several hours. From the symptoms observed in his case, it appears that the extract of taft-root is much more active than that of hyoscyamus or even of belladonna, It produces remarkable acceleration of the pulse (which about two hours after taking the poison had risen to 120), great mental excitement (the patient was restless and anxious, and frequently cried out, as if affected by electric shocks), and constant tendency to movement. In all these respects it resembles more closely datura or atropa than hyoscyamus, but in others its characters appear to lean rather to those of the latter, so that it is placed by iSchroff in an intermediate position. By a laborious comparison of the root with herbarium speci- mens, he was able to identify it wiih the root of a species of Scopolia, a genus which, as regards its botanical characters, occupies a corresponding intermediate position between the genera above referred to. The taft- root yields 20 per cent, of alcoholic extract, or five times as much as hyoscyamus, so that the powder is itself a very powerful drug. For therapeutical purposes, Schroff is of opinion i-i2th grain might be given as a small dose, i-6th grain as a moderate, or a grain as a full dose. Of the extract the doses would be five times as small. Poispning h-ij the berries of Solatium Pseudo-capsicum. Bull, de Th^r. vol Ixi, p. 334. ■'UEPOUT on toxicology and materia inSDICA. 434 Scrophulariacea. HoMOLLE.—0)1 the j)hysiolo(/ical testing of certain constitucits of Di- gitalis. Arch. G6n., 5 s^r., vol. xviii, p. 5, July, 1861. Homolle's researches are directed to the question whether there exists in digitalis another principle which has a demonstrably diuretic action, on account of which it would be preferable to administer the plant itself or its pharmaceutical preparations rather than pure digitalis. The author de- termined by physiological tests the actions of the several products obtained in the treatment of the drug by various solvents, without recourse to chemical reagents. His results show the impossibility of a complete separation of the principles contained in digitalis by this method. His experiments were made on four products, of which No. i consists of the residue insoluble in weak alcohol; No. 2 is taken up by ether from the alcoholic solution, and consists mainly of a nauseous, fetid and acid prin- ciple, resembling the digitalic acid of Kosmann ; No. 3 is the alcoholic solution after treatment with ether, and consists principally of digitaliu ; No. 4 is obtained by treating the result of evaporating No. 3 with chloi-o- form. The author made experiments with these substances on himself and on animals. After 3 grammes (about 46 grains) of No. i the effects pro- duced were very slight, no greater than those which follow one milligramme of digitalin. 45 centigrammes of No. 2 (about 71 grains) were taken fasting, in two doses ; until eight hours had elapsed there were no symptoms; there were then extreme nausea, faintness, and violent vomiting, which was repeated at intervals of about fifteen minutes for thirty hours. On the following day the pulse was retarded, and fell by the fourth day to 48. There was also impairment of vision, with inability to look steadily s\t bright objects. Urine was passed freely, but the contractility of the bladder was diminished, so that external pressure was needed in the act of micturition. The author had pulsation of the abdominal aorta, anxiety, epigastric constriction, and cough with pneumonic expectoration, most of which were attributed by him to the continuous vomiting; they lasted for a week. M. Homolle, took, a year later, 2 centigrammes (about i-3rd grain) of No. 3. In forty hours he took 2 centigrammes more, and a third dose eight hours after. The symptoms resembled those of digitalin entirely. No. 4 was found to be similar in its action to No. 3, but much more active. When inserted into the cellular tissue of frogs, it was fatal in seventy minutes, death being preceded by gradual retardation of the pulse from 72 to 12. The author concludes that digitalis contains no principle of therapeutical value excepting digitalin; that the greater tolerance of the stomach of those preparations which are obtained by extraction with water is explained by the absence in such preparations of the nauseating, acrid principle (digitalic acid) contained in No. 3 ; that the diuretic and sedative actions of digitalis depend entirely on digitalin, but that its nauseating effect, and probably the impairment of vision it produces, are referable to digitalic acid. Lobeliacece. Charge of Manslaughter agaitist a " Medical JBotanist." Pbarm,, vol. iii, p. 146.OTHEU ATIGETABLE PRODUCTS. 435 A charlatan administered to a child, cet. 8, three pills containing lobelia, cloves, and capsicum. As the medical witnesses were unable to say that the child's death was caused by the medicine, the prisoner was acquitted of the charge of manslaughter. Mr. Justice Wightman directed the jury that, in the case of a licensed physician or surgeon and in that of a person acting as such without a licence, there was no difference. lu either case, if a party having a competent degree of skill and knowledge, makes an accidental mistake in his treatment of a patient through which death ensues, he is not thereby guilty of manslaughter. Urticaceee. FhOiNMuller.—Hemp; with special reference to its power of pro- ducing sleep. Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. Ixv, pp. loa—139. Tiie author records the results of the administration of Cannabis indica in 1000 cases. He has given it in alcoholic extract, powder, haschisch, and purified churrus, and he considers the first-mentioned form the best. He finds that it produces a more natural sleep than any other narcotic, and that its action is not attended with any unfavorable after-effects. He recommends it particularly in cases in which opium has failed, to which drug he, however, admits that it is inferior in certainty of action. GraminecB. FiLHOii and Baillet.—On the action of the seeds of Lolium temulentuin on Rabbits and Dogs. Journ. de Chera. M(^d., 4 &€v., vol. vii, p. 395. The seeds were gathered during harvest, and given in large doses. In the rabbits no effects were observable, but in the dogs the action of the poison was manifested by somnolence, tremor (most marked in the pos- terior parts of the body), spasmodic contractions of the extremities, neck, and face, restlessness, and uncertainty of gait; the legs were stretched out laterally in standing, as if to enlarge the basis of support. The bruised seeds are more active than the alcoholic extract. The aqueous distillate was almost inert. The symptoms in dogs passed off in a few hours. Filices. ViNKE.—On the therapeutical applications of Penghawar. Extracted from Med. Ztg. Russlands in Wittstein's V.-jhrschft., vol. ix, p. 285. The author details fourteen cases in which this substance (which is a most powerful styptic), was successfully employed. Penghawar consists of the brown hairs ox 2^alece which cover the young fronds of certain exotic ferns, particularly the Cibotium Cumingii. Its styptic power depends entirely on the fact that the hairs are composed of innumerable, extremely minute, jointed tubes, endowed with extraordinary capillarity. By virtue of this fact they have the power of depriving the blood of its water, and of thus determining its rapid coagulation. A similar substance obtained from a Java fern (Alsophila lurida) is used for the same purpose under the name Pakoe-kidang.Ili:POUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKIIIA JIEDICA. 430 AlgcE. LiPOWiTZ.—Chinese Gelatine, or Agar-Agar. Polytech. Intell. BItt., i860, p. 28. Lipowitz describes under tlicse names a substance of recent introduc- tion resembling lichenin, and containing, according to Payen, 427 per cent, of carbon, 57 per cent, of hydrogen, and 51-4 of oxygen, but capable of gelatinizing ten times as much water as ordinary gelaiine. The sub- stance is derived from Fue}is Amansii, and probably otlier marine algae, in Cliina and Japan. As being perfectly devoid of taste and smell, and remarkably cheap, Lipowitz thinks that it will entirely take the place of animal jellies and Iceland moss in the sick room. F^ingi. Mautmner.—Tiuo cases of Poisoning by Amanita Muscaria. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., No. 8, 1861. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 294. A girl, set. 9, suddenly became excited as if intoxicated, running about violently and striking and biting other children. This condition was soon followed by stupor, from which she was excited to raging delirium if spoken to. Subsequently she became unconscious ; there were slight twitches of the limbs, and the eyes were staring and fixed; the pupils were dilated, and did not react on exposure to light. Consciousness returned five hours after the first symptoms had appeared, large quantities of the poison having been previously discharged by vomiting. The father of this child was attacked, three hours later, with violent delirium, which, in his case, assumed a hallucinatory character, and was accompanied with blindness. Both patients had partaken of a dish of amanita two hours before the child was seized with delirium. Mangin.—Poisoning by Mushrooms. Bull, de Therap., vol. Ixi, p. 469. A family, consisting of six persons, partooR, on the 9th of August, of a supper of mushrooms. During the following night and forenoon four of the children were successively attacked with vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhoea, in the inverse order of tlieir ages. The father experienced no inconvenience whatever, although he had partaken largely of the dish. On the 13th the following alarming events induced the parents to call in Dr. Mangin. On his arrival one of the children was dead, another, a child, cet. 5, " was in a hopeless condition; the limbs were flaccid, intel- lio-ence was completely aimibilated, the eyes distorted and half closed," the pulse was frequent and weak, and the respiration embarrassed. A third patient, a girl, tet. 9, was in a similar condition, with the exception that the state of apparent stupor was interrupted by occasional convul- sions. The treatment consisted in the administration of cofl'ee, in the application of sinapisms to the extremities, friction, &c. In the first case death took place in the morning of tlie 14th, in the second early on the i^th. It was found that the dish consisted of edible mushrooms, of the kind called "chanterelles" {Agariciis cantharellus) ; but there was added a single specimen which, from the description, appears to have been the well-known amanita. The immunity of the father may probably be437 OTHEE AT:GETABLE PRODUCTS. accounted for by his Imving nccidentally missed those portions which con- tained the poison. The youngest child, set. 3, who vomited very freely shortly after swallowing the poison, escaped the more severe symptoms subsequently e.xperienced by the others. Michel.—New observations on the disease communicated to man by the Irrovence Beed. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ixi, p. 169. The Reed of Provence {Arundo Donax), when in a marcescent state, becomes covered with a black powder (a fungus of which the structural character has not been determined), which is endowed with toxic proper- ties of great virulence. The inhalation or injection of the powder is followed by cough, dyspnoea, and frequently gastro-enteritis, indicated by epigastric pain, vomiting, and diarrhoea. These symptoms are accom- panied by the appearance of a papular exanthema on the face, which becomes enormously swollen, and, in most cases, by painful swelling of the organs of generation and erotic delirium. RjCHTER.—Poisoning by Secale Cornutum; abortion; medico-legal opinion on the same. Casper, vol. xx, p. 177. Neubeut.—Oji the same case. Journ. f. Pharraacodyn., vol. ii, p. 4. Dr. Neubert was sent for at seven a.m. on the 4th of May, to see a young woman of twenty-two, previously in robust health, who was stated to have suffered for two days from excessive thirst, anorexia, and occa- sional vomiting of coffee or chocolate-coloured matter. On being ques- tioned as to the cause, she answered, *' You'll soon see." Her countenance was pale, her pulse quick, and she was very restless. Consciousness was unimpaired, but she was very unwilling to answer questions. She com- plained urgently of abdominal and epigastric pain and of inability to pass water in spite of constant efforts. On exploration Dr. Neubert found a small child's head already at the outlet, and, after a few vigorous pains, a six months' foetus was born. The discharge of the placenta was immedi- ately followed by profuse haemorrhage, which was associated with insatiable thirst, frequent vomiting, violent jactitation, precordial pain, pallor, and coldness of the surface, the uterine contractions recurring at irregular intervals. This continued for half an hour, until unconsciousness and strabismus ushered iu death. The treatment consisted in the administra- tion of tincture of cinnamon (undiluted), with a very little laudanum, in doses of a teaspoonful frequently, and in the use of refrigerants externally. The most important post-mortem appearances were the following. The stomach contained about eight ounces of chocolate-coloured fluid, of acid smell and reaction. At the cardia the mucous membrane was markedly reddened, forming a ring of three or four lines in breadth. Numerous hsemorrhagic erosions were observed along the greater curvature, especially at the fundus, and immediately below the cardia an ecchymosis was recognised on incision, about the size of a sovereign. The mucous mem- brane generally was soft and brittle. The uterus was as large as a child's head ; its internal surface was generally reddened, and exhibited here and there patches of dark purple, especially in the neighbourhood of the cervix ; its tissue was impregnated with dark blood. The microscopical and chemical examination of the contents of the stomach afforded satia- 29REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA SUSDICA. 438 factory evidence of ergot, derived from the structure of the cells and the reactions of ergotine. Richtcr, in the very extended remarks with which the case is accompa- nied, points out that the appearances of inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of tlie stomach were probably rather attributable to the quantity of undiluted tincture of cinnamon exhibited as a remedy than to the ergot. RiCKER.—-Cwse of Poiso7unff by Bread containing Ergot. Nass. Med. Jahrb., vols, xv, xvi, p. 748. Schmidt, vol. m, p. 25. A family of six persons partook of bread containing ergot. They all suffered from the same symptoms, viz., dryness in the throat, epigastric oppression, nauseous taste, mucous and biliary vomiting, vertigo, stupor, and diarrhoea. These symptoms disappeared in two day8°undcr an evacuant treatment. JOEET.—Ow the properties and therapeutical uses of Croton Oil. Bull de Ther., pp. 385, 441. Pendleton.—Po2soH% by Tansy. Amer. Medical Times, No. 11, 1861. TA.1&NEA.V.—Treatment of Tcenia by Pumpkin Seeds. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 383. RiGAUD.—On the same subject. Ibid., vol. xl, p. 62. Brydon.—Case of Recovery from an overdose of Croton Oil. Edinb. Med. Journ., Aug., p. 134. Waring.—On Hydrocarpus odoratus and Hydrocotyle Asiatica as remedies in Leprosy, Scrofula, and Secondary Syphilis. Pharmac, vol. ii, 141. Appleton.—Pom?i% from Mnanthe Crocata. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i, p. 292. ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. BYiEELEY.—Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 474. A man, set. 44, committed suicide by taking an unknown quantity of cyanide of potassium. The body was examined by i\Ir. Byeiley three days afterwards ; the external surface of the stomach was of a " deep-red chocolate colour." Its mucous membrane was " intensely dark red (almoftt black"). The rugae were prominent, and there were two or three patches of abrasion. There was a well-marked odour of prussic acid. Davanne.—Case of Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Journ. de Brux.. vol. xxxiii, p. 93. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 169. A photographer used a bit of cyanide of potassium to rub on a stain pro- duced by nitrate of silver. In doing so he accidentally introduced some of the cyanide under his nail, where it remained. In order to alleviate the .smarting, he washed his hands with vinegar, when, in consequence of the disengagement of prussic acid, he was affected with extreme vertigo, shivering, pallor, impairment of vision, general weakness, and impediment of speech, without any affection of intelligence. Cold affusions, sti-439 OEGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. niulants, frictions to the spine, inhalation of weak ammonia, and strong cotree internally, were the remedies used. Recovery commeuced in tour hours. GuNTHER.—Poi«on% by Bitter Almonds. Varge's Ztscb., vol.xiv, part i, p. 17. Canst,, vol. v, p. 123. , . , ^ j A girl; set. 18, took two ounces of bitter almonds as a remedy against menorrhagia. While in the act of chewing them she staggered and fell. About half an hour after she was completely unconscious. The countenance was flushed, the conjunctivse were injected, the eyeballs fixed, and the pupils contracted. There was grinding of the teeth, trismus, and tonic, alternating with clonic, spasm of the extremities, intense dyspnoea with groaning, excessive pulsation of the carotids ; there was also profuse menorrhagia. Of the various remedies used, cold affusions seemed most useful; consciousness gradually returned, and recovery was complete iu three hours. Charge of Manslaughter against a Grocer for selling Drugs. Pharraac, vol. iii, p. 147, Aug., 1861. A grocer ignorantly dispensed essential oil of almonds instead of almond oil, in consequence of which an infant was poisoned. The grocer was acquitted. Poisoning by Hydrocyanic Acid and Cyanide of Potassium. Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. 386, 439, 535, 583, 616, 200. Ann. de Ther., p. 34. British Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 650. Barker. —Case of Poisoning by "Almond Flavour." Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 655. A child, vni. 6, took two teaspoonfuls of almond flavour. He was seen within five minutes of the accident, and was then prostrate and pale; the eyes were bright and glassy, the pupils dilated, the pulse small and quick, but he was able to swallow. A " brimming teaspoonful" of ipecacuanha was given immediately, and a second dose three minutes afterwards, which was followed by free vomiting. At the same time the cold affusion was employed perscveringly, and brandy and water was given at frequent inter- vals. Repeated vomiting took place; the smell of bitter almonds was at first strongly perceptible in the ejecta, but gradually disappeared. In half an hour all alarming symptoms had ceased. Bonnet.—On the Internal Administration of Chloroform. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 221. After various trials Avith mucilage, the author found that he could permanently suspend chloroform in an aqueous mixture by first gently agitating it with an equal quantity of glycerine. On adding water to the product, it is said that a clear liquid is obtained, in which the chloroform is apparently dissolved, and does not separate even when its quantity amounts to half the weight of the water. It is essential that the glycerine should be pure. Sansom.—On the action of Chloroform. Proceedings of Med. and Chir, Soc, Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i, p. 424.440 REPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. Deal/is from Chloroform. Med. Times, Sept. iitli nnd 14U1, and Nov. Brit. Med. Jouni,, Nov. i6th. Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. 439, ^47. 344- Pekii[n.— On a case of Poisoning by Benzine. Journ. de Pharmacic, vol. x.Kxi.i, p. 223. M- ^—, a dyer, ret. 47, swallowed by inadvertence about a third of an ordinary glass containing a mixture of three parts of benzine with one of Seltzer water. After several draughts he found out his mistake, and swal- lowed almost immediately a quantity of milk. He at first experienced stupor and giddiness. He went to bed two hours afterwards, and slept restlessly for two hours, when he woke in a state of bewilderment, and shortly afterwards became delirious. His delirium was characterised by extreme garruhty; his articulation was very imperfect, and from time to time he burst out in immoderate laughter. In the morning he was con- valescent, and complained only of giddiness and weakness. No treatment was employed. Tdbnbull.—On the Physiological and Medici7ial Properties of Suli)hule of Aniline. Lancet, Nov. i6th. Dr. TurnbuU relates six cases of chorea, so obstinate as to have resisted other means of treatment, in which he obtained very satisfactory results from the administration of sulphate of aniline in doses of from one to two grains three times a day. Dr. TurnbuU describes the action of sulphate of aniline on animals, and draws attention to the remarkable blue colour of the lips and complexion produced by it, which he attributes to the development of an aniline dye in the blood. Leclaire.—Researches on the injluence of Oil of Turpentine on the health of House Painters, and on persons inhabiting freshly jiainted ■rooms. Paris, 1861. Extract in Ann, d'Hyg^, vol. xvi, p. 442. The author has made experiments on anipials, consisting in placing them in boxes, the interior of which had been painted with paints prepared with and without oil of turpentine. He found that no bad efi'ects were produced when oil of turpentine was not used, whatever was the nature of the colouring matter, but that in the opposite case all the animals suffered. By exact experiments, the author finds that water takes up oil of turpentine with great avidity; and that, consequently, the common expedient of exposing wet hay in recently painted rooms is the very best that can be adopted. Lemaire.—Carbolic Acid as a remedy against OXnea and Scabies. Journ. de Brux,, vol. xxxii, p. 471. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 283. In tinea a solution of one part of carbolic acid in forty of vinegar and 100 of water is used daily as a lotion with good results. In itch a single application is sufficient to kill the acarus. Lejiaire.— On the uses of Phenic {Carbolic) Acid as a disinfectant. Bull, de I'Acad., March 4th. Lemaire has made numerous experiments, at the suggestion of Dumas, which prove the eflicacy of phenic acid in solution or emulsion as441 ANIMAL POISONS. an antiseptic, particularly for the purpose of preserving subjects for dissection. ^PR&TLY.—Scabies successfully treated with Coal-tar Naphtha. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 464. _ The author gives an encouraging account of the curative etfect of a single application of this agent to the affected surface in a bad case of itch. Deschamps.—On the action of the aromatic principle of Coal Tar on Phosphorus. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 412. This research was undertaken with a view to elucidate the mode of action of the vapour of coal tar in pulmonary affections, as observed by Dr. Sales-Girons. The author establishes the fact, by numerous and varied experiments, that air impregnated with the aroma of tar has no action on phosphorus. He further demonstrates that no oxygen is absorbed ; "it simply becomes inactive, or, in other words, its properties are paralysed and become latent." The same action is exercised by benzine, ether, and the volatile oils of turpentine, mint, and lemon. Grace Cal"vekt.—On some applications of Carbolic Acid or Oxide of Phenyle. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 319. Demeaux.—Coal-tar Emulsion, or Sapo7iiJied Coal Tar. Journ. de Phar- macie, vol. xxxix, p. 286. Saponified coal-tar consists of equal parts of coal-tar, soap, and alcohol, heated together on the water-bath until perfect solution takes place. Mixed with water in the proportion of one part in 100, it forms the emulsion, which is stated to be one of the most useful preparations of coal-tar as a disinfectant. Leriche.—Tannin as an Antiperiodic. Bull, de Thdr., vol. Ixi, p. 410. M. Leriche has employed tannin in ague, in doses of twenty-four to thirty grains, given two or three hours before the attack, with invariable success. Two or three doses are usually sufficient. ANIMAL POISONS. Dehne.—Cases of Poisoning hy Spoilt Meat and Broth and Stale Fat. Nass. Med. Jhrbb., xxxvi, p. 736. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 25. In the first instance related, three persons partook of beef which had been cooked four days previously, and had been kept in a larder; all of them shortly after experienced lipothymia, with cold sweating, vertigo, drowsiness, and acute precordial pain. The pulse was almost imper- ceptible, and the extremities cold. After the administration of emetics, enemata, and subsequently stimulants, the condition of the patients improved. Next morning they were convalescent. On another occasion a family of very poor persons partook of a mess of stale broth, potatoes, and lettuce. All had pharyngeal constriction, diarrhoea, vomiting, vertigo, headache, and stupor. The lips were slightly leaden and the pupils dilated, but there was no impairment of vision. There was great pros-KEPOKT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 442 trntioii, with occasional shivering, and in one case (that of a boy, aet. 13) shght convulsive movements of tlie limbs, with occasional delirium. The question here arose, whether the symptoms were referable to the existence of solanine in the potatoes (supposing them to have been sprouted), or to the stale broth. In a third example five persons, who had partaken of some dumplings fried in stale fat, which had been kept in an earthenware pot, experienced very similar symptoms to those above detailed. They recovered without treatment. Boyd.— Caseof Adder-bite. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., p. 324. FoNSSAGiiiVES and Leuoy de MliRicouRT.—On the Poisonous Fish of Tropical Countries, Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xv, p. 326. POISONOUS GASES. Letheby.—Fatal Accident in the Fleet Lane Sewer. Lancet, May i ith. In February four men were killed by asphyxia when working in the Fleet Sewer, That their deaths were due to sulphuretted hydrogen cannot, in Dr. Letheby's opinion, be disputed; but the question, how so fatal an impregnation of the air of the sewer was produced, remains undetermined. Ordinary sewer air contains only a trace of the gas in question, whereas one or two per cent, would be necessary to endanger life. In consideration of the well-known fact, that the addition of acids to the mud of sewers gives rise to the disengagement of sulphuretted hydrogen. Dr. Letheby is disposed to attribute the accident to the disengagement of some acid refuse product into the sewer, although no evidence could be obtained that such discharge had actually taken place. In conclusion, the author recom- mends that workmen exposed to air contaminated with sulphuretted hydrogen should wear Dr. Stenhouse's charcoal respirators, " charcoal having the power of oxidizing that gas and rendering it inert." Death from Carburetted Hydrogen. Pharmacy vol. ii, p. 43. A family of six persons (mother and five children) were found one morning apparently dead in the underground dwellings which they inha- bited. The sufferers were removed to hospital, where the usual restorative means were employed with success, so far as relates to the children ; the mother remained insensible till her death.REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE, BY DR. SANDEESON, MANUALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. Gvx.—The Principles of Forensic Medici7ie. 2nd ed.,London,i86i,pp.534. Penaud.—fytters on the Practice of Legal Medicine. L'Union, vol. xii, p. 237. IIoFMANN.—2%e Language of Legal Medicine; an attempt to define the ideas which relate to medical jurisprudence. Municli, i860. HoFMANN.—Medico-legal Notice of a project of a Penal Code for the Kingdom of Bavaria. Munich, i860. BucHNER.—What injuries are necessarily fatal? and what injuries usualhj or occasionally jjroduce death ? What injuries were fatal {in the case in question) by virtue of their general nature ? What injuries loere fatal in consequence of the iinusual bodily constitution of the injured j)erson, or on account of accidental external circum- stances ? Henke, part 2, p. 205, 1861. A discussion is at present pending between the author and Professor Hofmanu, as to the sense in which those questions which are contained in the Bavarian criminal code, and employed in the Bavarian courts as the basis of medical evidence in cases of fatal injuries, are to be understood.' Buchner argues that the medical witness ought, in answering these questions, to bear in mind the general question to which they are sub- ordinate, that of the relation of the fatal result to the injury as its cause ; while Dr. Hofmann niaintaius that they ought to be answered as they stand, without consideration on the part of the witness of the practical deductions which may be founded on them. In such investigations, says the author, it is first to be determined whether any accidental circum- stances existed which might have co-operated with the injury; if not, the lattei" must have been necessarily fatal. Then the question follows, whether it was so by reason of its general nature, or by reason of some444 RKPOKT ON FOnENSIC MEDICINE. bodilj' peculiarity, in the absence of which it might have been otherwise. Following out these views, he proposes to divide actually fatal injuries into two classes, viz.—(i) Injuries necessarily fatal by their general nature, whether (a) directly; (6) by virtue of a co-operative cause called into exercise by them {e.g. consecutive suppuration in cases of fracture of the cranium) ; {c) by peculiarity in the bodily constitution of the injured persons {e.g. thinness of the skull, by reason of which a blow, insufii- cient to produce fracture of a normal skull, did so in the case in question) ; or {d) by the combination of b and c—(2) Injuries rendered fatal by accidental external circumstances {e.g. neglect to call in medical assistance, &c.). Fkickhoeffer.—Medico-legal opinion on the body of a Man killed by a Gunshot Wound. Henke, part i, p. 171, 1861. A forester left his home on the i8th of August, with the declared intention of going to mow some grass at a farm which he rented, and thence to proceed to his duty as watcher in the forest. On the following morning he was found at the farm, at some distance from his scythe, lying on his face in a pool of blood. The injuries found had the charac- ters of gunshot wounds. On the back twelve wounds were observed, situated within a space extending from the third dorsal to the first lumbar vertebra, and from the lower angle of the left to that of the right scapula. In a position corresponding to the articulation of the ninth rib there was a round wound, with torn, inverted margins. It was surrounded by a ring of redness, and contained half fluid, dark blood % there was swelling and sugiilation of the neighbouring parts. In front, between the third and fourth cartilages, near their junction with the sternum on the right side, there was a round wound, with everted red and sugillated edges. On dissection, it was found that the bullet had in its course penetrated all three lobes of the right lung, carrying with it splinters of bone and fragments of clothing. The twelve smaller wounds were pro- duced by shot (described as No. o), which p'enetrated both lungs, the heart, diaphragm, liver, and right kidney. From the direction of the wound, suicide was out of the question ; a crime had been committed, the author of which was discovered by the following remarkable indica- tions :—There resided in the same village another forester, who owed the deceased a grudge, on account of his having been appointed to a situation of which he had himself been deprived for misconduct; it happened that this man had lost his right arm, but was a dead shot with his left. On examining the ground in the neighbourhood of the corpus delicti, a tree, which had been hit by a ball, was found at twenty paces distance, of which the position exactly corresponded to the apparent direction of the shot. In pursuing the examination, in a line drawn from the tree through the body, a bush was arrived at, behind which the ground was indented by footsteps, in such relative positions that the individual must have stood with the right foot forwards, the left behind and crosswise; iu fact, in the position which he must have assumed, supposing him to have fired from the left shoulder. On this evidence he was condemned to penal confinement for life.445 jrAOTALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. Klein.—TFAfl^ view ought to be taken as to the corjioral punishment of children ^ Under what circumstances, and in xohat manner ought such punishment to be administered ? When does it degenerate into ill usage? and what consequences are to be apprehended? Henke, part 3, p. 122, 1861. , , . ^ 1 The author is one of those who ■welcome the laying aside ot corporal punishment as an expression of the increased appreciation of the dignity of human nature which arises from the recent moral advancement of society. He strongly enforces on the legislature, that schoolmasters should be limited to striking on the palm of the hand, or that no other corporal punisliment should be inflicted until some time after the commission of the offence. Helavig.—Fraetura Ossis Hyoidei et Cartilaginis Thyroidea. Question tvhether death result from a fall or from strangulation. Casper, vol. xix, p. 34a. Drs. Helwig and Wagner were called upon by the police authorities to examine and report on the body of a woman, eet. 66, who was found dead in her bed under the following circumstances. It appeared that the deceased, who resided with one servant in an isolated mill, had fallen down stairs twenty-four hours before her death, but suffered little incon- venience from the fall, and was able, on the following day, to pursue her ordinary duties. Three hours after retiring for tlie night she was found dead in her bed. The autopsy revealed the following lesions:—On the right side of the neck, below and behind the angle of the lower jaw, two dry, parchment-like excoriations, of an oval form, were observed. On the left side, somewhat further back, there were two similar marks, and at the corners of the mouth, on the ridge of the nose, were excoriations of the same character. The hyoid bone, and left half of the thyroid cartilage, and the fifth and sixth ribs on the left side, were found to be fractured. There were contusions of the left side of the face and tlie inner side of the right thigh, all of which exhibited indications of having been^inflicted some time before death. The author concludes, from his investigation, that the fractures could only have been pi'oduced by the direct application of violence to the hyoid bone and larynx, and that even in the absence of corroborative evidence, he was justified in unhesitatingly expressing the opinion that murder by stranghng had been committed. That the fractures and other laryngeal injuries could not have been produced by the fall down stairs, was evident, not only from their general nature, but from the facts that no symptoms of any severe injury had occurred during life, and that after death there was neither oedema, emphysema, nor purulent infiltration of tlie neighbouring parts. The conclusion was therefore justified that the deceased was suffocated by forcible pressure of one hand on the larynx and the other on the mouth. RosER.—On the medico-legal discrimination of cases of Pyeemia. Arch, d. Heiik., part 4, i860. Roser compares pyremia as a consequence of injury with tetanus and rabies, and points out the absence of any causal relation between the disease and the injury by which it is preceded. He regards its origin as rather miasmatic or zymotic than traumatic.KKPOUT ON rORENSlC MEDICINE. 44.6 Maschka.—Reports of the following cases of Injury of the Head. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi. No. 33. Injury followed by symptoms of epilepsy; no appreciable relation between tlie injury, wliicii was slight, and its result. No. 34. Pretended loss of consciousness, followed by impairment of health ; no apparent connection between the injury and its consequences. No. 44. Injury of the head in a man of seventy, in bad health; symptoms of con- cussion, followed by death. Maschka.—Medico-legal Contrihutions. Casper, vol. xviii, part i. Case of injury of the head ; subsequent exposure to cold; diflerence of opinion among the medical attendants. HoFMANN. Practice of Legal Medicine. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xvi, part 2. Case I. Fatal injury of the head ; fracture, with depression of the right parietal bone, and considerable extravasation in the interior of the cranium. Case a. Fatal injury of the head ; fracture of the right parietal bone, with extravasation. Case 3. Injury of the head ; separation of the cartilage of the pinna, &c. Doll.—On the loss of Teeth, in its medico-legal relations. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, No. 5. ScHUMACHEii.—On the JmocMng-in of the Teeth, in a medico-legal point of view; reply to the above. Wien. Med. Woch. Schrft., i860, Nos. 12, 17. KoMEE.—On the discrimination of Bodily Injuries. Friedreich, vol. xi, part I. Wtstrand.—On the medico-legal discrimination of Bodily Injuries in Intoxicated Persons. Henke, vol. xl, part 3. Transactions of the Medical Faculty of Vienna.—On fatal Bodily Injuries. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, No. 19. Transactions of the Medical Faculty of Vienna.—Case of Injuries of the lohole Body, particidarly of the Head; death in consequence of these injuries and of cerebral concussion. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, No. 19. Pfafp.—Medico-legal Reports, 1858-59.—Numerous fatal injiiries in- flicted on four persons by a hatchet. Henke, vol. xl, part 2. ■ Zencker.—Co7itributions to the medico-legal knowledge of Injuries of the Head. Henke, vol. xl, part 3. HoFMANN.—Injury of the Head inflicted with an Axe; recovery. Pene- trating ivound of the lungs, followed by recovery. Injury of the head ; stamping on the abdomen during menstruation ; consequent arrest of the catamenia, with symptoms of pyrexia. Henke, vol. xl, parts 3 and 4. Pfaff.—Introduction to the practice of medico-legal researches on the Blood, based on original observations, and brought down to the present state of forensic medicine. Plauen, i860. Canst., vol. vii, p. 9. The author has investigated experimentally the various methods of examining blood-stains recommended by previous observers. He has described the mode of discriminating blood-corpuscles under the micro- scope, and the changes of form and appearance produced by water, alcohol, acetic and hydrochloric acids, iodide of potassium, solutions of arseuious acid, corrosive sublimate, and other reagents, He also describes nSUDDEN AKD VIOLENT DEATHS. 447 process for the preparation of blood-crystals ; it does not differ materially from those of Simon and Biichner (see ' Year Book ' for i860). WxRTHGEN.—On the various methods of discriminating Blood-stains in medico-Jegal cases. Henke, part i, p. a, 1861. Wirthgen's paper is divided into two parts, of which one is an histori- cal summary of the medico-legal investigations relating to blood-stains, from the time of the first recognition of forensic medicine as a science of itself, in the first quarter of the century, to the present time. In the second part the author describes the methods for the discrimination of blood-stains employed by Orfila, Lassaigne, Mende, Letheby, Persot, Mngonty, Buchner, Schmidt, Piria Ferrari, Schneider, Bunzen and Sicbold, Casper, Schacht, Lesueur and Robin, Lecanu, Morin, Hopff, Verghauss, Wiehr, Lowe, Otto, Rose, Briicke, Boutigny, Desbri^re, Friedberg, Virchow, Kunde, Teichmann, Barruel, Bertazzi,"Ca«anti, and Bitter. OwsJANNiKOTV.—On Teichmann's Hcemin-crystals. Mediz. Ztg. Russ- lands, vol. xvii, part i. Canst., vol. vii, p. 9. Professor Owsjannikow's method agrees in the main with that of Scriba (see 'Year Book' for i860). MiQUEL.—On the detection of Blood-stains. Deut. Klin., i860, Nos. 9 and 19. GuiBOURT.—Observations relating to Blood-stains. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xl, p. 261. SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS. Mkm.—Draft of a form for reports of Medico-legal Autopsies. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xvi, parts i, 2. Plagge.—Js the cessation of the Heart-heat a certain sign of Death ? Betz's Memorabilia, vol. v. No. 5. Asphyxia. LiMAN.—On the forensic signification of the so-called Punctiform Ecchy- moscs under the Pleura and serous investments of other oraans Casper, vol. xix, p. 73. if • The appearances referred to consist for the most part of minute extra- vasations of coagulated blood, varying in size from that of a pin's head to that of a hemp seed. On stripping off the serous membrane thev remain attached thereto, and cannot be removed by washing By Tardieii they are considered as thanatognostical signs of death by asphvxia whereas other authors attach little importance to them. In illustration of their medico-legal significance, tlie author relates numerous observa tions, from which it appears that, although the ecchymoses in question are found almost exclusively in death by suffocation, they do not aCd evidence of the modp in wVi nli t 1,0c i ^. A r „„ 'luuiu evidence of the mode in ^hioh it has^ br^Tod'ncS Tir.aSor attributes the appearances m question, especially when thev occur in adults, to the forcible efforts to breathe wi!h whik death l!^;iuffocitio ,s necessarily accompanied, and to the interruptions to the circulation anS448 REPORT ON I'ORENSIC MEDICINE. consequent excessive pressure of the blood column in certain parts of the capillary system. He finds that these appearances are much more fre- quent in the new-born and infants than in adult?, and concludes that although they are to be regarded as an important sign of death by suffoca- tion, no inference can be drawn froni their absence. In this respect his opinion differs entirely from that of Tardieu. W\TE-RS.—Researches on Asphyxia. Mcd.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 135, From his experiments on tiic effects produced by the hot bath in asphyxiated animals, the author concludes that in cases of asphyxia, where respiration has altogether stopped, the effects of the hot batli are to produce an accumulation of blood in the lungs and on the left side of the heart, together with a tendency to coagulate on the part of the blood. It does not tend to prolong the action of the heart, but rather to paralyse its movements and diminish the duration of its contractions. It does not excite respiratory efforts, and prevents artificial respiration from being pro- perly carried out. In cases of asphyxia where respiration lias been re-excited, and is being feebly carried on, the hot bath, though in some instances it seems to have no immediate bad result, yet has a tendency to produce a fatal issue, some hours after its use, by causing extreme con- gestion of the lungs, together with consolidation and collapse of the pulmonary tissue. Thence it is inferred that in the treatment of asphyxia the prolonged use of the bath, whether respiration has ceased or is feebly going on, is not only inefficacious but dangerous, and even its temporary use is objectionable. All our efforts should be primarily directed to restoring or continuing, as the case may be, the respiratory movements. Brodte.—Letter on the Marshall Hall Method, to the Secretary of the Royal Humane Society. Med. Times, May i8th. As regards the method to be adopted with a view to restore respiration, Sir B. Brodie expresses himself as follows:—(i) The interval during which artificial respiration can be employed is very limited. (2) If the Royal Humane Society's apparatus be at hand, and the medical man present knows how to use it, this affords by far the safest and surest method of imitating natural respiration. (3) There is great danger that the rolling and tumbling about the body, as proposed by Dr. M. Hall, would interfere with the natural process of recovery, at the same time that it is very doubt- ful whether by this method a sufficient quantity of air could be drawn into the lungs to answer any useful purpose. (4) Of the two methods, that of Dr. Silvester would be more effectual and much less calculated to do injury. Christian.—0» the restoration of Suspended Animation in persons appa- rently droivned. Lancet, Feb. 2nd. Dr. Christian's paper contains the results of an experimental inquiry into the several methods recommended in the instructions of the Humane Society and the National Life-boat Institution for the recovery of persons apparently drowned. His conclusions are as follows :—The inflation of the lungs by the method of Dr. Silvester, or by the Society's apparatus is the first remedy, and the shock of the warm bath the second; but that, after eight minute*' complete submersion, recovery is hopeless, and that449 MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITY. whrn ten minutes elapse after the removal of tlie body from the water, without any etlbrt at respiration, it is equally so. Tiie author holds that the warm bath acta as an "immediate and powerful excitant," when pro- perly managed. He had frequently found that the patient, "immediately on being placed in the bath, gave the sob or gasp which is the precursor of respiration." Jennings.—The Treatment of Apnoea, illustrated by cases and experi- ments. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 278. The author, who has been engaged for eleven years in researches on this subject, concludes therefrom that the ready method of Dr. M. Hall is not only too complicated for general use, but that, as a mechanical means, it is inferior in efficiency to inflation of the lungs from mouth to mouth, at regular intervals, combined with the expulsion of the air betvreen each two inflations by compression of the thorax with the hands. In the resusci- tation of the drowned, Mr. Jennings' experience is decisive as regards the fatal effects of the hot bath, but in the new-born child he finds it "a ready means of maintaining warmth and the equilibrium of the circulation." For the former purpose his directions are as follows :—(i) Immediately "wipe out the mouth and nostrils, place a bundle of clothes under the shoulders, throw the head back, draw the tongue forwards, then close tho nostrils with an hand, and inflate the lungs by placing the mouth to that of the patient, and alternately compress the chest with the other. (2) At same time let an assistant strip off the wet clothes, and apply warm coverings ;" use centripetal friction of the limbs, cold affusion, and slap the chest occasionally with a Avet towel. (3) " Use galvanism, if possible, by applying one wire to the side of the neck, the other to the region of the heart. (4) After respiration has commenced aud the patient can be removed, place the feet and legs in hot water, and let the patient inhale ammonia occasionally; afterwards place him in a warm bed, and con- tinue frictions with hot bricks or bottles placed abont him to maintain warmth." Woodman. — Twins; suspended animation; success 0/ Dr. Silvester''s method of Artificial Respiration, used for half an hour. Med. Times, June 8th. MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITY. Txum^v. —Question of Medical Responsibility. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 204, A person named Hamelain preferred a criminal indictment against a well-known practitioner in Paris (Dr. Canuet), and moreover demanded damages to the amount of 10,000 francs, in respect of an inguinal tumour, which, being a hernia, it was alleged had been mistaken for an abscess! Prof. Tardieu was called upon by the court to investigate the case, which was of the following nature :—On the i^ih September, i860, Hamelain, while liftmg a weight, experienced a sharp pain in the right groin ; as he continued to exert himself, the pain increased and extended to the whole abdomen. He then took to his bed, and soon after an inguinal tumour was perceived, which in due time reddened and softened. On its beino-UBPOllT ON FOUENSIC MEDICINE. 450 opened by Dr. Canuet, pus and Llood were discharged, after which it par- .tially liealed; a fistulous aperture was left, from which, eight or ten days after the operation, yellowish matter (the contents of (he intestine) bean to escape. The orifice soon closed, but reopened some time after, in con- sequence of which the patient was received into hospital, where a fistulous abscess was found to exist, but no fjEcal discharge was observable until some time subsequently. On the 20th May Prof. Tardieu examined the patient, and gave an opinion, of which the following is the summary :— Hamelain was suffering at the time that Dr. Canuet was called in, from an abscess, the development of which had been coincident with that of a hernia in the same situation. Both were dependent on the violent exertion which the patient had made on the i_5th September; the incision prac- tised by Dr. Canuet was indicated by the state of the patient, and as regards the communication of the intestine with the cavity of the abscess, the measure employed was that by which alone that complication could have been prevented. The court acquitted Dr. Canuet, both of the criminal and civil responsibility, and adjudged the plaintiflF to pay the costs. HoFMANN.—Medico-legal Opinions. Henke, part i, p. io8. No. II. Opinion as to d Venesection, in respect of which an action for damages was brought against a medical practitioner. A woman, suffering from peritonitis, was bled by Dr. B. in the right arm. Inflammation of the veins and lymphatics occurred shortly after- wards, which went on to suppuration, and was treated by Dr. B. with leeches, fomentations, &c. Five months subsequently proceedings were taken, and medical evidence was adduced to show that the patient had entirely lost the use of her arm, all of the joints of which were said to be permanently flexed; and, according to one witness, anchylosed. On the side of the defence it was alleged that the patient had simulated the stiffness of the arm, which disappeared completely when she was put under the influence of chloroform ; that the arm was in a perfectly sound state, with the exception of the cutaneous scars produced by the angeio- leucitis above referred to; that the operation had been performed in a skilful manner, neither the artery nor the tendon of the biceps nor any important nerve having been injured, as was asserted by the medical witnesses for the prosecution. ScHULTZE.—Rupture of the Vagina shortly after Birth; Prolapsus and Rupture of the Intestine; medical opinion on the proceedings against a midwife accused of manslaughter. Casper, vol. xix, p. 215. The wife of a labourer, who had already had ten children, was delivered naturally of a healthy child after a labour of five hours. A short time after the delivery the midwife, in the endeavour to remove the placenta, introduced her hand into the vagina. Suddenly the patient cried out and rose from her position, whereupon a convolution of intestine was brought down instead of the placenta. Death followed on the third day. On the opinion of the district physician, that the rupture of the vagina might have taken place spontaneously, the midwife was acquitted; but on an451 DELIVEUY, BIUTH, AND INFANTICIDE. appeal to the provincial court, a superarbitrium M'as obtained to the fol- lowing effect:—That the death of the deceased was the direct consequence of the laceration of the colon produced by the prolapsus of the small intestine, through a rupture of the posterior wall of the vagina; that this rupture was exclusively attributable to the rude manipulation of the mid- wife in the introduction of her hand ; and that the laceration of the intes- tine was caused partly by the withdrawal of the hand, partly by the sudden rising of the deceased from her position at the same moment. Unfounded charge against a Medical Practitioner. Brit. Med. Jouru., vol. i, p. 75. A medical practitioner was censured by a coroner's jury for having ordered laudanum stupes for a lady who was at the time suckling an infant six weeks old. The directions given, that the child should not be allowed to suck while the mother was under the influence of opium, were disre- garded ; it was put to the breast, and soon after fell into a sleep from which it never recovered. On this case Dr. Christison remarks as follows: —"Assuming that death arose from the action of opium, the verdict must hold—(i) either that a sucking infant may be poisoned unto death by sucking its mother's milk, and without the mother's experiencing any effect at all from the drug ; or (2) that an infant may die of poisoning with laudanum through exposure to its vapour or fumes ; or (3) that in this particular instance death arose from the child sucking, licking, or lying in contact with the pledgets over-soaked with laudanum." Neither the first nor the second of these assumptions is admissible on general grounds. In support of the third, there was no evidence in the case in question. The only means by which the cause of death could have been determined, viz., the examination of the body, was neglected, so that the imputation contained in the verdict was, in Dr. Christison's opinion, " simply ridiculous." DELIVEKY, BIETH, AND INFANTICIDE. KuNZE.—Child Murder, historically and critically co7isidered. Leipsic, i860. Canst., vol. vii, p. 18. The work of Kunze is an investigation of the various anatomical and physiological questions relating to infanticide in their practical bearing. It is divided into two parts. The first, which is devoted to the physio- logical aspects of the subject, treats of the development of the foetus in each month of pregnancy, and the criteria of maturity afl'orded by the external appearances of the child immediately after birth, and the de- velopment of the osseous system ; under this head reference is made to the diagnosis of congenital defects of ossification from fractures produced by external violence ; as regards the ossification of the epiphysis of the femur, the author concludes that the nucleus of bone may be wanting in ova of any age, and even in mature children that have lived after birth, and that its absence therefore is insignificant. As, however, the nucleus does not in general appear until the last months of pregnancy, or even after birth, an ovum having a nucleus of more than three line's in diameter may be considered mature. The author gives further details as to the measure- ments of the skeleton and soft parts of mature children j another section 4heport on forensic medicine. is devotcf] to the decomposition of the ovum in iitero, and the changes prod need by putrefuction in the body of the new-born child, asaflfected by the conditions of moisture and tcmpernture to which it lias been exposed. Tile second part discusses tlie post-mortem appearances observed in tlic new-born child with reference to the proof of live-birth. As regards the king-test, the author still maintains that buoyant lungs must have breathed after birth, and that no previous respiratory movement is capable of pro- ducing inflation with air. He holds that lungs that have been inflated artificially may always be distinguished ; their anterior surface being of a bright, vermilion colour, comparatively bloodless, and without marbling, and often exhibiting extravasations of air produced by the violence of the inflation ; the inflated condition of the stomach and intestines affords further evidence. As regards injuries to the foetus consequent on violence done to the mother, the author infers from the thirty-one cases extant that such ■violence may lead to fractures, particularly of the long bones, but that no instance is known of intra-nteriue fracture of the cranium so produced, and that such accidents are not possible before the fifth month. The injuries and dangers to which the child is liable during birth are next considered in their medico-legal relations, particularly fractures of the cranial bones (which are discussed as to their anatomical characters and causes), and compression or twisting of the cord. The concluding pages relate to the injuries and dangers arising in cases of precipitate delivery, from falls, &c., and other accidents immediately after birth. Groll.—Evidence and ojnnion in a case of concealment of Pregnancy and Birth, and consequent Child Murder. Henke, part i, p. 193. An unmarried workwoman, residing in a very retired village, was accused of the murder of an infant, found partly concealed in her room. On examination of the accused, the signs of recent delivery were ob- served. The body was found to be that of a mature, well-developed male infant, which had lived and breathed after births The following lesions existed, viz., fracture or injury of both maxillary, the nasal and palate bones, and the frontal bone, and dislocation of the cranial bones, which floated loose in the brain, all of which injuries showed that the head had been subjected to forcible pressure against some Hat body. From the appearances in general, the author concluded that the accused had pressed the face and front of the head against the stone floor, by which, not only the injuries above referred to had been produced, but breathing had been prevented, and that she had neglected to secure the cord. She was con- victed on the medical evidence, and sentenced to penal imprisonment for fifteen years. HoFMANN.—Medico-legal Opinions. No. III. Accusation of Child-Murder. Loc. cit., p. 135. The body of a newly born and mature infant was found in a privy. An unmarried sempstress, who was employed at the time in the house in which the corpus delicti was discovered, was suspected of being tlie mother and murderer. On examination of the accused, ail the signs of recent delivery were observed by Dr. Ilofmann. From appearances on dissection of the infant, he concliided that it was recently born and mature,453 IMMOEAL ASSAULTS. iliat it had lived independently of the mother, but that life had lasted only for a short time (the contents of the thorax floated, but the infla- tion of the lungs was only partial). On removing the scalp, a considerable extravasation was found in the neighbourhood of the sagittal suture, between the right parietal bone and its periosteum ; a similar extravasation existed on the left side, having the same relations. Other lesions of the same kind were found on the left frontal and occipital bones. There were also numerous fractures, extending in the direction of the sagittal suture, from the vertex to the occiput, excessive redness and injection of the pia mater, and extravasation of blood in the substance of the left hemisphere. The evidence which these lesions afi'orded, that they could not have arisen in the fall of the body of the child into the privy, but must have been inflicted previously, probably by pressing in the skull with some hard instrument, is analysed minutely, and at great length, by Dr. Hofmann, who inferred that the infant was born during the night preceding the previous day, and was brought dead into the house in which the body was found, for the purpose of concealment. The accused was convicted, and sentenced to be confined in the House of Correction for an indefinite period. ToULMOUCHE.—studies on Infanticide and concealed or simulated Preg- nancy. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 364. Anstie.—The proofs of Live Birth in relation to prosecutions for Infan- ticide. West. Med. and Surg. Soc, Lancet, Nov. i6th. Bkock v. Kellock.— 'Proof of Live Birth. Lancet, May iith. More than twenty years ago a gentleman died intestate. His widow, who was then pregnant, succeeded to a portion of the property. The child died at or immediately after the moment of birth. Thereupon the question arose whether or not the child had lived, in such sense as to have become possessed of property, for if it had, its mother, as its heir, would be entitled to such property. The question turned on the testimony of the accoucheur, that the child moved vigorously a minute before birth, that the chest was full and arched, and that the funis pulsated after the division of the cord. There was no evidence that respiration had taken place. On the ground that the infant, at a time subsequent to birth, was physiologically alive, Vice-Chancellor Stuart decided that he had become possessed of the property in question. IJIMORAL ASSAULTS. Krugelstein.—Violation of a child of seven by a youth of seventeen,- various methods of distinguishing seminal stainsfrom others resembling them. Henke, vol. xl, part 4. Pfaek.— Violation of a child of eight; relaxation of the hymen; dilatation of the vagina ; syphilitic affection of the labia majora and minora. Henke, vol. xl, part 2. Maschka.—Violation of a female affected with epilepsy ; improbability of the assumption that the act ivas committed during the paroxysm, considering that the true epileptic remembers the most minute cir- cumstances, toithout, however, being in a condition to give the alarm (sic). Oest. Ztsch, vol. vi, p. 39. 80REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 454 FOIIENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. Brierre de Boismont.—Medico-leyal studies on Hallucinations and Illusions. Ann. d'llyg., vol. xvi, p. 145. Hnlhicinations mny, by reason of the profound conviction of their reality which often exists in the mind of the individual who is subject to them, lead to dangerous or criminal actions. This may be the case even as regards the hallucinations of acute delirium and mania, but it happens much more frequently in melancholy monomania, in which the attempts of the patient to injure himself or others are either indirectly determined by his realization of horrible apparitions or of persons whom he believes to be insulting or threatening him, or directly suggested by invisible voices, or other hallucinations. The diseases in which hallucinations and illusions must be taken into account, as determining causes of actions, are mainly monomania, puerperal mania, dementia and general paralysis ; it is further to be remembered that the hallucinations which precede the epileptic paroxysm, and those which accompany the transition from sleep to consciousness, may often exercise an important influence. The illu- sions of dreams occasionally maintain their distinctness up to the moment of waking and even in the state of wakefulness. In such cases they may give rise to unreasonable or criminal acts. Many remarkable incidents have come nnder the author's personal observation, which could only be explained in this manner. So long as the individual remained under the influence of his dreams, his words and actions were those of a madman, but, as the images of the night faded and became indistinct and finally disappeared, he expressed astonishment at his own acts, although he remembered that, at the time, they appeared to him perfectly reasonable. The paper contains numerous illustrative eases, from which, and from the preceding considerations, the author derives the follow- ing practical conclusions :—Confinement is often rendered necessary by hallucinations, but is occasionally counter-indicated. Deprivation of civil rights {Vinterdiction) is demanded in the case of individuals whose hallu- cinations would involve ruin to themselves or their families, but not when the individual is inoffensive, and his hallucinations are, so to speak, constitu- tional. The testamentary capacity of the individual is not impaired by hallucinations in cases in which they have long existed, have exercised no influence on the conduct, have not perverted the natural aflections, and have not interfered with the due discharge of social duties. Willers-Jessen.—On incendiarism. 8vo, Kiel, i860, pp. 335. In this work, of which the title was given in the 'Year Book' for i860, the author denies the existence of the impulse to incendiarism as an essential form of mental disease, and regards this tendency either as a symptom of general insanity or as a product of perverted emotions. He accordingly divides the seventy-seven cases on which the inquiry is based into two classes. lu the first class, the act was determined by yindictive- ness, envy, fear, discontent, nostalgia, or some other emotion, without any intellectual perversion. The second class includes cases referable to imbecility, melancholy, hypochondriasis, and partial dementia, and com- prises the incendiarism of drunkards and epileptics. Each subject is illustrated by examples. i4.55 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. TuoussEAU.—On sudden and irresistible determinations, in their relation with epilepsy. L'Uiiion, vol. ix, p. 540. If a man has committed a murder without motive, purpose, premedi- tation, or passionate emotion, in a state of sobriety, and in the view of all—that is to say, in the absence of all those conditions under which murders are commonly perpetrated—M. Trousseau would be prepared to aver that the impulse to the crime must almost certainly have been the result of an epileptic seizure, even if he had not witnessed such seizure. If the act has been committed immediately after an epileptic seizure, attested by credible persons, the medical witness may assert positively that the impulse was irresistible. M. Trousseau cites numerous remarkable cases, showing that sudden and irresistible impulses, under which acts are committed which may or may not have important results, occur frequently during the minor epileptic attack {petit mat), or after the convulsive paroicysm; and that such acts are accomplished without the agent's knowledge, and are not remembered by him. The tempo- rary suspension of free will, renders him for the time irresponsible for his acts. Casper.—Question of real or feiyned Insanity of eleven years* duration. Casper, vol. xx, p. i. A youth of eighteen, who had committed several robberies, was con- victed of the crime of rape, under circumstances which brought his sanity into question. The investigation lasted for eleven years, during which period he was removed from one prison or asylum to another, and no less than twenty official medical reports were made on the state of his mind, most of which agreed in the conclusion that his insanity was feigned. The question was finally referred to the Royal Scientific Com- mission for Medical Affairs, who revei'sed former decisions, founding their opinion on the following facts, viz., persistent silence, lasting for fifteen months; continued exposure of his body, without covering, to cold, although clothing was within his reach; vigilance kept up night after night; complete rejection of food ; swallowing of dirty water in preference to clean, or of hard and unnutritious substances; frequent attempts to commit suicide by venesection ; no betrayal of himself on recovering from drunkenness or after inhalation of chloroform ; duration of all these symptoms for so long a period (although the subject of them, if sane, must have known that simulation was only lengthening the time of his im- prisonment) ; and, finally, the existence of unquestionable delusions. LoWENHAKDT.—Not Pyromauia, in the true sense of the word, but still absence of responsibility, in a youthful ittcendiary. Medico-physical opinion us to the mental condition of the youth A. C. S. accused of several acts of incendiarism. Henke, part 2, p. 240. A youth, set. 17, set fire, on four several occasions, within a period of forty days, to buildings. Dr. Lowenhardt was called upon by the district court to give an opinion as to the state of mind of the criminal at the times at which these crimes were committed. Four other experts were called, who held that the prisoner was in such a state of mind as to be responsible, while the author stood alone in the opinion, that although he was capable of comprehending the nature of his acts, his responsibilityEEPOET ON FOEENSIC MEDICINE. 4.56 was diminished by the low degree of development of corporeal and mentiil faculties to which he had attained. As regards the former, the opinion was founded on the absence of the signs of puberty, and the fact that he had long suffered from epilepsy and scrofula; as regards the latter, on the evidence of limited intelligence afforded by a variety of facts ; on the want of moral and religious principle, as shown by ingratitude of the accused to his parents and other benefactors ; on his childish levity and recklessness ; on his tendency to boast of bad actions ; on the readiness with which he fabricated long stories of crimes in which he had been principal and accessory, which stories he as readily denied, and invented others in their place; on the absence of any trace of regret or fear of consequences or of any motive to his crimes, except the desire to make himself conspicuous, and to enjoy the excitement of a fire. Lehks.—Manslaughter by Mental Means (auf psychischen Wege). Report on the cause of death of the patrol, Martin N—. Henke, part 4, p. 286. A party of patrols was attacked in the night by some armed country- men, who mistook them for thieves. One of them, Martin N—, was pursued for some distance, and finally fell into a ditch, on which his pur- suers left him, uninjured. During the same night he complained of shiver- ing and headache. He was first seen by a surgeon on the day after when his state was as follows:—He was able to answer questions only in short, unconnected sentences. He was very restless; the eyes were closed, the pupils dilated, and almost insensible to light; the tongue was dry; the pulse full, hard, and of moderate frequency ; the head was hot, and the bowels were confined. The treatment consisted in leeches and cold applications to the head, calomel, and other antiphlogistic remedies. The patient died on the fifth day, death having been preceded by complete insensibility. At the examination of the body the following lesions were observed:— The pia mater was found, on removal of the dura mater, to be intensely injected and thickened, and on its surface, under the arachnoid, there were numerous purulent points, particularly on the basal aspect of the brain, in the neighbourhood of the sella turcica. The whole upper surface was covered with semi-fluid yellow pus, which could be removed with the back of the scalpel; no other morbid appearance was met with. From these lesions it was concluded that the direct cause of death was general inflammation of the pia mater; that this was determined by the mortal fear which possessed the mind of the deceased during his precipitate flight ; that, as a predisposing cause, his "apoplectic confor- mation" contributed to the result. Previously to the affray the deceased was in perfect health. Friedreich.—On responsibility for acts committed under the infuence of rage. Friedreich, vol. xi, part i. Maschka.—Opinion on the mental condition of the imirderer, Martin P—. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, Nos. 5 and 6. Flechner. — Cases of Mental Disease in medico-legal practice. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, Nos. 29, .38, 43, and 46. Canst., vol. vii, p. 23. (i) Periodical delusion, with maniacal excitement; abolition of dis- posing power. (2) Delusion, with melancholy; recovery; disposing457 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. power unimpaired. (3) Periodical delusion, with excitement, in an official, let. "8; recovery. (4) Delusion, with melancholy; temporary maniacal excitement, with attempt to commit suicide. (5) Delusion, with maniacal excitement in a mechanic, set. 39. ExscBECK—Question of responsibility in a case 0/pretended epilepsy. Oest. Ztsch., Nos. 3^ and 36. RiTTER. TFhat are the causes of the recent excessive increase of suicides, and what preventive measures ought to be applied ? Deut. Ztsch., vol. XV, part 2, and vol. xvi. part i. Canst., vol. vii, p. 15. The author's conclusions are founded on the statistics of the district of Middle Franconia, in Bavaria. During the years 1857-8, i in 145 of the deaths in the towns was self-inflicted, and i in 289 in the country. Of 100 suicides, 80 were men and 20 women; 60 per cent, accomplished their end by hanging, 17 by drowning, 11 by firearms, 7 by throwing themselves in front of locomotives, 2-8 by charcoal vapour, and only 1-4 by cut throat. The motives to the act were as follows :—In 40 per cent, of the cases it was attributed to tsedium vitse and mental disorder; in 15 per cent, to the loss of means of subsistence; in other cases to the fear of future punishment, to despair induced by bodily suffering, disappointed love, &c. HucK.—Statistics of Suicide in the Grand Buchy of Baden. Corr. Bltt. d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatr., vol. vii. No. i. Canst., vol. vii, pp. 14—16. In 439 cases in Baden (1854-56), the motives to the act of suicide were as follows :—Insanity in 106 cases, weariness of life and domestic troubles in 119 cases, bodily suffering in 38, remorse and apprehension of punish- ment in 33, disappointed love in 11, wounded honour or modesty in 8, religious enthusiasm in 2; in the remaining 112 cases the cause was unknown. Orth.—Investigation of a case of Suicide by Hanging, after swallowing shoe-nails and other bodies. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xvi, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 14—16. In this case fifty-nine fragments of nails, and several smaller bits of iron, along with a flint, seeds of Helianthus annuus, skins of beans, and sand, were found in the ileum, near the ileo-csecal valve ; a few nails were found in the large intestine. Statistics of Suicide. Corr. Bltt. d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatr., vol. vii, Nos. 17 and 18. Michel.—Two cases of Suicide by Phosphorus. Corr. Bltt. d. Wiirt. iirzt. Vereins, vol. xxx, parts 42 and 43. Erlenmeyer.—On the injurious effects of the Marriages of Relations. Corr. Blatt. d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatric, vol. vii. No. 8. Canst., vol. vii, p. 3. The author founds the conclusion that the marriages of relations are injurious on the facts that such marriages are frequently without issue (thn-teen to twenty instances per cent.) ; that the offspring are frequently deaf and dumb, and are liable to idiocy and other forms of mental defi- ciency, and that the mortality of such children is unusually great. These statements are based on the previous researches of Roell, Deray, Bobinson Howe, Rossknecht, Everts, Menifere, Persio, and Bergmann.HEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH, BT DE. SANDEESON. GENERAL EEPOETS. Simon.—Third Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, for i860. 8vo, London, 1861. Trebuchict.— Oener at Report of the Froceedings of the Conseil d' Hygihne Puhlique et de SalubritS of the Department of the Seine, from 1849 to 1858 inclusive. 4to, Paris, 1861, pp. 634. Transactions of the Association for the promotion of Social Science. 8vo, London, 1861. PlETRA Santa.—Railroads and Public Health; hygiene of travellers by rail and of persons employed on railways. i8mo, Paris, i8(5i, pp. 314. SIEDICAL STATISTICS. EscHERiCH.—On Infantile Mortality, in connection with meteorological and topographical conditions. Bayer arztl. Litell. Bl., No. 40, i860. EscHEiilcH.—On Infantile Mortality, in its effect on the constitution of the population, as regards sex and age. Loc. cit., No. 51. VoGT.— On Illegitimate Births and Infantile Mortality, in relation to the question of Trades. Loc. cit., No. 19, i86i. Ploss.—In fantile Mortality, and its relation to the elevation of the surface and the fecundity and occupation of the popidation. Arch. f. Wissens. Heilk., vol. vi, p. 17. Ploss.—Statistical Researches on Infantile Mortality. Schmidt, voL 112, p. 323. This paper is divided into ten parts, in which the anther treats of the influence of sex, age, hereditary constitntion, illegitimacy, defective nourishment, and occupations, on infantile mortality ; ou the epidemic and other diseases to which infantile deaths are referable, and the relations Vetween infantile mortahty and local and meteorological conditions. Aa459 MEDICAL STATISTICS. reeiarcls illegitimacy, the author quotes the researches of Dr. Vogt (see above), who shows that in Bavaria the number of illegitimate births is greater than in any other country in Europe. During the years 1835 to 1844, the number of illegitimate births was to that of legitimate as i to 379,'and in the years 1851 to 1857 as i to 377. In correspondence with the frequency of illegitimacy, the mortality of children in the first year of life is excessive. From the returns it appears that, in the years 1835-44, 3i"i per cent, of the children born, died before the expiration of the first year. The morlahty of those born in wedlock was 30 per cent., and of the illegitimate 35 per cent. Vogt attributes both the high infantile death rates and the great number of illegitimate births, to the restrictions with which labour is hampered by the mediaeval trade-guilds, the difficulty of obtaining permission to marry, and other poHtical and social evils. The influence of local and other purely physical conditions on infantile mortalitv, is considered by Escherich to be much greater than has hitherto been supposed. From inquiries as to the distribution of infantile deaths in Bavaria, he concludes that the mortality under one year increases directly with the elevation, while from the comparison of different years it appears that those are most fatal to infantile life in which the temperature is highest. In confirmation of the former con- clusion, Floss has found that in Saxony, no less than in Bavaria, there is a direct relation between the elevation and infantile mortality, both in urban and rural districts. Thus, sixteen per cent, of the number of boys, and nearly twenty per cent, of that of girls, born in the highland districts, die before arriving at the age of one year, while in the low country the corresponding numbers are 137 and i6-g. Various writers have associated unusually high infantile death-rates with undue fecundity of the population. The researches of Escherich and PI0S8 afford striking evidence of the reality of this relation. From Escherich's tables it appears that in Bavaria there is a constant relation between the number born, and the proportion of those born who do not survive the first year of life. The results derived by Floss from the mor- tality-statistics of the towns of Saxony coincide entirely with those of Escherich. He found that in those towns in which the birth-rate was below twenty-three per thousand the infantile death-rate was fifty-five, while in those having a birth-rate above twenty-seven, the infantile death-rate was ninety-three. BoucHTJT.—Ore the Mortality of New-born Infants. L'Union M6d., vol. xii, p. 129. The author has made an exte»ded statistical inquiry as to the various causes of mortality among children in France. The following are some of the conclusions which he adopts. At the present time only i in 6 of the children born in France die during the first year ; the proportion was formerly i in 4. The mortality is somewhat greater of boys than of girls, and greater among the poor than the rich. The exposure of young children to cold in winter, in carrying them to the "mairie" (for registration) and to churcli, is a fruitful source of early death. Of found- lings, reared in tlie country, 11 per cent, die during the first ten days, and 55 per cent, in the first year. This enormous mortality is consideredTIEPOKT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 460 by M. Bouchut to be mucli promoted by tlie faulty mode of feeding which prevails among those to whom such infants are intrusted by the state for maintenance. Medical College of Nokway.—Report on the sanitary condition mid on the medical relations of Norway for 1856 and 1857. Christianin, i860. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 236. The annual death-rates for the two years were respectively i6-8 in 1856, and i6-o in 1857 ; the numbers of deaths being 25,000 and 26,000. Tiie numbers of births were respectively 48,000 and 50,000, and the vaccina- tion 35,500 and 43,000. There was no remarkable prevalence of disease, the principal epidemics being continued fever, scarlet fever, hooping- cough, and parotitis. From the inconsistency of the nomenclature and imperfection of the abstract, it is impossible to determine to what causes the sanitary superiority of Norway to England is attributable. A special report is appended on an outbreak of Asiatic cholera at Drammen; twenty-seven persons wei'e attacked, and twenty-one died. MEDICAL METEOROLOGY. Hoxjzeau.—On the normal variability of the properties of Atmospheric Air. Comptes Rendus, vol. lii. No. 16, p. 809. M. Houzeau draws attention to the variations in the bleaching power of the air at different places. Blue litmus paper exposed to the air in the country becomes completely decolorized in a few days, whereas in town it may either be exposed indefinitely without loss of colour, or at all events is bleached much more slowly than in the country. From other experi- ments it appears the bleaching power of the air varies with its power of decomposing iodide of potassium (ozone). Pasteur.—Experiments relating to Spontaneous Generatio7i. Comptes Rendus, vol. 1, p. 303.—On the origin of Ferments. Ibid., p. 849. Pasteur has made very extensive inquiries, with a view of testing the truth of the discovery of Schroder, "that the atmosphere contains an active substance, which induces the phenomena of fermentation and putre- faction, and which is decomposed by heat and arrested by filtration." His experiments establish—that the air contains at all times microscopic organized corpuscles, which may be collected by filtering it through gun- cotton, dissolving the cotton in ether, and allowing the ether to evaporate spontaneously. —■ 3* PoucHET.—Method of collecting the Corpuscles contained in a given volume of Air. Comptes Rendus, vol. 1, p. 748. M. Pouchet has investigated the " corpuscles of the air " (see preceding abstract) in a somewhat different manner. He has contrived an apparatus called an aeroscope, the action of which is to direct an extremely minute but rapid current of air against a flat disc of glass. The air-corpuscles are deposited on the glass " by precisely the same mechanism that the particles of metal are deposited on the porcelain plate in Marsh's appa- ratus," forming a little spot not more than a millimetre in diameter.461 MEDICAL METEOKOLOGY. ScnuiD.—Text Book of Meteorology. With an atlas of twenty-one plntes. Leipsic, i860. Schmidt, vol. 111, p. 115. The treatise of Schmid includes the whole physics of the atmosphere, with the exception of atmospheric electricity and the facts relating to meteors. It is divided into four parts, of whicli the first relates to the measurement and distribution of temperature, the sources of heat, the periodical and irregular variations of temperature, and their relations to climatology. The second part refers to currents, winds, and storms. The third to the circulation of water. This includes evaporation, the humidity of the atmosphere, and the various forms in which moisture is precipi- tated, such as clouds, mist, dew, rain, snow, &c., and lastly springs and streams. The fourth part treats of atmospheric pressure, its measurement and variations, and the relations which exist between the tension of the air and its temperature, moisture, and other physical conditions. The work includes very extensive tables of meteorological records, and an atlas of illustrative plates. MxmviY. —General Geographical Meteorology, being an attempt to repre- sent synoptically the meteorological phenomena of the earth in their hearing on climate. With charts and woodcuts. Heidelberg, i860. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 117. Dr. Miihry has already published two important works on the applica- tions of meteorology to geographical nosology and climatology. In his present work he ascends from applications to principles, from the observa- tion of the influence of physical and geographical agencies on the health of mankind to the investigation of the general laws of meteorological phenomena, to which he applies the term Erdmeteoration.'" These are stated in short and precise language, without much admixture of mathe- matical formulae, so that the book may be regarded as a comprehensive and popular synopsis of the laws of the weather. The author does not enter into geographical detail, giving no account of the climate of par- ticular localities or districts. The work is divided into four parts, which correspond entirely with those adopted by Schmid. To the practitioner it is of more value than the preceding work, as the author has professedly had in view throughout the application of his science to medicine. Haller.—Poptdar diseases in their dependence on the conditions of the weather. A statistical inquiry, founded upon observations made during ten years in the General Hospital at Vienna. 4to, Vienna, i860, pp. 40. The purpose of this inquiry is to determine in how far the invasions and disappearances of epidemic diseases, coincide with or depend on simultaneous changes in the state of the weather. As regards the preva- lence of diseases. Dr. Haller has obtained his information from the annual reports of the hospital. From the numbers of cases of each important disease occurring during short periods of time, he has constructed curves representing their prevalence during each year, and has compared these curves with the curves of temperature, barometric pressure, and humidity, for the same year. A glance at these curves is sufficient to show in how far any relation can be traced between the nosological and meteorological facts which they represent. The following are some of theEEPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 462 results which have been arrived at:—Inflammations 'of tlie lungs prevail in winter, increase until May, and decline rapidly from the end of that month until September. In Vienna the deaths from piithisis, which form a third of the whole mortality, increase from the beginning of winter until May, in which month they attain their maximum. Typhus never entirely disappears ; it prevails epidemically most in the winter months, but appears to be much more dependent on overcrowding than on atmospheric conditions. FucHS.—The Epidemic Diseases of Europe in their relation ivith the phe- nomena of terrestrial magnetism, loith changes in the condition of the atmosphere, and with the history of the civilised races of this hemi- sphere. 8vo, Weimar, i860, pp. 151. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 124. This work is an attempt to trace epidemics to those natural processes which are in daily operation around us, and exert a constant influence on our existence, instead of to the hypothetical or mystical causes to which Buch diseases are frequently attributed. The author divides epidemic diseases into (i) those dependent on continuous cold, among which he enumerates, besides catarrh and influenza (the former of which is the cause of sixty-seven per cent, of the deaths in the north of Europe), the febris nervosa lenta, that form of continued fever which is peculiar to high latitudes—and (2) those dependent on continuous heat in which are included dysentery, yellow fever, cholera, plague, and remittent fever. The 3rd section is devoted to the diseases peculiar to Europe, the climate of which partakes of the peculiarities of many other parts of the world. The author observes that in the west of Europe the majority of mankind die of diseases consisting in the deposit of albumen in the tissues (tubercle, scrofula, &c.), to which he therefore proposes to apply the term leuco- meccritical. The sea climate of these countries is characterised by abundance of fog and rain, mild winters, and moderate summers, which conditions are associated, as causes favouring albuminous deposits, with the use of food rich in albumen, as compared with the fatty diet of the Esquimaux or the farinaceous diet of the negro.' In the east of Europe a dry, continental climate prevails, and the most fatal diseases are those which he comprises under the term hseraatoseptic, including scurvy and septic fever. In this region tubercular diseases are rare. The views of the author are exhibited in a chart, in which the distribu- tion of the various classes of diseases is shown. The whole subject is illustrated by a great number of interesting geographico-medical facts, overlooked by previous authors, but of great importance as forming the basis of the new science of medical meteorology. RiGDEN.—The Meteorology of Canterbury, in relation to its vital phe- nomena. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. ii, p. 147. Mr. Rigden's conclusions are founded on a comparison of the statistics of mortality of the town, with the records of meteorological observations during a period of seven years ending i860. Each unhealthy season appears to have been "attended, at least at its commencement, by more than the average fall of rain." Unusually low temperatures in winter, spring, or summer, and high temperatures in autumn, have been associated with high death-rates. In unfavorable seasons the prevailingHOSPITALS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 463 ■svinds liave been north, north-east, and east; in favorable, south, west, and south-west. Ransome.—On Atmospheric Pressure and the Direction of the Wind in relation to Disease, especially Hcemorrhages and Neuralgias. Lit. and Phil. Soc., Manchester. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 592. Angus Smith.—On the production and prevention of Malaria. Lit. and Phil. Soc, Manchester. Chem. News, vol. iii, p. 173. Malaria, according to the author, has been proved to be caused by the decomposition of organized bodies; putrescence, and consequently alka- linity, of the soil are the necessary conditions of its production. The author believes that by the addition of ammonia to soil sufficiently moist, putrescence, and thereby malaria, can be produced, and that by the addition of true antiseptics, of which carbolic or phenic acid is the type, it may be destroyed. DWELLINGS. ScHAKLiKG.—On the purification of the Air in Dwellings. Hyg. Medd. og Betragt., vol. i, p. 31. Henke, part 3, p. 63, 1861. Scbarling has made numerous experiments on new applications of charcoal as a disinfectant and deodorant—not only to remove the offensive smell arising from animal excreta, but those from culinary and other domestic processes. In the sick room he recommends the exposure of perfectly fresh charcoal in boxes, the effect of which in removing smells he finds to be immediate and decisive. BowDiTCH.—On Coal Gas. Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xi, p. 2^. The author has discovered that bisulphide of carbon, and other similar compounds containing sulphur, which all purifying methods have hitherto failed to remove from gas, are converted into sulphuretted hydrogen, and consequently rendered easily separable, by passing it over hydrate of lime at temperatures varying from 300 to 400° Fahr. It is understood that tlie invention will be adopted by gas companies. HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Acad£mie de M£decine.—Unhealthiness of the Hospitals of Paris as compared with those of other countries. Bull, de I'Acad., passim. On the lath of November, i860, a report was presented to the Academy on a ' Memoire' of M. Le Fort, relating to the operation of resection of the hip-joint, by M. Gosselin, in which he drew attention to the hi^h mortality which accompanies this and other surgical operations in Paris as compared with London. This led to a discussion, in which the most distinguished of the hospital surgeons took part. M. Malgaigne held that the Paris hospitals were, as regards their sanitary condition, "the most detestable in Europe." An opposite opinion was energetically main taiued by MM. Davenne and Bonnafont. The unhealthiness of the464. UEPOKT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Parisian hospitals, and particularly the unfavorable results of operations, were attributed by tiie several speakers to the practice of surrounding the' beds with curtains, to the use of charpie, and the communication thereby of infection, to the overcrowding of the wards, to the insufficient number of nurses, to the absence of open lire-places, the foulness of the floors and furniture (as compared with the scrupulous cleanliness observed in London), and to the offensive and unhealthy latrines. Other less important details were referred to. TOPINARD.—0« the Hygiene of the London Hospitals. L'Union, vol xii, p. 517. hv.^o^T.—General considerations on the Healthiness of English Hospitals. Annales d'llyg., vol. xvii, p. 232. DISINFECTION. MuLLER.—On the Preservation of Urine. Journ. f. prakt. Chemie, vol. Ixxxi, p. 452. EiSENsxiicK.—On the same subject. Ibid., p. 482. Miiller finds that urine, in which the urea has once undergone trans- formation into carbonate of ammonia, is subject to no further putrefactive change. This transformation takes place rapidly on the addition of a ferment, the most suitable for the purpose being the mucus deposited by urine. In order to fix the ammonia, he treats the liquid thus obtained by the same method as is applied to aramoniacal liquor of gasworks. Chevalier.—On the Utilisation in Italy of the products furnished by Man as Manures. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 241. FaoNMiiLLER.—On the application of Coal-tar-gypsum. Memorab., vol. T, Oct., i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 288. The author finds that this substance has the treble advantage of being cheap and effectual, and of enhancing the value of the substances to which it is added as manures, ' OCCUPATION. Greenhow.—Report on Districts with excessive Mortality from Lung Diseases. Third Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1861, pp. 102—194. Dr. Greenhow's inquiry has demonstrated that an excessive prevalence of pulmonary diseases is associated with a great variety of conditions, which may be divided into—(a) those which may be shown to act directly as exciting causes, (i) those of which the action may be presumed to be similar, from their being frequently associated with an excessive pressure of pulmonary disease, and (c) those of which the action is matter of con- iectnre. The causes included in the first category have been investigated by Dr. Greenhow in three classes of occupations, viz.—(i) those in wliich an atmosphere is breathed "loaded with mechanical impurities, such as fine dust (grinders of cutlery, needles, and other steel articles, miners, quarry-men, stone-masons, china scourers, potters, turners of earthenware, makers of plaster-of-Paris moulds) or particles of flax, cotton or woollen465 OCCUPATION. fibre (hncklers of flax, sorters of wool and alpaca, operatives employed in the ninnufacture of waste silk and in the carding-rooms of cotton factories, wool-combers) ; (2) those in which poisonous or injurious gases are inspired ; and (3) those which are necessarily carried on in "an over- heated and highly dried atmosphere" (flat-pressers and some other workers in the potteries). The principal conditions which were found to exer- cise an indirect influence as causes of pulmonary disease were—(i) habitual exposure to a hot and exceedingly moist atmosphere (slip-makers in pot- teries and flax-spinners); (2) working in ill-ventilated and over-heated factory rooms; (3) exposure to vicissitudes of temperature; (4) con- strained posture; (5) long hours combined with a sedentary occupation ; and (6) over-crowded dwellings. Seejiann.—On the Chronic Diseases of Weavers (Weber und Posamen- tiere). Henke, vol. xxiv, p. 205. After remarking on the frequency of chronic diseases among those who work at the loom, and the general causes of the unwholesomeness of tliis kind of occupation, the author treats of the various forms of disease to which weavers are liable as follows :—(i) Diseases of the respi- ratory organs. Among the weavers at Berlin there is almost universally alteration of the voice, which is associated with redness of the mucous membrane of the pharynx and epiglottis. In a certain number this is followed by chronic laryngitis, and in such persons there is a marked proclivity to repeated attacks of bronchitis, not, however, of any special character. The author finds the prevalent lung disease among weavers to be bronchial catarrh with emphysema, wliich does not commonly originate in the manner above described, but develops itself so insidiously in the course of years that the patient is unable to recall the commencement of his symptoms. The author traces these afiections to two causes, viz., the difi"usion in the atmosphere of the working-rooms of innumerable minute fibres, and the constant habit of the weaver, each time he fills his shuttle, to draw through the thread by a sucking action of the mouth, in doing which he inspires a quantity of the fibrils wliich collect in the orifice of the shuttle as the thread is running out. He finds that by discontinuing this practice, weavers get rid of their cough and hoarseness. (2) Diseases of the organs of digestion. Weavers complain of constant, dull, oppressive pain at the epigastrium, of feeling of satiety or even of repletion after small quantities of food, and of heartburn with pyrosis in the intervals, often so violent as to interrupt the patient in his work. These symptoms are usually accompanied with constipation and haemorrhoids. They are partly attributable to the swallowing of particles of thread, often dyed with injurious pigments, but are probably more directly dependent on the constant pressure against the epigastrium, and the often repeated knocks which the region of the stomach receives from the beam, especially in carpet work. To relieve gastralgia, the weaver has recourse either to spirituous liquors or to the chalk which he uses in his occupation (for the purpose of smearing his fingers when engaged in joining the tlircnds). The latter removes pain, but frequent recourse to it eventually aggravates the disease. A further very important cause of derangement is the impregnation of the atmosphere with the lead-dustREPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 4.66 which arises from the constant friction against each other of the little leaden weights, one of which is attached to every thread of the warp to keep it tight. In Berlin this is a common source of lead poisoning. The author next dwells on the hahility of weavers to hypochondriasis, arising from the isolation of tlieir life, to dyspepsia, to nlfections of the eyes, consequent upon the constant straining of vision which their work requires' and to deforiiiiiies. In the weaver the muscles of the left side are abnor- mally developed, and the spinal column is curved to the left in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions. His gait is peculiar; he lifts his feet high in walking, as if he were ascending a stair. Dr. Seemann further describes the various kinds of loom-work in relation to their effects on health. Demarquette.—On the Diseases of Workmen in the Collieries of Cour- rieres, Billy, and Lietard. Bull, de I'Acad. de Med., vol. xxv, No. 7. Canst., vol. vii, p. 62. The author precedes his communication with a short sketch of the mode of life of the French colliers, dwelling particularly on their reckless and impi-ovident habits, their early marriages, and their exclusive clannisli- ness. From his account of the diseases to which they are hable, it would appear that their sanitary condition contrasts strongly with those of English pitmen. Demarquette states that they die early, and " become asthmatical, and suffer from organic disease of the heart at fifty." Phthisis is said to be unusually frequent. Perron.—On the Diseases of Watchmakers produced by copper and the absorption of cupreous molecules. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 71. M. Perron's paper relates to the watchmakers of Besan9on, in which town more than 3000 workmen are employed in this branch of industry. The author, after reviewing the opinions of former observers on the effects of copper on the health of those who work with it, and relating various illustrative clinical facts, shows from the statistics of mortality of the town that of the whole number of watchmakers who died during the nine years ending i860, sixty-three per cent, died of phthisis, while in adult males engaged in other occupations that disease was fatal to twenty-two per cent, only. From these figures, and from clinical observation, he infers that the trade of watchmaking acts injuriously mainly as a pre- disposing cause of jDhthisis. The author concludes that the sedentary life of the workpeople and their habit of working in the cold, the irritating effect of the inhalation of copper-dust, and the ingestion of copper, ar^ the most important agents in the production of this result. Teebuchet.—On the ]}reparatio7i of Hides and other animal dibris. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xv, p. 250. Vernois.— On the preparation of Hogs' Bristles. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. XV, p. 289. FOOD. 'RovDWV.—Report to the " Conseil d'Hygiene publique et de Salubrity" of the Department of the Seine, on the wholesomeness of the water of the Seine considered as a drinking water. Journ. de Pharui., vol. xl, p. 346.467 FOOD. From the extensive series of analyses made under M. Boudet's direction, of water taken in May, June, and August, from tlie Seine, at various parts of its course, it appears that the water wliich arrives at Ivry (fourteen miles above Paris) in a state of perfect purity is first contaminated by the confluence of tlie Marne, and in its progress through Paris becomes more and more impure, until it attains its greatest impurity below Asnieres (nine miles below Paris), at which place the river receives the great niter- cepting sewer which drains the northern half of the metropolis. The analyses show that the water at St. Ouen, below Asnieres, contains twenty- eight times as much nitrogenous impurity as at Ivry. The bearing of these results on the quality of the supply of drinking water to Paris lies in the fact that that supply is obtained, not from the river above the capital, as in London, but from various points below the town (Chaillot, Neuilly, Auteuil, and Asniferes), and not in midstream, but close to the banks. In May, 1861, the source of supply was changed from imme- diately below the mouth of the sewer at Asnieres to a little above it; although this has effected a considerable improvement in the water, it may be readily understood that it is still very inferior. BusSY.—Report to the " Comite d'Hyg. Publique" on the water of the reservoirs of Montmartre and Passy. 8vo, Paris, 1861. The tenor of this report is similar to that of the other. Crookks.—On the detection of Alum in Bread. Chem. News, vol. iii, P- ^°7-v The author, after pointing out the error which has so often arisen in the ordinary process from the calculation of the precipitate of phosphates of lime, magnesia, and alumina, finally obtained, as if it were all alumina, proceeds to describe a new method, which, although somewhat tedious, appears to be free from the risk of confounding other things with alumina. Its main peculiarity consists in the separation of the whole of the phosphoric acid at an early stage of the process, in combination with peroxide of tin, by the addition of metallic tin and nitric acid to the residue obtained by treating the carbonized bread with sulphuric acid, adding water, filtering, and evaporating the filtrate to dryness. The reader is referred to the paper for details. Ballaud.—On the Adulteration of Butter with Animal Fats. Chemical News, vol. iv, p. 283. The author finds that in London, butter is frequently adulterated with beef fat in the form of dripping, especially for exportation. He founds the detection of this impurity on a minute examination of the colour, consistence, odour, and other physical and organoleptical characters exhibited by adulterated as compared with pure butter, during the process of washing, drying, and pressing. The most important of these characters are based on the taste of the washed and dried butter, and on the fact that pure butter, when stirred rapidly in a beaker with boihng water, is divided into minute drops, which give a finely cellular appearance to the layer which they form at the surface, and a granulated or sago-like appearance to the cake formed on cooling.468 UEPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. HoRSLEY.—Oh the Adulteration of Butter. Chem. News, vol. iv p. 230. Mr. Ilorsley founds the detection of animnl fats in butter on the fact that pure butter is perfectly soluble in ether, forming a clear and permanent solution at 6^° Fahr., whereas adulterated butter gives a thick, milky fluid when treated in this manner. The applicabihty of this test has been disputed, but Mr. llorsley's subsequent experiments have completely confirmed the results first arrived at. StefanELLi.— On the action of Lead on Drinking Water. Ztsch. f. Chem. u. Pharm., vol. iii, p. 33. Tiie author' s conclusions are as follows:—Drinking water acquires the property of dissolving lead when it contains nitrates, alkalies, or the alcaline bicarbonates ; but the bicarbonates of lime and magnesia precipi- tate lead when in solution. Mulder.—On Beer, its chemical cotnposition, manufacture, and employ- ment as a beverage. 8vo, Utrecht, 1861. EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. HoRNEMANN.—On the measures to be taken in respect of Ships arriving from Ports in which Cholera Asiatica is prevailing. Hyg. Medd. og Betragt, vol. i, p. 81. Henke, part 3, p. 56, 1861. »• In Denmark, as in other countries, the opinion of the medical pro- fession as to the value of quarantine regulations gradually changed, until, in 1852, the quarantine laws were abolished. The advent of cholera in the following year produced a reaction in favour of restrictive regulations, although no one wished them revived in their old form. Dr. Hornemann strongly advocates the sanitary inspection of shipping on arrival in port, not only with a view to contagious diseases, hw}. to the enforcement of cleansing and ventilation. Bryson.—0?i the recent introduction of Yellow Fever into Port Royal, Jamaica. .Epidemiological Society, Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 236. The author relates some striking facts in support of the communicability of yellow fever. H.M.S. Icarus arrived on the 9th of October at Port Royal, Jamaica, where no cases of the disease had occurred, with fifty of the'crew suffering from yellow fever, thirty-two having previously died. The worst cases were sent on shore in a pinnace belonging to the Imaum, which vessel was at the time free from disease. The boat's crews were first attacked, and subsequently their shipmates on board the Imaum. The crews of two other vessels who had communication with the Icarus were invaded by yellow fever subsequently, but no diffusion of the disease took place on shore. It thus appears that, "from one central focus, within the short space of a few weeks, the yellow fever was radiated in three distinct and distant directions, establishing in each point a fresh nucleus of infection."EriDEMIC A\D EMDEMIC DISEASES. 409. IitviNE, IIuNXEU, Cameron, EmvAUDS, Williams, Ogilvie.—Fever at Liverpool. Med. Times and Gnz., April 20th and 27tb, May 4tli, and June ist. On the 22nd of Febrnary an Egyptian war-steamer arrived at Liverpool from Alexandria. Out of a crew of 3j;o, eighty were on the sick-list, suf- fering mostly from diarrhoea and dysenter}^, of which last, six had died within a week after the vessel was in harbour. Thirty-two of the sufferers were removed (Feb. 2 5th—27th) to the Southern Hospital, who were in a state of extreme personal filth, and swarmed with vermin. Twelve of those admitted had diarrhoea or dysentery, of whom three died, but none had fever. On March 4th the senior house-surgeon was attacked by fever, next one of the nurses, and in the course of a few days some of the patients. Twenty- five persons, including five children under ten, were affected, of whom three died. Between Feb. 26th and March ist more than aoo of the crew were taken to the Paul Street Baths and Washhouses. On the 2nd of March a bath-man was attacked, and subsequently two other persons con- nected with the establishment. In each case the disease assumed the cha- racters of true typhus ; transitory diarrhoea occurred in three cases, none of which were fatal. Of the fatal cases recorded the durations were severally ten days, nine days, and twelve days. The "eruption of typhus" is said to have presented itself in all of them. Those of the crew who recovered, embarked on board another Egyptian frigate for Alexandria, having on board thirteen English, including the captain. Of these, four, including the captain, went on shore at Malta, suffering from fever. The captain died at the tenth day of his disease; on examination of his body the ileum and mesenteric glands were found to be healthy. In all those affected a "copious mulberry rash" appeared from the sixth to the eighth day, and there was muttering delirium, which in the fatal case ter- minated in coma. On the arrival of this ill-fated crew at Alexandria six others of the crew went on shore with fever, all of whom recovered. MiLROY.—On the influence of Contagion in the rise and spread of Ein- demic diseases. British Medical Journal, vol. i, p. 154. The Medical Officer of the Privy Colncil.—Epidemic of Typhoid Fever at Bedford. Third Report, 1861. Mr. Simon's report contains, among other matters, important inforraa- lion relating to origin of the epidemic of fever which took place in the town of Bedford in the winter of 1859-60. It appeared that typhoid fever had not only prevailed in Bedford during the year in question, but during the autumn months of each year for some time previously. As regards its local distribution, it was found that there had been no relation between the prevalence of fever and the existence of foul cesspools or drains ; but on the analysis of water taken from wells in the infected area, it appeared that they were "contaminated with animal matter." The supply of water for the town is derived from shallow wells, sunk into a permeable subsoil (gravel), which rests upon limestone rock. Cesspools are universal, and the drainage of the town is of such a nature that the whole of the liquid refuse sinks into the subsoil, which is so thoroughly saturated by it that it is impossible for the wells to escape pollution. BiiDD. —0/i Diphtheria. British Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 577. 31EEPOllT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 470 The measures of prevention advocated by Dr. Budd are founded on the "facts" that diphtheria \b contagious or "catching," and that tlic exuviie from the surface on which the poison exerts its specific action possess in an eminent degree the power to propagate the disease. To this power the author attributes great importance in tlie diffusion of tlie disease. In towns the "diphtheritic stuff is thrown into the privy or waterclosct, whence it finds its way into tlie cesspool or sewer. In country places a dung-heap, hard by the cottage door, is its more common receptacle; or failing the dung-heap, it is cast into some open gutter, whicli carries it, perhaps by a slow current, through the whole length of a village." "In every severe case of diphtheria not only the dwelling-house, but the soil around it, becomes infected with the diphtheritic poison, over an area which varies with the malignity of the case, the character of the soil, with the particular season, and, lastly, with the nature of the sanitary and other arrangements." Hence, " to make an end of the morbid product as soon as cast forth, or at least to use all available moans to prevent its deadly germs from taking fresh root," ought to be, as regards prevention, "the one thought of the physician." The paper contains several examples in support of the communicabiUty of the disease. Syphilis communicated hy Vaccination to forty-six Children out of sixty- three. Bull, de Ther-., vol. Ixi, p. 474. Syphilis conveyed by the Vaccine Lymph to forty-six Children. Lancet, Nov. 16th. A child, set. 11 months, was vaccinated with lymph stored in a "tube," derived from an unknown source in a neighbouring town. The lymph was inserted by puncture with a clean lancet. A single vesicle was pro- duced, from which lymph was taken at the tenth day, and employed to vaccinate forty-six children, from one of whom seventeen others were vacci- nated ten days later. Out of these sixty-three children forty-three are said to have presented, within two months, symptoms of syphilitic disease, viz., thirty-eight of the first series and seven of the second. The child from whose arm the lymph used in the first series of vaccinations was obtained was severely affected, but the symptoms could not be investi- gated ; the child whose vesicles furnished the second supply died from an unknown cause within a month of the vnccination. A committee was appointed by the medical congress at Acqui to investigate the symptoms, which were of the following nature. It was related to the committee that in some of the cases the vaccine vesicle, instead of cicatrizing, extended and began to suppurate anew, becoming surrounded about the twentieth day by a red, livid, or copper- coloured areola. In other cases ulceration was re-established after com- plete cicatrization, and in some of these instances it was accompanied by a general eruption, "confounded by the peasantry with smallpox." On the 7th of October six had died without treatment, three were in a state of marasmus, and fourteen were improving decidedly under a treatment which consisted in mercurial frictions and iodide of potassium in small doses. Tlie symptoms actually existing at the period of the inquiry were as471 EriDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. £o\lows -.—Macons patches (pitstules plates) at tlie margin of the anus and ou the external organs of generation, syphilitic ulcerations of the niucous membranes of the lips and of the isthmus of the fauces, affections of the inguinal and cervical lymphatic glands, syphilitic eruptions, and alopecia. It was ascertained that the child first vaccinated was "in vigorous health, and had a fine constitution. Nothing, either in his own ante- cedents or in those of his parents, justified the slightest suspicion of pre- vious infection." The committee were unable to obtain any information as to the origin of the lymph contained in the tube from Acqui. Seaton.—(i) Report of Inspections in certain Metropolitan Unions and Parishes during the epidemic prevalence of Smallpox.—^{2) Report of Inquiry into the state of Public Vaccination in forty-one Unions, comjirisinff 152 Vaccinating Districts, made between June 2^th and December iind, i860. Third Report of the Med. Officer of the Privy Council, i860. The districts to which the inquiry related were those in which it ap- peared from the public returns that vaccination was most neglected. In these districts it was found that the actual arrangements for public vaccination were not such as to conduce either to its popularity or to its successful performance ; and in particular that, by the general adoption in certain districts of the practice of vaccinating with dry lymph preserved on points, the quality of vaccination was much injui-ed, and its efficiency as a prophylactic measure impaired. IINDEX. X.B.—JReferences to tlie eoalents of divisions and sections are printed initalies. The numbers of tliepages are arranged in fivo columns; the second column referring io the titles of works and papers to irhich reports are attached, the first to those in which the title alone is given, . 151 241 symptoms .'151 152 . 148 218 . 195 AoBOTT and Btjckixgham, ventral hern:n 301 Abdomen, injuries, section, Sfc . . 294 Atdomen, bayonet wounds through (Cle- ments, Todci) . . . 239 Abdominal collapse or shock from disease (Barnes, Edwards) . . 358 AuEGG, uterine douche in galactorrhtca 381 Abortion, cases of, with retained placenta, &c. (Priestley) . . . 353 Abscess, mechanism of (Rosen) . 241 — simulation of fatty timiour by (Stanley) 241 — of the brain, eight cases — do. (Hutcliinson) — do. vast, without (Richet) . — do. (Skaife) — of the cerebellum (Dupuy) — retro-pharyngeal (Levertin) — of larynx in a child (Moller) — in the chest, &c. (Bilh-oth, Lent, Perrin, Shann) • . . . 257,257 — in the lungs (Traube) . . 196 of the right kidney (Lancereaux) 181 —lumbar, opening into bowels (Cady) 241 — do. communicating with pleura (Clark) 17G — abdominal or pelvic (Skey) — of right iliac fossa (Holsbeck) in head of tibia (Hodge) — alveolar (Ciarretson) — bone (Baur) — cold, of neck, &c. (V'oillemier) • encysted, in vitreous hiunour Laurence) • fetid, of lung (Bernard) — milk (Xunn) — pysemic, following large boil (Hutchinson) 121. Absorption of bone (Billroth) . 262 Abyssinia, remedies for tapeworm in (Cour- bon) . . .212 Acalepha?, local irritation from contact with (Oreenhow) . . . 152 A rconnno(lation of the eye, theory of (G riife) 66 do. mechanism of (Henke) 66 do. anomalies of (Dondors) 66 242 242 261. , 329 , 264 241 ■ (Hildige, , 326 . 193 381 Acepbalo-cvst of the brain (Baillarger) 3 52 — do. . . 167 Acephalo-cyst-sacs (Wallmann) . 118 Acetabulum, fracture of (Peters) . 283 Acid, influence in producing saccharine urine (Pavy) .... 85 Acids, organic . . . 417 Acids. See Arsenious, Carbolic, Cli/romic, Citric, Hippuric, Hydrocyanic, Nitric, Oxalic, Phenic, Sulphuric, Uric. ACKEEMAN, cerebral circulation in asphyxia 201 Acne, vinura sambuci in (TurnbuU) 123 Aconite, preparations of (Hirtzel) . 142 — in inflammation of the eye (Blodig) 325 — poisoning by (Skinner) . . 420 — do (Atthillj Kay, Stracban) 421, 421 — tinctiwe of, in traumatic tetanus (Woakes) 155 Aconitina, physiological action (Duckworth) 153 — do. (do.). 420 Aconitumlycoctonum, its action (Scbroff ) 419 Actea racemosa in acute rheumatism (M'Donald) . . . 430,134 — do. do. (Bentley) . 430 Acupressure for arrest of hjemorrhage (Fou- cher) . . . .286 Acnpunctureinmnscularrlieumatism(Leared) 151 Adams (A. L.) embolus of femoral artery, sj)hacelus, amputation . . 180 — do. . . 289 Adams (H. C.) compound fracture of the skull, trephine, &c. . . 245 Adams (J.) popliteal aneurism, compression 292 — indurated chancre of lip . 320 — chancre on lower lip . . 320 — gastrotomy for extra-uterine gestation 335 Adams (R.) perforation of left ventricle by a gunshot wound . . . 240 Adams (W.) curvatures of the spine 327, 12 — epithelial cancer of lower jaw, excision 252 Adamson, muscular atrophy . 159 Adder-bite, case of (Boyd). . 442474. INDEX. Addison (W.) chnnge of form in rod cor- iniseles of blood , , 20 — cases of embolism . . 180 Adhesion, pcvicardinl (Oppolzcr) . 178 Adlek (A.) increase of temperature of body before and after death . . 119 i\j)LER (Mercer) vpsicn.vnp;imil (istnla ftSO Adrian, solution of iievchloriilc of iron 231 AduUemfloii of food . . >]C>G Adulteration of food, dctoctionof (Hassall) 50 — of butter, witli nnimnl fiits (Ballard, Horsley) , . . 467-68 Aebt (C.) speed of muscular contraction 18 AOATZ (Ct. J.) surgical anatomy and opera- tions . . . ' . 235 " Agenosome," monster (Sacre) . 403 Agnew (H.) amputation through metatarsal 260 303 320 125 122 123 bones — stricture of rectum — tertiary syphilis Ague (Duchek) — statistics of (Kiittlinger) — prevalence in Cork, &c. (Carey) — quinine in (Simon) . . 131 — complicating phthisis (Peacock) 123 — hectic fever simulating (Peacock) 123 Air, atmospheric, normal variability of (Hou- zeau) .... 460 — spontaneous generation and origin of fer- ments in (Pasteur) . . 460 — collection of corpuscles of (Pouchet) 460 —purification of, in dwellings (Scharling) 463 — pressure of, and wind in relation to dis- ease (Kansome) . . . 463 — changes in pressure of, influence on the human organism (Vivenot) . 138 —in the human organism (Ludwig) 109 — in the blood (Meek) . 179 — expired, why not reinspired (Osborne) 78 Air-passaffcs, hijuries, operaiions, Sfc. 246, 252 Air-passages,artificial opening of (Ulrich) 194 — See Tracheoto'iHiy, &fc. — See Foreign bodies in, — See Fulverized liquids. Albees, calcified loctuses . . 334 Albinism, cases of (Coinde) . 104 Albucasis, surgery of (Leclerc) . 235 Albumen, diffusion of (Heynsius) . 101 — nutritive value of (Hammond). 48 — in the urine (Lancereaux) . 181 Albuminates, operation of pancreatic juice on (Skrebitzki) ... 87 Albuminoussubstances, digestion of (Meissner) 79 Albuminuria (Lebert) . . 180 — (Mariano-Semmola) — nervous nature of (Hamon) — pathology of (Jaceoud) . — in acute diseases (Korncr) — in diseases of kidney (Dickinson) — after scarlet fever (llambursin) 399 — jimai^osls as prognostic in (Roche) 219 216 218 218 215 02, 216 Alb\uninnria as diagnosing e))ilepsy from eclampsia (Saiily) , . 388 — syphilitic (10 ide) . . 217 Alcohol, action of (Liveling) . 56 — the question of the action of (Hooper) 56 — experiments with (K. .Smith) . 97 — detection and use of (K. Smith) 51 — the alcohol questiim (Johnson) . 47 — in intoriniltents (Gnyot) . 123 Alcoholic drinks,*nfluence of, on pulmonary tulierculosis (Davis) . . 207 Alcoholic stimulants in hospital practice (Gairdncr) . . , 125 Alcoholophilia periodica (Bonsdorft') 160 Aldeuson (.1.) clot in the cerebellum 15 J — and Mackenzie, mollitics ossium in a mother of ten children . . 118 Algeria, climate of, in chronic affections of chest (Pietra Santa) . . 197,231 AiiiENZA, chloroform in interniittents 122 Alimentary canal, gases of (Planer) 82 Aliments, a/otizcd, action of pancreas on (Corvisart) ... 87 Alihouta, Ca;sarean operation . 349 AxisoN (S. S.) physical examination of chest in consumption . . . 193 Alkalies, influence of (Pavy) . 85 Alkaloids .... 418 Alkaloids, diagnosis of (Guy) . 421 — subcutaneousinjeetion of (Lafargue,Schoh, Semeleder) . . . 418-19 Allarton's lithotomy operation (Brake) 305 Aliix,congenitaltumourof testicles 402 AxMibs, climate of Madeira in phthisis 197 Almonds, bitter, poisoning by (Gunther) 439 — essential oil of, sold for almond oil, poison- ing . . . .439 "Almond favour," poisoning by (Barker) 439 Althaus (.T.) nature and action of mineral v/aters .... 50 — llthia springs of Baden-Baden . 58 — wry-neck treated by electricity. 174 Alum, detection of, in bread (Crookes) 467 Alumina, acetate of, preservation of bodi by (Burow) . . .109 — sulphate of, and zinc, external employ- ment (HomoUe) . . . 143 — do. (do.) . 412 Amanita muscaria, poisoning by (Manthner) 436 Amaurosis, two cases, &c. (Businelli) 326 — as prognostic in albnminuria (Roche) 219 Amenorrhcea, treatment (Simpson) 365 — iodine in (Rizet) . . 365 -- apiol in (Baillot, Gallico) . 365-6 — do. (Baillot) . 432 Ammon, intra-ocular end of optic nerve 63 Ammonia, is it a normal constituent of the urine ? (Bamberger) . . 100 — pliosnhate of, in rlioumatism (Hamolecki) 125475 INDEX. Ammonia, phosphate of, in rhenmatism 144 — sest|uicftvbonate of, in scarlet fever (M'Nab) . . .131 Amnioniirmia (Rigler) . . 192 Amputation . . . • 258 Amputation, immersion nnd irrigation (Szy- niauowski) . . . 239 Amputations, statistics of, in provincial hos- pitals (Hutchinson) . . 258 — do. at St. George's hospital (Cooper) 258 — do. at Leeds infirmary (Teale) 258 — at shoulder-joint, statistics of, in provin- cial hospitals (Hutchinson) . 259 — do. (Coote, Erichsen, Fergusson, Holt, Hutchinson) . . 259 — do. spontaneous (Appley) . 242 —of forearm, excision of tendons in (Croskery) 259 — of both legs and right arm (Tenderini) 260 — of penis, with ecraseur (Lee) . 310 — of the thigh for ununited fracture (Pan- coast) . . . .259 — at middle of thigh for gangrene after fracture (Struthers) . . 271 — through knee-joint (Dolman) . 260 — below the knee, statistics of, in provincial hospitals (Hutchinson) . . 260 — partial, of foot (Szyraanowski) . 260 — iu mortification of foot, recovery (Law- rence) .... 242 1— Chopart's, in division of tendo Achillis (Bouvier) . . .261 — through metatarsal hones (Agnew) ?60 — by rectangular flaps (Pemberton) 258 — with preservation of periosteum, &c. (Heyfelder) . . .258 — secondary, after gunshot wounds (Roux) 258 Amputation stumps, Laugier's method of bandaging (Foucher) . . 258 Amyloid degeneration (Lambl) . 117 — do. (Neumann) . 121 — do. chemistry of 117 — do. of kidneys after tuberculosis (Traube) . . 196 — form of Bright's disease (Stewart) 217 Amyloidea, corpora (Meyer) . 120 Anacahuite wood (Berg, Buchner, Hanbui-y, Seemann, Walz, Ziurek) . 430 — do. a remedy in consumption (Maiseh) . . .208 Ana5mia from prolonged lactation (Levick) 150 — fpeqnency of conception in (Meissner) 356 Anscsthesia, sensibility of the circulation during (Vigouroux) . . 28 — muscular (Sig.iret) . . 141 Anesthetics, ether and chloroform as (Lcnte) 150 — action of diflerent (Lallemand). 231 An.'psthetic, a new [ol. terebinth, rect.] (Wilrashnrst) • ^ . j . 54 Ana3sthctics, in midwifery (Barker) 354 — do. (Croskery, Guclini, Martin) 355 — See Chloroform, Tltliery Belladonna. Analysis, liquid diffusion applied to (Graham) 109 — qualitative (GaUoway) . . 3 Anasarca (Witt) . . . 179 — albuminuric, in scarlet fever (Hamburger) 216 Anatomical investigations (Krause) 89 Anatomy, text book (Dursy) . 1 — essays on (Hunter) . . 2 — contributions (Eckhardt) . 1 — surgical (Agatz) . . 233 — descriptive and surgical (Gray) 1 — practical and surgical (Wilson) . 1 — topographic, atlas of (Duval) . 1 — demonstrations (Ellis) . . 1 Anchylosis of the jaw, cured by resection of coronoid process (Langenbeck) . 250 — of knee-joint (Mott) . . 328 — of knee- and ankle-joints (Wiblin) 313 — fibrous, of joints (Bauer) . 276 — do. of hip-joint following periostitis of femur (Bauer) . . 276 — osseous, of knee-joint (Pope) . 286 Anchylosis, rupture of . . 275 AirciATJX, nymphomania in woman ret. 61 364 Andeeson (M'Call) parasitic aftections of the skin . . , , 102,225 — syphilitic or non-syphilitic psoriasis 229 ANDEEWS, puerperal convulsions . 388 Aneurisms, cfe. . . . 286 Aneurism of the heart (Jasinsky) . 176 — do. caused by half-cured pericarditis (Strange) . . 178 — internal (Niemeyer) . . 190 — thoracic (Chambers, Ward) . 176 — of the aorta (Brinton, Hose) . 176 — do. double sac (Bade) 176 — do. communication with pulmo- nary artery (Wade) . . 190 — of thoracic aorta (Dalton) . 176 — of ascending aorta (Duncan) . 176 — of arch of aorta, use of laryngoscope in (Traube) . . ,196 — abdominal (Hamilton) . . 176 — of basilar artery, rupture of (Crosby) 146 — traumatic, of the brachial artery (Taylor) 288 — of carotid artery, ligature (Holt) 287 — of femoral artery (Rawson, Solly) 289, 289 — do. (Canton, Erichsen, Holt, King, Paget, Solly) , . 290,290 — of gluteal artery, ligature (Syme) 289 — of arteria innominata (Broad'bent) 286 — of popliteal artery (Cock, Curling, Peters, Pollock) . . . 2J1,291176 INDEX. Aneurisni of popliteal artery (Ailanid, Coniex, Critchott, Eddo^^•cs, Lockwood, Peters, Poland, Ure) . . . 292,292 — do. (Birkett, Prit- flinrd) .... 293 — of subclavian arterv, digital compression, &c. (Hilton) . ' . , 287 — dissecting (Tiingel) . . 17G — false, of femoral artery (Holt) . 290 — from anastomosis (Price) . 313 — caused l)y parasites (Waldonburg) 103 — See Varix (aneurismal). Angiectasis, traumatic, of left arm (Krause) 288 Angina, paralysis succeeding non-diphtheritic (Marquez) . . .14,9 — paralysis consecutive to (See) . 161 Angina pectoris, with valvular disease (Met- calfe) . . . .178 Aniline, action of (Schucliardt) . 232 — sulphate ot^ properties (Turnbull) 47, 440 — do. in chorea (Turnbull) 156 Animal kingdom, primary divisions (Grant) 2 — do. relation to inorganic (Sa- vory) .... 5 Animal and vegetable kingdoms, boundaries of (Gegenbaur) . . .1 Animals, higher, development of (Kolliker) 2 Animation, suspended, restoration of (Brodie, Christian, Jennings, Waters) . 448 — do. Marshall-Hall and Silvester method (Brodie) .... 448 — do. (Jennings, Woodman) . 449 — from drowning, restoration of (Christian) 76 — See Asphyxia. Ankle-joint, anchylosis of (Wiblin) 313 — disease of (Bryant) . . 264 AxNANDAiE. See Page. Anstie, muscular atrophy following acute rheumatism . . . 175 — proofs of live birth . . 453 Anthon, chemico-pharmaceutical nomencla- ture .... 406 Anthropological classification (Geoffroy St. HUaire) . . . . 2 Antimonial compared with arsenical treat- ment of chorea (Long) . . 145 Antimony, sulphuret of, in diseases of the heart (Fauconnet) . . 178 — tartarized, in chorea (Labrle) . 145 — do. large doses in croup (Bouchut) 39G — do. cure of traumatic tetanus by (Conway) . . . 145 — do. inflammation and gangrene from ointment of (Horning) . 145 Antrum, medullary cancer of (Pancoast) 250 — cyst in (Bryant) . . 250 — fibrous tumom* of (Fergusson, Paget) 250, 249 Anus, ljurn of the (Nelaton) . 3o3 — imperforate (Olfsliausen) . 403 — congenital deliciency of (Tliompsou) 403 — artificial (Schuitzler) . . 303 — do. formation and spontaneous cure (Osborne) ... 300 — do. at left flexura coli (Bauer) 29(; — do. in left groin (Pagenstccher) 296 — preternatural (Braune) . , 82 — prolapsus of, nitric acid treatment (Cle- ments, Smith) . . . 303,303 — do. subcutaneous injection of sul- phate of strychnine (Dolbeau, Foucher) 398 Aorta, aneurism of. See Anev.rinm. — rupture of, communicating with oesoplia- gus (Bisho))) . . .177 — stenosis of, at junction of duct, arterios. (Rauchfuss) . . . 179 — thrombosis of (Trost) . . 180 — descending, stenosis of (Mann) . 179 — abdominal, obstruction of, by a clot (Broca) . . . 179 — do. atrophy of (Power). 183 — See Valves (aortic). Aphonia, functional (Flint) . 195 — hysterical, cured by etherization (Lent*) 195 Apiol in amenorrhoea (Balllot, Gallico) 365-6 — do. (Baillot) . 432 Apncea, treatment of (Jennings) . 74 — do. (do.) . 419 — direct inflation of lungs (Sandwith) 197 Aiioplectic congestion, arsenious acid in (Lamare-Picquot) . , 162 Apoplexy, bloodletting in (Chambers) 150 — cerebral (Vogt), . . 145 — pulmonary, fibrinous clots in ventricle, (See. (Cummins) . . . 177 — do. odotir of breath in (Gueneau de Mussy) . . .196 Apparatus, illuminating for gynaicological jnu-poses (Tobold) . . 389 — new injecting (Simpson) . 389 — suspensory, for fractures of lower extre- mity (Smith) . . .270 — for fractures of thigh (Cotting). 270 — do. (Cooper, Hartshome, Thomas) .... 271, 271 — .See Splints. Appia, hypertrophy of clitoris cured by liga- ture .... 377 AppLETOX, poisoning from oenanthe croeata, 438 Applet (\V. L.) spontaneous amputation at shoulder-joint . . . 212 Ai'achnitis, acute (Ricci) . . 1 li! — chronic subacute (Ricci) . 153 Aban, pcrchloride of u'ou in cachectic erysi- ])elas . . . .122 — tlie grape cure . , . 125,213-Ill Akax, unusual forms of rheuiuntisui _ 133^ — chloroform in spasmodic contraction of extremities . . • 149 — exophthalmic goitre . • 179,224 — treatment of pleurisy • • 204 — diseases of uterus . • 357 AnCHAMBArLT (P.) lead poisoning of work- men engaged in controxidation of ii'on 414 -Vi-ea celsi (Barenspruug) . . 231 Ablidge (J. T.) circulation within cranium, in relation to mental disorders . 167 ,— rupture of heart from wasting of muscu- lar tissue . . . 177 Arm, cancer of, congenital (Edwards) 317 Ahmasd, root of ginseng . . 69 Aemold (F.) nerves of dura mater 30 Aenott (J.) incision of stricture of urethra 310 Arsenic, transformation of, in manufacture of glass (Badeker) . . 417 — in fevers (' Union Med.') . 132 — in intermittents (Chappie) . 131 — do. (Sistach) . 123 — in psoriasis (Majer) . . 230 — internally for diseases of skin (Veiel) 415 — electrolytic test for (Bloxam) . 415 — Keinsch's method of detecting (Lippert) 416 — alleged poisoning by . . 416, 416 — poisoning hy, near Wakefield, Taylor's process (Reynolds) . . 416 Arsenical baths in chronic rheumatism (Gueneau de Mussy) . . 134 Arsenious acid, infiueuce ou metamorphosis (Schmidt) . . .134 — in apoplectic congestion (Lamare-Picquot) 162 — in dyspepsia (Germain). . 415 — in fevers (Turner) . . 132 Arteries, fibrinous obstructions in the (Sibley) _ 188 — ligature of, statistics in provincial hos- pitals (Hutchinson) . . 286 — and heart, discordances in (Baker) 178 — wounded forearm, deligation (Ulilenberg) 288 — See Aneurmn of. — See Emboli of. Artery, brachial, rupture of ligature (Bickcr- Bteth) . . . .288 — carotid, ligature of (H\itchinson, Mercer) 287, 287 !— do. ligature of, for wound in throat 1 (Ivawrenco) . . . 288 — middle cerebral, obstruction on right side I (Laycock) . . . 179 i— deep femoral (Srb) . . 21 '— femonil,' embolus of (Adams) . 289 — iliac, closure of, by coagula in ovarian I dropsy (Clark) . . . 179 1— do. obturation of (Mayr) . 180 Artery, internal mammary, enlargement of (Power) .... 183 — pulmonary, abnormal number of valves in (Wallmann) . . 177 — do. communication of aortic aneu- rism with (Wade) . . 190 — do. emboli of branches of (Fritz) 180 — do. plugging of (Eauchfuss) 180 — radial, wound, compression (Clement) 288 — do. hasmoi-rhage from, ligature of the brachial (Pancoast) . . 288 — tibial, rupture of, in fracture (Black) 271 — do. division of, compression of femoral (Wakley) . . .293 — ulnar and radial, ligature (Marsden) 288 Ascarides, new theory of (Kidd) . 397 Ascites, enormous (Corrigan) . 177 Asclepias Svriaca, eflects of (Cleborne) 47,142 Asphyxia, engorgement of bronchial glands a cause of (Fonssagrives) . 192 — cerebral circulation in (Aekerman) 201 — by compression of trachea, in bronchial phthisis (Leroy de Mericourt) . 196 — duration of rhvthmical action of heart in (Waters). ' . . .20 — treatment of (Christian, Hep worth, Too- good) .... 76 — on resuscitation in (Richardson) 72 — do. (Garraway) . 74 — do. (Brodie, Christian, Jennings, Waters) . . 448 — Marshall-HaU method in (Christian) 69 — do. (Garraway, Jennings) . , . 7i — do. (Brodie, Harri- son .... 75 — from drowning, Marshall-Hall and other methods (Hunter) . . 77 — galvanism versv.s the " ready method " in (Jennings) . . . 74 — effects of hot bath in (Waters) . 75 — do (Hunter) . 77 — neonatorum, influence on the child (Little) 390 Assafcetida, periodic loss of consciousness caused by (Bons) . . 148 — pills of, in nervous sleeplessness 162 Assaults, immoral . . . 453 Asthma, recent investigations on (Meckel) 190 — pathology of (Kidd) . . 199 — do. ' (Salter) . . 200 — treatment (Pridham) . . 193 — nature and treatment (Duclos). 199 — baths of compressed air in (Bertin) 204 Astragalus, dislocation of (Chassaignac, Lane) 2814.78 INDEX. Astrngalus, onrios of, Symc's amputation (Ure) .... 261. — necrosis of (Hillnian) . .201 Asylums, cottnf,'o (Hrownc) . IGG "Ataxic locomotrice progress!vu" (Lecoq, Trousseau) . . . IIG "Ataxic niusciilairp," with disensed kidneys (Nonnt) .... 1-10 Atkinson (E.) elements of physics 3 Atlas of topopfrapliic iinutomy (Duval) 1 — of histology, photographic (Ilessling) a Atmosphere of Madrid (De Luna). 3 Atmospheric pressure, influence of variation of, on the body (Vivenot) . 112 Atresia oris after scurvy (Foncher) 216 Atropa belladonna. See Belladonna. Atrophy of the cerebellum (Fiedler) 146 — from lead poisoning (Moore) . 150 — of children from dirt-eating (Moore) 397 — linear, of the skin . . 230 — muscular (Adamson, Bell, Clarice, Gaird- nev) .... 159 — do. (Oppolzer) . . 175 — do. following acute rheumatism (Anstie) . . _ . .175 — do. progressive (Luys) . 146 — do. do. (Bamberger, Thomp- son) .... 175 — Cruveilhier's;Faradization(Lente)149 Atropia, hypodermic action of (Spender) 151, 62 Atropine, action of (Sternberg) . 47 — poisoning by (Roux) . . 423 — See Belladonna. — subcutaneous injections of, in neuralgia (Richard) . . . 149 — sulphate of, hypodermic inoculation of, in neuralgia (Lafargue) . . 418 — do. do. in traumatic tetanus (Dnpuy) . 145 AXTHIXL, poisoning by aconite . 421 Atjbenas, obstinate vomiting in pregnancy 383 ArBUETiN, diseases of the heart . 176 AuERBACn (L.) muscular contractions from mechanical irritation . . 16 — the" Pharmakophor" . • 389 Auerbach's malt-powder (Ziurek) . 392 Aural svrgertj . • ■ 829 — See Ear. Auricle, left, tumour from (Pergusson) 329 Auscultation, lectures on (Flint) . 198 — drill for (Chambers) . _ • 195 — of respiratory organs (Alison, Seitz) 193 189 — of the vessels (Conrad) . . : ..^ Autopsies, form of reports of (Mair) 447 — results of eighty-four (Oeigel) . 121 AvzotTY, hallucinations of all the senses, sympathetic communication . 166 AvELiNO, displacement of unimpregnated uterus . . . ' n — hydrencephalocele , • 403 Axilhr, secretion of milk by tumours in (llttiTis) .... 91 Avuii and Cadot, tracheotomy in croup, successful . . . 194, Ayeus (.1.) croup, tracheotomy . 253 AviiES (U.) epileptiform convulsion 156 — injury of frontal bone, trephining, &c. 245 — and Baweh,wounds of inteutines 294 Badekek, transformation of arsenic in manu- facture of glass . . , 417 Baden-Baden, litliia springs of (Althaus) 58 Baee, electricity in midwifery . 356 BAiEKLACnEH, tumours in spinal cord 148 Baillaeoer, acephalo-cyst of the brain 152 — do. . 167 — responsibility of epileptics . 165 — communicated insanity . . 165 — hypochondriacal delusions, the forerunners of general paralysis . . 172 — simple general paralysis . 173 Baillet. Sec Filhol. Baillot, apiol in amenorrhcea and dysme- norrhoca ... . . 432 Baines (M. a.) infant alimentation or arti- ficial feeding . . .47 — do. . 392 Bakeh (W.) discordances in arteries and heart . . . .178 Balbiani (G.) sexual phenomena of infu- soria .... 104 Baxch (G. B.) gimshot wound, bullet twenty years in walls of heart . . 240 Bauotje (T. G.) exomphalos and foetal malformation . . . 404 Baxlaed, adulteration of butter with ani- mal fatt! . . , . 467 Balneology, recent contributions to (Flechsig) 122 Balneotherapy in chronic gastric catarrh (Polansky) . . .213 Balsam of copaiva, action of (Weikart) 431 Bambeeoeii (H.) is ammonia a normal con- stituent of urine ? . . 100 — progressive muscular atrophy . 173 — position of heart in puluionary emphysema 185 — See BergJi, Bunhen. Bandages, waterproof (IMitscherlich) 236 — suro-ical, elastic materials for (Clipet) 236 Baebieei, atresia of vagina, &c. . 377 Barclay (A. AV.) hysterical mania 166,359 Barclay (Alex.) and Janes, natural history of" insolntio" . . .160 BARENsrRrNG(V.)incubation of smallpox 132 — clinical report on syphilitic patients 133 — area Cclsi • . • 231 Barillier, enteritis of sucklings . 398 — cyanosis, one ventricle, &c. . 402 Bar'iscu. See Friedliinder,INDEX. 479 Baeker (P.) Cfcsarenn section . 349 — aiutstlietics in midwifery . 354 Baekeu (E.) poisoning by almond flavour 439 — strangulated femoral hernia, operation 300 Bahnes (K.) female catlleter in bladder 306 — placenta prtevia. . • 342 — indication for induction of premature labour .... 346 — on abdominal collapses or shock fi'om disease .... 358 — fibroid tumours of cervix uteri . 366 — peritonitis, from pus from Fallopian tube, following artificial abortion , 386 — and HtTTcniKSON, unilocular ovarian tu- mour, ovariotomy . . 375 — and CniTCHETT, cyst in .abdomen, re- moval of ball of hair . . 375 Baebach (.1.) strychnia in hay-fever 147 Baeeiee, diseases of infancy . 390 Baeey (M.) ovarian dropsy, rupture inter- nally . . . .371 Baetkls, epidemic of measles at Kiel, in 1860 .... 132 Baethez, cancerous tixmour in right ovary of a child . . . 117 ' Baetjiee, luxations of hip-joint . 280 Baeton (J. K.) power of pot. iod. to re- move tertiary syphilis . . 136 — excision of os calcis for caries . 264 — stricture of urethra . . 308 — deforniities from burns . . 328 Baetschee, congenital tumour of sacrum 402 — strangnlation of foetus by knotting of the cord .... 405 Baruria, cases of (H. Jones) . 93 Baewell (R.) diseases of joints . 274 — radical cure of umbilical hernia 301 BASSLixaEE, rhythmic conti-actions of car- dia of rabbit ... 82 Baths, recent works on (Flechsig) . 122 — eflects of (Ludwig) . . 138 — action of, on formation of urine (Clemens) 102 — of Driburg, in Germany . 234 — cold plunge, influence on temperature of the body (Speck) . . Ill — hot, in treatment of drowTiing (Waters) 75 — do. (Hunter) 77 — the Turkish (Haughton, WoUaston) 111 — do. cure of severe headache by (Hobart). . . . 146 " — animal .... 144 — arsenical, in chronic rheumatism (Gueneaix de Mussy) . . . 134 — carbonic acid, effect on development of foetus .... 104 — permanent local, in local diseases (Zeis) 238 Battaii-e (Ch.) on vocalisation . 68 Baudement, thoracic development and apti- tude for fattening of different cattle 116 Batjee (L.) perforating wound of knee- joint, Sic. . . .275 —■" periostitis of left thigh-bone, synovitis of hip-joint, &c. . . . 276 — diastasis of lower epiphysis of femur, exsection . • • 285 — artificial anus at left flexura coli 296 — double gennvalsium or knock-knee 328 — and WhaT/ET, contraction and fibrous anchylosis of joints . . 270 Baumlee (C.) action of the intercostal mus- cles .... 69 Batje, endostitis of tibia, bone-abscess, &c. 264 — immediate reposition in white swellings, &c 275 Battehfeind, mortality of children in Vienna 392 Bataeia, penal code for (Hofmann) M3 Bawee. See Ayres. Bazin, tinea favosa . . 226 Beale (L. S.) simple tissues of the body *2 — do. .4 — microscopical specimens of tissues 2 — how to work with the microscope 2 — on urine, urinary deposits, and calculi 92 — on urmary calculi . . 93 Beattt, plastic operations on female genito- urinary organs . . . 359 Beau, hepatic colic . . 148 — on hysteria . . . 153 — on pertussis . . . 200 — tubercular phthisis . . 207 — nails, condition of, as a semeiologlcal indi- cation .... 230 Beck, extirpation of a peripheral enchon- droma .... 265 — hffimorrhage from a vein, arrest by deli- gation of artery . . . 286 — ossified enchondromatous tumour, extir- pation .... 318 Beckee (0.) reflected image in one's own eye .... 322, 66 — nature and treatment of croup . 199 Becqxjeeel (A.) electric currents for neu- ralgia .... 164 Bedfoed (P.) quinine in purpura hscmor- rhagica .... 179 Beer, on its composition and employment (Mulder) . . . 468 Beqbie (J. W.) fatal croup in the adult 195 — mediastinal and pulmonary cancer, with dropsy, &c. . . ' .. 196 — ichthyosis . . . 230 — loss of sight in diabetes, diabetic cataract 326 Beheend (F. J.) irritation of sexual organs and onanism in young children . 399 Belcdee (P. "\V.) treatment of pneumonia 193INDKX. lluLix, hixiitio!! of Ki'coiul nietatiirsal bono 281 UjiLL (.Io8.) tyi)hus fever; aft'cctions of bruin, nervous HystPifl) and lungn 126 — typhus fever ; intestinal lesions 126 — prevention of pitting in smallpox 227 Bell, muscular atrophy . . 159 Belladonna, i)re))arations of (Hirt/.el) 142 — in epilepsy (Sankey) . . 1-16 — in idiopatiiic tetanus (Crane) , 145 — aniesthctic effects of (Fitha) 53 — antagonistic action to opium (Graefe) 151 — _ do. (Newman) 149,423 — poisoning by berries of (Evans) 423 Bellabd (H.) ferri carb. in statu nascendi 179 Belloo (H.) legal responsibility of the in- sane . . . ' . 167 — moral responsibility of lunatics. 174 Beneke (F. W.) encbondronia and carci- noma .... 117 Bennett (E. P.) ovariotomy on a lady ret. 75, successful . . . 375 Bennett (Hughes) molecular theory of or- ganization ... 3 — lencocythajmia . . . 176 — diabetes mellitus treated with sugar 214 Bennett (.J. K.) hypophosphites in phthisis 208 Bennett (R.) case of scorbutus . 123 Bentley (R.) manual of botany . 107 — on actsea or cimicifuga racemosa 430 Benzine, poisoning by (Perrin) . 440 Beeactd, congenital goitre iu five and a half months' I'octns . . . 402 Berg, pharmaceutical botany . 407 — plants nsed in medicine and the arts 407 — anacahuite wood . . 430 Beboii (R.) panaritium . . 241 — and H. Bajibeegeh, scabies crustosa 229 Bekgson, brachial ne\n-algia . 149 Beenaed (A.) sensitive properties of and reflex movements from the sympathetic 30 Beenaed (CI.) lectures on the spinal cord 35 — spasm of glottis cured by endermic appli- cation of morphia . . 148 Beenaed (W. P.) pneumonia and fetid ab- scess of lung . . . 103 — double pneumonia treated by stimulants 194 BEEErTl (L.) orchitis blcnnorrhagica 321 Beethiek (S.), fever in its relations with mental plienations . . 166 Beetin, baths of compressed air in emphy- sema and asthma . . 204 Beeteand, ovarian cystic disease tapped thirty-three times . . 371 Betbedee, ether compresses in neuralgia 140 — local application of ether in neui-algia 149 Beveiudoe (R.) function of the epiglottis 113 Beyban, syphilis and syphilitic paralysis 151 Bezold (A. V.) operation of woorara poison 63 BiCKEESTKTH, lacerated wound, rupture of brachial artery, ligature. . 288 BiEEDAUM, essential paralysis . 119 — universal emijhysenia in pertussis 196 — diseases of chiidren . . 392,392 BiEHMEB, ])neuniothorax . . 196 — bronchial dilatation . . 201 — unusual case of scarlatina . 218 — do. . 400 Bile, secretion of (Eriedliinder) . 86 — putrefaction of (Thudichum) . 86 Bile-ducts, course of the (Budge, Reichert, Theile) . . .85 Biliary acids, demonstration and transforma- tion of (Neukomm) . . 86 — do. . 223 BiLLETEE, origin of the vessels . 20 Billi, congenital umbilical hernia, &c. 404 BiLLEOTn (Th.) abscessing peri-pleuritis 257 — bone-absorption . . 262 — strangulation of bowel, hernio-laparotomv 298 BiNANT, post-mortem Cesarean operation 350 BiED (W.) large encephalocele . 403 Birds, heart's movement in (Wagner) 23 BiEKETT (J.) shilling in the pharynx, after- wards swallowed . . 249 — popliteal aneurism, compression and liga- ture .... 293 — ruptured intestine, ileum . 294 — laceration of liver, &c: . . 29J — intra-parietal inguinal hernia . 297 — new grewths or tumours; cysts 314 — melanotic tumour of thigh . 317 BlENBAUSi, abdominal pregnancy . 335 — Cresareau section; distortion of pelvis 349 Birth, concealment of (GrOll, To\ilmouche) 453, 452 — proof of live (Anstie, Brock) . 453,453 Births, twin (Spath) . . 338 — do. position of ftctns iu (Veit) 339 — do. difficult positiim of head in (Cregeen, Jacobs) . . 339, 339 — do. (Pollock) . . 340 — do. simultaneous presentation of feet of one and head of other (Braun) 339 — monstrous (Blagden) . . 404 Blshop (C. S.) rupture of aorta communi- cating with oesophagus . . 177 Bite of the adder, case of (Boyd) . 442 Bites of rattlesnakes, remedies for (Jlitchell) 143 Bitot, splitting of epiphvsis of humerus 269 — See Le BariUier. Blachkz and LuYS, meningitis, jirobably syphilitic . . . 151INDEX, 4S1 BULCK (C.) fracture of femur, tibia, and tibulii . . . .271 13LACKMAI.'. See Triplet: Bladder, rudimcntarv, in uretliro-vaginal fistula (Max) . ' . . -101 — defective, &c. (Leopold) . 'lOJi — disease of, and consequent paraplegia (Gull) .... 158 — cancer of (Frickliofter, Miller) . 305 — contraction of neck of (Slade) . SO-i — dilatation of fcctal, hindering labour (Hecker) , . . 310 — extrophy of (Riget) . . 404 — irritable conditions, triticnm rcpens in (Thompson) . 221 — do. (do.) . 304 — neuralgia of (Bourguignon) . 148 — prostatic tumour projecting into (Johnson) 305 — foreign body in (Bowen) . 306 — female catheter in (Barnes) . 306 — catheter broken in, removed by llthotrite (Herve) . . . .307 — sealing-wax in, median lithotomy (Thomp- son) .... 306 — injections of (Slade, Van Bureu) 304 — puncture of (Hutchinson) . 304 BliAGDEN (R.) monstrous births . 404 Blake (R. H.) Caillault on the skin, trans- lated . . . .309 Blas, poisoning by veratrino . 428 Blasius (E.) recurrent neuroma . 319 Bleeding. See BlooiUettiug. Blennorrhcea of mucous follicles of urethra (Diday) . . . . 321 Blindness, colour, produced by santonin (Rose) . 63 Blisters, flying, to the neck, chorea cured by (Paris) .... 145 Blodig (C.) aconite in inflammation of the eye .... 325 Bi-ONDIOT, detection of phosphorus by colour of the flame . . . 408 Blood of common earthworm (Uavy) 20 — change of form in red corpuscles (Addison) 20 — relations of, to muscular irritab'.lity (Ettinger) ... 16 — hsomodynamics (.Tacobson) . 20 — sounds of the circulation of (Leared) 24 —- pneumatology of (Setschenou) . 20 — nir in the (Meek) . . 179 — medico-legal researches on (Pfafl) 4 16 — coagulation of, in cerebral sinuses (Frit/) 118 — do. iu cerebral arteries, homl- pk'gia from (Pitman) . . 1<19 — do. inveins(Legroux)180 — extravasation of, caused by parasites (Waldenburg) . . . 103 — action of chloroform on (.Jackson) 50 Blood-cyst in cartilage of external ear (Hulke) 329 Blood-pressure, influence of respiratory move- ments on (Einbrodt) . . ' 2(; Blood-pressure in hybernation of marmots (Valentin) . . .116 Blood-stains, on means of discriminating (Guibourt, Minuel, Owsjannikow, Wirth- gen) . . : .447,447 Blood-vessels ... 20 Blood-vessels, auscultation of (Conrad) 189 — portions of lungs without (Hyrtl) 69 Blood-vessels, diseases of . . 176 — diseases, operations, ^-c. . 28G Blood-vessels, embolic diseases of (Cohn) 180 — See Emboli. Bloodletting, general (Southgate) 178 — in apoplexy (Chambers) . 150 — medico-legal opinion as to (Hofmann) 450 Bloody sweat (Chambers) . . 229 Bloxam, electrolytic test for arsenic 415 BoCHDAlEK, anatomy of laryngeal muscles 13 — relation of mediastinum to thoracic wall, lungs, &c. ... 72 BocHiEDEE (F.) proximate analysis of plants, &c. . . _ . . 108 BoECKEX, menorrhagic cysts . 371 BoDECKEK, tissue change in the healthy organism . . . 100 — composition of human milk . 91 Boil; carbuncular, pleurisy and pyiemic abscesses (Hutchinson) . . 124 BoiSKOT (.T. M.) Levi's metallic ligature in varicose veins . . .291 Boisox, pill of musk iu neuralgia . 161 BoLTOx. See BusseU. Bojiicci (F.) human physiology . 1 Bone-absorption (Billroth). . 262 Bone, deposit of, in the brain (Crosby) 14G Bones .... 9 Bones, vomer, ethmoid and intermaxillary (Cleland) . . .9 — longitudinal development (Flourens) 11 — do. (Oilier) 10 Bones, growth of the long (Humphrv) 262, 9 Bones, diseases, operaiioiis, ^ c. . 261 lione, diseases of (Clark) . . 262 Bones, diseases of, in children . 399 — cranial, syphilitic tumour of (Boys de Loury) .... 151 — occipital, pneimiatie process of (Hyrtl) 9, 12 — temi)oral, exostosis of (Cooper) . 265 — tubular, medullary cells in (Luschka) 11 — See Necrosis, Osleomalacia, Reseciions. BoxxAFONT (J. R.) Diseases of the ear, &c. 32'J Bonnes (A.) etherizati on and hypnotism in hysteria .... 359 Bonnet, internal administration of chloro- form . . . . .lay BONS, periodic loss of consciousness, ciuitid hy nssalietida . . . BoNsuoiiFr, alcoli-;lophilia periodica 160482 INDEX. HooxK (H. W.) liomicrauui, with epilepsy, cured by injections of niorpliia . 150 BORSAKELLI, phospliorus in tlie bruin 32 Botanical letters (Unger) . . 107 Botany, manual of (Hentley) . 107 — pluirniaceutical (Horp) . . 407 BoTTCUEn (A.) follicular glands at the root of the tongue ... 78 BoTTo, cure of varicose veins . 181 BoTTOAiLEY (G.) type of disease prevalent in Croydon . . . .124: BouciiABDAT, pulmonary tuberculization 207 — on administering kousso . 212 — See Grisolle. BoTJCHUT, arseniate of soda in scrofula 124 — pathognomonic sign of scarlatina 130 — inftmtile mortality . . 390,459 — growth in relation to diseases of children 391 — large doses of tartar-emetic in croup 396 BouDET, report on the wholesomeness of the water of the Seine . . 466 BouDix, rabies canina . . 151 BouiSSO?f, recovery of sight and reason in demented patient, the subject of double cataract .... 166 BoiTEGAEEL, somnambulism . 149 BOUEQEOIS, treatment of pneumonia without bloodletting . . . 194 BotTKGFiGNON, neuralgia of the bladder 148 — neuralgia of the skin . . 149 — functional disorders from prolonged abode in great cities . . . 147 BouEKOUSSE, iodine in tubercular meningitis 160 BoTTTlEE, Chopart's amputation in division of tendo Achillis . . . 261 BowDiTCH, on coal gas . . 463 BovTEjr, foreign body in bladder . 306 Bowman (J. C.) practical chemistry 2 Bowman (W.) fibrous growth in alveolus of lower jaw . • . 251 — strumous disease of hip-joint, excision 283 — reduction of hernia, invertion of patient 298 Boyd (R.) weights of the body and organs in the sane .and insane . . 105 — vital statistics of Somerset Lunatic Asy- lum .... 166 Boyd, case of adder-bite . . 442 Boys de Lotjby, syphilitic tumour of cranial bones .... 151 BozEMAN, vaginal fistula; . . 379 Beadfoed (F. J.) operation for inguinal hernia .... 299 Beady (T.) report of Cork Street Fever Hospital . . .127 Brain, as an organ of the soul (Wagner) 33 — in man and animals (Garner) . 30 — of a Galago (Flower) . . 31 — anatomy and physiology of (Mesmer) 30 Brain, intimate structure (Clarke) 30 — functions (Wagner) . , 30, 33 — do. relative independence of (Flou- rens) .... 31 — 8i)ecific gravity (Peacock) . 33 — cliemical constituents (Hen/,) . 33 — phosphorus in the (Borsarelli) . 32 — ])osterior loljes of, in the quadrumana (Flower). . . , 31 — capillaries of (Robin) . . 21 — cortical substance of (Stephany) 33 — fossa of, fovea; glandulares and arach- noidal villi of (Luschka) . 34 Srain, injuries and diseases of , 243 Brain, pathology of (Inman) , 160 — diagnosis of diseases of (Griesinger) 162 — cerebral symptoms hidependent of disease of (West) . . .394 — disease of, unattended by cerebral symp- toms (West) . . .394 — chronic disease of (Duncalfe) . 152 — latent affection of (Savignac) . 146 — aflections of, in typhus (Bell) . 126 — lesions of, polydipsia and polyuria from (Brochin) . . .148 — abscess of, eight cases . . 151 — do. (Hutchinson) . 244 — do. (Skaife) . . 152 — vast abscess of, without symptoms (Richet) 151 — acephalo-cyst of (Baillarger) . 152 — do. (do.) . 167 — cancer of (Savignac) . . 151 — cholesteatoma of (Mayer) . 147 — coagulation of blood in sinuses of (Fritz) 148 — compression of (Mason) . 244 — concussion and compression (Holthouse) 244 — do. ' (Kalbierske) . 277 — do. (Young) . 244 '— do. paralysis of left arm (Quain) 244 — apoplectiform congestion of (Trousseau) 154 — do. arsenious acid in (Lamare-Picquot) . . 162 — fever, from worms (Ross) . 124 — do. (do.) . 398 — induration of the (Robertson) . 161 — traumatic inflammation (.laksch) 148 — inflammatory diseases of (Calmeil) 144 — softening of (Levick) . .150 — do. acute, with Bright's disease (Marston) . . . 147 — do., of left posterior lobe (Child) 144 — do., of left hemisphere (Image) 144 — do., encephalitis terminating in (Drake) 149 — tumour at base of (Gairdner) . 152 — do., probably scrofulous (Jackson) 146 — do., fibro-nucleated (Sands) . 147 — do., papillary cystoid, of base of (Wagner)483 INDEX. Brain, effects of cWoroform on circulation of (U. Brown) . • 153 Bruin-substance, laceration of (Holthouse) 214 Brainless infant (Carson) . -103 BiiAiXAED, spina bifida treated by iodine 404 Bhake, Allartou's operation . 305 BiiANDicorKT, pneumonia, purulent collec- tion in lumbar region . . 194 Beatsch, resections of branches of the fifth pair .... 150 BitAUX, on superfcetation . . 332 — simultaneous presentation of feet of one and head of other in twin birth. _ 339 — uterine placental polypi . 368 BhatjNE (W.) preternatural anus . 82 Bread, detection of alum in (Crookes) 467 Breast, diseases of . . 381 Breast, cyst in scirrhous tumour of (Moore) 381 — cancer of. See Cancel: — inflammation of (Nunn) . 381 — tumours of, operations (Hutchinson) 3*3 — irritable tumour of (Ure) . 381 Breath, odour of, in pulmonary apoplexy (Gueneau de Mussy) . . 196 Breath, fetid, potass, chloras for (Martin) 212 Breisky, osteo-malakia at Gummersbach 336 Breslatj, eclampsia in child-bed . 387 Beewster (Sir D.) optical study of the retina .... 65 Bbieree ue BoisJtONT, deterioration of morals andmindbefore general paralysisl72 — on hallucinations and illusions . 454 Brighton, diphtheria at (Ormerod) 140 Bright's disease, recovery from (Williams) 218 — waxy or amyloid form of (Stewart) 217 — and cerebral softening (Marston) 147 — choroidal aflection in (Miiller) . 218 Brintox (W.) on food and digestion 78 — structure and function of the stomach in vertebrata ... 81 — aortic aneurism . . . 176 — tubercular ha?moptysis . . 193 — varicocele of leg . . 293 Bristles, hogs', preparation of (Vernois) 466 Bristowe (J. S.) case of embolism 180 — mitral regurgitation independent of or- ganic disease . . . 183 — ovarian tumour, discharge into abdominal cavity .... 371 Broabbext (J.) aneurism of arteria inno- minata .... 286 Bkoca, obstruction of abdominal aorta by a clot, gangrene of the foot . 179 Brocuin, polydipsia and polyuria from cere- bral legions . . . 148 Brock V, Kellock, proof of live iJirth 453 Brodie (Sir B.) on the "Marshall-Hall" method . . . 75 — do. . 448 Bromine in pseudo-membranous affections (Ozanam) . • . 197 Bronchial dilatation (Biermer) . 201 Bronchial glands, engorgement of, a cause of asphyxia (Fonssagrives) . . 192 Bronchial tubes, pleuritic effusion through (Lanelongue) . • 197 Bronchitis supervening on scarlatina, &c. (O'Connor) . . .124 Broncho-pneumonia (Chambers) . 193 Bronchocele (M'Whinnie) . _ .314 — tumour simulating (McCraith) . 314 Bronchus, compressed (Eade) . 176 Brondgast, (P. T.) tone of the voluntary muscles ... 44 Brooke, compound fracture of skull 244 Bro'wx (Bedford) chloroform, effects of, on the cerebral circulation . . 51 _ do. do. . 153 Brown (I. B.) surgical diseases of women 357 — fibrous tumours of uterus . 366 — ovariotomy cases . . 374 — ovarian and fibrous tumours removed at one operation . . . 374 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 379 Brown (.1. B.) talipes varus duplex conge- nitus . . . .328 Brown (J. H.) acquired deformity 328 BEOwmE (S.) Wutzer's operation for hernia 302 Beowne (W. A. F.) on cottage asylums 166 — endemic degeneration . . 170 Brown-Seqxjard, remarks on Oilier on lon- gitudinal grovrth of bones . 11 — relations of muscular irritability, cadaveric rigidity, and j)utrefaction . 18 — hemicrania . . . 151 — paralytic, convulsive, and mental affections from morbid alterations of blood, brain, &c. 162 Bruce, (R.) croup in the adult . 195 — puerperal convulsions . . 388 — congenital ulcer of lower extremities 402 Bruits of the heart (Malherbe) . 22 Brunniche, cases of empyema . 197 — chorea .... 395 — essential paralysis of children . 395 Beuns, badly healed fractures of bones 266 Beyant (T.) surgery of mouth, pharynx, and rectum . . . £37 — compound fracture of skull, trephining 245 — cyst in the antrum . . 250 — adhesion between septum nasi and lower turbinated bone. . . 252 — syphilitic disease of larynx, laryngotomy 255 — disease of the ankle- and tarsal-joints, Pirogoff's operation . . 264 — analysis of cases of compound fracture 266 — strangulated umbilical hernia . 300INDEX. BiiYANT (T.) strangiilntetl umbilical and in- guinal hernia, taxis . . 301 — perineal operation on nrothni . 309 — uiedullary cancer of testis, amputation 312 — cyst in thyroid gland, injection of iodine 311 •— cysto-sarcomatous tumour of breast 315 — medullary cancer of breast . 317 — and Gull, syphilitic laryngitis, tracheo- tomy . ' . . .255 — See Micis. BiiYDON, recovery from overdose of croton oil 438 Bkvk, action of chlorine on the tissues 411 BKraoN, yellow fever at Port Eoyal, Jamaica 130 — introduction of yellow fever into Port Royal .... 4-68 Bubo, venereal, treatment (Gu(5rin) 320 Buchanan and Watson, valerian and can- nabis indica in traumatic tetanus 145 BucHNER, anacahuite wood . 430 — questions on fatality of injuries 443 BtTCK, fracture of anatomical neck of humerus 269 HuCKiNGHAM. Hee Ablolf. BuDD (W.) typhoid or intestinal fever, the pythogenic theory . . 129 — contagion of yellow fever . 130 — diphtheria . . . 141 — do. . . 469 Budge (J.) special physiology . 1 — stoppage of heart bv irritation of vagus 30 — eft'ects of dividing phrenic and vagus nerves .... 70 — course of the bile-ducts . 83 Buhl (L.) case of embolism . 180 — penetrating wound of rectum, &,c. 301 BiiHELEN, ophthalmia intermittens 325 Bullae (J.) wine of eolchicum seeds in gouty diathesis .... 124 BuLLEN (K. St. J.) gangrene of both feet from frostbite . . . 242 Bullet extractor (Tieman) . . 239 BuLLEY (F. A.) cancer of face following epithelial cancer of lip . . 318 BuMSTEAD (F. .7.) glaucoma, Hancock's di- vision of ciliary muscle . . 326 BuNTZEN and Bambekgek, glanders-poi- soning . . . .122 — do. . 123 — spontaneous gangrene . . 124 BuRDEL, syphilitic hemiplegia . 151 Buren. See Tan Bnren. Burnett's solution, poisoning by (Wright) 210 Burns .... 243 Burns, deformities from (Barton) . 328 — of anus (Nc4aton) . . 303 — occurrence of glucosuria in (Hill) 92 — oil and cotton batting in (Pease) 213 — solutii)U of nitrate of silver in (Schon) 24'3 JJunow, inlluenee of retina on tlie adjusting movements of tlie eye . . 'C3 — preservation of bodies by acetate of alu- mina . . '. . 109 Buiiuows, acute myelitis and paraplegia 152 Bursa', excision of (Morton) . 310 Bury ((j. W. V.) cases of acute rheumatism in Middlesex Hosintal, 1853-59 . 133 BusiNELLi, cases of amaurosis, &c. 320 BussY, report on the waters of Montmartrc and Passy . . . 407 Butcher, excision of upper jaw and malar bone . . . ' . 249 — excusion of the radius . . 202 — excision of knee-joint . . 285 Butter, adulteration of, with animal fats (Ballard, Horsley) . . 1«7.8 Byeeley, poisoning by cvanide of potassium 438 Byfoed, pelvic measurements . 333 Cabot (S.) tracheotomy in croup . 253 — See Ayer. CADGEr calculus in walls of bladder, litho- tomy .... 305 Cady (C. E.) lumbar abscess opening into bowels .... 241 — opium in puerperal peritonitis . 380 Ciccum, invagination of, in descending colon (Penquer) . . . 398 Casarean seciion . . . 348 Cajsarean section (Alimonta, Barker, Birn- bauin, Hahn, Xewton, A'ambianchi, ^^'inckel) . . . 349 — do. (Edmunds, Glisczvnski, Godefroy, Hess, Hjort, Levy) . " . 350 — do., after death (Binant, Kergaradec) 350 — do., after death in eclampsia (Lemar- ley) , . . . .388 — do., statistics of (Pihan-Dufeillay) 348 Caillattlt, on diseases of skin, translated bv Blake . . . . 399 ' Cainc.a root in dropsv (Genoves) . 221 Cajeput oil (Delvaux) . ' . 138 Calculi, litliolomi/, S^c. . . 305 Calculi, numerous, removed bv lithotomv (Erichsen. Holt) . " . 303 — urinary (Beale) . . .92, 93 — in w-alls of bladder (Cadge) . 305 • — in urethra (Pancoast, IJoss, Tatum. Wakley) . . . .307 — do. (Hunt, Jackson) . 308 — nmlberry (Post) . ' . 300 — uric-acid, solvent powers of alkaline carbonates on (Koberts) . . 92 — See Lithotomy, LUliotnti/. — in female (Cockle, Holt," Kendal, Stubbs) 300 — urinary, in primipara, premature labour, &c. (Cockle) . . . 33S — vesical, remcrval durrng i)reguancy (M'Clintock) . . • 37SINDEX. 483 Calculus in oa uteri (Leisliuian) . 380 [ — biliary. See Gall-stones. \ — SJilivary (Eoss) . . .217 — do. (Virdiow) . . 218 CvLiiJiiL, inrtauinuitory diseases of the brain 14.1. Calveet (C.) application of carbolic acid 441 Caaterox, fever at Liverpool . 4G9 Cajipana. See Forget. Caniphorates of quinine, morphia, strychnine (Pavesi) .... il7 Cancer (Coll is, Pancoast) . .316 — transmission from au ox to a man (Kuhn) 118 — of the brain (Savignac) . 151 — of face following epithelial cancer of lip (Bulley) . . . .318 — in neck (Salva) . . . 317 — of female breast, operation (Walton) 381 — of breast (Moore, Pancoast, Parker, Smith) 316 — of male breast (Fergusson, Moore, Wor- mald) . . . .316 — do. (Lidderdale) . . 317 — ofbreast.rapidlyrecurring (Gross) 316 — of the arm, congenital (Edwards) 317 — of the scai)ula (Hancock) . 317 — mediastinal and pidmouarv, with dropsy (Begl)ie) . . ' . 196 ' — hepatic, structure (Wagner) . 223 — diagnosis ofj in hypochondrium (Doder- lein) .... 223 — of impregnated uterus, delivery impos- sible (Keating) . . . 337 — in right ovary of a child (Barthez) 117 — of bladder (Frickliofter, Miller) 305 — isolated, of vagina (Martin) . 378 — of testis (Ward) . . 313 — of rectum (Schuitzler, AVood) . 301 — of thigh simulating aneurism (Hewson) 317 — of nmscular tissue (Parmentier) 175 — incurable, partial extirpation in (Nelaton) 316 — iu cicatrix of lupus (Macmurdo) 318 — coUoid, of mammary gland (Thomi)son) 318 — do. on back, simulating a fatty growth (Fergusson) . . . 318 — encephaloid, of the head (Pancoast) 317 — do., of testis (Pancoast) . 313 — do., of periosteum of femur (Wood) 265 — do., in sheath of savtorius muscle 317 — el/ithelial (Cock, Gross, Hilton, Hum- phry, Stanley) . . . 318 — (lo. report on (Hutchinson) 317 — di). of tongue (Hutchinson, Parker) 247 — do. of lower jaw (Adams) 252 — do. in cicatrices (Macmurdo) 318 — medullary, of cheek (Fergusson) 317 Cancer.racdiillai'v, of temporal region (Smith) 317 — do. of antrum (Pancoast) 250 — do. of breast (Bryant, Pollock) 317 — do. of testis (Firyant) 312 — do. of femur (Paget) 265 — do. of fibula (Curling, LawreJice) 265 ~ do. of tibia (Paget) . 265 — do. of tibia (Cook) . 317 — melanotic, of left arm (Fergusson) 317 ■— do. of rectum (Demarquay) 301 — do. of thigh (Birkett) 317 — soot, cases of (Hutchinson) . 318 — ulcerating, of the face and jaw (Maisou- neuve) .... 250 Cancerous patients, osteomalacia in (Fiirster) 120 Cancroid, epithelial (Forster) . 121 Cancroid tubers, atheromatoid and puriform softening of (Volkmann) , 318 Cannabis Indica (Reynolds) . 161 — in traumatic tetanus (Buchanan) 115 Canterbury, meteorology and vital pheno- mena of (Rigden) . . 462 Canton, excision of knee-joint 284 — aneurism of femoral artery . 290 ('ao\itchouc in phthisis (Hannon) . 208 Capillaries of the brain (Robin) . 21 Caput s\iccedaneum presentation, &c. (Dun- can) .... 334 Caradec, fibro-plastic tumour of clitoris 377 Carbolic acid, application of (Calvert) 441 — for tinea and scabies (Lemaire) 440 — as a disinfectant (Lemaii-e) . 440 Carbonates, alkaline, solvent powers on m-ic- acid calculi (Roberts) . . 92 Carbonic-acid baths, effect of, on development of foetus .... 104 Carcinoma (Beneke) . . 117 — meduUary, of testis (Irvine) . 312 Cardia of rabbit, rhythmic contractions of (Basslinger) ... 82 Cardiac nmrmurs (Gairdner) . 178 — disease, diagnosis of (Skoda) . 183 — See Heart. Cardialgia (Scbraumi) . . 165 Caiidinale, diabetes succeeding a fall, treated by tinct.. lyttaj . . 214 Cahet, prevalence of ague in Cork, &c. 123 Caret (F. E.) delirium tremens treated by tincture of digitalis . , 147 Caries, excision of os calcis for (Barton) 264 — of astragalus and os calcis, Syme's am- putation (Ure) . . 264 — su])erficial, of femur, from diffused aneu- rism (Jackson) . . 264 Carr and Monckton, diphtheria . 122 Carson, brainless infant . . 403 Carter (E. W.) rupture of liver . 294 32486 INDEX. Cakteb (W. G.) on diabetes . 92 — ilo. . 211. C'artilnges of cxterniil ear, blood-cyst in (Hulke) . . . 32'J — articular, peculinv appoaranco (Bauor) 275 — chondrogenous and collagenous (Troninicr) 13 — of Wrisberg in larynx of a monkey (Gibb) 114 Cartilages, loose , . , 274 Cartilages, loose, in joints (Fock, Hutchison, S(iuare) . . . 274 Cartilaginous tissue (Wilckens) . 9 Coses, medical, in St. George's Hospital, 1859 (Dickinson) . . . 123 Caspeu, queUion of real or feigned insanity, of eleven years' duration . 455 Cassy, hypertrophy of lymphatic glands, without leuka3mia . . 315 Catalepsia cerea (Meissner) . 146 Catalepsy (Moslcr) . . . 149 — in case of neurosis (Legrand du Saulle) 153 Catamenia, chorea preceding(Mosler) 145 Cataract, artificial production of (Richardson) 64 — operation for, on fixing the eye during (Hildige) . . . 324 — double, recovery of sight (Bouisson) 166 — diabetic (France, Hutchinson) . 325, 325 — do. (Begbie) . . 326 Catarrh, chronic gastric, balneotherapy in (Polansky) . . .213 Catheterism of Eustachian tube (Semeleder) 330 Catheters, gauge for (Smith) . 236 Cattle, thoracic development and aptitudes for fattening of different (Baudement) 116 Caudmont, effects of cubebs . 221 Cauliflower excrescence of uterus during pregnane}^ (Simpson) . . 337 Caustics in phthisis (Couesquelan) 193 Cauterization of the larynx (Foiirnie) 197 — for neuralgia (Seuter) . . 165 — electric, in diseases of women (Ellis) 388 — do. (Gi-iinevaldt) 389 Cautery for hsemorrhoidal tumours (Demsir- quay) . . . .302 — actual, in paraplegia (Roeser) . 150 Cavour, Count, disease of (Deslandcs) 125 Cellamee, coffee, action in strangulated hernia .... 427 Cells, epidermic;, of foetus, development (Robin) . . . .103 — medullary, in diaphyses of tubular bones (Lusclika) ... 11 Cellular tissue, liypertrophy and ulceration (Wiblin) . . .313 Cementum, influence on transplanted teeth (Vasey) .... 329 Cephalhicmatoma (Chatelin, Depaul, Riedel) 400 CKPnAtOTniPSY in parturition (Spondli) 351 Cerebellum, absence of arbor vita) in (Wells) 145 — abscess of the (Dupuy) . , UH — atrophy of the (Fiedler) . 146 — cavity in (Malmsten) . . 149 — clot ill the (Alderson) . , 151 — encysted disease of (Eiios) . 147 Cerebral functions and diseases. See Brain. Cervix uteri, amputation of (Sims) 3C2 — do. amputation of cancroid excres- cence of (Mayer) . . 362 — do. removal of (Greenhalgh) 3G2 — do. induration of (Waller) 362 — do. pemphigus of (.Joulin) 362 — do. ulcers of (Charrier) . 361 CuABKELY, serous cyst of left lung 195 CiiAJiBEits (T. K.) renewal of life in con- tinued fever . . . 124 — bloodletting in apoplexy . 150 — sciatica .... 152 — on hysteria . . . 153 — thoracic aneurism . . 176 — broncho-pneumonia . . 193 — drill for auscultation . . 195 — bloody sweat . . . 229 — on hysteria . . . 359 Chancre, lectures on (Hammond) . 319 — from secondary syphilis (Langlebert) 320 — on the lip (Adams, Coote, Wormald) 320, 320 — do. indurated (Adams, Maunder) 320 CnAPPiE (R. A.) arsenic in intermittent fevers . . . .131 CuAPns, cases of dry colic in hospitals of French Guyana . . . 165 — do. . . .213 Chapuis,(P.) and J. Molesciiott, structure of the hair-foUicle, and liair of the scalji 115 Charcoal, penetration of particles of, into respiratory apparatus (Traube) . 78 CnAECOT, chronic pneumonia . 204 — and Vui/PIAX, lencocythicmia . 177 CHAitniEH, ulcers of cervix uteri and leucor- rhcea in pregnant women . 361 Chassagny, forceps, with sustained traction and pressure . . . 351 C'liASSAiOKAC, surgical operations . 235 — luxation of astragalus . . 281 — infantile paralysis . . 3'Jo CuATELiN, cephalha-matoma . 400 CitATJTEAU, vascular murmurs (tc. 23 — excitability of spiual cord, and pain pro- duced by ditto . . .30 — convulsions of the muscles of animal life, &c 39 CnEESMAN (G.) extra-uterine gestation 335 Chemical constituents of the brain (Henz) 33 — substances, testing of (Schmidt) 406INDEX. 487 Chemico-pliarmaceutlcal nomenclatm-e (An- tbon) .... 406 Chemistvy analytical tables (Thomson) 3 — text-books and manuals (13owman,Fownes, Odling, Scherer) . . 2 — pharmaceutical (Gottlieb) . 406 Chest, wounds and abscesses . 257 Chest, chronic disease of, climate of Algeria in (Pietra Santa) . . .197 — do. lacto-chloruretted medication in (Pietra Santa) . 197 — acute diseases of (Waters) . 195 — fistulous openings into (Lente,Perrin) 257 — stab-wounds of (Little). . 257 — punctured wound of (Mash) . 257 CnEYAXiEE, utilization in Italy of products of man as manures . . 464 Chevalier, De Lutnes, and Deteegie, death from use of nitrate of potash as a purgative . . . 412 Child (G. W.) softening of left posterior lobe .... 144 Child-murder. See Infanticide. Children, growth in relation to diseases of (Bouchut) . . .391 — influence of abnormal piirturition, asphyxia, kc, on (Little) . . .390 Children, diseases of, rejjort on, hy Dr. G. Hewitt .... 390 — diseases of . . . 390 — hygienics, feeding, 8jc. . . 390 Children, diseases of (Barrier, Gerhnrdt, Vogel) . . . .390 — do. (Bierbaum) . . 392,392 — do. clinical lectures (Priestley) 357 — See Mortality of. — hospitals for, reports (Baurufeind, li'aye, Kronenberg, Le ]3arillier, Widerhofer) 392 Childs (B.) ovarian tumour, ovariotomy 374 CuiSHOLM (J. J.) operation for radical cure of hernia . . . 302 — healing of anal fistulic . . 303 Chittexdex (G. W.) foreign substance in larynx, tracheotomy . . 256 Chlorides in urine in long-continued sweat- ing (Gibb) . . .92 Chlorinated solution, suppression of suppura- tion, &c., by application of (Hervieux) 123 Clilorine, action of, on the tissues (Bryk) 411 Chloroform, action of (Sansom) . 439, 52 Chloroform, compared with ether as an anres- thetic (Lente) . . .47 — do. . 150 — action on the blood (Jackson) . 50 — effect on cerebral circulation (Brown) 51 — do. (do.) 153 — internal administration of (Bonnet) 439 — in infermittents (Alienza) . 122 — in midwifery (Martin) . 355 — See Anmslhetics. Chloroform in hysterical contractions (Pea- cock) . . . .153 — in spasmodic contraction of extremities (Aran) .... 149 — in idiopathic tetanus (GrisoUe) . 147 — in traumatic tetanus (Ord) . 150 — deaths fi'om . . . 440 — death from (Marcet) . . 51 — do. (Page) . . 122 — modes of death from (Sansom) . 52 — cause of its fatal effects (.Tackson) 50 — rules in accidents from (Kidd) . 53 Chlorosis, pathogenesis of . . 191 — neuralgia complicating (Trousseau) 152 Cholera, pathology of (Toulmin) . 138 Choleraic collapse in case of empyema (Gaird- ner) . . . .195 Cholesteatoma of the brain (Mayer) 147 Chopart's amputation in division of tendo Aehillis (Bouvier) . . 261 Chorea (Briinniche) . . 395 — (Jaksch) . . .156 — cases (Ellis, H. Jones, Peacock) 145 — five cases, one fatal . . 145 — preceding cataraenia (Mosler) . 145 — from fright, in a child (Durrant) 145 — cured by flying blisters to the neck (Paris) 145 — sulphate of aniline in (Turnbull) 156 — tartar emetic in (Labrie) . 145 — antimonial and arsenical treatmeut (Long) 145 Choroid, ganglion-cells and pale nerves of (Schweigger) ... 66 Choroid-plexus-tissue, new formation of (Lambl) . . . .117 Choroidal aftection in morbus Brightii (Miil- ler) .... 218 Chkistian, the Marshal-Hall method in asphyxia. . . .69 — restoration of suspended animation from drowning ... 76 — do. . 448 Chromic acid for conical condylomata and warts (Lange) . . . 320 — do. (do.) . 412 Chuguiragua in intermittents (Escolar) 125 Chtjech (W. H.) laryngoscope . 253,198 Chylous urine cured by iodide of potassium (Davis) .... 214,101 Ciliary muscle, temporary paralysis of (Law- son) .... 327 Cinchonine, reaction of (Seligsohn) 97 — detection in urine (Seligsohn) . 97 — sulphate of, in intermittents (GrisoUe) 123 Circulation, cerebral, in asphyxia (Ackerman) 201 — sensibility of, during surgical anaesthesia (Vigouroux) ... 28 Circulatory system, diseases of . 176 — See Blood-vessels, S(c.488 INDISX. Citric iicid in acute ilicunialisiu . 113 Cilric-ncitl solution of the iniif^iictic jiliosplmte of iron, ii tonic (Ucntles) . 121 L'lauk (A.) insidious secondary pneumonia 12l> — diphtheria . . . Ill — huubarabscessconnuunicatlng with i)loura, &c. . . . .170 — closure of ilinc arteries by coagula in ova- rian dropsy . . . 179 — See JUnos, CxiAUK (Le Gros) necrosis of frontal bone, trephining, &c. . . . 245 — disease of bone . . . 262 — fractures of lower extremity , 270 — hernia, plastic operation after burn, &c. 297 — See JPeacook. Claeke(J. L.) intimate structure of the brain 30 — muscular atrophy . . 159 ClASEN, oleum terebinth, in neuralgia 148 Classification, anthropological (Geoffrey St. Hilaire) . . . .2 Clavicles, fracture of (Erichseu) . 268 — fracture of, adhesive straps for (Culbert- son) . . . .269 — compound fracture of (Little) . 268 — necrosis of (Hilton) . . 264 — excision of (Fuqua) . . 264 ClAY (C.) placenta prajvia . . 341 — ovariotomy, 104 cases . . 374 Cleboeke (C. J.) efl'ects of asclepias Syriaca 47,142 Clelaihj (J.) vomer, ethmoid, and intermax- illary bones . . .9 — craniometry . . .30 Clemens, action of baths on formation of urine .... 102 Clements (B. A.) bayonet wound through abdomen . . . 239 — dislocation of head of radius . 279 — wound of radial artery, compression, &c. 288 — Wutzer's operation for radical cure 302 — prolapsus ani, nitric acid . 303 — communication of secondai-y syphilis 320 Cleteland (W, K.) morbus cosarius, splints for, &c. . . . . 277 Climate of Algeria in chronic afl'ections of chest (Pietra Santa) . ^ . 197,231 — of Madeira in phthisis (Alnics) . 197 — of MontpeUier, influence on phthisis (Garimond) . . . 209 — mountain, salutary influence in incipient phthisis (Gastaldi) . . 196 — warm, influence on phthisis (Forget) 194 Climatic sanatoria, southern, for chronic tuberculosis (Rulhnann). . 209 CiiPET (P.) clastic materials for surgical bandages . . . 236 Clitoris, hypertropliy of (.\))))ia) . i!77 — filiro-plastic tumour of (Caradec) 377 Cj.oi^;TTA, dermoid cysts in the lungs 190 Clot in tlie cerebellum (Alderson) . 10 I — liin-inous, in left ventricle (Cummins) 177 Club-foot, division of soleus muscle (I'aucoast) 328 Coagulation of blood in cerebral sinuso (Fritz) .... 148 — do. in cerebral arteries, hemiplegia from (Pitman) . 149 Coal tar, action of aromatic principle of, on phosphorus (Deschamps) . Ill Coal-tar emulsion (l)emeaux) . 441 Coal-tar gypsum, application of (Fronmiiller) 4C1 Coccygeal gland (Luschka, Krause) 89 Cock, osteo-cysto-sareoma of the head of tibia, amputation . . 265. — fracture of tibia, delirium tremens, re- covery . . . . 272 — popliteal aneurism, compression 291 — epithelial cancer . . 318 Cockle (J.) insufficiency of aortic valves, in connection with sudden deatli . 176 — encysted urinary calculus in primipai-a 306 — do. do. 338 Cod-liver oil, ozonized, InQuence on the pulse (Thompson) ... 57 Coffee, experiments with (B. Smith) 97 — influence of, on tissue-change (V'oit) 48 — action in strangulated hernia (CeUarier) 427 Cofiein, action on animals (Kurzak) 427 CoGHLAN, dysmenorrhoca and stei-ility 304 ConN, embolic diseases of blood-vessels 180 CoiNDE, eases of albinism . . 101 Colchicuftj, action on urine (JIoss) . 220 Colchicum seeds, wine of, in gouty diathesis (Bullar) . . . .121 Cold, employment in surgery (Esmarch) 23S — great, efl'ects of (ICrajewski) . ^32 Cold-stroke, case of (Hartshorne) . 121 Colic, treatment of . . 101 — Bath waters in (Falconer) . 147 — dry (Lefevre) . . . 105 — do. in hospitals of French Guyana (Chapuis) . . . 165 — do. do. . 213 — hepatic (Beau) . • • 148 — do. treatment of (A'ollant) . 223 — lead, in workmen, enamellcrs of iron (Duciiesnc) . . • 'l"*^ Colin, degrees of sensibility of ganglia and filaments of the sympathetic _. 39 COLLIS (M. H.) excision of hip-joint 2S4 — surgery of hernia . . 291' — hajmorrhagic fibrinous tumour of tcMi- — on cancer . . . 31(> _ — vesieo-vaginal fistula t . 37t)INDEX. 489 Colloid degoneration (Lambl) . 117 — See Cancer (colloid). Colon, sigmoid llcxure of, volvulus of (Mel- fhiori) .... 214 Coloration of fajces from mercurials (Inman) 61 — of fostal bones, by medium of motber's circulation (Flourens) . . 104 Colour, loss of, in ozone test-papers (Moffiit) 112 — in bones of fatus from madder in food of mother dm-ing gestation (Tigri) 104 — of human hair, sudden change of (Davy) 109,115 Colour blindness produced by santonin (E ose) 63 Colpeurynter for dilating the os uteri (Keating) . . . 354 Colpitis, puerperal (Martin) . 886 " Colpoluter," the (Spengler) . 389 Coma from scarlatina (Woodhouse) 147 Combes (E.) new pessary : elytroid 389 Commissura mollis, absence of (Down) 30 do. do. 151, 402 Comjilexion, morbid pigmentary changes in (Laycock) . . .227 Conception, frequency of, in ana;raia (Meiss- ucr) . . ■ . .356 Confounding of persons, a symptom of in- sanity (Snell) . . .168 Congestion, apoplectiform cerebral (Trous- seau) .... 154 ( (inium, preparation of (Hirtzel) . 142 Conjunctiva, syphilitic blotch of (France) 324 ( nNRAD, auscultation of the vessels 189 I onsciousness, periodic loss of, caused by asafoctida (Bons) . .148 ('iinsumption, tubercular, nature and preven- tibility (McCormac) . . 197 — See PMhisifi. ('..ntagion, on (Trousseau). . 120 — of epidemic diseases (Milroy) . 124 — do. (do.) . 469 Contractile substance, movements of (Kiihne) 16 ('ontractility, post-mortem (Macnamara) 28 Contraction of extremities in pregnancy (Gauchet) . . .383 — hysterical, of neck and back (Peacock) 153 — idiopathic, in pregnant women (Gaiicliet) 148 — muscular, speed of (Aeby) . 18 — spasmodic, of extremities, effects of chlo- roform (Aran) . . . 149 Convulsions of the muscles of animal life (Chaiivoau) ... 39 — epileptic, of right side (Meissncr) 146 — epileptiform (Ayres) . . 156 — do. deposit of bone on the brain, &c. (Crosby) . , . 146 — hysterical (Franque) . . 158 Convulsions, puerperal . . 387 Convulsions, puerperal (Breslau, Harper) 387 — do. (Andrews, Joliclerc, Lemarley) 388 Convulsions, puerperal (Bruce, Gouriet, Keh- rer) .... 388 — do., ana3sthetics for (Lansdown, Liegard, Wilson) .... 387 — do., opium in (Duncan, Witten) 388, 388 — do., chloroform in (Page) . 388 — do., epileptic (Low, West, Wilson)388, 387 — do., diagnosis from epilepsy (Sailly) 388 Convulsive affections, from morbid altera- tions of blood, brain, &c. (Brown-S(^quard) 162 Conway, cure of traumatic tetanus by tar- tarized antimony . . 145 Cooic, malignant tnmour of tibia . 317 Cooke (L. E.) independent liability of foetus to disease . . . 401 Cooke (T. W.) on nature and rest in cure of syphilis .... 319 CoorEE, ovariotomy . . 374 — do. . . 375 CooPEB (E. S.) reprodiiction of half of lower jaw .... 251 — removal of lower end of femur, repro- duction, lie. . . . 263 — death from pyajmia after exsecting tibia 264 — exostosis on the temporal bone . 265 — ununited fracture of os humeri, silver ligature, &c. . . .269 — fracture of the femiir, starch apparatus and extension . • . 271 — scapulo-clavicular dislocations . 278 — removal of carpal and metacarpal bones 282 — exsection of knee-joint . . 285 Cooper (G. F.) statistics of compound fi*ac- tures at St. George's Hospital . 267 — and Holmes, statistics of amputations at St. George's Hospital . 258 — and Holmes, statistics of strangulated hernia at St. George's Hospital . 296 CoorEm (S.) ' Dictionary of Surgei'v,' edited by Lane . . . ." 235 CooTE (H.) tetanus following a wound of finger, &c. . . . 243 — cystic tnmour in lower jaw of an infant 252 — disarticulation of shoulder-joint 259 — pressure on axillary vessels and nerves by exostosis . . . 266 — inguinal hernia in the female . 300 — chancre on lip, and sublingual b\ibo 320 — treatment of deformities . 328 — See Wormald. CopaiA'a, balsam of, action (^''eikart) 431 CorEMAN, rare cases in midwifery 332 Copper, poisoning by (Gallo) . 413 Cork, prevalence of ague in (Carey) 123 CoENAZ, fracture of one condyle of femur 271 Cornea, malacia of (Just) . 324 — penetrating ulcer of (Wordsworth) 325490 INDEX. Corneitis, vesicukv (Hessev) . 324 COKNEX, popliteal aneurism, coinpression 292 COBNTTTY (L.) paracentesis of the eye 325 Coronoid process, resection of, for anchylosis of the jaw (Langenbeck) . 250 Corpus callosuni, imperfect formation of (Down) . . . .30 — do. do. . 151,402 — absence of (Hamilton) . . 402 Corpus pampiniforme, varicose enlargement of(Pancoast) . . . 309 Corpus striatum, disease of (Waters) 152 Corpuscles, discoid (Muller) . 118 COEKANT (S.) fracture of twelfth dorsal and &"st lumbar vertebras . . 2G8 CoEEiGAN, fatal disease of aortic valves, &c. 177 CoESE, rupture of uterus, death from heemor- rhage .... 344 — fungus hssmatodes of ovaries and uterus 371 Cortical substance of the brain (Stephany) 33 CoETiSAET (L.) influence of gastric digestion on the functions of the pancreas 87 — action of pancreas in digestion of azotized aliments .... 87 COTTiNG, apparatus for fractures of thigh 270 Cotton (E. P.) action of phosphorus upon phthisis .... 206 — action of vin. ferri upon phthisis 207 — action of certain substances upon phthisis 208 Cotyledon umbilicus in epilepsy (Eodrigues) 145 CoUESQUEIiAN (R. de) caustics in phthisis 193 CouiON, fractures in infants . 267 — tumour near coccyx . . 314 CoTJLSON, fiat ulcers of rectum . 303 — syphilitic abscess, fistula in ano 303 CouEBON, remedies for tapeworm in Abys- sinia .... 212 — tsenifuges of Abyssinia . . 408 Coxalgia in foetus (Morel-LavaUee) 399 Cramp, functional (Duchenne) . 157 — sempstresses', cured by quinine and opium (Thielmann) . . . 148 — writers' (Haupt, Tuppert) . 157 Ceane, belladonna in idiopathic tetanus 145 Cranial extravasation (M'Swiney) . 150 Craniometry (Cleland) . . 30 Craniotomy, forceps, &c. (Chassagny, Kris- teller, Martin, Spondli, Winckel) 351 Cranium, vertebrate (Virchow) . 9 — auscultation of, in children (RiUiet) 392 — circulation within, in relation to mental disorders (Arlidge) . . 167 — of idiots (Lund) . . 173 — meningeal extravasation within (M'Swiney) . . . 152 Cranium, injnnes and diseases of . 243 Cranium, injuries to (Gortz, Giinther, Hill, Moll, Zaggl) . . . 243 — do., recovery from (Meyer) . 243 — fracture of, from a rocket (Needham) 214 — do. and caries of (Mott) 241 — do. the base of (Evans, Hewett, LawBon, Savory) . . 244 — do. compound (Brooke, Hewett, Little) .... 244 — do. do., use of trephine, ki-. (Adams, Bryant, Holt, .lohniion, Lawson) 245 — do. do., trephining, report on provincial hospitals (Hutchinson) 245 — depressed fracture of, trephine (Miner) 215 Ceede, on removing the placenta . 352 Ceegeen, difficult position of head in twin labour . . . . 339 Cretinism, educational treatment of (Mundy) 166 Cretinism and idiocy; review of works by ZUlner and Virchow . . 171 Cricoid cartilage, neurosis of (Pavy) 255 Ceitchett, popliteal aneurism, pressiu-e 292 — inguino-scrotal tumour . . 312 — See Barnes. Ceompton (D. W.) gunshot wound of the knee-joint, excision . . 240 Ceookes, detection of alum in bread 467 Ceosby (T. B.) epileptiform convulsion, deposit of bone in the brain, &c. 146 Ceose:eey (H.) excision of the tendons in amputation of forearm . . 259 — anajsthesia in midwifery . 355 Ceosse (T. W.) tumour of larynx . 257 Ceossman (B.) intermarriage of relations, a cause of degeneracy of offspring. 106 Croton oil, uses of (Joret) . 438 — recovery from overdose (Brydon) 438 Croton-oil liniment in tvphoid fever (Fremv) 129 Croup, nature and treatment (Becker) 199 — (Whittle) . . . ^ 199 — seven cases . . . 195 — cases of, tracheotomy in some (Farre, Miner, Rees) . . . 256 — do. (Jones, RadclifFe, Watson) . 256 — in the adidt (Bruce) . . 195 — do. fiital (Begbie) . 195 — in infants (Pasquali) . . 396 — relation to other diseases of respiratory organs (Roerig) . • 396 — treatment by large doses of tartar-emetic (Bouchnt) . . . .396 — mechanical removal of exudation (Samuel- son) . . . .195 — See Traclieotomy in. — diphtheritic, epidemic of (Golitzinsky) 395 — do. abortive treatment of (Samuel><)n) 19''INDEX. 491 Croup, diphtheritic, treated by iocline nnd bromine . • • 390 Croydon, type of disease prevalent in (Bot- toniley) . . . .124 CuuGEU, inHuence of anterior pelvic wall iu labour .... 337 CiinsE (P. R.) arrested development of female genital organs . . 103, 360 — reduction of dislocations, apparatus 277 Cubebs, eft'ects of (Candmont, Debout, Trous- seau) .... 221 Crystalline apparatus, lateral decentration of (Giraud-Teulon) . . 67 Crystalline lens, surfaces, and effect of its changes (Knapp) . . 64 — and its diseases (Turnbull) . 324 Crystals of diabetic sugar (Gibb) . 95 CuLBEETSON, adhesive straps to fracture of clavicle, &e. . . . 269 CuMBEBBATCH, phlegmasia dolens 387 CxTMMiNS, on acute disease . 123 — pulmonary apoplexy, fibrinous clots in ventricle, and pericarditis . 177 CuxNixanAM, treatment of acute dysentery by ipecacuanha . . . 211 Curare. See Woorara. CuELiNG (T. B.) undeveloped testes from an idiot . . . .105 — medullary cancer in fibnla, amputation 265 — ulceration of rectum . . 303 — stricture of female urethi'a, dilatation 310 — enlarged lymphatic glands . 315 — enlargement of glands in axilla 315 — stricture of female urethra . 378 — testicle in inguinal canal . 404 — undeveloped testicle . . 404 — See Dames. — and HiTTCniNSON, large popliteal aneu- rism, spontaneous cure . . 291 — do. inguinal hernia, with undescended testis . . 298 CrETis (C. E. S.) gunshot wound in mouth, secondary hsemorrhage, &c. . 240 Curvatures of the spine (Adams) . 12 Cidaneons xystem, diseases of . 225 — See Skin diseases. CUTIEE, fracture of ribs, pelvis, and skull, &c. . . . . 268 CriTER (E.) new anresthetic, kerosolene 47 — RiCKAED and Ingails, on veratrum viride as an arterial sedative . 178 Cyanosis, study of . , . 402 — case of (Girard) . . 184 — in a girl (Todd) . . 178 — one ventricle (IJarillicr) . 402 Cyclaminc, influence of (Vulpian) . 432 Cyclical changes in human system (Smith) 3 Cyclical influences, elimination of urea and urine in relation to (Smith) , 92 Cynanche trachealis. See Crovp. Cyst in the antrum (Bryant) . 250 Cysts, atheromatous, of lymphatic glands (Lticke) .... 315 — dermoid, in the lungs (Cloiitta) 196 — meuorrhagic (Boeckel) . . 371 — serous, of left lung (Chabrely) 195 — See Hydatids, Ovarian cysts. Cystic disease of lower jaw (Paget) 252 Cysticercus cellulosus transformed into the tu3nia solium (Kiichenmeister) . 102 Cystine in urine in long-continued sweating (Gibb) . . . .92 Cyst-hygroma of sacro-perineal region (Strassmann) . . . 402 Cysto-sarcoma of upper eyelid (Dauscher) 323 Cystotomy, without a stone (Paget) 305 CzEEMAK, the laryngoscope . 78 Daitoit (E. B.) aneurism of thoracic aorta 176 Dalton (John) human physiology 1 Dantatt, serous discharges during pregnancy 346 — auenceplialous foetus, &c. . 403 Daeke (P. R. P.) laryngotomy . 255 Dafbent (C.) power of roots of plants to reject poisonous substances . 108 Dattschee (H.) cysto-sarcoma of eyelid 323 Daute (P.) balsams, &c., in clap . 321 Dayanue, poisoning by cyanide of potassium 438 Datey (J. G.) laryngitis, tracheotomy 255 Datid. See Hall. Datidson and Dietebich, theory of gastric digestion ... 81 Davies (R.) radical cure of varicocele 311 Daties and Cueiing, ovarian dropsy, injec- tion of iodine . . . 371 — do. ovariotomy . 374 Datis, influence of pregnancy on the milk 92 Davis (G.) chylous urine ciu-ed by iodide of potassium . . . 214,101 Datis (.1. H.) hydatid mole expelled after living foetus, &c. . . 343 Davis (N. S.) influence of alcoholic drinks on pulmonary tuberculosis . . 207 Datis (T.) extra-uterine foetation of eight years .... 335 Daty (J.) blood of common earthworm 20 — sudden change of colour of human hair 109,115 Dawson (W.) turpentine in delirium tremens 160 Day (P.) elephantiasis or cochin leg 228 Deafness cured by ex traction of tooth (Vantier) 149 Death (R.) inversion of uterus . 344 Death, increase of temperature of body before and after (Adler). , , jigINDEX. 493 Death, question whether from n full or from stranguhition (llelwig) . . 415 T)ealh, sudden atul violent . . 417 Death, sudden, insuflk-iency of aortic valves in connexion with (Cudde) . 176 — do., from insufliciency of aortic valves (Maurice) . . . 177 — do., after furuncles of face (Moore) 189 — apparent (I'arrot) . . 117 Death-rates, infantile (Gairdner) . 391 Dkhizk, jn'ejjaration of nicotine . 423 Debout, treatment of lieniicrania . IGl — on eflects of cubehs . . 221 — spasmodic contraction of vaginal sphinc- ter ... . 377 — congenital umbilical hernia) . 403 Debeow, prevention of ectropion . 323 Deformities, treatment (Cootc) . 328 — from burns (Barton) . . 328 — of the lips, operations for (Rynd) 216 — of lower extremities (Pancoast) 328 — acquired (Brown) . . 328 Degeneracy of off'sprmg from intermarriage of relations (Grossman, Gardner) 106 ])egeneration, endemic (Browne) . 170 — amyloid, chemistry of . . 117 — do., of kidneys after tuberculosis (Traube) . . .196 — fatty, of the heart (Plazer) . 177 D'Egqs, epidemic convulsive neurosis at Strasbourg . . .149 DEGEAiraES, quotidian hcemoptoic fever 195 Ddhxe, poisoning by spoilt meat and stale fat ... . 441 Deichlee, do pulmonary vesicles form an epithelium ? . . .69 Deitees (O.) on the lamina spiralis mcm- branacea . . . 6i< Deiioux, resin in chronic laryngeal affec- tions .... 200 Deliofx de Savignac. See Savignac. Delirium as a precursor of general paralysis (Linas) . . . .167 — forms of, before general paralysis (Legrand duSaulle) . . 172 Delirium tremens, treatment (Gairdner) 151 — treated by tincture of digitalis (Carey) 147 — tincture of digitalis in (Peacock) 159 — turjientine in (Dawson) . . 160 De LrcA (S.) transformation into sugar of the skin of the silkworm . . 114' ])e Luna, atmosphere of Madrid . 3 Delvaux, cajeput oil . . 138 Demaequat, Hypertrophy of mucous mem- brane of inferior turbinated bone 252 — deviation of septum of nose, new operation 252 — cautery for haimorrhoids . 302 — melanotic cancer of rectum . 304 — extirpation of parotid gland for e])ithe- lioma . , . . . 318 DJ2.MAUQITAY, penetration of pulverizeil liquids into air-passages . 407 Demabquette, diseases of workmen in col- lieries .... 4fl(; Demeaux, drunkenness as a cause of epileps\ 14fi — shortness of cord causing abnormal pre- sentation . . . 339 — coal-tar emulsion . . 411 De Moegan (C.) diseases of hip-joint, exci- sion .... 283 — potassa fiisa in stricture of urethra 310 Dengue epidemic in Virginia (Lemnion) 122 Denial surgery . . . 329 Dental surgery, dictionary of terms (Harris) 2 Dentition, anomalies of (Garrelson) 329 — See Teeth. Dekuce, removal of lower jaw for tumour 251 Depaul, hydrocephalus at five months old 395 — cepbalhajmatoma . . 400 Dermatitis, general . . 230 Descamps, use of pulv. Doveri in phthisis 208 DeSChampS, action of aromatic principle of coal-tar on phosphorus . . 411 Deslandes (P. F. C.) disease of Count Cavour .... 125 Detax, purulent ophthalmia of new-born children .... 395 Development . . . 103 De^•elopment of man and higher animals (KoUiker) . . .2 — of vertebrata (Rathke) . . 2 Deveegie. See Chevalier. Diabetes ^Carter) . . . 92 ^ — changes in fourth ventricle in (Luys) 215 — loss of sight in (Begbie) . 326 — exudation mto retina in (Hildige) 326 — cure (Foster) . . • 215 — treated successfully (Carter) . 214 — influence of various foods in elimination of sugar in (Pavy) . • _ 214 — cases treated with success by animal diet (Pavy) . . . . • 2U — succeeding a fall, treated by tinct. lytta' (Cardinale) . . . 214 — See Urine (diabetic). — insipidus (Eade) . . 92 — mellitus, phenomena of (Haughton) 92 — do. treated with sugar (Bennett) 214 Diabetic cataract (Prance, Hutchinson) 325, 32 — do. (Begbie). • 326 ^ Diabetic sugar, crystals of (Gibb) . Diagnosis, physical (Gerhardt) Diamines, ureas of the fN^olhard) . 92INDEX. 493 Dlnphrnfnn, position of (Gerhiirdt) 70 _ do. (do.) . 205 Diarrhcra epidemic of 1859 (Speck) 211 Dickinson (W. H.) diseases of kidney with albuminuria . . .92 — medical cases in St. George's Hospital, 1859 . . . .123 — disease of kidney with albuminuvia 216 Dictionary of medical terminology, &c. (Harris) . . . . 2 DiDAY, blennorrhoca of mucous follicles of male urethra . . . 321 — nitric acid internally for singers' hoarse- ness .... 197 Dietary, prison, influence of, [fasces] (Smith) 83 — do. [urine and urea] (Smith) . . . . 98 Dieterich. See Davidson. Dietetics, introduction to (Brinton) 78 Diftiision, liquid, applied to analysis (Graham) 109 Digestion, physiology of (Braune) . 82 — connection with respiration (Robinson) 69 — food and (Brinton) . . 78 — of albuminous substances (Meissner) 79 — gastric, theory of (Davidson) . 81 — do. influence on the pancreas (Cor- visart) .... 87 Digestive sysiem ... 78 — diseases of . . . 210 — diseases of, in children . . 397 1 )igitalis, constituents of (Homolle) d34 — therapeutic uses of (Germain) . 60 — do. (do.) , 181 — preparations of (Hirtzel) . 142 — in epilepsy . . . 161 — in hemicrania (Serre) . . 164 — in menorrhagia (Trousseau) . 181 — in organic disease of the heart (Pfaff) 181 — tincture of, in delirium tremens 159 — do, do. (Carey) 147 Dilatation, bronchial (Biermer) . 201 — of the stomach,spontaneous chronic (Luigi) 153 Diphtheria (Wynne) . . 121 — (Carr, Hunt, Newman) . . 122 — (Bndd, Clark, Eddie, Livingston, Newman) 141 — (Budd) .... 469 — at Brighton (Ormerod) . . 140 — in Alabama (Hunter) . . 122 — at Oakland College, Miss. (Goldsmith) 122 — in Onondaga, New York (Kneeland) 122 — nature and history (Slade) . 122 — treatment (Walker) , . 142 — bromide of iodine in (Metcalfe) 122 — treatment by iodine and bromine 396 — tracheotomy and laryngotomy in (Hillier) 194, 254 Diphtheria, membranous croup, tracheo- tomy, rei!Overy (.Johns) . . 194 — paralysis consecutive to (See) . 161 Diphtheritic paralysis . . 151 Diphtheritic inflammation of vulva in secon- dary syphilis (Martin) . . 124 Dirt-eating, atrophy of children from (Moore) 397 Discoid corpuscles (Muller) . 118 Diseases, acute (Cummins) . 123 Diseases of Ike general sysiem . 121 — in particular occupations , 461. Diseases of weavers (Seeman) . 465 — of colliers (Demarquette) . 466 — of watchmakers (Perron) . 466 Diseases, epidemic and endemic . 4-68 Diseases, popular, dependence of, on conditions of weather (Haller) , . 461 DisinfeciioH . . . 46 J. Dislocations . . . 277 Dislocations, reduction of, apparatus (Cruise) 277 — of lower jaw (Kalbierske) . 277 — of shoulder-joint, reduction (Smith) 278 — do. (Fleraming, Simington) 279 — scapulo-clavicular (Cooper) . 278 — axillary, reduction, H. H. Smith's method (Dougherty, Wilson) . . 278 — of elbow-joint (Clement, Heitzmann) 279 — do. (Ressel) . 279 — compound, of thumb (Forster) . 283 — of hip-joint (Fifield, Swinburne) 279 — do. reduction (Bartmer, Fabre, Hewson, Letenneur, Sedillot, Wagenseiler) 280 — do, do, (Symes) . 280 — sub-cotyloid (Letenneur) . 280 — of head of humerus, reduction by mani- pulation (Smith) . . ' 278 — of knee-joint, partial (Greenhill) 281 — of patella (Holthouse) , . 280 — of head of tibia inwards (Lyman) 281 — compound, of ankle-joint (Gibbes) 281 — of astragalus (Chassaignac, Lane) 281 — of metatarsal bone (Belin, Pellarin) 281 Dissection, guide to (Ellis). . 1 Dissector's manual (Wilson) . 1 DiTTL, anchylosis of right maxillary joint, artificial joint . . . 276 Diuretics, action of (Welkart) . 220 — in double hydrothorax (Gairdner) 195 Dixon, primary syphilitic ulcer of eyelid 320 — acute glaucoma, iridectomy . 326 DoDEHLEiN (M.) diagnosis of cancerous tu- mours in hypochondrium, &c. . 223 DoiiEN, torsion of the umbilical cord, &c. 343 DoLBEAtr, prolapsus ani cured by suhcuta- ncous injection of sulphate of strychnia 398494. INDEX. DoLi, loss of teeth, its meclico-lugal relations U(i Dolman (A. H.) amputation through knee- johit .... 260 Donaldson, tetanus treated hy stimulation 115 DoxDEus, anomalies of refraction and ac connuodution . . . C6 Dorsal i)ains, import of, in other diseases (Mayer) . . . .152 Douche, uterine, in galactorrhcca (Ahegg) 381 DouonEiiTT (A. N.) reduction of axillary luxation by H. H. Smith's method 278 Dover's powder in phthisis (Deseamps) 208 Down (J. L. H.) imperfect formation of corpus callosum and fornix, &c. . 30, 402 — do. do. 151 DOXXE (0. M.) strangulated inguinal hernia, opium .... 298 Drake, encephalitis terminating in ramol- lissement, &c. . . . 149 Draper, on podophylHn . . 430 Deasciie, icterus in pneumonia . 204 Dropsy, cainca root in (Geneves) . 221 — after scarlet fever (Hambursin) 399 — in mitral insufficiency, &c. (Oppolzer) 178 — in case of mediastinal cancer, paracentesis (ten times) (Begbie) . . 196 — peritoneal, in pregnancy (Pigeolet) 383 — ovarian, closure of iliac arteries by coa- gula in (Clark) . . . 179 Drowning. See Asphyxia. Drtjitt, necessity for repetition of vaccination 132 •— puerperal fever with diphtheria, sesqui- chloride of iron . . . 386 Drunkenness as a cause of epilepsy (Demeaux) 146 Dubois and Pajot, rigidity of os uteri in labour .... 337 Dubois-Reymond (E.) modification of Stenton's experiment • . . 19 — on hemicrania . . . 150, 45 DuBREUiL. See Lanceremx, Dtjchek (A.) on scurvy . . 113 DtTcnEK and Hussa, on ague . 125 DrcnENNE, functional cramp, and paralysis of muscles . . . 157 — progressive muscular paralysis of tongue, lips,&c. . . 174,156-7 DuCHESXE, lead colic in workmen, enamel- lers of iron . . _ . _ 414 Duckworth (Dyce) physiological action of aconitina . . • 153 — do. . . . 420 DucLos, nature and treatment of asthma 199 Du Maury, animal magnetism and somnam- bulism . 167 DuMONTPELLiER. See Troussean. DUNCALFE, chronic cerebral disease 152 Duncan (J.) aneurism of ascending aorta 176 Duncan (J.) opium in puerperal convulsions 388 Duncan (.1. M.) caput succedaneum, <S:c. 334 — obliquity of I'uutal iiead in parturition 331 — lai'ge uterine polypus . . 3G7 — encophalo(!ele . , , 403 — vesico-vaginal fistula . , 379 Duncan (T.) accidental poisoning by opium 422 Dunn (11.) unity of human species 2 — medical psycliology , . 166 DuNSSiURE, rupture of the uterus 31-1 Duodenum, doul)le perforation of (Reich) 294 DupuY, abscess of the cerebellum . 148 DUPUY and Pescheux, subcutaneous injec- tion of sulphate of atropine in traumatic tetamis .... 145 Dura mater, nerves of (Arnold) . 30 — epithelioma of (Meissner) . 146 — thrombosis of sinuses of (Dusch) 181 DuEOziEZ (P.) double intermittent souflie in thigh, aortic valve insufiiciency 179 DuRBANT (C. M.) chorea from fright, in a child . . . .145 DuBSY^, text-book of anatomy . 1 Duscn, report of medical policlinic, Heidel- berg .... 139 — thrombosis of sinuses of dura mater 181 Duval (M.) atlas of topogra^jhic anatomy, &c. . . . .1 Dybkowsky and Peiikan, action of cardiac poisons ... 59 Dysentery, participation of kidneys in the disease (Zimmermann) . . 210 — in infants at Rome . . 398 — acute, ipecacuanha in (Cunningham, Mahon) . . . .211 Dysmenorrhcea and sterility (Coghlan) 365 — apiol ii) (Baillot, Gallico) . 365-6 — do. (Baillot) . 432 — veratrine in (Vannaire) . . 428 Dyspepsia, arsenious acid in (Germain) 415 Dyspnoea (Smith) . . .201 Eade (P.) case of diabetes hisipidus 92 — syphilitic albuminuria . . 92 — ' do. . . 217 — aneurism of aorta, double sac, &c. 176 Ear, sensibility to pitch of musical tones (Fessel) .... 68 — practical anatomy of (Troeltsch) 64 — middle, anatomy of (Magnus) . 67 — imperfect development of (Wakley) 401 — absence of external (Le Briero) . 401 — anatomico-pathological examinations of (Voltolini) . . . .329 — diseases of (Bounafont) . . 329 — do. auscultation in (Jleinere) 329 — do. diagnostics (Smith) . 329 — external, blood-cyst in cartilage of (Ilulke) 329INDEX. 495 Ear of the insane, hromatic swelling of (Guclden) 167 Ear-lobes, fibro-plastic tumours of (Stille) 329 Earle, new pelvimeter . . 333 Ebstein (W.) microscopic changes in starch from action of saliva . . 79 Eccentricity, moral phenomena of (Mayo) 168 Ecehymoses, punctiform, under pleura, sig- nification of (Liman) . . 447 EcHEVEEKiA (G.) atrophic fatty palsy in in- fancy .... 147 — diseases of nervous system . 147 — reflex paraplegia . . 149,158 Echinococci in hydatid cyst of neck (Sand) 118 Echinus, tooth of (Salter) . . 9 EcKHAHDT (C.) contributions to anatomy and physiology . . .1 Eclampsia. See Convulsions (puerperal). Ecrasenr, use in hypertrophy of the right tonsil (Lawrence) . . 247 — use in cancer of the tongue (Parker) 247 Ectropion, prevention of (Dehrow) 323 — sarcomatous (Sichel) . . 323 Eczema, treatment (Hardy) . 227 Eddie (W. H.) diphtheria, &c., at Barton- upon-Humber . . . 141 Eddowes, popliteal aneurism, ligature 292 Edmunds (J.) Csasarean section . 350 Edmtjndson, rupture of the uterus 344 Edts^aeds (A. M.) notes on tracheotomy 194 — tracheotomy and hernia . 254 — strangulated hernia . . 297 — radical cure of inguinal ruptures 301 — congenital cancer of arm . 317 Edwaeds (C.) laceration of perinajum 346 Edwaeds (F. S.) removal of a naso-pha- ryngeal polypus . . . 252 Edwaeds (St. John) on abdominal shock 358 — fever at Liverpool . . 469 EiXBEODT, influence of respiratory move- ments on the heart's impulse . 26 EiSEXSTuCK, on preservation of urine 464 Elasticity of organic tissues (Wundt) 115 Elbow-joint. See Dislocations, JExeisions. Electrical organ of torpedo (Schnltze) 113 Electric cauterization in diseases of women ^ (Ellis) .... 388 I'jlectric current, behaviour of muscles to, in facial paralysis (Schulz) . 161 — in neuralgia (Becquerel) . 164 Electric inntation, insensibility of cerebro- spinal ecmtres to (Van Deen) . 34 Electric light, production of green matter of leaves under (Mangon) . . 108 Electric sensation, law of (Pfiiiger) 64 Electricity, diflerent physiological action of positive and negative poles (Nivelct) 45 — influence of, on spinal cord (Kunde) 38 — in treatment of disease (Meyer) 152 — in midwifery (Baer) . , 356 Electricity, wry-neck treated by (Altbaus) 174 Electrolysis, production of vibrations and musical sounds by (Gore) . 109 Electro-motor power of nerves, secondary (Matteucci) ... 45 — do. do. . 113 Electro-physiology (Matteucci) . 46 Elephantiasis (Day) . . 228 — of foot and ankle (Thompson) . 313 — of scrotum (Fergusson) . .311 Elimination of manganese (Turner) 62 — of mercury (Schneider) . . 61 Eliminative method in acute rheumatism (Richardson) . . .123 Elliot (G. T.) difficult obstetric cases 331 Elliott (W. A.) contraction of palmar fascia 328 Ellis (C.) origin, nature, and use of wine 47 EiLiS (G. V.) demonstration of anatomy 1 Ellis (R.) case of chorea . . 145 — phases of uterine ulcer . . 361 Elytroid (Combes) . . ,389 Emboli, review of works on . 179 — of blood-vessels (Cohn) . , 180 — of the arteries (Sibley) . . 188 — of cerebral vessels (Meissner) . 185 — of femoral artery (Adams) 180 — do. ' (do.) 289 — of pulmonary artery (Trousseau) 189 — of branches of pulmonary artery (Fritz) 180 — of sylvian artery (Lebert) . 180 — spontaneous gangrene from (Simonin) 180 Embolism, hemiplegia resulting from (Wal- then) . . . .180 Embolism, cases of (Addison, Bristowe, Buhl, Frames, Jenner, Kapfl^, Luton, Lancereaux, Oppolzer, Ogle, Rees, Thudi- chum, Tiingel) . . . 180 Emmenagogues in amenorrhcea (Baillot, Rizet, Simpson) . . . 365 — do. (Gallico) . 366 Emphysema, universal, in pertussis (Bier- bauin) .... 196 — of the lungs (Marsh) . . 194 — infantile pulmonary (Hervieux) 396 — pulmonary, position of heart in (Bam- berger) .... 185 — sub-pleui"itic traumatic (Scarenzio) 197 — with fracture of ribs (Wakley) 267-8 — baths of compressed air in (Bertin) 204 Empyema (Brunniche) . . 197 — (Marsh) . . ,194 — necessitatis (Geigel) . . 197 — pulsatile (lleyfelder) . . I97 — choleraic collapse (Gairdner) . I95 — with pncnmothorax without perforation of jilcura (Keller) , . 19.1,196 INDEX. Encephalitis, terminating in ramoHissoinent, &c. (Drake) . . . wj Eiicephaloeelo (Bird, Duncan, Micluiel) 403, 403 Encliondroma of parotid region, softening (Lannay). . . .318 — of right shoulder-blade, extirpation (Becli) 318 — on dorsum of left hand (Hargrave) 318 — of the lung . . . 19G — and carcinoma (Benokc) . 117 — peripheral, extiri)ation of (Bock) 205 lOndemic degeneration (Browne) . 170 i'iudemics, report on (Gililis) . 123 Kndocarditis, with insufliciency of mitral and aortic valves (Lebert) ' . 180 — acute (Worms) . . . 180 — suppurative (Lambl) . . 178 l';n(logenous origin of pus and mucus-cells (Remak). . . . 118,112 Endometritis, puerperal (Martin) . 380 Kndostitis of left tibia, &c. (Baiir) . 201 lO.VGELMANX, Kreutzuacli mineral waters in affections of uterus . . 359 l^uonymus Europceus, poisoning by seeds of (Cli-aser) , . . 432 lOxos and Clauk, encysted disease of the cerebeUura . . . . 147 Enteritis of sucklings (Barillier) . 398 Enterotomy for intestinal obstruction (Bauer, Lawson, Pagenstecher, Tiingel) 290, 290 Entozoa (oxyuris verm.) in the insane (Vix) 106 Entropion, cure for (Williams) . 323 Ependyma, formation of pus in (Porster) 120 Rpendyma of cerebral cavities, pathology of (Lambl) . . . .117" Ependyma ventriculorum, enormous growth of, in chronic hydrocephalus (Forster) 120 Epidemic diseases, contagion of (Milroy) 124 Ujjidemios and endemics . . 408 Epidemics, report on (Gibbs) . 123 — dependence of, on conditions of weather (Haller) . , . . 461 — in relation to terrestrial magnetism, &c. (Fuchs) . . . 402 — 1860, Philadelphia (.lewell) . 123 Epiglottis, function of (Beveridge) 113 Epilepsy, lifty-two cases of (Sieveking) 155 — drunkenness as a cause of (l)emeaux) 146 —• from uterus (Mayer) . . 364 — from artificial teeth . . 150 — with loss of speech, recovery (Gray) 155 — with disease of the heart (Flint) 177 — relations of sudden, irresistible determina- tions to (Trousseau) . . 455 — death in, from suffocation by regurgita- of food (Lalor) . . . 145 — associated with syphilis. . 146 — belladonna in (Sankey) . 146 — bromide and iodide of potassium in (Wilks) 146 Epilepsy, treatment by curare (Thiercelin) 146, 42'J — cotyledon umbilicus in (Rodrigues) 145 — digitalis in . . . igi — cured by counter-irritation (Horning) 145 — surgical treatment (Fillings) . 245 — tre])hining in (Buren, Maskol, Sayre) 240 Epileptic convulsions of right side (Meissner) 146 Epileptics, responsibility of (Baillarger) 165 Epileptiform convulsions (Ayres) 156 — do. deposit of bone on the brain, &c. (Crosby) . . 146 Epileptoid attacks (Rabe) . . liG ICpiphysis of radius, detachment of (Goyrand, Hutchinson) . . . 270 Epistaxis, persistent (Sleveking) . 177 — arrested by digital compression (Hiart de Mugron). * . . . 252 Epithelial cancroid (Forster) . 121 Epithelioma of dura mater (Mebsner) 146 — of lip (Feors) . . .318 — extirpation of parotid gland (Demarquay) 318 Epithelium, if formed by pulmonary vesi- cles? (Deichler). . . 69 Eeam (P.) on midwifery in the East 331 Erectile tissue, transformation of (Michel) 193 Ergot of rye, is it, during labour, dangerous to life of child ? (West) . . 355 — in retention of placenta (Pajot) 356 — See Secale. Eeichsen, fracture of skuU of a hydroce- phalic infant . . . 244 — wound of larynx and neck, aerial fistula , 253 — disarticulation of shoulder-joint 259 — fracture of ribs and both clavicles, reco- very by rest . . . 268 — necrosis of radius, resection . 282 — disease of hip-joint, partial anchylosis, excision .... 283 — ruptured femoral aneurism . 290 — median lithotomy, twenty-one calculi removed .... 305 — hematoma over symphysis pubis 315 — encephaloid cancerous tumour in sartorius muscle .... 317 — keloid in cicatrix of a burn . 319 j — ovariotomy . . . 375 | Erlenmeteb, injurious effects of marriaeo of relations . • . ' Erysipelas (Forrer) . . --" — iierchloride of iron in (Aran, Pirrie) 122 — puerperal (Pihan, Retzius) . I^''' — do. (Sidey) . . 386 — infantile (Smith) . . 400 — do. umbilical . . i'" EsCHEiuoH, infantile mortality . 458IMDEX. 497 EscoLii!, fhuguiragiui in inteniiittents 125 KsMAECU (F.) employinont of cold in surgery 238 — deformity of tlic leg from badly united fracture . . • 272 — artiticial jaw-joint, (Dittl, Verneuil) 27G, 27G EsTEHLE (C.) on extracting the fa'tu.s by genital passages before death when death of mother certain . . 340 Ether, local application of, in neuralgia (Bet- beder) .... 149 — sulphuric, as an anaesthetic (Lente) 150 — do. compared with chloroform as an ana-'sthetic (Lente) . . 47 — do. alleged dangers from inhala- tion of . . . .197 Ether compresses in neuralgia (Betbeder) 146 Ktherization in hysterical aphonia (Lente) 195 — in hysteria (Bonnes) . 359 Kttinger (P. G.) relations of blood to mus- cular irritability . . 16 I'^uphorbia prostrata, antidote to i)oison of rattlesnake (Irwin) . . 231 I'histachian tube, action of, in man (Toynbee) C7 — catlieterism of (Semeleder) . 330 Evans, fracture through base of skull 241 — poisoning by berries of belladonna 423 I'lxciision of joints . . . 282 llxcisions of joints, statistics of (Heyfeldcr) '235 — statistics in provincial hospitals (Hut- chinson) .... 282 — of bones : trunk and head (Schillback) 261 -r- of the jaw (Roser) . . 249 — do. upper, and malar bone (Butcher) 249 — do. do. (Fergusson) 249 — do. lower (Pitha). . 251 — of coronoid process for anchylosis of jaw (Langenbeck) . . . 250 — of clavicle (Euqua) . .261 — of shoulder-joint (Pean, Post) . 282, 282 — of elbow-joint (Erichsen, Fergusson, Tuff- ncll, Whaley, Wood) . .282, 282 — of the radius (Butcher) . . 262 — of carpal and metacarpal bones (Cooper) 282 — of articular end of phalanx (Forster) 283 — for disease of the hip-joint (Bowman, l)e Morgiin, Ericliscn, Fergusson, Part- ridge, Price, Winnc) . . 283 — do. (Collis, Pagen-steeher) 284,281. - of the head of femur (Peters) . 283 — of knee-joint (Canton, Sympson) 281 — ' do. (Fergusson, Frith, yniith) 281 — do. (Bauer, Coopci', Fergusson, Hewctt, Lucet, I'orter, Smith) . 285 E.xcision of knee-joint (Butcher, Porter, Price, Smith, Wlialcy) . 285 — do. (Pope, Williams) . 286 — of OS calcis for caries (Barton) . 264 — of tendons in amputation of forearm (Croskery) . . . 259 — of branches of the fifth pair (Bratscb) 150 Excitation, conduction of, in nerves (Munk) '14 Exercise, influence of, on tissue-change (Voil) 4S — do. (Lehmann, Speck) 110 Exomphalos and fcetal malformation (Hal- four) .... 401 Exostosis on temporal bone (Cooper) 205 — of teeth (Tofohr) . . . 329 — of thumb, finger, and toe (Pancoast) 266 — subungual (Post) . . 266 — from cervical rib, pressure on axillary vessels, &c. (Coote) . . 266 Expiration, stoppage of, by irritation of vagus (Ovvsjannikow) . . 70 Extension in fractures (Swinbm-ne) 266 Exudation, pericardial (Oppolzer) . 178 Eve, reflected image in one's own (Becker) 66 — simultaneous action of the two (Nagel) 63 — adjusting movements of^ influence of re- tina on (Burow) . . 63 — accommodation of the (Wells) 327 — See Vision. — homologies of, in invertebrata (Hicks) 63 — smooth muscles in (Midler) . 65 — nerve-plexuses in (Muller) . 65 — See Pupil. — pathological histology, atlas (Wedl) 322 — diseases of, plates (Ruete) . 322 — diseases of sclera and eyeball (Hasner) 322 — malformations and congenital diseasc^s (Wilde) .... 322 — do. (do.) , 405 — motor disorders of (Horing) . 327 — aberration of the (Zollner) . 64' — inflammation of, aconite in (Blodig) 325 — myopic, muscaj volitantes (Jago) 326 — paralysis of the muscles of (Hutchinson) 327 — surgery of (Lawrence) . . 322 — operations on (Prichard) . 238 — ])aracentesisof (Cornuty) . 325 Eyeballs, protrusion of, with goitre (Trouss3a\i) 221 Eye-dtops (Wilde) . . . 322 Eyelid, cysto-sarconia of (Dauscher) 323 — Sec Ectropion, Entropion, Tricldasis. EriiEL (F.) physiology of the voice 64 Pabue (A.) luxatio femoris . 280498 INDEX. Face, pniii in, cure by extraction of teetli (Friedberg) , . , 104 Fceces .... 83 Ficces, influence of prison discipline and diet on (Smith) ... 83 — coloration of, from mercurials (Inman) 61 — excretion of, in the tropicrs (Lawson) 100 i — incontinence of, IVoni burn of rcctuni (Nelaton) . . .303 Falck, action of soluble salts of zinc 412 Falconer (R. W.) TBath waters in saturnine jjoisoning, colic, &c. . . 147 Fallopian tubes, separation of ovary from atrophy of (Tiuner) . . 370 — separation from the ovaries, &c. (Roki- tansky) .... 370 Fallopian tubes, dis€ases of . 370 Faraday (M.) on forces of matter . 3 Faradization, inCruveilhiei-'s atrophy (Lente) 149 Faebee (R. H.) efl'ects of draughts of water on quantity of the urine, and on chloride of sodium in it . . .92 Faeee (A.) induction of labour . 347 Faeee (F. J.) cerebral symptoms in acute rheumatism . . . 123 — croup, tracheotomy . . 256 Fat, experiment with (E. Smith) . 97 — operation of pancreatic juice on (Skre- bitzki) .... 87 Fattening, aptitudes for, in cattle (Baude- ment) .... 116 Fatty degeneration of the heart (Plazer) 177 Faucoiwet, sulphuret of antimony in dis- eases of the heart . . 178 Fatike, vitality of foetus . . 391 Favus and its fungus (Richter) . 103 Faye, diseases of infants at Christiania 392 Febrifuge, topical . . . 234 Fechnee, binocular vision . 63 Femur, congenital anomalies of (Friedleben) 402 — medullary cancer of (Paget) . 265 — superficial caries of, from diffused aneu- rism (Jackson) . . . 264 — necrosis of (Fergusson) . . 263 —■ left, necrosis of (Sayres) . 263 — periostitis of left (Bauer) . 276 — removal of lower end, &c. (Cooper) 263 — See Fractures of. Femgee, abortive treatment of zona 227 Feohs, epithelioma of lip . . 318 Fergusson (W.) excision of superior maxilla 249 — fibrous tumour of antrum, removal 250 — fibrous tumour of left superior maxilla 250 — disease of larynx, tracheotomy, recovery 256 — disarticulation of shoulder-joint for me- dullary tumour . . . 259 Fergusson (W.) necrosis of femur 263 — excision of eli)ow-joint . , 282 — disease of hip-joint, excision . 283 — excision of knee-joint . . 285 — re-excision of knee-joint , 284 — lithotomy in children . . 305 — obliteration of urethra, forcible cathe- terism .... 309 — elephantiasis of scrotum, removal 311 — fibrous tumour over parotid . 313 — scirrhous cancer of male breast 316 — medullary tumour of cheek in an infant 317 — do. . 400 — melanotic tumour of arm, caustics 317 — colloid tumour on back . . 318 — fibroid tumour above left breast 319 — tumour from left auricle . 329 Ferments, origin of (Pasteur) . 460 Fekon (A. L.) primitive peri-nephritis 221 Feeeand, obstinate vomiting in pregnancy 383 Fessei, sensibility of the ear to pitch of musical tones ... 68 Fever (Skoda, Schift', Zimmermann) 125 — causation of, case of Egyptian frigate at Liverpool (Milroy) . . 129 — in Liverpool (Hamilton) . 124 — do. (Irvine, Hunter, &e.) 469 — in the Zambesi (Livingstone) . 131 — in relation to mental alienation (Berthier) 166 — arsenious acid in (TmTier) . 132 — continued, renewal of life in (Chambers) 124 — eruptive, early symptoms of (See) 134 — hectic, simulating ague (Peacock) 123 — intermittent, alcohol in (Guyot) 123 — do. arsenic in (Chappie) 131 — do.' do. (Sistach)122 — do. chuguiragua in (Escolar) 125 — do. chloroform in (Alienza) 122 — do. lotus corniculatus in (Fliigel) 431 — do. nitric acid in (Hammond) 131 — do. quinium in (Regnauld) 131 — do. sulphate of einchonine in (Grisollc) . . .123 — puerperal. See Puerperal. — quotidian ha3moptoic(Dogranges) 195 — rheumatic, treatment of (O'Donovan) 133 — paralysis consecutive to (See) . 161 Fibre, siiiooth muscular (Fick) . 19 Fibres, nerve-, modes of termination of (Krause) ... 42 Fibrinous obstructions in the arteries (Sibley) 188 Fibula, medullary cancer of (Curling, Law- rence) .... 265 — rapid union of tibia with (Meachaui) 2^2 FiCK (A.) on smooth muscular fibre 19INDEX. 499 1 iCK (A.) oxperlments on the sense of touch 69 i'lEBiiK, on syphili/.ation . . 13G Fiedler, atro])hy of the cerebeUum 146 Field (A. G.) VVood's operation for radical cure of hernia modified . 301 FiFiELD, dislocation of hip . 279 FiLHOL and Baillet, action of seeds of lolium teunilentuni on rabbits and dogs 435 FiXKELNBlTEO, osteomalacia combined with insanity .... 166 — influence of imitative tendency in diffu- sion of insanity . . . 173 Fi>'NEiL, gunshot wound . . 240 — punctured wound of lung . 257 — erectile gluteal tumour . . 313 ■ FisCHEE (J.) fracture of sternum . 268 Fish, poisonous, of tropical countries (Fons- sagrives).... 442 — vagus nerves of (Hoffinann) . 30 Fistula, aerial (Erichsen) . . 253 Fistula in ano (Coulson) . . 303 — do. healing of (Chisholm) 303 — do. in consumptive people, not to be operated on . . . 212 Fistula), vesico-vaginal operations (Bozeman, Brown, Collis, Duncan, Sims, Wells) 379 — recto-vaginal (Bozeman, Wells) 379 — vesico-vaginal (Jackson, Lane) . 380 — do. (Adler, Foucher, James, Jobert) . . . .380 — vesieo-uterine (Leishman) . 380 — do. (Foucher, Jobert) 380 Fistulous opening into pharynx (Stanley) 249 Flat-foot, treatment (Roser) . 328 Flechkee (A. E.) three cases of tetanus 154 — cases of mental disease . 456 Flechsig (R.) recent contributions to balneo- logy .... 122 Fleming, acute ophthalmia . 325 1'lemmikg (C.) dislocation of shoulder-joint 279 Flint (A.) disease of heart and epilepsy 177 — functional aphonia and chronic laryngitis 195 — lectures on auscultation . 198 — pneumonia, analysis of 133 cases 202 — do. examination of piilmonary cavities .... 202 — pot. chlorat. in phthisis. . 206 Floueens, longitudinal development of bones 11 — relative independence of cerebral func- tions .... 31 — coloration of foetal bones by medium of mother's circulation . . 104 Flowee (W. H.) diagrams of the nerves 30 — posterior lobes of cerebrum of quadru- mana and brain of a galago . 31 Flowers," wild, British (Sowerby) . 107 Flijgel, use of lotus corniculatus in inter- mittent fever . . . 431 Fluids, mutual interpenetration of (Murray) 108 — instrument for subcutaneous introduction of, in affections of nerves . 47 Focic (C.) loose cartilages in joints 274 Foetal bones, coloration of, by medium of mother's circulation (Flourens, Tigri) 104 Foetation. See Pregnancy. Foetus, vitality of (Faure) . . 391 — position in premature and twin births (Veit) .... 339 — anencephalous (Danyau) . 403 — epidermic cells of, development of (Robin) 103 — effect of carbonic-acid baths on develop- ment of . . . . 104 — independent liability of, to disease (Cooke) 401 — in utero, injury (Panthel) . 405 — strangulation of, by knotting of the cord (Bartscher) . . .405 Fatus, diseases, 8fc., of . . 401 Foetuses, calcified (Albers) . 334 Follicles, dental, origin of (Robin) 9 Follicular glands at the root of the tongue (Bottcher) ... 78 FoNSSAGEiTES, acutc polsoniuff by iodine 410 — and Leeoy de Meeicotjet, poisonous fish of tropical countries . 442 — and Woillez, engorgement of bronchial glands, a cause of asphyxia . 192 Food, on (Lankester) . . 47 — and digestion (Brinton) . 78 Food, 2}hi/sioIoffical action . 47 •— adulteration, &fC. . . 466 Foot, human (Humphry) . . 2 — anatomical explanation of (Szymanowski) 260 Foramen ovale, patent (Schultze) . 401 Force, conservation of, in organic nature (Helmholtz) ... 7 Forces of matter (Faraday) . 3 Forceps, craniotomy, &c. (Chassagny, Kris- teller, Martin, Spondli, Winckel) 351 — obstetric (Sinclair) . . 351 — do. modified form for cases of elon- gated foetal heads (Hewitt) . 352 FoEDOS, nature of blue pus . 112 Foreign bodies in the air-passages (Padley) 195 — do. (Padley) . 256 — in larynx (Cliittenden) . . 256 — in air-passages, looped wire for (Tomson) 195, 256 FoEGET, influence of warm climates on phthisis .... 194 — tuberculous cachexia without phthisis 196 — treatment of zona . . 227 — and Campana, hypertrophy of the heart 182 Formations, development of new (Neumann) 118500 INUKX. Forms, s»if cession of, in propiigiition of jjliiuts and nninials (Ogilviu) . . 2 Fornix, imperfect fonnntion of (Down) 30 do. . 15], 102 I'OKIIKU, forms of erysiiK'las . 227 FoiisTKit (A.) osteomalacia in cancerous patients .... 120 — enormous "growth of the cpendyma in hydrocephalus . . . 120 — tuberculous peritonitis . . 120 — tuherclc in tlio brain . . 120 — epithelial cancroid . . 121 — tumours of thyroid gland . 225 — penetration of vernix caseosa and meco- nium into pulmonary vesicles . 405 FoBSTEB (C.) abscess of larynx, tracheotomy 255 — See Hiflcs. FosTKB (M.) diabetes, cure . 215 FoTTCHEK, atresia oris after scurvy 246 — Laugier's method of bandaging amputa- tion stumps . , . 258 — acupressure for arrest of hemorrhage 286 — wtero- and urethro-vesico-vaginal fistula3 380 — prolapsus ani in children, subcutaneous injection of sulphate of strychnine 398 FouQUET, poisoning by acetate of lead 414 FouEKiE, cauterization of the larynx, &c. 197 — penetration of pulverulent bodies into respiratory passages . . 407 Foveas glandul;u'es of cranial fossa (Luschka) 34 FowNES (G.) manual of chemistry 2 Fox (E. L.) intestinal perforation . 211 Fox (T.) puerperal fever . . 384 Fractures . . . . 266 Fractures, interesting cases (Waeckerling) 267 — in infants (Coulon) . . 267 — with impaction of ends of the bones (VoiUemier) . . .267 — Barton and Colles's method of treating (Swinburne) . . .269 — extension in (Swinburne) . 266 •— compoiind, statistics at St. George's Hos- pital (Cooper) . . . 267 — do., analysis of 302 cases (Bryant) 266 — ununited, treated by Smith's apparatus (Waters) . . .267 — disunited by gout (O'Kielly) . 267 — of skull. Sec Cranium (fractures of). — of clavicle, adhesive straps for(Culbertson) 269 — do. compound (Little) . 268 — of humerus above the condyles, oblicpie (Parmentier) . . . 270 — of neck of humerus (Buck) . 269 — ununited, of the os humeri (Cooper) 269 — of condyle of humerus (Pancoast) 269 — of radius (Gray, Hutchinson, Lecorate, Mason) . . .269 Fra(rtures of lower extremity (Gordon) 27i i — of vertebra' (Currant, Hutchison) 268 — of ribs and clavicle (Krichsen) . 268 — of sternum (Fischer) . . 26K — of sternum and ribs (Marshall) . 268 — of ribs, with emphysema (Wakley) 2G7-S — of ribs, pelvis, &c. (Cutler) . 268 — of sacrum (Hamon) . . 268 — of jjclvis (Lawson) . . 268 — of lower extremity (Clark) . 270 — do. suspensory apparatus for (Smith) . . . 270 — of the fenmr (Hlack, Cooper, Cornaz, Hartshorne, Hilton, Mash, Symonds Terry) . , . .271 — do. apparatus for (Cotting) 270 — do. do. (Cooper, Harts- borne, Thomas) . . . 271, 271 — do., by simple extension (Swinburne) 270 — do., condyles of (Cornaz) . 271 — of leg, scorbutic (Ure) . . 272 — do. badly united, deformity, osteotomy (Esmarch) . . . 272 — of the patella (Packard, Waklev) 280 — do. (Pancoast) 280 — do. double (Tufnell) . 271 — do. transverse (Guichard) 271 — of tibia (Black) . . 271 — do. delirium, recovery (Cock) 272 — do. ununited (Townsend) , 272 — of fibula (Black) . . 271 Frames, cases of embolism . 180 Feance (J. F.) syphilitic blotch of conjunc- tiva .... 324 — diabetic cataract . . 325 Frankfurt, re]iort on hospitals and sanitary condition of . . . 125 FEAJ."QrE, hysterical conTOlsious . 158 — puerpei'al fever . . 385 Feeke (H.) origin of species, by organic affinity . . . _ . 2 Feemt, croton-oil liniment in typhoid fever 129 FEETTAa, action of compounds of lead on the body . . . J13 Fhickhoffek, imncture in cancer of bladder 305 — poisoning by phosphorus . 409 — medico-legal opinion on death from a gun- shot wound . . . 441 Feiedbeeo, import of involuntary circular movement of the body, &c. . 157 — cure of pain in fiice by extraction of teeth 164 Feiediandke and Baeisch, secretion of the bile . . . _ • . Feiedleben, gi-owing rachitic bones in o:ii ly childhood . . • ■ ■ '' — congenital anomalies of femora . 402 Feiedbeicii, responsibility for acts cii- mitted in rage . . • 45G Frieni). See Hunter.IXDEX. 501 Fi i'rlit, iu a child, chorea from (Durrant) 1.15 FniTU, oxcision of knee-joint . 281 1'hitz, multiple emboli of branches of pul- monary artery . . • 180 iind Lnox, coagulation of the blood in cerebral sinuses . . . 118 I'KOEJUJiLixs, iiterygium sarcomatosum su- perius of right eye . . 321 Frog, structure of retina in (Manz) 65 — termination of radiating fil)res in retina of(Ritter) . . . 66 l''i!0>'3ti'iLEi{, combination of variola and sypliilis .... 123 — on syphilizatiou . . 13G — Indian hemp, its power of producing sleep .... 435 — application of coal-tar gypsum . 461 Fucns, epidemic diseases of Europe in rela- tion to terrestrial magnetism, &c. 462 Functional disorders from abode in great cities (Bourguignon) . . 147 Fimgus of sheaths of tendons (Xotta) 314 Fungus luematodes of ovary and uterus (Corse) . . . .371 Funis umbiliealis, anomalies of, a cause of death of fuitus (Janssens) . 343 — do. torsion of (Dohru) 343 — do. instrument for reposition of prolai)scd (Wilson) . . 310 FuxKU (0.) text-book of physiology 1 PrQt A (\V. M.) excision of the clavicle for caries .... 264 Furuncles of tlie face, sudden death after (Moore) .... 189 (4ACHEX, transjjosition of viscera . 402 GAiKDXEii (A. K.) Sec Ganhiei: CiAiEBXEii (W. T.) alcoholic stimulants iu hospital practice . . 125 — i)aralysis of the portio dm'a . 151 — epidemic of liysteria in a reformatory, hysterical mania, &c. . , 151 — do. do. 359 — muscular atrophy . . 159 — cardiac umrnnn's . . 178 — pericarditis and allied diseases . 178,185 — empyema, choleraic collapse . 195 — do\il)le hydrothorax or plenrisv, diuretics 195 — on ileus . . . 210 — infantih; death-rates . . 391 — and Ualoaxe, tumour at base of brain 152 (Jalactorrhaa, uterine douche in (Abegg) 381 Galago, brain of a (Flower) . 31 Oall-bladdcr, absence of (Simpson) 404 Gall-stones, formation of (Tliudichnm) 81') — diagnosis of (Wolfl) . . 222 — vomiting of (Miles) . . 210 — treatment (Vollant) . . 223 Gat-iico and Poggeschi, apiol in amenor- rhwa and dysmenorrhoBa . 366 Gallioo, on syphilis . . 137 I Qailo, poisoning by copper . 413 Galloway (K.) qualitative analysis 3 Galvanism versus the " ready method" (.Tennings) • . . 74 — in rheumatic paralysis (Leared) 151 Gidvauo-caustic in gymccology (Griinevaldt) 389 — in surgery (Walker) . . 238 Ganglion-cells of the choroid (Schweigger) 66 Oangrene .... 242 Gangrene of one lung (Merriman) . 152 — of the leg, in case of acute endocarditis (Worms) . . .180 — of the foot, in obstruction of abdominal aorta (Broca) . . . 179 — of bothfeetfromfrostbite(Bullen) 242 — spontaneous (Buntzen) . . 124 — do. (Laborde) . 180 — do. from emboli (Simonin) 180 Gaednee (A. K.) translation of Scanzoni's 'Diseases of the Female Sexual Organs' 357 — on lactatics . . . 381 Gaednee (J.) intermarriage of relations [not] a cause of degeneracy of offspring 106 Gaeimoxd, statistics of Montpellier hos- pitals, influence of climate on phthisis 209 Gakneb (R.) brain in man and animals 30 Gaiieawat (E.) case of resuscitation 74 (rAEEEXSON (J. E.) diseases of the mouth 249 — odontocele, &c. . . . 329 •— anomalies of dentition . . 329 — alveolar abscess . . . 329 —■ trismus .... 329 Gas, coal (Bovvditch) . . 463 Gases of the alimentary canal (I'laner) 82 Gastaldi, salutary influence of raonutaiii climates in incipient phthisis . 196 Gastric digestion, theory of (Davidson) 81 Gastric jnice, constituents of (Marcet) 79 — See JDiffesiion. Gastrotomy for internal strangulation (Pagenstecher) . . . 295 — in right hypochondi-ium for foreign body (Suarez) .... 295 — for extnx-uterlne gestation (Adams) 335 Gaucuet (A.) idiopathic contraction in pregnant women . . 148 — retro-uterine hajmatocele . 370 — contraction of extremities in pregnancy 383 Gautiee. See Maitrive. Gay (.1.) stricture, incision or dilatation 309 tiEEEDS, origin of psychical diseases 166 Gegexbaue (C.) boundaries of animal and vegetable kingdoms . . 1 Geigel (A.) results of eighty-four autop- sies .... 124 — empyema necessitatis . . 197 33503 INDEX. GEiBSLEn. Sco Wunderlich. Gelatine, Chineso, or agur-ngar (Lipowitz) 43G Generation and Development . 103 Generation, alternate (Jager) . 107 — spontaneous (Joly, Torreil) . 106 — do. (Pasteur) . . 460 Generation, generative system . 92 — ffenito-urinari/ si/slem . . 92 — (jenito-urinary organs, injuries, calculi, ifo 301. Generation^ organs of, irritation of (Behrend) 399 — do. action of opium on (Woodward) ... 96 Generation, organs of, female, physiology of 356 Generation, organs of, female, arrested de- velopment (Cruise) . . 103,360 Generation, external organs of, female, dis- eases .... 375 Generation, organs of, female, plastic opera- tions on (Beatty) . . 359 — do. atresia of (Puech) 376 — do. cancroids of (Mayer) 376 — do. vegetations of, during pregnancy (Thibierge) . . 376 Genetic cycle in organic nature (Ogilvie) 2 Genotes y Tio, cainca root in dropsy 221 Gentles (T. L.) citric-acid solution of mag- netic phosphate of iron, a tonic . 124 Geopfeot Sx. Hilaiee, anthropological classification . . .2 Geology, essays on (Hunter) . 2 Geehardt (C.) position of the diaphragm 70 — heart disease, cases of . . 182 — application of the si)eculum laryngis 198 — position of the diaphragm . 205 — physical diagnosis . . 205 — diseases of children . . 390 — and F. EoXH, syphilitic diseases of the larynx .... 198 — do. do. . 253 Geehain, action of digitalis . 60 ■— therapeutic uses of digitalis . 181 — arsenious acid in dyspepsia . 415 Gestation. See Pregnancy. Gheel, lunatic colony of (Sibbald) . 170 GiBB (G. D.) chlorides, cystine, &c., in urine in case of long-continued sweating 92 — crystals of diabetic sugai' . 95 — cartilages of Wrisberg in larynx of a Mona monkey . . . 114 — haemorrhage from the ears in hooping- cough .... 200 — diseases and injuries of hyoid bone 212 —- inflammatory disease of the skin of the head, &c., in foetus . . 402 GiBBES, compound dislocation of ankle-joint 281 GiBBS (O. C.) report on ci)idcinics and endemics . . . 123 OiLcnniST, indigo in urine . Ginseng, root of (Armand) GiNTBAC, congenital absence of uterus — absence of uterus and vagina . 403 — hydromeningocele . . 4<ja GiUALuiis, on the innominate body 1 — congenital tumour of gluteal region 402 GiEAED, case of cyanosis . . 181 GiEAUD. See Nivet. Gieaud-Teulox, movements of lateral decentration of crystalline apparatus 07 — binocular ophthalmoscope . 3:i2 Glands, bronchial, engorgement of, a cause of asphyxia (Fonssagrives) . 192 — closed lenticular (Ilenle) . 89 — See Lymphatic, Parotid, Thyroid, ^c. Glanders-poisoning (Buntzen) . 122 — do. (do.) . 123 Glaucoma, new operation for (Nunnelev) 326 — Hancock's operation for division of ciliary muscle (Bumstead) . . 32G — acute, iridectomy (Dixon) . 326 Gleet, successful treatment (Otterson) 222. Glisczynski, Ca;sarean section, success 350 Glossitis, acute (Hilton) . . 247 — _ do. (Leggatt) . . 246 Glottis, spasm of, endermic application of morphia (Bernard) . . 148 — spasm of the (Marsh) . . 195 — See (Edema of. Glucosuria in burns (HUl). . 92, 215' GODEFEOY, Ca;sarean section, success 350^ Goitre, congenital (Beraud) . 402 — exophthalmic (Ai'au) . . 179, 2341 — with protrusion of eyeballs (Trousseau) 234, Gold, arseniate of, therapeutic applications (Massart) . . . 415 GoiDsAiTU, diphtheria at Oakland College, Miss 122 _ GoLiTziifSKT, local croupo-diphtheritic cpi-- demic .... 395 — leuka;mia of sucklings . . 397 GoLL, minute anatomy of spinal cord 3S Gomez de Valle, acute ascending paralysis 145 GoNOD, salt with iodides and bromides 411 Gonorrhoea Gonorrhoea in women (Hassing) . — doses of balsam in (Dauve) — cure by blisters (Miles) . GoEDON (A.) fracture of lower extremityp radius .... GOEE (G.) production of vibrations ami sical sounds by electrolysis . 109 GoEE (W. E.) case of hydrophobia 15i^ — do. remarkable . irC — conservative surgery of the joints 27 " GoRTZ, injury to the skull. . .• 7 GossELlx, spontaneous mydriasis in eyes . < • . 3i/INDEX. 603 GOXTIIEB, text-book of phtirmaceuticul che- mistry .... 406 GOTJKBEii,, shot injui-y of the left shoulder, etc 2-10 GouKiJJT (D.) removalof pessaryfrom rectum 304 — eclampsia, nitrate of potash and stramo- nium for .... 388 Gout, Bath waters in (Falconer) . ] 47 — fracture disunited by (O'Rielly) 267 Gouty diathesis, wine of colchicum seeds (Bullar) .... 124 GowiLAND, cystic tumour of male breast 315 GoYEAiTD, splitting off the epiphysis of radius . . . .270 Geaf, atresia of vagina . . 377 Gbafe, traumatic absence of the iris (on theory of accommodation) . 06 — antagonistic action of opium and bella- domia . . I .151 Geaham (T.) liquid ti-anspu-ation in relation to chemical composition . . 108 — liquid diffusion applied to analysis 109 Geandibiee, inflammation and necrosis of upper jaw in infant from phosphorus- fumes ' . . . .399 Geant (R. E.) primary divisions of animal kingdom. . . .2 Geaktham (J.) idiopathic tetanus 145 Granulations, Pacchionian (Meyer) 34 — do. (do!) . 159 Grape cure, on the (Ai'an) . 125, 213 Gbasee, poisoning by seeds of Enonymus Europajus . . . 432 Ghat (E. B.)"epilepsy, with loss of speech, &C.J recovery . . . 155 Gbay (H.) anatomy, descriptive and surgical 1 Geay (J.) laceration of the perinasum 345 Gbat (J. F.) Colles's fracture of the radius 269 Green matter of leaves produced under electric light (Mangon) . . 108 Geeene (H. B. C.) croup, tracheotomy 255 Geeexhaigu, removal of cervix uteri 362 — intra-uterine polypus . . 368 Geeekhill, partial dislocation of femur at knee-joint . . . 281 Geeenhow (H.) local irritation from con- tact with acalcpha) . . 152 — repoi-t on districts with excessive mor- tality from lung diseases . 464 Geiesingee, diagnosis of cerebral diseases 162 -— seventy-two cases of pneumonia 202 Geisolle, opium or chloroform in idiopathic tetanus .... 147 — and IBouciiAEDAT, report on Moutard- Martin's memoir on sulphate of cinchonine in intermittents . . . 123 Geoll, concealment of pregnancy and birth, child-murder . . . 452 GeOS, case of hydrophobia . . ISS Geoss (S. D.) military surgery . 239 — lithotomy . . .306 — recurring cancer of breast . 316 — epithelial cancer of lip . . 318 Geoss (S. W.) congenital aneurismal varix of leg and foot . . . 293 Geote (W. R.) correlation of physical forces 3 Growth in relation to diseases of children (Bouchut) . . .391 Geubee, supernmnerary muscles of the chest .... 14 GBiiNETALDT, galvano-caustic in gynecology 389 Gtjbiee (A.) asthenic diffuse paralyses of convalescents . . . 148. Gttdden, hajmatic swelling of the ears of the insane . . . 167 GuELMi, anajsthesia in labour . 855 Gtjeneau de Musst, arsenical baths iu chronic rheumatism . . 134 — odour of breath in pulmonary apoplexy 196 GUEEIN, treatment of bubo • 320 — venereal diseases of women . 359 — vulvitis . . . 875 GtJiBEET, new medicines since 1830 407 — properties of propylamine . 429 GriBOTiET, on blood-stains . 447 GuiCHAED (L.) transverse fracture of pa- tella .... 271 Guinea worm, case of (Severance) . 124 Gull (W.) paralysis of lower extremities from disease of bladder and kidneys 158 — See Bryant. Gum, nutritive value of (Hammond) 48 Gimshot. See Wounds. GuNXHEE, bloody operations on the body 235 — injury to the skull . . 243 — poisoning by bitter almonds . 439 Guy, colour-tests for strychnia, and diagnosis of alkaloids . ' . . 424 — forensic medicine . . 443 Guy's Hospital' Reports,' vol. vii . 237 Guyana, French, dry colic in (Chapuis) 213 GuTON, inversion of ixterus for twenty years 361 GUTOT (J.) alcohol in intermittents 123 Habeeshon, vomiting as a sign of disease 212 Habit, retention of placenta after premature delivery .... 353 — influence of fibrous tumours in pregnancy, &c. .... 366 Habitations, hygiiine of . . 233 Ha;uiatocele (Trousseau) . . 868 — I)elvic (Priestley) . , 3G9 — uterine (Madge) , . 369 — peri-uterine (Hegar) . . 369 do. (Martin-Magron) . 370304 IKDEX. Htonifttoot'le, vetro-utorluo (Guuoliot, Max) 37U — of tunica VMj?inali.s (Roclianl) . 312 llujmatoma over syiupli^ sls pubis (Ericliscn) 315 HiDino-dynrtinies (Jacobson) . 20 Hannoiitoc (vSkoda) , . 196 HtDinoptoic lever, quotidian (Degraiiges) 195 Hronioptysis, tubercular (Brinton) 193 Hajiuorrhage from the ears in hoo])ing- cough (Gibb) . . . 200 — venous, introduction of agaric into vein, &c. (Nclaton) . , . 286 — pulmonary, fi-om hypercemia (Houssard) 197 — do. (Zdelcauer) 205 ' — from stomach, persulphate of iron in (Smith) . . . .178 — uterine, arrest of (Hamilton) . 313 — do. transfusion in (Martin) 343 — do. accidental (Sidey) . 343 — vaginal, of two years (Paget) , 378 Hajmorrhoids, cautery for (Demarqnay) 302 Hagen, remedial agents since 1830 407 Hahn, Caisarean section, successful 349 Hail-, sudden change of colour of human (Davy) .... 109,115 — of the scalp, structure of (Chapuis) 115 Hair-follicle, structure of (Chapuis) 115 Haxdane. See Gairdner. Haxfoed (G. B.) closure of auriculo-veutri- cular valves . . .20, 25 Hail (A.) is child liable to small-pox, con- ceived prior to its contraction by the mother? . . .132 — and David do. . 391 Hall's (Marshall) method in asphyxia (Chris- tian) . . . .69 — See As'2)liyxia. Haxlek, dependence of popular diseases on conditions of weather . . 461 Hallet (A.) persulphate of iron as an ha;- mostatic .... 178 Hallucinations of all the senses, sympathetic communication (Auzouy) . 166 — and illusions (Brierre de Boismont) 454 — auditory (Robertson) . . 167 Hambuegek, albuminuric anasarca in scarlet fever .... 216 HAMBTTESur, accidents and complications of scarlet fever . . . 399 Hamilton (E.) abdominal aneurism 176 — strangulated femoral hernia . 300 — deficiency of cerebral structure 402 Hamilton (F. H.) military surgery 239 — ovariotomy . . . 375 Hamilton (G.) obstetrics, ai-rest of uterine haimorrhage . . . 343 Hamilton (J.) stricture of oesophagus 249 Hamilton (E.) fever in Liverpool. 124 Hammond (W. A.) nutritive value and eflects of albumen, starch, and gum . 48 HAM>roND (VV. A.) urcomic Intoxication 93 — do. . . 220 — nitric acid in intermittent fever 131 — clironic myelitis . . ] 17 — on chancre . . . ;jj<) Hamolecki, phosphate of ammonia in rheu- matism .... 125 Hamox (L.) caoutchouc in jihthisirt 208 — nervous nature of albuminuria . 2\H — and A. Mehcier, fracture of sacrum 2GS Hanbujiv, anacahuite wood . 4^30 — See Maiscli. Hancock, malignant tumour of scapula, cancer of lungs . . . 317 Hand, liunian (liumi)hry) . . 2 Hanks, double monstrosity . 101 Hahdwick,typhoid fever, with second attack 121. — typhoid fever, collapse and death 241 Habdy, troatniait of eczema . 227 — baths it I'hydrofere (])ulverization) 230 Harelip, odontology of (V'olkman) . 329 HAnoEATE, enchondromatous tumour on dorsum of left hand . . 318 Hakkin (A.) clilorate of potass in consump- tion and scrofula . . 20G HAELES3S (K.) processes in muscular sub- stances .... 15 — chemical alteration of muscular juice by warmth and movement . . 16 — muscular substance . . 10 — influence of temperatures on motor nerves .... 13 : — ueuro-physiological inquiries . 13 ■ — molecular processes in nerve-substance 43 : Haeley (Dr. G.) rejwri on ihe insliluies of • medicine ... 1 — on the dead heart pulsating . 29 — stryc^mine poisoning in a girl a;t. 11 J26 • — and Taeleton, poisoning by strychnine in a boy »t. 12 . . . J 26 — See Netanan. Haepek (P.)instruments forremovingfiiirous - tumours of uterus . . 307 — puerperal convulsions . . 387' Haeeis (C. A.) dictionary of medical termi- nology, &c. . . . '-' Haeeis (J.) secretion of milk by tin in the axilla; . . . •'' Haeeison (.1. B.) employment of the " : i method" antecedent to M. Hall. 7' Haetshoene (II.) cure of cold stroki^ lu: — fractures of the thigh, new apparali: 271 Hascheck, responsibility iu case of protciulci! epilepsy . . . .4''' Hasneb, diseases of sclera and eveliall. 32-' Hassall (A. H.) adulterations detected 50 Hasse (C.) hydro-meningocele . llf' — diseases of nervous apparatus . I I'505 INDEX. JIassixG, goiiorrlicca inwomen . 321 Hauohton (K.) tl>o Turkish batli. Ill Haughton (S.) phenomena ot'cliabotes md- litus . . • .92 lIvui'T, writers'cramp . • 157 11 uvKES (J.) enlargement of thyroid glaucl 311. Hay-fever, strychnia in (Rarrach) . 11-7 Haydex (T.) on the hernial sac . 29(3 Head, injuries to the (Schnyder) . 243 — injury to., otorrhoea (Lawrence) 241 — do. fatal (Hofmann, Maschka) 41G — do. medico-legal questions (Hofmann, Pfaft", Zcncker) . 446 Heiidache, severe, cured by Turkish bath 14G Headland (F. AV.) action of medicines 47 Health, puhlic report on hy Dr. B. San- derson .... 458 Health (public) report on (Simon) 458 — report of " Conseil d'Hygicne of the Seine" . . . ' .458 Health and disease influenced by cyclical changes (Smith) . . 3 Heart, rhythmical action of (Waters) 20 — ' do. duration in as- phyxia (Waters) . . 20 — movement of, in birds (Wagner) 23 — impulse of, influence of respiratory move- ments on (Einbrodt) . . 26 — law of frequency of pulsations of (Marev) 23 — pulsation of dead (Harley) . 29 — if cessation of beat be a certain sign of death (Plagge) . . . 447 — stoppage of, by irritation of vagus (Budge) 30 — bruits of (Malherbe) . . 22 — murmurs (Gairdner) . . 178 — nerves of the (Molcschott) . 41 — and arteries, discordances in (Baker) 178 — position in pulmonary emphysema (Bam- berger) .... 185 — anomaly of, in an infant (Hervieu.v) 178 — deficiency of auricular and ventricular septum, &.C. (Hervieux) . 178 — contraction of right auriculo-ventricular orifice of (Malherbe) . . 179 — diseases of the (Auburtin) . 17G — do. diagnosis of (Skoda) 183 — do. cases (Gerhardt) 1^2 — do. congenital (Le Barillier, !Mollwo, Sclnity.enberger, Smith) 179 — do. in early life (Moore) 177 — do. do. (do.) 397 — .do. and epilepsy (Flint) 177 — do. sulphuret of antimony in (Fauconnet) . . .178 Heart, diseases of the, organic, iron in (Jones) 176 — do. do. digitalis in (Pfair) . . . .181 — See Aneurism of. — dilatation and softening, rupture (Potts) 177 — fatty (Bade) . . .170 — fatty degeneration of (Plazer) . 177 — hypertrophy of (Forget) . 182 — do. (Lay cock) . 179 — rupture of tlie (Maier, Malmsten) 177 — do. .spontaneous (Orsolato) 177 — do. from wasting of ninsciilar tissue (Ariidge) . . . 177 — do. sudden deathfroni(Neuft'en) 177 — primary softening of the (Wagner) 178 — miliary tubercle in the substance of (Klob) 177 — wound of, perforating wall of right ven- tricle (Miihlig) . . .184 — muscular tissue of, partial cretification (Heschl) . . . .179 — valves, physiology of (Joseph) . 22 — do. cause of closure (Markham) 24 — See also Valves. — valves, spontaneous cure of disease of (Jaksch) . . . 184 — do., disease of, with purpura (Salter) 176 — do., complications (Skoda) . 182 — do., in angina pectoris (Metcalfe) 178 Heat, quantitative changes in production of (Liebermeister) . . . Ill — influence of, on spinal cord (Kunde) 38 Heat-apoplexy, fatal cases of (Little) 152 Heath (C.) minor surgery and bandaging 235 — cysts simulating femoral hernia 300 — stricture of urethra, forcible dilatation 310 Hebba, sulphur in skin diseases . 228 — do. . 408 — and MiiLLNEB, pemphigus . 230 Heckeh, dilatation of fcrtal bladder liinder- ing labour . . . 340 Heg AB (A.) peri-uterine hasmatocele 3G9 Heidelberg Med. Policlinic, report (Dusch) 139 Heine (J.) spinal paralysis In children 144 HEiTZMAins', old luxation of forearms 270 Helly, frontal presentations . 338 Helmiioltz, law of conservation of force in organic nature ... 7 — physiological optics . . 64 Hewig, fracture of hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage: death from a fall or strangula- tion .... 445 Hemicrania (Dubois-Eeymond) . 150, 45506 Hemicrnnia (Tlrown-Sequnrd, Duhois-Rey- mond) , . . .151 — digitalis in (Sorro) . . 104 — Debout's treatment of . . 161 — quinine in (Sevre) . . 164 — witli epilepsy, cured by injections of mor- phia (Boone) . . . 150 Hemiplegia of left side (Laycnek) . 179 —ftfterurscnical (?) poisoning (Zcller)] 52 — from spontaneous coagulation of blood in cerebral arteries (Pitman) . 149 — following shocks of electricity (Wilks) 149 — resulting from embolism (Walthcn) , 180 — fi'om insect in external auditory meatus (Rabd) . . , .146 — syphilitic (Burdel) . . 151 Hemming (J. H.) prevention of tuberculous meningitis in infants . , 146 Hemp, Indian, power of producing sleep (Fronmiiller) . . . 435 Henbane, preparations of (Hirtzel) 142 Henke (H.) double joints . . 9 Henke (W.) mechanism of accommodation for short and long distances . 66 Henle, closed lenticular glands . 89 Henoch, syphilitic paralysis of infants 146 Henet (M.) hydatid cysts developed in breast of woman . . .315 Henz (H.) chemical constituents of the train .... 33 Hepatic colic (Beau) . . 14-8 Hepwoeth (J.) treatment of asphyxia 76 Heeaed, meningitis . . 161 Hereditary disease, sexual limitation in (Sedgwick) . . .123 Hereditary transmission of mental derange- ment (Schlager) . . . 166 Heemann (Jos.) non-existence of constitu- tional iodism . . . 134 — report of syphilitic wards of Vienna In- firmary .... 137 Hermaphrodite monster, acephalous (Holt) 404 Hernia .... 296 Hernia (Bryant) . . . 237 — two cases (Edwards) . . 254 — (Collis, Streubel) . . 296, 296 — structure of sac (Hayden) . 296 — radical cure of (Syme) . . 301 — do. (Wood) . . 302 — do. Wood's operation (Field) 301 — do. do. (Chisholm) 302 — do. Wutzer's operation, (Browne, Clement) . . 302,302 — strangulated, operations (Cooper, Hutch- inson) .... 296 — do. (Edwards, Hillyard, Hulke, Nicolls, Patterson) . " . . 297 — do., action of coflce in (CoUarier) 427 — do., opium in (Hillyard, Nicolls) 297 Hernia, femoral, strangnkted (Barker, Hamilton, Lane, Mason, Morney) 300 — do., do. (Holmes, Nunn) . 30^i — do., cysts sinmlating (Heath) . 300 — inguinal, radical cures (Edwards) 301 — do. allegedfailureof Wut/.er'sopeni- tion (Wells) . . .301 — do., of right ovary (Meadows) . 371 — do., in a female (Coote). . 300 — do., strangulated (Birkett) . 297 — do,, do. (Billroth, Bowman, Cur- ling, Doyle, Pancoast, Power, Reese) 298, 298 — do., do. (Holt, Hutchinson, Ure) 299 — do., do. (Bradford, Hus^el, J'artridgc, Pound, Stanley, Wilson) . 299 — do., do. (Holt) . . .300 — do., do. (Bryant) . . 301 — \imbilical, congenital (Debout) . 403 — do. do. (Billi) . 404 — do. radical cure (Barwell) 301 — do. strangulated (Bryant) 301,300 — vaginal (Hewett) . ' .301 — do. (do.) . . 378 — ventral (Abbott) . . 301 Heev£ (H. P.) catheter broken in bladder, removed by lithotrite . . 307 HeevieL'x, suppression of suppuration, &c., by application of a chlorinated .solution 123 — anomaly of the heart in an infant 178 — laceration of perma;um . 316 — on vanquishing resistance of infants to food or medicaments . . 393 — infantile pulmonary emphysema 390 Heezeeldeb (H.) myocarditis . 177 Heschl (R.) partial cretification of muscular tissue of the heart . . 179 Hess, Cajsarean section, success . 350 Hesseh (A.) operations for trichiasis 323 — vesicular corncitis . . 32i Hesseet, tuberculous meningitis . 160 Hesseing (T. v.) and Kolemaxx, photo- graphic atlas of histology . 2 Hewett (P.) compound fracture of sk\dl below occipital protuberance . 244. — excision of knee-joint . 285 — vaginal hernia . . . 301 — sebaceous tumoOTS, removal from scalp 314 — recurrent melanosis of groin . 317 — melanosis of labium and glands of gviii 317 — vaginal hernia . . • 378 Hkwitt (Dr. G.) report on mid infer ii and the diseases of women and children 331 — on supporting the perinanim . ' — modified form of obstetric forceji- ' ■ cases of elongated fcntal heads . ^' — lectures on diseases of women . < — Dolvpus of uterus removed by ccrascm ' ' 368 Hewsox, reduction of femur, Reid's nu t' i «1 280INDEX. 507 HE'wsoif, malignant tumour of thigh simu- lating aneurism . . . 317 HErFELDER (J. F.) pulsatile empyema 197 — amputations, with preservation of perios- teum, &c. . . . 258 HetFelder (0.) operative surgery and re- sections .... 235 Hetxsius (A.) diffusion of alhumen 101 — periodicity of vital phenomena . 121 IIiART DE MuGEON, cpistaxis arrested by digital compression . . 252 Hicks (J. B.) homologies of the eye in the invertehrata . . .63 — induction of premature labour . 348 — new method of turning . . 348 — instrument for uterine polypi . 367 — congenital absence of vagina, retention of menses, puncture . . 376 — retention of menses from imperforate hymen .... 376 — and T. Bryant, ovariotomy . 375 — and T. C. Foester, ovariotomy 375 Hides, preparation of (Trebuchet). 466 HiLDEBEANDT, hydatid mole, with normal ovum .... 343 HiLDiGE (J. G ) on fixing the eye in opera- tion for cataract . . 324 — snow-blindness . . 326 — encysted abscess in vitreous humour 326 — exudation into retina in diabetes 326 HiLi, injury to the skull . . 243 Hill (W. E.) influence of ozone on the pulse 178, 58 — occurrence of glucosuria in burns 92, 215 — 220 cases of pulmonary consumption 206 HiiLAiRET, softening of cervical enlarge- ment of spinal cord, &c. . 152 HiLLES (M. W.) oedema of the larynx 254 HiLliER (T.) tracheotomy and laryngotomy in diphtheria . . . 194,254 — ringworm and vegetable parasites 226 HiLLHAN, necrosis of astragalus . 264 HiLLYARD (A.) opium in strangulated hernia 297 HiiTON, lectures on pain, and rest in acci- dents and surgical diseases . 238 — acute glossitis (mercurials) . 247 — necrosis of shaft of clavicle . 264 — long ununited fracture of femur 271 — aneurism of subclavian artery, digital compression . . . 287 — laceration of liver . . 294 — stricture of urethra, puncture of bladder in rectum . . . 310 — epithelial cancer of lower lip 318 Hinds (W.) is pericardium invariably ad- herent to heart after acute pericarditis and recovery ? . . . 177 HiNK, pl-egnancy, cervical gestation 335 Sip-joint diseases . . . 276 Hip-joint, diseases of (Post) . 276 ~ do. (Cleveland, Sayre) 277 Hip-joint, diseases of, immediate reposition in (Baur) . . . .275 — do. counter-extension splint (Taylor) .... 277 — do. puncture of capsule (Sayre) .... 277 — do. long side splint (Price) 277 — chronic and scrofulous diseases (Hughes) 276 — synovitis, &c., of, following periostitis of femur (Bauer) . . . 276 — See Dislocations, Excisions. Hippuric acid in urine (Liicke) . 100 HiETZEL, preparations of aconite, henbane, stramonium, &c. . . 142 His (W.) structure of lymphatic glands 78 — glands of lymphatic system . 90 Histology, photographic atlas of (Hessling) 2 Hitchcock (H. 0.) internal necrosis of thigh, with sub-periosteal abscess 264 Hjelt (O.) regeneration of nerves 46 Hjoet, Ca>sarean section . . 350 Hoarseness, singers', prophylactic treatment by nitric acid (Diday) . . 197 HoBART (H.) severe headache cured by Turkish bath . . . 146 Hodge, abscess in head of tibia . 264 — diseases of women . . 357 HoEVEN, adhesion of uvula and soft palate with pharynx . . . 248 Hoffmann, on syphilization . 136 — theory of inflammation . . 179 — puerperal fever . . 386 Hoffmann (C. E. E.) on vagus nerves of fishes . . . .30 HoFMANN, jiroject of a iienal code for Ba- varia .... 443 — language of legal medicine . 443 — fatal injuries of the head . 446 — medico-legal opinion as to a venesection 450 — accusation of child-murder . 452 Hogg (J.) elements of physics . 3 HoHL, position during labour . 354 Holden (L.) human osteology . 9 Holmes (J.) strangulated femoral hernia, constipation . . . 300 Holmes (T.) system of surgery . 235 — See Cooper. HoLSBECK (Van) on sempstresses' palsy 146 HOLSBEEK, abscess of right iliac fossa, &c. 242 HoiT (B.) compound fracture of skull, tre- phining .... 245 — do. con- vulsions, trephine . . 245 — disarticulation of shoulder-joint 259 — aneurism of carotid artery, ligature 287 — false aneurism of femoral artery . 290 — strangulated congenital hernia . 299508 INDEX. Holt (B.) strangulated hernia, hicmor- rhoids, &o. . . . 300 — lithotrity, subsequent median lithotomy, numerous smiill calculi . . 305 — litliectasy for stone in Icnuilo child 30G — immodinte treatment of stricture of ure- thra .... 309 Holt (\V.) acephalous hormnjihrodite mon- star .... 401' Hownorsr, concussion, afterwards com- pression, laceration of i)raiii.sul)staneo 211. — dislocation of iiatella . . 280 — tumour beneath lower jaw . 315 Hoj[OLLE, external employment of suli)hatc of alumina and of zinc . . 113 — do. . . 412 — constituents of digitalis . 431 Homologies of the lobes of the liver (Rol- leston) . . , .78 HOOPEK, the alcohol question . 5G Hooping-cough (Beau, AVright) . 200 — (Shelton, Woodward) .' . 396 — (Foster, Gooday) . . 397, 397 — statistics of (Kiittlinger) . 122 — epidemic of (Laronde) . . 396 — universal emphysema in (Uierhanm) 196 — hojmorrhage from the ears in (Gibb) 200 — do. (do.) 397 HoPPE (J.) clonic spasms of aural muscles and of occipito-frontalis . . 148 HoBiNG, motor disorders of the eye 327 HoENEMANN, inspection of ships from ports in which cholera is prevailing . 468 HoENiNG, epUepsy cnred by counter-irrita- tion, &c. . . . 145 — degeneration of pons Varolii . 148 Horse, sterno-perieardial ligaments of (Lusehka) . . .9 — sensibility produced in, by localized irri- tation of surface of spinal cord (Chanveau) 39 HOESLET, adulteration of butter . 468 Hospitals andjmhlic huilclingSjhygiene of 463 Hospitals, English, healthiness of (Lefort) 464. — London, hygiene of (Topinard) 461 — 8t. George's, medical cases in, 1859 (Dickinson) . . .123 — do. amputations, &c. (Cooper) 258, 267 — Bellevue, female fever wards (Loomis) 124 — Cork Street Fever, report (Brady) 127 — of Paris, nnhealthiness of . 463 — do. do. report of "Acad. deMedecine" . . .463 — &c., of Frankfort, report on . 125 — Vienna Imperial, report . 139 — civil, in Russia . . . 123 — Chinese, at Tien Tsin, cases at (Lamprev) 123 — for the insane. See Lunatic asi/hmt. HoussAED, pulmonary htomorrhage fro;ii liypera;mia . . . 197 IIouzEAU, normal variability of atmosphei- air .... 4C.'. HovEE (H.) terminal plexuses of nerv fibres in intestinal nmcuus membrHnc 30 HrCK, statistics of suicide in Baden 4.'7 HrouKs (]{.) disease of tlie sjiine causiu;; posterior angular jirojcction, kv. 328 Hui.KE (Mr. .1. W.) report o» unrtjery 235 — wart and corn of nmcotis memljrane of tongue . . . .216 — closure of a cleft of hard and soft jialates 218 — strangulated hernia . . 207 — polypus of rectum . . 303 — old stricture of urethra; perineal section, fistula, obliteration, &c. . . 309 — recurrent fibroid tumour on leg 319 •— blood-cvst in cartilage of external ear 329 Httlme (E. C.) iridemia totalis . 327 Human species, types of (Geoffroy St. Hilain-) 2 — unity of (Dunn) . . 2 Humerus, dislocation of head of, reduction ))y manipulation (.Smith) . . 278 — fracture of neck of (Buck) . 209 — fracture of condyle (Pancoast) . 2G9 — oblique fracture of, above the condyles (Parmentier) . . . 270 — splitting of epiphysis of (Bitot) 269 — torsion of (Martins) . . 11 HrsiPHBT (G. M.) human foot and hand 2 — growth of the long bones and stumps 262, 9 — epithelial cancer . . 318 — epithelial cancer in cicatrices . 318 — See Kendal. Hunt (E.) diphtheria . . 122 HrNT (.1. W.) eight calculi from urethra of boy . . . .308 Hcktee and FniEND, diphtheria in Alabama 122 HrNTEE, fever at Liverpool . 460 Huntee (C.) on the "Marshall-Hall" and other methods in drowning . 77 — the hot bath in treatment of drowning 77 HuNTEE (.lohn) essays on natuiid history, physiology, &c. . . .2 Htj>'tee (.1.) irritation of urethra in females 303 — ovarian disease in pregnancy . 371 — irritation of urethra in females. 378 HussA. See Duchel-. Hussel (N. C.) inguinal hernia, contents, sigmoid flexure . . _ • Hutchinson ( J.) carbuncular boil, pleurisy, and pya>mic abscesses . . 124 — is inherited syphilis protective against contasrion P . . . 233 — do. . 319INDEX. 509 HuTCniKSON (J.) gunshot injury to legs, excision, tetiinus . ■ . 240 — abscess in the bruin . ■ 214 — cnncer of the tongue and in the hings 247 — perforation of the hirynx, inieumutocelo ill the neck . . • 253 — soahl from drinking boiling water, tia- ehootomy . • ■ 255 — fracture of radius in lower third 269 detachment of epiphysis of radius 270 — congenital inguinal hernia . 299 — enlarged lymphatic glands . 315 — forty-four eases of soot cancer . 318 — diabetic cataract . . 325 — syphilitic inflammation of retina, &e. 32G — paralysis of muscles of the eye . 327 — ovariotomy . . . 375 — report on amputations in provincial hos- pitals . . . .258 — report of amputation at shoulder-joint in do 259 — report on ampntation below the knee in do. . . . .260 — report of ligature of arteries in do. 286 — report on cases of puncture of bladder 301 —■ report on epithelial cancer . 317 — report on excisions of joints in provincial liospitals. . . .282 — report on strangulated hernia . 296 — report on lithotomy in provincial hos- pitals .... 305 — report on lithotrity in do. . 306 — report on true ringworm . 226 — do. . 400 — report on tracheotomy in provincial lios- liitals .... 254 — report of cases of trephining In do. 215 — I'cport on tumours of the upper jaw 249 — report on operations for removal of fatty, malignant, and other tumours . 313 — r(?port of operations for stricture of ure- thra . . . .308 — See Barnes, Curliii/;. — and .Tackson, paralysis of portio dura 151 -— and .Tacksox, recovery from traumatic tetanus .... 243 Ht'tciuson (.1. C.) exsection of eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal vertebrjc . 268 — loose cartilage from knee-joint . 274 — ligature of carotid artery for wound of maxillary . . . 287 Hi'TEE, on foetal pulse . . 333 — prolapsus of uterus in pregnancy and labour . . . . . . 382 Hybernation of marmots, pulse and blood- pressure (Valentin) . . 116 Hydatid cyst, containing echinococci (Sand) 118 — in breast of a woman (Henry) . 315 Hydatid sacs in pons Varolii . 150 Hydrencephalocelo (Aveling) . 403 Hvdrocarpus odoratus in leprosy, &c. ■(Waring) . . . 438 Hydrocele, tapping (Pancoast) . 312 — of the neck, excision (Jackson) 314 — abdominal (Syme) . . 312 Hydrocephalus in children (Depaul, Politzcr, Simpson, Stanistroct) . . 395 — in early life (Crosliy) . . 116 — of fifteen years' duration (Merriiuan) 152 — do. (do.) 395 — one-sided chronic (Meissner) . 149 — enormous growth of the ependyma in (Forster) . . . 120 Hydrocotyle Asiatica in leprosy, &c. (Waring) 438 Hydrocyanic acid, poisoning by . 439 Hydrogen, carburetted, death from 442 Hydromeuingocele (Gintrac) . 403 — (Hasse) . . . .118 Hydrophobia (ttore) . .150 — two cases . . . 123 — cases (Pickells) . . . 150 — case (Gore) . . . 152 — case (Gros) . , . 153 — diagnosis of (Sampson) . . 232 — preventive treatment of (Tardieu) 158 — spontaneous (Putegnat) . 153 Hydro-spirometer (Lewis). . 71 Hydrothorax, double, diuretics (Gairdner) 195 — scorbuticus (Wutchichowsky) . 195 Hygiene of habitations . . 233 Hvgroma of neck, congenital (Storch) 402 Hvoid bone, diseases and injuries of (Gibb) 212 — and thyroid cartilage, fracture of (Hel wig) 415 Hyoscyamus, poisoning by (St. Auge) 423 Hyperaomia, pulmonary hajinorrhage from (Houssard) . . .197 Hypertrophy of the heart (Forget) 182 Hypnotism in hysteria (Bonnes) . 359 Hypochondriacal delusions, forerunners of general paralysis (Baillarger) . 172 Hypochondriasis (Luigi) . . 153 Hypophosphites, alkaline (Taylor) 23 J. — in phthisis (Bennett) . . 208 HtbtI/, pneumatic process of occipital bono 9,12 — on nerves without end . . 30 — Paccinian bodies on the infra-orbital nerve . . . . 4.1, — portions of lungs without blood-vessels 69 — origin of the lacteals . . 88 — on injecting parenchymatous lymphatic, vessels .... 88 — adhesions of pericardium and heart, vessels through .... 178 Hysteria, clinical lectures (Chambers) 359510 INDEX. Hysteria (Beau, ClmiuLors) . 153 — epidemic, in reformatory (Gairdner) 151 — do. (do.) 359 — treated liy etherization and hypnotism (Bonnes) , . ."359 — and liysteromaniii . . 1G8 Hysterical contraction of neck and baclc (Peaeoclc) . . . 153 — convulsions (Franque) . . 158 — mania (Barclay) . . IGG, 359 — do. from severe mental shock ((iaird- ner) . . . .151 — paralysis, phenomena in (Ligeois) 153 Hysteromania . . . 108 Hysterophor (Naedelin) . . 389 Ichthyosis (Begbie) . . 230 Icterus. See Jatmdice. Idiocy (Martin) . . .166 — (Schlager) . . . 402 — and cretinism (Zillner and Virchow) 171 Idiots, skulls of (Lund) . . 173 Igiiam. See Isham. Ileus (Gairdner) . . . 210 Illusions (Brierre de Boismont) . 454 Image (W. E.) softening of left cerebral hemisphere, &c. . . . 144 Imitative tendency, its influence on the diifusion of insanity (Finkelnburg) 173 Immersion and irrigation in amputations (Szymanowski) . . . 239 Inanition, a cause of death of new-born children (Joiilin) . . 397 Incendiarism, the impulse to, not an essential mental disease (Willers). . 454 Incendiary, not pyromania, but absence of responsibility in youthful (Lowenhardt) 455 India, north-west, typhus epidemic in (Walker) ... 130 Indigo in urine (Gilchrist) . . 96 Inductive method in mental philosophy (Morell) . . . .30 Induration of the brain (Robertson) 161 Infants, feeding of (Baines) . 47 — do.. (Baines, Scharlau) 392 — means of vanquishing resistance of, to food or medicaments (Hervieux) 392 — hydrocephaloid disease of (Wertheimber) 394 — See Children. — See IloriaUly. Infanticide (Kuuze) . . 451 — (Grijll, Hofmann) . . 452 — proofs of live birth (Anstie, Toulmouche) 453 Infiltration, purulent, encephalitis terminat- ing in (Drake) . . . 149 Inflammation (Simon) . . 179 — tlieory of (Iloflmann) . . 179 «— influence of nervous force on (Schleiss) 152 Inflammation, uncommon form of (Jones) 176 — traumatic cerebral (Jaksch) . 148 — acute, witli softening of spinal cord (Oppolzer) . . . 148 — of breast (Nunn) , , 381 — of pelvis and calyces of kidney (Oppolzer) 221 — utei'ine, treatment of sickness in (Tilt) 363 — do. antiphlogistic treatment, injec- tions, &c. (Tilt) . . 362 — do. nitrate of silver and of mercury (Tilt) .... 363 — do. dangers of potassa fusa cum calce and potassa caustica (Tilt) 303 Infusoria, sexual phenomena of (Balbiani) 104 iNGALis (W.) See Cv.ttei: Injuries, questions on the fatality of (Bucb- ner) . . .443 — bodily, medico-legal discrimination of (Uomer, Wistrand) . . 4AQ Inman (T.) coloration of faeces from mer- curials .... 61 — sour-smelling perspiration in rheumatism 133 — cerebral pathology . . 160 — pathology of sciatica , . 175 — sore throat . . . 210 Innominatebody, anatomy of (Giraldes) 1 Inoculation, syphilitic (Lee) . 319 Inosite, on obtaining (Lane) . 114 Insane, plea for (M'Cormac) . 168 — legal responsibility of (Belloc) . 167 — medicinal treatment of (Borie) . 167 — general paralysis of (Ranking) . 165 — hajmatic sweUing of the ears of (Gudden) 167 — post-mortem appearances in (Kieser) 173 Insanity .... 165 Insanity, Croonian lectures on (Sutherland) 169 —question of real or feigned, of eleven years' duration (Casper) . . 455 — statistics of . . . 166 — do. in Prance (Legoyt) . 166 — moral phenomena of (Mayo) . 168 — hereditary transmission of (Schlager) 166 — influence of imitative tendency in dift'u- sion of (Finkelnburg) . . 173 — fi-equent cause of, in young men (Ritchie) 166 — communicated (Baillarger) . 165 — in relation to the physician and general practitioner (Lowe) . . 165 — confounding of persons a symptom (Snell) . . . .168 — circulation within cranium in relation to (Arlidge) . . .167 — fever in relation to (Berthier) . 166 — form called conrcstive mania (Worthiiig- ton) , , , . 163511 INDEX. Insanity, osteomalacia witli (Finkelnburg) 166 — and spermatorrhoea (Lisle) . 168 — subcutaneous injection of morphia in (jVrintosli) , . .174 — opium in (Mej-er) . . 167 Insect in extcrniil meatus, hemiplegia from (Rabo) .... 146 '• Insolatio," natural history of (Barclay) 160 Inslniments, new obstetrical . 388 I ntermarviage of relations, a cause of dege- neracy of oflspring (Grossman, Gardner) lOG i nterpenetration, mutual, of fluids (Murray) 108 Intestines, peristaltic movements of (Martin) 81 — obstruction of, enterotomy for (Bauer, Lawson, Pagenstcclier, Tiingel) . 296, 296 — invagination of (Eiidel) . 398 —- lesions of, in typhus (Bell) . 126 — perforation of (Fox) . . 211 — ruptured (Birkett) . . 294, — wounds of (Ayres) , . 294 •— large, polypous vegetations of mucous membrane of (Luschka). . 211 Intussusception, fatal, in infants (Rose, Thorowgood) . . .398 Invertebrata, homologies of eye in (Hicks) 63 Iodine, compounds with iron and quinine (Violette) . . . 411 — as an emmenagogne (Rizet) . 365 — in tubercular meningitis (Bourroussc) 160 — tincture of, in external acute phlebitis (Sporer) . . . .181 — poisoning by (Fonssagrives, Orth) 410 — inhalations in phthisis (Simon) . 207 —bromide of, in diplitheria (Metcalfe) 122 lodism, constitutional, non-existence of (Her- mann) . . . . ■ 134 I])ccacuanha in dysentery (Cunningham, Mahon) . . ". . 211 Iridectomy (Dixon, Nunneley) . 326, 326 Iridemia totalis (Hulme) . . 327 Iris, relation of retina to movements of (Zollner) . . .64 — traumatic absence of (Grafe) . 66 Iron in organic disease of the heart (Jones) 176 — action of vin. ferri upon phthisis (Cotton) 207 — carbonate of, efiervescent (Skinner) 413 — do. in statu nascendi (Bellard) 179 — perchloride of, in erysipelas (Aran, Pirrie) 122 — do. solutionof (Adrian) 231 — do. by Adrian's process 234 — persulphate ot^ as an haemastatic (Hallet) 178 — • do. in hfcmorrhage from the stomach (Smith) . . 178 — magnetic phosphate of, citric-acid solu- tion, a tonic (Gentles) . , 124 Irritability, mensuration of, in nerve-sub- stance (Harless) ... 43 — muscular, relations with cadaveric rigi- dity, &c. (Brown-Sequard) . 18 Irritation, counter-, in epilepsy (Horning) 145 — local, from contact with acalepha; (Green- how) . . . .152 Ietime, fever at Liverpool . 469 Ibtike (H.) medullary carcinoma of testis 312 InwiN (B. J.D.) euphorbia prostrata, antidote to poison of rattlesnake . 231 — gunshot wound of the arm, amputation, &c. . . . . 240 ISHAM (R. N.) laryngotomy for tonsillitis, inducing oedema of glottis . 194 — do. do. 255 jACCorD, pathology of albuminuria 218 Jacksoit, superiicial caries of femxir, from diffused aneurism . . 264 — urethral calculus . . 308 Jackson (A. R.) hydi'ocele of neck, excision 314 Jacksox (C. T.) action of chloroform on the blood .... 50 Jackson (E.) scrofulous tumour of the brain 146 — vesico-vagiual fistula . . 380 .Tackson (V.) stricture of urethra . 309 .Iackson (J. H.). See Hutchinson. Jacobi (A.) dentition and its derangements 397 Jacobs (H.) difficult position of head in twin labom* . . . 339 Jacobsox (H.) hemodynamics . 20 Jager (G.) si)ontaneous disintegration of the fresh-water polyps . . 107 .Jago (.1.) obscure trunk puij^s . 175 — musca; volitantes in myopic eye . 326 Jaksch, traumatic cerebral inflammation 148 — on chorea . . . 156 — spontaneous cure of disease of valves of the heart . . . 184 James (H.) induction of premature labour 348 James (J.) vesico-vaginal fistula, iron-wire suture . . " . .380 Jakes. See Barclat/. Janota, administration of ol. morrh. and iron .... 213 Janssens, anomalies of umbilical cord, a cause of death before labour . 343 Jasinskt, aneurism of the heart . 176 Jaundice, epidemic in Italy (Martin) 223 — acute pernicious (Wunderlich) . 224 — in pneumonia (Drasche) . 204 Jaiv, diseases and operalions . 249 Jaw, anchylosis of, resection of coronoid process (Langenbeck) . , 250 — do. artificial jomt for (Dittl, Esmarch) . . , 276,276Jaw, ulccnitmg cmiucr of I'aco mul (iluison- ncuvo) .... 200 — resection of the (Uofei) .211) — upper, nuiliyuiint diseasoof (Skey) 250 — do. iiiHainiuution xuul iieivoHis of, in infant, from p)iosplior\i.s-funics ((irandi licr) f5!)l) — do. necrosis of (Wcn-niald) 250 — do. report on tunionrn of (Ilutcliin- •"*on) . . . .2 I D — do. filirous tumours ol' (l'Vr<;ussou, Qnain) .... 250 — - do. excision of (Untclior, Ferf^usson) 219 — lower, articulutiou of (fjaiiger) 9 — do. congenital Knuillncss of (Langen- Ijcck) , . . .250 — do. reproduction of half of (Cooper) 251 — do. epithelial cancer of (Adams) 252 — do. cystic disease of (Paget) 252 — do. cystic tumonr in (Coote) 252 — do. dislocation of (Kalbierskc) 277 — do. fibrous growth in idveolus of (Bowman) . . . 251 — do. necrosis, in alucifor-match maker (Stanley) . . .251 — do. tumour beneath (Holthouse) 315 — do. accidental removal of greater part of (Thomson) . . 251 — do. resection of (Pitha) . 251 — do. removal for a tumonr (Denuce) 251 — do. removal of half, for necrosis, hony restitution, &e. (Johnson) . 251 Jeltschinskt, cure of syphilis hv vaccina- tion . . ■ . ! 136 .Texner, cases of embolism . 180 — tuberculosis, and evidences of tubercle in the child .... 393 .Iexnixgs (J. C. S.) treatment of apnooa 74 — do. . 449 — galvanism versus the "ready method" 74 Jessop (W.) siu'gical treatment of sinuses 241 Jewell (W.) meteorology and epidemics, 1860, Philadelphia . .123 JoBEET, vesico-utero-vaginal fistula 380 .foFEE, progressive ])arulysis . 166 JoHN.s (C.) diphtheria, membranous croup, tracheotomy, recovery . . 19 !• Johnson (H. C.) compound comminuted fracture of skull, trephine . 245 — prostatic tumour projecting into bladder 305 Johnson (J. G.) removal of half the maxilla inferior for necrosis, bony restitution, &c. 251 — rupture of tendou of rectus femoris 273 Johnson (Metcalfe) the alcohol question 47 )EX. Ji)iiit-8uppurat:on, catarrhal form of (\'(j!k- u'aii) .... 27;? Joint, arliricial, for iminoveable jaw (l)ittl, Ksmarch) . . . 276,276 Joints, double (Ilenkc) . . 9 Joints, iliseases, mounds, tj'e. of . 273 Joints, diseases of (Solly) . .273 ~ do. (15arwell) . 274 — loose cnrtilugcs in (i'ock, Hutchison, S(|uare) .... 271 — contraction and fibrous anchylosis (Bauer) 276 — o.Tcisions of, cf'c. . . 2H2 — See Dislocations, Excisiont. — conservative surgery of (Gore) . 275 — See Elhow-joint, Ilip-joini, Knee-joint, Shovhler-joint. JOLICLEKC, eclampsia . . 388 JoLV (N.) and C. MrssET, spontaneous ge- neration .... 106 — do. development of the yeast plant . . . 108 Jones. See Solhj. .Tones (B.) sugar in urine . . 91 Jones (Dr. C. Handfield) report on practira/ medicine and paiJioloff;/ . . 117 — cases of baruria . . 93 — cases of chorea . . .115 — simple or neurolytic paralysis . 147 •— niiconimon form of inflammation 170 — thirty cases of pneumonia . 191 — lodgment of farthing in oesophagus "249 — cjnianche trachealis, tracheotomy "250 Jones (Jas.) iron in organic disease of the heart . . . .176 JoHDAN (P.) tubercular orchitis, hereditary syphilis, &c. . . . 311 JoEKT, uses of eroton oil . . 438 Joseph (L.) physiology of cardiac valves 22 JosEPHSON (C.) mine disease . 232 JofLiN, pemphigus of cervix uteri 362 — inanition jti cause of death of new-born children, pepsine. . . 397 .Thnqitet, traumatic pneumocele . 196 .Turisprudence (medical). See Medicine Oegal). JrsT ^O. H.) malacia of the cornea 321 Kalbieeske (C.) luxation of lower jaw, &c. 277 Kalischee, on syphilization . 136 Kamixsky, cure of syphilis by vaccination 130 Kapff, case of embolism . . 180 Kay, poisoning by aconite . . 421 Keating, cancerous tumour of inipregunted uterus .... 337 — colpeurynter for dilating the os uteri during labour . . • 354 Kehbee, eclampsia puerperalis, fungus of dura mater . • • 388IXDEX. 513 Keiller, report on diseases of women: pro- lapsus uteri . . . 360 — case of ovariotomy, fatal . 371' Keller, euipyeiua with pneumothorax, with- out i)erforation of ])leura . 191' Keloid in cicatrix of burn (Erichsen) 319 — syjihilitie . . . _ 2:50 Kendall and Humpuky, stone in the female 300 Keits'EDT (H.) paralysis of early life 151 KEEEDAJf (A.) pine juice in pulmonary affec- tions .... rj7 Kergahadec, Caesareau section after death of mother . . .350 Kerosolene, new anesthetic (Cutter) 47 Kidd (C.) chloroform accidents . 53 — origin of ascarides . . 397 Kidd (CI. H.) pathologj' of asthma 199 Kidneys, contraction of, with hypertrophy of left "ventricle (Traube) . 179 — participation of, in dysentery (Zimmer- mami) .... 210 — disease of, and consequent paraplegia (Gull) .... 158 — disease of, witli albuniiimria (Dickinson) 92, 216 — abscess of right (Lanccreanx) . 181 — amyloid degeneration after tuberculosis (Traube). . . .196 — iuflannnation of pelvis and calyces of (Opi)olzer) . . . "■ 221 JiiESEJf, post-mortem appearances in the insane .... 173 KiiiBALL (G.) fatty tumour from scrotum 311 KiK6 (H. S.) physical signs of early phthisis 206 KixG (K.) aneurism of femoral artery 290 Kleix, questions relative to corporal punish- ment of children . . 415 Klencke (H.) cure of stuttering . 157 Klob (J.) free body in cavity of pericardium '177 — miliary tubercle in substance of heart 177 — pathology of pancreas . . 224 KXAi'P, surfaces of the crystalline lens, and cflect of its changes . . 64 Knee, housemaid's, treated by thread seton (Skey) , ... 310 — knock- (Bauer) . . . 328 Knee-joint, anchylosis of (Wiblin) 313 — do (Mott) . 328 — loose cartilages in (Hutchison, Square) 274 — extensive laceration (I'uvefoy) . 275 — pebble-stone in (Hancr) . 275 — perforating wounds, &c., of (Hauer, Pnrefoy, Stanley) . . 275 — See Diilocaiion.i, Fractures. Kxeeland (J.) diphtheria in Onondaga, New York . . .122 KOEITLER (H.) spinal meningitis . Ill Kolliker (A.) development of man and hiilher animals . . .2 Kollmann (J.) course of pneumogastric nerves in abdomen . . 30 — See Jlesslin/j. KouNEii, albuminuria in acute diseases 215 Kosteu, action of sulphate of quina 427 Kousso, on administering (Bouchardat) 212 KuAHNEi!, pharmacy . . 407 KiiAJHWSKi (F.) elfects of great cold 232 KeaI"s (G.) cases of thrombosis . 180 -— See La liber. Keavse (\V.) modes of termination of the nerve-fibres ... 42 — anatomical investigations : coccygeal gland . . . . 8U — traumatic angiectasis of left arm 288 Keistellee, forceps with dynamometrical apparatus . . . 351 Keoxe>'beeg, Children's Hospital, Mosco\\', report . . . .392 — polypi of rectum in children . 398 KEiiQELSTEiN, violation of a child of seven 453 KujJY, on precipitate labour . 338 Kijcuekheister, cysticercus cellulosus transformed into the tasnia solium 102 — symptoms and treatment of trichina spiralis .... 175 KuGEL (L.) ditl'erent sizes of pupil in intra- ocular ]n'essare . . . 327 Kuiix, transmission of cancer from an ox to man .... 118 KiiiTNE (W.) myological inquiries . 16 — chemical irritation of muscles and nerves 1(> — movements of contractile substance 1(5 — on Porret's phenomenon in muscle ]<! — new organ of the nervous system -I'Ji — action of woorara . . 47 Ku>'DE (F.) influence of heat and electricity on the spinal coi-d • . 38 Ktjkze, child-miu-der historically considered 451 KUEZAK, action of cofi'ein on animals 427 KrssiiATTL (A.) paraplegia without anato- mical or toxic cause . . 148 — constitutional mercurialism, in relation to constitutional syphilis . 319 KtiTTLiNGEE, statistics of ague, hooping- cough, measles, &c. . . 122 Ladalbaet, hasmorrhage from attachment of placenta . . . 843 Laborde, spontaneous gangrene . 180 LABoCLnicNE, visceral neuralgias . 144 Labour. See Pariurilion. LABurE, tartar emetic in chorea . 145 Lachrymal duct, IJowman's operation for obstruction of (Macdonald) . 321.. Lactatics, on (Gardner) . . 3S1 Lacteals, origin of (Hyrtl) . . 88514 INDEX, Lacto-chloruretted medication in chronic dis- eases of chest (Pietia Santa) . 197 Laparguk, hypodermic inoculation of sul- phate of atropine, &c., in neuralgia 418 LALANDE(L.de)oedema of the glottis 197 Lallemand, action of different anxsthetics 231 Lalor (J.) death in epilepsy from suffocation by regurgitation of food . . 145 LAMAHE-PicauoT, arsenious acid in apoplec- tic congestion . . . 162 Lamdl, formation of pus on ependyma ven- tric, choroid plexus, tissue, &c. .117 — communication of the two ventricles 178 — suppurative endocarditis. .178 — See Loschner. Laiuiua spiralis merahranacea(Deiters) 64 Lammert, malformations . . 401 Lamprev (J.) cases at the Cliinese hospital at Tien Tsin . . .123 Lancereaux, case of embolism . 180 — pyelitis, renal phlebitis, abscess of kidney, &c 181 — and DuBREUiL, multiple melanotic tumours 125 Lane (J.) plastic operations on vagina and perinaeum . . . 380 Lane (L. C.) on obtaining inosite . 114 Lane (S.) edition of Cooper's ' Dictionaiy of Surgery' . . . .235 — dislocation of astragalus . . 281 — strangulated femoral hernia . 300 Lanelongue, pleuritic effusion through bron- chial tubes . . . 197 Lange, theory of Semmelweis on puerperal fever . . . .386 — chromic acid for conical condylomata and warts .... 320 — do. do. 412 Langenbeck (B.) new respirator for medi- cinal purposes . . . 195 — archive of clinical surgery . 236 — uranoplasty, with mucous-periosteal cover- ing of the palate . . . 248 — congenital smallness of lower jaw, &c. 250 Langkr, articulation of lower jaw . 9 Langlebert, chancre from secondary syphi- lis ... . 320 Lankester (E.) on food . . 47 Lannay, euchondroma of parotid region, softening . . . 318 Lansdown, chloroform for puerperal con- vulsions .... 387 Lanze,. See Lmge. Laronde (C.) epidemic of hooping-cough 396 Laryngeal affections, chronic, resin in (De- lioux) .... 200 Laryngeal muscles, anatomy of (Bochdaiek) 13 Laryngitis, cases of . . . 195 — (Davey, Peacock) . • 255 — acute and chronic (Marsh) . 195 — chronic (I'hnt) . • .195 Laryngitis, tracheotomy for (Thompson) 194 Laryngitis, cedematous (Marsh) . 195 — syphilitic (Bryant, Darke, Russell) 25:) Laryngoscope (Czermak) . . 7s — (Church, Gerliardt) . . 253, 198 — illurainatingapparatus for( Voltoliiii) 196 — use in aneurism of arch of aorta (Traubc) 196 — use in polypoid growth of larynx (Walker) 195 Laryngoscopy (Stiirk) . .196 — (Turck) . . . .69 — do. . . . . 193 — recent inquiries (Merkel) . 69 Laryngotoray (Bryant) . . 255 — (Darke) . . , .255 — in anenrisra of the aorta (Rose) . 176 — in diphtheria (Hillier) , . 194,254 — for tonsilUtis (Isham) . . 194 — do. (do.) . . 255 Larynx, diseases of. . . 253 Larynx, abscess of, in a child (.MoUer) 195 — oedema of (Hilles) . . 254 — polypoid growth removed by aid of laryn- goscope (Walker) . . 195 r— do. (do.) . 253 — syphiUtic diseases (Gerliardt) . 198 — do. (do.) . 253 — syphilitic inflammation of (Russell) 194 — tumour of (Crosse) . . 257 — do. papillary (Loschner) . 196 — wound of, aerial fistula (Erichsen) 253 — cauterization of the (Fournie) . 197 — perforation of (Hutchinson) . 253 — of a monkey, cartilages of Wrisberg in (Gibb) .... 114 Latouu, collodion for phlegmasia dolens 387 Lauber and Kraus, secondary syphilis 137 Laudanum, death of an infant from sucking its motl^r while under its influence 451 Laugier's method of bandaging amputation stumps (Foucher) . . 258 Launay, hypertrophy of uterine cervix, with fibrous tumour . . . 367 Laurence (J. Z.) ophthalmic surgery,Utrecht school .... 322 — traumatic ophthalmitis, &c. . 326 Laveran, measles at Val-de-Grace 122 Lawrence (W.) mortification of foot and leg, amputation . . . 242 — injury to the head, otorrhoea . 244 — hypertrophy of right tonsil, ecraseur 247 — medullary cancer of the fibula, amputation 265 — ligature of carotid for wound in the throat 288 — extravasation of urine in a child . 308 Lawson (G.) fracture of base of skull, watery discharge from ear . . 244 — fracture of skull from a kick by a horse 245 — fracture of pelvis, with laceration of ure- thra . . . .268515 INDEX. Lawson (G.) abdominal section for intestinal obstruction . . . 296 — temporary paralysis of ciliary muscle 327 Lawson (R.) urinary and alvine excretions in the tropics . . . 100 Laycock (T.) medical psychology . 166 — contraction of mitral valve, hypertrophy of heart, &c. . . .179 — treatment of pneumonia. . 193 — morbid pigmentary changes in the com- plexion .... 227 Lead, action on urine (Moss) . 220 — action on drinking-water (Stefanelli) 468 — action of compounds of, on the body (Freytag) . . .413 Lead poisoning, influence on product of con- ception .... 401 — do. paralysis and atrophy from (Moore) . . . .150 — do. by a lead plate for dyeing hair .... 414 — do. of workmen engaged in con- troxidation of iron (Archambault) 414 — do. Bath waters in (Falconer) 147 — acetate of, in pneumonia (Strohl) 202 — do. poisoning by (Fouquet) 414,414 — See Colic (lead). Leaked (A.) sounds of the circulation of the blood .... 24 — laryngeal phthisis, tracheotomy . 255 — acupuncture in muscular rheumatism 151 — galvanism in rheumatic paralysis 151 Leaves, green matter of, produced under elec- tric light (Mangon) . . 108 Lis, Barillier, congenital heart disease 179 — vaccination of new-horn children 391 — and Bitot, children's hospital, Bordeaux, report . . . .392 Lebekt, endocarditis, with insufficiency of mitral and aortic valves, &c. . 180 Le Briero, absence of external ear 404 Le Claire, influence of oil of turpentine on healtli of painters . . 440 Leclerc (L.) surgery of Albucasis . 235 Lecomte (0.) indirect fracture at lower end of radius .... 269 LECoa, " ataxic locomotrice progressive" 146 — See Trousseau. Lee (C. A.) TuUey's experiments with chlo- rate of potash . , . 233 Lee(H.) amputation of penis with ecraseur 310 — varicocele, and its radical cure . 311 — syphilitic inuculaiion . . 319 — lecture on syphilis . . 319 Lee (R.) clinical midwifery . 332 — uterine polypi . . . 367 Lefevre, dry colic . . 165 Lefort, on morjiliia, and its trausmiasion in the animal orga'.usin ■ i 421 Lefort, healthiness of English hospitals 464 Leggatt, acute glossitis . . 246 Legouest, intermittent wry neck . 175 Legoyt, statistics of insanity in France 166 Legrand du Saulle, extraordinary neurosis, catalepsy. . . .153 — forms of delirium before general paralysis 172 Leghoux, sulphuric acid in sciatica, successful 149 — venous polypi or coagulation of blood in veins .... 180 — umbilical erysipelas of new-born children 400 Lehmann (L.) influence of fatiguing exercise on tissue-change . . . 110 Lebrs, manslaughter by mental means 456 Leidesdorf (M.) psychical diseases 165 Leishmak, vesico-uterine fistula . 380 Lemaire, use of phenic acid . 231 — carbolic acid for tinea and scabies 440 — do. as a disinfectant . 440 Lemarley, eclampsia, death, Csesarean opera- tion .... 388 Lemmon (R. T.) epidemic (dengue) in Vir- ginia .... 122 Lente (F. D.) sulphuric ether and chloroform as anaesthetics . . .47 — Cruveilhier's atrophy of upper extremity; Faradization . . .149 — sulphuric ether and chloroform as anes- thetics .... 150 — hysterical aphonia cured by etherization 195 — fistulous opening in walls of chest 257 Leopold, defective bladder, cloacal formation, &c. . . . . 404 Leprosy, hydrocarpus odoratus in (Waring) 438 Leriche, tannin as an antiperiodic . 441 Leroy we Mericourt, bronchial phthisis, suppurating, diagnosed during life, &c. 196 — See Fonssagrives. Leslie (D.) laws of vital selection . 2 Letenneur, sub-cotyloid luxation . 280 — muscular tumour of vagina . 378 Letheby, fatal accident in Fleet Lane Sewer 442 Leubuscher (R.) diseases of nervous system 144 Leijckart (R.) structure of the pentastoma 102 — trichina spiralis . . . 103 Leucocytliaemia . . 225 — (Lambl) . . .117 — (Bennett) . . .176 — (Charcot) . . .177 — with milky urine (Namias) . 177 — of sucklings (Golitzinsky) . 397 Leucorrhcea in pregnant women (Charrier) 361 — uterine (Waller) . . 302 Leukicniia. See Leucoci/t/uemia,5J6 INDEX. Levertin', relro-plinryngeal abscess 2Jfl LuvicK, amuiiiiu froiii proloiigeil laclation, ^c. .... i:.o Lkvy, extra-uterine pregnancy . 335 — Ciusarean section . . 350 Lew (J.) seminal vehicles of man . 101 Levi's metallic ligature for varicose \cins (lii)isnot) . . . 21) I Lewis (T.) liydro-spiromcter . 71 — carcinomatous btriclure of oesophagus 2 I'J Leydiq, external coverings of mamniaiia 20 — do. 115 Liddeudale (J.) cancer of male breast 317 LiEBERMEisTEH, quantitative changes in pro- duction of heat . , . Ill LiEUARD, anesthetics in eclampsia and hy- steria .... 387 Life, laws of vital selection (Leslie) 2 — phenomena of (Richardson) . 6 — renewal of, in continued fever (Chambers) 12-1 LiGEOis, phenomena in hysterical paralvsis 153 Lightning, action 011 the body (Strieker) 109 — do. (do.) 117 LiMAN", forensic signification of punctiform ecchymoses under pleura . 447 Limbs, pelvic and pectoral, of man and mam- malia (Marlins) . . . 11 Lime, carbonate of, formation and coalescence of globules of (Rainey) . .104 — oxalates of, in urine in long-continued sweating (Gibb) . . .92 — pliosphate of, crystallised deposits of, in tirine (Roberts) . . .102 Ltnas, delirium as precursor of general para- lysis . . . .1117 Lip, irregular formation of lower (Ricliel) 401 — hare-, double (llichet) . . 401 Lip operations . . . 246 Lip, operations for deformities of (Rynd) 240 Lijjoma of the pharynx (Lambl) . 117 LiPowiTZ, Cliiiiese gelatine, or agar-agar 430 LiFPERT, Reinsch's method of detecting ar- senic .... 410 Liquid diifusion applied to analysis (Graham) 109 Liquid transpiration in relation to chemical composition (Graham) . . 108 Liquids. See Pulverised liquids. Li>LE, spermatorrhoea and insanity 108 Litliectasy for stone in female child (ITolt) 306 Lithia. action on urine (Moss) . 220 — springs of (Althaus) . . 58 Lithotomy, cfc. . . . 305 Liihotomv (Todd) . . . 305 — (Gro^s, Wakh-y) . . 300 — staiisiics of, in provincialhospitals (Hutch- inson) .... 305 Lithotomy in children (Fcrgussou) . 30.j — for ealeuhib in walls of bladder (Cadge) 305 — bilateral operation (Post, Van Uureii. Whaley) .... ;}0i, — median operation (IJrake, Erichsen, Ilolt) 30:. Lithotrity and subsequent liihototnv (Holt) 305 — statistics in provincial hospitals (MiKeliiii- «o») .... 306 Little (J. L.) compound fractures of tknll 21 ( — stab-wounds of chest, diaphragm, &e. 257 — compound fracture of clavicle . 268 LrrrtE (R.) fatal cases of heat apoj.lexy on the steamer " Colombo" .152 Little (W. J.) influence of abnormal partii- rition, asphyxia, &c., on the child 3'JO Little JOHN, criminal poisoning by oxalic acid , . . . ' 417 LitzmANN ([0.) osteomalacia . 118,332 — do. . 33fi LivELiNG (R.) action of alcohol . 56 Liver, physiology of (I'avy) . 85 — normal structure of (Wagner) . 85 — homologies of the lobes of (Rollcstoir) 78 — granular, with mitral insufficiency, &c. (Oppolzer) . . .178 — cancer of, structure (Wagner) . 22.'l — laceration of (Biikett, Hilton) . 294, 291 — rupture of (Smith, Carter) . 294, 29t — su|)puration of (Rouis) . . 224 — traumatic injury (Walter) . 295 Liverpool, fever in (Hamilton) . 124 — do. (Hunter, Irvine, &c.) 469 Livingston (U. R.) diplilheria . Ml Livingstone, fever in the Zambesi 131 LizE (A. D.) paralvsis of oculo-iuotor nerve 327 — lumbo-abdominal neuralgia of pregnancv 383 LoBB (H.) diflereut cutaneous sensibility in parts of the hand and foot . 09 Lobelia, charge of manslaughter for adinini?- tering .... 435 Lochial secretion, physiological relations of (Wertheimer) . ' . . 3S2 LocKWooD (A. P.) popliteal aneurism, com- l)ression .... 292 Lolium tcmulentum, action of seeds of, on ralibits and dogs (Filhol) . 435 LoMnARD, neurosis of stomach in children 397 Long, antimonial and arsenical (rcatnicnt in chorea .... 145 — operation for imperforate vagina LooMis (A. S.) report on female fever \var(is, Uellevne Hospital, U.S. . . 124 LoRENT, lupus liypertrophicus of the vulva ^617 INDEX. LoscHNER and Lambl, papillary tumour of the larynx. &c. . . . 19G Lutus coiniculatus iu intermittents (Flugel) 431 Low (W. C.) puerperal epileptic convulsions 388 Lowe (\V. H.) insanity in relation to the physician and general practitioner 163 LowENHARDT, injectiou of ovarian cyst with iodine .... 371 — not pyromania.but absence of responsibility, in youtiiful incendiary . . 455 LucA (S. de) transformation into sugar of tlie skin of the silkworm . . 114 LtiCET, resections of knee-joint, by Esmarch 285 LiJCKE (A.) liippuric acid in human urine 100 — atheromatous cvsts of lymphatic glands 315 LuDwiG (C.) text-book of physiology 1 — movement of the lymph . 88 — atmospheric air in the human organism 109 — effects of baths . . . 138 LuiGi (C.) hypochondriasis and dilatation of stomach .... 153 Lumbar region, purulent collection in, in cases of pneumonia (Brandicourt) . 194 LuMPE, obstetric cases . . 332 — fibrous tumour of uterus . 367 Lunacy, state of, in England . 174 — commissioners of, fifteenth report 166 — in Scotland, report of general board 160 — do. third report of commissioners 166 Lunatic asylums, reports for 1860 . 166 — Somerset, vital statistics of (Bovd) 160 — ill department of the Seine . 105 the cottage system and Gheel (Sibbald) 170 — American, reports . . 166 Lunatics, moral responsibility of (Belloc) 174 — See Insanihj. Lund, skulls of idiots . . 173 Lungs, portions without blood-vessels (Hyrtl) 69 — direct inflation of, in apnoea (Sandwith) 197 — diseases of, districts with excessive mor- tality from (Greenhow) . . 464 — do. in typhus (Bell) . 126 — abscesses in (Traulie) . .196 — do. fetid (Bernard) . 193 — dermoid cysts in (Cloetta) . 196 — enchondroma of , . 196 — gangrene of one (Merriman) . 152 — liicmorrhage of (Zdekauer) , 205 — destructive inflammation of (Bade) 176 — tubercles at base of (Merriman). 152 — punctured wound of (Finni-U) . 257 Lupus liypcrtrophicus of vulva (Loreut) 376 Lupus exnlcerans of vulva (Martin) 376 LuscHKA, sterno-pericardial ligaments of the horse . . . .9 — medullary cells in diaphyses of tubular bones . . . . 11 — thoracic inferior vena cava . 22 — fovea: glandulares and arachnoidal villi of middle cranial fossa . . 34 — pituitary body and coccvgeal gland of man 89 — polypous vegetations of mucous mem- hrane of large intestine . 211 Luton, case of embolism . . 180 — See Fritz. LuYNES (de). See Cheualier. Luvs, progressive muscular atrophy 146 — changes in fourth ventricle in diabetes 215 — See Blaehez. LuzsiNSKY, report of children's hospital, Mariahilf. . . .391 Lyman (H. M.) dislocation of head of tibia inwards . , . 281 — laceration of urethra . . 308 Lymph, movement of (Ludvvig) , 88 Lymphatic elements, formation of, in connec- tive tissue of pleura and lungs (Wagner) 178 Lymphatic glands (Ilenle) . 89 — do. (His) . . 90 — do. structure of (His) 78 — do. pathologv and hvpertrophv of (Lambl) '.117 — do. enlarged (Curling, llut- chinson, Skey) . 315 — do. hvpertrophv, without leu- ksemia (Gassy) . ' .315 — do. atheromatous cysts of (Liicke) . 315 - do. external, scrofulous dis- eases of (Price) . 315 Lymphatic vessels, dilatation of .178 — do. parenchymatous, injection of (Hyrtl) . '. . 88 Lyster, (D. J.) use of tobacco . 47 Macario, pneumonic paralysis . 204 McClintock, polypus uteri, pudendal liajraa- tocele .... 3GS — removal of large vesical calculus during pregnancy . . . 378 — semeiological value of pulse in childbed 382 McCoRMAC (H.) plea for the insane 168 — nature and preventibility of tubercular consumption . . . 197 McCraith (J.) tumour simulating broncho- cele . . . .314 McDonald (F. R.) actea racemosa in acute rheumatism . . . 430, 134 Macdonald (J. E.) Bowman's opeiation for cure of obstruction of lachrymal duct 324 34 I-INDEX. 818 McDowEi, (B. G.) paraplegia from (iimour ill spiiml Cord . . . 151 McDowell (R.) tetanus in central America 155 McIntosh (C.) sulicutaueous injection of niorpliiu ill insanity . . 174 Mackenzie. See Alderson, M'KiNLAY (W. U.) rupture of the uterus 344 Macmuudo, cancer in cicatrix of lupus . 318 M'Nad (J.) scsquicarb. amnion, in scarlet fever .... 131 JIacnamaua (J.) post-mortem contractility 28 Macnamara (R.) reproductive encysted tu- mour .... 316 Macroglossia (Lambl) . .117 Macswinev (S. M.) cranial extravasotion 150 — lesion [meningeal extravasation] witliin cranium .... 152 McWhinnie (A. M.) bronchocele, &c. 314 Madder in food of niotlier during gestation, colour in hones of foetus from (Tigii^ . 104 Madeira, climate of, in phthisis (Almes) 197 Madge, uterine hsematocele . 369 Madrid, atmosphere of (De Luna) . 3 Maggiouani, functions of the spleen 88 Magitot. See Robin, Matrnetisni, terrestrial, epidemics in relation to (Fuchs) . . .462 — animal (Du Maury) . . 167 Magnus, anatomyx)f the middle ear 67 Maier (R.) rupture of the heart . 177 Maik, form for reports of autopsies 447 Maisch and Hanbuby, anacahuite wood a remedy in consumption . . 208 Maisonneuve, enormous ulcerating cancer of the face and jaw . . . 250 Majer, arsenic in psoriasis inveterata 230 Major, mental disorder after delivery in a primipara, convulsions . . 165 Malar bone, excision of (Butcher) . 249 Malaria, production and prevention of (Smith) 463 Malformations (Lammcrt) . . 401 — origin of (Panuni) . . 106 — in egg of the bird (Panum) . 401 — of parts. See the names of parts. Malhebbe, action of auriculo-ventricular valves .... 22 — contraction of right auriculo-ventricular orifice of the heart . .179 Malmsten, cavity in the cerebellum 149 — rupture of tlie heart . . 177 Mammalia, external coveiings of (Leydig) 20 — do. (do.) 115 Mammary tumours, &c. See Breast, Tumours, Man, development of (KSIliker) . 2 — See Human species. Manganese, elimination of (Turner) 62 Mancin, poisoning by mushroomi . 436 Manoon (II.) production of green matter of leaves under electric light . 108 Mania in case of uceplialocysts in brain, acute delirium at catameniaf periods (Bail- larger) . , . .167 — sedative action of cold wet sheet in (Ro- bertson) . . , .173 — congestive (Wortliington) . 108 — homicidal, with auditory hallucinations (Robertson) . . .167 — hysterical (Barclay) . . 166,359 — do. from severe mental shock (Gaird- ner) . . , .151 — See Insanity, Mann, stenosis of descending aorta 179 Maiislaugliter by mental means (Lehrs) 450 Manures, utilisation of faecal matters as, in Italy (Chevalier) . . 464 Manz, structure of retina in the frog 65 — placenta pra;via, premature labour 342 Marcet (W.) on death from chloroform 51 — constituents of the gastric juice . 79 Marey, law of frequency of the heart's pul- sations .... 23 Margo (T.) muscular fibres of the moUusca 13 Mariano-Semmola, albuminuria 216 Markham (W. O.) cause of closure of valves of the heart ... 24 Marmots, hybernation of (Valentin) 116 Marquez, paralysis succeeding non-diphthe- ritic angina . . . 149 Marriage of relations a cause of degeneracy of offspring (Grossman, Gardner) 106 — do. injurious eflfects of (Er- lenmeyer) . . . .457 Marsden (A.) wound of palmar arches, ligature . . . .288 — scirrhous tumour of female breast 317 Marsh ^Sir H.) pleuritic effusions, enipj-ema i 194 — thoracentesis in pneumo-thorax . 194 — emphysema of the lungs . 194 ^ — laryngitis, acute and chronic . 195 — oedeniatous laryngitis . . 195 — spasm of the glottis . . 195 Marsh (,T. C. L.) instructions to mothers and ■ - nurses . . . .331 Marshall, fracture of sternum, &c. 1 268 II Marston (J. A.) acute cerebral softening, &c. - 147 Marten, operative treatment of peritonitis •' 213 Martin (C. A.) diphtheritic inflammation of ' ~ vulva in secondary syphilis .124 Martin (D. P.) notes on idiocy . 166 Martin (E.) transfusion in uterine hrcmoi- rhage .... 34.' — on diminishing the child's head in de- livery .... 351 — chloroform in midwifery, . 355 rINDEX. 519 Martin (E.) lupus exulceraiis of vulva 376 — cancer of vagina . • 378 — epidemic puerperal colpitis and endome- tritis 386 — salpingitis a cause of puerperal peritonitis 386 — cystic tumour of sacro-periueal region 402 Martix (F.) peristaltic movements of intes- tinal canal . . . 81 Martin (M.) epidemic of jaundice, Italy 223 Martin (S.) pot. chloras for fetid breath 212 Martin-Magron and Soulie, peri-uterine liaematocele . . . 370 Martini (A.) laceration of ligaments of fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae 277 Martini (0.) report on tracheotomy 194, 253 — do. 396 Martins?, on pelvic and pectoral limbs of man and mammalia . . 11 Martyn, placenta praevia . . 343 Mascarel, poisoning by phosphonis 409 Masciika, injuries of the head . 440 — violation of an epileptic female . 453 — mental condition of murderer, Martin P. 456 Mash, punctured wound of chest . 257 — fracture of thigh, gangrene, &c. 271 Maskol, epilepsy, trephining . 246 Mason (E.) fracture of radius . 269 Mason (F.) compression of the brain 244 — strangulated hernia in a woman aged 72 300 Mason (R. 0.) rupture of tendons of rectus femoris muscle . . . 272 Massart, therapeutical application of arse- niate of gold . . . 415 Massmann, uterine sound for flexions of the uterus .... 360 Materia medica, report on, by Dr. B. Sander- son . . . . 406 — 8(c., inorganic . . . 408 — and poisons, vegetable . . 430 — do. organic chemical . 438 Materia medica, treatise on (Stille) . 407 Maternity, case of early (Wilson) . 333 Matter, forces of (Faraday) . 3 — metamorphosis of, influence of water on (Moslcr) . . . . 48 Matteucci, secondary electro-motor power of nerves.... 45 — do. do. . 113 — lectures on electro-physiology . 40 Maunder (C. F.) operative surgery 235 — tracheotomy . . . 253 — is inherited syphilis protective against sub- sequent contagion . . 319 — indurat'ed chancre of lip . . 320 — polycystic ovarian tumours, ovariotomy 375 Maurice and Gautier, sudden death from insufficiency of aortic valves . 177 Mauthner (L.) morphological elements of nervous system ... 35 — poisoning by amanita muscaria . 436 Max, retro-uterine hjematocele . 370 — rudimentary bladder in urethro-vaginal fistula . . . .404 Maxilla. See Jaw. Mayer, corpora amyloidea. . 120 Mayer (A.) sensory function of the spinal cord .... 38 — cholesteatoma of the brain . 147 — import of dorsal pains in other diseases 152 — rheumatism with symptoms of apoplexy 191 Mayer (C.) amputation of cancroid excres- cence of cervix uteri . . 362 — epilepsy from uterus . . 364 Mayer (L.) pelvic narrowing from fibrous tumour .... 338 — cancroids of female sexual organs 376 Mayne (R.) acute softening of medulla spi- nalis .... 150 — cerebral complications of phthisis 152 Mayo (T.) moral phenomena of insanity and eccentricity . . . 168 Mayr, use of pauUiuia sorbilis . 432,212 Mayr (F.) obturation of iliac arteries and veins .... 180 Meacham (J. G.) rapid union of tibia and fibula .... 272 Meadows (D.) tetanus of fourteen months' duration .... 154 — inguinal hernia of right ovary, operation 371 Measles, statistics of (Kiittlinger) . 122 — epidemic of, at Kiel in 1860 (Biirtels) 132 — epidemic at Val-de-Grace (Laveran) 122 Meat, spoilt, &c., poisoning by (Dehne) 441 Meatus, external auditorv, injuries to (Toynbee) 329 — do sebaceous tumours in (Toynbee) . . .330 Meckel (L.) recent investigations on asthma 196 Mediastinum, relation to thoracic wall, lungs, &c. (Bochdalek) ... 72 Medicine, report on the institutes of, bg Dr. George Harley ... 1 — manuals, treatises, lectures, Sfc. 1 Medicine, history of (Meryon) . 2 Medicine, practical, report on, bg Dr. C. II. Jones . . . .117 — legal, report on, bg Dr. B. Sanderson 443 Medicine, legal or forensic (Guy, Peuard) 443 — do. language of (Ilof- mann) . . . .443520 INDEX. Medicines, physiological action 47 Medicines, action of (lleadlaiul) . -17 — new, biuce 1830 (Guibcit, Ilagen) 407 Medulla oblongata, tumour in (Maviie) 150 Meek (J.) air in the blood . .179 MiiiNiRi:, auditory anscultatioii . 329 Meisbneii (E. a.) frequeucy of conception in anosmia .... 350 — rheumatism of gravid uterus . 383 MiussNER (G.) digestion of albuminous sub- stances .... 79 Meissner (II.) "catalepsia cerea," epileptic convulsions, &c. . . . 140 — one-sided chronic liydroceplialus 149 — thrombosis and erabolia of cerebral vessels 185 Melanosis of labium and glands of groin (Hewett) . . .317 — recurrent, of groins and back (Hewett) 317 — See Cancer (melanotic). Melanotic tumours, muliiple (Lancereaux) 125 Melchiori, volvulus of the sigmoid flexure 214 Membrane, synovial, gelatinous degeneration (Bauer) . . . .275 Membranous, pseudo-, affections, bromine in (Ozanam) , . .197 Meningitis (llerard) . . 161 — acnte (Simpson) . . 395 — spinal (Koeliler) . . 144 — do. paraplegia from (Ramskill) 147 — probably syphilitic (Blacliez) . 151 — tuberculous, preventive in infants (Ilera- niing) .... 140 — do. (Hessert) . . 160 — do. iodine in (Bourrousse) 160 Menorrhagia, use of digitalis in (Truusseau) 181 — at third menstrual period, fatal (Roche) 304 Menses, retention of, from imperforate hymen (Hicks) .■ . . . 376,370 Menstruation, relation to lunar phases (Strohl) 350 — exfoliation of mucous membrane of womb during (Till) . . . 364,364 Menstitmtion, diseases of . . 364 Menstruation, sickness in diseases of (Tilt) 363 Mental affections from morbid alterations of blood, brain, &c. (Brown-Sequard) 162 Mental derangement. See Insanity. Mental diseases . . . 165 Mental disease, cases of (Flechner) . 456 — opium in (Meyer) . . 107 Meucf.r, ligature of primitive carotid for wounil of occipital . . 28/ MEKCiiiR (A.). Sqc Hamon. Mercurial treatment of parents, influence on olVspiing (Miiller) . , 135 Mercurialibin, constitutional (Knssmaul) 319 Mercurials, coloration of faeces from (Iiuuan) 61 Mercury, elimination from the system (Schnei. der) .... 01 — do. (do.) 222 — use of, in syphilis in Persia (Polak) 136 — do. (do.) 417 Merkel (L.) recent inquiries in laryngoscopy and phonetics . . . 69 ' Mekriman (S. W. J.) hydrocephalus of fifteen years' duration, tubercles at base of lungs, &c. . . .152 — do. . 395 MuRYON (E.) history of medicine . 2 Mbsmer (A.) anatomy and physiology of llje brain . . ' . , 30 Mesnet, somnambulism . . 153 Metamorphosis, influence of arsenious acid on (Schmidt) . . . 134 Metatarsal bone, dislocation of (Beliu, Ptl- larin) . . . .281 Mf-tcalfe (J. T.) bromide of iodine in diph- theria . . . .122 — angina pectoris, with valvular disease 17» Meteorology, medical . . 460 Meteorology, text-book of (Schmid) 4C1 — geographical f Miihry) . . 101 — and vital phenomena of Canterbury (Rigden) . . . " 462 — 1860, Philadelphia (Jewell) . 123 Metrorrhagia from old blood-coaguluiu (Sleiger) .... 308 Meyer, electricity in treatment of disease 152 Meyer (H.) recovery from injuries to the skull , . . . .243 Meyer (L.) Pacchionian granulations 34 — do. 152,159 — opium in mental diseases . 107 Michael (W. H.) enceplialocele . 403 Michel, transformations of erectile and caver- nous tissue . . . 193 ■ — disease communicated to man by the Pro- ■ vence reed . . . 437 Michon, rare affection of vaginal orifice 377 Microscope, wonders of . .2 — how to work with the (Beale) . 2 Midwifery, report on, by Dr. Gr. '^^'^'^'^'j Midwifery, clinical (Lee) . . 332 — cases in (Coperaan, Lee, Lumpe) 332.' — in the East (Eram) . . 331 — electricity in (Baer) . . 336 — anajsthetics in (Barker) . . 354 — do. (Croskerv, Guelmi, Mai lin) — difficult cases (EUiot) Midwifery, operations in 355 331 346 . kINDEX. 521 Mii.Es (E. J.) sarcina ventriculi, with vomif- ing of gall-stones . . 210 Mii.ES (H. C.) cure of gonorrhcea by blisters 322 Miliary tubercle in substance of the heart (Klob) . . . .177 Mititary surgery . . . 239 Military surgery (Gross, Hamilton, Pitcher, Post, Tripler) . . .239 Miliv, human, composition of (Bodecker) 91 — influence of pregnancy on the (Davis) 92 — breast, substitute for (Baines) . 47 — secretion of, by tumours in the axill® (Harris) . . . . 91 Miller (H.) cancer of bladder . 305 — ovariotomy . . . 374 MiLLON, pharmacology of rhus toxicodendron 431 MiLROY (G.) contagion of epidemics 124 — do. . 469 — case of the Egyptian frigate at Liverpool (fever) . . . .129 — yellow fever in ships of war . 130 Mind, disorder of, after delivery in a primi- para (Major) . . .165 — See Mental affections, <S;~c. Mine disease (Josephson) . . 232 Miner (J. F.) depressed fracture of the skull, trephining . . . 245 — tracheotomy in croup . . 256 Mineral waters (Smith) . . 47 — (do.) . .231 — nature and action of (Althaus) . 50 — of Bath in lead poisoning, colic, gout, &c. (Falconer) . . .147 — of Kreutznach in affections of uterus (Engelmann) , , . 359 — of Ohersalzbrunn . . 234 MiatjEL, detection of blood-stains . 447 MissA, expulsion of placenta before the child 313 Mitchell (S. W.) remedies for rattlesnake bites .... 143 Mitral valve, contraction of (Laycock) 179 MiTSCHERLicH, waterproof bandages 236 Moffat, loss of colour of ozone test-papers 112 Mole, hydatid, expelled after living fcetus (Davis) . . . . 343 — do. with normal ovum (Hilde- braudt) . . . .343 Molecular theory (Bennett) . 3 — structure of animal textures (Miiller) 114 MoLEscHOTT (J.) physiological sketch-book 1 — on knowledge of smooth muscles 19 — nerves of the heart . , 41 — Ste Chapuis. MoLi,, injury to the skull . . 243 M61.LER,abscess of laiyux in a child 195 Mollities ossium (Lilzmann) . 118 Mollities ossium in a mother of ten children (Aldersoii) ' . . .118 Mollusca, muscular fibres of (Margo) 13 MoLLWO, congenital heart disease . 179 MoNCKTON. See Carr. MoNiGisTTi, cure of svphilis by vaccination 13f. Monkey, cartilages of Wrisherg in larvnx of (Gibb) . . . . ■ 114 Monstrosity, double (Hanks) . 401 Mooiin; (A.) stone in trachea . 25G MooRE (C. H.) fibro-muscular sub-clavicular tumour . . . . 315 — scirrlious cancer of inale breast . 316 — cvst in front of scirrhous tumour of breast 316 — do. . 381 MooRE (W.) excessive mortality in early life 122, 391 — paralysis and atrophy from lead poisoning 150 — diseases of the heart in early life 177 — do. . 397 — atrophy of children from dirt-eating 397 MoouE (W. D.) sudden death after furuncles of the face . . .189 MoauiN-TANDON (A.) medical zoology 1 Morals, deterioration of, before general paraly- sis (Brierre de Boismont) . 172 Morbus coxarius (Hughes, Post) . 276, 276 — do. (Cleveland, Sayre, Tavlor) 277 MoREAU, hypochondriacal delusions the fore- runners of general paralysis . 172 Morel-Lavalee, coxalgia in fcetus 399 MoRELL (J. D.) mental philosophy on the inductive method . . 30 Morphia, and its transmission in the animal organism (Lefort) . . 421 — injections of, in hemicrania (Boone) 150 — do. sitbcutaneous,in insanity (M'Intosh) 174 — do. do. in neuralgia (Richard) 149 — do. do. in spasm of glottis (Bernard) . . .148 — acute poisoning by (Zepuder) . 422 — strychnia, &c., poisoning by (Tschepke) 424 — camphorate of (Pavesi) . .147 — muriate of, hypodermic inoculation of, in neuralgia (Lafargue) . . 418 Mortality, excessive, from lung diseases, in certain districts (Greenhow) . 464 Mortality, infant . . . 458 Mortality, iniantile (Escherich, Ploss, Vogt) 458,458 — do. (Bouchut) . 459 — do. statistics (Gairduer, Ploss) 391 ~ do, lawsof (Bouchut) 390522 INDEX. Mortality, infantile, excessive (Moore) 122 — do. causesof e.\ce8sive(Moore) 391 Mortification of foot and leg, amputation (Lawrence) . . . 212 MouTON', excision of Inirsfe . 31G Mo.si.Kn (I''.) influence of water on tlie meta- niorpliosis of matter . . 48 — cliorea preceding catamcnia . 145 — catalepsy . . . 149 Moss (W.) action of potash, soda, lithia, lead, &c., on tlie urine . . 220 Motlicrs and nurses, instructions to (Marsh) 331 MoTT (A. B.) fracture and caries of cranium 244 — necrosis of infej'ior maxilla, plastic opera- tion .... 251 — tenotomy for deformity from anchylosis of knee-joint . . . 378 Moutard-Martin, polydipsia from cerebral disturbance . . .150 — " on sulphate of cinchonine in intermit- tents" (Grisolle). . .123 Moni/i, 4 c. . . .246 Mouth, diseases of (Garretson) . 249 — surgery of (Bryant) . . 237 -Movement, involuntary circular, of the bodv (Friedberg) ... 157 Mucous membrane, intestinal, terminal plex- uses of nerve-fibres in (Hoyer, Reichert) 30 Mucus, cells of, endogenous origination of (Remak) .... 118,112 MijHLiG (H.) wound of the heart perforating wall of right ventricle, &c. . 184 — cases of pericarditis . . 185 MijHRY, geographical meteorology . 461 Mulder, on beer . . . 468 MuLLER, on preservation of urine . 464 Miji-LER (C.) influence of mercurial treatment of parents on the offspring . 135 Muller (II.) dark-bordered nerve-fibres in the retina . . .63 — smooth muscles and nerve-plexuses in the eye . . . . C5 — discoid corpuscles . . 118 — choroidal affection in morbus Briglitii 218 Muller (W.) molecular structure of animal textures . . . . 114 MiiLLNEB, pemphigus . . 230 Mhndy (J.) educational treatment of cre- tinism .... 166 Munk (II.) influence of length of nerve on time of muscular death . . . 19 — conduction of excitation in nerves 44 Murder, child-. See Infattticide. Murderer, mental condition of a (Maschka) 456 MuRNEY, strangulated femoral hernia 300 Murphy, on supporting the perinaium 345 Murmurs, endocardial, influence of change of posture on (Ringer) . . 1H5 M URRAY (J.) mutual interpenetration of fluids 108 Murray (J. Ivor) wound of the sternum 2C8 Murray (J. Jardine) impeded labour from dorsal displacement of the arm . 339 Musca; vciitantes in myopic eve (Jago) 326 Muscles, attachment of (Ilolden) 9 — chemical irritation of (Kiihne; . 10 — plasmatic vascular system in (Welker) 15 — of animal life, convulsions of (Cliauvcau) 39 — behaviour of, in facial paralysis to electric current (Schulz) . . . 161 — ossification of (Skinner) . .174 — of the eye, paralysis (Hutchinson) 327 — ciliary, temporarv paralysis of (Lawson) 327 — do. value of incision of (Solomon) 327 — aural, clonic spasm of (Hoppe) . 148 — omo-hyoid, irregularities of (Turner) 14 — laryngeal, anatomy of (Bochdalek) 13 — of the chest, supernumerary (Gruber) 14 — intercostal, action of (Biiumler, Schoc- maeker) .... 69 — smooth (Moleschott) . . 19 — do. in the eye (Muller) . 65 — striated, growth of (Weismann) . 15 — do. histology of (Sczelkow). 13 — do. nuclei-form structure of (Welker) 15 — do. operation of reagents on (Reiser) 15 — voluntary, tone of (BrondgSst) . 44 — do. influence of sympathetic nerve on (Remak) . . .30 — Porret's plienoraenon in (Kuhne) 16 Muscular system . . . 13 — diseases of . . . 174 Musculaj- bundles, primitive,nuclei-form struc- ture of(Slephan) . . 15 — filires of moUusca (Margo) . 13 — fibre, smooth (Pick) . . 19 — juice, alteration bv warmth and movement (Harless) .' . . 16 — substance (do.) . . 16 — do. processes in (Harless) . 15 — tissue, structure of (Margo) . 13 — do. cancer of (Parmentier) . 17 — do. rupture of heart from wasting oi (Arlidge). . . . 177 - — do. of the heart, partial cretification (Heschl) . . . .179 — anaisthesia (Sigaret) . .114 — atrophy (Oppolzer) . . 17.') — do. (Adamson, Bell, L. Clarke, Gaii-d ner) . . . . If9 — do. progressive (Bamberger, Tlio son) .... — contraction, speed of (Aeby) — contraction from mechanical irrita (Auerbach) lf9 1INDEX. 523 Muscular irritability, relations of blood to (Ettinger) ... 16 — do. relations with cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction (Brovvn-Sequard) 18 — pain cured by slianipooing (I'iorry) 147 — paralysis, functional (Duchenne) 157 — do. of tongue, &c., progressive (Du- chenne) .... 156-7 Museum, Hunterian, notes on, by Owen (Hunter) . . . .2 Muslirooms, poisoning by (Mangin) 436 Musical sounds, production of, bv electrolysis (Gore) . . . ■ . 109 ■ Musical tones, sensibility of ear to pitch of (Fessel) .... 68 Musli, pill of, in neuralgia (Boison). 164 MussKT. See Joly. Mydriasis, spontaneous in both eyes (Gosselin) 327 Myelitis, acute (Burrows) . .152 — chronic (Hammond) . . 147 Myocarditis (Herzfelder) . .177 Myological inquiries (Kiihne) . 16 Naedelin, forms of pessaries: hvsterophor 389 Ntevi, surgical treatment (Price) . 313 — fatal bleeding from (Wahl) . 400 Nagf.i-, simullaueotis action of the two eyes 63 Nails, reproduction of (Pradier) . 106 — as a semeiological indication (Beau) 230 Namias, leukaemia, with milky urine 177 Naphtha, coal-tar, scabies treated with (Spratly) . . . . 441 Naso-guttural space, examination of (Seme- leder) .... 198 Natural history, essays on (Hunter) 2 Neck, cancerous tumours in (Salva) .317 — wry-, intermittent (Legouest) . 175 Necrosis, partial (Senftleben) . 262 — of frontal bone, trephining, &c. (Clark) 245 — of upper jaw (Wormald). . 250 — of lower jaw (Stanley, Molt) . 251, 251 — removal of half lower jaw for (Johnson) 251 — of entire clavicle (Hilton) . 264 — of femur (Fcrgusson) , . 263 — of left femur (Sayres) . . 263 — internal, of the thigh (Hitchcock) 264 — of astragiilus (llillman) .264 Xeedham, fracture of the skull from a rocket 244 Nei.atox, venous haemorrhage, introduction of a cylinder of agaric, &c. . 286 — burn of anus, incontinence of faeces, &c. 303 — partial extirpation, &c., in incurable cancer 316 — ovariotomy . . . 371 Nerve-fibres, modes of termination of ( Krause) 42 — terminal plexuses in intestinal mucous membrane (Hoyer, Ueichert) . 30 Nerve-fibres, dark-bordered, in retina (Muller) 63 Nerve-force, influence on inflammation (Schleiss) . . .152 Nerve-formation in neuroma (Weissmann) 46 Nerve-knots in thalamus opticus (Lambl) 117 Nerve-plexuses in the eye (Miiller) . 65 Nerve-substance, m>Jecular processes in (Har- less) .... 43 Nerves: nervous system . . 30 Nerves, diagrams of the (Flower) . 30 — morphological elements of (Mauthner) 35 — new organ of nervous system (Kuehne) 42 — without end (Hyrtl) ' . . 30 . — irritability of, changes by warmth (Schelske) 44 — chemical irritation of (Kiihne) . 10 — conduction of excitation in (Munk) 44 — secondary electro-motor power of (Mat- teucci) . . . . 45 — do. (do.) 113 — regeneration of (Hjelt) . . 46 — do. of transplanted (Philipeaux) 45 — influence of length of, on time of muscular death (Munk) . . . 19 — instrument for subcutaneous introduction of fluids in aflFections of (Rynd) 47 Nerves: nervous system, diseases of 144 Nerves: nervous system, diseases of (Hasse, Leubuscher) . . . 144 — do. do. (Echeverra) 147 — do. do. in typhus (Bell) 126 Nerves: nervous system, diseases of, in chil- dren .... 392 Nerves, motor, influence of temperatures on (Harless). ... 43 — trophic (Samuel) . . 118 — cervical sympathetic, functions of, in man (Waller) .... 40 — cerebro-spinal centres, electric insensibilitv of (Van Been) ... 34 — of dura mater (Arnold) . . 30 — infra-orbital, Paccinian bodies on (Hyrtl) 44 — facial, convulsive spasm of (Oppolzer) 147 — do. [portio dura] paralysis of (Gairdner, Hutchinson) . . . 151 — optic, intra-ocular end of (Ammon^ 63 — oculo-motor, disorders (Horing) 327 — do. paralysis of (Lize) .327 — pale, of the choroid (Schweigger) G6 — fifth pair, resections of branches of (Bratscb) 150 . — laryngeal, influence on the diaphragm (Rosenthal) . . . /40 — ulnar, symptoms from refrigeration of (Waller) .... 40 — of the heart (Moleschott) . 41 — pnrumogastric or vagi, functions, in man (Waller) .... 49INDEX. 524 Nerves, pneumogastric, course in abdomen (KoUraann) . . .30 — do. stretched and flat- tened (Eade) . . .176 — do. inflnence on the diaphragm (Rosentlial) . . 40 — do. influence on tlie functions of the stomach (Schifl^) 80 — do. stoppage of heart by irritation of (Bndge) . . .30 — do. of fislies (Hoffmann) 30 — phrenic and vagus, effects of dividing (Budge) . . • . 70 — sympattictic, degi-ees of sensibility of gan- glia and filaments of (Colin) . 39 — do. influence on voluntary muscles (Remak) . . . .30 — do. reflex movements from (Ber- nard) . . , .30 — do. sensitive properties of (Ber- nard) . . , .30 Nervous disease (Rintel) . .147 Neubauer, analvsis of the urine . 101 Neubert, poisoning by secale cornutum, abortion . . . .437 Neuffen, sudden death from rupture of the heart . . , .177 Neukomm (J.) demonstration and transforma- tion of the biliary acids . . 86 — detection and changes of biliarv acids, &c. 223 Neumann (C.) amyloid degeneration 121 Neumann (E.) development of new forma- tions .... 118 — cavernous tumours . . 313 Neuralgia, clinical remarks on (Sieveking) 153 — cured by extraction of tooth (Vautier) 149 — treatment by cauterization (Senter) 165 — hypodermic inoculation of sulphate of atropine, &c., in (Lafargue) . 418 — subcutaneous injections of atropine and morphia in (Ricliard) . .149 — electric currents in (Becqucrel) . 164 — ether compresses in (Betbeder) . 146 — local application of ether in (Betbeder) 149 — pill of musk in (Boison) . 164 — cyanide of potassium in . 161 — oleum terebintli. in (Clasen) . 148 — complicating chlorosis (Trousseau) 152 — of the ikiii (Biiurguignon) . 149 — brachial (Bergson) . . 149 — visceral (Laboidl)ene) . .144 — niesenti i ita, niiilarious (Schramm) 150 — of ilie bladder (Bi)urgu;gnon) . 148 — lunibu-abdoininal of pregnancv (IJze) 383 Neuroma, malignant (Vircbow) . 118 — rccMuii'nt (Lilasiii.s) . . 319 — iierve-foiniation in (Wcissman) . 46 Neuro-physiological inquiries (Harless) 43 Neurosis, extraordinary (Legrand du Saulle) l.« — epidemic convulsive, at Strasbourg (D'Eggs) 149 — of stomach in children (Lombard) 397 Newman (W.) diphtheria . . 122,141 — antagonistic effects of opium and bella. donna .... 140, 42;{ — and Haiii.ky, seven living and eleven dead children in eighteen pregnancies . 401 Newton (J. J.) Ca;sarean section, success 349 Nicolls (S.) opium in strangidaled hernia 297 Nicotine, preparation of (Deljize) . 423 Niemeyer (P.) internal aneurisms . 190 Night-nursing, results of (Iloberison) 173 Nitric acid in intermittent fever (Hammond) 131 — in prolapsus ani (Clements, Smith) 303, 303 — prophylactic for singers' hoarseness CDidav) 197 NiVELET, different physiological action of positive and negative poles in voltaic and induction currents . . 45 NiVET, functions of placenta . 332 — and GiRAUD, poisoning by veratrum album 428 NivisoN (N.) antagonistic effects of opium and quinine .... 47,421 Nomenclature, cheraico-pharmaceutical (An- thon) .... 400 NoNAT, " ataxic musculaire," with diseased kidneys, &c. . . . 146 Norway, report of public health in . 139 — report on sanitary condition of . 460 Nose, plastic operation for a new (Pancoast) 252 — septum of, deviation of, new operation (Demarquay) . . . 252 — do. adhesion to turbinated bone (Bryatfl) . . .252 — do. polvpoid bonv growth from (Ure) . ■. . ■ . 252 NoTTA, neuralgic facial paralysis cured by endermic application of strychnine 148 — fungus of sheaths of tendons, &c. 314 NouRSE (W. E. (J.) on uterine fluxes 364 NoYES (II. D.) loss of sight from effusions under retina . . . 326 Nuclei-form structure of muscle (Stephan, Welker) .... 15 NuNN (J.) femoral hernia . . -"OO NuNN [T. W.) oviiriotomy . . 374 — inflammation of breast and milk absco^'; :■-! NuNNELEY (T.) iridectomy operation 1 glaucoma ... Nye (J. M.) pins in the rectum 'I Nynijihoniania in woman aged sixly-onc ciaux) . . . .364 O'Beirnb, nature of treatment of tetanus 2t3 Obersalzbrunn in Prussia 234INDEX. 525 Obliteration, spontaneous, of veins (Legroux) 180 Olistetrics. See Midwifery. Obstetric apliorisnis (Swayiie) . 331 Obslelrical operations , . 346 Obstetrical Society,' Transactions,' vol 2 331 Obturation of iliac arteries and veins (Mavr) 180' Occipito-frontalis, clonic spasm of (Hoppe) 118 O'Connor, scarlatina with acute rheumatism, &c 124 — hemiplegia following shocks of electricity 149 — facial paralysis . . .150 — paralysis in syphilitic patients . 151 Odling (W.) manual of chemistry . 2 O'DoNOVAN (K. W.) treatment of rheumatic fever . . . . 133 Odontocele, &c. (Gane(son) . 329 Odontology of harelip (Volkman) . 329 (Edema, acute, tracheotomy (Russell) 194 — of tlie glottis (Lalande) . . 197 — do. scarification (Woltersom) 198 — do. from tonsillitis (Igham) 255 — do. foUowinglarvngotomy (Isham) 194 — of the larynx (Hilles) . . 254 — hemiplegia (Laycock) , . 179 — pulnmnary (Oppolzer) . . 201 fEnanthe crocata, poisoning from (Appleton) 438 (Esophageal ulceration, pneumo-pcricardium from (Tiitel) . . .177 (Esophagotoroy (Syme) . . 249 (Esophagus .... 249 (Esophagus, lodgment of farthing in (Jones) 249 — compressed (Eade) . .176 — rupture of aorta communicating with (Bisbop) . . . .177 — stricture of (Hamilton, Lewis) . 249 Ogilvik (G.) geuetic cvcle in orcanic nature 2 Ogilvie (J. F.) fever at Liverpool . 469 Ogle (J. W.) case of emboMsm . 180 Ogston, poisoning by lucifer matches, &c. 410 — poisoning by bichromate of potash 412 Oil and cotton batting in burns (Pease) 243 Oils. See Cajeput, Cod-liver, Crolon, Tere- binlhm. Oleum tiiorrh. and iron, administration of (Janota) .... 213 Olive-leaves, spirituous extract of . 144 Oliviehi, i)aracpntesis of the stomach for acute tympanitis . . . 213 O1.1.IKR, longitudinal growth of bones of llie limbs .... 10 (Jli-ivikk, tetanus neonatorum . o95 Olshausen, fibrous tumour in smaller pelvis, preniauire labour . . 338 — imperfoiate anus, &o., penis wanting 403 Onanism, conditions of female sexual organs indicating . . . 358 — in young children (Behrend) . 399 Operations (surgical). See Surgery. Ophthalmia, acute (Fleming) . 325 — intermittens (Biihrlen) . . 325 — purtilent, of new-born cliildren (Dcval) 395 — sequela of infantile purulent (Solomon) 324 Ophthalmic surgery . . 322 Ophthalmic surgery, Utrecht school (Laurence) 322 Ophthalmitis, traumatic (Laurence) 326 Ophthalmoscope, binocular (Giraud-Teulon) 322 Opitz (E.) on scurvy . . 112 Opium, on the use of (Tiirk) . 63 — in strangulated hernia (Hillyard, NicoUs) 297 — in mental diseases (Meyer) . 167 — in acute rheumatism (Waters) . 122 — tincture of, in traumatic tetanus (Ord) 150 — in large doses in idiopathic tetanus (Gri- solle) . . . .14 7 — action on genito-urinary organs (Wood- ward) . . ' . 96 — action on urine (Moss) . . 220 — antagonism to belladonna (Graefe) 151 — do. (Newman) 149,423 — antagonism to quitiine (Nivison) 4 7, 421 — poisoning by . . . 423 — do. (Duncan, Vowinkel) 422 Oppler, doctrine of uraemia . 219 Oppolzer, convulsive spasm of the facial nerve . . . .147 — acute inflammation, with softening of spinal cord . . . .148 — muscular atrophy . .175 — mitral and tricuspid insufficiency, with gra- nular Hver, &c. . . .178 — pericardial exudation and adhesion 178 — cases of embolism . . 180 — pneumonia . . .193 — pulmonary oedema . . 201 — inflammation of pelvis and calyces of kid- ney . . . ' . 221 Optics, physiological (Helmholtz) . 64 Orbit, cystic tumour of (Wyatt) . 323 — pulsating tumour of, ligature of carotid (Synie) . . . .323 Orchitis blennorrhagica (Berruti) . 321 — tubercidar (Jordan) . .311 OnD (J. L,; cbloroform and tinct. opii in traiimiiiic tetanus . .150 OiiDENSTEiN (L.) parotid saliva of man 79 Organization, molecular tlieory (lienneit) 3 0'Uii:lly, fmciure disunited liy gout 267INHEX. 528 Ormerod (E. L.) diplitlieria at Brigliton MO Orsolato (G.) spontaneous riiptuie of the lieart . . . .177 Orth, poisoning by iodide of potassium 410 — suicide by banging after swallowing shoe- nails, &c. . . . 457 Orthoptedic surgery . , 327 Os calcis, extensive caries of (Ure) . 264 — excision of, for caries (Barton) . 264 Os humeri, ununited fracture of (Cooper) 269 Os uteri, exclusion of, in pregnant women (Rotter) . . . .362 — rigidity of, during labour (Dubois) 337 — colpeurynter for ddating (Keating) 354 Osborne (C. H.) spontaneous cure of arti- ficial anus . . . 300 Osborne (J.) why is not the expired air re- inspired? . . , 78 Osseous si/stem ... 9 OssiEUR, knee and elbow position in labour 354 Ossification of the muscles (Skinner) 174 Osteo-carcinoma, extirpation of scapula for (Schuh) .... 265 Osteology, buman (Holden, Ward) . 9 Osteomalacia (Alderson, Litzmann) 118, 332 — (Breisky, Litzmann) . . 336 — cases of (Parmentier) , . 266 — labour in case of (Scbmitz) . 337 — at Gummersbach (Breisky) . 336 — in cancerous patients (Forster) . 120 — combined with insanity (Finkelnburg) 166 Osteosarcoma of the vertebral column (Lambl) 117 Osteotomy in badly united fracture (Esmai-cb) 272 Otorrhoea, in injury to the head (Lawrence) 244 Otterson, treatment of gleet . 222 Otto, conical trephine . . 235 Ovarian cysts, tapped thirty-three times (Ber- trand) .... 371 — injection with, iodine (Davies, Lovvenhardt) 371, 371 — spontaneous rupture internally of (Barry, Bristowe, Wells) . . 371,371 — with pregnancy (Hunter) . 371 — treatment of large (Wells) . 373 — See Ovariotomy. Ovaries, diseases of. . . 3/1 Ovaries, tubercles in (Rokitansky) . 363 Ovariotomy . • ■ •'^71 Ovariotoniv (Nelaton) . . 371 — cases (T. Smith, S. Wells) . 372-3 — cases (^Brown, Clay) . ■ 374 — do. (Childs, Cooper, Davies, Gibb, Keiller, Miller, Nunn) , . . 374 — do. (Barnes, Bennett, Cooper, Erichsen, Hamilton, Hicks, Maunder, Roberts) 375 — do. (Barnes, Hutchinson) . 375 — on a ladv Jet. seventy-five, successful 37Q Ovary, scjiaration of, from atrophy of Fallo- pian tube, 6lc. (Turner) . . 370 — right, inguinal hernia of (Meadows) 371 — do. of a child, cancerous tumour in (Barthez) , . .117 OwsjANNiKow, stoppage of expiration by irritation of central end of vagus 70 — on Teichmann's hajmin-crystals . 417 Oxalic acid, criminal poisoning by, perfora- tion of stomach (Littlejohn) . 417 Oxaluria (Smoler) . . , 221 Oxyuris vermicidaris occurring in the insane (Vix) , . . .166 OzANAM, bromine in pseudo-membranous affections . . , 197 Ozoena (Trousseau) . .197 Ozone, influence on the pulse (Hill) 178, 58 Ozone test-papers, loss of colour of (Moffat) 112 Ozonized cod-liver oil, influence on the pulse (Thompson) ... 57 Pacchionian granulations (Mever) . 34 — do. (do.) 152,159 Pacchiotti, syphilis conveyed by vaccine lymph to forty-six children . 135 Paccinian bodies on infra-orbital nerve (Hvrtl) ' 44 Packard (J. H.) fracture of patella, Mal- gaigne's hooks . . . 280 Pad LEY (G.) foreign bodies in the air-pas- sages . . . .195 — do. . 256 Padovani, puerperal fever, from thrombosis of uterus . . . 387 Page (F.) chloroform in puerperal convulsions 388 Page and Annandale, death under influence of chloroform . . •• 122 Pagenstechee, resection of hip-joint 284 — operation for internal strangulation 295 — artificial anus in left groin . 296 Paget (Jas.) fibrous tumour of antrum, ex- cision .... 250,249 — cystic disease of lower jaw . 252 — disease of tarsus, Pirogoflf's operation 264 — medullary cancer of the tibia . 265 do. of the femur . 265 — aneurism of femoral artery . 290, 290 — vaginal haemorrhage of two years, fibrous tunioiu' .... 378 Paget (T.) pervious urachus and stillicidiirn urinte .... ■ ' — cystotomy without a stone . oOj Pain, lectures on (Ildton) . . 238 Pains, clironic, in abdominal and thoracic walls (Jago) . . . • — dorsal, import of, in other diseases (Mayer)INDEX. 527 Painters, influence of oil of turpentine on heaith of (Leclaire) . . 440 Pajot, pelvimetry . . . 333 — ergot in retention of placenta . 350 — See Dubois. Palates, hard and soft . . 248 i'alate, soft, adhesion of lower border of, to pliarynx (Iloevcn) . . 248 — veliini pendulum, brain-like tumour in (Pancoast) . . .248 — cleft, uranoplasty for (Langenbeck) 248 — do. closure of (Ilulke) . 248 Palmar arches, wound of (Marsden) 288 Palmar fascia, contraction of (Elliott) 328 Palsy. See Paralysis. — sempstresses' (Holsbeck) . 146 — wasting (Ramskill) . . 174 Panaritium (Bergli) . . 241 Pancoast (J.) injury of the hand by a pistol, conservative surgery . . 240 — do. from bursting of gun, amputation . . . 240 — brain-like tumour in velum pendulum palati 248 — medullary cancer of the antrum . 2.50 — plastic operation for a new nose . 252 — Pirogoff's operation . . 260 — amputation of the thigh for ununited frac- ture .... 259 — exostosis of the thumb, toe, &c . 266 — fracture of condyle of the humerus 269 — fractures of patella . . 280 — amputation above the wrist, ligation of brachial artery . , , 288 — hernia, non-descent of right testicle 298 — small calculus from urethra . 307 — stricture of lu-ethra, circocele, &c. 309,309 — phimosis, rupture of mucous membrane 310 — hydrocele, tapping . . 312 — removal of anomalous tumour from side 313 — encephaloid cancer of testis . 313 — do. of mammary gland 316 — cases of cancer . . .316 — scirrhous cancer of breast . 316 — encephaloid cancer of the head . 317 — deformity of lower extremities, &c. 328 — club-foot, division of soleus muscle ,328 Pancreas, action of, in digestion of azotized aliments (Corvisart) . . 87 — influence of gastric digestion on fCorvisart) 87 — pathology of (Klob) . . 224 — disease of, no fatty stools (Ileid) 214 Pancreaticjiiicc, chemical properties of (Turner) 78 — ' do. operation on fats and albu- minates (Skrebitzki) . . 87 Panthel, injury to foetus in utero . 405 Panum, origin of malformations . 106 — malformations in the egg of the bird, &c. 401 Paracentesis of the eye (Cornuty) . 325 — cjipitis (Crosby) . . , 146 — thoracis, successful (Woodfall) . 197 — do. Reybard's and Trousseau's opera- tion .... 195 — of stomach for acute tympanitis (Olivieri) 213 — ten times, in case of mediastinal cancer and dropsy (Begbie) . . 196 Paralysis, general (Stanley) . 166 — do. (Tuke) . . 172 — do. simple (Baillarger) . 173 — do. delirium a precursory sign of (Linas) . . . .167 — do. forms of delirium before (Legrand du Saulle) . . .172 — do. hypochondriacal delusions fore- runners of (Baillarger) . . 172 — do. deterioration of morals and mind before (BrieiTC de Boismont) . 172 — do. remissions in course of (Sauze) 171 — do. of the insane (Ranking) . 165 — simple or neurolytic (H. Jones) 147 — infantile (Brunniche, Chassaignac) 395 — of early life (Kennedy) . . 151 — of sensibililv, isolated (Sellier) . 144 — facial (Remak) . . .148 — do. (O'Connor) . . 150 — do. behaviour of muscles to electric cur- rent in (Schulz) . . . 161 — do. neuralgic, endermic application of strychnia (Notta) . . 148 — of portio dura (Gairdner, Hutchinson) 151 — of ociilo-motor nerve (Lize) . 327 — of the muscles of the eve (Hutchinson) 327 — of the left arm (Quain) , . 244 — pneumonic (Macario) . . 204 — spinal, in children (Heine) . 144 — do. progressive, nitrate of silver in (Wunderlich) . , . 146 — of right side (Meissner) . 146 — See Hemiplegia. — of the legs, motory and sensory (Ilillairet) 152 — of lower extremities, from disease of blad- der and kidneys (Gull) . . 158 — do. See Paraplegia. — unusual forms of (Roberts) . 150 — acute ascending (Gomez) . 145 — asthenic ditl'use, of convalescents (Gubler) 148 - — atrophic fattv, in infancy (Echevcrra) 147 — diphtheritic . . . 151 — do. strychnia in (Tillier) 427 — consecutive to diphtheria, angina, and fevers (See) . . . 161 — succeeding non-diphtheritic angina (Mar- quez). . . . . M9528 Puialysis, essential (Uierljaiim) . 149 — liysteiicnl, plienomeiia iii (Ligcoib) 153 — from lead-poisoning (Moore) . 150 — of muscles, functional (Ducliennc) 157 — nuiscular piogiessivc, of the tongue, &c. (l)nchenne) . . 171,156-7 — progressive (Joffe) . .100 — rheumatic, galvanism in (Leared) 151 — syphilitic (Heyran) . . 151 — in syphilitic patients (O'Connor) 151 — syphilitic, of infants (llenocli) . I'KJ — associated with syphilis . 149 — from artificial teeth . .150 — from morbid alterations of blood, brain, &c. (Brown-Sequard) . . 102 Paraplegia (linrrows) . , 152 — witliout anatomical or toxic cause (Knss- maul) . . . .148 — from spinal congestion (Ramskill) 147 — from spinal meningitis (Uaniskill) 147 — from exposure to wet and cold (A. Smith) 147 — from tumour in spinal cord (McDowel) 151 — actual cautery in (Roeser) . 150 — reflex (Echeverria) . . 149,158 Parasiles .... 102 Parasites, vegetable (Hillier) . 226 — extravasation of blood and aneurism caused by (Waldenbnrg) . . 103 Parasitic affections of the skin (Anderson) 102, 225 Paris (H.) rebellious chorea cured by flying blisters to the neclt . . 145 Parki!r, epithelial cancer of tongue, ecraseur 247 — mammary cancer . . 316 Parmentieb, cancer of muscidar tissue 175 — cases of osteomalacia . . 266 — obliqr.e fracture of humerus above the con- dyles . ■ . . .270 Parotid saliva of man (Ordenstein) . 79 Parcfid salivary gland, inflammation of (^?or- mald) . . . . _ 248 Parrot (J.) on apparent death . 117 Part, poisoning by strychnia . 425 Partridge, disease of hip-joint, excision 283 — strangulated congenital hernia . 299 Parturition, mechanism of . . 334 Parturition, on precipitate (Kuby) . 338 — induction of premature (Barnes, Esterle) 346 — do. (Farre, Simpson) 347 — do. (Hicks, James) 348 — impeded, from dorsal displacement of the arm (Murray). . . . 339 — dilatation of foetal bladder, hindering (Hooker) . . . 340 — obliquity of fcetal head in (Duncan) 334 — mcthoris of diminishing size of child's head in (Martin) . . . ."'SI Parturition, abnormal, influence on the child C^i'llt) • ... 390 Parturition, discaatg of . . 382 PASttiiAi.i, croup in infants . 396 Pastisur, sjjontaneous generation, ferments 460 Patella. See Didocations, Fractures. Pathology, rejwrt on, by Dr. C. II. Jnni>s 11" — general . . . . 117 Palliology, cerebral (Inman) . 160 Patkuban (V.) piece of bough near the shoulder-joiiit . , , 275 — therapeutic uses of pauUinia sorbilis 432 Patry, absence of vagina, with normal uterus 376 Patterson (A.) strangulated hernia 297 Paul, on syphilization . . 130 Pauli (F.) salivary tumours . 247 Paullinia sorbilis, therapeutic use of (Mayr) 212 — do. (Mayr, Patruban) . 432,432 Pause (H.) pneumonia . . 193 Pavesi, camphorates of quinine, morphia, and stryclininc . . . 147 Pavy (F. W.) physiology of the liver 85 — influence of alkalies . . 85 — influence of acid in producing saccharine urine .... 85 — influence of various foods in elimination of sugar in case of diabetes, &c. . * 214 — neurosis of cricoid cartilage, tracheotomv 255 Paxton (J.) spinal irritation . 150 Peacock (T. B.) specific gravity of the brain 33 — ague complicating phthisis . 123 — hectic fever simulating ague . 123 — on chorea . . .145 — hysterical contraction of neck and back, sulphate of zinc and chloroform inhalations 153 — tinctured of digitalis in delirium tremens 159 — subacute laryngitis, tracheotomy 194 — and Le Gros Clark, subacute laryngitis, tracheotomy . . . 255 Pean, excision of shoulder-joint . 282 Pease (P. C.) burns treated with oil and cotton batting . . . 243 Pelikan. See Dybkowsky. Pellarin, luxation of metatarsal bone 281 Pelvic measurements (Byfoni) . -".n^ Pelvic wall, anterior, influence in lab'-h (Cruger) . . • .337 Pelvimeter, new (Earle) . . 33.1 Pelvimetry (Pajot) . . 333 Pelvis, forms of (Litzmann) . . " - — fracture of (Lawson) . . 208 Pelvis, abnormal conditions of . Pelvis, narrowing of, by fibrous tr.mour, pre- mature labour, &c. (.Mavcr, Olsbanscn) 338 — osteo-malakia of (Breisky, Litzmann) do. case of labour in (Schniiizi 33;I'emberton (0.) amputation bv leciangulai- flaps . . . ' . 258 — aiieui'isinal varix in thigh . 289 — iraniiiatic (iesti uction of urethra 308 J'cmphigiis (Miilliier) . . 230 — of cervix uteri (Joulin) . . 1562 — syphilitic, of infants (Vaiiverts) 400 renal code for Bavaria (llofmann) 4iZ 1'enard, legal medicine . , 443 PenDLKTON, poisoning hy tansy . 438 Pcnghanar, theraupeutical applications of (Vinke) .... 435 I'enis, amputation of, with ecraseur (Lee) 310 Pkxquer, invagination of the ciEcum and appendix in an infant . . 398 I'entastonia, slrncture of the (Leucltart) 102 Pepsine in inanition of new-born children (Joulin) . . . .397 Percussion of respiratory organs (Seitz) 193 Perforation, intestinal (Fox) .• 211 — in parturition (Spbndii) . 351 Pericardial exudation and adhesion (Oppolzer) 178 Pericarditis (Gairdner) . . 185 — (Miihlig) ... 185 — eliniinative method in (Richardson) 123 — and allied diseases (Gairdner) . 178 — extensive, undetected during life (Clark) 17G — supervening on scarlatina, &c. (O'Connor) 124 — with acute rheumatism (Waters) 122 — partial, in pulmonary apoplexy (Cummins) 177 — half-cined, a cause of aneurism of the heart (Strange) . . .178 — pyaeinic (Gairdner) . .178 Pericardium, adiiesions with heart, vessels through (Hyrll) . . .178 — if always adherent to heart after pericar- ditis ? (Hinds) . . .177 — free body in cavity of (Kloh) . 177 Perineal section (Warren) . . 308 Pcriiiaiuni,on supporiinirthe (Hewitt,Murphv) 345 — laceration of (Gray) . . 345 — do. (Edwards, Hervieux, Robin- son, Skinner) . . . 346 Perinephritis, primitive (Feron) . 221 Periodicity of vital phenomena (Heynsius) 121 Periosteum, malignant disease of (Wood) 265 Peiiostiiis of left thigh-bone (Bauer) 276 Peripleuritis (Wunderlicli) . . 197 — abscessing (Billroth) . . 257 Peristaltic movements of intestinal canal (Martin) .... 81 Pcriionilis, operative treatment of (Marten) 213 — puerperal, causes (Barnes, Martin) 386 EX. 529 Peritoniiis, puerperal, opium (Cady) 380 — tuberculous (Forster) . . 120 PiciiaiN, lung-skin fistula . . 257 — vomiting from a " mole degeneration'' 383 — poisoning by beiriciue . . 440 Pehron, diseases of watchmakers produced by copper . . . 466 Peispiration, sour-smelling, in rheumatism (Innian) .... 133 Pertussis. See Hooping-cough. Pescheux. See Dtipuy. Pess.iries : hysterophor (Naedeliii) . 389 — elytroid (Combes) . . 389 PiJTERS (G. A.) fracture of acetabulum, re- section of head of femur . 283 — false popliteal aneurism . . 291 — popliteal aneurism in ligated vessel 292 Peiroinvzon fluviatilis, spinal cord in (Reiss- ner) ' . . . .30 Petry, secondary syphilitic symptoms from tattooing. . . . 134 Pfafk (E. R.) digitalis in organic disease of the heart . ' . . 181 — medico-legal researches on the blood 446 — violation of a child of eight . 453 Pfeufer, typhoid fever . . 124 Pfluger (E.) law of electric sensation 64 Pharmaceutical calendar of N. Germanv 407 Pharmacopeias of Austria, Prussia, and Sax- ony (Gottlieb) . . . 406 — Belgica Nova . . . 406 —■ Gerinaiiica (Wittmaack) . 406 Pliarniacy (Krahner) . . 407 "Pliarniakophor"ilie (Auerbach) . 389 Pharijna; . . . .248 Pharynx, surgery of (Bryant) . 237 — fistulous opening into (Stanley) 249 — lipoma of (Lainhl) . . 117 — lodgment of shilling in (Birkelt) 249 PuELAN (D.) prevention of smalliiox in Ireland . . . .122 Phenic acid, use of (Lemaire) . 231 Phenvle, oxide of, application of (Calvert) 441 Philii'eaux, regeneration of the spleen 88 — and VuLi'iAN, regeneration of tran.splanted nerves .... 45 Philippson", idio-somnambulism . 153 Philosophy (mental) on inductive method (.Morell) . . . .30 Phimosis, rupture of mucous membrane (Pancoast) . . . 310 Plilebitis, external acute, tincture of iodine in (Spoier) . . . .181 — renal (Ijancereaux) . . 181 Phlcguuisia dolens (Cumbp.rbatch, Latour) 387,387 Phonetics, recent inquiries (Mcikel) 69 Pliosjiliorus in ths brain (BorsaicUi) 32 — action upon phlhisis (Cotion) . 206 — necrosis of jaw from (Wormald) 250530 INDEX. Phosphorus, necrosis of jaw from (Stanley) 251 — do. (Mott) , 251 — do. (Graudidier) 390 — poisoning by, detection (Ulondlot) 408 — do. (Fnckhoffer, Mas- carel, Zeidler) . . . 409 — do. (Ogston, &c.) 410 — suicide by (Michel) . . 457 Phthisis, tubercular (Ueau) . . 207 — analysis of 220 cases (Hill) . 206 — nature and preventibility (McCormac) 197 — physical signs of early (King) , 206 — physical examination of chest in (Alison) 193 — importance of the skin in (Toulmin) 208 — tuberculous cachexia without (Forget) 196 — cerebral complications of (Mayne) 152 — ague complicating (I'eacock) . 123 — bronchial, suppurating, diagnosed during life, &c. (Leroy de Mericourt) . 196 — incipient, salutary influence of mountain climates in (Gastaldi) . . 196 — influence of warm climates on (Forget) 194 — climate of Madeira in (Almes) . 197 — influence of climate of Montpellier on (Garimond) . . .209 — action of certain substances upon (Cotton) 208 — anacahuite wood, a remedy in (Maisch) 208 — caoutchouc in (Hannon) . . 208 — caustics in (Couesquelaii) . 193 — pulv. Doveri in (Descamps) . 208 — hypophosphites in (Bennett) . 208 — iodine inhalations in (Simon) . 207 — action of viu. ferri upon (Cotton) 207 — action of phosphorus on (Cotton) 206 — treatment by chlorate of potash . 208 — do. (Flint, Har. kin) .... 206 — do. and sugar (Turle) . . . .196 Physical examination of chest in consumption (Alison) . . . .193 Physical forces, correlation of (Grove) 3 Physics, elements of (Atkinson, Hogg) 3 Physiological action of food, medicine, and poison .... 47 Physiological sketch-book (Moleschott) Physiology, essays on (Hunter) . 2 — contributions (Eckhardt) . 1 — text-book of (Funke, Ludwig) . 1 — human (Bomicci, Budge, Dalton, Vierordt) Physi'Aogij, ver/elailc . . 107 PicKKLLS (W.) cases of hydrophobia 150 PiETttA Santa, laclo-chlornretted medication in clu-onic chest diseases . • . 197 — climate of Algeria in chronic afTi'dions of chest .... 197 — climate of Algeria . . 231 — pulverization of the Eaux Bonnes 408 — railroads and public health . 458 PiGEOLET, peritoneal dropsy in pregnancy 383 PiHAN-DuFEiLLAY, Statistics of the Ca;sarean operation . , . 348 — relations of puerperal fever and epidemic erysipelas . . , 385 Fillings (J. S.) surgical treatment of epilepsy 245 Pine juice in pulmonary affections (Kcredan) 197 Pine-leaf treatment at Grund-am-Hartz 234 PiNKUs, light-polarizing spectacles . 322 PiouRY, chronic muscular pain cured by shampooing . ■ . .147 PirogofF's operation (Pancoast) . 260 — osteoplastik, modification of (Szyraanowski) 260 — amputation in disease of tarsus, &c. (Bryant, Paget) . . .264 PiRRiE (W.) perchloride of iron in ervsipelas 122 Pitch of musical tones, sensibility of ear to (Fessel) . . . . G8 Pitcher (Z.) military surgery . 239 PiTHA, ansesthetic effects of belladonna 53 — resection of lower jaw . . 251 Pitman, hemiplegia from spontaneous coa- gidation of blood in cerebral arteries 149 Pitting, prevention of, in smallpox (Bell) 227 Pituitary- body (Luschka) . . 89 Placenta, fuBctions of (Nivet) . 332 — expulsion of (Spiegell)erg; . 353 — removal of (Crede) . . 352 Placenta, abnormal conditions of . 340 Placenta, accidental separation of, at seven months (Stanger) . . 343 — expulsion before child (Missa) . 343 — pra:via (Read) . . . 340 — do. (Clay, Sirelins, Thomas) . 341 — do. (Barnes, Manz, Roberts, Woodman) 312 — do. (Martyn) . . . 343 — retention of, in cases of abortion (Priestley) 353 — do. after premature delivery (Habit) 353 — do. ergot in (Pajot) . 35ii Plagge, if cessation of heart-heat a certain sign of death . . .44 7 Planer, gases of the alimentary canal Plants, proximate analysis of (Bochleder) 108 — power of roots of, to reject poisonous sub- stances (Dftubeny) . . 1*^'' — useful, British (Sowerby) . 10"INDEX. 681 Plants used in medicine and the arts (Berg) 407 Plastic operation for a new nose (Pancoast) 252 — do. on female genital organs (Beatty) .... 359 Plazer (V.) fatty degeneration of the heart 177 Pleura, lumbar abscess communicating' with (Clark) . . . .176 — non-perforation of, in case of empyema with pneumothorax (Keller) . 194 Pleurisy (Skoda) . . .197 — treatment (Aran) . . 204 — following large boil (Hutchinson) 124 — thoracentesis in (Rostan) . 205 Pleuritic effusion through bronchial tubes (Lanelongue) . . . 197 — do. empyema (Marsh) 194 Plem-o-pneumonia (Waters) . 194 Ploss, mortality in childhood . 391 — do. . 458 Plugging of pulmonary arteries (Rauchfuss) 180 — See Emboli. Pneumatocele in the neck (Hutchinson) 253 Pneumatology of the blood (Setschenou) 20 Pneumocele, traumatic (Junquet) . 196 Pneumonia (Flint, Griesinger) . 202 — thirty-two cases (Jones) . 194 — Leipsic report on (Wunderlich) . 194 — statistics of (Roth) . . 203 — sputum uncertain in diagnosis of (Wil- Uams) . . .203 — eliminative method in(Richardson)123 — chronic (Cliarcot) . . 204 — intermittent (Schwarz) . . 194 — insidious secondary (Clark) . 129 — and fetid abscess of lung (Bernard) 193 — purulent collection in lumbar region (Bran- dicourt) . . .194 — icterus in (Drasche) , . 204 — See Pleuro-pneumonia. — treatment, &c. (Belcher, Laycock, Pause, Oppolzer) . . ' . 193 — treatment without bloodletting (Bour- geois) . . . .194 — acetate of lead in (Strohl) . 202 — stimulants in (Russell) . 203 — double, stimulants in (Bernard) . 194 Pneumonic paralysis (Macario) . 204 Pneumo-pericardium from oesophageal ulcera- tion (Tiitel) . . .177 Pneumothorax (Biermer) . . 196 — thoracentesis in (Marsh) . 194 — in empyema, without perforation of pleura (Keller) . . . .194 Podophyllin (Draper) . . 430 PoGGEscHi. See Gallico. Poison^, report oh, by Dr. B. Sanderson 406 Poisons, lectures on (Tardieu) . 407 Poison*, phyniological action of . 47 Poisons, S^c, organic chemical . 438 — Sfc, vegetable . . . 430 — animal . . . .441 — action of cardiac (Dyhkowsky) . 59 — of rattlesnake, euphorbia prostrata anti- dote to (Irwin) . . . 231 — See the names of poisons, Poisoning.hemiplegia after arsenical (?)(Zeller) 152 — by Burnett's solution (Wright) . 210 Poisonous fish of tropical countries (Fonssa- grives) . . . .442 —■ substances, power of roots of plants to reject (Daubeny) . . 108 Poisonous gases , . . 442 PoLAK, use of mercury in syphilis in Persia 136 — do. . 417 Poland, popliteal aneurism, compression 292 PoLANSKY, balneotherapy in chronic gastric catarrh . . . 213 PoLiTZER, diseases of brain in children 395 Pollock (G.) popliteal aneurism, com- pression . . . 291 — tumournear meatus urinarius of female 310 — do. . 378 — medullary cancer . . 317 Polydipsia from cerebral lesions (Brochin) 148 — from cerebral disturbance (Moutard Mar- tin) . , . .150 Polypi, fibrous, inversion of uterus and vagina from expulsion of (Valenta) . 366 — See Tumours (fibrous). — naso-pharyugeal, removal of (Edwards) 252 — venous (Legroux) . .180 — of the rectum (Hulke) . . 303 — do. glandular (Lanibl). 117 — do. in children (Kroneuberg) 398 Polypi of the uterus . . 366 Polypi, uterine, removal of (Duncan, Hicks, Lee, Smith) . . .367 — do. do. (Braun, Green- halgh, Rokitansky, Sarell) . 368 — do. (Hewitt, McClintock, Scholz, . Smith) . . . .368 Polvpoid bony growth from septum of nose (Ure) . . . .252 Polypous vegetations of raucous membrane of large intestine (Luschka) . 211 Polyps, fresh-water, spontaneous disintegration of (Jiiger) . . .107 Polyuria from cerebral lesions (Brochin) 148 Pons Varolii, pathology of (Weber) 151 — degeneration of (Horning) . 148 — hydatid sacs in . . . 150 Pope (C. A.) osseous anchylosis of knee-joint, Barton's excision . . 286 Population, sanitary slute, in Russia 123 Porret's phenomenon in muscle (Kiihne) 16INDEX. PoRTisR (G. H.) excision of knee-joint 285 PoaTER and Smyly, excision of knec-joinL 283 Fort Royal, yellow fever at (Uryson) 130 Position (luring laljoiir (ILihl) . 354 — knee and ell)ovv, in lal)oiir (Ossieur) 354 Post (A. C.) snbungual exostosis . 2GG — niorbns coxarius . . 270 — dislocation of humerns, exscction 282 — mulhcrry calculus, lithotomy . 300 — und V,vN' liuiiKN, report on military sur- gery .... 239 Pobi-uiorteni contractility (Macnaniara) 28 Posture, influence of change of, on endocardial murmurs (Ringer) . , 185 Potash, action on urine (Moss) . 220 Pulassic, liquor, in telanns (lleid) . 145 Piitassa, chlorate of (Smith) . 233 — do. Tulley's experiments on (Lee) .... 233 do. for fetid breath (Mai-lin) 212 do. in phthisis (Flint, Harkin) 20G — do. and sugar in phthisis (Turk) . . . .196 — do. in scrofula (Harkin) 206 — do. poisoning by . 411 — do. glycerole . 144 — nitrate of, death from use of, as a purgative (Chevalier) . . .412 Potassium, bromide of, in epilepsy (Wilks) 146 — cyanide of, in neuralgia . . 161 — do. poisoning by . 439 — do. poisoning bv(Byerlev,Davanne) 438 — iodide of, in epilepsy (Wilks) . 146 — do. in paraplegia (Roeser) . 150 — do. in tertiary syphilis (Barton) 136 — do. iu chylous urine (Davis) 214, 101 — do. poisoning by (Orlh) . 410 Potts (R. S.) dilatation and softening of heart, rupture . . . .177 PoucET, rupture of left rectus abdonoinis 273 PoucHET, nature of yeast in alcoholic fermen- tation . . . ,108 — - collection of corpuscles contained in the air ... . 460 PouiLi.ET (M.) sulphurous powder . 234 Pound (G.) strangulated hernia . 299 PovvKR (H.) strangulated oblique inguinal hernia, inversion of patient . 298 Power (J. H.) disease of aortic valves, con- siiiciicin and regurgitation, &c. . 183 Pradier, rcproduciion of the nails 100 Pregnancies, eighteen, of seven living and eleven dead children (Newman) . 401 PrcgiwDicy, duration of (Ravn) . 333 — influence of, on the milk (Davis) 92 Pregnancy, xmusml localities of . 334 Pregnancy, cases of extra-uterine (Birubaum, Clieesniau, Davis, M'alter) . 335 — <lo. (A.dam». Ilink, Levy, Sidey) . . .335 — do. of eight years (l^avis) .... 335 — exira-abdominal (Rektorzik) . 331 — tubal (Sidey) . . .335 Pregnancy, diseases of . . 382 Pregnancy, contraction of extremities in (Ganchet) . . .333 — peritoneal dropsy in (Pigeolct) . 383 — liuiibo-abdominal neuralgia of (Lize) 383 — serous discharges during (Danyau) 346 — obstinate vomiting in (Aubenas, Ferrand, Turner) .... 383 Presbyopia in intermittent fever (Retsin) 327 Presentations frontal (llelly) . 338 — breech, " Prager llandgriflf" in (Wendt) 354 Presenlaiions, unnatural . . 338 Presentations, alinormal, from shortness of the cord (Demeaux) . . . 3;'i9 — with dorsal displacement of orm (Murrav) 333 — difficult, of head, in twin labour (Cregeen, Jacobs) .... 339,339 — do. (Pollock) 340 — simultaneous, of feet of one and head of other in twin birth (Brauu) . 339 Preservation of bodies bv acetate of alumina (Burow) . ■ . .109 Price (P. C.) long side-splint in morbus coxae .... 277 — disease of hip-joint, excision . 283 — excision of knee-joint . . 285 — surgical treatment of vascidar tumours 313 — scrofulous disease of external Ivmphatics 315 Prichard (A.) operative surgery in the pro- vinces .... 238 — operations on the eye . . 238 Pridham (T. L.) on asthma . 193 Priesti.ev, cases of abortion, with membranes and placenta retained . . 353 — diseases of women and children . 357 — pelvic hainiatoeele . . 369 Prison discipline and dietary, influence of [faeces] (Smith) ... 83 — do. [urine and urea] (Smith) 98 Prisoners, mental condition and diseases (Thomson) . . .167 Pritchard {k.) popliteal aneurism, forcible flexion .... 293 Propylamine, properties of (Guibert) 429 Prosopalgia from a cranial tumour (Seholz) 150 Prostate, pathology of (Thompson) . 307 — diseases of (Thompson) . . 305 Prostatic tumour, projecting into bladder (Johnson) . • • 303 1533 INDEX. Psoriasis, arsenic iii (Majer) . 230 — syphilitic or non-syphilitic (AuUersou) 229 Psychiatrik . , . 1G5 Psychiatry, reports in (Steiuthal) . 167 Psychical diseases (Leidesdorf) . 165 — origin of (Geerds) . . 16C Psychology, essays on (llmiter) . 2 Psycholoyij, medical . . 105 Psychology, medical (Dunn) . 166 — do. (Laycock) . 166 Psychology, forensic . , 454 Pteryginm sarcomatosum superius of right eye (Froebelins) . . . 324 PuKCH (A.) atresia of genital passages in women .... 376 Puerperal diseases (West) . . 384 Puerperalfeve); peritonitis, cf'c. . 384 Puerperal fever (Fox, Semmelweis, West) 384 — do. (Franque) . . 385 — do. (Druitt, Hoffmann, Lange) 386 — do. epidemic at Prague (Weber) 385 — do. with diphtheria (Druitt) 386 — do. relation to epidemic erysipelas (Pihan) .... 385 — do. from thrombosis of uterns (Padovani) . . .387 — See Convulsions, Peritonitis, Erysipelas, &(C. Pulmonary affections, pine juice in (Keredan) 197 — See Lunys. Pulsations of heart, law of frequency of (Marev) 23 Pulse, influence of ozone on the (Hill) 178, 58 — do. ozonized cod-liver oil on (Thompson) ... 57 — senieiological value of, in childbed (M'Ciin- tock) .... 382 — foetal (Hiiter) . . .333 Pulverization baths (Hardy) . 230 Pulverized liquids, penetration of, into the air- passages (Demarquay.Fournic, Sales-Girons) 407 — mineral waters (Pietra-Santa, Sales-Girons) 408 Pumpkin seeds for (a;ma (Rigaud, Tarneau) 438 Punishment, corporal, of children, questions relative to (Klein) . . 445 Pupil, causes of different sizes of (Kugel) 327 PtJBEFoy (T.) laceration of knee-joint 275 Purpura, with valvular disease of the heart (Salter) . . . .170 — preceding smallpox . . 230 (— hjemorrhagica, quinine in (Bedford) 179 Purulent infection (f.anccreaux) . 181 Pus, formation of, in serous membranes (Forslcr) . . . .120 Pus, fonuation of, in the epcndyuia (Forstcr) 120 — do. on ependynia ventrio. (Lambl) . . . .117 — nature of blue (Fordos) . . 112 — cells of, endogenous origination of (Remak) 118,112 PuTEGNAT, spontaneous hydrophobia 153 — double rupture of uterus . 344 j Putrefaction of bile (Thudichum) . 80 — relations of muscular irritability with j (Brown-Scquard) . . 18 Pyajmia, report on (Wilks) . . 242 — death from, after exsection of tibia (Cooper) 264 — medico-legal discrimination of (Roser) 445 ' — and allied affections (Wilks) . 191 Pyelitis, &c. (Lancereaux) . . 181 QuATN (R.) concussion of the brain, paralysis of left arm, &c. . . . 244 — fibrous tumour of superior maxilla 250 Quantitative changes in production of heat (Lieberraeister) . . . Ill Quarantine . . . 232 Quinine, pharmacology of (Simon) . 164 — in ague (Simon) . . 131 — in hemicrania (Serre) . . 164 — in intermittents (Regnauld) . 131 — in purpura hairaorrhagica (Bedford) I 179 — camphorate of (Pavesi) . . 147 — sulphate of, action (Kostei) . 427 — do. in typhoid fever (Vogt) 125 — do. antagonistic to opium (Nivison) 47, 421 Rabbit, rhythmic contractions of cardia of (Basslinger) ... 82 Rabbits, secretion of urine in (VVittich) 101 Rabe, epileptoid attacks, hemiplegia, &c. 146 Rabies canina (Boudin) . .151 Rachitic bones in early childhood (Friedleben) I 399 ' Radcliffe, cynanclie trachealis, tracheotomy I 256 Radius, detachment of epiphysis of (Goyrand, I Hutchinson) . . .270 i — fractures of (Grav, Hutchinson, Lecomte) 269 ~ do. (Mason) . . 269 — do. lower extremity (Gordon) 270 ! — excision of (Butcher) . . 262 Raffv, removal of fork from rectum 304 Railroads, hygiene of travellers and persons employed on (Pietra-Santa) . 458 Rainky (G.) formation and coalescence of carbonate-of-lime-globules and developtnent of shell-tissues . . . 104 Ramskill, paraplegia from spinal nipuingilis, &c. . . . .14 7 — wasting palsy . . . ] 74 35INDEX. 531. Ranking (W. II.) general paralysis of the insane . . . .103 Hansom H, atmospheric pressure anil wind in relation lo Uiseabe . . -103 llATHKii (11.) development of vcrlebrata 2 Ualtlesiiake biles, remedies for (Mitchell) 113 RauciiI' Uss, stenosis of aorta at junction of duct, arlcricsus . . . 179 — Iiliiggini; of iiulnionary arteries . 180 Ravn, diiralion of proyiiaiicy . 333 Uawso.v (T. J.) traumatic aneurism of femo- ral artery . . , 289 Read, placenta prajvia . . 3-10 Read (W.) puncture of foot, tetanus 243 Rectangular flaps, amputation bv (Pemberlon) 258 Rectum, iiijurien and diseases . 302 Rectum, cancer of (Schuitzler, M^ood) 303 — do. melanotic (Demarquav) 301 — polypus of (Iluike) . . 303 — do. in children (Kronenljerg) 398 — structure of (Agnew, Curling, Tutfnell) 303 — ulceration of (Curling) . . 303 — flat ulcers of (Coulson) . . 303 — surgery of (Brj-ant) . . 237 — removal of foreign bodies from (Gouriet, Nye, Ratiy) . . . 304,304 Reed of Provence, disease communicated to man by (Michel). . . 437 Kees (G. 0.) obstruction of superior vena cava . . , .178 — cases of embolism . .180 — cynanche trachealis, bronchitis . 25G Reese (B. P.) strangulated inguinal hernia, tobacco .... 298 Reflected image in one's own eye (Becker) 322, 06 Refraction, anomalies of (Bonders) . 06 Refrigeration of the ulnar nerve, symptoms from (Waller) ... 40 Regnauld, quinium in intermittents 131 Regurgitation into left ventricle (Power) 183 Reich, perforation of duodenum . 294 Reiciiert, remarks on "Hover on terminal plexuses of nerve-fibres" . 30 — on " Budge on the bile-ducts " . 85 Reid (J. S.) acute rheumatism . 122 — disease of pancreas, no fatty stools, vomit- ing . . . ■ . 214 Reid (Jos.) treatment of tetanus by liquor potassa; .... 145 Reid's method in dislocations of femur (Bart- mer, Hewson, Wagenseller) . 280 Reiser (K.) operation of reagents on striated muscular filament . . 15 Ri'.isSNER, spinal cord in the petroniyzon fluviatilis. . . .30 Rektorzik, graviditas extra-abdominalis 334 Remak, influence of tlic sympalhclic on volun- tary muscles . . .30 RiiMAK, endogenous origination of the tells -a pus and mucus . . . IIH, 11: — facial paralysis . . .lis Renal diseases. See Kidney. Reports, surgical, of Royal Infirmary, Kdiu. burgh (Speiice) . . .237 j — Medical Policlinic, Heidelberg (Duscli) 139 — Imperial lluspital at Vicmia . 133 — syphiliiic wards of Vienna Infirmary 1 (Hermann) . . . 137 I — See, also, lluspiluU. Resection. See Excision. Resiu in chronic laryngeal atfcctiuns (DeliouA) 200 Respiration, connection with digestion (Uobiu- son) . . . . G'J — artificial (Toogood; . . 76 — organs of, penetration of carbonaceous par- tides into (Traube) . . 201 — do. auscultation and percussiun of (Seilz) . . . .193 Respiratory system ... 09 — diseases of . . . I'j: — diseases of, in children . . 3'J Respiratory apparatus, penetration of parliel- of charcoal into (Traube) . 7t Respiratory movements, influence of, on the heart's impulse, &c. (Einbrodt) . 2C Respiratory murmur (Salter) . 09 Respiratory passages. See Pulverized liguidt. Respirator for medicinal purposes (Langen- beek) . . . .195 Responsibility, medical . . 44 Responsibility, medical (Tardieu) . 44'J — in case of pretended epilepsy (Hascheck) 457 — for acts committed in rage (Friedreich) 456 Ressel, luxation of head of radius backward 279 Rest, influence of, in surgical di.^eases (Hilton 238 Resuscitation, on (Richardson) . 7- — case of (Garraway) . . 71 — See Jsp/iy.via. Retina, optical stu<ly of (Brewster) . 00 I — intimate structure of (Sehulize) . 03, 04 — structure of, in the frog (Manz). 'i'' — influence of, on adjusting movements of lli' eye (Burow) . . . I' '■ — of the frog, terminations of radiatinLi &c. (Ritter) . . ■ — dark-bordered nerve-fibres in (Mulk i) (_;:; — relation to movements of iris (Zolliui — effusions under, loss of sight from (Noyes 320 — exudation into, in diabetes (Hildige) i 320 I — &c., sviiliiriic iiifl.inimalidMS of (Hiiidiin- I son) ■ . . . .320INDEX. 585 Ketina, laceration of (Wordsworth). 32G Retsin', temporary presbyopia during iiiter- mitteiit fever . . . 327 Retzius, puerperal ervsipelas, plilegmonodes 385 Rcyhard's operation for paracentesis tho- racis . . . .195 Keynes, on milk . . .91 Reyndkus, conical trephine . 235 Reynolds, poisoning by arsenic near Wake- field, Taylor's process . . 416 Reynolds (R.) cannabis Indica . 164 Rheumatic fever, treatment of (O'Donovan) 133 Rheumatism, pathology of (Woodnrard) 125 — with symptoms of apoplexy (Mayer) 191 — sour-smelling perspiration in (Inman) 133 — unusual forms of (Aran) . 133 — phosphate of ammonia in . 144 — acute (Reid) . . .122 — do. (Stromeyer) . 134 — do. cases in Middlesex Hospital, 1853-59 (Bury) . . 133 — do. cerebral symptoms in (Farre) 123 — do. with scarlatina (O'Connor) 124 — do. the eliminative method in (Richardson) . . .123 — do. actea racemosa in (McDonald) 134 — do. citric acid in . 143 — do. opium,&c.,in (Waters)122 — chronic, arsenical baths in (Gueneau de Mussy) . . .134 — do. vinum Sambuci in (TurnbuU) 123 — muscular, acupuncture in(Leared) 151 — of gravid uterus (Meissner) . 383 Rhinoplasty, historical account of (Pancoast) 252 Rhinoscopy (Tiirck) . . 196 — (Semeleder) . . , 330 Rhus toxicodendron (Millon) . 431 Rhythmic contractions of cardia of rabbit (Basslinger) ... 82 Ribs, fracture of (Erichsen, Marshall, Wakley) 267-8 Ricci (De) chronic subacute arachnitis 153 — acute arachnitis . . 161 Richard and Verhaeghe, subcutaneous in- jections of atropine and morphia in neu- ralgia . . . .149 Richardson (B.W.) phenomena of life 6 — artificial production of cataract . 64 — on resuscitation . 72 — on scarlet fever . . 130 — cystic sarcoma of female breast . 315 Richardson (W.)eliminative method in acute rheumatism, &c. . . 123 RicHET, . vast abscess of brain, without symptoms . , . 151 — double harelip . . .401 RiCHTER (B.) on favus and its fungus 103 RiCHTER (B.) poisoning by secale ccj^nutuni, abortion .... 437 R[CKARD (T.) See Cutter. RicKER, poisoning by bread containing ergot 438 RiEDEL, fatal cephalhtematoma . 400 RiGAUD, pumpkin seeds for tienia . 438 RiGDEN, meteorology and vital phenomena of Canterbury . . . 462 RiGET, ectrophy of the bladder . 404 Rigidity, cadaveric, relations of muscular irri- ^ tability with (Brown-Seqiiard) . 18 RiGLER, ammoniaamia . . 192 RiLLiET, auscultation of cranium in children 392 RiNDFLETSCH, development of the vessels 20 Ringer (S.) influence of change of posture on endocardial murmurs . 185 Ringworm (Hillier) . . 226 — true (Hutchinson) . . 226 — do. (do.) . . 400 RiNTEL, nervous disease . . 147 Ritchie (R. P.) frequent cause of insanity in young men . . , 166 RiTTER, structure of the rods, and termi- nation of radiating fibres, in the frog's retina 66 — cause of recent increase of suicides 457 RizET, iodine as an emmenagogue . 365 Roberts (D. L.) placenta proevia, podalic version . . . 342 — procidentia uteri, cure . . 361 — pseudo-colloid ovarian tumour, ovariotomy, successful . . .375 Roberts (W.) solvent powers of alkaline car- bonates on uric-acid calculi . 92 — quantity of sugar in diabetic urine 96 — deposits of crystallized phosphate of lime in healthy urine . . . 102 — recurring fibroid tumour . 109 — unusual forms of paralysis . 150 Robertson (A.) induration of the brain 161 Robertson (C. L.) homicidal mania, with auditory hallucinations . . 167 — sedative action of cold wet sheet in recent mania . . . .173 — results of night-nursing . . 173 Robin (C.) structure of capillaries of the brain . . . . 21 — development of the epidermic cells of the foetus .... 103 — and Magitot, origin of dental follicles 9 Robinson (A. H.) affection of vision from spinal irritation . .150 Robinson (G.) connection of respiration and digestion . . .69 Robinson (T.) laceration of perinasum into rectum .... 340 RocHARD (J.) hsematoceles of tunica vagi- nalis .... 312 Roche, amaurosis as prognostic in albu- minuria . . . 219536 INDEX. KociiK, luenorHiagiu at third menstrual period, talal . . . .304 RoDRiGuus, cotyk'don umbilicus in epihipsv 140 KoEiiici, relation of croup to other diseases of respiratory organs . . 390 RoESEii, actual cautery and pot, iod. in para- plegia . . . .150 RoKiTANSKY, atresia of uterus bicornis 300 — tuberculization of puerperal uterus, &c. 303 — new uterine glands in sarcoma . 307 — abortion and uterine polypi . 308 — separation of Fallopian tubes from ovaries, &c. . . . . 370 lloLLESTON, homologies of the lobes of the liver . . . .78 RiiMKR, discrimination of bodily injuries 440 RoRiE (J.) medicinal treatment of the insane 167 Rose (C. F.) aneurism of the aorta, and laryn- gotomy .... 176 Rose (E.) phenomena from large doses of santonin . . . . 418 — colour blindness produced by santonin 63 Rose (H. C.) fatal intussusception in an infant 398 Rosen (W.) mechanism of abscess . 241 Rosenthal (J.) influence of pneumogastric and laryngeal nerves on the diaphragm 40 RosER (W.) resection of jaw . 249 — treatment of flat-foot . . 328 — incontinence of urine in young \Yonian i from epispadias . . . 378 — medico-legal discrimination of pyaemia 445 Ross (J. J.) salivary calculus . 247 — calculus in urethra . . 307 Ross (VV. H.) typhoid and brain fever from worms . . . .124 — do. do. . 398 RosTAN, thoracentesis in pleurisy . 205 Rotation, involuntary, on long axis of the body (Friedberg) . . 157 Roth (F.) statistics of pneumonia . 203 — See Gerhardt. Rotter, occlusion of os uteri and vagina in pregnant woman . . 302 Rouis, suppuration of the liver . 224 Roux, poisoning by atropine . 423 Roux (J.) secondary amputations after gun- shot wounds . . . 258 j RiiDEL, invagination of intestine . 398 | Ruete, plates of diseases of the eye 322 Rui.LMANN, southern climatic sanatoria for | chronic tuberculosis . • 209 Rupture of the heart. See Heart. RnssELi, (J.) sleeplessness . 150 | — stimulants in pneumonia . 203 RussEi.L and IJolton, syphilitic inflammation of larynx, tracheotomy . 194,255 Russia, sanitary state and hospitals . 123 Rynd (F.) instrument for fubcutaneous inlro- duclion of fluids in all'eclions of nerves 47 — operations for deformities of the lips 240 Sacuk, monster "agcuosome," hernia; of all viscera .... 403 Sacrum, fracture of (Hanion) . 268 Sau.i.y, albuminuria, in diagnosing of epilepsy from eclampsia . . . 388 St. Auge, poisoning by hyoscyamus 423 St. George's Hospital. See Hospilabi. Saint-Hu.aihk. See Geoffroy. Salks-Giroxs, dicte respiratoire in diseases of the chest . . . 407 — pulverization of mineral waters . 408 Saliva, microscopic changes from action of, in starch (El)stein) ... 79 — parotid, of man (Ordenstein) . 79 Salivary tumours (Pauli) . . 247 — calculi. See Calculus. Salpingitis, a cause of puerperal peritonitis (Martin) .... 380 Salt, influence of, on tissue change (Voii) 48 — administration, with iodides and bromides (Gonod) . . . .411 Salter (Hyde) on the respiratory murmur 09 — purpura, with valvular disease of the heart 170 — pathology of asthma . . 200 Salter (S. J.) tooth of echinus . 9 Salva (E.) cancerous tumours in neck 317 Sampson (A.) diagnosis of hydrophobia 232 Samuel (S.) trophic nerves . 118 Samuelson, abortive treatment of diphthe- ritic croup, &c. . . .195 Sand, hy'datid cyst of neck, containing eclii- nococci . . . .118 Sandisrson (Dr. D.) report on toxicolugy and materia medica . . 406 — report on forensic medicine . 143 — report on public health . . 158 Sands, fibre-nucleated tumour of brain 147 — disease of tibia . . • -'»■' Sandwith (11.) apnoea, direct inflation of lungs .... 197 Sanitary condition of Norway, report I'iO Sankev, belladonmi in epilepsy . 140 Sansom, action of eliloruform . 431', — modes of death from chloroform 5^ Santonin, colour blindness produced by (Rose) 03 — large doses of, phenomena (Rose) 118 Sarcina vcntricnli (Miles) . . 210 Sarcoma of lympli-glands (Lambl) .117 — cvstic, of female breast (Richardson) 315 — glandular (Lambl) • H' — multiple (Vix) . . • 311 i537 INDEX. Sarell (R.) excision of polypi iu the uterus 368 Sarsaparilla in syphilis (Slgmmirf) . 137 Saturnine poisoning. See Lead. Sausage-eater, death of, from hydatid sacs in pons Varolii . . .150 Sauze (A.) remissions iu course of general paralysis . . . . 171 Savigxac (Delionx de) latent cerebral affec- tion .... 14G — cancer of the brain . . 151 Savory (W. S.) relation of vegetable and animal to inorganic kingdom . 5 — fracture of base of skull, serous oozing from ears . . . .211 Sayre (L. a.) trephining for epilepsy, Gall's conical trephine . . . 246 — morbus coxarius . . 277 — puncture of capsule of hip-joint . 277 — necrosis of left femur . . 263 Scabies, treated with carbolic acid (Leraaire) 440 — treated with coal-tar naphtha (Spratly) 141 Scabies crustosa (Bergh) . . 229 Scald from drinking boiling water, tracheotomy (Hutchinson) . . . 255 Scanzoni's 'Diseases of Female Sexual Organs,' translated (Gardner) . . 357 Scapula, removal of, by enucleation (Walter) 263 — extirpation of, for osteo-carcinoma (Schuh) 265 — malignant tumour of (Hancock) . 317 ScARENzio, sub-pleuritic traumatic emphy- sema .... 197 Scarlatina (Richardson) . . 130 — statistics of (Kiittlinger) . 122 — pathognomonic sign of (Bouchut) 130 — unusual case of (Biermer) . 218 — do. (do.) ' . 400 — sesquiearb. ammon. in (M'Nab) . 131 — accidents and complications of (Hanibursin) 399 — with acute rheumatism, &c. (O'Connor) 124 — albuminuric anasarca in (Hamburger) 216 Scharlau, feeding of infants . 392 Scharlixg, purification of the air in dwel- lings .... 463 ScHELSKE, changes in irritability]of nerves by warmth . . . . 41 — See Wundt. ScHKUER (J. J.) text-book of chemistry " ■ 2 ScHiFP (M.) influence of vagus on the functions of stomach ... 80 — on fever . . . 125 Schili.uagk (L.) resection of bones: trunk and head . . . 261 Schlager, hereditary transmission of mental derangement . , .166 — idiocy .... 402 ScHi.Eiss (V.) influence of nervous force on inflammation , . . 152 ScHMiiLTz (J.) texture and function of spinal cord . . . . '30 ScHMiD, text-book of meteorology . 461 ScHMiDi', testing of chemical substances 400 — and SxihizwEGE, influence of arsenions acid on metamorphosis . . 134 ScHMiTz, labour in case of osteo-malakia 337 ScHNEiuER, elimination of mercury from the system . . . . 61 — ' do. . 222 ScHNYDER, injuries to the head . 243 Schoemacker (A. H.) action of the inter- costal muscles ... 69 ScHOLZ, prosopalgia from a cranial tumour 150 — uterine placental polypi. . 368 — subcutaneous injection of alkaloids 419 ScHox (C.) solution of nitrate of silver in burns .... 243 Schramm, malarious neuralgia mcsenterica 150 — on cardialgia . . . 165 ScriuoFF, aconitum lycoctonum, its action 419 — taft-root of Persia . . 433 ScHucHARDT, action of aniline . 232 ScHCH (F.) extirpation of scapula for osteo- carcinoma . . . 265 — prolapsus of uterus and vagina . 360 ScHuiTZLER (J.) cancer of rectum and arti- ficial iinus . . . 303 ScHULER, poisoning by strychnia injected into lachrymal canal . . . 427 ScHULz, behaviour of muscles in facial para- lysis to electric current . . 161 ScHULTZE (M.) structure of the retina 63, 64 — electrical organ of torpedo and caudal organs of the skate . . 113 — heterotaxie of viscera, &c. . 401 — rupture of vagina after parturition, pro- lapsus and rupture of intestine, question of manslaughter against midwife . 450 Schumacher, knocking in of teeth, medico- legal view . . . 446 ScHUTZENBERGER, Congenital heart disease 179 ScnvvAuz, intermittent pneumonia 194 ScHWEiGGER (C.) gangUon-ccUs and pale nerves of the choroid . , 66 Sciatica (Chambers) . .152 — pathology of (Inman) . . 175 — sulphuric acid iu (Legroux) . 149 Scirrhus of female breast (Marsden) 317 — See Cancer. Scorbutus, case of (Bennett) . 122 Scrofula, hyUrocarpus odoratus in (Warin?) 4.",S ' — chlorate of potass in (Harkin) . 206 — arseniate of soda in (Bouchut) . 121 Scrofulosis, arseniate of sofla iu . Ill Scrotum, elephantiasis of (Fergusson) 311 — fatty tumour from (Kimball) . 311 Scurvy (Uuchek) . . . 143 — (Opitz) . . 142538 INDEX. Scurvy, atresia oris after (Fouclier) . 246 SczKLKOw, histology of striated iiuisclcs 13 SBAOKa (J.) sugar iu tlie urino . 215 SiiATON, report of inspectors in inetropolitaii parislies ilming cpidcnic smallpox on public vaccination, &c. . . . ■ill Secale coruutuni, poisoning by, abortion (Ncubert, Uicbter) . . 437 — poisoning by bread containing (Ricker) 438 Secretori/ system, diseases of . 214 SiCDGWicK, sexual limitation in liercditary disease .... 123 Srdii.i.ot, dislocation of head of thigh-bone 280 See, early symptoms of eruptive fevers 124 S^E (G.) paralyses consecutive to diphtheria, anginas, and fevers . . 161 Sf.emann, anacalmite vrood . 430 — chronic disease of weavers . 465 Sk.galas, hair-pin from urethra . 308 Seitz, auscultation and percussion of respira- tory organs . . .193 Selection, laws of vital (Leslie) . 2 Seligsohn (Max) reaction of cinchonine, and its detection in urine . . 97 Sbi.lier, seat of isolated palsies of sensibility 144 Semeleder, examination of naso-guttural space .... 198 — catheterism of Eustachian tube and rhino- scopy .... 330 — subcutaneous injection of alkaloids 419 Seminal vesicles of man (Levy) . 101 Semmei.weis, child-bed fever . 384 Semmola. See Mariano-semmola. Senftlehen (II.) partial necrosis . 262 Sensation, electric, law of (Pfliiger) 64 Sense, organs of . . < 63 Sensibility, degrees of, in ganglia and fila- ments of sympathetic (Colin) . 39 — signs of, from localized irritation of sur- face of spinal cord (Chauveau) . 39 — different cutaneous, of parts of the hand and foot (Lobb) ... 09 — isolated palsies of (Sellier) . 144 Srnter (L.) treatment of neuralgia by cau- terization . ■ • 165 Septum lucidum, absence of (Down) 30 _ do. (do.) 151,402 Septum nasi. See Nose. Serre, digitalis and quinine in hemicrania 164 Sercombe, affections from diseased teeth 124 Serres, centripetal development of vertebral column . . • .103 — duality of vertebral elements of the ske- leton . . . • 103 Sktschenow, pneumatological notices 91 — pneuinatology of the blood . 20 Severance (C. E.) case of Guinea-worm 124 Sewer, Fleet Lane, fatal accident in (Lethcby) 442 Sexual limitation in hereditary disease (Sedg- wick) . . . ' .123 Sexual phenomena of infusoria (Balbiani) 104 Sexual organs. See Generation (organs of). Shampooing, muscular pain cured by (Piorrv) 147 Shanx, abscess in right loin opening into right lung . . . 257 Sheet, cold wet, sedative action in recent mania (Robertson) . . 173 Shell-tissues, development of (Rainey) 104 Shelton, hooping-cough . . 396 Shilling, lodgment of, in pharynx (Birkett) 249 Ships, inspection of those from ports in which cholera is prevailing (Hornemann) 468 Shoulder-joint, piece of bough near (Patruban) 275 — disarticulation of (Coote, Erichsen, Fer- gusson. Holt, Hutchinson) . 259 — See Dislocations. — See Excisions. SiBBALD (J.) the cottage system andGheel 170 Sibley (S. W.) fibrinous obstructions in the arteries .... 188 Siohel (J.) sarcomatous ectropium 323 SiDEV, tubal pregnancy . . 335 — accidental [uterine] haemorrhage 343 — recurrent puerperal erysipelas . 386 SiEVEKixG (E. H.) clinical remarks on neu- ralgia) .... 153 — fifty-two cases of epilepsy . 155 — persistent epistaxis . . 177 SiGARET, muscular ana;sthesia . 144 Sight, loss of, from effusions under retina (Noyes) . . . .326 — recovery of, in demented patient, the sub- ject of double cataract (Bouisson) 166 SiGMuxD,'communication of secondary syphi- lis ... . 123 — on syphilization . . . 124,136 — sarsaparilla in syphilis . . 137 Silkworm, skin of,' transformation into sugar (Luca) . . . .114 Silver, nitrate of, solution, in burns (Schon) 243 — do. in progressive spinal palsy (WunderHch) . • • I'lG Sim (R.) gunshot wound of the lung 240 SiMiNGTON, reduction of dislocation of shoidder . . • .279 Simon, quinine in ague . ■ 1'^' — pharmacology of quinine . Ifi^ — iodine inhalations in phthisis . _ 207 Simon (J.) on inllammation . 179 — report of medical officer of Privy Council 458 SiMONiN, spontaneous gangrene attributed m emboli . . • • 1^0 Simpson (A. R.) acute meningitis . 395 — absence of gall-bladder . . 404 — case of spina bilida . . 404539 INBEX. SiMPSox (J. Y.) cauliflower excrescence of uterus in pregnancy . . 337 — induction of labour . . 347 — treatment of amenorrlicea . 365 — super-involution of uterus and araenor- rhoea .... 365 — painful contractions along vaginal canal — new injecting apparatus . . 389 Sims (M.) amputation of cervix uteri 362 — vaginismus . . . 377 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 379 Sinclair, obstetric forceps . 351 Sinuses, surgical treatment (Jessop) 241 SiHELius, placenta praevia . . 311 SiSTACH, arsenic in interniittenis . 122 Skaife, abscess of the brain . 152 Skate, caudal organs of (Schultze) . 113 Skeleton, duality of the vertebral elements of (Serres) . . . .103 Skey, abdominal or pelvic abscess . 242 — malignant disease of upper jaw . 250 — cases in surgery: varicose veins treated with Vienna ])aste . . 294 — enlarged lymphatic glands . 315 — removal of enlarced Ivmphatic glands from axilla . ". ' . .315 — thread seton for housemaid's knee 316 Skin, importance of, in tubercular consump- tion (Toulrain) . . . 208 — neuralgia of (13onrguignon) . 149 Skin, diseases of the . , 223 Skin diseases, sulphur in (Hebra) . 228 — do. (do.) . 408 — diseases of, in children (Caillault) 399 — parasitic affections of (Anderson) 102, 225 — linear atrophy of . . 230 — of the head, inflammatory disease of, in foetus (Gil)b) . . .402 Skinxer (T.) ruptured perinaeum . 346 — ferri carhonas effervescens . . 413 — poisoning by aconitum napellus . 420 Skinxkr (W.) ossification of the muscles 174 Skoda, on fever . . . 125 — pleuritis . . . 197 — complications of valvidar disease of the heart .... 182 — diagnosis of cardiac disease . 183 — baemoptoi! , . .196 Skrebitzki, operation of the pancreatic juice on fats and albuminates . . 87 Skull. See Crmiium. Si.ADE (D. D.) diphtheria, native treatment and history . . .122 — injections'of bladder . ,304 — contraction of neck of bladder . 304 Sleeplessness (Russell) . . 150 — nervous, pills of assafcetida in . 162 Smallpox. See I'ariola. Smith yellow fever in West Indies and west coast of America . . 122 — treatment of dyspncea . . 201 — production and prevention of malaria 463 Smith (A. H.) persulphate of iron in hseinor- rliage fioni the stomach . .178 S.MiTH (E.) cvclical changes in human system 3 — detection and use of alcohol . 54 — elimination of urea and urine in relation to cyclical influences . . 92 — experiments with fat, tea, coffee, and alco- hoi .... 97 — and MiLNER, influence of prison discipline and dietary on bodily functions [ficces] 83 — do. [urinary water and urea] 98 Smith (II.) mineral waters . 47 — do. . 231 — gauge for catheters . . 230 — excision of knee-joint . . 284 — prolapsus ani, treatment by nitric acid 303 Smith (H. H.) reduction of luxations of the head of humerus by manipulation 278 ■— carcinoma of breast . . 310 — medullary cancer of left temporal regions 317 Smith (J. L.) congenital heart disease 179 — infantile erysipelas . . 400 Smith (N. R.) suspensory apparatus for frac- tures of lower extremity . . 270 — dislocations of shoulder-joint, reduction 278 Smith (R.) excision of knee-joint . 285 Smith (R. \V.) excision of knee-joint 285 Smith (S.) rupture of the liver . 294 Smith (S. E.) diagnostics of aural disease 329 Smith (S. H.) chlorate of potansa . 233 Smith (T.) instrument for polvpi in uterus 367 — fibro-muscular polvpus from uterus 368 — cases of ovariotomy . . 372 Smith (W. Abbotts) paraplegia from expo- sure to wet and cold . .147 Smoi.er (M.) oxaluria . . 221 Smyi.y. See Porter. Snell, confounding of persons a symptom of insanity . . . .108 Snow-blindncss (Hildige) . . 320 Social science, transactions of association 458 Soda, action on urine (Moss) . 220 — arseniate of, in scrofula (Bouchut) 124 — do. in scrofuldsis . 144 Sodium, chloride of, in urine (Fiirber) 92 Softening of left cerebral hemisphere (Image) 144 — of left posterior lobe (Child) . 144 — See Brain. Solaiium pseudo-capsicum, poisoning by ber- ries of . . . . 433 SoLi.Y (S.) diseases of joints . 273 — aneurism of femoral artery . 289 — do- ' . m640 INDEX. Solly and Jones, aneurism of femoral artery 28'J Solomon (J. V.) sequela of infantile purulent opiitlialiniu . . . 324 — incision of ciliary muscle . 327 Somnambulism (Boiirgarel) . 1-19 — (Mesnet) . . . 15;5 — (Du Maury) . . .107 — idio- (Philippson) . . l.-jj Sore throat (Inman) . . 210 Souflle, double intermittent, in the thigh (Duro/.iez) . . .179 Soul, the brain as an organ of (Wagner) 3.3 SouMic. See Martin-Magron. Sounds of circulation of the blood (Leared) 21 SouTHGATE (R.) general bloodletting 178 SowERDY, British wild flowers and useful plants .... 107 Spasm of glottis (Marsh) . . 195 — do. endermic application of morphia (Bernard) . . . 118 — clonic, of aural muscles, &c. (Hoppe) 148 — constrictive, of the fingers, Batli waters in (Falconer) . . .147 — convulsive, of the facial nerve (Oppolzer) 147 Spath, pedunculated fibroid on fundus uteri 337 — on twins . . . 338 Species, origin of, by organic affinity (Freke) 2 Specific gravity of the bsain (Peacock) 33 Speck (C.) influence of fatiguing exercise on tissue change . . . 110 — influence of cold plunge baths on tempe- rature of body . . . Ill — diarrhoea epidemic of 1859 . 211 Spectacles, light polarizing (Pinkus) 322 Speculum, improvement in (Weiss) . 389 Spence (.1.) surgical reports of Royal Infir- mary, Edinburgh . . 237 Spenber (.1. K.) hypodermic action of atropia 151, 02 Spengler, the " colpoluter" . 389 Spermatorrhoea and insanity (Lisle). 168 Sphacelus of leg and foot following emboli of femoral artery (Adams) . .180 Spiegelberg (0.) on expulsion of the pla- centa .... 353 Spina bifida (Simpson) . . 404 — treated by iodine (Brainard) . 404 Spinal congestion, paraplegia from (Ramskill) 147 Spinal cord, lectures on (Bernard) . — minute anatomy of (Goll) . — in petromyzon fluviatilis (Reissncr)30 — texture and function (Schmeltz ) 30 — sensory function of (Mayer) — sensibdity from localized irritation of sur- face of (Chauveau) . . 39 — irritation (Paxton) . . 150 35 38 38 Spinal cord, cxcitabilily of, and pain proihiced by diUo (Chauveau) . . 30 — infiucnce of heat and electricity on (Kuiide) :iH — disease of gray substance, in musculai atrophy (Luys) . , .110 — paraplegia from tumour in f.VI'Dowpl, 151 — softening of (Oppol/.er) . . 148 — acute softening of (Mayne) . 150 — softening of cervical enlargement of (llil. lairet) . . . .152 — tumours in (Baierlacher) . 148 — incised wound of . . ir)2 — irritation, affection of vision from (Robin, son) . , . .150 Spine, centripetal development of (Serres) 103 — curvature of (Adams) . . .327, 12 — diseases and deformities of (Hughes) 328 Spirometer, hydro- (Lewis) . 71 Spleen, functions of (Maggiorani) . HR — regeneration of (Philipeaux) . 88 Splenic engorgement (Lebert) . 180 Splints for morbus coxarius (Cleveland, Price, Sayre, Taylor) . . . 277, 277 Spondli, perforation and cepbalotripsy 3.')1 Spontaneous generation (.loly, Terrell) lOG — disintegration of fresh-water polvps (Jiiger) 107 Sporer, tinctura iodinii in external acute phle- bitis . . . .181 Spratly, scabies treated with coal-tar naphtha 441 Sputum uncertain in diagnosis of pneumonia (Williams) . . .203 SauARE (J.) loose cartilages in knee-joint 274 Srb, on the deep femoral artery . 21 Stains. See Bloodstains. Stanger' (G. E.) accidental separation of placenta at seventh month . 343 Stanislas (M.) valerian as an antiperioriii' 147 Stanistreet, hydrocephalus . 395 Stanley, simulation of a fatty tumour by an abscess . . . .241 — fistulous opening in the neck into the plia- rynx . . . .249 — necrosis of lower jaw in lucifer-match maker 251 — penetrating wound of knee-joint 275 — inguinal liPTiiia reduced en niosse 299 — epithelial cancer . . 318 Stanley (W. S.) general paralysis . 160 Staples, properties of veratrum viride 178 Starch, nutritive value of (Hammond) — microscopic changes in, from action c saliva (Ebsicin) . . . ' Statistics, medical . Steadinc . . . • Stefanelli, action of lead on drinking-w.ner 400 I 79 458 23.'?INDEX. 5J1 Steiger, melrorrliagia fi'oin old blood-coagii- lum in uterus . . . 368 SiKixiiAusisii (H.) inverted position of viscera 122 Steinthal, reports in psychiatry . 167 Stenosis of aorta (Rauclifuss) . 179 — of descending aoita (Mann) . 179 Stenton's experiment, modification of (Dubois- Rcymond) ... 19 Stei'han (P.) nuclei-form structnres of primi- tive muscular bundles . . 15 Si'KiMiANY, cortical substance of cerebrum 33 Sieriiity (Cogblan) . . . 365 — remediable causes of (Wells) . 362 Sternberg, action of atropine . 47 Sternum, fracture of (Fischer, Marshall) 268 — wound of (Murray) . . 268 Stewart (T. G.) waxy or amyloid form of Bright's disease . . ' . 217 S rir.LK, fibro-plastic tumour of ear-lobes 329 — therapeutics and materia medica 407 Stimidants in pneumonia (Russell) . 203 — in double pneumonia (Bernard) 194 Stimulation, tetanus treated hv (Donaldson) 145 Stockris, physiology of uric acid . 101 Stomach, structure and function of, in verte- l)rata (Brinton) . . . 81 — influence of vagus on the functions of (Schiff) .... 80 — spontaneous chronic dilatation of (Luigi) 153 Stone. Sec Calculus. Storch, congenital hvgroma of neck 402 Stork, lai7ngoscopy . .196 Strachan, accidental poisoning by Fleming's tincture of aconite . .421 Stramonium, preparations of (Hirtzel) 142 Strange (W.) aneurism of the heart, caused by half-cured pericarditis . 178 Strassmann, congenital cyst-hygroma of sacro-perineal region . . 402 Streubel (C.) treatment of hernia. 296 Stricker (W.) action of lightning on the body . . . .109 — do. . 117 Stricture. See (Esophagus, Rectum, Urethra. Strohi., acetate of lead in pneumonia 202 — relation between menstruation and lunar phases .... 356 Stromeyer, acute rheumatism . 134 Stuutiirrs (J.) amputation at middle of thigh after compound fracture, acupressure 271 Strychnia in diphtheritic paralvsis (Tillier) 427 — in hay-fever (Barrach) . . 147 — enderiiiic application in neuralgic facial paralysis (Notta) . . . 148 — administered by mistake . 426 — poisoning by (Part) . . 425 Strychnia, poisoning by (Ilarley) . 420 — ])oisoniMg by injection of, into lachrymal canal (Scliiilei ) . . .427 — colour-tests for (Guy) . . 424 — campborate of (Pavcsi) . . 147 — nitrate of, &c., poisoning by (Tschepke) 424 — sulphate of, hypodermic inoculation of, in neuralgia (Lafargue) . . 418 Stubbs, dilatation and division of female urethra fur stone . . . 306 — foreign body in urethra, removed eighteen montlis afterwards . . 308 Stumps, growth of (Billroth) . 262 — do. (Humphry) . 9 STijRZWEGE. See Schmidt. Stuttering, cure of (Klencke) . 157 SuARKZ Y Gomez (F.) gastrotomy in right hypocbondrium for foreign body . 295 Suffocation from regurgitation of food into larynx (Lator) . . . 145 Sugar, transformation of skin of silkworm into (Luca) . . . 114 — in urine (B. Jones) . . 94 — do. (Seager) . . 215 — quantity of, in diabetic urine (Roberts) 96 — diabetic, crystals of (Gibb) . 95 Suicide, statistics of . .457 — do. in Baden . 457 — do. at Turin, 1855-59 (Tor- Ohio) . . . .167 — causes of recent increase of (Ritter) 457 — by hanging, case (Orth) . . 457 — by phosphorus (Michel) . . 457 Sulphur in skin diseases (Hebra) . 228 — do. (do.) . 408 Sulphuric acid in sciatica, successful (Legroux) . . .149 Sulphurous powder (Pouillet) . 234 Superfoctation (Braun) . . 332 Suppuration . . . 241 Suppuration, suppression of, by application of a chlorinated solution (Hervieux) 123 — of joints, catarrhal form (Volkman) 273 — of the liver (Rouis) . . 224 Surgery, report on, ly Mr. J. W. Hulke 235 — text-books, mamials, Sj'c. . 235 Surgery of Albucasis (Leclerc) . 235 — system of (Holmes) . . 235 — Cooper's 'Dictionary,' by Lane . 235 — employment of cold in (Esmarch) 238 — clinical (Syme) . . . 235 — do. archive of (Langenbeck) 230 — minor, and bandaging (Heath) . 235 — operative (Heyfelder) . . 235 — do. (Maunder) . . 235 — do. in the provinces (Prichard) 238 — operations in (Cbassaignae) . 235 — do. (Webb) . . 235 — do. bloody (Giinther) . 235 — conservative, of joints (Gore) . 275 Surgery, aural . . . 329 — dental . . . . ;J29INDEX. Siiri/eri/, ophl/ialiiiic . . 1122 — orthopmlic . . . ;}27 — See Military surgery. SuTiiEULAND (:V. j.) Ciooiiiuii Iccturcs oil insanity . . . . 1C9 SwAYNic (J, G.) obstetric nphoriams \VA\ Sweat, bloody (Cbanibors) . . 229 Sweating, chlorides, tfic, in urine, in long- continued (Gil)l)) , . 92 Swelling, lucmatic, of tlie ears of the insane (Guddeu) . . .107 SwiNUuiiNB (J.) extension in fractures 2G6 — simple extension in fractures of long bones 2G6 — treatment of Barton and CoUes' fracture 269 — fractures of femur by simple extension 270 — reduction of dislocation of femur, Reid's method . . . .279 Stme (J.) clinical surgery . . 235 — oesophagotomy . . . 249 — large gluteal aneurism, ligature . 289 — radical cure of reducible licruia . 301 — abdominal hydrocele . . 312 — pulsating tumour of the orbit, &c. 323 Syme's amputation in caries of astragalus (Ure) 264 SvMES (S.) dislocation of femur reduced with- out forcible extension . . 280 Symonds, fracture pf the femur . 271 Symphysis pubis, liEematoma over (Ericbsen) 315 Sympson (T.) excision of knee-joint 284 Synovial membrane, gelatinous degeneration (Bauer) . . . .275 Synovitis of hip-joint, foUovring periostitis of femur (Bauer) . . . 276 Syphilis .... 319 Svphilis (Beyran) . . . 151 -l(Galligo) . . .137 — lecture on (Lee) . . 319 — of women (Guerin) . . 359 — modern treatment (Watson) . 121 — nature and rest in cure of (Cooke) 319 — clinical report on syphilitic patients (Baren- sprung) .... 135 — syphilitic wardsof Vienna Infirmary, report (Hermann) . . • 1^7 ■— hereditary, indications of (Jordan) 311 — is inherited, protective against contagion ? (Hutchinson) . • • -3-^ — do. (Hutchinson, Maunder) 319 — influence of mercurial treatment of parents on offspring (Midler) . • 135 — use of merc\iry in, in Persia (PoIaV.) 136 _ do. (do.) 417 — sarsaparilla in (Sigmund) . _ 137 — cure of, by vaccination (Jcltschinsky, Karainsky, Monigetti) . . 136 — primary ulcer of eyelid (Dixon) . 320 — See Chancre, Bubo. — secondary symptoms from tattooing (Petry) — secondary (Laubcr) , . 137 Syphilis, secondary, conimunicaliou of (Sig- mund) . , . .123 — do, do. (Clements) 320 —- do. diphtheritic inflammation (<! vulva in (Martin) . . 124 ~ do. hydrooarpu«odoralu6in(Waring) 438 — from secondary inoculation (Wildbore) 124 — tertian' (Agnew) . . 320 — do. power of pot. iod. in (Barton) l.-iO — from vaccination (Viennois) . 137 — do. (do.) . 32.') — communicated by vaccination . 4 70 — conveyed l)y vaccine lymph to forty-six children (Paccbiotti) . . 135 — epilepsy associated with . . 140 — paralysis associated with . 149 — variola with (Fronmiiiler) . 123 Syphilitic albuminuria (Bade) . 217 — abscess, tistula in ano (Coulson). 303 — diseases of the larvnx (Gerhardt) 198 — do. ■ (do.) . 253 — hemiplegia (Burdel) . .151 — inflammation of larynx (Russell) 194 — do. of the retina, &c. (Hutchin- son) . . . .320 — inoculation (Lee) . . 319 — paralysis (Bevran) . . 151 — do. (O'Connor) . . 151 — do. of infants (Henoch) . 146 — tumour of cranial bones (Bovs de Lourv) 151 Sypbilization (Sigmimd) . .124 — (Hoffmann, Sigmund, cVe.) . 130 SzYMANOwsKi, amputation, immersion and irrigation . . . 239 — partial foot amputations . 260 — modification of Pirogoff's osteoplastik 200 Taenia, treatment by pumpkin seeds (Rigaud, Tarneau) '. . .438 Ttenia solium, cysticercus cellnlosus trans- formed into (Kiicbenmeister) . 102 Tasnifuges of Abvssinia (Courhon) . 408 Taft-root of Persia (Schroff) . l.'W Talipes varus duplex (Brown) . 328 Tanner, filjrous tiiniour of uterus — intra-uterine fil)rou5 tumours . .'ii'T Tannin as an antiperiodic (Leriche) 4 11 Tansy, poisoning by (Pcmileion) . 438 Tapeworm, remedies for, in Al)yssinia (Cour- bon) . . . .21-' Tahdieu, preventive treatment of hydro|)hnl)!,i l.i-^ — lectures on poisons . .407 — medical responsibility . . 44'.' Tarleton. See JIarley. Tarneau, pumpkin seeds for tnenia 438 Tarsus, disease of, Pirogoff's operation (Paert 204 Tartar eipetic, See Antimony,543 INDEX. Tattooing, secondary syphilitic symptoms from (Pelry) .... 131 Tatum, calciilus in urethra of cliild 307 Tavi.or (C. F.) counter-extension splint for niorbns coxarius . . 277 Taylor (J.) alkaline hypophospliitcs 231 Tayi.or (J. M.) traumatic aneurism of bra- chial, ligature of axillary artery 288 Tea, experiments with (E. Smith) . 97 Tealk (T. 1\) statistics of amputations at Leeds Infirmary . . . 258 Teeth of echinus'(Salter) . . 9 — affections from diseased (Sercombe) 124 — extraction of, neuralgia and deafness cured by (Vautier) . . .149 — do. cure of pain in face by (Fried- berg) .... 161 — knocking in of, medico-legal view (Doll, Schumacher) . . . 446 — artificial, epilepsy and paralysis from 150 Temperatures, influence of, on motor nerves (Harless) ... 43 — changes in, in tvphoid fever (Thierfelder, Wunderlich) '. . . 127 — of the body, influence of cold plunge baths on (Speck)' . . . Ill — of body before and after death, increase of (Adler)" . . . . 119 Temporal bone, exostosis of (Cooper) 265 Tenderini (J.) amputation of both legs and right arm . . . 260 Tendo-Acliillis, Chopart's amputation in divi- sion of (Bouvier) . . 201 Tendons of recti femoris, rupture of (Adams, Mason) . . . 272,272 — do. do. (Johnson, Poucet) . . . .273 Tenotomy for deformity from anchylosis of knee-joint (Mott) . . 328 Tcrebintlms. See Turpentine. Terms, dictionary of medical (Harris) 2 Terreii-, spontaneous generation . lOG Terry, fracture of neck of femur, walking possible after . . .271 Testis, undeveloped (Curling) . 404 — undeveloped, from an idiot (Curling) 105 — in inguinal canal (Curling) . 404 — from inguinal canal (Van Buren) 311 — abnormal descent of (Zeis) . 311 — encephaloid cancer of (Pancoast) 313 — cancer of, excision (Ward) . 313 — medullary carcinoma of (Bryant, Irvine) 312,312 — congenital tumour of the (Allix) 402 — ha;raorrhagic fibrinous tumour of (Collis) 312 Tctanilla (Trousseau) . . 154 Tetanus .... 243 Tetanus, pathology of (Thompson) . 155 — nature and treatment (O'Beirne) 243 — three cases (Flechner) . . 154 — recent researches on (Tliamliayn) 154 Tetanus in central America (McDowell) 155 — of fourteen months' duration (Meadows) 154 — following puncture of foot (Read) 243 — following a wound of finger (Coote) 243 — neonatorum (OUivier) . . 395 — treatment by liquor potassa; (Reid) 145 — do. by stimulation (Donaldson) 145 — idiopathic (Grantham) . . 145 — do. treated by belladonna (Crane) 145 — do. opium or chloroform in (Gri- solle) . . . .147 — traumatic, recovery from (Hutchinson) 243 — do. treated by tinctura aconiti (Woakes) . . . 155 — do. cured by tartar of antimony (Conway) . . . 145 — do. subcutaneous injections of sul- phate of atropine in (Dnpuy) . 145 — do. chloroform and tinct. opii in (Ord) . . . .150 — do. valerian and cannabis Indica in (Buchanan) . . . 145 Text-book of physiology (Funke, Ludwig) 1 — of chemistry (Scherer) . . 2 Textures, animal, molecular structure of (Miil- ler) . . ". .114 Thamhayn (0.) recent researches on tetanus 154 Theile, on Budge ' On the Bile-ducts' 85 Therapeutics, treatise on (Stille) . 407 Thermometry, clinical (Wunderlich) 119 Thibierge, vegetations of genitals in preg- nancy .... 37G Thielmann, sempstresses' cramp cured by quinine and opium . . 148 Thiercelin, treatment of epilepsy bv curare i40, 429 Thierfelder, changes in temperature in typhoid fever . . . ]27 Thigh. See Femur. Thomas (R. P.) fracture of the thigh, new apparatus . . . 271 Thomas (T. G.) placenta prsevia . 341 Thompson (E. S.) influence of ozonized cod- liver oil on the pulse . . 57 — progressive muscular atrophy . 1 "C Thompson (II.) tracheotomy for laryngitis in case of labour. . .194 — triticum repens in imtable conditions of the bladder . . . 221 — do. do. . 304 — diseases of prostate . . 305 — sealing-wax in bladder, median lithotomy 306 — pathology of prostate, recently observed facts . , , 30/INDEX. Thompson (II.) siriclure of urethra, perineal section, &c. . , , 30'J — impermeable stricture of urethra, trealiiient 310 — elephantiasis of foot and ankle, amputation 313 — colloid disease of mammarv gland, &e. 318 — congenital deficiency of anus . 403 Thompson (W. II.) pathology of tetanus 15.") Thomson (J.) acci(h;tital removal of greater part of the lower jawbone . 251 Thomson (.1. B.) statistics of jjrisoners, meiital^condition and diseases . 167 Thomson (M.) analytical tables of chemistry 3 Thomson (R. D.) production of disease by impure water . . . 231 Thoracentesis in pleurisy (Rosfau) . 205 — in pneumothorax (Marsh) . 191 Thorowgood, fatal intussusception in an infant .... 398 Throat. See Sore throat. Thrombosis, cases of (Kraus) . 180 — of sinuses of dura mater (Dusch) 181 — of cerebral vessels (Meissner) . 185 — of the aorta (Trost) . .180 — venous and thoracic duct (Oppolzer) 178 Thumb, supernumerary (Wakley) . 401 Thudichum, putrefaction of bile and forma- tion of gall-stones . . 86 — cases of embolism . .180 Thyroid gland, enlargement of (Hawkes) 314 — cvst in, cured by injection of iodine (Bryant) . . .314 — tumours of (Fiirster) . . 225 Tibia, rapid union with fibula (Meacham) 272 — disease of (Sands) . . 264 — abscess in head of (Hodge) . 264 — medullary cancer of (Paget) . 265 — endostitis of (Baur) . . 264 — osteo-cysto-carcoma of head of (Cock) 265 — malignant tumour of (Cook) . 317 — See Fracture of. TiEMAN (G.) bullet extractor . 239 TiGRi, colour in bones of foetus from madder in food of mother during gestation 104 TiLLiER.strychniain diphtheritic paralysis 427 Tilt (E. J.) antiphlogistic treatment of uterine inflammation . . 362 — injections, counter-irritants, &c., in uterine inflammation . . . 302 — treatment of uterine inflammation by nitrate of silver, nitrate of mercury, &c. 363 — sickness in uterine inflammation, &c. 303 — on exfoliation of mucous membrane of •womb during menstruation . 364, 364 Tinea favosa (Bazin) . . 226 Tinea tonsurans. See Ringworm. Tissues of the body, structure (Beale) 4 — microscopical specimens of ( Beale) 2 — simple . . (Beale) 2 Tissues, connective, of pleura and lungs, formation of lymphatic elements in*(Wagner) ' 178 — change of, in [the healthy organism (Bo- decker) . , . .100 — do. influence of salt, coflTee, and ex- ercise on (Voit) ... 48 — do. influence of fatiguing exercise on (Lelimann, Speck) . . Jio — organic, elasticity of (Wundt) . 115 — cartilaginous, chemistry of (Wilckens) 9 — erectile and cavernous, transformations of (Michel) . . . .193 — shell-, development of (Ilainey) 104 — See Micscidar. Tobacco, use of (Lyster) . .47 ToBOLD, illuminating apparatus for gyn;c. 'i logical purposes . . . 389 Todd (A.) cases of lithotomy . 305 Todd (H. C.) cyanosis in a girl . 178 Todd (R. C.) transfixion of abdomen by a bayonet .... 239 ToFOHR (A.) exostosis of the teeth . 329 ToMSON (J. J.) looped wire in removal of foreign bodies from the air-passages 195 — do. . 25f. Tongue, follicular glands at the root of (Boit- cher) .... 78 Tongue, diseases of . . 246 Tongue, epithelial cancer of (Hutchinson, Parker) . . . . 247 — wart and corn of (Hulke) . 246 Tonsils, ^'c. . . . 2)7 Tonsil, hypertrophy of right, ecraseur (Law- rence) . . . .247 Tonsillitis, laryngotomy for (Isham) 194 TooGOOD (J.) artificial respiration . 'u Tooth. See Teet/i. TopiNARD, hygiene of London hospitals 464 ToRCHTO (F.) statistics of suicide at Turin, 1855-59 . . . . 167 Torpedo, electrical organ of (Schultze) 113 Touch, experiments on the sense of (Fick) 09 TouLMiN, pathology of cholera . 138 — importance of the skin in tubercular con- sumption.... 208 TouLMoucHE, on infanticide and concealed pregnancy . . .453 TowNSEND (M. W.) ununited fracture of tibia 272 Toxicology, report on, by Dr. B. Sanderson 406 ToYNBEE, action of Eustachian tube in man 07 — injuries to external auditory meatus .329 ^ — sebaceous tumours in external auditory meatus, &c. . . . ''•^J Trachea, diseases of, Sfc. . . 2''^ Trachea, stone in (Moore) . . -^6 — ulcer in the (Russell) . . 19^ Tracheitis and laryngitis . .19554.5 INDEX. Tracheotomy . • • 253 Traclieotoniy (Edwards, Martini) . 194, 251 — (Martini, Maunder) . . 253 — report on, in provincial hospitals (Hut- chinson) .... 254 — in abscess of larynx (Forster) . 255 — in croup (Ayer) . . . 194 — do. (Aver, Cabot, Greene) . 255 — do. (Jones, lladclitfe, Watson) 256 — do. (Farre, Miner, Rees) . 25G — do. (Martini, Watson) . 396,396 — in membranous croup, recovery (Jobns) 194 — in diphtheria (llillier) . . 194, 254 — for laryngitis (Thompson) . 194 — in laryngitis (Davey, Peacock) . 255 — in disease of larynx (Fergusson) 255 — in case of syphilitic inflammation of larynx (RusseU) . . .194 — in syphilitic laryngitis, &c. (Bryant, Rus- sell) .... 255 — in laryngeal phthisis (Leared) . 255 — for tumour in larynx (Crosse) . 257 — in neurosis of cricoid cartilage (Pavy) 255 — in case of scald (Hutchinson) . 255 Transactions of Obstetrical Society, vol. ii, 1860 . . . '. 331 Transpiration, liquid, in relaliou to chemical composition (Graham) . .108 Tbaube, penetration of particles of charcoal into respiratory apparatus . 78 — renal contraction, with hypertrophy of left ventricle . . . .179 — laryngoscope, use, in aneurism of arch of aorta . . . .196 — amyloid degeneration of kidneys after tuber- culosis . . . .196 — abscesses in the lungs . .196 — penetration of fine carbonaceous particles into respiratory organs . . 201 Trebuchet, report of Conseil d'Hygifene of the Seine . . .458 — preparation of hides, &c. . 466 Trephine, conical (Otto) . . 235 Trephining, use of, in compound fracture of cranium (Adams, Bryant, Holt, Johnson, Lawson) . , . .245 — in injury and necrosis of frontal bone (Ayres, Clark) . . .245 — in depressed fracture of skull (Miner) 245 — in cases of epilepsy from injury of head (Pillings) . . .245 — in epilepsy (Buren, Maskol, Sayre) 246 — report on cases of, in provincial hospitals (Hutchinson) . . . 245 Trichiasis, operations for (Hesser) . 323 — cure for (Williams) . . 323 Trichina spiralis (Virchow, Lcuckart) 103 — symptoms and treatment of (Kilchcn- racister) . . . .175 Tripi.er and Blackjian, handbook for military surgeon . . . 239 Trismus (Gan-etson) . . 329 — chronic, in a child (Wells) . 145 Troeltsch (A.) practical anatomy of the ear 64 Trommer (C.) chondrogenous and collagenous cartilage .... 13 Trost, thrombosis of the aorta . 180 Trousseau, on contagion . . 120 — neuralgia complicating chlorosis . 152 — apoplectiform cerebral congestion 154 — on tetanilla . . . 154 — use of digitalis in meuorrhagia . 181 — ozoena .... 197 — ertects of cubebs . . 221 — goitre, with protrusion of the eyeballs 224 — hematocele . . . 368 — sudden irresistible determinations in rela- tion to epilepsy . . . 455 — and LECua, "ataxic locoraotrice progres- sive" . . . . 146 — and DuMONTPELLiBR, emboli of pulmonary artery .... 189 Trowbridge (A.) gunshot wounds 239 TscHEPKE, poisoning by nitrate of strychnia, morphia, &c. . . . 421 Tubercle, evidence of deposit of, in a child (Jenncr) .... 393 Tubercles in the brain (Forster) . 120 — at base of lungs (Merriman) . 152 — in the ovaries (Rokitansky) . 363 — al)sence of, in pulmonary parenchyma in case of bronchial phthisis (Leroy de Meri- coiirt) .... 196 — iniliarv, in substance of the heart (Klob) 177 Tubercular haemoptysis (Brinton) . 193 Tuberculization, pulmonary (Boiicliardat) 207 — of puerperal uterus (Rokitansky) 363 Tuberculosis in a child (Jenner) . 393 — influence of alcoholic drinks on (Davis) 207 — amyloid degeneration of kidneys after (Traube) . . .196 — chronic, southern climatic sanatoria for (Rullmann) . . . 209 — acute miliary, curability (Wunderlich) 209 — cachexia without phthisis (Forget) 196 Tuberculous inflammation (Fiirsler) 120 TuFNELL (J.) double fracture of patella 271 — excision of elbow-joint . . 282 — strictine of rectum . . 303 TuKE (H.) general paralysis . 172 TuUey's experiments with chlorate of potash (Lee) .... 233 Tumours . . . . 313 Tumours, practical surgery of (Birkett) 311 — of the brain, piobablv scrofulous (Jackson) 116 — at base of brain (Gairdner) . 152 — in medulla oblongata (.Vlaync) . 150 — cranial, proso|)algia from (Scliolz) 150 — of the upper jaw (Hutchinson) . 219 — beneath lower jaw (Holthouse) . 315 — of the larynx (Crosse) . . 257INDEX. 546 Tumour of thyroid gland (Kiirbter) . 225 — of breast, operations for (Hutcliinson) 313 — do. irritable (Urc) . 381 — from left auricle (Fergussoii) . 329 — ill spinal cord (Baierlacher) . 148 do. paraplegia from (McDowel) 151 Tamouvs external to uterus . 337 —. See Tumours (fibrous). Tumour near meatusurinarius(Pollock)378, 310 — of the testicles (AUix) . . 402 — inguino-scrotal (Critchett) . 312 — near the coccyx (Coulon) . 314 — congenital, of sacrum (Dartscher) 402 — do. of gluteal region (Giraldes) 402 — of the limbs (Lambl) . . 117 — anomalous, from the side (Pancoast) 313 — brain-like, in velum pend. palati (Pan- coast) .... 248 — simulating broncbocele(McCraith) 314 — cancerous. See Cancer, — cavernous (Neuman) . . 313 — cystic, in lower jav\f (Coote) . 252 — do. of breast in a male (Gowlland) 315 — do. congenital, of sacro-perineal region (Martin) . . . .402 — cvsto-sarcomatous, of breast (Bryant) 315 — enchondromatous See EncTiondronia. — reproductive encysted (Macnaraara) 316 — erectile (Price) . . ■ 313 — do. gluteal (Finnell) . . 313 — fatty, from scrotum (Kimball) . 311 — do.' statistics of operations (Hutchinson) 313 — hasraorrhagic fibrinous, of testis (Collis) 312 — fibroid, of cervix uteri (Barnes) . 3G6 — do. recurring (Roberts) . 109 — do. do. (Fergusson, llulke)' 319 — pedunculated fibroid, on fundus uteri (Spilth) .... 337 — fibrous, of antrum (Fergusson, Paget) 250,249 — do. over parotid (Fergusson) 313 — do. of superior maxilla (Fergusson, Quain) . . • -250 Tumows, fibrous, of uterus . • 366 Tumours, fibrous, of uterus, &c. (Brown, Habit, Tanner) . . .366 — do. do. (Lumpe, Tanner) 367 — do. do. (Harper, Launay) 367 — do. of vagina (Paget) . . 378 — fibro-muscular, subclavicular (Moore) 315 — fil)ro-nucleated of brain (Sands) 147 — fibro-plastic, of ear-lobes (Stillc) 329 — Rlandular, of stomach and ileum (Lambl) ^ ' 117 — nialignanf.statisiics of operations (Ilnfchin- son) • . . .313 Tumours, malignant, of vagina, ecraseur (Ver- neuil) . . . .378 — malignant. See Cancer, — non-mulignant, operations for (Hutchinson 313 — medullary, of cheek, in infant (Fergusson) 400 — melanotic. See Cancer (melanotic). — muscular, of vagina (Lctenneur) 378 — papillary, of larynx (Liischner) . 196 — papillary cystoid, of base of brain (Wagner) 118 — salivary (Paul!) . . , 217 — scirrhous, of breast, cyst in (Moore) 381 — sebaceous, from scalp, &c. (Hewett) 314 — do. in external auditory meal us (Toynbee) . . . 3;io — syphilitic. See Syphilis. — vascular, surgical treatment (Price) 313 — See Polypi. TuNGEL, dissecting aneurism . 176 — cases of embolism . . 180 — enterotomy . . . 296 Tunica vaginalis, haematoceles of (Rochard) 312 Turbinated bone, lower, adhesion of septum nasi to (Bi-yant) . . .252 — do. hypertrophy of mucous mem- brane of (Demarquay) . . 252 TuRCK (L.) guide to laryngoscopy . 69 — laryngoscopy . . .193 — rhinoscopy . . . 196 TilRK (C.) on the use of opium . 03 Turin, statistics of suicide at (Torchio) 167 TuRLE, chlorate of potash and sugar iu phthisis .... 196 Tdrn'uuli, (J.) properties of sulphate of aniline • . . . 47,440 — ' do. in chorea 156 Turnbull(L.) vin. Sambuci in chronic rheu- matism and acne . . 123 — crystalline lens and its diseases . 324 Turner (J.) arscnious acid in fevers 132 Turner (W.) irregularities of omo-hyoid muscle . . . . 14 _ — elimination of the metal manganese em- ployed medicinally . . C2 — chemical properties of pancreatic juice 78 — separation of ovary from atrophy of broad ligament and Fallopian tube, &c. . 370 Turner (\V. M.) vomiting in pregnancy 383 Turning, new method of (Hicks) . 348 Turpentine in delirium tremens (Dawson) 100 — oil of, influence of, on the health of house- painters (Leclaire) . . 440 — in neuralgia (Clasen) . .148 TiiTEL, pneumo-pericardium from oesophageal ulceration . . .177 Twins (Spath) — Sec Dirthn, — united (Hanks) . • .401 338INDEX. 547 Tympanitis, acute, paracentesis of stomach foi (Olivieri) . . . 213 Types of the human species (Geoffroy St. Ililaire) . . . . 2 Typhoid fever (Pfeufei) . . 124 — with second attack (Hardwick) . 124 — collapse and death (IIard\Yick) . 124 — the pythogenic theory (Budd^ . 129 — epidemic at Bedford (Simon) . 469 — in aged persons (Uhle) . 127 — from worms (Ross) . .124 — do. (do.) . . 398 — changes in temperature in (Thierfelder, Wunderlicli) . . .127 — crotou-oil liniment in (Fremy) . 129 — sulphateof quinineandveratriain(Vogt)125 Tvphus fever epidemic in north-west India (Walker) ... 130 — aftections of brain, nervous system, and lungs (Bell) . . .126 — intestinal lesions (Bell) . . 126 Uhle, typhoid fever in aged persons 127 Uhlenberg, wounded forearm arteries 288 Ulcer, congenital, of lower extremities (Bruce) 402 — flat, of rectum (Coulson) . 303 — penetrating, of cornea (Wordsworth) 325 — uterine (Ellis) . . : 361 Ulceration, oesophageal, pneumo-pericardium from(Tutel) . . .177 — of rectum (Curling) . . 303 Ulricu, artificial opening of the air-passages 194 Umbilical cord. See Funis. Umbilical vessels, stenosis of (Dohrn) 343 Unger, botanical letters . . 107 Unity of human species (Dunn) . 2 Urachus, pervious (Paget) . . 305 Urajmia, doctrine of (Oppler) . 219 — from disease of kidneys after scarlet fever 399 Ursemic intoxication (Hammond) . 93 — do. . 220 Uranoplasty with mucous-periosteal covering of palate (Langenbeck) . . 248 Ure (A) polypoid bony growth from septum of right nostril . . , 252 — caries of astragalus and os calcis, Syme's amputation . . , 264 — fracture of leg, scorbutic . 272 — popliteal aneurism, compression and ligature 292 — saccular expansion of internal saphena vein 294 — varicose veins and ulcer . 294 — congenital inguinal hernia . 299 — irritable tumour of breast, use of bichlo- ride of mercury . . 381 Urea, elimination of, in relation to cyclical influences (Smith) . . 92 — influence of prison diet, &c., on excretion of (Smith) ... 98 Ureas of the diamines (Volhard) . 92 Ureihra, affections . . . 308 Urethra, perineal operations (Bryant, Hulke, Thompson) . . . 309,309 — stricture of (Barton, Hutchinson, Van Buren) . . . .308 — do. operations for, &c. (Bryant, Gav, Fergusson, Holt, Hulke, Jackson, Fan- coast, Thompson) . . 309,309 — do. incisions compared with di- latation .... 309 — do. operations, &c., for (Arnott, Curling, De Morgan, Heath, Hilton, Thompson) . . . 310,310 — do. potassa fusa in (De Morgan) 310 — obliteration of, after injury (Fergusson, Hulke) . . . .309 — traumatic destruction of (Peniberton) - 308 — foreign bodies from (Segalas, Stubbs) 308 — See Calculi in, — female, division of, for stone (Stubbs) 306 — do. irritation of (Hunter) . 308 — do. do. (do.) . 378 — do. stricture of (Curling) . 310 — do. do. (do.) . 378 Uric acid, physiology of (Stockris) . 101 Urinary deposits (Beale) . . 92 Urinary system . . . 92 Urine and urinary deposits (Beale) . 92 Urine, analysis of (Neubauer) . 101 — table of analvsis of, in nine young men (Bodecker) ' . . .100 — secretion of, in rabbits (Wittich) 101 — excretion of, in the tropics (Lawson) 100 — influence of prison diet on excretion of (Smith) .... 98 — elimination of, in relation to cyclical in- fluences (Smith) . . .92 — effects of draughts of water on quantity of (Fiirber) . . . .92 — action of baths on formation of (Clemens) 102 — do. potash, soda, lithia, lead, opium, and colchicum, on (Moss) . 220 — extravasation of (Lawrence) . 308 — incontinence of, in young woman from epispadias (Roser) . . 378 — stillicidium of (Paget) . . 305 — preservation of (Eisenstiick, Miiller) 464 — albumen in (Lancereaux) . 181 — is ammonia a normal constituent of? (Bam- berger) .... 100 — chlorides, cystine, &c., in, in case of long- continued sweating (Gibb) . 92 — chylous, cured by iodide of po(assinm (Davis) .... 214, 101 — diabetic, quantity of sugar in (Roberts) 96 — hippuric acid in (Liicke) . 100 — indigo in (Gilchrist) . . 965i8 Urine, deposils of crystallized phosphate of lime ill (Roberts). . . 102 — saccharine, influence of acid la producing C'avy) .... 85 — sugar in (B.Jones) . . 94 — sugar in tlie (Scagcr) . . 215 — do. See Diabelen. Uterine fluxes (Noiirse) . . ^G-l Uterine glands in uterine sarcoma (Rokitansky) 367 Uterus, abnormal condiliuns . 337 Uterus, congenital absence of (Giutrac) 403, 360 — bicornis, atresia of (Rokitansky) 300 — displacement of uninipregiiated (Aveling) 360 — flexions of, treated by uterine sound (Massmann) . . , 360 — inversion of (Death) . , 344 — do. for twenty years (Guyon) 361 — do. from expulsion of polypus (Valenta) . . . '366 — super-involution of (Simpson) . 365 — prolapsus of (Keiller, Schuh) . 360, 360 — do. (Roberts) . 361 — do. in pregnancy aud labour (Hiiter) .... 382 — retroversion of (Barnes) . 306 — rupture of (Corse, Dunsraure, Edmundson, M'Kinlay, Puteguat) . . 344,344 — exfoliation of mucous membrane of, during menstruation (Tilt) "— catheterization of, to excite (Valenta) — Diseases of (Aran) — do. mineral waters in (Engelmann) . — cauliflower excrescence of, during pregnancy (Simpson) . . . 337 — epilepsy from (Mayer) . . 364 — See Hamaiocele. — See Inflammation (uterine). — See Polypi (uterine). — gravid, rheumatism of (Meissuer) 383 — acute tuberculization of (Rokitansky) 363 Uterus, fibrous tumours and polypi 366 Uterus, impregnated, cancerous tumour of (Keating) . . . 337 — fibroid tumour on fundus of (Spiith) 337 — See 'Ikimonrs (fibrous). — ulcer of (Ellis) . . .361 Uvula, adhesion of, to pharynx (Hoeven) 248 Vaccination, public report of inquiry into (Seaton) . . .471 — of new-born children (Le Barillier) 391 ■— cure of syphilis by (Jelischinslsy, Kaniiiisky, Monigetti) . . . 130 — syphilis communicated by . 470 — transference of svpbilis in (Viennois) 320 — do. ■ (do.) 137 Vaccine lymph, syphilis conveyed by, to forty- six children (I'acchiotti) . . 135 364,304 contraction 354 . 357 of Kreutzuach . 359 Vaccinia, variola with (Woodman) . 123 Vagina, absence of, with normal uterus (I'atry; 37'<i — congenital absence of (Ilicki.) . 376 — absence of (Gintrac) . . 403 — congenital atresia of (Uarbieri, Graf) 377, 377 — imperforate (Wakley) . . 40I — do. operation (Long) . 376 — inversion of, from expulsion of polvpus (Valenta) , . . '300 — occlusion of, in pregnant woman (Rotter) 362 — prolapsus of (Schuh) . . 360 — painful spasmodic contraction of, &c. (De- bout, Michon, Simpson . . 377, 377 — rupture of, after parturition, prolapsus and rupture of intestine (Scliultze) . 450 — haemorrhage of two years (Paget) 378 — hernia of (Hewet) . . 378 — fibrous tumour of (Paget) . 378 — malignant tumour of, ^craseur (Verneuil) 378 — muscular tumour of (Letenneur) 37H Vaginismus (Sims) . , . 377 Vaginodynia (Simpson) . . 377 Vagus nerve, stoppage of heart by irritation of (Budge) . . . .30 — stoppage of expiration by (Owsjannikow) 70 — of fishes (Iloffniann) . . 30 Valenta, catheterization of the uterus fm exciting contraction . . 351 — inversion of uterus and vagina from ex- pulsion of fibrous polypus . 306 Valentin (G.) hybernation of marmots, pulse and blood-pressure . 110 Valerian in traumatic tetanus (Buchanan) 145 — as an antiperiodic (Stanislas) . 147 Vallee (L.'L.) theory of vision . iu Valves, aortic, insufficiency of (Duroziez) 179 — do. insufficiency of, in connection with sudden death (Cockle) . 170 — do. sudden death from insufficiency of (Maurice) . . .177 — do. disease of (Power) . 183 — do. fatal disease of (Corrigan) 177 — auriculo-ventricular, action of (Malherbe) 2' — do. (Cliauveau) 23 — do.- closure of (Halford) 20, 25 — mitral, regurgitation independent of or- ganic disease (Bristowe) . . 183 — insufliciencv of mitral and aortic (Leberl) 180 — mitral and tricuspid, insufficiency of, with granular liver, &c. (Oppolzcr) . 178 — See Heart. — abnormal number in pulmonary artery (Wallinann) . . .17'INDEX. 549 Vambiaxchi, Cffisareau operation . 349 Van Buren, trephining in epilepsy 246 — See Posi. injection of bladder for cystitis 304 — lateral lithotomy . . 306 — stricture of urethra . • 308 — testis from inguinal canal . 311 Van Dben (J.) insensibility of cerebro-spinal centres to electric irritation . 34 Vannaire, veratrine in dysraenorrhcea 428 Vanverts, syphilitic pemphigus of new-born children . ' . • -400 Varicella, statistics of (Kiittlinger) . 122 Varices . . • • 293 Varicocele, radical cure (Davies, Lee) 311 — of the leg (Brinton) . . 293 Variola, incubation of (Biirensprung) 132 — statistics of (Kiittlinger) . 122 — report of inspectors on epidemic (Seaton) 471 — prevention of, in Ireland (Phelan) 122 — question of security against (Druitt) 132 — prevention of pitting in (Bell) . 227 — if a child be liable to, conceived prior to its contraction by the mother? (Hall) 391 — with syphilis (rrnnmiiller) . 123 — with vaccinia (Woodman) . 123 Varix, aneurisraal, in thigh, from pressure for cure of aneurism (Pemberton) 289 — do. of leg and foot, congenital (Gross) . . . .293 — See Feins (varicose). f'oscular system ... 20 — diseases of . . . 176 — See Blood-vessels, S^c. Vasey (C.) influence of ceraentum in sus- taining vitality of transplanted teeth 329 Vautiek, neuralgia and deafness cured by extraction of a tooth . . 149 Vegetable kingdom, relation to inorganic (Savory) .... 5 Vegetable physiology . , 107 Veiel, external application of chloride of zinc 412 — arsenici nternally in diseases of the skin 415 Veins, spontaneous obliteration of (Legroux) 180 — coagulation of blood in (Legroux) 180 — dilatation of . , .178 — femoral, phlebitis of, in case of fracture (Symonds) . . .271 — iliac, obturation of (Mayr) . 180 / f ins, varicose . . • , 293 \ eins, varicose, cure of (Botto) . 181 — do. operations for (Boisnot, Skev, Ure, Wood) . . . 294,294 Vena cava, inferior, thoracic'portion (Luschka) 22 — superior, obstruction of (Rees) 178 Venereal disease. See Syphilis. Veit, position of foetus in premature and twin births . ... 339 Ventricles, coraraunication of the two (Lambl) I 178 Ventricle, left, fibrinous clots in, in apoplexy (Cummins) . . . 177 — do. hypertrophy of, with renal contraction (Traube) . .179 — right, wound of heart perforating wall of (Mlihlig). . . .184 Veratria in dysmenorrhcea (Vannaire) 428 — in typhoid fever (Vogt) . . 125 — poisoning by (Bias) . . 428 Veratrum album, poisoning by (Nivet) 428 Veratrum viride, properties of (Staples) 178 — as an arterial sedative (Cutter) 178 Verhaeghe. See Richard. Verneuil (A.) memoir on Esraarch's arti- ficial jaw-joint . . . 276 — malignant tumour of vagina, ecraseur 378 Vernix caseosa,&c., penetration into pulmonary vesicles (Forster) . . 405 Vernois, preparation of hogs' bristles 466 Vertebral column, centripetal development of (Serres) . . . .103 — See Spine. Vertebral elements, duality of (Serres) 103 Vertebra:, fractures of (Corrant, Hutchison) 268 — fourth and fifth cervical, laceration of liga- ments of (Martini) . . 277 Vertebrata, development of (Rathke) 2 Vesicles, pulmonai-y, do they form an epithe- , linra ? (Deichler) . . 69 Vessels, development of (Rindfleisch) 20 — origin and development of (Billeter, Rind- fleisch) .... 20 — murmurs of (Chauveau) . . 23 — See Blood-vessels, Vascular system. Vibrations, production of, by electrolysis (Gore) 109 Vienna Imperial Hospital, report . 139 ViENNOis, svphilis from vaccination 137 — * do. . 320 ViERORDT (C.) physiology of man . 1 ViGOUROux, sensibility of the circulation during surgical anaesthesia . 28 Villi, arachnoidal, of cranial fossa (Luschka) 34 Vinke, therapeutic application of penghawar 435 Vinum Sambuci in chronic rheumatism and acne (TurnbuU) . . .123 Violation of children (Kriigelstein, PfafF) 453 — of epileptic females (Maschka) . 453 ViOLETTE, compounds of iodine with iron and quinine .... 411 ViRCHow, theory of the vertebrate skull 9 — on trichina spiralis . . 103 — malignant neuroma . . 148 — on cretinism and idiocy . , 171 — rarer stones from man . , 248 — transposiiion of viscera . . 402 36660 INDEX. Visoera, transpoaition of (Gachet, Vircliow) 402 — do. complete (Young) 107 — do do. (do.) 401 — inverted position of (Steinhauser) 122 — heterotaxie of (Scliultze) . 401 Vision, theory of (Vallee) . . 67 — binocular (Fechner, Nagel) . 03 — affection of, from spinal irritation (Robin- SO") • . . .150 Vital selection, laws of (Leslie) . 2 Vital phenomena, periodicity of (Heynsius) 121 Vitreous body, structure and pathology of (Weber) .... 65 Viireous humour, encysted abscess in (Hildige, Laurence) . '. . 320 VivENOT (R.) influence of variation of atmo- spheric pressure on the body . 112 — do. . 138 Vix, entozoa in the insane . . 16G — multiple sarcoma . . 314 Vocal cord, fibroid nodule on (LOschner) 19G Vocalisation, on (Battaille) . 68 VoGEL, diseases of children . 390 VoGT (W.) sulphate of quinine and veratria in typhoid fever . . 125 — cerebral apoplexy . .145 — illegitimate births and infantile mortalitv 458 Voice, physiology of the (Eyrel) . 64 VoiLLE.vuBR, fractures, with impaction of ends of bones . . . 267 — cold abscess of the neck, &c. . 241 VoiT (C.) influence of salt, coffee, and exercise, on tissue change ... 48 VoLHARD (J.) on the ureas of the diamines 92 VoLKMANN (R.) catai-rhal forms of joint sup- puration . . . 273 — atheromatoid and puriform softening of cancroid tubers . . .318 — odontology of harelip . . 329 VoLLANT, treatment of gall-stones and hepatic colic . . . .223 VoLTOLixi, illuminating laryngoscopic appa- ratus . . . . 196 — anatomical examinations of auditory organs 329 Vulvulus of the sigmoid flexure (Melchiori) 214 Vomiting as a sign of disease (Habershon) 212 — from a mole degeneration (Perrin) 383 — obstinate, in pregnancy (Aubenas, Fcrrand, Turner) .... 383 VowiNKEL, poisoning by opium . 422 VoLPiAN, influence of cyclamen and cycla- minc .... 432 — See Charcot, Philipeaux. Vulva, diphtheritic inflammation of, in second- ary sy|)lulis (Martin) . . 124 — lupus hypertrophicus of (Lorent) 376 Vulva, lupus exulcerani of (.Martin). 376 Vulvitis (Gu6rln) . . . 376 Wade (VV. F.) aortic aneurism, coramuuieation with pulmonary artery . . lOO WAECKEttLiNO, cascs of fractures . 267 Waqensellkb (B. F.) dislocation of femur, reduction, Reid's . . . 280 Wagnrr (C.) normal structure of the liver 85 Waoner (E.) papillary cystoid tumour of base of brain . . .118 — primary softening of the heart . 178 — formation of lymphatic elements in con- nective tissue of pleura and lungs 178 — structure of hepatic cancer . 223 Wagner (R.) zoological anthropological re- searches . . . .2 — heart's movement in birds . 23 — functions of the brain . . 30, 33 — human brain as an organ of the soul 33 Wahl, fatal bleeding from a naivus 400 Waklet (T.) calculus in male child, lithotomy 306 — calculus in urethra of female infant 307 — supernumerary thumb, imperforate vagina, &c. . . . . 401 Wakley (T. n.) fracture of ribs, with emphy- sema, &c. . . 267-8 — fracture of patella in pregnancv, tvphoid fever . . . '. 280 — division of tibial arteries, compression of femoral .... 293 Waldenburg, extravasation of blood and aneurism from parasites . . 103 Walker (T. J.) polypoid growth of larynx removed by aid of laryngoscope . 195 — do. . 253 — galvano-caustic apparatus in surgery 238 Walker (J. W.) treatment of diphtheria 142 Walker "(W.) typhus epidemic in north- west India . . . 130 Waller (A.) functions of the vagus, and cervical sympathetic nerves in man 40 — symptoms from refrigeration of the ulnar nerve .... 40 Waller (C.) induration of cervix uteri, leucorrhoea . . . 362 Wallmann (II.) acephalo-cyst-sacs 118 — abnormal number of valves in pulmonary artery . . • • , Walter, extra-uterine pregnancy . 335 Walter (A. G.) removal of scapula hy enu- cleation ... . • — traumatic injury of liver . . 295 Walthen (0.) hemiplegia resulting from embolism . . ■ 1*^0 Walton (H.) cancer of female breast, opera- tion . . . -381 Walz, anaeahuite wood . . Wakd (F. 0.) human osteolog)' . 9 Ward (S. H.) thoracic aneurism • 15^9 Waring, hydrocarpus odoratus, SiC, in le- prosy, scrofula, &c. . .438INDEX. 551 Warmth, changes by, in irritability of nerves (Schelske) ... 44 Warren (J. M.) perineal section . 308 Warts, chromic ncid for (Lange) . 412 Watchmakers, diseases of, produced by copper (Perron) .... 46G Water, influence of, on the metamorphosis of luatter (Mosler) ... 48 — impure, production of disease by (Thomson) 231 — drinking-, action of lead on (Stefanelli) 468 — of the Seine, report on the vrholesomeness of(Boudet) . . . 46G — of Montmartre and Passy,report on (Bussy) 467 Waters (A. T. H.) rhythmical action of the heart, and duration in asphyxia . 20 — researches on asphyxia and the use of the hot-bath. . . . 75 — do. . 448 — opium and stimulants in acute rheumatism with pericarditis . . . 122 — disease of one corpus striatum . 152 — pleuro-pneumonia . . 194 — acute diseases of the chest . 195 Waters (W.) II. II. Smith's apparatus in ununited fracture . . 267 ^A'ATso^■ (P. H.) venereal disease . 121 — tracheotomy in croup . . 256 — do . . 396 — See Buchanan. Weather, dependence of popular diseases on (Haller) .... 461 Weavers, chronic diseases of (Seeraann) 465 Webb (A.) operations in surgery . 235 Weber, epidemic puerperal fever at Prague 385 Weber (C. 0.) structure and pathology of the vitreous body ... 65 Weber (H.) pathology of the pons Varolii 151 Wedl, atlas of pathological history of the eye 322 Weights of the body and organs in the sane and insane (Boyd) . • . 105 WeiKART (H.) action of diuretics . 220 — action of balsam of copaiva . 431 Weiss, improvement in speculum . 389 Weismann (A.) growth of striated muscles 15 — nerve-formation in a neuroma . 46 Welker (H.) nuclei-form structures of striated muscle . ... 15 Wells (J. S.) alleged failure of Wutzer's operation for hernia .. . 301 — accommodation of the eye . 327 Wells (Spencer) chronic trismus in a child 145 — remedia hie causes of sterility . 362 — ovarian cyst, spontaneous rupture 371 — cases of ovariotomy . . 372 — do. . . 373 — vesfco- and recto-vaginal fistula . 379 — results of retention of urine after delivery 379 Wells (Spencer) cast of female bladder 379 Wendt, " Prager Handgriff" in breech pre- sentation . , , 354 Wertheimber, hydrocephaloid disease of in- fants . . . .394 Wertheimer (Max) physiological relations of lochial secretions . . ' 382 West (C.) cerebral symptoms independent of cerebral disease . . . 394 — cerebral disease unattended by cerebral symptoms . . . 394 West (U.) is ergot of rye during labour dangerous to life of the child ? . 355 — puerperal diseases . . 384 — epileptiform puerperal convulsions 388 West Indies, yellow fever in (Smith) 122 Whaley, exsection of elbow-joint . 282 — disintegration of external condyle of femur, exsection, amputation . . 285 — lithotomy, bilateral incision . 306 — See Bauer. White swellings, immediate reposition in (Baur) . . . .275 Whittle (E.) on croup . . 199 WiBLiN (J.) hypertrophy and ulceration of cellular tissue, &c. . . 313 Widerhofer, Mayer's clinic for children's diseases, Vienna . . . 392 WiLCKENS (M.) chemistry of cartilaginous tissue , . . .9 WiLDBORB, syphilis from secondary inocu- lation .... 124 Wild flowers, British (Sowerby) . 107 Wilde (W. R.) diseases of "the eyes: eye- drops .... 322 — malformations of the organs of sight 322 — do. . 405 WiLKS (S.) bromide and iodide of potassium in epilepsy . . . 14Q — pyaemia, and allied affections . 191 — report on pyaemia . . 242 — and O'Connor, hemiplegia following shocks of electricity . . 149 Willers-Jessen, incendiarism, impulse to, not an essential mental disease . 454 Williams (C.) excisions of joints . 286 Williams (D. M.) fever at Liverpool 469 Williams (J.) cure for entropion and tri- chiasis . . . . 323 Williams (T.) sputum, as diagnostic feature in pneumonia, uncertain . . 203 — recovery from Bright's disease . 218 WiLMSHURST (J.) a new anaesthetic (ol. terebinth, rect.) • . , Wilson (E.) dissector's manual . 1 Wilson (F. W.) epileptic puerperal convul- sions .... 387 Wilson (J. G.) case of early maternity 333 — instrument for reposition of prolapsed funis 340 Wilson (J. II.) reduction of axillarv disloca- tion by H. H. Smith's method ."278INDEX. 55a Wilson (W. J.) oblique congenital inguinal hernia .... 29D WiNCKEL, Caisarean section, thirteen opera- tions .... 349 — Mesnard's cranial forceps . 351 Wine, origin, nature, and nse (Ellis) 47 WiNNis (C. K.) excision of head of femur 283 Wire, looped, in removal of foreign bodies from air-passages (Toinson) . 19."> WiiiTHGHN, on discriminating blood-stnins 4-J7 WisTRAND, medico-legal discrimination of bodily injuries . . .410 Witt (C.) on anasarca . . 179 WiTTE.v (E. W.) opium in puerperal convul- sions .... 388 WiTTiCH, secretion of urine in rabbits 101 WiTTMAACK, pharmacopoeia Germanica 400 WoAKES (E.) traumatic tetanus treated by tinct. aconiti . . . 155 WoiLLEz. See Fonssagrives. AVoLFF (C.) diagnosis of gall-stones 222 WoLLASTON (R.) the Turkish bath 111 AVoLTERsoM, oedema of the glottis treated by scarification . . . 198 Women, diseases of, report on, by Dr. G. Hewitt . . . .331 — diseases of . . . 350 Women, diseases of, report (Keiller) 300 — do. lectures (Hevritt) 357 — do. clinicallectures (Priestley) 357 — do. 'surgical (Brown) 357 Women, special diseases of . . 300 Women, diseases peculiar to (Hodge) 357 — venereal diseases of (Guerin) . 359 Wood (J.) varicose veins, cure by compression 294 — radical cure of hernia, wire v. thread 302 — his operation for hernia modified (Field) 301 — do. (Chisbolm, Wood) 302 Wood (J. R.) malignant disease of periosteum 265 — resection of elbow-joint . . 282 — cancer of rectum . . 303 WooDFALL (J. W.) paracentesis thoracis, successful • . .197 WooDHOusE (T. J.) coma from scarlatina 147 Woodman (W. R.) variola with vaccinia 123 — placenta prsevia . . • 342 — twins, suspended animation, success of Dr. Silvester's method . . 449 Woodward, action of opium on genito-urinary organs . . . . 9C — pathology of rheumatism . 125 — hooping-cough . . . 390 Woorara, action of (Kiibne) . 47 '— operation of (Bezold) . ■ C3 Woorara, influence on nerves and musclei (Wundt). ... 03 — in epilepsy (Thiercelin) . . 146, 429 Wordsworth (J. C.) penetrating ulcer of cornea .... 325 — laceration of retina . . 320 Workmen in collieries, diseases of (Dcinar. qnette) .... 400 WoRMAUD (T.) inflammation of parotid sali. vary gland . . .248 — necrosis of U])per jaw in lucifer-niaicli maker .... 250 — scirrhous cancer of male breast . 310 — and CooTB, primary syphilitic sore of upt.f-r lip . . ' . .320 Worm, blood of common eartb-worm fl)a 20 Worms, typhoid and brain fever from (Ross; 124 — new theory of (Kidd) . . 397 Worms, acute endocarditis, embolia, gangrene 180 WoRTHiNGTON (J. H.) form of insanity called congestive mania. . . 108 Wounds, disinfection of, by application of a chlorinated solution (Hervieux) . 123 — of the intestines (Ayres) . 294 — of the sternum (Murray) , . 208 — punctured, of chest and lung (Finnell, Little, Mash) . . . 257,257 — perforating, of knee-joint (Bauer, Stanley) 275 — bavonet, through abdomen (Clements, Todd) , , . .239 Wounds, gutishot. Sec. . . 239-40 Wounds, gunshot (Trowbridge) . 239 — do. medico-legal opinion on death from (Frickhoeffer) . 444 — do. secondary amputations after (Roux) .... 258 — da. in mouth (Curtis) 240 — do. of left shoulder, &c. (Gour. beil) . . . .240 — do. of the arm, amputation, iS.t. (Irwin) . . . .240 — do. of hand (Finnell, Pancoast) 240,240 — do. of the lung (Sim) 210 — do. bullet twenty years in walls of the heart (Balch) . " . 240 — do. through left ventricle (Adams) . . . -240 — do. of both legs, excision, &c. (Hutchinson) . . .240 — do. of knee-joint, excision (Crompton) . . -240 Wright (H.) treatment of hooping-cough ^ ■' 200 Wright (H. G.) poisoning by Burnett's solu- tion .... 210 Writers' cramp (llaupt, Tuppcrl) . i->' Wry-neck treated by electricity (Althaus) 174 —■ intermittent (Legouesl). . 175INDEX. 558 WuKDERLiCH (C, A.) cHnical thermometry 119 — changes of temperature in tvphoid fever 127 — nitrate of silver in progressive spinal palsy 146 — peripleuritis . . .197 — acute miliary tuberculosis, curability 209 — clinical differences of acute pernicious jaundice . . . , 224 — and Ggissler, Leipsic report on pneu- monia . . . .191 WuNDT, elasticity of organic tissues 115 — and ScHELSKE, influence of woorara on nerves and muscles . . 63 WuTCKicHOwsKY, hydrothorax scorbuticus, paracentesis, death . . 195 Wutzer's operation for hernia, alleged failure (Wells) . . . .301 — do. (Browne, Clement) 302, 302 Wyatt (J.) cystic tumour of the orbit, &c. 323 Wtnne (J.) diphtheria . . 121 Yeast, nature of, in alcoholic fermentation (Pouchei) . . . 108 Yeast plant, development of (Joly) . 108 Yellow fever, contagion of (Budd) . 130 — in West Indies (Smith) . 122 — at Port Koval (Bryson) . . 130 — do. ' (do.) . . 468 — in ships of war (Milroy) . 130 Young (E. P.) complete transposition of the viscera .... 107 — do. 401 Young (J.) concussion of the brain 244 Zambesi, fever in the (Livingstone) 131 Zaggl, injury to the skull . . 243 Zdkkauer (U.) pulmonary haimorrhage 205 Zeidler, acute poisoning by phosphorus 409 Zeis (E.) permanent local baths in local diseases .... 238 — abnormal descent of testicle . 311 Zellkr, hemiplegia after arsenical (?) poison- ing .... 152 Zepuder, poisoning by morphia . 422 Zii.LNER, on cretinism and idiocy . 171 ZiMMERMANN, OU fcVCr . . 125 — dysentery, participation of kidneys in the disease .... 210 Zing, action of soluble salts of (Falck) 412 — chloride of, external application (Veiel) 412 — do. poisoning by . 412 — do. poisoning bv Burnett's solution of (Wright) . '. . 210 — sulphate of, in hysterical contractions (Pea- cock) . . . .153 — and sulphate of alumina (HomoUe) 412 ZiuREK, anacahuite wood . . 430 — Auerbach's malt powder . 392 ZoLLNiiR, relation of retina to movements of iris . . . .64 — aberration of the eye . . 64 Zona, treatment (Forget) . , 227 — abortive treatment (Fenger) . 227 Zoologicalanthropological researches (Wagner) 2 Zoology, medical (Moquin-Tandon) 1 rniSTED BY J. E. ADI.ARD, BARIIIOLOaP.W CLOSE.A Yeaii-Book for 1862 will be published as early as possible in next year. It has been decided that, in future, in order to obtain space for longer abstracts of the more valuable papers, greater liberty of selection shall be entrusted to the editors, and that lists of titles only shall be for the most part omitted. The section devoted to Physiology, &c., will be considerably shortened, in order to give greater length to those on Medicine, Sui-gery, and Midwifery. Arrangements have also been made under which the index will occupy less room. The size of the volume will be, as heretofore, about 500 pages. These alterations have been determined on by the Council, in con- formity with the wishes of a large body of the members of the New Sydenham Society, and it is expected that they will be found materially to increase the practical value of the work. The present volume comprises abstracts of 1459 ^^orks or papers; and gives the titles (with references) of 1368 others, abstracts of which are excluded for want of space.