72 SAVOURY PIES, rUDDINGS, &C. with a dessert-spoonful of water in each, and some bits of butter on the top, close them up, and bake them. When they are enough, have ready some gravy made in the follow- ing manner, to put in each pie:—Boil some ivory powder in water the same as for jelly, the day before you want to use it; take the clear part, and boil it up with the liquid in which the mushroom stalks and parings have been stewed, strain it and put it in the pies with a small funnel, a small hole being made for the purpose in the top of each pie. These pies are very Rood cold, and may be made with- out the potatoes and mushrooms. 275. Pease Pudding. Wash the pease very well in warm water, and if whole, steep them two hours ; tie them up loosely, and boil them till they will pulp through a wire sieve, then add salt, pep- per, and two well-beaten eggs, stir in a good piece of but- ter, and tying it up firm, boil half an hour. Turn it out of the cloth, and serve it up with melted butter in a boat. 276. Herb Pudding. Steep a quart of groats in warm water an hour, put in half a pound of butter cut in little bits; take spinage, beets, and parsley, a handful of each, three or four leeks, three onions chopped small, a few apples, three sage-leaves cut fine, and a little salt, mix all well together, and tie it close in a cloth; boil it two hours, and take it up to loosen the string a little w hen boiling. Three quarters of a pound of rice may be used instead of groats, if liked. 277. A Green-bean Pudding. Boil and blanch some beans when old and mealy, beat them in a mortar with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg; a little spinage-juice will give a finer color, but it is as well without, boil it an hour in a basin that will just hold it; pour parsley and butter over. 278. Onion and Sage Pasty. Boil some onions, fresh sage, and a little parsley; chop them together, add some butter, pepper, and salt. Enclose them in paste, and when baked, pour in a little hot water.