SPOON-MEAT. 250 bran; then rub the pan you intend to boil it in with a littlebutter, to prevent the wheat from burning or sticking to the pan ; boil it in plenty of water till quite soft; when done enough, put it in a clean earthen pot, and when cold it will be quite a jelly, in which state it is called in some parts of England creed or creeled wheat; it will keep several days. When to be prepared for eating, put as much of the wheat with milk into a pan as will make it about the consistence of rice milk ; stir it constantly with a wooden slice or spoon, mashing the wheat, as it is very lia- ble to burn ; when near boiling, stir in a small portion of flour, mixed smooth with a little milk ; add pimento, sugar, and salt to the taste; when it boils it will be ready to serve. If preferred, the frumenty may be thickened with the yolks of eggs, beaten with a little milk, instead of flour, and instead of pimento, powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Some currants or raisins, washed and picked very clean, and added to it, is a great improvement. The boiled or creeled wheat is very good eaten warm with cold butter. Scotch barley may be prepared in the same manner. 943. Milk Porridge. To a pint and a half of new' milk put half a pint of water, set it on the fire, and when just ready to boil, stir in about a dessert-spoonful of oatmeal and a little salt mixed with water ; when it boils take it off the fire, and pour it into a basin, either with or without bread. It is very good made with skimmed milk. 944. French Milk Porridge. Stir three large spobnsful of oatmeal into a quart of water, let it stand till clear, then pour off the water and add fresh water, stir it well and let it stand till the next day ; then strain it through a fine sieve, leaving the coarse part of the meal at the bottom, set it on a clear brisk fire, adding about half the quantity of new milk by degrees as it warms; when ready to boil, take it off the fire, adding a little salt. This is very light and proper food for weak stomachs.