USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 285 1081. Measles. This complaint generally begins with shiverings, succeeds! by a feverish heat, a severe head-ache in adults, and hea- viness in children, frequent sneezing, running of the eyes and nose, swelling of the eye-lids. The patient should be kept moderately cool, without being exposed to the cold air, observing a low diet, and keeping the body gently open ; the almond emulsion, toast and water, barley water, lemonade, and linseed-tea, may be drank freely; mari- gold tea is also much esteemed in this complaint; and if the measles do not come out properly, a little saffron-tea given warm at bed-time, has often a good effect. When the eruption begins to disappear, opening medicine should be given about thre^ times a week, as in small-pox and other eruptive fevers; but the patient should not be too soon exposed to the cold air. Ten drops of balsam of copaiya taken on a little brown sugar night and morning, is generally found useful in re- moving the cough which so often remains alter the measles. Iceland Mass (No. 1056) has been given to children with great success, after the measles, &c., one ounce boil- ed in a quart of water, and strained through muslin; two table-spoonsful to be given three times a day, either in a little milk, or with six or eight drops of elixir of vitriol. 10S2. An Infusion of Senna. Take an ounce of senna, two drachms of aniseeds, one drachm of ginger, two ounces of raisins, three ounces of prunes, or French plums; pour on a quart of boiling water, and let the infusion stand in a moderate heat for two hours, then strain it. Ar* adult may take quaiter of a pint; or, if required, more may be taken with safety. This is a very safe and easy purge for children. A little sugar may be added if preferred. A mixture of sulphur, crei m of tartar, and treacle, is also a very useful and proper opening jnediciue for child- ren : or, a little sulphur given in a few spoonsful of w arm milk, when going to bed, three or four evenings together.