146 BREAD, BUNS, &C. 581. Common Wheat en Bread on Mr. Cobbett's Plan, Make a hole in the middle of a bushel of flour; stir a pint of yeast into some milk-warm water, let if stand a little to settle, then pour it into tne middle of the flour, and stir it with a wooden slice about a minute, tiil you have a thin batter; sprinkle a little flour over the batter, and cover the whole with a cloth three or four folds to keep it warm ; set it at a proper distance from the fire, according to the state of the weather and the season of the year; when the batter has risen enough to make cracks through which it ferments, form the whole into dough thus:—strew in six ounces of salt, then work the flour into the batter round the edges, pouring in milk-warm water, or milk, as it is wanted, till the whole is moistened ; knead it extremely well. It may then either be immediately formed into loa\es, lettiug them rise twenty minutes befoie put in the oyen; or let the dough rise an hour in the mass, and then make it up into loaves. Bake according to the size. 58$. French Bread. Take a peck of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, put a quart of luke-warm milk and water to some good yeast, stir it well together aud let it stand five 'o’- six minutes to settle, then pour it carefully through a hair sieve into the flour (leaviug the brpwn sediment at the bottom of the basin), stir it till of the consist- ence of thipkish batter, throw a cloth over, and let it lise an hour in a warm place; then add an ounce of sifted sugar, a little salt, aud as much luke-warm milk w'ith half a pound of fresh butter melted in it as w ill make it into dough of a moderate stiffness; let it rise another hour, then mould it up into bricks, lay them on tins, and set them before the fire half an hour to rise, lightly covered with a cloth ; bake in a brisk oven. This is the French bread as made in England, but in France itis usually made with leaven. 583. Another Way to make French Bread. Take quarter of a peck of the finest flour, a little salt.