153 BREAD, BUttS, kt. If wished to be made richer, mix entirely with new milk* and add two well beaten eggs. Currants may also be added. 603. Scotch Tea Cakes; Take three pounds of flour well dried, with a little salt iii it, warm a pint and quarter of new milk, put half of it to four large spoonsful of good yeast, stirring it well; when settled, mix it into the middle of the flour, and quarter of a pound of butter melted in the remainder of the milk, let it stand covered up three quarters of an hour, then add three well beaten eiigs> four table-spoonsful of warm cream, hall a pound of currants, half an Ounce of caraway seeds, and half a pound of good sugar, mix all well toge- ther, and when risen make it Up in cakes, lay them on warm tins, rubbed over with a little butter, cover them with a cloth, and set them on the hearth fifteen or twenty minutes, then bake them in rather a brisk oven. 604. Mts. Broom head's Crumpets. To a quart of good milk, rather warm, take four large spoonsful of purified yeast, and a little salt, mixiug it by degrees into as much flour (beating it a little to take out the lumps) as will make rather a thick batter, and add two well beaten eggs, then cover and set it on the hearth to rise; when well risen, keep taking the batter from the top with a wooden spoon, and bake it on a bake-stone or iron plate, rubbed over with a bit of butter in a clean cloth : about quarter of a pint of batter will make a good-sized crumpet; turn them as soon as possible after you lay them on with a tin slice the size of the cake; when browned, turn them again, and lay them on a cooler part of the stone to soak a little, always keep the hottest part to pour the fresh batter upon, and take care they do not burn. As they are baked lay them on a clean cloth, and keep them covered. When to be used, toast them, or lay them on a tin with a clean wet linen cloth over them, and set them in the oven, they will eat as if fresh baked. To dip them quickly in milk or water answers the same pur-