XI. INTRODUCTION. had been offered to an idol) for conscience sake. The intention of that part of the decree was to keep Chris- tians from idolatry, and the best way to effect this was by prohibiting all communication with idols and idola- ters in their feasts instituted in honor of their idols: it being pretended by some that they might innocently partake of idol-feasts, since they knew that an idol teas nothing, and there was but one God. But after all, it may perhaps be said by some that it is the blood which is forbidden and not the flesh. This is a weak objec- tion, as it is well known that the flesh is constituted of the blood: how, then, can we eat flesh without eating blood P Having endeavoured briefly to answer some of the most common objections drawn from scripture, against the system, perhaps we may be permitted to say a few words respecting^'sA. On the authority of medical men it may be stated that the flesh of fish is more unwhole- some than that of land animals; it being more putrescent, as may be concluded from the nauseous and hepatic eructations of the stomach after it is eaten.—But it may be said. Did not Jesus eat fish? and were not his dis- ciples fishermen ? In order to come at the truth on this subject, it is necessary we should not rest in the ivord, fish, nor limit its signification to one kind of fish; nei- ther should we conclude that there is but one kind of fishers; for we know that there are various sorts, as pearl-fishers, coral-fishers, and fishers of water-'plants of different kinds, as well as of the animal fish. Now we shall not presume to decide which of these pursuits the disciples were engaged in, or whether Jesus did not call them away from their worldly .occupation of fishing, because we may not be possessed of all the evidence neceSSary to come to a correct conclusion : but we may be permitted to submit to the reader’s consideration a few facts which may be the means of furnishing reasonable ground for doubting whether feasting on salmon, by way of fasting from flesh, be quite consonant with the practice of Jesus and his