BREAD; BUNS, &C. 145 ihe fire, and rub it into ’naif a pound of warm mealy pota- toes. When well mixed, add a proper quantity of yeast and salt, with warm milk and water sufficient to make it into dough, which must be allowed two hours to rise, before being formed into a loaf; then put it into a tin, and when in the oyen take care it be net over-browned. 579. Scalded Bread. Take about one third of the quantity of flour you intend to use, pour boiling water upon it, stirring it till it be rather a stitt’ paste, let it stand till cold, then knead with the re- mainder of the flour, adding warm water, yeast, and salt as for other bread: it must be extremely well kneaded, then let it rise two or three hours; bake it in tins that will hold about nine pounds; the oven should be hot as for other bread when first put in, but it should remain in the oven some time longer than that which is made in the usual way. It is usual to put it in the oven at night, whence it has obtained the name of night bread. When baked, fold it in a wet linen cloth, and put it in the cellar a day or two before it is cut, This is an excellent way of making bread, and will keep well if properly managed ; hut much depends on the kneading and the heat of the oven. It is only proper for coarse flour; that makes the best bread where the corn is ground all together, or only a little of the coarse bran taken out. 580. Household Bread. Take flour, six pounds; water, two and a half pints; yeast, four ounces or eight spoonsful; and salt one ounce and half. Let the water be made newr milk warm, put a p nt and a half of it to the yeast, mix, and let it stand to settle; then clear it off into the middle of the flour, stirring as much of the flour into it as will make it like batter, or w bat is generally understood by laying it in sponge; when it has risen sufficiently, dissolve the salt in the remaining pint of warm water, add it to the mass and mix all toge- ther; knead it well and set it again to rise, then make it up into loaves, and bake in the usual way. N