INTRODUCTION. V. seldom kill, unless impelled by hunger, or in self- defence; what excuse, then, can we have for such a practice, while we have so many delicious fruits and vegetables? If we attend to the anatomy of the human body, it seems as if man was formed by nature to be a frugivo- rous animal; and, that he only becomes an animal of prey by acquired habit. The form and disposition of the intestines is very similar to that of the Ouran- Outang, or man of the woods, an animal which lives on fruit and vegetables. It has also been remarked that all carnivorous animals have a smooth and uniform colon, and all herbivorous animals a cellulated one. Nor do we appear to be adapted by nature to the use of animal food from the conformation of the teeth. The carnivorous animals, such as lions, tygers, wolves, dogs, &c., have their teeth long, sharp and uneven, with intervals between them; but the herbivorous animals, such as horses, cows, sheep, goats, &e., have their teeth short, broad, blunt, adjoining one another, and distributed in even rows. Now, as man has received from nature teeth which are unlike those of the first class, and resemble those of the second, it seems that nature intended him to follow in the selection of his food not the carnivorous tribes, but those races of animals which are contented with the simple produc- tions of the earth. Some persons, however, will argue that man is a mixed animal, and designed to live upon both animal and vegetable substances, because he does so live. This reminds us of a circumstance mentioned by Buffon, of a sheep being so trained to eat mutton that it would no longer eat grass; but will any man contend that sheep were designed to live on mutton, because their nature might be so far perverted, as in the case above-men- tioned? If, then, men have degenerated from their ori- ginal simplicity and innocence, is it to be contended that custom is a sufficient proof that their conduct is now right ? Others say that animals eat each other, and a 2