xviii. INTRODUCTION. wholesome food is at all times sufficient for that purpose. The people of Lapland do not require strong drink to keep them warm, their drink being only water, and it is remarked by Linneus that they have very few diseases. We may, therefore, conclude with Hoffman, that “ water is the fittest drink for all persons of all ages and tem- peraments. By its fluidity and mildness, it promotes a free and equable circulation of the blood and humours through all the vessels of the body, upon which the due performance of every animal function depends; and hence water-drinkers are not only the most active and nimble, but also the most cheerful and sprightly of all people. — In sanguine complexions, water by diluting the blood, renders the circulation easy and uniform. In the choleric, the coolness of the water restrains the quick motion and intense heat of the humours. It attenuates the glutinous viscidity of the juices of the phlegmatic; and the gross earthiness which prevails in melancholic temperaments. And as to different ages; water is good for children, to make their tenacious milky diet thin and easy to digest; to youth and middle-aged, to sweeten and dissolve any scorbutic acrimony or sharpness that may be in the humours, by which means pains and obstructions are prevented; and for old people, to moisten and mollify their rigid fibres and to promote a less difficult circu- lation through their hard and shrivelled vessels.” In addition to the above facts and opinions, it may be observed, that many alterations take pi ace in the mind inconsequence of the influence of the bodily organs; and these latter are greatly influenced by the kind of aliment which the body receives. God knows what is in man and what is best for him; he has, therefore, graciously forbidden in his word, what would injure either body or mind, and commanded what is best calculated to he useful to both. An instance of which we find previous- ly to the birth of Samson: his parents were expressly commanded by the angel of the Lord not to drink wine or strong drink, that he might be filled with the Holy