PICKLES, &C. 229 mushrooms, then more salt, and so on alternately; let them remain four hours, then mash them well with your hands, and let them stand two days, stirring them well each day, then put them into a stone jar, with an ounce and half of whole black pepper, and half an ounce of allspice; cover the jar very close and set it in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling two hours; take out the jar, and pour the liquor through a hair sieve and boil it gently half an hour; skim it well and pour it into a clean jug ; cover it close and let it stand in a cool place till next day, then cieai it off carefully through a thick flannel bag till it is perfectly clear; let it stand two days longer covered close, then pour it off, leaving the sediment (if any), and bottle it in small bottles: cork them closely and seal them; or dip them in bottle cement. If kept in a cool, dry place, it may be preserved a long time, and only half the quantity is required. If badly corked, and kept in a damp place, it will spoil. Examine it from time to time, and if any pellicle appears about it, boil it up again with a few pepper*corns. 875. Mushroom Catsup. Take a stew-pan full of the large flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and stalks of any others; throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire. They will produce a great deal of liquor, which must be strained ; put to it four ounces of eschalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves. Boil and skim it very well; when cold, cork it close. In two months boil it up again, with a little fresh spice, and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep a long time; which mushroom catsup rarely does, if not boiled a second time^ 876. Quintessence of Mushrooms. This delicate relish is made by sprinkling a little salt over the mushrooms; in three hours after, mash them ; next day, strain off the liquor, and boil ittill reduced to half. It wd* not keep long, but is preferable to anv catsup, which, in ' U