XII. INTRODUCTION. disciples. We learn from Numbers xi. 5, that when the Israelites murmured against Moses and wished to return to Egypt, they said, “ We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons* and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic.” Now, we are informed by Herodotus, that^sA was in his time very much used as food in Egypt, many families living entirely upon it: that it was sometimes used fresh, and sometimes roasted. Sometimes they dried it in the sun, then beat it small in a mortar, and after- wards sifted it through a piece of fine cloth ; and thus formed it into cakes as bread. This is the very mode in which the Egyptians now prepare the fo/os-plants : they dry them in the sun, roast or broil them ; then having parched the seed within the lotos, whose head resembles that of a poppy, they make bread of it. (See Beauties of Nature and Art displayed, vol. xii. p. 141)—Pococke says, that when he was in UpperEgypt, they told him there was a large fsh called lotos, which probably is the lotos that was so highly esteemed by the Egyptians. (See his Travels in Egypt, Pinkerton*s Coll. p. lxi. p, 333J—Water-melons are much eaten in warm climates, which being moist and cooling, are of course particularly grateful to the palate. These, and several other facts to the same purport which might be adduced, must, at least, lead us to doubt whether Jesus or his disciples did really eat animal fish. And especially, when we know that Parkhurst, in his Greek Lexicon, says, “ It seems not very natural to understand the Greek word, opsarion (John xxi. 9), as signify\ngflsh. It signifies some other kind of provision, of the delicious sort, that may be eaten with bread.” Indeed fish and honey do not seem to be very suitable^to be eaten to- gether. In addition to this evidence, if the reader will take the trouble to refer to Calmet’s Dictionary, he will find that “James and John were fishermen with £ebedee their fatherand yet “they never ate either fsh or flesh” From Josephus we learn that no animal fish will live in the Dead Sea, and yet the prophet