VI. INTRODUCTION. why may not we eat them ? What! because we see a wolf worry a lamb, are we to imitate the practice and inherit the disposition of the wolf? Some modern sophists will sarcastically ask, "Why is man furnished with the canine, or dogteeth, except that nature meant him to be carnivorous ?” Is, then, the 'propriety of an action to be determined purely by the physical capacity of the agent? Is it right to do every thing we have the power to do ? Because nature has furnished man with the capacity to devour human flesh, will any one pre- tend that he was made to feed on his fellow men ? The possessing of similar instruments, powers or capacities, ought not to be too much relied upon as indications of nature, with respect to the mode of living. Hares and rabbits have feet very similar, but how different are their habits! A dog has claws and he will make a hole in the ground with them to get at a mouse, but he will not burrow in the ground to escape from the cold ; therefore itwouldbe absurd to infer that he was designed by nature to live like a rabbit. The Ouran-Outang and man have similar teeth; the former lives entirely on fruits, and the latter gives proof that he can devour every kind of animal, from the oyster to the elephant. Another question asked by the opposers of this humane system is, "If we should live entirely on vegetable food, what would become of the cattle ? They would grow so numerous, they would produce a famine, or eat us up if we did not kill and eat them.” These are rather suppositions than arguments, mere fancies, because unexperienced. But it may be observed, that there are abundance of animals in the world which men do not kill for food, and yet we do not hear of their injuring mankind, or becoming too numerous. Besides, mul- tiparous animals live but a short time, and many of them perish, unless attention is paid to them by men. Cattle are at present an article of trade, and their num- bers are industriously promoted. If cows and sheep were kept solely for their milk and fleece, and if they should become too numerous, mankind would readily