111. INTRODUCTION. prevailed on a man to live on partridges, without vege- tables, but after eight days* trial he was obliged to desist, in consequence of strong symptoms then appearing of an incipient putrefaction.” This fact, alone, is suffi- cient to prove that it is the use of the vegetables along with the animal substance, that enables mankind to sustain the bad effects of the latter. In addition to the above, let us not forget that animals, like human beings, are subject to diseases, uncleannesses, and surfeits; that diseased meat is sometimes exposed for sale, and also that it is not a very unfrequent practice for butchers, perhaps with diseased lungs, to blow their meat, particularly veal, to make it look fine. Animal food, therefore, must always be more or less dangerous. For it is impossible for us to take into our stomachs putrefying, corrupting, and diseased animal substances, without being subjected to foul bodily diseases, weaknesses, corruptions, and prema- ture death. If, then, we would enjoy health ourselves, and avoid laying the foundation of disease in our offspring, we must cease to degrade and bestialize our bodies by making them the burial places for the car- casses of innocent brute animals, some healthy, some diseased, and all violently murdered. That food has an effect on the disposition, is clearly evinced by the different tempers of the carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the former are savage, ferocious creatures that prowl out at night and seek to destroy all within their reach; the others wander tranquilly on the plains in herds, enjoy themselves in the day, and manifest their innocence by various playful sports with each other. The temper of the carnivorous animal, however, is materially altered by the kind of food which is given to it. A dog, for instance, which is fed on raw flesh, is much more fierce and rapacious than one that feeds on milk or vegetable substances. And the ferocity even of a lion, has been greatly abated, and he has been rendered tractable by being fed on vegetable food.