X. INTRODUCTION. forbid the use of animal food to the-Gentiles; and would the Apostles make a decree in direct contra- diction to the declaration of Jesus P Another objec- fion has been stated: — In the account of Peter’s vision, we are informed that the Lord said to him, “Rise, Peter, kill and eat.”—But what did Peter him- self learn from the vision? He says that he under- stood that he was not to call any man common or unclean—and that the Gentiles were denoted by the animal appearances. Surely it will not be contended that real animals were let down in a sheet out of heaven? Peter was by this vision corrected of a prejudice, he, in common with the rest of the Jews, entertained against the Gentiles: and we afterwards find his brethren accu- sing him of going in to men uncircumcised and eating with them; that is to say, he went and partook of the sacrament with Gentiles and they became Christians, God having commanded him to do so—for the right rendering of the passage is,—Rise, Peter, sacrifice [or consecrate) and eat Another objection is, that the Apostle Paul has determined the lawfulness of eating any thing sold in the shambles, or set before us, asking no questions for conscience sake. But will any man in his senses interpret this permission to extend further than to things lawful and proper to be sold or eaten ? This would suit unprincipled dealers in flesh, and supersede the necessity of market-lookers. Besides, are we sure that nothing but flesh-meat is sold in places called shamblesP Moreover, can it be believed that St. Paul gave this permission in contradiction to the decree of the Apostles, a decree to which he himself consented, and which he was very active in circulating among the different churches? On an impartial examination, it will be found that these 'permissions of the Apostle relate entirely to meats offered to idols; parts of which offer- ings (though not of flesh-meat) were sometimes sold in the shambles or market, and sometimes eaten in private houses; and these the Apostle permitted to be eaten by Christians, asking no questions (whether they