XVI. INTRODUCTION. any degree, to drink strong liquor, some good may possibly be effected. In order to adopt any system, it is desirable to see the practicability of it; in this case it is quite easy, as it requires no sacrifice from the young, and very little from those of more mature age. There only wants a beginning in the performance. It is the want of resolu- tion to begin that prevents the good ; for if once we begin in good earnest and from proper motives, we shall find the path so pleasant that we need never turn aside from it. It is very certain that strong liquors of every kind are hateful to the natural appetite; for children and young people, when they first taste them, discover all the marks of strong dislike; but by habit this dislike is overcome, and custom becomes a second nature. Sipping leads to drinking, and drinking to the beastly vice of drunkenness. Therefore, a child ought not to have strong drink presented to it, no more than it ought to have poison presented to it. It should not even see it, and, if possible, not hear of it, and the pernicious beverage ought never to gain ad- mittance to our dwellings. That intoxicating liquors are quite unnecessary to the support of the human body, every medical prac- titioner of any celebrity will not hesitate to admit; and nobody will deny that they are very expensive; for it is a fact, that one moderate dram-drinker con- sumes as much grain, in spirits, as would produce bread for forty people. Some persons imagine that strong liquors are essential to bodily strength. This false notion is partly grounded on the idea of a nutritious property in those liquors, and partly perhaps on a logical error in using the word strong, as being necessarily connected with strengthening the animal body. The first notion is entirely wrong, since it is proved by continual evi- dence, that strong liquors are inimical to animal life throughout the creation, and that no living animal or plant can be supported by such fluids, but that on the