230 PICKLES, &C. order to preserve it, must have spice, &c., which ge- nerally overpowers the flavour of the mushroom. Obs.—The only general rules that can be given for the proper and safe preparation of pickles are, to have sound vegetables, not over ripe, dry, and fresh gathered, trim- ming and wiping them carefully ; washing only such things as are to be steeped or parboiled previous to pick- ling. The best common alegar and vinegar may in most, cases be used for pickling; it should always be made scalding hot, and stand till cold, when cold vinegar is re- quired, as raiv vinegar is apt to become thick and ropy ; the gooseberry and sugar vinegar both answer very well for many kinds of pickle, if well made, and not too new . If the vinegar is not good, the pickles will be bad. It is scarcely possible to give a rale for the quantity of spices to be used, except that it should not be so great as to over- come the natural flavour of the articles pickled. Stone jars are the best for keeping pickles, as they are not so porous as the common earthen jars; the pickles should also be kept well cohered with vinegar, and the jars well closed ; cork hungs to fit the jars, with a wrapper of blad- der or leather round, and a cover of the same tied over, answers extremely well for that purpose. Small glass jars or bottles are the best for mushrooms, nasturtiums, &c , dipping the necks in bottle cement. When necessary to ooil vinegar for pickles, do it in a stone jar, on a hot stove, or in a pan of water on the fire. By parboiling pickles in brine, they will be ready in less time than they arc when done by soaking them in cold salt and water for six or eight days: when taken out of the hot brine, let them be cold, and wiped quite dry, before you put them in the pickle. A wooden spoon with holes in should be used for taking pickles out of the jars; they should never be taken out with a fork or the fingers; and pieces of pickle, such as mangoes, cucumbers, &c. should never be returned into the jar to the stock, but be kept separate in a small jar of vinegar. When the pickles are used, boil up the liquor with a little salt and