217 PICKLES, &C. 834. Indian Pickle. To every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of turmeric, and half an ounce of Cayenne pepper; put in gherkins, large cucumbers cut down the middle and the seeds taken out, small green melons, small apples, French beans, radish pods, nasturtium buds, capsicum ; also cauliflower, small onions, elder buds, cabbage, and small lemons, the latter pared very thin and cut in quarters, squeeze out some of the juice and lake out the seeds, but not the pulp ; cut the cauliflower into small branches, and the cabbage in slices, spread them on a dish, and strew' a good handful of salt over them, add fresh salt to them three or four days, first pouring away the liquor that drains from them, then spread them out on a dish, and set them in the sun or before the fire, till quite dry and shrivelled; when all are prepared, arrange them in a large jar, strew in some mus- tard-seed, a few cloves of garlic, sliced horse-radish and ginger, according to the quantity; then pour in the vine- gar, &c. The pickle may be replenished at any time; it never spoils, and is better with keeping. W hen more vinegar is added, turmeric and Cayenne mnst be put in as at first. The ginger should lie in salt and water twenty-four hours, then sliced and laid in salt three days before it is used for the pickle. If preferred, the cauliflowers may be scalded about four minutes, cabbages about eight minutes, and then well dried. French beans, cucumbers, ©r fruit, should be just scalded and dried. 835. Indian Pickle. Divide the heads of some cauliflowers into pieces, and add some slices of the stalk w hen pared, put to them two white cabbages sliced, with the inside slices of carrots, onions, and turnips. Boil a strong brine, simmer the pickles in it two minutes, drain them, and let them dry over a stove or before the fire till they are shrivelled, then put them into ajar, and prepare the following pickle:—To four quarts of vinegar, add two ounces of flour of mustard, two ounces T