INTRODUCTION. Vlll. flesh, says the Apostle, ye shall die, but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. The design of the laws of God is to teach man the best means of attaining happiness botK here and here- after. And as so much depends on our possessing a sound mind in a sound body, our merciful Creator, who knows what is best for us, has condescended to give us laws respecting what we should eat and what we should not eat. This we shall endeavour to shew, by directing the reader’s attention to some passages of Scripture, which, if they have any meaning, must be directions to man in the choice of his food. If, then, reason, humanity and the law of God point the same way, we have three witnesses to the truth of the doc- trine. The conflicting opinions of men, respecting what is best, either for the promotion of health or hap- piness cannot safely be relied upon; let Dehy, then, decide the question; and if ye will do His will, ye shall know by experience, whether the doctrine be of God. In the first chapter of Genesis, after God had created man, he directed him concerning his food, saying, “ Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed, to you it shall be for meaty In the Decalogue, Jehovah says, “ Thou shall not kill.” Who dare limit the precept to the killing of human beings, when God has said, “Ye shall neither add to the law nor diminish aught from it ?” He fur- ther says, Flesh with the life thereof which is the blood thereof shall ye not eat: neither shall ye eat any man- ner of fat of ox, or of sheep or of goat in any of your dwellings. In the Christian dispensation, the Apostles held a council and issued a decree to the Churches, saying, “It seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these neces- sary things: that ye abstain from meats offered to idols, and from blood (or intoxicating wine, seeEzek. xxxix. 19.) and from things strangled,” or in other words, from