INTRODUCTION. Xvit* contrary, they all become sickly and perish under their influence. “I presume,’* says Dr. Carlyle, “that no man would give a lamb, a calf, a chicken, or a duck spirituous liquors, with a hope of rendering it sooner fat, even if such liquors were so cheap as to make it an economical process; yet many parents do this by their children” The fact is, there is neither strength nor nourishment in spirituous liquors; if they produce vigour in labour, it is of a transient nature, for there always succeeds a sense of weakness and fatigue. Look at the horse, with every muscle of his body swelled from morning till night in the plough or the team; does he make signs for spirits to enable him to cleave the earth or climb the hill? No.-r—He requires nothing but cool water and substantial food. It is the same with regard to human beings, and those men are capable of performing the greatest exploits in work, both as to their degree and duration, who never taste spirituous liquors.”—In confirmation of the above observation, Smollett, in his Travels in Italy, remarks, that “a porter in London quenches his thirst with a draught of strong beer; a porter of Rome or Naples refreshes himself with a slice of water-melon or a glass of iced water: now, it is commonly remarked that beer strengthens as well as refreshes; but the porters of Constantinople, who never drink any thing stronger than water, will carry a load of seven hundred weight, which is more than any English porter ever attempted to raise.” It should also be recollected that &msow,who is reputed the strongest man that ever lived, was a water-drinker. Another great and prevailing error is the supposing that spirituous liquors lessen the effects of cold upon the body. On the contrary, I maintain, says Dr. B. Rush, that they always render the body more liable to he affected and injured by cold. The temporary warmth they produce is always succeeded by chilliness. If any thing besides warm clothing and exercise is necessary to warm the body in cold weather, a plentiful meal of