INTRODUCTION. 11. mitted that the long lives of the primitive race of men must, in a great degree, be attributed to the whole- someness of the food on which mankind then lived. On the other hand, we have the testimony of several eminent characters, both ancient and modern, that many of the diseases with which mankind are afflicted may be ascribed to the eating of animal food. Dr. Lambe has clearly demonstrated that not a few of the diseases with which the people of this country are afflicted, may be attributed to this baneful diet. An eminent Physician of Paris, in a work published some years ago, has also shewn that numerous diseases are caused or increased by the eating of animal flesh. It is generally allowed that the eating of swine’s flesh is the principal cause of the scurvy, and that a vegetable diet is absolutely necessary to effect a com- plete cure. Dr. Buchan says that “consumptions, so common in England, are in part owing to the great use of animal food.” The gout is also said to be caused, in some degree, by the eating of flesh-meat, and instances are on record of its being cured by a milk-diet. Mr. Abernethy, whose opinion on this subject will not be questioned, says, "If you put improper food into the stomach, it becomes disordered and the w'hole system is affected. Vegetable matter ferments and becomes gaseous; while animal substances are changed into a putrid, abominable, and acrid stimulus. Mow some people acquire preposterous noses, others blotches on the face and different parts of the body, others inflammation of the eyes—ail arising from the irrita- tions of the stomach. I am often asked,” says Mr. Abernethy, "why I don’t practice what I preach? I answer by reminding the inquirer of the parson and the sign-post; both point the way, but neither follow its course.” Thus we see that it is easier to acknow- ledge a true principle than to live according to it. As a further illustration of the pernicious effects of animal flesh on the human system, the following fact may be adduced: "The late Sir Edward Berry