INTRODUCTION. IX. animals which have suffered a violent death. From Ju- dith xi. 12, we learn that the eating of animal food was what God had forbidden by his laws. And we have the strongest proof that the Israelites were fed with manna for forty years in the widerness, although they had much cattle. In Ecclus. xxxix. 26, it is said that the principal things for the use of man’s life are, salt, flour, wheat, honey, milk, &c., but there is no mention made of the flesh of cattle. From Prov. xxvii. 23—27, it would seem that the design of keeping flocks was for the fleece and the milk. See also 1 Cor. ix. 7, and Psalm xlix. 14.—These and several other passages, which might be adduced, may reasonably be considered as sufficient to convince a humane person that it is con- trary to the written law of God and to the feeling of compassion implanted in the heart, to kill innocent animals for our daily sustenance. We are well aware, however, that objections will be brought from scripture against this doctrine, as, for instance: “ Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you,” &c. But it should be recollected that every moving thing that liveth is not fit for meat: people do not eat lizards, worms, flies, ser- pents and dogs. Again: “Not that which goeth into the mouth defiles the man”—But does any man imagine that by this declaration, our Saviour meant to give full licence to gluttony and intemperance? That a man might swallow 'poison P Or that he might eat any thing which the law of God forbade to be eaten ? The sense in which the words were used must be gathered from the reason and the occasion of their being spoken, which was this—The Pharisees, being offended, murmured at the disciples of Jesus for sitting down to meat with un- washen hands: in answer to them Jesus says, “Not that which goeth into the mouth defiles,” &c.; that is to say, not a little soil or filth taken into the mouth by eating with unwashen hands, can be said to defile a man, &c. This is the plain and obvious sense of the words. Besides, these words were spoken twenty years before the Apostolic decree, which appears to