192 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. will reach, with boiling water, kept in readiness for the purpose, and which may be very conveniently poured into them from a tea-kettle, cork them immediately, pressing the corks down gradually, but make them very tight. In driving the corks the bottles must not be shaken, as that might cause the hot water to break them. When the bottles are corked, lay them on their side, which will cause the corks to swell, and prevent the air from escaping. When cold they may be removed to a cool, dry place, always observing to let them lie on their side, until required for use. During the first month or two, it is necessary to turn the bottles a little round, once or twice a week, to prevent the fermentation that will arise in some fruit from forming into a crust; the turning of the bottles keeps the fruit moist with water, and no mould will ever take place. After the first two months, it will be quite sufficient to turn the bottles a little round once or twice a month. The liquor which is poured from the fruit, makes a very agreeable syrup, when boiled up with sugar. 729. Cucumbers. Take large cucumbers, the greenest possible, and most free from seeds, put them into a broad jar or stew-pot, with a cabbage-leaf over them, cover and set them in a warm place till they turn yellow, then boil the salt and water and pour on them, repeating it till they are green ; then wash and set them over a slow fire in clean water, with a bit of alum pounded fine, and a cabbage-leaf under and over, till they just boil; theu take them off and 1 remain till cold ; cut them in two, and take out the seeds and soft pulp carefully, put them in cold spring water, and let them stand two days, changing the water each day, to take out the sait; then wipe them quite dry, and put them into syrup made as follows:—To every pound of sugar allow a pint of water, and to six pounds of sugar twoounces of the best white ginger, scraping off the outside, and to each pound of fruit one lemon, the rind pared very thin, and cut in shreds like straws, and the juice squeezed and