LEEDS UNIVERSITY LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: A 010 6 05 9903Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2150457xRECIPES FOR HIGH CLASS COOKERr.RECIPES FOR HIGH-CLASS COOKERY M USBD in the Sdinburgh School of Cookery ^ ¥ ¥ T. NELSON & SONS, Ltd. LONDON, EDINBURGH. AND NEW YORKTOINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN A? THE PRESS OF THE PUBLISHERS. LiXi * i f’ '■ f LEtOiCONTENTS Soups . , . t • • • % • • PACK 1 Fish • • • • • 25 Entrees . « 4 • 1. • « » 43 Vegetables and Sauvds « • • • 79 Hot Sweets . « • • t • 97 Cold Sweets . • « • • t » • 119 Savouries • • » • 145 Sauces . , • 1 • • h O 165 Jellies . . 9 * • t • 181 Pastries . , e % 9 % • 189 Cakes • • • • • • • 197 Miscellaneous f • • • t 9 211 Index t 1 $ • » • 219I1 SOUPS,BROWN STOCK. 2 lbs. shin or shoulder of beef. Small carrot. Small onion. 10 small peppercorns. Stick of celery, or | tea spoonful celery seeds tied in muslin. ^ teaspoonful salt. 2 quarts of cold water. Measure the water into a strong pan; add salt. Wipe and cut the meat into small pieces, removing fat and skin, and add to the water. Scrape the bone well, remove the marrow, wash to remove the fat, and put into the pan. Bring the stock slowly to boiling-point; about three-quarters of an hour. Remove any grey- looking scum ; add the prepared vegetables cut into large pieces. Simmer the stock from three to four hours. Strain through a hair sieve. When cold, skim thoroughly. The stock is then ready for soups, etc.[ ^ J WHITE STOCK. Proportion and preparation the same as for brown stock ; only use knuckle of veal or bones and trimmings of chickens or rabbits instead of beef. For white stock omit the carrot. FISH STOCK. Twopennyworth of fish I 6 white pepperconui. trimmings. I 1 blade of mace. 1 onion. t Salt. 1 stick of celery. | 1 quart of cold water. Thoroughly cleanse the trimmings, and put them into a saucepan with the water and salt. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim thoroughly ; add peppercorns, celery, and mace, and allow all to simmer for forty minutes, then strain. This stock can be used for fish soup or sauce. Note. — (1) If better stock is desired a haddock or a cod’s head can be used instead of fish trimmings. (2) If fish stock is cooked too long a bitter flavour is extracted from the bones.[ 5 ] CONSOMME.. To clear 1 quart of stock. ,, onion, lb. lean juicy beef. 1 white and shell of egg. Small piece of carrot. Blade of mace. 6 white peppercorns. Salt. The stock should be cold for clarifying. Remove all fat, shred the lean beef, and soak it for fifteen minutes in one gill of water. Prepare the vegetables, and cut in slices. Put all the ingredients into a clean rinsed pan, and whisk over a clear fire until almost at boiling-point. Remove the whisk, and allow the stock to boil up with force ; then let it infuse for thirty minutes, and strain through a dry cloth. The consomm^ is then ready for reheating, and may be garnished according to taste. A little light sherry may be added if desired. 2V.jB.—All garnishes should be rinsed if possible.[ e ] CONSOMMfi A LA ROYALE. 1 quart of clear stock. Gamith.—1 tablespoouful of milk^ white stock, or cream. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. Beat the yolk, add the liquid and seasoning, and strain into a small greased basin. Cover with greased paper, and steam the custard gently. When set, turn out, and cut into fancy shapes. CONSOMME A LA JULIENNE. 1 quart of clear stock. Garnish.—1 tablespoouful shreds of carrots. 1 „ „ turnip. 1 „ „ green leek. Cook each separately in boiling salted water till tender ; strain, and rinse with cold water. Add these to the boiling consommd[ 7 ] CONSOMME A LA JARDINIERE. 1 quart of clear stock. Gamith.—1 tablespoonful turnip in pea shapes. 1 „ carrot in pea shapes. 1 „ green peas. 1 „ cauliflower sprigs. Cut out of the carrot and turnip round pieces the shape of peas, using a special vege- table cutter for the purpose. Use the red part only of the carrot. Cut the pieces of cauli- flower in small sprigs. Cook the vegetables in separate pans of boiling salted water until tender, then drain. Put the clear stock into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Add the garnish of vegetables, and the consomm^ is ready for serving. consomme a L’ITALIENNE. 1 quart of clear stock. Gamith.—1 dessertspoonful of Italian paste. Cook the Italian paste in boiling salted water; drain well. Bring the stock to the boil in a clean saucepan, add the cooked paste, and serve.[ 8 ] CONSOMME; A LA FRIAR TUCK. 1 quart of clear stock. Garnish.—1 well-beaten egg. Bring the stock to the boil; strain into it very slowly through a fine strainer the well- beaten egg, stirring carefully all the time. CONSOMME A LA CELESTINE. 1 quart of clear stock. Garnish.—^ oz. flour. ^ teaspoonful melted butter. 1 „ grated cheese. 1 ,, chopped parsley. Pepper and salt, i egg. ^ gill of milk. Make the garnish like ordinary batter, and fry in very thin pancakes. Drain, and cut in strips. Bring the stock to the boil, and add the garnish.[ 9 ] CONSOMME A LA BRUNOISE. 1 quart of clear stock. Garnish.—1 tablespoonful of carrot cut in dice. 1 turnip cut in dice, 1 „ celery cut in dice. 1 „ leeks cut in dice. Cook the garnish in boiling salted water till tender, then drain. Bring the clear stock to the boil in a saucepan. Add the vegetables, and serve. CONSOMME A LA MADELEINE. 1 quart of clear stock. Garnish.—Yellow and pink custard. 1 dessertspoonful Julienne shreds of cooked carrot. 1 )) >> 99 leek. 1 >t » 99 truffle. ^ oz. boiled spaghetti. Make the custard as for the garnish k la Royale, colouring one half of it pink. When cooked, cut in fancy shapes. Cook the spar- ghetti and the carrot and leek in boiling salted water. Bring the consomm^ to the boil in a saucepan ; add the gafnish, and serve.[ 10 ] CLEAR MULLIGATAWNY. 1 quart first stock. 4 oz. juicy beef. 1 gill of water. 1 white and shell of egg. 1 tablespoonful of curry 1 teaspoonful curry paste. 1 onion. 1 small carrot, i apple. Salt. Lemon juice. powder. Gamith.—2 oz. cooked chicken. Shred the beef, and mix it with the water; add to it the curry powder and paste; soak for fifteen minutes. Put all ingredients into a clean saucepan. Whisk till almost boiling. Simmer for thirty minutes, and strain. Re- heat ; add the chicken cut in dice, and serve with dry rice. CLEAR OXTAIL. l lb. shin of beef. 3 quarts of water. 1 oz tail. 1 stick of celery. 1 blade of mace. ^ teaspoonful white pepper- 1 carrot. 1 onion. corns. 1 teaspoonful salt. To clear 1 quart. 4 oz. lean beef. 1 gill of water. 1 small carrot. ^ teaspoonful white pepper- 1 white and shell of egg. 1 small onion. corns. Blade of mace. GamwA.—Small rounds of carrot and turnip.[ 11 J Joint, trim, and blanch the tail. Put on witli meat, etc. Cook as for first stock (see p. 3). Simmer five to six hours. When cold, remove the fat, then clear as for con- somme (see p. 5). Strain, then add the garnish. CLEAR BEETROOT SOUP. 1 quart white stock. 4 slices of raw beetroot. 1 small onion. 1 stick celery. 2 whites and shells of eg^s. ^ teaspoonful peppercorns Salt. ^ gill sherry. Few drops of carmine. To garnish.—1 steamed white of egg. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and clear as for consomm^ (see p. 5). Garnish with the white of egg, cut in fancy shapes. Serve with whipped savoury cream. DRIED TURTLE SOUP. J lb. dried turtle. 1 blade of mace. 2 quarts good brown stock. 1 bay leaf. 1 carrot. \ teaspoonful peppercorns. 1 onion. Lemon juice. 1 stick of celery. Cayenne and salt. To thicken 1 quart. 1 oz. arrowroot. | 1 wineglassful of sherry. ^ wineglassful of brandy.[ 12 ] Wash and soak the turtle for four or five days. Rinse and cut in small pieces. Put it on with the stock and vegetables, and simmer for four to five hours till the turtle is tender. Strain through a hair sieve. Thicken with the arrowroot broken with the sherry ; add brandy, lemon juice, cayenne, and turtle cut in dice. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. ^ calf 8 head. 2 oz. lean ham. 2 quarts water. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 stick celery. 1 blade of mace. 3 cloves. ^ teaspoonful peppercorns. Salt. To thicken 1 quart. 1 oz. cornflour. Lemon juice. 1 wineglassful of sherry. Cayenne. Garnish {Forcemeat Balls). 1 oz. bread-crumbs. ^ oz. suet. ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. A little grated lemon rind. Beaten egg. Wash, soak, and blanch the head. Put on with water, salt, and ham; bring slowly to the. boil, and skim. Add the vegetables, cloves, etc., and simmer for three to four hours.[ 13 ] Strain through a hair sieve ; leave till cold, and remove the fat. Thicken with the corn- flour broken with the sherry; add the lemon juice and cayenne, and garnish with the pieces of the head cut in dice and the force- meat balls. Forcemeat Balls.—Mix to a firm consist- ency, form into small balls, and poach in boiling salted water. HARE SOUP. 1 hare. 2 oz. butter. 3 oz. lean ham. 2 oz. flour. 8 onions. 3 quarts of brown stock. Bunch of herbs. Blade of mace. ^ teaspoonful pepper- corns. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Blood from the hare, i pint port or sherry. Paunch the hare. Carefully remove the blood; add to it a few drops of vinegar, and set aside. Joint the hare; melt the butter ; fry the ham, hare, and onions. Add the flour, and fry to a dark brown. Add the stock, mace, and peppercorns; bring slowly to the boil; skim, then simmer for three to four hours. Strain, and remove the meat from the bones. Pass it twice through the mincer ;[ 14 ] p<'und and rub through a hair sieve. Mix the stock carefully into it and bring the soup gradually to the boil. Strain in the blood and wine mixed together, and cook till thickened without boiling. Season and serve. Bring stock to the boil, sprinkle in the tapioca, and boil gently till clear. Cool slightly. Mix the yolks, cream, and milk together, and strain into the soup. Cook gently without boiling till the yolks thicken. N.Ji.—Rice-flour, cornflour, arrowroot, etc., may be substituted for tapioca. TAPIOCA CREAM SOUP. 1 pint white stock. ^ oz. tapioca groult. 2 yolks of eggs. ^ gill cream, i „ milk. Salt. HOLLANDAISE SOUP. ^ oz. butter ^ oz. flour. 1 pint white stock. 2 yolks. ^ gill cream, i „ milk. Salt. Garnish.—1 tablespoonful peas. 1 carrot cut in pea shape*, cucumber cut in pea shape*. %9[ 15 ] Have the garnish cooked in separate pans of boiling salted water. Melt the butter, add the flour, and mix together. Add the stock gradually and boil well. Cool slightly. Mix the yolks, cream, and milk together. Strain into the soup, and cook gently without boiling till the yolks are thickened. Add the garnish and serve. POTAGE A LA BONNE FEMME. 2 leaves lettuce or chervil. 2 „ sorrel. 2 „ tarragon, i cucumber, i oz. butter. 1 pint white stock. Pepper and salt. Thickening.—2 yolks. ^ gill cream. | gill milk. Shred the vegetables finely, and toss them in the butter until it is absorbed. Add the stock boiling, and cook a few minutes. Cool slightly. Mix yolks, cream, and milk together, strain into the soup, and thicken without boiling.[ 16 ] POTAGE A LA ROYALE. 1 pint white stock. 1 oz. cooked macaroni. Salt, cayenne. 2 yolks. ^ gill milk. \ ,, cream, i oz. grated Parmesan cheese. Boil the stock, add the macaroni cut in neat pieces, and cool slightly. Mix yolks, cream, and milk together, strain into soup, and thicken without boiling. Add grated cheese and cayenne. POTAGE D’AMANDES. 2 oz. almonds. 1 gill milk. 1 tablespoouful bread- crumbs. ^ oz. butter. ^ oz. dour. 1 pint white stock. Pepper, salt Lemon juice. ^ gill cream. Chop and pound the almonds with a few drops of water, then stew in the milk for one hour. Add the bread-crumbs, simmer for a few minutes, and rub through a hair sieve. Melt the butter, add the flour and almond pulp, then the stock gradually. Boil, season, add the cream, and reheat without boiling.[ 17 ] PUR^E A LA PRINCESSE. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 quart chicken stock. i oz. cooked chicken. 1 gill cream. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook for a few minutes; add the stock by degrees, and boil well. Mince, pound, and sieve the chicken. Pour the stock on to it, reheat, and add the cream. Do not boil. BISQUE OF LOBSTER ^ lobster, cooked. 1 quart fish stock. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. rice-flour. 1 onion. ^ carrot. 1 bay leaf. Sprig of parsley. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. ^ gill cream, i „ sherry. 1 oz. lobster butter. Remove the meat from the lobster and reserve the best pieces. Wash and break half of the shell. Melt the butter, fry the onion, carrot, bay leaf, and parsley ; add the rice-flour 2[ 18 ] and the shell. Add the stock by degrees, and the broken pieces of lobster. Simmer for forty minutes, and strain through a hair sieve. Reheat; add the anchovy essence* cream, and sherry. Whisk in the lobster butter gradu- ally without boiling, and add the remainder of the lobster cut in neat pieces. Lobster Butter. 1 ox. butter. 1 tablespoonful of the live spawn. Pound and rub through a hair sieve. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH. Prepare as lobster bisque, using six cooked crayfish and a little carmine. BISQUE OF OYSTERS. 2 ox. butter. 2 oz. rice-flour. 1 quart fish stock. 2 dozen oysters. 2 yolks of eggs. ^ gill cream. ^ ,, milk. ^ „ sherry. Cayenne and salt. Melt the butter, add the rice-flour, and cook a few minutes; add stock by degrees.[ 19 ] and the beards of the oysters. Simmer thirty minutes, and strain. Reheat; add the yolks, milk, and cream mixed together, and thicken without boiling. Garnish with the oysters cut in two, add the sherry, and serve. TOMATO SOUP. 1 lb. tinned tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. lean ham. 1 onion. Small piece carrot. ,, celery, pint light-coloured stock or tomato liquor. 1 bay leaf. 6 peppercorns. I oz. cornflour. ^ gill milk. 1 ,, cream. Colouring. Salt. Melt the butter, and fry the bacon and vegetables cut in slices ; add the tomatoes, break them down, and boil quickly for five minutes. Add stock, peppercorns, and bay leaf. Simmer for one hour, and strain. Mix the cornflour with the milk, add to the soup, and boil for ten minutes. Add the cream, seasoning, and colouring if necessary.[ 20 ] CELERY PUR^E, 1 lb, celery. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 pint white stock. ^ oz. cornflour. ^ gill milk. ^ ,, cream. Pepper and salt. Wash, scrape, and blanch the celery. Melt the butter, and sautd the celery and onion in it without browning. Add the stock, and cook until the celery is tender, from one to two hours. Rub through a hair sieve, add the cornflour broken with the milk, and cook for ten minutes. Add the cream and seasonings. Wash, and peel the artichokes very thinly —adding a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice to the water to preserve the colour. Melt the butter, add the artichokes and onion ARTICHOKE PUREE. 1 lb. artichokes. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 pint white stock. ^ oz. cornflour. ^ gill milk. I „ cream. Pepper and salL[ 21 ] cut in pieces, and fry without browning. Add the stock and salt, cook until the artichokes are quite soft, from one to two hours. Rub through a hair sieve. Add the cornflour broken with the milk, and cook for ten minutes. Season; add cream, and reheat without boiling. VEGETABLE MARROW PUR^IK Wipe and peel the marrow, remove seeds, and cut in pieces. Melt the butter, toss the vegetables in it for five minutes. Add the stock and salt; boil up, and skim if necessary. Simmer until marrow is soft, from one to one and a half hours, then rub through a hair sieve. Add cornflour broken in the milk; cook for ten minutes. Season; add the cream, and reheat without boiling. 1 lb. vegetable marrow. 2 sticks celery. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 pint white stock. ^ oz. cornflour. ^ gill milk, i „ cream. Pepper and salt. /[ M ] BRUSSELS SPROUT PURfiE. 1 lb. sprouts. 1 oz. butter. 1 pint boiling white stock. Salt and pepper. ^ gill cream. Green colouring. Boil and drain the sprouts. Pass through a hair sieve, and add the boiling stock; reheat without boiling. Season; add cream and colouring. GREEN PEA PUR^E. 1 lb. green peas. A few sprigs of mint. „ „ parsley. 1 pint boiling white stock. ^ gill cream. Green colouring (if neces- sary). Pinches of salt and sugar. Put the peas, a few of the pods, the parsley, and the mint into the boiling stock, and cook until tender. Rub through a hair sieve, re- heat, season, and add the cream. Note.—If too thin, thicken with one tea- spoonful cornflour after sieving.[ S8 ] PUR^E DE MARRONS. ^ Ib. chestnuts. 1 onion. oz. butter. 1 quart white stock. 1 gill cream. Pepper and salt. Pinch of sugar. Cut a small piece off each chestnut, and boil for ten minutes. Remove the skins, and break the chestnuts in pieces. Melt the butter, add the chestnuts and onion, and saut^ for a few minutes, but do not brown. Add the stock, and cook one hour, or until the chestnuts are tender. Rub through a hair sieve; reheat; add the sugar, seasoning, and cream, and it is ready to serve.^r?- I : ..' 'V'* ’ iU-. •»- \i V%4^~^ -iJ, \ m V . ''i -J r ,^ir. < ♦. rX^ ^ ■.%- vu:”'^ ^ ■» •. ItrFISH.t 27 ] SOLE AU GRATIN. 1 medium-sized sole. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 ,, ,, mushroom. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. A few brown crumbs. A little melted butter. 1 gill of good brown sauce. Wash, clean, and skin the sole; trim the fins and tail; and score each side. Mix the parsley, mushroom, and onion together; sprinkle half of it in a greased gratin dish. Season the fish and lay it in the dish white side up. Spread the remainder of the mixture on the top, scatter lightly with brown crumbs, and sprinkle over a little melted butter. Cook the sole in a moderately hot oven about thirty minutes. Pour the sauce round, and serve.[ 28 ] SOLE A LA COI.BERT. 1 medium-sized sole. 1 teaspoonful of flour. Pepper and salt, lemon juice. 1 beaten eggand bread-crumbs. ^ oz. maitre d’hotel butter. Fried parsley. Wash, clean, and skin the sole. Cut down the centre of the white side to the bone, carefully loosen the fillets and roll them back. Dust lightly with the flour, pepper, and salt Coat the fish with the beaten egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat Drain, and carefully remove the bone. Fill the centre with the maitre d’hotel butter and the parsley. Gar- nish with lemon, and serve. SOLE A LA PORTUGAISK 1 sole. Pepper and salt, lemon juice. 1 Spanish onion. 2 tomatoes. Brown bread-crumbs. Parmesan cheese. 1 gill tomato sauce. Wash, skin, and clean the sole ; season and lay on a greased gratin dish. Cover with slices of tomato and rings of onion. Scatter with bread-crumbs and cheese mixed, bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Pour the sauce round, and serve.r «« ] FILLETS OF SOLE A LA BOHEMIENNE. 1 filleted sole. I Pepper, saltj and lemon juice. ^ pint Bechamel sauce. Garnish. Chopped parslej. „ truffle. Sieved yolk of egg. Lobster coral. Season and fold the fillets in two ; lay them on a greased tin ; cover with a greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. Dish neatly, coat with the Bechamel sauce, and garnish with alternate colours. N.B.—Fillets of any white fish may be substituted for sole. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA MAtTRE D’H6TEL. Wipe, trim, and season the fillets ; fold them in two, skin side inside, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Dish overlapping and coat with the maitre d’hotel sauce. 1 filleted sole. I ^ pint maitre d’hotel sauce. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice.[ 80 ] FILLETS OF SOLE A LA COLBERT. 1 filleted sole. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Heated brown crumbs. 1 teaspoonful maitre d’hotel butter. 1 gill anchovy sauce. Wipe, trim, and season the fillets, and roll them up from head to tail, skinned side in. Place in a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. Roll the fillets in the heated crumbs, dish neatly, and pour the sauce round. Place a round of maitre d’hotel butter on top of each. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA ROUENNAISE. 1 filleted sole. i pint cardinal sauce. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Chopped truffle. 2 oz. lobster farce. Wipe, trim, and season the fillets. Spread the skinned side with lobster farce (see Lobster Cutlets, p. 85). Fold in two and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dish neatly, coat with tlie sauce, and decorate with the truffle.[ 81 ] FILLETS OF SOLE A LA TARTARE. 1 filleted sole. I Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. ^ pint hot Tartare sauce. Wipe, trim, and season the fillets. Fold in two, or roll up with the skinned side in, and bake for fifteen minutes. Dish neatly and coat with the sauce. FILLETS OF SOLE A L’HORLY. 1 filleted sole. Marinade. ^ tablespoonful of salad oil. ^ teaspoonful chopped shallot. 1 teaspoonful mixed vinegar. Cayenne pepper and salt. ^ „ chopped parsley. Batter. 1 oz. of flour. Pinch of salt. 1 yolk of egg. ^ tablespoonful of salad oil. 1 tablespoonful milk or tepid water. ^ a beaten white of egg. Wipe and cut the fillets into neat pieces; soak for thirty minutes in the marinade. Batter.—Sieve flour and salt into a basin, beat in yolk and milk till thick and smooth, work in the oil, and set aside for half an hour. Add the beaten white immediately before use.[ 82 ] Dip the fillets in this batter and fry in deep fat; drain thoroughly, dish, and garnish with parsley. BOILED TURBOT. Clean the fish thoroughly and rub over with lemon. Have a pan of simmering salted water, add a little vinegar, and let the fish cook gently without boiling. Time.—Ten minutes to each pound and ten minutes over. Drain thoroughly and serve on a napkin and garnish with parsley and lemon. Serve with any good fish sauce, hot or cold. N.B.—All fish is boiled in the same manner with the exception of salmon, when the acids are omitted. FISH SOUFFLfi. i lb. of white fish. ' {2 oz. of flour. 1 oz. of butter. 1 gill of fish stock or water. 3 eggs. ^ gill of cream. Coating.—| pint of white fish sauce. Qamisk.—Red pepper or parsley. Panard.—Boil the water and butter, add flour, heated and sieved, and beat till thickened.[ 33 ] Wipe and scrape fish from the bone; pound it with the panard, eggs, and seasonings, and rub through a wire sieve. Stir in the cream and turn into a plain mould, greased and dusted with rice-flour. Steam the fish souffle very gently till firm, about one hour. Turn out and coat with the sauce. Decorate to taste, and serve. CREAMS OF WHITING A LA Make the panard (see Fish Souffle, p. 32), and pound it with the whiting, egg, and seasonings. Rub through a wire sieve and add the cream. Have ready some small moulds greased and dusted with rice-flour; ROYALE. 4 oz. whiting. 3 or 4 oysters. 1 egg. 1 dessertspoonful cream. Cayenne and salt. Coating.—J pint white sauce. ^ oz. Parmesan cheese. Chopped parsley. ,, truffle or red pepper. 3[ 34 ] fill them with the mixture and insert an oyster in each. Steam without boiling till firm, about thirty minutes, and dish. Have the sauce made, and add the cheese just before use. Coat the creams and decorate to taste. Melt the butter, add the bread-crumbs and the milk, and cook together till thick. Wipe and shred down the fish and pound it with the bread-crumb mixture, egg, and seasonings. Rub through a wire sieve, add the cream, and shape into quenelles. Lay them on a greased frying-pan, pour round them enough boiling water to nearly cover them. Cover with greased paper, and poach gently for fifteen minutes. When firm, drain well on a heated cloth, dish on potato border, and coat with white sauce. Decorate to taste with red pepper. QUENELLES OF FISH. 4 oz. white fish. i oz. butter. I oz. bread-crumbs. ^ gill milk. I an egg. Pepper and salt Squeeze of lemon juice. 1 tablespoouful cream. Potato border. ^ pint white sauce. Red pepper.C 85 ] LOBSTER CUTLETS. 4 oz. cooked lobster. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill fish stock or water. 1 yolk of egg. Cayenne, salt, lemon juice. ^ oz. lobster butter or carmine. 1 beaten egg. Bread-crumbs. Fried parsley. Make a thick sauce with the butter, flour, and stock. Add the lobster, finely chopped, and the other ingredients. Cook over a gentle heat till the mixture binds; then turn out on to a plate to cool. Form into neat cutlets; coat with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Dish neatly and garnish with fried parsley. Lobster Butter. See Lobster Bisque, p. 17. Recipe and preparation the same as for Lobster Cutlets, substituting twelve oysters for the lobster and omitting the colouring. OYSTER CUTLETS.[ 86 ] ESCALOPES OF FISH. lb. cooked fish. A few white bread-crumbs. ^ pint thin white sauce. A litle melted butter. Pepper, salt, lemon juice. Grease some scallop shells and dust with white crumbs. Put a little sauce in each shell, lay in the fish broken in large fiakes, and season it. Cover with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle over a few crumbs, and pour a little melted butter on top. Brown quickly in the oven. N.B.—Any cooked shellfish, or raw oysters, may be dressed in this way. FRIED WHITEBAIT. Pick the whitebait and rinse them very quickly in cold water. Shake them on a floured cloth to dry them. Lay them loosely in a frying-basket and cook in hot fat. Plunge into a second pan of very hot fat (temp. 400’’) to crisp them. Drain well, and dish on a napkin. Garnish with lemon and fried parsley. Serve with thin brown bread and butter.[ 87 ] FRIED SMELTS. Prepare and cook in the same way as white- bait. Cut the fish in small pieces and mix all the ingredients together. Roll the pastry into a square, trim, and turn it, and lay the mixture in the centre. Brush the edges with beaten egg and fold the pastry to the centre. Brush with egg, decorate with leaves, and place on a wetted baking-sheet. Bake in a hot oven for forty to forty-five minutes. Notes.—Rough puff pastry may be sub- stituted for flaky. Oysters, prawns, etc., may be added. Cooked fish may be used if liked. RUSSIAN FISH PIE, Flaky Pastry.—8 oz. flour, etc. Filling. 1 filleted haddock. 1 teaspoonful parsley. 1 hard-boiled egg. A little grated lemon rind. 2 tablespoonfuls white sauce. Pepper and salt. .T! U' Ir ta LEcDS[ 88 3 CURRY OF FISH. 1 lb. fish. ^ oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 1 „ „ apple. 1 „ curry powder. J oz. rice-flour. ^ pint fish stock, lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful cream. Fry the onion and apple in the butter; add the curry powder and flour, and fry with- out browning. Add the fish stock and season- ings, and simmer for half an hour. Strain ; add the fish cut in neat pieces. Simmer until the fish is cooked. Add the cream and lemon juice, and serve. Hand boiled rice separately. DRESSED CRAB. 1 cooked crab. Take off the claws, break them, and remove the white meat. Take out the meat from the shell, and remove the bag near the head. Chop up the creamy meat from the inside with the meat from the claws; season with salt, cayenne, and lemon juice, and mix to a soft consistency with mayonnaise or cream.[ 39 ] Wash, dry, and rub the shell with a little salad oil, and fill it with the mixture. Scatter lightly with brown bread-crumbs, decorate with lobster or green butter, and garnish with the claws. MAYONNAISE OF FISH. 1 lb. halibut or salmon. | ^ gill mayonnaise sauce. 1 gill aspic jelly. Decoration.—^Truffle, cucumber green, or chilli. Salad for dishing.—Chopped aspic. Boil the fish carefully, remove the skin and bones, and press till cold. Lay it on a high bed of picked salad. Mix the mayonnaise and the liquid aspic; season, and leave till almost setting. Pour it over the fish, decorate to taste, glaze it with a little cold aspic jelly. Garnish with chopped aspic, salad, etc. N.B.—If no aspic is obtainable, use gill of mayonnaise sauce set with ^ oz. gelatine.[ *0 ] SAVOURY LOBSTER CREAM. J lb. cooked lobster. 1 gill cream, i „ aspic. I „ tomato pulp. 1 teaspoonful mayonnaise. Decoration.—Liquid aspic. juice. ^ oz. gelatine. J gill water. Cayenne, salt, and lemon Lobster. Truffle, etc. Line a border mould thinly with aspic, and decorate with neat claw pieces of lobster, truffle, etc. Chop and pound the lobster. Whip the cream lightly, and mix all the ingredients together, adding the dissolved gelatine last. Add colouring if required, and mould when beginning to thicken. Turn out when set, and decorate with mayonnaise, salad, lobster feelers, and chopped aspic jelly. N.B.—Crayfish, prawns, etc., may be sub- stituted for lobster. This savoury fish cream may also be moulded in small moulds. Cut the prawns in neat pieces. Set a little jelly at the foot of small wet moulds, and PRAWNS IN ASPIC, 1 dozen shelled prawns. ^ pint aspic jelly. Decoration.—Truffle and chervil.[ *1 ] decorate to taste. Fill the moulds with alternate layers of prawns and jelly, allowing each layer to set before putting in another. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly, crimped cucumber, etc. N.B.—Shrimps, cooked lobster, or neat pieces of hard-boiled eggs may be substituted for prawns.•,7 r ' ’Xi i - i “ i •. ill' ‘i ' • : .4./ i’ • ‘ ^*'^'1 ” • .... ■• - .it '' * • . .••<•■■• 'i.' f] » f " '■ • ■ ■ V ••■ .v< • ic .iv5 ' * • • • ■ ** ' ^ V'. '» V-,' , •A- "'.- ■> ■.►<■',' 'y^ . -V ■ • ' . . L-‘r • ^ * ' • A ■ ■ • .■A \ lrv>, V .Hi f I ' 1‘ENTRfiEahV ■< t t i I o '*3 I # f L I t I I \ i 1 I I \ 1 /[ « ] FILLETS OF BEEF A LA GODARD. lb. fillet of beef. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1^ oz. butter. Veal Moulds. 1 tablespoonful veal. A little cream. minced Pepper and salt. Rounds of ham. Chopped parsley. Dishing.—Creamy potato. Sauce. h pint cleared brown stock. ^ gill of sherry. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. Carmine. Garnish.—6 turned olives. 1 dozen button mushrooms. 1 truffle. Cut the fillets ^ inch in thickness; cut in neat rounds, and trim carefully. Sprinkle over them the chopped onion and parsley. Fry in the butter, and drain on a hot cloth. iTeal Moulds. — Decorate some small greased moulds with the ham and parsley. Fill with the veal moistened and seasoned. Poach till firm, and drain.[ *6 ] Sauce.—Boil the stock, add the arrowroot mixed with the sherry, and cook till clear. Colour a reddish brown, and season. Garnish.—Cut the mushrooms and truffles in strips, stone the olives, and heat all in a little sherry. Dishing.—Pipe the potatoes on a hot entree dish, and lay the fillets on flat, with a Veal mould on each. Pour the sauce over, and garnish with the olives, mushrooms, and truffle. FILLETS OF BEEF A LA POMPADOUR. 1J lb. fillet of bee£ I 1^ oz. butter. 1 tomato. Dishing.—Potato border. ^ pint Espagnole sauce. 1 teaspoonful maitre d’botel butter. Macedoine of vegetables. Liquid glaze. Trim the fillets neatly and fry in the butter; glaze, drain lightly, and dish flat on the potato border. Lay a baked slice of tomato and a round of the butter on each fillet. Pour the sauce round, and garnish with the vegetables. n[ ] CREAMS OF BEEF, J lb. lean beef. 4 oz. panard. 1 tablespoouful Espagnole 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful cream. Pepper and salt. sauce. Decoration.—Chopped mushroom. ,, parsley or truffle. For dishing.—Creamy potato. ^ pint Espagnole sauce. Peas or macedoine. Grease small moulds and decorate them alternately with parsley and mushroom. Make panard (see p. 216). Mince the beef twice, pound with all the other in- gredients except the cream, and press through a wire sieve. Stir in the cream and fill the moulds. Steam very carefully without boiling from twenty to thirty minutes. Drain on a hot cloth and dish on the piped potato. Pour the sauce round and garnish with the vegetables.[ *» ] DRY CURRY OF BEEF. 1 lb. tender juicy beef. 1 oz. butter. 1 chopped shallot. 1 ,, small apple. 2 ,, gherkins. ^ oz. curry powder. 1 teaspoonful curry paste. 1 ,, sieved chutney. Salt and lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful cream. Cut the meat in small cubes and dust it with the curry powder. Fry the meat in the butter; add the shallot, apple, and gherkin, and fry without discolouring. Add the other ingredients except the cream, and cook till the meat is tender, about one hour. Add the cream and dish. Serve with rice. MUTTON CUTLETS. fi bones of small cutletmutton. | Bread-crumbs. 1 beaten egg. I 2 tablespoonfuls clarified fat Dithing.—Potato border. i pint Espagnole or tomato sauce. Macedoine of vegetables. Have the mutton well hung. Saw the rib bones even in length, about 3 inches, and remove the chine bone. Trim into small[ « ] neat cutlets, and scrape the bones clean. Coat well with beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Fry in smoking hot fat for seven to ten minutes, then drain very thoroughly. Arrange the cutlets on a border of potato, pour the sauce round, and garnish with the macedoine of vegetables. N.B.—The potato border for dishing is optional. CURRIED MUTTON CUTLETS. 6 bones cutlet mutton (1^ lb.). | A little currj powder. Coating.—Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs. Dishing.—Potato border. ^ pint curry sauce. 1 oz. dry rice. Prepare the cutlets, dip in the curry powder, and coat with the egg and bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat and drain well. Dish on the potato border, fill the centre with the cooked rice, and pour the curry sauce round. 4[ 60 ] MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MILANAISE. 6 bones cutlet mutton. Coating,—Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs. Gamiih.—1 tablespoonful strips of tonpue. 1 ,, „ truffle. 1 ,, „ cooked macaroni. ^ gill thick white sauce. Dishing.—Potato border. ^ pint tomato sauce. Trim, coat, and fry the cutlets. Dish on the potato border. Heat the garnish in the white sauce, and pile in the centre of the cutlets. Pour the tomato sauce round, and serve. MUTTON CUTI.ETS A LA REFORME. 6 bones cutlet mutton. Coating.—1 beaten egg. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped dried ham. 3 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs. Garnish.—1 tablespoonful strips of cooked carrot. 1 ,, „ ,, truffle. 1 „ „ „ gherkin. 1 „ „ » white of egg. 1 9} 99 99 99 Dishing.—Potato border. „ mushroom. ^ pint Reforme sauce. Trim the cutlets, brush them with the beaten egg, and toss them in the bread-crumbs[ 51 ] and ham mixed together. Fry in hot fat, drain, and dish on the potato border. Heat the garnish in one tablespoonful of sherry, drain, and dish in the centre of the cutlets. Pour the R^orme sauce round. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA SOUBISE. 6 bones cutlet mutton. | 1^ oz. butter. Dishing.—Potato border. Soubise Garnish. J gill Spanish onion puree. Pepper and salt. 1 „ thick Bechamel sauce. 1 tablespoonful cream. To serve.—^ pint demi-glace sauce. Trim the cutlets and fry in the butter. Drain lightly and dish on the potato border. Soubise Garnish.—Cook the onion in the milk and pass it through a hair sieve. Mix with the Bechamel sauce; season, and add the cream. Pile in the centre of the cutlets and pour the demi-glace sauce round.[ 52 ] MUTTON CUTLETS A LA VENITIENNE. 4 bones cutlet mutton. Quenelle Meat.—2 oz. vealj etc. (see Quenelles of Veal, p. 67). Decoration.—1 tablespoonful chopped dried bam. 1 ,, ,, truffle. Dishing.—Potato border. Garnish.—1 tablespoonful strips of tongue* 1 „ „ gherkin. 1 ,, white of egg. i pint piquante sauce. Trim the cutlets roughly, fry them in butter, and press between two plates till cold. Trim neatly and coat one side with the quenelle meat. Sprinkle the cutlets alternately with ham and truffle. Lay them in a greased saut^ pan, pour round a little hot stock, cover with a greased paper, and poach carefully from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain on a hot cloth, and arrange on a potato border. Heat the garnish in a little sherry or stock, place it in the centre of the cutlets; pour the sauce round.[ 48 J NOISETTES OF MUTTON. 1 lb. cutlet mutton. 1^ oz. butter. Liquid glaze. Creamy potato. ^ pint tomato sauce. 2 or 3 oz. French beans or peas. Fillet the mutton from the bones, cut in slices, ^ inch in thickness, and trim them neatly. Fry in butter, glaze, and drain lightly. Dish them on the piped potatoes. Garnish with French beans, and pour the sauce round. NOISETTES OF MUTTON AUX CHAMPIGNONS. 1 lb. cutlet mutton. 1 oz. butter. Liquid glaze. 1 teaspoonful maitre d’hdtel butter. 6 small puff pastry cases. Filling for Cases. 4 flap mushrooms. 1 tablespoonful cream, i oz. butter. Pepper and salt. 1 gill thick white sauce. Garnish.—Small potato balls. Water-cress. Trim the noisettes neatly and fry in butter. Glaze and drain lightly. Filling.—Remove stalks and skin from the[ 54 ] mushrooms, and cut them in sTnall pieces. Fry in butter till tender. Put them into the white sauce; season, and fill the pastry cases. Lay a noisette on each case, and place a small pat of maitre d’hotel butter on top of each noisette. Dish on a hot dish, and garnish with potato balls and water-cress. VEAL CUTLETS. 1 lb. veal fillet. Some dried bread-crumbi. Bacon rolls. 2 tablespoonfuls clarified fat Thinly cut slices of lemon. Marinade, 1 beaten eg'g. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Pinch powdered herbs. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. 1 teaspoonful oiled butter. Cut the veal into rounds, remove any skin, and beat with cutlet bat. Soak in the marinade for about one hour, then toss in bread- crumbs and press into shape. Fry in smoking- hot fat till golden brown, about ten minutes. Drain well, and arrange on a potato border. Garnish each cutlet with a thinly cut half-slice of lemon and a roll of bacon. Serve a mace- doine of vegetables in the centre and pour tomato sauce round.[ »* ] VEAL CUTLETS A LA COLBERT. 1 lb. fillet of veal. ^ tablespoouful batter. ^ ,, salad oil. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. ^ pint Madeira sauce. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. To dish on.—Creamy potato. Oamish.—Heart-shaped pieces of fried bread. Parisienne potatoes or stars of piped potato. > Trim the cutlets, and fry in the oil and butter mixed. Sprinkle in the onion, and fry lightly. Pour off any surplus fat. Add the sauce, and cook gently till the cutlets are tender. Dish on potato border, add the parsley to the sauce and pour it over the cutlets. Garnish with potatoes and fried bread. VEAL CUTLETS A LA TALLEYRAND. 1 lb. fillet of veal. 1 oz. butter. 1 tablespoouful chopped mush- room. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. Pepper and salt 2 to 3 gills thin white sauce. 1 or 2 yolks. Lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. To dish.—Potato border. Trim the fillet into neat rounds or ovals, and fry in butter lightly without discolouring.[ 88 ] Sprinkle over the onion and mushroom, fry, and pour off any surplus fat. Add the sauce, and cook gently till tender, about one hour. Lift the cutlets out and dish on potato border. Add the yolks, parsley, and lemon juice to the sauce, and cook till thickened without boiling. Coat the cutlets with the sauce. Cut the veal into small rounds and lard. Braise till tender, basting frequently, from one to one and a half hours. When cooked, brush over with the liquid glaze, and dish on potato. Strain the stock from the braising-pot, add one teaspoonful glaze, boil down to a demi-glaze, and pour round the grenadins. Heat the vegetables and garnish the dish with them. GRENADINS OF VEAL. 1 lb. fillet of veaL Larding bacon. Braiaing-pot Liquid glaze. Potato border. Macddoine of vegetables.[ S7 ] QUENELLES OF VEAL. I lb. fillet of veal. 4 oz. pansrd. 1 egg. 1 tableepoonfol cream. Pepper and salt. Potato border. I pint Bechamel sauce. Peas. Pass the veal twice through the mincer and pound it with the panard, egg, and season- ings. Put this through a wire sieve and add the cream. Form into quenelles with dessert- spoons, and poach without boiling till firm, basting frequently. Drain on a hot cloth and dish on a potato border. Coat with the Bechamel sauce and garnish with the peas, N.B.—The mixture may be made softer and poached in small quenelle moulds. Chicken or rabbit may be substituted for veal.[ S8 ] CHICKEN CREAM. Quenelle mixture (as above). Bechamel sauce. Peas. Grease a high border mould and dust it with rice-flour. Make the quenelle meat soft with cream, and fill the mould evenly with the mixture. Steam without boiling till firm, about three-quarters to one hour. Turn out, coat evenly with the sauce, and fill the centre of the mould with peas. CREAMS OF CHICKEN A LA NIMOIS. 6 oz. raw chicken. 3 oz. panard. 1 small egg. 1 dessertspoonful white sauce. Decoration. Green peas. Stars of truffle. ^ oz. hutter. Pepper, salt, cayenne. 1 tablespoonful cream. 6 oysters. Potato border 1 gill oyster liquor. ^ „ water. ^ „ sherry. Sauce. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. Pepper, salt, lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful cream. Have some small moulds greased and deco- rated with peas and truffle. Make quenelle[ 59 ] meat (see p. 57), and fill the moulds evenly. Insert an oyster, well seasoned, into the centre of each. Steam carefully till firm, about thirty minutes. Drain, and dish on the potato border; garnish with peas and pour the sauce round. Sauce.—Bring the oyster liquor and water to the boil and thicken with the arrowroot broken with the sherry. Season, and add the cream. DARIOLES OF CHICKEN. 6 oz. quenelle meat. 1 „ cooked chicken. 1 „ „ ham. 2 chopped mushrooms. ^ teaspoonful chopped trulBe. Decoration.—Chopped 1 tahlespoonful thick white sauce. Pepper, salt, lemon juice, f pint Bdchamel sauce. truffle or parsley. Have some small darioles greased and dusted with rice-flour. Line them with the quenelle meat. Cut the chicken, ham, and mushrooms in small pieces; add the truffle and seasonings, and bind with the sauce. Fill the centre of the moulds with this mixture and cover with quenelle meat. Steam till firm, about thirty minutes. Dish neatly and coat with the Bechamel sauce. Decorate with the chopped truffle or parsley.[ 60 ] TIMBALES OF CHICKEN. 4 oz. cooked chicken. 2 „ „ ham. 1 „ bread-crumbs. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 teaspoouful chopped mush- rooms. Oamiah.— ^ teaspoonful chopped truffle 1 egg. 1 gill white sauce. 1 teaspoonful cream. Pepper and salt Cooked macaroni or spaghettL ^ pint tomato sauce. Grease some small plain moulds and line with rings of cooked macaroni, or twists of spaghetti. IMince the chicken and ham, and mix all the ingredients together. Fill the moulds with this mixture. Steam till firm, twenty to thirty minutes. Turn out and pour the sauce round. CASSEROLE 1 uncooked chicken. 1 pint veloute sauce. 1 gill of cream. Lemon juice. OF CHICKEN. ^ tin mushrooms. Bacon rolls. Slices of lemon. Cut the chicken in neat joints and remove the skin. Put them in a casserole, add the sauce (boiling) and the mushrooms. Simmer gently for one to one and a half hour. AVhen the chicken is tender add the cream and the[ 61 ] lemon juice. Place the bacon rolls on the top and garnish with lemon. FRICASSl^E OF CHICKEN. Prepare as for “ Casserole of Chicken,” but cook in a stew-pan. When dished, garnish with croutons of puff pastry. N.B.—Neat joints of cooked chicken may be used. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 1 uncooked chicken. 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. ^ pint tomato sauce. ^ „ Espagnole sauce. 1 truffle. 1 dozen mushrooms. ^ gill sherry. Croute of fried bread. 1 tablespoonful strips of mush- rooms. 1 tablespoonfiil strips of truffle. Fleurons of pastry. Joint and skin the chicken and fry it in the oil. Drain and trim again if necessary. Have the sauces boiling, add the chicken and rough pieces of mushroom and truffle, and simmer gently until tender. Dish the chicken on the croute of bread. Tammy the sauce, add the strips of truffle and mushroom, and pour over the chicken. Garnish with the fleurons of pastry.[ 62 ] PIGEONS A LA DUCHESSE. 2 pigeons. J lb. quenelle meat. Beaten egg. Dried bread-crumbs. Creamy potato. Macedoine of vegetables. ^ pint Espagnole sauce. Bone and cut the pigeons in two. Braise till tender and press till cold. Trim neatly, and coat the cut side with quenelle meat. Coat twice with egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. Dish on piped potato, pour the sauce round, and garnish with macedoine of vegetables. Prepare and cook as for “Pigeons k la Duchesse.” Dish on the green pea purde. Garnish with the feet brushed over with glaze, decorate further with the purde. Pour the sauce round. PIGEONS A LA MAZARIN. 2 pigeons. 2 sausages. Beaten egg. Dried bread-crumbs. Green pea puree. ^ pint tomato sauce.[ 68 ] SWEETBREAD A LTTALIENNE. Soak the sweetbread in tepid salted water for one hour. Blanch it and remove the fat. If it is a bad shape, wrap in paper, and press it between two plates till cold. Lard one side evenly with lardoons, place the sweetbread in a braising-pot and cook gently till it is tender, from one to one and a half hour. Lift it on to a baking-sheet and crisp off in a quick oven. Brush the sweetbread with glaze, and dish it on the croute of fried bread. Strain the stock from the braising - pot, add one teaspoonful of glaze to it, and boil it until it is well reduced. Pour this round the sweetbread and garnish with the mushrooms. 1 ox sweetbread. Lardoons of bacon. Braising-pot. Croute of fried bread. 2 tablespoonfuls mushrooms. 1 teaspoouful liquid glaze.[ 64 ] SWEETBREAD A LA SUPREME. 1 sweetbread. ^ pint boiling stock. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 stick celery. 1 bunch herbs. 1 blade of mace. 6 peppercorns. Potato border. ^ pint supreme sauce. Peas. Prepare the sweetbread as in above recipe. Put it in a stew-pan with the stock, vegetables, peppercorns, and mace; simmer it gently till quite tender, from one to one and a half hour. Dish the sweetbread on the potato border, pour the supreme sauce over it, and garnish with the peas. SWEETBREAD A LA PRINCESSE. 1 large sweetbread. 1 pint velout^ sauce. 2 yolks. ^ gill cream. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. ^ tin mushrooms. Dishing.—Croute of fried bread. Garnish.—3 small tomatoes. Peas or macedoine. Prepare the sweetbread as for “ Sweetbread . h ritalienne,” put it in a stew-pan with the[ 65 ] sauce and the trimmings of the mushrooms, and simmer gently till tender, from one to one and a half hour. Lift it on to the croute of bread, add the yolks and cream to the sauce and thicken them without boiling. Pour this over the sweetbread. Cut the tomatoes in two, scoop out a little of the pulp, season them, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Fill them with the heated peas, and arrange at each end of the sweetbread. CROQUETTES OF SWEETBREAD A LA PARMENTIER. 1 braised sweetbread. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped bam or tongue. 2 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs. ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 dessertspoonful chopped mushrooms. ^ teaspoonful chopped truffle. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Creamy white sauce, vegetables. Dishing.—Creamy potato. Small potato balls or macedoine of ^ pint clear tomato sauce. Cook the sweetbread and press it till cold. Split it and cut into rounds. Mix all the chopped ingredients together, moisten with the white sauce, and season well.' Pile this 5[ 66 ] mixture high on the rounds of sweetbread, coat twice with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain well, dish, and decorate with piped potato. Garnish with the potato balls and pour the sauce round. SALMI OF GAME. 1 lightly roasted pheasant. 3 gills good Espagnole sauce. ^ gill port. 1 teaspoonful red currant jelly. 12 mushrooms. Garnish.—Fleurons of pastry. Button mushrooms and cherries, or 6 to 8 firm pieces of tinned apricot. Separate the bird into neat joints and re- move the skin. Put them in a stew-pan or casserole with the sauce, wine, jelly, and mush- rooms, and simmer gently till tender. Dish on a hot dish, or serve in the casserole, and garnish with the fleurons of pastry, the mushrooms, and the cherries or apricots. N.B.—Any other game, or neatly cut joints of hare, may be dressed in the same way. This is an excellent way of using up cold game.[ 67 I JUGGED HARE. 2 oz. butter 1 hare. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 2 cloves. 1 pint stock. 1^ gill of port. 1 tablespoonful red currant Sprig of thyme. 2 bay leaves. jelly. Cayenne and salt. Forcemeat Balls. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. chopped suet. Pepper, salt, powdered herbs. A little grated lemon rind. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 egg. Remove the blood from the hare, wipe it, and cut into neat joints. Fry these in the butter; add the vegetables, the herbs, and the stock, and simmer till tender, from one to two hours. Mix the flour with a little stock and one gill port, add it with the jelly to the hare, and simmer for another half-hour. Dish the hare neatly. Mix the blood with half-gill port, pour it into the sauce, and stir it till it thickens without boiling. Strain this over the hare, and garnish with the forcemeat balls. Forcemeat Balls.—Mix all the ingredients together, form into small balls, and poach in boiling water.[ 68 ] KROMESKIS OF CHICKEN. 6 oz. cooked chicken. 2 ,, ,, ham. 1 tablespoonfnl chopped mush- 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cayenne, salt, and nutmeg. White sauce. Thin slices of very fat bacon. rooms. Frying Batter. 2 oz. flour. 2 yolks. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. 1 tablespoonful salad oil Salt. fuls milk. 1 beaten white of egg Garnish.—Fried parsley. To sente.—^ pint tomato or curry sauce. Chop the chicken and ham ; add the mush- rooms, parsley, and seasonings, and mix with the sauce in a pan. Set this mixture aside to firm, roll it into cork shapes, and enclose each in a slice of bacon. Batter.—Mix the flour and salt together, and stir in the yolks and milk; beat this smooth, add the oil, and set aside for one hour. Fold in the beaten white just before using the batter. Dip the kromeskis into the batter and fry in deep fat. Drain well and dish on a hot entree dish. Garnish with parsley and serve the sauce separately.[ 69 ] CHICKEN PATTIES. 6 patty cases. 2 oz. cooked chicken. i „ „ ham. 6 mushrooms. 1 gill thick white sauce. Filling. Pepper, salt, cayenne, a few drops of lemon juice. 1 tablespoonfnl cream. Have the puff pastry made; roll it out ^ inch in thickness, cut it in rounds, and lay on a wet tin. Brush over the tops with beaten egg, and mark the centres with a smaller cutter. Bake in a hot oven till well risen and firm, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Remove the lids, scoop out any soft pastry inside, and dry off in the oven. Filling.—Cut the chicken and ham into neat pieces; put them in a pan with the sauce, mushrooms, and seasonings, and heat thoroughly. Add the cream, and fill the patty cases with the mixture. N.B.—The mixture used must be very thick. Sweetbread or veal may be substituted for the chicken.[ 70 ] PIGEON VOL-AU-VENT 1 large vol-au-vent case. 1 Ib. cooked pigeon. 2 fresh tomatoes. 4 „ mushrooms. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. gill thick Espagnole sauce. Sherry. Have the puff pastry made ; roll it out ^ inch in thickness, and cut it out with a large oval cutter. Proceed as for patties, and bake about half an hour till firm at the sides. Remove the soft pastry inside and dry off in the oven. Filling. — Cut the mushrooms in small pieces and fry in butter till tender. Add them to the sauce with the tomatoes sliced, the pigeon cut in small pieces, the wine, and the seasonings. Heat thoroughly, place in the prepared vol-au-vent case, and serve it hot.[ 71 J KIDNEYS A LA THURINGIAN. 3 sheep’s kidneys. 1 teaspoonful chopped ham. 1 teaspoonful chopped mush- room. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. ^ oz. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls sherry. ^ gill tomato sauce. 1 ,, Espagnole sauce. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Dishing.—Potato puree and green pea puree. Garnish.—Carrot and button mushrooms. Skin and wash the kidneys and cut them in two. Dip them in the ham, mushroom, and onion mixed together, and saut^ them in the butter. Add the wine, reduce a little, then add the sauces and seasonings, and stew till tender, about one hour. Put the two purges into a forcing bag and pipe a neat border on a hot entree dish. Lay the kidneys on the border and put a mushroom head on each. Garnish with the carrot cut in fancy shapes, and pour the sauce round.[ 72 ] CHAUD-FROID OF CHICKEN. 1 cooked chicken. | 3 g^lls white chaud-froid sauce. Decoration.—Truffle, chilli or encumber skin, chervil or cress. Dishing.—Salad, mayonnaise, chopped aspic jelly, crimped cucumber. Cut the chicken in neat joints, remove the skin, and chop off the ends of the bones; lay the joints on a rack and coat several times with the chaud-froid sauce. Decorate with neatly cut pieces of truffle, cucumber skin, etc., and a little chervil or cress. Pour over all a little cold liquid aspic jelly and set aside to firm. Have a bed of mayonnaise salad on an entree dish and arrange the joints of chicken neatly on it. Decorate with chopped jelly, crimped cucumber, etc. MUTTON CUTLETS EN CHAUD-FROID. h bones small cutlet mutton. | ^ pintwhite chaud-froid sauce. Decoration.—Truffle, chilli, etc. Dishing.—Salad. Chopped aspic jelly. I Trim the cutlets roughly and braise or fry them till cooked. Press lightly till firm, and trim further. Coat with the chaud-froid sauce.[ 78 ] decorate, and glaze with aspic. Dish on salad or a border of aspic, and decorate to taste with chopped aspic and salad. ;Note.—If deshed, the cutlets may be farced with potted chicken, liver farce, foie-gras, etc., before being coated. Any colour of chaud- froid sauce may be used. MEDALLIONS OF CHICKEN. 2 oz. cooked chicken. I „ „ ham. Pepper, salt, cayenne. ^ gill cream, i „ aspic. 2 chopped mushrooms. 1 teaspoonful chopped truffle. 6 rounds of cooked ham. IJ gill chaud-froid sauce. Decoration.—Cucumber, chervil, etc. 6 slices of tomato. Chopped aspic jelly. Put the chicken and ham twice through a mincer and pound well. Add the mushrooms, truffle, seasonings, and liquid aspic. Have the cream lightly beaten and stir in the chicken mixture. Put into medallion moulds. When set, turn out, and place each on a round of ham. Coat the medallions with the chaud- froid sauce, decorate and glaze. Dish on slices of tomato, artichoke bottoms, etc. Decorate with chopped aspic jelly.[ ] TIMBALE FROIDE A LA TOULOUSE. Lining fw Mould.—Aspic jelly, truffle, cucumber, etc. Cream Lining.—2 tablespoonfuls cream. liquid aspic jelly. Filling. 4 oz. cooked chicken. 1 ham. 1 gill double cream. 1 „ white sauce, j „ liquid aspic jelly. 1 sieved anchovy. 1 chopped gherkin. 1 „ truffle. Cayenne, salt, lemon juice, chilli vinegar. Dishing.—Chopped aspic jelly, crimped cucumber, etc. Line a plain mould with aspic jelly and decorate with truffle, cucumber skin, etc. Reline with aspic cream. Put the chicken and ham twice through the mincer and pound it with the white sauce, anchovy, etc. Stir in the aspic and add this to the whipped cream. When almost setting pour into the decorated mould. Turn out when set, and garnish with chopped aspic, crimped cucumber, etc.[ 74 J SWEETBREAD CUTLETS lining for Moulds. Aspic jelly. Peas and truffle. Filling. 4 oz. cooked sweetbread. 1 gill cream. ^ „ white sauce. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. 1 gill aspic. 2 sheets gelatine. Dishing.—Salad. Chopped aspic. Line some small cutlet moulds with jelly and decorate them with peas and truffle. Chop the sweetbread very finely, stir in the sauce, seasonings, and the gelatine dissolved in the f giU aspic; add this to the beaten cream, and mould when beginning to thicken. When set, turn on to a bed of salad and decorate with chopped aspic.[ 76 ] GALANTINE OF FOWL. 1 large untrussed fowl. 1 lb. sausage meat or quenelle 1 dozen pistachio nuts. 1 truffle. meat. 1 thick slice ham or tongue. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 dozen almonds. Aromatic spice. Pepper and salt. Glaze. Chopped aspic. Pick and singe the bird, remove the legs at the knee, wings at the first joint, the head, neck, windpipe, and crop. Cut down the centre of the back and bone the bird. Lay the meat flat and season thoroughly, spread thickly with the sausage meat and arrange the ham, eggs, etc., in strips from head to tail. Roll up tightly, tie in a cloth, and cook in stock, with the bones, from two and a half to three hours. Tie tightly in the cloth and press lightly till cold. Brush over with liquid glaze or coat it with chaud-froid sauce. Dish and garnish with chopped aspic and salad. Proceed as above, using 2^ lb. of breast of veal instead of chicken. GALANTINE OF VEAL.[ 77 ] RAISED PIGEON PIE, Hot Water Pastry.—8 oz. flour, etc. (see p. 194). 1 raw pigeon. 2 sausages. Pepper and salt. 2 pickled walnuts. Small piece of ham, 3-4 pistachio nuts. Stock. Glaze. Chopped jelly. Forcemeat halls (see Jugged Hare). Have a raised pie tin greased and line it with pastry. Fill with layers of the pigeon, sausage meat, etc. Add a little stock and cover with a lid of pastry. Make a hole in centre and bake for one and a half to two hours. Fill up with good stock, remove the tin, and leave until cold. Take off the lid, brush the outside with glaze, and decorate the top with chopped jelly. Glaze the forcemeat balls and the pigeon’s feet and arrange them on the top of the pie.• * - • '«iS»rV. «lAtf- i* ^^^^*«6itf T^'W>iit * ic! - •;■.ji ,dl ‘'J^^2ik4 v - .isl> tJ2^- 4y^:rrS^ ^rt'S’y ; rfeS<iT^ife^^feo!? I*",* »U‘**- : _.- \ ^itj 5>liJ To qoi^ 3lfct tK> ■ *»di> ■ >>' ’T; ' j'V. ;*<i. Vl.i^'t^S^H 0 4s% . •«&-<•■'■ »f»Sf*fi^ ■■:■:-> ' ■'i,'^:. - ’“- - ■ ' * ' fm I i 'C»'. * • - W • • .(^ • " ' . 4r ’>"*T V •?-V ^ ’ • !■•:H> y*S; ' '■ r* * ^VEGETABLES AND SALADS.m ^ iJ<rAJA8 Q.if&^JU'JATaoaV ’ -!»p? i; H.-V-. ■*.. -.;V *■ t . ^ ' 1*-. ■■ * ■ . •* ' R&'W'' :'* *4 ■^rl^-. -. .., ,. >- ' r<- ->^ -•.’ .'' r.. ■ ' -.■*- ; ■' , ;^-;>y:v -v^N: ■, .,' - - ■•• e... ■' ■ . '■->' •> » •' i’-. > -■ y ■Ji>'* * »j ’f ^ ) ’.' •'si V •‘/. ■ .. .i f:.- •V^ ■ -tw- ' V' ‘ s ■ * f ' :•C 81 ] ARTICHOKES. 1 lb. artichokes. | ^ pint Bechamel sance. Wash, peel, and rinse the artichokes, having a little vinegar or lemon juice in each water to preserve the colour. Cook in boiling salted water, with a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice added, for thirty minutes. Drain, dish, and coat with the Bechamel sauce. ASPARAGUS. 1 bunch asparagus. | A little oiled butter. 1 slice toast. Trim the hard ends of the asparagus, scrape lightly, and tie up in bundles according to the thickness. Cook till tender in sufficient boiling salted water to just cover the asparagus, from twenty to thirty minutes. Drain, dish on the toast, and serve with oiled butter or 6I 82 ] mousseline sauce. An asparagus kettle should be used if possible. Note.—Too much water should not be used for boiling delicately flavoured vege- tables. BRUSSELS SPROUTS AU JUS. Trim and wash the sprouts, and cook in boiling salted water with a pinch of soda for five minutes. Drain, and put them on with the boiling stock. Cook till tender, about twenty minutes, dish neatly ; reduce the stock by quick boiling, and pour it round the sprouts. Note.—Carrots, turnips, cauliflower, etc., may be cooked in the same way. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. Trim, wash, and boil the cauliflower. Drain it and put it on a fireproof dish. Make 1 lb. sprouts. I ^ pint boiling white stock. 1 cauliflower. 1 oz. butter. ^ oz. flour, 1 gill water. 2 oz. Parmesan cheese. Cayenne and salt. 1 tablespoonful cream.[ S8 J a thick sauce with the butter, flour, and water; add the seasonings, cream, and half of the cheese, and coat the cauliflower with it. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over, and brown in a hot oven. Note.—Artichokes, parsnips, turnips, vege- table marrow, haricot beans, etc., may be served in the same way. CELERY. 1 head celery. | ^ pint Bechamel sauce. Wash and scrape the celery very thoroughly; cut it into lengths, and tie it into bundles. Put them in a pan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil; skim and strain off the water. This blanching removes the strong taste and whitens the celery. Put sufficient milk and water into a pan to almost cover the celery; add a pinch of salt. When boiling, put in celery and stew till tender, about one hour. Drain thoroughly; dish on a square of toast, and coat with the Bechamel sauce.[ 84 ] CUCUMBER. Peel the cucumber, and cut it in neat pieces ; scald it, and boil in white stock till tender, about ten minutes. Arrange in a dish, and coat with Bechamel, Hollandaise, or Soubise sauce, etc. FLAGEOLETS. ^ lb. flageolets. Soak the flageolets over night Cook in boiling salted water, with a pinch of soda in it, till tender, from forty to fifty minutes. Drain, and toss in melted butter, or coat with sauce. DRESSED FRENCH BEANS. ^ lb. French beans. 1 oz. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls veloute sauce. Lemon juice. Glaze. Pepper and salt Garnish.—Fried bread. Chopped parsley. Wash and string the beans, and cut them into strips. Cook in boiling salted water[ 85 ] till tender, about fifteen minutes, and drain thoroughly. Melt butter, add French beans, sauce, glaze, and seasonings, and heat thor- oughly. Pile in a vegetable dish, garnish with neat pieces of fried bread and a little chopped parsley. Note.—The beans may be steamed instead of boiled, and may be tossed in a little melted butter. SAVOURY HARICOT BEANS. ^ lb. haricot beans. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. Cheddar cheese. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. Cayenne and salt. A little cream. Soak the beans over night in plenty of cold water; rinse and put them in a pan with cold water and salt. Boil gently from two to three hours till tender. Drain, and remove the skins. Melt the butter in a pan ; add all the other ingredients, and shake over the fire till the beans are well coated with the mixture, without allowing it to boil. Dish and garnish with fried bread.[ 86 ] PEAS, 1 Ib. peas. Boiling water. Sugar, Sprig of mint, i oz. butter. Salt. Rinse the peas and shell them. Have a pan with just enough boiling salted water to cover them. Add the peas with the mint and a pinch of sugar ; boil gently till soft, from ten to twenty minutes. Drain thoroughly, toss in the melted butter, and serve. Scrub and peel the potatoes and cut into very thin slices. Keep for half an hour in cold water. Drain very well on a dry cloth. Have the fat smoking hot. Put the chips into a frying-basket and cook until tender, about three minutes. Lift up the basket and let the fat reheat. Put the potatoes into the fat again for a few seconds, until they are crisp and brown. Drain thoroughly on paper, and serve. POTATO CHIPS. Two or three potatoes. Pan of fat.[ 87 ] POTATO CROQUETTES. ^ lb. cooked potatoes, i oz. butter. 1 yolk. 1 good teaspoonful parsley. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. Cayenne and salt. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a pan ; add all the other ingredients, and cook over the fire till the mixture will roll smoothly into balls. Cool slightly, form into balls, rolls, or fancy shapes ; coat with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain well; dish and garnish with parsley. Wash and scrape the salsify thoroughly, using lemon juice or vinegar in each water to preserve the colour. Boil in boiling salted water, with few drops of lemon juice or vinegar, till tender, about thirty minutes ; drain and dish. Pour over melted butter, or coat with Bdchamel, Hollandaise sauce, etc. SALSIFY. 1 bundle salsify. Boiling water. Salt. Lemon juice.[ 88 ] SEA-KALE. 1 basket sea-kale. | Boiling water. Salt Wash and scrape the sea-kale thoroughly, and tie it up in bundles of even thickness. Boil gently for thirty minutes till tender; drain, and serve on toast. Pour over melted butter, or coat with Hollandaise or mousseline sauce. SPINACH. Wash the spinach very thoroughly and remove the coarse stalks ; put it into a rinsed pan with the water that clings to the leaves. Put the lid on the pan and cook till tender, stirring frequently. When ready, drain and rub through a sieve. Put it into a pan with a small pat of butter and pinches of pepper and salt; allow it to heat thoroughly. Pile neatly on a hot vegetable dish. Garnish with tiny crohtons of fried bread.[ 89 ^ STUFFED TOMATOES. 3 medium firm tomatoes. Stuffing.—1 teaspoouful butter. I „ chopped onion. 1 dessertspoonful chopped ham. 2 chopped button mushrooms. 1 tablespoonful white hread-crumbs. A little brown sauce or tomato pulp. Cayenne and salt. Garnish for Top.—Brown crumbs and cheese. Dishing.—Rounds of fried bread. Parsley. Have the tomatoes of equal sizes ; wipe them and cut a small round from each at the end opposite the stalk. Scoop out all the pulp from the inside, and turn the cases upside down for a short time to drain. Melt the butter in a pan and fry the onion and ham thoroughly; stir in the other ingredients, and have the mixture rather soft. Fill the tomatoes with this ; sprinkle with cheese and crumbs on top, and bake in a moderate oven, from twelve to fifteen minutes, till soft. Dish on the rounds of fried bread and decorate with small sprigs of parsley. N.B.—Scraps of chicken, sweetbread, game, etc., may be substituted for ham and mush- rooms.[ 90 ] VEGETABLE MARROW. 1 medium marrow. | Boiling water. Salt, To coat.—J pint melted butter. Wipe and peel the marrow thinly ; cut in four from end to end, remove the seeds, and cut in neat pieces. Place in the boiling salted water, and boil gently till tender. Drain, dish on toast, and coat with the melted butter. N.B. — Any good sauce as Hollandaise, maitre d’hotel, cheese, etc., may be sub- stituted. CREME DE LEGUMES. 1 gill vegetable pure'e". 3 eggs. 1 gill milk. Sauce. 1^ oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 8 gills milk. ^ gill cream. Cayenne and salt. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. Pepper and salt. Little cream. Beat the eggs; add the vegetable purde, cream, milk, and seasonings. Have a plain[ 91 ] souffle tin greased and dusted with rice-flour, or lined throughout with paper. Pour the mixture into this, and steam very gently, without boiling, till firm, from one to one and a half hour. Turn out and coat with sauce. Sauce.—Make in the usual way, and add the cheese and cream immediately before using. N.B.—Any vegetable or mixture of vege- tables may be used for this cream : artichokes, asparagus, tomatoes, green peas, celery, cauli- flower, etc. Cook the vegetables in milk if possible, and use the milk in making the cream. CELERY SALAD. 1 head celery. ( French dressing. Chopped parsley. Wash and scrape the white parts of the celery; cut in lengths and shred very finely. Soak in cold water about one hour till the shreds curl. Drain well; toss in the French dressing. Pile in a salad dish, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley over.[ 92 ) CUCUMBER SALAD. 1 cucumber, ( French dressing Chopped parsley. Peel the cucumber and cut in very thin slices. Arrange these neatly in a salad dish. Pour the French dressing over, and scatter a very little finely chopped parsley over all. FRUIT SALAD. Fruit Mixture. 1 small bunch black grapes. 1 „ » green grapes. 1 tangerine orange. 2 bananas. 6 French plums. 1 dozen cherries. 3-4 pieces preserved fruit. J lb. loaf sugar. ^ pint water. A little lemon juice. Syrup. t gill rum, brandy, or maraschino. Skin and stone the grapes; stone the cherries and French plums ; remove the skin and pith from the orange, slice across and remove the seeds; slice the bananas and preserved fruit, and put all the fruit in a basin. Boil the water and sugar till thick and syrupy ; add the lemon juice and liqueur, and pour over the fruit mixture. Cover over and[ 98 ] set aside till cold. Chill on ice if desired. Pour into a glass dish and serve. iV.i?.—Instead of making a syrup, the fruit may be arranged in layers in the salad bowl, and a little sugar and liqueur sprinkled over each layer. Place on ice for several hours before using. LOBSTER SALAD. 1 small hen lobster. 1 lettuce. 1 cooked beetroot, 1 egg. 6 olives. 3-4 gherkins. 6 anchovies. 1 tablespoonful capers. French and mayonnaise dressings. Have the lobster boiled and cold, remove the shell, and set aside the best parts of the meat for decoration. Wash, dry, pound, and sieve the coral. Wash, drain, and shred the lettuce, cut the beetroot in neat pieces, and put them in a basin with the remainder of the lobster cut small, olives, gherkins, capers, etc. Toss in French dressing and pile in a salad dish. Mix the mayonnaise with twice its bulk of aspic jelly, and pour over the salad when it begins to thicken. Decorate with strips of gherkin, turned olives, lettuce, lobster coral, and the best parts of the lobster.[ 94 J MAYONNAISE SALAD 1 lettuce. 1 bundle watercress. Id. small cress. 2 tomatoes. 2 hard-boiled eggs. ^ cucumber. 1 gill thick mayonnaise sauce. Wash the green salads carefully, taking care not to bruise the leaves, and drain well on a cloth. Dip the tomatoes in boiling water ; remove the skin, and cut one in sections and one in slices. Peel and chop the cucumber roughly. Cut one egg in neat pieces and chop the others. Set aside the heart of the lettuce, one or two sprigs of cress, etc., for decoration. Arrange one or two leaves of lettuce, torn small, in a salad bowl; add the remainder of the lettuce, cress, cucumber, one egg, and one tomato to the dressing, and pile high on the dish. Decorate with the neatly cut pieces of tomato and egg, the lettuce and watercress. —Any salad in season may be used.( es ] TOMATO SALAD. 3 large firm tomatoes. 3 sticks celery, or 1 bunch watercress or small cress. French dressing. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water; skin and cut them across into thin slices. Shred the celery and leave in cold water for half an hour; wash the cress well. Arrange the tomatoes in a neat circle in a salad dish, pour the dressing over. Pile the celery or cress in the centre.s. arr «waT, - ~ ^ rV-r T<.^fia<I^’> -v';« ■ ‘'^^V «- w.w-¥'«Mr»t^wA- !• ■ ,. .k’S® \ •• v;. * • j<^ *»;n& M(a, ; ;-v’i«mIh aba^bdt . ■'•■ r —^ .»-? • \ » - * ^ .9 'V Tur- ■ - jr* •** ^ (HOT SWEETS. 1[ 09 ] ALMOND TARTLETS. Mixture. 2 oz. almonds. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. ^egg. ^ teaspoonful lemon juice. A little grated lemon rind. Short Crust Pastry.—2 oz. flour, etc. Blanch the almonds and chop them finely. Cream the butter and sugar, and beat in the egg with the almonds, lemon juice, and rind. Make the pastry and roll it very thinly; cut in rounds, turn them, and line some greased patty tins evenly. Half fill the tins with the mixture. Put the tartlets in a hot oven till the pastry is set, then reduce the heat and cook the mixture more slowly. Cook from thirty to forty minutes, till firm and a pale brown colour.[ 100 1 CHOCOLATE TARTLETS. Mixture. ^ stick chocolate (| oz.). ^ gill milk. ^ teaspoonful cornflour. ^ „ butter. 1 teaspoonful sutrar. 1 yolk. Vanilla essence. Pinch of cinnamon- Short Crust Pastry.—1^ oz. flour, etc. Meringue.—1 white. 2 oz. sugar. Decoraiion.—Cherries. Angelica Dissolve the chocolate in half the milk, add the cornflour mixed with the remainder of the milk, and boil till thick. Cool, and stir in the rest of the ingredients. Line some greased tartlet tins with the pastry and half fill with the mixture. Place in a hot oven till the pastry is set and the mixture risen and firm, from twelve to fifteen minutes. Pipe the meringue on the top, dust with sugar, and decorate with the cherries and angelica cut in small pieces. Dry off in a very cool oven till crisp without browning, fi-om three-quarters to one hour.C 101 ] BAKED COCOANUT PUDDING. 4 oz. cocoanut ^ pint milk. 2 oz. cake-crumbs. 1 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter 3 eggs. Lemon juice. 3 oz. short crust pastry Meringue.—3 whites of eggs. 6 oz. sugar. Line and decorate a pie-dish with the pastry. Cook the cocoanut in the milk till softened, stir in the crumbs, butter and sugar, the yolks and lemon juice. Pour into the pie-dish and bake in a moderately hot oven till firngi, about forty minutes. Pile the meringue, stiffly beaten, on the top, and bake in a cool oven till crisp. Line and decorate the edges of a pie-dish with the pastry. Mix the yolks of eggs and the sugar well, then add the sieved cake- crumbs, the grated lemon rind, the strained BAKED LEMON PUDDING. Trimmings of rough puff or 2 lemons. 3 oz. cake-crumbs. About ^ gill milk. short crust pastry. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 eggs.[ 102 ] lemon juice, and the milk. Whip the whites of eggs very stiffly and mix lightly with the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the prepared pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. WEST RIDING PUDDING. Trimmings of rough puff or short crust pastry. 2 tablespoonfuls of jam. 2 eggs and their weight in butter, sugar, and flour. Grated rind of half lemon. ^ teaspoonful of baking powder. Line the sides of a pie-dish with a thin strip of pastry, then decorate the edges of the dish with fancily cut shapes of pastry. Spread the jam at the bottom of the dish. Cream the butter and sugar well; add the eggs and flour by degrees; beat all the ingredients well; add the baking powder with the last tablespoonful of flour. Pour the mixture into the pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a quarter hour.[ 108 ] BANBURY PUFFS Mixture. 1 oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. 1 tablespoonful brandy. 4 oz. currants. ^ oz. mixed peel. Pinches of allspice and cinnamon. 1 yolk. 2 oz. moist sugar. Flaky Pastry.—6 oz. flour, etc. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour and brandy, and cook till thick. Cool slightly, and stir in all the other ingredients. Roll the pastry thinly and spread the mixture over half of it. Brush the rest of the pastry with white of egg and fold it over. Brush over with white of egg and dust with sugar, mark the pastry in sections, and lay on a wet tin. Bake in a hot oven for twenty to twenty-five minutes, till well risen, crisp, and brown. Cut into pieces, dust with sugar, and serve. 1 egg. Have one dozen flat round tins well greased. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in FRENCH PANCAKES. 1 oz. rice-flour or flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. ^ teacup milk or cream. Juice of half lemon. Jam.[ 104 ] the yolk of the egg with a little flour, add the remainder of the flour with the milk and lemon juice. Fold in the white of the egg stiffly beaten, and pour into the tins. Bake in a hot oven till well risen, brown, and firm, about ten minutes. Turn on to a sugared paper, put a little hot jam on each, and sandwich two rounds together. Pile neatly on a hot dish, and dust with castor sugar. Peel, core, and slice the apples ; put them in a pan with the butter, sugar, rind and juice of lemon, and stew till soft. Rub this through a hair sieve, and add the yolks. Cut the bread into rounds the size of a shilling, and cut two large rounds to fit the top and bottom of the tin to be used. Dip the bread in the clarified butter, and place a large round at the foot of the tin. Arrange the small rounds in layers round the tin, lining it to the top. Fill the APPLE CHARLOTTE 1 ^ lb. of apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 oz. of sugar. Grated rind of a lemon. Juice of half a lemon. 2 or 3 slices of bread. Clarified butter.t 105 ] centre with the apple mixture, and place the other large round of bread on the top. Twist a greased paper over, place a saucer with a weight in it on the top, and bake in a hot oven for one hour. Turn on to a hot dish. If any mixture remains after filling, heat it and dish round the charlotte. BROWN BREAD PUDDING. 4 oz. brown bread-crumbs. oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. glace cherries. 2 eggs. 1 giU milk. Rind of half lemon. Nutmeg, cinnamon, and lemon juice, igill cream. Boil the milk and butter in a saucepan ; add . the crumbs, sugar, and cherries, and cook till thick. Break the eggs and add the yolks to the mixture. Mix well, and add flavouring. Beat up the whites stiffly, and mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingredients. Turn the mixture into a greased tin or bowl and steam gently from three-quarters to one hour. Turn the pudding out, and pour wine sauce round.[ 108 ] CABINET PUDDING. 2 sponge cakes. 3 ratafia biscuits. 2 eggs. ^ pint milk. 1 oz. sugar. Vanilla essence. Decoration.—Cherries and angelica. To serve.—1 gill jam sauce. Cut the sponge cake in small dice, and crumble the ratafias small. Beat the eggs slightly with the sugar, add the milk heated and the flavouring, and strain this over the cake; soak till quite cold. Grease a plain mould, put a round of greased paper in the foot, and decorate with pieces of cherry and angelica. Pour the mixture into this, and steam very steadily till firm, from three- quarters to one hour. Turn out of the tin and pour the jam sauce round. Have an old plain tin dry and slightly warmed. Put the loaf sugar and water in an CARAMEL CUSTARD. Caramel.—3 oz. loaf sugar, | gill water Custard. 3 whole eggs. 1 dessertspoonful sugar. 2 eggs and 2 yolks, or ^ pint milk. Vanilla essence.[ 107 ] old pan, and let them boil without stirring till a rich brown colour. Pour the caramel into the tin and line it evenly; leave to become firm and cool. Beat the eggs slightly with the sugar, add the milk heated and the vanilla, and strain into the prepared tin. Steam steadily without boiling till firm, from three-quarters to one hour. Turn out of tin and serve. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 2 oz. chocolate. ^ gill milk. 3^ oz. cake-crumbs. 1^ oz. butter. 1^ oz. sugar. 2 eggs. Vanilla. ^ gill cream. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk, boil well for a minute, allow to cool, and add the cream. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the yolks and dissolved chocolate with the cake-crumbs, and allow to soak for ten minutes. Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten stiffly and the flavouring ; pour into a greased basin or china mould; steam steadily till firm, one to one and a half hour. Turn on to a hot dish, and pour custard sauce round.[ 108 ] COCOANUT PUDDING. 1 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. cake-crumbs. 2 oz. cocoanut. 1 oz. sugar. 1^ gill milk. 2 small eggs. Vanilla essence. 1 oz. butter. Put the cocoanut and milk into a saucepan, bring to the boil, then simmer for about ten minutes until the milk is absorbed. Cream the butter and sugar, and add the cake and bread-crumbs, the cocoanut, and the yolks of the eggs. Mix well, and flavour with vanilla essence. Beat up the whites stiffly, then mix lightly with the other ingredients. Turn the mixture into a greased bowl, cover with greased paper, and steam gently for about an hour. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round jam sauce.[ 109 ] FIG PUDDING. 4 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. suet. 6 oz. flgs. 2 oz. sultanas. 1 oz. almonds. 1 oz. mixed peel. 1 oz. cherries. Grated rind of one lemon. 3 eggs. ^ gill cream. Milk if necessary. Chop the suet, figs, peel, cherries, and almonds, and mix all the dry ingredients together. Bind with the beaten eggs, cream, and milk, and mix to a dropping consistency. Steam in a greased mould for four hours. Turn out, and serve with custard, mousseline, or wine sauce. N.B.—Dates or prunes may be substituted for figs.[ 110 ] PLUM PUDDING. 1 lb. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. flour. ^ lb. suet. ^ lb. Valencias. ^ lb. sultanas. 1 lb. currants. 2 oz. mixed peeL 2 oz. citron peel. 2 oz. almonds. ^ lb. Demerara sugar. 1 good teaspoonful mixed spices. 1 lemon. 4 eggs. 1 gill brandy. 1 „ rum (optional). Milk if necessary. Good pinch salt. Chop the suet finely with the flour, stone tlie Valencias, clean and pick the currants and sultanas, and chop the peel and almonds finely. Mix the bread-crumbs, suet, fruit, sugar, spices, and salt together, and add the lemon rind and juice. Beat the eggs and add to the mixture with the brandy and rum. Add milk if needed, and have the mixture of a dropping consistency. Tie in floured cloths, or greased basins, and boil steadily for eight to twelve hours. N.B.—These puddings may be made several weeks before required, and should have two hours’ boiling at least when needed. ^ lb. stewed figs or apples may be added to the above mixture if desired.[ in ] RASPBERRY PUDDING. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. bread-crumbs. 4 eggs. 4 dessertspoonfuls raspberry jam. Grease a mould and dust with brown bread- crumbs or ratafia crumbs. Melt the butter, strain it, and stir in the crumbs. Beat in the yolks and jam thoroughly. Fold in the whites beaten stiffly and turn into the mould. Steam gently for one and a half to two hours. Turn out, and serve with any good sauce. Put the loaf sugar in an old pan, and burn it a dark brown colour ; add the milk, and let it dissolve. Cut the bread in small dice, clean the sultanas, chop the peel finely; mix these together with the castor sugar and lemon rind. Beat the eggs ; add the caramelled milk. VIENNOISE PUDDING. B oz. bread. 3 oz. sultanas. 2 oz. mixed peel. 3 oz. castor sugar. A little lemon rind. 1 oz. loaf sugar. ^ pint milk. 2 eggs. ^ gill cream, i „ sherry.[ 112 ] cream, and sherry, strain these over the bread, etc., and allow to soak at least half an hour. Turn into a greased basin, and steam till firm, from one to one and a half hour. Turn out, and serve with custard, wine, or German sauce. VANILLA SOUFFLE (1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. sugar. Vanilla essence. 3 yolks. 4 whites. Tie a double band of paper round the outside of a souffle tin and place a round of greased paper in the bottom. Grease aU thoroughly. Panada.—Melt butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add all the milk, and boil till the mixture is thick and leaves the sides of the pan clean. Cool slightly ; add the sugar and beat in the yolks one by one; stir in the flavouring and a little of the beaten whites, then fold in[ 118 ] the remainder as lightly as possible. Steam very gently till the souffle is well risen and firm to the touch, from three-quarters to one hour. Turn out, and serve with jam or custard sauce. N.B.—The foundation of most souffles is a thick binding sauce called a panada; if a liquid such as milk or coffee is^ used in making it, use 1 gill to each ounce of flour; if a thicker liquid than milk is used, as dissolved chocolate, apricot pulp, etc., use gill to each ounce of flour. Panada.—MgW. the butter, add the flour and apricot juice and pulp, and cook till thick. Cool; add sugar and yolks separately, and fold APRICOT SOUFFLE. Panada.- 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. ^ gill apricot pulp. ,, juice. 1 oz. sugar. S yolks. 4 whites. 8[ 114 ] in whites beaten stiffly. Turn into a papered souffle tin and steam till firm, about one to one and a quarter hour. Turn out, and pour the thickened apricot liquor round. —Custard or apricot jam sauce may be used instead. CHESTNUT SOUFFL^i. 4 oz. chestnut flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. Sugar to sweeten. Vanilla essence. Melt the butter, add the chestnut flour and milk, and cook until thick. Add the sugar, vanilla, and yolks of eggs; beat thoroughly. Fold in the whites stiffly beaten, and turn into a greased china souffle dish. Bake in a moderate oven till risen and firm, about forty to fifty minutes. Chestnut Flour.—Cut a small piece off the end of the chestnuts and boil them for ten minutes. Remove the husk and brown skin, and cook in milk till tender. Drain the chestnuts and rub through a wire sieve.[ 115 ] CHOCOLATE S0UFFL6. Panada. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1^ gill milk. 1 oz. chocolate. 1 oz. sugar. Vanilla essence. 3 yolks. 4 whites. Dissolve the chocolate in a little of the milk, boil well, and add the rest of the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and the dissolved chocolate, and boil till thick. Cool slightly, and beat in the sugar, vanilla, and yolks. Fold in the whites stiffly beaten, and pour into a papered souffle tin. Steam gently till firm, about one hour. Turn out, and serve with custard or chocolate sauce. Melt butter, add flour and coffee, and boil till thick. Cool; add the sugar and yolks, and COFFEE SOUFFL]^, 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill strong cofl!’ee. 1 oz. sugar. 3 yolks. 4 whites.[ 110 ] fold in the beaten whites. Steam gently till firm, for three-quarters to one hour. Turn out, and serve with custard or coffee custard sauce. SWEET OMELET 2 fresh eggs. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful heated jam. Have an omelet pan “ proved ” and well greased with clarified butter. Break the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites. Beat the yolks and sugar together till creamy. Beat the whites stiffly and fold them lightly into the yolks and sugar. Pour this mixture into the omelet pan and shake the pan over a gentle heat until the omelet is beginning to set and rise, then place the pan in a steady oven and cook until the omelet is well risen and of a light brown colour. When ready, turn the omelet on to a piece of sugared paper, put the jam in the centre, fold the omelet over, and serve at once.[ 117 ] OMELET SOUFFLE. 3 eggs. I 1^ oz. sugar. 1 teaspooniiil flour. I Vanilla. Whisk the yolks and sugar till creamy, add the flour, flavouring, and the whites very stiffly beaten. Pour into a greased saut^ pan and bake in a moderately hot oven till firm and brown. Turn on to a sugared paper, and spread with a little heated jam or preserved fruit. Fold in two and serve immediately. —If desired, rum syrup may be poured over.1 V4 I'S.r:. .V iv'-v ' V V; / r-^V ‘ i- r • ’•' ^ ;,; *J -‘t.MJ. ; •-., ■ 'S^r ■ ' ■ ■ -^ C ' X ' * : lu.; .KS-i-’s . < iH t ■4COLD SWEETS[ 1«> 1 FRUIT TARTLETS. 4 pieces tinned apricot. Sugar and colouring. gill apricot syrup. Few drops kirsch. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. Short CrvLtt Pastry.—i oz. flour, etc. Have some pastry cases baked and dry. Cut the fruit in neat pieces and stew them in the syrup till soft. Lay them in the pastry cases, and thicken the syrup with the arrow- root. Sweeten, flavour, and colour, and pour over the fruit. N.B.—Cherries or any fresh fruit may be substituted for apricot.[ 122 ] PRUNE TARTLETS. 1 1^11 prune puree. •J- „ cream. A little claret. Sugar. Lemon juice. 8 pastry cases. Decoration.—1 gill cream, pistachios, etc. Mix the prune pur^e, cream, lemon juice, and sugar together. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, and decorate with whipped cream, pistachios, etc. Short Crust Pastry.—3 oz. flour, etc. Filling.—^ tin preserved fruit; sugar and flavouring. Decoration.—1 gill double cream, violets, angelica, etc. Make the pastry, roll it out rather thick, line a greased ring with it, and put in a double rim. Prick, fill with greased paper and beans, and bake till set in a fairly hot oven. Remove the beans, dry off, and leave till cold. Trim the edges, and decorate, if liked, with jam and cocoanut. Drain the fruit, cut it in neat pieces, and fill up the case with it, sweeten- ing and flavouring each layer. Pipe with SWISS TART,[ 123 ] sweetened cream, and decorate with violets and angelica. —Stewed fruit of any kind may be substituted for tinned fruit, or any fruit in season, strawberries, raspberries, etc. APRICOT CREAM. Decoratim,—Wine jelly. Rounds of apricot. Pistachios. Filling. 1 gill apricot puree, i „ „ juice. 1 „ double cream. Sugar and lemon juice. Colouring. ^ oz. leaf gelatine. ^ gill water. Decorate a mould with the jelly, apricot, and pistachios. Half-whip the cream ; add the fruit pur^e and juice, sugar, lemon juice, and colouring. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and stir it gently into the mixture. Mould when beginning to thicken. Turn out when set, and garnish with a little chopped jelly. N.B.—This method is employed in the making of all fruit creams.[ ] VANILLA CREAM. Decoration,—Wine jelly, cherries, pistachios, etc. Filling. 1 gill cream. 1 ,, custard. Sugar. Vanilla, lemon juice. ^ oz. gelatine (light weight), i gill water. Line the mould with jelly and decorate to taste. Whip the cream; add the custard, sugar, and flavourings, and stir in the dis- solved gelatine. Mould when setting, and decorate with chopped jelly. N.B.—This method is employed in the making of custard creams. 2 oz. preserved ginger, cherries, etc., may be added to the above quantity. Line and decorate a mould. Whip the cream ; add the sugar, sherry, and lemon juice. VELVET CREAM. Decoration.—Wine jelly, cherries, pistachios, etc Filling. ^ pint cream. Sugar to sweeten. ^ gill sherry. Lemon juice. ^ oz. gelatine. ^ gill water.[ 125 I ^ gill water. J glass brandy or Curasao. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and add to the mixture. Mould when setting. Turn out, and garnish with chopped jelly. N.B.—This method is employed in the making of plain creams. Noyeau, rum, etc., may be substituted for sherry, and the cream named accordingly. Line and decorate a mould. Whip the cream; add all the ingredients to it—the dissolved gelatine last of all. Mould, and turn out when set. Decorate with chopped jelly. ITALIAN CREAM. Decoration.—Wine jelly, pistachios, etc. Filling. 1 gill custard. 1 ,, cream. Sugar to sweeten. Lemon juice. ^ oz. gelatine.[ 126 ) 1 ,, custard. ^ gill water. COFFEE CREAM Decoration.—Wine jelly, pistachios, etc. Filling. 1 gill custard. 1 ,, cream. Sugar to sweeten. Lemon juice. ^ oz. gelatine. \ gill water. 2 tablespoonfuls coffee essence. Line and decorate a mould. Whip the cream ; add all the ingredients—the dissolved gelatine last of all—and mould. Turn out when set. Decorate with chopped jelly. Line and decorate a mould. Whip the cream; add the other ingredients—the dis- solved gelatine last. Mould when setting. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly. Note.—Infuse the milk used in the prepara- tion of the custard with the rind of two oranges. ORANGE CREAM. Decoration.—Wine jelly. Pistachio nuts. Filling. 1 gill cream. 1 ,, orange juice. Sugar, lemon juice. Colouring. ^ oz. gelatine.[ 12T ] RICE CREAM. Decoration.—Jelly, cherries, etc. Filling. 1 gill cream. ^ pint milk. I oz. rice-flour. Sugar, vanilla. J oz. gelatine \ gill water. Line and decorate a mould. Cook the rice in the milk, and leave till cold. Whip the cream ; add the rice, sugar, and flavouring, and the gelatine dissolved in the water. Mould, and turn out when set. Decorate with chopped jelly. gAteau de riz. Decoration.—Jelly. Pistachios. 1 gill cream. ^ pint milk. 1 oz. rice-flour. Filling. Sugar and vanilla. \ oz. gelatine. ^ gill water. To dish.—Compote of fruit. Line and decorate a border mould. Cook the rice in the milk, and leave till cold. Whip the cream ; add the rice, sugar, and flavour-^ ings, and the gelatine dissolved in the water. Mould, and turn out when set. Decorate with chopped jelly round and compote of fruit in the centre.[ 18« ] APPLES A LA ROSEBERY. 1 lb. apples. 1^ gfill water. 1 inch cinnamon stick. 1 orange. 1 lemon. 1 gill cream. Orange-flower water. Maraschino. Carmine. Castor sugar. oz. leaf gelatine, gill water. Chopped jelly. Decoration.—^ gill cream. Stew the apples with the 1^ gill water, cinnamon stick, rind of the orange and the lemon, and a little sugar. Rub through a hair sieve, measure and make up to ^ pint. Whip the cream lightly; add the apple pulp, sugar, lemon and orange juice, and flavourings, and colour a pale pink ; add the dissolved gelatine. Pour into a wetted mould and leave till firm. Turn out, and decorate with piped cream, and arrange a little jelly round the base. JV.B.—The cream may be turned on to a piece of cake that has been saturated with maraschino syrup, and a fruit salad arranged round.I 129 J BAVAROISE OF CHOCOLATE. Decoration.—Sweet jelly. Pistachios. Relining.—2 tablespoonfuls cream. 4 „ _ jelly. Rum and carmine. Filling. 2 oz. chocolate. 3 gills milk. 3 yolks. 1 gill cream. Sugar, vanilla. Rum. Few drops lemon juice, (I oz. leaf gelatine, gill water. To serve.—Chopped jelly. Line a mould with jelly, and decorate with shreds of pistachio nut or shamrocks. Reline with the pink lining mixture. Dissolve the chocolate in a little milk, add the rest of the milk and the yolks, and thicken the custard without letting it boil; leave till cold. Whip the cream lightly ; add the chocolate mixture, sugar, and flavourings ; dissolve the gelatine in the water, stir it into mixture, and mould when beginning to thicken. Turn out when set, and arrange chopped jelly round the base. N.B.—The relining is not necessary, but is an improvement. 9I ’80 ] BAVAROISE OF FRUIT. Decoration.—Sweet jelly. Pistachios. Fruit. Filling. 1 gill fruit puree. 1 ,, cream. 1 ,, custard. Sugar. Lemon juice. ^ oz. leaf gelatine. water. Line and decorate a mould. Have the custard cold; whip the cream lightly, and mix both with the fruit puree; sweeten; add lemon juice, colouring if required, and the dissolved gelatine. Mould when setting. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly. Line and decorate a mould. Whip the cream ; add milk, sugar, and flavourings, and stir in the gelatine dissolved in the water. Mould when setting. Turn out and decorate. BLANCMANGE. Decoration.—Sweet jelly. Cherries. Filling. 1 gill cream. ^ pint milk. Sugar. Flavouring. ^ oz. gelatine. ill water. Lemon juice.[ 131 ] CABINET PUDDING. Decoration.—Wine jelly. Cherries and angelica. 1 sponge cake. 1 oz. ratafias. ^ pint custard. 1 oz. cherries. Filling. ^ gill cream. Sugar, vanilla, rj oz. gelatine, gill water. Line and decorate a mould. Soak the sponge cake and ratafias in the custard, and add the cream beaten lightly, the sugar, flavourings, and dissolved gelatine. Mould when setting. Turn out when set, and deco- rate with chopped jelly. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Decoration.—Sweet jelly. Pistachios, cherries or violets. 6 or 7 sponge finger biscuits. ^ pint cream. 1 gill milk. Sugar and vanilla. Filling. Few drops lemon juice f i oz. gelatine, gill water. Dishing.—Chopped jelly. Set some jelly in the foot of a plain char- lotte tin and decorate to taste. Trim the[ 182 ] biscuits evenly, and fit tightly round the sides of the tin. Half-whip the cream; stir in the milk, sugar, and flavourings, and add the dis- solved gelatine. I.eave till almost set, then pour into the tin. When set, trim the biscuits level with the cream; dip the bottom in water and turn out. Serve on a dish paper, or with chopped jelly round. JV.S.—The bottom of the mould may be lined with biscuits instead of jelly, and decor- ated with whipped cream when turned out. Any cream filling may be substituted for the above mixture, and the charlotte named accordingly. CHARTREUSE OF APRICOT. Decoration. Sweet jelly. Rounds of apricot. Chopped pistachios. Filling. 1^ gill cream. >1 apricot pulp. ^ gill apricot syrup. Sugar. A few drops lemon juice. (I oz. leaf gelatine, gill water. Dishing.—Chopped jelly. Ifine a plain mould with the jelly, and decorate heavily with the rounds of apricot[ 133 ] ' and chopped pistachios. Line again with jelly very thickly. Half-whip the cream ; stir in the apricot pulp and syrup, the sugar, lemon juice, and the dissolved gelatine. Mould when setting. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly. CHARTREUSE OF ORANGES. Proceed as for Chartreuse of Apricot. Use small sections of tangerine oranges for decoration, and 1^ gill orange juice for inside mixture. CLARET PUDDING. Decoration.—Wine jelly. Filling. i pint claret. ^ teacupful strawberry jam. 1 lemon. Sugar to sweeten. ^ glass brandy. (^ ox. gelatine, gill water. Dishing.—1 gill cream. Line a border mould with wine jelly. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, dissolve, and allow to infuse for twenty minutes. Strain,[ 134 ] and allow to cool. Colour if necessary with carmine. Pour into the lined mould. Turn out when set, and fill the centre with whipped cream. COFFEE PUDDING. Decoration.—Wiue jelly and silver leaf. 1 ^11 custard. 1 ,, strong coffee. 1 oz. ratafias. 1 oz. sponge cake. ^ gill cream. Filling. Sugar, vanilla. 1 dessertspoonful brandy. J ^ oz. gelatine. (^ gill water. Line and decorate mould. Soak the sponge cake and ratafias in custard and coffee; add the sugar, brandy, vanilla, and the cream lightly whipped. Stir in the dissolved gelatine, and mould when setting. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly.L 185 ] CRteME RUBANT. Lining. 2 oz. chocolate. 1 tablespoonful water. 1 gill sweet jelly. Filling. 1 gill cream. 1 ,, custard. 1 tablespoonful brandy. 1 dessertspoonful orange-fipwer water. Vanilla, sugar. 1 dessertspoonful maraschino. A few drops lemon juice. I oz. gelatine. \ gill water. Decoration.—Chopped jelly. Dissolve the chocolate in the water and boil it a minute; add the jelly, and leave till cool. Line a wet mould with this mixture. Half-whip the cream ; add the custard, sugar, flavouring, and dissolved gelatine. Pour into the mould, and leave till set. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly.[ 186 ] CUSTARD. 3 yolks of eggs. 1 dessertspoonful sugar. 1 white. Flavouring. ^ pint milk. Beat the eggs and sugar lightly together; add the milk heated and the flavouring, and strain into a rinsed pan. Stir over moderate heat till the eggs thicken, without allowing the custard to boil. Turn into a basin, and stir while cooling to prevent a skin forming on the top. N.B.—Two yolks and one white may be used if the custard is not wanted quite so rich. CUP CUSTARD. Prepare the custard as above. When cold, pour into custard cups, and place a ratafia biscuit on top of each. Sprinkle if liked with a little grated nutmeg. i[ 137 ] MERINGUES. 3 whites of eggs. | 6 oz. castor sugar. Have a thick board oiled and covered with oiled paper. Whisk the whites till very stiff, add a pinch of sugar, and whisk again till hard. Fold in all the sugar lightly. Put in a bag with a meringue pipe, and force out in fancy shapes on the paper. Dust with sugar, and put in a cool oven for several hours, till crisp through- out without browning. Remove from the paper, scoop out the inside, and dry off if necessary. Fill with whipped and flavoured cream immediately before use, and decorate with pistachios. iV.J5.—Meringue cases may be made in quantities, and kept in a tin. MILANAISE SOUFFLE. 2 small eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 lemon. Decoration.—^ gill cream. 1 gill cream, f ^ oz. gelatine, gill water. Chopped pistachios. Violets Have a china souffle case with a band of paper tied fii'mly on. Whisk the yolks of the[ 138 ] sugar, lemon rind and juice over hot water till thick, then whisk until cool. Fold in the cream beaten, the whites whisked stiff, and the dissolved gelatine. Pour into the case and leave till set. Tear away the paper gently, and decorate with the whipped cream, pistachios, etc. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. Decoration.—Sweet jelly. Cherries. Angelica. ^ pint custard. 1 sponge cake. 1 oz. ratafia biscuits. 1 oz. cherries. ^ oz. angelica. ^ oz. citron peel. Filling. ^ gill cream. Sugar, vanilla. Few drops lemon juice. I oz. gelatine. ^ gill water. Line a mould and decorate with neatly cut pieces of cherry and angelica. Cut the sponge cake in small pieces, crumble the ratafias, and pour the custard over them; leave till cold. Half-whip the cream; cut the cherries, peel, and angelica in small pieces, and add to the custard mixture. Sweeten, flavour, and add the dissolved gelatine. Mould when beginning to set. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly.[ 189 ] FIGS A LA CYPRteS. I lb. figs. 8 oz. loaf sugar. 1 pint water. Decoration.—Sweet jelly. Lemon juice. Maraschino. Angelica. Ginger Cream Filling. 2 oz. preserved ginger. (I oz. gelatine. (I gill water. 3 gills cream. 1 gill fig syrup. Sugar. ^ teaspoonful ground ginger. Dishing.—Cream and angelica. Soak the figs over night. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup, put in the figs and stew till tender, add the lemon juice and maraschino, and leave till cold. Line a border mould with jelly and decorate with angelica. Whip the cream ; add the ginger chopped finely, the fig syrup (from the stewed figs), the sugar, ground ginger, and the gelatine dissolved in the water. Pour into the mould when setting, and leave till firm. Turn out, pile the figs in centre, and pour remainder of syrup round. Decorate if desired with whipped cream and angelica.[ 140 ] FRUIT SPONGE. Decoration.—Jelly. Pistachios. Pieces of fruit. Filling. ^ pint fruit pur^e. i „ water, i oz. gelatine. Sugar, lemon juice. Dishing.—Chopped jelly. Line and decorate a mould. Dissolve the ffelatine in the water and leave till cool. Beat O the whites stiffly and stir in the dissolved gelatine, and whisk this mixture gradually into the fruit purde. Whisk till almost set, and pour into the lined mould. Turn out, and decorate with chopped jelly. N.B.—Apricots, peaches, strawberries, or any fruit in season may be used. 2 whites of eggs. Maraschino. Colouring.[ ] MACEDOINE OF FRUIT, 1 quart wine jelly. Decoration.—Pistachios. Fruit Mixture. 1 orange. 1 banana. 1 dozen black grapes. 1 „ green grapes. 1 dozen cherries. 1 ,, pistachios. 6 French plums. Have the fruit prepared, divide the orange, remove all pith and seeds; stone the grapes, cherries, and plums, and blanch the pistachio nuts ; slice the banana. Set a little jelly in a mould and decorate with shamrocks. Arrange a pretty mixture of fruit in the mould and cover with jelly ; leave till firm,’ then fill up the mould with alternate layers of fruit and jelly, letting each layer set before putting in another. Turn out when firm and arrange chopped jelly round the base. N.B.—The fruit used may be varied accord- ing to what is in season, strawberries, rasp- berries, fresh cherries, etc., being used when possible.[ 14'2 ] SII>VER SPARK JELI.Y 1 pint liquid wine jelly. 1 silver leaf. Put the silver leaf in a small basin with one tablespoonful jelly, break it up very small with a darning needle; add the rest of the jelly, and when just setting pour into a wetted mould. Turn out, and arrange chopped jelly round. Slice the sponge cakes thinly and spread with the jam. Pile them neatly in a glass dish with the ratafias. Saturate with the sherry and custard. Whip the cream stiffly, and pipe it neatly on the top. Decorate with the preserved fruits, etc. TRIFLE. 6 stale sponge cakes. 1 oz. ratafias. Strawberry jam. 3 gills custard. 1 gill sherry. Decoration. J pint double cream, French fruits, pistachios, etc.[ 148 ] VENUS PUDDING. Decoration.—Wine jelly. Pistachio nuts. Filling. 2 sponge cakes. A little jam. 6 ratafias. 2 tablespoonfuls sherry. 1 gill cream. ^ pint milk. Sugar, vanilla. Lemon juice. f I oz. gelatine. \ I gill water. Line and decorate a mould. Slice the sponge cakes, spread with jam, and cut them in small pieces ; add the ratafias, and soak well with sherry. Whip the cream, and mix it • with the milk, sugar, flavourings, and dissolved gelatine. Half fill the mould with the cream mixture, when almost set place the sponge cakes in the centre, and fill up the mould with the cream mixture. Turn out when set and decorate with jelly.I Ui ] ■ ^ >-T — \ F i’r, 'V c?r;.v ; M’-jltt r. '? h'til ''^‘‘ ■' {"• ■' iii» :;«!-? K^- >; 1*- ■ Jl y t-, .iVl’*! 'i '-lij '!. ■» •• ’ ■■; ' i'. > .J . . . ■ * s ' « *’ J> -■:■ f»‘• ;;o ■■‘' >• •'* , 'I'l ' .'i 'V ' -•] «•' ‘- ■’ '■ i«5lV/T . •* • ;'.^- ■ . * ■ ’ . • ..• .. j.Ji • *■•, ■- *v . - - VSAVOURIES. 10[ 1« ] CHEESE AIGRETTES. ‘2 oz. flour. ^ oz. butter. 1 gill water. 1 egg- 1 yolk. 1^ oz. Parmesan cheese. Cayenne and salt. Heat and sieve the flour. Bring the butter and water to the boil, add the flour, and beat until thick and smooth. Cool slightly, and add the eggs, cheese, and seasonings. Have a pan of fat just beginning to smoke, and drop the mixture into it in small teaspoonfuls. Fry a golden-brown colour, drain, and sprinkle a little grated cheese over. Serve very hot. Sieve the flour, rub in the butter, add the grated cheese, and mix all the dry ingredients; CHEESE BISCUITS. 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. grated Cheddar cheese. Pinch salt and cayenne. 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. A little beaten yolk. A little water.[ 148 ] bind with the yolk and water to form a stiff paste. Knead lightly, roll out thinly, prick well, and cut into rounds. Place on a greased tin, and bake in a quick oven for seven to ten minutes. CHEESE D’ARTOIS. Scraps of puff pastry. Cayenne and salt. 1^ oz. Parmesan cheese. A little beaten egg. 1 oz. butter. Melt the butter, and add to it the grated cheese, seasonings, and enough egg to bind. Roll out pastry into a square. Cut it in two, and spread the mixture over one half. Brush the other half with egg and lay it on top. Prick well and cut out in fancy shapes, brush over with beaten egg, and bake on a greased tin in a hot oven till firm and brown. Serve hot[ 149 ] CHEESE OMELET. 2 egga. Cayenne and salt. 1 tablespoonful Parmesan 1 oz. butter, cheese. Beat the eggs till mixed, add the cheese and seasonings. Melt the butter in a proved omelet pan, pour in the mixture, and stir till it begins to thicken. Form into shape and serve. CHEESE SOUFFLE. ^ oz. butter. J oz. flour. ^ gill milk. 1| yolk of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 1^ oz. grated Parmesan cheese. Cayenne and salt. Make a thick sauce with the butter, flour, and milk. Cool slightly, and beat in the yolks, cheese, and seasonings. Have the whites stiffly beaten, and fold them lightly into the mixture. Turn into a greased souffle case, and bake in a moderately hot oven till risen and brown, about thirty minutes. Serve at once.[ ISO ] CHEESE STRAWS. 1 oz. flour. 1 OZ. butter. 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. ^ oz. grated Cheddar cheese Cayenne and salt. A little yolk and water. Rub the butter into the flour, add the cheese and seasonings, and bind to a stiff paste with the yolk and water. Roll out thinly and cut in straws and rings. Bake in a quick oven for five to seven minutes. Thread the straws through the rings and serve hot. CHEESE TARTLETS. 6 pastry cases. Cayenne and salt. 1^ oz. grated cheese. 1 egg. ^ gill white sauce. Have the pastry cases baked and crisp. Mix the cheese, sauce, and seasonings with the yolk of egg. Fold in the whites stiffly beaten ; fill the cases, and place in a fairly hot oven till crisp and brown.[ 151 ] STUFFED EGGS. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter. 2 anchovies. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. Pepper and salt. For dishing.—Rounds of bread and butter. „ tomato. Cress to garnish. Boil the eggs carefully, shell, and cut in halves. Pound the yolks with the butter, anchovies, and seasonings, and rub it through a hair sieve. Wash and dry the egg cases and pipe the mixture into them. Dish on the bread and butter and tomato, and garnish with the cress. CASSOLETTES OF OYSTERS. Divide the butter into four and shape into round cases. Egg and crumb them twice. Mark the centre with a small round cutter and fry in deep fat; remove the lids and empty out the liquid butter. Heat the oysters in the sauce, add the seasonings and cream, and fill the cassolettes. 3 oz. butter. Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs. Filling,—1 tablespoonful white sauce. 6 oysters. Cream and seasonings.[ 152 ] ANCHOVY TOAST. 6 croutes of buttered toast. 1 egg. ^ tablespoonful anchovy essence. 1 dessertspoonful cream. ^ oz. butter. Seasonings. To decorate.—Fillets of anchovy. Coralline pepper. Beat the egg, add the anchovy essence, cream, and seasonings. Pour into the melted butter, and cook till soft and creamy. Pile on the croutes. Decorate with the anchovy fillets and pepper. croOtes of yellow haddock. 2 oz. chopped cooked haddock. 1 tablespoonful cream. ^ oz. butter. Cayenne and salt. 1 chopped gherkin. For dishing.—6 croutes of fried bread. Parsley and coralline pepper Fry the fish and gherkin in the butter, moisten with the cream and add the seasonings. Pile neatly on the toast. Garnish, and serve hot.[ 158 ] stuffed mushrooms. 6 medium flap mushrooms. 1 teaspoonful butter. ^ ,, chopped onion. 1 dessertspoonful chopped ham. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 tablespoonful bread-crumbs, Pepper and salt. A little sauce. For dishing.—6 croutes of fried bread. Wash the mushrooms, remove the skin and stalks, and trim into equal-sized rounds. Chop the trimmings finely. Fry the onion in the butter, add the other ingredients, and moisten with the sauce. Pile the mixture on the mushrooms; bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes till soft. Dish on the croutes and decorate with coralline pepper. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 2 slices of toast. 1 hard-boiled egg. 2 anchovies. 1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste or essence. Pinches of cayenne and white pepper. Custard. 2 raw yolks, or 1 whole egg. 1 dessertspoonful chopped 1 gill hot milk. parsley. Pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the anchovies, and rub these with the hard-boiled yolks[ IS-i ] water. 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence. through a sieve. Add the butter, anchovy essence, and seasonings, and work altogether till quite smooth. Sandwich these between the slices of toast and cut into fingers. Arrange these on a dish. Beat the yolks, add the milk, stir over the fire till it thickens, then season thoroughly, and pour the custard over the toast. Rub the butter into the flour, add the cayenne; beat the yolk with the anchovy essence, carmine, and a little water ; mix dry ingredients to a firm paste. Roll out and cut into straws. Bake without colouring in a moderately hot oven. Serve hot ANCHOVY STRAWS. 2 oz. flour. I oz. butter. Cayenne, carmine. Little yolk of egg and cold[ 155 ] ANCHOVY STRAWS A LA ROYALE. Anchovy biscuits as above. | Anchovy butter (2 oz.). Spread a little butter on the anchovy biscuits and sandwich two together. Decorate with the butter piped in a pretty design on the top. FARCED OLIVES. 6 olives. 6 cheese biscuits. 1 oz. anchovy butter. Cress or chervil. 3 anchovy fillets. Stone the olives and farce them with the butter. Place them on the biscuits, and twist a half anchovy round each. Pipe the remainder of the butter round and decorate with cress. Maitre d hotel butter, foie-gras, etc., may be substituted for the anchovy butter.[ 156 ] TOMATO CHEESE. Decoration.—Aspic jelly. Truffle. Filling. f pint fresh tomato pur^e. 1 tablespoonful Parmesan ^ oz. gelatine. Cayenne pepper. cheese. 1 gill aspic jelly. Salt Carmine. Dishing.—Chopped jelly. Line and decorate some small dariole moulds. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic jelly, allow it to cool, add it to the tomato pur^e with the cheese and seasonings. Colour it if necessary and mould when setting. Turn out, and garnish with chopped jelly. N.B.—This mixture may be moulded in a border mould and dished with salad.[ 157 ] TIMBALES OF HADDOCK A LA GENOISE. Aspic jelly. Sieved yolk of egg. Chopped parsley. Decorate some small moulds. Chop the haddock very finely ; add the sauce, the cream half - beaten, and the seasonings. Add the aspic jelly, and leave till beginning to thicken, then mould. Turn out when set and garnish with chopped jelly. N.B.—This may be dished in small paper cases and decorated with salad, etc. Decoration. Filling. 2 oz. cooked yellow haddock. ^ gill white sauce. ^ „ cream. ^ gill aspic jelly. Cayenne, pepper and salt.[ 158 ] FILLETS OF HERRING A LA DUBOIS. Drain the fillets, slice them, and cut in neat oval pieces. Have the biscuits and tomatoes the same shape and size, lay a slice of tomato on each biscuit and put a piece of herring on the top. Decorate with a neat design of white of egg and scatter with the olives and sieved yolk. PETITES CRjfcMES A LA JOSEPHINE. 6 small milk biscuits. 6 slices tomato. 3 tinned fillets of herring. Decoration.—Strips of white of egg. Chopped olives. Hard-boiled yolk of egg. ^ lb. raw yellow haddock. 1 egg. 1 oz. butter. Cayenne pepper. 1 tablespoonful cream. ^ teaspoonful anchovy essence. Carmine. Salt. Coating.—Beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Mince the haddock, and pound it with the butter, egg, and seasonings. Add the cream.[ 159 ] anchovy essence, and a little colouring. Place in small greased tins and poach in the oven till firm. Turn out and leave till cold. Coat with egg and bread-crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Drain well, and garnish with parsley. BISCUITS A LA DUCHESSE. 6 small savoury biscuits. Mixture. 2 oz. cooked chicken. ^ tablespoonful thick white sauce. \ oz. butter. Cayenne and salt ^ gill cream. Decoration.—Chopped truffle. Cucumber wings or small cress. Mince the chicken, pound it with the sauce, butter, and seasonings, and rub through a sieve. Add the cream beaten, and place the mixture in a forcing bag. Force large stars of the mixture on the biscuits, and decorate with chopped truffle, cucumber, etc.[ 160 ] BISCUITS A LA NORMANDIK Anchovy biscuits. Shrimp Butter. 1 hard-boiled yolk. 1 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful shrimps. 1-2 tablespoonfuls cream. Cayenne and salt. Colouring. J gill cream. Small cress. Decoration, Aspic jelly. Mussels or oysters. Have the biscuits cut in ovals with an oval ring of the same size on top. Bake without colouring and leave till cold. Shrimp Butter.—Chop shrimps finely, pound with all other ingredients, and rub through a hair sieve. Lay two mussels or one oyster on top of each biscuit and pipe the shrimp butter round the edge. Pipe the cream on the top, and decorate with small cress and a little chopped aspic jelly.[ 161 ] MOUSSES OF HAM. Decoration.—Aspic jelly. Truffle, ming. 3 oz. ham. i gill tomato puree. I „ cream. ^ „ aspic jelly. 2 sheets gelatine. 1 white of egg. Salt. Carmine. For diehing.—^Chopped jelly. Line and decorate small dariole moulds. Mince the ham twice, pound it well, and stir in the tomato purde, the cream slightly beaten, the seasonings, and carmine. Fold in the beaten white. Add lastly the gelatine dis- solved in the aspic jelly, and mould when slightly thickened. Turn out when set and decorate with jelly. N.B.—One large mould may be used instead of small moulds, and the mousse served as a cold entree. 11[ 162 ] SOUFFLl^S OF HAM. Make the mixture as above and put it into small papered souffle cases. When set, remove the paper, and decorate with whipped cream, cress, and chopped truffle. canap:^:s of chickens’ livers. 6 small pastry cases. Fried parsley. 2 chickens’ livers. Glaze. Thin slices of bacon. To decorate.—1 oz. mustard butter. Wash and dry the livers, cut in two, and fry slightly in butter. Lay on thin slices of bacon, season well, and roll up. Thread them on a skewer and bake in a hot oven till cooked and crisp. Brush with glaze. Have the pastry cases hot, place a little mustard butter and fried parsley in each, and lay one of the small rolls on top. Garnish with mustard butter and fried parsley and serve at once.[ 163 ] batons aux tomates. Cheese biscuits. 1 medium tomato. J gill cream. Tarragon vinegar. Cayenne pepper. Salt. To decorate.—J gill cream, small cress, chervil, etc. Mixture. Carmine and yellow colour- ings. J oz. gelatine (light weight). 1 tablespoouful water. Have the biscuits in neat finger shapes and cold. Rub the tomato through a hair sieve, add the cream slightly beaten and the season- ings, and colour a pale tomato shade. Add the dissolved gelatine and leave the mixture till almost set. Spread or pipe this neatly on the biscuits, and decorate to taste with cream and cress.K-:': '■ - ■ .'^. '~r .:^^. ~ V': ,-a» “ ■ ■• ^ :*pi^-^ ' |- “ ■■ 'fs^'^ntji “ k^U < *H*»^ , r. ■■'. '--ii. ■^'•?^^~' ’■ ■^?; ■ '■' -‘ , ' ’ '■' V: .4S«^%*«i3 ;-W'^ '^. ^, ’ r^-:‘ bfe» l:«jSt^4M'B^ SS., . * '- ' ^ SIS f 'v A , * 1 -V . ^ :>■ •'^ A' >!> • »v v.V".'J* ’ *.* *SAUCES.I • ‘-1 V i ' • : < i r 4. H /.[ 1«7 ] ANCHOVY SAUCE. ^ oz. butter. I oz. flour. ^ pint fish stock or water. About 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence. Pepper. Melt butter in a saucepan ; draw the pan to the side of the fire. Add the flour, and mix well with the back of a wooden spoon, then add about a third of the milk, and stir carefully till boiling. Add the rest of the milk gradu- ally ; bring to the boil and boil for three minutes. Season with pepper, and add the anchovy essence. BECHAMEL SAUCE. I oz. butter. I oz. flour. ^ pint milk. 1 slice of carrot Small piece celery ^ small onion. 1 blade of mace. 2 cloves. 6 white peppercorns. Salt. 1 tablespoonful cream. Cut the vegetables into rough pieces, and put in a pan with the milk, mace, pepper-[ 168 ] corns, and cloves. Infuse in a warm place at least half an hour, then strain. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, and cook well without browning. Add the seasoned milk by degrees and boil well. Pass through a tammy cloth, reheat, and add the cream. BREAD SAUCE. ^ oz. butter. 1 gill freshly made bread- crumbs. ^ pint milk, 1 small onion. 2 cloves. 6 peppercorns. Salt. 1 or 2 tablespooufuls cream. Put the milk, peppercorns, and onion stuck with cloves into a saucepan, and infuse at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, then strain. Return the seasoned milk to the pan with the butter and bread-crumbs. Stir till boiling and of a dropping consistency. Add the cream and serve.[ 169 ] CARDINAL SAUCE. I oz. butter I oz. flour. pint fish stock. ^ gill cream. ^ oz. lobster butter Cayenne and salt. Lemon juice. Make a foundation sauce with the butter, flour, and fish stock, and cook well. Cool, whisk in the lobster butter in small pieces, and add the cream, seasonings, and lemon juice. Do not boil after the lobster butter is added. CURRY SAUCE. ^ oz. butter. 1 dessertspoonful chopped onion. 1 dessertspoonful chopped apple. ^ oz. curry powder. ^ oz. rice-flour. I pint light-coloured stock. Salt. Lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful cream. Fry the chopped apple and onion in the butter, add the curry powder and rice-flour, and fry them well without browning. Gradu- ally add the stock, and allow the sauce to simmer for forty minutes. Strain and reheat the sauce ; add lemon juice and cream.[ 170 ] DEMI-GLACE SAUCE. ^ pint Espagnole sauce. 1 gill gravy from roast meat, or ^ gill liquid meat glaze. Put the sauce and gravy into a saucepan and reduce for five minutes ; strain and reheat Cut the bacon into small pieces, and melt it in a pan with the butter. Add the vege- tables sliced, and fry well; then the flour, and make a rich brown colour. Add the stock and seasonings, and simmer for two or three hours. Add the tomato pulp when half- cooked. Tammy ; add sherry and reheat. —The outstanding flavour should be ham. This sauce is the foundation of many brown sauces. ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. ham or bacon. 1 onion. 1 small carrot. 6 mushrooms. 1 pint brown stock. Pepper and salt. 1 gill tomato pulp. i „ sherry.[ 171 J HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. ^ pint Bechamel sauce or Lemon juice. melted butter sauce. Cayenne and salt. 2 yolks. Have the sauce hot, but not boiling; stir in the yolks singly, and cook till they are thickened without boiling. Add the lemon juice and seasonings. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 2 tablespoonfols grated horse- radish. 1 gill cream. Salt and pepper. Good pinch of sugar. Vinegar and lemon juice. Whip the cream fairly stiff and stir in the other ingredients. ITALIENNE SAUCE. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 6 mushrooms. ^ small onion. Sprig of thyme. 1 bay leaf. ^ gill sherry, i pint stock. Pepper and salt. Slice the mushroom and the onion, and fry well in the butter. Add the flour, thyme.[ 172 ] and bay leaf, and stir all to a rich brown colour. Add the sherry, and boil all till well reduced. Add the stock and seasonings, and simmer for one hour at least. Tammy, and it is ready for use. 2V.S.—The outstanding flavour should be mushrooms, and trimmings of fresh mush- rooms may be used. MADEIRA SAUCE. ^ pint Espagnole sauce. Cayenne pepper. 1 teaspoonful liquid glaze. Salt. ^ gill of Madeira. Boil aU together for fifteen minutes. Tammy and reheat. MAiTRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. 1 oz. butter I oz. flour ^ pint fish stock 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. 1 tablespoonful cream Make a foundation sauce with the butter, flour, and fish stock. Cook well, and add the parsley, lemon juice, and cream. ]V.B.—Milk may be substituted for fish stock. V[ 178 ] MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 1 oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. ^ pint cold water. Pinch of salt. Prepare in same manner as for a white sauce. A teaspoonful of sugar may be added instead of salt, and the sauce may be flavoured with vanilla essence, lemon essence, or lemon juice. Put all the ingredients except the white of egg into a pan, and whisk over a gentle heat till the sauce is thickened and frothy. Fold in the beaten white and use at once. N,.B.—If the Mousseline sauce is for a sweet dish, substitute sugar and vanilla for the seasonings and nutmeg. MOUSSELINE SAUCE, ^ gill cream. ^ oz. butter. Lemon juice. 3 yolks. Pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. 1 beaten white of egg.[ 174 ] PIQUANTE SAUCE. 2 chopped shallots. 2 „ gherkins. ^ tablespoonful chopped capex’S. 1 bay leaf. 1 sprig of thyme. 1 gill vinegar. \ pint Espagnole sauce. Cayenne and salt. Put the shallots, gherkins, capers, bay leaf, and thyme into a saucepan with the vinegar, and boil till reduced to half the quantity. Add the Espagnole sauce, and simmer for twenty minutes. Tammy and reheat. REFORiME SAUCE. I pint Espagnole sauce. 1 dessertspoonful red currant J gill port. jelly- Cayenne and salt. Put all the ingredients into a pan, and simmer slowly for half an hour. Tammy and reheat.[ 17« ] SOUBISE SAUCE. ^ pint thick Bechamel sauce. Salt and pepper, 1 gill Spanish onion puree, A pinch of sugar. Cream. Cook the onions in milk till tender; drain well, and rub them through a hair sieve. Make the sauce with the milk in which the onions were stewed; mix all together, and add the cream and seasonings. SUPREME SAUCE. ^ pint veloute sauce, 2 yolks of eggs. ^ oz. butter. Lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful cream Heat the veloute sauce; add the yolks and thicken them without boiling. Whisk in the butter in small pieces, and add the lemon juice and cream.[ 17fl ] TOMATO SAUCE. I oz. butter, 1 oz. bacon. 1 onion. ^ oz. rice-flour. ^ pint tomato liquor or ligbt-coloured stock. Pepper and salt. A small piece of carrot. 4 tomatoes. Cut the bacon in small pieces ; put it in a pan with the butter and fry slightly. Add the onion and carrot sliced and the tomatoes, and let them all boil together for four or five minutes till well reduced. Stir in the rice- flour and add the stock. Season, and simmer slowly for forty to forty-five minutes. Tammy or rub through a hair sieve and reheat. Put the tomatoes, seasonings, tomato liquor, white and shell of egg into a saucepan ; whisk till almost boiling; boil well up and allow to CLEAR TOMATO. 3 tomatoes. 2 gills tomato liquor. ^ onion. i teaspoonful peppercorns. A blade of mace. 1 white and shell of egg. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot ^ gill sherrf. Colouring. Cayenne and salt[ 177 ] settle. Strain through a piece of muslin, and thicken with the arrowroot broken with the sherry. Colour and season if necessary. HOT TARTARE SAUCE. ^ pint Bechamel sauce. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful c Cayenne and salt. 1 teaspoonful chopped gherkin. 1 teaspoonful chopped capers, lopped parsley. Have the Bdchamel sauce hot; add the yolks, and stir till cooked without boiling. Stir in the gherkins, capers, and parsley, and add enough lemon juice to make the sauce piquant. VELOUTE SAUCE. 1 oz. butter. I oz. flour. ^ pint white stock. 6 peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. 4 chopped button mushrooms. Lemon juice, pepper and salt, i gill cream. Fry the peppercorns, parsley stalks, and mushrooms in the butter without browning, stir in the flour, and add the stock. Simmer one hour, tammy, and add the other ingredients. 12L 178 ] BRANDY SAUCE. 1 oz. butter. ^ gill brandy ^ oz. flour ^ oz. sugar, gill water. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and water. When cooked, add the sugar and brandy, and serve. CUSTARD SAUCE. 1 or 2 yolks. i 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. 1 gill milk. I Vanilla essence. Beat the yolk and sugar together and pour over the heated milk. Strain back into the pan and stir till the custard thickens. Do not let it boil. Flavour to taste and use. GERMAN SAUCE. 2 yolks. I i gill sherry. 1 dessertspoonful sugar. Whisk all together over a gentle heat till cooked and frothy throughout, but do not let it boil. Serve immediately.[ 179 ] BRANDY BUTTER. 8 oz. butter. | 4^ oz. sugar. Brandy to taste. Beat the butter and sugar together till creamy, and add the brandy. Pipe or pile on a fancy dish. Serve with plum pudding or any rich steamed pudding. WHITE CHAUD-FROID SAUCE. ^ pint Bechamel sauce. i 1 tablespoonful cream. 1 gill stiff aspic jelly. | Seasoning. Have the sauce and the aspic jelly liquid and cool, and mix them together. Season the mixture, wring through a tammy cloth, and add the cream. Use when just beginning to thicken. N.B.—Brown or tomato sauce may be used instead of Bechamel sauce to vary the colour and flavour.[ 180 ] MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill salad oil. Pepper, salt. Mnegar. A little mustard. Put the yolks and seasonings into a basin, and stir in the salad oil drop by drop. When thick and smooth stir in the vinegar. COLD TARTARE SAUCE. 1 gill mayonnaise sauce. 1 teaspoouful chopped gherkins. 1 ,, ,, capers. 1 „ „ parsley. I „ „ chervil. h » « tarragon. Mix all the ingredients together.JELLIES.i[ >83 ] ASPIC JELLY. 6 gills water. 1 gill sherry. 1 ,, mixed vinegars (malt, tarragon, and chilli). Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 stick of celery. 8 white peppercorns. ^ teaspoonful salt. The whites and shells of 2 eggs. 2^ oz. French leaf gelatine. Put all these ingredients into a large rinsed pan. Stir over a clear fire till the gelatine is dissolved. Whisk briskly till a good froth is formed. Remove the whisk, and allow the jelly to boil up with force ; then draw it to the side of the fire and allow it to settle. Strain through a jelly-cloth till clear. CALFS-FOOT JELLY. stock. 1 ox foot or 2 calf s feet. | 6 pints cold water. Cut the foot into four to six pieces, and remove all marrow and fat. Wash and scrape it well in warm water; put it in a deep pan[ 184 ] and cover it with cold water. Bring it to the boil and rinse well, then return it to the pan with the five pints of water. Simmer slowly from six to seven hours, then strain it through a hair sieve into a basin, and allow it to become cold. To clear the Jelly.—To every pint of stock allow— ^ gill lemon juice. 1 „ sherry. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 2 cloves. 1 inch cinnamon stick. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 shell and white of egg. 2 or 3 sheets of gelatine if stock is not very firm. ^ gill brandy. Carefully remove every particle of grease from the stock with a spoon dipped in hot water, then wipe the surface with a cloth wrung out of hot water. Rinse a well-lined deep pan, and into it put the stock, gelatine (if requii-ed), sherry, cloves, and cinnamon. Wash, dry, and peel the lemon thinly, and add peel and lemon juice to the other ingredients. Then add the white of egg and shell washed and crushed. Place this over the fii*e and whisk it briskly till a good froth rises and it is just beginning to boil ; then remove the whisk, and allow the contents of the pan to boil well up to the top of the pan. Draw the[ 185 ] pan to the side of the fire, cover it with a plate, and allow it to settle for ten minutes. Tie a linen cloth to the four legs of a kitchen chair turned upside down. Pour some boil- ing water through the cloth, then pour the jelly carefully through into a scalded bowl, and add the brandy. Strain the jelly three or four times till it is perfectly clear ; then cover it with a blanket and allow it to drip through. Rinse a mould or basin with cold water, and when the jelly is cold, but not set, remove the froth from it and pour it gently into the mould. When set, dip the mould in warm water and turn out the jelly. iV.^.—If the sherry is wanted as a stimu- lant, add it to the jelly with the brandy, as the alcohol evaporates by boiling. CLARET .JELLY. ^ pint claret. ^ „ water. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 incli cinnamon stick 1 bay leaf. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 1 tablespoonful red currant jelly. 1 white and shell of egg If oz. French leaf gelatine. Carmine. Put all these ingredients into a large rinsed pan ; stir over a clear fire till the gelatine is[ 186 ] dissolved, and whisk briskly until a good froth is formed. Remove the whisk, and allow the jelly to boil up with force; then draw it to the side of the fire and allow it to settle. Strain through a jelly-cloth till clear ; add a few drops of carmine to improve the colour. Put all these ingredients into a large rinsed pan, and stir over a clear fii'e till the gelatine is dissolved. Whisk briskly until a good froth is formed. Remove the whisk, and allow the jelly to boU up with force ; then draw it to the side of the fire and allow it to settle. Strain through a jelly-cloth till clear. LEMON JELLY, pint cold water. ^ pint lemon juice. Rind of 2 lemons. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 1 inch cinnamon stick. 2 cloves. 2^ oz. French leaf gelatine. 2 whites and shells of eggs.[ 187 ] ORANGE JELLY. ^ pint orange juice. ^ ,, water. Juice of 1 lemon. Rind of 3 oranges. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 1J oz. French leaf gelatine. Put the water, sugar, orange rind, and gelatine into a stew-pan. When dissolved, infuse for ten minutes ; then strain through muslin into a basin. Add the orange and lemon juice, and mould. When set, turn out and serve. Put all these ingredients into a large rinsed pan. Stir over a clear fire till the gelatine is dissolved. Whisk briskly till a good froth is formed. Remove the whisk, and allow the jelly to boil up with force; then draw it to the side of the fire and allow it to settle. Strain through a jelly-cloth till clear. WINE JELLY, 1 gill lemon juice. Rind of 2 lemons. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 6 gills water. 2 „ sherry. 1 inch cinnamon stick. 3 cloves. AVhites and shells of 2 eggs. 2^ oz. French leaf gelatine.I ' ' v-i. ;!’»a' K*. • - ■rr't.- -,l'3 ■' > -I’.*’ ;i> -U JIv ■ - ■ • -rKilif' ■ t iir^c!. .■..•> .^i •; n . "»■' i5TI« ‘^vl ^ '« .;■ . i; ' Xt ^ ' m iJ iVliil'// ' ->rj. . ■ .v.r v ■■ ' o?-"- -f'i'vn?-; • " -iri- ■-•iV-;) - . f -tj .-1. >*}».. 4 .' 'if.-'.'• r. li •> > : f i , I * ■p'/ PASTRIESf A - “5[ 191 ] SHORT CRUST. ^ lb. flour, 6 oz. butter. ^ teaspoonfiil baking powder. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 yolk. A little cold water. i „ salt. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter till very fine. Add the sugar. Beat the yolk with a little water, and mix the pastry to a firm con- sistency with it. Knead lightly till smooth, and roll out to the thickness required. iV.jB.—For a plainer pastry, the yolk may be omitted, and only 4 oz. shortening used. If for a savoury dish omit the sugar.[ 192 ] ROUGH PUFF, ^ lb. flour. 6-6 oz. butter. Salt. Lemon juice. Cold water. Sieve the flour and salt into a bowl; add the butter broken into pieces the size of a walnut. Add the lemon juice and sufficient cold water to make the mixture adhere. Turn on to a floured board, and roll the pastry into a long strip. Fold in three and press the edges together. Half turn the pastry, and again roll it into a strip. Fold in three, and repeat this until the pastry has had four rolls, folds, and half-turns. It is then ready for use. Rough puff* pastry is suitable for meat pies, patties, sausage rolls, etc. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and mix to a firm paste with the lemon juice and cold water. Knead very thoroughly till smooth, and roll out thinly. Spread on one- FLAKY PASTRY. ^ lb. flour. 6 oz. butter. Salt. Lemon juice. Cold water.[ 198 ] third of the butter in small pats, sprinkle with a little flour, and fold the pastry in three. Turn the pastry half round, roll out, and repeat twice till the butter is all in. Roll and fold once more. Set aside if possible for half an hour before using it. A^.^.—If the butter is very soft, the pastry may be set aside between the additions of butter. PUFF PASTRY. ^ lb. flour. i teaspoonful lemon juice. ^ lb. butter. Cold water. Have the butter Arm, and dry in a floured cloth. Sieve the flour, and mix to a firm dough with the lemon juice and water, and knead very thoroughly. Roll out thinly, lay the butter in the centre and fold the pastry over it, roll and fold in three, and set aside for fifteen minutes in a cold place. Roll and fold it twice, and set aside again. Repeat this twice until the pastry has had seven rolls and seven folds. It is then ready to be rolled out for vol-au-vents, patties, etc. N^.JS.—After each roll the pastry must be turned half round before being rolled again. 13[ 19^ J GENOESE PASTRY. 4 eggs. I 3 oz. flour, 4 oz. castor sugar. I 3 oz. butter. Whisk the eggs and sugar over hot water till light and thick, then whisk till slightly cooled. Have the butter melted and the flour heated and sieved, and add them lightly to the mixture. Turn quickly into a greased and papered baking-sheet, and bake in a very steady oven till firm and brown, about thirty minutes. Turn out to cool. N.B.—This mixture forms the foundation of many small cakes, and can be iced with butter or glac^ icing and decorated to taste. HOT WATER PASTRY. ^ lb. flour. I i teaspoouful salt. 2 oz. lard or butter. 1 About ^ gill hot water. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Put the water and lard or butter into a pan, and when boiling pour into the dry ingredients. Mix with a spoon, and when cool enough turn on to a floured board and knead till smooth. Form quickly into the shape required.[ 19« ] CHOUX PASTRY, 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill water. Pinch salt. Vauilla essence. 1 egg and ^ yolk. 1 gill cream. Glace icing. Dry and sieve the flour. Melt the butter, add the salt and water, and bring to the boil. Beat in the flour ; cool, and add the eggs and vanilla essence. Place the mixture in small rolls on a greased tin ; bake in a steady oven till brown and firm, about thirty minutes. When baked, scoop out the centre, and fill when cold with whipped and sweetened cream. Coat with glac^ icing. If to be used with a savoury filling, omit the vanilla essence.r. SB* 1 . 4: -7 V*. * > ' 'f k ■ i 'BMf' "V '•' I? ■ 4 .'•■• 4- ~ . . *v M :. ■■■•;*■■■ -s*-.‘»'- .r ••••;•>> tiv*: .:.•» '■ -,y;‘.'i M?*■ i'**- • *' ‘ '’f Ife? f» ■> r^J ' ■' ■’ • - '■ < Li^ ’ • •■' i >^-‘ - 55-' *— ■■-^ ' ■ ‘‘^5 ’■>V«;nl »’5 ';o:-; i:»1^.'*''f^‘^ W •►*» t. 7 I i - • ■ - ' _ ■ * j-yit-'iAV:) «;IIiil«'V ‘Mi*CAKES,[ 199 ] CHOCOLATE CAKE. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. butter. 4 oz. flour. 3 oz. chocolate. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 3 small eggs. Vanilla essence. Dissolve chocolate in two tablespoonfuls of milk. Cream butter and sugar; add eggs with a little flour. Stir in dissolved chocolate with remainder of flour and baking powder ; add a few drops of vanilla essence. Pour mixture into a greased and prepared tin ; bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. Ice when cold with chocolate icing. Sieve the flour, cream the butter and sugar, and add the grated lemon rind. Add the flour. COCOANUT CAKE. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. cocoanut. 2 small eggs. 1 small teaspoon ful baking powder. A little milk.[ 200 ] cocoanut, and eggs by degrees, and beat well. Add the baking powder with the last spoonful of flour. Turn into a greased and papered tin. Place in a moderate oven and bake steadily for one and a half hour. COFFEE CAKES. 2 oz. cornflour. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. ^ teaapoonful baking powder. 1 tablespoonful coffee essence. 2 eggs. Cream butter and sugar, beat in the eggs with a little flour, then add the coffee essence with the rest of the flour and baking powder. Pour into greased tins, and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Ice when cold with coffee glac^ icing, and decorate with chopped pistachios. ^CLAIRS. 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill water. Pinch salt. Vanilla essence 1 egg and ^ yolk. 1 gill cream. Glacd icing. Dry and sieve the flour. Melt the butter, add the salt and water, and bring to the boil. 4[ 201 ] Beat in the flour; cool, and add the eggs and vanilla essence. Place the mixture in small rolls on a greased tin ; bake in a steady oven till brown and firm, about thirty minutes. When baked, scoop out the centre, and fill when cold with whipped and sweetened cream. Coat with glac^ icing. PETITS CHOUX. Make as above, and form into small balls. When cooked, fill the centre with whipped cream and dust over with icing sugar. GENOESE CAKE. 4 eggrs. 3 02. flour 4 02. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter Whisk the eggs and sugar over hot water till light and thick, then whisk till slightly cooled. Have the butter melted and the flour heated and sieved, and add them lightly to the mixture. Turn quickly into a greased and papered baking-sheet, and bake in a very[ 202 ] steady oven till firm and brown, about thirty minutes. Turn out to cool. N.B.—This mixture forms the foundation of many small cakes, and can be iced with butter or glace icing and decorated to taste. Mix the dry ingredients together, rub in the butter, and mix to a firm paste with the egg. Roll out thinly, cut into rounds, and bake till firm, about fifteen minutes. When cool, sandwich two together with jam, put a little icing on the top, and place a cherry in the centre. GERMAN BISCUITS. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 3^ oz. flour, iegg. ^ teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Milk if necessary. Glace icing. Jam. Cherries. teaspoonful baking powder.[ 203 ] GERMAN POUND CAKE. 10 oz. flour. 8 oz. butter. 8 oz. ca.stor sugar. 4 oz. peel. 1 lemon. 8 oz. sultanas. 6 eggs. Cream butter and sugar; add eggs with a little flour, then sultanas, peel (chopped up), and grated rind, with remainder of flour. Turn into a prepared tin, and bake in a steady oven for two hours. Chop the almonds very finely, and pound well in a mortar. Add the sugar, ground almonds, and rice - flour, and pound again. Beat the egg slightly, and mix almonds to a firm consistency with it. Roll into small balls, place them on rice paper, and put a split almond on the top of each. Brush over with white of egg, and bake in a moderate oven till crisp and slightly brown. MACAROONS. 2 oz. almonds. 1 tablespoonful ground almonds. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful rice-flour. 1-11 white of eggs. Almonds for top.[ 204 ] MADEIRA CAKE. 8 oz. flour. 5 oz. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. Grated lemon rind 4 eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Citron peel. Sieve the flour, cream the butter and sugar, add the grated rind. Add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat well. Add the baking powder with the last spoonful of flour. Turn into a greased tin ; place the citron on the top. Place in a moderate oven, and bake steadily for one and a half hour. Whisk yolks and sugar, then add the whites stiffly beaten, and whisk this mixture over hot water till thick. Whisk tiU cool, and fold in the flours dried and sieved and the baking powder. Place in a greased and papered tin in a moderately hot oven about one hour. When cold, decorate it with mocha icing. MOCHA CAKE. 4 eggs. 4 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour 2 oz. cornflour or potato-flour. ^ teaspoonful baking powder.[ 205 ] PLUM CAKE. 1^ lb. flour. 1 lb. butter. 1 lb. sugar. 4 oz. cherries. 2 oz. walnuts. 2 oz. preserved ginger. ^ lb. sultanas. 1 lb. currants. 2 oz. peel. 2 oz. almonds. 8 eggs. Milk if necessary. Cream butter and sugar, and beat in eggs one by one with a little flour. Add the cleaned fruit and the rest of the flour. Have the mixture of a firm consistency. Bake in a steady oven for four or five hours. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake. RICE CAKE. 6 oz. rice-flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 2 eggs. Lemon essence. 8 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. SCOTCH SEED CAKE. 14 oz. flour. 8 oz. sugar. 4 oz. almonds. 1 dessertspoonful baking 8 oz. mixed peel. 8 oz. butter. powder. 6 eggs. Prepare and bake as for Plum Cake.[ 206 ] SEED CAKE. \ ^ lb. flour. ^ lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar. 2 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful caraway seeds. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. A little milk. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake. SIMNEL CAKE. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. sugar. 4 oz. sultanas. 1 teaspoonful baking powder, i „ ground ginger. ^ „ ground cinnamon. 4 oz. currants. 4 oz. Valencia raisins. 2 oz. peel. ^ teaspoonful nutmeg. Pinch salt. 2 eggs. Milk if necessary. Almond Paste. ^ lb. ground almonds ^ lb. icing sugar. 1-2 eggs. Vanilla, ratafia. Orange-flower water. Lemon juice. Prepare the almond paste first. Clean the fruit; cream butter and sugar, and beat in the eggs singly with a little flour; stir in the fruit and the remainder of the flour with the spices, baking powder, and salt. Have it of a[ 207 ] stiff consistency. Put half the mixture into a papered tin ; place a layer of almond paste on this, and remainder of mixture on top. Bake in a very steady, moderately hot oven two and a half to three hours. When cold, place the rest of almond paste on top, and decorate with balls of icing if desired. Dust with icing sugar. Almond Paste.—Pound almonds well ; add sugar and flavourings and enough slightly beaten egg, and mix to a firm consistency. SPONGE CAKE. 4 eggs. I 4 oz. castor sugar. 3^ oz. flour (dried and sieved). Grease a cake tin, and dust it with a teaspoonful of castor sugar mixed with one teaspoonful of rice-flour. Beat eggs and sugar over hot water till creamy, then quickly mix in the flour. Half fill the prepared tin, and bake the cake in a moderate oven for about one hour.[ 208 ] SULTANA CAKE. 8 oz. flour 6 oz. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar 4 oz. sultanas. Grated rind of half a lemon. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 2 eggs. A little milk. Prepare and bake as for Plum Cake. SHORTBREAD. 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. rice-flour, 2 oz. castor sugar Sieve the flour, rice-flour, and sugar into a basin, add the butter, and work all together with the hand till of the consistency of short crust. Form into a round cake either with the hand on the pastry-board, or in a short- bread mould. Place the cake on a greased and papered tin; prick it well, bake it in a good steady oven till beginning to colour, and allow it to crisp off slowly for about one hour.[ 209 J WALNUT CAKE. 10 oz. flour. 8 oz. sugar. 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. walnuts. Pinch of salt. ^ oz. baking powder. Milk if necessary. Vanilla essence. 3 eggs. Cream the butter and sugar, and beat in the eggs with a little flour ; stir in the walnuts broken in small pieces and the remainder of the flour, baking powder, and salt. Bake for one and a half hour. When cold, decorate with glac^ icing, and with walnuts, butter icing, etc. N.B.—This mixture may be cooked in two sandwich-tins, and the two halves fixed together with a little walnut - butter icing before being iced. Almonds, hazel-nuts, pine kernels, etc., may be substituted for the walnuts. 14[ 210 ] WINE FINGERS. 3 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1^ oz. sugar. i yolk of egg. i tablespoonful sherry. Decorate. —Chopped almonds. Rub the butter into the flour, add sugar, and mix to a firm paste with the yolk of egg and sherry. Roll out thinly and cut into •fingers. Brush with white of egg, and sprinkle with chopped almonds ; bake in a fairly hot oven till brown and firm, twelve to fifteen minutes. N.B.—These biscuits may be decorated with small pieces of cherry, angelica, etc., or they may be decorated with royal icing before being put into the oven.MISCELLANEOUS.[ 218 ] ANCHOVY BUTTER. 1 oz. butter. Colouring. 1 dessertspoonful Cayenne, anchovy paste. Pound all together and pass through a hair sieve. LOBSTER BUTTER. 1 oz. butter. | 1 oz. live lobster spawn. Pound and pass through a hair sieve. This is used to thicken and colour sauces and soups. N.B.—If the butter is to be piped for decoration, substitute cooked spawn.[ 21‘‘ ] MAlTRE D’H6tEL BUTTER. 1 oz. batter. 1 tableipoonful chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Cayenne and salt Work the butter till soft, and add all the other ingredients. If for a grill, set aside tUl firm. If to be piped, rub the butter through a hair sieve. MUSTARD BUTTER. oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful English mustard. ^ teaspoonful French mustard. A few drops of vinegar. 1 „ chutney. Chop the chutney finely; pound all the ingredients together and rub through a hair sieve. CHOCOLATE ICING. 2 oz. chocolate. Vanilla. 1 teaspoonful butter. Water. 8 oz. icing sugar. Dissolve the chocolate in a very little water, add the butter, and boil well to give the icing a gloss. Leave till cool. Beat in the icing sugar with enough tepid water to make a coating consistency, and add the vanilla.[ 21« ] GI.ACE ICING. ^ lb. icing sugar. | Tepid water. Flavouring. Sift the icing sugar, place it in a basin with the flavouring and enough water to make a coating consistency. Beat well, and use at once. A^.B.—Any flavouring may be used, the icing being named accordingly. The water used for glacd icings must not be hot, or the icing will lose its gloss. BUTTER OR VIENNA ICING. 3 oz. fresh butter. | 4^ oz. icing sugar. Flavouring and colouring. Work the butter till soft, then gradually beat in the sieved icing sugar. Beat till white and soft, then flavour and colour as desired. MOCHA ICING. Butter icing as above, using enough coffee essence to give the colour and flavour desired.[ 218 ] ALMOND ICING. ^ lb. ground almonds, i lb. icing sugar. Orange-flower water A few drops of rum 1-2 eggs. Vanilla. Pound the almonds well, add the sugar, flavourings, and enough slightly beaten white of egg to mix to a firm consistency. —Yolks or whole eggs may be used instead of whites for mixing the icing. They should first be cooked slightly by being stirred over hot water till thickened. Put the flour in a warm place till thoroughly dry, then rub it through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a pan, add the water and salt, and bring to the boil. Shake in all the flour, and beat over the fire till the mixture becomes very thick and smooth. Weigh the quantity required. N.B.—Panard is a thick binding mixture PANARD. 2 oz. flour. ^ oz. butter. 1 gill water. A pinch of salt.[ 217 ] used for quenelles, meat and fish creams, etc., generally in the proportion of half panard to meat or fish. Fry the bacon lightly in the butter, add the vegetables sliced thickly; cover, and allow to fry gently for ten minutes. Pour in enough stock to almost cover the vegetables, and add the peppercorns, etc. N.B.—Food cooked in this way should be covered over with a greased paper, and basted over with the liquid from time to time. The liquid from the braising pot may be strained into a pan, reduced well by boiling, and served as the sauce for the food braised. BRAISING POT. 1 oz. butter. ^ oz. bacon. 1 carrot. 1 small turnip. 1 onion. 1 stick celery. ^ teaspoonful peppercorns. A blade of mace. A buncb of herbs. Salt. Stock.t ?: ✓ / IINDEX. SOUPS. P1.0S Bisque of Crayfish . . 18 Bisque of Lobster . . 17 Bisque of Oyster . . 18 Brown Stock ... 3 Clear Beetroot . . 11 Clear Mulligatawny . 10 Clear Oxtail ... 10 Consomm^ ... 6 Consomm^ a la Brunoise 9 Consomme a la Celestine 8 Consomme a la Friar Tuck .... 8 Consomme a ITtalieune . 7 Consomme a la Jardiniere 7 Consommd k la Julienne 6 Consomme i la M adeleine 9 Consomme a la Royale . 6 Fish Stock ... 4 Hare . . . . 13 HoUandaise . . 14 Potage d’Amandes. . 16 Potage a la Bonne Femme 16 Potage a la Royale . 16 Puree of Artichokes . 20 Puree of Brussels Sprouts 22 Puree of Celery . . 20 Puree of Green Peas . 22 Puree de Marrons . . 23 Puree 4 la Princesse . 17 Pur^e of Vegetable Mar- FAOl row .... 21 Tapioca Cream 14 Tomato .... 19 Turtle (Dried) . . 11 Turtle (Mock) . • 12 White Stock . , ; 4 FISH. Creams of Whiting k la Royale 33 Curry of Fish 38 Dressed Crab 38 Escalopes of Fish . 36 Fillets of Sole 4 la Bohdmienne 29 Fillets of Sole 4 la Col- bert .... 30 Fillets of Sole 4 I’Horly 31 Fillets of Sole 4 la Maitre d’Hotel 29 Fillets of Sole 4 la Rouen- naise .... 30 Fillets of Sole a la Tartare 31 Lobster Cutlets 36 Mayonnaise of Fish 39 Oyster Cutlets 36 Prawns in Aspic 40 Quenelles 34[ 220 ] rAOz PA.OK Russian Fish Pie . . 37 Savoury Lobster Cream . 40 Smelts .... 37 Sole a la Colbert . . 28 Sole au Gratin > 27 Sole a la Portugaise » 28 Souffle .... 32 Turbot .... 32 Whitebait ... 36 ENTREES. Casserole of Chicken . 60 Chaud-froid of Chicken . 72 Chicken Cream . . 68 Chicken a la Marengo . 61 Creams of Beef . . 47 Creams of Chicken a la Nimois ... 68 Croquettes of Sweetbread k la Parmentier . . 66 Darioles of Chicken . 69 Dry Curry of Beef. . 48 Fillets of Beef a la Godard 45 Fillets of Beef k la Pom- padour ... 46 Fricassee of Chicken . 61 Galantine of Fowl . . 76 Galantine of Veal . . 76 Grenadins of Veal . . 66 Jugged Hare. . . 67 Kidneys a la Tliuringian 71 Kromeskis of Chicken . 68 Medallions of Chicken . 73 Mutton Cutlets . . 48 M utton Cutlets eu Chaud- froid .... 72 Mutton Cutlets Curried. 49 Mutton Cutlets a la Milanaise ... 60 Mutton Cutlets k la Re'- forme.... 60 Mutton Cutlets k la Sou- bise .... 61 Mutton Cutlets a la Vdnitienne. . . 62 Noisettes of Mutton . 63 Noisettes of Mutton aux Champignons . . 63 Patties of Chicken. . 69 Pigeons ^ la Duchesse . 62 Pigeons a la Mazarin . 62 Quenelles 67 Raised Pigeon Pie . . 77 Salmi of Game . . 66 Sweetbread Cutlets . 76 Sweetbread a I’ltalienne 63 Sweetbread a la Princesse 64 Sweetbread a la Supreme 64 Timbale Froide a la Toulouse ... 74 Timbales of Chicken . 60 Veal Cutlets ... 64 Veal Cutlets a la Colbert 66 Veal Cutlets k la Talley- rand . . . . 66 Vol-au-Vent of Pigeon . 70 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Artichokes ... 81 Asparagus ... 81 Brussels Sprouts au J us, 82 Cauliflower au Gratin 82 Celery .... 83 Celery Salad ... 91 Creme de Legumes . 90 Cucumber . . 84 Cucumber Salad . . 92 Flageolets ... 84 French Beans . . 84 Fruit Salad . . , 92[ 221 ] Haricot Beans, Savoury. TXOt -- 86 Lobster Salad 93 Mayonnaise Salad . 94 Peas .... 86 Potato Chips . , 86 Potato Croquettes . 87 Salsify . . . • 87 Sea-Kale 88 Spinach .... 88 Stuffed Tomatoes . 89 Tomato Salad 96 Vegetable Marrow. 90 HOT SWEETS. Almond Tartlets . . 99 Apple Charlotte . . 104 Banbury PuflFs . . 103 Brown Bread Pudding . 106 Cabinet Pudding . . 106 Caramel Custard . . 106 Chocolate Pudding . 107 Chocolate Tartlets . 100 Cocoanut Pudding, Baked 101 Cocoanut Pudding, Steamed . . .108 Fig Pudding . . . 109 French Pancakes , .103 Lemon Pudding . 101 Omelet, Sweet . ,116 Plum Pudding . . 110 Raspberry Pudding . Ill Souffle, Apricot . . 113 Souffle, Cheitnut . .114 Souffld, Chocolate , .116 Souffle, Coffee . .116 Souffld, Omelet . .117 Souffle, Vanilla . . 112 Viennoise Pudding . Ill West Riding Pudding 102 COLD SWEETS. Apples a la Rosebery FAOI 128 Bavaroise of Chocolate • 129 Bavaroise of Fruit . • 130 Blancmange . • 130 Cabinet Pudding . • 131 Charlotte Russe 131 Chartreuse of Apricot • 132 Chartreuse of Oranges • 133 Claret Pudding • 133 Coffee Pudding 134 Cream, Apricot a 123 Cream, Coffee • 126 Cream, Italian 126 Cream, Orange • 126 Cream, Rice . . 127 Cream, Ruhant . • 136 Cream, Vanilla • 124 Cream, Velvet . e 124 Custard . 136 Custard Cup . 136 Diplomatic Pudding 138 Figs a la Cypres 139 Fruit Sponge . 140 Fruit Tartlets • 121 Gateau de Riz 127 Macedoine of Fruit • 141 Meringues 137 Milanaise Souffle . 137 Prune Tartlets 122 Silver Spark Jelly , Swiss Tart 142 122 Trifle • 142 Venus Pudding • 143 SAVOURIES. Anchovy Straws . . 164 Anchovy Straws a la Royale . .166 Anchovy Toast - . 162[ 222 ] B&tons aux Tomates rAos 163 Biscuits a la Duchesse 169 Biscuits a la Normandie , 160 Canapes of Chickens’ Livers 162 Cassolettes of Oysters 161 Cheese Aigrettes . 147 Cheese Biscuits 147 Cheese d’Artois * 148 Cheese Omelet 149 Cheese SoulBd • 149 Cheese Straws • 160 Cheese Tartlets . 160 Cremes a la Josephine . 168 Croutes of Yellow Had- dock . . 162 Eggs, Stuffed Fillets of Herring a la 161 Dubois • 168 Mousses of Ham 161 Mushrooms, Stuffed . 163 Olives, Farced 166 Scotch Woodcock . • 163 Souffles of Ham 162 Timbales of Haddock A la Genoise . 167 Tomato Cheese • 166 SAUCES. Anchovy 167 Bechamel • • • 167 Brandy . 0 178 Brandy Butter . * 179 Bread . . • 0 168 Cardinal . • « 169 Chaud-froid . • 179 Curry . . . . 169 Custard . 178 Demi-Glace . • 170 Espagnole . • - 170 German. - 178 Hollandaise . 1 • SAOK 171 Horse-radish . • • 171 Italienne e e 171 Madeira. e • 172 Maitre d’Hotel • t 172 Mayonnaise . • • 180 Melted Butter • 173 Mousseline . • 173 Piquante • • 174 Re'forme • 174 Soubise . . t • 176 Supreme • 176 Tartare, Cold • 180 Tartare, Hot. • • 177 Tomato . « • 176 Tomato, Clear • • 176 Veloutd. • 177 JELLIES. Aspic • 183 Calf s-Foot • • 183 Claret . « • 186 Lemon . t • 186 Orange . t % • 187 Wine . t % • 187 PASTRIES. Choux . A « 195 Flaky s • 192 Genoese • • 194 Hot Water . s • 194 Puff • 193 Rough Puff . s • 192 Short Crust . « • 191 CAKES. Chocolate Cake • • 199 Cocoanut Cake • 199 Coffee Cakes . . 200[ 223 ] r^as PAOX Eclairs . • 200 Walnut Cake 209 Genoese Cakes • 201 Wine Fingers 210 German Biscuits ■ 202 German Pound Cake . 203 MISCELLANEOUS. Macaroons • • 203 Madeira Cake ■ • 204 Almond Icing 216 Mocha Cake . • • 204 Anchovy Butter 213 Petits Choux . • • 201 Braising Pot . 217 Plum Cake . • • 206 Butter or Vienna Icing . 216 Rice Cake • • 205 Chocolate Icing 214 Scotch Seed , t • 205 Glace Icing . 215 Seed Cake • • 206 Lobster Butter 213 Shortbread , • * 208 Maitre d’Hotel Butter . 214 Simnel Cake . • • 206 Mocha Icing . 216 Sponge Cake. • • 207 Mustard Butter 214 Sultana Cake. • 208 Panard .... 216 THE ENtt PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN AT THE PRESS OF THE PUBLISHERS.r. ■v< ■ - v^-:. ■ ^ 4\ f • J .. . '\ ^ ■'-■ ■ - -S i*^-**^ .* ■: ■ ^ J / ^ * ' 1-V. % X - i •*i' :■ •■• ' ^T P- .’ • '• ’ V . ‘ ;,!?•■ r •* • ■'>/* V. 3!: a- • “ ■ M • • » ..tRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars M - H- - Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification PTOA Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks