4LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Bateman A 30106023495434I The Chafing-Dish SupperBy the Same Author THE little dinner. One vol. 12mo. $1.00. THE CHAFING-DISH SUPPER. One vol. 12mo. 75 cents.The Chafing=Dish Supper By Christine Terhune Herrick New York Charles Scribner’s Sons 1906Copyright, 1894, by Charles Scribner’s Sons TROW DIRECTORY RRINTINQ AND eOOKBiNO'NG COMPANY NtW YORKTABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER I. FAQE When to Use the Chafing-Dish, . . 1 CHAPTER II. Practical Suggestions 8 CHAPTER III. Beginning with the Egg, 16VI of Confenfe CHAPTER IV. A Pretty Kettle of Fish, CHAPTER V. Oysters, Clams, Scallops, CHAPTER VI. With the Crustaceans, . CHAPTER VII. A Chapter on Entrees, . CHAPTER VIII. PJLOB . 31 42 52 60 Miscellaneous Dainties, . 75vii ^afife of Contents CHAPTER IX, Rechauffes, CHAPTER X. The Chafing-Dish Menu, INDEX, .... PASS . 86 . 99 . 109CHAPTER I WHEN TO USE THE CHAFING-DISH The chafing-dish began its career in the hands of the bachelors. With them it was a snbstitnte for a hearthstone, and supplemented by cosey bachelor apartments and a good club, measurably consoled them for the domes- tic joys most of them neither missed nor desired. Assisted by the chafing-dish, they could — and often did — not only “ welcome cheerful evening in,” hut also see it out in a blaze of glory. Even now, when the chafing-dish has become an ordinary sight2 on family tables, it is still haloed with a suggestion of revelry and midnight feasts that endears it to the hearts of that large class who, amid the proprieties of Philis- tia, secretly long for the joys of Bohemia. For the chafing-dish has ceased to be the peculiar possession of the dweller in tents. The most sedate householder now owns one, which is often expensive enough to exonerate its proprietor from any sus- picion of Bohemianism. A solid silver chafing-dish should be as good a guar- antee of purse and position in these days as was a gig in Carlyle’s time, and when the cooking of a dinner entrh in the aforesaid dish is personally conducted by an irreproachable butler, the acme of ele- gance and incongruity has surely been reached. Never, perhaps, is a chafing-dish more out of place than under such circum- stances. Its very presence is a plea forT3?3en to Q^ee f^e 3 unconventionality, for a license that is incompatible with the stern etiquette of the feast of ceremon3^ The chafing-dish has no rights at the dinner-table, unless perchance the dinner be one of those mer- ry, happy-go-lucky “ spreads ” dear to that class of the worthy poor recruited from the ranks of artists, journalists, and certain workers at literature. No ; the chafing-dish is most happily in evidence at the midnight supper, the Sun- day night tea, and the summer luncheon. There it provides a delightful substitute for the regulation cooking common on such occasions. For a long time the man or woman—it was usually a man—who achieved a suc- cessful product in the chafing-dish was regarded by the uninitiated as hardly sec- ond to a magician of the Middle Ages. But we have changed all that! The dish that has for so long been a valued4 stand-by to the few who appreciated its possibilities and knew how to make the most of them, has leaped into sudden popularity. Classes of women, of men, of women and men, are organized for the study of chafing-dish cookery, Cluhs are formed where the only refreshments served are those prepared in the chafing- dish. Books have been written in which recipes for chafing-dish compounds are given with more or less accuracy. Even the very poor are learning that by the help of a chafing-dish they can prepare hot food in the middle of the day without cooking themselves as well as the dinner over a blazing fire in a wood or coal stove. The chafing-dish deserves all that is said in its praise. It is simple, clean, easily managed, less expensive and cum- brous than a gas stove, less odorous and dirt-compelling than an oil stove. It gives practically no lateral heat, so thatto Q^ee t^e 5 it may be used with comfort on even the hottest days. Like every other branch of cookery, that conducted in the chafing-dish de- mands due study. But when certain points have been mastered, when one has learned the degree of heat required for different dishes, and has become familiar enough with the appearance of her work to know when it is progressing favorably, she need fear no contretemps so long as she follows rules and uses her judgment. Perhaps the chafing-dish is more useful on the Sunday supper-table than anywhere else. With its assistance that meal ceases to be the cheerless, cut-and-dried affair it often is in those houses where one maid— who is sometimes the only servant—is given her Sunday evenings out. Then is the time for the mistress of the house to display her skill in concocting lobster a la Nexvburg, or cheese fondu, or broiled<5 oysters, or curried eggs; or in making a savory rechauffe from some of the remains of the Sunday dinner. There are a few people who possess so little appreciation of cookery as an art that they are bored by the sight of the workings of a chafing-dish. These per- sons are, happily, in a small minority. Nearly everyone feels a keen interest in watching the preparation of the dish that is soon to gratify his palate, and the hostess who presides over a chafing-dish is usually fiattered or fluttered by finding herself the centre of observation. Unless she is an exceptionally skilful cook, and has a clear and steady head, she will show wisdom if she tries no experiments on a large audience, and reserves her efforts with unfamiliar dishes for a time when she has but few spectators. As an aid in making appetizing dishes of left-overs, the housekeeper will findfo (l|.0e f^e C^aflng;®i6^ 7 the chafing-dish especially useful. Cold meat, or cold fish of any kind, may be converted into a tempting plat on the chafing-dish, and it is no small boon to the mistress of the house to find that she can spare her cook, prepare a savory en- tree, and entertain her guests at the same time by cooking the principal item of her wash-day lunch on the chafing-dish. Most useful is it, too, when unexpected company makes necessary an addition to the meal that was just enough for the family before the unlooked - for guest arrived. Then is the time when the hostess flies for the magic utensil, and with eggs, or cheese, or sardines, or a can of lobster or salmon, prepares a delicious entree that supplies all former deficien- cies.CHAPTER II PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS The housekeeper of either sex who cooks on a chafing-dish should always be care- ful to have all the ingredients at hand before beginning operations. Many a good dish has been injured, if not actu- ally spoiled, because the cook has had to wait at the last moment while some one hunted for the pepper, or measured the milk, or rushed for the lemon-squeezer. Most of the measuring should be done in advance, and each ingredient should be put in place by the hand of the one who is to do the cooking. The woman who makes much use of the chafing-dish will find it advisable to^cicficaf ^uggesfione 9 provide herself with a few utensils which are to be kept sacred to her service. Among them should be a graduated measuring-cup of agate iron-ware or of glass, and two or three small bowls in which she may break and beat eggs. One of these should be a pint, another a quart bowl. The cook may also have a wire egg-whip, although the eggs can usually be beaten satisfactorily with a silver fork. For stirring the compounds in the chafing-dish there should be a long-han- dled wooden spoon with a rather small bowl. Such a spoon makes no noise as it rubs against the side of the dish, while the friction of a silver fork or spoon on the metal produces an unpleasant rasp- ing. Some cooks prefer using for pepper the little wooden German spice-mills, and claim that they thus get fuller strength than from the ready-ground condiments.lo €^f?ng;®tg9 A word concerning chafing - dishes. There are many makes, and they are of many materials. The longing of most hearts is for a solid silver, or heavily silver-plated chafing-dish. These are handsome, durable, and costly. Let those who cannot afford to buy such console themselves with the knowledge that they can cook just as successfully in a chafing-dish of agate-iron, copper, brass, or nickel, or even of the block-tin known as Britannia-ware. The chief ob- jection to the last material is common to the brass and copper also—the diffi- culty of keeping it bright and clean. On this account the nickel is to be pre- ferred, for this material does not tarnish, and requires only a dip in hot water and a rub with a chamois to look as good as new. It is not so elegant as the silver, but that is of little consequence, since the proof of the pudding is in the eat-^tocftcaf ^ug^eefions II ing and not in the dish in which it is cooked. The best lamp for a chafing-dish, all things considered, is the large asbestos lamp covered with a fine wire grating. Many of the handsomest chafing-dishes are supplied with lamps with two or three burners containing round or fiat wicks. The trouble with these is that they do not cook evenly, but keep the person in charge busy shaking the blazer with one hand to prevent the contents from scorching in spots, while the ener- gies of the other hand are devoted to stirring the ingredients that they may not stick to the two or three points where the flames below concentrate their heat. There are other styles of lamp, one of them an open cup holding alcohol, but in this the fuel is consumed much more rapidly than in the asbestos lamp, which gives a broad, steady flame with a mini-12 mum of consumption of alcohol. Its usefulness is increased if it has a double cover, hy means of which one may have a large or a small flame at will. The question is sometimes asked if a chaflng-dish is not an expensive luxury because of the cost of the alcohol it con- sumes. This cost is less than would be suspected by those who have not looked into the matter. One of the largest of the asbestos lamps will burn from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half without refllling if it has been really full to begin with. It holds about a gill of alcohol. With alcohol at seventy cents a quart, this makes the fuel cost about six cents an hour. Very seldom is a lamp burned more than an hour at once. If it is kept carefully closed when not in use, there is little evaporation. In buying a chaflng-dish one should he chosen that has two pans, the lower oneJ3 ^ocftcaf ^ugge0fion0 for hot water, the upper one, or blazer, for cooking. The latter is often used without the hot-water dish, when the contents will not he injured by the direct flame beneath, as is the case when quick cooking is required. There are many other dishes, notably those containing milk and eggs, which should be cooked over boiling water. Some chafing-dishes have handles at- tached to both pans—an admirable idea. It is an awkward business to lift from the supporting rim, or put into it, a handle- less pan half full of boiling water. The chafing-dishes which seek to sup- ply the place of the lower pan by a double cover to the lamp, are not equal to those with the double pan. Even the gentle heat from the small flame does not serve as a substitute for the steady, uniform cookery only possible over boiling water. A criticism frequently passed upon14 chafing-dish cookery is that so little of it is really done on the table; that a maid is often kept busy in the kitchen making ready the material for the dish the mis- tress is preparing in the dining-room. As a matter of course a certain amount of preparation is necessary for many articles cooked in the chafing-dish as there would be were they cooked in a frying-pan or saucepan on a stove. If the preliminary work is done outside, it is to save time at the table. In cooking sweetbreads, for example, they are usually parboiled before they come to the table, simply because this method is preferable to keeping the guests waiting while the operation is per- formed before them. So, in cooking lob- ster, this is boiled and picked from the shell before it makes its appearance in polite society. There are many dishes, however, like those composed of oysters, clams, kid-^dcttcaf ^u^geettone t5 neys, etc., where hardly any preparation is required after they come from market except what can be done at table when the guests are met.CHAPTER III BEGINNING WITH THE EGG SCRAMBLED EGGS. Break five eggs into a bowl, beat them with a fork only enough to blend the whites and yolks. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer, and turn in the eggs. Stir constantly until you have a thick, smooth mass. Season with a half teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of white pepper. Serve at once. STIRRED EGGS. One gill rich brown gravy or stock. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful minced parsley.(5$eginnmg (Bgg ^7 Five eggs. Half teaspoonfnl salt. Half saltspoonfnl white pepper. Melt the butter in the blazer, add the gravy, and when this is hissing hot, stir in the eggs, broken in a bowl and beaten as for scrambled eggs. Stir until they thicken; season, and just before serving them sprinkle them with the minced pars- ley. Serve on toast. CEBAMED EGGS. One gill chicken or veal stock. One gill cream. Four eggs. Half teaspoonful salt. Pepper to taste. Heat together the cream and the stock in the blazer, beat the eggs without sep- arating, and turn into the dish, stir until thick, season and serve. 218 EGGS WITH CHEESE. Five eggs. Two heaping tablespoonfuls dry grated cheese. Parmesan or old English cheese is best for this. One tablespoonful butter. Half teaspoonful salt. A dash of cayenne pepper. Beat the eggs light, add the cheese, the salt, and pepper. Have the butter melted in the blazer, turn in the eggs, and stir until thick and smooth. Serve on toast or crackers. EGGS ON ANCHOVY TOAST. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Half pint milk. Six eggs. One scant teaspoonful salt.Q^egtnnmg f0e <^g 19 White pepper. Six slices of buttered toast spread with anchovy paste. Melt the butter in the blazer, stir in the flour, and as soon as it bubbles add the milk. Stir until you have a smooth white sauce, and then turn in the eggs beaten light. Season, and stir constantly until you have a thick yellow sauce that will almost stand alone. Heap this on the anchovy toast and serve at once. If you wish to do all the preparation on the chafing-dish, you can heat one or two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blaz- er, and when it is very hot fry in it thin slices of bread from which the crust has been trimmed. These may be spread with the paste and kept warm between two heated plates, or over hot water while you cook the eggs.20 C^fCng;‘5H6^ puppet EGGS WITH CURRY. Five eggs. One tablespoonful butter. One teaspoonful curry-powder. One gill milk. Half teaspooful salt. Cut an onion in half, and rub the in- side of the blazer with it before you put in the butter. Beat the eggs without separating, and add to them the milk in which has been dissolved the curry pow- der. Turn all into the chafing-dish, and stir until smooth. POACHED EGGS. For these use the hot-water dish alone. Have it half full of boiling water, and place in it as many poached egg rings as it will hold. The water should not be deep enough to cover them until afterQ^egtnmng H)it^ f^e (Bgg 2/ an egg has been broken into each ring. More boiling water may then be added. Cook until the eggs are set. Serve on toast or fried bread. EGGS W^ITH BLACK BUTTER. Three tablespoonfuls of butter. Half teaspoonful vinegar. Salt and pepper to taste. Three or four eggs, according to the size of the chafing-dish. Melt the butter, cook in the blazer un- til it is a dark brown — almost black. Break in the eggs then, one at a time, and carefully, that they may not run together. Baste them with the butter until they are done, adding the vinegar just before taking them up, and sprinkle them with the salt and pepper.22 C^af[ng;‘SH6^ FRIED EGGS. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, and as soon as it is hot break in the eggs, one by one. Do not let them touch, if you can avoid it. AVhen set, turn them over and cook on the other side. Dust with salt and pep- per and serve. EGGS AND BACON. Cut thin slices of bacon and fry them in the blazer until quite crisp. Draw them then to the side of the dish, and fry eggs in the fat from the bacon. Serve together. OMELET. Beat together in a bowl the whites and yolks of five eggs, add to them a gill of milk, a half teaspoonful of salt, and a little white pepper. Use both pans of(J^egmmng (Bqq the chafing-dish, putting boiling water in the lower one. Melt in the upper two tablespoonfuls of butter, and turn into it the eggs. Cook until set, slipping a knife under the edge from time to time, to take care that the omelet does not stick. When it is done, fold it over care- fully, and either transfer it to a hot dish, or, better still, serve it from the chafing- dish. It is possible to cook an omelet in the blazer, without the hot-water dish, but a small fiame must be used and great care taken to prevent scorching. Parsley omelet, mushroom omelet, ham omelet, etc., may all be made by the above recipe. The filling should be strewn over the omelet just before it is doubled. EGGS WITH TOMATOES, Five eggs. Half pint stewed tomatoes, or the same24 quantity of fresh tomatoes, peeled and chopped. One tahlespoonful hutter. Half tahlespoonful flour. One very small onion, minced fine. One small teaspoonful salt. Pepper to taste. Brown the onion in the hutter, stir in the flour, and when this bubbles, add the tomato. Beat eggs without separating, and when the tomato hoils, stir them in very slowly. When they thicken, season and serve. Cook in blazer. EGGS WITH SARDINES. Five eggs. Small box sardines. One tablespoonful butter. Juice of half a lemon. Half teaspoonful salt.(jSegmnmg (Bgg 25 A little cayenne. Bone and skin the sardines, and flake them with a fork. Melt the hutter, lay in the sardines, and cook until they are hot through. Add the eggs, beaten with- out separating, and when set stir in the lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne. EGGS AND ANCHOVIES. Five eggs. A dozen anchovies, skinned and minced. One gill cream. One tablespoonful butter. A dash cayenne pepper. Melt the butter, add the cream, and when both are hot stir in the beaten eggs. When they begin to thicken put in the anchovies and cayenne, and cook, stirring constantly, until the dish is the consist- ency of ordinary scrambled eggs. Serve on buttered toast or fried bread.26 C^afingj®t60 EGGS WITH HAM. Six eggs. Half pound boiled ham, cut in small pieces. Half tablespoonful onion, minced very fine. (Chives may be substituted when they are in season.) Half teaspoonful mustard. Two tablespoonfuls butter. Brown the onion in the butter, add the ham, sprinkle with the mustard, and cook the meat until it begins to crisp. Stir in the eggs, and cook until thick. EGGS i VITALIENNE. Five eggs. Half pint milk. Half teacupful boiled spaghetti, chopped. Half teacupful mushrooms, sliced.(3$eginmng <^33 ^7 One tablespoonfnl butter. One tablespoonful chopped parsley. One scant teaspoonful salt. White pepper to taste. Melt butter and heat milk in the chafing-dish, over hot water. Stir in the beaten eggs, and when they begin to thicken add the spaghetti, mushrooms, parsley, and seasoning. Cook three min- utes and serve. EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. Five eggs. Two tablespoonfuls butter. Three tablespoonfuls mushrooms. One teaspoonfnl lemon-juice. Salt and white pepper. Melt the hutter, put in the mushrooms, and let them get hot through. Squeeze the lemon-juice over them, stir in the eggs, add salt and pepper, and cook until thick.28 ^uppev LYONNAISE EGGS. To two tablespoonfuls of butter, melted in the chafing-dish, put a small onion, sliced very thin and a couple of sprigs of parsley, minced, and cook until the on- ions are lightly browned. Add a gill of milk in which has been dissolved a tea- spoonful of flour, stir two or three min- utes, and lay in six hard-boiled eggs, each cut into four slices. Let them simmer for a few minutes, handling them care- fully, as they break readily. FRICASSEED EGGS. Six hard-boiled eggs, each cut crosswise into four thick slices. One cup good gravy or stock. In nearly all of the recipes which call for stock canned consornme may be used, or failing this, beef extract.Q$eg{nnmg i»tf0 f0e (Sgg 29 One teaspoonfnl butter. One very small onion, minced fine. One tablespoonful chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls fiour. Salt and pepper at discretion. Cook the onion in the butter, stir in the flour, and when it bubbles add the stock. When it is boiling hot lay in the eggs gently, not to break them. Let them cook three or four minutes, or un- til smoking hot. Season, sprinkle with parsley, and serve on fried bread. CUERIED EGGS. Six hard-boiled eggs, sliced as in pre- ceding recipe. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. One small onion, minced. Half pint white stock. Two tablespoonfuls cream.C0cifing?®i63 One teaspoonfnl curry-powder. Half teaspoonfnl salt. Brown the onion in the melted butter, stir in the flour and curry-powder, mixed together. When they bubble add the stock, stir until thick and smooth, put in the cream and the sliced egg. Salt to taste, and cook until the eggs are heated through. A SCOTCH RAREBIT. Six hard-boiled eggs, coarsely chopped. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful flour. One tablespoonful anchovy paste. Half pint milk. Pinch of cayenne. Cook butter and flour together until they bubble, add milk, and stir until smooth. Put in the anchovy paste and cayenne, and one minute later, the eggs. Simmer three minutes, and serve on toast.CHAPTER IV. A PRETTY KETTLE OF FISH CREAMED SALMON. Two hours before it is needed turn the contents of a can of salmon out upon a platter. Pick it to pieces with a fork^ re- moving all bits of bone or skin, and drain off the liquid. When you are ready to prepare the dish, cook together in the chafing-dish over hot water a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour. When they bubble pour in a cupful of milk and stir until you have a smooth white sauce. To this add the salmon, stirring constantly, sea- son with a scant teaspoonful of salt and32 three dashes of red pepper. When the fish is thoroughly heated squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Any kind of fish may he used in the same way. In cooking anything containing milk in the blazer, a close watch must be kept or the milk will scorch. For this reason I advise ixsing the hot-water pan under these circumstances. If, however, the fiame can be regulated and kept down to a small point, there is little danger of burning. CURRIED SALMON. One can best salmon. One tablespoonful olive-oil. One small onion, minced. One teaspoonful curry-powder. One tablespoonful flour. Three gills hot water. One scant teaspoonful salt. Juice of half a lemon.(S- d^eftfe of 5t00 jj Brown the onion in the oil, stir in the flonr mixed with the curry-powder, and when they are well blended put in the boiling water. Salt, turn in the salmon, which should have previously been turned out and picked over as directed for Creamed Salmon, and let it become very hot. Add then the lemon-juice and serve. CREAMED SALT COD. Either soak the cod for a while before it is used, or else put it in a colander af- ter it is shredded and pour boiling water over it two or three times. Make a white sauce, as for Creamed Salmon, put in two cups of the fish, and when it is smoking hot add to it a gill of cream. Or, you may omit this, and put in a tablespoonful of minced green pickle and a hard-boiled egg, chopped fine.54 CURKIED HALIBUT. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. One teaspoonful curry-powder. One teaspoonful minced onion. Half pint milk. One gill cream. Two cupfuls cold boiled or baked hali- but, flaked up flne. Fresh cod may be used, if it is very good. Juice of half a lemon. One even teaspoonful salt. Cook together the onion and the but- ter, add the curry-powder mixed with the flour, and when these bubble stir in the milk and the cream. Put in the flsh, salt it, and when it is smoking hot add the lemon-juice.(ptefti? dteftfe of i5 FRESH COD WITH ANCHOVY. Flake cold boiled cod, and to two cups of this allow two hard-boiled eggs, minced fine, a tablespoonful of anchovy paste, and a cup of white sauce. When this last is cooked smooth and thick stir in the an- chovy and the eggs, and then the fish. Toss up from the bottom that the fiavor of the anchovy may get all through the fish. BROOK TROUT. Put two tablespoonfuls of the best butter in the blazer, and when it is very hot lay in small brook trout. Cook un- til they are done through—it will require only a few minutes—and serve on hot plates. Or, if you prefer, you may heat two or three tablespoonfuls of pure olive-oil and cook the fish in this. In either case they36 €^afingj®i63 should be taken out with a fork, to free them from as much of the grease as pos- sible. A few sprays of parsley fried with them is a pleasant addition. SARDINES SAUTE. Select good-sized, boneless sardines, lay them on tissue-paper to free them from oil, and carefully scrape off the skin with- out breaking the fish. Melt a tablespoon- ful of butter in the blazer, lay in the fish, and cook about three minutes, turning them once. When they are done squeeze over them a few drops of lemon-juice, dust very lightly with cayenne, and serve on toast. frogs’ legs. To prepare these for the chafing-dish they should be skinned, as you generally find them in market, put over the fire in® ((Jreffe dtefffe of 37 boiling water, and cooked five minutes. They should then be blanched by having cold water poured over them. After this dry them, salt and pepper them, and dredge them in flour. Melt two ta- blespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, and cook the frogs’ legs in this to a good brown. Serve fried parsley with them. Or, you may keep them hot in the blazer while you make a cream sauce in the lower dish, which is generally re- served for hot water. This sauce is made by cooking together two tablespoonfuls of butter and one tablespoonful of flour, and adding to them half a pint of rich milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve the frogs’ legs in this. HALIBUT STEAK. Do not have your steaks more than three-quarters of an inch thick and about four inches square. Sprinkle them withsalt and white pepper, dip them in an egg beaten np in a saucer with a tablespoon- fnl of cold water, and then lay them in flour. Coat them well with this. Have three tablespoonfuls of butter smoking hot in the blazer, and saute your steaks in this over a moderate flame. If it is too flerce, the fish may scorch before it is done through. Serve sliced lemon with it. FISH WITH SAUCE PIQUANT. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful tarragon vinegar. One tablespoonful tomato or walnut catsup. (Better than either is cucumber catsup.) One tahlespoonful sherry. Half a small onion, minced fine. Half teaspoonful salt. Cayenne pepper at discretion. One pint cold flaked fish.® OKefffe of 39 Put all but the fish in the blazer^ and cook together three or four minutes. When the sauce is boiling hot put in the fish, turn it well so that the sauce may penetrate it, and cook until all is thor- oughly done. SHAD-KOES, SAUTK Prepare the shad-roe by cooking it ten minutes in boiling salted water, to which has been added a teaspoonful of vinegar. This may be done in the lower compartment of the chafing-dish. When the roes are done, throw them in cold wa- ter for five or ten minutes to blanch them, then dip them in flour. Put two table- spoonfuls of butter in the blazer, and lay in the pair of roes. They will cook more quickly and evenly if you will cut each into two or three pieces. When done take them out, melt a little more butter40 C^flngi®i60 ^up|)er in the blazer, and serve some of this with each portion of the roe. Pass sliced lemon with this. CREAMED SHAD-ROES. One pair shad-roes, parboiled, blanched, skinned, and crumbled. Three hard-boiled eggs, the whites chopped coarsely, the yolks grated into a separate dish. One tahlespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Half pint milk. One gill cream. One even teaspoonful salt. Juice of half a lemon. A few dashes of cayenne. Cook the butter and flour together un- til they bubble, add the milk, and when the sauce is thick and smooth put in the roes. Cook three minutes, stirring con-^ ^reffg dtefffe of 4^ Btantly, then add the cream, the whites of the eggs, salt and pepper, and cook three minutes longer, or until the contents of the blazer begin to bubble. Sprinkle the grated yolks over the top of the roes, and serve at once. This is a pretty as well as an appetizing dish, and, in spite of the long direction, is not difficult or tedious to make. TERRAPIN. The simplest way of preparing this de- licious dish is generally conceded to be the best. Put two tahlespoonfuls of butter into the blazer; when it is hot, add the terrapin, season with salt and cayenne, pour over it three tablespoonfuls of sher- ry, and serve as soon as k is all heated through.CHAPTEE V. OYSTERS, CLAMS, SCALLOPS PANNED OYSTERS, PLAIN. In two tablespoonfuls of butter, melted in the blazer, lay twenty good-sized oys- ters. As soon as the edges curl, dust them with pepper and salt, and serve at once on toast. PANNED OYSTERS WITH SHERRY. Cook the oysters as directed above, and when they reach the “curling” point, put in two tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira. Cook one minute longer, and serve on toast.Cfams, ^catfops 43 BROILED OYSTERS. Select large, plump oysters, rub the bottom of the hlazer with butter, and when it is hot, lay in the oysters. They will brown very quickly, and must be watched closely and turned promptly, or they will scorch. Should they stick to the pan, add a little more butter. FRIED OYSTERS. For this also large oysters should be chosen. Drain them, sprinkle them with a little salt and white pepper, and roll them in flour or cracker dust. Heat four tablespoonfuls of olive-oil in the hlazer, and when it is boiling hot, drop in the oysters. Turn them when hrown on one side and cook on the other. Lift out with a fork. Pass sliced lemon with44 C^afCngj©i63 them. Those people who have a preju- dice against oil may use butter in its place. STEWED OYSTERS. Cook together a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour in the blazer. Add to it one pint of oyster liquor, and when this is boiling hot, put in twenty-flve oysters. As soon as the edges crimp they are done. Season with salt and white pepper and two grates of a nutmeg. CURRIED OYSTERS. One solid pint oysters. Half pint oyster liquor. Half pint milk. Two teaspoonfuls curry powder. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful flour. Half teaspoonful onion juice. One small teaspoonful salt.<bg0fer0, €fam0, ^caffoj)0 4^ Put in the butter and onion juice, add the flour and curry powder, and when the mixture bubbles, stir in the oyster liquor and the milk. When the sauce is smooth and boils, put in the oysters, and cook until they plump and the edges crimp, which will be in about four minutes. OYSTERS i LA POULETTB. Thirty oysters. One pint cream. One tablespoonful butter. One tahlespoonful flour. Half teaspoonful salt. Saltspoonful white pepper. Three grates of a nutmeg. Cook together the butter and flour, add the cream, stirring constantly. When it boils, put in the oysters, and cook about four minutes. When they are plump, season, and serve on toast or crackers.46 FRICASSEED OYSTERS WITH MUSHROOMS. Thirty oysters. Half cupful mushrooms, sliced. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Three gills cream. One gill mushroom liquor. Yolks of two eggs. Scant teaspoonful salt. Pinch of white pepper. Cook together the butter and flour over hot water, pour upon them the cream and the mushroom liquor, put in the oysters and the mushrooms, and when the former begin to plump, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs, very slowly. Unless this is done with great caution the sauce will curdle. Cook them only a minute, until the raw yellow becomes creamy, season, and serve. These are especially nice upon Graham toast.0g6fer6, Cfdme, ^caftdjjs 47 DEVILLED OYSTERS. Twenty oysters. One tablespoonful olive-oil^ or melted butter. One gill oyster liquor. One teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. Pinch cayenne. Half teaspoonful salt. Half teaspoonful curry powder. Mix all the ingredients except the oys- ter liquor and oysters in the blazer before you light the lamp. As soon as they begin to heat over the flame, put in the liquor, and when this boils add the oys- ters. Turn them two or three times, and cook until plump, LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. Choose large, plump oysters, and wrap about each a thin slice of corned pork4^ or fat bacon, pinning it with a wooden tooth-pick. Lay them in the heated blazer, and cook until the pork or bacon is crisp. OYSTER CRABS. Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, put in the oyster crabs, cook three minutes, season with salt and cay- enne, and serve. CREAMED CLAMS. One pint soft clams. ^ One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. One pint cream. One tablespoonful sherry. Yolks of two eggs. Cook together the butter and flour over boiling water, add the cream, and when you have a smooth sauce put in the€)g6fer0, Cfame, ^cftffo]>6 49 clams. As soon as they are plump, stir in the beaten yolks, drop by drop. Cook two minutes longer, add the sherry, and serve at once. CLAMS i LA NEWBURG. One pint clams. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One gill sherry. Half pint cream. Yolks of two eggs. Scant teaspoonful salt. A little cayenne pepper. Trim from the clams the tough part, being careful not to cut into the soft por- tion. Melt the butter over boiling water, stirring constantly ; when creamy, put in the sherry. Beat together the yolks of the eggs and the cream, and add gradu- ally, stirring all the time. As soon as it is all mixed, turn in the clams, and cook until plump. 450 CLAMS AND BACON. Twenty-five clams. Half a dozen thin slices of the best bacon. Pepper the clams lightly, and roll them in flour. Lay the bacon in the blazer, and let the fat fry out of it. Draw it then to the side of the blazer, lay in the clams, and cook, turning them until brown on both sides. Nearly all the recipes supplied for oys- ters may be used for cooking clams. FRIED SCALLOPS. One pint scallops. Three tablespoonfuls butter. Pour boiling water on the scallops, and leave them in this five minutes. Drain and dry them. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll them in flour, and fry them in the blazer in the butter.^ytsUve, Cfamg, 5/ CREAMED SCALLOPS. One pint scallops. One pint milk. One tablespoonful flour. . Two tablespoonfuls butter. Half teaspoonful salt. White pepper. Let the scallops stand in boiling water five minutes, and drain them. Cook to- gether the butter and flour, add the milk, and simmer until smooth. Put in the scallops, cook five minutes, season, and serve.CHAPTER VI WITH THE CRUSTACEANS CURRIED LOBSTER. One pint lobster. One pint weak soup stock. One teaspoonful onion, minced fine. Two teaspoonfnls curry powder. Scant teaspoonful salt. Brown the onion in the butter, add the salt, the curry powder, and the stock, and let them boil together for five minutes. Put in the lobster then, and serve as soon as it is heated through. If possible, boiled rice should be served with this.Cniefftceang 53 CREAMED LOBSTER. One pint lobster. Half pint milk. Half pint cream. One tablespoonful butter. One heaping tablespoonful flour. Juice of half a lemon. Even teaspoonful salt. Pinch of cayenne. Make a sauce by cooking together over boiling water the butter and the flour, and adding to it the milk and half the cream. Put the lobster into this sauce, add pepper and salt, and stir until it is smoking hot. Put in then the rest of the cream, cook just long enough to heat this, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. This is a delicious preparation of lob- ster.54 DEVILLED LOBSTER. For this the lobster meat must be pro- cured in as large pieces as possible. Small fragments will not answer the purpose. Coat each piece with a paste made by working into a tablespoonful of butter a teaspoonful of curry powder, the same of made mustard, half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and a saltspoon- ful of salt. Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, and saute the lobster in this. LOBSTER i LA NEWBURO. One pint lobster. Half pint cream. Yolks of three eggs. One gill sherry. Half teaspoonful salt. Pinch of red pepper.IXfif^ Cni0fftce<m6 55 Put the cream, wine, and beaten yolks together in the chafing-dish, over boiling water, and cook, stirring steadily, until the sauce thickens. Put in the lobster, let it become heated through, season, and serve. A larger proportion of sherry may be used, if desired. Or, the sherry may be passed with the lobster after it is served, that each may add it to suit him- self. LOBSTER SAUTE. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer. As soon as it is bubbling hot, put in a pint of the meat of fresh lobster, or the contents of a can of lobster. If the latter is used, it should have been turned out a couple of hours before it is needed, and in either case the meat should be cut —not chopped—into small pieces. Stir the lobster briskly, salt to taste, add a dash of cayenne and the juice of half a5^ C^afing;®i00 ^upjjer lemon. As soon as the lobster is very hot, it is done. SAVORY LOBSTER. Put into the chafing - dish a heaping tablespoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of dry mustard, as much salt, and a couple of dashes of cayenne pepper. Stir in the lobster next. The meat of one large or two small ones may be used, or the con- tents of a can. When it is smoking hot, put in a wineglassful of sherry and the Juice of half a lemon, cook a minute longer, and serve. The wine may he omitted if desired, but its use adds much to the flavor of the dish. SOFT-SHELL CRABS, SAUTIS. Remove the “ apron,” or loose shell, and the spongy substance on both sides of the upper shell. Sprinkle the crabs withCrugfoceane 57 salt and pepper, and dip them in flour. Have boiling hot in the blazer three or four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and fry the crabs in this. Small ones are the best for this purpose. They will require eight to ten minutes cooking, and should be browned on both sides. DEVILLED SOFT-SHELL CRABS. Spread on the crabs the paste described in the recipe for devilled lobster and saute in butter. HARD-SHELL CRABS may be cooked by recipes for curried and savory lobster, and lobster saute. STEWED SHRIMPS. Shrimps are among the few canned arti- cles of food that are nearly as good thus prepared as when fresh from the market.5^ €^aftng;®i6^'puppet For stewed shrimps heat in the blazer two tablespoonfuls of butter, and when it boils, put in the shrimps. (If canned, it is well to rinse them in cold water before cooking them.) When they are heated through, pour in a gill of boiling water, cook one minute longer, add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt and cayenne. CREAMED SHRIMPS. One can shrimps. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful flour. One pint milk. Scant teaspoonful salt. A little cayenne. Cook together the butter and flour, add the milk, and cook until the sauce is smooth, put in the shrimps, and simmer until they are heated through. Season and serve.f^e Cni6tacean0 59 CURRIED SHRIMPS. One can shrimps. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Two teaspoonfuls curry powder. Half teaspoonful salt. One teaspoonful Chutney sauce. One pint boiling water. Cook the butter and onion in the bla- zer ; when the latter is brown, add the flour and curry powder, cook until they bubble, and pour the boiling water upon them. Stir constantly, and when smooth, put in the Chutney and the shrimps. They should cook about five minutes.CHAPTER VII A CHAPTER ON ENTRIES BROILED SWEETBREADS. Sweetbreads must always be parboiled and blanched before using. Wash them well, lay them in boiling water, and let them simmer ten minutes. Take them out and plunge them in cold water. Leave them in this for ten minutes. All this should be done before the time when they are to take their place in the chafing- dish. To broil sweetbreads, cut them in half lengthwise, after parboiling and blanching them, and dust them with salt and white pepper. Have the blazer quite hot, rubchapter on (SnMes 6i it with butter, and lay in the sweetbreads. They will broil quickly, and must be watched carefully lest they should scorch. If they stick, add a little more butter. When they are delicately browned, put in a tablespoonful of butter, and as soon as it is melted, extinguish the flame. Serve a little of the butter with each portion of sweetbread. SWEETBREADS, SAUTA Parboil and blanch the sweetbreads, cut them in half lengthwise, and then cut each half into two pieces. Sprinkle these with salt and pepper. Beat up one egg in a saucer with a tablespoonful of water. Dip each slice of sweetbread first in this and then in cracker dust. Have ready in the blazer two tablespoonfuls of but- ter, and when this is very hot lay in the sweetbreads. Cook until well browned.<52 C^afirxQi^B^ ^upper LARDED SWEETBREADS, SAUTA Parboil and blanch the sweetbreads, and run through each four or five thin strips of fat salt pork. Do this with a larding- needle, or a sharp, narrow-bladed knife, and let the ends of the pork project on each side. Have a tablespoonful of but- ter in the blazer, and cook the sweet- breads in this, turning often. Let them cook rather slowly. CREAMED SWEETBREADS. One pair sweetbreads, parboiled, blanched, and cut into small pieces. Half pint cream. One tablespoouful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Salt, white pepper, and a pinch of nut- meg. Melt the butter over boiling water, stir(g. on Snfr^ee in the flour, and when this is well mixed, the cream. As soon as the sauce is smooth put in the sweetbreads, season, nnd cook for flve minutes. SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. One pair sweetbreads. Parboil, blanch, and slice them. One dozen mushrooms, chopped coarsely. Half pint cream. One gill mushroom liquor. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Yolks of two eggs. Salt and white pepper. Cook the butter and flour together over boiling water, pour upon them the cream and mushroom liquor. Stir until smooth, and lay in the sweetbreads. Let them cook three minutes, put in the chopped mushrooms and seasoning, and^4 C^aftng;®i6^ add the beaten yolks of the eggs very slowly, stirring all the time. Cook two minutes after the eggs are in, and serve. KIDNEYS WITH BACON. Select lamb kidneys, and have them split in half and skewered open with very small skewers, caught through the outer skin. Lay in the blazer half a dozen thin slices of fat breakfast bacon, and cook out the fat; then draw the bacon to the side of the pan and put in the kid- neys. They will require about six min- utes to cook, and must be turned often. When brown and tender (test them with a fork), they are done. Add then a tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce to the gravy, and serve a slice of bacon and a little gravy with each portion of kidney. These should, if possible, be served on thin toast or fried bread.^ C^a^jfer on (Bnir^es 65 STEWED KIDNEYS. Two pairs kidneys. One cup consomme, or stock. Half small onion, minced. Two tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Juice of half a lemon. Split the kidneys, trim off the fat and skin, and cut each kidney into three or four pieces. Heat the butter in the blaz- er, lay in the kidneys, add the onion, the stock, and the seasoning. Cover, and cook about eight minutes. Add the lemon-juice, and serve the kidneys on toast or fried bread. KIDNEYS WITH MUSHEOOMS. Two pairs lamb kidneys, skinned and quartered. A dozen mushrooms, sliced thin. 566 C^afing;©ie3 puppet* One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Half an onion, minced flne. Half pint consomme, or stock. One gill mushroom liquor. Scant teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. Salt and white pepper. Heat the butter and onion in the blazer, add the flour, and stir until it browns, put in the stock, the mushroom liquor, Worcestershire, and seasoning, and let them simmer two minutes, stirring constantly. Put in the kidneys and mushrooms, and cook for five or six min- utes. Stir often. Serve on toast or fried bread. calf’s liver, saute. Half pound of liver, cut into thin slices. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One teaspoonful onion, minced fine. Two tablespoonfuls sherry.on (Bntr^CB 67 One tablespoonful mushroom catsup. Salt, pepper, and flour. Heat the butter in the blazer with the onion. Sprinkle the liver with pepper and salt, and coat each slice thickly with flour. Lay them in the butter, and cook to a light brown, turning often. When they are done, either keep them warm over hot water, or else draw them to the side of the dish while you add to the butter the sherry and catsup, and let this boil up once. Lay the liver back in the sauce, extinguish the lamp, and serve. calf’s liver and bacon. Cut both liver and bacon into thin slices. Lay the bacon in the blazer, and when the fat has cooked out, draw the bacon to one side, put in the liver, flrst peppering each slice and rolling it in flour. Cook until brown and tender.6S puppet turning often. You may serve it as it is, or you may take out the meat, add to the fat in the pan a tablespoonful of browned flour, half a pint of boiling water, a little salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Let this boil up, and pour over the meat, or return this to the chafing-dish after extinguishing the lamp. calf’s liver and bacon, no. 2. Eub the blazer with onion and put in the bacon. When it begins to crisp, lay in very thin slices of liver. Cook until this is done and begins to curl at the edges. Serve a slice of bacon with each piece of liver. calf’s brains, sautA The brains must be washed and cooked fifteen minutes in boiling water, to which^ on (Bnfr^es 6g has been added a teaspoonful of vinegar. Blanch, and remove bits of skin, etc. Break them up with a fork, and mix them to a paste with a beaten egg and a little pepper and salt. Have ready in the blazer two tablespoonfuls of butter, and when this is very hot put in the brains by the spoonful, taking care that the por- tions do not crowd each other. Turn carefully, so as not to break them. Fry until brown, and serve. calf’s BRAIKS, AU BEURRE NOIR. Boil the calf’s brains with a bay leaf, two sprigs of thyme, and a little salt in the lower pan of the chafing-dish. When they are done take them out, cut the brains in thick slices, and pour over them a sauce made by cooking in the blazer until brown two tablespoonfuls of butter. When it reaches this point, add four dropsof vinegar, and pour it at once over the brains. calf’s brains, creamed. Parboil the brains, blanch them, and cut them into small pieces. Cook to- gether, over hot water, a tablespoonful of butter and a scant one of flour ; add half a pint of milk, and when the sauce is smooth, put in the brains. Cook three minutes, salt and pepper, and put in slowly the beaten yolk of one egg, stir- ring constantly. Cook two minutes, and serve. TRIPE WITH CREAM SAUCE. Select the thick honeycomb tripe, boil it, and cut it into strips about an inch wide by three inches long. Put into the blazer two tablespoonfuls butter and half a teaspoonful of onion, minced fine. When these are hot, lay in the tripe, firstchapter on iBnitits 71 dredging each slice well in flour. Cook until brown, turning often. Take it out, add to the butter in the pan a half pint of cream, into which has been stirred a^ scant tablespoonful of flour. Cook, stirring all the time, until yon have a smooth, thick sauce, return the tripe to it, and serve. CREAMED TRIPE. This may he prepared by the recipe for Calf’s Brains, Creamed. LAMB CHOPS. Rub the inside of the blazer with but- ter, make it very hot, and broil the chops in it. They should be turned often, and if they show signs of scorching or stick- ing, a little more butter may he applied. Large, thick chops cannot he so easily cooked in this fashion, but small lamb chops may readily be prepared in a chaf-72 ing-dish, and are hardly less excellent than those that have been broiled on a gridiron. The essential point is to have the dish so hot when the meat is laid in as to sear the surface at once, and thus prevent the escape of the juices. BROILED BEEFSTEAK. This may be cooked exactly as are the lamb chops. BEEFSTEAK WITH WINE SAUCE. Rub both blazer and steak with lemon, then put a little butter in the blazer and broil the steak. When it is about half done—say in five minutes—pour over it a gill of consomme and a gill of sherry. Let it cook in this six or eight minutes longer, turning it several times. Just be- fore serving it, add the juice of a lemon.^ C^apUv on (Bnfreee 73 BEEF MINCE. Have a pound of beef from the round minced very fine by your butcher, and free it from all sinews and stringy bits. Heat in the blazer two tablespoonfuls of butter, put in the meat and a teaspoonful of onion-juice. Stir for three or four minutes, or until the meat is hot through; add salt, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. FRICASSEE OF DRIED BEEF. One cupful dried beef, chopped fine. One tablespoonful butter. Half pint milk. Two eggs. Melt the butter in the milk, over hot water, put in the meat and cook about five minutes, add the beaten eggs slowly and stir until the sauce is thick. Serve on toast or fried bread.74 C^cif[ng;©t03 ^up|)er VENISON STEAK. Rub tbe blazer with butter, broil the steak as you would beefsteak, but do not overcook. Sprinkle it with salt and pep- per, put in half a wineglass of sherry and a tablespoonful of currant jelly; leave covered two minutes, and serve on very hot plates.CHAPTER VIII MISCELLANEOUS DAINTIES FRIED TOMATOES. Cut the tomatoes into thick slices. Do not peel them. Put in the blazer two tablespoonfuls of butter, and lay the to- matoes in this. Turn them quite often, and cook until tender. Sprinkle with salt and serve. These make an excellent accompaniment to cold meat. DEVILLED TOMATOES. Cook the tomatoes as directed above, and keep them hot while you add to the butter in the blazer another tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of onion-juice, ay6 tablespoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful each of made mustard and salt, and a pinch of cayenne. All these may have been mixed in a bowl, and the mixtures put into the blazer at once. Turn in upon them, drop by drop, the beaten yolks of two eggs, stirring all the time, and as soon as it is all in, ex- tinguish the flame beneath. Lay the to- matoes back in the sauce, and serve. CURRIED TOMATOES. Cook half a teaspoonful of onion, minced flne, in two tablespoonfuls of butter, and add to this a teaspoonful of curry-powder. When this is well blended put in the sliced tomatoes, and cook as directed in recipe for Fried Tomatoes.Qlltsccffaneoue ©ainfies 77 CKBAMBD TOMATOBS. Half pint cream or rich milk. One tablespoonfnl flour. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and a little white pepper. Six Arm tomatoes. Cut them in thick slices, and fry them in the butter. When tender, stir in the cream or milk with which the flour has been smoothly mixed. Cook, stirring constantly, until the sauce thickens, and serve. FBBSH MUSHROOMS, SAUT^. Peel and wash the mushrooms and cut off the stems. Melt two tahlespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, lay the mushrooms in this, and cook eight or ten minutes, turning them often. Season them with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice ofy8 C^afingj®i09 half a lemon, and sprinkle over them a little finely minced parsley. Serve on toast. FRESH MUSHROOMS, STEWED. Peel and wash the mushrooms and cut off the stems. Put a tahlespoonful of butter and one of flour in the chafing- dish, over boiling water, with the mush- rooms, and let them cook twelve or fif- teen minutes. You may then add salt and pepper to them, and serve; or, sea- son and pour over them slowly a gill of cream in which has been beaten the yolk of an egg. Cook three minutes after this goes in. GREEN PEAS (FRESH). The peas must be very young and fresh. Put one cup of boiling water in the blazer, and turn in a pint of peas. Have a very hot flame, and cook the(tttieceffaneouB ©amftee 79 peas until tender. Drain off the water, sprinkle the peas with salt and white pepper, and stir into them a tablespoon- ful of butter. GREEN PEAS (canned). Drain the liquor from a can of French peas. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, put in the peas, and let them get heated through, stirring con- stantly. Too long cooking toughens them. CREAMED POTATOES. Cut boiled potatoes into small squares. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, add half a pint of milk, and warm the potatoes in this. When they are hot, stir in a tablespoonful of flour wet up in a little cold milk, and cook until it thickens. Season with salt and pepper, and serve.8o POTATOES, SAUTA Peel several new potatoes and cut them into thin slices. Melt in the blazer two tablespoonfuls of butter, or of really good dripping. Chicken fat or dripping is especially good for this purpose. When it is very hot, put in the potatoes, and cook them to a light brown. LYONNAISE POTATOES. Slice a small onion very thin. Fry it in the chafing-dish in two tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. Slice half a dozen cold boiled potatoes and fry them with the onion. When they are done, sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of parsley, minced very fine. GREEN PEPPERS, SAUTE. Slice green peppers, removing the pun- gent seeds. Melt two tablespoonfuls of(glt6ceffftneou0 ©ftmfteg 8i butter in the blazer, and cook the pep- pers until they are brown and tender. Salt to taste. They are very good cooked in olive-oil, and make an appetizing garnish to cold meats or to steak. CHEESE EOHDU. Prepare before coming to table a cup of fresh bread-crumbs and two cups of grated cheese. Beat two eggs light in a bowl. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, over boiling water, add a cupful of milk, a tiny pinch of soda, the crumbs and the cheese. Pepper and salt to taste, and cook about five minutes, or until smooth. Last of all, put in the two eggs and stir for about three minutes be- fore serving. 6C^fvfingj®i63 WELSH RABBIT, NO. 1. Melt a heaping tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish with a saltspoonful of dry mustard, and stir into this three cup- fuls of grated cheese. As it begins to soften add about a gill of ale, or, in de- fault of this, an equal quantity of boiling water. If water or boiling milk is used, it produces what is known as a ^^temper- ance Welsh rabbit.” Stir vigorously all the time, and when the mixture is thick, smooth, and a rich yellow, it is done. Three or four minutes should suffice after the cheese is in, but it is almost impossi- ble to give a positive rule for Welsh rab- bit. If the cooking is checked too soon, the cheese becomes tough and stringy ; if it continues too long, there is danger that it will curdle. Only the eye of experience can tell when the exact point is reached(Jftt6ceffaneou0 ©ftmftes to produce a compound of delicious indi- gestibility. It should be served on toast, but if this is not at hand, square snow- flake crackers make very tolerable substi- tutes. WELSH RABBIT, KO. 2. Half pound cheese, grated. The soft American dairy cheese should be used. Two eggs. One gill ale or beer. (Bass’s white label ale is best.) One tablespoonful butter. One teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. One teaspoonful lemon-juice. One teaspoonful celery salt. Saltspoonful mustard. Pinch of cayenne. Melt the butter over boiling water, add the beer, and when these are smoking hot, put in the cheese. As soon as it is^4 C^afLng;®i60 smooth season with the celery salt, mus- tard, and pepper. Have ready the eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately and very light, and then stirred together. Hip out some of the hot cheese mixture and pour it into the howl with the eggs, stirring steadily. This will decrease the probability of the eggs curdling. When they are well mixed pour them into the chafing-dish slowly, never intermitting the stirring. When they are well blend- ed, and the mixture is smooth and creamy, put in the Worcestershire and lemon-juice, and serve at once on hot toast. This is a very delicious “ rabbit.” SALTED ALMONDS. Shell, blanch, and dry half a pound of almonds. Heat in the blazer one table- spoonful of olive-oil or as much butter. Put in the almonds and cook to a delicate(2fti0ceffancou6 ®atnfie0 8^ brown, shaking the pan constantly and stirring often to keep them from burning. Drain, dry on soft paper, and sprinkle with fine salt.CHAPTER IX RECHAUFFES CHICKEN AU SUPREME. Cold roast or boiled chicken, cut into slices. The white meat is preferable, but both may be used. Two tablespoonfuls olive-oil. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Half pint milk. One gill cream. Salt and white pepper. Lay the chicken in the oil for an hour before using. Turn it once, that each piece may be well coated. When at table melt the butter in the chaflng-dish, stirQ^^auff^e «?7 in the flour, add the milk and the cream, and stir until smooth. Put in the chick- en and cook three minutes, or until the chicken is hot through. CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS. Cold chicken or turkey, sliced or cut into small pieces. Have about a pint of the meat. Half cup canned mushrooms, sliced. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One tahlespoonful flour. Half pint milk. One gill mushroom liquor. Yolks of two eggs. Salt and white pepper. Make a sauce over boiling water of the butter, flour, milk, and mushroom liquor, add the chicken, cook three minutes, put in the mushrooms, and cook two minutes longer. Add the eggs then, very slowly.88 C^cifCng;®i0^ stirring all the while, and as soon as the sauce is a pale creamy yellow—about two minutes—extinguish the lamp. CUERIED CHICKElir. Two cups cold chicken, light or dark meat, cut into small pieces. One cup chicken broth or gravy. Half a small onion, minced fine. One teaspoonful curry-powder. One tablespoonful butter. Salt to taste. Cook the onion in the butter for about three minutes, stir in the curry-powder and the broth. When all are hot put in the chicken, and let it simmer in the gravy from eight to ten minutes. Always, when possible, serve boiled rice with curry. Ice-cold bananas should be eaten with meat curries.89 (gcc3<iuff^0 CREAMED CHICKEN. Two cups cold chicken, cut into small pieces. One cup chicken stock. One cup milk, or cream, if you have it at hand. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One heaping tablespoonful flour. Salt and white pepper. Cook the butter and flour together, add the stock and milk, stir until smooth, put in the chicken and seasoning, and cook three minutes longer. RECHAUFFE OF TURKEY, NO. 1. Make a sauce as elsewhere directed, using a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, and half a pint of stock made from the turkey bones. Out the turkey intosmall slices, warm it in the sauce, and when it is hot through season with pep- per and salt, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry, cook two minutes longer, and serve. RECHAUFFE OF TURKEY, NO. 2. Heat a half pint of stock from the turkey-hones in the chafing-dish, over hot water, and when it is warm lay in the slices or pieces into which you have cut the dark meat of the cold tur- key. While it heats mix in a bowl two tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a half teaspoonful of made mustard, a half teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Bring this paste to the thickness of double cream by the addition of a little stock, add it to the meat and gravy in the chafing-dish, and cook, stirring, for five minutes. Add two91 (gw0auffe6 tablespoonfuls of sherry, cook two min- utes longer, and serve. Cold duck may be warmed over by either of these recipes for rechauffe of turkey. RECHAUFFE OF DUCK, NO. 1. Warm in a blazer two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cur rant-jelly, and a gill of sherry, madeira, or port. Lay in this sauce pieces of cold duck, season with salt and pepper, and cook five minutes. This is an excellent sauce in which to warm wild duck or other game. RECHAUFFE OF DUCK, NO. 2. Two cups of cold roast duck, cut from the bones. Half pint gravy, made from the bones of the duck.92 ^upi>eir One gill claret. Two tablespoonfuls currant-Jelly. One tablespoonful butter. A dozen olives, stoned. Salt and pepper to taste. Put all except the duck together in the blazer, and simmer three minutes. Lay in the pieces of duck, cook five minutes longer, and serve. VEAL WITH MUSHROOMS. About a pound of sliced veal. Half pint veal stock. One gill mushroom liquor. Half pint mushrooms, sliced. Yolks of two eggs. Two teaspoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful flour. One small onion, sliced. Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour, and cook until it browns. Stir in93 the stock and mushroom liquor, and lay in thin slices of cold roast veal. When these are hot, put in the mushrooms, and add the yolks of the eggs, very slowly. Cook two minutes more, and serve. VEAL WITH ASPAEAGUS TIPS. Two cups very tender veal, roast or stewed. One cup cooked asparagus tips, fresh or canned. One tahlespoonful butter. Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Half pint milk. Kub the yolks and butter to a paste and heat it with the milk in the chaf- ing-dish. Stir until thoroughly blended. Lay in the veal and asparagus, season with salt and white pepper, and cook about five minutes.94 C^aftng;®i60 ^upptt VEAL WITH TOMATO SAUCE. One tablespoonful butter. Two tablespoonfuls good tomato cat- sup. Half pint veal stock. Two cups cold roast veal, cut in small pieces. Heat all the ingredients but the veal first, then lay this in, add celery salt and white pepper to taste, and a pinch of cay- enne, and serve ivhen the meat is smoking hot. Beef and mutton may be warmed over with the same sauce, substituting beef or mutton stock for the veal. DEVILLED MEAT. Cold rare beef, or underdone mutton, or the wings and drumsticks and sidebones of roast turkeys or large chickens may be95 used for this. Make a sauce of a table- spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful each of vinegar and Worcestershire sauce, half a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. Mix these thoroughly, make cuts in the meat with a knife, and rub the sauce into them. Heat the blazer, rub it with a little butter, and grill the meat in this. Serve very hot. CURRIED MEAT. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a chafing-dish and cook in this a small onion cut in thin slices. When it is well browned add to it a tablespoonful of fiour wet up with a little cold water, a tea- spoonful of curry-powder, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of hot water. Let all simmer together, stirring constantly for about five minutes, then lay in slices of cold meat of any kind cut very thin, or96 C^cifing;©ie3 stir in dice of the same. The meat should cook about ten minutes before it is served. If this allowance of curry- powder makes the stew too hot for the ordinary palate, less may be used. A SAVORY EECHAUPFE. Put into the chafing-dish two table- spoonfuls of butter and one of fruit-jelly —apple, currant, or grape—with a salt- spoonful of dry mustard. Stir until the butter and jelly are melted and blend. A rather low flame should be used for this to prevent any danger of the jelly scorch- ing. If wine is used, a couple of table- spoonfuls of sherry will be found an ac- ceptable addition. In the sauce thus prepared lay slices of underdone lamb, mutton, or roast beef. Salt and pepper them to taste and let them simmer for several minutes, turning them often that97 O5^^aufr<^0 they may be heated and seasoned thor- oughly, yet not scorched. This is an admirable recipe for warming over cold game or fowl. BARBECUED HAM. Cut rather thick slices of cold boiled ham, lay them in the blazer, and let them fry in their own fat. When they begin to crisp, draw them to the side of the dish, and add to the fat in the pan a table- spoonful of vinegar, a small teaspoonful of white sugar, a saltspoonful of mustard, and a little pepper. Mix well, put the meat into the sauce—bring this to the boil and cook two minutes. This is extremely good. HASH—Last not Least. Cook half a minced onion in a table- spoonful of butter in the blazer, and stir 79^ into it equal parts of chopped beef, corned or fresh, and potato, mashed or boiled and chopped. Moisten with gravy or soup, or, lacking these, boiling water and melted butter, season with celery salt and pepper, and add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, or a half teaspoon- ful of made mustard, and serve it smok- ing hot. Even prosaic hash will gain interest when cooked in a chafing-dish, and, when thus prepared, it is a dish worthy of honor. A savory mince of lamb, mutton, or veal, or even of beef, may be prepared by the same recipe, omitting the potatoes.CHAPTER X THE CHAFING-DISH MENU A FAULT into which over-ambitions house- keepers are prone to fall is that of mak- ing the chafing-dish an adjunct instead of the central figure of the meal named in its honor. When one is hidden to an alleged chafing-dish tea, and finds there bouillon, croquettes, pdtes, or other entrees, salads, chauds-fraids, sweets, ices, wines, etc., he is impressed with the fact that the chafing-dish makes but a poor showing even when it is used to prepare some such delectable dainty as lobster a la Newburg, or sweetbreads and mush- rooms.100 C^ciftngj©i6^ At the chafing-dish supper all other parts should be subordinated to the holder of the title role. The hostess may accompany her hot dish with the desir- able accessories and follow it with a salad and a sweet, but she should give it no such rivals as elaborate entrees previously prepared by the cook. For the Sunday-night tea let the cor- don bleu of the chafing-dish devise a menu like one of the following : 1. Panned Oysters with Sherry. Saratoga Potatoes. Graham Toast. Tomato and Lettuce Salad. Crackers and Cheese. Home made Charlotte Russe.C^fng;®i6^ (^enu /o/ 2. Lobster A la Newburg. French Kolls, Cold Turkey. Celery Salad. Brandied Peaches. 3. Fish Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing. Thin Bread and Butter. Cheese Fondu. Snowflake Crackers. Blanc-mange. Preserved Ginger. 4. Cold Boast Beef, sliced thin. Creamed or Devilled Tomatoes. Baked Beans. Chicory Salad. Wine Jelly.102 C^fing;®i60 5. Sweetbreads with Mushrooms. Finger Kolls. Lettuce with French Dressing. Oatmeal Crackers. Cream Cheese. Fresh Fruit. 6. Kidneys and Bacon. Baked Potatoes. Chicken Salad. Chocolate Sponge. With any of these suppers coffee may either be served with the first course, in large cups, or at the close of the meal, as at dinner, in demi-tasses. When the hostess has once come to re- gard the chafing-dish as an indispensable figure on the Sunday-night tea-table, sheC^afLn^iWie^ (^enu /oj will readily plan new and attractive me- nus, and the component parts of these will be dishes that can be prepared in ad- vance, so that the maid to whose lot it falls to abide by the stuff on Sunday evening, may not have her labors in- creased by being obliged to cook a heavy meal. The midnight supper—and never does the chafing-dish look quite so much at home as when the centre of such a feast —is a much simpler affair. The phrase “ midnight supper,” I may say, is more a figure of speech than a statement of facts. The period “midnight” is mentioned because of the fiavor of the daring and unexpected it lends to a meal that is of- tener than not entirely proper and well- conducted. For the midnight supper, then, there need be no very involved preparations. There is no necessity for more than one104 C^fingi©ts3 important dish, and the salad need not appear. Lobster, in one form or other, creamed clams, broiled oysters, kidneys in some style, curries, game, devilled dishes, Welsh rabbits—these are among the vi- ands suitable for a late evening repast, whether it be eaten at midnight or one or two hours earlier. At such a feast there should be plenty of bread and butter, or sandwiches or crackers, and something to drink—coffee, chocolate, beer, ale, claret cup, punch, or a light wine. There is no need to suggest menus for luncheons. The luncheon at which the chafing-dish appears is usually a home meal for home people, and such vege- tables, bread, etc., are selected as accom- pany most suitably the made dish or rechauffe prepared by the house-mother. The bill of fare at such times shapes it- self, and the only condition to be empha- sized is that the provision should be am-(gtcnu /05 pie. The children, no less than their el- ders, find a new zest in the food they see cooked in the chafing-dish, and the appe- tites of these small ones usually demand large supplies. There is no doubt that the cookery really is better, especially when a rechauffe is in question, than when it is performed in the kitchen. So prominent a part do brains play in warming over food accept- ably that a woman who has a cook of only ordinary capacities must either su- perintend such work in the kitchen, or do it herself on the table, if she wishes to have it at its best. Much of the excel- lence of chafing-dish cookery consists, too, in the fact that the food thus prepared is served and eaten smoking hot. Should any devotee to chafing-dish cookery desire to widen the field of her usefulness and introduce the chafing-dish luncheon as a social function, she canio6 model her moms on those suggested for a supper or go further and by the aid of two chafing-dishes prepare first a fish en- tr^, then a meat course, accompanied by potatoes in some form, and follow this with a vegetable or cheese entree. After pre- paring all these in chafing-dishes, she and her guests may feel entitled to a salad and a sweet that were compounded by the hands of an ordinary every-day chef. “ The time when I think a chafing-dish should be useful,” said a woman who had begun studying its possibilities, “ is when one comes in hungry after the theatre and there is nothing to eat in the house.” She went on to explain. “ It’s very well to use it for Sunday teas and summer noons and midnight suppers when you know they are coming. But it seems almost impossible to come in at an unearthly hour of a winter eveningC^afingj®i6^ (^enu loy and get np a little spread when you have provided nothing to get it np with.” The warmest admirers of the chafing- dish do not claim for it miraculous pow- ers, and when the cupboard is absolutely bare the alcohol may blaze in vain. But it is seldom that the pantry is utterly de- nuded. In almost every house there are kept constantly in store such provisions as eggs, butter, fiour, cheese, potatoes, bread, crackers, and there are few houses where there is not also a small supply at least of bacon, or sardines, or potted meats, or fish, or canned goods of some sort, and curry-powder, pickles, catsups, and the like, with whose aid may be evolved a delicious impromptu supper. Moreover, in the house where the chaf- ing-dish is a recognized power, it is easy by a little forethought to have constantly on hand a few pint or half-pint cans of consomm'e, or a small jar of beef extract.io8 a can of unsweetened condensed milk, and a few bottles of ale, as well as the stock groceries mentioned above. There is always the possibility, too, of the cold roast left from dinner, or the remains of a luncheon entree that may do its part in providing the foundation for the midnight supper.INDEX Almonds, salted, 84 Beef, dried, fricassee of, 73 mince, 73 Beefsteak, broiled, 72 with wine sance, 72 Brains, calf’s, au beurre noir, 69 creamed, 70 saute, 68 Calf’s brains au beurre noir, 69 creamed, 70 saute, 68 Calf’s liver and bacon. No. 1, 67 No. 2, 68 Calf’s liver saute, 66 Cheese fo'ndu, 81 Chicken au supreme, 86 creamed, 89 curried, 88 with mushrooms, 87 Clams d, la Newburg, 49 and bacon, 50 creamed, 48 Cod, fresh, with ancho- vy, 35 salt, creamed, 33 Crabs, hard-shell, 57 oyster, 48 soft - shell, devilled, 57 soft-shell, saute, 56 Curried chicken, 88 eggs, 29 halibut, 34 lobster, 52no 3n^;r Curried oysters, 44 slirimps, 59 tomatoes, 76 Devilled lobster, 54 meat, 94 oysters, 47 soft-shell crabs, 57 tomatoes, 75 Duck, rechauffe of. No. 1, 91 No. 2, 91 Eggs, d VIlalienne, 26 and anchovies, 25 on anchovy toast, 18 and bacon, 22 with black butter, 21 creamed, 17 curried, 29 with cheese, 18 with curry, 20 fricasseed, 28 fried, 22 with ham, 26 Lyonnaise, 28 with mushrooms, 27 poached, 20 with sardines, 24 scrambled, 16 Eggs, stirred, 16 with tomatoes, 23 Fish with sauce pi- quant, 38 Frogs’ legs, 36 Halibut, curried, 34 steak, 37 Ham, barbecued, 97 Hash, 97 Kidneys with bacon, 64 with mushrooms, 65 stewed, 65 Lamb chops, 71 Little pigs in blankets, 47 Liver, calf s, and bacon, No. 1, 67 No. 2, 68 Liver, calfs, saute, 66 Lobster d la Neicburg, 54 creamed, 53 curried, 52 devilled, 54 saute, 55 savory, 56Meat, curried, 95 devilled, 94 Mushrooms, fresh, saute, 77 fresh, stewed, 78 Omelet, 22 Oyster crabs, 48 Oysters d la poulette, 45 broiled, 43 curried, 44 devilled, 47 fricasseed, withmush- rooms, 46 fried, 43 panned, plain, 42 panned, with sherry, 42 stewed, 44 Peas, green, canned, 79 green, fresh, 78 Peppers, green, saute, 80 Potatoes, creamed, 79 Lyonnaise, 80 saute, 80 Rarebit, a Scotch, 30 Rechauffe of duck. No. 1, 91 of duck. No. 2, 91 of turkey. No. 1, 89 of turkey, No. 2, 90 a savory, 96 Salmon, creamed, 31 curried, 32 Salt cod, creamed, 33 Sardines saute, 36 Scallops, creamed, 51 fried, 50 Scotch rarebit, 30 Shad-roes, creamed, 40 saute, 39 Shrimps, creamed, 58 curried, 59 stewed, 57 Sweetbreads, broiled, 60 creamed, 62 larded, saute, 62 saute, 61 with mushrooms, 63 Terrapin, 41 Tomatoes, creamed, 77 curried, 76 devilled, 75 fried, 75112 Tripe, creamed, 71 with cream sauce, 70 Trout, brook, 35 Turkey, rechauffe of, No. 1, 89 rechauffe of. No. 2, 90 Veal with asparagus tips, 93 Veal with mushrooms, 92 with tomato sauce, 94 Venison steak, 74 Welsh rahhit. No. 1, 82 rabbit, No. 2, 83r1