THE SECOND EDITION Price One Rupee and Eight Annas. “COOKlillY FOR TUE MILLION,” t BEING SOS PRACTICAL, ECONOMICAL, RECIPES INDIAN COOKERY,^ BY HARRIET LAWRANCE. BANGALORI; : PKINTI-VD BY IIICHMOND F, HAYES, AT THE DAIJA' DOST AND EXAMINEK DKESS, 1886...22900067639Med K9780f^THE SECOND EDITION Price One Rupee and Eight Annas. “COOKERY FOR THE MILLION.” BEING SOS PRACTICAL, ECONOMICAL, RECIPES IN INDIAN COOKERY, BY HARRIET LAWRANCE. RANGALORE: PRINTED BY RICHMOND F. HAYES, AT THE DAILY I'OST AND EXAMINER PRESS, 188G.2 ^ 9"^ c WELLCCME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. weilViOmec Call No. SITNOTE TO THE FORMER EDITION. P. H. L. The foUowiBg few recipes in Indian Cookery, have all been practically tested, and are now submitted to the Public in the hope that they wiU supply a want long felt in the homes of Anglo-Indians who are often preyed upon by their servants in many different ways. Most of the recipes are given as simply and as cheaply as possible and there can be no doubt that many families will receive help from the follow- ing compilation.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28131319NOTE TO THE NEW EDITION. P. II. L. Having found the first issue of my “ Cookery FOR THE Million” appreciated by the Public and my endeavours to produce a useful collection of practical recipes successful, I am tempted to repubhsh it with the addition of as many recipes as originally appeared. Some of the new ones are original, others have been contributed by some of my friends for which kindness I am thankful, and others have been selected from Cookery books which have been already publish- ed. A few'’ mistakes may have inadvertently crept in, these I trust the Public will excuse considering the difficulties under which I have labored in getting up this compilation. I may add that no less than twenty-three of the original recipes that appeared in my last edition have been reproduced verbatim in a recent edition [^of another Cookery Book pubhshed at Madras. May 1886.* / ' ■/ w I * % .fr '~^ ’i ir'- .♦ n ^ ./f C *. '/• r* ' . 0 . '"T it I ■ 4t.. ( '■! : -'S.;..-> , r, / >U’;=«'r K •jn.-ri/r I f r.>/v _ ■t.;r,j,-va..„ ... 1. ■ yn -n** It, ., • i, i';- , vMj*. / 'n.’syr- ^.,,.1. , ■)7ir.; , ■ ■> .! ■■■_•., ‘ a:--' /r>£/i {.,v .: . ., W " ■ J.-U’ • t r • ..;;p jilt y . . ■ ■■ qi- ;'■ 0;.V:r:-7JaOvf Oflrfj.'e^r ;,, -■ ^ .' .-^r • » 'v • ' • ■ • ^'-ui t ‘’‘ ■-: ft/- ., * s #• * 'CONTENTS A A Cheap Breakfast Dish ... 30 Almond Toffee ... 12 Ahnond Drops ... 102 Aunt Sale’s Mango Pickle ... 108 Apple Pudding for Children ... 142 A Cheap Tapioca or Sago Pudding ... 152 Almond Zest ... 175 Almond Drink ... 177 Apple Sauce ... 190 Apple preserved like Ginger ... 194 Apple Chutney Sauce ... 68 B Blancmange Blancmange {Ra(j(jie) Brinjal Pickle Baby’s Rice Pudding Beef Steaks Bengal Chutney Blancmange Boiled Duck Boiled Avarakoi Boiled Mochekoy 195 196 109 67 62 66 104 71 81 87vm Bread Pudding ... 27 Brin]al Fry ... 26 Brinjal Bake ... 68 Brinjal Sambal ... 64 Do. another recipe ... 95 Batter for Frying Fish ... 6-3 Bread and Butter Pudding ... 115 Boiled Cheese .•• US Brinjal Jam ... 121 Bread and Butter Fritters ... 124 Baby’s Pudding ... 128 Bulchan 150 Beef a la mode ... 1^' Baked Potatoe Pudding ... 164 Butter Chops ... 1~0 Bombay Pudding ... 1~6 Biscuits ••• IS’5 C Cheap Cocoanut Bread Pudding ... 167 Cocoanut Maccaroons ... 1' "I Candied Citron ••• 64 Childi’en’s Favourite ... 53 Chutney • • • Chutney ••• *6 Cocoanut Pudding • • • Cocoannt Cream Bullets ... 29 Cocoanut Biscuits ••• '12 Cocoanut Jaggery Toffee ••• '^5IX Cocoanut PiiUav ... 96 Cocoanut Macroons ... 101 Coooanut Sweetmeats ... 103 Confection of Almonds ... 86 CuriT CuiTy Powder ... 2 Cutlets ... 4 Cousin Emma’s Clintney ... 107 Curry Powder ... 138 Clovee ... 162 Claret Cup ... 166 D Dlioll Pepper-water and Mash ... 19 Drumstick Loaves‘‘Foogath” ... 47 Drumsticks or “ Moorangay” Chutney ... 57 Dumplings ... 38 Dhodhole ... 117 Diy Mutton Curiy ... 140 Docpeaza Hadus ... 155 Damascus Biscuits ... 172 E Eel Stew ... 43 Egg Fry ... 13 F Fried Fish ... 32 Full Mangoe Pickle ... 80 Fricadle ... 163Feclioo riummery Fresh Cheese X ... 180 ... 184 ... 173 O Garlic Mash ... 89 Ginger Beer 17 Gram and Greens {Purpoo Keeray) ... 0 Guava Preserve ... 61 Green Tomato Pickle ... 110 Good Puff Paste ... 134 Guava Jelly ... 136 Guava Cheese ... 137 Ginger Cordial ... 163 Ginger Nuts ... 192 n Homney or “ KuUay Modhay”' ... 54 Hulwah 3 Hasty Pudding ... 130 Hot Pudding Sauce ... 178 I Indian Mixed Piclde ... 56 K Kitchcri Pullav Kulkuls or DoughnutsXI L Lime or Mangoe Pickle ... 70 Lime Syrup ... 75 Lucknow Chutney ... 91 Lime Chutney (Sweet) ... 139 Lime Pickle (Superior) ... 141 n Mangoe Preserve ... 20 Mangoe Pickle ... 84 Do. another recipe 63 Molee ... 33 Mussala Seasoning ... 14 Mutton Pie ... 7 Mutton Pepperwater ... 45 Mustard Mango Pickle ... 106 Mango Curry (Sweet) ... 114 Madras Curry Paste ... 127 Mint Chutney ... 143 Mamee’s Chutney ... 148 Meagre Soup ... 179 Mushroom hash ... 198 Mushroom Pickle ... 199 Mushi’oom Omlctte ... 200 Mussalah, &c. ... 169 N Nice plain Cake ... 82Xll O Omlet ... 34 Orange Marmalade ... 46 Owloo Thass oi Owloo or Beaten Rice 52 Orange Pudding ... 133 Orange Jam ... 144 P Pork Fry ... 112 Polpetti ... 119 Potatoe Fritters ... Panyarums 6 Peach Preserve ... 85 Pepper Pepper-water 8 Plantain Fritters ... 77 Plantain Tart , ... 79 Plum Cake ... 41 Pootoo Rice Balls ... 100 Potatoe Cakes ... 58 Potatoe Pie ... 78 Potatoe Pie ... 97 Punthalum ... 36 Pickled Fish ... 125 Pudding Sauce ... 132 Pumpkin Custard Pudding 145 Pumpldn Preserve ... 147 Pickled Beef ... 149 Pumpldn wth forced meat ... 151Po'mclo PresciTe • -^ ^4 Pencil Custard Sauce ... 159 Plum Pudding ••• 186 Peach Leethee ••• 191 Pumpkin Ulva ■ ■ 202 Potatoes (baked) . ... 171 n Quoormah ... 11 Quoormah (plain) ... Ill R Raggie Conjee ... 59 Raggie Cake ... 60 Rice Cake ... 69 Rice Pudding with Fruit ... 92 Roly-Poly Pudding ... 126 Rich Potato Pudding ... 131 Raspberry and Vinegar Jelly ... 158 RaSjDberry Vincga r '...168 Raspberry Cakes ... 182 Raggie Pudding ... 183 " Do. ... 188’ S Salt Fi.sh and Prinjal'Curry . . . 28 Salt Fi.sh Pe])per-water ...- 25 Sjfidwich Rolls 15Saudw’cli Rolls • « » t ^ Saucer Pudding _ _ 4() Scones j (j Scrap Pie :>u Seasoning for Chops _ _ jn Short Cal^s _ Stew • • • i ^ Sea-pie _ 1 j g Samhridge Pancakes ... 11 fj Star Gooseberry Pickle ... l‘J3 Star Gooseberry Preserve ... J‘J2 Sago Pudding ... 109 Strengthening Jelly ... 13-5 Salad di'essing ... Kjy Salad ... 1 fcrl Seed Biscuits ... 193 Stewed Tomatoes ... 197 T Tamarind Fish or Pudda ... 1 Tamarind Preserve ... 37 Tea Biscuits ... 3o Tea Cake 9 Tomato Chutney .. 88 Tomato Jam ... 50 Tomato Sauce ... 48 Tongue Curry ... 99 Thovale ... 105 Tapp Saute ... 201XV \ Ycsjetablo Curn- ... 05 Venthuim Greens Curry ... 21 Vermicelli Custai’d. Puddinp,' ... IS Vermicelli Pudding ... SI Vermicelli or “ Sayvee Yong Pudding” ... 41 Vegetable Pudding ... 150 Vegetable Marrow ... 105 Do. Preserve ... 187 \\ Wood Apple Jelly ... 24' A. i \ *1 7 % un’ i . 'i ■!i;i...’i' //• itiil' i; -j^rv' T- ff f'\^: ’j^'r s X. •V ^ V ^ jr 1 ;/ I li r1—TAMARIND FISH OR PUDDA. Ingredients.—11 seer of fish ; 1 seer of tamarind; 8 tolas of green ginger ; garlic 1 tola j dry chil- lies 4 tolas ; cummin 1 tola ; safron 3 tolas j white salt 8 tolas ; vinegar about 2 bottles. Mode.—Clean the fish well, cut it into slices crosswise about a half or three fourths of an inch in thickness, sprinkle it over with the salt, turn- ing occasionally ; after 24 hours take the pieces of fish from the brine, and wipe them dry with a clean cloth ; set them aside ; soak the tamarind for 3 or 4 hours in as much vinegar as will cover it ; then squeeze the pulp out removing the seeds and fibres ; have the chillies, cummin, and safforn, pounded very finely and mixed with a little vinegar into a thick paste; the ginger cleaned and sliced, and the garlic well cleaned. Now pack the fish in the [pickle thus—take a wide-mouthed jar put in first a layer of the tamarind pulp, next throw in a few cloves of garlic and slices of ginger, then a thin layer of the curry stuff, on which place a layer of the fish ; on the fish place a layer of curry stuff ; next some ginger and garlic, then the tamarind pulp ; repeat this, as often as you can, always remembering to hayo the curry stuff on either2 side of the fish ; v/hen all the fish is packed, put the remaining ingredients on the top, and pour in as much vinegar as will stand { of an inch over the top of the ingredients, then cover ; tie a piece of cloth over the mouth, over which spread some fine clay about an inch in thickness ; place in the sun daily for 2 weeks, when it will be ready for use. When required fry in ghee and serve. A seer is equal to the weight of 24 rupees, a tola to 1 rupee. Average cost for the above quantity Rupees one. 2—CURRY lOWDER. 1 Ih and 8 oz of coriander seed ; ^ Ih cummin ; 6 oz safron ; 18 oz dry chillies ; 2^ oz black pepper ; 5 oz venthmm ; 4 oz mustard j pound all finely and pass throxigh a muslin sieve. Keep in a tightly corked jar or bottle. Average cost ... ... 1 rupee. Will make about 100 desert spoonsful. 3.—HULWAH. Ingredients.-—! tea cup full of soojee, not heaped up ; ditto of stujar ; ditto of water ; ditto of almonds with the shells ; and 4 a lea cup of ghee.3 MoDK.-Early in the morning mix the soojee and water and let it Boak for 7 or 8 hours, squeeze well, with the hand and strain through a course towel; shell and Uanoh the almonds, and grind them to a paste on a clean stone; use as little water as possible ; after removing the paste from the stone, wash the stone with a i oup of water, add this with the almond paste to the soo- jee milk, and mix well together; mix the sugar with I a cup of water, boil, clarify and strain through a towel; put back on the fire ; when thick, add the ghee and soojee-milk pouring both in together, stirring all the time, scraping the bot- tom of the vessel, as the hulwah forms rapidly there ; use a wooden spoon; when all the milk and sugar coagulate, fry till a little piece may be rolled between the fingers without adhering ; it is then done ; press it down in a flat plate allow- ing all the extra ghee to drain off, which w'ill be about a i of a cup, and may be used for other culinary purposes; never stop stirring and scraping, as the Hulwah easily burns; use a well- tinned vessel with a wide mouth. The above quantity will make a dessert-plate full. Average cost G or 7 Annas. Seasonable at any time except at lato suppers-4 4.—CUTLETS. Ingredients.—Mutton | of a seer; 4 green chillies; mint two teaspoonsful; ^ a teaspoonfiil of green coriander ; 1 i dessert spoonful of onions ; all these must he minced ; \ teaspoonful of pov:- dered pepper ; J teaspoonful of salt j 1 teatpoon- ful of flour ; 1 teaspoonfal of any sauce; 1 tahlespoonful of ghee. Mode-—Except the ghee, mix all well to- gether ; form into 4 balls ; put on a plate and flatten; sprinkle well over with flour; press down and turn carefully; flour the other side also ; put the ghee in a small frying-pan, when quite hot, lift the cutlets carefully with a broad knife, hold- ing the plate close to the pan, and gently slip them one after the other into the hot ghee ; after 5 minutes carefully turn them and fry the other side for 5 minutes also; serve; the ghee left in the pan may be used for curries. Average cost IJ Annas. Sufficient for two persons. 5.--GRAM AND GREENS, (PURPOO- KEERAY.) Ingredients.—One handful of gram greens, (pur- pooheerayj picked from the stalks; H table spoonfuls of cleaned green gram, {pachc pirooj5 12 green chillies ; A-cloves of garlic cleaned; 1 tablespoonful of sliced onions; 1 desert spoon- ful of hard ghee, not heaped up : s lit to taste, ('about ^ a teaspoonful, practice alone will give you a good idea of how much bazaar salt to use,) cocoanut 1 worth or a piece 3 inches square, 4 curry pillay leaves. Mode.—Griud the coconut to a paste ; coarsely grind the chillies and garlic : wash the greens well; mix all except the onions and ghee, in a tea cup of water ; set it on a sharp fire to toil till the gram may be easily crushed between the fingers ; now drain off the water, mash the greens, &c, well ; add the drained water ; put a clean vessel on the fire; put in the ghee and onions and fry them well ; add the gram &c-, and boil till reduced to a thick mass ; serve with rice and plain curry. Average cost 8 pies. Suffiaient. for 2 persons. 6.—PANYARUMS. Inoredients.—Raw rice [pache) J seer ; 3 table- spoonsful of brown sugar : 3 tablespoonsful of 'ghee ; 2 tablespoonsful of wheat flour ; the yolk of\ egg ; plantains, [Mysore kind preferrable.) Mode.—Pound the rice into flour ; make intoo a thick batter with water aud the yolk ; cover with a cloth aud put in the sun for 2 hours, reduce the plantains to a plup • mix with the sugar, and wheat flour ; add to the batter ; mix well ; fry in the boiling ghee ; allowing a table-spoonful for each p:inyarnm ; serve sprinkled with sugar. Average cost 2 annas. Will make 12 panyarums. Almost all the ghee will remain, and may be used for other purposes. 7.—MUTTON TIE. JngrI'DIEKts.—Flour 1 ^ tea cup fulj J of tea cup of milk; met2oz; salt teaspoonful) mutton i of a seer ; 6 green chillies; 2 leaves of spinach a dessertspoonful of green mint and coriander ; A small onions ; a little of any vegetable, such as raddish, potatoes Sfc., or a mixture, if more than one kind can he had ; 4 slices of ginger J teaspoonful of pepper, and 4 cloves. Mode.—Make the meat, vegetables and seasoning into a stew' ; make the dough with the flour, milk and salt \ roll out thin ; melt the suet; with a knife, spread a thin layer of it while hot over half of the paste ; fold over the other half, and roll out again ; repeat till all the suet is used7 up, roll out ^ of an inch thick ; line the inside of a small pie basin ; fill witli the prepared stew ; cover with a paste lid Both the inner lining and the lid must have a margin of 1.^ inches all round which moisten and roll together round tlio rim, tio in a towel that is well floured, put into boiling water and boil for ^ an hour ; servo hot. Time \ an hour. Average cost 2 annas 6 pies. SufBoIent for 2 persons. 8—PEPPER PEPPER-WATER. (Cooling). Ingredients—rej>per I teaspoonful; dholl 1 tea^ spoonful ; mustard ; cximmin ; coriander ; ven- thiem mixed, I teaspoonful ; ghee I teaspoonful) water 1 pint) 4 curry pillay leaves ; H dessert- spoonful of thick tamarind juice; salt to taste. Mode.—Fry the pepper and dholl in the ghee, grind to a paste and mix in the water with the tamarind and salt ; fry the mustard, &c, in the remains of the ghee, in the same pan, add it to the pepper-water after it has boi'.ed up 2 or 3 times ; let all boil together for 10 minutes, take it o2 the fire lot it settle ; strain and serve. Average cost 4 pies. Sufficient for 3 per- sons.8 9.—TE.\ CAKE. Tngredif.ttts.—Flour 2| tea aqmful; milk about I { tea cup ; 2 earjs ; 1 teaspoonful of hahinfj pov.- der ; "2 tablespoonsfd of sujar ; ^ teasi>oonfd of salt. Mode.—Sift the flour, salt and baking pow- der together ; add enough of the milk gradually to make it into a light dough ; use a wooden spoon to mix at first, cover it with a cloth and place be- fore the fire to rise, for ^ an hour ; add the eggs well beaten separately to the dough, add the su- gar, mix well and bake in tins rubbed with a little ghee or butter, for | or | of an hour accord- ing to the size of the tins. Time ^ or | of an hour. Average cost 4< annas. Sufficient for 3 per- sona- 10.—SCONES. Ingredients.—Flouv 1 lb; bicarbonate of sodtz i oz ; sour buttermillc a pint, a little more or less ; salt ^ oz. Mode.—Dissolve the soda and salt in the butter-milk, mix the flour with it, to the consis- tence of light dough ; roll out ^ an iuch thick, out in round pieces and bake on a hot frying-pan on a alow fire for 10 or 15 minutes, turning them9 ofteu ; tliey are better if first baked in the oven for 10 luiuutes and then browned on the top; they are much like muffins: good either hot or cold, with butter or eurry for breakfast. Time 10 or 15 minutes. A verage cost 2 annas 6 pie. Sufficient fur 3 persons. 11.—QUOORMaH. Ingrkdients,—2 seers; | a dried cocoanut; tahlespooiisfiil of Icnss-lcass or poppy seeds; 3 tablespoonsf id of cudlay or Bengal gram ; 1 tahlespoonfnl of minced green coriander; 2 taUespoonsfid of coriander seed; 1 seer of hard tyre ; ^ oz of spices mixed ; 1 oz of green ginger; 1 oz of onions; 1 oz of garlic; 17 green chillies; two tea cups of ghee ; salt to taste. The above ingredienfs are for a very mild qnoovmah ; it may be made hotter for the Indian taste by using, 15 dried chillies, 80 green chillies, 4 O i green ginger, oz mUed spices, {cloves, cinnamon and cardamon); 1^ oz of gatlic, 9 oz oj onions, 2 tablespoonsfnl of green coriander instead of the above. Mode.—Wash the meat and cut it up into convenient pieces of 4 inches or so, put it with the tyro and salt to taste in a clean vessel and lot it simmer till done, grind all the re.st of the10 ingredients to a fine paste, when the meat hae almost absorbed all the tyre and has become nearly dry add the ground mussala and fry for 5 minutes; add the ghee and fry till the pieces of meat look red ; remove from the fire and let it cool; when quite cold put in a jar and keep for use ; it will keep for days and may be eaten cold or put on a hotwater dish and served. A good dish for a journey. Average cost, 1 or IJ "Rs. 12—ALMOND TOFFEE. InqrkdientS.—\ a lb of shelled and blanched al- mond ; 1 lb of Ashtagram sugar; \ a cup of water ; 1 teaspoonful of butter. Mode.—Grind the almonds on a clean curry stone with as little water as possible, wash the stone afterwards in the remainder of the h a cup of water ; add this water to the sugar and boil till all the sugar melts j add the almond paste and butter ; mix well and continue stirring till the sugar falls in masses from the spoon, and a little dropped into cold water hardens at once ; pour quickly into a buttered flat plate.II 13.—EGa FRY. Ingredients.—8 eggs ; 1 dessert spoonful of curry stuff; i tea spoonful of salt ; 1 tahlespoonful of ghee. Mode.—Put the ghee in a frying-pan on a slow fire; when boiling, break in the oggs ; when partly set, break them up into pieces tlie size of an almond; sprinkle over with the curry-stuff and salt j fry well and serve hot with plain pepper water and rice. Average cost when eggs are cheap 2 annas. SuSicient for 4 pei’sons. 14.—MUSSALA SEASONING. For plain pepper-water, &c. iNGREDiENrs.—\\ oz countrij mustard; 1 oz cum- min ; 4 oz pepper • j oz venthium j J oz cori- ander ; mix and keep; a teaspoonful is suf- ficient for 1^ teacupful of plain pepper water. 15.—SANDWICH ROLLS. Ingredients.—1 Ih of flour ; 1 large heaped up teaspoemful of baking poieder; 1 teaspoonful of while salt; \ a pint of milk j | seer of minced12 mjiUoi); 4 ; <S yrecn chiUicH; 2 IcatcH of spinach ; 2 t'-aspocnn^fal of minced yreen mini; 1 a teaspoonfal of yrecn coriander; \ a lea- spoonful of powdered pepper ; 3 dessert spoonsful of tn'nced onions; 1 dessertspoonful of made mustard; ^ teaspoo)fnl of yruled nuhney ; 4 teaspoonsftvl of sauce ; 2 tahlespoonsful of milk ; 2 tuhlespoonsful of yhee, not heajyed up. Mode.—First sift the floor, bakfog" powder and ^ thewliite salt, through a inn.slin sieve, this will mix them more thoroughly than otherwise, set aside ; now prepare the meat by mixing with it, the onions, green chillies, mint, spiuage, co- riander, all minced; 1 dessci tspconfnl of flour, pepper and nutmeg; put the ghee into a frying- pun ; when b dling add the meat, &o,, keep Stir- ling till done ; add the mustard and sauce, mix well; add 1 table spoonful of milk, stir well and remove from the fire; add t’’e eggs which roust be hard boiled and minced ; now take the flour you set aside and prepare as for bread, pHir- ing on gradually the milk, mixing it thoroughly, and quickly with a wooden spoou ; divide into 4 portions; roll each out pretty thiu, spread a J of the mince on each, leaving a margin of one inch all round ; wet this margin with a little water roll up in the shape of a bolster ; press the edges tog-ether ; with a marrow-spoon ; make three holes on the top to let out the steam, and to prevent it13 bursting; rub over willi a little milkj and bake iu a qu ck oven, ou a warm tiu for A au hour. I'inie -t an hour. Average c st 7 annas. SufTlcient for 3 per- sons for a meal. Seasonable at any time.* 16.—SEASONING FOR CEOP^ Ac. 1 oz of white salt; 1 oz of powdered black pepper; \ oz of powdered mint; ^ oz of pow- dered mixed spices; mix and keep iu a well- stoppered bottle. A teaspoonful or two, well rubbed into chops, or steaks after they are beaten, or if mixed iu the mince used for cutlets, makes the meat more tasty and wholesome. This seasoning may be used iu a variety of other diihes. 7 —GINGER BEER, I.NG ami ENTS. — White sugar \ seer ; dry c/mger \ oz ; Q pints of hulling water ; the juice of one Iwie ; 2 t-ihlespoomf al of toddy. Mode —Bruise the ginger, mix all to- *Ao/c: Preserve may 1)6 used instead of the meat; it will also make a very economical dish, when made from the remains of cold meat and vegetables minced and seasoned; and if a stove is used, it may be baked at tbe previous day’s dinner, thns effecting a fnrtlier saving in the fuel; it makes a good breakfast dish with a cup of coffee or tea, and tastes better cold.14 gether and cool ; wlion cold add the toddy, allow it to stand for 12 hours; strain through a fine cloth and bottle each pint three-fourths full ; will bo prime iu a few days. Average cost 2 annas 8 pies. Sufficieut to make 8 joints. 18.—VERMICELLI CUST4.RD PUDDIXO. For Children. Ingredients.-—Vermicelli 1 oz ; sugar \ oz; 1 egg ; 1 stick of cinncovion j 1 pod of cardamom ; ^ of a cup of milk. Mode.—Simmer the vermicelli in the milk with the spice till done, remove the spice, add the sugar and egg beaten together; mix well and bake in a slow oven for ^ an hour. Average cost 1 anna. Sufficient for 2 children. 19.—DHOLL PEPPER-WATER AND MASn. Ingredients.— Dholl 2 faLlesjwouiful; 8 of garlic; 5 dried chillies; 1 teaspoonfid of seasoning, receipt No- 14 ; safron the size of a pea; 11 tahlespoonsful of sliced onions; 4 green15 chillies; S curry leaves; 1 deserlsj^oouful of ghee] 2 teacups of water; salt and tamarind to taste. iloDE.—Boil the water and dholl with a little salt till tender; strain off the water, in which mix the seasoning, saffron, 4 c’oves of garlic and chillies coarsely ground, tamarind and salt to taste, boil for ten minutes, remove from the fire; fry 4 a teaspoouful of onions in ^ a teaspoonful of ghee with the 4 curry pillay leaves; when browu pour in the pepper-water strained ; boil up once or twice and serve; for the dholl mash grind the dholl, strained from the pepper-water, to a paste, fry the rest of the onions, garlic minced, green chillies, and curry-pillay in the rest of the ghee, when brown add the dholl, fry all together well and serve. Average cost 1 anna. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 20.—MANGOE PBESERVE. Tngrediexts.—Ripe mangoes; limes ; sugar ; and a little spice, hloDE.—Weigh the mangoes and to every lb. allow 4 lbs. of Ashtagram sugar; peel the mangoes and squeeze the pulp into a clean vessel, add the sugar and spice and simmer till all the6 persons. IG sugar molts, add limo juico to taste, let it thicken till it falls ill masses from the spoon, pour into jars aud cover when cold 21.—VENTniUM GREENS CURRY. Ingredients.— Venthinvi greens ; I seer of mutton ; 6 cloves; a small hit of cinamon; 12 green chillies; 8 slices of green ginger; 8 cloves of garlic.) 2 tahlespoonsfnl of sliced onions; I tahlespoonful of ghee ; I tahlespoonful of curry stuff, receipt No 2; 6 curry pillay leaves; tama- rind and salt to taste; 1 tea cup> of water. Mode.—Pick the gi*een.s, leaf bj leaf from the stalks; for ^ a seer of mutt-in ; you will require 2 handsful of picked le.ives; cut up the meat aud set on a slow fire with the water aud a little salt, simmer for j of an hour, and remove; fry the onions, ginger, curry-pillay, spice, garlic cleaned, chillies slit, in the ghee; when brown add the curry-stuff, fry one minute; add only the meat; fry 2 or 3 minutes; add the greens well washed ; fry till the leaves are quite shrivelled like tea; pour in the broth, simmer till rather dry, add limo juice or tamarind juice to taste, simmer for 5 minutes; serve. Average cost annas. Sutfioieut for I or17 oo_e()COANUT PUDDING. Ingredients —3 eggs j 6 oz of soojee ; 6 oz of sugar', 4 a cocoaiiut; a little nutmeg grated, U7id salt. Mode.—Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately, scrape tlio cocoanut, sift the sugar ; mis the sugar, yolks, salt, nutmeg and cocoanut together; add alternate spoons of soojee and whites of the eggs, mixing all the time •, pour into a tin rubbed with a little ghee and bake. Time 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost 2 annas. Sufficient for 3 persons. 23.—SHORT CAKES. Ingredients.—1 lb of wheat flour j ^ lb of butter ; I lb of sugar ; I egg ; 1 teas'poonful of balcing powder ■ ^ teaspoonful of salt; about 4 u, pint of milk or water. Mode.—Sift the flour, sugar, baking pow- der, and salt together, mix in the butter and egg beaten, and carefully ad 1 the milk putting in just enough to make a light dough, roll out thin, cut into rounds and bake. Time 5 minutes. Average cost 7 annas. Will mako about 50 cakes.18 21..—WGOD-APPLE JKLLY. Ingredients.—surjar; 1 jne doves and cinnamon. Mode This jelly is cheaper if made from ripe wood-apples than from half ripe, as it takes less sugar. Scoop out tlie inside of the apples, put into a well tinned vessel, pour enough water to stand 2 inches over the fruit, boil well, Stir- ling occasionally to prevent burning at the bottom, strain tbrough a wire strainer or towel, allowing it to drain without pressure; it is best poured iuto a towel, wliicli is hung up by its 4 corners over a bowl and left till the next day; throw away tlie seeds and pith, put the liquid on the fire, add the spice and sugar to taste, simmer uncovered till it jellies, Avhich may be known by dropping a few drops on a plate, if congealed when cold, it is done, pour hot into jars, stopper when quite cold. 25.—SALT-FISH PEPPER-WATER. Ingredients.—^ of a seer of any hind of small saltfisJi; 1 leaspoonful of niussala seasoning, receipt iVb. 14; saffron the size of a large pea; 6 dried chillies; 4 cloves of garlic; 1 des- sertspoonful of sliced onions; 1 tcaspoonful of19 cjhce; not lieajyed up; 4 curry piU«y liun’tui ; H tea cups of water; salt and tamarind to taste. Mode.—Grind tlie mussala and garlic to a fine paste and mix in tlie water, add the fish; tamarind and salt to taste; boil on a quick fire for i of an hour; remove, put a clean vessel on the fire with the g'hee; when boiling add the onions and currj-pillay, fry brown, pour in the pepper-water, boil up once and serve with rice. Average cost 5 pie. Suftioicnt for 3 per- sons. 2G.—BRINJAL FRY. Ingredients.—Brinjals; ghee; mussala season- mg, receipt No. 14; salt. Mode.—Boil the brinjals whole, carefully remove the thin outer skin and stalks, cut up in pieces, and for every tablespoonful of brinjals, use ono dessertspoonful of the massala seasoning, 1 dessertspoonful of ghee, and salt to taste; gi ind the niussjvla and salt coarselv, fry in the ghee for a mimito, add ihe brinjals and fry well, taking caro not to mash the brinjals in mixing ; serve hot Avith pepper-Avator and rico.20 The above may be made iuto a sambal by mashing the briujals and adding enough tama- rind juice to make it acid. 27.—BREAD PUDDING. Inqeedients.—1 lb of dried jneces of hrend; 1 handful of idiims; 1 of almonde; 1 dessert- spoonful of butter; 2 tablespoonful of sugar; 8 eggs; ^ tea cup of milk; 1 teaspoonful of baking powder; 1 tablespoonful of marmalade or any other preserve. Mode.—Cover the bread with boiling water and let it soak, till quite soft; squeeze out as much water you can, add the milk, and sugar mash well, add the plums cleaned, almonds blanched and cut, preserve minced, lastly the baking powder, and eggs well beaten, mixed thoroughly; pour into a buttered basin and bake. Time—2| hours. Sufficient for G persons. If any of the pudding remain it may be cut into strips sprinkled with sugar and baked in a slow oven till brown all over; serve on the follow- ing day. This will keep good for several days.21 28.—SALT-FISn AND BRINJAL CURRY. Ingrebients.—j seer of good salt-fish ; 4 mediuvi hrinjals j 1 pie cocoanut; 1 tahlespoonful of ghee, not heaped up ; 6 green chillies ; 8 slices of green ginger-, 4 peels of garlic; 1 tahle- spoonful of sliced onions; 3 cloves; a hit of cinnamon; 4 curry pillay leaves; 1 dessert- spoonful of curry stuff; salt and tamarind to taste; 1 tea cup of water. Mode.—Grind tlie cocoanut to a paste and mix in a tea cup of water, add the curry stuff, fish washed, and cut up, chillies split in two; hrinjals cut up j spice, ginger, and a little salt; boil on a sharp fire till the hrinjals are done ; add tamarind to taste, boil up twice, remove from the fire, put on a clean vessel with the ghee ; when boiling add the onions, gaidic cleaned, curry pillay; fry well; add the curry let it boil open when thick enough, serve. Average cost annas. Sufficient for two persons. 29.—COCOANUT CREAM BULLETS. (Koykottes.) Ingredients.—rice, {Pache) 1 seer; 2 co- coanuts; hrovm sugar J seer.22 Mode.—Pound the rice into flour scrape tlio cocoanuts and extract the first and second milks, reserve ^ a cup of flour, the first milk, and 1 cup of the second milk;—the rest of the second milk and flour make into dough, roll into bullets, the smaller the better, steam till done; boil the cup of second milk and ^ a cup of flour like congee, add tbe first milk and bullets let it boil up once, remove from tbe fire, mix in tbe sugar, and serve bot. You can always make as much first and second milk as you like from tbe scraped cocoa- nut, by pouring on as mucb bot Avater as requir- ed for tbe first milk; masb well with the hand and squeeze out all the milk and strain; for tbe second milk pour more boiling water on the busk, and repeat. Cost annas, SuSlcient for 8 persons. 30.—A CHEAP BREAKFAST DISH. Ingeedients.—\ seer of potatoes ■, large onions \ a seer ; 1 pie’s worth of hroth hones; 1 j teaspoon- fid of seasoning, receipt No. 10 ; 1 dessert- .spioonfnl of hard ghee; 4 ten cups of water. Mode.—Boil the bones aud Avater avoII, put23 the gliee iu a eleau vessel; when boiling add the onions and fry brown ; add tho broth^ (removing the bones), with the potatoes pai’ed and sliced thin, put iu the seasoning; simmer till tlie pota- toes are done and it is thick enough to serve;— to be eaten with bread or oppers. Average cost 1 anna. Sufficient for 2 per- sons for a meal. 31.—YERMICELLI PUDDING. Ingredients.—Fe?’?n.fceZZi (Saveeyong) crumbled, one teacupf ul; sugar, 2 tablespoonsful; 2 eggs; marmalade or any preserve 1 tablespoon- ful-, grated cheese 1 tablespoonful-, a little nutmeg. iNIoDE.—Throw the vermicelli into 2 cups of boiling water, and boil till tender ; strain oS the w'ater, and mix with it the eggs well beaten, preserve minced, cheese and sngnr, pour into a buttered dish, gi-ate a little nutmeg over it and bake. Time i an hour. Co.st about 1 anna, without the cheese and preserve. Sufficient for 4 persons.A COURSE OF 3 DISHES. 32.—FOR DINNER, FRIED FISH. Ingredients.—2 soup plates full oj small fish about 4 inches long and having only 1 central- hone such as the “ varal“ valche” ^c., safron; chillies and salt; clarified suet. Mode.—Clean the fish and rub it with the saffron, chillies, and salt ground ; the quantity of fish must regulate the quantity of mussala, a little more or less making no difference, fry in boiling suet, when brown take up and place on a bamboo basket cover, to drain off the suet, the fish will taste as well as if done with ghee, serve 5 the fish with the pepper-pepperwater given in No 8, and rice. This kind of pepperwater will counteract the ill effects of the fish on the bowels. Average cost 2 or 3 annas. Sufficient for O 2 persons. 33.—ON THE 2nd DAY FOR BREAKFAST, MOLEE. Ingredients.—^ a cocoanut; 1 tableepoonful of sliced onions I 12 slices of green ginger; 6 green chillies ; a small piece of orange peel; i a lime; salt to taste.25 Mode.—Bone the fish carefully, set the bones and heads apart picking off every fragment of the fish, scrape the cocoanut and draw off 2 milks; in the 2nd milk, boil the bones and heads and orange peel, place the largest pieces of fish, with the onions, ginger, green chillies slit in two and salt to taste, in a clean vessel; pour over it the 2nd milk strained, add the 1st milk, simmer till the onions are done, uncover and let the gravy thicken, add the lime juice and serve. Average cost 2 annas. Sufficient for 2 persons. 34,—rOIl DINNER 2nd DAY, OMLET. Ingredients.—2 eggs; the fragments of fish; 1 tablespoonful of bread powder; X dessert- spoonful of minced onions; 4 green chillies minced ; mint; spice ; pepper poxoder, a pinch of each; salt to taste; 1 tablespoonfxd of milk; 2 tablespoonsfid of minced stalks of spx'ing onion?, if to be had; 1 tablespoonful of ghee. Mode.—Beat the eggs; add all the ingre- dients ; beat well with a fork, pour into the boil- ing ghee, stir with a wooden spoon till it thick- ens ; when set, fold over and brown and servo with plain pepperwater and rice. Average cost 1 anna. Suflicient for 2 persons.2G 35.—TEA BISCUITS. Ingredients.—3ioz; sugar ^oz-, latter 1 oz; a little hoiling milk. Mode.—Mix all the ingredients into a paste, roll out thin, cut into rounds and bake for 5 minutes. A little carraway seed, or ginger powder may be added. Time 5 minutes. Average cost 1 anna. Sufficient to make 12 biscuits. 36.—PUNTHALUM. Ingredients.—Treacle 6 oz •, almonds G oz; ro- long 2 oz. Mode.—Shell, blanch and grind the al- monds, boil the rolong in a little water like thick congee, put the syrup on the fire, when boiling, mix in the almonds, next the rolong; boil till it falls in masses from the spoon, pour into a flat dish j when cold, serve. Average cost 3 annas. Sufficient to make a dessertplateful. 37.—TAMARIND PRESERVE. Ingredients-—Fresh ripe tamarind; jaggery.27 LroDE.—Remove the shells, but let the stringy stalks be on, as tbe fruit will otherwise become too soft; make the jaggery into a thick syrup, pour some syrup into a wide mouthed jar ; place a layer of tamarind on it; cover this with more syrup, repeat till you have as much as you want; will be ready for use in two months. This is a good laxative, one or two tamarinds eaten early iu the morning will cure costiveness ; it also makes a pleasant summer drink; put as much tamarind fruit as you like, the quantity depends on individual taste, iu a bottle of water tying it to the cork, when the water is well colored re- move the tamarind and drink the water. 38.—A COURSE OF 2 DISHES. For breakfast, 1st day. DUMPINGS AND PULLIE GEA'^DT. Ingrediexts.—1 lb of flour; 1 large heaped up teaspoonful of baking powder; j teaspoonful of salt j I ft pint of milk; j seer of mutton; 2 tablesptoonsful of sliced onions j 8 green chillies; G slices of green ginger; 4 cloves; 1 small piece of cinnamon-, 8 dried chillies; 1 dessertsp)Oonful of mixed j)^pp>crmustard, venthiem, cuynmin, and corriander; a piece of saffron as small as a pea; G cloves of garlic; 1 tablespoonful of hard ghee; 1 teaspooiyful28 of flour; salt and tamarind juice to taste ; 1 cup ofxoater; 4 curry pillay leaves. Mode.—Sift the flour^ baking powder and salt together; pour on gradually the milk, mixing quickly with a wooden spoon at first; remove the spoon, make into a light dough; make the dough into balls about the size of apples ; put into a bowl cover with a towel, and place before the fire for 10 minutes, then throw them into boiling water, boil them for 20 minutes without taking off the cover, take them out tear them apart with two forks and serve hot, with the pullie gravy, made as follows :—Put the meat cut into small pieces into the water, with salt to taste, and simmer for 5^ of an hour; remove and put on another clean vessel on the fire with the ghee; when hot add the onions, spice, chillies sht, garlic, ginger, curry pillay leaves ; fry brown, add the mussala ground, fry for a minute, add the meat; fry for 2 minutes, add the flour 1 teaspoon- ful, fry till it looks done, about 5 minutes ; add the stock, mix well and let it simmer till thick enough ; add the tamarind juice drawn thick, and enough of it to make the gravy rather acid. (*The dumblings ... 3 US') Cost. Pullie gravy ... 2 as J 0 as. Sufficient for 2 persons.20 39.—FOR THE 2nd DAY SCRAP PIE. Ingredients.—1 Ih of Bengal ijotatoes; 3 table- spoonsful of flour; 1 tahlespoonful of suet; ^ a teaspoonful of salt; 3 or 4 dumplings remain- ing from the first day, and the remainder of the pullie gravy. Mode.—Fill the pie disli with tlie pullie gravy and dumplings cut up in small pieces, make a paste with the boiled potatoes mashed and mixed with the flom*, suet minced, and salt, and make the pie according to the potatoe pie in receipt No. 79. Time | an hour. Cost about 1 anna. Sufficient for 2 persons. 40.—SAUCER PUDDING. Ingredients.—Floiir 2 oz ; sugar 1 oz; plums 2 oz; almonds 2 oz; butter; 2 oz; a little nut- 'ff^eg; 1 egg. Mode.—Beat the bntter to a cream Avith a fork, beat in the sugar, the white of the egg worked up to stiff froth, the beaten yolk, nutmeg and flour; beat all together well for 2 minutes;30 mix in well the plums and almonds cleaned and cut up; bake in a buttered saucer for 12 minutes. Time 12 minutes. Average cost 1 anna 6 pie. Sufldcient for 1 person. 41.—PLUM CAKE. Ingredients.—Flour 12 oz; butter 3 oz j sugar 6 oz; plums 6 oz; milk ^ a teacupful carbonate oj soda, ^ a teaspoonful. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream, mix the soda in 2 tablespoonsful of milk, mix all the ingredients well, putting in the soda last, put into a buttered tin and bake for an hour. The plums and almonds must be cleaned and cut up. Cost 6 annas. Sufficient for 4 persons. 42.—COCOANUT BISCUITS. Ingredients.—2 eggs-, 8 oz of sugar; 6 oz of flour; 1 cocoanut; J teaspoonful of nutmeg; teaspoonful of white salt ; a little ghee. Mode.—Grate the cocoanut and nutmeg, sift the flour and sugar, beat the eggs white and31 yolks separately, mix the cocoanut, sugar, salt, nutmeg, and yolks, add tlie whites and flour in alternate spoonsful mixing all the while, rub a tin with ghee j take up lumps the size of an egg in your hand, place on the tin and press into the shape of a small biscuit; in a raw state it is very sticky, but when baked is as dry as any biscuit; bake for 10 minutes, turning once. Time 10 minutes. Average cost 3 annas 8 pies. Sufficient to make 12 biscuits. Seasonable at any time. 43.--EEL STEW. Ingredients.—2 medium sized eels; 9 green chil- lies • 6 slices of green ginger-, ^ acocoanut; 2Jepper; flour, and ground saffron, each 1 tea- spoonful; 8 cloves; a small piece of mace; 2 tahlespoonsful of sliced onions; 2 pie bones or one handful; 4 cloves of spinach; green mint and coriander, each 1 dessertspoonful; salt to taste; i teaspoonful of sugar; 1 dessert- spoonful of butter; and 1 of sauce, or the jtoice of 1 lime; 2 dried chillies; hf teacup of water; a little orange or lime peel. Mode,—Put the bones, orange pool, ^ the32 pepper, tlie mace, ^ tlie onions, the spinach, the mint, the coriander, the sugar, i the butter, salt to taste, and ^ cup of water, on the lire to boil for 5 of an hour, add I cup of water and boil again for \ of an hour, stirring now and then, have the eels skinned, cut into pieces 3 inches long and slit open, grind the dried chillies with the saffron and a little white salt, rub the fish well, arrange the pieces in a stew pan, with the green chillies split in two, pieces of ginger, the pepper, cloves, onions, cocoauut milk, and pour the bone broth strained over all; boil for h an hour, remove the fish to a dish, in a clean pan fry the remaining flour and butter for 2 minutes, pour the gravy into it, boil for 2 minutes, put in the sauce or lime juice, pour the whole on the fish and serve hot. Time 1 hour and 4 minutes. Cost 3 or 4 annas. Sufficient for 2 persons. Other fish may he done in the same way. 44.—YERMICELLI OR ^'SAYVEE YONG PUDDING.^’ Ingredients.—1 teacup of vermicelli crumhled; 1 cup of milk; sugar and any preserve, each 1 tahlespoonful; J teaspoonful of baking powder; a little salt and nutmeg.persons. Mode.—Boil the vermicelli in the milk with the sugar and salt till done, when cool mix in the preserve minced, and baking powder, pour into a warmed and buttered dish and bake. Time 1 hour. Cost 2 anuas. Sufficient for 3 persons. 45.—MUTTON PEPPE RWATEK. Ingredients.—:!■ seer of mutton •, 1 dessertspoon- ful of curry stuff; 8 peels of (jurllc j 1 dessert- spoon of sliced onions; 1 teaspoonful of ghee ; tamarind and salt to taste-, 3 teacups of water; 4 curry pillay leaves. Mode.—Cut the meat up, put into the water with a little salt, cover close and simmer on a slow fire for ^ of an hour ; remove ; put the ghee in a clean vessel on a quick fire; when boiling add the onions, garlic, curry pillay ; fry brown, add the curry stuff; fry for 1 or 2 minutes add the mutton and broth, cover and boil for ^ of an hour, add tamarind to taste and more salt if ne- cessary, boil up once or twice, serve. Average cost annas. Sufficient for 446.—ORANGE MARMALADE. Ingeedients.—Oranges ; sugar the weight of the oranges ; a few cloves and a hit of cinnamon j to every lb. of sugar, \ a “pint of water. Mode.—First weigh, the oranges with an equal weight of sugar; with a nutmeg grater, grate off the yellow coating of the orange, this must he done very thinly, and will remove some of the bitter taste of the rind, quarter the orang- es ; remove and boil the skins till soft enough to let a broomstick pass easily through, strain and cut up into thin strips or mincethe peels, must be cleaned from the pith and seeds ; make the sugar into a thick syrup, throw in the prepar- ed rind and pulp with the spice, and simmer till thick; pour into jars; when quite cold, tie up. 47.—DRUMSTICK LEAVES ‘‘FOOGATE.’^ Ingredients.—2 large handfuls of rmtrrengay or Drumsticli leaves 'piched from the stalks; 12 peels of garlic; 12 green chillies; 1 tablespoon- ful of sliced onions ^ 2 pie cocoamit, 6 inches square ; 1 dessertspoonful of ghee ; salt to taste. Mode.—Put the leaves in a clean vessel on the fire, with a little salt, and fry them till they look quite dry like tea, cover with water and35 boil till clono ; drain from the water ; put the ghee in a clean vessel on the fire j when boiling add the onions, garlic cleaned, gieen chillies minced ; fry brown, add the leaves and cocoanut scraped; fry till quite dry and serve. Average cost 8 pie. Sufficient for 4 persons. 48—TOMATO SAUCE. Ingredients.*—Tomniofs 4^ pints; 30 large cloves of garlic ; 1 dessertspoonful of bazaar salt pounded ; j pint of water ; 24 cloves ; 2 sticks of cinnamon, each 4 inches long ; 1 dessertspoon- ful of English mustao-d; 1 dessertspoonful of black pepper ; 4 dried chillies; j nutmeg. Mode.—Cut up the tomatoes and measure, put in a well tinned vessel, with the salt, garlic, and water, boil till done, place a wire cover on a bowl and pour the tomatoes into it, when all the water has drained off, mash the tomatoes and garlic through the cover into a clean bowl, throw away the skins and seeds with the water first drained off; to the pulp add the cloves, cinna- mon, mustard, pepper, chillies, and nutmeg, simmer for \ an hour closed, stirring often, cool; fill in a wide mouthed bottle, cork it closely, placeCost 2 pie. Sufficient for 4 persons. 3C in a vessel of cold water up to the neck, set it on 11)0 fire and let it boil, take the vessel off the fire, let the water cool ; remove the bottle and damnier or egg the top. The above quantity will make | a pint of sauce; it is best filled in small bottles as if once opened it will not keep very long. A teaspoon or dessertspoonful in stews and gravies, &c., improves them greatly. Average cost 3 annas. 49.—CHUTNEY. Ingredients.—4 slices of green ginger; 4 cloves of garlic; 1 teaspoonfnl of slic-ed onions ; i tea- spoonful of mustard ■, 6 green chilliestamarind the size of an egg ; very little ghee ; salt to taste. Mode.—Fry the mustard in the ghee, and grind it with all the ingredients on the mussala stone to a fine paste, removing the pith and fibres of the tamarind, using as little water as possible.persons. 87 50.—TOMATO JAM. Ingrepients.—1 Ih. of full grown green tomatoes gathered just before ripening; sugar 1 lb.; I large lime. Mode.—Peel the fruit thinly and divide in halves, simmer with the sugar for hour, add the juice and | the peel of the lime, simmer for a minute or two, remove and put in jars when cold. 51.—OWLOO THASS. Ingredients.—I seer ovdoo or beaten rice; 1 cocoanut; 1 pie tcoi-th of cardamon; sugar to taste. !Mode.—Clean the Owloo and broil it on a hot frying pan ; scrape the cocoanut, keep half and take the milk of half, boil the Owloo in the milk, when soft and all the milk is obsorbed add the spice ground, the scraped cocoanut and sugar to taste, mix well and serve hot or cold. Average cost 2.^ annas. Sufficient for 838 52—OWLOO OR BEATEN RICE. Ingredients.—I seer of oicloo; ^ a coeoanui; sugar to taste, or 3 tahlespoonsful; water \ a tea cap. Mode.—Boil the water, ad l the Owloo, cook on a slow fire till it is soft and has absorbed all the water, add the cocoanut scraped, and sugar, stir for 2 or 3 minutes, serve. Average cost 1 anna. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. 53.—CHILDREN’S FAYOtTRITE. Sweet or Bengal potatoes boiled, pared and cut into slices, and sprinkled over thickly with scraped cocoanut and sugar makes a nice sweet dish of which children are very fond. 54.—HOMINBT OR " KULEB MODHAT.” Ingredients.—^ seer of raggie flour; \\ pints of water. Mode.—Set the water on a quick fire with I teaspoon of flour mixed in it, and a little salt, when boiling throw in the rest of the flour, don’t stir till the flour is quite boiled, drain off the extra water, remove from the fire, and with a39 stick like a ruler, quickly mash it adding more boiling water if necessary, continue mashing for 3 or f minutes, dip a spoon in cold water, gather up the mass with it, and serve with hot curry. A cheap, god, strengthening, and wholesome dish ; some add a tablespoouful or two of boiled rice when mashing. Average cost 4 pie. Sufficient for 2 persons. 55,—COCOANUT JAGGERY TOFFEE. Ingredients.—cups of jaggery ■, 3 tnblespoons- fal of scrajied cocoamd; ^ teaspoonful of ghee; 1 dessertspoonful of iV'iter. Mode.—Pound the jaggery and put it on a slow fire with the water, let it all melt and thicken till it falls from the spoon in masses,, keep stirring it all the time, add the ghee, and eocoanut, it will now grow thin again, continue- simmering till it thickens and a little dropped into cold water hardens, pour into a flat plate- rubbed with gheewhen half cold cut into- squares, eat when quite cold and hard. Average cost 1 ^ annas.. Will make a dessert- plateful, Instead of eocoanut some eudlay or Bengal gram may be added, and the toffee must be poured out at onco after the first thickening.40 5G—INDIAN MIXED PICKLE. Ingredients.—Mangoes, lhaes, gooseberries, rad- dish, pum'plcin, onions, cucumber, beans, carrots, beetroot, khnolhole, cabbage, caulijlower, garlic, green ginger, chillies, cloves, cinnamon, allspice, country mustard, pepper, country salt, xinegar, and gerkins in equal qxuintities. Mode.—As each vegetable comes in season, prepare as follows. The mustard must be clean- ed of the skin, garlic peeled, ginger cleaned and sliced, chillies stalks removed. The quantity of pickle required must regulate these, and a little more or less makes no difference. Mangoes ought to be washed and cut up with the skin, the seeds being removed, sprinkled well over with bazaar salt pounded, and soaked in it for 3 days, beans, limes, gooseberries prepared in the same way,raddish, pumpkins, onions, eucumber.«,khnol- kole should have the skins shaved off, cabbage, the outer leaves removed and sliced, cauliflower divided into bunches ; all these must be soaked in salt for 3 days, then moved from the brine and dried for one day ; pack in jars in layers with garlic, ginger, mustard, spice, chillies and pepper between; fill up with good vinegar; beetroot must be boiled, pared, sliced and added ; you may also add cucumbers prepared by cutting off the tops leaving a bit of the skin, scoop out the seeds;41 fill tfiem -with the pickle mussala given in receipt No. 14; stitch down the lid and pack with the other vegetables; don’t stir the pickle. Will be ready for use in 2 or 3 months. 57.—DRUMSTICKS OR MOORANGl KOY CHUTNEY. Boil the drumstick and scrape and take the inside for the chutney, grind it with green chillies, garlic, onions, tamarind and salt to taste. 58.—POTATOE CAKES. Boiled sweet or Bengal potatoes mashed and mixed with sufficient flour to make a consistant dough, rolled out, cut into rounds and baked on a hot frying pan make a good breakfast dish with hot curry. The addition of the yolk of an egg or two and a little butter improves them much ; they may also be eaten hot, spread with butter and sugar* 59.—RAGGIE CONGEE. Ingeedients.—Grind the raggie to flour and sift twice through fine muslin; this will remove all the husk; and leave the flour fine and soft. 642- Mode.—Put a cup of milk on the fire; when boiling add 1 teaspoonful of raggio flour, 1 pinch of salt, dissolved in 2 tahlespoonsful of milk; mix well, continue boiling till thick enough; sweeten to taste. Average cost 9 pie per cup. This congee is very strengthening and whole- some. 60.—EAGGIE CAKES. Raggie flour unsifted, made into dough with boiling milk or water with a little jaggery mixed in it, pressed into cakes with the hands and baked, are good and wholesome. 61.—GUAVA PRESERVE, Ingredients.—Ouavas, sugar, spice and water. Mode.—Weigh ripe guavas with an equal quantity of sugar, pare and cut them in halves scoop but the pulp and seeds, which boil in a little water and mash through a wire cover; throw the seeds away, make the syrup, by adding 5 a pint of water to every lb. of sugar ; boil till thick as honey, throw in guavas and pulp, simmer till it thickens again; put into jars and close when cold. Always use the best sugar which is cheaper in the end.43 62.—BEEF STEAKS. Ingredients.—^ Ih. of beef; 2 tahlespoonsful of sliced onions ; 1 dessertspoonfril of seasoning, receipt No. 16; 1 dessertspoonful of ghee. Mode.—Cut the beef ^ or | of an inch thick, beat well with a rolling pin, sprinkle J the season- in on each side, and rub it in, fry the onions brown in the ghee; remove the onions ; fry the steak in the ghee; place in a small stew pan with the onions under ; pour in enough boiling water to just cover it, cover the vessel and let it simmer for ^ an hour; when serving add a little sauce. Average cost li annas. Sufficient for 2 persons. 63,—MANGOE PRESERVE. Ingredients.—Half ripe mangoes-, sugar; and spice. Mode.—Pare and cut up the mangoes remov- ing the seeds, put the pieces into a well-tinned ves- sel with sufficient water to cover them, simmer till quite soft, remove and measure ; to each pint add 1 ^ lb of good sugar, and the spice, simmer till the pieces look transparent and the syrup is as thick as honey ; put into jars and stopper, when quite cold.u 64<.—CANDIED CITRON. Ingebdients.—Citrons, sugar. Mode.—Weigh the citrons with an equal quantity of sugar; with a nutmeg grater grate off the thin yellow part of the rind^ this removes a great deal of the hitter, quarter them and take out the inside; boil the rind in water till soft enough to be nierced with a broomstick, drain off the water; make the sugar into syrup, by adding I a pint of water to every lb. of sugar; when thick put in the citron rinds and simmer for \ of an hour; remove from the fire, and leave in the same vessel till the next day, examine it on the following day if the syrup will admit of another boiling simmer for another i of an hour, if too thick, add a small quantity of thinner syrup, remove and leave for another day; repeat the simmering and leave again, on the 4th day the pieces will be crusted over with sugar; take them out one by one and put on a flat dish, sprinkle with good sugar and put in the sun to dry; repeat this daily, turn the pieces and sprinkle fresh sugar on them till dry, pack in canisters with paper between. The remainder of the syrup may be used for tea^ &o., and the insido of the citrons may be made into excellent pickle by adding salt, green chiUies45 green ginger, garlio and spioe, packing layers of tlie citron with the other ingredients, sprinkled with the salt. Place in the sun daily till soaked. 65,—VEGETABLE CURRY. Ingredients,—-2 large‘potatoes4 large radishes 6 small hringals; 6 avarakoys ; 1 small pekon-> hoy; 6 green chillies j 6 slices of green ginger ; ^ 4 cloves of garlic; 3 cloves ; 1 small piece of cinnamon; 1 dessertspoonful of curry stuff; 1 tablespoonful sliced onions; 1 dessertspoonful of ghee ; 4 ciiri'y pillay leaves ; 1 pie cocoanut; salt and tariiarind to taste. Mode.—Clean and out up all the vegetables, except the briDjals, (which if cut too soon will taste bad ;) put the ghee into a clean vessel on the fire and fry in it the onions, spice, curry pillay, garlic cleaned, chillies split, green ginger; when the onions are brown add the curry stuff fry for a minute, throw the out up vegetables into water, take them out rather wet and add to the curry stuff, fry for 2 minutes, add the brinjals cut up, pour in enough water to cover the vegetables, add the cocoanut ground and salt to taste, boil till the vegetables are done, add tamarind to taste; boil up twice, serve with rice.4G Average cost annas. Sufficient for 3 persons. 66.—BENGAL CHUTNEY. Ingeedients.—30 large mangoes; dried chillies 8 oz. ; garlic 8 oz. ; bazaar salt 8 oz. ; green ginger 8 oz.; raisins or plums 1 lb.; brown sugar 1 lb.; mustard 4 oz.; vinegar about 2 bottles. Mode.—Clean and slice the mangoes and ■ginger, take the stalks off the chillies ; clean the garlic, plums and mustard ; pound the salt, soak all the above in a deep bowl or tureen for 12 hours, or all night; in the morning grind it as finely as possible on a curry stone, that has been well washed and wiped. Care should be taken that water does not mix with it, nor should it be touched with the hands—only wooden spoons should be used, to put it on the stone, remove it, &c., when all is ground mix in the sugar. The size of your mangoes must regulate the quantity of vinegar :—when quite done the chutney must be as consistent as made mustard. t-J ;47 67.—BABY’S KICE PUDDING. Ingredients.—Milk ^ a 'pint', 1 egg', \\ table-' apoonfal of rice flour', 1 dessertspoonful of sugar; a pinch of salt and nutmeg. Mode.—Mix the rice in the milk and boil, stirring all the time till quite thick, add the sugar, beaten egg, salt and nutmeg, beat well and bake in a saucer rubbed over with a little ghee for 20 minutes; after 15 minutes put a piece of paper over the pudding to prevent the top from burning, Time 20 minutes. Average cost 1 anna. Sufficient for 1 child, for a meal. 68—APPLE CHUTNEY SAUCE. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of sour apples-, 1 lb. of nem raisons stoned1 lb. of new tamarind, cleaned 3 oz. of garlic-, 1 lb. of brown sugar-, 5^ bottles of vinegar ; \ lb. of salt} f tea-cup of ca^jennQ ground (cayenne are the very small chillies almost like little pins) 2 oz. of green gingery 3 oz. of English mustard. Mode.—Mince the raisons, tamarind, garlic, and apples; grind the cayenne, and green ginger, •Boil the apples in half the vinegar till in a soft pulp and mash it up well. Boil the sugar in thg48 rest of the vinegar till in a clear syrup. When these are quite cold mix the whole of the in- grients together, and stir well with a w'ooden spoon. Put the mixture into a jar and let it soak for 1 month, stirring daily. Put into wide mouthed bottles. • Average cost 3i Kupees. 69.—BICE CAKE. Ingredients.—Bice flour 6 oz,; sugar 6 oz.; 3 eggs) the rind of a lemon grated; or a little . orange peel powder or ginger powder; hutter ' n oz.; a little nutmeg. Mode.—Sift the sugar, beat the eggs, whites and yolks separately, beat the butter to a cream add the sugar and flour in alternate spoonsful beating all the time, add the seasoning and eggs, pour into a buttered tin and bake for i an hour. ' Time i an hour. Average cost 2^ annas. Suflficient for 3 persons. L 70.—LIME OR MANGOE PICKLE. Ingredients.—50 limes or 30 large mangoes; dried chillies I Ih.; mustard i Ih.; cummin ^ 2 Qz,; green ginger 2 lbs.; garlic 1 lb.; pepper49 ^ oz; ciirrij ijilhilj leaves 1 hcuidjulj hazaav salt 1 seer j giagely oil 2 bottles ; vinegar ; 1 oz of saffron ; 1 oz of venthimn. Mode.—Cut up the limes or mangoes^ pound the salt, aud mix both together; leave for 3 days mixing well each day ; on the 3rd day, remove the limes or mangoes from the brine, and dry in the sun fur 1 day; have the ginger cleaned and sliced, the garlic cleaned, chillies coarsely pounded, mus- tard cleaned, venthium broiled, saffron and cum- min finely pounded ; put the oil in a well-tinned vessel on the fire, when hot add the curry stuff, putting in the saffron last, with the pepper and curry pillay leaves; fry till the mussala is done, take it off the fire and add the limes or mangoes ; mix well and let it cool, when cold put into jars, fill them and pour as much vinegar in as will quite cover the tops. An economical course of four dishes from a Bustard for 2 persons. 71.—FIRST DAY FOR DINNER—BOILED. Inghedients.—1 large du:lc; G tallesi^oonsfal of gr 0 ted bread or biscuit fowder •, viinced onions and spinach, each 2 tablespoonsful; j teaspoon- fill ofhutmeg ; grated orange peel and piou'der- ed pepper, each one teaspoonful •, minced mint ;50 salt, sliced ginger, each 1 desserlsijoonful', i a ieaspoonful of mixed iiovcdered sjnce •, G green chillies; \ a innt of milk. Mode.—Pluck and clean the duck, rub it all over with 1 teaspoonful of v, Lite salt, cut olf tho head, neck, feet, and the wings at the first joint, these with the liver and grinder lay at the bottom of Capt. Warren’s cooking pot, tuck the stumps of the legs into a slit made on each side of the belly, twist the wings over the hack, and secure the top of the leg and the bottom of the w’ing together, by running a skewer through them and the body; fill the duck with the bread powder, onions, spinach, mint, pepper, salt, ginger, spice, nutmeg, orange peel, and minced chillies well mixed; tie it round with a string to keep the sea- soning in, place the duck on the wings &c., in the cooking pot, and pour the milk over all, close and boil for 2 hours, serve hot. 72.—SECOND DAT FOR BREAKFAST, STEW. Ingeediekts.—4 onions as large as marhles; 4 cloves; 1 small'piece of cinnamon ; minced mint and pepper, each \ a tcaspoonful; 1 leapsoon- ful of minced spinach; the remainder of the staffing and broth and any vegetables, with a portion of the cold mcit; sauce to taste.51 Mode—Clean the bones, cuttiug off as large pieces as you can, then scrape every fragment off, make these into 3 portions; the scrapings and very small pieces into one, and the larger into 2 parts; of the latter take one part, add it to the above ingredients and simmer till the onions are done, serve with sauce to taste; if the remainder broth is not sufficient, add a little water- 73.—FOR DINNER ON THE 2nd DAY, CURRY. Ingredients.—The remaining 'portion of large pieces from the hoiled duclc; all the hofies; 1 tablespoonful ghee j 1 tablespoonful of sliced onions; 2 cloves; a little piece of cinnamon; 6 slices of green ginger; 1 dessertspoonf ul of currrjstuf) 4 curry pillaij leaves ; 1 tablespoon- ful of thick tamarind juice ; J tea cup of milk, cow^s or cocoanut; G peels oj garlic; salt to taste. Mod®.—Pound the bones, cover with water and boil for I of an hour, strain the stock, set a clean vessel on the fire with the ghee, when boiling add the onions, ginger, spice, chillies slit, garlic, and curry pillay; fry brown, add the curry stuff, fry for one minute, put in the pieces of duck, fry for 3 minutes, add the salt, broth and milk, let it simmer for 5 minutes, uncover and let the gravy thicken ; when done add the tamarind juice, boil for 1 minute and serve.Average cost 2 pie. Sufficient for 2 persons. 74.—FOR BREAKFAST 3rd DAY, SANDWKJK ROLLS. Make according to the receipt given in No. 15 from the fragments of meat and vegetables. 75.—LIME SYRUP. Ingredients.—1 quart lime juice-, 1 quart fresh boater ; 3 lbs. Ashtagram sugar j the ivhites of^ or 4 eggs well beaten up. Mode.—Boil with a quick fire for ^ an hour, removing scum ; when quite cold strain through flannel or a thick towel_, and hottle. If kept very long and it should appear to be spoiling pour out and le-hoil for J of an hour and re-bottle. 76.-CHUTNEY. The “ nulhnf’ in Canarese or “ Perenda’^ in Tamil is a parasite well known in India. Ingredients.—1 yard piece ofnullay; the tender shoots are best; a lump of tamarind, as big as an egg; 4 green chillies-, salt to taste. Mode.—Roast the nullay in the fire, grind with the tamarind, salt and chillies, remove the fibres; and serve,53 77—PLANTAIN FRITTERS. Ingredients."—2 eggs-, 2 dessertspoonsful of Jlour; 2 plantains ] a little salt, and u'hen prefened some sugar to taste \ 2 tahlcspoonsful of ghee; ^ tea cup of milk. Mode.—Peel and cut the plantains into con- venient pieceSj beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, when stiff add the flour and milk gradually heating all the time, add the yolks, salt, and sugar, throw the fruit in, put the ghee into a pan on the fire when boiling, take out the pieces of fruit in a tablespoon with a little batter for eacii, and gently slip them into the ghee, with the extra batter on top, fry them a nice brown, turning when required; serve hot with sugar strewed over them. A ^ teaspoonful of baking powder may be used, and 1 egg omitted. Average cost 2^ annas. Sufficient for 2 per- sons. Seasonable always. 78.—POTATO PIE. Ingbedient.s.—Potatoes 1 lb.; green mint; corian- der, flour, each one teaspoonfid) | a teaspoonful of powdered pepper) 1 teaspoonfal of lohite salt;54 another of bazaar salt ; \ teafipoonful of whole peptper'i cloves ; a small jnece of cinna'mon-, another of orange peelG leaves of spinach’, 4 green chillies’, ^ teaspoonful of sugar ’, 6 tahle- spoonsful of flour ’, 2 eggs • 8 small onions- the size of marbles ; a little of any Icind of vegetable, such as radish, beans, ^*c., or a mixture if to be had-, 1 tablespoonful of butter ; and 2 of bis- cuits or bread p)Owder; 1^ teaspoonful of sauce ; 2 pies worth of stock hones, or a handful -, ^ of a seer of mutton. Mode.—First make the stock for the pie, by boiling the bones, ■whole pepper, spice, sugar, spinach, mint, coriander, orange peel, onions, green chillies, salt, vegetables, in ^ a ^cup of water for 5 minutes, add flour and butter each \ a teaspoonful -, mix and let it boil for 2 or 3 minutes, add | pint of water, boil till the vegetables are done -, boil the potatoes and 1 egg, beat the other egg yolk and white separately, cut the meat into 1 inch squares, rather thin; pepper and salt well, line the bottom of the pie dish with a layer of sliced jDotatoes or other vegetable cut up taken from the broth, lay the meat over it with the onions, and chillies, cut the boiled egg in slices, and lay over, fill up with the rest of the vegetables taken from the broth, strain the broth and pour in to the brim, reserve the extra if any remain; mashthe potatoes with the butter, 2 tablespoonsful of milk, yolk of 1 ogg, sfilt to taste, add about 5 tablespoonsful of flour, kneed well, sprinkle flour on the pastry board, place the potatoo dough on it, sprinkle with flour, roll out ^ of an inch thick, cut a piece round to tit the top of the basin, by placing a similar sized plate on it, cut a small circular hole in the centre to let the steam out, make remainder of dough into strips, the width of the rim of the basin, and an orna- ment large enough to cover the hole on the top, smear the rim of the basin, with the beaten white of the egg, place the strips of dough on it all round, place one teaspoonful of butter in small lumps over the meat and vegetables in the basin, lift the pastry required for the top by rolling it on the rolling pin, and carefully unroll it over the basin, lightly press down the edge, make the remaining scraps of dough into any shape and put on the top, first dipping them in the egg to make them adhere, spread the whole of the remaining egg on the top cover with the biscuit powder bake with the ornament separate, after baking pour in the remaining broth and cover the opening with the ornament. Time J of an hour. Average cost 3 or 4 annas. Sufficient for 2 persons for a meal-79.—PLAINTAIN TAliT. Ingredients.—Flour butter 4= oz; 1 Cf/g ■, sugar 1 oz; a little milk; 8 small plantaim; 2 limes; 2 tablespoonsful of sugar; ^ tea- sgionrif ul of mixed gmwdered spice; { a tea- spoovful of grated orange peel; | glass of brandy; 1 dessertspoonful of butler ; ghee \ a cup. Mode.—Put the ghee in a small frying pan on the fire, when boiling put in the plantains with their skins, and fry till the skins burst, re- move the plantains, skin and cut them into slices, place a small cup inverted in the centre of the tart dish, thickly sprinkle some of the sugar round it, place a layer of the fruit on it, sprinkle Avith half of the spice, orange powder and more Eug’ar, pour the juice of 1 lime and half the brandy all round, put on the rest of the fruit, spice, orange powder, lime juice and brandy, put the dessertspoon of butter all over in small lumps; now make the paste, rub the flour into the butter, add sugar and yolk of the egg and just enough milk to make the whole into a smooth paste, sprinkle the pastry board and roller well with flour, roll out the paste a ^ of an inch thick, place an inverted dish the size cf the cno used for the tart on the paste and cut out a round, roll out the extra paste again and cut into sti'ips the widlli of the brim of the tart plate.57 and make tlie scraps of paste into leaves, &c., wet the brim of the dish with the beaten white of the egg, lay on the strips, wet again with the egg and lay on the round by lifting it on the rol- ling pin and unrolling it over the dish, dip the pastry ornaments in the egg and place on the top and with a fork flower the border all round and bake. Time ^ of an hour. Average cost 5 annas. Sufficient for 4 per- sons. Almost all the ghee will remain and can bo used for other purposes, so the cost of ghee is not included. 80.—FULL MANGOE PICKLE. Ikgredients.—35 large graft half-ripe mangoes; 2 seers ofhazaarsaltj 6 bottles of gingelg oil; and the mussala given in receipt Ao. 70. Mode.—Split eaeh mangoe half way through, remove the kernel, prick it all over with an iron fork, stuff each with the salt pounded, and tie with a piece of thread to prevent the salt falling out, pack closely in a vessel, chattie or jar well sprinkled with the salt all over, let it remain in the salt for 3 days; on the 4lh day remove all B58 the salt, stuff with the mussala prepared as in receipt No. 70 tie and pack in another clean vessel, boil the oil and pour over the mangoes boiling, after 3 months, take as many mangoes as required for use and put them into vinegar for G days and use. Preparing them first in oil and then in vinegar gives them a peculair nice taste. Will keep for years and improve with time. 81.—BOILED AVARAKOI. Ingredients.—Avaralcoi, salt, hiittcr, 'pepjjer. Mode.—Cut off the heads and tails, and a thin strip on each side of the avarakoi, to remove the fibres divide each into thin strips cutting them lengthwise, drop into cold water with a small quantity of salt- Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, put the avarakoi in and boil till done, strain and serve hot with butter, pep- per, and a little mere salt if necessary. When prepared in this way it resembles French beans, and is almost as good. 82.—NICE PLAIN CAKE. Ingredients.—Flour i Ih.; hatter 2 oz ; plums G oz ; sugar 2 oz ; 1 teaspoonful of haleing pow- der ) 2 eggs; almonds I oz; carrauay seeds59 4 02 ; 1 dessertspoonful of grated orange peel; ^ teaspoonful of salt ; 2 or 3 pinches of pow- dered spice ] i a teacup of milk. Mode—Sift the flour, salt, baking powder, spice, and orange peel, through a muslin putting in alternate spoons of each, so that all may be well mixed, add the plums and carraway seeds cleaned, the almonds blanched and cut, mix well and leave for ^ of an hour, or longer, beat the butter to a cream rub into the flour, &c., and just enough milk to make a thick batter, suffi- ciently so to prevent tho plums settling ; pour into a buttered and papered tin, and bake. Time 1 hour. Average cost 4 or 5 annas. 83,—KITCHERIE PULLAV. IxoredieNts.—Midton 1^ lb. ; rice 1 seer; corina- der seeds 1 tablespoonful ; pe'pper water season- in'}, receipt No. 14, 1 tablespoonful ; 12 dried chillies ; 3 tablespoonsful of sliced onions ; a piece of saffron about 2 or 3 inches long ; 2 tablespoonsful of hard ghee ; salt to taste. More.—Wash and cut up the meat as for curry, wash and prepare tho rice, grind the mus- sala to a paste, fry the onions in the ghee, add %CO the mussala, fry for 1 or 2 miuutea, add the meat and rice mix Avell add enough water to stand 4 inches above the whole, cook till quite done and dry, serve. Beef or fowl may be used instead of the mutton. Average cost 5 annas. Sufficient for 10 persons. 84.—MANGOS PICKLE. Ingredients.—50 large mangoes ; saffron 1 seer; dried chillies 1 seer ; 1 seer salt; mustard 1 seer; garlic f seer j pepper \ of a seer ; venthium of a seer ; green ginger | seer ; cummin J seer ; curry pillay leaves 1 handful ; 2 bottles gingely oil ; 2 bottles of vinegar ; the above ingredients to be weighed after cleaning. Mode,—Wash the mangoes and split them in foul’, remove the kernel, pound the salt, mix it well with the mangoes, and let them soak for 3 or 4 days, shaking them up each day, put the oil in a clean vessel on the fire, w’hen boiling add the mussala, ginger, garlic, curry pillay and fry for a few minutes, add the mangoes well washed in the brine, strain in, half the brine, add the vinegar, mix well boil up once or twice, remove, when cold put in jar ; will be ready for use in one mouth,G1 85.—PEA.C1I PRESEllVE, Ingredients.— Peaches, sugar, and a little spice. MoDe.—Weigh the fruit with an equal quantity of Ashtagi’am sugar, place the peaches in soup plates in one even layer, cover with boiling water, after* a minute or two pour olf the water, peel the peaches, remove the stones dividing the fruit in halves, place these halves in a dish with the hollows upwards, sprinkle well with sugar, repeat till all the fruit and sugar are done; do this in the evening and lot the sugar and fruit soak all night, next day simmer all with the spice and kernels till done.* 83.—CONFECTION OF ALMONDS. Ingredients.—Almonds shelled | oz-, gum accacia poivdered 1 oz; white sugar 4 oz. Mode.—Blanch the almonds and pound them with the gum and sugar until thoroughly incorporated, make into balls the size of limes. One eaten early every morning will strengthen the chest. * Note :—The stones of tho peach must bo cracked and tlie kernels added to the jirescrye to make it more tasty.Average cost 5 pie. Sufficient for 2 persons. G2 87.—BOILED MOCIILKOY. Ingredients —Mochelcoy, salt, pepper, and hutter Mode.—After shelling the beans let them soak in cold water for i of an hour, when a slight pressure between the finger and thumb will remove the outer skin of the bean; the shelled and skinned beans throw into boiling water with a little salt^ when it is easily crushed between the fingers it is done; serve hot with butter and pepper^ oi only the latter. AVhen butter beans can’t be had this dith answers almost as well as a 'substitute for them. When in season it is sold by the measure. Cost 3 pie for 2 measures. Sufficient for 2 persons. 88.—TOMATA CHUTNEY. Ingredients.—4 tomatas a little larger thqn pig- eon’’s eggs; 4 cloves of garlic-, 8 green chillies : 4 slices of green ginger-, 1 teaspoonful of plums; tamarind as large as a hen’s egg; a little salt. Mode.—Peel and remove the pulp and seeds of the tomatas, and grind all the ingredients to a fine paste with a little water, on the curry stone, removing the fibres of the tamarind and adding salt to'taste.G3 89.—GARLIC MASH. Good for tuose troubled with flatulency IN TUE BOWELS. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonfiU of clean garlic ; h a teaspooTiful of mixed mustard, cummin, pep- per, venthium and coriander ; saffron the size of a pea ; 1 dried chilley ; 1 dessertspoonful of hard ghee ; salt to taste. Mode.—Boil the garlic in some water, which drain and throw away, grind the mussala to a paste, mash the garlic, fry it in the ghee, add the mussala mixed in tea cup of water and salt to taste, fry all till quite thick, serve. Average cost 7 pie. Sufficient for 2 per- sons. 90.—KULKULS OR DOUGHNUTS. Ingkedients.—2^ quarter seer of rice flour; S eggs ; i cocoanut j 1 cup of ghee ; \ seer sugar -, salt \ of a teaspoonful. Mode.—Scrape the cocoanut and extract the milk by pouring ^ cup of hot w'ater on it squeeze well and remove the pith, beat tho eggs well yolks and whites separately, mix the flour, salt, and eggs well together, add 1 tablespoonful of ghee, put in just enough of tho cocoanut milkto m:il;o it. into a ratlier soft dough, take a four prongeil fork, rub a little ghee on it, take a piece of dough as big as a marble, flatten it on the prongs of the fork, then roll it like a music roll, with the impression of the prongs on the top, make the whole of the dough up, taking care to place each one singly in one laj'er on plates, as in their raw state they are sticky, put the rest of the ghee in a fr3 ing pan on the fire, when bcilins:, pnt in as many kulkuls as it will con- veniently hold one by one, and fry till a light brown, remove with a spoon and sprinkle well over with sugar while hot, repeat till all the kulkuls are done. Kulkuls may be kept for any length of time; if wanted sweeter a little sugar may be mixed with the dough, or a thin syrup of sugar made, the fried kulkuls thrown in shaken up and then thrown into sugar. The ghee left after all are fried may be kept and used in curries. Average cost 7 annas. SufBcient for 7 per- sons.G5 91.—LUCKNOW CHUTNEY. Ingeediexts.—Limes 2 seers; sugar ^ seer; raisins or ‘plums ^ seer ; chillies, ginger, garlic, saU, each i seer ; vinegar \ of a bottle. Mode.—Quarter the limes and soak them in the salt for three days, putting them daily in the sun and mixing, on the second day soak the raisins, chillies, ginger, and garlic in a little vinegar, the next day grind to a paste, remove the seeds of the limes with two forks, and pound in a marble mortar to a pulp, mix well with the ground stuff and sugar, adding just enough vinegar to make it into a thick chutney. Average cost 10 annas. Care should be taken not to touch with the hand when grinding, &c,, use wooden spoons as pickles touched with the fingers spoil soon. 92.—RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT, IxGREDiENTS.—4 tahlespoonfuls of rice flour ; 2 tea cups of milk ; tablespoonful of sugan' •, i teaspoonful of salt ] 1 tablespoonful of minced suet or butter ; a little nutmeg ; and 5 oranges. Mode.—Prepare the oranges by removing the skin, pith, and seeds, place a small inverted cup in the pudding basin, arrange the orange 9C6 round it well covered with the Eugar, boil 1 ^ cup of milk^ when boiling add the flour, 1 table- spoonful of sugar mixed well in the remaining \ a cup of milk, stir well on the fire till it gets as thick as it can, take ofl the fire mix in the suet thoroughly, and put it in lumps all over the pre- pared orange, the lumps touching each other, begin from the edge of the basin, grate some nutmeg over all, and bake. Time 1 hour. Average cost 4 annas. Sufficient for 4 persons. Any kind of preserve or jam maybe used instead of the oranges and sugar. 93.—BATTER FOR FRYING FISH. Ingredients.—1 egg ; 4 green chillies minced ; 1 tahlespoonful of minced onions ; i teaspoonful of powder mint ; 4 tahlespoonful of bread powder ; \ a teaspoonful of pepper powder and salt; suet or ghee. Mode.—Clean and soak the fish in salt and water for 1 hour ; if small, string them on broom- sticks through the eyes, wipe them dry, sprinkle over with pepper and salt, beat the egg, mix the bread powder, onions, chillies, and mint, dip theG7 fish first ill tho egg and then in the bread, &c., and fry in boiling suet or ghee till well browned on both sides ; if done in suet, place on a clean towel to drain, serve hot. Cost U anna. Sufficient to fry a soup plate of small fish. 94.—BEINJAL SAMBAL. Ingredients.—1 dessertspoonful each of minced onions, thick tamarind juice, and tomatoes with the skins and seeds removed, and smashed ; 2 dessertspoonsful of hrinjals, roasted and smashed j 3 green chillies minced ; i teaspoon- ful of white salt -, j teaspoonful of ghee. Mode.—Eoast the brinjals in the fire, remove the burnt skin, and mash them with all the other ingredients, except the ghee in which fry the sambal till all the ghee is absorbed in it, serve hot or cold. Cost 4 pie. Sufficient for 2 persons. 95.—ANOTHER. The brinjals may be boiled and skinned, and instead of the tamarind, vineger or sauce may bo used, and the tomatoes omitted j add the rest of the ingredients, and make in the same way.ed or plain ; 2 table.‘<2^ooiisful of butter or suet CjS 9G.—COCOANUT PULLAV. Ingredients.—| a seer of rice or 1 Ih. ; ^ seer of mutton ; 6 green chillies ; G slices of green ginger ; 6 cloves ; G 'peels of garlic ; a small piece of cinnamon ; 1 tahlespoonfiil of sliced onions ; 1 dessertspoonful of ghee ; 1 tahlespoon- ful of curry stuff ; ^ a teaspoonful of mustard, cummin, coriander, pepper, and venthium onixed ; 1 cocoanut ; 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—Clean and wash the rice^ cut up the meat in 1 inch squares, grind the mussala to a paste, slit the green chillies in halves, clean the galric, mix all these together with tlie spice, curry stuff, onions, ginger in the second milk of the cocoanut, making enough of it to stand inch over the mixture, when the rice is j done add the ghee, when | done add the first milk of the cocoanut, cover closely and simmer on a slow fire, stirring occasionally, till quite cooked and rather dry. Serve cold. Average cost 3 annas. Sufficient for 3 persons. 97.—POTATOE PIE. From the remains of cold meat, &c. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of cold potatoes, either mash-together for 2 or 3 minutes, remove from tho GO minced j 6 tahlespoonsful ofjluur ; -i leasjpoonful of baking poivder; a little salt and milk ; re- mains 0/ cold vegetables and meats ; 2 cloves a bit of orange gpeel ; 3 or 4 button onions ; 1 dessertspoonful of sauce. Mode.—Make the meats^ different kinds, if at hand, and vegetables into a stew with stock made from the bones, or water, fill a pie dish with it, pour in the stock reserving the remainder, make the paste, &c., similar to the pie in receipt ISTo. 79. Time J of an hour, tSufficient for 2 persons for a meal. 98.—BEINJAL BAKE. Ingeedients.—^ seer of minced meat prepared as for cutlets, receipt No. 4 ; G or 8 hrinjals according to size ; 4 table-spoonsful of ghee ; 1 tablespoonful of flour, 4 a teaspoonful of bazaar salt. Mode.—Put the brinjal into boiling water with the salt and boil till done, cut into halves dividing the stalks also, scoop out the inside, add into the prepared mince, fry all together well mixing and mashing the vegetable and meat70 fire, fill the scooped brinjals with it, sprinklo ficjur well over the stuffing, press the flour down with the hand, fry in boiling ghee placing it first ou the floured side, when quite browned turn, and fry on the other side. The ghee left after frying the bake may be used for curries, &e. Average cost 2 .t annas. Sufficient for 4 persons. 99.—TONGUE CUKEY. Ikgredients.—1 hull or cow tongue ; 1 tahlespoon- ful of curry stuff, receipt No. 2; 12 green chillies] 8 peels of garlic ; 12 slices of green ginger ; 6 cloves ] 1 piece of cinnamon ; 8 leaves of curry pillay ] 2 tahlespoonsful of sliced onions ] 1 tahlespoonful of ghee ; tamarind and salt to taste. Mode .—Boil the tongue with enough water to cover it aud a little salt, till tender enough to be pierced easily with a broomstick, add more boiling water if necessary, cut off the root, which will do for your dog’s dinner, peel the skin of the tongue off, (if properly boiled the skin should peel off quite easil}^), cut up in 1 inch squares, put a cleau vessel on tue fire with the ghee and fry the onions in it with tho green chillies slit,71 ginger, garlic cleaned, curry pillay and spice, when brown add the curry stuff, add the tongue and 1 tea cup of the broth left from the boiling of the tongue; the rest will make a very good pepperwater or stock for any other dish; add salt to taste in the curry and simmer till the gravey is thick enough to serve, add tamarind juice to taste, boil up once or twice, and serve. Average cost annas. Sufficient for 4 persons. 100.—POOTOO EICE BALLS.* (Rangoon Rice.) Ingredients.—Pootoo rice flour, cocoanut, and sugar. Mode.—Make the pootoo flour into dough, form into balls, make a hole in each, fill with scraped cocoanut and sugar, cover and roll into nice round balls, drop into boiling water, they will sink at first, and rise to the surface when done, remove with a slice and roll in scraped cocoanut, * Note.—llhQ rice should not be soalced. Ifc should be well-washed and then pounded immediately.72 101.—COCOANUT MACROONS. Ingredients.—1 lb. grated cocoamit; h lb.; sugar; whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Beat tlie eggs well and mix all togetlieTj and bake on wafer paper in pieces about the size of a walnut. Average cost 3 annas. 102.—ALMOND DROPS- Ingredients.—Almonds J lb; butter ^ lb. ; sugar ^ lb. ; ivhites of two eggs. Mode.—Shell, blanch and pound the almonds with a little water, beat the eggs well, add the butter, sugar, and almonds beating well- all the time, drop on a wet paper, and bake in a slow oven. Average cost 4 annas. 103-COCOANUT SWEETMEAT. Ingredients."—2>cocoanuts; lb. of sugar; kuss- kuss seed, ^ a seer. Mode.—Scrape the cocoanut, take the milk from li, and make a syrup with it and the sugar when thick enough to fall in lumps from the73 spoon add the remaining- half of the scraped cocoanuts and kuss kuss, simmer till a littl© dropped into water will hai’den, pour into a butter soup plate. Average cost 7| annas. Will make 2 lbs. of sweetmeat. 104.—BLA.NCMANGE. Ingredients.—1 tea cup of soojee j 1 cocoanut; \lh. of almonds j sugar to taste ; 1 cup of water. Mode.—Soak the soojee in the water for S' hours, squeeze well and strain the milk through a towel, scrape the coooanut and take its milk also, mix both tog-ether with the almonds ground to a paste, sweeten to taste, boil till very thick, pour into a greased mould, turn out when cold and servo with jelly. Average cost 3 annas. 105.— THOVALE. (Gooseberry pickle.) Ingredients,—Gooseberries 3 lbs.; white salt .J a lb. ; green chillies 8 oz; country mustard un- broken 1 oz ; cummin 1 oz ; curry piUay leaves one handful; gingely oil 1 bottle full; cleaned garlic 1 oz. 1074 Mode.—Expose the gooseberries to the sun for a day or two ; then coarsely pound them, pick out the seeds, now re-pound the gooseberries well, adding the salt, chillies, and garlic ; put the oil in a well tinned vessel on the fire, when boiling throw in the leaves, mustard, and cummin, fry well, next add the rest of the ingredients and cook till the gooseberries are done; fill in jars and cover down when cold. May be eaten at once but im- proves with time ; said to be very wholesome. Average cost 6 annas. Will make 6 lbs. 106.—MUSTARD MANGOE PICKLE. Ingredients.—25 large mangoes; bazaar salt 1 Ih ; green chillies | lb; dried chillies 1 oz ; pepper ^ an oz; green ginger 5 oz ; saffron 1 oz ; cleaned country mustard 11 lb; English mustard 4 pint; cleaned garlic 8 oz; curry pillay leaves one handful; good gingely oil 2 seers ; vinegar 1 bottle. Mode.—Pare the mangoes and cut them up into small pieces, about the size of a half anna, remove the seeds. Pound the salt and mix it with the mangoes, let both soak together for 3 days, shaking them up now and then ; on the fourth day, wash the mangoes in their brine and put the pieces in a clean vessel, strain the brineover it; this is done to remove the grit of tlie bazaar salt, if white salt is used it need not be strained. Put the oil in a well tinned vessel on the fire, when boiling, add the garlic and curry- leaves, and fry till the garlic is quite red, next add the dried chillies, safiron, (powdered fine) pepper (whole) and the country mustard, fry for half an hour, remove the vessel from the fire, and throw in the mangoes, ginger (cleaned and sliced) green chillies (with their stocks removed and slit half way from the point of the chilly) and ti e English mustard, mix all well together, now pour in the brine and vinegar, mix and when cold bottle. Average cost 1 E. 107.—COUSIN EMMA’S CHUTT^^EY. (Delicious) Ingredients.—Must all he first cleaned and then weighed. Mangoes pared and cut up 3 lbs; p>lums 1 Ih; [the blade hind if p)'>'ocurable, dont remove the seeds as they impart a favor) new tamarind 1 lb; brown sugar 1 lb ; garlic G oz •, green ginger 12 oz ■, white salt 2 oz; dried chil- lies G oz ; vinegar 1 bottle. IMode.—Soak the tamarind in as much vine- gar as will cover it, grind the rest of the ingredi-ents on a clean curry stone using no water or vinegar either, as the mangoes, garlic, and plums will impart sufficient moisture to the rest, when grinding the mangoes add the chillies and plums, and grind the garlic and ginger together. Mash the tamarind well with a wooden spoon and strain through a coarse towel or muslin, add the rest of the vinegar to the pith and extract as much of the pulp as possible; now mix ail the ingredients well together in a large howl or jar, leave it in this covered for 3 days stiiving every day, on the fourth day bottle it. May he eaten at once but improves with keeping. This chutney may be gradually made, by first putting the vinegar and tamarind pulp into a large jar, and from day and day, adding the other ingredients ground a little at a time. This saves a deal of trouble and is just as good as if done in one day. Average cost 1^ Rs. 108.—AUNT SALE’S PICKLE. (Very Good) Ingredients.—{Clean all the ingredients before toeighing) mangoes, sliced fine, 4 lbs; green ginger, sliced, 3 oz; broiled Bengal gram {cud- lay) 1 ox; garlic 1 ox; green chillies o oz;pillay leaves 1 handful; xvhite salt 3 table- niHutard oz ; dried chillies 4 oz; vodhium oz ; white salt 2 oz; saffron the loeight of 6 'pie ; cummin l^oz; vinegar^ hott’es; ginnelij oil 1 seer •, 4 handful of curry pillay leaves. Mode.—Powder the satfrou, cummiu, gram, dry chillies, and venthium. Put the oil on the fire in a deep well tinned vessel, when boiling add the leaves and garlic, fry till the garlic looks red, add the curry stuff, fry for a minute or two, remove from the fire throw in the mangoes, ginger and green chillies, mix well, now boil the vinegar in an earthen vessel and pour over all. Bottle when cold. Use after six months. If one bottle of vinegar and one bottle of good brandy is used the pickle will bo eatable in a week and very superior. Average cost 1 Rs. Cost with brandy 3 i Rs. 109.—BBINJAL PICKLE. (Delicious) Ingredients.—Brinjals 1 vis, picked all of about the same size, the tender small kind is best; green chillies l^oz; venthium \ dessertspoon- ful; cummin 1 desserlspoonf id •, country must- ard I teaspoonful; green ginger 4 an oz; {cleaned and sliced) cleaned garlic 1 oz ', curry78 spoonsful', gingelij oil h cipint; English vinegar 2 bottles. Dried ehillies 2 oz;~j Cleaned garlic 5 oz; f These to he ground Saffron 1 oz ; T well in vinegar. Green ginger 1 oz;J Mode-—Remove the stalks of the green chillies and slit them half way from the point; remove the stalks of the briugals and slit them into 2 or 4 parts withen half an inch of the stalk end; put the oil in a well tinned vessel on the fire, when boiling add the venthium, cummin, curry leaves, and the 1 oz of whole garlic peels, when the garlic turns red, add the ground mussala fry till done, pour in the vinegar, add the salt and mix well; put in the brinjals, ginger and green chillies and let it boil till done. During the cooking stir carefully with a stick or the handle of the ladle to prevent the brinjals breaking and turning into a mash. Do not make too much of this pickle as it wont keep for yeai’s as other pickles do. Average cost 1 R. IIO.—GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. Ingredients.—Green tomatos 1 lb-, sliced onions 2 tahlespoonsful; cloves 1 teas^oonfnl; tico stichs of cinnamon ; English mnstard 1 dessert-79 spoonful) IG green chillies; vinegar i a pint; 'white salt 1 oz. Mode.—Cut the tomatoes into thin slices sprinkle with the salt and let it stand for a day or two ; next pack them in alternate layers with the other ingredients in an enamelled saucepan, cover with the vinegar and simmer till the tomatoes look clear. Average cost 5^ annas. 111.—PLAIN QUOORMAH. GOOD FOR TRAVELLERS. Ingredients.—Cinnamon and cloves 3 pie 'weight •, Unnas poo {a sort of allspice like a star) 3 pie 'weight) pepper 6 pie weight; green ginger 1 oz) green coriander 9 pie weight j white salt 1 os; vinegar ^ a tea cup ; ghee | a tea cup ; mutton 2 seers) or 4 lbs. of beef) or fowls or game. Mode.—Grind all the ingredients, except the ghee, into a paste with the vinegar, cut up the meat and mix it with it, let it stand for half-an- hour; then put it on a slow fire, stirring now and then, when the meat is well cooked in its own juice, add the ghee, and fry till nearly dry; press down in brandy bottles (with the tops cut off, any tinker will do it for you) and pour over it melted80 suetj wlucii wJien cold will form an air-tight cork, ■when wanted remove the suet and serve cold or warmed. The suet may be used more than once, never keep the meat without the suet, it is this that preserves the meat from spoiling. It will keep for 6 months and more. Average cost in Mutton 12 annas. „ in beef 8 annas. 112.—PORK FRY. Ingredients.—Porh 2 lbs; 10 dried chillies; ground safron I teaspoonful; cummin 1 tea- spoonful ; seasoning No. II one dessertspoonful; sliced onions 3 tablespoonsful; vinegar I a tea cup; cleaned garlic 1 teaspoonful; cloves ^ a teaspoon; a piece of cinnamon; 6 slices of ginger; salt to taste. Mode.—Cut up and wash the port, grind the mussala to a paste with half the onions, and the whole of the garlic and ginger all together with i a cup of water add salt to taste, let it simmer till the meat is cooked, add the vinegar and let it boil slowly open ; stir now and then and when the gravy is thick enough serve.81 113.—SEA PIE. Ingredients.—Flour Ihs", beef or mutton lbs. or two chiclcens; curry stuff No. 2 three table&poonsful •, cloves | a teaspoon; cinnamon 1 piece; sliced onions 3 tablespoonsffd ; cleaned garlic dessertspoonful j \a cocoanut; white salt i a teaspoon; water 2 pints ; ghee 2 table- spoonsful-, baking potvder, if on hand, 1 tea- spoonful; country salt to taste. Mode, Mix tlie flour, white salt, and baking powder into a light dough with water; roll out thin and cut into diamonds, useing the rolling pin as a ruler. Cut up the meat, season with a little salt and boil in 2 pints bf water, when tender remove j fry the onions, garlic, and spice in the ghee till the onions are brown, add the mussala fry for a minute or two, add the meat and broth, boil for 5 minutes; put in the pastry piece by piece, otherwise they will stick together in a mass, cook till done and the gravy thick, add the cocoanut milk, boil for a minute or two! Serve cold. The cocoanut may be omitted if not iiked. Sufficient for G persons. Will keep for 24 hours ; a nice dish for travellers. Average cost with American flour and beef Annas 7 4 » „ mutton 8 10 2 chickens 9 10 1182 114.—SWEET MANGO CURRY. Ingredients.—8 large half-ripe mangoes; 16 dmed chillies ; cummin 1 teaspoonful; mustard 1 teaspoonful; sliced onions 1 dessertspoonful; ground saffron ^ a teaspoon; ghee 1 dessert- spoonful ; sugar or jaggery H seer; water 1 tea- cupful. Mode,—Pri'o the mangoes and cut each into three pieces; fry the onions in the ghee till brown, now add the mussala (ground) fry for a minute or two add the water, jaggery, and man- goes ; simmer closed for 15 minutes, open and cook till the mangoes are done and the gravy thick enough. 6orve hot or cold. This curry will keep for a week or more. Sufficient for 10 persons. Average cost 7 annas. 115.—BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Ingredients.—Bread 12 oz.; new milk l|ptnf; 6 eggs; phims 2 oz,; almonds 2 oz,; butter ^ seer; soft sugar 8 taUespoonsful; a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Mode.—Cut the bread into thin slices, re- move the crust and butter, reserving a little of the butter for the dish ; boil the milk, beat the83 Average cost 4 annas. eggs and add them to the milk, put in the sugar, nutmeg and lemon peel j butter the pudding dish, pour in some of the custard, sprinkle in some of the plums and almonds; on these place a layer of the bread, repeat till all the ingredi- ents are used up; the custard must be the last layer; bake. Stale bread may be used up in this dish SuflBcient for 6 persons. Average cost 6 annas. 116.—SANBRIDGE PANCAKES. Ingeediekts.—4 eggs; wheat or raggie flour 4 tablespoonsfuls j butter J lb.; soft sugar 1 oz. ; a little nutmeg and salt. Mode,—Whisk the glare of the eggs stiff, go on whisking as you add all the other ingre- dients ; first the yolks, next the flour gradually sprinkled on, then the nutmeg, salt, sugar, milk, and the butter melted a little. Put a frying pan over the fire when quite hot pour in enough butter to make a very thin cake, lift the pan for a .tninute and shake it to spi’ead the butter; when done sprinkle with sugar I’oll and serve.84 Average cost 14 annas. 117.—DHODHOLE OE (RANGOON-EICE HULWA.) Ingredients.—^ a seer of Rangoon-rice ; {pootoo rice) 1 lb. of white sugar j 4 oz. of shelled almonds - 1 cocoanut ; ^2. seers of ghee. Mode.'—Grind or pound tlie rice to a very fine flourj blancli and grind tlie almonds to a paste, extract tlie cocoanut milk with 2 cups of boiling water; now well mix the flour, milk, and ghee together; place the sugar with a cup of water, in a well tinned vessel on the fire, and make into syrup when rather thick pour in the mixed flour, &c., gradually stirring all the time with scraping motion, (for the Hulva first forms on the bottom of the vessel;) don’t stop a mo- ment till done. Roll a little piece between the fiuarers, if it does not adhere it is done. Press down in flat plates j or 4 an inch thick, let the extra ghee drain ofi. Serve cold.85 Average cost 2.^ annas. 118.—BOILED CHEESE. Ingeedients.—1 tahlespoonful of grated cheese-, 1 dessertspoonful of milk ; \a teaspoonful of hiit- ter; 1 egg. Mode.—Put the cheese, milk, and butter in a saucepan on a slow fire, and stir until it boils, add the egg well beaten, and continue stirring till it thickens, roll like an omlet, brown and serve hot. Average cost annas. 119.—POLPETTI. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonsfulof very finely chop- p>ed beef-, 1 tablespoonful of bread soaked in milk or broth) 1 tablespoonful of grated cheese ; 1 egg; 1 lime; 1 dessertspoonful of four; 1 tablespoonful of ghee; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Grate the rind of the lime and take the juice and mix with the beef, bread, cheese, flour, and yolk of the egg, add pepper and salt to taste, make into balls, roll in the beaten glare of the egg, then roll in some flour and fry brown in the ghee.} 8G 120.—POTATO FRITTERS. (COLD POTATOES MAY BE USED.) Ingredients.—Mashed potatoes 2 tahlespoonsfnl; 3 eggs j minced cold meat 2 tablespoonsful ; milk 1 tablespoonful; 1 tablespoonful of hard ghee or suet, minced vinegar pickle 1 tea- spoonful ; baking powder ^ a teaspoon, if on hand; a little pepper, nutmeg and salt; if the fritters are required to be hot minced green chillies and onions may be added. Mode.—^Beat the eggs -well and mix all the ingredients, except the ghee together ; put the ghee or suet in a frying pan on the fire when very hot drop the butter in, a dessertspoonful at a time, when light brown on both sides remove. Will make 16 fritters. 121.—BRINJAL JAM. (VEEY NICE FOR EOLLY POLLY). Ingredients.—3 tahlespoonsfnl of mashed brin- jals; 2 tablespoonsful of white sugar ; 3 table- spoonsful of at er; 1 lime; \ teaspoon of pow- dered spice. Mode.—Make the sugar into syrup, boil the brinjals, remove the greatest part of the seeds, and mash.m a marble mortar, removing all fibre87 and skin, add to it tlie syrup, lime juice and spice and boil till quite thick. Cost 8 pies. 122.—STAR GOOSEBERRY PRESERVE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of gooseberries-, 2 lbs. brown sugar i 1 egg - 2 pints of water. Mode.—Prick the gooseberries all over with a fork, put the sugar and water on the fire when boiling add the beaten glare of the egg, let it boil till the scum rises, strain through a coarse towel, put the sy»up back on the fire add the gooseberries and boil till they are cooked and the syrup thick. Average cost 4 annas. Will fill a 1 lb. jar. 123.—STAR GOOSEBERRY PICKLE BISCUIT. Ingeedients.—3 lbs. of star gooseberries / 9 oz. of green chillies-, 12 oz. of salt. Mode.—Pound the gooseberries lightly in a stone mortar so as just to break them coarsely, pick all the seeds that you can out, add the chillies and salt and pound into a paste ; make88 into biscuits and dry in the sun, when quite dry put up ; as required use them ground to a fine paste on the curry stone with a little water. Cost 4 annas. 124.—BREAD AND BUTTER FRITTERS. Ingeedients.—3 half loaves of bread, stale may he medj ^ a lb. of flour •, 1 oz. of butter Ipint of milk; ^ a seer of ghee; 2 ® saltspoon of salt-, 3 tablespoonsful of jelly or jam ; 4 eggs: Mode.—Cut each ^ loaf into 8 or 10 thin slices, spread f oz. of butter on them and over that jam, now press-lightly-two slices together with the butter and jelly in the centre, next cut them into long pieces; make a batter of the flom-, milk, eggs, salt, and j oz. of butter ; put the ghee on the fire, when boiling fry in it the pieces of prepared bread dipped well in the but- ter, drain and sex've. Average cost 8 annas. 125.—PICKLED FISH-, A BREAKFAST RELISH. Ingeedients.—2 tablespoonsful of curry stuf; 12 green chillies j 12 peels of garlic; 6 slices of green ginger -, 4 cloves -, 1 teaspoonful of whole89 pepper; | a teaspoon of white salt; 1 teaspoon- ful common salt; 2 teacupsful of small fish] about 2 cups of vinegar. Mode.—Clean the fish and soak it in cold water with the common salt for 1 hour, take it out dry it with a towel, and pack it alternately with the rest of the ingi’edionts in an earthem vessel, mix the currystuli and salt in the vinegar and pour over all, boil till done, cool and bottle. Large fish may be cut up and done similarly. Cost 5 annas. 126.—ROLY POLY PUDDING. Ingeedients.—] lb. of wheat flour ; ^ a cup of milk or water j 1 teaspoonful of baking powder if on hand ; ^ a teaspoon of tchite salt; 2 table- spoonsfiil of prepared suet j 1 tablespoonful of butter] 1 egg; jam No. 121. Mode,—Pound the suet and butter in a mortar till quite soft; sift the flour, salt, and baking powder together; beat up the egg, yolk and glair separately. Now work the flour into a smooth dough with the milk and yolk of the egg, using a wooden batter stick to mix it, roll it out an inch thick and spread it with a layer of the pounded suet, over this spead some of the glare then sprinkle over a little flour, fold it90 over and roll out again, repeat till all tlie suet and flour is done; roll out for the last time to the thickness of about ^ an inch, spread the jam equally over it leaving a margin of i an inch all I'ound, wet this with water, now roll up the dough in the form of a bolster, wrap round it a towel previously wetted and sprinkled over with flour, tie the ends well with some twine rolling some of it round the centre also; put into boiling water and boil for hour. Average cost 5 annas. 127.—MADRAS CURRY PASTE. Ingredients.—1 Ih. coriander seed; j lb. safron; 10 oz dried chillies ; 4 oz pe-pper ; 4 oz of cleaned mustard; 2 oz. dried ginger j 2 oz. venthium; 4 oz. cleaned garlic ; 8 oz. salt; 8 oz. prepared Bengal gram (cudlay) ; 4 oz. cummin; ? a ]^iut of English vinegar • \ a pint of ghee. Mode.—Roast all the mussala, this will make it crisp and easily powdered ; pound it very fine passing the powder through a muslin, then mix it well up with the ghee and vinegar. Cost 7 annas. Will make 100 dessertspoonsful.91 128.—BABY’S PUDDINGS. POTATO PUDDiNa. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonsful of hoiled mashed potato; i « teaspoon of butter j 1 egg \ a cup of milk j 1 tahlespoonfid of sugar; a little salt and nutmeg. Mode.—Beat the egg and mix all well together and pour into a buttered mould, grate a little nutmeg on the top; bake for ^ an hour, and serve with sugar sprinkled over it. Cost annas. Will make two saucers full. 129.-SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 tahlespoonsful of sago ; 1 cup of milk ; 1 egg ; ^ a teaspoon of butter; I table- spoonful of sugar ; and a Utile salt. Mode.—Wash the sago and boil in the milk till done ; beat the egg; now mix all the ingredients well together and bake. Average cost 2 annas. 130.—HASTY PUDDING. Ingbedients.—2 tablespoonful of sooggie; 1 cup of92 milk; 1 teaspoonful of "butter or ghee; 1 egg ; a pinch of salt; and a tablespoonful of sugar. Mode.—Boil the milk, sooggie, salt, and sugar till quite thick, remove from the fire, mix iu it the ghee and egg beaten, put it back on the fire for 5 minutes stirring all the time; pour into a saucer and serve cold with sugar. Cost 1| annas. 131.—EICH POTATO PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonsful of mashed potatoe; I a cup of milk ; 1 egg ; i a teaspoon of baking powder; 1 teaspoonful of suet •, 2 tablespoonsful of plums; 1 dessertspoonful of cleaned and minced almonds; h a teaspoon of butter-, 1 table- spoonful of sugar; 1 lime ; k a teaspoon of corn- flour ; a little salt and nutmeg. Mode.—Beat the egg and mix all the ingre- dients together with the juice of the lime, and the milk and cornflour made into congee, pour into 9- buttered mould grate a little nutmeg on the top and bake for IJhour servo with sauce No. 132. Cost 3 annas.93 132.—PUDDING SAUCE. Ingredients.—1 dessertspoonful of butter ; 1 table- spoonful of sugar; 6 almonds ; 1 wineglassful of port xoine or brandy. Mode.—Clean the almonds and pound with the sugar, add to the butter and wine in an enamelled saucepan, place on a slow fire till all is well mixed ; serve. Will keep for 2 or 3 days. 133.—ORANGE PUDDING. InQeedients.—3 oranges; I tablespoonful of flour; 2 tablespoonsful of bread crumbs; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; 1 dessertspoonful of blitter ; 2 eggs ; j n teaspoon of bailing powder. Mode.—Clean the oranges, removing all the fibre, &c., and take 3 tablespoonsful of the gTS-te the rind and take 1 dessertspoonful. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yolks and the orange, whip very light, and while doing so put in alternate spoonsful of the bread crumbs, flour, and beaten glair ; but- ter a mould, pour in the batter and bake for l\ hour, Cost 2j annas. 1294 134.—GOOD PUFF PxiSTE E'OR PIES, &c. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of four; 1 egg; 1 lirae; 1 1 teaspoonful of baking powder ; I tahlespom- ful of prepared sitet; 1 dessertspoonful of but- ter ; a little salt. Mode.—Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together through a muslin ; pound the suet and butter together ; beat the egg up, yolk and glair separately. Make a hole in the flour and put in it the yolk and lime juice, and gradually add water ; mixing all tbe while with a wooden spoon or knife, when all the flour is mixed, re- move the knife and kneed the dough lightly and quickly into a ball, roll it out to the thickness of ^ an inch, with a knife spread some of the pre- pared suet over it, just as you would butter a slice of bread, over this spread some of the beaten glare, sprinkle over with a little flour, fold and roll out again, repeat this till all the suet, &c., is done, roll out and it is ready for use. Cost 3 annas. 135.—STRENGTHENING JELLY. Ingredients.—2 oz." of gum arabic; 2 oz. of isinglass ; 2 oz. oj white sugar candy ; 1 nut- .fiiQg • 1 jyint of port wine, or Madeira, or milk. Mode.—Pound the sugar candy and gum95 togetter into a fine powdei’, put it witli the rest of the ingredients into a jar, cover and set in a vessel of boiling water until dissolved, pour upon a plate, when cool cut into pieces. Cost if made with Port 1-4-0 annas. 136.-GUAVA JELLY. Ingredients.—2 lbs 10 oz. of guavas ; IJ lbs of Ashtagram Sugar ; G limes ; 2 pints of water ; a few cloves and piece of cinnamon. Mode.—Wash and wipe the guavas and divide them into quarters, throw them into a vessel with the water and boil till soft, strain off the juice which put back on the fire and boil till thick, add the sugar, lime juice and spice, and boil till it jellies ; which may be known by dropping a little on a plate, if when cold the drops are firm, the jelly is done; pour while hot into jars or glasses ; skim during the boiling. Cost G| annas. Will make 2| lbs, of jelly.96 137.—GUAVA CHEESE. VERY NICE. Ingredients.—The giuiva ref vise of fhe jelly No. 136, sugar, and limes. Mode.—Pulp the boiled guavas through a wire seive ; to each tablespoonful of pulp add one of soft sugar, and to each 4; tablespoonsful of pulp add the juice of one lime, boil all to- gether, stirring often, when it is as thick as possible and falls in masses from the spoon ; put into moulds previously dipped in cold water ; when quite cold turn out and serve. If proper- ly made this will be so firm that it may be cub with a knife. If removed from the fire when rather thin it is very good jam and does well for puddings. Cost 4 as. Will make If lbs of cheese. 138.—CURRY POWDER. Ingredients.—of coriander; ^Ih cnmnuyi ; 6 02. of saffron ; 10 02 of dried chillis ; 02. of black pepper ; 5 02. of venthium ; 4 02 of cleaned micstard; 1 handful oj dried curry pilla leaves. Mode.—Broil all the ingredients and pound97 them to a very fine powder and sift through a muslin, put up without pressing down. Cost 6 as. Will make 40 Tablespoonsful. 139.—SWEET LIME CHUTNEY. Ingredients.—25 Limes-, 1 Ih of shelled almonds 1 !b of sugar ; J lb garlic ; j lb salt ; | lb green ginger', 2 oz dried chillies ; Ij bottle of vine- gar. - ' Mode.—Scrape the rind of the limes.lightly with a nutmeg grater; cut into four without separating, and boil in ^ bottle of vinegar with 3 dessertspoonsful of sugar, throw away the liquid, grind all the ingredients with vinegar, bottle and stand in the sun for two weeks. Cost 1 R. 140.—DRY MUTTON CURRY. Ingredients.—ilTufto?! 2 lbs coriander 3 table- spoonsful ; seasoning No. 14 one teaspoonful ; a small piece of saffron ; 2 garlics ; 15 dried chillies ; ^ a cocoanut ; sliced onions 2 table- spoonsful ; 6 curry-pilla leaves ; ghee 1 table- spoonful ; tamarind and salt to taste. Mode.—Except the onions, 10 garlic peels,08 and curi*y leaves, grind all the mnssala to a paste ; fry the onions, garlic and curry leaves in the ghee, when the onions are brown, add the mussala and fry a little, next add the mutton (cut up) with the salt and tamarind pulp ; re- duce the fire to a slow one, stir often, when near- ly done add the cocoanut milk and stir until dry. Serve. Average cost 6 annas. 141.—SUPERIOR LIME PICKLE. Ingredients.—134 Limes ; b02 dried chillies ; 2 oz of pepper ; saffron 2 oz ; venthura 2 oz ; mustard 3 oz ; cummin 4 oz ; garlic 2^ seers ; green ginger j seer ; green chillies Ij seer ; white sugar about 1 Ih } English vinegar -j bottles ; gingely oil 4 bottles ; white salt 2 oz; country salt 3 seers ; 1 handful of ourry pilla leaves. Mode.—Slit the limes into four and stuff with the pounded bazaar salt and allow it to soak for 10 days ; then remove the limes from the bi'iue and expose to the suu for 9 hours ; throw it back in tilie brine for the night, in the morning take it out and dry again, repeat this till all the brine is absorbed, after this expose to the sun for a week till perfectly dry ; (in this state the limes may be kept any length of99 time find pickled wken desii’ed) romovo tlie stocks of the green chi Hie, and cut off tho tips, clean the garlic; clean and slice the ginger ; and powder the mussala finely ; put the oil on the fire, when boiling add 3 garlics bruised with the skin on, and the curry leaves, when tho gar- lic looks red add the chilly powder, fry a little, next add the saffron and the rest of tho mussala, now add the garlic, green chillies, ginger, fry till the chillies change color, pour in the vinegar and throw in the limes, previously well washed in the country vinegar, add the sugar and white salt, keep on the fire for 10 minutes, remove and allow it to cool in tho vessel, when cold put into jars ; ready for use in a week, improves by keeping. Cost 8i Rupees. 142.—CHILDREN’S APPLE PUDDING. Inoeedients,—2 Large Apples ; 1 cup of milk ; 1 egg ; (1 teaspoonful of gelatine if on hand) 1 dessertspoonful of sugar; \ of a cup of bread crumbs ; a little nutmeg and butter. Mode.—Butter a small dish, fill it with alternate layers cf the crumbs, apples, (pared and sliced) sugar, and nutmeg; finishing off with tho crumbs ; boil the gelatine in tho milk100 till it dissolves^ add the egg well beaten, mix and pour over the crumbs, and bake. 143,—MINT CHUTNEY TO KEEP. Ingkedients.—Green Mint leaves 2^ oz. green chillies oz ; common salt 2 oz ; garlic \ oz ; onions oz ; tamarind b\ oz ; vinegar i cup. Mode.^—Carefully whipe the mint free from sand, and grind all-together with the vinegar into a thick paste, removing the fibre of the tama- rind with a pointed stick, and use a wooden spoon in moving the chutney on the grind stone. Cost I3 annas. Will make 1 lb. of chutney. Improves with time. Ii4—ORANGE JAM. Ingredients.—18 Coorg oranges ; 0 limes . Ashtagravi sugar l^lh ; 12 cloves, cinnanwn 2 pieces. Mode.—Take only the pulp of the oranges, removing the riud, &c., weigh 3 lbs of the pulp, and simmer till thick, add the sugar aud boil till it thickens again, uow put in the lime juice aud101 spice and boil till it jellies ; poui’ into jars while hot and cover when cold. Will make lbs of jam. Cost in season 6 annas. 145.—PUMPKIN CUSTARD PUDDING. VERY NICE. Ingredients.— 1 Pint of boiled mashed pumpkm ; \lb of butter ; 8 eggs ; 2 tablespoonsful of brandy ; 1 teaspoonful of mixed powdered spice ; 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg ; jlb of sugar- Mode.—Remove the rind and seeds of the pumpkin, cut into small pieces and stew in a little water till soft, evaporate the water, mash the pieces and add the butter, when nearly cold add the beaten eggs, sugar, spice, nutmeg, and brandy mix well, pour into a buttergd mould and bake in a slow oven for 4 an hour.' Average cost 5^ annas. 146.—SlYEET MANGOE CHUTNEY. Ingredients.—Minced green mangoes 2 lbs ; minced almonds 1 lb ; minced raisins 1 lb. ; cicrrants 1 lb ; white salt \ a lb •, minced onions ^ lbs. ; white .sugar 3 Ih. ; minced garlic .3 lb. ;102 dried chillies powdered, fine \ Ih. \ or ^ of a bottle of English vinegar. Mode.—Mince the mangoes into a basin of fresb water, then put in a clean towel and squeeze the water well out, do the same with the onions, and weigh out the quantities, next mix all the ingredients with the vinegar, bottle and put away for a month or two before using. 147.—PUMPKIN PRESERVE. Ingredients.—2/fe. ofpumpldn; 2 Ihs. of jLshiagram sugar or sugar candy; \ pint of June juke; a lit- tle hruked dry ginger, thinly pared lemon rind. Mode.—Obtain a good sweet pumpkin, re- move the seeds, pai’e off the rind, cut up into pieces, about the size of a anna, weigh out the 2 lbs., put the pieces in a deep dish like a soup tureen, in alternate layers with the sugar, pour the lime juice over the top and let the whole re- main for 2 or 3 days, then boil all together until the pumkin becomes tender and transparent; pour back the whole into the dish and let it re- main for a week then drain off the syrup, add the ginger and lemon rind and boil till quite103 thick, put the pumkin into jars and pour the boiling syrup over, cover when cold. Cost 10 annas. Will make 3 lbs. of preserve. 148.—MAMEE’S CHUTNEY. Ingredients.—Ihs. of tomatoes ; new tamarind eleaned of fibre 1 th,; jdams 1 tb. green ginger 8 oz; onions 8 oz ; green cMllies 4 oz ; dried chillies 4 oz ; salt 4 oz; vinegar about 1 point. Mode.—Remove the skins, seeds, and pulp of the tomatoes, and grind all tqgether into a thick paste with venigar, may be eaten at once, improves with keeping. Will make 6^ lbs. Cost 13 annas. 149.—PICKLING BEEF. Ingredients.—6 (piarts, of salt water; 2 lbs. of common salt; 1 oz. of saltpetre; j lb. of brown sugar; 8 or 12 lbs. of beef. Mode.—I'xcept the beef boil all together for 20 minutes and when cold strain into a well seasoned wide mouth pot; cut the beef into 2 or 4 lbs. pieces, if only a small piece will bo required at a time, put it into the pickle and see that the pieces are well covered by it, turn104 the pieces every other day. It will be fit for use in 4 days. When required, put a piece in a vessel of cold water which must cover the meat entirely, and boil on a slow fire till done. Serve hot or cold. Reboil the pickle once a fortnight. Cost of pickle 3 annas. 150.—BULCHAN. BREAKFAST RELISH. Ingredients.—10 oz of minced onions ; 2 oz of garlic ; 4> oz of green chillies ; 4 02 o/ green ginger j 1 teaspoonful of white salt ) x hb of tamarind ; 1 tablespoonful of ghee ; 3 lbs of tomatoes ; 1 lb of saltfish without bones ; 1 tea- spoonful of ground safron, vinegar about i or x bottle. Mode.—Soak the saltfish and tomatoes in hot water, remove the skins of the tomatoes and squeeze out the pulp and seeds which throw away, wash the saltfish from all grit and remove the skin, mince all the ingredients, soak the tamarind in the vinegar and remove the fibres, &c.; put the ghee in a vessel and fry the salt- fish and saffron till brown ; add the rest of the ingredients and boil till quite thick; put up when cold. Average quantity O3 lbs, ,, cost 14 annas.105 151.—PUMPKIN WITH FORCE MEAT. ^ Ingredients.—A small pumpkin; mince meat like that prepared for Sandwich Bolls J^o. 15, Mode.—Cut a piece off one end of the pump- kin, remove the seeds and fill with the mince meat replace the cutoff end and bake until ten- der in a slow oven. 152,—A CHEAP TAPIOCA OR SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients.—One teacupful of tapioca or sago ; 10 large plamtains •, 2 limes; 2 tablespoonsful of white sugar; 2 tablespoonsful of butter; 4 tablespoonsful of milk; a little nutmeg and orange peel. Mode.—Soak the tapioca over night in plenty of water ; next morning pour the water off and leave till required ; butter a pudding dish, put in a layer of the tapioca, on it one of sliced plaintains, squeeze some of the lime juice on the plaintains, then grate some of the nutmeg and orange peel over it, next sprinkle a portion of the sugar, and place some of the butter in little lumps over all, repeat till all your ingre- dients are used, taking care to leave the tapioca as the topmost layer, pour the milk over the 13lOG Tvliole ; cover witli an old dish or piece of tin and bake for 2 hours ; serve colG, Ayerage cost G annas. Sufficient for 6 persons. 153.—GINGER CORDIAL. Ingredients.—Brandy | a pint; the rind of 1 lemons; dried ginger j oz j white sugar 5 oz; xoater J pint. Mode.—Bruise the ginger^ spread the le- inou peelj and put them with the brandy into a glass stoppered bottle; shake the bottle daily for 10 days, on the 11th day boil 5 pint of water, add the sugar, and contents of the bottle to it, mix well and leave it to cool; strain through a muslin and bottle. Cost 11 annas. Will make about a pint, good for Colic and Flatulency. 154.—PUMELO PRESERVE. Ingredients.—1 Pumelo; Astragam sugar 1 viss ; 4 limes; 6 cloves and 6 inches of cinnamon ; IJ pint of loater. Mode.—Pare the rind thinly o2, and cut it107 «p into pieces about an iucli sqnare, tlien boil in water for one honr, drain from tlie water put into a towel and squeeze dry, now throw into cold water and leave till next day ; on the follow- ing day clean the pumelo fruit of the seeds &c.j and press out the juice through a lime squeezer ; put the sugar and water on the fire, boil and skim, now add the rind, juice, spice and lime juice, simmer till the pieces look transparent, tiike eut the pieces and bottle, thicken the syrup and pour over it. Average cost 9 annus. 155.—DOCPEAZA HADUS. A tolah is one rupee’s weight. IxGREDTENTS,—Beef 1 lb ; ghee \ of a seer ; coarse iyre ^ seer; Mysore red dhall ^ of a seer; gar- lic i tolah ; omons ^ seer ; green ginger 1 tolah ; cinnamon 1 stick; 6 cloves; 2 cardamoms; X>epper i teaspoon ; safron | a tolah; 4 dried chillies; 1 taUespoonful of corriander seeds ; i teaspoon of seasoning No. 14 salt to taste. Mode. Cut up the meat into small pieces and wash it well, pound together the'ginger, half the garlic, onions, and coriander seeds,' squeeze the juice into a basin and pour over it the tyre, add the salt and meat and mix up well,108 put half the ghee into a vessel with the remain- ing onions sliced, the meat &c., cover, when boiling lift the vessel and move the contents by a circular movement, replace on the fire and cook open till the tyre is dried up, then fry it well, then add the dholl and hot water, boil clos- ed till the gram is done, next add the remainder ghee, garlic sliced, and the curry stufi well ground, mix well, cover and let it simmer for 5 minutes, open and leave on the fire for 10 minutes; serve. Average cost 3 annas. Sufiicient for 4 persons. 156.—VEGETABLE PUDDING. Ingredients.—Carrots 6 oz •, 'potatoes 6 oz ; plums 6 os; flour 6 os; suet 6 oz1 egg^ a teacup of milk ; j teaspoon of salt. Mode.—Boil the patatoes and mash them, grate the carrots raw, mince the suet, beat up the egg, mix all these well together and bake. Cost 3| annas. SufBcient for 4 persons.109 157.—BEEF A LA MODE. Ingredients.—Beef 1 Ih suet j oz; 1 large onion; flour 1 dessertspoonful; water IJ pint; pepper 1 teaspoon; 3 cloves • 2 cardamoms ; a hunch of soup herbs (commonly given in the market for 1 piej tahlespoonful of thick tama- rind pulp ; and salt to taste. Mode.—Cat the beef into small pieces and roll them in the flour; put the suet into a stew- pan with the onion which should be sliced thin. Let it get quite hot^ lay in the pieces of beef, and stir them well about. When nicely brown- ed all over add by degrees boiling water, stix’- ring it well j put in the spice and herbs, cover and let it stew very gently till the meat is ten- der, open and add the tamarind, remove the herbs and serve. Average cost 2 annas. SuflBicient for 2 persons. 158.—EASPBERRY AND ORANGE JELLY. Ingredients.—6 lbs of raspberries', about 12 Groog oranges ; 8 large limes ; 3 lbs of Astra- gram sugar ; and a little spice. Mode.—Boil the raspberries till the juice runs out, strain it through a wire seive, put theno peels of orange in a lime squeezer and press out tlie juice; to 2 pints of raspberry juice add 2 pints of orange juice and | a pint of lime juice; boil till the juice is reduced a little add the 3 lbs of sugar and spice and boil till it jellies. Average cost 1 rupee 3 annas. 159.-<PEACH CySTARD SAUCE. (To serve with pudding tarts &c.,) liTGllEDiENTs.—ilfiZfc seer; 3 eggs, sugar one dessertspoonfujl i 3 peach leaves; and a little mdmeg. Mode.—Beat the .eggs, sweeten the milk; stir these ingredients well together, add the peach leaves and nutmeg. Put the mixture in a saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the sauce one way until it thickens, remove the peach leaves and serve. Average cost annas Sufficient for 6 persons. 160.—SALA.D DRESSING. Ingredients.—1 tcaspoonful oj mixed mustard ; 1 ifeaspoonfid of pomided sugar i 1 tallespoonfulIll of salad oil j 4 tahlespoonsful of milk ; 2 table- spoonsful of vinegar; cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the mixed mustard into a salad-bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredients well together. Proceed in this man- ner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added Ivei’y gradually or the sauce will curdle. Put in the seasoning when the mixture will be ready for use. Average cost 1 anna 4 pie. Sufficient for a small salad, such as No. 161. This dressing may be prepared in a large quantity and kept on hand, but you must omit the milk, which must be added when it is used. 161.—SALAD. Ingredients.—3 lettuces • 8 English raddish ; 8 leeks or young Spring onions. Mode.—Wash and carefully pick over the lettuces, and drain them by swinging them in a clean cloth; cut them up into small pieces, slice the radish and onions. Have the salad-bowl ready with the dressing No. 160 ready prepared112 iu itj ari’ange all the ingredients over it and do not stir up until it is to be eaten. Cost of dressing 1 anna 4 pie. Cost of salad 1 anna. Sufficient for 4 persons. 162.—CLOVEE. (A. Substitute foe Tea.) Ingeedients.—5 slue of hreacl or one small butter biscuit; 3 cloves; 2 teaspoonsful of white sugar; cup of milk. Mode.—Toast the bread or biscuit browoj bruise the cloves, and put these into a tea-pot or jug, pour f cup of boiling water over them in- fuse for 10 minutes ; put the milk and sugar into a cup add the infusion and drink. Cost 9 pie. Sufficient for one person. 163.—FRICADLE. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of beef or mutton; suet 1 oz ; bread 1 slice j ^ a nutmeg; j cup of milh ; 1 teaspoonful of flour ; 1 dessertspoonful of sauce \ pepper and salt to taste ; 1 c,gg. Mode.—Mince the meat and suet, grate the nutmeg, soak the bread in boiling milk, beat the113 egg, mix all well together with the flour &c. and bake until it is a pale brown ; but not hard. Average cost in mutton 3j as. in beef 2j as. Sufiicient for 3 persons. 164.—BAKED POTATOE PUDDING. Ingredients.—12 oz. of ‘potatoes; 1 oz. oj suet or butter; 1 os. of milk; 1 oz. of cheese. Mode.—Boil the potatoes remove the skin and mash, grate the cheese and mince the suet mix all the ingredients well together with as much boiling water as will bring it to a due con- sistence and then bake in a pan. Cost 3| annas. 165.—VEGETABLE MARROW. Iegeedients'—1 small marroiv • 1 dessertspoonful of butter; 1 teacupful of milk; a little salt, mace and pepper. Mode.—Peel and cut in halves, length ways if the seeds are tender do not take them out. Butter inside sprinkle with the mace, salt and pepper, place in a vesnel with the milk and stew till tender. Average cost 1^ annas. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons.114 Cost 6 annas. 166.—CLARET CUP Ingredients.—1 &of/Ze of Claret; | a bottle of wetter; 1 lime {sliced); two or three 'pieces of cinnamon; 5 a teaspoon of carraway seed; sugar to taste. Mode,.—Boil all the ingredients together for a minute or two ; remove from the fire let it cool, then sfci’ain and serve 167..—CHEAP COCO A NUT BREAD PUD- DING. Ingredients,—1 lb, of bread crusts; 1 handful of cashewnuts; 1 cocoanut; J a nutmeg ; 3 eggs', 4 oz. of plums', 2 tablsspoonsful of su- gar ; 1 teaspoonful of baking powder {if on hand.) Mode.—Soak the crusts in boiling water till soft, slice up the cashewnuts, extract the cocoanut milk, grate the nutmeg; beat up the eggs ; squeeze out the water from the crusts and mash well, add all the other ingredients, the eggs last, mix well, and pour into a dish luibbed with ghee and bake.115 16?.—RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Ingredietnts.—5 lbs. of Raspberries ■ 2 bottles vinegar; 6 lbs of Astragam sugar-, 1 bottle of brandy. Mode,—Put tlie Raspberries into a jar, pottr the vinegar over it and let it soak for three days, shaking up daily ; then drain off the liquor with- out pressing, into a stone jar. Add to every pint of the liquor one lb. of sugar, stir them together and when the sugar is dissolved cover the jar,set it upon the fire in a sauce-pan of boiling water, and let it boil for one hour ; add to each pint 1 glass of brandy, bottle it and seal the corks. Now take the raspberry pulp and mash it through a coai’se towel, add sugar as above and boil for ^ an hour, add brandy and bottle this is not so delicate as the first extract- The brandy may be omitted. Average cost 3 Rs, 8 as. No. 169. The quantity of mussala, &c., necessary weekly, to cook, 1 seer of mutton, I5 seer of rice j and to make a bowl of pepperwater daily. 1 seer of rice will when cooked fill 5 largo soup plates and is as much as any five persons can possibly eat.IIG Wcclihj. Chillies ... \ seer ...7 pie" r Corriander i” • • • 2 ...4 „ p tJ Salt ■ 11 ...Xg ,, ...7 „ *71, CO Tamarind 11 ... 1 2 ,, ...6 „ Saffron ...1 pollom ...n „ hifn Garlic • • • 11 .. j 2,, Onions ...1 seer ...3 „ to > c3 ^ Seasoning No. 14 ...15 pollam ...5 „ 5 5 ^ T Gbee ... vis 6 as. 6 pie „ J <1 (Gbee is an ingredient tbat may be used in almost any quantity ; I bave given a fair aver- age, but more or less may be used according ta taste.) With tbe addition of a breabfast disb, one annas fuel will be sufficient, daily, to cook tbe above given quantity. I bave left a small margin for tbe cook, in tbe above scale, w'itbout wbicb perquisite your curries are sure to be spoiled. 170.—BUTTER CHOPS. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of mutton chops ; 5 seer of milk j 5 eggs j 1 tahtespoonful of four; ^ seer butter-, green chillies minced; 1 teaspoonful of seasoning No. 16 ; \ teaspoon of peppper and salt. Mode.—Sprinkle tbe chops on both side, witb tbe seasoning, place it on a disb with half117 tlie ouions and green chillies under and the rest over, and leave it so for 15 minutes ; and beat up the eggs, add the milk, flour, aud pepper and salt; butter a pie dish, pour in half the custard, arrange the chops in it, place the remainder butter ou it, pour the rest of the custard over the chops and bake. Cost 7 annas. Sufficient for 4 persons. 171.—TO BAKE POTATOES. Ingredients.—Potatoes, butter, salt. Mode.—Wash, peel, aud slice the potatoes into a baking dish with a little water at the bottom, upon each layer of potatoes spripkle a little salt and place a few small lumps of butter, repeat till the dish is full (let the last layer be butter) and bake. 172.—DAMASCUS BISCUITS. Ingredients.—3 eggs ; siiet 2 oz ; almonds. | oz) 0 oz. of sugar ; 2 oz. of flour; 1 lime. Mode.—Beat the white of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the suet and almonds chopped flne, beat well, add the yolk and sugar beateu together, continue beatingy. shake iu the flour, 1-1118 Cost 13i annas. with the lime juice to flavour, mix well and pour into small tins and bake in a quick oven. Cost 1 anna 9 pie. 173.—FKESH CHEESE. Ingredients.—6 seers of new milk-, 1 coffee cupful of white salt; half a teacup of sour hutter-milh; a little lime juice. Mode.—Put the milk in a saucepan over a slow fire, then mix in by degrees the salt, stir- ring the milk the whole time, untill it is nearly boiling; take it off, pour it into a dish and let it stand until cool; add the buttermilk and squeeze a little lime juice into it and let it re- main 24 hours, then remove the curd from the whey, put it into a towel or cloth, and hang it to drain; when the whey has run off, give the curds a shake in the cloth, so as to bring all into a mass, put it, with the cloth it is in, into a bamboo basket or frame, and place a weight of about 6 lb. upon it, with a thin board between, the following day the cheese may be turned, and salt sprinkled over it, In 3 or 4 days it is fit for eating, though it is better for being kept longer.119 174.—COCOANUT MACAROONS. Ingredients.—1 Ih. Astragram sugar; 4 eggs; 1 lime; S <.z of almonds ; | lb. of cocoamd; lb. oj rice. Mode.—Only tlie whites of the eggs are used, which beat into a stiff icing with the lime juice, grind the cocoanut, almonds, and rice, add to the eggs and stir all gently together ; lay out with a spoon in pieces the size of a small walnut on wafer paper on a baking tin, ba^ke of a light color in a cool oven. Cost 6 as 10 pie. 175.—ALMOND ZEST. Ingredients.—4 oz. of sweet almonds ; 1 02. of fresh butter; a little salt, chilUe powder, and mace mixed together. MoDE.~-Blanch the almonds and fry in the butter, drain and sprinkle with the salt &c.; servo hot. Cost 2| as. 17G.-BOMBAY PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 eggs ; milh ^ a seer • | oz- of blit- ter ; a glass of loine or brandy ; a little nut- meg • 1 cocoanut, 4 ib. of flour; 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Only the yolk of the eggs must bo120 used ; make some puff paste with the ^ lb of flour and 2 oz. of butter and line a dish with it; make a custard with the yolksj and milk add- ing the cocoanut rasped fine with the ^ oz. of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and the wine or brandy fill the lined dish and bake of a delicate brown color. Costs 9j annas. 177.—ALMOND DRINK. Ingbedients.— Ih, of almonds •, ^ pints of milk sugar to taste. Mode.—Blanch the almonds and throw them into cold water, remove from the water and pound them in a marble mortar with 2 table- BpooQsful of milk to prevent its oiling, now mix in the rest of the milk gradully, sweeten with sugar; this is then boiled. Stir till cold, and strain. Cost annas 178.—HOT PUDDING SAUCE. Ingredients.—4 tablespoonsful of brown sugar; 2 tahlespoonsful of butter ; 2 tablespoonsful of lime juice ; 1 teacupful of hot water. Mode.—Roll the sugar, put it in an earthen121 dish with tho butter, and stir both together untal white, then put it in a saucepan w'ifch tho cup of hot water, and set it upon tho coals. 8tir it steadily till it boils, add the lime juice, let it boil up again, grate a little nutmeg over and serve. Cost 3 annas. 179.—MEAGRE SOUP. iNGEEDtENTS.—6 tablespoojisful of ghee or hitter; 4 onions ; 2 heads of celery ; 3 t urnips ; 1 small cabbaje y some spinage, parsley, thyme or any other herbs j 2 quarts of water. Mode. Put all the ingredints in a stew-pan over the fire and stew gently for ^ an hour , then add by degrees the water, and simmer till the vegetables are quite tender j season with pepper, salt, and a little thick tamarind juice. 180.—FEBLIOO. Ingredients.—1 seer of raggie flour; 1 cocoanut; 3 eggs ; 4 large plantains j \Q oz. of soft migar ; i teaspoon of white salt; | seer of ghee. (If preferred the eggs may be omitted.) Mode. Beat the eggs, roll tho sugar, mash tho plaintains, scrape the cocoanut and extract122 the milk, first milk 1 cupful second milk 2 cups- ful. Excepting the ghee mix all the ingredients •well together and beat up with a spoon a little. Put half the ghee in a frying pan on a quick fire, when boiling pour in the feelioos, one table- spoon for each, don’t let them touuch each other, when well fried on one side turn. Add the rest of the ghee as required. This quantity will make 3| doz. Cost 7 as. 182.—RASPBERRY CAKES, INGRBDIENTS.—Raspberries, sugar. Mode.—W^eigh the fruit and put it on the fire in a well tinned vessel, mash well and boil till almost all the juice evaporates ; add an equal weight of sugar, remove from the fire and mix well till all the sugar dissolves, spread on plates and dry in the sun, as soon as the top dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, put in the sun till quite dry ; pack up in boxes with paper between. 183.—RAGGIE PUDDING, (Very good.) Ingredients.—1 cupful of raggie floxir; 1 cupful123^ of cow^s milk; 1 cocoanut; i seer of butter; 2 tablespoonsful of soft sugar ; J teaspoon of salt; 2 oz. of plums; 2 oz. of casheionuts ; 4 peach leaves. Mode,—Scrape the cocoauut and extract the milk; 1st milk | teacup, 2nd milk 1 teacup- ful ; mince the cashewnuts. Put4he cow’s milk on the fire in a stew pan, boil with the peach leaves, when boiling add the sugar and raggie flour mixed in the second cocoanut milk, keep stirring all the time, when it thickens add the 1st milk, boil till it falls in masses from the spoon, take out the peach leaves, remove from the fire, mix in the plums and cashewnuts, pour into a buttered dish, put the remaining butter in lumps on the top and bake. Haggle flour when used for puddings &c., must be sifted twice through fine muslin. Boiling peach leaves in milk, imparts the flavour of almonds. Cost 4| as. 184.—FLUMMERY. Ingredients.—\ seer of cleaned and broken wheat; i seer of cow’s milk; 1 cocoanut; i seer of124 Cost 14 annas. blanched almonds ; sugar io the taste. Oat-meal may he used instead of the wheat. Mode.—Scrape the cocoanut and extract the milk, 1st milk | tea-cup and the 2nd 1 tea- cupful; pound the almonds with a little milk to prevent it oiling. Boil the wheat in the cow’s milk and second cocoauut milk, until quite ten- der, if you find it getting dry before it is well boiled add a little water, when it mashes be- tween the fingers it is done, then add the 1st milk, almonds, and sugar, boil till very thick, and pour into a bowl. Cost 5 annas 6 pie. 185.—BISCUITS. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of flour; 1 lb. of sugar-, 1 lb. of butter; 1 oz. of carraway seed; z of a pint of boiling new milk. Mode.—Bub the flour, sugar, butter, and carraway seeds together ; make into a paste with the milk which must be added boiling, roll very thin and cut into any size; punch full of holes,and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. If the milk is not sufficient to form the paste a little hot water may bo added.125 186.—PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients.—^ Z6. o/^our ; ^ lb. of mgar; ^ lb. of butter; ^ lb. of raisins j ^ lb. of cur- rants; 2 oz. of 'preserved orange ^eel; ^ a nut- i> eg ; ^ pint of milk. Mode.—Stone the raisins, grate the nutmeg, chop up the orange peel; rub the flour, sugar, and butter together well, then add the raisins, currants, orange peel, nutmeg’, mix thoroughly, then make it into a thick batter with the milk ; the batter requires to be thick to prevent the fruit sinking in it, leave it till the next day, then if it requires a little more liquid add it. Put in a well floured cloth and boil for 1^ hours. Serve with sauce No. 178. Cost 12 annas. 187.—VEGETABLE MAEROW PRESERVE. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of vegetable marrow, 3 lbs. of Astragam sugar ; 1 oz. of bruised dry ginger, or the peel of one lime, or both. Mode.—Peel the marrow, remove the seeds and cut it up into small pieces; boil with the ginger, in the sugar till transparent; use no water.12G Tho ginger must be tied in a piece of mus lin, and removed wlien done. Cost 8^- as. 188.—RAGGIE PUDDING. (Delicious.) Ingredients.—| a teacup of raggie flour ; 1 cocoannt; \ lb. of apples ; 2 tablespoonful of soft 'sugar ; j seer of butter. Mode,—Scrape the cocoanut and extract the milk, 1st milk 1 teacupful 2nd milk 2 teacups- ful; pare, core, and slice the apples. Put the 2nd milk in a well tinned brass vessel on tho fire, when boiling stir with the right hand while you sprinkle in the flour with your left; don’t stop stirring for a moment (for it will settle at the bottom and burn) add the sugar j when thick add the 1st milk, boil till it falls in masses from the spcou, remove from the fire, butter a pie dish, put in a spoonful or two of the prepared raggie, then a layer of the sliced apples, on which place one or two small pieces of butter, repeat; the last layer must be the batter, put the remaining batter on the top and bake. 51erve cold. Sufficient for 6 persons. Cost 41 annas.127 Raggy flour must always be sifted througli fine muslin when used for puddings^ &c. 189.—ROLY-POLY PUDDING (Rich.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour ; 6 oz. of butter; \ "pint of water ; jam No, 125. Mode—With a knife, work the flour to a smooth paste with i a pint of water; roll the crust out rather thin; place the butter over it in small pieces; dredge lightly over it some flour; and fold the paste over; repeat the roll- ing once more and the crust will be ready; then roll it out to the thickness of ^ an inch. Spread the jam equally over it, leaving a small margin of ^ paste only, where the pudding joins. Roll it up, press the ends together; dip a towel in boiling water, wring it well and sprinkle it over with flour, roll the pudding in it and tie up with some thin cord, put the pudding in boiling water, and boil for 2 hours, it should be sus- pended in the pot of boiling water, by tying a cord to the pudding and fastening the other end to a stick, which place across the mouth of the pot. Serve with No. 190 sauce. Cost 5? Aann^. Sufficient for 6 persons.128 190.—APPLE SAUCE. Ingredients.—Ajoples, butter, a hit of lime peel, sugar. Papaw or white pumpkin vnth a little lime juice may he used instead of the appde. Mode.—Pare, core, and slice the apples ; boil them in a little water with the lime peel, when tender mash them, add a little butter and sugar to taste, heat and serve. 191.-PEACH LEATHEE. Ingredients —Peaches, sugar. Mode.—This preparation is much relished by invalids. Squeeze out the pulp of very ripe peaches, add sugar to taste ; give one boil, and spread it ^ an inch on a plate, and let it dry till it is quite dry and tough. Poll it in layers with clean paper between. 192.—GINGER NUTS. Ingredients.—2 Ihs. of flour; ^ Ih. of treacle; i Ih. of siigar; 2 oz. of dry ginger; j Ih. of butter. Mode.—Pound the ginger very fine, melt the butter, and mix all the ingredients well to- gether ; roll out to the thickness of h an inch, cut into small biscuits and bake iu a moderate oven.129 193.—SEED BISCUITS. Ingredients.—1 lb, of jlour; ^ lb. of sugara few carraway seeds; a small tcaspooiiful of carbonate of soda ; huttermilh. Mode.—Mix all well together with the but- termilk into a stiff paste ; roll very thin, cut into biscuits and bake in a brisk oven. 191.—APPLE PRESERVED LIKE GINGER. Ingredients.—3 lbs, of apples ; 2 lbs. of Astragam sugar ; i lb. of green ginger; 1 oz. of dry gin- ger-, la pint of boiling %cater; the rind of one lemon. Mode.—Pare^ core^ and quarter the apple.s^ clean the green ginger, divide them into pieces and slit each into halves. Pack the apples, sugar, and green ginger in alternate layers in a wide-monthed jar, put it by ; next day bruise the ounce of dried ginger, pour over it | a pint of boiling water, cover close and put by till the next day, so that the apples would have soaked for 2 days and the dry ginger infused for one day. On the third day put all the ingredients in a preserving pan on the fire (the infusion strained and added). Boil till the apples look clear and the syrup rich. 15ISO 105,—BLANCMANGE. Ingredients.—4 heaped tallespoomful of arrov:- root; pint of milk; 3 peach leaves or the o’ind of half a lemon, sugar to taste. Mode.—Mix to a smootli batter the arrow- root with I a pint of the milk; put the other pint on the fire, with the peach-leaves or lemon- peel whichever may be preferred, and boil the milk until it is well flavoured, remove the leaves or rind, and add the boiling milk to the mixed arrowroot; sweeten, and let it boil, stirring it all the time, till it thickens sufficiently to come from the saucepan. Dip a mould in cold water and pour in the blancmange when quite set, turn it out on a dish; serve with any kind of jam. Cost 4) as. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 196.—BLANCMANGE. (Baggie.) Ingredients.—| a teacup of raggie flour (tidce sifted) ; 1 cocoanut •, 2 tahlespoonsful cf soft sugar; 4 peach leaves. Mode.—Sci’ape the cocoanut and extract the milk, 1st milk 1 tcacupful, 2nd milk two131 teacupsful. Mix to a smootli battoi’ the raggio I flour in tlie 1st cocoanut milk, put the 2ulI milk ^Yitll the peach leaves on the fire, boil till it is well flavoured, remove the leaves, add the mixed raggio flour stirring all the time, put in the sugar and boil till it comes from the saucepan and is thoroughly cooked. Dip a mould in cold water pour in the blancmange and when quite set, turn out on a dish. Cost I5 annas Sufiicicnt for 4 persons. 197.—STEWED TOMATOES. iNOREDiBisrrs.—8 lirge tomatoes; pepper and salt to taste ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 tahlespoonsful of thick tamarind pulp. Mode.—Slice the tomatoes into a lined saucepan ; season them with pepper and salt, and place small pieces of butter on them, cover the lid down closely and stew from 20 to 25 minutes, or until the tomatoes arc perfectly tender ; add the tamarind let it boil up once or twice and serve. Cost 2i annas. Sutlicient for 4 or 5 persons.198.—MUSHROOM HASH. Ingrkdient3.—Mushrooms ; 2 limes ; and a little butter. Mode.—Trim your mushrooms, and put them in a little water with the juice of a lemon. Then put into a saucepan a nice piece of butter, the juice of another lemon, and the mushrooms. Place them over the fire, and, when they have boiled five minutes, put them into ajar, and use them as 3m u want them. 199—MUSHROOM PICKLE. Hgredients.—2 quarts of Mushrooms’, mixed spice, vinegar; sxoeet oil; and salt. Mode.—Take two quarts of small freshly- gathered mushrooms j with a sharp-pointed knife peel off carefully their thin outside skin, and cut off the stalks closely. Prepare eight little bags of very thin clear muslin, and tie up in each bag six blades of mace, six slices of root o-ino-er, and a small nutmeg (or half a large one) broken small, but not powdered. Have ready four glass jars, such as are considered to hold a quart; lay a bag of spice in the bottom of each, then put in a pint of the mushrooms, laying a second bag of spice on the top. Uavo ready a suflicicucy of the best cider vinegar, very slight-133 Ij seasoned wifcli salt^ allowing to each qnai’t of vinegar but a saltspoon of salt. Fill up the jars Avith the vinegar^ finishing at the top with two table.spoonsful of sweet oil. Immediately close np the jars, corking them tightly, and pasting thick paper, or tying a piece of leather or blad- der closely down over the corks. These mush- rooms will be found very fine, and, as they re- quire no cooking, are speedily and easily pre- pared. When a jar is once opened it will be well to use them fast. They may be put up in small jars, or in glass tumblers, such as hold but a pint altogether, seeing that the proportions of spice in each jar or tumbler are duly divided as above. Keep them in a very dry place. If you wish the mushi’ooras to be of a dark colour when pickled, add a half a dozen cloves to each bag of spice; but the clove taste will most likely over- power that of the mushrooms. On no account omit the oil. If you cannot obtain button mush- rooms, cut largo ones into four quarters, first peeling them and removing the stems. 200.—MUSHROOM OMELET. Ingredients.—Mushrooms ; cream or rich millc ; 1 onion; eggs; hitter. ^loDE. Take some fresh-gathered mnsh- rooms j remove the stalks and rub the flaps or1.34 Leads very slightly with a little salt, mixed with cayeinie. Then stew the mushrooms in a small saucepan, with barely sufficient cream or rich milk to cover them. Put in with them a small onion, and if the onion is found to turn blackish, throw away the whole, it being proof that there is among them a false or poisonous mushroom. Stir them with a silver spoon, and keep on the lid of the pan closely, unless when you are stirring. If the spoon turns black the mush- rooms should not be eaten. After they have come to a boil take them off the fire, di’ain them, and when cool chop them small. To a pint or more of the minced mushrooms allow six or seven eggs. Beat the eggs till very light and thick (omitting the whites of two}, and then mix in gradually the mushi’ooms, stilling the whole very hard. Put three ounces of fresh butter into a hot omelet-jian or a small frying- pan, place it over the fire, and stir the butter as it melts. When it has boiled hard put in the omelet mixture, and as it fries stir it till it begins to set. Do not turn the omelet, but brown the top by holding close above it a red- pot shovel. AVlien done drain off the butter, fold over or double the omelet, and serve it up immediately on a hot dish.135 201.—TAPP SAUCE. Ingredients.—Green mangoes 1 lb ; salt 1 Ih; brown sugar 1 lb ; raisons 1 lb; dried chillies 5 lb ; green ginger J Ih ; garlic | lb ; vinegar 3 bottles; lime juice 1 pint. Mode.—First clean all the ingredients and then weigh them, and put them through a minc- ing macnine or pound them all together, put into a jar with the vinegar and lime-juice, aud let it soak for one month stirring it up daily then sti’aiu it through a wire strainer and bottle. The mango &c.; strained off makes an excellent chutney if ground. Average cost 1-^ Rs. 202.—PUMPKIN ULVA. Ingredients.—A good ripe Pumpldn; Astragam sugar 3 lbs; Icocoanut; 12 limes; a teacupful of the pumpldn seeds. Mode.—Remove the rind and inner pith of the pumpkin and weigh 3 lbs. of it, which g’rate, draw one teacupful of thick cocoanut milk ; put the pumpkin seeds mixed with ashes in the suil and when dry shell and .slice ; next put the pump- kin, sugar, lime juico and cocoanut milk in a13G wol] tinned vessel on the fire and boil, stimng well all tho time, when it gets thick put in the seeds, continue stirring till it falls in masses ' from the spoon, remove from the fire and press while hot into buttered moulds, turn out when cold and serve. Average cost 11 annas.“ COOKERY FOR THE MILLION ” f I SjSTD JEDITIOjN^. Bold H»}' Lawjtance Keisimasmii and Co,, Auctioneers and General and Commission Agents, No. 7, Brigade- Road, Bangalore, Furniture of tlie best and most superior designs and make. B OiLMANSTORES fresb by evDry Steamer dii-ect from the Manu+!£,cturt?:s. Indian Pickles, Jams, Jellies and Con- diments of the best Manufacture and ingre- dients. Bee-r, Wine, Spirits and; Liquers at moderate prices. -