X • \ 1 1 II 1 1 II II 1 1 II III IIMI I Ml i 22101424570Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28054623CRE-FYDD’S MEALS FOE THE MILLION.LONDON PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. NEW-STREET SQUAREMEALS FOR THE MILLION BY CRE-FYDD AUTHORESS OF ‘FAMILY FAKE1 A HELP TO STRICT ECONOMY CONTAINING NE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-FIVE DINNERS, ARRANGED FOR THE SEASONS BREAKFAST OR SUPPER DISHES DELICACIES FOR INVALIDS AND OTHER USEFUL MATTERS SUITED TO INCOMES VARYING FROM £100 TO £250 A-YEAR LONDON SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, AND CO. 1867 The riyht of translation is reserved2SZ l O’ WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. C2rrPREFACE. ‘ Truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.’—Shakespeare. To meet the expressed wishes of many of her friends, the authoress is induced to present to the public her Meals for the Million. Her object in doing so, is to aid those to whom strict economy is a necessity ; and, with this in view, she carefully avoids giving receipts for expensive luxuries ; she nevertheless hopes to be able to prove that with judicious management, economy and comfort may go hand in hand. The dinners are arranged to suit the seasons; and, if the plan be followed out, it will be found that there will be no waste; a sufficient variety of diet; and a fair amount of comfort. The Soups are all inexpensive, nevertheless, they are very palatable. They have recently been made under the supervision of, and tested by the authoress; therefore, they may be relied upon. The exact cost of each is annexed, and a priced list of every article to be used, precedes thePEEFACE. VI receipts. The joints selected, and the mode of cooking them, are suck as to suit small means, and a small amount of culinary appliances. Most of the puddings are new, and have been tested by the authoress. The exact cost of each is given, and a priced list of every ingredient to he used, precedes the receipts. In Delicacies far Invalids, there is little that is new. Strict economy too is laid aside ; as for the sick we must be con- tent to make a sacrifice. A Few Remedies, a Little Advice, Things to be Remembered, a Short Ready Reckoner and a Table of Wages, it is hoped will prove to be useful. To increase the perspicuity, notes or remarks, as well as an Index, precede each division or class of receipts ; and a calculation of the probable amount of expenditure for one week is added to the meals. If the authoress succeeds in lightening the labour of inexperienced housewives, and in teaching them to ‘practise economy with comfort, she will not have worked in vain.CONTENTS PAGE Preface . V Note ok the diknees . ■ . Dinnebs. ix Breakfast oe Supper Dishes .... . xxiii Condiment Sauce ...... . . XXV Index to Soups ...... Remabks on Soups, and Peice Lists Soups and Geayies. 1 Index to Fish . . . * . Notes on Fish and Feying. Fish, and Sauce foe Fish. 11 Index to Mutton and Lamb .... Things to know. Mutton and Lamb. . 23 Index to Beef and Veal .... Beef and Veal. . 39 Index to Pork, Bacon, Sfc Pork, ETC. . 56 Index to Vegetables and Salad A FEW WOBDS ON VEGETABLES. Vegetables and Salad. . 68 Index to Puddings, Pastry, <f-c. . . • . . 78 Notes on Puddings, and Peice Lists Puddings, Pastey, etc. . 79CONTENTS vm PAGE Index to Delicacies for Invalids 100 Note. Delicacies foe Invalids. Index to Remedies, <fc 109 Remedies. Advice and Book of Rules 113 Things to be remembered id. A short Ready Reckoner and Table of Wages . . 127 Weights and Measures 132 A special Help for those tvho need it 133MEALS FOE THE MILLION. IX DINNERS. In the arrangement of the dinners, the joints are intended to mark Sunday or the early part of the week; as some of the viands suggested, can only be obtained at the end of the week. The second dressings of each joint are given in succession ; but in cold weather, when meat will keep, other dinners may be introduced between them ; this would give a greater variety of diet, which is always advisable when it can be had without waste. The joints, and all other dishes are in quantities suitable to serve to two or three persons; therefore with increase of numbers, a proportionate increase of quantity must be added. The dinners, as well as the dishes for other meals, must only be regarded in the light of helping suggestions, as it is needless to state it would be impossible to meet the requirements of all. From January to May. 1. Roast leg of pork. Greens. Potatoes. Smyrna pudding. 2. Potato soup. Pork primer. Turnip tops. 3. Mutton sea pie. Potatoes. Celerina pudding. 4. Stuffed haddock. Broiled beef-steak. Potatoes.X MEALS EOR THE MILLION. 5. Mussel soup. Curried kidneys. Rice. Potatoes. 6. Boiled rabbit. Onion sauce. Cabbage. Potatoes. Charlotte pudding. 7. Panado soup. Sheeps’ hearts roasted. Mashed potatoes. 8. Roast shoulder of mutton. Sussex pudding. Sprouts. Potatoes. Baked Apples. 9. Mutton collops with carrot sauce. Potatoes. Bread and cheese pudding. 10. Soup for the million. MufFetin of mutton. Fried potatoes. 11. Stewed knuckle of veal. Greens. Potatoes. Evaline’s pudding. 12. Baked gurnet. Beef skirt pudding. Potatoes. 13. Carrot soup. Sheep’s head and pluck. Potatoes.MEALS FOR THE MILLION. SI 14. Fried tripe and onions. Potatoes. Ginger pudding. 15. Boiled salt beef. Carrots. Potatoes. Bedfordshire pudding. 16. Haricot bean soup. Cold beef. Beet-root and onion salad. 17. Stewed giblets. Hard dumplings. Potatoes. Marmalade Souffle. 18. Boiled mussels. Veal and bacon pie. Potatoes. 19. Mixed vegetables soup. Pork chops. Potatoes. Cauliflower. 20. Haricot of mutton. Potatoes. Mieline pudding. 21. Sheep’s head soup. Liver and bacon. Potatoes. 22. Roast leg of mutton. Sprouts. Potatoes. Sultana pudding.xn MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 23. Hashed mutton. Mashed potatoes. Stewed prunes. 24. Mutton and potato pasty. Pancakes. 25. Salt fish. Egg sauce. Parsnips. Potatoes. Baked rice pudding. 26. Variety soup. Boiled hand of pork. Carrots. Peas pudding. 27. Stewed calfs ears. Rhubarb tart. 28. Split peas soup. Veal and bacon pie. Potatoes. 29. Roast beef. Horse radish. Cabbage. Potatoes. Yorkshire pudding. 30. Savoury beef. Fried potatoes. Candied peel dumplings. 31. Macaroni soup. Beef and potato pie.MEALS FOR THE MILLION. Xlll 32. Mock mock turtle soup. Fried soles. Haricot-bean pudding. 33. Stewed ox kidney. Potatoes. Marmalade pudding. 34. Mussel soup. Fried vegetable. Savoury omelet. 35. Mutton chops. Potatoes. Mellesses pudding. 36. Ox heart roasted. Potatoes. Currant pudding. 37. Onion soup. Hashed ox heart. Spring cabbage. 38. Mutton pell mell. Suet dumplings. 39. Boiled haddock. Egg sauce. Curried vegetables. 40. Stewed beef-steak. Potatoes. Black cap pudding.xiv MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 41. Salt fish. Egg sauce. Parsnips. Potatoes. Macaroni with cheese. 42. Haricot bean pudding. Fish omelet. Fried potatoes. From May to September. 43. Roast leg of lamb. Mint sauce. Spinach. Rhubarb pudding. Potatoes. 44. Boiled mackerel. Cold lamb. Salad. 45. Carrot soup. Beef-steak pie. Mashed potatoes. 46. Stuffed shoulder of mutton. Cauliflower. Potatoes. Bread pudding. 47. Savoury mutton with turnips. Potatoes. Stewed fruit. 48. Vegetable soup. Minced mutton pie. Welsh rabbit.XV MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 49. Yeal cutlets and bacon. Lemon or jam rolled pudding. 50. Boiled salmon. Curried rabbit. Boiled rice. 51. Roast beef. Cauliflower. New potatoes. Suet pudding. Minced beef with rice surroundings. Fresh fruit tart. 53. Summer vegetable soup. Hashed beef. Potatoes. 54. Lamb’s head and mince. Spinach. Potatoes. Bread and butter pudding. 55. Variety soup. Potatoes. Giblet pudding. 56. Liver and bacon. Potatoes. Baked batter pudding. 57. Roast veal. Peas. Potatoes. Gooseberry tart.MEALS FOE, THE MILLION. XVI 58. Broiled mackerel. Minced veal. Potatoes. 59. Vegetable soup. Curried veal. Eice. 60. Pried plaice. Boiled bacon. Peas. Eggs with herbs. 61. Cold bacon. Salad. Fish omelet. Bread and cheese pudding. 62. Lamb’s fry. Beans. Potatoes. Gooseberries in batter. 63. Fried soles. Sheeps’ tongues 'with brains. Potatoes. Fried beans. 64. Boiled leg of mutton. Turnips. Carrots. Potatoes. Fresh fruit tart. 65. Summer vegetable soup. Broiled collops of mutton with carrot sauce. Marmalade souffle. 66. Pickled mackerel. Hashed mutton. Peas. Potatoes.MEALS FOR THE MILLION. XVII G7. Giblet pie. Potatoes. Gooseberry fool. G8. Scolloped crab. Cold pie. Salad. 69. Eggs and bacon. Spinach. Fig pudding. 70. Fried whiting. Beef-steak pudding. Potatoes. 71. Jugged rabbit. French beans. Potatoes. Currant and cherry tart. 72. Boiled veal. Broad beans. Potatoes. Savoury souffle. 73. Variety soup. Veal with panado sauce. Fried potatoes. 74. Baked mackerel. Cold veal. Salad. Boiled batter pudding. 75. Mutton chops. French beans. Potatoes. Black currant pudding. aMEALS FOE THE MILLION. XV111 7 6. Kidney pudding. Potatoes. Stewed fruit. 77. Broiled beef skirt. Peas. Potatoes. Cherry tart. 78. Eoast lamb. Scarlet beans. Potatoes. Kaspberry and currant tart. 79. Cold lamb. Cucumber or salad. Custard pudding. 80. Ox tail soup. Boiled bacon. Broad beans. 81. Savoury soles. Cold bacon. Salad. Rice pudding. 82. Mixed vegetable soup. Calf’s heart roasted. Spinach. Potatoes. 83. Hashed heart. Fried potatoes. Apple dumplings. 84. Mutton pudding. Stewed fruit.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. XIX From September to December. 85. Boiled calf’s head. Vegetable marrow. Annie’s own pudding. 86. Potato and carrot soup. Minced calf’s head. Scarlet beans. 87. Fresh herrings. Beef sausage pudding. Potatoes. 88. Roast shoulder of mutton. Brussels sprouts. Potatoes. Baked pears. 89. Savoury mutton with turnips. Fried potatoes. Damson pudding. 90. Soup. Seasoned vegetable marrow. Currant dumplings. 91. Boiled plaice. Stewed ox kidney. Potatoes. 92. A-la-mode beef. Potatoes. Plum tart.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. XX 93. Artichoke soup. Curried ox cheek. Boiled rice. 94. Pork sausage pudding. Potatoes. Vegetable marrow. 95. Eabbit stewed with cabbage. Potatoes. Apple tart. 96. Wild duck. Potatoes. Rotterdam pudding. 97. Tripe stewed with onions. Potatoes. Celerina Pudding. 98. Interladed savoy. Potatoes. White Friars pudding. 99. Roast leg of mutton. Stewed onions. Potatoes. Mincemeat pudding. 100. Savoury mutton with Jerusalem artichokes. Lemon rolled pudding. 101. CaiTOt soup. Mutton sausagemeat cakes. Fried onions. Potatoes.XXI MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 102. Baked pig’s clieek with potatoes. Marmalade pudding. 103. Mock mulligatawney soup. Beef sausages. Potatoes. 104. Haricot of mutton. Potatoes. Apple pudding. 105. Boiled Cod. Savoury pie. Mashed potatoes. 106. Stewed leg of beef. Brocoli. Potatoes. Sultana pudding. 107. Beef and potato pie. Baked rice pudding. 108. Boiled mutton. Nasturtian sauce. Mashed turnips. Carrots. Mellesses pudding. 109. Onion soup. Minced mutton. Fried vegetables. 110. Stewed cow heel with onion sauce. Potatoes. Lemon and ginger pudding.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. XXII 111. Pea soup. Savoury pudding. Potatoes. 112. Broiled beef-steak. Potatoes. Charlotte pudding. 113. Jugged hare. Artichokes. Potatoes. Mince pies. 114. Soup for the million. Beef steak pie. Potatoes. 115. Savoury pork. Sprouts. Potatoes. Annie’s own pudding. 116. Cold pork. Beet-root and onion salad. Apple pudding. 117. Stewed Calf s feet. Cabbage. Potatoes. Bread pudding. 118. Fresh herrings. Mutton chops. Potatoes. 119. Soup. Curried tripe, llice. Potatoes.MEALS FOR THE MILLION. XX111 120. Roast beef. Horseradish. Winter spinach. Potatoes. Plum pudding. 121. Stewed beef. Mashed potatoes. Fried or cold plum pudding. 122. Mussel pie. Beef rollover. Fried potatoes. 123. Soup. Pork chops with mock tomato sauce. Potatoes. 124. Broiled whiting. Boiled pig’s cheek. Plaricot bean pudding. 125. Pea soup. Sea pie. Savoy cabbage. DISHES SUITABLE FOR BREAKFAST, SUPPER, OR OTHER MEALS. Fish. Bloater toast. Fish omelet. Dried haddock. Broiled sole. Kippered mackerel. Boiled mussels.XXIV MEALS FOE THE MILLION. Pickled herrings. Scolloped crab. Fried plaice, hot or cold. Kippered herrings. Mussel pie. Broiled bloaters. Sardines. Sprats. Salt fish pie. Pickled mackerel. Dutch herrings. Anchovies. Potted bloaters. Meat. Savoury pie. Rashers of leg of mutton ham. Beef rollover. Baked bacon and eggs. Sheep’s tongues. Meat omelet. Fagotins of beef. Cow heel. Pig’s cheek. Mutton sausagemeat cakes. Curried ox cheek. Broiled sausages. Raised pie. Mutton muffetin. Rashers of bacon on toast. Broiled kidneys. Beef and bread pasty. Mutton hot-pot. Ox kidney. Irish stew. German sausage. Vegetables. Curried vegetables. Fried beans. Cauliflower with cheese.XXV MEALS FOR THE MILLION. Baked potatoes. Boiled leeks on toast. Haricot beans. Fried potatoes. Boasted onions. Fried parsnips. Seasoned vegetable marrow. Fried carrots. Interladed cabbage. Stewed onions. Vegetable marrow on toast. Jerusalem artichokes. Savouries and Sweets. Welsh rabbit. Eggs with herbs. Macaroni with cheese. Savoury pudding. Bread and cheese pudding. Savoury souffle. Baked apples. Breakfast cakes. Gooseberry fool. Baked pears. Frumenty. Marmalade souffle. Baked or boiled rice pudding. Stewed prunes. Tapioca pudding. Boiled chestnuts with milk bXXVI MEALS FOE THE MILLION. Condiment. Sauce to eat with cold Meat, Fish, Stealcs, Pork, Curry, <f-c. To be made in June. Have the following ingredients at hand, and proceed as directed. Three quarts of unripe, but full grown green gooseberries, fresh, and gathered in dry weather. A pound of raisins stoned; a quarter of a pound of shalots, and two ounces of garlic, peeled ; a quarter of an ounce of long pepper, twelve cloves, a dessert- spoonful of dry salt, two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, two teaspoonfiils of unmade mustard, a teaspoonful and a half of cayenne, a drachm of coriander seed, a quarter of a drachm of mace, half a drachm of yellow mustard seed, the same of poppy seed, celery seed, and cumin seed, all pounded to powder; a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger, a quart and half a pint of the best vinegar, and a pint and a half of strong old ale. Put the whole of the ingredients (except the ale) into a saucepan that is bright inside, place it over a slow fire, and simmer, uncovered, for an hour and a half, skimming often. Bruise the fruit with a wooden spoon till it is in a pulp, add the ale and boil fast for half an hour, stirring almost constantly ; then rub the whole through a coarse hair sieve. When the sauce is cold, put it into wide mouthed bottles; cork them securely, and seal the corks over so as to exclude the air ; and keep it one month before using. It will keep any length of time. Quantity of sauce, 6 pints and a half. Cost of ingredients, 4s. 3d. Note.—Apples may be used instead of gooseberries, in which case make the sauce in October.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. XXV11 > o S r* O o O p ® C ‘ -^2 O = m's ' <2 § rg >* 02 p ° s > rH cq O 'S3 u, C3 3 o o _o ^ o o ~ fcO ' + ci *r o o a * P ^2 S 2 X *3 P , « -0 o r* *> X o — P P £ o > O C3 *■*? ■“■■§ jq -3 3 .213 £ rt 2 n m » ^ o P 55 O +3 O r-* 02 r-1 -r- ^ >> -h *r? p <?*. - P X. ^ o • 'w o p p u S ~ ^2o O -*3 c5 0 o g X -t-=> p #-g P o X ^ ^ p > P cr to o •“ +3 4J +3 - ^ o l.^c . 02 -OP O o Ol S f Sis. x 1 o CZ 5 — P o « 02 O ry2 -rt ^ O to P P p p 5Q P # — p > P >> X p P c JD , , ^ ’ p i Jo -t-2 3 ~*r! O P 5 9- • S o +2) o p o 4J p fco«g3 ° H 5 to SrH^C^rHr-irHC^ {OOO OOOO *© O © o * I 4-3 c3 .2 ti) o o 5 fi O Eh £} r 5 2h CO <M Ol -O t— » flOOO c3 • 03 m CD <D g? • s a o s O a?4J c *s R4 C3 CJ • S<rfp O O O cL—bO K“ 1° •■2* ■I! •n .1 I 2=1 CD s c3 * 5 3 C'l O CO 00 a«|® 32 'i- P x ^ !> O i P >T ?H O p (H *P "~ZZ p ? ®> "P P Wr3 . a h c3 o -M P P "S p 5 S o ’-H P ■> o P out 3 — p r~ a ^3 . . 73 Cj CJ CJ Jj , •r* J <P < “ ffl a 2 A <M Ol S . ^ CD ci corf o o o o o o o ._, In * •=!. Q U O W Cj -43J cj „■ I ! § bo . . .A ^ ■ ’-‘y H-t Hr.\ r-H* r4-W( = ^ ^ CO rt< iO •» ® o o O o f-i o « ■a u v "5 a § 3 Eh ^ •S o <M C ci e3 O O to ~ —• 23 r-t CO Ol (A-a g> || | bra cESOUPS AND GEAYY. Index to Soups and Gravy. Artichoke Soup .... No. 7 Carrot „ .... 6 „ and Potato . . . 3 Gravy, No. 1 .... 21 „ No. 2 .... 22 ., No. 3 .... 23 Gravy Soup, or a dinner 1 cooked in ‘ Capt. War- 120 ren’s Cooking Pot ’ . J Haricot-bean Soup . . . 2 Leek „ . . . 10 Maecaroni ,, . . . 19 Mixed Vegetables „ . . 12 Mock Mock-Turtle,, . . 14 No Mock Mulligatawney . . 18 Mussel Soup 4 Ox-Tail „ 17 Onion 5 Panado „ 15 Potato 11 Remarks on Soup—precedes No. 1. Sheep’s Head Soup. . . 16 Split Peas „ ... 13 Soup for the Million . . 1 Summer Vegetables Soup 9 Vegetable Marrow „ . 7 Variety . „ . 8 Remarks on the Soups. The quantity of each soup is sufficient for four persons, and, if made exactly by the directions given in the receipts, it will be found to be very good. The cost appended is calculated on the prices contained in the following list; and it can only vary, by the market prices being higher or lower. The list, however, in any case will serve as a Guide. Price List of every Article to he used in making the Soups. Medium-sized Carrots, 8d. doz. l)o. Turnips . . 4d. „ Ho. Onions / . . 4d. „ Ho. Apples . . . 6d. „ Do. Parsnips . . Id. each Ho. Vegetable Mar- row .... 1^<7. „ Jerusalem Artichokes 1 £d. lb. Winter Potatoes . . 1 \d. ,, Leeks 3d. doz. Celery (small heads) Id. head C'oss Lettuces . . Id. each Split Peas .... 4d. qrt. Green Peas . . . 9d. peckMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 2 Haricot Beans . 4d. a quart. Black Pepper . . 8d. lb. White Pepper . . Is. „ Cayenne .... Id. oz. Mustard . . . .Is. 2d. lb. Curry Powder, 11 d. a bottle, containing 4 oz. Celery Seed, 4jd. for 4 oz. Milk .... Ad. a quart. Mussels . . . 4d. „ Ox-tail . . . Is. 2d. Cow heel . . . Id. Tripe . ... 8d. lb. Sheep’s head . . 9d. Maccaroni. . . 8d. lb. Butter .... Is. 4d. lb. 1. SOUP POE THE MILLION. Pct the bones, skin, and all the rough residue of any joint, into a saucepan, with a quart and half a pint of cold water, one large carrot, scraped and cut up, two large onions, sliced and fried brown in one ounce of butter; and one very small head of celery washed and cut up. Let it stew for two hours: then add three medium sized potatoes, peeled ; one large apple, peeled ; a salt- spoonful of salt; half a saltspoonful of pepper; and half a saltspoonful of mustard. Let it simmer three quarters of an hour longer. Take out the bones and then rub the whole through a sieve. Cost, 5cl. 2. HAEICOT BEAN SOUP. Soak a pint of haricot beans in cold water all night; put them into a saucepan, with three leeks, washed, peeled, and cut up, one carrot and one turnip, scraped peeled, washed, and cut up ; a teaspoonful of salt, a.tea- spoonful of Horn' of mustard, half a saltspoonful of pep- per, two ounces of pieces of bread and two quarts of cold water. Boil slowly and stir often for five hours. Rub the whole through a fine hair sieve, put it into a sauce- pan, add half a pint of milk, boil up, then serve. Cost, 6 c/. 3. CAEEOT AND POTATO SOUP. Three good sized carrots and four large potatoes, two onions and one small head of celery. Cut up and wash these vegetables, put them into a saucepan with three pints of the liquor that any fresh meat has been boiled in, or cold water. Boil for two hours. Season with a teaspoonful of salt, a grain of Cayenne, and a saltspoonful of moist sugar. Rub the whole through a fine hairSOUPS AND GRAVY. 3 sieve with a wooden spoon. Put the soup again into a saucepan and boil fast for ten minutes. Take it oft" the fire, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve. Cost, 8d. 4. MUSSEL SOUP. "Wash three pints of mussels in cold water, brush the shells quite clean, pull out the weed that hangs to each one, and as they are done throw them into cold water with a handful of salt in it. Let them remain two or three hours, then take them out, put them into an iron saucepan, with one onion sliced thin, and three or four sprigs of parsley—no water. Put the cover on, shake the pan constantly over the fire till they are done, which will be when they open, turn them into a pan, and when cold enough to touch, pull out the weed from each one. It is sometimes as fine as a hair and will be found under the black tongue. Strain the liquor, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir till it has boiled ten minutes, then put in the mussels, add a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and half a pint of milk, boil up and serve at once. Cost, 8cl. 5. ONION SOUP. Cut a slice of bread, half an inch thick, from a two pound loaf, spread two ounces of butter on one side of it, place it in the oven, or before the fire, till the bread has absorbed all the butter, and is become slightly browned. Scrape, peel, wash and slice one carrot, one turnip, and six onions; all medium sized : put them into a saucepan with the bread, add a quart of cold water, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt and one of white pepper. Boil up, skim, then sim- mer for two hours. ltub the whole through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, put the soup again into the saucepan, add half a pint of milk, stir, boil up, and serve. Cost, 7cl. 0. CARROT SOUP. Scrape and cut up four large carrots; reel and slice two medium sized onions, and one small apple ; put them4 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. into a saucepan with two quarts of water, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a small Cayenne- spoonful of Cayenne and a saltspoonful of celery seed. Boil up, skim ; then simmer for two hours and a half; rub the whole through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon; put the soup into a saucepan, and boil fast, un- covered, and stirring all the time till it becomes quite smooth ; then serve. Cost, 5\d. 7. AETICHOKE OE VEGETABLE MAEEOW SOUP. Peel and wash two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes; or, cut up and take out the pips of two medium sized vegetable marrows; put, whichever it is, into a sauce- pan with a large onion and a small carrot, cut up: a teaspoonful of salt; a teaspoonful of white sugar; a piiece of mace as big as a sixpenny piece and a pint and a half of water ; boil till the vegetables are tender, then break them with a wooden spoon against the side of the saucepan; stir in a pint of milk; boil slowly for half an hour, then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve; boil up and serve. Cost, ()\d. 8. VAEIETT SOUP. Have the following articles ready and proceed as directed. One carrot, two onions, four potatoes, all medium size ; an ounce of butter; a pint of milk; a lemon, a saltspoonful of celery seed bruised, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard ; and teaspoonful of salt. Peel and shoe the carrots and onions and fry them till slightly browned in the butter; put them into a saucepan with a pint of warm water, the potatoes, and the seasoning, boil till tender; then rub the whole through a hair sieve, add the milk; stir over the fire till it boils ; put the strained juice of half of the lemon into the tureen, pour in the soup and serve. Cost, l\d. The soup may be varied by adding a dozen oysters: in this case, leave out half the milk, strain the liquor; add that and the oyster and simmer three minutes afterSOUPS AND GRAVY. 5 it boils up ; or, a gill of picked shrimps may be added ; in this case chop the shrimps, add them with the milk, omit the salt and the lemon juice ; or sheep’s brains may be used, cut into small pieces; in this case simmer ten minutes. The cost of either will be extra. 9. SUMMER VEGETABLES SOUP. Make a stock with the bones, skin, and trimmings of any joint—veal is the best; put them into a saucepan with three pints of water and simmer till the bones are bare, about two hours, then strain and skim off all the lilt. Clean, peel, wash, and cut up into very small pieces one good sized coss lettuce, two small carrots, one turnip, ten spring onions, and eight leaves of mint. Put these vegetables into the soup, together with three quarters of a pint of peas, a teaspoonful of salt, the same of moist sugar, and half a saltspoonful of white pepper. Boil fast, with the lid off, for three quarters of an horn'; then serve. Cost 9\d. 10. LEEK SOUP. Peel and wash eight leeks, two turnips, two potatoes and a small head of celery; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a mustardspoonful of mustard. Boil up, skim, then simmer for a hour and three quarters. Rub the whole through a hair sieve. Put the soup, which will be quite thick, into a saucepan, add a pint of new milk, stir till it is smooth, boil up, then serve. Hot buttered toast cut into small pieces, or grated cheese may be eaten with it. Cost of soup alone, l\d. 11. POTATO SOUP. Peel four medium sized potatoes and put them into cold water, clean and cut up one carrot and three onions, and fry them in dripping till tender; put the whole into a saucepan with a quart and half a pint of the liquor that any of the meat has been boiled in, or stock made by any kind of bones, or cold water, and boil fast6 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. for an hour, then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Cut up some crumb of bread into small square pieces, and fry them to a pale brown colour, and till crisp. Throw them into the soup and serve immediately. Cost, Ad. 12. MIXED VEGETABLES SOUP. Three leeks, one small head of celery, two medium sized carrots, one medium sized turnip, one small parsnip, and one large apple, clean and cut up these vegetables, and put them into a saucepan, with three pints of water, a small teaspoonful of salt and the same of moist sugar. Boil up, skim, and then simmer for two hours; then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Put the soup again into a saucepan, stir in half a pint of milk, boil up ; then serve. Cost, 8dL 13. SPLIT PEAS SOUP. Wash a pint of split peas, put them into a quart of water with a small head of celery, a large carrot and two onions; tvhen the peas are tender, add the liquor that any meat has been boiled in, or a pint and a half more water; stir frequently, and boil till the peas are quite in a pulp, about five hours; then rub the soup through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Cut up some bread into small square pieces, and fry them to a pale brown colour and quite crisp ; throw them into the soup and serve. Powdered mint should be sent up with the soup. Cost, 5d. 14. MOCK MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. Put a fine cowheel into a saucepan with a quart and half a pint of cold water, two onions, one carrot, and one head of celery (all medium size), cut up and fried brown in dripping. Boil up gently, skim, then simmer for two hours, take out the heel and cut off the meat in neat pieces, the size of a walnut. Bake three table- spoonfuls of flour, till of a pale brown colour; moisten7 SOUPS AND GRAVY. it with cold water, add a small teaspoonful of flour of mustard, the same of salt, and a grain of Cayenne ; stir this thickening into the soup, then strain it. Put it again into the saucepan, put in the pieces of heel, boil up for five minutes, add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve. Cost, lO^cZ. 15. PANADO SOUP. Peel, clean and cut up two onions, a small head of celery, one turnip, and one carrot, put them into the liquor that any meat has been boiled in, (about three pints) add three ounces of crusts of bread ; boil slowly for two hours ; season with half a saltspoonful of black pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of moist sugar. Then rub the whole through a hair sieve, with a wooden spoon. If the liquor has had salt meat boiled in it, omit the salt; and if too salt, add half a pint of milk just before serving. Cost, 4\d or 5\d. 16. sheep’s head soup. Cleanse the head well by washing it in cold water. Put it into a saucepan, with a carrot, a turnip, two onions, a small head of celery, all medium size and cut up, a teaspoonful of salt, and three pints of cold water. Boil up quickly, then skim. Simmer gently, and skim occasionally for two hours. Take out the head, cut all the meat off it, in neat square pieces. Take out the tongue and brains; moisten two tablespoonfuls of oat- meal with a little cold water, then by degrees mix it into the soup; stir, and boil very fast for ten minutes. Take the skin off the tongue, cut up the tongue and the brains, put the whole of the meat into the soup, simmer ten minutes, skim, then serve. Cost, 11 \d. 17. OX-TAIL SOUP. Cut up one ox-tail into pieces two inches long, and the thick end crossways into four. Wash, wipe, and dredge each piece with flour, and fry in dripping toMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 8 a nice brown colour. Clean, peel, and slice one carrot, two onions, and a small head of celery, and fry them brown also, and while frying, season with half a salt- spoonful of black pepper, a good saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of flour ; put the whole into a clean saucepan with three pints of water, and simmer very gently for three hours, skimming and stirring fre- quently. Be careful to remove every particle of fat before serving. Cost, Is. 6d. 18. MOCK MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP MYTH EICE. Boil one pound of tripe in three pints of water for two hours; take it out, lay it on a clean cloth to dry ; skim the fat off the liquor ; peel and slice three good sized onions, and one apple, be careful to take out all the core ; put them into a frying pan with the fat of the tripe ; an ounce of butter ; a tablespoonful of curry- powder ; a small teaspoonful of salt; a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and a dessertspoonful of flour; fry, stirring all the time till of a pale brown colour-, then cut the tripe into pieces an inch square, and fry that slightly ; put the whole into the liquor, add three tablespoonfuls of rice, and boil gently, stirring frequently, for forty minutes; add half a pint of milk and serve at once. Cost, Is. 2^d. 19. MACCAEONI SOUP. Slice and fry, in one ounce of butter, two onions, one turnip, and a small head of celery ; put them into the liquor that any fresh meat has been boiled in, about two quarts, and boil rather fast for an hour and a half, then strain ; put the soup again into a saucepan with five ounces of maccaroni and simmer for an hour, stirring often; grate two ounces of any kind of cheese, mix with it a mustardspoonful of mustard and stir it into the soup ; simmer half an hour longer, till the maccaroni is quite tender, but not broken ; then serve. Cost, Id.9 SOUPS AND GRAVY. 20. A DINNER COOKED IN CAPT. WARREN’S COOKING POT. Put in the water, and prepare the pot as directed by the inventor. Then place a piece of the round of beef, about five pounds, in the centre compartment, together with two onions peeled and sliced ; one large turnip, peeled and cut into four ; two good sized carrots scraped cut in two, and the thick end split in two ; a quart and half a pint of water and (over the beef) a good salt- spoonful of salt; cover it with the steamer, place the pot over the fire, and when it boils let it continue to do so for three hours and a half. Any kind of pudding that may be boiled can be cooked in one end of the steamer, giving it the same time as for boiling, and the potatoes can be steamed half an hour in the other end. Take the beef and the carrots out, place them on a dish, pour a cupful of the soup over, cover it with a hot cover, and place it over the pot to keep hot. Skim the fat off the soup, pour it into a tureen, and send to table at once. Thus you have excellent soup, very tender beef, two kinds of vegetables, and a pudding, with very little trouble. No skimming required. 21. GRAVY, NO. 1. Peel a medium sized onion, sprinkle over it a tea- spoonful of moist sugar, put it on an old plate, and bake it in a slow oven till it is quite black through, but not burnt; then put it into a small saucepan with half a pound of very fresh gravy beef, one clove, two allspice, six black peppercorns, and a pint-and-a-half of cold water; let it come very slowly to boiling heat, skim carefully and simmer for three hours; toast half a slice of bread till it is well browned and crisp, put it into the gravy, simmer half an hour longer, add a tablespoonful of any good ketchup or sauce, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a mustardspoonful of mustard. Take out the beef and spice, and rub the gravy through a fine sieve.10 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 22. GEAVY MADE FEOM THE BONES OF COOKED MEAT, NO. 2. Any kind of bones may be used for gravy ; they should be broken with a chopper; the quantity of gravy must depend on the quantity of bones. A quart of water will make a pint of gravy by simmering for four hours. For that quantity cut up and fry, in good dripping, till well browned, a large onion, half of a small carrot, and half of a small turnip ; while frying add a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, the same of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a small teaspoonful of moist sugar, two allspice, and six black peppercorns. Skim often, and half an hour before the gravy is done, moisten a tablespoonful of flour with a large table- spoonful of ketchup, and stir in. Strain before serving. 23. A NICE GEAVY OE SAUCE MADE WITHOUT MEAT, NO. 3. Peel and slice an onion, a small turnip, and a very small head of celery, sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of curry powder, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of moist sugar. Put them into a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, or rather more, and fry till quite tender; then dredge them with a dessertspoonful of dried flour; when nicely browned add by degrees about three quarters of a pint of boiling water, simmer for ten minutes, then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve. Add half a teaspoonful of vinegar.II FISH AND SAUCE. Index to Fish and Sauce for Fish. Anchovy Butter . . No. 39 Mackerel—Kippered . No. . 58 Bloaters, Broiled . . 60 „ Pickled . 48 ,, Toast . . 61 Melted Butter . . . . 30 Caper Sauce .... 41 Mussels—Boiled . . . 54 Cod—Boiled .... 40 „ Pie ... . 55 „ Curried . . . 43 Potted Bloater . . , . 61a Crab Scolloped . . . 69 Plaice—Boiled . . . . 33 Egg Sauce .... 35 „ Fried . . . . 32 Frying Fish—Precedes 24 Rice for Curry . . . . 44 Gurnet—Baked . . . 38 Salmon—Boiled . . . 37 Haddock—Boiled . . 29 Salt Fish „ . . . . 34 „ Stuffed . . 31 „ Pie . . . . 36 ,, Dried . . 56 Soles—Broiled . . . . 26 Herrings—Boiled . . 50 „ Fried . . . . 24 „ Broiled. . 49 ,, Savoury . . . . 25 „ Pickled 51 Soy Sauce .... . 42 „ Kippered . 57 Sprats—Broiled . . . 52 Mackerel—Baked . . 45 „ Pickled . . . 53 „ Boiled . . 46 "Whiting—Broiled . . . 28 „ Broiled. . 47 „ Fried . . . 27 Note on Fish. The choice of fish should be made according to the market, as the prices vary from day to day; and in London, even, from morning to night. A dish of fish, for three persons, selected from any of the following receipts, should not cost more than from eightpence to a shilling. Salmon however must be excepted, and considered as a luxury ; as it is rarely less than fifteen pence a pound.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 12 Frying Fish. The fat should boil before the fish is put in the pan, which is easily known by putting a small piiece of crumb of bread into it; if it boil, the bread will at once become brown ; and if not, it will swell and absorb the fat. There should be sufficient fat to entirely cover the fish. If these remarks be attended to, the fish will be nicely browned on both sides, and will be dry; but if not, it will be soddened, unsightly, and very unwholesome. 24. FEIED SOLES. Eub a slice of bread to fine crumbs, put them in the oven to become quite dry, then roll them to a fine dust with, the rolling pin. Wash and wipe the soles. Beat an egg, dip the soles into the egg on both sides, and then into the crumbs. Put half a pound of dripping into the flying pan, and when it boils put in the soles, the skin side next the pan, and fry at a distance till nicely browned, then turn them and fry the other side : about seven minutes for each side for medium sized soles. Drain them on a sieve before the fire for two or three minutes, then send them to table. 25. SAVOUEY SOLES. Make a seasoning with the following ingredients. Two ounces of fine crumbs of bread; three ounces of fat bacon chopped; a tablespoonful of shrimps, chopped; a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley; a very small onion chopped; a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, in powder; half a Cayenne-spooniul ol Cayenne ; all mixed well together. W ash a medium sized pair of soles, wipe them dry. Beat an egg; dip the soles into the egg, and then into the seasoning, on both sides. Lay them on a dish, cover them with another dish, put them into a well heated oven, and bake for thirty-five minutes. Then serve. Be carelul not to knock oil' the seasoning in changing the dish.13 FISH AND SAUCE. 26. BROILED SOLES. Rub the soles over with a dessertspoonful of salt aud let them remain for an hour or longer. Wipe them dry, and broil them either over or before a clear fire for ten minutes. Rub them over with a small piece of butter, and send them to table at once. Slips, or small soles, are the best for broiling. 27. TRIED WHITING. The skin should be taken off by the fishmonger. Roll the fish in a cloth to dry. Dredge them with flour. Put half a pound of fresh dripping into a frying- pan, when it boils put in the fish and fry to a pale brown colour, about ten minutes. Drain them for two minutes before the fire, then send them to table. With or without melted butter. 28. BROILED WHITING. Rub each fish over with ‘a saltspoonful of salt, and let them remain for three or four hours. Wipe them, and place them between a folding gridiron, and broil them either before or upon a clear quick fire for ten or twelve minutes according to the size. The skin must be left on the whiting for broiling. 29. BOILED HADDOCK. Put the fish into plenty of cold water with a table- spoonful of salt, and the same of vinegar: boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently till done, from twelve miDutes to twenty-five, according to the size of the fish. Serve with egg sauce or plain melted butter. 30. MELTED BUTTER. Knead a tablespoonful of dried flour with two ounces of butter and stir it into half a pint of boiling water; stir and simmer for ten minutes.14 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 31. STUFFED HADDOCK. Make a stuffing as follows. Two ounces of fine crumbs of bread; two tablespoonfuls of shrimps, chopped; a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; one shalot, chopped ; two ounces of suet, chopped; a small saltspoonful of pepper, the same of mixed herbs; and one egg. Beat the whole together. Bub the fish over with two tablespoonfuls of salt, and let it remain for two or three hours, then dip it into cold water and wipe it dry. Put the stuffing into the belly, sew it up with fine thread. Lay the fish on a drainer in a dish, put about three ounces of dripping over the upper side, in small pieces ; put it into a moderate oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour. 32. FRIED PLAICE. Lay the fish in cold water with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a dessertspoonful of salt in it. Let it re- main ten minutes; then wash it well, and roll it in a cloth to dry. Beat an egg. Cut the fish across from side to side, into two, three, or four pieces, according to the size of the fish. Dip each piece into the egg on both sides, and then dredge it with flour. Put half a pound of good dripping, or lard, into a frying-pan and when it boils put in the fish, the black side uppermost; fry at a distance from the fire. When one side is brown turn it, and fry the other ; each side will require from eight to twelve minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Note.—Be sure that the fat boils or the fish will be greasy. Try it by putting a small piece of bread in ; if it turns brown the fat boils. Lay the white side uppermost in the dish. 33. BOILED PLAICE WITH ACID SAUCE. Well wash the fish. Put it into plenty of nearly boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt and two of vinegar. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to the sizeFISH AND SAUCE. 15 of the fish. The time is for moderate size to very large. Serve the white side uppermost with the following sauce poured over. Knead two ounces of butter with a tablespoonful and a half of dried flour and stir it into the third of a pint of boiling water ; boil for ten minutes. Add two chopped pickled girkins, a teaspoonful of the vinegar, and a Cayenne-spoonful of Cayenne, boil five minutes more, then serve. 34. SALT FISH. Salt fish requires a great deal of soaking, therefore it should be ordered at least two days before it is wanted, when it will be prepared by the fishmonger, or it may be done at home; in that case, put it into an earthen pan with plenty of cold water, change the water night and morning. To boil it, place it on a drainer in a fish kettle, cover it well with cold water, boil up, skim, then let it simmer till done. A thick piece from a large fish will require half an hour and a thin piece twenty minutes from the time of boiling up. Serve the split side uppermost, and the minute it is out of the water. Egg sauce and boiled parsnips should be served with salt fish. 35. EGG SAUCE. Boil three eggs for ten minutes, put them in cold water for half an hour. Take off the shells and chop the eggs into pieces about the size of a pea. Knead two ounces of butter with a tablespoonfid of dried flour and stir it into a gill and a half of boiling water. Stir and boil slowly for ten minutes ; put in the eggs, boil and stir for three minutes more, then serve in a tureen. Cost, 5\d. 36. SALT FISH PIE. 2nd Dressing. Boil four good sized potatoes and one large parsnip, unless you have them left from the previous day ; in that case use those. Mash them together, by pressing and rubbing them against the side of a basin with a wooden16 MEALS POE THE MILLION. spoon. Slightly melt half an ounce of butter in half a gill of milk, add a saltspoonful of salt, pour it into the potatoes, and beat them till in a smooth paste. Then lay half of it on a dish, spread it over evenly. Pull out the bones, take off the skin, and divide about half a pxmnd of cold salt fish into flakes, season it with a saltspoonful of flour of mustard and the same of white pepper. Add egg sauce, if you have any, and if not, slightly warm an ounce of butter and pour that over. Lay the fish upon the potato paste and cover that with the remainder by spreading it equally over, and then making it quite smooth by passing a knife over the surface. Put it into a moderate oven and bake for twenty minutes. Serve in the same dish. Note.—The paste may be made with potatoes only, or parsnips only, but the mixture is very good. 37. BOILED SALMON. Scrape off the scales, take out the inside, and well wash the fish. Put it into plenty of nearly boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, boil up quickly : skim, then simmer till done. A piece off the tail weighing two pounds, will require eighteen minutes. The same weight from the thicker part, twenty-three minutes. Serve with three-quarters of a pint of the water the fish was boiled in, poured over it, or with any sauce preferred. 38. GURNET STUFFED AND BAKED. Make a stuffing as follows. A quarter of a pound of suet, chopped; two tablespoonfuls of fine crumbs of bread; a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley; a salt- spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, in fine powder, a tea- spoonful of auchovy-sauce; half a saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoonful of curry powder, and one egg well beaten. Mix these ingredients together. Well wash the fish and wipe it dry. Put the stuffing in the belly, sew it up with strong white thread. Dredge the fish with dried flour, lay it on a fiat dish, spread17 PISH AND SAUCE. over the upper side a quarter of a pound of dripping. Put it into a well-heated oven and bake, basting fre- quently, for half an hour. Serve on a very hot dish with or without the following sauce in a tureen. 39. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Knead a tablespoonful of dried flour with two ounces of butter, and stir it into half a pint of boiling water. Boil for five minutes, then stir in a large teaspoonful of good anchovy sauce and a saltspoonful of vinegar. Simmer, stirring constantly for five minutes more. Note.—May be served with any kind of fish. 4U. BOILED COD. The tail part is generally cheap, therefore the receipt is given for that part. Put it into boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt and the same of vinegar. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for a quarter of an hour, unless it be off a very large fish, in that case give it five minutes longer. Place a neatly folded napkin, or very white cloth, on the drainer, put the fish upon it, and send it to table with either of the sauces that follow. 41. CAPER SAUCE FOR COD. Knead one ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful of dried flour, and stir it into a quarter of a pint of the water the cod is boiled in. Chop a teaspoonful of capers, stir them in together with a teaspoonful of the caper vinegar. Serve the sauce in a tureen. 42. SOY SAUCE FOR COD. Make the sauce as directed in the preceding receipt, using a dessertspoonful of soy instead of the capers. 43. CURRIED COD. (Second dressing.) Peel and chop one small acid apple, and one medium sized onion. Knead a large tablespoonful of curry c19 MEALB POE THE MILLION. powder and a teaspoonful of dried flour with two ounces of butter, and fry the whole till nicely browned. Pull out the bones and take off the skin of the cold cod, divide it into small pieces, about six or seven ounces. Put it into the pan with a saltspoonful of salt and three tablespoonfuls of milk, stir till done, about ten minutes. Serve with rice boiled as follows. 44. BOILED EICE FOE CUBBY. Wash the rice (half a pound), put it into a saucepan with a quart of cold water, and boil it for half an hour, stirring it frequently ; drain it in a sieve before the fire, and separate the grains with a fork while it dries. Serve either placed as a wall round the curry or in a vegetable dish. 45. BAKED MACKEEEL. Make a seasoning as follows. Two ounces of crumbs of bread, three ounces of beef dripping, or butter, cut into small pieces, half of a small onion, chopped, a dessertspoonful of chopped fennel or parsley, a salt- spoonful of white pepper and two of salt, all well mixed. Wash two mackerel, and wipe them dry. Sprinkle the seasoning over both sides; place them on a drainer in a deep dish, and bake them in a mode- rate oven for tAventy minutes. Put them on a hot dish and serve immediately. Be careful not to knock off the seasoning in changing the dish. 46. BOILED MACKEBEL AND SAUCE. Well Avash the fish. Put it into nearly boiling Avater Avith a tablespoonful of salt in it, boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; and if the fish be very large, a few minutes longer. Serve on a hot dish Avith drainer, and with the following sauce in a tureen. Dip a small bunch of fennel or parsley into the water the fish is boiled in for one minute, then chop the leaves. Knead an ounce olFISH AND SAUCE. 19 butter with a dessertspoonful of dried flour, and stir it into a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, stir over the fire for five minutes, put in the fennel or parsley, stir till mixed, then serve. Note.—The parsley or fennel when chopped should he a dessert- spoonful. 47. BROILED MACKEREL. After washing the fish, split it down the back with a sharp knife, and season the inside with half a salt- spoonful of pepper, the same of salt, and half a cayenne- spoonful of cayenne. Let it remain an hour or longer, then broil it before a good fire, in a folding gridiron, for twelve minutes. Rub a quarter of an ounce of butter over the split side, and then serve on a hot dish, the split side uppermost. 48. PICKLED MACKEREL. Wash the fish and lay it in a deep dish, just cover it with vinegar and water in equal quantities. Season each fish with half a saltspoonful of salt, three allspice, six peppercorns, and a thin slice of onion, chopped quite small; cover it with an old dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cold serve with either fennel or parsley round the dish. 49. fresh HERRINGS {Broiled). Scrape off the scales, clean and wash the herrings, and roll them in a cloth; place them in a folding gridiron before a bright tire, turn them twice. Both sides should be nicely browned ; ten or twelve minutes will be sufficient time. Serve immediately on a very hot dish and with very hot plates. 50. FRESH HERRINGS {Boiled). Clean the herrings as directed in the foregoing receipt. Put them into boiling water with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and one of salt, and boil slowly for ten minutes.20 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 51. FEESH HEEEING8 (Pickled). Cut off the heads, scrape off the scales, clean out and well wash the herrings. Put them into a deep dish and cover them with vinegar and water mixed in equal quantities. Season with a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, half a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, ten peppercorns, four allspice, and half an inch of ginger, bruised. This will be sufficient seasoning for eight herrings. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. When cold they are ready for use. 52. speats (Broiled). Wash the sprats and wipe them dry. Place them in a folding wire gridiron, and broil either before or over a very bright fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in- stantly on very hot plates. 53. SPEATS (Pickled). Put the sprats into a deep dish with equal quantities of vinegar and water, and bake in a slow oven for eighteen minutes. When cold they are ready for use. 54. MESSELS. Put the mussels into plenty of cold water and brush them; change the water once or twice, then pull out the weed which hangs to each mussel, and throw them into clear cold water as they are done. When thoroughly cleansed put the mussels into an iron saucepan without water, with a tablespoonful of salt; put on the lid and shake the pan constantly ; when the shells open they are done. Turn them into a tureen or bowl and send to table at once. Note.—The weed cannot all be extracted in cleaning the mussels, therefore each one should be examined before eaten. It will be found under the little black tongue, and is sometimes as fine as a hair.21 FISH AND SAUCE. 1)5. MUSSELS PIE. Clean, boil, and examine the mussels as directed in the preceding receipt; about a pint when done. Season them with half a saltspoonful of pepper, and an ounce of butter warmed till creamy. Mash five good sized potatoes till in powder, add half an ounce of butter, a quarter of a pint of milk, and a saltspoonful of salt; beat it well. Lay half of the potato on a fiat dish spread equally over, put the mussels on, then cover them with the rest of the potato, smooth it over with a knife, put it into a moderate oven and bake for fifteen or eighteen minutes. Serve in the same dish placed upon another. 56. DRIED HADDOCK. Soak the fish in warm water for two hours, pull off the skin, wipe the fish dry, place it in a folding gridiron and broil before the fire for eight minutes ; or it may be put into boiling water for eight minutes. In either case it should have about an ounce of butter rubbed over it, and must be served quite hot. 57. KIPPERED HERRINGS. Follow the foregoing receipt except for time. Soak the fish half an hour, and cook it four minutes. 53. KIPPERED MACKEREL. Soak the mackerel for an hour in warm water, wipe it dry, then broil before or over the fire for six minutes. 59. SCOLLOPED CRAB. Pull off the claws, crack them and pick out the meat. Take the whole of the inside out of the shell and wipe out the shell, remove the rough spongy part; crack the white inner shell, take out the meat. Put the yellow soft part of the crab with the white meat, season the whole with a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, two cayenne-spoonfuls of cayenne, and a small mustard-MEALS POE THE MILLION. 22 spoonful of fresh-made mustard, stir till the seasoning is well mixed with the meat; rub three ounces of bread to crumbs, put a layer of crumbs into the shell, put in the meat, cover it over with the rest of the crumbs, press it with the hand to make it firm. Warm two ounces of butter till in a cream, pour it equally over, put it into a quick oven, and bake for twelve or fourteen minutes. 60. BLOATEES. Split the bloater down the back, take out the back- bone, cut off the head ; fold it together and broil it over a quick fire for six minutes. 61. BLOATEE TOAST. Cook the bloater as directed in the preceding receipt; take out all the bones, chop the fish very fine or pound it, add a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, put it into the oven to get hot. Toast a round of bread, butter it on both sides, spread the bloater equally over one side, cut it into four, and send it to table instantly. 61a. POTTED BLOATEES. Broil the bloaters, whole, for five minutes, then pull off the skin, pick out all the bones, and chop the fish as small as possible. Season it with a small saltspoonful of cayenne and a teaspoonlid of fresh made mustard. Dissolve half a pound of mild butter; stir a third part of it into the fish. Press the fish into pots, or small pie dishes, smooth the top over, pour dissolved butter over each, and when quite cold, tie them over with writing paper. The receipt is written for eighteen bloaters. Will keep six or eight weeks.23 MUTTON AND LAMB. o Index to Mutton and Lamb. No. Breast of Mutton, Boasted 69 Chops ,, ... 87 Haricot „ ... 80 Irish Stew of Mutton . . 79 Leg of Mutton, Boiled . 71 „ „ Boasted . 70 Mutton Pie 90 „ Pell-Mell ... 68 „ Pudding ... 89 „ Sea Pie .... 84 Shoulder of Mutton, Boiled 64 „ ,, Boasted 62 „ „ Stuffed 63 Second Dressings. Collops of Mutton with Carrot Sauce . . . . 77 Curried Mutton. . . . 74 Hashed „ .... 78 Hot Pot „ .... 88 Minced Mutton Pie . . 75 Mutton Muffetin ... 66 No. Mutton and Potato Pasty 67 „ Sausage Meat Cakes ■with Pried Onions 76 Savoury Mutton with Tur- nips 72 Mutton with Artichokes . 73 Sheep’s Head and Pluck . 83 „ Hearts, Stuffed . 82 ,, Kidneys, Curried. 85 Bice for Curry . 86 Sheep’s Tongues with Brain Sauce .... 81 Leg of Lamb 91 Mint Sauce ... 92 Lamb’s Fry 93 „ Head and Mince . 94 Leg of Mutton Ham . . 94« Pickled Nasturtiums for Sauce to Boiled Mutton 65 Things to know—precede 62 Things to Know. When about to use the jack, dust it, and wind it up eight turns of the key, from left to right. If the joint be six pounds weight, or less, put on the wheel, and on that hang the joint. With ten pounds weight upon it, it will go about an hour and a half; but with less it will require winding again in an hour. When not in use it should be kept hanging, or it will get out ofMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 24 order ; it should always be in the same place, together with the wheel, hooks, and chain. The screen and dripping-pan must be kept perfectly clean and bright—not merely for the appearance, but for the utility, as the bright tin attracts the heat and assists in cooking the joint. The fire should be good and the screen placed before it, before putting down the joint. The basting-ladle should have its place near the screen, that all may be at hand when required for use. In frosty weather the meat should be in the kitchen some time before it is cooked; and in cooking it, whether roasting or boiling, a quarter of an hour should be added to the time given in the receipts for cooking joints of six pounds weight. Steaks, chops, and sausages also require more time; about two minutes extra will be sufficient. The deep tin dishes mentioned in many of the receipts are called souffle tins, and may be had any size you require, price from eightpence to two shillings. They are much nicer for many of the dishes, particu- larly those of second dressings and puddings, and if kept bright they are better in appearance than a pie dish that is frequently used. They should be placed on another dish and covered when sent to table. 1 The gravy that has dripped from the meat ’ will be found under the dripping; therefore the dripping must be poured off very carefully and entirely, before the water is added. All things that are stuffed are better for being pre- pared an hour or longer before cooking, as the article then becomes impregnated with the flavour of the stuffing. Any kind of pepper may be used except where specified. The liquor that any kind of meat has been boiled in. should be kept; it makes excellent soup, as will be seen by the receipts. It must never be left in the saucepan or pot to get cold, but be poured into an earthen pan and kept uncovered. This is very im- portant.MUTTON AND LAMB. 25 In all sauces where capers or gherkins are ordered, the pickled leaves or berries of nasturtiums (see receipt) may be substituted. They are very good, inexpensive, and little trouble to make. In making melted butter or thickening any kind of sauce, it must be stirred one way, or the butter will oil, and the sauce will be spoiled. Dish covers should never be hung up without being wiped first; and they should be dusted inside and out, and made hot before putting them over the dish. They should be kept very bright all over. Plates and dishes should be made hot before the fire; the oven spoils them, and also makes them too hot. 62. ROAST SHOULDER OP MUTTON. A shoulder or part of a shoulder of mutton, weighing six pounds, will require roasting an hour and three-quarters, and above that weight allow a quarter of an hour for each pound. Hang it before a good fire, and as soon as the fat begins to drip, baste it frequently. Half an hour before it is done sprinkle it over with a saltspoonful of salt, and dredge it with dry flour; baste it well, then leave it till done. When ready to serve, lay it on a hot dish, the skin side uppermost, pour the dripping off into a basin, add a teacupful of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton, pour it into the dish and send it to table at once. 63. HALF A SHOULDER OF MUTTON STUFFED. The blade-bone end is the best. Put a sharp-pointed knife into the fat on the cut side, and loosen it from the lean. Make a stuffing with the following ingredients. A small head of celery, a good sized onion, half of an acid apple, all cleaned, peeled, and chopped small ; a tablespoonful of fine crumbs of bread, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt; the same of powdered sage and powdered mixed sweet herbs, and a teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley. Mix these well together, and25 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. press the stuffing in evenly between the fat and the lean : then roast and serve as directed in the preceding receipt. If well cooked this is an excellent dish. 64. BOILED SHOULDEE OF MUTTON. Put the mutton into an iron pot with the fat side uppermost; cover it well with cold water, boil up quickly, skim often, and simmer very slowly till done. A shoulder weighing six pounds will require an hour and three-quarters from the time the water is at boiling heat, and eight minutes must be added for every extra pound. Serve it on a very hot dish, the fat side upper- most, and with the following sauce poured over it. Chop six or eight small pickled onions and put them into a saucepan with half a pint of the liquor the mutton is boding in, knead an ounce of butter with a tablespoonful of dried flour, and stir it in; simmer, and stir for ten minutes. Be careful to stir it always the same way. Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan uncovered. 65. PICKLED NASTUETIUM LEAVES OE BEEKIES. The leaves should be fresh picked, large, but not old; wipe each leaf with a soft clean cloth, put them into a jar with salt sprinkled over every third layer; fill the jar as full as possible, cover it with a plate, and let it remain a week ; then drain off the salt water, and add the vinegar and spice according to the quantity of leaves. To every pint of vinegar add a quarter of an ounce of ginger, bruised, four allspice, one clove, a small blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of whole black pepper. Boil for three minutes, and when cold pom it over the leaves, and tie the jar over with thick paper. The berry is done in precisely the same way. 06. MUTTON MUFFETIN. (Second dressing.) Rub a quarter of a pound of dripping into half a pound of Hour, moisten with cold water, and knead toMUTTON AND LAMB. 27 a paste; mince about tliree-quarters of a pound of any- cooked mutton, season with the third part of a small onion, chopped, a saltspoonful of celery seed, half of a small sweet apple, chopped, a small teaspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of gravy, made by stewing down the trimmings and bones. Eoll out the paste the sixth of an inch thick, spread the minced mutton equally over it, roll it up, moisten the edges to make the paste adhere, place the roll on a tin dish, and bake it in a moderately heated oven for an hour; or it may be boiled two hours in a cloth. 67. MUTTON AND POTATO PASTY. (Second dressing.) Boil nine medium sized potatoes, and when cold, slice them; cut up in thin pieces about a pound of cooked mutton, season it with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a small onion, chopped, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and one small pickled walnut, chopped ; season the potatoes with a saltspoonful of salt; put the mutton and potatoes into a pie dish in alternate layers, finishing with potatoes; pour over a teacupful of gravy made witli the trimmings of the mutton ; cover it closely with another dish, and bake in a slow oven for fifty minutes ; then serve. 68. PELL-MELL. Cut up three pounds of breast of mutton into eight pieces; clean and slice two carrots, and two leeks or onions, and four potatoes ; season with a teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a teaspoonful of curry powder; put the whole into a saucepan with a quart of cold water; boil up, skim carefully, then simmer for an hour and a quarter, add a head of celery or a coss lettuce, a cauliflower or a summer cabbage, two turnips, all cut up, and a pint of green peas or French beans ; press the vegetables down constantly into the gravy, and simmer for another hour, uncovered; then servo in a tureen or a deep dish.28 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 69. KOAST BEEAST OF MUTTON. Hang the mutton before a good fire with the screen round it; baste frequently till done. The breast, being very fat, requires more cooking than any other part, although it is thinner; therefore, whatever the weight, or if it be a part of or the whole breast, it may be roasted for an hour and a half. As no gravy will drip from this joint, it will be well to have a Sussex pudding with it (see the receipt), or to put the potatoes under it to brown for a quarter of an hour before serving. Place it on a very hot dish. 70. EOAST LEG OF MUTTON. A leg of mutton is much better for being kept some days. When about to roast it, hang it four inches distance from a good fire, and let it roast for a quarter of an hour. Then baste it, and draw it ten inches further back ; continue to baste frequently till done. A leg of mutton weighing seven pounds will require an hour and three-quartei's to be done with the gravy in it, and two hours to be well done; for every extra pound allow twelve minutes. Place the mutton on a hot dish, the skin side downwards ; pour the fat into a basin, add a teacupful of boiling water, and a saltspoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the mutton ; pour it into the dish and serve. 71. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. A leg of mutton, although thicker than a shoulder, does not require quite so much time; as, generally, it is liked rather less done. A leg weighing six pounds will be nicely done in an hour and a half from the time of boiling up, and for every extra pound allow eight minutes longer. Put the mutton into an iron pot, the skin side downwards, well cover it with cold water, boil up quickly, skim, then simmer gently (skimming often) till done. Serve with or without caper sauce, made as follows. Knead an ounce of butter with a29 MUTTON AND LAMB. tablespoonful of dried flour, and stir into half a pint of the liquor the mutton is boiling in. Add a dessert- spoonful of capers, slightly chopped, and a teaspoonful of the caper vinegar; simmer ten minutes. Lay the mutton on a hot dish, the skin side downwards, pour the sauce over and serve at once. Reserve the liquor in an uncoveied earthen pan. 72. SAVOURY MUTTON WITH TURNIPS. (Second dressing.) Boil four large turnips, without peeling them, for twenty minutes; let them get cold. Then peel and slice them, season them with a saltspoonful of salt, the same of powdered loaf sugar, and a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne. Cut up about three-quarters of a poimd of cold boiled mutton, season it with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, a tea- spoonful of chopped nasturtium leaves or capers, and a small onion chopped. Lay the mutton and turnips in alternate layers in a deep dish ; add a teacupful of gravy made with the bones. Cover it over with another dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour; then serve. 73. MUTTON WITH ARTICHOKES. (Second dressing.) Peel two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes and put them into cold water. Cut up into neat slices about a pound of cold mutton ; season it with a t-easpoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a good sized onion, and a small acid apple, both chopped. Slice the artichokes. Lay the mutton and artichokes in alter- nate layers in a deep disk; add a quarter of a pint of gravy made with the bones, or water, cover it with an old dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour; then serve on a hot dish, or in the same dish. 74. CURRIED MUTTON. (Second dressing.) Cut up about three-quarters of a pound of cold30 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. mutton into small pieces. Peel and slice a good sized onion, cliop three small pickled gherkins. Knead a tablespoonful of curry powder with two ounces of good dripping. Put it into a fryingpan with the onion and gherkins, and fi-y till the onion is tender and a nice brown colour. Then put in the mutton and a small teaspoonful of salt, stir over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, add a wineglassful of good milk, stir three minutes, then serve, -with either plain boiled rice, or split-peas pudding, or haricot beans pudding. 75. MINCED MUTTON PIE. (Second dressing.) Mince about a pound of cold mutton, season it -with a large saltspoonful of pepper, and the same of salt. Wash, trim, peel, and chop a small head of celery and one small turnip, and mix them with the meat. Boil six or seven potatoes, and mash them while hot, add two ounces of dripping, a saltspoonful of salt, and a wineglassful of milk. Put a thin layer of potato evenly over the bottom of a deep tin dish, lay in the mince, add a teacupful of gravy made from the bones, or water, put the rest of the potato over, smooth it with.a knife, and bake in a rather slow oven for an hour. It should be nicely browned all over. 76. MUTTON SAUSAGE MEAT CAKES MTTH FEIED ONIONS. (Second dressing.) Mash three good sized cold potatoes and rub them through a colander. Cut up three-quarters of a pound of any cold mutton, and chop it as small as possible. Mix the potatoes and mutton together; add two table- spoonfuls of gravy, or milk, two ounces of dripping slightly warmed, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Beat the mixture well, and make it up into six cakes an inch thick. Dredge each cake thickly over on bothMUTTON AND LAMB. 31 slides with flour. Pat it with the hand to make it adhere. Place the cakes on a tin dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Peel and shoe four good sized onions, put them into a fryingpan with an ounce of dripping. Stir them constantly till they are tender and nicely browned, about a quarter of an hour. Place them in the centre of a hot dish with the cakes round them, and serve immediately. 77. MUTTON COLLOPS WITH CARROT SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Cut up into neat slices about a pound of cold boiled mutton, season it with a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper. Mash two cold' carrots and rub them through a colander or sieve till in a pulp, put it into a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a small onion, finely chopped, two tablespoonfuls of ale, a piece of garlic the size of a large pea, half a saltspoonful of salt, two cayenne-spoonfuls of cayenne, half a saltspoonful of ground ginger, and the same of flour of mustard. Simmer for half an hour, stirring almost constantly. Broil the mutton over a bright fire for eight minutes. Lay it neatly roimd a hot dish and pour the sauce in the centre, and send it to table at once. 78. HASHED MUTTON. (Second dressing.) Cut up into neat slices about a pound of cold mutton, either roast or boiled, season it with a small teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful and a half bf pepper, and a tablespoonful of dried flour. Peel and slice two me- dium sized onions, chop three pickled walnuts. Put the whole into a stewpan, add half a pint of either gravy or water, a teaspoonful of walnut pickle, and a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup. Put it over a gentle fire and simmer for half an hour after it comes to boiling heat. Shake the pan frequently, and be sure not to let it bod. Serve on a very hot dish with freshMEALS FOR THE MILLION. 32 toasted bread, cut into three-cornered pieces, placed round the edge neatly. 79. IRISH STEW. Peel two pounds of potatoes and put them into cold water, cut up two pounds of scrag, or any other part, of mutton. Season it with a teaspoonful of salt and the same of pepper. Put the mutton into a saucepan with two good sized onions, sliced, and nearly a pint of cold water. Let it come very slowly to boiling heat, then skim and simmer for an hour and a half. Put in the potatoes and continue to simmer till they are done, which will be about half an hour. Serve directly the potatoes are done, and on a very hot dish. Note.—If the best end of neck he used, a quarter of an hour less time. 80. HARICOT OF MUTTON. Cut up into small joints about a pound of scrag and a pound of breast of mutton. Peel, scrape, wash, and slice two carrots, two turnips, two onions, four potatoes, all of medium size, and a small head of celery. Season with a teaspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful and a half of salt, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a dessertspoonful of ketchup, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Put the whole of these articles into an earthen jar, add a pint of cold water, tie the jar over with stiff paper. Stand it in a large saucepan or pot of cold water. Let it come to the boil, and let it continue to boil, but not too fast, for three hours. Turn the haricot on to a very hot dish, skim off the fat if there be any, and send it to table at once. 81. sheep’s TONGUES WITH BRAINS SAUCE. Well wash both the tongues and the brains, and put them into two quarts of cold water with a teacupful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar in it, and let them remain three hours or longer, then tie up the brains in a piece of clean rag, with a small onion, sliced, a33 MUTTON AND LAMB. piece of mace half the size of a sixpence, one clove, and four peppercorns; put them, with the tongues, into boil- ing water with a dessertspoonful of salt in it, and simmer lor three-quarters of an hour ; then take up the brains, press out the water, take out the spice, and chop the brains ; add half an ounce of butter. Season with half a saltspoonful of salt and the same of white pepper. Take the skin off the tongues, trim round the root. Place the tongues in the centre of a hot dish with the sauce round them. 82. SHEEP’S HEARTS STUFFED WITH SAGE AND ONION. Cut away the pipe and well wash the hearts (two), wipe them dry, and fill the centre with the following stuffing. Peel and chop two medium sized onions, chop two ounces of suet, mix these together, add a table- spoonful of fine crumbs of bread, a saltspoonful of dried sage in powder, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a salt- spoonful of pepper. Mix it well. Put half of the stuffing into each heart, and tie a piece of writing paper, rubbed with dripping, over each ; place them in a tin dish and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, basting them occasionally. Put them in a very hot dish, pour away the fat, add half a teacupful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the hearts. Take off the paper, pour the gravy over, and serve at once with very hot plates. 83. SHEEP’S HEAD AND PLUCK. Wash both the head and pluck in plenty of cold water. Put them into a saucepan, with a large carrot, two turnips, three onions, a small head of celery, or a teaspoonful of celery seed, and two quarts of cold water. Boil up slowly, skim, and simmer gently for two hours and a half. Take up the head and pluck. Skin the tongue ; open the head, and lay it the split side downwards on a tin dish. Season two tablespoonfuls of nMEALS FOE THE MILLION. fine crumbs of bread with a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Strew them over the head. Lay about two ounces of drip- ping in small pieces over the crumbs, put the dish into a moderate oven and let the head get nicely browned. Eemove all the pipe and skin, and chop the pluck to a fine mince. Season it with a teaspoonful of salt, a piled saltspoonful of pepper, a large tablespoonful of dried flour, and a mustardspoonful of mustard. Put it into a saucepan, add about a pint of the liquor, sufficient to make it moist but not liquid, stir it till it is at boiling heat, then simmer and stir for ten minutes. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, place the head in the centre, and serve at once. Note.—Put the liquor into an earthen pan with the hones and trimmings, and on the following day stir in half a teacupful of dried oatmeal or flour, a saltspoonful of salt and the same of pepper. Stir frequently and simmer for half an hour or longer. Take out the hones and rub the soup with the vegetables through a sieve, and serve. This will he found to he an excellent soup. 84. SEA PIE. A sea pie may be made of any kind of meat; of kidney, sheep’s hearts, or even cooked meat. Cut up the meat into two-inch square pieces. Season a pound and a half with a large teaspoonful of salt, two salt- spoonfuls of pepper, and two medium sized onions, chopped. Make a paste with a pound of flour and half a pound of dripping moistened with cold water. Knead well and roll it out. Line a round cake tin with the paste, put in the meat, add half a pint of water; cover the top closely over with the rest of the paste; press it round to make it adhere. Put it into a potato steamer over fast boiling water, and let it continue to boil four hours if made of uncooked meat, and three if of cooked meat. Poll a napkin round the tin, place it on a dish, and serve at once.MUTTON AND LAMB. 35 « S5. CURRIED SHEEP’S KIDNEYS. Trim off the pith and the skin, and cut the kidneys, first into halves, and then each half into four pieces. Knead a tablespoonful of curry powder with two ounces of butter. Peel, slice, and chop a good sized onion and a small acid apple. Put the whole into a fryingpan, and fry till nicely browned, stirring con- stantly. Add a teaspoonful of salt and half a small tea- cupful of any kind of gravy, or water; continue to stir and fry for ten minutes. Serve with or without plain boiled rice in a separate dish, and with any kind of pickles or chutney. Note.—The receipt is for eight kidneys. 86. RICE FOR CURRY. Wash a large cupful of rice. Put it into a quart of water, and boil it for half an hour. Stir it frequently to keep it from binning to the saucepan. Drain in a sieve before the fire. Stir it with a fork to divide the grains; then serve it either round the curry or in a separate dish. 87. MUTTON CHOPS. Mutton chops, simple though they be, are rarely nicely cooked and served. The fire should be good and perfectly free from smoky coals, the gridiron clean, and the chops not too fat. Place the chops upon the gridiron about five inches distance from the fire, and turn them twice while broiling, by putting a fork into the fat. A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will require from ten to fifteen minutes to broil, ten minutes to be underdone, and fifteen to be well done. Serve them simply between hot plates the moment they are off the fire. 88. HOT POT. (Second dressing.) Peel eight or nine medium sized potatoes, and wash them in cold water; peel and slice one large onion; cutMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 36 up about a pound of cold meat of any kind, or two or three kinds mixed. Season it with a teaspoonful of salt and the same of pepper. Put the meat and onions into a brown jar, add three-quarters of a pint of gravy made with the bones, or cold water; put in the potatoes, tie it closely over with thick white paper, and bake it in a slow oven for an hour and a half. Serve it very hot. 89. MUTTON PUDDING. Have two pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton; cut off all the fat, and cut the mutton into chops, and then break the bone and cut each chop into two. Season with a teaspoonful and a half of salt, and a small teaspoonful of pepper; chop the fat quite small, mix it into three-quarters of a pound of flour, moisten with cold water, and knead it to a firm paste; rub a basin with dripping, lay in the paste, press round the side to make it of an equal thickness; put in the mutton, add a teacupful of cold water, turn the paste over, put a round piece on the top, press it to make it adhere, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for four hours. Loosen round the edge with a knife, turn the pudding out carefully on to a hot dish, and send it to table immediately. 90. MUTTON PIE. Moisten half a pound of flour with cold water, knead it to dough ; press it out, and put in the centre six ounces of good dripping, turn over the sides, dredge it with flour, and roll it out four times. Cut up two pounds of the scrag end of neck of mutton, season it with a teaspoonful of salt and the same of pepper; lay it in a pie dish, and add a teacupful of cold water ; rub the edge of the dish with dripping, put a strip of paste round it. Eoll out the rest of the paste to the size of the dish, put it over, press round the edge with the thumb to make it adhere, trim off the rough edge of the paste with a sharp knife; make a hole in the centre, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours and a half.37 MUTTON AND LAMB. 91. LEG OF LAMB ROASTED. All young meat should be well done. A leg of lamb weighing from four to five pounds will require to be roasted an hour and a half before a good fire at a distance of eighteen inches. Baste it constantly ; ten minutes before it is done dredge it with dried flour and a saltspoonful of salt. When about to serve, lay it on a hot dish, the skin side downwards; pour off the dripping, add a small teacupful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the lamb, put it into the dish, and send it to table at once with mint sauce in a tureen. 92. MINT SAUCE. A tablespoonful of chopped fresh mint, a table- spoonful of moist sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, mixed well together. 93. LAMB’S FRY. Cut up the liver into slices, dip it into cold water, wipe it dry, and dredge it with flour; put the rest of the fry in boiling water for five minutes ; wipe it dry and dredge it with flour; put six ounces of good dripping into a fryingpan, and when boiling hot, put in the fry (not the liver), and fry at a distance from the fire, till it is of a pale brown colour on both sides (about twelve minutes) ; put it on a hot drainer, while the liver is fried in the same fat for eight minutes. Lay that to drain while the gravy is made; pour the fat away, dredge the fryingpan all over with a dessertspoonful of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper; put in an ounce of butter, shake the pan till it is slightly browned; pour in by degrees a teacupful of boiling water, shake till it is nicely mixed; add a teaspoonful of any kind of good sauce or ketchup; pour it into a dish, lay in the fry, and send it at once to table. 94. LAMB’S HEAD AND MINCE. Cleanse the head and pluck well. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and38 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. simmer for an hour, skimming often. Take them up, cut out the tongue, pull off the skin, take out the brains. Chop the whole of the pluck, the tongue, and brains to a fine mince. Add an onion and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley; season with a small teaspoonful of white pepper, rather less of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of dried Hour. Put the mince into a saucepan with three- quarters of a pint of the liquor they were boiled in. Add two tablespoonfuls of any good sauce or ketchup, and let it simmer very slowly for half an hour. Stir frequently to prevent the mince burning to the sauce- pan. Wipe the head, dredge it with a dessertspoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a salt- spoonful of salt. Put it on a tin dish, the split side downwards. Put an ounce of butter in small pieces over it, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour if it be a large head, and half an hour if a small one. Place the mince on a dish and the head in the centre. 94a. LEG OF MUTTON HAM. Have a fine leg of fresh killed mutton ; put it into a pan or deep dish. Mix the following ingredients together. One pound of salt, half a pound of moist sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of baysalt, both pounded, and half a saltspoonful of mixed spice. Eub this mixture well into the mutton and let it remain for a fortnight, rubbing it and turning it every day. Then hang it up by the knuckle in an airy dry place for three weeks; it will then be ready for use. It may be boiled whole (allowing twenty minutes to the poimd), or it may be cut into rashers a quarter of an inch thick and boiled for twelve minutes.39 BEEF, TBIPE, VEAL, ETC. -♦o Index to Beef, Tripe, Veal, etc. No. No. Beef- —A la mode . . . 103 Ox Kidney Baked Irish ff Boiled Salt . . 106 Stew .... 117 }J Leg of ... . 107 „ „ Pie ... . 113 ft Roast .... 95 „ ,, Stew ... 114 Second Dressings. Rice for Curry . . . 105 If and Bread Pasty. 98 Savoury Pie .... 116 a Fagotins of . . 102 Toad in a hole of Beef a Hashed .... 108 Sausage Meat . . . 125 a Minced with Rice Tripe Fried with Onions 120 surroundings . 101 „ Curried .... 121 a and Potato Pie . . 99 „ Stewed with Onions 122 » Rollover of „ . . 97 Veal—Boiled .... 129 it Savoury „ . . 100 „ and Bacon Pie 133 if Sausages „ . . 124 „ Cutlets and Bacon 132 a Stewed .... 96 „ Roasted . . . 126 a Skirt Irish Stew . 115 „ Stewed Knuckle of 131 a „ Pudding . , 111 Second Dressings of it Steak Broiled . . 109 Veal—Curried .... 128 a „ Pie ... 112 ,, Minced .... 127 11 ,, Stewed . . 110 „ With Panado Sauce 130 Cow Heel, varied . . . 123 Liver and Bacon . . . 134 Carried Ox Cheek . . 104 Stewed Calfs Ears or Ox Heart 118 Feet 134a H „ Hashed. . . 119 95. ROAST BEEF. Tire most economical parts of beef for roasting are the upper side of the round, and a piece called ‘ the veiny piece.’ These parts being solid, and -without bone, require rather more time than ribs or sirloin. A piece weighing six pounds will take an hour and three-40 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. quarters to roast, and a quarter of an hour extra for every pound beyond that weight. Hang it before a good fire, about four inches from the bars^ for a quarter of an hour, and then draw it to a distance of eighteen inches. Baste frequently till done. A quarter of an hour before serving, dredge it lightly with dried flour and a saltspoonful of salt, continue to baste. Put it on a hot dish ; pour off the fat into a basin, add a teacup- ful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the beef, pour it into the dish, put a hot cover over, and serve immediately. 96. STEWED BEEF. (Second dressing.) A piece of cold roast beef without bone, about three pounds weight or less. Cut it even and trim off the gristle. Put it into a stewpan, the cut side downwards. Peel, cut up, and fry in dripping, one onion, one turnip, one carrot, all medium size, and a small head of celery. While frying, season them with a tea- spoonful of moist sugar, the same of salt, a salt- spoonful of flour of mustard, and the same of pepper. When nicely browned and nearly tender, turn them into a sieve to drain off the fat before the fire. Then put them with the beef, add a small teacupful of mixed pickles and half a pint of gravy or water. Simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter, then serve. 9’. BEEF EOLLOYEE. ! (Second dressing.) Chop the remains of any joint of roast beef, about three-quarters of a pound; season it with one shalot, chopped, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a small saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, a small teaspoonful of salt, and two table- spoonfuls of gravy made by stewing down the gristle and odd pieces. Make a paste with half a pound of flour and six ounces of dripping, rub them together tillBEEF, TRIPE, YEAL, ETC. 41 well mixed, moisten with cold water, and knead to a firm paste. Eoll it out the sixth of an inch thick. Wet the edge all round with cold water. Lay in the mince equally over. Eoll it up in the form of a bolster, press it round the edge and at the ends to keep in the meat. Tie it up in a cloth dredged with fiour, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for two hours; or it may be baked for an hour and a quarter. 98. BEEF AND BREAD PASTY. (Second dressing.) About three-quarters of a pound of any cooked beef cut into thin slices ; season it with a saltspoonful and a half of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of grated horse-radish, and a shalot finely chopped. Cut six rather thin slices of bread and butter. Lay the beef and bread and butter alternately in a pie dish. Pour over it a teacupful of gravy made with the bones and odd pieces. Cover it closely with another dish, and bake in a slow oven for three-quarters of an hour. Serve in the dish it is baked in. Aote.—If the beef be salt, omit the salt. 99. BEEF AND POTATO PIE. (Second dressing.) Boil and mash, while hot, two pounds of potatoes; add a saltspoonful of salt, two ounces of dripping, and a small cupful of milk. Beat with a wooden spoon till smooth and light. Cut up into small pieces about three-quarters of a pound or more of cold roast beef, season it with a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley or a very small onion, chopped, a good saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and a mustardspoonful of mustard. Spread a layer of potato on the bottom of a deep tin dish or a small pie dish; put in the beef, add three tablespoonfuls of gravy or water; put the rest of the potato over, smooth it with a knife. Bake in a moderate oven half an hour.MEALS POE THE MILLION. 42 100. SAYOUEY BEEP. (Second dressing.) Cut up about a pound of cold roast beef; season it with a small teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of celery seed, pounded, a small onion, chopped, and either a mustardspoonful of mustard or a teaspoonful of grated horse-radish. Put it into a pie dish with a teacupful of gravy or water, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of any kind of ketchup; cover it over with another dish, and bake it in a slow oven for nearly an hour. Turn it on to a hot dish and serve at once. 101. MINCED BEEP WITH EICE SUEEOUNDINGS. (Second dressing.) Peel and chop one good sized onion and half of a me- dium sized carrot. Put them into a fryingpan with an ounce of butter, and fry till nearly tender. Mince about a pound of cold roast beef, put it into the pan with the onion and carrot, add a teaspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a mustardspoonful of mustard, and a dessert- spoonful of dried flour ; stir for five minutes, then add by degrees a teacupful of warm gravy or warm water, simmer and stir for ten minutes, then put it in the centre of the rice, boiled as follows. Wash half a pound of rice, put it into a quart of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for half an horn-; stir often, drain it on a sieve, and, while draining, place it before the fire and stir it with a fork to divide the grains. Put it round the dish, and the mince in the centre. 102. PAGOTINS OP BEEP. (Second dressing.) Mince a pound of cold roast beef, both fat and lean, and one sheep’s kidney, uncooked. Season with a tea- spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of curry powder, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a mustardspoonful ofBEEF, TRIPE, YEAL, ETC. 43 mustard, a small saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoon- ful of mixed sweet herbs, and a good sized onion, finely chopped ; add two tablespoonfuls of gravy or water. Make the mince tip into six balls of equal size ; dredge them well with flour. Beat an egg, dip each ball into the egg, dredge them again with flour sufficiently to keep the gravy in, put them into a tin dish that will just hold them; place a piece of dripping the size of a nut on each, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. Serve on a hot dish. 103. A LA MODE BEEF. An ox cheek makes excellent a la mode beef. Well wash it in plenty of cold water with a handful of salt in it. Put it into an iron pot with three quarts of cold water. Boil up slowly, skim, then simmer for three hours and a half. Cut up a small carrot and a turnip into neat square pieces. Slice a small head of celery and a good sized onion; fry these in an ounce of butter, and while frying season with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, a saltspoonful of moist sugar, half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, and a good tablespoonful of flour. Take care that they do not burn, but let them fry to a nice brown colour. Then put them into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of the liquor the cheek is boiling in; stir well, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. Take up the cheek ; cut off about half of the meat into neat slices, put it into the gravy, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour longer; add a tablespoonful of any ketchup, and serve at once. Cut off the remainder of the meat and put it away ; strain the liquor and keep it for soup. 104. CURRIED OX CHEEK. (Second dressing.) Cut up into small square pieces the remainder of the ox cheek. Peel and chop one good sized onion, a small acid apple, and a small turnip ; put them into a frying-MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 44 pan with an ounce of butter, and while frying add a good tablespoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of dried mint in powder, and a dessertspoonful of dried flour. Fry till the whole is nicely browned; then put it into a saucepan with half a pint of the liquor the cheek was boiled in, and the meat, and simmer very gently, stirring often, for half an hour. Add a saltspoonful of vinegar, and serve at once, with or without a dish of boiled rice. Note.—The cheek used for two foregoing receipts cost 2s. 6d. Both dishes served as dinner for three persons, and the liquor made soup for three days for three persons. 105. BOILED RICE FOR CURRY. "Wash a large teacupful of rice, put it into a quart of cold water, with a teaspoonful of salt in it, and boil till tender, but not to a pulp; about half an hour will do, but as some rice is more quickly done than others, it requires to be watched. Stir it to keep it from burning to the saucepan; drain on a sieve before the fire, and while drying stir it with a fork to separate the grains. 106. BOILED SALT BEEF. Put the beef into sufficient cold water to cover it. Boil up slowly, skim carefully, then simmer very gently till done. The time will depend on the part. A piece of brisket or thick flank, weighing seven pounds, will require three hours and a half; silver side of the round, an hour and a half; top ribs, about four pounds, an hour. In each case the time to be reckoned from the time of boiling up. Serve with a little of the liquor it was boiled in, in the dish and with carrots round it. Note.—The carrots may be boiled with the beef. They require two hours. Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan. 107. LEG OF BEEF. The leg of beef is the knuckle end of the leg of the ox. Order the butcher to chop one, weighing about six45 BEEF, TRIPE, VEAL, ETC. pounds, into seven or eight pieces, wash it, and then season it with a dessertspoonful of salt, the same of moist sugar and unmade mustard, a teaspoonful of black pepper, two cayenne-spooniuls of cayenne, half a small saltspoonful of mixed spice, the same of mixed sweet herbs, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; clean and slice two leeks, a small head of celery, a large carrot and turnip. Put the whole into a large brown jar, press the meat closely in, add a pint and a half of cold water ; tie the jar closely over with stiff paper. Place it in a large saucepan or pot of cold water, put it over the fire, and let it remain for six hours. As the water boils away, fill up the pot with boiling water. Skim off as much of the fat as is possible, turn the stew on to a hot dish and serve. 108. HASHED BEEF. (Second dressing.) Peel and slice a small onion; cut up about three- quarters of a pound of cold roast beef; season it with a good saltspoonful of salt and rather less of pepper; dredge it on both sides with dried flour, about a dessertspoonful; put it, with the onions, into a saucepan, add a quarter of a pint of gravy or cold water, shake the saucepan till the flour mixes with the liquid, put it over a slow fire and simmer very gently for twenty minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, or two tablespoonfuls of any kind of pickles cut up, simmer ten minutes more, then serve with fresh toasted bread cut into three-cornered pieces, placed round the hash at inch distances. 109. BROILED BEEF-STEAK. The steak should be cut evenly half an inch thick ; place it on the gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it from twelve to eighteen minutes ; twelve minutes to be slightly underdone, and eighteen to be ivell done ; turn it twice while broiling, by placing a fork in the Jut.46 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. Don’t cut it to see if it be done, but look at the time and it will sure to be right. Place the steak upon a hot dish, rub it over with a small piece of butter, and strew over it half a saltspoonful of salt and half the quantity of pepper ; do this very quickly, and send it at once to table. Note.—A sbalot finely chopped, sprinkled over the steak, is a great improvement; or fried onions may be served with it. See receipt. 110. STEWED STEAK. Have the steak off the upper side of the round, and cut three-quarters of an inch thick; about a pound and a half, in one piece. Peel, wash, and shred a small head of celery and an onion; cut into ch'ce-like pieces a small carrot and turnip ; season with a salt- spoonful of salt, the same of black pepper, two allspice, bruised, and a teaspoonful of moist sugar. Put the whole into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of cold water, and let it stand by the side of the fire, to come very slowly to boiling heat. Shake the pan often, and, when it boils, skim, and then simmer as slowly as possible for an hour. Moisten a tablespoonful of dried flour with half a teacupful of cold water; add a mustard- spoonful of fresh-made mustard, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup; put it into the saucepan, shake it well, and let it simmer ten minutes longer, then serve in a hot dish. 111. BEEF SKIET OE STEAK PUDDING. Make apaste as directed in the following receipt. Have a pound and a half of beef skirt with the skin taken off: cut it into neat small pieces; season it with a tea- spoonful of unmade mustard, a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of black pepper; rub a pint and a half basin over with dripping, line it with the paste, press the plaits to the same thickness as the bottom, put in the meat, add half a teacupful of cold water, turn the paste over the top, moisten it with cold water, put a roundBEEF, TRIPE, YEAL, ETC. 47 piece of paste over the centre, press it to make it adhere, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water and boil for three hours and a half, turn out carefully, and serve at once. 112. BEEF-STEAK PIE. Rub two ounces of good dripping into half a pound of dried flour and half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of either carbonate of soda or baking powder. Moisten with sufficient cold water to make it a firm paste. Roll it out, spread two ounces of dripping over it lightly; dredge it with flour, fold it over and roll it out again twice; cut up into neat pieces a pound and a half of beef-steak ; season it with a small teaspoonful of black pepper and a piled teaspoonful of salt. Rub the edge of an eleven-inch pie dish with dripping ; put a strip of paste round it; moisten it with cold water, lay the steak in the dish, add half a teacupful of cold water, roll the paste out as nearly as possible to the size of the dish, put it over, press it round the edge to make it adhere, trim off the round edge of paste, notch it round with a knife, make a hole in the centre, and bake it in rather a slow oven for two hours and a quarter. 113. OX KIDNEY PIE. Follow the preceding receipt exactly, adding to the seasoning a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, and cutting the kidney into little lumps the size of a walnut, instead of slices. 114. OX KIDNEY STEW. Cut up and season the kidney with a teaspoonful of salt the same of pepper, a eayenne-spoonlul of cayenne, a mustardspoonful of mustard, an onion, finely chopped, and a tablespoonful of flour ; put them into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water, shake the pan well, and simmer for nearly an hour.MEALS FOE THE MILLIONS'. 43 115. IRISH STEW OF BEEF. Any part of beef may be used for an Irish stew; the best, however, is beef skirt. The skin must be taken off it, and it must be cut into square pieces; about a pound and a half. Season it with a teaspoonful of black pepper and the same of salt. Put it into a saucepan with two medium sized onions, sliced, and three-quarters of a pint of cold water; simmer very gently, after it comes to boiling heat, for half an hour ; then put in seven or eight medium sized potatoes, peeled and washed, but not cut up ; over the potatoes sprinkle a saltspoonful of salt; simmer about half an hour longer. Serve very hot. 116. SAVOURY PIE WITHOUT CRUST. An ox kidney, a sheep’s liver, and a pound of fat bacon; all minced as fine as possible. Season with two teaspoonfuls of salt, two saltspoonfuls of black pepper, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and two chopped shalots. Stir till the seasoning is well mixed with the meat, then press it into a brown thick baking dish or a covered pan. If a dish be used, cover it closely and bake in a slow oven three hours. 117. OX KIDNEY IRISH STEW, BAKED. Cut up the kidney, trim off the skin and pith. Peel and slice two good sized onions. Peel eight medium sized potatoes, put the potatoes into cold water; season the kidney with a small teaspoonful of pepper and the same of salt; lay it with the onions in a deep pie dish. Put the potatoes in, sprinkle over them a saltspoonful of salt, add three-quarters of a pint of cold water, cover over with an old dish, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Serve in the same dish placed upon another. 118. OX HEART. Cut away the pipe, pith, and valves from the top of the heart, free it from blood, wash it well in cold water,BEEP, TRIPE, VEAL, ETC. 49 and wipe it dry. Make a stuffing with the following ingredients. The red outside part of a medium sized carrot, grated, a very small onion, chopped, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, rubbed to powder, two table- spoonfuls of fine crumbs of bread, a saltspoonful of moist sugar, the same of salt and black pepper, a table- spoonful of milk, and an egg well beaten. Mix these ingredients together, and fill all the cavities of the heart. Spread an ounce of dripping on a piece of paper, tie it over the stuffing, and either bake the heart in a moderate oven for two hours and a half, or roast it before a good fire, at a distance, for two hours. In either case it must be well basted. Put two dessertspoonfuls of moist sugar into a quarter of a pint of water and boil fast till it is bright; add the strained juice of a small lemon. Pour away the fat; add this sauce to the gravy dripped from the heart. Place the heart on a very hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve immediately. 119. HASHED HEART. (Second dressing.) Chop the yellow inside part of the carrot used for the stuffing, and also a small onion and a small juicy apple; put them into a saucepan with a dessertspoonful of sugar and half a pint of water; boil till it becomes a sweet pulpy sauce, then set it aside to cool. Cut up the heart into neat slices, season it with (if three-quarters of a pound) a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, and a dessertspoonful of dried flour; put it into the saucepan with the sauce, shake the pan well, add two tablespoonfuls of gravy or water, and simmer gently for twenty minutes after it comes to boiling heat. Serve very hot. 120. FRIED TRIPE AND ONIONS. Wash the tripe, put it into a saucepan with cold water and a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer for two hours, then put it on a cloth to dry and get cold; cut JE•r>0 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. it into neat pieces. Make a batter as follows. Mix half a pint of milk into three tablespoonfuls of dried flour, add one egg, beat the batter till it is very smooth, then put the tripe into it. Put a quarter of a pound of dripping into a fryingpan, and when it comes to boiling heat, put in the tripe and fry it to a nice pale brown colour on both sides. Lay it round a hot dish with fried onions in the centre. Slice the onions, and fry them in dripping till tender and nicely browned. 121. CTTKEIED TEIPE. Take all the fat off the tripe, then boil it as directed in the preceding receipt. Put the fat into a fryingpan with three onions and one large acid apple, thinly sliced, dredge them with a large tablespoonful of curry powder, three saltspoonfuls of salt, and a teaspoonful of flour. When nicely browned put in the tripe, add a teacupful of milk, stir constantly, and simmer for twenty minutes. Serve with or without boiled rice. 122. STEWED TEIPE AND ONIONS. Peel five or six medium sized- onions ; chop two of them, and cut the others in halves. Cut up into neat square pieces about a pound and a half of tripe, wash it in cold water. Put the onions into a saucepan, season them with a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper. Lay the tripe upon the onions, season that with a saltspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, rub it into the tripe with the spoon, add half a pint of cold water and half a pint of milk. Shake the pan frequently, and let it simmer two hours. Mix a tablespoonful of dried flour with a quarter of a pint of cold milk, stir it in, simmer twenty minutes more, then serve. 123. COW HEEL. Cow heel may be stewed exactly as directed in the preceding receipt for tripe, or it may be plain boiled in water the same time, and served with caper or nastur-BEEF, TRIPE, YEAL, ETC. 51 tiura sauce; or it may be stewed as follows. Put it into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, two onions, tried brown, a medium sized carrot, fried, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, the same of salt and mustard, a salt- spoonful of pepper, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne. Simmer for two hours and a half, take out the heel, cut the meat off the bones in neat little pieces, rub the sauce through a sieve, add a dessertspoonful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of strong ale, put in the meat, simmer half an hour more, then serve. 124. BEEF SAUSAGES. Put the sausages into a folding gridiron, and broil them either over or before a bright fire till they are nicely browned all over. If they are large (six to the pound), they will require sixteen minutes; if small (eight to the pound), twelve minutes will be sufficient. Turn them twice while broiling, but be careful not to prick them. Serve them the moment they are done. 125. TOAD IN A HOLE OF BEEF SAUSAGE MEAT. Beat one egg and mix it with a pint of milk, add a small saltspoonful of salt, stir it into four tablespoonfuls of flour, beat it with a wooden spoon till it is a smooth better. Hub a pie dish with dripping, put a pound of beef sausage meat or sausages in the centre, pour in the batter, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. 126. ROAST YEAL STUFFED. The shoulder, or rather the bladebone, of veal is the cheapest part for roasting. Make a stuffing with the following ingredients. Two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, a small dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, a small saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, two ounces of dripping or chopped suet, and one egg beaten ; rub the dripping or suet with the other in- gredients till well mixed, then add the egg. If not K 2MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 52 moist enough, add a tablespoonful of water. Loosen the skin on the upper side from the meat with a sharp knife, put in the stuffing, put a skewer through to keep it in. Hang the veal before a good fire, but at a dis- tance of twenty inches from the bars, and roast slowly, basting frequently till done. A joint weighing seven pounds will require three hours and a quarter ; twenty- five minutes must be added for every extra pound. Knead an ounce of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, and stir it into half a pint of boiling water, add a salt- spoonful of salt, and simmer for ten minutes. Pour off the fat, and add the gravy dripped from the veal to the melted butter. Place the veal on a hot dish, pull out the skewer, pour the gravy over it, and serve at once. 127. MINCED VEAL. (Second dressing). Cut tip, then mince, any cold veal, about three- quarters of a pound. Season it with a saltspoonful and a half of salt; a saltspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of dried flour, add a small onion, finely chopped; put it into a saucepan with nearly half a pint of gravy made from the bones, or milk, shake it well, and let it simmer for half an hour after it is at boiling heat. Serve with fresh-toasted bread cut into neat three-cornered pieces, placed round the dish with the points upwards. 128. CUEEIED VEAL. (Second dressing). Knead a tablespoonful of curry powder with two ounces of veal di'ipping ; peel and slice two medium sized onions and one acid juicy apple, put the whole into a fryingpan, and fry till the onions are tender; add a small teaspoonfui of salt and about three- quarters of a pound of cold veal cut up into small pieces, stir and fry till the whole is well mixed and nicely browned. Serve with boiled rice placed round it. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of water for half an hottr; drain on a sieve before the fire, and stir it with a fork to divide the grains.53 BEEF, TBIPE, VEAL, ETC. 129. BOILED VEAL. The thin end of the neck, the breast, the knuckle, or the head may be boiled. Four poimds of neck will require an hour and a half, the same weight of breast two hours, a knuckle two hours and a half, and half of a head an hour and a half, reckoning from the time of boiling up. Put the veal into a pot, cover it with cold water, boil up quickly, skim, then simmer till done; knead an ounce of butter with a table- spoonful of dried flour, and stir it into half a pint of boiling milk. Add the strained juice of a small lemon; put the veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Note.—The head should be soaked for an hour and well washed; the tongue and brains taken out before serving; the brains chopped and seasoned with half a saltspoonful of pepper and the same of salt, and placed upon a small dish, with the tongue in the centre, having taken off the skin. Beserve the liquor for soup. 130. VEAL WITH PANADO SAUCE. (Second dressing). Cut up any part of cold boiled veal, leaving the bones in the pieces. Peel and slice a good sized onion, a small turnip, half of a small carrot, and a large acid apple. Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of bread, two cloves, four allspice, an inch of thin lemon peel, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a small teaspoonful of salt, and the same of sugar; add rather more than a pint of the liquor the veal was boiled in. Boil slowly for an hour, then rub the whole through a hair sieve. Put the veal into a saucepan with the sauce, and simmer very slowly for half an hour, then serve. 131. STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL. Have the bone chopped through in four or five parts by the butcher. Put the veal into a saucepan with two medium sized onions, thinly sliced, a tea- spoonful of salt, the same of sugar, a saltspoonful of54 AiSALS FOR THE MILLION. white pepper, a cayenne-spoonful of powdered mace, and a quart of cold water. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for two hours, after it is at boiling heat. Add a teacupful of rice, or either of the following vegetables: a pint of green peas or French beans, strung, but not cut up; a cauliflower divided into branches, or a vegetable marrow peeled and cut into quarters. In either case stew half an hour longer. Serve very hot. 132. VEAL CUTLETS AND BACON. About a pound and a quarter of veal and half a pound of bacon will be sufficient to serve to three persons. Cut the bacon into six rashers without bone or skin, and the veal into nine pieces of equal size. Mix a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of white pepper with a tablespoonful of dried flour, and dredge it over both sides of the veal. Put a fryingpan over a slow fire, and when it is hot put in the bacon, and fry till slightly browned on both sides; take it out and put in the veal, and fry very slowly till nicely browned ; it will require twenty-five minutes. Lay the veal on a hot dish with the bacon round it, and pour the gravy, made as follows, in the dish. Pour away the fht and dredge the fryingpan over with a dessert- spoonful of flour, put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut; shake the pan over the fire till the flour is slightly browned, stir in a teacupful of boiling water, add a dessertspoonful of ketchup, and a few drops of vinegar. Continue to shake the pan, and boil the gravy for ten minutes. 133. VEAL AND BACON PIE. Moisten half a pound of flour with sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste; press it out and place a quarter of a pound of good dripping in the centre; fold it over and roll it out, dredge it with flour, fold it over again. Cut up into eight pieces of equal size and thickness about a pound and a quarterBEEF, TRIPE, VEAL, ETC. 5.* of veal off the lean end of the knuckle ; cut up six ounces of streaky bacon into eight slices; season the veal with a small teaspoon fill of pepper and rather less of salt. Bub the edge of a pie dish with dripping. Roll out a fourth part of the paste, cut it into strips an inch broad, put it round the edge of the dish, wet it slightly with cold water, put the veal and bacon into the dish, add a teacupful of cold water. Boll out the rest of the paste to the size of the dish, put it over, press round the edge to make it adhere, trim round with a sharp knife, make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. 134. LIVER AND BACON. Cut up the liver into slices, dredge it on both sides with flour. Cut the bacon into rashers without skin or bones. Put the fryingpan over a clear fire, put in the bacon and fry both sides till slightly browned, put in the liver and fry it slowly till done, turn it twice while frying. It should be nicely browned on both sides, and will require twenty minutes. Put the liver neatly on a hot dish, and the bacon round it. Make a gravy as follows and pour it over. Pour away the fat, and dredge about a dessertspoonful of dour over the frying- pan ; put in half an ounce of butter, shake the pan over the fire till the butter froths; add half a salt- spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper and mustard, and a teacupful of hot water; continue to shake the pan for three minutes after the gravy boils. 134a. STEWED CALF’S EARS OR FEET. Split the ears or feet and well wash them. Peel and slice an cnion, a carrot, a turnip, and a small head of celery. Season with a large teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, and a grain of mace. Put the whole into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, boil up, skim, add a teacupful of rice, and simmer till done. Ears will require an hour and three-quarters, and feet three hours. Serve as soon as done.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 56 POEK, ETC. Index to Pork, etc. No. Apple Sauce .... 157 Bacon Baked with Eggs 150 ,, Boiled .... 149 Giblet Pie 159 ,, Pudding . . . 158 Hare Stewed or Jugged . 160 Pig’s Cheek Baked with Potatoes . . . 140 ,, Boiled .... 143 Pork, Boiled Hand . . 142 „ ., Leg. . . 141 „ Chops .... 144 • Second Pressings. „ Cutlets with Mock Tomato Sauce. 137 „ Primer .... 138 No. Pork, Roast Leg . . . 135 „ „ Sparerib . 136 „ Sausages . . . 145 „ „ Boiled . 146 „ „ Pudding 147 Rabbit Boiled with Onion Sauce . . . 152 „ Curried . . . 155 „ Jugged. . . . 154 „ Stewed with Cab- bage .... 153 Raised Pie 148 Roast Goose .... 156 » Pig 151 Savoury Pork .... 139 Wild Duck 160a 135. ROAST LEG OP PORK. Take a very sharp-pointed knife and score the upper side of the skin at distances of a quarter of an inch; loosen the skin of the under part; make a stuffing with two medium sized onions, chopped, a saltspoonful of dried sage, rubbed to powder, a saltspoonful of salt, rather less of pepper, and a dessertspoonful of fine crumbs of bread, all mixed well together. Put this stuffing in the vacancy made by loosening the skin, pass a small iron skewer through to keep it in ; rub the skin of the pork over with dripping, hang it before a good57 PORE, ETC. fire at twenty inches distance from the bars, and roast slowly, basting frequently till done ; allowing half an hour to the pound for five pounds, and twenty minutes extra for every pound above that weight. Lay the pork upon a hot dish, the skin side uppermost; pour off the fat, and add a small teacupful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the pork, pour it into the dish (not over the pork), and send it to table at once. 136. ROAST SPARERIB OF PORE. The sparerib may either be stuffed with stuffing as directed for leg, or a finely chopped onion, with half a saltspoonful of powdered sage, may be well rubbed over it; or it may be roasted plain. Hang it before a good fire at a distance, and roast slowly till done, basting frequently. A sparerib weighing four pounds will require two hours and a quarter, and twenty minutes must be added for every extra pound. Pour away the dripping, put half of a small teacupful of boiling water •with half a saltspoonful of salt into the gravy dripped from the pork; put the pork upon a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. 137. PORK CUTLETS WITH MOCK TOMATO SAUCE. (Second dressing.) » Peel and slice one large carrot and one onion ; boil them till tender in just enough water to cover them; when quite soft pour away the water and break up the carrot to a pulp, rub it through a fine hair sieve, add a saltspoonful of salt, three cayenne-spoonfuls of cayenne, the sime of ground ginger, a mustardspoonful of mustard, a saltspoonful of sugar ; put it into a saucepan, stir in a tablespoonful of good vinegar, and boil for ten minutes; cut up about a pound of cold roast pork into neat slices, season it with a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper, and broil it over a clear fire for eight minutes; lay it round a hot dish with the sauce in the centre. kiote.—As a change, apple sauce, fried onions, or mashed pota- toes may he served round, the pork.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 58 138. POEK PEIMEE. (Second dressing.) Cut up about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast pork ; rub six ounces of bread into crumbs, peel and chop one small onion and one small apple, put these with the crumbs, and season them with two saltspoon- fuls of salt, one of pepper, one of flour of mustard, and half of one of powdered sage ; put the meat and crumbs into a pie dish in alternate layers; add three or four tablespoonfuls of gravy made from the bones, rind, and rough pieces, and also any there may be under the dripping ; cover it with an old dish, and stew in a slow oven for an hour. Serve very hot in the dish it was baked in. 139. SAVOUEY POEK. Have about three pounds of the thin part of the belly of pork that has been in pickle two days; take off the fat flap that is underneath, put the pork in cold water. Scrape and peel one carrot and two onions, medium sized, grate half of the red part of the carrot, chop the onions and the fat, mix these together, add a dessert- spoonful of crumbs of bread, a saltspoonful of unmade mustard, and the same of pepper. Take the pork out of the water, and wipe it quite dry; lay the seasoning evenly over the inner side, roll it up, put three or four small skewers in to keep it rolled, tie it round with twine also; hang it at a distance from the fire, baste frequently, and roast slowly for two hours and a half; pour off the fat, add a little boiling water to the gravy that lias dripped from the pork, put it into a dish, put the pork on the dish, take out the skewers, pull away the twine, and serve at once. 110. BAKED PIG’S CHEEK AND POTATOES. Salt a pig’s cheek and let it remain three days, turn it and rub it every day. Wash off the salt, score the skin quite through at hall-inch distances; chop a gooda& PORK, ETC. sized onion, season it with half a teaspoonful of dried sage in powder, and two cayenne-spoonfuls of cayenne ; rub this into the scored lines, place the head in a deep dish, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour and a half; then put round it six or eight peeled potatoes, and bake another hour and a quarter. Serve the head, in the centre and the potatoes round it. 141. BOILED LEG OP PORK. If a leg of pork weighing six pounds has been in pickle more than five days, it must be washed and put into cold water ; but if less, it must be put into warn water with the salt upon it. Put it in the pot the skin side uppermost, and quite cover it with water. Let it come slowly to the boil. Skim, then simmer for two hours and forty minutes from the time of boiling up. If carrots be served with the pork, boil them with it; they will require two hours. Serve the pork the skin side uppermost, and a little of the liquor it was boiled in, in the dish. Note.—Eeserve the liquor in an earthen pan, uncovered. 142. BOILED HAND OP PORK. A hand of pork, although not so thick as a leg, requires rather more boiling, in consequence of it being more sinewy. The thin streaky part also requires more boiling. Therefoi'e any of these parts may have half an hour to the pound, reckoning from the time of boiling up, five pounds weight or under, and beyond that a quarter of an hour for every extra pound will be sufficient. If the pork has been in salt beyond four days, it must be washed, and put into cold water ; but if less, it must be put into warm water with the salt upon it. Put it in the skin side uppermost, boil up slowly, skim, then simmer till done. Lay the pork on a hot dish, the skin side uppermost, pour a little of the liquor into the dish, and serve. Keep the liquor in an earthen pan to make soup.60 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 143. BOILED PIG’S CHEEK. This part requires to be well salted, as it is very fat. Put it into cold water, boil up slowly, skim, then simmer for two hours from the time of boiling up. If carrots or parsnips are to be served with it, they should be boiled with it. Carrots can be put in as soon as the water boils, and parsnips an hour and a quarter after it boils. Place the cheek on the dish, skin side upper- most, and put the carrots or parsnips round it. 144. PORK CHOPS. Put the chops into a cold fryingpan, place it at a distance from the fire, and fry them very slowly. The chops should be the thickness of the bone, therefore the time will depend on the size of the meat; if small, twenty-two minutes, and if large, half an hour will be required from the time the pan has become hot. Turn them twice while frying, by putting the fork into the fat; and just before serving season them slightly with pepper and salt; about a saltspoonfril of pepper and a small teaspoonful of salt will be enough for four or five chops. Serve them very hot. Note.-—Don’t cut the chops to see if they are done, as it lets out the moisture of the meat, and also destroys the good appearance. Notice the time of putting them on, and they will be done at the time given. 145. PORK SAUSAGES. Pork sausages are nicer roasted than any other way. Hang them on the jack without dividing them, and let them roast before a bright fire for half an hour. Toast a round of bread, lay the sausages upon it, separate them one from the other, and serve them at once. 146. BOILED PORK SAUSAGES. Put the sausages into cold water, boil up quickly, then simmer for twenty minutes. They may also be served on toast.PORK, ETC. 61 147. SAUSAGE PUDDING. Rub a quarter of a pound of dripping into half a pound of flour, moisten it with sufficient cold water to make it into a firm paste, knead it well, rub a pint and a half basin with dripping, roll out the paste, line the basin, press the paste so as to make it of an equal thickness, put in a pound of pork and half a pound of beef sausages; turn the paste over, press it together so that the water will not get in ; tie a cloth over; put the pudding into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours; turn out carefully, and serve at once. 148. RAISED PORK PIE. Any part of fresh pork will do, but the part called the hand (the bladebone) will be the most economical. Cut the meat entirely off the bone, and trim off the skin, put the bone and the skin into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water, a small onion, four allspice, eight peppercorns, and a saltspoonful of salt. Let it boil slowly for two or three hours, then strain and let it get cold ; it should be reduced to three-quarters of a pint. Cut up the pork into small square pieces; there will be about two pounds and a half; season it with two teaspoonfuls of salt, the same of black pepper. Make a paste as follows. Put six ounces of lard into a large basin, and pour over three-quarters of a pint of boiling water, stir it till it is dissolved, then stir in a pound and a half of flour, knead it to a firm paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Make the pie either oval or round by raising the paste in plaits, press it to make it the same thickness as the bottom; put in the meat, trim off the paste with a sharp knife, roll that out to the size of the pie ; place it over, wet the edges to make the paste adhere; pinch it round the edge. Make a hole in the centre, pour the gravy into the pie through a small funnel, and bake it in a slow oven for three hours and a half.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 62 149. BOILED BACON. Soak the bacon in cold water for an hour or longer ; scrape the skin and the under part, put it into cold water, boil up very slowly, then simmer gently till done. A piece weighing three pounds will require two hours; and twenty-five minutes extra must be added for each extra pound up to six pounds weight, and over that ten minutes for each extra pound will be sufficient. Pull the skin off, and grate a little stale crust of bread over the fat, then serve. 150. BAKED BACON AND EGGS. Cut as many rashers of bacon as wall be required, trim off the bones and rind. Lay the bacon upon a tin dish, and put it into a well-heated oven for a quarter of an hour; crack the number of eggs required separately in cups and lay them carefully on the rashers ; put the dish again into the oven for about seven or eight minutes till the eggs are set. Serve in the same dish placed upon another. 151. EOAST PIG. Make a stuffing with the following ingredients. Two medium sized onions and two juicy apples, peeled and chopped, two ounces of currants, washed and rubbed dry, four tablespoonfuls of crumbs of bread, a tea- spoonful of sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, a salrspoonful of ground ginger, the fat from the kidneys of the pig, chopped, and enough milk to moisten the whole; put this stuffing inside of the pig and sew it up. Kub the skin with a clean cloth, dredge it with flour, and spread it over thickly with dripping. Place the hook through the throat, and hang the pig before a good lire at a distance of twenty inches from the bars, and roast slowly for two hours and a half. Shorten and lengthen the chain once or twice, so that every part may be well done. Place the pig on a hot dish the back uppermost, and serve with some gravy in a tureen.63 PORK, ETC. 152. BOILED RABBIT WITH ONION SAUCE. Peel five or six medium sized onions and put them into cold water. Boil them till tender. Cut up the rabbit into joints, put it into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and simmer gently for an hour and a half after it comes to boiling heat; chop the onions, and season them with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, put them into a small saucepan, add an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfuls of milk, stir and boil up. Lay the rabbit neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve at once. 153. RABBIT STEWED WITH CABBAGE. Trim off the stalk and the outside leaves of a fresh young cabbage, cut it into four, wash it, and leave it in cold water. Cut up the rabbit into joints, season it with a teaspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of mustard, and a cayenne-spoonful of powdered mace. Cut up a pound of the thin part of pickled pork into short slices a quarter of an inch thick. Trim, wash, and cut up two large leeks. Put the whole, except the cabbage, into a saucepan with just enough water to cover the rabbit; boil up slowly, skim, and simmer for an hour and a quarter. Put in the cabbage, press it well down into the gravy, and continue to simmer, with- out the lid now, another hour, or till the cabbage is tender; press the cabbage down often. Serve the whole in the same dish. 151. JUGGED RABBIT. Read the preceding receipt, and put the rabbit, seasoning, pork, and leeks (not the cabbage) into a jar with a teacupful of cold water ; tie it over witli strong paper, and either bake it in a slow oven, or put the jar in a large saucepan of water, and keep it boiling. In either case let it cook two hours and a quarter; turn it on to a hot dish when done.64 MEALS FOE TEE MILLION. 155. CUERIED BABBIT. Cut up the rabbit into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan by the side of the fire. Peel and slice two good sized onions, knead an ounce and a half of butter with two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, and fry the onions with it; add while frying a teaspoonful of salt, and a small juicy apple, chopped ; when the onions are tender put them with the rabbit, dredge the whole with a dessertspoonful of dried flour, add enough of any kind of gravy, or water, just to moisten the rabbit, simmer, and stir frequently for an hour and a half. Serve with or without boiled rice placed round the dish ; if with rice, boil a teacupful in a pint and a half of water for half an hour, drain on a sieve before the fire, and stir it with a fork to separate the grains. 156. ROAST GOOSE. If the goose be trussed, proceed as directed in the note, and then as follows. Peel and chop three good sized onions and two juicy apples ; season them with a teaspoonful of sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and of dry sage, rubbed to powder. Put this stuffing into the body of the goose; pull the rump through the slit, put the hook through the back, hang it before a good fire, and roast at a distance of twenty inches from the bars for an hour, then put it three inches nearer, and roast till done, basting it frequently from the beginning. A Michaelmas or Christmas goose will require two hours. Place it on a hot dish, breast uppermost, pull out the skewers, pour off the fat, add a teacupful of boiling gravy or water to that which dripped from the goose, pom- it into the dish, and serve. Note.—Lay the goose upon its back, the head towards the left hand, cut a slit just above the rump, insert the fingers and draw out the whole of the inside very carefully, cut off the feet, cut off the pinions, push back the skin of the neck towards the body, and cut off the neck close to the body. Put the fingers into the breast and pull out the crop. Wipe the inside well with a clean wet cloth, and then with a dry one. Put the wings down the side, press the legs up towards them, put skewers65 POKE, ETC. through to secure both. Pull the skiu over the neck, put a skewer through that, dredge the goose with flour, and then pro- ceed as directed in the receipt. If the goose be unplueked, pull out the feathers from loft to right, having the head towards the right hand. Chop off the pinions, singe off all the hairs by holding the goose over a flame of burning paper. 157. APPLE SAUCE. Peel, core, and quarter four or five good sized cook- ing apples. Put them into a saucepan with a table- spoonful of cold water and two small tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and boil till the apples are in a pulp. If the apples are very juicy, it will be necessary to boil very fast, stirring all the time for five or six minutes, to reduce the liquid. Cost, 3\d. Note.—As apple sauce may be considered by some persons as an extravagance, the cost is given. With stuffing in which apples are used, the sauce is unnecessary. 158. GIBLET PUDDING. Clean and prepare the giblets as follows. Cut the gizzard slightly round the centre, open it and turn out the bag it contains, pull off the inner skin and cut the gizzard into six pieces, cut the heart in two ; carefully trim off the little green bag from the liver; cut the liver into four; dip the feet into boiling water, pull off the skin, and cut off the nails; cut the neck into three pieces ; cut off the beak, puli off the skin, and split the head down the middle; cut the pinions into four pieces. Wash them all in cold water, then season them with a saltspoonful of salt, rather less of pepper, half a cayenne-spoonful of powdered mace or grated nutmeg. Put them into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and stew gently for an hour. Turn them into a dish to get cold. Make a paste with ten ounces of flour and five ounces of dripping, rub them well together, moisten with cold water, and knead till firm ; roll it out, line a basin that has been rubbed with dripping, press the sides all round to make the paste of an equal thickness. Take FMEALS FOR THE MILLION. 06 the fat off the giblets, put them with the gravy into the basin, turn the paste over, cover it closely, and press the paste to make it adhere, dredge it with flour, tie a cloth over, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours and a half. Turn out carefully and serve immediately. Note.—The giblets may he served as stewed giblets, by doubling the quantity of water, adding a thinly sliced onion, and stewing them an hour and three-quarters longer. Skim off the fat before serving. 159. GIBLET PIE. Prepare and stew the giblets as directed in the pre- ceding receipt, giving them one hour longer. Slake a paste with the same quantities; only rolling it out four times instead of once, each time dredging it with flour. Cut three-quarters of a pound of beef-steak into six pieces, season it with a small saltspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. Poll out a part of the paste, cut it into strips, and line the edge of a pie dish, put the steak at the bottom, and the giblets, with the gravy upon it. Poll out the rest of the paste to the size of the dish, moisten the edge with cold water. Put the paste over, press it round to make it adhere, trim off the rough edge with a sharp knife, make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. 160. STEWED OR JUGGED HARE. If the hare be sent as it was killed, refer to the note, and then proceed as follows. Scrape a small carrot, peel a good sized onion, chop them together with six ounces of fat bacon, the liver, kidneys, and heart of the hare, four large sprigs of parsley; add to these in- gredients a dessertspoonful of sugar, half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and a cayenne-spoonful of powdered mace. Cut the hare up into joints, wash it in cold water, season it with the above, put it into a saucepan, stir the blood of the hare into a pint of cold water, pour it over,PORK, ETC. 67 cover closely, and simmer gently for two hours, occa- sionally shaking the saucepan. Or it may be put into a brown jar, tied over with stiff paper, and baked in a moderately heated oven for two hours and a half. Serve it very hot, and neatly placed upon the dish. Note.—A hare should be kept a week or ten days. Cut open the belly and take out the paunch, put a cloth into the opening, hang up the hare, and place a basin under the nose to catch the blood. When about to skin it, lay it on its back, loosen the skin from the ribs and back, place the hand in the opening and pull the legs out of the skin, turn the skin over the back, pull out the shoulders, turn it over the head, and pull it off entirely. Then proceed as directed in the receipt. 160a. ROAST WILD DUCK. If the duck be unplucked and undrawn, follow the directions contained in the note under the receipt for roast goose. Hang the duck before a good fire, baste it with dripping or lard, and roast it for twenty-five minutes. Then serve, with a cut lemon, in a plate, and the cayenne caster at hand, and no gravy. Wild duck should not be overdone or it will be very dry and tasteless. Or it may be cooked in the following man- ner. Cut up the duck into joints, season it with a teaspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of cayenne. Put it into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and one shalot and the liver, chopped; cover the saucepan, place it by a slow fire, keep it closely covered, and simmer shaking the pan frequently, for one hour; then add the strained juice of one lemon and two oranges. Shake the pan over the fire for five minutes, then serve. Cold wild duck may be redressed in this way : in this case, a quarter of an hour will be time enough, and the juice must be put in with the duck. r 2 V68 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. VEGETABLES. Index to Vegetables. No. A Few Words on Vegetables Beans, Broad . . . . 172 „ French . . . 182 „ Haricot . . . 173 „ Scarlet .... 182 Beetroot, Baked . . . 186 ,, and Onion Salad . 187 Brocoli 180 Cabbage 170 Carrots 168 Cauliflower 180 Curried Vegetables . . 183 Greens 171 Interlarded Savoy . . 185 Jerusalem Artichokes . 177 Leeks 175 Onions 174 | No. Parsnips 169 Peas 181 Potatoes 161 „ Baked .... 163 „ Fried .... 164 „ Mashed . . . 162 „ New .... 165 Salad Dressing . . . 188 Salad dressing without oil 188ff Spinach 17S Turnips 166 „ Mashed . . . 167 „ Tops .... 176 Vegetable Marrow . . 179 „ Seasoned 184 A Few Words on Vegetables. All green vegetables must be fresh. Everything of the cabbage species must be carefully washed, and the leaves must be examined to be sure there are no cater- pillars left amongst them. Peas and beans should not be shelled till wanted. Every kind of green vegetable must be boiled fast, and always uncovered. Do not be persuaded to put soda into the water. It makes the vegetables green, but it destroys the flavour, and it cannot be wholesome. Peas are entirely spoiled by it, as it renders them pulpy. , Cleanliness must be observed in the utensils used for69 VEGETABLES. cooking vegetables. They must never be used a second time without having been scrubbed, or at least well washed. 161. TO COOK POTATOES. Old potatoes are generally better when steamed than when boiled. They should be all of the same size, and the medium size is the best. Peel them without waste, wash them in cold water, put them into a steamer over fast boiling water, cover them closely, and let the water boil fast for half an hour. Or put them into cold water, and after the water boils up, let them boil moderately fast for twenty minutes. Drain off every drop of water, put a hot cloth over the potatoes to absorb the steam, and let it remain for two minutes. In either case serve the potatoes as soon as they are done. 162. TO MASH POTATOES. Cook the potatoes as directed in the preceding receipt. Turn them into a hot basin, and with a wooden spoon break them up into powder, add (for two pounds) an ounce of good dripping, a small tea- spoonful of salt, and a small teacupful of boiling milk. Beat them till quite smooth and light. Serve on a hot dish. Or they may be smoothed over the top, and browned before the fire, or under any joint that may be roasting; or be made up into balls the size of a potato and browned under meat. 163. TO BAKE POTATOES. Rather large potatoes are the best for baking. Thoroughly wash the potatoes, and rub them dry with a clean cloth, put them into a moderately heated oven, turn them occasionally, and let them remain an hour and a half; or they may be done in a Dutch oven before the fire at a distance; in this way they will require a quarter of an hour longer. Serve them uncovered, and the moment they are done.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 70 164. TO FEY POTATOES. Peel the potatoes and cut them into four quarters, and divide each piece into two. Wash them in cold water and wipe them quite dry. Put half a pound (or more) of dripping into a fryingpan, and when it boils put in the potatoes, and fry slowly till they are of a pale brown colour. Have a hot tin colander before the fire, with a deep dish under it, empty the fryingpan into it, and when the potatoes are dry, serve them. The fQt, if stirred into boiling water, will, when cold, serve again. 165. TO BOIL NEW POTATOES. Put the potatoes into cold water and let them remain an hour or longer; rub off the skin with a coarse cloth, put them into boiling water with a saltspoonful of salt, and boil for ten minutes, drain off the water, shake the saucepan (uncovered) over the fire for a minute, to dry the potatoes, then turn them on to a hot dish with or without an ounce of butter in the centre. 166. TO BOIL TUENIPS. Peel the turnips and put them into cold water, let them remain for half an hour or longer ; put them into boiling water, and boil moderately fast till done. Medium sized turnips will require half an hour. Drain and serve. 167. MASHED TUENIPS. The turnips may be boiled as directed in the preced- ing receipt, or in their skins. If the latter, they will require ten minutes longer. Peel them, squeeze out all the water, mash them with a wooden spoon; add an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of white pepper. Put them into a saucepan and stir over the fire for ten minutes, then serve. 168. TO COOK CAEEOTS. Take the small end of the carrot in the left hand, and scrape off the outside with a sharp knile, trim offVEGETABLES. 71 the top and the extreme thin end; cut the carrots in halves, and the thick ends again into four; put them into cold water for half an hour or longer. They may be put into either hot or cold water, but must boil two hours after the water is at boiling heat. They are improved by being boiled with any kind of meat. The cold carrots that are left may be sliced, and fried in a little dripping, or they may be curried. See the receipt for Curried Vegetables. 169. TO COOK PARSNIPS. Scrape the parsnips, trim off the ends, cut them into two, and divide the large end into four. Wash them and put them into boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of sugar, and boil moderately fast for three-quarters of an hour ; unless they are very large, then for an hour. Drain and serve. The cold parsnips may be sliced, seasoned with pepper and salt, dredged with Hour, and fried in dripping till slightly browned. Or they may be mashed, seasoned, and made hot in a saucepan with an ounce of butter. 170. SUMMER OR WINTER CABBAGES. Divide the cabbage into four quarters. Trim off the outer leaves and the stalk, and after washing the cab- bage, leave it in cold water for an hour or longer. Put it into plenty of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil fast (uncovered) till done. A summer cabbage will require about twenty minutes, and a winter cabbage from thirty to fifty minutes. Press out the water before serving. 171. WINTER GREENS, SPROUTS, ETC. Trim off the outside leaves and the stalks, and well wash the greens; leave them in cold water for an hour or longer. Put them into plenty of boiling water with two tablespoonfuls of salt, and boil very fast (uncovered) for twenty minutes if the greens be small, and half an hour if large. Scotch kale, Brussels sprouts, and allMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 72 kinds of winter greens may be boiled as this receipt directs. Drain in a colander, press out all the water with a small plate, and serve them as soon as done. 172. TO BOIL BROAD BEAN'S. Shell the beans just before cooking them. Put them into fast boiling water with two teaspoonfuls of salt, and boil fast (uncovered) till they are tender. Young beans will require twenty-five minutes, and old ones from forty-five to fifty minutes. Just before serving, dip a bunch of parsley twice into the saucepan. Scrape the leaves off the stalks and chop them. Pour the beans into a colander, turn them on to a hot dish. Stir the parsley and a piece of butter the size of a wal- nut into the beans, and serve them at once. 173. DRIED HARICOT BEANS. The beans must be soaked all night. Put them into plenty of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt, and sim- mer for three hours. Stir them occasionally. Drain in a colander. Put them into a ffyingpan with a small onion, finely chopped, and two ounces of dripping ; add a tea- spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Stir, and fry till they are slightly browned, then serve in a hot dish. 174. TO COOK ONIONS. Peel the onions (three large ones), and put them into cold water with a tablespoonful of salt in it, and let them remain for a quarter of an hour or longer. To boil them, put them into plenty of cold water and boil gently (uncovered) for an hour after the water is at boiling heat. To stew them, use gravy enough just to cover them, season them with a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and simmer for an hour and a half. To roast them, wipe them dry, and roast them before the fire in a Dutch oven for an hour and a half, and baste them with butter. To fry them, cut them into thinVEGETABLES. 73 slices, and fry them in dripping till they are nicely browned. Always to be served as soon as done. 175. TO BOIL LEEKS. Take off the outside leaves, trim off the root and the rough green ends. Well wash, the leeks, put them into plenty of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil (uncovered) for three-quarters of an hour. Drain, and serve them on fresh-made buttered toast. 176. TUBNIP TOPS. Cut away the stems and dead leaves. Wash the « turnip tops in several waters, then put them into plenty of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil fast (uncovered) for twenty minutes. Drain in a colander, put a plate over and press out all the water, then serve. 177. TO BOIL JEKUSALEM AETICHOKES. Peel the artichokes without waste, wash them in cold water, put them into plenty of boiling water, and boil moderately fast for twenty minutes. Knead an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful of dried flour, and stir into a quarter of a pint of boiling milk; boil for five minutes. Drain the artichokes in a colander, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve immediately. 178. SPINACH. Pick out the dead leaves, and trim off the stems of each leaf. Well wash the spinach in two or three waters. Put it into a quart of boiling water, with a dessertspoonful of salt, press it down constantly, and boil fast (uncovered) lor twelve minutes, drain in a colander, put a plate over it and press out all the water. Serve on a hot dish ; or, instead of serving, it may be chopped fine, put into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, a saltspoonf'ul of white pepper, and74 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. a teaspoonful of sugar, and stirred over the fire for ten minutes, then served. 179. TO BOIL VEGETABLE MARROW. Peel the marrows ; cut them in halves lengthways ; take out all the seeds. If they are large, cut them again through the centre. Wash them in cold water, then put them into boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil moderately fast for a quarter of an hour. Serve them on fresh-made buttered toast. Note.—The marrows should not he peeled till just before they are to be cooked. 180. TO COOK CAULIFLOWER AND BEOCOLI. Great care is required in washing cauliflower and brocoli, as little worms secrete themselves in the flower, therefore they must be examined as well as washed. Cut off the stems and the outer leaves, put the vege- table into cold water with a handful of salt in it, and let it remain two hours or longer. Wash it, and put it into plenty of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil moderately fast (uncovered) till done. A cauliflower will require twenty-five or thirty'' mi- nutes, and brocoli a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, according to size. Drain and serve imme- diately. The cold cauliflower or brocoli may be pulled into branches, seasoned with a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a saltspoonful of salt, a mustardspoonful of mustard, and a tableSpoonful of grated cheese, and made hot either in the oven or before the fire. It will require a quarter of an hour. Or it may be curried. See the receipt for Curried Vegetables. 181. TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. Green peas should be shelled just before they are to be cooked. Put them into fast boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt and a sprig of mint, and boil (uncovered) rapidly till they' are tender. The time will depend on the age of the peas, and will vary fromVEGETABLES. 75 fifteen to forty-five minutes. When clone, pour them into a colander, take out the mint, turn the peas on to a hot dish, stir a piece of butter the size of a walnut into them, and serve at once. Note.—A tablespoonful of sugar put into the water improves the flavour of the peas. 1S2. TO COOK FRENCH OR SCARLET BEANS. Break off the ends of the beans, and, in doing so, strip off the strings from each side; throw the beans into cold water as they are done, and let them remain an hour or longer; put them into plenty of fast boiling water, and boil very fast (uncovered) for half an hour, then drain in a colander and serve; or cut the beans through the middle, from end to end, and then across. If cut, twenty-five minutes will boil them. In either case, for variety, they may be afterwards fried with a chopped onion and two ounces of good dripping; or this may be done, if any be left, on the following day. 183. CURRIED VEGETABLES. Cut up into pieces the size of a small bean any kind of cooked vegetables, and a mixture will make a better curry; slice a good sized onion, knead a table- spoonful of curry powder and a teaspoonful of salt with two ounces of butter, and fry the onions with it till tender, then stir in the vegetables, and fry them till they are well saturated with the curry powder; they will require about eight minutes after the onion is tender; serve as soon as done. The quantity of butter and curry powder is sufficient for a dish of vegetables to serve three or four persons. 184. SEASONED VEGETABLE MARROWS. Mix the following ingredients well together. Two medium sized onions and two acid juicy apples, chopped; three ounces of any kind of cold meat, fat and lean; bacon or dripping, chopped; a tablespoonful76 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. of fine crumbs of bread, a saltspoonful of moist sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt, two cayenne-spoonfuls of cayenne; have two good sized, fresh gathered vegetable marrows, cut off the ends the size of a pennypiece; put in a long sharp knife, turn it round, and thus scoop out all the seeds; fill the vacuum with the seasoning. Make a stiff paste with three tablespoonfuls of flour and a little cold water, place a fourth part of it over each end of the marrow to keep in the seasoning; put them into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil slowly for an hour. Take them out carefully and serve at once. 185. INTERLAKDED SAVOY CABBAGE. Savoy cabbage is best in, or after, frosty weather. Choose a medium sized one, firm but not very hard; trim off all the rough dead leaves, and put it into tepid water with a tablespoonful of salt, and let it remain for an hour or longer, then well wash it, and roll it in a cloth to dry; cut up into thin rashers about three- quarters of a pound of any part of bacon without bone or skin; cut the cabbage across six times, but not through, lay the bacon into each opening, press the cabbage together, tie it tightly up in a thin cloth, put it into plenty of warm water, and let it boil (uncovered) for an hour and a half; turn it out carefully, and serve at once. 186. TO BAKE BEETROOT. Wash the beetroot in cold water, and be careful not to graze the skin, or the colour will escape; bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, and when cold peel it as required. 187. BEETROOT AND ONION SALAD. Peel and cut into thin slices two or three medium sized onions and a plateful of beetroot, prepared as directed in the preceding receipt. Season with a salt- spoonful of salt, half the quantity of white pepper, andVEGETABLES. 77 a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne; lay the onion and beetroot alternately on a dish, add two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and one of good vinegar. Note.—A tablespoonful of grated horse-radish is an improve- ment. 183. TO MAKE SALAD DRESSING TO KEEP FOR USE. Boil six fresh eggs for twelve minutes ; when they are quite cold, take out the yolks, and rub them to a fine powder by pressing them to the side of a basin with a wooden spoon; add a teaspoonful of salt, the same of flour of mustard and powder loaf sugar, two cayenne- spoonfuls of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the raw yolks of two eggs; stir till it is a smooth paste, then drop in by degrees half a pint of Lucca oil, and then the third of a pint of good vinegar; stir till the sauce is like rich cream, put it into bottles, cork them closely, and keep in a close place for use. Cost, Is. 4c/. Note.—Be careful to stir the sauce one way all through the process, or the oil will not mix with the vinegar. 188a. SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. Take the yolks of two hard eggs, rub them to powder; add half a mustardspoonful of made mustard, a salt- spoonful of salt, half a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, and, by degrees, two tablespoonfuls of new milk. When well mixed and quite smooth, stir in, drop by drop, two tablespoon fuls of vinegar. Wash the salad, shake it in a cloth to dry; cut it into neat pieces; put it into a bowl or dish. Pour the sauce over, stir it well, and serve mmediately. Note.—Any kind of cold fish; boiled veal, or boiled mutton, if well done, cut up into small pieces and mixed with the salad, will be found to be very nice. This may be done when the quantity is too small for a second dressing.MEALS FOE THE MILLION, 78 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. «c* Index to Puddings, Pastry, etc. Note and Price List. Annie’s Own Pudding . No. 211 Apple Pudding . . . 220 ,, Dumplings . . 219 Baked Apples .... 238 ,, Batter Pudding . 333 „ Pears .... 239 „ Bice Pudding . . 216 Bedfordshire ,, . . 200 Black Cap „ . . 205 Boiled Batter „ . . 231 „ Sweet Sauce . . 232 ,, Chestnuts . . . 240 ,, Bice Pudding . . 215 Bread „ . . 201 ,, and Butter Pudding 213 „ ,, Cheese ,, . 247 Breakfast Cakes . . . 253 Candied Peel Dumplings 210 Celerina Pudding . . . 197 Charlotte ,, ... 202 Currant Dumplings . . 212 Custard Pudding . . . 235 Dried Flour .... 189 Eggs, Boiled .... 246 „ with Herbs . . 245 Evaline’s Pudding . . 192 Eig „ ... 203 Fish Omelet .... 244 Fresh Fruit Pudding 218 „ „ Tarts . . 222 Frumenty 214 Ginger Pudding . . . 194 Gooseberry Fool . . . 241 Gooseberries in Batter No. 226 Hard Dumplings . . 229 Haricot Bean Pudding 251 Lemon Ginger . . . 236 Macaroni with Cheese 248 Marmalade Pudding . 206 ,, Souffle 242 Meat Omelet . . . 244 Mellesses Pudding . 207 Mieline „ . 196 Mince Meat . . . 224 » Pies 225 „ Pudding . . 223 Oven’s Heat . . . 191 Pancakes 234 Potato Flour . . . . 190 Plum (Christmas) Pudding 217 Bhubarb Tart . . . . 991 Boiled Pudding . . . 204 Botterdam „ . . . 195 Savoury „ . . . 249 „ Souffle . Smyrna Pudding . . . 243 199 Soda Cake 254 Split Peas Pudding . . 250 Stewed Prunes . . . 237 Suet Dumplings . . . 227 Sultana Pudding . . . 209 Sussex „ . . . 228 Tapioca „ . . . 208 Welsh Babbit .... 252 White Friar’s Pudding . 193 Yorkshire „ 230PUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 79 Note. The cost given of each pudding is exact, agreeing with the list of prices subjoined ; therefore, if the right quantities be used, it can only vary with the market prices, which may be higher or lower according to localities, season, and other circumstances. Every pudding is sufficient for four persons, and many of them for six or seven, which will be easily seen by the weight of the chief ingredient, namely, flour, bread, or rice. List of Prices. Bread . . . 2d. lb. Flour . . . 2id. „ Suet . . . 9 d. „ Butter. . . Is. id. lb. Eggs . . . Is. doz. Milk . . . •id. qrt. Apples . . 9d. doz. Bice . . . 3\d. lb. Ground Rice id. „ Tapioca . . Gd. „ Macaroni . . 8 d, „ Arrowroot 10d. „ Barley . . 2\d. „ Sago . . . id. „ Currants . . 5 d. „ Moist Sugar . id. „ Raisins . . Gd. „ Sultanas .... id. lb. Honey 10 d. „ Candied Peel . . 10d „ Figs id. „ Marmalade . . . id. „ Jam id. „ Prunes .... id. „ Treacle .... 3d. ,, Mixed Spice . 2d. oz. Ground Ginger . . Hd. „ Lemons .... Id. each Seville Oranges . . 1 id. „ Presh Fruit . . . id. pint Celery for Puddings 3d. head Isinglass .... Brown and Poison’s Is. oz. Indian Corn Flour 8d. lb. pkt. 189. DRIED FLOUR. It is always better to use dried flour for pastry and puddings; but where there is only one servant, all things cannot be perfectly done by her. It will be well, therefore, for those who live in London, or places where it can be done, to tell their baker to put the flour they require into his oven when it is slack, for half an hour. By tins means the flour will always be dry and ready for use. It is better for all purposes when thus dried. It is well to mention that each pound thus baked will only weigh fourteen ounces. 190. POTATO FLOUR : HOW TO MAKE IT. Eight pounds of potatoes will make one pound of fineMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 80 flour. The potatoes must be full grown and quite sound. Wash the potatoes thoroughly, then grate them (the skin also) on a coarse tin grater, till in a pulp. Put this pulp into a glazed earthen pan with plenty of cold water. Stir it well, then strain it through a coarse sieve into another earthen pan ; pour water over the pulp till all the floury particles are extracted, which will be known by the water passing through clear. Leave it for an hour and a half to settle, then carefully pour away the water, and pour over the same quantity of fresh water. Stir it well, and strain it this time through a fine 'sieve. Let it settle as before; and, as before, pour off the water, and stir in fresh water, and this time strain it through flannel. Again let it settle, pour off the water and add fresh water, and for the last time strain it through muslin. Let it stand till settled, pour off the water. If the surface is not quite white, scrape it carefully. Put the starchy substance on a large tray, spread it out, and place it either in the sun or before the fire, at a distance, and let it dry sloivly. Stir it frequently while drying, and press the lumps to powder with a wooden spoon. To be kept in wood or tin. Note.—The foregoing receipt was worked out by a servant, who was ignorant on the subject, without a perceptible interference with the usual routine of her daily work. It occupied intervals between eight o’clock in the morning and six o’clock in the evening. This is mentioned in order to induce those who read the receipt not to pass it over as impracticable. The flour may be used in many instances as a substitute for Indian corn, arrowroot, or ground rice. It makes excellent thick milk, and light puddings for children, and it may be put to many other uses. It must be remembered that it must be first moistened with cold milk, and then set by, stirring boiling milk into it. 191. THE OVEN’S HEAT. The oven’s heat may be tested by placing a piece of crumb of bread in the centre and shutting the door for ten minutes. If it be quick, the bread will be dark coloured ; if moderate, it will be nicely browned ; and if slow, it will be scarcely coloured.81 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. Puddings and pastry should not be covered when sent to table, as the steam makes them heavy; but they should be served as soon as ready. 192. EVALINE’S PUDDING. Three good sized sour juicy apples, peeled, cored, and chopped, two ounces of currants, washed and rubbed dry. Mix these together. Lay half in a small pie dish, and over it a tablespoonful and a half of honey, then the remainder, and another tablespoonful and a half (which will be five ounces) of honey. Mix by degrees three-quarters of a pint of milk into four table- spoonfuls of dried flour, add one well beaten egg, and one ounce of finely chopped suet; beat till it becomes a smooth thick batter. Pour it over the fruit, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Cost, 10^f?. 193. WHITE FRIAR’S PUDDING. Boil one good sized carrot till tender, then rub it through a hair sieve ; chop fine one small apple and half a pound of suet; wash and rub dry a quarter of a pound of currants, stone a quarter of a pound of raisins. Mix these ingredients together, and add two tablespoonfuls of treacle, half a saltspoonful of mixed spice, and by degrees half a pound of flour. Add a little cold water if necessary. Beat the mixture into a stiff dough ; put it into a basin rubbed with dripping, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for five hours. Cost, 10\d. 194. GINGER PUDDING. Six ounces of flour, two teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger, a quarter of a pound of suet, chopped, two tablespoonfuls of treacle, and a quarter of a pound of currants, washed and rubbed dry. Mix these ingre- dients well together, and let them stand some hours. Then dissolve a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda in half a teacupful of milk, slightly warmed, and add to the rest. Stir well, put the pudding into a basin, tie a G82 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. clotli over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours and a half. Turn it out and serve. Cost, G|cl. 195. EOTTEEDAM PUDDING. Put three ounces of rice into boiling water, and boil for ten minutes, then drain on a sieve; chop two ounces of suet; wash and rub dry a quarter of a pound of currants. Mix these ingredients, add three ounces of moist sugar, and two well beaten eggs. When well mixed put it into a basin rubbed with dripping or butter, tie a cloth over ; put it into boiling water, and boil fast for an hour and three-quarters ; or it may be baked in a pie dish an hour and a half. Cost, 7d. 196. MIELINE PUDDING. Chop four ounces of suet, and rub it into six ounces of flour; moisten with cold water, and knead to a firm paste, divide it into four parts, and roll each out into a circular form, to the size of a pint basin ; grate the rind and strain the juice of a small lemon or Seville orange, and mix it with three small tablespoonfuls of good honey; wash and rub dry three ounces of currants. Kub the basin with dripping. Spread each piece of paste with a fourth part of the honey, and strew over that a fourth part of the currants. Lay them in the basin one over the other, tie a cloth over, well dredged with flour, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours. Turn out and serve. Cost, 8\d. 197. CELEEINA PUDDING. Cut three slices of bread the third of an inch thick off a two-pound loaf, take off the crust. Spread a quarter of an ounce of butter on one side of each slice ; on the other side spread a small tablespoonful of honey. Well wash and wipe the heart of a good sized head of celery and chop it. Wash and rub in a cloth till dry two ounces of currants. Kub a six inch tin, or a pie dish, with butter (half an ounce), strew over that aPUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 83 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and the same of currants. Put a third part of the celery and a third part of the currants on the honeyed side of each slice of bread. Lay them in the dish one over the other, press the top slice -well down, cover it closely with an old dish, and bake in a slow oven an hour and a quarter. Turn it out carefully and serve. Cost, 9\d. Note.—The bottom of the dish that covers the pudding should be rubbed with butter to prevent it sticking to the pudding. 198. CURRANT PUDDING. A quarter of a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of suet, chopped fine, two ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of bread crumbs, quarter of a pound of cun-ants, well washed and rubbed dry, one beaten egg. Mix these ingredients together ; add sufficient cold water to make it a stiff dough. Dip a clean cloth into hot water, Avring it dry, dredge it AArith flour, put in the pudding, tie it up tightly, put it into boiling water, and let it boil fast for three hours. Pull it up frequently to prevent it burning to the bottom of the saucepan. Untie the cloth and turn the pudding on to a hot dish. Cost, §\d. 99. SMYRNA PUDDING. Stone a quarter of a pound of raisins, chop two ounces of candied orange peel, and a quarter of a pound of suet. Put them into a basin with a quarter of a pound of flour, an ounce of bread crumbs, an ounce of ground x-ice, two ounces of moist sugar, half a saltspoonful of ground ginger. Mix these ingredients well, add an egg beaten, and sufficient cold xvater to make it into a soft dough. Rub a three-quarters of pint basin Avith dripping, put in the pudding, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours and a quarter. Take off the cloth, turn out the pudding, and send it to table at once. Cost, 8d. 200. BEDFORDSHIRE PUDDING. Rub three ounces of lard into five ounces of flour; moisten Avith cold water, and knead to a stiff paste;84 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. make half a pint of milk hot, and mix it with two beaten eggs; add a tablespoonful of moist sugar ; wash and rub dry two ounces of currants, stone and chop two ounces of raisins. Rub a thirteen-inch dish (tin, if you have it) with dripping; roll out the paste to the size, lay it in the dish, trim round the edge with a sharp knife, stir the fruit into the custard, pour it on the paste, put it into a well heated oven immediately, and bake for forty- five minutes. Pass a knife under the edge of the paste to loosen it, and slide the pudding on to a hot dish. Cost, 8id. 201. BEEAD PUDDING, BAKED OE BOILED. Half a pound of bread, dried in the oven, then broken into fine crumbs, by rolling it over with the rolling-pin; a quarter of a pound, of suet, finely chopped, three ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of currants, or any dried fruit, picked and washed, a saltspooniul of powdered ginger, two eggs well beaten, and half a pint of milk. Mix these ingredients together, and beat the mixture for five minutes. Rub a pie dish with dripping, put in the pudding, and bake for an hour and a half; or boil in a basin two hours and a half. Cost, Sjd. 202. CHAELOTTE PUDDING. Cut five thin slices of bread and butter without crust, peel, core, and cut up into thin slices four moderate sized good cooking apples. Put the apples into a basin with six ounces of moist sugar, the grated peel and strained juice of one lemon, and let it stand two hours, till each piece of apple is well saturated. Butter a pint basin, strew it thickly with moist sugar, about two ounces, lay in the bread and butter and apples in layers, well pressed down. Pour all the syrup over. Put a plate with a weight upon it over the basin, and bake for an hour. Turn out and serve. Cost, S^d.85 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 203. PIG PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, six ounces of suet, chopped fine, two ounces of moist sugar, six ounces of figs, chopped fine, one egg, beaten well, and a quarter of a pint of cold water. Mix these ingredients together, and beat the mixture for ten minutes ; put it into a pint basin, tie a cloth over, plunge it into boiling water, and boil fast for four hours. Turn it out carefully, and serve. Cost, Sd 204. ROLLED PUDDING, LEMON OR JAM. Grate the rind of a good sized lemon into two ounces of moist sugar, squeeze out and strain the juice, and add that. Make a paste as follows. Hub four ounces of fresh dripping into six ounces of flour, add cold water, and knead it into a firm paste ; roll it out the sixth of an inch thick, spread the lemon mixture over the paste equally, roll it into the form of a bolster, press the ends well together ; put the pudding in a cloth dredged with flour, plunge it into boiling water, and boil fast for two hours and a half. Take off the cloth carefully, place the pudding on a hot dish, and send it to table at once. Cost, 'syi. Note.—If suet be used, boil the pudding an hour longer. Any jam or marmalade may be substituted for the lemon and sugar. Half a pound of either will be sufficient. 205. BLACK CAP PUDDING. Mix four tablespoonfuls of flour with three-quarters of a pint of milk till in a smooth batter; then add two well beaten eggs, and two ounces of currants, washed and rubbed dry ; beat the mixture well, put it into a pint basin rubbed with dripping, tie a cloth over, let it stand ten minutes, then put it into fast boiling water, and boil for an hour and a quarter. Take off the cloth, loosen round the edge with a knife, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Cost, br,d.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 86 206. MAEMALADE PUDDING. Half a pound of any kind of marmalade, three ounces of fine crumbs of bread, two ounces of chopped suet, one ounce of moist sugar, and one egg, beaten with a quarter of a pint of milk. Mix these ingredients well together, and beat the mixture with a wooden spx»on for ten minutes; rub a pie dish with dripping, put in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Cost, 8d. 207. mellesses pudding (Varied). Half a pound of treacle, half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of suet, chopped; mix the suet with the flour, moisten with cold water, and knead to a firm paste ; divide the paste into four, and roll out each piece into a circtdar form, and spread a fourth part of the treacle over each ; grease a basin, and put them in, one over the other ; tie a cloth over, and boil for three hours and a quarter. Take off the cloth, loosen round the edge with a knife, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Cost, bd. Note.—Either of the following articles may be added to vary the pudding. The grated rind and the strained juice of a Seville orange, or a lemon ; three ounces of currants ; three sour apples, chopped; or the inside of a good sized head of celery, chopped. Either ingredient to be placed between the layers of paste. 208. BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING. Three tablespoonfuls (three ounces) of tapioca, a pint and a half of milk, three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and two beaten eggs. Boil the tapioca in the milk, with a peach leaf or laurel leaf, for an hour and a half, then stir in the sugar ; take out the leaf, stand the saucepan off the fire for ten minutes, then stir in the eggs; rub a pie dish slightly with butter, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Cost, i\d. 209. SULTANA PUDDING. Four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, two ounces of flour, two ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of suet,PUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 87 chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, well washed and rubbed dry, two well beaten eggs, and half a gill of milk. Mix these ingredients together, and let it stand for half an hour, then beat the mixture well, and put it into a basin rubbed with dripping, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours; or bake it in a pie dish an hour and a half. Cost, 8\cl. 210. CANDIED PEEL DUMPLINGS. Six ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of suet, chopped, three ounces of candied mixed peel, chopped, two ounces of moist sugar. Mix these ingredients together, add sufficient cold water to make it into a soft dough. Dip a cloth into hot water, wring it dry, dredge it with flour, divide the dough into four equal parts, roll each into a ball, and tie one in each corner of the cloth, plunge them into boiling water, and boil fast for an hour and a half; or it can be made into a pudding, then boil three hours. Cost, 6d. 211. annie’s own pudding. Three slices of bread off a two-pound loaf without crust, half an inch thick, three tablespoonfuls of treacle, three medium sized sour juicy apples, two ounces of currants, washed and rubbed dry, and half an ounce of butter. Rub the butter on a six-inch, pie or deep tin dish ; spread the treacle on one side of the bread; peel, core, and slice the apples very thin; lay the bread, apples, and currants in the dish in layers, put a dish over with a weight upon it. Let it stand for an hour, then bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Turn out and serve. Cost, bd. Note.—The bottom of the dish that is placed over the pudding must be rubbed with butter to prevent it sticking. The apples must be good cooking apples, and the bread one day old. 212. CURRANT DUMPLINGS. Six ounces of flour, four ounces of suet, finely chopped, and four ounces of currants, well washed andMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 88 dried. Mix these ingredients together, moisten with cold •water and knead into a soft dough ; make it up into four dumplings, dredge them with flour, and throw them into fast boiling water. Stir to prevent them sticking to the saucepan, and boil fast for an hour and a quarter. Cost, 4-gfZ. 213. BKEAD AND BUTTEE PUDDING. Cut six thin slices of bread and butter without crust, wash and rub dry a quarter of a pound of currants, beat three eggs with half a pint of milk ; add an ounce of moist sugar. Grease a pie dish, lay in the bread and butter, currants, and egg mixture in layers, finishing with currants, and bake in a quick oven for three- quarters of an hour. Cost, 9 d. 214. EICE OE BAELET FEUMENTY. Wash and drain half a pound of rice, put it into a bright saucepan with a quart of milk, and boil gently for half an hour, stirring frequently. Stone half a pound of raisins, stir the raisins into the rice for ten minutes, then turn it into a deep dish and let it get cold. Pearl barley may also be used in the same way, but requires an hour and a half to boil, and a pint more milk. Cost, 9d. 215. BOILED EICE PUDDING. Well wash half a pound of rice, put it into a quart of cold water, let it boil up, then simmer for half an hour. Stir it frequently to keep it from burning to the bottom. Drain off the water; rub a pint basin or a tin dish over with half an ounce of butter; break one egg, brush the butter over lightly with a little of the white of the egg ; beat the rest of the egg, and stir it into the rice with three tablespoonfuls of sugar and two of milk. When well mixed, press the rice tightly into the basin, put a plate over with something heavy upon it, put it into a moderate oven for half an hour. Let it stand a few minutes, then turn it out carefully and serve. Cost. A^d. Note.—The butter is to prevent it sticking, and the white of egg is to give it colour.PUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 89 216. BAKED RICE PUDDING. Three tablespoonfuls of rice, three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, a pint and a half of new milk, an ounce of butter, and the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Wasb and dry the rice, then mix it with the milk and sugar; rub the butter thickly on a pie dish, pour in the pudding, sift the nutmeg over the top, and bake in a slow oven for two hours and three-quarters. Cost, 6d. 217. CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, half a pound of raisins, stoned, half a pound of currants, washed and rubbed in a coarse cloth, four ounces of mixed candied peel, half a pound of beef suet, chopped, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, three tablespoonfuls of treacle, and a saltspoonful of mixed spice. Put these ingredients into a pan, stir them well with a wooden spoon, add sufficient cold water to form a soft moist dough, beat it for ten minutes. Rub a quart basin with butter, put in the pudding, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for six hours and a half. Take off the cloth, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and send it to table hot. Cost, Is. 4d. 218. FRESH FRUIT PUDDING. The paste to be made exactly as directed in the following receipt. Roll it out and place it in a basin rubbed with dripping; press well round the sides to make the crust of an equal thickness. Pick a full pint of any kind of fruit, and put it in with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar; cover the top with the paste, press round the edge so that it may be perfectly closed; tie a cloth over, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil fast for two hours and a half if dripping be used, and an hour longer if suet. Take off the cloth, loosen the edge of the pudding from the basin by passing a knife round it. Turn out the pudding careiully and send it to table at once. Cost, from Id. to 11 d.90 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 219. APPLE DUMPLINGS. Rub six ounces of dripping, or four ounces of chopped suet, into half a pound of flour till well mixed, then moisten with cold water and knead to a firm paste ; divide it into three, roll each piece out and press it round an apple till it is entirely covered, and boil in a cloth for an hour and a half, or bake on a tin for an hour and a quarter. If the apples are new, simply rub them with a cloth; if old, peel them. Three dumplings cost Qd. 220. APPLE PUDDING. Make a paste as directed in the preceding receipt; roll it out, place it in a basin rubbed with dripping; press out the plaits so that the crust may be of an equal thickness all round. Peel and cut up four large apples, put half of them in, then add three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar and one clove, put in the rest of the apples; cover the top well over with the paste, press it down that water may not get in ; tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for two hours and a half if the crust be made of dripping, and an hour longer if suet be used. Take off the cloth, pass a knife round the edge of the basin, turn out the pudding carefully and send it to table at once. Cost, Sd. 221. RHUBARB TART. Strip off the skin, and then cut up the rhubarb into pieces an inch long; put it into a pint and a half pie dish with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar; no water. Grease the edge of the dish -with dripping. Make a paste as follows. Rub two ounces of dripping into six ounces of flour, then moisten it with cold water, knead it into a firm paste, roll it out, and place in small pieces all over the surface three ounces more dripping, dredge it with flour, roll it up in the form of a bolster, then roll it out twice more. Line the edge of the dish with a strip of paste, wet it with water, roll out the rest of the paste to the size of the dish, put it over, press itPUDDINGS, PASTET, ETC. 91 lightly with the thumb, trim round the edge, make a hole in the centre, and bake an hour and a quarter. Cost, 8il. 222. FEUIT TAETS OP ANT KIND. Pick, or peel and cut up, the fruitto a pint and a half allow a quarter of a pound of moist sugar. Except large unripe gooseberries, damsons, or black currants ; these require five ounces of sugar. Never put water to any fruit. Make a paste exactly as directed in the pre- ceding receipt for rhubarb tart, and bake the tart, according to the fruit that is used, from an hour to an hour and a half in a moderately heated oven. Butter or lard may be used, but the cost will be increased from 3d. to bd. over that given. 223. MINCE MEAT PUDDING. Lay in a small shallow pie dish five tablespoonfuls of the mince meat, made as directed in the following receipt. Make a paste with three tablespoonfuls of custard powder and three-quarters of a pint of milk, moisten the powder with cold milk, then add, stirring all the time, the remainder of the quantity, hot but not boiling, and pour it over the mince meat. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Cost, 8cZ. 224. MINCE MEAT. Plalf a pound of currants, well washed, rubbed dry, and slightly chopped ; half a pound of raisins, stoned and finely chopped ; three good sized sour juicy apples, peeled, cored, and finely chopped; three-quarters of a pound of double tripe with the fat in it, washed, well dried, and very finely chopped; half a pound of moist sugar, a saltspoonful of mixed spice, and a good sized wineglassful of rum or brandy. Mix these ingredients well together, put the mixture into ajar, cover it closely with writing paper, and keep it in a cool dry place till wanted. It will keep well lor a month or six weeks. Cost, Is. Icl.92 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 225. MINCE PIE. Four ounces of lard, six ounces of flour, and three- quarters of a pound of mince meat, made as directed in the preceding receipt, hub half of the lard into the flour, add sufficient cold water to form a firm paste, knead it, and then roll it out, place the rest of the lard in the centre, fold over the sides and roll it out, fold it over and roll it out again twice. Then line a tin dish with a third of the paste ; lay in the mince meat equally over the centre, wet the edge, roll the remainder of the paste to the size of the dish, place it over, press it round, trim the edge with a sharp knife, make a hole in the centre, and bake for one hour. Cost, 10d. 226. PIPE GOOSEBEKEIES IN BATTER. Four ounces of flour mixed with a gill of cold water till in a thick batter ; then add two ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of chopped suet, two beaten eggs, and, when well mixed, three-quarters of a pint of ripe gooseberries. Put the mixture into a basin rubbed with dripping, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for two hours and a half; or bake in a dish one hour and a half. Cost, 7\d. 227. SUET DUMPLINGS OR PUDDING. Two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, half a saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to make it into a soft dough. Beat the dough till it is quite smooth, then divide into four equal parts, dredge a cloth with flour, tie each dumpling in a corner, plunge them into boiling water, and boil fast for two hours. If made into a pudding, boil it four hours. Cost, 4d. 228. SUSSEX PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, half a saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to make it into a firm dough ; roll it up in the form of a bolster; throw it into boiling water ; stir to prevent sticking to the saucepan, and boilPUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 93 fast for an hour and a quarter; take it up, cut it into six pieces, place it under any joint that is being roasted, and when slightly browned, serve with the meat and very hot. Cost, 1 \d. 229. HARD DUMPLINGS. Follow the preceding receipt, and make it into four dumplings ; and boil them with any joint. 230. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Make a batter exactly as directed in the following receipt. Rub a flat tin. dish with dripping, pour in the batter, and place it under the joint that is roasting before a good fire; when one side is done, cut down the centre and turn each piece, that both sides may be browned; allow an hour and a half; cut each again into three, and serve very hot, with the meat. 231. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. Four tablespoonfuls of dry flour ; three-quarters of a pint of new milk, and two fresh eggs; beat the eggs, mix the milk with the flour by degrees till it is a smooth batter, then add the eggs, and beat the batter with a wooden spoon for ten minutes; rub a pint basin with butter, pour in the batter, tie a cloth over, plunge it into boiling water, and boil fast for an hour and a quarter. Served with the following sauce or with sugar. Cost, 4^cl. 232. SWEET SAUCE. Knead an ounce of butter with a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir it into a quarter of a pint of boiling milk ; boil gently for five minutes; stir in a dessert- spoonful of moist sugar, and when well dissolved pour the sauce over the pudding. Cost, 2^(l. 233. BAKED BATTER PUDDING. Follow the receipt for boiled batter pudding; putting the batter into a pie dish rubbed with dripping or butter, and baking it in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour.MEALS FOR THE MILLION. 94 234. PANCAKES. Beat two fresh eggs, stir into them by degrees four tablespoonfuls of baked flour, then add by degrees three- quarters of a pint of new milk ; beat the batter with a wooden spoon for ten minutes; put an ounce of sweet dripping or lard into a clean bright fryingpan, and when boiling hot, put in a fourth part of the batter, and fry till of a pale brown colour, then turn and fry the other side ; do the same for each pancake. Serve very hot, and the moment they are done. Cost, 5d. 235. BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. Boil a pint of milk with three ounces of loaf sugar, and the thin yellow part of the peel of half a lemon, or a laurel leaf, in it; beat four fresh eggs, add the milk to the eggs while warm, but not boiling; mb a pie dish with butter, pour in the custard, grate the sixth part of a nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. A very thin edge of paste may be put round the dish, if liked. The custard may be baked in six small cups; in that case, bake twelve minutes. Cost, 7 d. 236. LEMON GINGER PUDDING. A quarter of a pound of suet, chopped, a quarter of a pound of flour, three tablespoonfuls of honey, the grated rind and the strained juice of a small lemon, and a good teaspoonful of powdered ginger ; mix these ingredients well together, and let it stand some time, then add a wineglassful of milk, slightly warmed, and with a small saltspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in it; stir well; put the pudding into a basin; tie a cloth over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours and a half; then turn it out and serve. Cost, Id. 237. STEWED PRUNES. Put a pound of prunes into a bright saucepan with half a pint of cold water, and a piece of bruised gingerPUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 95 the size of a small nut. Let them get hot slowly, and if they swell very much add a little more water. When they boil, skim well, then simmer gently till the prunes are quite tender, about an hour and a half. Serve cold. Take out the ginger before serving. 238. BAKED APPLES. Wash the apples in cold water, wipe them dry, scoop out the core with a sharp-pointed knife, fill the vacancy with moist sugar, place the apples on a tin dish and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Good hot or cold. 239. BAKED (unripe) PEARS. Wash the pears, wipe them dry, place them on a tin dish, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. Serve cold. This is only for unripe dessert pears. 240. BOILED CHESTNUTS. Put the nuts into hot water and boil them for a quarter of an hour, then drain them, and when cold enough to handle, take off the husks and the skin, put the nuts into cold water with a saltspoonful of salt, and boil till quite tender. Then drain off the water and serve them on a napkin. They can be eaten either with butter and salt, with new milk, or with any kind of jelly or jam, and are very good with either. 241. GOOSEBERRY POOL. Pick a pint and a half of unripe gooseberries, put them into a saucepan with three ounces of moist sugar and two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Simmer gently till quite tender, then beat them up into a pulp, turn out to get cold, then serve with half a pint of new milk in a jug. Cost, 5d. 242. MARMALADE SOUFFLE. Bake a tablespoonful and a half of flour for ten minutes, till it is dry and hard. Roll it with the roll- ing-pin till in a fine powder, and when quite cold,96 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. knead it with an ounce of butter, and stir it into a quarter of a pint of boiling milk till it thickens, add a tablespoonful of moist sugar, then let it get cold. Beat the yolks of two large eggs, and add them; stir in a tablespoonful and a half of any kind of marmalade. Beat the white of the eggs to a froth, put them in, and beat the mixture for five minutes or longer. Rub a 'pint deep tin dish with butter, put in the mixture and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve immediately. Cost, ~)\d. 243. SAVOURY SOUFFLE. Follow the preceding receipt exactly ; substituting a mustardspoonful of mustard, and a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, for the sugar; and two tablespoonfuls of any kind of dried fish, salt meat, or cheese, grated to powder, for the marmalade. The cost will be about the same, unless hung beef or dried salmon be used; it will then be more. 244. MEAT OR FISH OMELET. Cut up into very small pieces about two ounces of any hind of cooked meat or fish. Season it with half a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, half a small saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of salt (unless the meat or fish be salt, then omit it), and a saltspoonful of either parsley or onion, finely chopped, or both. Beat four fresh eggs for three minutes, put in the meat or fish. Put three-quarters of an ounce of dripping into a bright small fryingpan, put it over a clear fire at a distance, and when boiling hot, put in the mixture, stir quickly till it begins to set, and when sufficiently firm fold it over, place it on a hot dish, and serve at once. Cost, l\d. Note.—Care must be used not to place the pan too near the fire, or the omelet will be brown, which it ought not to be. Time required is about five or six minutes. 245. EGGS WITH HERBS. Put an ounce of dripping into a tin dish, place it inPUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 97 the oven till boiling hot, crack four or six eggs and lay them in the dish, strew over them the following season- ing. A saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, mixed together and passed through the lid of a flour dredger. Put the dish in the oven, baste the eggs after they have been in three minutes, then leave them till done, about five minutes more. Serve immediately. 216. TO BOIL EGGS. Care must be taken not to crack the shell. Have a small saucepan more than half full of nearly boiling water, put the eggs in with a tablespoon, and let them boil slowly till done. Three minutes and a half will do them 1 lightly ; ’ four minutes and a half well set; and six minutes and a half hard. Half a minute less if the eggs be new laid. 247. BREAD AND CHEESE PUDDING. Two ounces of cheese grated, two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, one ounce of butter, a saltspoonful ol : flour of mustard, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne. Warm the butter till it is like cream, then mix all the in- gredients together, add one well beaten egg and two tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the mixture, put it into a pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Cost, 5d. 218. MACARONI WITH CHEESE. Soak a quarter of a pound of macaroni in cold water for an hour, put it into an enamelled saucepan with half a pint of milk and three-quarters of a pint of water, simmer gently till it is tender (about an hour and a half), then stir in a teaspjoonlul of flour of mus- tard, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, half a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, an ounce of butter, and two ounces of any kind of grated cheese, and one beaten egg. Simmer five minutes. Turn it into a HMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 98 dish, sift over two ounces of grated cheese, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Cost, 8d. 249. SAVOUEY PUDDING. Chop six ounces of the ribs of bacon, fat and lean, and a quarter of a pound of beef suet. Put them into a basin with six ounces of flour, four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, half a saltspoonful of mixed herbs, a saltspoonful of white pepper, the same of flour of mus- tard, a large tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one shalot chopped, and one egg well beaten. Add suffi- cient cold water to form a softish dough. Knead till all the ingredients are well mixed. Put the pudding into a pint and a half basin, tie a cloth over, put it into boil- ing water and boil fast for five hours. Turn it out and send it to table at once. Cost, lOd. 250. SPLIT PEAS PUDDING. Soak a pint of split peas for three hours or more, well wash them, and pick out any that are black. Peel and wash a large potato, put the peas, with the potato in the middle, into a cloth and tie it up loose, leaving room for the peas to swell, put it into cold water and boil slowly for four hours. Pull it up frequently, or it will burn to the bottom of the saucepan. Take it out, mash the peas to a pulp, add an ounce of butter, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt. Beat it well, tie it up again, boil ten minutes, then serve. Cost 3 \d. 251. HAEICOT BEAN PUDDING. Put a pint of haricot beans into two quarts of cold water and let them soak all night, then boil them in three pints of water for two hours and a half, drain off the water, and rub the beans first through a colander, and then through a hair sieve. Add a beaten egg, two ounces of butter, two saltspoonfuls of salt, aud half a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne. Beat till it is well mixed, then tie it up in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, andPUDDINGS, PASTRY, ETC. 09 boil fast for twenty minutes. Turn out and serve at once. Cost, ojjd. 252. WELSH RABBIT. Cut a slice of bread an inch thick and toast one side of it to a pale brown, cut off the crust, and spread the untoasted side with butter. Cut into thin slices, about two ounces of any kind of cheese, lay half of it on the bread, then spread over it a teaspoonful of made mustard and half a saltspoonful of pepper, put the re- mainder of the cheese on that, and over the cheese about an ounce of butter. Place it before a good fire for twenty minutes. 253. BREAKFAST CAKES. Half a pound of flour, a saltspoonful of tartaric acid, a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda and a quarter of a pint of milk. Rub the acid into the flour, till well mixed; make the milk slightly warm, stir the soda into it, pour it into the flour, knead it to dough and form it into four cakes, bake them either in a well heated oven, or over the fire, in an untinned thick iron frying- pan, about twenty-five minutes. Cut them open, butter them and serve immediately, or they are very good cold, eaten as bread. Cost 2\d. 254. SODA CAKE. One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of currants, well washed, six ounces of moist sugar, one egg, beaten, half a pint of milk just warmed, a small teaspoonful of tartaric acid and a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Rub the acid and the butter well into the flour, then put in the currants and sugar, when well mixed add the egg, and then stir the carbonate of soda into the milk and stir that into the rest, till well moistened. Grease a cake tin, put in the mixture and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Cost, ll^d.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 100 DELICACIES FOE INVALIDS. Index to Delicacies for Invalids. Arrowroot No. 261 „ with Milk. . 262 Barley Water . . . . 256 Beef Tea 278 Calf s Foot Jelly . . . 277 Chicken, Boiled . . . 284 ,, Broth . . . 286 ,, Roasted . . . 285 ,, Minced . . . 286a Cocoa 266 Cooling Drinks . . . 260 Custard 271 Fish—Boiled Skate . . 283 yy yy Sol© . 281 „ „ Whiting . 282 Gruel 255 Indian Corn Flour Milk 270 Isinglass and Milk . . 267 No. Lemonade 258 Linseed Tea .... 269 Mixed Meat Tea . . . 279 Mutton Broth .... 280 Note to Delicacies . below Puddings, Bread Crumbs 275 „ Oswego . . 276 ,, Potato Flour. 273 „ Bice, Ground 274 yy yy xjuiicu. . ■£ / Sago 264 „ with Milk . . . 265 Tamarind Tea .... 257 Tapioca Milk .... 263 Toast Water .... 259 Treacle Posset .... 268 Veal Tea 279 Note on Delicacies for Invalids. Unless ordered by the doctor, cream, brandy, or wine should not be given to invalids; but if ordered, the quantity prescribed may be added as indicated in the receipts. All essences, leaves, and other flavourings, must be avoided, as well as spice, strong-flavoured vegetables, and all condiments. Everything must be pure, simple, good, well cooked and easy of digestion. 255. GEUEL. i Moisten a dessertspoonful of ‘ Robinson’s patent groats,’ with a tablespoonful of cold water, stir till101 DELICACIES FOR INVALIDS. smooth, add by degrees, three-quarters of a pint of boiling water, stir over the fire till it boils, then let it simmer for ten minutes. Sweeten with a teaspoonful of moist sugar, or send it up plain, with salt or sugar to be added, to the fancy of the invalid. 256. BARLEY WATER. An ounce of pearl barley boiled in a quart of water for two hours and a half; stirred and skimmed fre- quently. Strain into a jug, and sweeten with a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar-candy, and if acids be permitted by the doctor add the strained juice of a lemon. 257. TAMARIND TEA. Put half a pound of tamarinds, and two ounces of sugar-candy, into a jug, and pour over them a quart of boiling water. Cover the jug, to keep in the steam, and when cold, strain. The tamarinds will serve a second time by adding half the quantity to them. 258. LEMONADE. Slice two lemons, and take out the pips, put the lemon into a jug, with two ounces of loaf sugar, and a pint and a half of boiling water, cover the jug. When cold, strain through a piece of muslin. 259. TOAST WATER. Cut a piece of bread about two inches square ; toast it till perfectly brown through, but not burnt; put it into a jug, and pour over it a quart of boiling filtered water. Cover it and let it stand till cold. 260. A COOLING DRINK. Half an ounce of cream of tartar, the strained juice of a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of honey, and a quart of boiling filtered water. Mix all together, cover over, and when cold it is ready for use.102 MEALS FOE THE MILLION-. 261. ARROWROOT. Moisten two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, when quite smooth, pour in half a pint of boiling water; put it into a bright saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes, sweeten with three teaspoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, or sugar-candy. Add the wine or brandy prescribed. 262. ARROWROOT WITH MILK. Follow the preceding receipt, substituting milk for water. Add the brandy prescribed. 263. TAPIOCA MILK. A tablespoonful of tapioca boiled in a pint of milk for two hours; stir frequently, to keep it from burning to the bottom of the saucepan ; sweeten with a dessert- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar ; a new-laid egg, well beaten, may be added, stirred in two minutes before serving; or where cream is ordered, a tablespoonful of thick, fresh cream instead of the egg. 264. SAGO. Put a dessertspoonful of sago into nearly a pint of cold water, and simmer gently, stirring frequently, for an hour and a quarter ; slum as it comes to the boil; sweeten with a dessertspoonful of pounded loaf sugar. Add the wine or brandy prescribed. 265. SAGO WITH MILK. Use the same quantities as in the preceding receipt, substituting milk for water. Add the brandy pre- scribed. 266. COCOA. The most wholesome cocoa is made from the nibs. Two ounces to a quart of water, boiled five hours, then strained, when cold skim off the fat; the quantity will be reduced to a pint. It is always better made the day103 DELICACIES FOR INVALIDS. before, and then boiled up when wanted ; serve boiling milk with it. 267. ISINGLASS AND MILK. Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of new milk, sweeten with a dessert- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar ; beat the yolk of a new- laid egg; boil the milk till the isinglass is quite dis- solved, then pour it while boiling over the egg. May be taken either hot or cold according to the fancy of the invalid. Water may be used instead of milk, rather less in quantity, and wine added as prescribed. 268. TREACLE POSSET. Boil half a pint of milk, and while boiling drop in two tablespoonfuls of treacle, stir for a minute. To be taken quite hot, for a cold. 269. LINSEED TEA. Put an ounce of linseed and half an ounce of Spanish liquorice into a jug, and pour over it a pint and a half of boiling water ; let it stand till cold, then strain. To be taken hot or cold; very good for a cough ; and also for an irritation of the bladder. 270. INDIAN CORN THICK MILK. Moisten a dessertspoonful of Indian corn flour with a tablespoonful of cold milk, then stir into it half a pint of boiling milk; stir over the fire for four minutes, sweeten with a large teaspoonful of pounded loaf sugar. 271. INDIAN CORN FLOUR CUSTARD. Follow the preceding receipt, adding the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and the brandy prescribed, with another teaspoonful of sugar. 272. BOILED RICE. Wash and drain on a cloth, a tablespoonful of rice, put it into a bright saucepan with three-quarters of a104 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. pintof milk, and simmer, stirring frequently, till the rice has absorbed all the milk, about an hour, then sweeten with a dessertspoonful of pounded loaf sugar, and serve. A new-laid egg, well beaten, may be added two minutes before serving ; or a tablespoonful of fresh thick cream if ordered. 273. POTATO FLOUR PUDDING. Put a tablespoonful of powdered loaf sugar into the third of a pint of new milk and boil it. Moisten a small tablespoonful of potato flour with two table- spoonfuls of cold milk, and stir the boiling milk quickly into it. Let it get cold. Beat two new-laid eggs, the yolks and whites separately, add the yolks and beat the mixture well. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add them and beat for five minutes more. Rub a deep tin, or a pie dish with butter, put in the mixture and bake it in a quick oven eighteen minutes, serve instantly. 274. GROUND RICE PUDDING. Boil half a pint of new milk with two ounces of loaf- sugar. Moisten two small tablespoonfuls of ground rice, with three tablespoonfuls of cold milk ; when well mixed, stir the boiling milk into it, put it into a clean saucepan, and stir over the fire for twelve minutes, then let it get cold. Beat three new-laid eggs, yolks and whites separately, stir the yolks into the rice, add, if permitted by the doctor, two tablespoonfuls of cream : beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them, beat the mixture for five minutes. Rub a pie dish with butter, pour in the mixture and bake in a quick oven for eighteen minutes, serve at once. 275. BREAD CRUMB PUDDING. Put a thin slice of bread into a cool oven, and when perfectly dry, but not brown, roll it with the rolling pin, till it becomes a fine dust. Beat one new-laid egg, with a dessertspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar; add three tablespoonfuls of new milk, put in the crumbs,105 DELICACIES FOE INVALIDS. beat the mixture for ten minutes, rub a half-pint basin with a little butter put in the pudding, tie a cloth closely over, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for hall' an hour. 276. OSWEGO FLOUE SOUFFLli. Moisten a tablespoonful of Oswego flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, add two dessertspoonfuls of sifted loaf-sugar; pour over it, by degrees, and stirring all the time, a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. Stir it over the fire till it thickens; then let it get cold. Beat two new-laid eggs, the whites and yolks separately, add the yolks first, then the whites beaten to a froth. Beat the mixture for five minutes. Bub a pint tin dish with fresh butter, put in the mixture and bake in a quick oven a quarter of an hour. 277. CALF’S-FOOT JELLY. The foot should be split and chopped across. Put it into a bright saucepan with three pints of cold water. Boil up and skim. Then let it simmer very slowly for six hours. Strain into a basin and let it get quite cold. Take off every particle of fat, put the jelly into a saucepan with six ounces of loaf sugar, and boil rapidly, (uncovered) and skim constantly for five minutes. Strain through a thick flannel bag. Add two wineglassfuls of white wine or a small wine glassful of brandy according to the orders of the doctor. Note.—Take oat the bones, season the meat with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, press it into a basin, and when cold, serve it at breakfast, to those who are in health. 278. BEEF TEA. Put three pounds of very fresh lean beef into an earthen jar, with a quart of cold water and a salt- spoonful of salt, 'fie the jar over closely with thick white paper; place it in a deep saucepan of water, let it come slowly to the boil, and then continue to boil lorMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 106 five hours. Great care must be taken that there is no fat on it when served. Dry toast fresh made may be eaten with it, or it may be thickened with a dessert- spoonful, to three-quarters of a pint, of Du Barry’s lievalenta Arabica, or with arrowroot, rice, or tapioca, for variety ; a teaspoonful of either. Note.—When beef tea is wanted quickly, or cannot be properly attended to in the making, it is advisable to use ‘ Liebig’s essence of meat,’ sold by all respectable chemists. An ounce and a half will make a pint of good beef-tea. Price one shilling an ounce. 279. VEAL TEA. Yeal tea may be made precisely the same as beef tea, and may be varied in the same way. Another excellent meat tea is made by equal quanti- ties of beef, veal and mutton stewed in the same way, and for the same length of time.—The meat of each will be found to be very good for those who are not invalids. 280. MUTTON BEOTH. Put three pounds of scrag of fresh-killed mutton into a saucepan, with three pints of cold water; one turnip, peeled and cut up ; a sprig of parsley, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Place it over a slow fire; when it comes to boiling heat, skim carefully, then let it simmer gently for three hours and a half. Strain the broth through a sieve and skim off every particle of fat. Well boiled rice, tapioca, or barley may be put into it if preferred. 281. BOILED SOLE. Be sure that the sole is very fresh, and of the best quality, and not large. Well wash it, then put it into cold water with a teaspoonful of salt in it, boil up quickly, then simmer about eight minutes. Serve with the following sauce, or quite plain, as preferred. Boil two tablespoonfuls of new milk, and add it to the beaten107 DELICACIES FOR INVALIDS. yolk of a new-laid egg. Stir over the fire for three minutes. 282. BOILED WHITING. Put the fish into boiling water, boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for ten minutes. Place it on a hot plate, and pour the following sauce over it. Beat the yolk of a new laid egg with three tablespoonfuls of new milk, strain it into a small saucep>an, and stir it over the fire till it is as thick as cream; serve at once. Note.—The time given is for a small whiting, such as is suitable to serve to an invalid. 283. BOILED CRIMPED SKATE. Wash the fish well, put it into plenty of cold water with a dessertspoonful of salt, boil up quickly, skim, then simmer lor five minntes, not longer, or it will be spoiled. Serve with the following sauce in a tureen. Moisten a large teaspoonful of Indian corn flour with a dessertspoonful of cold milk, add three tablespoonfuls of boiling milk, stir over the fire till it thickens. 284. BOILED CHICKEN. Put the chicken into a very clean saucepan with just enough cold water to cover it. Let it boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for eighteen minutes after it is come to boiling heat. Serve plain or with the fol- lowing sauce. Beat the yolk of a new laid-egg, and add to it, by degrees, about two tablespoonfuls of boiling milk ; stir it up over the fire two minutes. It should be like thick cream. Note.—Put the liquor into a basin and keep it for broth ; save the bones also. 285. ROAST CHICKEN. Hang the chicken before a brisk fire, quite close for the first few minutes, then at a little distance, dissolve an ounce of butter in the ladle and baste constantly tillMEALS FOE THE MILLION. 108 done. A small chicken will require half an hour, but the fire must be good, and the screen must be round it, or it will not be done in that time, and if longer time be taken the chicken will not be so good in flavour, or so nutritious. Serve without gravy or sauce. Note.—The bones will make a cup of very nice broth if broken and stewed two hours; see the following receipt. 286. CHICKEN BROTH. Break up the bones of any cold chickens, whether boiled or roasted. Put them into a saucepan with a pint and a half of the liquor the chicken was boiled in, or cold water, a sprig of parsley, the white heart of a lettuce or endive, and half a saltspoonful of salt; simmer till it is reduced to a cupful, then strain. Take off every particle of fat and serve with fresh toasted bread cut into strips. 2S6a. MINCED CHICKEN. Cut up the cold chicken, take off the skin, and chop the meat as fine as possible. Season it with half a saltspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of either potato flour, oswego, or well baked flour; put it into a bright saucepan, with a teacupful of gravy made from the bones, or the same quantity of milk. Simmer very gently, shaking the saucepan frequently, for half an hour. Serve with boiled macaroni placed round it. Soak an ounce of Genoa macaroni in warm water for an horn-; boil it in a quart of water for two hours, then drain on a sieve, and serve as directed.109 A FEW REMEDIES. Index to a few Remedies. No. Bums, Scalds, and Stings 291 Chilblains 294 Cold in the Head . . . 288 Corn Plaister .... 298 Cough Drops .... 287 Diarrhoea or Cholera . . 289 Eye Lotion 293 Fainting 290 Heat Spots 292 Mustard Plaisters. . No. 295 Pomatum for the hair 303 Scurf on the Face . . 299 „ „ Head . .300 Toothache .... 296 Tooth Powder . . . 297 Wash for the Hair . 301 Another . 302 287. COUGH DROPS. Two pennyworth of syrup of camphor and twopenny - worth of Friar’s balsam. Shake the bottle ancl take ten drops on a piece of loaf sugar, or in a wineglassful of cold water, every seven or eight hours; but not imme- diately before or after a meal. 288. COLD IN THE HEAD. Saturated tincture of camphor two drops on sugar, or in water, every ten minutes for one hour: at the com- mencement of a cold. 289. DIARRHCEA OR CHOLERA. Take from six to ten drops of Rubini's tincture of cam- phor on a piece of sugar, every ten minutes, till relieved, or till a doctor arrives. As a precaution against these110 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. diseases it will be well to attend to the ‘ Advice ’ con- cerning vegetable matter, bones, drains, &c. To keep the house well ventilated by opening windows at the top and bottom, and to be scrupulously clean, both in person and the house. To avoid eating unripe fruit, and vegetables that are not fresh, or that are badly cooked. The following is also a good remedy. A teaspoonful of tincture of catechu, a small tea- spoonful of prepared chalk, and one drop of oil of pepper- mint in a wineglassful of cold water. Note.—These remedies are only given to arrest the progress of disease till medical aid can be procured. 290. FAINTING. Fainting may be caused by over-heated rooms or over- fatigne. In either case place the patient in a reclining position and administer a teaspoonfnl of sal volatile in a Avineglassful of cold water. It may also be caused by debility or heart disease ; in either case administer half a tumbler of rather strong cold brandy and water. And if it be the heart, place the patient in a comfortable upright sitting position. 291. BURNS, SCALDS, OR STINGS. Cover the injured part immediately with flour, and prepare a poultice by scraping two or three raw pota- toes, place it on Avriting paper and apply it, and bind it over Avith a handkerchief. EeneAv the poultice every tAvo or three hours. This poultice may also be applied Avith benefit to the part stung by a Avasp or bee. A little honey rubbed over the surface will render it more efficacious, and be sure the sting is not left in the wound. 292. HEAT SPOTS. Cream of tartar, one ounce; flour of sulphur, half an ounce. Take a teaspoonful three times a day in half a tumbler of cold Avater. Vegetable diet and cold bathing desirable.A FEW REMEDIES. Ill 293. ETE LOTION. Pure rose water, an ounce and a half; sulphate of zinc, one grain applied frequently. 294. CHILBLAINS. Burnt alum dissolved in boiling water. Two ounces to the quart, used hot, and frequently. 295. MUSTARD PLAISTERS. Moisten three tablespoonfuls of mustard with cold water, knead it into a stiff paste, and spread it upon brown paper; brush the surface slightly over witli two drops of sweet oil, warm the plaister at the back, and apply it to the part affected. Let it remain on till the skin is very red. If for a child make it of equal quantities of mustard and oatmeal. 296. TOOTHACHE. Clean the teeth with carbonate of soda about enough to cover a sixpenny piece. If not immediately relieved put a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda into two table- spoonfuls of brandy, and hold a teaspoonful of it in the mouth for a short time. It has been found an unfailing remedy. 297. TOOTH POWDER. Prepared chalk, two ounces; orris root, half an ounce; myrrh, a quarter of an ounce ; well mixed. 298. CORN PLAISTER. A pennyworth of beeswax cut into shreds; a half- pennyworth of rosin broken into powder ; three ounces of yellow soap, cut into shreds; and two pennyworth of opium. Put the whole into a gallipot, and place it in a cool oven ; and when dissolved, stir it, that it may be well mixed. When nearly cold, spread some on very thick wash leather, and when set, cut it into pieces the size required. Cut a hole in the centre, and place the plaister round the corn. The quantity will last a112 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. family a year. It must be warmed when required to be spread. 299. SCTTEF ON THE FACE. Mix the white of a fresh egg with a dessertspoonful of oatmeal, put it into a covered pot and use it instead of soap. Avoid using any kind of pomade, wash, or skin powder. 300. SCTTEF ON THE HEAD. Beat the yolk of a fresh egg, and rub it well into the skin of the head, then thoroughly wash it off with cold water, and rub the head till dry. Do this every night for a week, avoid using soap, soda, every kind of wash, and scented pomade. If the hair be disagreeably dry, rub the skin with pure castor oil in the morning. 301. WASH FOE THE HAIE. Equal quantities of distilled vinegar and cold water, wash the skin of the head with a small sponge, and rub it dry with an absorbing towel. 302. ANOTHEE WASH. Spirit of ammonia diluted with cold water. It should be used sufficiently strong to make the skin smart, and cause a lather as if using soap. Kub with a towel tiil the head is dry. 303. POMATUM FOE THE HAIE. Put half a .pound of fresh lard into a basin of boiling water, and stir it till it is completely melted. Let it get quite cold, then squeeze out the water, and beat the lard with a fork, adding by degrees about three table- spoonfuls of pure salad oil, and thirty drops of essence of bertramot. When perfectly smooth put it into covered pots and keep for use. Pose oil and otto of rose (three drops) may be used, but it will double the expense.113 THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. A Little Advice—Outline of Book of Rules containing many Tilings to Know—To Clean Carpets—To Clean Fire Irons—■ Paste for Cleaning Plate and Tins—French Polish Reviver— To Trim Lamps—To make Dry Toast—To make Tea—To make Coffee—A short Ready Reckoner—Wages Table— Weights, Measures, &c. A LITTLE ADVICE. "When about to engage a servant she should be told all the duties she is expected to fulfil, and in taking her character it should be ascertained if she have health and strength equal to such duties, as well as the capa- city. Firmness, kindness, and punctuality, should be the practice of the mistress in all relations between her and her servant; it will encourage obedience and respect. To teach a servant to be orderly, it is necessary that the mistress be orderly and systematical, as much is done by example. The mistress should visit the kitchen, scullery, and larder every morning, and if she find all clean and satisfactory, that visit should be sufficient. Every room in the house requires the eye of the mistress, if not every day, at least twice or thrice a week. A servant should have everything necessary for her use, or the work cannot be well done; and she should not be called from her work if it be possible to avoid it. It will assist materially in ob- taining comfort and regularity, if the mistress write out a little book of rules for doing the work, and in doing so, she must endeavour to make it so plain that a servant who has just entered the house may open the book on the following morning, and at once see what her work for that day is, and the order in which it is to be done; this necessarily will entail much repetition, i114 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. but to make the rules thoroughly useful the repetition of the daily work is indispensable. The whole of the work should be set down, and then be so divided as to bring into each day the same amount of labour. The writing should be large and plain, so that those who read with difficulty may be able to decipher it. Each day should occupy a separate page. The hour for rising, for meals, and for going to bed, should be set down; and a list of the plate in use and also one of the cloths and dusters in use. Any of the things to be remembered that are thought applicable should follow; more especially those that refer to the drains, dust-bin, gas, &c. As a foundation on which rules may be grafted to suit any small establishment with one servant, the following little outline of a book is given for a house of eight rooms, and three in family. BOOK OF EULES FOE DOING THE WOEK, AND THINGS TO BE EEMEMBEEED. Every room in the house must be thoroughly cleaned once a week. On those days the grate, fender, fire- irons, mantelpiece and hearth must be cleaned; the walls and the carpet swept; the curtains brushed, the windows and the sills cleaned, the blinds dusted, mattrasses beaten with a stick and then brushed; wash- hand stands cleaned; boards scrubbed, the marks taken off the paint; the top of the wardrobe wiped with a wet flannel, everything well dusted and rubbed when required. The plate, tins, dish covers, cupboards, table and dresser drawers; kitchens, larder, scullery, areas, passages, and all below must be well cleaned once a week; kitchen cloths and dusters washed. To Clean Carpets. Pour five pints of boiling water over two ounces of pearlash, put as much bran into it as will absorb the water entirely, and when cold rub the carpet with it all over, using a clean, dry flannel to rub it in with.115 THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. When thoroughly rubbed, sweep the carpet till the bran is entirely out of the texture, when the colours will come out bright and fresh. Bread is a good thing to clean carpets that are not very dirty, but it requires more labour, and is more expensive than bran and pearlash. The carpet should be perfectly free from dust before cleaning it. To Clean Fire Irons. Have a little spirit of turpentine in a small brown pan, dip a piece of flannel into it and then into the fine ashes that fall from the grate; rub till all the dirt is off, and then polish with a leather and fine ashes. Except for highly polished steel, ashes are better than anything else, and cost nothing. French Polish Reviver. Half a pint of the best cold-drawn linseed oil and a gill of pure spirit of wine; shake the bottle before using. Rub it on with a piece of soft clean flannel, and do a small piece at a time ; polish with a very soft cloth. Keep the bottle closely corked. Paste for Cleaning Plate and Tins. Break up about half a pound of whiting into a fine powder, and mix it with three-quarters of a pound of soft soap. Put it into the oven and let it remain till the soap is quite dissolved, then stir it well, and when it begins to thicken add a wine-glassful of either spirit of wine or common gin. Stir till well mixed. Tie a piece of paper over, and keep it for use. When used, take out a piece, moisten it with cold water, and rub it well over the things to be cleaned, with a piece of soft flannel. Then wipe it off and polish with a dry wash leather, dipped in dry whiting finely powdered, moistened with drippings of sweet oil, instead of water it will be found a good thing for cleaning pewter and copper articles.116 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. DAILY WORK. MONDAY. Rise at o'clock. Light the kitchen fire, open the house, clean the hoots, take them up with the hot water, do the dining- room fireside, sweep up the pieces, beat the mats, sweep the passage and the steps, clean the steps, sweep the kitchen stairs, dust well, lay the breakfast, sweep the kitchen, wash up the dinner things used on Sunday, clean the table and the hearth ; dust. Strip the beds, empty the slops, fill the jugs and botdes, dust the drawing-room, take away the breakfast, wash up, make the beds, dust the rooms, dust the stairs and the w.c. Clean the knives and the chamber-candlesticks, wash the cloths and dusters. Attend to the meals; wash up. Go to bed at o'clock. Lay down a cloth before doing the fireside, and be sure that it is clean on the side next the carpet. Cover the table with a dust sheet, to preserve the books, &c. from dust while doing the room. Open the windows at the top as well as the bottom, but don’t open them in foggy or very wet weather. Keep separate cloths for chamber use, and wash them every day. Wear a large apron for bed making, and keep it expressly for that purpose. Don’t leave slops standing in the pail, empty the pail, rinse it out and turn it against the wall so that air can get to it to keep it free from odour. Let every bed be open at least half an hour before remaking it. Don’t throw human hair down the w.c. it will stop up the drain, and thus cause trouble and expense.THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. 117 TUESDAY. Rise at o'clock. Light the kitchen fire, open the house, clean the boots, take them up with the hot water; clean the dining-room grate, fender and fire-irons; clean the mantel-piece and hearth ; sweep the carpet, brush the curtains, clean the window and sills; sweep the passage and steps; dust well; and lay the breakfast; sweep the kitchen clean, the table, and the hearth; dust. Strip the beds, open the windows, empty the slops, fill the jugs and bottles, dust the drawing-room, take away the breakfast, wash up. Make the beds, dust the rooms, and thoroughly clean the servant’s room. Dust the stairs and w. c., clean knives, and chamber candlesticks. Attend to meals : wash rrp. Go to bed at o'clock. If a lamp be used, it must be trimmed every day, or it will not bum well. A basket should be kept in a dry place with all the things for trimming and cleaning the lamp. To trim the lamp, cut the wick off evenly, close to the burner, and be careful not to let the pieces drop into the lamp; pour in the oil within an inch of the top. Wipe the screws and the neck of the lamp, wind it up twelve turns of the key, rub the chimney with a wash leather, put it on, dust the globe, put it on and put the lamp at once in its place. Ten minutes before lighting it, wind it up again, turn up the cotton about the third of an inch high, light it all round with a u-ax lucifer, put on the chimney so that the holes below the splits of the holder are quite free. The projecting part of the chimney should be half an inch above the lighted part of the cotton, then put on the globe. Be careful not to touch the ground side of the globe, as the fingers will mark it. The oil must be kept closely bunged, and in a warm, dry place. The cottons must be perfectly dry, and will require to be changed every four days. Don’t wipe the foot of the lamp with an oily cloth. Wash ground glass globes with soap and with soda in the water.118 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. WEDNESDAY. Rise at o'clock. Light the kitchen fire, open the house, clean the boots, take them up with the hot water. Do the dining-room fire-side, sweep up the pieces, sweep the passage and the steps. Dust well and lay the breakfast. Clean the drawing-room grate, fender, and fire-irons. Clean the mantel-piece and hearth. Sweep the carpet, brash the curtains and blinds, clean the window and balcony; dust well. Sweep the kitchen, clean the table and hearth ; dust. Strip the beds, open the windows, empty the slops, fill the jugs and bottles, take away the breakfast, wash up. Make the beds, dust the rooms, and thoroughly clean the second floor best bed-room. Dust the stairs and w. c., clean the knives, chamber candlesticks, and the dish covers. Attend to the meals : wash up. Go to bed at o'clock. Dust chintz covers every day, and rub them well once a week. If the corners of the ehairs get dirty, rub them with a piece of crumb of bread. If holiand blinds get finger-marked, clean it off with bread. Venetian blinds must be dusted with a brush every day, and when marked they should be rubbed with a damp piece of flannel, no soap. Dust all gilding and paint with a soft brush, never touch either with a cloth. If there be spots of paint, varnish, or polish on looking glasses, or plate glass windows, rub them with a half crown, and they will soon disappear. Be careful not to drop nails, coals, or cinders about the house. Pull down the blinds when the sun is on the house. In dusting china ornaments, be careful not to chip the edges, or break off the projecting flowers, hold them firmly with one hand, and brush off the dust with the other. Use rather a hard dusting brush.THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. 119 THURSDAY. Rise at o'clock. Light the kitchen fire, open the house, clean the boots, take them up with the hot water. Do the dining-room fire-side, sweep up the pieces. Sweep the passage, beat the mats, clean the steps; dust; lay the breakfast, clean the looking glasses, dust the drawing- room, sweep the kitchen, clean the table and hearth; dust. Strip the beds, open the windows, empty the slops, fill the jugs and bottles. Take away the breakfast, wash up. Make the beds, dust the rooms, and thoroughly clean the best bedroom. Dust the stairs and w. c., clean the knives, the chamber candlesticks and the plate. Attend to the meals : wash up. Go to bed at o'clock. In washing the floor, use sufficient vrater to take up the dust, and to thoroughly cleanse the boards, but not so much as to penetrate the crevices, and mark the ceiling of the room below. In emptying slops down the w. c., be careful not to pour them in so quickly that they overflow the basin, and thus cause damage to the ceiling beneath. Brush the bell-ropes, watch-pockets, and fringe over the head of the beds, or they will become a harbour for moth, and not impossibly for other little enemies to cleanliness and comfort. Do not take laundress’s baskets into the bedrooms, count the linen below, and take it up upon a tray. If there be any spots of candle grease or composite on the table covers or carpets, take them off at once by placing a piece of brown paper over, and then ironing the part with a hot iron. If ink be spilt on any woollen article, take it out by repeatedly washing it in cold water without soap. If done at once no mark will remain.120 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. FRIDAY Rise at o'clock. Light the kitchen fire, open the house, clean the boots, take them up with the hot water. Do the dining room fire-side, sweep up the pieces, sweep the passage and steps. Dust the drawing-room, dust dining-room and lay the breakfast. Thoroughly clean the larder, area, &c. Sweep the kitchen, clean the table and the hearth; dust. Strip the beds, open the windows, empty the slops, fill the jugs and bottles, take away the breakfast; wash up. Make the beds, dust the rooms, and thoroughly clean the small room on the first floor. Sweep and clean the stairs and the w. c., clean the knives, chamber candlesticks, and the tins. Attend to the meals; wash up. Go to bed at o'clock. Keep all brooms and brushes clean. Do not put away dirty clothes when wet. Wring them out cf hot water and dry them. Keep the filter clean and wash the sponges in cold water two or three times eveiy week. Draw the water out of the cistern every week, and clean it frequently. Do not throw 'writing paper down the w. c., it will stop up the drain. Wear gloves when doing dirty work. Do not throw bones into the cellar or elsewhere, they cause a bad odour, better burn them. Do not keep kitchen-stuff till it smells. Move about the house quietly; shut the door after you, and by the handle, to avoid marking the paint. Keep the fire-sides neat, and let each fire burn up the cinders it makes.THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. 121 SATURDAY. Rise at o'clock. Light the kitchen fire, open the house, clean the boots, take them up with the hot water. Do the dining-room fire-side, sweep up the pieces, dust, lay the breakfast; dust the drawing room, clean the fan- light and glass door, thoroughly clean the passage, sweep and rub the walls, beat the mats, clean the steps, clean the kitchen stairs. Strip the beds, empty the slops, fill the jugs and bottles, take away the breakfast, wash up. Make the beds, dust the rooms and the stairs, clean the knives and chamber candlesticks. Thoroughly clean the kitchen, scullery, and all below. Attend to the meals ; wash up. Go to led at o'clock. When the table-cloth is taken off the table, sprinkle it with a little cold water, fold it up in the same creases, and put into the press, or under a board with a heavy weight upon it. If there are spots upon it, take them off by dipping the corner of a clean cloth into hot water and rubbing the spot till it disappears ; by this means a table-cloth is always tidy. If you break any- thing, or find anything broken, mention it at once. Be particular in fixing up the candles; fold two pieces of paper, about two inches and a half long, cross them over the socket, and force the candle in; by this means, the candle will always be upright and steady. When there is the least smell of drains in the house, either deodorising powder, disinfecting fluid, or chloride of lime should be put down the drains. Be very careful to fasten all doors and windows at night. Don’t drop lucifers about the house, and don’t strike them on the wall j use the box.MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 122 SUNDAY. Rise at o'clock. Light fires, make the fire-sides neat, sweep up the pieces; sweep the passage, dust both the rooms, clean the boots and the knives, lay the breakfast. Make the kitchen neat, strip the beds, open the windows, empty the slops, fill the jugs and bottles. Make the beds; dust. Take away the breakfast; wash up; attend to the meals. Church. Go to bed at o'clock. Keep a strict account of money laid out for your mistress. Be neat and clean in your person at all times. Go to church when you leave the house for that purpose. If you occasionally wish to go elsewhere, ask permission of your mistress; but don’t deceive her. Note.—The plan of writing out a book for regulating the work of the house, has been successfully followed for twenty-five years. Servants have occasionally ob- jected to it, but as soon as they found that in the end the system saved them trouble, they have used it as wished. The plan therefore is put forth and recom- mended with confidence. The outline of the book is only intended as a helping suggestion, as it would be impossible to give rules to suit all.123 THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. Things to he Remembered. Gas : A small gaselier used daily, will require a little water to be put in frequently; it is therefore better to do it regularly on a certain day every week; there is then no danger of it being forgotten. It is put in at the top of the pipe in which the inner pipe works; the globes should be cleaned on the same day. Be very careful to turn the gas off at every burner before it is turned off at the meter. Wash the globes in a tub with a cloth at the bottom, as there is a risk of cracking them if a pan or a basin be used. When workmen are doing repairs you should lay down a cloth, that they may not injure the carpet or , oilcloth with their tools and chips. The kitchen chimney requires sweeping every five or six weeks, but the mouth of the chimney should j be swept every morning, when the fire is lighted. If good fires are kept in the other rooms the chimney should be swept twice during the year. A broom I should be put up, and the register well cleared every ; day; Smoky Chimney : When a chimney smokes on first lighting the fire, set light to a large piece of paper and hold it up the chimney. If the smoke is caused by : damp or fog in the chimney, this will dispel it. Don't let the leaves remain in the teapot, they will discolour it, and cause it to be furred. It shoidd be emptied quickly after each time of using, washed out with hot water, and wiped inside and out with a ! clean soft cloth, then rubbed with a wash-leather, and be put away with the lid open. By attending to this, the teapot will not get furred ; should it however be discoloured, put a piece of soda, the size of a nut, into it, fill it with boiling water, and let it stand some hours. Pour the water away through the spout, scrub the inside with salt, pick out the holes of the spout with a wire skewer, rinse the pot several times, and then wipe it dry. This applies to coffee pots also.124 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. Sink : Don’t throw very greasy water down the sink, and always put boiling water down it after washing up dishes, &c. Be careful to keep the trap on, so that tea leaves, and other pieces may not get down, as that would stop up the drain and entail much trouble and expense. Don’t throw green vegetable water down the sink, or any other drain. Let it get cold, and then throw it on the earth. Burn all kind of refuse, vegetable matter, tea leaves, coffee grounds, dead flowers, fruit parings, and bones. Don’t throw anything except ashes, and broken earthenware into the dust-bin. Be careful not to throw human hair down any drain, burn it. Don’t leave anything valuable in sight of passers- by.-—Be careful not to let strangers into the house under the pretence of waiting to see the master, or under any other excuse. The boiler should be cleaned out every time the 1 chimney is swept. The water should never be used for tea, coffee, or cooking purposes, as it is not unfre- quent that beetles are found in the boiler; and even though it were clean, the constant boiling renders it j unfit for such purposes. The oven must not be neglected. It is easily j kept clean by wiping it out with a Avet cloth after each time using, or on the following morning. It is not a good habit to put Avood into the OA'en to dry, as it leaves a smell, and consequently a flavour is given to the next thing baked in it. Great cleanliness is an indispensable ingredient to all cooking, and nothing can be Avholesome Avithout it. The cleanliness, too, must be of the simplest kind; no soda, pearlash, or soap must be used in cleansing the utensils used in cooking, or for anything sent to table; every saucepan should be scrubbed AA-ith silver sand after each time of using, Avell rinsed Avith cold Avater, and dried; it is AATell to leave the lid off Avhen put away. Pudding-cloth, paste-board, rolling- pin, chopping-board, bread-pan, cheese-pan, until the lids, should be Avell washed Avith hot Avater, and rinsedTHINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. 125 in cold ; dishes and plates also, and indeed everything for the use of the table. Encourage the habit of putting all things in their place as soon as done with. Varnished walls require rubbing every week with a cloth tied over a long broom. If they become cloudy, wash them quickly with a flannel wrung out of hot water, and polish them with a clean wash-leather. Take any dirty marks off’ the paper of the rooms, by rubbing them with bread two days old. Examine bedsteads frequently, and have them taken down at least once a year ; the spring is the best time. If bugs should be in bedsteads, scrub them well with hot water with soda in it, and then fill every hole with white precipitate powder. Keep bed-room floors well washed in the summer, and if troubled with fleas, put a bunch of rue into the water you use, and put another bunch under the mattress. If the boards are marked with oil, or grease stains, make a paste with Fuller’s earth, soda, and boiling water, spread it thickly over the part, and let it remain two or three days. Cane or rush-bottomed chairs should be cleaned with soap and water occasionally. If buttons come off leather chairs or sofas, put them on at once, by passing a long needle through the chair with twine in it, and tie it underneath. If you find pieces of gilding or molu, steel, veneer, screws of any kind about the house, put them all in one place, so that when it is discovered to what they belong you will have them ready at hand. Keep a tool box, with hammer, screw-driver, pincers, gimlet, glue-pot, nails, tacks, &c. always in a ready place. Don’t use tea leaves for laying the dust, in sweeping carpets, but if you do, let them be washed till all the colour is out. The best thing to use is a number of shreds of cloth, list, or felt carpet, wrung out of cold water. Strew them over the carpet and then sweep them off.126 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. Clean combs with thread. Washing them splits the teeth and spoils them. Wash hair-brushes in warm water, with yellow soap, rinse them, and wipe them dry, turn them on the bristles to dry. Don’t clean ladies’ kid boots with blacking, put the hand inside the boot, and with an old tooth-brush wash off the mud with cold water, wipe the boot dry, then brush it with a small clothes-brush, which should be kept for the purpose. The hand should not be dirty or it will soil the lining. To maize dry toast.—Cut the bread a quarter of an inch thick, toast it at a distance till it is nicely browned all over, turn it, and toast the other side. Then put it into the rack. Dry toast should be quite crisp through. To make tea.—The inside of the pot must be bright, or at least quite free from fur. For two breakfast cups of good tea, put in three ladles. Make the pot quite hot, put in the tea, and pour fresh boiled water over it. Let it stand four or five minutes. Never put water in a second time without putting in more tea. To make coffee.—The coffee must be fresh ground : make the biggin hot, put the coffee into the lower part of the upper compartment, press it down with the coarse drainer, pour the quantity required of fresh boiled water over, stand it on the hob, or before the fire till it has filtered through. Take off the upper part and send the coffee to table at once. To make very strong coffee an ounce to a cup is required. The flavour of coffee is much improved by slightly re-roasting the coffee before grinding it. It may be done in a small untinned iron frying-pan (which should be kept for the purpose). Put in the coffee, and shake it over the fire till it is quite hot. The little pan will cost about 9d.THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED 127 =e *>4 C 04 <5J Cj =*** CO 04 O ■*— B O cj . Ho Ho HH col-f Ho H* -e r- CO CD O 04 CD 05 r-H vO 05 1—( r—1 catH s. 0 o 1—1 f-H r-H CM CM CM CO CO CO CO o o o o o O O O o o o Ho HO Ho Ho Ho o Ol o 05 O H t'- r-H 04 CD •“* r-H ^\o\ <c O o i—t f-H r-H CM 04 CM 04 CO CO CO =4 o o O o o O o O O o o . Ho ecH Hh Ho rtlH Hh Ho MlH "e o 05 f—t H< t— O <M VO CO r-H CO r-H i-H HH *; o o •—t 1—1 i-H r-H (M CM 04 04 CO CO o o ® o o o O o o O o CD C5 o CO CD 05 o CO CD 05 o *-hs CO «c’ O o ’-' l-H r-H CM CM 04 04 CO «« o o o o O ® O O O O o • -40 H* CClH Ho Hh coin Ho ^3 1© cc f—t *—\ H o o CO CD 05 F—1 C0|^ 'J ^ o ,-H ,—i r-H ,—1 04 CM 04 04 CM «rt o o o o ® O o O O O o Ho Ho Ho Ho Ho 'e *o o O CO VO CO O »-H CO CD r—( i-H Ho o-; o o o r-H r-H i-H r-H pH 04 04 04 04 tfl O o o O o O o O O O O ^ Hi ecH ~k* Ho Mhf Hf Ho Hu ““ H CD C5 i-H r-H CO CD CO O O CO F—1 r-H HH v‘ O o o o r—H ,-H rH r-H i-H 04 04 04 =4 o ® o o o o o o o O o *« H CD CO o CM •H CD cc o o 04 vi d ° ° o r-H r-H r-H 04 ctf o O ® ® o o O o o o o128 MEALS FOE THE MILLION § co 'O .CJ O CM o co .O co|h V ■g CM cS g o gi e h-o CJ Cj o CJ ,-Hm Hi* coll* Hoi Hi* Hi Hoi »o <—i H* O 1* o CO C5 CO 13 1-1 CO|tJi o i—i iH <M CM co CO H* — iO o o o o O o o o O o o •q »-h Hoi Hoi Hoi Hoi o CO o CM CO *—1 o oo 13 rH r-H H|C< tc* O I-H( i-H <M <M CO CO ■-jf iO =3 O o o O O o o O o . H<n nil* Hi* Hoi Hi* Hi* Hoi ,r 'e o CO C5 CM t- o o 1* C5 CO I-H t—i Hi* <c* O 1—( r—i (M CM CO CO CO T*l -H 1C iO «(! O o o O O o o o O o o CO CO i—i o H ■H C5 CM id I—1 i-H «c* O i—1 l“H CM CM CM CO CO H* *c =+! o o o O O o o o o ® = . Hoi Hi* Hoi Hi* Hi Hoi H-" C5 CM r-1 H Ci CM CO I-H -i* Ci is co|H s. 0 i—t i—i i—1 CM (M CO CO CO H* —< H* o o o o O O o O o o o Hoi Hoi Hoi -u Hoi ^ 05 r-H CD O CO t— o H* co r—1 CC T—1 H<n c* o r—1 i—i I-H CM CM CO co CO -H •HI =f? o o o o O O o o o o O . HU cdi* Hi* Hoi Hi* Hi* Hoi co-r ^ CO O iO C5 i—! O o CM cc O CO *c O r—1 1—t r-H (M CM CM CO CO CO •H. «ft O o o o O o o o o o = t3 CO o H* CO O -H| 00 o H* CO o is HI 05* O I-H i-H - CM CM CM CO CO CO H* V. o o o o o O o o o o o CM CO ir> CO X Q CO121 THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED . Hu -H* Hi* Hoi Ho* coin Hci H-< •e co t—i 1^ CM o CD CM 05 tO r—1 05 t—i r—i CCH* *3 f—i t—i CM CO CO H* tO to CD JH o © o O o O o o O o o Hoi Hi Hoi Hoi Hoi *53 CO O CD r—i 05 H* o t'- CO O CD T—i —H •c ,-H r—i CM CO CO H tO ‘0 CD CD ^ o © O o o O o o O O o . Hoi Hi* Hi* Hoi cow Hi* H01 coli* •a W 05 to O CM o tO O CO f—i Hw «S r—< r—< CM CO CO H* H* tO CD CD ^ o o O o o O O O O O o *2* CM o CD CO CO O to o IH «C i—1 —1 CM CM CO H* H* tO to CD =->o o o o O O o o o O o . Hoi Ho* Wo HOI H~ coll* Hoi Hi* CO CO 05 H* r—1 CD O 1-- CM 05 ntrf CD ** ^ f-H CM CM CO CO H* tO to CD CD =fl o o o o O o O O o O ° Hoi Hoi Hoi *2 —i 1- CM CO CO 05 H* O »0 r—i CD CD V- t—i CM <M CO CO H* H* to to 50 *a o © O o o O O O o o o . . Hoi Hi* cd Ho* I- Hoi Hi* 1- CM Hi* CO -401 CM Hi* CO CO Hh CD ** fH CM CM co CO i* H* tO to CD M O O O O o O O O o o o *2 O co o CD o CD o CD o CD o cd r"H CM CM CO CO H* H* to to CD M o o o o o ® O O o o o CM 00 1< K3 CO OO 03 o CM —“i KW oj i-H f—» 'C iC CO o CO cc f-H - 'sS CO CO CO o o 00 CO CO w CM o <flo vO <M CO tr, f-H o N o o o o o 130 MEALS FOE THE MILLION. o CO *o O CO ^ o CO CO CO •e co -M CO o CO X ® o CC o ««o o co CO O o o o o o o o X 'Q W o o o o CO w vo cc o co X r-H CO CO w—| CC c o CO 00 COW O CO •—f w -* CO CM H< CO o »o o o co co N <M » CO CO . o O CM CO o o vo CO r-H o O o o co CO oj r-H CO «*? o CM o CO o vO CO cc O CM r- co 00 CM c O' A Ready Reckoner for calculating the Cost of Articles from 2 to 12, at Prices varying from 2cl. to life?. Hi 1— nhr •“1 •"H . HC1 H?« r— He* .Hi H-r Hci eoh* Hr •—*T1 •—1 »—< . Hoi Hn Hi Hr* fHi- -Cl y . ^3 *”* r.it CO R. *-h CM CM CO w VO VO CO X X «(? o O o o o o o o o ® = Hoi Hn H» H?i Hi 'S lO f-H o CO CO *—H CO "T" r— co co —H »-H h|M CO *<i r-H <M CM CO w w VO CO i'- X o O O o o o o o O o o . Hoi coW Hi «H* Hn r>— O CO vo l-H CO CO <M C CO CO f— HH CM CM CO w H VO CO CO X CO c+J O O O o o O o o O o o ^ H O 00 w o CO w o CC' o co <C f—< CM CM co w VO CO CO tH» X «S o O o o o o o o o o o CN131 THINGS TO BE EEMEMBEKED rtlH> Hm H- «k» —I'M -Ih . rH o O O o o o tji O H *—< *-H rH i-h rH CM CO rH o co CO o O r-H T—< q? O O o o o o o o o O o -I'M -I'M —KM —I'M • i-H o o o o CO CO I— t— CO CO r-» *-H rH ^ i-H CM CO rH kO co CO o o r-H r-H =fl O O o o o o o o o o l_) —IsH Hci mw —I'M fClH* "s3 O o o CO *"• CO CO kO rH CO CO 1—1 _ CM CO rH uo co CO o o l—H T—> O O o o O o o o o o o rwj O o CO co kO rH CO CM o (N CO rH o CO CO o o rH r-H c?o O o O o o o o o o o .-*M Hh Hm -l-H Mir* —I'M -l-H *3 o CO O rH CO CM o o rH OS «frH o trj ^H CM CO rH O co CO CO o o T—^ =40 O o O o o o o o o o Hc« Hci —+M —I'M —Hm “3 O CO rH CO •—t o o C5 l— co •5 rH CM CO -H »o CO CO a> o r—1 rH «<=> O o O o o o o o o o . -♦?» nh* H'N «|H« Hn —|M TS CO co o CO f—t p-H o CO co rH CO r—( Hh* vj rH CM CO rH o kO CO CO O o t-H r-* trtO O o O o o o o o O o -s: oo CO -h CM o o CO CO rH CM o <5 %£ r—k CM CO -H o *o CO t'- CO OS o r-H rH «4> O o o o o o o o o O o CM <n VO CO I- X O o CM r-H r-r r-H132 MEALS EOR THE MILLION. Wages Table. A Year. A Quarter. A Month. I A Week. A Day. £ s. 12 d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ t. d. ! 2 0 0 13 0 0 4 4 0 1 0 0 0 lj 3 0 0 0 15 0 0 5 0 0 1 V\ H 0 0 2 3 10 0 0 17 6 0 5 10 0 1 0 0 h, 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 6 8 0 1 0 0 24 4 10 0 1 2 6 0 7 6 0 1 H 0 0 34 5 0 0 1 5 0 0 8 4 0 1 li 0 0 34 5 10 0 1 7 6 0 9 2 0 2 H 0 0 4; 6 0 0 1 10 0 0 10 0 0 2 4 0 0 4 6 10 0 1 12 6 0 10 10 0 2 64 0 0 7 0 0 1 15 0 0 11 8 0 2 9 0 0 44 1 7 10 0 1 17 6 0 12 6 0 2 11* 0 0 5 8 0 0 2 0 0 0 13 4 0 3 2 0 0 jji i 8 10 0 2 2 6 0 14 2 0 3 4* 0 0 9 0 0 2 5 0 0 15 0 0 3 7 0 0 9 10 0 2 7 6 0 15 10 0 3 9* 0 0 1 10 0 0 2 10 0 0 16 8 0 4 0 0 0 i 10 10 0 2 12 6 0 17 6 0 4 24 0 0 7* 11 0 0 2 15 0 0 18 4 0 4 5 0 0 74 12 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 4 ^2 0 0 s' 13 0 0 3 5 0 1 1 8 0 5 0 0 0 H 14 0 0 3 10 0 1 3 4 0 5 4* 0 0 9* 15 0 0 3 15 0 1 5 0 0 5 9* 0 0 10 16 0 0 4 0 0 1 6 8 0 6 13 0 0 10* The weights referred to in the receipts are as follows : Sixteen ounces to the pound. Eight drachms to the ounce. Sixty grains to the drachm. Of most dry articles in powder, a tablespoonful is equal to an ounce; a teaspoonful to a drachm, and a cayennespoonful to a grain. The measures referred to, are : Four quarts to the gallon. Two pints to the quart. Four gills to the pint. Five tablespoonfuls arc equal to a gill; twenty liquid ounces are equal to a pint.133 THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. Special help for those who need it. The following list of baby clothing and other ne- cessaries is given to assist those who may not have an adviser to consult. It was furnished by a young mother of five children, therefore may be relied upon. The price added is the lowest at which each article can be bought ready made. If made at home the saving will be at least one third. s. d. £ s. d. 8 cambric muslin shirts 0 10 each 0 6 8 6 long-cloth nightgowns 2 3 „ 0 13 6 3 night flannels .... 3 3 „ 0 9 9 3 day flannels .... 4 6 „ 0 13 6 4 flannel pilches .... 1 0 „ 0 4 0 7 dozen diapers .... 10 0 dozen 3 10 0 2 waterproof pilches 1 2 each 0 2 4 3 swathes ..... 1 0 „ 0 3 0 2 flannel head-squares . 3 0 „ 0 6 0 1 coloured head-square 3 6 „ 0 3 6 4 flannel bands .... 0 6 „ 0 2 0 4 day gowns .... 4 6 „ 0 18 0 3 slips ...... 2 9 „ 0 8 3 2 robes 8 0 „ 0 16 0 3 quilted bibs .... 0 6 „ 0 1 6 2 pairs of wool boots . 0 8 pair 0 1 4 1 receiving flannel — 0 2 6 1 flannel apron .... — 0 4 0 3 Turkish absorbing towels . 2 3 each 0 6 9 4 fine towels .... 1 3 „ 0 6 0 3 pa irs of (bassinet) sheets . 3 0 pair 0 9 0 1 india rubber sheet 0 2 0 4 pillow cases, frilled . 1 2 each 0 4 8 Bassinet, mattress and pillow (complete) 1 18 6 1 pair of blankets 4/6, 1 quilt 2/9 — 0 7 3 Basket complete .... — 0 10 6 Powder box, powder and puff — 0 1 9 Eau de Cologne 1/6, cold cream /9 0 2 3 Pastiles /9, sponge 1/, soap /4 0 2 1 Pincushion and safety pins . 0 3 0 Comb and brush .... Housewife, containing scissors, whity-brownl 0 1 9 thread, sewing silk, needles, bodkin, bobbin, tape, cotton, buttons .... b 4 6 Total £14 5 10 Everything should bo in readiness by the seventh mouth, as v ell as the following preparatory arrangements :—134 THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. The basket must contain all the fittings given in the list, and also a roll of linen rag, and some singed cambric; together with the following little articles aired, and neatly folded :—The receiving flannel, flannel apron, fine towel, absorbing towel, flannel band, swathe, shirt, night flannel, pilches, twelve diapers, night gown, and a head square. The fire should be laid—coals, wood, wax lucifiers, nightlights, a kettle of water, a footpan, and everything necessary for use in a sick chamber should be at hand— as well as a bottle of brandy, a bottle of vinegar, and Condy’s fluid. The following articles are necessaries for the mother:— Three bandages, the pattern to be had of the nurse; two india-rubber sheets ; four pairs of sheets ; six pillow cases ; six night dresses; six night caps ; one coloured flannel sitting-up jacket; two day caps, and one pretty dressing gown. LONDON PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. NEW-STREET SQUARECEE-FYDD’S HOT-WATER OMELET PAI. §2 gugsl ftfttrs fsttnt. INVENTED BY THE AUTHORESS OF ‘ CRE-FYLD’S FAMILY FARE,’ AND ' MEALS FOR THE MILLION.’ AUTHORISED MANUFACTURER: GEORGE GOSTLING, IRONMONGER, &c. 120 HIGH STREET, NOTTING HILL, LONDON, W. And sold hy him, Wholesale and Retail, with Friulid Directions for Use.CRE-FYDD’S SAUCES. The Authoress of Cre-Fydd’s ‘ Family Fare' and ‘ Meals for the Million ’ can, with confidence, recommend her Sauces to the Notice of the Public. CASUREEP. Unquestionably the Best and Cheapest Sauce to be had for imparting a delicate flavour to Soups, Gravies, and Made Dishes. PIQUANTE CONDIMENT. An Excellent and Wholesome Relish. To eat with Cold Meat, Fish, &c. GIALLA SAUCE. A Savoury Digester. For Pork, Veal, Fried Eels, Fresh Herrings, Mackerel, &c. AXSO AN EXCELLENT CURRY POWDER, Prepared from the receipt of Sake Dien Mahomed, and which has been highly approved of by many celebrated Epicures. Sold in Bottles, Is. each. Prepared solely by J. B. WESTKUP, CHEMIST, 76 KENSINGTON PARK ROAD, (Formerly 1, St. Peter's Terrace,) Notting Hill, London, W. Sold also by CEOSSE AND BLACKWELL, SOITO SQUARE. ft€ i1 «%