tW-Dap Jklp sprits* FLORENCE STACPOOLE.22101734325 IMed K10665N -jEVERY-DAY HELP SERIES OF USEFUL HAND-BOOKS. Price 6d. each, OR IN ROAN BINDING, PRICE Is. Contributors—J. Langdon Down, M.D., F.R.C.P.; Henry Power, M.B., F.R.C.S.; J. Mortimer-Granville, M.D.; J. Crichton Browne, M.D., LL.D.; Robert Farquiiarson, M.D. Edin.; W. S. GREENFIELD, M.D., F.R.C.P.; and others. The Secret of a Clear Head. Common Mind Troubles. The Secret of a Good Memory. The Heart and its Function. Personal Appearances in Health and Disease. The House and its Surroundings. Alcohol: Its Use and Abuse. Exercise and Training. Baths and Bathing. Health in Schools. The Skin and its Troubles. How to make the Best of Life. Nerves and Nerve-Troubles. The Sight, and How to Preserve it. Premature Death: Its Promotion and Prevention. Change, as a Mental Restorative. Youth: Its Care and Culture. The Gentle Art of Nursing the Sick. The Care of Infants and Young Children. Invalid Feeding, with Hints on Diet. Every-dav Ailments, and How to Treat Them. Thrifty Housekeeping. Home Cooking. How to do Business. A Guide to Success in Life. Howto Behave. Manual of Etiquette and Personal Habits. How to Write. A Manual of Composition and Letter Writing. How to Debate. With Hints on Public .Speaking. Don’t: Directions for avoiding Common Errors of Speech. The Parental Don’t: Warnings to Parents. Why Smoke and Drink. By James Parton. Elocution. ByT. R. W. Pearson, M. A., of St. Catharine’s College, Cambridge, and F. W. Waithman, Lecturers on Elocution. London: Walter Scott, Limited, Paternoster Square.‘flflte (Ebcrg-Jaj) fjdp §ci*ics Home Cooking DY FLORENCE STACPOOLE LECTURER ON THE STAFF OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SOCIETY AND FOR THE COUNCILS OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION; AUTHOR OF “INVALID FEEDING," “ THRIFTY HOUSEKEEPING,' ETC., ETC. “Variety’s the very spice of life.”—Cowper. LONDON WALTER SCOTT, LIMITED PATERNOSTER SQUARE CiWjWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMQmec Call No. Qrr _CONTENTS. PAGE I. INTRODUCTORY 9 II. METHODS OF KITCHEN ECONOMY WHICH EVERY COOK SHOULD UNDERSTAND — ECONOMY OF FUEL—ECONOMY OR EXTRAVAGANCE OF DIF- FERENT METHODS OF COOKING — TABLE OF LOSS PER CENT. IN BOILING, BAKING, AND ROASTING — STOCK-MAKING AND KEEPING— CLARIFYING OF DRIPPING OR FAT—VARIOUS WAYS OF USING UP BROKEN BREAD — CARE IN FLAVOURING — VALUE OF SAUCES—ECONO- MICAL BATTER FOR FRYING—WPIAT A MINUTE’S NEGLECT MAY LOSE—HOW TO “ BROWN ” AND “ THICKEN ” ECONOMICALLY—NECESSITY FOR CLEANLINESS !7vi Contents. PAGE III. METHODS OF COOKING—AVERAGE TIME RE- QUIRED FOR COOKING MEAT, FISH, VEGE- TABLES, ETC.—RULES FOR COOKING FISH AND VEGETABLES 36 IV. RECIPES FOR SOUPS (ECONOMICAL) . . 45 V. ECONOMICAL FISH COOKERY . . . .58 VI. HOW TO BROIL A CHOP OR STEAK ON A PAN 73 VII. RECIPES FOR USING UP COLD MEAT . . 76 VIII. ECONOMICAL ENTREES AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 87 IX. VEGETABLES IOI X. SAUCES AND SALAD DRESSINGS . . . I07 XI. PASTRY AND SWEETS 115 XII. PUDDINGS IN WHICH BROKEN BREAD CAN BE USED 127 XIII. ECONOMICAL SAVOURIES—SALTED ALMONDS— CHEESE STRAWS 134 XIV. INEXPENSIVE PRESERVES . . . . 140 XV. ECONOMICAL BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES 147 XVI. NURSERY DISHES 152 INDEX 157HOME COOKING.HOME COOKING. —♦-—- CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY NOTE. The object of this little volume is to show that a number of various kinds of dishes, from soups and sauces down to savouries and sweets, many of them quite elegant enough for a dinner-party, and all of them appetising, may be prepared at very small cost, and in most cases without much trouble. In the generality of cookery books economy is not the guiding principle. Meat for stock, butter, cream, eggs, etc., for sauces, sweets, and pastry are prescribed ad libitum (and unfortunately in some cases ad nauseam also), so that people whose incomes are strictly limited cannot possibly afford to attempt culinary operations involving an outlay so extravagant, and in consequence are in many cases driven to fall back upon a monotonousio Introductory Note. and limited bill of fare, injurious alike to appetite and digestion. There is no reason why people with small means should be condemned to uninteresting dinners of one plain dish. The essence of true economy is the extraction of the greatest amount of comfort and pleasure out of everything we use, and many housewives who think they are very economical because they restrict their families to a dinner of beef-steak or boiled mutton, with nothing before or after it, would in reality spend as little, as far as money goes, but would increase immensely the comfort and enjoyment—and also the health—of themselves and their families, if they took the trifling extra trouble of providing an economical soup to precede the meat (or whatever other dish forms the dinner), and a pudding or sweet of some kind to follow it. They would not spend more, because there would not be so much meat required if it did not form the entire dinner. Nothing is so ex- travagant as to dine entirely off meat, and nothing is worse for the digestion. Soup of some kind or other should be served at every day’s dinner, both for health and economy’s sake. There is nothing more trying to the digestion of a tired and hungry man or woman than to sit down to a plate of meat and vegetables; but if a plate of soup be served first the stomach is prepared for the assimilation of the heavier food that follows it. Soup, it has been truly said, “ wakes the stomach up to its work,” and therefore, particularly in the case of people fatigued from work orEconomy in Soups. n exercise, the digestion is in a better state to perform its function properly. Soup, too, is very quickly absorbed —liquids are much more quickly absorbed than solids— therefore, when people are fatigued and exhausted, they are more quickly revived by a plate of soup than by one of solid food. Digestion is a physical as well as a chemical process, and requires a certain amount of physical vigour for its performance; it is for this reason that solid food, if taken into the stomach of an exhausted person, so frequently causes indigestion or illness. It is very important, therefore, that inexperienced house- keepers should not run away with the idea that soup-making is a troublesome and expensive process requiring skill and outlay beyond their means. It is not at all necessary that it should be so, as a glance at most of the recipes given in these pages for soups will show. So far from being an extravagance, the use of soup is an economy, because in making it all sorts of odds and ends can be used up which would otherwise be thrown away. A writer in a well-known cookery book says, “ Probably the contents of the dust-bins of England would more than fill the soup tureens of France;” and the statement, although not one that is very savoury, is no doubt quite true, because in England soup—that is, economical soup made from simple things—is often absolutely despised. Many cooks scorn soup made without the aid of “gravy beef,” “stock meat,” and suchlike expensive items; but their scorn is merely the result of ignorance. Soup that is pleasing to the palate and nourishing to the body can12 Introductory Note. be made without buying an ounce of meat especially for the purpose. 1. It can be made from the water in which a joint, or fowl, or some kinds of fish has been boiled. ‘ . 2. It can be made from stock made of waste scraps, bones, etc. 3. It can be made from vegetables. Recipes for these will be found in the chapter on Soups. In like manner, puddings and savouries can often be made with very little cost, and with the definite advantage that in making them such things as bread scraps and drip- ping, often thrown away, may be used up. In families where there are children a pudding should be served every day; it is an excellent kind of nourishment, and at every table it will be found more economical and more generally acceptable to reduce the expenditure on meat, and supply some sweet or savoury dish to conclude the family dinner; and in doing this there is no need to fear that the body will thereby be defrauded of its proper nourishment. It would indeed be what has been well called an “unthrifty thrift” to attempt to economise by substituting poor food for that which is more nourishing but dearer. That would be the falsest kind of economy; but to introduce variety of equally nutritious substances into a monotonous meat'dietary does not do this, very far from it. The popular superstition (it really must be called so) that meat every day is absolutely essential is productive of much unnecessary expenditure by peopleNutritious Foods. 13 who can ill afford it. That meat every day is quite unnecessary for health is the teaching of the best experts in dietetics. Sir H. Thompson says: “ There is no doubt that the obvious and admitted value of a highly nitrogenised food, of which meat is a concentrated form, to the labouring man has occasioned the almost universal belief that meat is the most desirable staple for all. ‘If you wish to be strong, eat plenty of meat.’ ‘If you are feeling weak, eat more meat, and at every meal.’ Such are the well-known articles of a creed which is deeply graven in the popular mind. Never- theless, few statements relating to diet can be more misleading, and this is one which gives rise to much serious ill health. . . . The one idea which the working classes possess in relation to improvement in diet, and which they invariably realise when wages are high, is an abundant supply of butcher’s meat. To make this the chief element of at least three meals a day, and to despise bread and vegetables, is for them no less a sign of taste than a declaration of belief in the perfection of such food for the purpose of nutrition.” The belief, like all erroneous ones, is merely the out- come of want of knowledge. If people knew the simple scientific fact that proteid (i.e., flesh-forming) material exists in numbers of other things as well as in meat, they would not be possessed by the obstinate belief that they are bound to pine and perish if not constantly supplied with animal food. As a matter of fact, proteid14 Introductory Note. matter is found in a vast number of food articles besides in the flesh of animals. Milk, eggs, cheese, oatmeal, semolina, macaroni, bread, etc., etc., are ex- tremely rich in it. Speaking of macaroni, Sir H. Thompson says: “ Maca- roni is, in fact, an aliment of very high nutritious power— being formed chiefly of the gluten, the most valuable part of the wheat from which the starch has been removed. Weight for weight, it may be regarded as not less valuable for flesh-making purposes in the animal economy than beef or mutton.” Lentils and semolina are also very rich in this substance. Lentils rank ex- tremely high as a nutritious food, so does semolina, which, like macaroni, is formed of the gluten of wheat. Sir William Roberts, F.R.S., writes: “The proteid of wheat is not quite identical with that of oats or barley. . . . Taking the lentil as the type of the leguminous group, it is to be observed that lentil flour contains twice as much proteid matter as wheat or oat flour, and almost twice as much lime.” Hence the value of lentil soups, stews, etc. With regard to the subject under our special con- sideration—economy—the authority just quoted says : “Lean beef contains, roughly speaking, twice as much proteid matter as wheat flour, but beef is about four times as dear as flour, so that you may estimate that proteids of animal source are about twice as costly as proteids of vegetable source.” It is to be feared that sometimes the continual useJudicious Expenditure. 15 of meat as the principal or only dish at dinner pro- ceeds simply from the laziness of the manager of the household. Although the preparation of simple soups, sweets, and so on, does not require any great amount of skill or exertion, still it does need a little care and some forethought, and it is probably this latter necessity more than anything else which makes many a woman shirk their use, for if there is one thing abhorred by some women more than anything else it is the trouble of thinking. To think out the judicious expenditure of a little money in providing an appetising and interesting little dinner is an effort to which they will not rise. No, it is far easier, as the dinner-hour approaches, to “ send running ” for a beefsteak, or failing that, for the digestible delicacy a pork chop, to take the pan, its surface already prepared with the congealed grease of yesterday’s cooking (of course it is not worth the trouble of cleaning it off when it has to be used again next day!), put the meat on it, place it on the fire, and leave it to fry while the cloth is being laid. The whole process, marketing, cooking, and table-laying, if you have shops “ round the corner,” need occupy less than half-an-hour, leaving the morning therefore free for novel-reading, pleasant gossip, and a nice late breakfast, for with such a regime there is of course no need for early rising. If people have only themselves to consider it is of course entirely a matter for individual taste whether they keep house in this way or not. Every one ought to be16 Introductory Note. at perfect liberty to live on fried leather if they choose to do so, but when a woman is in the responsible position of mistress of a family it is quite another thing. If her husband is a hard-working professional or business man, or otherwise engaged earning the income that supports the house, it is simply her duty (and it is morally criminal to evade it) to spend the money he earns to the best, and not to the worst, advantage, for his health, comfort, and happiness; and as she participates in the advantage too, this is no great hardship. If she has children the responsibility is of course doubled, for nothing is more injurious to children, as far as their bodily constitutions go, than bad and innutritious feeding; it permanently injures the foundations of the human fabric, which during childhood is in a state of rapid growth, and mischief done then for want of good food bears traces that in most cases remain all through after-life. This little book is designed as a companion volume to Economical Housekeeping; of the “Every-Day Help Series,” and the object of both is to show that economy need not wear a sordid aspect if people with small means will take the trouble to prevent its doing so. This is especially true with regard to cookery, as I think the recipes here gathered together will show.i7 CHAPTER II. METHODS OF KITCHEN ECONOMY WHICH EVERY COOK SHOULD UNDERSTAND. Economy of Fuel.—There are many ways in which the consumption of fuel may be lessened without resorting to the “thriftless thrift” of spoiling the articles cooked by using too little firing to cook them properly. First of all must be borne in mind the fact that soot is a non- conductor of heat, therefore all cooking utensils coated on the outside with a layer of soot will need a larger fire for the cooking of the contents within them than if they were quite clean. If the sides and flues of kitchen ranges are not kept thoroughly well brushed soot will coat and cake upon their sides, and in consequence a much bigger fire will be needed for heating the oven and for making the water in the boiler hot. We know, perhaps, the old saying, “A dirty grate makes dinner late,” and one can understand why it does so when we know that soot acts as a preventive of heat entering metal. A fruitful cause of the upstairs bath water, in houses where there is a hot and cold supply, being 2iS Kitchen Economy. oftener cold than hot is the neglect of thoroughly cleaning the flues. (The neglect of drawing out the damper of the special flue leading to the bath pipes is of course another reason why baths are often cold when they are required to be hot.) A vast deal of good fuel is thrown away in nearly every house in the shape of what careless servants call ashes. Now ashes and cinders are two very different things. Ashes have their use, but it is not in the fire-grate. They may be substituted for sand for scouring pots; they are very useful for fowl runs, but they are of no use for fuel. Cinders, on the other hand, make excellent fuel. For broiling, cinders added to coal make a capital clear fire; and for stewing, which demands a slow fire, a fire plentifully fed with cinders instead of coal is much the best. If the servants can be induced to use it regularly, a “cinder sifter”—i.e., a sort of wooden box on rockers with a wire tray and a closely fitting lid—-will soon repay its cost. It is the only satisfactory method by which cinders can be separated from ashes without causing dirt and dust to fly about. A 6d. wire shovel is the next best thing for the purpose, though of course it has not the advantages of the box. The use of a gas “ring,” or a small oil stove, will also save fuel immensely, as in warm weather the kitchen fire can be allowed to go out on days when boiling, steaming, stewing, or frying are the means employed for cooking, as all these operations for a small family can be conducted on these simple little contrivances.Economy in Fuel. 19 A “ Dutch oven,” which can be purchased from ten- pence upwards, is an invaluable thing for saving fuel. It can hang in front of any open fire, and if the fire in the range is low, small cooking can be done before it in the Dutch oven without necessitating the making of a large fire for the heating of the range oven. In it meat and fish can be cooked, puddings of custard, rice, etc., baked, and I have heard that even bread has been baked in one of these useful appliances. This was done by a lady who was teaching cookery in a cottage in which a small open fire-place was the only means for cooking anything. The tin Dutch oven was propped on bricks before the fire, and the bread put into it, and although the shape of the loaf was not quite of the orthodox pattern, it was said to “ eat ” extremely well. The teacher from whom I had this information also told me that she had done a whole afternoon’s ironing with irons heated on a fire whose chief fuel consisted of dried potato parings ! Although in most close ranges coke cannot be burnt, it is very useful for saving coal in open fires. It ought to be purchased broken small. Little pieces of coke mixed with the coal effect a great saving, make a clear, hot fire, and give off but little of the unpleasant fumes which make coke fires so disagreeable. The dust, or very fine coal with which all lump coal is accompanied (especially cheap coal), should be par- ticularly looked after. Some servants will not take the trouble of using it, but go on burning up the lumps, andKitchen Economy. 20 then suddenly announce that “the coal is out,” when perhaps it is impossible to get more delivered im- mediately. Now if the simple plan was adopted of burning up the dust with the lumps it would never accumulate. Of course a fire cannot be lighted with dust or very small coal, but once it is red and bright, a little dust coal added from time to time keeps it going and saves the lumps; and if the fire in any room which is going to be unoccupied for some hours, as the dining- room from breakfast to luncheon, is banked up with dust coal that has been damped, it will “ keep in ” for two or three hours, and then with lumps and poking will make a good fire. In nurseries or bedrooms, when the fire needs to be kept in all night, damped dust may be usefully used up. Fire-bricks should be put into all wide, deep grates; they greatly save the consumption of coal. A fire-brick laid on the top of a fire saves coal, as it causes the fire to burn slowly, it gets nearly red hot, and then gives out heat. Fire-bricks can be bought for one penny each at most oil shops. All who can afford to fill up their cellars should do so in July or August; coal can be had then at a reduction of several shillings a ton, and it does not spoil by keeping. The method by which food is cooked is also an im- portant point for those who would study economy. Roasting at an open fire, for instance, is the most extravagant of all methods of cooking, though un- doubtedly it produces excellent results as far as the palatability of the article cooked is concerned; but it isWaste in Cooking Meats. 21 an extravagant method of cooking for two reasons—- first, it necessitates a very large clear fire; second, on account of the waste of meat that occurs in roasting. The following Table gives the average waste that occurs in roasting, boiling, and baking Boiling:. Per Cent. Baking. Per Cent. Roasting. Per Cent. Beef, generally ... 20 29 31 Mutton, do. ... 20 31 35 Legs of Mutton... 20 32 33 Shoulders of Mutton ... 24 32 34 Loins of Mutton 30 33 3<5 Necks of Mutton ... 25 32 34 Average of all 23 3i 34 —Letheby. “American pork loses 50 per cent, of its weight in boiling, whereas the pork of Denmark, Holstein, Eng- land, and Ireland only loses from 25 to 30 per cent.” —A. Wynter-Blyth’s Dictionary of Hygiene. From above Table it will be seen that boiling is a much more economical way of cooking meat than roasting or baking. Boiling also makes meat more digestible than baking or roasting, and the following explanation of the reason for this, from Mr. A. Wynter-Blyth’s Dictionary of Hygiene, is interesting:—“ Roasted meats are not generally so digestible as meats which have been boiled, and many stomachs which can tolerate poultry, meat,22 Kitchen Economy. fish, and puddings boiled, find that roasted meat, etc., and baked puddings cause great discomfort. This may be explained by the fact that during the process of roasting much of the superficial fat, from prolonged exposure to heat, undergoes decomposition, attended with the production of fatty acids, and an acid volatile product known as acroleine, which may seriously disturb sensitive stomachs. These remarks apply also to broiling,, frying, and baking, and more especially to the latter, for the operation being carried on in a confined space, the volatile fatty acids generated are prevented from escaping, and thus permeate the cooked articles.” New Zealand or any mutton that has been long killed is not so suitable for boiling as that which is fresh, because it turns a dark colour; and New Zealand mutton, having but little fat, is not so good for boiling as freshly killed English meat. There is nothing so suitable for boiling as a large fat leg of South Down mutton. Of all ways of cooking meat, however, the most economical is stewing in a stew-pan or earthenware cooking pot * with a well-fitting lid. It is economical in three ways —first, in fuel, because stewing is essentially a slow process,! and therefore needs a slow or very small fire (a fire fed with cinders makes the best fire for stewing), or the stew- pan may be placed on the simmerer of a gas stove, and a glimmer of gas will suffice to keep it at a very gentle * These, which originally were principally used in France, can now be bought at most large crockery or furnishing stores. f- Remember the maxim, “ A stew boiled, is a stew spoiled. ’Stewing. 23 simmer. Secondly, it is economical, because all kinds of things can be made into a savoury stew, which, cooked in any other way, would be almost uneatable. An ancient fowl, for instance, stewed by the simple calcula- tion of an hour for every year of its age, may be turned into an appetising and savoury dish, whereas if boiled or roasted it would bring disgrace on the household manager who permitted it to be served at her table. Thirdly, in stewing, every particle of nutriment (a certain proportion of which, according to Professor Letheby’s table, is evaporated in roasting, baking, and passes into the water in boiling) is preserved, for though extracted from the meat it is preserved in the gravy and vegetables. Then again, scrap pieces of various kinds of meat, poultry, etc., too small for boiling or roasting, may, when stewed together with scraps of vegetables, be converted into an excellent dish. Stewing has also one other important advantage for busy housewives. It is the simplest and least trouble- some of all methods of cooking, and therefore saves the most time, as it does not need much attention. Basting is needed in roasting and baking; skimming in boiling; in both the fire needs much attention. In stewing, if the “cooking pot” closely shut be put in a moderate oven, or the stew-pan on the hob, or the stew be placed in a jar standing in a saucepan of boiling water on a very slow fire, or on the lowered flame of a gas or oil stove, it will cook gently for hours—the longer the better— without needing any attention. A little care must be24 Kitchen Economy. taken of course to see that the stew does not stick to the bottom of the pot and burn, if the stewing be done in a saucepan or in a jar. STOCK-MAKING. No kitchen can be economically managed without a stock-pot. Stock is the basis of meat soups, meat sauces, and gravies. A stock-pot may be either one of those specially made for the purpose, and provided with a strainer and tap for drawing off the stock (they can be purchased from about ios. 6d. upwards), or a common iron pot may be used for the purpose, provided it be furnished with a closely-fitting lid; it answers best if well tinned inside. In expensive high-class cookery stock is made from materials bought specially for the purpose—shin of beef, ham, knuckle of veal, fowl (the two last for white stock), etc., but for ordinary economical family use no such extravagance must be thought of. Stock quite good enough for everyday use can be made from what many people throw away—all the bones of cooked or uncooked meat, poultry and game, bacon rinds, skin, gristle, and in fact every kind of remnant of this sort should be at once put into the stock-pot; but before putting them in see that the bones are cracked up as much as possible, because if they be well broken up all the marrow in the middle and the gelatine in the bone itself will be boiled out, or extracted into the water in which they are cooked, whereas if they were put in whole half the goodness would remainStock-Making. 25 in them. If but few joints are used in the house it is good economy to purchase a few pennyworth of bones from the butcher every week from which to make stock. This is no extravagance, for all the odds and ends of food with these bones, say 4d. or 6d. worth, will provide soup for the week. Every butcher will sell fresh bones and will crack them if he be asked to do so, or they may be smashed with a heavy hammer. A quart of water to two pounds of fresh bones is about the proper allowance. It is always important to carefully inspect all bones and remnants before putting them into the stock-pot, as if one should be musty or tainted it would cause all the stock to be wasted. Uncooked bacon rind should be scraped well for fear of its being rusty. The water in which meat, fowl, rabbits, calf’s head, and white fish have been boiled should always be carefully saved, as this water makes excellent soup, or may be added to the stock-pot; but of course common sense points out that the water in which fish was boiled should be kept for fish soup, and not put into the ordinary stock-pot. The water in which fowl or veal have been boiled may be kept by itself for white stock, and from it many kinds of in- expensive ivliite soups may be made. The water in which haricot or kidney beans, celery, artichokes, etc., have been boiled makes good vegetable soup. It is, better not to put vegetables into the stock-pot unless the stock is going to be used the same or the next day, because they are apt to turn the stock sour;26 Kitchen Economy. but they are valuable additions to stock, and every vegetable scrap should be saved and boiled in a little of the stock, or water, by itself, to add to the soup. It is also better not to add vegetables on account of the flavour which they give to the entire contents of the stock-pot, preventing thereby the use of the stock for several differently flavoured soups and sauces. Stock is much more useful if kept quite unflavoured. Cold water should be poured on the bones and scraps, one quart to about two pounds of bare bones, but if meaty bones or pieces of meat are used more water may be allowed. This should simmer for several hours, in fact it may be on the fire, if it is a slow one, whenever it is not otherwise in use, all day. The lid must be kept closely on all the time, and the stock must not boil fast. If the pot is not covered much of the goodness escapes with the steam, and if it boils first it will quickly waste away. Every night the liquor should be poured from the pot into an earthen- ware pan, because if allowed to remain in the pot all night it will most likely turn sour. The bones should be placed in another pan and covered, for further boiling next day with the stock; but if all the goodness has been extracted from them, and they are quite light and broken up, they may be thrown away.* In the morning the stock will be found coated with fat; if the stock is to be returned to the pot for further boiling, the fat should * Bones crushed small and lmried in the ground of a garden help to fertilise the earth. Burnt bones make a valuable manure, but bono burning makes a horrible smell.27 Clarifying Dripping and Fat. be all carefully removed before doing so (it can be clarified for use as directed below), but if the stock is sufficiently done, and is not required for immediate use, the cake of fat should not be disturbed, as the stock while coated with it will keep better than without it. In cold weather, in a cold dry larder, stock covered with a thick layer of fat will keep good for a fortnight. In hot weather all stocks, soups, and gravies should be boiled up briskly for a few minutes every day, if it is necessary to keep them; without this they will turn sour or taint, particularly if they contain vegetable matter. CLARIFYING DRIPPING AND FAT. No morsel of any kind of fat should ever be wasted or thrown down the kitchen sink,* for even if it be burnt, blackened, or otherwise uneatable, it can be utilised by rubbing it on the wood and paper which is to light the kitchen fire, thereby expediting the process. Beef fat and dripping if properly clarified is very nearly as good as butter for making pastry; but it must be properly clarified. To do this proceed as follows, taking care to keep it quite unmixed with any other kind of fat:— Break up the dripping quite small, put it into a large basin and pour a kettleful of absolutely boiling water over * Hie habit of washing grease clown the sink frequently leads to clogged drain-pipes from the fat congealing in the pipes.23 Kitchen Economy. it. Let it stand till quite cold, cut the cake of fat as complete as possible out of the basin, scrap the dark under part off, empty the water out of the basin and wash it, break up the fat again in it, pour another kettleful of boiling water over it, repeat the first process, and then do exactly the same thing a third time. Perfectly pure and clear beef dripping will be the result. For ordinary purposes one clarifying process may be sufficient, but for making really good pastry three are essential. Waste scraps of fat from plates, cold bacon fat, the skimming from the stock pot, waste from frying-pans, etc., may all be turned into good fat for frying and general purposes by the following method:—Put them into a saucepan with enough water to cover them, and let the water simmer, taking care to stir now and then, so that the fat may not burn. In an hour or two the water will have evaporated, then pour the fat through a piece of muslin or hair sieve into a basin. Even if the fat has been used for frying bread-crumbed cutlets or fish, the crumbs will be cleared away by this process. Another Method. Fat that has been used for frying articles which have been dipped in bread crumbs may be clarified and rendered fit for frying again by pouring it into a basin containing boiling water, stirring it up well and letting it settle. The crumbs will sink, and the clean fat can be skimmed off.29 Beef Dripping. Fat that has been used for frying fish should be kept in a special jar; it can be used over and over again for the same purpose, but if mixed up with other fat it will render it unsuited for anything but frying fish. As to the value of clarified beef dripping for frying, and the mistake of allowing it to be a “perquisite,” the following quotation from Sir Henry Thompson’s Food and Feeding is worth giving :—“ For frying, nothing perhaps is better than well clarified beef dripping, such as is produced, often abundantly, in every English kitchen; but the time-honoured traditions of our perquisite system enables any English cook to sell this for herself at small price to a little trader round the corner, while she buys, at her employer’s cost, a quantity of pork lard for frying material at double the price obtained for the dripping. Lard is, moreover, the worst menstruum for the purpose, the most difficult to work in so as to free the matters fried in it from grease; and we might be glad to buy back our own dripping from the aforesaid little trader at a profit to him of cent, per cent., if only the purchase could be diplomatically negotiated. But so sweet is acquisition by way of perquisite, that none of the present race of cooks appear disposed to part with this particular one for any consideration which can be offered. They are doubtless after their own fashion true to their order, and regard in. the light of sacrilege any interference with their principles and tradition.” This may be all very well for Sir Henry’s cooks, but in the kitchen presided over by a housewife who is managing a small income such things30 Kitchen Economy. as perquisites must be unknown, especially as far as fat and bones are concerned. They are important items in kitchen economy, and must be turned to account just as much as the other food stuffs. SAVING OF WASTE IN BROKEN BREAD. Some notable housewives make the ignominious con- fession that in the matter of using up their broken bread they are, in schoolboy slang, fairly “stumped”; howto get rid of it they do not know. Of course, thrifty people say, “Don’t have any waste or broken bread; insist on every piece being eaten before a fresh loaf is cut.” This advice, excellent in theory, is, like much of the same kind, often unworkable in practice. Husbands and sons will rebel at the sight of hard heels of loaves, if you try to enforce the principle of eating remnants to the last mouthful; you cannot furnish the breakfast-table with nothing but the scraps left from the dinner bread; and in many cases if the rule was insisted on that the in- habitants of the kitchen should use up the broken bread from the parlour, rebellion would ensue, and that so frequently that more money would be spent on registry office fees than would pay the baker’s bill for a twelve- month. No; the broken bread cannot always be used up by eating it pur et simple; but nevertheless she must be a very unimaginative woman who cannot find means for disposing of even the very last crumb without necessitating a grumble from any one.Using up Broken Bread. 31 Here are twelve ways for using broken bread :— 1. Grated fine and used for puddings; by this means the smallest scraps may be used. Recipes for many puddings requiring bread crumbs will be found in the following pages. 2. Sliced and used for puddings. 3. Grated and used in rissoles, croquettes, kromeskies, etc. See Chapter VII. 4. As pulled bread to serve with cheese, p. 138. 5. For bread sauce, p. 107. 6. In soup, p. 46. 7. In boiled bread and milk for children, p. 152. 8. Dried in the oven on a tin till quite brown and crisp, pounded in a pestle and mortar, or rolled between paper with rolling-pin and sifted through a wire sieve. This, prepared at odd leisure moments and kept in a tin canister, is then always at hand for dusting over a ham or boiled bacon when the skin is stripped off after boiling Bread crumbs of this sort also make very rich brown puddings. 9. Rubbed fine and used for dipping fillets of fish or cutlets in after dipping them in milk or beaten egg or batter previous to frying. 10. For making forcemeat and stuffings of various sorts. 11. Cut in little squares and fried to serve with soup. 12. For mixing with batter for children’s pancakes, see p. 154.32 Kitchen Economy HOW TO “CROWN ” AND “THICKEN” ECONOMICALLY. Browning.—When strict economy has to be studied, “browning” for soups, hashes, etc., should never be bought, as it can be made without expense or trouble merely by putting two or three lumps of sugar in an iron spoon on the edge of the fire; it soon becomes like melted toffee. A very few drops of this gives a rich colour: it must be added slowly, stirring with another spoon so that the colour may be equally distributed, and care should be taken not to add too much. Brozvn Roux (French).—Melt quarter of a pound of butter in a saucepan on a low fire, dredge in half a pound of flour, stir till brown, keep in corked jar. This thickens and browns at the same time. Thickening.—This is a very easy matter. Put a heaped tablespoonful of flour, or one not heaped of corn flour (because corn flour thickens more than ordinary flour), into a basin, rub it smooth with the back of a spoon, add gradually a little cold, milk or water, rubbing very smooth till the mixture is the consistence of thick cream ; then pour it into boiling milk or stock, and stir briskly, boiling for fully five minutes. If not boiled thus, the raw gritty taste of the flour would be very disagreeable. When we see how very simple it is to “ thicken ” there is no excuse for sauces, etc., being iumpy, as they so often are when concocted by careless cooks. The above proportion will thicken about a pint of milk, but the quantity used must be regulated by the amount of33 Cleanliness. thickening desired, using more or less flour as a thicker or thinner sauce, soup, etc., is required. Corn flour (or arrowroot) gives a more delicate flavour than ordinary flour. ECONOMICAL BATTER FOR FRYING. Batter in which to dip fritters, cutlets, etc., before frying can be made of milk, flour, and eggs, or of milk and flour, or of flour and waler only. I have been jeered at for advising people to try the latter, but it makes excellent batter if smoothly mixed and made as thick as double cream; and where the expense of eggs and milk is a consideration no other kind should be used, and if tried once it will be sure to be used again. Only a thin layer of it is necessary, it should not be put on too thickly. A NICE BATTER FOR FRYING FILLETED FISH. Shake lightly four ounces of flour into a quarter of a pint of warm water, add a tablespoonful of oil, the white of an egg well whisked, and a pinch of salt. Blend quite smooth, and let it stand ten minutes before use. CLEANLINESS. There can be no true economy without perfect and careful cleanliness. A cook who puts away her utensils dirty will lose many a dish. Sieves, pudding-cloths, 334 Kitchen Economy. jelly-bags, etc., should not be washed with soap, but should be scalded and well dried directly they are done with, otherwise the flavour of onions may ruin a dish of jelly, or a musty pudding-cloth may make a valuable pudding uneatable. CARE IN FLAVOURING. Over-salting or over-sweetening may be the cause of great waste, in fact all kinds of flavourings, condi- ments, and seasonings should be added with great care. Remember, it is always easy to add more sugar, pepper, or salt at table, but it is impossible to take out any of these when once put in. Dishes spoiled in this way may be made eatable next day by some additional stock or material to dilute the over-flavoured dish, but that is not much satisfaction to those who have lost their dinner, or part of it, by reason of the cook’s carelessness.* English cooks hardly ever use garlic as a flavouring, yet few things come up to it if used properly. Chopped garlic would of course be unbearable, not so is the nameless aroma imparted by rubbing a dish with a clove of garlic cut in two. This upon the dish on which roast mutton is served, or in the salad bowl, etc., etc., gives a savoury fragrance not obtained from anything else. * Ail over-sweeteneil pudding not of a nature to be added to—as rice—may be cut in slices, have lemon or orange juice, stewed fruit, or an unsweetened custard poured over it, and be served hot or cold.35 Negligence. VALUE OF SAUCES. 1 he knowledge of how to make a good thick brown or white sauce is very useful to the economical cook who has got to make a very little money go a very long way in housekeeping. Odds and ends of fish, meats, game, etc., can be used up, and made to go much further than if they were merely served cold, by warming through m a savoury sauce. Recipes, Chapter X. WHAT A minute’s NEGLECT MAY DO. 1. Spoil a whole pan of preserve if it be placed flat on the fire (which it never ought to be) and left on full boil; or lose much of it by its boiling over. 2. Make a saucepan of milk unusable by burning. j. Cause half the milk to be lost by boiling over. 4• EMail the loss of a whole saucepan of thick soup by burning. 5. Over-cook the eggs. 6. Over-heat the frying oil, so that the whole shall burn whatever is put into it. *** For the relative value of the nourishing of ioods, see Invalid Feeding in this Series. ° and digestible qualitiesCHAPTER IIT. METHODS OF COOKING—AVERAGE TIME REQUIRED FOR COOKING MEAT, FISH, VEGETABLES, ETC.—RULES FOR COOKING FISH AND VEGETABLES. The ordinary methods of cooking are—i, Roasting) 2, Boiling; 3, Baking) 4, Frying; 5, Broiling; 6, Stew- ing) 7, Steaming; 8, Toasting; and by each method a special object is to be attained, so it is important that amateurs who try their hand at cookery should under- stand the difference between these methods. In Roasting, the object is to cook the meat in a savoury manner and at the same time to keep the juice in it, therefore it should be put very close to a clear brisk fire, or, if the roasting be done in an oven, into a very brisk oven, for the first ten minutes, and each side should be exposed to the fire in turn. The reason for this is that the great heat causes the albumen (which is like the white of an egg) in the meat to coagulate or harden, and thus a sort of thin seal is formed which effectually keeps in the juice of the meat, while at the same time allowing the37 Roasting and Boiling. heat to penetrate and cook the joint. If the meat be put into a slow oven or to a dull fire, or too far off from the fire, the meat will only be gradually warmed, and the albumen instead of being quickly hardened on the outside will be dissolved, and therefore the juice will be drawn out. The result of such cooking will be soddened instead of savoury meat. After the first ten or fifteen minutes of brisk cooking the meat may be drawn a little further from the fire, or the heat of the oven may be gradually lowered to a point at which the meat will just slightly frizzle and can be finished at this degree of heat. . Boiling meat to serve as a joint, the same object is necessary, i.e., to form a seal or casing of hardened albumen round the meat, therefore it must be plunged into fast boiling water, and the water must be kept boil- ing for ten minutes, then for the rest of the time it should simmer. Large pieces of meat are more suitable for boiling than small pieces, which it is more economical to reserve for stewing. If the meat or bones, however be intended to make soup, exactly the opposite procedure must take place, because the object then is to extract all the goodness out of them into the water, therefore they should be cut or broken small, put into cold water, and gradually brought to a brisk simmer.* In making beef —or other meat—tea for invalids the water should not simmer, it should always be kept just under the simmer- ing point, in order to extract the albumen and juices is llme and gelatine iu bone; to extract these, prolonged boiling of bones is necessary in order to have rich soup from them. °3<S Methods of Cooking. from the meat. If this were boiled the albumen in the meat would be coagulated, and therefore not extracted from the meat into the water, which is the object to be attained in making beef-tea. In Baking, the same object is to be attained as in roasting, therefore have the oven very hot at first. This is very necessary when pastry, bread, or cakes are baked. If pastry be put into too cool an oven it will not rise properly, but will be heavy and greasy.* Three simple methods are useful for testing the heat of the oven, when, as in the generality of houses, there is no oven thermometer:—i, Put a sheet of note-paper into the oven, shut the door and open it in one minute; if the paper is curled up the oven is hot enough to raise pastry. 2, Put a slice of stale bread in, open the door in three minutes; if the bread is a light golden brown the oven is fit to receive dough for making bread. 3, Shake some flour on a tin and put it in the oven, open the door in two minutes; if the flour is a light brown the heat is right for bread or large cakes; if black the oven is too hot. Frying is a much abused and misunderstood method . of cooking. The “ general servant’s ” idea of frying is to take a pan, put some fat into it, put the article to be cooked on top of the cold fat, or perhaps first warm the fat, and then let the pan frizzle at its own sweet will. Now this is not frying at all. Frying really means * Baked puddings are not so digestible as those which are steamed or boiled.39 Frying. “ boiling in oil,” and the reason oil is used for the purpose instead of water is that it can be made hotter than water. Try with ever so great a fire, water can never be made as hot as oil. Water boils at 212° F., and whether it is boiling wildly or gently it is no hotter than this. Oil must be heated to 500° F. or thereabouts before it boils, but it is not necessary to get fat or oil up to this pitch of heat before cooking with it. In fact, if things were put into oil that was actually boiling they would be quickly burnt to a cinder. It is only necessary to raise the temperature considerably over that of boiling water in order to fry properly. Testing the oil with a thermometer is an expensive operation for most amateur cooks as they generally smash the thermometer, and a simpler and equally efficacious test can be made by throwing a bit of bread crumb into the oil or dripping, and if it quickly crisps up and turns a nice yellow colour the oil is hot enough for cooking in. In some cookery books “tables” are given of the different temperatures required for cooking various articles, and in some of these it is stated that the temperature required for frying whitebait is 400° Fahr., which is quite absurd, for if this delicate little fish were put into oil at such a temperature it would be a delicate little fish no longer, but would be quickly transmuted into charred shreds, and would be quite uneatable. Oil or fat when it boils does not bubble up as water does, but a slight smoke arises from it when near boiling point, and when this is seen it is very near burning point also. Another simple plan forao Methods of Cooking. testing the heat of fat or oil to see if it be fit for frying is to dip the fingers into cold water and sprinkle them into the pan; if the oil hisses up sharply the heat is right. . Frying in the real sense cannot be done on a flat pan, it should be done in a deep pan, a stewpan or saucepan, for instance, and much the best plan is to have a frying- basket; this is a wire basket into which the fish, cutlets, rissoles, etc., are put, and the basket is lowered into the pan and withdrawn when the cooking is completed. Some people may imagine that on account of the quantity of fat or oil used by this method of frying it is not economical; this is quite a mistake, for the same fat will do over and over again. It has been truly said, “ It is far cheaper in the long run to use two pounds of fat and cook things properly, and make the same fat do fifty times, than to use two ounces, cook the fish badly, and let the remains of the fat go into the grease-pot.” This is very true. The fried article must never, of course, be transferred straight from the frying-basket to the dish. It must first be turned on to blotting or kitchen paper (this costs about fivepence a quire), or on to an inverted sieve or a hot, clean cloth, and allowed to stand for a minute before the fire; the superfluous oil will quickly disappear. The only thing for which the flat pan should be used is for “dry frying,” as for instance, sausages, eggs, etc., and for this a flat pan with a little hot grease does very well. Bacon is much better if toasted before the fire than fried on a pan.Broiling and Toasting. 41 Broiling is done on a gridiron, or in a Dutch oven, or in a hanging gridiron; in either of these ways the process is really roasting, and has the same savoury results Broiling can equally well but much more economically be done on a pan ; the method is fully described in Chapter VI. Stewing has already been described, p. 22. Steaming can be done either in a steamer (i.e., a tin cylinder with a lid and holes in the bottom, and made to fit on a saucepan), or in a basin or jar standing in a pot of boiling water, or in a specially constructed “cook- ing pot,” which is made sometimes with six receptacles, one over the other, the different contents of each being cooked by the steam from the water in the lowest one. Potatoes and puddings are much better steamed than boiled in water. Toasting is the most delicate of all methods of cooking, but is of course only suited for small things. A trout, for instance, enclosed in buttered paper and slung on the hooks of a Dutch oven and toasted in front of a clear fire, makes a “plat” to satisfy the most epicurean taste. AVERAGE TIME REQUIRED FOR COOKING. Beef Mutton, and Lamb, fifteen minutes for every pound, with fifteen minutes over added to the entire time of cooking the joint; if liked very well cooked, twenty minutes instead of fifteen. Pork and Veal (which are dangerous to eat unless very well cooked), twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes added to the time needed to cook the whole. This, it must be42 Methods of Cooking. remembered, is the average time needed, but several things must be considered which may cause some altera- tion to the general rule. The shape and size of the joint must be noted. A long, narrow piece of beef, for in- stance, will not take so much cooking as a short, thick piece, and if the cooking is conducted in a gas oven, which has a much steadier and more equable tempera- ture than an ordinary oven, a less time will be needed. Experience and observation are required for the proper performance of even such simple things as roasting and boiling. The same time should be allowed for boiling as for roasting. Fish.—Average time, ten minutes to the pound, but if the fish is very thick, as salmon or cod, nearly twice this time may be needed. No fish is cooked enough unless the flesh separates easily from the bone. Underdone fish is dangerous to eat. Fowl.—Small chickens, twenty to thirty minutes. Fowl, thirty minutes to an hour, according to size. Turkeys, from one hour, if small, to two hours or more if very large. Ducks, one hour, if large. Game.—Hare, roast, one hour to one and three- quarters, according to size. Pheasant, large, fitty minutes. Venison (haunch), small, three hours; large, four hours and a half.* Rabbit, boiled, thirty to forty minutes. Plover, roast, ten to twelve minutes. Snipe, fifteen to twenty minutes. Partridge, roast, half-an- hour, if large and fat, twenty minutes if small. * When enclosed in paste.Time required for Cooking. 43 Ham.—Boiled. One weighing about 8 or 9 pounds will need three and three-quarters to four hours. Bacon.—Boiled, half-an-hour to the pound; put it into cold water, and count from commencement of boiling. Boil gently, skimming the water well. Fish.—Lobster, boiled—large, twenty to thirty minutes. Trout, toasted, ten to twenty minutes. Whitebait, to fry, two to three minutes. Oysters, scalloped, ten to fifteen minutes. Vegetables.—Potatoes, old, half-an-hour; new, twenty minutes. Asparagus, spinach, sea-kale, sprouts, cabbage, twenty to thirty minutes. Carrots, old, one hour; young, forty minutes. Turnips, old, forty-five minutes; young, thirty minutes. Parsnips or peas, young, fifteen minutes. Meat Pies.—One to two hours, according to size. The pie may with advantage stand part of the time on a hot part of the range instead of in the oven. Puddings.—Plum pudding — if very big, allow two hours to pound; it can be boiled two days in suc- cession. Small, one and a half hours to pound.* Meat pudding, one hour to pound. Jam roll, apple dumpling, half-hour to pound. NOTES ON COOKING FISH AND VEGETABLES. Fish.—Fish should be boiled in salted water to make * This may seem to some people an excessive time, and such puddings can no doubt be cooked in a shorter time, but they are much better if subjected to prolonged boiling, which makes them brown and rich and much more digestible than it' cooked for a shorter time.Methods of Cooking. 44 it firm. Six ounces of salt to gallon of water. Sea water is best if it can be had. Never pour water over fish in fish kettle, it breaks the skin; lower the fish into the water. Fish should simmer briskly; if it boils fast, the outside will be broken before the inside is cooked. Vegetables.—Water should be salted as for fish. All vegetables (except old potatoes, dried peas and beans, and Jerusalem artichokes) should be put into plenty of boiling water, which should be kept boiling briskly without a cover till they are done, when they must be at once lifted out, as they become soddened if left lying in the water. Old and stale vegetables require longer cooking than young fresh ones. “Vegetables boiled in water to which salt has been added are not so tender as they would be if no salt were added. The salt is generally put in to preserve the colour” (Wynter-Blyth, Diet, of Hygiene). Some cooks put a spoonful of moist sugar instead of salt into the water with green vegetables —and it would probably not affect their tenderness. The use of common washing soda in boiling vegetables should never be allowed. It is a caustic; and though it may make greens greener, it will injure the coating of the stomach. A couple of lumps of sugar and some mint should always be boiled with peas and new potatoes, their flavour is greatly enhanced thereby. Note.—If a crust of bread toasted till nearly black be put into the water where greens are boiling, it will prevent the horrible smell that arises when they are cooking.45 CHAPTER IV. RECIPES FOR SOUPS (ECONOMICAL). CABBAGE SOUP. Requisites.—One quart of stock or water in which meat, etc., has been boiled, one head of cabbage, two ounces of clarified dripping, one tablespoonful of flour or corn flour (the latter is best), pepper and salt. Method of making.—Soak the cabbage in salt and water, so that it may be quite free from insects; boil until tender, put it into a colander and chop fine, care- fully pressing all the water out; put it then into a sauce- pan with the stock, dripping, salt and pepper, and put it on to boil. Put the flour into a basin, add a spoonful of stock or water, and blend till perfectly smooth; pour it into the soup when at boiling point, and boil for five minutes, stirring well. If the soup is preferred thicker- more flour may be used. If the tureen be rubbed with a bit of cut garlic the soup will be improved to the taste of those who like its savoury flavour.Recipes for Soups 46 CROUTE AU POT (FRENCH SOUPE MAIGRE). No meat stock required. Requisites.—One quart of the water in which haricot beans or green French beans have been boiled, four onions, a few thick slices of bread without crust, a bunch of savoury herbs—parsley, thyme, etc.—pepper, salt, a little dripping. Method.—Peel, slice, and fry the onions till tender, add them with seasoning of pepper and salt to the liquor, boil for ten minutes, and pour while boiling on to the bread in the tureen. There is much more nourishment in this soup, especially when liquor from haricot beans is used, than most people think. CHEESE SOUP. Brown. Cut some small squares of bread crumb, lay them in the bottom of a soup tureen, grate a thick layer of cheese (Parmesan is best) over them, and pour on a quart of boiling brown stock. White. Proceed as for above, but instead of brown stock use milk, or milk and water, in which an onion, a bunch of parsley, and one or two sticks of celery have been boiled, and which has been then strained through a fine sieve*47 Clear Soup. CARROT SOUP. Requisites.—A dozen carrots (if very big, eight will do), one small onion, two quarts of water, or what of course is better, stock, or the water in which any kind of meat, tripe, rabbit, or fowl has been boiled. Method.—Wash, scrape, and slice the carrots, and boil in the water or stock till tender; if the carrots are young less than an hour will do. Then place a very clean hair sieve over a large basin, pour the contents of the sauce- pan into the sieve, and rub the carrots through with the back of a wooden spoon, occasionally taking a teacupful of the soup that has flowed through and pouring it over the carrots to help them through the sieve. Any hard, stringy part that remains behind must be thrown away. Put back in the saucepan and boil up. If the soup, when the carrots are all rubbed through, is not as thick as cream, it must be thickened with flour or corn flour, as at p. 32. CLEAR SOUP (ECONOMICAL AND EXCELLENT). Requisites.—Six carrots, five or six onions, four or five turnips, small bunch of parsley, small teaspoonful of celery seed, three quarts of cold water, a large, heaped tea- spoonful of Liebig’s Extract of Meat, two or three lumps of sugar, whites and shells of two eggs, a wineglassful of sherry or marsala; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Wash and scrape carrots, peel onions and turnips, and put them with the water, pepper and saltRecipes for Soups. 4S into a very clean saucepan, and boil gently till the liquor is reduced to rather less than two quarts. Place the meat extract and sugar in a basin and strain the boiling liquor over it through a fine hair sieve. Stir well, put into a clean saucepan, and bring nearly to a boil, then pour in the whites of eggs well whisked and the crushed shells. (These are put in for the purpose of clarifying the soup, because they gather all impurities to them.) Mix well and boil up, then allow it to boil gently for ten minutes without touching or moving the saucepan, because if moved the clearing process will be interfered with. Then draw the saucepan quietly to the side of the fire and let it stand for twenty minutes, after which pass it through a jelly-bag.* It ought to be as clear as crystal; if not, pass it through the bag till it is clear. Boil up, add a glass of sherry, and serve. Note.—Those who try this soup will admit the absurd extravagance of many cookery book recipes involving quantities of stock meat, etc., for making clear soup. The above soup is quite fit for serving at any dinner- party, and the actual cost of making is extremely small. It may be varied by adding some green peas, or scraps of carrots and turnips chopped fine or cut out with fancy cutters, or Italian paste letters, previously boiled tender. It is just as good if made the day before it is wanted and heated up. * A jelly-bag costs but half-a-crown and will last for years ; an old bag is better than a new one, as it is thicker. There is no saving in making a jelly-bag at home.49 Mullagatawny Soup. GREEN PEA SOUP. Make exactly as below, but substitute green peas for lentils, and add instead of parsley (or with it at discretion) a few sprigs of mint and three lumps of sugar. This soup can be very cheaply made of dried green peas : they must be soaked over night. LENTIL SOUP. Requisites. One pint of lentils, two quarts of water (stock, or the water in which meat, fowl, etc., has been boiled will of course make a richer soup, but plain water does very well), two onions, a carrot or two, parsley, any bones from a piece of cold bacon or bacon rinds or ^Tt knuC^e b°ne of a ham, or a slice of bacon, pepper, Method.—Simmer briskly all the ingredients (having sliced onions and scraped carrots) till the liquor is reduced to nearly half its quantity ; it will take about an hour; rub through a sieve, as described for carrot soup make very hot, and serve with fried bread squares. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. Requisites. Three pints of brown stock (if made from remains of roast game, hare, turkey, etc., so much the better), three or four onions, three or four slices of lean bacon or ham, half-pound of uncooked veal sliced pepper and salt, two tablespoonfuls of curry powder a little clarified dripping. ’ 4Recipes for Soups. 50 Method.—Slice the onions, fry them in dripping till gold coloured, take them out, and in the same pan* lightly fry the veal for a few minutes till it is just browned. Put the slices of bacon or ham, the veal, onions, and stock into a saucepan. Simmer slowly for an hour, skimming carefully, then strain through a sieve into another saucepan; blend the curry powder smooth with cold water or stock and add it, with cayenne pepper and salt to taste; boil for a few minutes, rub the tureen well with a bit of cut garlic, pour in the soup, and serve with rice boiled as for curry. If veal be not at hand, the remains of any kind of game, chicken, rabbit, calPs head, whether cooked or not, can be used in its place. Chutney, mango pickle, West India pickle, may be added at discretion. A table- spoonful of finely grated cocoa-nut is by many considered an improvement. MUTTON BROTH. Requisites.—The water in which a neck of mutton has been boiled, a small teacupful of barley, one or two turnips, onions, and carrots, bunch of parsley, pepper and salt. Method.—Skim all fat off the water, boil the bones which remain from neck in it for half-an-hour, take them out, but leave any bits of meat in the broth. Add vege- tables and barley, pepper and salt, and simmer for an * For this kind of frying the flat pan and a little grease is quite suitable.51 Forcemeat Balls. hour. The vegetables should be sliced thin. This broth may be made from uncooked scrag of mutton, in which case send the meat to table in tureen. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Requisites.—The liquor in which half a calf’s head has been boiled, an onion stuck with half-a-dozen cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs (thyme, marjoram, etc.), bunch of parsley, a small teaspoonful of Liebig’s meat extract, thickening of corn flour or arrowroot, juice of half a lemon, a glass of sherry, two or three lumps of sugar, forcemeat balls. Method.—Skim and strain the liquor, and boil with the onion, cloves, herbs, and parsley until well flavoured; strain, colour with the meat extract, add the sugar, thicken to consistency of very thin cream; add the lemon juice and sherry and forcemeat balls, and serve very hot. Some of the gelatinous parts of the calf’s head cut into small dice should be added with the balls.* TO MAKE THE FORCEMEAT BALLS. Take the brains from the calf’s head previous to * This is not of course a strictly economical soup, but as half a calf’s head can often he bought for 2s. 6d., and will make one or two good dinners, the making of soup from the liquor in which it was boiled cannot be considered extravagant, as the other ingredients required cost so little. The soup is quite fit to serve at a dinner-party. If the thickening be omitted it could be served as a “clear soup’’ if “cleared” as directed on p. 48.Recipes for Soups. 52 boiling, parboil (after washing and soaking in warm water) and remove the skin, pound up with a spoon, mixing in a seasoning of nepaul pepper, salt, and powdered sage; roll them into balls, dip in beaten egg, and then in very fine bread crumbs, and fry in clarified fat till brown; drain, then add to soup. OYSTER SOUP. Can be made with tinned or foreign oysters. Requisites.—One tin of oysters, or a dozen or two of cooking oysters, one quart of the liquor in which either rabbit, fowl, or knuckle of veal was boiled, or stock made from veal or chicken bones, one pint of milk, white pepper, thickening of corn flour. Method.—Thicken the stock with the corn flour blended with the milk, boiling for five minutes, and season with pepper. Put the oysters and their liquor into an enamelled saucepan and let them become as hot as possible without boiling; if they boil they will become tough. After ten minutes slow stewing by the fire with a plate over the saucepan, put them into a hot tureen and pour the stock over them; serve with croutons (ie., small dice of bread fried in clarified dripping). If tinned oysters are used salt need not be added as they are salt enough. This soup can be made very rich and good by substituting cream for milk, and adding well-whisked yolks of eggs when the soup is in the tureen.53 Rabbit Soup. PEA SOUP (CHEAP AND SUBSTANTIAL). Useful to serve when the dinner consists of but a small amount of cold meat. Requisites.—Three pints of water, one pint of split peas, six ounces of fat pork or bacon, cooked or uncooked; a few sprigs of mint, a small lump of sugar, pepper, salt. Method.—Stew the ingredients till the peas are tender (about three hours), rub through a sieve, and serve very hot with bread cut in dice and fried in dripping, and powdered mint handed on separate plates. POTATO SOUP (NO STOCK NEEDED). Requisites.—Six large potatoes, two onions, pint of milk, pint of water, piece of butter the size of a walnut, pepper, salt. Method.—Pare potatoes thinly, peel onions, slice both thinly and simmer in the water till tender (about twenty minutes), pour through sieve into basin, rubbing through with back of spoon, and pouring the milk (warmed) through at same time. Make the soup very hot, season, and serve. RABBIT SOUP. Requisites.—The liquor in which a rabbit has been boiled, teacupful of rice, teaspoonful of minced parsley, one onion, teacupful of milk, salt and pepper, one ounce of butter. Method.—Simmer the onion in the liquor till flavoured,54 Recipes for Soups. strain, add rice, cook till tender (about twenty minutes), stir in parsley, pepper and salt, milk and butter. To make it very good, stir in directly the soup has been poured into the tureen a well-whisked egg (carefully cleared of the string), stir well, and serve. RICE MILK SOUP (EXCELLENT FOR CHILDREN). Requisites.—One quart of milk or milk and water, or milk and water in which fowl, veal, rabbit, tripe, or turbot has been boiled, a breakfast-cupful of rice, one or two eggs, a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, corn flour thickening. Method.—Boil the rice in water for twenty minutes, drain, and add it to the milk or milk and water, with pepper, salt, mace, and enough corn flour blended in milk to thicken the whole to the consistency of thin cream; boil all together, stirring well, for five or six minutes; put into a hot tureen, mix in one or two well- whisked fresh eggs, stir thoroughly, sprinkle the parsley over top, and serve immediately. SEMOLINA SOUP (CHEAP AND NUTRITIOUS). Requisites.—One quart of stock, or of milk and water, two ounces of semolina, one onion, bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, salt and pepper. Method.—Simmer the onion, sliced, and the herbs and parsley in the stock for a quarter of an hour; strain, putVegetable Marrow Puree. 55 the strained liquor into a clean saucepan, boil up, lightly shake in the semolina and seasoning, and then place the saucepan where it will simmer very gently for half-an-hour, stir occasionally. TOMATO SOUP (no STOCK NEEDED). Requisites.—A tin of tomatoes, or eight fresh tomatoes, small bunch of parsley, one onion, half-pint of milk, three pints of water, two tablespoonfuls of corn flour, pepper, salt. Method.—Put the tomatoes, sliced onion, parsley, well washed, water, pepper, and salt into a saucepan, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour; rub through a sieve; add the milk and corn flour, smoothly blended, and boil for seven minutes, stirring so that it shall not burn. It should be of the consistency of cream. VEGETABLE MARROW PUREE (THICK). Requisites.—A large vegetable marrow, two ounces of butter, one onion, sliced, a stick or two of celery, three or four sprigs of parsley, three pints of milk and water or liquor in which fowl, etc., have been boiled, pepper, salt. Method.—Pare and slice the marrow, and put it with the onion, sliced, the celery, and parsley into a saucepan in which the butter has been dissolved; let them simmer, but not brown, for ten minutes, then add the milk and water, or water in which haricot beans, or fowl, or56 Recipes for Soups. knuckle of veal, or tripe, have been boiled. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour, rub through a sieve, and serve hot. WHITE SOUP (ECONOMICAL AND EXCELLENT). Requisites.—Two pints of milk, or one of milk and one of water, one onion, half-teaspoonful of sage, tea- spoonful of mint and celery-seed, half an ounce of clarified dripping or butter, tablespoonful of corn flour, mace, salt, pepper to taste. Method.—Boil all the ingredients (with exception of corn flour) for ten minutes. Be careful the milk does not burn. Strain through fine sieve or muslin; put into clean saucepan, add corn flour blended smooth in milk, and boil for five minutes, till consistency of cream. NOURISHING SOUP FOR AN INVALID. Requisites.—Six ounces of fillet of veal, one and a quarter pints of milk, two dessert-spoonfuls of rice, half a small onion,* a few sprigs of parsley; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Chop the veal, which should be weighed after removing all skin and fat, and put it with the other ingredients into a saucepan and simmer very gently (if boiled fast most of it will boil away) for three * Some people extremely dislike the flavour of onions. For such cases the substitution of a blade of mace for the onion will be useful.Soup for an Invalid. 57 hours, then work it through a fine sieve with the back of a spoon.* Serve very hot with sippet of toast. * Perfectly and delicately clean sieves and ntensils should he used in making soups, or the flavours may be destroyed. They should be thoroughly washed first in hot and then in cold water, and dried in the open air each time they are used. When mention is made, “No stock required,” it does not mean that stock or liquor in which meat, fowls, etc., have been boiled must not be used, but that it need, not be used. Meat stock is always better than water.58 CHAPTER V. ECONOMICAL FISH COOKERY. Steaming.—This is an excellent method for cooking small fish, such as whiting and haddock, or for fillets or slices of cod, sole, etc., in cases where frying is likely to disagree. It is a much more economical way of cooking fish than boiling, because none of the nutriment of the fish is lost in the water. Method.—Put the fish, after being well washed in cold water, into a basin or jar, and either place this in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, or in a sauce- pan with water coming more than half-way up the side of the basin, and let the water boil round the basin or jar, the top of which must be covered either with the well-fitting lid of the jar, or with a cloth dipped in boiling water, and securely tied over top, or with a piece of stout tissue paper, which has been well greased, twisted tightly all round the edges of the basin. Time required, a very little longer than for boiling. If any scum gathers on the fish rub it off with a clean cloth, and put any liquor that has exuded with the steam into the sauce.59 Cockles. TOASTED FISH. This is a most savoury method of cooking any kind of small fish, especially trout. Butter a sheet of note- paper, wrap the fish in it, pinning the corners together if necessary, put a toasting-fork through the upper edges of the paper, and toast from eight to twelve minutes, according to size of fish. A toasting-fork that turns without necessitating the withdrawal of the prongs is the best to use. COCKLES (stewed). Let the cockles be as fresh as possible—this may be known by their shells being tightly closed—rinse them quickly in plenty of cold water to clean the shells, put them into a deep basin and let it stand for a few minutes in a warm place (as the oven with the door open), or put them in a saucepan on the side of the fire; this is to open the shells. When open pick out the cockles on to a dish, strain the liquor from the cockles through muslin to free it from sand, and mix it with a teaspoonful or two of vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, seasoning of pepper and salt. Thicken some milk as directed at p. 32 (the quantity must depend on the amount of cockles used), mix this with the liquor from the cockles, and cook till the raw taste of the flour is removed (about five minutes); take the saucepan off the fire, and when the mixture has quite ceased boiling, put in the cockles and keep hot for a few60 Economical Fish Cookery. minutes till the cockles are warmed through. They must on no account boil, or they will become like bits of india-rubber. There should be just enough sauce to cover the cockles. Serve with thin bread and butter. cod’s roe (potted). An excellent breakfast or supper dish. Very good for making fish sandwiches. In the winter and spring cod’s roes are plentiful, and often very cheap. Requisites.—A cod’s roe, vinegar, ketchup, butter, pepper and salt. (The roes of codfish vary in size, to which the ingredients must be proportioned.) Method.—Boil a large roe in salted water for fifteen minutes, take it up and put it on a dish, and when cool remove all skin and membranes with a fork very carefully; scrape the skin with a spoon, as the roe adheres to it, and if this be not done a good deal of it will be wasted. Pour over it half a pint of mushroom ketchup, half a pint of vinegar (if the roe is small less of these will be needed), add a seasoning of cayenne and salt, and three-quarters of a pound of salt butter broken up in pieces. Then put the whole into an enamelled saucepan and stir con- stantly; let it simmer for about ten to fifteen minutes, and pour into small jars;’ when cold cover with greased paper, or pour oiled butter over the top. In cold weather it will keep for some time.61 Fricasseed Fish. cod’s roe (fried). Boil a cod’s roe for ten minutes in salted water, when cold cut in slices an inch thick, and fry in clarified dripping a light brown. Some people dip the slices in egg and bread crumbs, or batter, before frying, but this is not necessary. Drain well before serving. FISH CAKES. Shred any remnants of cold fish, mix them with cold boiled potatoes which have been mashed perfectly smooth with plenty of milk, season with a little mushroom ketchup or anchovy sauce, or any other sauce which is at hand, pepper and salt, form into neat flat cakes, and either fry in fat or dot little pieces of clarified dripping or cold bacon fat over the top, and bake in a smart oven or in a Dutch oven till brown and very hot. FRICASSEED FISH. When it is necessary to make a little fish go a long way, it will be found much better to fricassee it, as the sauce makes it go much further and makes the dish appear more plentiful than if the fish were merely boiled or fried. The remains of cold fish make an excellent fricassee. Any kind of white fish is suitable for fricassee- ing; it must be boiled first if the fricassee is not made out of remnants of cold fish. First make a sauce as follows: Take one pint of milk (or more or less according to quantity of fish), season this62 Economical Fish Cookery. by stewing in it some peppercorns, a blade of mace, and if possible a few white button mushrooms, or a slice of ham. If the fricassee is desired brown, mushroom ketchup may be mixed with it, or flap mushrooms, first slightly fried, may be stewed in the milk, or it may be coloured pink with anchovy or tomato sauce. When the sauce is suitably flavoured, thicken it (not too thick) with corn flour, put in the fish and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it get mashed or boiled. Make on a hot dish a neat wall of boiled rice, or of potatoes smoothly mashed with milk, put the fricassee in the middle, and serve hot. The mashed potatoes or rice will also help to make the fish “ go further.” Stewed mushrooms, if procurable, are a great addition to this dish. FISH A l’eSPAGNOLE. This is a favourite Spanish dish, and the same recipe may be used with remains of cold fowl, turkey, rabbit, etc. Take the remains of any kind of white fish, and the same quantity of rice that has been boiled till tender in water; mix with them several tomatoes (the more the better) which have been skinned and stewed in a little butter; add some salt, pepper, and a little more butter, and after mixing all well together heat in a saucepan till thoroughly hot, taking care they do not burn. A rub of garlic, either on the saucepan or dish in which the mixture is served, will be a great improvement to many tastes.63 Potted Fish. GURNET OR HADDOCK, STUFFED AND BAKED. Tell the fishmonger to send the haddock prepared for stuffing. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, seasoning of pepper, salt, thyme, parsley, and marjoram, etc, the grated or thinly-scraped rind and the juice of a lemon, or vinegar if a lemon cannot be procured, and suet or clarified beef-dripping finely chopped. The proportion of this last should nearly equal the bread crumbs. Moisten all slightly with milk, or much better, with a beaten egg, stuff the fish, and stitch it up with a needle and coarse thread. Place in a baking-tin with plenty of dripping over and round the fish, and bake for half-an-hour. Remove the stitching thread, drain the fish before the fire, and serve on a hot fish napkin, with garnish of lemon and parsley. Make a little milk sauce (p. 112) and flavour with anchovy, ketchup, or other sauce; send this to table in a sauce-boat. POTTED FISH (MACKEREL, HERRINGS, OR SPRATS). EXCELLENT BREAKFAST DISH. Tell the fishmonger to prepare the fish for cooking by cutting off heads, tails, and cleaning insides. Wipe them in a clean cloth to remove scales, and dip each lightly in fine flour, shaking to remove any superfluous lumps. Slice an onion (raw) and lay it in the bottom of a pie dish, with a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and two or three bay leaves (can be got at most green-grocers). Lay the fish neatly on these, sprinkle more peppercorns over,64 Economical Fish Cookery. and, if approved of, another layer of sliced onion and a bay leaf or two, but to many tastes a single layer of these will be sufficient. Pour a mixture of vinegar and table beer in equal parts so as to just cover the fish, and bake for half-an-hour. Some people use vinegar without any beer, others dilute the vinegar with water instead of beer. Individual taste and convenience may be followed. This dish can be made more elegant by having the fish boned (very easily done), and rolling up each fish neatly, and packing them on end in the dish. Another way is to omit the onion and rub the dish with garlic instead, and to tie the bay leaves and pepper- corns in a muslin bag, which is removed before serving. The addition of a glass or two of light wine (hock, etc.) is by some considered an improvement. LOBSTERS (tinned), TO DRESS. Put a quarter lb. of cooking butter (margarine at 6d. or 8d. a lb. does very well) into an enamelled saucepan, when melted, empty the tin of lobster into it; season well with cayenne pepper, salt, and vinegar or lemon juice, and simmer till the whole is as hot as possible. This may be “scalloped” by mixing with bread crumbs till of a consistence to fill scallop shells or patty pans. It should then be browned before the fire or in the oven, by strewing bits of butter on the top.* * Tinned foods should not be bought if the tin bulges at the end, as in that case air has entered and decomposition commenced.Fish Pie. LOBSTER CUTLETS (TINNED LOBSTER). 65 These may be served as a “ fish course ” at a small dinner. They also make an excellent luncheon or supper dish. Requisites.—One tin of lobster, four tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, one lemon, cayenne pepper and salt, one or two eggs. Method.—Empty the tin into a basin, put in the bread crumbs, juice and grated rind of lemon, pepper and salt to taste, and one or two eggs well whisked. Mix all thoroughly with a fork till it is a smooth firm paste. Shape like small cutlets, or if preferred, like balls; dip either into flour and water batter or into beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in clarified fat for about seven minutes. Serve on a fish napkin, garnished with sprigs of parsley and cut lemon.- (Draiii ivellfrom grease.) FISH PIE. Put the remains of any kind of cold fish (except herrings or salmon), quite free from skin or bone, into a pie dish, cover with white sauce made by recipe (p. 112) and flavoured with anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup, or Worcestershire sauce, pepper and salt to taste. Cover with* a layer of potatoes mashed smooth with milk or dripping. Bake for twenty-five minutes. Instead of white sauce meat gravy may be used. 5Economical Fish Cookery. 66 MAYONAISE OF COLD FISH, LOBSTER, CRAB, ETC. Make a mayonaisesauce according to p. no; mix the fish in flakes with shred lettuce leaves, and cover with the sauce. Mayonaise of fish may be garnished with hard-boiled egg in slices, with sliced cucumber, or tomatoes, or capers, or the coral of lobster. Cold salmon makes an excellent mayonaise. OYSTERS (SCALLOPED). In some scallop shells or patty pans put a mixture of chopped up oysters, bread crumbs, and butter in bits, seasoned with pepper, salt, a little vinegar or lemon juice. Brown before the fire, but do not bake, as this would harden the oysters. Tinned oysters do very well for scalloping. SHRIMPS (POTTED). Pick the shrimps (cooked) from the shells, endeavour- ing to have them as whole as possible. Put a piece of cooking butter into an enamelled saucepan, heat till nearly boiling, season with a little cayenne (no salt is needed if salt butter is used), and for those who like the flavour a small pinch of powdered mace, or allspice; put in the shrimps and stir them well round in the butter, let them simmer for a minute or two, then put them into small pots, pressing them in with the bacE of a spoon, and let them get cold; then, if they are to be kept for a few days, dissolve some butter and pour a teaspoon-6; Smelts au Gratin. ful over the top of each pot, to form a cake which will exclude the air; this may be dispensed with when only a small quantity for immediate use is prepared. Shrimps potted in this way are vastly superior in flavour and wholesomeness to the “pastes” sold by grocers, in which the shrimp is generally conspicuous by his absence. SMELTS AU GRATIN. IThis disli is quite fit for the fish course of a dinner-party. The expense of preparing it is trifling, and it may suitably take the place of the costly salmon or turbot at the tables of those who wish to enter- tain economically.] Bone and skin twelve smelts, wipe dry, place a layer of fine bread crumbs and little lumps of butter in a shallow china baking dish; place on this a layer of the smelts open flat, grate a layer of Parmesan cheese over the smelts, then a layer of bread crumbs and butter as before, and so on till the dish is full; season with pepper and salt, putting a layer of bread crumbs, butter, and cheese" on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty-five minutes. Brown the top crisply and serve —by handing the dish round to each guest to help himself. . . Note.—Filleted haddocks, plaice, soles, or whiting are also very good cooked in this way. Fishmongers will always bone or fillet fish without extra charge if desired to do so.Economical Fish Cookery. 68 COD EN TRANCHES. This is a good way for cooking the small tail part of a cod fish. Have it sliced about an inch and a half thick, wipe in a clean cloth, dip each slice in flour, and fry from ten to fifteen minutes, according to the thick- ness of the fish, in clarified dripping, drain, place on a dish, and cover with meat gravy (if there is none make some with extract of meat) slightly thickened and browned (p. 32) and flavoured with a little onion and herbs (parsley, etc.). Capers, mushrooms, or oysters added to the gravy would be, of course, a great improve- ment. SCALLOPS (CURRIED). Simmer twelve scallops in a-pint, or if very large a pint and a half of water, for ten minutes. Take them out and put them on a dish. Fry, until quite brown, four large onions in a little clarified dripping, put them into the water the scallops were boiled in, with one apple sliced, two prunes, a spoonful of chutney, a tablespoon- ful, heaped, of curry powder, salt and pepper; simmer for half-an-hour, rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon, thicken slightly, gently simmer scallops in it for an hour, and serve with rice boiled, as at p. 79. Note.—If the scallops are very big, they had better be cut in two. SCALLOPED SCALLOPS. Procure the shells of some scallops, grease them, and put in each a scallop, dust it with pepper and salt, pourWhitebait. 69 over it half a teaspoonful of vinegar, and cover with a layer of bread crumbs dusted with pepper and salt, moistened with the liquor of the scallops and a little vinegar, and strew bits of butter all over. Bake for twenty minutes, and brown the crumbs if necessary before the fire, adding a little more butter if requisite. WHITEBAIT. Some people may think recipes for cooking whitebait out of place in pages devoted to eco?iomical cookery, but they are not so in reality. Whitebait is not at all an expensive fish, but many look on it as a sort of unattain- able luxury only at the command of those possessing a first-rate chef—in fact, some foolish people if they are giving a dinner actually hire a man especially to cook the whitebait! Now any girl of average intelligence can with a little practice learn to cook whitebait to perfec- tion; the only expense attendant on it will be the cost of two or three pints of the fish, which she will prpbably spoil during her practising. There is no need to invest in thermometers for testing if the frying fat be of the right heat, as by throwing a bit of bread crumb into the fat its heat can be accurately tested. If it crisps up a nice light brown in half a minute it is of the right heat for cooking the whitebait. You must, however, invest to the extent of two or three shillings in a frying-basket, as whitebait cannot be cooked without it. The basket will of course last for years, with care.;o Economical Fish Cookery. FRIED WHITEBAIT. Procure the fish as fresh as possible; they should be bright and shining, and free from sea-weed, etc. Have a clean cloth well floured; put a small handful of white- bait at a time into this, roll the fish gently in it so that they may be equally floured, turn them into the frying- basket, shaking off carefully all unnecessary flour; have a deep stewpan nearly full of well clarified fat, see that it is of the right heat by testing with a bit of crumb of bread,* plunge the basket into it, and cook for about two minutes if the fish are very small, or three minutes if they are large. Drain on a sieve turned upside down before the fire. When all are done, pile on a hot napkin on a hot dish, and serve with thin brown bread and butter, cut lemon, and cayenne handed round on a separate dish. The bread should be divested of crust, buttered with good fresh butter, two slices pressed together sandwich- wise and cut in triangles. The cayenne cruet may be placed in the middle of the plate, the sandwiches and quartered lemon prettily disposed round it. DEVILLED WHITEBAIT (RED DEVIL). As the fish is being dished dust with cayenne or nepaul pepper, or both mixed. DEVILLED WHITEBAIT (BLACK DEVIL). Dust as above, but with black pepper. * See p. 39.Fish Stew. Note.—People who entertain will find it a real economy to see that their cook learns to fry whitebait properly, as a dish of nicely cooked whitebait, costing perhaps but one and sixpence, will make as good an appearance at a small dinner as a much more expensive fish. At a smart dinner, of course, whitebait, plain and devilled, would be served in addition to the other fish course, but a very good appearance can be made at a small cost by serving whitebait and some inexpensive fish, as whiting, filleted plaice, cod au gratin, etc., as the second fish. ECONOMICAL FISH STEW FOR WORKING MAN’S FAMILY. Sir Henry Thompson's Recipe. “Take three or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or haddock, and a pound of 1 cuttings or trimmings,’ * which are the best part of the fish for stock-making, remove all the fish from the bones, break up or pound the latter, and set aside with any portion of the head there may be and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan over the fire two ounces of lard t and two or three onions sliced, and let them fry until brown, then add two quarts of water and all the pounded bones and trimmings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper and salt. Let the whole * Fishmongers sell these very cheaply. + I would suggest dripping as a great improvement, especially heef dripping, which need not be clarified for this purpose.72 Economical Fish Cookery. simmer for three hours. Strain out the bones, bits of skin, etc., add the fish in pieces [these should have been kept covered in a cool place while the stock was cooking], and boil gently ten or fifteen minutes. Thicken with sufficient flour mixed smoothly with a small portion of stock and added before finishing. In order to make the dish complete and substantial, a few small suet dumplings should be well boiled and put into the tureen.” Note.—It is most important to thoroughly drain all fried fish before serving. If placed on a sheet of kitchen paper, or blotting paper, or a clean hot cloth, before a smart fire, the superfluous fat will quickly drain away, and the fish become dry and crisp. Nothing is more disgusting than a dish of greasy fish.73 CHAPTER VI. HOW TO BROIL A CHOP OR STEAK ON A PAN. There is nothing more surprising than the amount of crass ignorance that exists on the simple subject of cooking a mutton chop or a beef-steak, and lecturers, teachers of cookery, writers of cookery books, and such people who ought to know better, err in the matter just as much as the untrained girl who thinks that the way to cook a chop or steak is to put some grease in a pan, let it get warm, put in the steak or chop (probably after sprinkling it with pepper and salt!), fry it for five minutes on one side and then turn it over and fry it for the same time on the other side. This is just the way meat ought not to be cooked, because such treatment draws all the juice out of the meat into the pan, which is the very thing to be avoided. Cookery books of course all give the method for broiling chops and steaks on a gridiron, but it is when they come to cooking these things on a pan that they one and all prove themselves to be blind leaders of the blind,74 How to Broil a Chop or Steak. for I have never yet found a cookery book which told its readers how to perform the simple feat of cooking chops and steaks on a pan so that they will taste as well as if done on a gridiron, and it is what every one who studies economy should know how to do, because broiling on a gridiron causes a good deal of waste of meat, and also needs time and trouble in the prepara- tion of the fire, for without a good clear fire such broiling cannot be done properly. On the pan, how- ever, you can broil on almost any kind of fire, in the following way:— Take a stout iron frying-pan (an enamelled pan or a thin tin one won’t do), see that it is quite clean and perfectly dry, put it on the fire and let it get nearly red hot, then take the chop or steak up with the sugar-tongs,* put it on the pan and turn it every fifteen seconds. Do not go away and leave it, but turn it regularly every fifteen seconds until it is done, which, according to the thickness of the meat, will be in from seven to ten minutes; so it is no great hardship to have to watch it for that short time. Then take up the meat and put it on a hot dish, and serve merely with a piece of butter placed upon it. Any one who eats a chop or steak cooked in this way will never patronise the greasy pan method again. People are sometimes quite afraid to try this recipe, they * Beef-steak tongs are sold for this purpose (in order to prevent prongs being stuck into the meat, which extracts the juice), but the sugar-tongs will do if the others are not procurable.75 The Epicure’s Steak. think the meat will stick to the pan, or the pan will crack, or something else untoward will happen, but once they take courage and try the plan they are delighted with the result. It is from the universal praise bestowed on this recipe whenever I have recommended it, and it has been tried, that I have devoted a whole chapter to expatiate on the value of the almost red-hot iron pan as a utensil for cooking chops and steaks. The science of the matter is that the albumen in the meat is coagulated on the outside, in the same way as in broiling or roasting, therefore the juice is kept in and not drawn out by being dissolved in warm fat. Fat also soddens the meat that is slowly cooked in it. Salt and pepper should never be sprinkled on meat while broiling, they also help to extract its juice. . THE EPICURE’S STEAK. Take an evenly cut fillet steak about an inch and a half thick, cook it as just directed. Place it on an extremely hot dish, put a piece of butter on it, sprinkle a spoonful of finely chopped parsley over it, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve very hot. Gravy is not needed for chops and steaks cooked in this way, because gravy will flow from the meat when it is cut.7 6 CHAPTER VII. RECIPES FOR USING UP COLD MEAT. RUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Made with remnants of cold corned beef and cold cabbage. Method.—Slice the beef rather thin and fry in a little clarified dripping on a frying-pan; drain and put upon a very hot dish, and keep hot while quicyy frying the cabbage; then dish, piling the beef and cabbage in layers, and seasoning the whole with pepper. The dish may with advantage be rubbed with garlic before dishing. Serve very hot. croquettes. Chop up the remains of any broken meat, fowl, or game into small bits (don’t mince in a machine), dust with pepper and salt, and mix with a good thick white sauce (made according to recipe on pp. 112-113) into a firm paste, shape into balls, rolls, or little cakes, dip into flour and water batter, and then into fine bread crumbs,77 Recipe for Curry. or dip in beaten egg and then into bread crumbsi and fry in boiling fat. The croquettes would to many tastes be greatly improved if the meat be minced on a dish previ- ously rubbed with garlic. Chopped mushrooms would greatly improve the croquettes. CURRY. There is no better method of utilising cold mutton, pork, veal, rabbit, or chicken, than by making them into a good curry, ^/should never be curried—it makes a very inferior dish—but it is almost the only thing that should not be so dressed, as most things are capable ot being served in this appetising form with advantage. Fish eggs (hard boiled), and most vegetables (haricot beans particularly) can all be curried, and thereby, on account of the accompanying sauce and rice, be made to go much further than if served quite plain, ihe following is an excellent recipe for a curry. Requisites.—Six onions, three apples, four lumps ot su^ar, six prunes, three gherkins, one or two tablespoon- fuls of chutney, two tablespoonfuls of good curry powder, two or three pints of stock or of Liebigs extract mixed with water till of the colour of brown sherry. Salt, pepper, clarified dripping, chillis, or any sauce or •pickle that may be at hand can also be added at dis- cretion, for all such additions can only improve the curry. . Method— Peel the onions and apples, removing theUsing Up Cold Meat. 73 cores of the latter, slice both, and fry in a little dripping, after shaking the curry powder over them, until they are a golden brown. Have the stock heating in a sauce- pan, and pour the contents of the frying-pan into it, and let the whole boil gently for an hour and a half till the liquor is reduced. Put a sieve into a basin, empty the contents of the saucepan into it, and rub the solid residue with a spoon through the sieve. Let it cool, and skim off the fat. This constitutes the curry gravy. Now take whatever is to be curried—if meat, cut it into neat dice, each about the size of a small broad bean, or flake the fish, or cut the remains of fowl, rabbit, etc., into nice little pieces, dip them lightly into fine, unlumpy flour, and put them into a saucepan with the curry gravy, the gherkins sliced, the prunes stoned and cut up, the chutney, sugar, pepper and salt, eta, and let the whole simmer (not boil, because it would harden the meat) for at least three hours. If it simmers very slowly for twice that length of time it will be all the better. Of course a curry can be made much more quickly, the whole of above process can be per- formed in less than an hour; but then it will not be nearly so good a curry as if made exactly according to this recipe, because long slow cooking is needed so that the meat may thoroughly absorb all the flavours of the preparation. An ordinary English curry' consists merely of pieces of meat heated in gravy flavoured with curry powder, but such a preparation is not a ge?iuine curry. The dish prepared from above79 To Boil Rice for Curry. recipe will be found worth the time and trouble, which after all is not great. If required for early dinner or luncheon it will be better to make it the day before, and simmer again for an hour _ or two before serying- The above quantities are sufficient for a. large dish o curry; if only a small quantity of meat is to be used, reduce the proportions. More curry powder and cayenne pepper can be used for those who like their curry very hot, and browning to make it darken TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRY. Into half a gallon of boiling water put a tablespoonful of lemon juice, or half a lemon the juice of which has been used for something else. While fast boiling shake in half a pound of Patua rice* and boil fast, stirring now and then, for about twelve minutes, pour it into a sieve placed in a basin, empty away the water that runs through, and then wash the rice with warm water to separate the grains and remove, the milky water that makes them adhere. Put the rice on a hot dish, and stand near the fire or in the oven to dry. Serve in a wall round the curry, or handed in a separate dish. This rice will be found very different from the pasty compound, the result of over long boiling and careless cooking, which the British cook too often serves with curry. , . . , Note.—Before boiling, well wash the rice m several * The best rice should be used for curries.Using Up Cold Meat. 8o waters till not a trace of milkiness remains. This is the only occasion on which rice should be washed before cooking. TO MAKE A GOOD HASH. The most important thing for the making of a good hash is to have good gravy. Boil down the bones, skin, gristle, etc., of the joint the remains of which are to be hashed, with water to cover them to the depth of an inch or two, an onion cut up without peeling (this will help to “brown” the hash), peppercorns, and any avail- able vegetables, such as a stick or two of celery, or the rough ends of celery, which do very well for flavouring, or a pinch of celery seed, a sliced carrot, turnip, etc. If there are any bones of game, wild duck, hare, etc., in the larder, their addition to the gravy will help in the production of a most excellent hash. Let the whole boil gently for an hour or more with the lid of the sauce- pan on, strain into a basin and let stand in a cold place to let the fat settle; skim the gravy carefully, then add at discretion as much ketchup, or Worcestershire, or any other sauce the store cupboard affords, as will flavour the hash pleasantly; quantities cannot be given, as they depend on the amount of gravy there is. Add a tea- spoonful or two of vinegar, a spoonful of red currant jelly (this is a great improvement and should always be used), and pepper and salt to taste. In using Worcestershire sauce be careful, as too much of it overpowers the flavour of everything else. Pickles or capers cut up, orKromeskies. 81 a spoonful of chutney, or of port wine or sherry, is also an agreeable addition. When the sauce is well and cunningly flavoured proceed to thicken and brown it, as directed at p. 32. On no account make the gravy too thick or too thin, it must hit a happy medium, and of all things thoroughly boil the gravy after the flour is added (corn flour is much better to use than common flour, and as it thickens more than the latter less of it should be used), as nothing so spoils a hash as the taste of half-cooked flour. Then, when the gravy is properly thickened and brown enough, and when the boil has just gone off, put in the meat cut up in small neat dice, or, if preferred, in thin slices, and let the saucepan stand covered by the fire till the meat is thoroughly heated through. The saucepan must never he put on the fire to boil after the meat is added, as if a hash is boiled the meat will be rendered hard, and the dish will be quite spoiled. Make a wall of mashed potato (mashed with milk if possible), or a wall of rice boiled in water as for a curry (p. 79), on a very hot dish, and place the hash in the centre. KROMESKIES. Mix a cupful of finely chopped ham, or any kind of meat (cold remnants can be used in this way), ditto of bread crumbs, two ditto of mashed potatoes. Mix in some butter or well clarified dripping of the size of an egg, add with it a well-whisked egg, season well with cayenne or nepaul pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice. Form 6Using Up Cold Meat. 82 into small sausages, brush with egg or milk, dip in fine bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown in plenty of fat. MACARONI VEAL. Mince half a pound of cold veal, mix with four ounces of minced ham and two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and powdered mace to taste; add a season- ing of chopped parsley, lemon peel, thyme and marjoram, a squeeze of lemon juice, a well-whisked egg, and enough stock to moisten the whole. Put this when mixed smoothly into a pie dish, cover with half a pound of macaroni which has been boiled till tender in salt and water (about half-an-hour), put a layer of fine bread crumbs over this, strew bits of butter over it, and bake for twenty-five minutes. If not sufficiently browned in the oven, may be finished before the fire. MEAT PASTRY. Take rather thin slices of any kind of cold meat, season well with pepper and salt, roll each slice up with a mushroom which has been fried for a minute or two in clarified dripping, or better still, in bacon fat; or if no mushrooms are at hand, roll the meat up with a slice of tomato, enclose each slice in a piece of puff paste (see p. 118), and fry in clarified fat till the paste is a light golden colour. Drain before the fire, and serve very hot.Potted Meats. 83 PASTY (TO BE EATEN COLD). Make some short crust by recipe, p. 118; mince up odds and ends of cold meats, bacon, ham, with a little chopped parsley, and a very little clarified dripping. Rub a bit of garlic over a mortar, put the meat, parsley, dripping, and pepper and salt into it, and pound all well together. Spread a layer of paste on a flat tin dish, cover with a layer of pounded meat spread smooth with a knife, cover with a layer of crust, and bake from twenty minutes to half-an-hour. POTTED BEEF, HAM, ETC. « When beef-tea is made for an invalid the meat residue is too often thrown away; this is sinful waste of good food, as this residue contains a great deal of nourishment, and may be converted into excellent potted meat by the following method. Remove all gristle, skin, and bone, and put the meat into a mortar, with a seasoning of pepper and salt, a very small pinch of ground mace and of ground allspice, a tiny dust of nutmeg, and a piece of butter or clarified dripping the size of a walnut or an egg, according to the quantity of meat. Pound all well to- gether until a smooth paste is formed; if approved of, a few drops of chilli or tarragon vinegar may be added. When the paste is smooth and all equally flavoured, press it into small pots, and if required to be kept for some84 Using Up Cold Meat. days pour over the top melted lard—or butter—to exclude the air. Any kind of cold meat or game, or mixtures of both may be potted in this way, cold ham or bacon may be added and their fat will answer the pur- pose of butter or dripping, which need not then be added. The flavouring of mace must be carefully added, as if too much is put in its strong flavour will overpower the rest. RISSOLES. Chop up, or put through a mincing machine, any cold meat, scraps of ham, bacon, game, poultry, rabbit, etc., leaving out all skin, gristle, and hard edges. Have enough gravy (or extract of meat mixed with water) prepared and well flavoured, as directed for “ Hash,” to moisten the chopped meat, and half the same quantity as of meat of fine bread crumbs; mix the whole well with the juice of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful of finely- grated lemon rind, a seasoning of chopped parsley, thyme, marjoram, onion, salt and pepper, -and one or more (according to quantity of material) well-beaten eggs. A spoonful of sherry or marsala may be added at discretion. The mixture should be quite soft and moist, as rissoles should not be dry and crumbling. Mix all thoroughly and form into balls or little rolls, dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs or raspings seasoned with pepper, and fry in clarified fat till of a crisp, bright brown. Dish on a hot napkin or pretty dish paper,Shepherd’s Pie. 85 garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with cut lemon or brown gravy in a tureen.* shepherd’s pie. A shepherd’s pie can be a very nasty dish or a very nice one, according to the way it is made. To make a nice Shepherd's Pie. Mince fine (if possible through a mincing machine) remains of any kind of cold meat, chop up and mix through this a tablespoonful of any pickle that may be at hand, or, best of all, some broiled mushrooms. Make a nice savoury gravy by boiling up all the bones and bits of gristle of the meat (if there are none, some gravy must be made with meat extract), with just enough water to cover them well, a sliced onion, carrot, stick of celery if at hand, parsley, and a dozen peppercorns. When this gravy is well flavoured, strain, cool, skim, add a tablespoon- ful or two of ketchup, or any sauce the store cupboard affords (a spoonful of wine also would be an improve- ment), brown it with a little burnt sugar or browning (see p. 32), thicken slightly with corn flour, put into a pie dish, mix the meat with it, and cover all with a deep layer of potatoes mashed with milk till quite smooth and free from lumps. Bake in a brisk oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, and brown the top before the fire. For * Rissoles cannot be made without eggs, as these serve to bind the material into a coherent mass.Using Up Cold Meat. 86 those who are partial to onions some fried or boiled and chopped onions may be mixed with the meat. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. The remains of beef or mutton too under-done to be agreeable eating as a cold dish can be converted into an excellent “Toad.” Rub a rather deep pie dish lightly with a cut clove of garlic; cut the meat into neat pieces. If a sheep’s kidney or half a pound of beef kidney can be had, free this from fat, cut it up, and add to the other meat. Put all into the pie dish, season with black pepper and salt, and pour over all sufficient batter (made by allowing one egg to half a pint of milk, a tablespoon- ful of flour and a pinch of salt, all blended smoothly together) to cover entirely. Bake in a brisk oven from half to three-quarters of an hour, according to size.CHAPTER VIII. ECONOMICAL ENTREES AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. ASPIC JELLY. A PRETTY ENTREE. Make some jelly as directed for wine jelly at p. 126 but omit sugar, lemon, wine, and spices, and flavour it instead with onion or shalot, parsley, pepper and salt, boiled in the jelly, and tarragon vinegar added after the boiling. While this is still liquid, dip some pretty little shapes or moulds into cold water, place m them such things as shreds of the white part of lettuce, shrimps or prawns picked whole from the shell, whole oysters, shreds of hard-boiled egg, capers, peas, scraps of carrot, little bits of calf’s head, chicken, fish, etc., or any such thing as convenience or taste may direct. Fill up with the liquid jelly, and when it is set turn out carefully, and serve garnished with sprigs of parsley, endive, etc. A little taste and practice will enable all sorts of odds and ends to be utilised in this way encased in aspic jelly. To produce a good effect the jelly must be made as clear as possible.Economical Entrees. 88 If preferred, some jelly can be made from the packet gelatine procurable at any grocers, making it according to directions on packet but flavouring as above, and clearing as directed for clear soup, p. 48. BEEF HEART (STUFFED AND BAKED). Tell the butcher to send the heart cleaned, ready for cooking; soak it in warm water for a couple of hours, put it into boiling water, and then simmer gently for two hours; place it on a dish, and when cool wipe it inside and out; stuff, either with a stuffing made according to that given at page 63 for baked haddock, or with “goose stuffing”—i.e., boiled potatoes mashed with plenty of chopped-up onions and pepper, or with “ duck stuffing ” —i.e., sage, pepper, and onions finely chopped together. Sew up with needle and coarse thread, cover with clarified dripping, and bake in quick oven for two hours; baste frequently with the melted dripping. Serve, with brown gravy, very hot. BEEF HEAD (i.e., OX HEAD OR OX CHEEK). This is a most economical dish for a large family. An ox’s head can be bought from two shillings upwards, according to season, etc. The meat from it can also be bought by the pound, but it is more economical to buy it whole, as excellent stock for soup can be made from the bones, and fritters from the brains.Brain Fritters. 89 To cook ihe Head. Tell the butcher to send it ready prepared for cooking. Wash it well and put it in a boiling pot with hot water to cover it completely, a tablespoonful of peppercorns, and a few cloves; boil gently till the bones can be drawn out (about three hours, or more if the head is very large). Lift the head on to a dish, pull out the bones and put them back in the liquor, and simmer this for half-an- hour more. Then strain and keep for stock. Cut the meat into neat pieces, removing the white, tough skin from the palate, make a thick gravy with some of the liquor, browning and thickening it, as at p. 32; add to it two tablespoonfuls of ketchup and one of vinegar; put in the meat, and serve very hot. Note.—This can be re-heated as required. BRAIN FRITTERS. (VERY DIGESTIBLE.) Any kind of brain—ox, calf’s, or sheep’s—can be used for this dish. Steep the brain in lukewarm salt and water for two hours, changing the water if necessary; tie it in a piece of muslin, put it in hot water and simmer for twelve or fifteen minutes (or twenty minutes to half-an- hour if a large ox brain is used). Take up and leave to grow nearly cold, then slice (if the brain is large) in thick pieces, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, dip in flour and water batter, fry in nearly boiling fat, in a frying basket, till of a golden brown; drain, serve on a hot napkin with cut lemon and garnish of parsley.90 Economical Entrees. BRAINS AND WHITE SAUCE. Soak the brains, and steam in a covered basin for half-an-hour. Cover with sauce made by recipe, p. 112, flavoured with mushroom powder or with white button mushrooms stewed in it. BRAINS, BROWN ENTREE. Soak and steam the brains as above. Cut in neat pieces, put them in an entrde dish, and cover with a good brown sauce in which some fresh mushrooms or slices of truffle have been stewed, with seasoning of pepper and salt. BRISKET OF BEEF STEWED WITH VEGETABLES. Put a cupful of boiling water and a tablespoonful of vinegar into a saucepan with a closely-fitting lid, place a piece of brisket of beef weighing from four to six pounds on this, pack round it some carrots, scraped, onions and turnips peeled but not cut up, and a tablespoonful of peppercorns; put on a very slow fire and stew very gently for three hours and a half; then place meat and vegetables (which may now be cut up) on a hot dish, cover, brown and thicken gravy, boil up, and pour over dish. calf’s head hash (mock) made from calf’s feet. This makes a very nice and economical entree. Two calf’s feet should not cost more than is. 4d. or is. 6d.Cow-heel Cutlets. 9i Wash well, and soak for an hour or two before cooking. Boil the calf’s feet in two quarts of water till the meat separates from the bone, about two, two and a half, to three hours, according to size; remove the bones and any bits of brown skin, etc., and set the meat aside till cold, then cut up into neat squares and heat in gravy made as followsTake some of the liquor the feet were boiled in, stew for an hour with one onion, eight cloves, bunch of parsley and herbs (marjoram, thyme, etc.), strain, colour with a little meat extract, thicken slightly with corn flour, and add the juice of half a small lemon and a wineglassful of sherry or marsala. Serve very hot. COW-HEEL AND ONIONS. If not already boiled by the butcher, the foot will need, after being split, washed, and having the fat removed, seven or eight hours simmering. Can be partly cooked one day and finished the next. When the bones are loose, cover with onion sauce and serve. No!e.—Skim off the fat as it rises in boiling, and put it in a jar. It is excellent for rubbing stiff joints, etc. COW-HEEL CUTLETS. Take out all black or otherwise unsightly bits, from a cow-heel boiled as above, place the meat on a dish, put the bottom of another dish (see that it is quite clean) on the top of it, and on this dish place some heavy weights ; when cold and firm cut the meat into neat cutlets, dip in92 Economical Entrees. whisked egg and fine bread crumbs with which has been mixed finely grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, and some finely powdered herbs. Fry in boiling fat to a nice golden colour. Serve on a hot napkin with cut lemon and garnish of parsley. Note.—The water in which cow-heel, calves’ feet, or even pigs’ feet (unsalted) have been boiled will make jelly, sweet or aspic. Pigs’ feet jelly is very good, but can never be made quite as bright and clear, nor perhaps quite so delicately flavoured, as that from calves’ feet. EGGS A LA BECHAMEL. Boil six eggs hard, take out of shells, cut them in two, place neatly in a dish, and cover with a white sauce (p. 112), flavoured by boiling in the milk a slice of ham, some mushrooms, a slice of eschalot (or rub of garlic on the ham), and pepper (white) and salt. The sauce should be strained, but the mushrooms may be returned to it. There should be enough sauce to cover the eggs. Or they may be placed with the sauce in a baking dish covered with bread crumbs and bits of butter and baked a nice brown. Serve hot. CURRIED EGGS. Prepare curry sauce as already directed, thicken, boil some eggs hard, take them out of the shells, simmer them in the curry for two hours (they would go to pieces if simmered as long as meat requires), take eachLamb’s Fry. 93 out in a spoon, cut it neatly in two, arrange in an entree dish, cover with the sauce, and serve hot. lamb’s fry, served as sweetbread. Take some large lamb’s fry, wash in warm water, and parboil; place in a little milk and stew gently till tender, from fifteen to twenty minutes; make a good white sauce, as directed for eggs a la Bechamel, using plenty of white button mushrooms; place the stewed fry with the sauce and the mushrooms covering it in the middle of a dish with a border of potatoes mashed quite smooth with milk around it. Instead of mushrooms, young green peas may be used with equal advantage. This can be hardly, if at all, distinguished from the much more expensive veal sweetbread. lamb’s fry croquettes. Prepare as for croquettes (p. 76), only use lamb’s fry, boiled till tender, instead of other meat, and with it mix some chopped mushrooms, and if possible a truffle or two. lamb’s fry (a brown entree). Wash and parboil, and then stew till tender some large lamb’s fry. Make a good brown sauce with a little brown stock, in which is stewed plenty of button mushrooms and any game bones at hand, or bones of duck or fowl; strain, and thicken to consistency of cream with anow-Economical Entries. 94 root, boiling this well so that it may not taste gritty or raw, and adding half a glass of sherry; return into this the mushrooms, and put in the lamb’s fry and serve hot. Note.—This makes a cheap and very effective entree. Lamb’s fry (sweetbread) is on an average about is. per pound, whereas veal sweetbreads are from 6s. to 8s. per pair, and the above makes quite as effective an entree. LIVER AND BACON. Procure some calf’s liver, have it cut in slices not too thin, dip each slice in flour and fry in the bacon fat which is left from frying the bacon (a slice of bacon should be allowed for each slice of liver); about eight minutes will fry it; dish the liver and bacon, cover, and make the gravy by draining off the fat from the pan and sprinkling in a tablespoonful of flour, rub it into the frying-pan with the back of a spoon, pour in a breakfast- cupful of water, pepper and salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and if necessary a few drops of burnt sugar; boil up for five minutes, strain through a strainer over the liver and bacon, and serve hot. MUTTON (STEWED). (Tliis is a delicious dish at a small cost.) Take half a leg of mutton,* bone it, and stuff it with a mixture made of bread crumbs, suet or dripping * Butchers will always sell half a leg of mutton, and will bone it if asked to do so.Stewed Partridges. 95 chopped fine, parsley, herbs, a little onion, pepper and salt, or if mushrooms or oysters can be had these may be substituted for the herbs, parsley, and onion; bind it up with twine and put it into a stew-pan with a very little water and sliced carrots, onions, turnips, and peas; stew for an hour. Then lift out the meat on to a hot dish and keep it covered while thickening the gravy with a little corn flour, add a spoonful of red currant jelly, let it dissolve in the gravy, a spoonful or two of port or sherry, a spoonful of ketchup; when the gravy is cooked enough pour it round the meat and serve. PARTRIDGES STEWED WITH CABBAGE. (This is a good way of cooking old birds, too tough for roasting.) Clean and cut the birds in two, well wash a head of cabbage and quarter it, lay it either in an earthenware cooking pot or in a deep pie-dish, place the birds upon it, with slices of fat bacon upon them, pour on them a teacupful of gravy (made with meat extract if no other is to be had), and pepper and salt. Put on the lid of the cooking pot, or if in a pie-dish invert another over it; see that it fits well, as the dish must be closely covered, and cook for two hours in a moderate oven, or, if in an earthenware pot, on the stove. STEWED RABBIT. Cut up a rabbit in joints, wipe and flour them, and fry them in clarified dripping till rather brown, put themg6 Economical Entries. into an earthenware cooking pot, or a stew-pan, with a pint and a half of stock, or liquor in which meat or haricot beans have been boiled, or failing this, water, one large onion, a couple of carrots, turnips, a stick of celery, or any other vegetables at hand, a spoonful of pepper- corns, and salt. Stew for an hour and a half, take out the rabbit and vegetables, thicken with flour, stir and boil, then slice the vegetables and return them and the joints to the gravy, and serve with boiled pickled pork. JUGGED RABBIT OR HARE. Cut into joints, stew with pint and a half of brown gravy or water, onion and pepper, for an hour; take out the onion and joints, brown the gravy with burnt sugar, add a glass of sherry or port wine, a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly dissolved in the gravy, slightly thicken with arrowroot; make ready some forcemeat balls made of the liver of the rabbit or hare pounded with bread crumbs, suet, fine herbs, and seasoning; boil them for a minute in the gravy, and pour all round the joints in a hot dish. SHIN OF BEEF WITH ONION SAUCE. This is a very economical and nutritious dish. Stew the shin of beef gently, allowing half-an-hour to the pound, put it on a hot dish, and cover with onion sauce. sheep’s trotters (stewed). s These cost about eightpence a dozen, and are verySteak en Surprise. 97 delicate and digestible if subjected to several hours slow boiling. Tell the butcher to send them ready for cook- ing, and not to cut them short, as if so they will be nearly all bone. Wash, put them into cold water, and boil till the bones are loose. Cover with parsley sauce. STEAK EN SURPRISE. . Take a thick rump steak and with a very sharp and thin knife slit it nearly through, leaving sides and ends closed, so that it will form a bag, fill it with oysters seasoned with pepper, and cook as directed at p. 74. The open mouth must be sewn up with a needle and coarse thread, which must be drawn out carefully before serving. STEAK A L’EPICURE. Take two pounds of rump steak, spread it evenly with mashed chestnuts, roll up and tie, then lard it all over with little bits of fat bacon till it is like a porcupine, wrap lightly in a well-greased paper and bake for twenty minutes. Note.—A larding-needle can be bought for threepence or fourpence; it opens at the end and takes in a little strip of fat bacon; the needle is drawn through the surface to be larded, in which the bacon remains sticking up straight. STEAK A LA MARQUISE. Beat a good, tender rump steak quite flat with a roll- 7Economical Entrees. 98 ing-pin; make a forcemeat of fine bread crumbs squeezed out of milk and pounded with scrap bits of minced ham, bacon, or fat pork, a chopped onion (or instead of this the steak may be rubbed with garlic), a little grated lemon peel, parsley, herbs, mushrooms, tinned oysters, or truffles if they are to be had (the mushrooms cooked). Spread this smoothly over the steak, roll up so that no stuffing comes out (do not spread the stuffing up to the edges of the meat), bind firmly with twine, and put it into a deep pie-dish, pour over it a cupful of boiling water or stock, invert another pie-dish over it, and place in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. It will cook in its own steam without burning. When done, take off the upper dish, rub a little butter over the meat, and dust with flour and place before the fire to brown, having first poured off the gravy, which slightly thicken and brown, a little more water or stock, boiling, being added to it if there is not sufficient, also a little mushroom ketchup or Harvey sauce and red-currant jelly. Put the meat on a hot dish, remove the twine with sharp scissors, pour the gravy round, and serve. If the stock for gravy be made of the skin and bones, etc., of game or hare, this dish will be very good indeed. STEWED STEAK. (Beef Kidney can be stewed in the same way.) Requisites.—One pound of beef-steak, two onions, two turnips, two carrots, a cupful of water or stock, a table-99 Stewed Veal. spoonful of ketchup or any sauce at hand, pepper and salt, clarified dripping, thickening. Method.—The steak should be thick and without much fat; cut it into neat pieces and fry it on each side for two or three minutes in the dripping, just to brown it; the vegetables, pared and sliced, should then be fried in the pan after the meat, then put both meat and vegetables into a stew-pan with a closely-fitting lid, add the water or stock, and simmer very gently for two hours; then lift out the meat on to a hot dish, cover, skim the liquor if very greasy, add pepper, salt, and ketchup, and thicken; pour while boiling over the pieces of steak, and serve very hot.* STEWED VEAL. Put two pounds of veal cutlet into milk to cover it well, with a blade of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Stew gently for rather more than an hour, skim, strain. Thicken the milk when the meat is removed either with arrowroot, or if the dish is desired to be very good, with two eggs (these must not boil or they will curdle; put the milk and eggs into a jug as for a custard, stand in boil- ing water, and stir till thick). Add half a pint of boiled green peas, place on a dish and border with mashed potatoes. * Breast or “scrag” (i.e., throat part of neck) of mutton or lamb may be stewed in the same way. Peas may be substituted for the vegetables if desired.ioo Economical Entrees. TO PICKLE PORK. See that the pork is very good and sweet, rub each piece thoroughly with plenty of coarse salt, lay them one on top of another in a glazed earthenware pan, with plenty of salt between each layer and on top, cover with a cloth, and on top of this put a piece of wood with a weight on it to keep the pork in the brine which will form from the melted salt; cover with a closely-fitting lid, as if the air gains entrance the pork will not keep well. If properly pickled it will keep good for eighteen months or two years. Some people use one part of saltpetre to two of salt; it makes the lean of the meat red, but is not really necessary. Pork should be salted on the same day that the pig is killed.IOI CHAPTER IX. VEGETABLES.'* CUCUMBERS FRIED IN BATTER. Make a batter either of flour and water or of milk, egg and flour, pare a fresh cucumber, slice about half an inch thick, sprinkle it with salt and let it drain for a few minutes; dust with pepper, dip in the batter, and fry in hot fat till brown and crisp; drain, and serve hot. CARROTS, PICKLED. (This is a good way for utilising cold carrots.) Boil half a pint of vinegar for ten or twelve minutes with a teaspoonful of peppercorns, six whole allspice, a tiny blade of mace, half a teaspoonful of salt, and three lumps of sugar. Strain, and when cold pour it over the cold boiled carrots, which have been cut in rather thick slices and placed in a glass dish. * Vegetables are chiefly valuable on account of the potash and other salts which they contain.102 Vegetables. SPANISH ONIONS CURRIED. Peel four Spanish onions, put them into boiling salted water and boil, uncovered, till tender. Press the water out by chopping them up in a colander, put them into an enamelled saucepan with a little milk, or butter, or cream, sprinkle a tablespoonful of curry powder over them, boil for five minutes. Serve very hot. VEGETABLE FRITTERS. Requisites.—Any cold vegetables, one egg, salt, pepper, bit of butter the size of a walnut, a tablespoonful of flour, milk, bread crumbs. Method.—Mash the vegetables, taking out any hard bits of stalk, whisk the egg and mix it with the other ingredients, add just enough milk to make all into a smooth mass; form into little flat cakes or small rolls, dip into flour and water batter, then into fine bread crumbs, and fry crisply in clarified dripping. Serve either as a vegetable with meat or as a vegetable course. A little finely chopped parsley may be mixed with the bread crumbs at discretion. HARICOT BEAN SALAD. (Excellent with cold meat when fresh salad cannot be had.) Boil a pint of small haricot beans, soaked in water the previous night, till quite tender, but not mashed. Let them get cold, put them into a salad bowl with twoHaricot Beans. 103 tablespoonfuls of chopped cold boiled beet-root, a table- spoonful of well washed, finely chopped parsley, a stick or two of the tender inside of a head of celery, and any cold carrot or tomato that may be at hand, cut small. Pour over all two or three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a tablespoonful of tarragon and one of plain vinegar, pepper and salt, and mix well. If the salad bowl he previously rubbed with a cut clove of garlic, this salad will be greatly improved. At discretion all sorts of additions may be made to this dish. French mustard and cream or milk, with a pinch of castor sugar, may be added to the oil; hard-boiled eggs cut up would also be an improvement, so too would cold potatoes—in fact any kind of cold vegetables may be added to it. This makes a very substantial addition to a luncheon or supper table, and helps to save the consumption of meat. HARICOT BEANS (SAVOURY). (Very nutritious and cheap.) Soak a quart of dried haricots in cold water for twenty- four hours. If possible, soak them in soft water, or if only hard water is to be had, put a bit of soda the size of a pea into the water. Put them into a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt, simmer till tender; this will take from two to three hours. Put a little dripping and two sliced onions into a frying-pan and fry for five minutes, then put in as much of the haricots as will be required (the quantity given above104 Vegetables. makes a large dishful; if not all wanted they will keep till next day), and sprinkle over them salt and black pepper and fry crisply till a golden brown, and serve hot. Chopped parsley may be sprinkled over the beans with the pepper and salt. To vary the above. Fry the soaked beans with slices of bacon, or bacon and tomato, instead of onion, or, omitting the onion, add chopped parsley, or omit the frying and cover the beans after boiling with onion sauce or parsley sauce. Serve them how you will, haricot beans are an excellent, nourishing, flesh-forming dish, and very cheap. KAIL KANON. Mash equal quantities of any cold greens and cold potatoes together very smoothly, with a very little drip- ping and a seasoning of salt. Put this into an iron saucepan and stir with a wooden spoon till very hot. Pile neatly on a hot dish, and serve as hot as possible. POTATO LOAF. Mash cold potatoes and a little dripping very smoothly, season well with black pepper and salt. Make into a pyramid on a plate, and score the sides of the ‘‘loaf” with the back of a fork. Stick little bits of drippingRed Cabbage Pickled. 105 over it, and bake in a rather brisk oven till the surface is quite brown and crisp. This makes an agreeable change from the monotony of the plainly boiled potato, and is also an economical way of using up cold potatoes. VEGETABLE PIE. Take any kind of cold cooked vegetables. Chop and mix all together, season with pepper and salt. If there are any bits of cold bacon in the larder, add them; pour over all a cup of any sort of stock, gravy, or soup that the larder will afford, and cover the dish with a layer of potatoes mashed very smoothly with plenty of milk. Bake till the potato cover is quite crisp and nicely browned. This will make a very good dinner where strict economy is necessary, and is very appetising and wholesome. RED CABBAGE PICKLED. Requisites.—A fine hard head of red cabbage, one quart of vinegar, tablespoonful of peppercorns, tea- spoonful of whole allspice, one small sprig of whole ginger, salt. Method.—Strip the rough outer leaves from the cab- bage, cut it in two and take out the hard stalk, slice the cabbage thinly and place it on a large dish, sprinkle it well with salt, and tilt the dish so that the water may drain away. Leave it to drain thus for twenty-four hours, shaking and turning the cabbage occasionally. Boil theio6 Vegetables. vinegar and spices for a quarter of an hour, let them grow cold; when the cabbage is drained put it into jars, pressing it down, and cover with the vinegar and spices. Capsicum pods and mustard seed may be added to the spices if desired.CHAPTER X. SAUCES AND SALAD DRESSINGS. APPLE SAUCE. (To serve with Koast Goose or Pork.) Pare four or six apples, slice, leaving out the core and pips put into a saucepan with a tablespoonful or two ot water, one lump of sugar, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut. Simmer over the fire, stirring occasionally till the sauce is quite smooth. Serve hot. . Apple sauce must not be sweet; the acid is intended as a corrective to the richness of the goose or pork. BREAD SAUCE. (To serve with Roast Fowl, Pheasant, etc.) Put a breakfast-cupful of bread crumbs into a small saucepan, add a teaspoonful of peppercorns, half a tea- spoonful of salt, a blade of mace, and just enough milk to cover the whole. Simmer till smooth, stirring well to keep it from burning.108 Sauces and Salad Dressings. Note.—Most cookery books direct that onion should be put into bread sauce; this is a great mistake, as the flavour would be disagreeable to many people, and is not suited to go with the delicate flavour of chicken, turkey, and pheasant, with which bread sauce is principally served. ECONOMICAL MAYONAISE SAUCE FOR BOTTLING. Requisites.—One pint of milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one wineglassful of vinegar, or better still, tarragon and plain vinegar mixed in equal quantities, two raw eggs, four ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of mustard. Method.—Put the flour into a small basin and add to it two tablespoonfuls of cold milk taken from the pint, blend this together with the back of a spoon until it is absolutely free from lumps and quite smooth, put the rest of the milk into a clean enamelled saucepan, and when it simmers pour in the flour and milk mixture and the butter and boil for fully five minutes, stirring well and taking care it does not get the least burnt, and while still hot, but not boiling, stir thoroughly in the eggs, which must be carefully cleared of the gelatinous thread which clings to the yolk, and well whisked, the mustard, and lastly when nearly cold, the vinegar. When quite cold bottle and cork well. It will keep for a long time if well corked, and is a delicious accompani- ment to cold meat, fish, salad, hard-boiled eggs, or any other dish which requires mayonaise sauce.109 H orse-Radish Sauce. Note.—A few drops of chilli vinegar may be added if hot condiments are liked, and to some tastes the addition of a little finely chopped onion when the sauce is used (not bottled with it) would be considered an improve- ment, or the vinegar taken from a jar of pickled onions may be used instead of plain vinegar. GRAVY FOR ROAST OR BAKED MEAT. Take the dripping-pan in or over which the joint has been cooked, pour off nearly all the fat, doing it very gently so as not to disturb the sediment, pour in a cup- ful of boiling water, a good pinch of salt, and if wanted thickened, a spoonful of flour; place the pan on edge of fire, and stir the gravy well while boiling for three minutes. Pour round the meat, never over it. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. Requisites.—Three tablespoonfuls of finely scraped horse-radish, two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one large teaspoonful of castor sugar, a small teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of black or white pepper, two teaspoonfuls of French, or one of English, mustard. Method.—Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, make an hour or so before wanted, and serve hot or cold in a sauce-boat. If required hot, put the sauce in a jar, which stand in a saucepan of boiling water till the sauce is hot. It must not boil.iio Sauces and Salad Dressings. MAYONAISE SAUCE (GOOD). Put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, carefully remove the gelatinous string, have ready a teacupful of salad oil and a teacup three parts full of equal quantities of tarragon vinegar and plain vinegar mixed, put a table- spoonful of thick cream, two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, and a sprinkling of white pepper upon the egg yolks; then take a dropper (the dropper used for filling a stylo- graph pen is just the right kind) and drop upon the egg first a few drops of oil, then a few drops of vinegar, and all the time keep stirring with the other hand, or rather blending the whole, with the back of a wooden spoon, until it is all thoroughly incorporated and quite smooth. If a tablespoonful or two of white jelly (such as remains from the water in which a knuckle of veal, calves’ feet, etc., have been boiled) is at hand, it may be substituted for, or used in addition to, the cream, rubbing it well in. The secret of making good mayonaise sauce is to drop the oil and vinegar alternately, and gradually to blend well so that the sauce may not curdle. The mayonaise may be coloured green with spinach or parsley juice* (the former is best, as it has not so much flavour), or pink with beet juice. * Cook some spinach with only the water that adheres to it after washing. When tender squeeze in a piece of muslin and a strong green juice will be expressed.111 Mustard Sauce. MINT SAUCE. (To serve with Eoast Lamb.) Requisites.—Two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped mint, half a breakfast-cupful of vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of black or white pepper. Method of Making.—Pick off the tenderest leaves of the mint, and do not use the large hard outside ones (these need not be wasted by people who have to buy mint, they can be dried and kept in a well-corked bottle, or can, with the stalks, be used for boiling with new potatoes or peas, both of which are greatly improved by being cooked with this addition), wash them well in two waters, dry between two folds of a clean cloth, chop fine, and put into a sauce tureen with the other ingredients. Mix well until the sugar is melted. This is best made a few hours before it is required, so that the flavour of the mint may thoroughly permeate the vinegar. Mote.—Mint sauce is always served cold. MUSTARD SAUCE. Fry one ounce of butter and the same of flour till browned well, add a breakfast-cupful of any kind of stock, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and either a dessertspoonful of English mustard, or better still, English and French mustard mixed; stir well, simmer for a minute or two, and serve.112 Sauces and Salad Dressings. O SWEET PUDDING SAUCES. An excellent sauce for puddings, which can be flavoured in any way to suit the pudding with which it is served, can be made by pouring half a pint of boiling water upon one tablespoonful of Swiss milk; add a teaspoonful of corn flour or arrowroot blended smooth in a little cold water or milk, and boil till it thickens. To this may be added rum or brandy for plum-pudding sauce, wine for sauce for suet or rice puddings, or a spoonful of currant jelly, or essence of vanilla, almonds, ratifia, or a cup of coffee or chocolate, or any kind of flavouring that convenience or fancy dictates. The remnants of jam in pots, too little to be used in any other way, may be utilised by rinsing the pot with a little hot water and adding it to this sauce. The Swiss milk will be found to give a richness to the sauce quite different from that of ordinary milk and sugar. Nut-meg, cinnamon, mixed spice, chopped almonds may all be added to the sauce at discretion. A very agreeable sauce for plain batter pudding can be made by melting some apricot jam and serving it in a sauce-boat or poured over the pudding. WHITE SAUCE. (With this as a foundation all kiuds of sauces can be made.) Put a pint of milk into an enamelled saucepan to boil, blend smoothly a tablespoonful of corn flour in a little cold milk or water. When the milk comes near boilingMayonaise Salad Dressing. it3 add the blended corn flour and stir till it thickens. It must be boiled till the raw taste of the flour disappears. Plain flour can be used instead of corn flour, but it has not so delicate a flavour. This sauce, without the addition of butter, is quite nice for vegetables, fish, etc., but of course a piece of butter will improve it. It is capable of endless additions and improvements. Chopped hard-boiled eggs or anchovy sauce will convert it into fish sauce, or it may be mixed with Worcestershire or Harvey sauce or ketchup for the same purpose. The addition to it of boiled celery or onions, or parsley cut up and boiled in a little water, will make the sauce of each kind. Button mushrooms stewed in the milk will make it into mushroom sauce. Capers stewed in it will make caper sauce, or for this sauce some of the water that mutton is boiled in may with advantage be substituted for half the milk. A slice of ham sim- mered in the sauce, with a blade of mace and pepper and salt, will convert it into an excellent savoury white sauce. QUICKLY MADE MAYONAISE SALAD DRESSING.* Requisites.—One egg, three tablespoonfuls of milk, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, heaped teaspoonful of castor sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, dust of pepper. Method.—Well whisk the egg, first carefully removing the gelatinous thread, add the milk, sugar, salt, and * An old Spanish saying runs thus—“Be a miser with vinegar, a councillor with salt, and a spendthrift with oil, in salad dressing.” 8114 Sauces and Salad Dressings. pepper. Stir thoroughly well, then place the breakfast- cup containing the mixture in a small saucepan of boiling water, letting the water only come about half-way up the cup, stir constantly while the water boils round the cup until the mixture thickens as a custard does (in stirring let the spoon touch the bottom of the cup), take it up, and when cool stir in the vinegar; place in a cold place to get quite cold before use. It will be thicker when cold than while hot. It must not be kept too long on the fire or it may boil in the cup, and if it does it will curdle. If tarragon vinegar can be had it will be found a great improvement used half and half with ordinary vinegar. This quantity is enough for a dish of salad for four or five persons.CHAPTER XI. HOME-MADE BREAD—PASTRY—SWEETS—CAKES. HOME-MADE BREAD. Requisites.—Seven pounds of flour, two ounces of German yeast, half an ounce of fine salt, water, or milk and water. (The German yeast can be bought at a grocer’s. It should be fresh.) Method.—Thoroughly mix the salt with the flour, dissolve the yeast in a teacupful of warm water, make a hollow in the middle of the flour, and add very gradually the barm (i.e., the yeast dissolved in water), and just enough extra warm water (never cold or hot) to make a firm dough. Then knead, with the doubled- up fists, for fully fifteen minutes, doing it thoroughly. When the dough has been sufficiently kneaded none of it will stick to the hands, then cover the basin with a warmed cloth, and stand it near the fire for an hour, when it will have risen and show cracks on the top, then knead it up again thoroughly and make into loaves, or fill tin shapes three parts full of the dough.116 Pastry, Sweets, Etc. The difference between baking in a tin or without is, that when baked in tins the bread is not so crusty as when baked without. The loaves or tins must be put into an oven that is sufficiently hot, or they will not rise properly; on this point the success of the baking will principally depend. If the oven is not hot enough at first the bread will surely be heavy. The proper tem- perature of the oven for baking bread is 410° Fahr. In bakeries the ovens have thermometers for registering the heat and preventing failure in this respect, but we can’t expect such things in ordinary households; but a simple test wi.l show the state of the oven. Place a slice of stale bread in the oven; if the oven is at the right temperature for bread-baking, this will turn golden brown in three minutes; or shake some flour on the oven shelf, and if it becomes brown in a minute, the dough may be put in. Far less damage to the bread will be done by putting dough into an oven that is too hot than too cool—you can scrape off burnt crust, but nothing can make a heavy loaf light after bad baking. Bread made with milk instead of water is very nice for afternoon tea. All sorts of additions and alterations can be made to the loaves to suit different tastes. Currants (they should first be well washed and well dried) and sugar will make a nice plain cake; sultanas and large raisins will make a plum loaf; sugar and seeds will convert it into a seed loaf; or the loaves may be simply sweetened and brushed with whisked yolk of egg before baking. All theseRecipes for Baking-Powder. 11 7 additions are very useful for furnishing the nursery or school-room tea-table with an interesting variety at small cost, and without danger to digestion. RECIPES FOR BAKING-POWDER. 1. Equal parts of bicarbonate of soda, tartaric acid, fine flour. Sift all together two or three times, so that the ingredients may be thoroughly incorporated. 2. Equal parts of carbonate of soda, tartaric acid, and rice flour. Sift, and mix thoroughly. 3. Two ounces of bicarbonate of soda, one ounce of tartaric acid, one ounce of citric acid. Mix as above. Baking-powder made at home by any of these recipes is much cheaper than if bought in packets, and is more reliable, as common baking-powder made by unknown makers may contain injurious ingredients. SHORT CRUST FOR FRUIT PIES AND TARTS. Requisites.—Half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of baking-powder, quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, milk or water. (Some people add one ounce of castor sugar.) Method.—Mix the baking-powder and salt thoroughly with the flour, then put in the butter and rub it well into the flour till it disappears as butter and the whole is well mixed. Add enough milk or water to make it into a stiff paste and roll out. Note.—What is by courtesy called “ cooking butter,”Pastry, Sweets, Etc. 118 but is really margarine, at 6d. or 8d. a pound, makes very good short crust. PUFF PASTE. (For Oyster Patties, Puffs, etc.) Requisites.—Eight ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, four ounces of lard, juice of half a lemon, pinch of salt, water. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, rub the salt through it and see that it is quite free from lumps. Mix it into a paste of about the firmness of ordinary butter with the water and lemon juice, lay this on the pastry board, which should be slightly floured, and roll it out to about half an inch thick, spread over it small bits of butter and lard each at a little distance from the other, double the paste in two and roll out again, and spread over it more bits of butter and lard, double and roll again; do this till the butter and lard is finished, then roll out to about a third of an inch in thickness. Make puff paste in a cool place if possible, not in a hot kitchen. Good authorities recommend that it should be made on a marble slab, but few housekeepers possess such a luxury. Puff paste must be placed in a brisk oven or it will not rise properly. SUET CRUST FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. To make a rich suet crust equal parts of flour and suet, weighed after it has been freed from skin, may beAlmond Cream. i T9 used, but this is too rich for many people, and three- quarters of a pound of suet to one pound of flour, or half a pound of suet to one pound of flour, will usually be found rich enough. The suet should he finely chopped, and half a teaspoonful of salt be mixed with it. If a light, crumbly crust is desired, mix one heaped tea- spoonful of baking-powder to the pound of flour, then mix the flour and suet thoroughly, and make into a rather stiff paste with milk or water (milk makes a better crust). If the paste be made too wet the crust will be heavy. Some people add the juice of half or a whole lemon when the paste is mixed with water, but it is not necessary, though it may be used if at hand. Beef suet makes infi,7iitely better suet crust than mutton suet, which should never be used unless no other is to be had. ALMOND CREAM. Requisites.—Six sheets of gelatine, one pint of milk, two eggs, essence of almonds, sugar. Method.—Take three tablespoonfuls of the milk, warm it, break up the gelatine and put it in to dissolve. Make a custard of the remainder of the milk in the following way. Put the milk into a jug, add to it the eggs (care- fully cleared of the “ strings ”) well whisked, sugar and almond flavouring to taste, stand this into a saucepan of boiling water and let the water boil round the jug while stirring its contents (with a spoon that reaches to the bottom of the jug) till they thicken; it must on no accountPastry, Sweets, Etc. 120 boil,, or the custard zvill curdle. When it thickens add the dissolved gelatine, stir thoroughly for a minute or two, and pour into a mould which has been rinsed in cold water. CHESTNUT SNOW (COLD). Boil some chestnuts till quite tender (about half-an- hour), take off the shells and skins while still hot, mash the chestnuts through a potato masher, and pile into a pretty heap; hollow out the centre and fill with whipped cream, which may be coloured pink, if desired, with a few drops of cochineal, or the cream may be sprinkled with coloured “hundreds and thousands.” (This makes a very pretty supper dish at small cost, as a sixpenny jar of cream will do for a small dish.) CHOCOLATE CREAM. Make as for almond cream, but grate two ounces of chocolate finely, dissolve it in a little of the milk warmed and add it to the custard. COFFEE CREAM. Make as directed for almond cream, only use equal parts of strong coffee and milk for making the custard, and omit almond essence. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Make a pint of milk lukewarm, add sugar to taste, a flavouring of vanilla or almond essence, and one or two12 I Ginger Cake. tablespoon fuls of rum, or brandy, or sherry, or Marsala (a tablespoonful of rum or brandy to one of wine makes a good mixture), add a dessertspoonful of rennet and stand in a rather warm place for twenty minutes, dust powdered cinnamon over the top, and pour some thick cream over it. Make in the dish in which it is to be served. flora’s fritters. (An old country-house recipe.) Take an old-fashioned cabbage rose (the petals are more fleshy than the newer varieties), pick off the petals (rejecting any withered ones) and dip them in a batter made of one-third of a pint of milk, one or two eggs whisked, flour to make it as thick as double cream, with sugar to sweeten it. Dip each petal singly, taking them up on a pointed stick or with a pair of sugar tongs, and throw them into very hot. clarified dripping. Fry for a minute, drain on blotting-paper before the fire, and serve piled on a white napkin dusted with castor or crystallised sugar. Apples, or bananas, or oranges can be made into fritters in the same way by paring, slicing, removing seeds and cores, and dipping in batter. Tinned peaches or apricots also make good fritters. Flour and water batter can be used when strict economy is desired. GINGER CAKE (PLAIN). Requisites.—One and a half pounds of flour, or three- quarters of a pound of flour and three-quarters of a122 Pastry, Sweets, Etc. pound of ground rice, four ounces of clarified dripping, two ounces of lard, two eggs, sugar, heaped teaspoonful of baking-powder, dessertspoonful of ground ginger, pinch of salt, milk. Method.—Mix the ginger, baking-powder, salt, and sugar (to taste) with the flour till they are thoroughly incorporated. Shred the dripping and lard very fine and rub them thoroughly through the flour, then add the eggs whisked, and as much milk as will make the whole into a spongy (but not wet) dough. Put into a greased tin and bake in a brisk oven for nearly an hour. This recipe may be altered by omitting the ginger and adding four ounces of currants, two ounces of shred candied peel, half an ounce of mixed spice, and instead of the eggs a tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. GINGER TEA. (An excellent winter drink and “ pick-me-up.") Put half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, two lumps of sugar, and a tablespoonful of lime juice (or lemon juice if preferred) into a tumbler, and fill up with water as hot as the glass will bear without breaking, stir well. GOOSEBERRY FOOT,. Requisites.—One quart of green gooseberries, quarter of a pint of water, half a pound of sugar, one small tin of Swiss milk.Plum Tart. 123 Method.—Top and tail the gooseberries and put them in an enamelled saucepan with the sugar and water, simmer till quite tender, mash to a pulp and work through a wire sieve or colander, when cold mix thoroughly with the Swiss milk, and serve in a glass dish or in custard glasses. This will be found an ex- cellent gooseberry fool, as good as if cream were used, but at much less cost. Swiss milk for the purpose can be bought at about 2^d. per tin. Apples, currants, or any kind of fruit can be prepared in the same way. ORANGE BLANC MANGE. Requisites.—Two tablespoonfuls of corn flour, half a pint of cold water, six ounces of lump sugar, strained juice of six oranges and one lemon. Method.—Blend the corn flour smoothly with the water, wipe the lemon and rub the yellow of the rind with the sugar, strain the juice of oranges and lemon, and put all together into a saucepan and boil, stirring well for seven or eight minutes. Pour into a mould, previously wet with cold water, and turn out when set. PLUM TART (FRENCH METHOD). Put the plums into a saucepan, with water to cover them, and sugar in the proportion of half a pound to a pound of plums (rather more if the plums are very sour), simmer till the plums are quite tender, but do not let them become at all mashed, then take them up,124 Pastry, Sweets, Etc. drain off the liquor, put the plums on a dish, and return the liquor to the saucepan with half a pound more sugar to the pint, and boil till it is a thick syrup. Have a flat dish covered with short crust (p. 117) baked, but allowed to brown as little as possible. Divide each plum and take out the stones, spread the plums over the crust (it should have a slightly raised border round the dish), and pour on them the thick syrup; pour it on slowly so that it may have time to sink in and not over- flow. Put into the oven for ten minutes and serve. PRUNE MOULD. Requisites.—One pound of prunes, five tablespoonfuls of claret (cheap claret at one shilling a bottle does very well), six tablespoonfuls of water, two ounces of castor sugar, half an ounce of gelatine. Method.—Stew the prunes in the water till tender (if the prunes are hard they will need nearly two hours stew- ing and rather more than the above quantity of water, but the best bottled prunes are tender, and are the most suitable for this dish, but they are more expensive. If the cheaper kind of prunes are used, wash them well before stewing), take out the stones, add the claret, sugar, and gelatine dissolved in just enough water to cover it. Pour into a border mould which has a space in the middle— the mould should first be dipped in water. Turn out when cold, and fill centre with custard or whipped cream, and if desired garnish with blanched almonds cut in spikes, or glact: cherries.125 Rice with Stewed Fruit. RICE (WITH STEWED FRUIT). (To have the same effect as cream.) It is a very great mistake to wash rice before cooking it, unless the rice is boiled to serve with curry, and yet it is a mistake that most cookery books lead their readers into. Here are the directions given in one well-known book:—“Before rice is cooked always wash it thoroughly with cold water. Wash until the last water used is per- fectly clear and not milky.” By this time you have washed all the valuable creamy part out of your rice, and have emptied down the sink a great deal of the nutriment that would have gone to make the dish rich and creamy. No, this is decidedly ivrotig advice, and it is only necessary to try rice boiled in milk without wash- ing to prove how different it is from rice washed “ till the last water is perfectly clear.” Rice bought from a respectable grocer is quite clean and no more needs washing than our tea needs it. It may be picked over, to remove any black seeds, but it should not be washed. Put a small breakfast-cupful (not heaped) of rice into a quart of new milk (not milk and water), boil gently for half-an-hour, stirring occasionally so that it shall not burn, and stand aside to grow cold. Serve with any kind of stewed fruit, and it will have as good an effect as cream, but is much more likely to agree with most people, as cream, unless in small quantities, is very indigestible. The best rice should be used; it only costs about aPastry, Sweets, Etc. 126 penny a pound more, and is really cheaper than inferior rice. This dish is extremely nutritious. Thomas’s tea-cakes. A breakfast-cup of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, pinch of salt, butter the size of a walnut rubbed into flour, milk to make a stiff paste; roll to half an inch thick, cut out with top of tumbler, and bake in brisk oven for fifteen minutes. WINE JELLY. Requisites.—One quart of jelly from calves’ or pigs’ feet, or cow-heel (see p. 92), two lemons, whisked whites and crushed shells of two eggs, half a pound of loaf sugar, three-quarters of a pint of wine (Marsala, sherry, port, or champagne), eighteen cloves, two inches of stick cinnamon. Method.—Skim all fat from the jelly, put it with all the ingredients but the wine into a saucepan, stir well together, then place it on the fire, simmer for fifteen minutes, gently taking scum off as it rises, but the pan must not be shaken, dash in a wineglass of cold water, boil five minutes more, very gently draw pan to side of fire, cover with a cloth and let it stand without boiling for half-an-hour, then add the wine. Wring a jelly-bag out of boiling water, sling it between two chairs before the fire, with a pan under, and pour the contents of saucepan into it. If the jelly is not clear run it several times through the bag until it is clear. A little gelatine will make the jelly stiffer if necessary. It must be dissolved and added to the other ingredients.127 CHAPTER XII. PUDDINGS IN WHICH BROKEN BREAD CAN BE USED. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Requisites.-—Slices of bread and butter, jam of any kind, or sultanas or currants, sugar, nutmeg, custard. Method.—Grease a pie-dish, put a layer of bread and butter slices in the bottom, spread over them any kind of jam or marmalade, or any kind of stewed fruit, and a sprinkle of sugar; proceed in like manner till the dish is full, then pour over all a custard that will quite fill the dish, grate nutmeg over the top, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. This pudding may be made very rich or the reverse, by using more or less butter, fruit, or preserve, and by making the custard very rich with plenty of eggs, or very plain by using custard powder or only one egg and a little milk to make it. CANARY PUDDING. Requisites.—One pound of fine bread crumbs, ten ounces of suet or clarified dripping, a teacupful of128 Puddings. marmalade, the juice and grated rind of a small lemon, a teacupful of moist sugar, one egg, a small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, half a teaspoonful of salt. Me hod—Mix the bicarbonate of soda thoroughly with the bread crumbs and the salt with the suet, w’- ich should be chopped very fine. Mix all the ingredients well together, put into a greased basin, over which some more moist sugar has been shaken, cover with a greased paper twisted over top and steam an hour and a half to two hours. CUP PUDDING. Requisites.—A breakfast-cupful of fine bread crumbs, ditto of flour, ditto of finely chopped suet, a teacupful of currants or sultanas, or both mixed, ditto oi treacle,* ditto of milk (Swiss milk diluted with boiling water is even better than ordinary milk), ditto of moist sugar, half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix well. Method.—Grease a basin, put in the mixture, and steam for three hours, taking care that the top of the basin is well covered with a greased paper twisted over it or a floured cloth. At discretion, grated lemon peel, mixed spice or ginger, may be added, or marmalade substituted for the treacle. DIGESTIBLE ROLLY-POLY. Requisites. — One breakfast-cupful of fine bread crumbs, ditto of flour, ditto of finely chopped suet, a * Warm the treacle if too stiff.Ginger Pudding. 129 small teaspoonful of baking-powder, pinch of salt, milk, jam. Method.—Mix the baking-powder and salt with the flour, add the bread crumbs and mix thoroughly, moisten with enough milk to make a firm paste, roll out to half an inch thickness, spread with jam (apricot or rasp- berry if possible), roll up neatly. Dip a stout pudding- cloth in boiling water, strew thickly with flour, put the pudding in this and roll the cloth round it; tie ends firmly, but leave a little room for pudding to swell; plunge into fast boiling water and boil for three-quarters of an hour, or may be steamed the same time. This will be a small pudding, increase quantities to make a larger one, and boil it for a longer time. Note.—Any kind of suet-pudding may be made with bread crumbs and flour, if the crumbs be rubbed fine, and it will be found much more digestible than if made of suet and flour only. Many people who cannot eat suet-puddings made in the ordinary way can digest them quite well when made with the addition of bread crumbs. GINGER PUDDING. Requisites.—Haifa pound of flour, half a pound of brown or white bread crumbs, half a pound of beef suet, half a pound of moist sugar, half a pound of treacle or golden syrup, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, quarter of an ounce of ground ginger, pinch of salt, teaspoonful of baking-powder, milk. 9Puddings. 130 Method.—Mix the baking-powder, ginger, sugar, salt, and flour thoroughly together, then add the suet, which must be weighed after divesting it of all skin (if suet is not available clarified dripping may be used instead, finely broken up), and the bread crumbs and grated lemon rind. Moisten all with the treacle and lemon juice and just enough milk to make a stiff mass, put it into a greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper or floured pudding-cloth, and boil or steam for an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. More ginger may be added by those who like the flavour very pronounced. GOLDEN PUDDING. Requisites.—Six ounces of fine bread crumbs, six ounces of suet, half a pound of moist sugar, the juice and pulp (excluding the white pith) of a large orange, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Method.—Mix all well together; if the orange and lemon are not sufficiently juicy to make the mass adhere, add the juice of another orange. Fill a greased mould or basin, cover with cloth or greased paper (or lid, if a tin pudding mould is used), and steam for an hour and a half. Serve with sauce as at p. 112, with orange or lemon juice mixed with it. MACARONI CHEESE. Requisites.—Half a pound of macaroni, four ounces of butter, four to six ounces of grated cheese (any kindPoor Curate’s Pudding. 131 will do—this is a good way of using up dried bits of cheese), bread crumbs, pepper, salt. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water till quite tender. The pipe macaroni will take about one and a half hours, the smaller kind not so long. Grease a pie- dish and put a layer of macaroni in the bottom, then a layer of grated cheese, then a thin layer of bread crumbs, with bits of butter broken up over them, then another layer of macaroni, cheese, crumbs, and butter. This top layer of crumbs should be thicker than the lower layer, and more butter should be put through it. Place in a Dutch oven before the fire till thoroughly browned. poor curate’s pudding. Rcqriisites.—Rhubarb or gooseberries, moist sugar, broken-up bread, butter; lemon peel and juice, optional. Method.—Grease a pie-dish, put a layer of rhubarb, having wiped the stalks and cut them into small pieces, into the bottom, strew this thickly with moist sugar, and, if desired, some strips of yellow lemon rind and a few drops of juice, and over it strew a thick layer of bits of broken-up bread and scraps of butter; continue like this till the dish is full, spreading on the top a thick layer of sugar and some bits of butter. Bake for an hour and a half, and then stand in front of the fire to brown. A nice caramel will be formed by the sugar and butter on the top. A small pudding of this kind can be baked in a Dutch oven before the fire. Slices of bread and butterPudding’s. I32 may be used instead of bread scraps, if preferred. Top and tail gooseberries if they are used instead of rhubarb. queen Alice’s pudding. Requisites.—One pint of fine bread crumbs, one quart of milk, two eggs, apricot or strawberry jam, teacupful of castor sugar. Method.—Mix the milk, bread crumbs, sugar, and whisked yolks of eggs, and beat them quite smooth; put them into a pie-dish and bake in a rather slow oven for fully half-an-hour, then spread a layer of preserves over the top, and upon this the whites of the eggs whisked with a tablespoonful of castor sugar till quite stiff, brown in the oven for ten minutes or before fire. SAFFRON PUDDING. Requisites.—One quart of milk, three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, two eggs, four ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a glass of Marsala, quarter of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and a good pinch of saffron. Method.—Boil the saffron in the milk for five minutes, stir in the bread crumbs, whisked eggs, butter, sugar, Marsala (a tablespoonful of brandy may be substituted for this at discretion), and nutmeg; beat all thoroughly together, pour into a buttered basin, and steam for half- an-hour, or may be baked in a pie-dish for three-quarters of an hour.133 Zebra Pudding. ZEBRA PUDDING. Requisites.—Bread crumbs, jam, custard made with custard powder, or an egg or two. Method.—Butter a basin, shake crumbs all over it, then put a thick layer of fine crumbs in the bottom, then a layer of any kind of jam, then more crumbs, and so on in layers till the basin is full. Over all pour a custard just sufficient to slightly moisten the whole; one egg to half a pint of milk (or Swiss milk) will be rich enough, or custard powder may be used. Cover with buttered paper, steam for three-quarters of an hour. Different sorts of jam or marmalade may be used. This is a good way for using up remnants of jams. Note.—To prevent pudding-cloths sticking to the bottoms of saucepans and burning, it is only necessary to put a plate into the saucepan under the pudding.134 CHAPTER XIII. ECONOMICAL SAVOURIES. TOMATOES AUX CREME (COLD). Cut in halves some medium-sized tomatoes and scoop out the greater part of the insides, whip up some cream with salt, pepper, and the insides of the tomatoes and a little grated cheese, fill the tomatoes with the mixture, and place each on a cheese biscuit. To be served cold. (Recipe for cheese biscuits, p. 137.) SARDINES AUX CROUTES. Rub a cut clove of garlic lightly on a frying-pan, pour the oil from a freshly-opened box of sardines into the pan, dust in a little cayenne, and when the oil is very hot put in the sardines and fry each side till brown and crisp, which will take but a minute or two. Have ready some strips either of toast or of bread fried crisply in clarified dripping, put a sardine on each strip, squeeze a little lemon juice, and dust cayenne or blackDevilled Tongue. 135 pepper, or a mixture of both, and a sprinkle of finely- chopped parsley on each fish, and serve very hot. The garlic may of course be omitted at discretion. MUSHROOM SAVOURY. Broil some mushrooms (after stripping off stalk and skin and lightly sprinkling with a little fine salt) in a small quantity of butter; dust with cayenne and serve on small rounds of toast or fried bread. If the bread rounds are cut out with a fluted cutter and fried in oiled butter, and good fresh mushrooms, each about the size of a five-shilling piece, are used, this savoury can be served at a dinner party. HERRING ROE (a FAVOURITE SAVOURY). Take the soft roes of herrings, allowing one to each person, dust them with cayenne or white pepper, and roll each in a slice of bacon; fry in bacon fat, and serve each on a crouton—i.e., a small round of bread cut out with a fancy cutter, fried crisply in bacon fat and drained. Serve very hot. Herring roes can be bought separately. DEVILLED TONGUE. Cut as many rounds from the thickest part of a small tinned tongue as there are guests; the rounds should be about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut rounds of bread a little larger than the tongue rounds (with a fluted cutterEconomical Savouries. 136 looks best), fry the bread in clarified dripping, place a round of tongue on each crofiton, season well with nepaul pepper and finely chopped parsley, which before chopping has been fried crisply in clarified fat and drained. Put a glace cherry dusted with black pepper in the middle of each slice of tongue, and heat the whole thoroughly in a Dutch oven before the fire and serve. A drop of tarragon vinegar on each cherry would be an improve- ment. DEVILLED EGGS EN SURPRISE (COLD). Boil some eggs hard, cut in two with a sharp knife, take out the yolks and put them in a mortar, scrape the scales, cut off the heads and tails, and bone four sardines for three eggs, pound them with the egg yolks, a tea- spoonful of tarragon and one of chilli vinegar and black pepper; when smooth fill whites of eggs (which have been slightly brushed with salad oil and dusted outside with a mixture of black, white, nepaul, and cayenne peppers mixed with a pinch of castor sugar and salt) with the mixture, and stand each on a small freshly- made cheese biscuit. Allow half an egg for each person. CHEESE SAVOURY. (Economical, anil if in little fancy cases may be served as a savoury at a small dinner.) Method.—Grate any cheese scraps—different kinds may be mixed if grated fine—mix with a rather lessCheese Straws. 137 quantity of very fine bread crumbs, season with pepper and salt, and moisten well with milk, or better still with cream (a tablespoonful of cream from a sixpenny jug of thick cream mixed with a little milk would do admirably), thickly butter a small flat pie-dish, or some little fancy- moulds, put in the mixture, strew bits of butter on the top and bake, or, better still, cook in a Dutch oven before the fire till well browned on the top and cooked all through—about fifteen to twenty minutes if the fire is good. Sprinkle finely chopped parsley over the top a few minutes before the cooking is finished. Serve very hot. A PLAIN SAVOURY (CHEAP). Fry some small round unsweetened biscuits in clarified dripping, drain, dust with cayenne or nepaul pepper, spread with bloater paste, dust this with black pepper and a pinch of finely chopped parsley, add two or three drops of chilli or tarragon vinegar or lemon juice to each, and heat in the oven. Serve hot. CHEESE STRAWS, OR CHEESE BISCUITS. (These take the place of plain cheese at dinner-parties. They are much better and cheaper if made at home than if bought.) Requisites.—Two ounces of grated parmesan cheese (can be bought ready grated if desired), one ounce of lard, one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, salt, cayenne.138 Economical Savouries. Method.—Mix the grated cheese with the flour, rub in the butter, lard, and seasoning, roll out very thin, and cut into narrow strips about a finger long for cheese straws, or stamp out with a pastry cutter or with the top of a wine-glass for cheese biscuits. Bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. The baking will cause the straws to curl into the proper shape if the oven is very hot, but it must not be hot enough to cause them to burn. Serve the straws in little bundles tied together with ribbon. PULLED BREAD (TO SERVE WITH CHEESE). Take pieces of broken bread (fresh bread is best), break off the crust, and tear (do not cut) them into pieces, put them into a brisk oven and bake quickly until of a bright brown. Should, if possible, be made an hour or so before serving. SALTED OR DEVILLED ALMONDS. It is much more economical to make these dainties, which are a great addition to the dessert table, at home, than to buy them. They cost 3s. 6d. a pound if bought, but can be made for half that price, as almonds are only is. 4d. a pound. The method of making is very simple. Put the almonds in warm water for a minute or two, and remove the skins. Put a piece of butter, more or less according to the quantity of almonds, only sufficient to fry them being needed, into an enamelled pan; when it is melted put in the almonds; dust well with salt139 canister. Devilled Almonds. for “salted” almonds, or with cayenne and salt for “devilled” almonds. Fry till crisp and pale gold coloured, turn on to a sieve to drain. They are best used within a day or two, but will keep in a tinCHAPTER XIV. INEXPENSIVE PRESERVES. HINTS ON MAKING PRESERVES. i. Don’t try to economise by buying cheap sugar for jam-making; it is the dearest in the end, because it throws up a great deal of scum, which in removing causes waste of jam. 2. Don’t try to economise by buying damaged or over- ripe fruit for preserving; it will not make good jam. 3. Remember that fruit for jam-making should not be wet from dew or rain, nor should it be dusty. 4. An enamelled pan is the best for preserving; iron pans or spoons injure the colour. Copper pans must be very clean and bright, or they may prove poisonous Alway use a wooden spoon for stirring. 5. Never place the preserving-pan directly on the fire, or the contents may burn; it should be on trivet bar or hot plate. 6. Don’t add the sugar until the preserve has boiledApple Preserve. 141 into a juicy state; then add it broken small, not powdered or in big lumps. 7. Put the preserve into perfectly dry jars, or it won’t keep well. 8. Don’t cover till day after making. 9. Cover with tissue paper dipped in brandy or white of egg, then with parchment rounds fastened to edge of jars securely. 10. Keep in cool, airy place. 11. Put name of jam and date of making on all jars. 12. If jam becomes mouldy, remove mould thoroughly and boil up again. APPLE PRESERVE. This is an old-fashioned Irish recipe, used by people who had their own orchards, and who preserved in this way all the small refuse apples, windfalls, etc., which would not be worth storing. It is an excellent preserve, and can be made from any kind of apples, and as there is no paring or coring required, it is a most economical method of using up small apples, which when pared and cored leave but little residue. Requisites.—Apples, water, sugar, cloves, nutmeg, cin- namon, a small lemon. Method.—Wipe the apples, take off the stalks, and cut out any badly bruised or decayed spots. Put them into a saucepan, or large pot if the quantity is great; they should three parts fill it. Pour over as much cold water as will completely cover them, and boil till they142 Inexpensive Preserves. become a pulp. Hang a loose textured flannel bag, to which tapes have been firmly stitched, between two chairs, with a pan underneath it. Pour the contents of the saucepan into the bag, and let it drain till the residue in the bag is dry. It should be pressed occasionally with a wooden spoon. Next day measure the liquid, and to each quart add one pound of sugar, a dozen cloves, quarter of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and a little bit of stick cinnamon; these should be tied loosely in a bit of muslin. To the whole quantity add the very thinly pared yellow rind of the lemon and its juice strained. Boil until it becomes quite thick, take out the muslin bag, and put the preserve into moulds or jars. When cold it will be nearly or quite solid. Note.—If the quantity exceed three quarts, a second lemon should be added. Some people like a little whole root ginger added to the other spices, but some dislike the flavour of ginger—this is a matter of individual taste. Coarsely chopped candied peel and citron added during the second boiling, and left in the preserve, is an excellent addition when its cost is not objected to. PICKLED CHERRIES. Boil some vinegar for ten or fifteen minutes with a large teaspoonful of peppercorns, two lumps of sugar, a dozen whole allspice, six cloves, and a dust of nutmeg, cayenne, and salt to each pint of vinegar; wipe, stalk, and stone the cherries, unless they are very small and hard, whenLemon Marmalade. it is not worth while to remove the stones, put them in a jar and pour the vinegar while boiling through a muslin over them, when cold cover the jar. This pickle may be made with glace cherries, in which case omit the sugar. INEXPENSIVE LEMON MARMALADE (VERY GOOD). Requisites.—Lemons, water, sugar. Method.—Divide the lemons into quarters, remove the pips, and lay each quarter on a board and slice as thin as possible, peel and pulp together. To each pound of sliced fruit add three pints of cold water (if the lemons have very thin rinds and are very juicy, two pints or two pints and a half may be sufficient), then let it stand for twenty-four hours in an earthenware pan, after which boil all together until the strips of peel are perfectly tender. This will generally take about three- quarters of an hour, but if the skins are thick and rough more time may be needed; then pour through a colander, and weigh the pulp that remains when the liquor has flowed through, and to every pound of pulp add one pound and a quarter of sugar and one pint of the liquor that has flowed through the colander (the surplus liquor may be bottled for use as lemon squash); boil for three- quarters of an hour, removing carefully all scum. Try a little on a plate; if it jellies when cooled it is done, if not, continue boiling till it does. Note.—Sometimes lemons are very plentiful and cheap. Advantage should be taken of such a time to make this144 Inexpensive Preserves. preserve. Quickly wash and wipe the lemons before preserving. ORANGE MARMALADE. Requisites.—Twelve Seville oranges, two sweet oranges, juice of two lemons, sugar, water. Method.—Slice the oranges with the peel on very thin, carefully removing the pips. To every pound of sliced fruit allow one and a half pints of water, and let all stand together for twenty-four hours, then boil for two hours, next day weigh it (this is most easily done by weighing the pan or basin in which the preserve is put while empty, and then again with the preserve in it, and sub- tracting the weight of the receptacle), and to every pound of boiled fruit add one and a half pounds of loaf sugar; boil for twenty minutes or till it jellies. Another Recipe. Peel twelve Seville oranges and put the peel in a pan with enough water to cover it, and leave to soak for twenty-four hours, then cut the peel as fine as possible and put it in a stew-pan with twelve pints of water (use for this any water left after the soaked peel is removed), and boil for two hours, then add fourteen pounds of sugar and the pulp free from pips and rough pith, and let the whole boil for three-quarters of an hour, stirring often. Note.—Wash and wipe oranges before commencing 'Rhubarb Syrup. T45 operations. Do not cover till the day after putting in pots. RHUBARB SYRUP. Requisites.—Six pounds of rhubarb, weighed after the rough end of each stick is cut off, three quarts of cold water, three pounds of lump sugar, thinly pared rind and juice of two small juicy lemons, six cloves, a piece of root ginger about the size of half the little finger. Method.—Wipe , but do not skin the rhubarb, cut it into finger lengths, put them into a saucepan with the water and boil until the rhubarb is quite broken up, pass it through a canvas bag into a pan and let it stand till cold, then add the sugar, cloves, ginger, lemon-peel (taking care that only the yellow of the rind is pared off; if the white underskin is left on it will impart a dis- agreeable bitter flavour), and juice, and boil again till it becomes reduced in quantity and a little thick. When cold bottle and cork. This makes a delicious and most wholesome drink mixed with cold water, and also greatly improves the flavour of stewed or baked apples if a little be mixed with them. It makes an excellent accompani- ment to all sorts of farinaceous or bread puddings simply served as sauce, hot or cold. Note.—The amount of sugar may be increased or diminished according to individual taste, so also may the ginger and cloves be increased or omitted altogether by those who dislike their flavour. 10146 Inexpensive Preserves. TO PRESERVE RHUBARB (VERY GOOD). Requisites.—Rhubarb, sugar, a little whole ginger, almonds. Method.—To every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar. Cut the rhubarb, after wiping each stalk clean, into lengths of about two inches, and put it with half the quantity of sugar into an earthenware pan, and let it stand till next day, then pour the syrup from the rhubarb and boil it with the rest of the sugar till it thickens, then put in the rhubarb and sliced ginger, about half an ounce of this to every two pounds of rhubarb, and some blanched sweet almonds split (the quantity of these must be left to the discretion of the maker). Toil the whole gently for an hour and a half, not longer, or it will become candied.M7 CHAPTER XV. ECONOMICAL BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. beef's head (collared). Take a pint of the liquor in which a beef’s head was boiled (see p. 89), and boil it with a sliced onion and some savoury herbs until it is well flavoured, season with pepper, salt, and tarragon vinegar to taste, dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in just enough cold water to dissolve it, add it to the liquor. Nearly fill a mould with slices of boiled beef’s head (these may be inter- mixed at pleasure with slices of ham, salt pork, bacon, hard-boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, etc.), pour the liquor over the meat, which it should cover, and when quite cold turn out. BONED FOWLS (A DISH FOR A SUPPER PARTY). Bone a good fowl (the poulterer will do this, if asked, for general customers often without extra charge), take one pound of veal cutlet, half a pound of ham (uncooked),Economical Dishes. 148 half-a-dozen mushrooms, and a truffle, white pepper and salt, and one egg. Pound all in a mortar* till thoroughly mixed and stuff the fowl with it, and bake for three- quarters of an hour, or one hour if the fowl is large. Glaze over with some brown stock in which gelatine has been dissolved, or with aspic jelly while liquid; or cover with thick white sauce in which a little gelatine has been dissolved. Garnish with cut up truffles, olives, and slices of beet-root cut into fancy shapes. This may not sound a very economical dish, but for a supper party it is really inexpensive, as it can be prepared at home, and a little of it goes a long way, as it is all solid cutting. BRAWN. Requisites.—Half a pig’s head, either fresh or pickled, one onion, one carrot, a stick or two of celery, cloves, gherkins, peppercorns, pepper, salt, garlic, half a pound of sausages. Method.—Boil the head for one and a half hours in water with the onion stuck with cloves, carrot, celery, peppercorns. The flavour of these penetrate the head and greatly improve the brawn. Skim well while boiling. When the bones come out easily it is done, take it up, take out the bones and mince the meat small. Boil the sausages for quarter of an hour, take off the skins, chop up the sausage meat and mix it with the minced meat of the head, mixing with it some chopped gherkins, pepper * The mortar may he lightly rubbed with garlic.Scrambled Eggs. i49 and salt. Rub a mould lightly with a cut clove of garlic, press the mixture in, place a plate or dish and weight on top, turn out when cold. If it is hard to turn out dip the mould in hot water for a few seconds. EGGS IN MAYONAISE (a PRETTY SUPPER DISH). Boil six eggs hard, shell, cut in two, take out yolks and mix them with a bit of butter, a spoonful of anchovy sauce, or one or two sardines scraped fine, and a little pepper. Fill the whites with the mixture, arrange in a glass dish on a bed of shred lettuce, which may be garnished with tomato, beet-root, etc., and cover lightly with mayonaise sauce, p. no. EGGS, SCRAMBLED. (How to make two eggs into a nice breakfast dish for four people.) Requisites.—Two eggs, a teacupful of fine bread crumbs, a teacupful of milk, piece of butter the size of an egg> four slices of bread, clarified dripping, pepper, salt. Method.—Whisk the eggs well, melt the butter in an enamelled saucepan, put in the bread crumbs, milk, eggs, pepper and salt, and stir constantly for four or five minutes over the fire. Fry four slices of bread, cut neatly and with crust pared off, in clarified dripping, drain, divide the contents of the saucepan equally over the slices. Serve very hot. (A little chopped parsley or minced ham or tongue may be added if liked.)Economical Dishes. 150 TO USE REMNANTS OF TINNED TONGUE. Chop the remnants of tongue very small, and mix it with one or two well-whisked eggs; pepper and salt to taste. Melt a little butter or the fat of the tongue or clarified dripping in a small saucepan, put in the tongue and eggs, and stir over the fire till the egg is set, spread upon toast, dry or buttered, and serve hot, or spread upon bread fried in dripping. Chopped parsley may be added if liked, and if necessary the egg may be omitted, the tongue, seasoned, being heated in butter or fat and spread on toast. HADDOCK, SCRAMBLED. Boil a dried haddock in water for a few minutes till it comes easily off the bone, then with a fish knife and fork scrape all the fish free from skin and bone, put it into a saucepan with a little milk and a bit of butter and pepper, and stir it round till very hot. Spread on toasted rounds of bread. Serve hot. DEVILLED HERRINGS. Open the herrings and take out insides and back bones, cut off heads and tails, scrape off scales; rub the inside well with a mixture of made mustard, black and red pepper, and a few drops of vinegar; close the fish, rub the outsides with butter, pepper well, and grill or cook in a Dutch oven for about ten minutes.151 Savoury Sea Biscuits. CANADIAN TOAST. Cut four rather thick slices from a stale tin loaf, toast them a bright, crisp brown. Put four ounces of salt butter into a small basin of boiling water; when it floats on the top skim it off, a spoonful at a time, leaving a very small quantity of water in the spoon; pour some over each side of the slices until all the butter is used, pile on a hot plate, and put it in the oven for five minutes. SAVOURY TOAST. Put some clarified beef-dripping or bacon fat into a frying-pan, season it with salt, black pepper, mushroom ketchup, Harvey or Worcestershire sauce, and fry in it when nearly boiling some slices of a stale tin loaf from which the crust has been trimmed off. Drain before the fire. SAVOURY SEA BISCUITS. Soak some captain’s biscuits in milk, dust with salt and pepper, put a bit of butter on each, and make very hot in the oven.CHAPTER XVI. NURSERY DISHES. HASTY PUDDING. (A good breakfast for children.) Boil half a pint of milk, and pour into it a mixture of two dessert-spoonfuls of flour blended smoothly with a teacupful of cold milk; keep stirring from the bottom while boiling, and let it boil seven or eight minutes; pour into a soup-plate to cool; a little sugar or salt can be added to taste. This is sufficient for breakfast for a child of three. BOILED BREAD AND MILK. There is a right way and a wrong way of making even this simple dish. Some people crumble the bread and pour boiling milk over it. That is the wrong way, because it makes a mawkish, tasteless compound. The bread and milk should be thoroughly well boiled together, and the crusts should be plentiful, as the dish will beOatmeal Porridge. i53 much richer if there are crusts in it. Break the crumb and crust rather small, do not cut them up, pour cold milk over just to cover them, add a few lumps of sugar, and boil all together for ten minutes after it begins to simmer; the more crusts there are the more boiling it needs. This is most nutritious, and is an admirable way of using up broken bread if made a breakfast-dish for the children once or twice a week. On the other days may be given a dish than which there is nothing more nourishing or more economical—viz., OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Requisites.—Oatmeal, coarse or fine according to taste, water or milk, salt. Method.—Make one pint and a half of water or milk, or milk and water, come to boiling point, then directly pour in a breakfast-cupful of oatmeal with the left hand, stirring zm'ih the right hand ail the time till the meal and water are well ?nixed, then let it boil for ten minutes, add salt to taste (if this is put in at the beginning it prevents the meal from swelling properly), and con- tinue the boiling for another ten, or still better, twenty minutes, stirring occasionally to keep from burning. If made with milk it will burn more easily than with water. Should be made in an iron saucepan. If made as directed, it will be smooth and free from lumps. Under- done porridge is indigestible.154 Nursery Dishes. SAVOURY PUDDING. Pour a teacupful of beef-tea, or any kind of meat broth, over two tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, white or brown, let them soak well, beat them up with a fork, and add gradually a well-whisked egg and a little salt, put it into a small greased basin, cover with a buttered paper, stand this in a small saucepan with hot water to come three parts up the sides of the basin, and let the water boil gently round it for twenty to twenty- five minutes; let it stand to cool for a few minutes and turn out. SAVOURY CUSTARD (NOURISHING). Whisk in a small basin a new-laid egg (a duck or turkey’s egg may be used), carefully take out the “string” of the egg, pour in a teacupful of strong beef-tea, or meat broth of any kind (broth made of mutton, veal, and beef mixed is very good), or chicken broth, and salt to taste; cook as directed for savoury pudding. Celery salt may be used to make any of these decoctions more savoury, if it is necessary to stimulate a failing appetite. NURSERY PANCAKES. Requisites.—Two eggs, half a pint of milk, teacupful of bread crusts broken small, two tablespoonfuls of flour, sugar, jam or lemon juice. Method.—Pour boiling water over the crusts and letFrench Hardbake. i 55 them stand five minutes, then squeeze the water out and beat them fine with a fork. Make a batter with the milk and eggs, sweeten, add the bread, and beat all up well, and fry in the same way as ordinary pancakes. Serve with jam or sugar and lemon juice. Enough for four or five children. BREAD AND FRUIT PUDDING. Butter a pudding basin, and strew some moist sugar over it, line it with rather thick slices of stale bread (about half an inch thick); the pieces must well overlap each other, and a round piece should fill in the bottom of the basin. Stew any kind of fruit with sugar (no water), and when boiling pour in and fill the basin. Let it get quite cold, then lay a large plate or dish over the basin, and turn out. Serve with powdered sugar. FRENCH HARDBAKE. Requisites.—One pound of sugar, half a pint of water, two ounces of almonds, juice of a small lemon, one ounce of butter. Method.—Boil the sugar and water until a little poured into cold water becomes brittle, add the lemon juice and butter (which, if salt, should have the salt washed out), and boil until the candy hardens at once in water. Pour out on a well-oiled dish (or, better still, on the tin lid of a biscuit canister) and stick the almonds, blanched156 Nursery Dishes. and split, all over it. It is best poured out in thin strips. To blanch almonds, soak them for a minute or two in tepid water and peel off skins. Note.—This is a much more wholesome sweetmeat for children than most of the coloured and unwholesome trash so often sold in sweet shops. To vary it, the almonds may be omitted, and essence of peppermint or vanilla or lemon may be mixed with it, or the top may be strewn with grated cocoa-nut or chopped walnut.INDEX Afternoon tea cakes, 126 Alice’s pudding, 132 Almond cream, 119 Almonds, salted or devilled, 138 Apple preserve, 141 Apple sauce, 107 Aspic jelly, 87 Average time required for cook- ing various articles, 41 Bacon, to boil, 43 Baking, 38 Baking bread, 116 Baking powders, recipe for, 117 Batter for frying, economical, 33 Batter for frying filleted fish, 33 Beef dripping, value of, 29 Beef dripping for frying, Sir H. Thompson’s opinion of, 29 Beef head (ox cheek), 88, 89 Beefs head, collared, 147 Beef heart, stuffed and baked, 88 Boiled bread and milk, 152 Boiling, the most digestible method of cooking, reason why, 21 Boned fowls, a supper dish, 147 Brains, brown entree, 90 Brains, fritters of, 89 Brains and white sauce, 90 Brawn, 148 Bread and butter pudding, 127 Bread and fruit pudding, 155 Bread, home-made, 115 Bread sauce, 107 Brisket of beef, stewed, 90 Broiling, 41 Broken bread, saving of waste in, 30, 31 Broken bread, twelve ways for using, 33 Browning, 32I ndex. 153 Bubble and squeak, 76 Cabbage soup, 45 Calf’s head hash (mock), made from calf’s feet, 90, 91 Canadian toast, 151 Canary pudding, 127 Carrots, pickled, 101 Carrot soup, 47 Cheese, savoury, 136 Cheese soups, brown and white, 46 Cheese straws, and biscnits, 137 Cherries, to pickle, 142 Chestnut snow, 120 Chocolate cream, 120 Chop on a pan, how to broil, 73 Cleanliness, economy of, 33, 34 Clear soup, 47, 48 Cockles, stewed, 59 Cod en tranches, 68 Cod’s roe, potted, 60 Cod’s roe, fried, 61 Coffee cream, 120 Cow-heel cutlets, 91 Cow-heel and onion, 91 Cooking, eight methods of, 36 Cooking, most economical methods of, 20, 23 Croute au pot, 46 Croquettes, 76 Cucumbers fried in batter, 101 Curried eggs, 92 Curried scallops, 68 Curry, 77 Cup pudding, 128 Devilled eggs en surprise, 136 Devilled herrings, 150 Devilled tongue, 135 Devilled whitebait, 70 Devonshire junket, 120 Dripping, to clarify, 27, 28 Economical breakfast and supper dishes, 147-151 Economical entrees, 87-100 Economical fish stew, 71 Economy in fuel, 17-20 Economy of learning to cook whitebait, 69, 71 Economical mayonaise sauce for bottling, 108 Eggs k la Bechamel, 92 Eggs, curried, 92 Eggs, devilled (a savoury), 136 Eggs en mayonaise, 149 Eggs, scrambled, 149 Epicure’s steak, 75 Fat, uses of, 27, 28 Fish cakes, 61 Fish h, l’Espagnole, 62 Fish, cooking of, 42, 43 Fish cooker}’, 58-72 Fish pie, 65* Fish, potted, 63, 66 Flavouring, 34 Flora’s fritters, 121 Forcemeat balls for soup, 51 Fowl, time required for cooking, 42 French hardbake, 155159 I ndex. Fricasseed fish, 61 Frying, 38, 39, 40 Frying on a pan to resemble broiling, 73 Frying whitebait, 70 Fuel, economising of, 17-20 Game, time required for cook- ing, 42 Ginger cake, 121 Ginger pudding, 129 Ginger tea, 122 Golden pudding, 130 Gooseberry fool, 122 Gravy for meat, 109 Green pea soup, 49 Gurnet, striked and baked, 63 Haddock, scrambled, 100 Haddock, stuffed, 63 Ham, cooking of, 43 Haricot bean salad, 102 Haricot bean savoury, 103 Hash, 80 Hasty pudding, 152 Herrings, devilled, 150 Herring roe (savoury), 135 Home-made bread, 115 Horse-radish sauce, 109 Jelly, 126 Jugged hare, 96 Kail kanon, 104 Lamb’s fry, brown entrde, 93 Lamb’s fry, croquettes of, 93 Lamb’s fry, served as sweet- bread, 93 Lemon marmalade, 143 Lentils, nutritive value of, 14 Lentil soup, 49 Liver and bacon, 94 Lobster cutlets, 65 Lobster, to dress, 64 Macaroni cheese, 131 Macaroni veal, 82 Mayonaise of cold fish, 66 Mayonaise sauce, 110 Meat pies, time required for baking, 43 Meat pastry, 82 Mint sauce, 111 Mock turtle soup, 51 Mullagatawny soup, 49 Mushroom savoury, 135 Mustard sauce, 111 Mutton broth, 50 Mutton, stewed, 94 Neglect, what a minute may do, 35 Nourishing soup for an invalid, 56 Nursery dishes, 152-156 Nursery pancakes, 154 Oatmeal porridge, 153 Orange blanc mange, 123 Orange marmalade, 144 Oysters scalloped, 66I ndex. i6o Oyster soup, 52 Partridges stewed with cabbage, 95 Pasty, 83 Pea soup, 53 Plum pudding, to boil, 43 Plum tart (French), 123 Poor curate’s pudding, 131 Pork, to pickle, 100 Potato loaf, 104 Potato soup, 53 Potted meat, 83 Potted fish, 63 Preserves, hints on making, 140 Prune mould, 124 Pudding sauces, 112 Puff paste, 118 Pulled bread, 138 Queen Alice’s pudding, 132 Quicldy-made mayonaise sala 1 dressing, 113 Rabbit, jugged, 96 Rabbit, stewed, 96 Rabbit soup, 53 Red cabbage, pickled, 105 Rhubarb preserve, 146 ■ Rhubarb syrup, 145 Rice for curry, to boil, 79 Rice-milk soup, 54 Rice with stewed fruit, 125 Rissoles, 84 ltolly-poly (digestible), 128 Salfron pudding, 132 Sardines aux croutes, 134 Sauces and salad dressings, 107- 114 Savouries (economical), 134- 139 Savoury pudding, 154 Savoury toast, 151 Scallops, curried, 63 Scalloped scallops, 68 Scalloped oysters, 66 Semolina soup, 54 Sheep’s trotters, stewed, PC Shepherd’s pie, 85 Shin of beef with onion sauce, 96 Short crust, 117 Shrimps, potted, 66 Smelts au gratin, 67 Soups, recipes for, 45-57 Soup, value and economy of, 10-12 Spanish onions, curried, 102 Steak h l’Epicure, 97 Steak a la Marquise, 98 Steak en surprise, 97 Stewing, 22, 23 Stewed steak, 98 Stewed veal, 99 Stock-making, 24-27 Suet crust, 118 Sweet pudding sauces, 112 Temperature for frying in oil, 39 Thomas’s tea-cakes, 126161 Index. Tinned tongue, to use remnants of, 150 Toad-in-the-hole, 86 Toasted fish, 59 Toasted trout, 59 Tomatoes aux creme, 134 Tomato soup, 55 Twelve ways for using broken bread, 31 Yeal, stewed, 99 Vegetables, cooking of, 43, 44 Vegetable fritters, 102 Vegetable pie, 105 Vegetable puree, 55 Whitebait, 69, 71 Whitebait, devilled, 70 Whitebait, fried, 70 White sauce, 112 White soup, 56 Wine jelly, 126 Zebra pudding, 133 THE WAI.TEIt SCOTT PRESS, NEWCASTI.E-ON TYNE.LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE EVERY-DAY HELP SERIES OF USEFUL HANDBOOKS. Price 6d. each, OR IN ROAN BINDING, PRICE Is. Contributors—J. Langdon Down, M.D., F.R.C.P.; Henry Power, M.B., F.R.C.S.; J. Mortimer-Granville, M.D.; J. Crichton Browne, M.D., LL.D.; Robert Farquharson, M.D. Edin.; W. S. Greenfield, M.D., F.R.C.P.; and others. 1. How to Do Business. A Guide to Success in Life. 2. Howto Behave. Manual of Etiquette and Personal Habits. 3. How to Write. A Manual of Composition and Letter Writing. 4. How to Debate. With Hints on Public Speaking. 5. Don’t: Directions for avoiding Common Errors of Speech. 6. The Parental Don’t: Warnings to Parents. 7. Why Smoke and Drink. By James Parton. 8. Elocution. By T. R. W. Pearson, M.A., of St. Catharine’s College, Cambridge, and F. W. Waithman, Lecturers oa Elocution. 9. The Secret of a Clear Head. 10. Common Mind Troubles. 11. The Secret of a Good Memory. 12. Youth: Its Care and Culture. 13. The Heart and its Function. 14. Personal Appearances in Health and Disease 15. The House and its Surroundings. 16. Alcohol: Its Use and Abuse. 17. Exercise and Training. 18. Baths and Bathing. 19. Health in Schools. 20. The Skin and its Troubles. 21. How to make the Best of Life. 22. Nerves and Nerve-Troubles. 23. The Sight, and How to Preserve it. 24. Premature Death: Its Promotion and Prevention. 25. Change, as a Mental Restorative. 26. The Gentle Art of Nursing the Sick. 27. The Oare of Infants and Young Children. 28. Invalid Feeding, with Hints on Diet. 29. Every-day Ailments, and How to Treat Them. 30. Thrifty Housekeeping. 31. Home Cooking. 32. Flowers and Flower Culture. 33. Sleep and Sleeplessness. 34. The Story of Life. 35. Household Nursing. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNK. Crown 870, about 350 pp. each, Cloth, 2/6 per Vol. Half-Polished Morocco, Gilt Top, 5s, Count Tolstoy’s Works. The following Volumes are already issued— A RUSSIAN PROPRIETOR. THE COSSACKS. IVAN ILYITCH, AND OTHER STORIES. MY RELIGION. LIFE. MY CONFESSION. CHILDHOOD, BOYHOOD, YOUTH. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF WAR. ANNA KARENINA. 3/6. WHAT TO DO? WAR AND PEACE. (4 vols.) THE LONG EXILE, AND OTHER STORIES. SEVASTOPOL. THE KREUTZER SONATA, AND FAMILY HAPPINESS. THE KINGDOM OF GOD IS WITHIN YOU. WORK WHILE YE HAVE THE LIGHT. THE GOSPEL IN BRIEF. Uniform with the above— IMPRESSIONS OF RUSSIA. By Dr. G. Brandes. Post 4to, Cloth, Price is. PATRIOTISM AND CHRISTIANITY. To which is appended a Reply to Criticisms of the Work. By Count Tolstoy. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. i/- Booklets by Count Tolstoy. Bound in White Grained Boards, with Gilt Lettering. WHERE LOVE IS, THERE GOD IS ALSO. THE TWO PILGRIMS. WHAT MEN LIVE BY. THE GODSON. IF YOU NEGLECT THE FIRE, YOU DON’T PUT IT OUT. WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT A MAN ? 2/- Booklets by Count Tolstoy. NEW EDITIONS, REVISED. Small i2mo, Cloth, with Embossed Design on Cover, each containing Two Stories by Count Tolstoy, and Two Drawings by H. R. Millar. In Box, Price 2s. each. Volume I. contains— WHERE LO^E IS, THERE GOD IS ALSO. THE GODSON. Volume II. contains— WHAT MEN LIVE BY. WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT A MAN? Volume III. contains— THE TWO PILGRIMS. IF YOU NEGLECT THE FIRE, YOU DON’T PUT IT OUT. Volume IV. contains— MASTER AND MAN. Volume V. contains— TOLSTOY’S PARABLES. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. THE WORLD’S BEST BOOKS. The Scott Library. Maroon Cloth, Gilt. Price i/- net per volume. Romance of King Arthur. Thoreau’s Walden. Thoreau’s Week. Thoreau’s Essays. Confessions of an English Opium-Eater. Iiandor’s Conversations. Plutarch’s Lives. Browne’s Religlo Medici Essays and Letters of P. B. Shelley. Prose Writings of Swift. My Study Windows. Lowell’s Essays on the English Poets. The Biglow Papers. Great English Painters Lord Byron’s Letters. Essays by Leigh Hunt. Longfellow’s Prose. Great Musical Composers. Marcus Aurelius. Epictetus. Seneca’s Morals. Whitman’s Specimen Bays in America. Whitman's Democratic Vistas. White’s Natural History. Captain Singleton. Essays by Mazzinl. Prose Writings of Heine. Reynolds’ Discourses. The Lover: Papers of Steele and Addison. Burns’s Letters. Volsunga Saga. Sartor Resartus. Writings of Emerson. Life of Lord Herbert. English Prose. The Pillars of Society. Fairy and Folk Tales. Essays of Dr. Johnson. Essays of Wm. Hazlitt. Landor’s Pentameron. &o. Poe’s Tales and Essays. Vicar of Wakefield. Political Orations. Holmes’s Autocrat. Holmes’s Poet Holmes's Professor. Chesterfield’s Letters. Stories from Carle ton. Jane Eyre. Elizabethan England. Davis’s Writings Spence's Anecdotes. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. THE SCOTT LIBRARY— continued. More’s Utopia. Sadi’s Gulistan. English Folk Tales. Northern Studies. Famous Reviews. Aristotle’s Ethics. Landor’s Aspasia, Tacitus. Essays of Elia. Balzac. De Musset’s Comedies. Darwin’s Coral-Reefs. Sheridan’s Plays. Our Village. Humphrey’s Clock, &c. Douglas Jerrold. Rights of Woman. Athenian Oracle. Essays of Sainte-Beuve. Selections from Plato. Heine’s Travel Sketches. Maid of Orleans. Sydney Smith. The New Spirit. Marvellous Adventures. (From the Morte d’Arthur.) Helps's Essays. Montaigne’s Essays. Luck of Barry Lyndon. William TelL Carlyle’s German Essays. Lamb’s Essays. Wordsworth’s Prose. Leopardi’s Dialogues. Inspector-General (Gogol). Bacon’s Essays. Prose of Milton. Plato’s Republic. Passages from Froissart. Prose of Coleridge. Heine in Art and Letters. Essays of De Quincey. Vasari’s Lives. The Laocoon. Plays of Maeterlinck. Walton’s Angler. Lessing’s Nathan the Wise Renan’s Essays. Goethe’s Maxims. Schopenhauer’s Essays. Renan’s Life of Jesus. Confessions of St. Augus- tine. Principles of Success in Literature (G. H. Lewes). Walton’s Lives. Renan’s Antichrist. Orations of Cicero. Reflections on the Revolu- tion in France (Burke). Letters of the Younger Pliny. 2 vols., 1st and 2nd Series. Selected Thoughts of Blaise Pascal. Scots Essayists. Mill’s Liberty. Descartes’s Discourse on Method, etc. Kalidasa’s Sakuntald, etc. Newman’s University Sketches. Newman’s Select Essays. Renan’s Marcus Aurelius. Froude’s Nemesis of Faith Political Economy. What is Art? The Oxford Movement. Hume’s Political Essays. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,“Mew Seriea of Critical JBiograpbies. Edited by Eric Robertson and Frank T. Marzials. GREAT WRITERS. Cloth, Gilt Top, Price is. 6ci. ALREADY ISSUED— LIFE OF LONGFELLOW. By Prof. E. S. Robertson. LIFE OF COLERIDGE. By Hall Caine. LIFE OF DICKENS. By Frank T. Marzials. LIFE OF D. G. ROSSETTI. By Joseph Knight. LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON. By Col. F. Grant. LIFE OF DARWIN. By G. T. Bettany. CHARLOTTE BRONTE. By Augustine Birrell. LIFE OF CARLYLE. By Richard Garnett, LLD. LIFE OF ADAM SMITH. By R. B. Haldane, M.P. LIFE OF KEATS. By W. M. Rossetti. LIFE OF SHELLEY. By William Shahp. LIFE OF GOLDSMITH. By Austin Dobson. LIFE OF SCOTT. By Professor Yonge. LIFE OF BURNS. By Professor Blackie. LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO. By Frank T. Marzials. LIFE OF EMERSON. By Richard Garnett, LLD. LIFE OF GOETHE. By James Sime. LIFE OF CONGREVE. By Edmund Gosse. LIFE OF BUNYAN. By Canon Venables.LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. GREAT WRITERS—continued, LIFE OF CRABBE. By T. E. Kbbbel, M.A. LIFE OF HEINE. By William Sharp. LIFE OF MILL. By W. L. Courtney. LIFE OF SCHILLER. By H. W. Nevinson. LIFE OF CAPTAIN MARRY AT. By David Hannat. LIFE OF LESSING. By T. W. Rolleston. LIFE OF MILTON. By Richard Garnett. LIFE OF GEORGE ELIOT. By Oscar Browning. LIFE OF BALZAC. By Frederick Wkdmore. LIFE OF JANE AUSTEN. By Goldwin Smith. LIFE OF BROWNING. By William Sharp. LIFE OF BYRON. By Hon. Roden Noel. LIFE OF HAWTHORNE. By Moncure Conway. LIFF OF SCHOPENHAUER. By Professor Wallace. LIFE OF SHERIDAN. By Lloyd Sanders. LIFE OF THACKERAY. By Herman Meriyale and Frank T. Marzials. LIFE OF CERVANTES. By H. E. Watts. LIFE OF VOLTAIRE. By Francis Espinasse. LIFE OF LEIGH HUNT. By Cosmo Monkhouse. LIFE OF WHITTIER. By W. J. Linton. LIFE OF RENAN. By Francis Espinasse. LIFE OF THOREAU. By H. S. Salt. Bibliography to each, by 3. P. Anderson, British Museum. LIBRARY EDITION OF ‘‘GREAT WRITERS." Printed on large paper of extra quality, in handsome binding, Demy 8vo, price 2s. 6a. per volume. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,COMPACT AND PRACTICAL. In Limp Cloth; for the Pocket. Price One Shilling. THE EUROPEAN CONVERSATION BOOKS. Hints to Travellers—Everyday Expressions—Arriving at and Leaving a Railway Station — Custom House Enquiries—In a Train—At a Buffet and Restaurant—■ At an Hotel—Paying an Hotel Bill—Enquiries in a . Town—On Board Ship—Embarking and Disembarking ■—Excursion by Carriage—Enquiries as to Diligences— Enquiries as to Boats—Engaging Apartments—Washing List and Days of Week — Restaurant Vocabulary — Telegrams and I.etters, etc., etc. The contents of these little handbooks are so arranged as to permit direct and immediate reference. All dialogues or enquiries not considered absolutely essential have been purposely excluded, nothing being introduced which might confuse the traveller rather than assist him. A few hints are given in the introduction which will be found valuable to those unaccustomed to foreign travel. The Walter Scott Publishing Company, Ltd., LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. FRENCH. SPANISH. ITALIAN. GERMAN. NORWEGIAN. CONTENTS.LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. A BOOK FOR EVERY DINNER TABLE, Musicians' Wit, Humour, and Anecdote: BEING ONDITS OF COMPOSERS, SINGERS, AND INSTRUMENTALISTS OF ALL TIMES. BY Frederick J. Crowest, Author of “The Great Tone Poets" “TheStory of British Music," Editor of “The Master Musicians” Series, etc., etc. Profusely Illustrated with Quaint Drawings by J. P. DONNE. In One Volume—Crown 8vo, Cloth, Richly Gilt, Price 3/6. Among the hundreds of stories abounding in wit and pointed repartee which the volume contains, will he found anecdotes of famous musicians of all countries and periods. The Walter Scott Publishing Company, Ltd.,SPECIAL EDITION OF THE CANTERBURY POETS. Square 8vo, Cloth, Gilt Top Elegant, Price 2S. Each Volume with a Frontispiece in Photogravure. CHRISTIAN YEAR. With Portrait of John Eeble. LONGFELLOW. With Portrait of Longfellow. SHELLEY. With Portrait of Shelley. WORDSWORTH. With Portrait of Wordsworth. WHITTIER. With Portrait of Whittier. BURNS. Songs \With Portrait of Burns, and View of “The BURNS. Poems / Auld Brig o’ Doon.” KEATS. With Portrait of Keats. EMERSON. With Portrait of Emerson. SONNETS OF THIS CENTURY. Portrait of P. B. Marston. WHITMAN. With Portrait of Whitman. LOVE LETTERS OF A VIOLINIST. Portrait of Eric Mackay. SCOTT. Lady of the Lake, 1 With Portrait of Sir Walter Scott, etc. >■ and View of “ The Silver SCOTT. Marmion, etc. J Strand, Loch Katrine." CHILDREN OF THE POETS. With an Engraving of “ The Orphans,” by Gainsborough. SONNETS OF EUROPE. With Portrait of J. A. Symonds. SYDNEY DOBELL. With Portrait of Sydney Doboll. HERRICK. With Portrait of Herrick. BALLADS AND RONDEAUS. Portrait of W. E. Henley. IRISH MINSTRELSY. With Portrait of Thomas Davis. PARADISE LOST. With Portrait of Milton. FAIRY MUSIC. Engraving from Drawing by C. E. Brock. GOLDEN TREASURY. With Engraving of Virgin Mother. AMERICAN SONNETS. With Portrait of J. R. Lowell. IMITATION OF CHRIST. With Engraving, “EcceHomo.” PAINTER POETS. With Portrait of Walter Crane. WOMEN POETS. W'ith Portrait of Mrs. Browning. POEMS OF HON. RODEN NOEL. Portrait of Hon. R. NoeL AMERICAN HUMOROUS VERSE. Portrait of Mark Twain. SONGS OF FREEDOM. With Portrait of William Morris. SCOTTISH MINOR POETS. With Portrait of R. Tannahill. CONTEMPORARY SCOTTISH VERSE. With Portrait of Robert Louis Stevenson. PARADISE REGAINED. With Portrait of Milton. CAVALIER POETS. With Portrait of Suckling. HUMOROUS POEMS. With Portrait of Hood. HERBERT. With Portrait of Herbert. POE. With Portrait of Poe. OWEN MEREDITH. With Portrait of late Lord Lytton. LOVE LYRICS. With Portrait *f Raleigh. GERMAN BALLADS. With Portrait of Schiller. CAMPBELL. With Portrait of Campbell. CANADIAN POEMS. With View of Mount Stephen. EARLY ENGLISH POETRY. With Portrait of Earl of Surrey. ALLAN RAMSAY. With Portrait of Ramsay. SPENSER. With Portrait of Spenser.LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. CHATTERTON. With Engraving, “ The Death of Chatterton." COWPER. With Portrait of Cowper. CHAUCER With Portrait of Chaucer. COLERIDGE. With Portrait of Coleridge. POPE. With Portrait of Pope. IyrSS: SS^}™******1*""- JACOBITE SONGS. With Portrait of Prince Charlie. BORDER BALLADS. With View of Neidpath Castle. AUSTRALIAN BALLADS. With Portrait of A. L. Gordon. HOGG. With Portrait of Hogg. GOLDSMITH. With Portrait of Goldsmith. MOORE. With Portrait of Moore. DORA GREENWELL. With Portrait of Dora Greenwell. BLAKE. With Portrait of Blake. POEMS OF NATURE. With Portrait of Andrew Lang. PRAED. With Portrait. SOUTHEY. With Portrait. HUGO. With Portrait. GOETHE. With Portrait. BERANGER. With Portrait. HEINE. With Portrait. SEA MUSIC. With View of Corbi&re Rocks, Jersey. SONG-TIDE. With Portrait of Philip Bourke Marston. LADY OF LYONS. With Portrait of Bulwer Lytton. SHAKESPEARE : Songs and Sonnets. With Portrait. BEN JONSON. With Portrait. HORACE. With Portrait. CRAB BE. With Portrait. CRADLE SONGS. With Engraving from Drawing by T. E. Macklin. BALLADS OF SPORT. Do. do. MATTHEW AltNOLD. With Portrait. AUSTIN’S DAYS OF THE YEAR. With Portrait CLOUGH’S BOTHIE, and other Poems. With View. BROWNING’S Pippa Passes, etc. 'I BROWNING'S Blot in the ’Scutcheon, etc. > With Portrait BROWNING’S Dramatic Lyrics. J MACKAY’S LOVER’S MISSAL. With Portrait KIRKE WHITE’S POEMS. With Portrait LYRA NICOTIAN A. With Portrait. AURORA LEIGH. With Portrait of E. B. Browning. NAVAL SONGS. With Portrait of Lord Nelson. TENNYSON: In Memoriam, Maud, etc. With Portrait. TENNYSON: English Idyls, The Princess, etc. With View of Farringford House. WAR SONGS. With Portrait of Lord Roberta. JAMES THOMSON. With Portrait. ALEXANDER SMITH. With Portrait The Walter Scott Publishing Company, Limited,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. Crown 8vo, Cloth, 3s. 6d. Some Vols. 6s. THE Contemporary Science Series. Edited by HAVELOCK ELLIS. Illustrated Vols. between 300 and 400 pp. each. EVOLUTION OF SEX. By Geddes and Thomson. 6s. ELECTRICITY IN MODERN LIFE. G. W. de Tunzf-lmann. THE ORIGIN OF THE ARYANS. By Dr. Isaac Taylor. PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION. By P. Mantegazza. EVOLUTION AND DISEASE. By J. B. Sutton. THE VILLAGE COMMUNITY. By G. L. Gomme. THE CRIMINAL. By Havelock Ellis. 6s. SANITY AND INSANITY. By Dr. C. Mercier. HYPNOTISM. By Dr. Albert Moll (Berlin). MANUAL TRAINING. By Dr. Woodward (St. Louis, MoA THE SCIENCE OF FAIRY TALES. By E. S. Hartland. PRIMITIVE FOLK. By Elie Reclds. THE EVOLUTION OF MARRIAGE. By LETOURNEAU. BACTERIA AND THEIR PRODUCTS. By Dr. Woodhead. EDUCATION AND HEREDITY. By J. M. Guyau. THE MAN OF GENIUS. By Prof. Lombroso. EUROPEAN FAUNA. By R. F. SCHARFF, B.S& 6s. PROPERTY: ITS ORIGIN. By Ch. Letourneau. VOLCANOES, PAST AND PRESENT. By Prof. E. Hull. PUBLIC HEALTH PROBLEMS. By Dr. J. F. J. Sykes. MODERN METEOROLOGY. By Frank Waldo, Ph.D. THE GERM-PLASM. By Prof. WEISMANN. 6s. THE INDUSTRIES OF ANIMALS. By F. HOUSSAY. MAN AND WOMAN. By Havelock Ellis. 6s. MODERN CAPITALISM. Bv John A. Hobson, M.A. THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE. By Frank Podmore, M.A. COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY. By Prof. MORGAN. 6s. THE ORIGINS OF INVENTION. By 0. T. Mason, A.M. THE GROWTH OF THE BRAIN. By H. DONALDSON. EVOLUTION IN ART. By Prof. A. C. HADDON. 6s. PSYCHOLOGY OF THE EMOTIONS. By Th. Ribot. 6s. HALLUCINATIONS AND ILLUSIONS. By E. PARISH. 6s. SLEEP. By Marie de ManaceIne. THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY. By E. W. SCRIPTURE, Ph.D. 6s. THE NATURAL HISTORY OF DIGESTION. By A. LOCK- HART Gillespie. M.D., F.R.C.P. Ed., F.R.S. Ed. 6s DEGENERACY. By Prof. Talbot, M.D. 6s. THE RACES OF MAN. By J. Deniker. 6s. THE PSYCHOLOGY OF RELIGION. By Prof. STARBUCK. 6s. THE CHILD. By A. F. Chamberlain, M.A., Ph.D. 6s. THE MEDITERRANEAN RACE. By Prof. Sergi. 6s. THE STUDY OF RELIGION. By Prof. JASTROW. 6s. HISTORY OF GEOLOGY AND PALAEONTOLOGY. By Karl von Zittel. 6s. THE MAKING OF CITIZENS. By R. E. HUGHES, M.A. 6s. MORALS : A Treatise on the Psycho-Sociological Bases of Ethics. By Prof. G. L. Duprat. 6s. A STUDY OF RECENT EARTHQUAKES. By C. Davison, Sc.D., F.G S. 6s. The Walter Scott Publishing Company, Ltd.,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. SELECTED THREE-VOL. SETS IN NEW BROCADE BINDING. Rs pep Set, In Shell Case to match. May also be had bound In Roan, with Roan Case to match, 9s. per Set. THE FOLLOWING SETS CAN BE OBTAINED POEMS OF Wordsworth. Keats. Shelley. Longfellow. Whittier. Emerson. Hpgg. Allan Ramsay. Minor Scottish Poets. Shakespeare. Ben Jonson. Marlowe. Sonnets of this Century. Sonnets of Europe. American Sonnets. Heine. Goethe. Hugo. Coleridge. Southey. Cowper. Border Ballads. Jacobite Songs. Ossian. Cavalier Poets. Love Lyrics. Herrick. Christian Year. Imitation of Christ Herbert. American Humor- ous Verse. English Humorous Verse. Ballades and Ron- deaus. Early English Poetry. Chaucer. Spenser. Horace. Greek Anthology. Landor. Goldsmith. Moore. Irish Minstrelsy. Women Poets. Children of Poets. Sea Music. Praed. Hunt and Hood. Dobell. Meredith. Mars ton. Love Letters. Burns’s Songs. Burns’s Poems. Life of Burns, By Blackie. Scott’s Lady of the Lake, etc. Scott’s Marmion, Life of Scott, [etc. By Prof. Yonge. The Walter Scott Publishing Company, Ltd.LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE IBSEN'S PROSE DRAMAS EDITED BY WILLIAM ARCHER. In Five Volumes. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price 3J. 6d. Per Volume. VOL. I. “A DOLL’S HOUSE,” “THE LEAGUE OF YOUTH,” and “THE PILLARS OF SOCIETY.” VOL. II. “GHOSTS,” “AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE,” and “THE WILD DUCK.” VOL III. “LADY INGER OF OSTRAt,” “THE VIKINGS AT HELGELAND,” “THE PRETENDERS.” VOL IV. “EMPEROR AND GALILEAN.” With an Introductory Note by WILLIAM ARCHER. VOL. V. “ROSMERSHOLM” ; “THE LADY FROM THE SEA”; “ HEDDA GABLER.” Translated by William Archer. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,LONDON AND FELLING-ON-TYNE. LIBRARY OF HUMOUR. Cloth Elegant, Large Crown 8vo. Price g\6 each. VOLUMES ALREADY ISSUED. THE HUMOUR OF FRANCE. Translated, with an Intro- duction and Notes, by Elizabeth Lee. With numerous Illustrations by Paul Frdnzeny. THE HUMOUR OF GERMANY. Translated, with an Intro- duction and Notes, by Hans Miiller-Casenov. With numerous Illustrations by C. E. Brock. THE HUMOUR OF ITALY. Translated, with an Introduc- tion and Notes, by A. Werner. With BO Illustrations by Arturo Faldi. THE HUMOUR OF AMERICA. Edited, with an Introduc- tion and Notes, by J. Barr (of the Detroit Free Press). With numerous Illustrations by C. E. Brock. THE HUMOUR OF HOLLAND. Translated, with an Intro- duction and Notes, by A. Werner. With numerous Illus- trations by Dudley Hardy. THE HUMOUR OF IRELAND. Selected by D. J. O'Donoghue. With numerous Illustrations by Oliver Paque. THE HUMOUR OF SPAIN. Translated, with an Introduc- tion and Notes, by S. Taylor. With numerous Illustrations by H. R. Millar. THE HUMOUR OF RUSSIA. Translated, with Notes, by E. L. Boole, and an Introduction by Stepniak. With 60 Hlustrations by Paul Frgnzeny. The Walter Scott Publishing Company, Ltd.,LONDON AND FELLINQ*QN-TYNE j Crown 8vo, Cloth Elegant, in Box, Price 2s. 6d. THE CULT OF BEAUTY: A MANUAL OF PERSONAL HYGIENE. Ey C. J. S. THOMPSON. CONTENTS— Chapter I.—THE SKIN. Chapter II.—THE HANDS. Chapter III.—THE FEET. Chapter IV.—THE HAIR. Chapter V.—THE TEETH. Chapter VI.—THE NOSE. Chapter VII.—THE EYE. Chapter VIII.—THE EAR. “1 Quackery,’ says Mr. Thompson, ‘ was never more rampant than it is to-day’ with regard to ‘aids in beautifying the person.’ His little book is based on purely hygienic principles, and comprises recipes for toilet purposes which he warrants are ‘practical and harmless.’ These are virtues in any book of health and beauty, and Mr. Thompson’s advice and guidance are, we find, not wanting in soundness and common-sense.”— Saturday Review. THE WALTER SCOTT PUBLISHING CO., LTD.,— ™ r-v ~ '!v?' ; ■ & ■.