LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS TT ( Theodore rancis ) Classmark okery •5 >92Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530348_0006V. ♦ % ■ / t M ■ ■?-> <D H 00 ■g ^ |§ O g 0 3 r<5 ® p C <5 01 O m is ~ g_g P"o o 0 5 ro 5 CO (D |S « S C P O ,0) r |=L <0 C£ <£, CO ^ If) CD . n3 ^ ro JZ! CO • S,g p T) o <D . P S' O § o P O CO *1 Q) pC T3 .-£ ' P £ 2 T3 • I 3 <” n) • - C O ; ? O (0 <u C ^ a .8 % Ph <£ >v S ® £oTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF A Complete Dictionary of all pertainins to the Art of Cookery and Table Service. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD FURNISS, GEORGE CR UIKS HA NK, W. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “The Chefs Memoranda,” “ Plain and Artistic Cookery,” “Little-known Foods,” “ Ice and Ice-Making,” “ The Manufacture of British Wines, &-v.,” '“Ball Suppers and their Service,” “ Wine Adulteration,” “Savoury Suppers “Muffins and Crumpets,” “Sandwiches“American Drinks,” “Confectionery,” "‘Notes on Curries,” “Loving-Cups,” “Antiquity of Cheese“ Good Coffee,” “ Lives of Famous Cooks,” and numerous other Serial and Special Papers in Technical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets ; Sec. of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); /4/?c/, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. CORBLET, Chef de Cidsine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887; 1st Gold Medal of ist Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. FlORlLLO, Chef de Cidsine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 , ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal. 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; 1st Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cidsine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Harewood ; Silver Medal, Exposition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cidsine to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889 ; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cuisine, Great Eastern Hotel, London. C. Willin, Chef de Cidsine, late of the Grand Hotel Bristol ; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division VI.—Pin to Ser. LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL. Sole Agent: A. W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C.LONDON I A BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS193 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pine-apples—con tinned. until a straw can be thrust into them and withdrawn with- out being sticky. Pine-apple Charlotte.—Line a charlotte-mould with paper, point some finger biscuits on one side, and arrange them like a rosette on their glazed sides at the bottom of the mould. Put some long thin biscuits, the same height as the mould, round the sides, and standing upright, and embed the mould in pounded ice. Mix with 1 pint of Pine-apple syrup Joz. of dissolved gelatine, a little grated lemon-peel, and the juice of one orange. Strain the liquor through a sieve into a sugar-boiler, stir it over the fire till of the consistency of cream, then take it off, and mix with it A pint of whipped cream and Alb. of either preserved or fresh Pine apple, cut into small pieces. Fill the lined mould with this mixture, and leave it for one hour to set. Turn the charlotte on a folded napkin, and serve. Pine-apple Cheese —Peel some Pine-apples, cutting out any discoloured parts, and mince them finely. Put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of syrup, and stew them till tender. Take the Pine-apples out of the syrup, put them in a mortar, pound, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and mix a small quantity of the syrup witli it. Dissolve a small quantity of isinglass in a little hot water, and mix it with the Pine-apple puree. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with some caster sugar, whip it well, then mix it with the puree, and whip the whole for a few minutes, standing the bowl over ice. Turn the mixture into a channelled mould, and pack it in pounded salt and ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the cheese out on to a fancy dish. Pine-apple Cider.—Take a large Pine apple, cut oft' the rind, chop it fine, put it into a jar, pour on to it 2qts. of cold water, tie a cloth (not a thick one) over the top of the jar, and let it stand till it ferments. If the weather is warm, it will ferment in two or three days. Strain off the water, sweeten to taste, and bottle it. Wire the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides for forty-eight hours. The cider will then be ready for use. The peeled Pine-apple may be served for dessert. Pine-apple Confection.—Peel the Pine apple, core it, and cut it in slices £in. thick. Boil them in water till tender, then put them into boiling clarified sugar and boil till they look clear; lift them out very carefully, and lay them in a dish on a thick layer of confectioner’s sugar. Set the dish in a warm place, and let the Pine apple remain on it till dry enough to handle, turning the slices every day and sifting the sugar over them. Pine apple Cream.—(1) Pour boiling cream over some slices of Pine apple, let them soak in the cream till well flavoured, then strain and sweeten it, and whisk it steadily till thick. (2) Put loz. of gelatine in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and place it over the fire until dissolved. Rub 2 teacupful of Pine-apple jam through a fine hair sieve, stir it in with the gelatine, and add 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then skim it well and turn it into a basin. Whisk 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff snow, and when the Pine-apple mixture is nearly cold, mix them together, whisking well. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and set it on ice. When cold and firm, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a glass dish, and serve. (3) Select a moderate-sized and perfectly ripe Pine apple, and peel it, carefully removing all the black specks; cut it into small square pieces with a silver knife, and trim away all the core. Lay the pieces of Pine apple on a dish, strew rather more than Alb. of caster sugar over them, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put the peel’ and trimmings of the Pine apple into a stewpan with 1 break- fast cupful of water, and boil it slowly for about half- an-hour. Strain the liquor and leave it until cold. Put the fruit with the juice and strained liquor into an enamelled stewpan, and boil the whole gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, keeping it well skimmed; then putin loz. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. VOL. II. Pine-apples—continued. of isinglass, and boil for a few minutes longer. Pour the Pine apple into a basin, mix with it 1| pints of thick cream, and wliisk the whole until thick. Pour the mixture into a mould, shaped like half a Pine apple, that has been first dipped into boiling water and then rinsed out with cold water. Stand the mould on ice, stir the contents for a few minutes to keep the fruit from sinking to the bottom, then leave it for two or three hours. When quite firm and cohl, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a raised glass dish, stick grocers’ currants on in squares, set in the cream at the end a bunch of imitation leaves cut out of angelica (see Fig. 247), and serve. Pine-apple Cream Ice—(1) Peel a fresh Pineapple, put it into a basin with lib. of clarified sugar, and leave it for a few hours. Pass the Pine apple through a sieve, rubbing it well with the back of a spoon, and stir well into it the juice of a lemon and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Put the mixture into a freezing-box, work it till frozen, then put it in a mould and pack in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the cream at the sides, and turn it out on to a fancy dish. (2) Boil lqt. of milk, and mix with it gradually five well-beaten eggs; add 6oz. of caster sugar, stir it' for a few minutes by the side of the fire till it begins to thicken, then move it off and let it cool. Press the juice from a 1 ine-apple, strain it, mix it with the cream, and serve. (3) W hip 2qts. of rich cream to a stiff froth with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Grate two ripe Pine- apples and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and when quite smooth stir in the cream. Pour most of the mixture into the freezer, keeping back A pint of it. When the cream begins to freeze it will sink, then beat in the remainder with a spatula and work the frozen cream from the sides. This is one of the most delicious ices produced. (4) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar with 1 breakfast- cupful of flour, stir two beaten eggs in with it, then pom- over gradually 1 pint of boiling milk; stir it for twenty minutes by the side of the fire to cook the flour, then move it away and leave till cool. Mix with the custard 1 teacupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of Pine apple, and lqt. of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a fieezei ami work it till frozen. If wished to be served in shape, put the cream when frozen in a mould, embed it in pounded ice, and leave it to set for an hour or two. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Pine-apple Crusts.—Put lib. of the best sifted flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, put in ^oz. 0f German yeast and 1 table-spoonful of warm milk. Stir in sufficient of the flour to make a sponge, and set it to rise in a warm place. \\ hen the sponge has risen to twice its original bulk, work in with it and the remainder of the flour 1 teacupful of tepid milk and two eggs; then add Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. OTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 194 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred, to, see under their special heads. Fine-apples—continued. another egg, fib. of butter that has been beaten till creamy with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, J saltspoonful of salt, and i teacupful more warm milk. Work the paste well, then add eight more eggs, one at the time. Butter a plain cylinder-mould, 8in. in diameter, pour the cake mixture into it, and bake. When cooked, turn the cake out of the mould, leave it till cold, then cut into slices. Lay the slices of cake on a baking-sheet, dredge them well with caster sugar, and glaze in the oven. Peel some Pine- apples, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with some thin syrup, and let them simmer gently. Place the trimmings of the Pine-apple in a mortar and pound them well, then rub them through a fine hair sieve, arranging the croiites and Pine-apple slices alternately on a dish, forming them in a circle. Boil the syrup in which the Pine-apple was cooked till reduced to 32deg., then mix it with the pounded Pine-apple, strain the whole through a fine hair sieve over the erohtes and Pine-apple, and serve. Pine-apple for Dessert.—(1) Make a thick cushion of a paper, generally known as tampion, in a fancy dish, cover it well with dyed moss and real or artificial vine leaves, stick the stalk of the Pine in the centre of the paper, and garnish round with any other kind of fruit (see Fig. 248). (2) Peel and thinly slice a Pine-apple; arrange the slices in a glass dish, sprinkle over some caster sugar, and keep them on ice till ready to serve. Pine-apple Drink (Indian Style).—Put the thickly pared rind of two Pine apples in a stone jar, pour over it 2qts. of boiling water, cover the jar, and let it stand for two days. At the end of that time strain the liquor, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, pour it into bottles, and cork down tightly. In about a week’s time the Pine drink 'will be ready for use. Pine-apple Drops.—Mix fib. of coarsely-sifted sugar with sufficient Pine-apple pur6e to make a stiff paste. Put the mixture in a sugar-boiler, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Let the mixture fall slowly in drops from the lip of the pan on to a baking sheet. When cold, dry the drops in the screen, and put them away in glass bottles. Pine-apple served in Prankfort Style.—Cut off the top of a Pine apple about fin. down, carefully peel the Pine, put it in a pan, and cover with boiling syrup. Place the lid on the pan and let the syrup cool. When cold, scoop the inside of the Pine apple out, leaving a wall about fin. thick; put it again in the syrup, cover it, and keep it warm by the side of the fire. Chop the Pine apple pulp, put two-thirds of it in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of Fine-apples—continued. apricot marmalade to thicken it, and stand the stewpan in the bain-marie. Well wash fib. of rice and boil it in cream, flavour with vanilla, and when cooked add a piece of butter and a liaison of three yolks of eggs; mix in with it the remaining chopped Pine-apple, and pour it into a well-buttered round-bottomed border-mould that has been ornamented with preserved cherries and angelica. Keep the border in a warm oven for ten minutes, then turn the rice on to a round dish, fixing a block of fried bread in the centre nearly the height of the border. Drain the Pine apple, place it on the bread, fill it with the prepared salpifon, and set the top on the fruit, fixing it on by pushing a small silver skewer through, and glaze it with apricot marmalade. Fill the cavity between the bread and rice border with preserved cherries that have been washed and drained, and serve with a sauceboatful of apricot marmalade that has been mixed with a little Pine- apple syrup. Pine-apple Fritters.—Pare and grate a ripe Pine-apple, saving all the juice; put with the grated fruit and juice 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, the yolk of an egg, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of melted butter, and sufficient cold water to make a batter thick enough to sustain a drop from the spoon for a moment upon its surface. Have ready over the fire a frying-kettle; half-full of fat, and when it begins to smoke, quickly beat the white of the egg to a stiff' froth, stir into it the batter, drop the batter by the table spoonful into the hot fat, and fry the fritters until they are golden brown. Take them from the fat with a skimmer, and lay them for a moment on brown paper to free them from grease. Arrange them neatly on a china dish, dust them with powdered sugar, and serve. If the fritters are preferred large, the fruit may be thinly sliced, dipped in a batter made as above, and then fried and served in the same way. Pine-apple Glace.—Peel a Pine apple, cut out the eyes and discoloured parts, and cut it into slices Jin. thick. Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of water in a pre- serving-pan, and boil it for ten minutes; then put in the slices of Pine-apple and boil them for fifteen minutes. Take the slices of Pine-apple carefully out, put them on a sieve, and dry either in the sun or near the fire for half- an-hour. Boil the syrup, reduce it till it will harden on being dropped in cold water, then dip the slices of Pine- Fig. 249. PiNE-AprLE Glace. apple in, put them on a buttered plate, and sprinkle a little caster sugar over. When dried and hardened, put some fresh green leaves in a glass dish, place over these the slices of Pine-apple (see Fig. 249), and serve. Fine-apple Jam.—Procure the Pine-apples when just ripe, peel them, and trim off all the eyes and any discoloured parts; cut them into slices and then into small squares. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow lib. of caster sugar. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, stir it con- stantly over the fire with a wooden spoon until the juice runs from it and it is quite hot, then put in the sugar gradually, and stir continually until it will set. Turn the jam into jam jars, and put them in a cool place until the following morning. Afterwards put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, tie them down, and put them away in a dry store-cupboard. Pine-apple Jelly.—(1) The Pine-apples should be perfectly ripe; pare them as thinly as possible to avoid waste, and take out the eyes. Grate the Pine-apples; then to every breakfast-cupful of the grated fruit add Jib. of white sugar, and let it stand for two or three hours; next put it on the stove in a preserving-pan, let it come slowly to the boiling-point, and boil very gently till the fruit is195 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fine-apples—continued. quite soft. Pour it quite hot into a jelly-bag, and let the syrup drain through (without squeezing it) into an earthenware basin, which should be placed under the jelly- bag to catch it. Let the Pine-apple remain in the bag till all the syrup has drained from it. To every breakfast- cupful of syrup add Jib. of white sugar, boil it slowly and steadily, skimming well all the time. When it has boiled for a-quarter-of-an-hour take a little of it up, and put it into a saucer to cool; if it stiffens, the jelly is done ; if it does not, continue the boiling a few minutes longer and try it again. Let it cool till it is lukewarm, then pour it into glasses. When quite cold and set, cover the glasses with pieces of white paper wet with brandy. Dip some more pieces of white paper into beaten (but not to a froth) white of egg, and fasten over the tops of the glasses to keep them air-tight. They ought to be kept in a dry, dark cool place until wanted. (2) Peel a Pine apple, cut it into fine pieces, put them in lqt. of boiling water, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. Soak ‘2oz. of gelatine in \ pint of cold water for two horn's. Put the gelatine, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and the white and shell of one egg in with the boiling Pine- apple. Boil all up together, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents hot for twenty minutes, but do not boil them again. Strain the mixture through a jelly-bag into a Pineapple-shaped mould, and Fig. 250. Pine-apple Jelly. leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the jellies on to a fancy dish, and garnish the top with angelica cut to represent a Pine apple crown, and place crystallised fruits round (see Fig. 250). Pine-apple Julep.—Mix in a large glass 1 wineglassful of Pine-apple cordial and a little clove cordial, fill up the glass with ice, arrange on the top a little mint and a few thin slices of water-melon and Pine apple, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve. Pine-apple Marmalade.—Peel some small Pine apples, remove the eyes and discoloured parts, and cut them into small pieces; weigh them, and measure out fib. of crushed loaf sugar for every pound of fruit. Place the pieces of Pine- apple in an earthenware jar, stand it in a saucepan of water, and boil till they are clear. Put the sugar in a preserving-pan with 1 teacupful of water for each 21b. of sugar, boil it, put the fruit in, and boil them together for half an-hour. Move the pan off the fire, leave the marmalade till cool, then put it into jars. Place a round of white paper, soaked in brandy, on each, then cover them with stout paper, and tie tightly down. Pine-apple Meringue.—Peel a moderate-sized Pine-apple, cut it into slices, then into pieces about lin. in length and Jin. thick; put them in a preserving-pan with Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and \ pint of water, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a rather thick syrup. Pour 1J pints of Fine-apples—continued. milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils put in the peel and trimmings of the Pine-apple, cover, and steep them for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain the milk, and stir it gradually in with them. Pour the milk and eggs back into the saucepan, and stir them over a slow fire till thick, but without letting them boil. Pass the cream through a silk sieve into a basin and mix the Pine-apple and syrup with it. When cold, put the cream in a freezing-pot and work it over ice till frozen. Turn the frozen cream into a plain oval-shaped mould, filling it to the top, then close it tightly, and pack in pounded ice and salt. Boil 4oz. of sugar to the 6th deg., whip the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, then mix the sugar with them and leave till cold. Dip the mould con- taining the Pine apple cream in warm water, wipe it, and turn its contents quickly out on to a dish that has been standing on ice. Pour the meringue over it, place it in a hot oven, just to set and slightly brown the meringue, then take it out, and serve at once. Pine-apple Nip.—Equal parts of Pine apple cordial and clove cordial to half fill a wineglass, and fill up with rum. Pine-apple Omelet.—Have ready 1 table-spoonful of freshly grated Pine apple or preserved Pine apple. Mix together three eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 1 table-spoon- ful of sugar; place the omelet mixture into a hot buttered pan, and cook it in a little butter until it is firm enough to fold. Put in the Pine-apple, fold the omelet together, turn it out on to a hot dish, dust with caster sugar, and serve at once. Pine-apple Preserves.—Remove the top and bottom of some Pine apples, pare off the rough outside, weigh them and cut them into slices. Lay them in a preserving-pan with >2 pint of water to each 21b. of fruit, boil until tender and clear, and take them out of the water with a slice. Put into the water as many pounds of crushed white sugar as there were pounds of fruit, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then put in the pieces of Pine apple and boil them gently until quite transparent, keeping the cover on the pan. Turn the syrup and slices of Pine apple into jars, and when cool tie them over and keep them in a dry store-cupboard till wanted for use. Pine-apple Pudding (American).—Prepare a crust with Jib. of suet (finely chopped) or beef marrow, ill), of flour, and sufficient water for mixing, using a knife and not the hands in so doing. With this line a greased basin, then put in half a grated Pine apple and a liqueur-glassful of curajoa, which should about half fill the basin, cover with a thin layer of the paste, pour over a sweetened custard made with 1 teacupful of milk and two eggs, and flavoured with a little noyau; cover with more paste, and steam for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Pine-apple Pudding a la Richelieu.—Boil in a saucepan 2 gills of milk, adding 2oz. of fresh butter, and let it melt. Have ilb. of Hour and the spatula ready, drop the flour in, and stir immediately with the spatula as briskly as possible for two minutes. Remove from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, and stir again vigorously for two minutes; drop in 3oz. of powdered sugar, continue stirring for one minute, and pour in 1 gill of cold milk, mixing well. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the three eggs, and add them gradually to the preparation, mixing slowly for two minutes. Butter and sugar a mould holding 3 pints, put a layer of the preparation Jin. thick at the bottom, cover with 2oz. of fine slices of stewed Pine apple, then another layer of the preparation, again the same quantity of Pine- apple, and repeat twice more. Place the mould in a tin pan, fill it to half the height of the mould with warm water, and set it in the oven to steam for one hour. Remove, turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of kirschenwasser sauce. Pine-apple Pulp for Ices.—Peel a Pine-apple, cut it into small pieces, pound them, and pass through a coarse sieve. Mix in Jib. of caster sugar for each pound of fruit, place the mixture into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them, and tie over with stout paper. Stand the bottles in a large sauce- pan or fish-kettle, with boiling water to half their height, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensil Sauces <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. o 2196 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Pine-apples—continued. and hay or straw between them to prevent their knocking together and breaking, and steam for a-quarter-of-an hour, then move the pan off the lire and leave the bottles in the water till cold. Remove the paper, wax over the corks, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. Pine-apple Punch.—Peel and slice a Pine-apple, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass it through a line hair sieve; then stir in | pint of water, 1 pint of syrup, and the juice of one lemon. Put the mixture in the ice-tub .and freeze it. Mix with the frozen Pine-apple water 2 wineglassfuls of Dantzic brandy, the juice of two lemons, and a bottle of sparkling champagne. Put the punch in the freezing-pot, pack it in ice, and work till frozen. When ready, mix with the punch three whites of eggs well whipped with sugar to form a meringue, and serve at once. Pine-apple with Rice.—Peel half a Pine apple, cut it in halves lengthwise, then in slices, not too thick, lay them in a basin, cover with rather thick boiling syrup, put a plate over the basin, and leave them for an hour. Make a puree with the trimmings of the Pine apple and some syrup, and keep it warm. Boil All), of well washed rice in milk, and when soft mix with it 1 teacupful of cream and a little orange sugar; stir it over the fire till the moisture is absorbed, then take it off. Shape the rice in a dome, surround it with the slices of Pine apple, and serve with the puree separately. Pine-apple Rum.—Put loz. of concentrated essence of Pine apple into a jar with 1 gall, of coloured 40deg. underproof rum (Jamaica), and when well mixed, bottle. Pine-apple Rum Punch.—Put two thin slices of Pine-apple at the bottom of a punch-bowl, pour over \ pint of white rum and a liqueur-glassful of curapoa, mix well, then add 1 pint of raspberry syrup and 1 gill of plain syrup. Now put in 1 breakfast-cupful of broken ice, stir well, pour in two bottles of lemonade, and serve. Pine-apple Rum Shrub.—Take a good sized ripe Pine-apple remove the crown, and chop it line, rind and all, except the crown. Put the chopped Pine-apple into a jar, with sufficient rum to cover it, close the jar, and let it stand for three days. When it has stood long enough, boil 11,1b. of loaf sugar with 1 pint of water till quite clear, taking off the scum as it rises; then let it get cold. Squeeze A pint of juice from either lemons or limes, free it from piips, then strain the rum from the Pine-apple, squeezing the Pine-apple well to get all the juice from it; add another quart of rum, turn in the cold syrup, mix all together, and bottle. Rather less than a wineglassful in a tumbler and filled up with ice water will make a pleasant summer drink. Pine-apple Salad.—Peel two very ripe Pine apples and cnt out the eyes. Take hold of the crown of tliePine-apple with the left hand, take a fork in the right hand, and with it tear the Pine apple into shreds till there is nothing left hut the core; throw this away. Put the shredded fruit in a com- pote-disli. Mix A pint of white sugar syrup with 1 wineglass- ful of arrack, and 1 table-spoonful each of brandy and curaf oa. Pour the mixture over the fruit, and serve. Pine-apple Sherbet.—(1) Soak 1 table spoonful of gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water for two hours. Peel a large Pine apple, cut out the eyes and discoloured parts, chop it finely, and mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in A pint of boiling water, then stir that and A pint of cold water in with the Pine-apple and sugar. Pour the mixture into the freezer and freeze it. This sherbet will be white and creamy. (2) Pare and grate a Pine-apple. Make a thick syrup of 311i. of loaf sugar, pour it boiling hot over the grated Pine apple, and stir in with the syrup enough boiling water to make 1 Agalls.; set it in ice water to cool and then put it into the freezer. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and stir them well into the sherbet while freezing. When frozen hard, repack with ice, and cover till required for use. Pine-apple Shrub.—Take a large npe Pine-apple, peel it, cut out the eyes, and remove the crown. Chop it very Pine-apples—continued. fine, put it with all its juice into a jug with a very narrow neck, and add lib. of sugar and lgall. of cold water. Let it stand in a temperature of 90deg. Falir. for a few days or till it begins to ferment, then let it cool on ice, and it is ready for use. Sometimes, when it begins to ferment, another Pine-apple is pared, the eyes taken out and crown cut off’, and grated, and together with Alb. of finely-powdered white sugar added to the shrub, which is then placed in a refrigerator and frozen. Serve it in tumblers with straws. Pine-apple Snow.—Soak Aoz. of gelatine in A pint of cold water for four hours, then mix with it the juice and thinly-pared rind of a lemon, half a Pine apple cut in small pieces, a little grated nutmeg, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Stir this well with the gelatine, bruising the Pine-apple with the back of the spoon, and let it stanil for two hours. Then pour in 1 pint of boiling water and stir till tlie gelatine is quite melted. Strain it then through flannel, squeezing and wringing to get the liquid through; let it stanil till nearly cold, then add 2 glasses of white vine and 1 glass of brandy, put a cover over it, and let it stand till quite cold. Beat up the whites of four eggs, add the liquid to them in small quantities, and whisk it in after all is mixed. Continue to whisk with an egg-whisk for at least half-an hour. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the mixture in, and put it into a refrigerator to set; then turn it out, and arrange on a dish like snow. See Fig. 251. Pine-apple Sorbet.—Take fib. of Pine apple pulp, having removed the peel, and pound it. Mix with it 4 breakfast- cupfuls of syrup at 32deg., the strained juice of one orange, and a small quantity of the grated yellow rind. Boil the mixture until reduced to 18deg., then strain it through a line hair sieve, turn the mixture into a freezer, and work it until frozen ; then mix with it a small quan- tity of cold syrup and A pint of champagne. Serve the sorbet ten minutes after the champagne is added. Pine-apple Sponge.—Peel a small fresh Pine apple, chop it, and put it in a lined saucepan with the juice, 1 teacupful of loaf sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Simmer for ten minutes, then add Aoz. of gelatine that has been soaked for two hours in 1 teacupful of water. Take the saucepan off the fire at once, and strain the contents into a basin. When nearly cold, stir in the beaten whites of four eggs, and beat till the mixture begins to thicken. Pour the sponge into a mould and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the sponge on to a fancy dish and serve it with a wine-flavoured custard. Pine-apple Syrup.—(1) Cut or chop up the required number of Pine-apples, put them into a vessel, and let them remain for twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Press out all the juice, and to each pound avoirdupois add loz. avoirdupois of Cologne spirits or deodorised alcohol. Mix thoroughly, set it aside for twelve hours, and filter through paper. For each pound of this add 1 Alb. of sugar, bring it to the boiling-point, remove at once from the fire, skim, and pour into bottles mixed with a little Cologne spirit. Cork, seal, and set away for use. (2) Mix together till well incorporated 1 drachm each of oil of Pine apple and tartaric acid, then mix them withTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 197 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Pine-apples — continued. 6 pints of simple syrup. Strain the mixture till quite clear, and Lottie it. (3) Peel a ripe Pine-apple, chop it into small pieces, put them in a mortar with Jib. of sugar, and pound them ; add J pint of water, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour, pounding all the time. Then strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid and 1 pint of clarified syrup. Pour the Pine-apple syrup into bottles, cork and wire them down, put them in a saucepan with cold water to three-parts their height, and simmer gently for six minutes. Move the pan off the fire, and leave them in the water till cold. Dip the nozzles of the bottles in bottle wax, and lay them in a reclining position in a cool dark place. Pine-apple Tarts.—(1) Procure a medium-sized Pine apple, peel and cut it into fine slices, lay them in a basin, and mix in 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over 1 table-spoonful of apple sauce, and arrange the Pine-apple on top. Take 3oz. more of the paste, roll it out lengthwise, 2ft. long, and fold it care- fully in two, so as to make a long narrow strip ; roll it slightly again until about 30in. long by lin. wide, paring off both sides evenly, so as to have it exactly the lin. in width. Moisten the edge of the pie with beaten egg, and arrange the strip round, fastening the two ends together, one over the other, glaze the surface of the strip with beaten egg, place the pie in a moderate oven, and let it bake for fifty minutes. Remove to the door, dredge the pie well with powdered loaf sugar, return to the oven for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt, spread evenly over the top 2oz. of sweet jelly, and serve. (2) Take a large Pine-apple, pare, and cut it into small pieces, lay them in a deep dish, mix with them Jib. of powdered white sugar, cover the dish, and let it stand till enough juice has run from the fruit to stew it in. In the meantime make some puff paste, roll it out, and line a couple of soup-plates with it; crimp the edges and bake the paste in a quick oven. Stew the Pine-apple in the sugar and its own juice till quite soft, then put it away to cool. When the pastry in the soup-plates is baked and cold, and the stewed Pine-apple cold also, mix with the fruit J pint of cream, and fill the shells of pastry with it. Dredge plenty of powdered white sugar over the tops, and serve. Pine-apple Toddy.—Cut off the rind of a Pine-apple moderately thick, put it into a jar with a few cloves, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and let it stand for a day or so. Pass the liquor through a cloth or jelly-bag, sweeten to taste, put it into bottles, cork securely, and let it remain for about three days, by which time it will be ready for use. Pine-apple Water Ice.—Cut a small-sized ripe Pine-apple into halves and put one half away for further use, pare the other half neatly, cut it into small pieces, place them in a mortar, and pound thoroughly to a pulp; ten minutes will suffice for this. Add Jib. of powdered sugar, and pound again for five minutes; transfer the whole into a vessel, squeeze in the juice of three lemons, pour in lqt. of cold water, and mix well with the spatula for two minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, adding the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth’ beat well for one minute longer, and freeze. Preserved Grated Pine-apple.—Peel a Pine apple, and grate it on a coarse grater, throwing away the core. Weigh it, and put it in a preserving-pan with lib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound of fruit. Let it stand all night. In the morning, stand the pan over the fire and stir the contents till boiling, then move it off' at once. When cooled, put the Pine apple mixture into o-lass jars and stopper them down tightly. Preserved Pine-apple.—Carefully peel some perfectly ripe Pine apples and cut them into slices. Weigh the' fruit, arid allow fib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound, put them in a preserving-pan in layers, with sugar between each layer, leave them for one night, then on the following day put the pan over a clear but rather slow fire. When Pine-apples—continued. the slices of Pine-apple are very hot, but not softened, take them out with a perforated ladle, draining each slice, and lay them on a dish. Let the syrup continue boiling until thickly reduced. Pack the slices in glass jars, pour in each J wineglassful of rum and sufficient of the syrup to fill them, and let them get quite cold. When ready, put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Pack them away in a dry store-cupboard. Sugared Pine-apple.—Peel and slice some perfectly sound and quite ripe Pine-apples, take out the eyes with a sharp knife, and when the fruit is prepared weigh it, and to every pound of fruit use ] fib. of sugar, which should be white and finely powdered. The slices of fruit should be cut about Jin. thick. Lay them in a glass jar with a thick layer of sugar over each, placing first a slice of Pine-apple, then a layer of sugar, then a slice of Pine- apple, then sugar, and so on, till the jar is full. Cover the jar air-tight, and keep it in a cool place till the Pine- apple is required for use. If the air is perfectly excluded from the fruit, it will keep for a long time. The following receipts are prepared with Pine-apples preserved in tins, and are favourites in most of our British kitchens: Tinned Pine-apple and Biscuit Cream.—Soak foz. of sheet gelatine in a small quantity of water, then strain it, and put it in a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned Pine apple, 1 breakfast-cupful of the juice, and 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved. Mix J teacupful of pounded Spanish nuts with 1 teacupful of water to a paste, then stir them in with the fruit. Stand the stewpan at the edge of the fire, and stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Turn the mixture into a basin, and beat it occasionally until cold. Whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them lightly in with the cream. Serve it in small glasses. Tinned Pine-apple Bonbons in Cases.—Boil fib. of crushed loaf sugar to the 38deg., and when cool, work it with the spatula against the sides of the pan till it becomes white. Mix with it some chopped tinned Pine-apple, put it into small paper cases, and dry them in a hot closet. Tinned Pine-apple Charlotte.—Put Joz. of soaked gelatine into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of the juice from a tin of Pine-apple and a scant table-spoonful of caster sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then put in about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the Pine apple, and stew it gently until tender. Butter a plain mould, line it with slices of sponge cake, pour the Pine-apple in gently, and let it get cool. Put 6 table- spoonfuls of cornflour in a basin, mix it smoothly with lqt. of milk, and sweeten with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; turn it into a lined saucepan, stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly three well-beaten eggs. Pour the custard carefully over the Pine apple, then put it in a moderate oven and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the charlotte out of the oven, and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, dip the mould into boiling water, wipe it,. and turn the charlotte out on to a glass or fancy china dish. Tinned Pine-apple Cream.—Use Jib. of tinned Pine-apple, keeping two slices of it back, cut the remainder into small pieces, and put them in a preserving-pan with 2 table- spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar, the syrup from the tin, 1 dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and I teacupful of water. Put the pan over the fire, let the contents simmer for a- quarter-of-an-hour, then add foz. of gelatine that has soaked in J teacupful of water, and continue stirring till it has quite dissolved; pass all through a coarse sieve, and leave it till cool. Whip J pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, pour it gently in with the Pine-apple mixture, and add the two pieces of Pine apple cut into small squares. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the cream, and leave it till firm. Turn the shape out of the mould on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve.198 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under thexr special heads. Pine-apples—continued. Tinned Pine-apple Cream Pie.—Strain the juice out of two tins of Pine apple into a basin, chop the fruit, and pound it; put it into a saucepan with 11, breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; then remove it from the fire, and stir in \ pint of cream and the well beaten yolks of twelve eggs. Line some small buttered tins with pie crust, fill them with the mixture and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Tinned Pine-apple Cup.—Drain the syrup off a tin of pre- served Pine-apple, and chop the fruit into small pieces. Put the syrup into a pan with 1| pints of water, the juice of one large lemon, and |lb of crushed loaf sugar, and boil it until the sugar has well dissolved. Then put in the chopped fruit, with 2 wineglassfuls of brandy and half the quantity of curacoa; leave the mixture until slightly cooled, pour it into a glass jug, and stand it on ice. When very cold, the Pine-apple cup is ready for serving. Tinned Pine-apple Fritters.—Open a tin of preserved Pine apple, and cut each slice into small equal-sized pieces. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin and mix it smoothly with \ breakfast-cupful of milk and two well- beaten eggs, then mix in three penny stale sponge cakes and one dozen ratafias, both finely crushed, and sweeten with about \ table-spoonful of caster sugar. Dip the pieces of Pine apple in this mixture, coating each piece well with it. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the fritters and fry them a bright golden brown. Prepare the following sauce for them: Strain the Pine-apple-juice into a small stewpan, and mix with it the juice of a small lemon which has been freed from pips, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and a small quantity of caster sugar, and place it on the fire until boiling. Mix 1 tea- spoonful of arrowroot with a small quantity of cold water, stir it in with the sauce, and continue stirring over the fire until thickened. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters on it round an ornamental sauceboat containing the sauce, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 252. Tinned Pine-apple Fritters with Sauce.—Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 small teaspoonful of baking- powder, 1 pinch of salt, two eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and 1 table-spoonful of oil or melted lard. Open two tins of Pine-apple, and dip the slices in the batter; when well coated with it, put them in a pan of boiling lard and fry them till lightly browned. Mix with the juice from the tins of Pine-apples an equal quantity of water and 1 table- spoonful of cornflour, boil the sauce, and colour it with a few drops of cochineal. Pour the sauce into a hot dish, drain the flitters, arrange them on it, and serve. Tinned Pine-apple Jelly.—Empty a tin of preserved Pine- apple into a mortar and pound it well; mix with it 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar and \ pmt of water; turn it into a saucepan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain the mixture through a jelly-bag, and mix with it 1 pint of clarified calf’s- foot jelly ami the strained juice of a lemon. Pour the whole into a mould and stand it in a cool place until set. "When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. Tinned Pine-apple Pudding.—(1) Put \ pint of milk in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of caster sugar and 4oz. of Pine-apples—continued. butter; boil it, then remove it from the fire, and sift in gradually 4oz. of flour. Put the saucepan on the fire again and stir the contents till they become a thick paste; take it off and mix in, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs; add 11 b. of tinned Pine-apple cut into small pieces, \ tea- cupful of the syrup, and a few' drops of essence of vanilla. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth, and add them very gently to the mixture. Butter a plain mould, sift caster sugar over the inside, shake out the loose sugar and fill the mould with the mixture; cover the top with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and let it steam gently for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Pine-apple and Rice.—Empty a pint tin of Pine- apple with its juice into a stewpan, and mix with it loz. of gelatine that has been soaked and strained, and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar. Stir the whole over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then turn it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and set it away in a cold place. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 tea- cupful of sugar, and 1 {, pints of milk. Boil the rice until very tender, then take it oft" the fire and let it get nearly cold. When the Pine-apple jelly has set, spread the half- cold rice over the top, and leave it until quite cold. Turn the contents of the mould on to a fancy glass or china dish, and serve with whipped and sweetened cream round it. Tinned Pine-apple Sherbet.—Pour the juice off two small tins of preserved Pine apple into a basin, put the fruit in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of water in a preserving-pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Rub the cooked Pine-apple through a fine hair sieve and put it into the boiling syrup. Boil it for fifteen minutes longer, then take the pan off the fire, add the Pine-apple-juice, and leave till cool. Pour the mixture into a freezer and freeze it. Tinned Pine-apple Souffle.—Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and when melted sift in gradually 3oz. of flour, and add i pint of milk. Stir them over the fire for ten minutes, then add 3oz. of caster sugar, four or five slices of tinned Pine-apple cut in small squares, and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the other ingredients; turn all into a buttered sou ffld-mould, stand it in a sauce- pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and let it steam for one hour. Boil some of the syrup of the Pine- apple till slightly reduced, mix with it loz. of loaf sugar, 1 w'ineglassful of sherry, and a few drops of cochineal to give it a delicate pink tinge. Turn the souffle on to a dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Tinned Pine-apple Toast.—Open a tin of preserved Pine- apple, drain off the syrup, and trim the pieces to a nice shape. Cut as many slices of stale sponge cake as there are pieces of Pine-apple, and trim them to the same shape and size. Put a lump of butter in a perfectly clean flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when melted put in the pieces of cake and fry them until lightly browned. Drain the slices of cake, leave them until cold, then arrange them in a circle on a fancy dish, alternating each slice199 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fine-apples—continued. with a piece of the Pine-apple. Mix with the necessary quantity of Pine-apple syrup 1 wineglassful of sherry, pour it over the Pine-apple, and serve. Tinned Fine-apple Trifle.—Open a tin of Pine-apple, strain off the juice, and put the fruit in a mortar. Mix some caster sugar with it, pound until quite smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve and beat the juice up with it. Sweeten 1 pint of rich cream to taste with caster sugar, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of lemon. Put the Pine-apple pulp in a glass dish, pile the cream over it, drop a few half cherries here and there (see Fig. 253), and serve PINIONS.—The parts of birds’ wings which hold the long quill feathers. Pinions are usually cut away when trimming birds for cooking. FINT.-A measure of capacity, containing the eighth part of a gallon; it is used for both dry and liquid measures. PINTAILS—The name of a Northern Duck (Dafila caudacuta). They are not much known in this country, nor are they considered very good eating. When caught Pintails may be cooked as follows: Roasted Pintail.—Draw the bird, chop up the liver, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped bacon, some chopped sweet herbs and truffles, and bind the whole together with the yolks of one or two eggs. Stuff the Pin- tail with the mixture, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with butter. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemon, and serve. PIPERS.—These European fish (Trigla lyra) of the gurnet order are not often seen upon the table, but pre- pared as follows they are very tasty: Baked Pipers.—(1) Make a stuffing of l|oz. each of sifted bread- crumbs and finely-chopped suet, a finely-chopped anchovy, pepper, salt, mixed herbs, and mace (both finely-powdered) to taste, half-a-dozen chopped oysters, 1 gill of cream, and two beaten eggs; stir all these well together, put the mixture over the fire, and stir till it thickens. When the fish are well cleaned and dried, stuff them with the pre- paration and sew them up. Put £ pint of good broth into the baking-dish with the Pipers, and when the fish are done boil the liquor together with a small quantity of essence of anchovies and a few drops of lemon-juice, pour it over the fish, and serve hot. (2) Draw and well wash the fish. Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful each of breadcrumbs and chopped beef- suet, a little finely-minced thyme and parsley, a small quantity of mixed spice, cayenne pepper, and salt, a small piece of butter, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient cream to make it the proper consistency. Stuff the bellies of the fish with the forcemeat, sew them up, and fasten the tails to the mouths with small skewers. Brush the fish all over with beaten egg, sprinkle with salt and breadcrumbs, and baste with clarified butter. Put the Pipers in a baking-dish, and bake in a very hot oven to brown them well. Drain the fish when cooked, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of Dutch sauce. Pried Fillets of Piper.—(1) Cut the flesh carefully off one large Piper, and divide it into equal-sized fillets; put them in a buttered saute-pan and dust over pepper and salt. Fry them, and when cooked and nicely coloured on both sides, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sharp sauce. (2) Draw a large red Piper, cut the fillets off and trim them to an equal size; divide each fillet into halves, and put them in a bowl with a few chopped shallots, some parsley-roots, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Let the fillets steep for two hours, then drain them; dip them in the beaten whites of two eggs, roll them in breadcrumbs Pipers—continued. and flour mixed together, and fry in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of ravigote sauce; or they may be served with steward’s sauce. PIPING.—See Sugar-Piping. PIPPINS.—See Normandy Pippins. PIQUANT. —This word is derived from the verb piquer—to prick or sting, hence its application to certain sauces. PIQUETTE .—A wine prepared in France by putting water into wine casks containing wine lees. PISHPASH—The name given to an Indian stew or soup prepared as follows : (1) The toughest chicken procurable may be used; it must be cut up into small pieces and put in a jar (an ordinary ginger jar is the best) together with 4 table-' spoonfuls of ground rice and 11 pints of cold water. Season with moderate quantities of salt and pepper, put the lid on the jar, and solder it all round with a common crust to exclude the air. Place the jar in a moderate oven and leave it for three or four hours. Afterwards strain off the liquor into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or croft tons of fned bread. (2) Clean and cut up a small fowl into convenient sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with 3 teacupfuls of rice, a few small onions peeled, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, 3oz. of butter, and sufficient clear stock to cover; season to taste with salt. Let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is very tender, when the rice will be reduced to a pap. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. PISTACHIOS (Fr. Pistaches; Ger. Pistazien ; Ital. Pistacchii; Sp. Pistachos).—The Pistacia-tree (Pistacia vera) which produces the edible Pistachio-nuts (see Fig. 254) is a native of Western Asia, whence it has been introduced into Southern Europe. The fruit hangs in large bunches, each one being oval, about an inch long, and containing, with a green-coloured kernel, one seed. Pistachio-nuts are much eaten by the Turks and Greeks, either dried like almonds or in confectionery. In Italy they are eaten either raw, or fried with pepper and salt, and throughout the civilised world they are regarded as of great culinary importance.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 200 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Pistachios—continued. Bavaroise of Pistachios.—Blanch and skin Jib. of Pistachios and twelve hitter almonds; then pound them in a mortar with 6oz. of loaf sugar upon which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon. Put the pounded Pistachios, &c., in a saucepan with f pint of boiling milk and loz. of isinglass; stir the mixture over the fire, boil it for five minutes, and turn it into a basin. Set it over ice, and stir till the mixture is on the point of setting; then mix in ] pint of well whipped cream, and the juice of some spinach that has been boiled till it curdles. Brush over the inside of a mould with a paste-brush that has been dipped in a little liquid or half-set jelly, then sprinkle in some chopped Pistachios, and shake it till they adhere to the sides. Pour the bavaroise into the mould, close it, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In two hours’ time dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish, and serve. Candied Pistachio Paste.—Blanch Jib. each of almonds and Pistachios, peel them, put them in a mortar with a small quantity of white of egg, and pound; add Jib. of syrup at 40deg. and J wineglassful of kirschenwasser, and colour the mixture with a little green vegetable colouring. Mix well, leave it till cool, then take the paste out of the mortar and cut it into small pieces, the size and shape of an olive. Put the pieces of paste on a wire tray, set it in a moderately-lieated screen, and leave them to dry for four hours. Put the paste in a candy-tin, pour in some syrup at 36deg., that has been allowed to cool, and let it rise fin. above the pieces of paste. Cover the tin with a sheet of paper, and put it in a hot closet for fifteen hours. At the end of that time, break the sugar on the top, strain off the syrup, and place the bonbons again in the hot closet on a closely-latticed wire tray. When perfectly dry, keep the bonbons in boxes between layers of white paper. Glazed Pistachio Cream.—Put a dome-shaped mould into a large bowl or basin, and pack it round with broken salted ice. In the meantime, divide in halves a handful of blanched Pistachios, and macerate them in a mixture made as follows: Pour 1 pint of well-whipped cream on to a strainer to drain, put it into a basin, and mix in suffi- cient sugar, flavoured with vanilla, to sweeten it. When the Pistacliios are well drained, take out a little of the mixture at a time with a skimmer, put it into the mould, sprinkle over a few of the Pistachios, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Cover the mould with the lid, hermetically seal it with flour-ami water paste, pack the ice on the top of it, and let it remain for about an-hour- and-a-quarter. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, turn the cream out on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Pistachio Biscuits.—(1) Put the whites of one dozen eggs in one basin and the yolks in another. Mix in with the yolks lib. of sugar and 4oz. of blanched Pistachios that have been powdered to a pulp, together with a little of the white of an egg to prevent them oiling. Have the whites whisked to a froth, turn them into the basin with the yolks and Pistachios, and sift in Goz. of dried flour and the rasped rinds of two lemons. Stir gently, pour the mixture into moulds or paper cases, well sprinkle with caster sugar, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. When done, turn them out (if in the moulds), let them get cold, and they are ready for use. (2) Mix Jib. each of sugar and flour in a saucepan, and add the yolks of five eggs, beating well for fully ten minutes. Now add 2oz. of whole Pistachios, stir them rvell in, and spread the preparation over a buttered baking- sheet, having it 5in. in width, 10in. long, and of equal thickness. Sprinkle over 2oz. of Pistacliios cut into strips, bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of-an- liour, take the biscuits from the sheet, cut them into pieces about 2in. long and Jin. in width, dry them in the oven, and they are then ready for use. Pistachio Cake.—Weigh eight eggs in their shells, and allow the same weight of caster sugar, the weight of two eggs of potato-flour, and the same of Pistachio-nuts. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, and beat the Pistachios—continued. yolks with the sugar; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and blanch and pound the Pistachio nuts. Stir in gradually half of the potato flour with the beaten yolks, then half of the whites of egg. When these are quite smooth, add the remainder of the flour, beaten whites of egg, and lastly the Pistachio nuts. The potato- flour should lie sprinkled in very slowly or else it will be lumpy. Pour the mixture into a buttered cake tin, and bake it in a slow oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin and leave it until cold. Afterwards, mask it with lemon flavoured icing, smoothing it evenly over the top with the flat blade of a knife, then put it in a cool oven for a minute or two to dry the icing. The cake may be very prettily ornamented with pieces of angelica cut into various fancy shapes and preserved cherries. It should be kept in a cool place when iced. Pistachio Comfits.—For these comfits 3Jlb. of clarified crushed loaf sugar of 32deg. (see Sugar-boiling) will be required, and Goz. of gum arabie, dissolved, but not too thin. Put one-sixth part each of the sugar and gum into a sugar-boiler, place it on the fire, and boil to the thread degree (sec Sugar boiling). Turn some live embers of charcoal into a chafing-dish, and over it hang a comfit- pan, put some Pistachios in it, without having the skins taken off, and stir them well until they are quite hot. Pour in 1 table-spoonful of the dissolved gum, stir the Pistachios well in it until it has dried on them, and sprinkle in a little powdered icing sugar to give the Pistachios an evenness. Turn the boiled gum and sugar into a beading-funnel, and give th» Pistachios a coating with it; separate them from one another, and when they are quite dry, turn them out on to a sieve, shaking it a little to take off any superfluous fragments of sugar. Put them back in the comfit-pan with more of the gum and sugar, and sprinkle over a little starch powder, repeating this operation five times more. The comfit-pan must be thoroughly cleaned each time the Pistachios are turned out. When they are done, put them in a warm, dry place, and let them remain for a day, then give them six more coatings of the gum, &c. Turn them out on to a sieve, put them in a slow oven to dry and whiten them, take them out, and they are done. Pistachio Cracklings.—Blanch )0oz. of Pistachios, cut 6oz. into shreds, and pound the remaining 4oz. Put them all in a basin, and mix in lOoz. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar, the whites of two eggs, and f table-spoonful of vanilla sugar for flavouring. Use a large spoon, such as a dessert-spoon, and lay out the mixture upon sheets of Fig. 255. Pistachio Cracklings. wafer-paper spread over a baking sheet. The pieces of the paste should be irregular in shape, not larger than a walnut, and must be placed 1 J2in. apart. Put the baking- sheet into a moderate oven, bake the cracklings to a light golden colour, take them out, and when they are cold and the paper has been removed, they can be served on a glass dish with a folded napkin over it. See Fig. 255. Pistachio Cream.—(1) Blanch Jib. of Pistachio kernels, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste, adding occasionally a few drops of orange flower water to keep them from oiling. When a smooth paste, put it in a lined saucepan with lqt. of cream, Joz. of gelatine, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Stir it over the fireTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 201 bvr details rcspeetiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, til'-, referred to, see under their special heads. Pistachios—continued. until the gelatine is dissolved, then take it off at once. Serve the cream cold in jelly-glasses. (2) Blanch about Jib. of Pistachio kernels, pound them in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water and about Jib. of caster sugar ; when these are well pounded, rub them through a close hair sieve into a basin, and mix with them 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of dissolved isinglass. Mix well, pour into a mould, set upon ice to set, and serve in the usual way. Pistachio Cream-Ice.—(1) Scald, clean, and pound to a pulp Goz. of Pistachios ; put them into a saucepan together with fib. of crushed loaf sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, a little salt, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or cream; set the pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture is quite thick. Put a fine hair sieve over a basin, pour the mixture into it, and rub it through; then add 1 table- spoonful of orange flower water to flavour, and 2 table- spoonfuls of spinach-green (see Colourings) to colour. The colouring must be worked up with a little cream before being added, or it would not mix in well. Turn all into the freezer, and when frozen it is ready for use. (2) Put 1 pint of sugar into a sugar boiler with the same quantity of water, set the boiler on the fire, and boil for twenty-five minutes. Put 1 pint of Pistachio nuts and 1 teacupful of blanched almonds into a frying-pan, and stir them over the fire until they are a rich brown, turn them into a mortar and pound to a pulp. Put this j pulp into a double boiler, pour over 1 pint of milk, j and boil for twenty minutes. Add the well-beaten yolks of five eggs to the sugar in the sugar boiler, beat them up well, keeping them warm while doing so. Remove the boiler from the fire and mix in gradually the almond and milk mixture and 1 teaspoonful of spinach green to colour, which should be mixed in a little milk or cream and added to the almond mixture, and well beaten before the mixture is added to the boiled sugar. Strain it all through a line sieve into a basin packed in ice, and when it is cold stir in lqt. of cream and freeze. It is then ready for use. Pistachio Croquettes.—Put Jib. of Pistachios in a basin, and mix in an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar and flour, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of two, and lastly 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar for flavouring. When all these ingredients are mixed and made into a firm paste, turn it on to a board and roll it out in the shape of a rolling pin. Put it on a baking sheet, bake in a moderate oven until done, cut it up into slices while hot, colour the edges with pink granite sugar, dry them in the hot closet, and they are ready for use. The Pis- tachios should not be blanched or scalded, but should be in their natural state and quite fresh. Pistachio Prink (Turkish).—Blanch and skin lib. of Pistachios, pick out all the small and bruised ones, and pound them in a mortar; mix with the powdered Pis- tachios 1 breakfast-cupful of rose water and plain water in equal quantities, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it well until the sugar is dissolved. Put the re- maining Pistachios in a glass bowl, strain the above mixture through a fine hair sieve over them, put in a few small lumps of ice, and serve. Pistachio Marzipan Lozenges.—Put lib. of blanched Pistachios into a mortar and pound them to a very fine paste, moistening them with white of egg. Clarify lib. of loaf sugar, boil it to the ball (see Sugar boiling), take it from the fire, and mix into it the pounded nuts. Mix the Pistachios well with the syrup, put the pan on hot ashes, continue stirring till the paste is sufficiently thick, and pour it on a slab plentifully sprinkled with powdered white sugar. W hen it cools cut it into lozenges. Pistachio Nougat.—Scald and chop fine J pint of Pis- tachio kernels. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar with 11b. of the best confectioner’s sugar, put it in a saucepan over a moderate fire with just enough water to keep it from burning, flavour with vanilla, and colour it with light-coloured turmeric or a little cochineal. When the sugar is sufficiently cooked, that is, when a little of it is Pistachios—continued. put into cold water is brittle, throw in the chopped Pis- tachio-kernels, stir them well in, and then spread the nougat on oiled paper, lay it between two boards, and when cold enough cut into shapes. Pistachio Paste.—Blanch lib. of Pistachios, drain them, put them in a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a little orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. When it is well pounded, rub it through a fine sieve on to a plate. Put loz. of gum dragon, that has been soaked and squeezed through a cloth, on a marble slab, work it with the hand closed until it has a white and elastic appearance, mix in the Pistachio pulp and Jib. of finely-sifted icing sugar, and continue to beat them well together, adding gradually more of the sugar until the paste is firm, com- pact, and elastic; it is then ready for use. Pistachio Paste Diavolini.—Take Jib. of Pistachio paste coloured with a little spinach-green, roll out small quan- tities of it to represent Pistachio-kernels, put them in the dry closet to dry, then cover them all over with prepared chocolate. Roll them in rose-pink nonpareils (hundreds and thousands), and when they are quite dry and set they are ready for use. Pistachio Rock Sugar.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, 1 tea- cupful of filtered orange juice, 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschen- wasser, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Mix and pour them into a sugar-boiler. Set the boiler on the fire, boil to the crack degree (see SUGAR-BOILING), remove the boiler from the fire, and mix in very lightly Jib. of Pistachios. Pour the sugar out on to a deep well-oiled pan and mark out the surface into diamond shapes ; when the sugar is set, break it into the shapes, and it is ready for use. Pistachio Souffles.—()) Blanch 4oz. of Pistachios, cut half of them into strips, and chop the remainder as fine as possible. Whip the whites of three eggs to a still' froth, mix in the strips of Pistachios and Jib, of sugar, put the mix- ture into small paper-cases about fin. in width and height, Fig. 256. Pistachio Souffles. dust them over with sugar, moisten it a little, sprinkle over the chopped Pistachios, and bake in a slack oven until a brown colour is obtained. Turn them out of the cases on to a dish (see Fig. 250), and they are ready to serve, (2) Put lOoz. of Pistachios that have been scalded, skinned, well washed, and wiped dry into a mortar with 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar; pound them well, and add gradually a little of the whites of three eggs until it becomes a smooth pulp. Then mix in the remainder of the sugar, making the quantity of sugar used 1 Jib. in all. Turn it all out on to a slab, working it well with the hands and keeping it rather stiff. Roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, spread over evenly two whites of eggs of royal rose-pink icing (about as much as the whites of two eggs); cut the paste out into various shapes with tinTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 202 Pistachios—continued. cutters, place them on sheets of wafer-paper spread over a baking-sheet, put them in a very slow oven, and bake to a light golden colour. Take them out when done, remove the paper, and they are ready for use. Pistachio Tablets.—Blanch Mb. of Pistachios, and as the skins are removed plunge them into water; take them out, drain them, put them in a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a little spinach-green for colouring. Put 21b. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), add the pounded Pistachio mixture, boil it again to the same degree, remove the boiler from the fire, let it remain for five minutes to cool, then work it well with a spatula against the sides of the boiler until it has a granulated appearance, and push it back into the middle of the boiler. Have ready a shallow mould, fold some stiff cartridge paper to the shape of the pan, put it in, and pour in the hot syrup. Let it cool slightly, mark it with a knife into the shapes required, and when cold break it into these shapes and they are ready for use. Pistachio Toroni.—For this fresh purple-skinned Pistachios should be used. Put |lb. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs into a copper egg-bowl, and add loz. of candied orar.ge-flowers to flavour. Set the bowl over a very slow fire, and whisk vigorously until the mixture is of the consistence of meringue paste. Add ilb. of Pis- tachios blanched and cut into shreds, mix well, and pour the paste out on to sheets of wafer-paper, cut in the shape of small ovals and spread over a baking-sheet. Put the baking-sheet in a very moderate oven or in the dry closet, as they only require to be dried and not baked ; take them out when done, remove the paper, and they are ready for use. Pistachio Water-Ice.—Put 6oz. of blanched Pistachios into a mortar and pound to a pulp, adding a little water to prevent them oiling. Turn this mixture out into a basin, mix it up with 1 pint of lemon water-ice, pass it all through a fine sieve into a freezer, turn it out into a mould packed in ice, and when set it is ready for use. Pistachio Zephyrs.—Put the whites of four eggs into a copper sugar-boiler and add til), of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Set the boiler over a slow fire and whisk the contents vigorously to a thick white and frothy icing; add Mb. of finely-shred Pistachios and a few drops of essence of vanilla or orange-flower water. Put some sheets of wafer- paper on a baking-sheet, and with a large spoon lay out the zephyrs in pieces, the size of a walnut or a little larger, keeping them 1 tin. apart. Sprinkle over with caster sugar, put the baking-sheet into a very moderate oven, and bake the zephyrs to a light golden colour; take them out when done, remove the paper, and when they are quite cold they are ready for use. PITHIVIERS ALMOND CAKE.—See Almonds. PIZZA.—This, a sort of cake, is a favourite dish in Naples, and should be eaten directly it is made. It can be prepared as follows: Put a pound and a half of light well-risen dough on to a well-floured board or table, flatten it with the hands, raise the edge slightly, smear a little oil over it, and garnish with tomatoes cut in halves, small fresh anchovies, or fillets of salted anchovies, or both together in equal quantities. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper to taste, also a lit tie finely-chopped garlic, mixed with finely-chopped pars- ley and sweet herbs, and baste the whole with a little more of the oil. Put the Pizza into an oven, heated for bread, bake it for twenty minutes with the oven door open, and when done put it on a dish, and serve at once. PLAICE (Fr. Plies; Ger. Schollen; Ital. Passeri; Sp. Platijas).—These are rather large flat fish (Pleuronectes platessa), caught principally in European waters. Those Plaice caught along the Sussex coast are known as diamond, in allusion to having the lozenge-shaped orange marks on their backs. The best Plaice (see Fig. 257) are caught between Hastings and Folkestone, and are known as For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Plaice—continued. Dowers Plaice. They continue in season from about May throughout the best part of the year. The finest weigh from about six to eight pounds, and when in con- dition the underside should have a reddish tinge; the Fig. 257. Plaice. body should be thick and firm, and the eyes bright. Plaice are not much esteemed as cooking fish, being some- what tasteless and watery ; but prepared according to the following receipts they are not to be despised. Baked Plaice.—Select a large Plaice, wash and clean it thoroughly, and trim off the fins and the end of the tail. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley with 1 tea- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and season them with salt and pepper to taste. Melt a lump of dripping in a pie-dish, then put in half of the seasoned breadcrumbs, spreading them well over the bottom of the dish, put in the fish, and cover with the remainder of the breadcrumbs, and a few small pieces of dripping on the top. Place the tin in a brisk oven and bake the contents for half-an-hour. When cooked, take out the fish carefully and lay it on a hot flat dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while hot. Boiled Plaice.—Clean and draw a Plaice, cut it down the back nearly to the bone, and put it in a fish-kettle containing salted water. Set the pan on the fire and boil the Plaice for seven minutes or so, when the fish should be quite done. Take it out carefully with a fish-slice, put it on a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. A little saltpetre should also be added to the salted water before cooking. Broiled Plaice.—(1) Clean the required number of Plaice, wash them well, brush them over with olive oil, and dust with salt and pepper. Have ready some mats made of straw cut into lengths (like the mats used for cream cheeses), put the Plaice on them, then on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Put them on a dish, pour over some caper sauce, and serve hot. (2) Clean and wash a Plaice, mb it well on both sides with salt, hang it up in a place where there is a draught of air, and let it remain for a day or a day and a half; then put it on a gridiron over a clear but slow fire and broil until done. When cooked, put it on a dish and serve with a little butter melted to oil, and lemon-juice poured over it. If desired, it may be cut into quarters or eighth i parts before being cooked. Fricasseed Fillets of Plaice.—Clean and wash a Plaice, dry it on a cloth, cut it down the back to the bone, and care- fully remove the fillets. Sprinkle them over with flour and salt, put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of lard or dripping, and fry them for about ten minutes, when they should be done and crisp. Put a dozen finely-chopped oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, and add 1 breakfast-cup- ful of white wine, three anchovies, a little grated nutmeg, - and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the fire, stew the contents gently for a few minutes, then add the fillets of Plaice and a small piece of butter. Continue to stew Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 203 F<yv details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Plaice—continued. until they are all cooked, giving the pan a shake now and then to incorporate the flavours; then turn the fricassee out on to a dish; and serve. A lemon cut in slices and again into quarters may be used as a garnish. Pried Fillets of Plaice.—(1) Clean and skin a Plaice, cut it down the back to the hack-hone, and take off the fillets. Cut them up into good-sized pieces, put them into a fry- ing-pan with 2oz. of lard or dripping, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and squeeze over the juice of half a lemon. Set the pan on the fire and fry for about twelve Fig. 258. Fried Fillets of Plaice. minutes, when the fillets should he quite done. Take them out, drain on a cloth, put them on a hot dish round some chip potatoes, garnish with fried parsley and lemon, and serve. See Fig. 258. (2) Procure two large plump Plaice, remove the skin, split them down the hack, lift the four fillets off the hones and cut them into fillets, then dip them in beaten egg and coat them well with hreadcrumhs. Put some oil in a flat stewpan, place the pan on the fire, and when the oil hoils lay in the fillets and fry them a delicate hrown. When cooked, drain off as much of the fat as possible. Put the trimmings of the fish in a saucepan with a little under 2 pints of water, add two or three hay-leaves, a small piece of lemon-peel, and season with salt and pepper in moderate quantities. When the liquor hoils move the pan to the edge of the fire and keep the contents simmer- ing for two hours. Afterwards strain the liquor into a basin and leave it until cold, when it should be a jelly. Put the jelly into a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, a few drops of essence of anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Put the fried fillets into the sauce, and -when they are thoroughly heated lift them carefully out, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Pried Plaice.—Put a Plaice on a table or hoard, sprinkle it well on both sides with salt, and let it remain for a day or so; then clean it, wash off the salt, wipe it dry, brush it over with egg, and then cover with breadcrumbs. Have ready some boiling lard or dripping (mixed with 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar) in a frying-pan, put in the fish, and fry for about five minutes, when it should be quite done and a light brown. Take it out, drain off all the fat on a cloth, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. A little anchovy sauce in a sauceboat should accompany it. Plaice au Gratin.—Clean and wash a Plaice, rub it well over with salt, and hang it up to dry in a draughty place. Let it remain for from thirty to forty hours, then put it into a shallow gratin-disli just large enough to hold it. The dish should be previously well oiled or buttered, or masked with the fat skimmed off gravy (sufficient to keep the Plaice from sticking to the pan); a layer of bread- crumbs mixed with finely-chopped parsley may also be put under the fish. Cover the Plaice with another mixture of breadcrumbs and finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs, the parsley predominating, and over this again put lumps of butter or fat. Place the dish in a moderate oven and bake until the fish is done and the crumbs well browned, basting frequently with its own liquor. Put it on a dish when done, garnish with a little fried parsley, pour over the liquor out of the gratin-dish, and serve. Plaice—continued. Plaice Salad.—Procure a fine plump Plaice, clean it, and lift the flesh carefully off the bones; cut the flesh into about eight fillets and roll them in beaten egg and bread- crumbs. Put a lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place the pan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the fillets and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, lay the fillets on a sheet of white paper and leave them until cold. Prepare some nice salad vegetables, cut some beetroot and hard-boiled eggs into slices, chop the vegetables, and let them macerate for two or three minutes in a dressing of three-parts oil, one part vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Arrange the fish when it is cold in the centre of a dish, put the salad vegetables round it, garnish with the beetroot and hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Stewed Plaice.—Finely chop some raw Plaice, removing the skin and bones, mix with it an equal quantity of grated stale crumbs of bread, half its quantity of minced calf’s liver, a couple of chopped hard-boiled eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper, mace, and chopped parsley. Bind the mixture with beaten eggs and mould it into small balls. Peel and slice a couple of onions, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, toss them over the fire for two or three minutes, then add half a blade of mace and J breakfast-cupful of water, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Put the forcemeat balls and a nicely- cleaned Plaice in with the onions and let them boil gently at the edge of the fire until quite tender. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in the juice of half a lemon, and strain them; move the fish to the side of the fire, and when the liquor has ceased boiling stir in the beaten eggs. Arrange the fish on a hot dish, garnish round with the forcemeat balls, strain their sauce over them, and serve without delay. Stewed Stuffed Plaice.—Put a large cleaned Plaice into a cold marinade for fish and let it remain for an hour; take it out, and remove as much of the marinade as possible. Chop up one onion, put it into a frying-pan with -}lb. of lard or butter, fry it lightly, pour in h pint of stock, and simmer until the onion is reduced to a pulp. Stir in 11b. of breadcrumbs, soaked in milk or stock, slightly dried in the oven, and mixed up with the yolks of four eggs, season this forcemeat with salt and pepper, and 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and add a little milk to make it of the required consistence. Place the fish on a drainer, keeping it the white side uppermost, cover it equally all over with the mixture, place it in the kettle, put 8oz. of butter in pieces over it, and pour in J pint of white wine. Place the saucepan on the fire and boil the contents slowly for forty-five-minutes, by which time the fish should be done; take it out, put it on a dish, strain the liquor over, and serve. PLANTAINS—It is not often tlie cook is called upon to deal with these, although when boiled and beaten in a mortar they form a common food in the West Indies ; they also constitute the chief food of the Indians of North and South America. The fruit grows in bunches on trees (Musa paradisiaca) like bananas, to which they are closely allied. Plantains are long, cylindrical, slightly curved, and when ripe, soft, fleshy, and covered with a thick, but tender, yellowish skin. They are exceedingly nutritious, especially when cooked. An excellent wine is brewed from them by the natives. Pried Plantains.—Divide a dozen or so ripe Plantains lengthwise into halves, brush then over with yolk of egg, dust with flour, put them into a frying-pan with melted fat, and fry. Take them out, put them oil a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve. Plantain Fritters.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, add a dozen ripe Plantains, 1 teacupful of milk, sugar to sweeten, a few cardamom and caraway seeds, and two well-beaten eggs. Form these into a batter, take up • 1 table-spoonful at a time, drop it into boiling fat, and fry to a good colour, turning the fritters over so as to cook them on both sides. Take them out, dram them, put them on a napkin over a dish, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. PLATE.—A name applied generally to all metal goods which are plated, that is, covered with silver or gold in a thin layer, such as dishes, cups, forks, &c. PLATES (Fr. Assiettes; Ger. Teller; It at. Tondi).— these form a very important part of the dinner service, sometimes not sufficiently cared for by host or cook. When required hot, plates ought to be served just hot enough to be handled without inconvenience; they should Fig. 259. Wicker Tin-lined Plate-carrier. be changed at every helping, and with that intention it is advisable to have in every dining-room a tin-lined basket or plate-carrier, as it is called (see Fig. 259), for the removal of dirty plates. It would be impossible, in this Encyclopedia, to describe all the different plates that are in use; the deep plate for soup, the broad plate for meats, the smaller plate for sweets, and the still smaller plate for cheese. Then there are plates fitted with metal bottoms to hold hot water, breakfast-plates, tea-plates, dessert-plates, bread-and-butter plates, cake-plates, and many others which can be seen in any first-class crockery-shop. PLOVERS (Fr. Pluviers; Ger. Reigenpfeifer; Ital. Iiviere; 8p. Avefrias).—At one time Plovers were much prized ^ as game birds. They belong to the family Oharadridse, of which there are numerous kinds in Europe and America. The Golden, Yellow, or Green Plover (Char- acinus pluvialis) is considered the best for cooking. The Grey Plover is Squatcirola cinerea. eSSs °f the Plover are the most highly esteemed, the chief supply coming from Holland. They are generally plain boiled, and then used in a variety of ways, either for garnishes or as separate dishes. Baked Fillets of Plovers.—Cut the fillets off the breasts of the Plovers and cut each fillet into halves. Butter a baking- tm, lay in the fillets, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Chop llP the remainder of the birds, put them in a stewpan to- gether with a peeled and sliced carrot and onion, loz. of butter, and some trimmings of bacon, and toss them over the fire until beginning to brown. Put hi a few mush rooms or mushroom trimmings, cover with clear stock, and stew the whole gently at the edge of the fire for about two horn's-and-a,-half. Strain the liquor into a basin, and when somewhat cooled skim off all the fat. Put loz. of butter and loz. of flour into a stewpan and mix them oa ei the fire, then stir in gradually the above liquor. Place the fillets in the oven for a few minutes, and when they are set, take them out and put them in the sauce. Plovers—continued. Let the whole simmer at the side of the fire for about ten minutes; then arrange the fillets on a hot dish, pour their sauce over them, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and serve. Boiled Plovers’ Eggs.—Put a dozen or so Plovers’ eg^s into a saucepan of water and boil for eight minutes, when they should be done and quite hard. They may be served on a napkin, piled on a dish with a circle of clear aspic jelly, or the shells may be taken off and a little bechamel sauce poured over them. If they are required to be soft boiled, two minutes will be sufficient to cook them. Braised Plovers.—Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon and beef about Ain. thick, put in two carrots, two small onions, a bunch of thyme and laurel-leaves, some mixed herbs, pepper and salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg and mixed spice. Put in the birds, fix on the lid as tightly as possible, solder the edges of the pan so that no air may get in, cover the lid with live embers, and let the contents simmer. 5\ hen the birds are nearly cooked, lessen the heat and finish them. When cooked, put the birds on a hot dish and stand them near the fire. Skim all the fat off the cooking liquor, then pass it through a fine hair sieve over the birds, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, garnish the dish with egg croquettes and watercress (see Fig. 2G0), and serve. Broiled Plovers.—Pick, singe, draw, and wipe six fine fat plovers: pick out the eyes, split them through the back without separating the parts, and place them on a dish. Season with one pinch of salt, half pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil. Rub the seasoning in well, and put the birds on a broiler to cook for four minutes on each side. Dress them on a hot dish with six pieces of toast, spread over lgill. of maitre-d'hotel butter, decorate with a little watercress, ami serve. Capilotade of Plovers.—Cut into halves four cold roasted Plovers, pare off the skin, ami put them into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira, 2 table-spoonfuls of Italian sauce, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the fire and let the contents simmer gently for an hour; then take the halves of Plovers out, and arrange them on a dish with pieces of fried bread between them. Skim the liquor, add the juice of a lemon, pour it over the Plovers, and serve. Chaudfroid of Plovers.—Cut into quarters four Plovers that have been baked or roasted ami are quite cold, take off the skin, and remove all the bones. Put their entrails into a mortar, pound them, and rub them through a fine sieve. Prepare a little thick gravy or extract of game with the bones and trimmings of the Plovers, strain it through a sieve, take off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, add h pint of brown sauce to thicken it, boil it for a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Pour the gravy gradually into the pounded entrails, and add one third of its quantity of liquid aspic-jelly. When this sauce is cool, stir it over ice until thick; dip the quarters of Plovers into it, giving them a good coating, arrange them on a baking-slieet, and let the sauce set. Remove the superfluous sauce from the quarters of Plovers, pile them on a dish, with their legs turned to the bottom and the wings to the top in the ^ centre of a border of aspic jelly, and serve. Fillets of B,oasted Plovers on Potatoes.—Clean the birds, cover with thin slices of bacon, and wrap them round205 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to. sec under their special heads. Plovers—continued. with sheets of paper. When cooked, leave the birds till cold in the bacon. Cut the fillets oft' the birds, and stick the drumstick of the legs at the point of each fillet. Fix a slice of the bacon on each fillet, brush them over with beaten egg, coat them thickly with breadcrumbs, then egg- and-breadcrumb them again. Chop up the bones and trimmings of the birds, put them in a saucepan with a sliced onion, 2 .or 3 table spoonfuls of finely-chopped raw bam, and 1 wineglassful of sherry ; place them over the lire, and in five minutes’ time pour in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of white stock and keep it boiling gently for half-an-hour. Skim the sauce, pass it through a line hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil till reduced to a thin glaze. Mix 1 table spoonful of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a little milk or water, then mix it into the sauce with the juice of half a lemon, and keep it stirred till boiling, i Fry the fillets in boiling fat till nicely browned, then drain them, and put them in a circle on a mound of mashed potatoes, pour the sauce round them, and serve while hot. Fillets of Roasted Plovers with Sweetbreads.—Cover the birds with slices of thin bacon, wrap them in paper, and roast them. Lard and cook three sweetbreads. Pour tj pint of demi-glaze of game in a small saucepan, boil it, then . put in about a dozen stoned French olives and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When the Plovers are cooked, cut the fillets carefully off the breasts, trim them nicely, and arrange them with the sweetbreads on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over them, and sprve. Fillets of Roasted Plovers with Truffles.—Wrap the birds round in thin slices of bacon and sheets of paper, and roast them; leave them when cooked till cold with the bacon round them. Cut the fillets off the breast and stick the drumstick of the leg at the point of each. Break up the bones and put them with the trimmings into a saucepan, add a sliced onion, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped raw ham, and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Place the sauce- pan over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in 1 \ pints of white stock, and keep it simmering for half-an- hour. Skim the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil till reduced to a thick cream. Put the trails of the birds in a mortar, pound them, and season lightly. Cut as many pieces of bread, the same size and shape of the fillets, and fry them in butter till lightly browned. Mix the beaten yolk of an egg with the trails, spread the mixture on the croutons of bread, and place them in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Fix a piece of the bacon on each of the fillets, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, then egg-and-breadcrumb again, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the fillets and arrange them alternately with the croft tons of bread on a hot dish, mix some slices of cooked truffles with the sauce, pour it over the fillets, and serve. Fried Plovers with Truffles.—Clean, draw, and truss four Plovers, put them into a saucepan, breast downwards, and add 5oz. of butter, a couple of cloves, nine raw truffles cut into slices, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over a brisk fire and cook for ten minutes or so. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 wineglassful of white wine to \ pint of stock, pour it into a saucepan, put it over the fire, and cook gently for twenty minutes, stirring fre- quently. Arrange the birds on a dish, add the juice of a lemon to the stock, boil for a few minutes, pour it over the Plovers, and serve. Galantines of Plovers a la Dubois.—For this dish cylinder-mould having three rounded sides will be required. Pluck and bone three Plovers. Prepare a galantine force I meat, mixing with it a salpifon of raw truffles and fat liver. Stuff' the birds with the forcemeat, and roll each one separately in a small piece of linen, which should be rather thin. Put the birds into a stewpan with some well- seasoned broth and stew them till tender. When cooked, drain the birds and put them between two dishes with a weight on the top till cold. When ready, cut the galantines into slices, put them in proper shape again, and glaze them with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Put the cylinder-mould on ice, and pour in a thin layer of aspic Plovers—continued. jelly; stick a skewer through each of the galantines, lift them up, and place them in the three-rounded sides of the mould; then fill the spaces between the birds with jelly, pouring it in gently so as not to displace them. Leave the mould in ice till the jelly is quite firm. Place a pain-vert on a dish, and ornament it tastefully, fixing in the centre a support tire same height as the mould. Dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the jelly, then turn the contents out on to the pain-vert, allowing the support to go in the centre of the galantines. Fix a small subject modelled in fat at the top of the support. Garnish between each curved part of the galantines with some black truffles, that have been peeled and glazed. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with some triangular-shaped crofttons of aspic jelly, and serve. Plovers au G-ratin.—Take out the bones of four young Plovers, leaving only the thigh bones, sprinkle sait and pepper inside, stuff them with cooked forcemeat, and truss them. Put a thick layer of quenelle forcemeat at the bottom in the centre of a gratin-dish, arranging it in the form of a flat cone. Place the Plovers on this in a circle, with their legs, tails, and their breasts outwards, press them slightly into the forcemeat, and fasten round them and the forcemeat a double strip of well-buttered paper; make it stiff with the white of an egg, and tie round with string. Put a slice of fat bacon and a piece of paper over each Plover, place the dish on a baking-sheet, turned bottom upwards, so that the birds will not be exposed to too great heat, put it into a moderate oven, and bake the birds for an hour. M hen done, take out the dish, remove the paper and bacon, wipe oft' the fat, pull out the skewers, and cut each Plover into halves. Put the halves back into their places, pour over a little reduced brown sauce with a ragofit prepared with the Plover’s bones, arrange a circle of cooked button mushrooms round them and a few on the top, and serve. Plover Pie. -Draw and skin half-a-dozen Plovers, and put them in a pie-dish on the top of 12oz. of beef-steak cut into slices, keeping them at equal distances from each other, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Have ready six hard-boiled eggs, put one between every two birds, and arrange on the top of the birds some 'mush- rooms without their stalks. Pour over ] breakfast cupful of rich gravy or stock, cover the dish with a flat of puff paste, bake in a moderate oven for an hour or so, and serve. Roasted Plovers.—(1) Pluck and singe the birds and lemove the gizzards, leaving the remainder of the entrails in the birds. Tie a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast of each bird, fix them in front of a clear fire, and roast. Put some slices of toast in the dripping-pan and baste them continually with butter. Just before removing the birds from the fire, take off the rashers of bacon and dust them over with salt. When the birds are cooked, place the pieces, of toast on a hot dish, put a bird on each, garnish with quarters of lemon, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Fig. 261. Roasted Plovers. (2) Pick, singe, draw, and wipe six fine fat, tender Plovers, pick out the eyes, truss the legs together, skewer the head under one leg, and lay a thin slice of larding pork on each bird; tie securely, and place them in a roasting-pan. Season with a pinch of salt, spread over aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 206 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Plovers—continued. very little butter, put them on a spit, and roast for ten minutes. Remove from the fire, arrange six small canapes for game on a hot dish, dress the birds on them, garnish with a little watercress (see Fig. 261), and serve. (3) Pick, clean, and draw the required number of Plovers, and stuff them with the entrails chopped up with parsley, shallots, trimmings of bacon, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover them first with slices of bacon, then with paper, and roast them before a clear fire until they are done. Put some stewed mushrooms on a dish, place the Plovers on them, and serve. Salmis of Plovers.—Pluck and singe four Plovers, remove the gizzards and crops, truss them, cover with slices of fat bacon, and roast. When done, cut them into quarters, remove the hones and skins, put them into a saucepan with the legs underneath and the fillets on top, and brush over with a little glaze. Set the pan in the bain-marie and keep the birds warm. Put the bones into a saucepan with a few vegetables cut in pieces, a few slices of ham, and some broth, reduce it to glaze, add a little more broth, boil again; add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little whole spice, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, skim it, boil for an hour, strain it, and clarify with a little minced uncooked game-flesh. Take out the intestines of the Plovers, put them into a frying-pan with a couple of chicken’s livers, and a few thin slices of bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and fry until they are all done. Turn the mixture into a mortar, pound it well, pass it through a fine sieve, and stir in a little glaze to form a sauce. Have ready eight crofitons of bread fried in butter, cover them with the liver mixture, raising it a little in the centre, brush over a little glaze, and put them in the oven with the door open to keep hot until wanted. Put the quartern of Plovers on a dish, garnish with the crofitons of Med bread, pour the sauce over the birds, and serve. Salmis of Plover d la Maison d’Or.—Pick, singe, and draw six Plovers, remove the eyes and skin from the heads, wipe them, sprinkle over with salt, put them into a roasting pan, and cook for four minutes ; then cut off the legs and necks, keeping the heads for after use. Cut up half a carrot and onion, put them into a saucepan with loz. of butter, add a small bouquet garni and six whole peppers, cook for five minutes, and add 1 break- fast-cupful of Spanish sauce, h wineglassful of sherry, and 3 table spoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Run the bills through good-sized mushrooms, stick them into the breasts of the birds, put them into a saute-pan, strain over the liquor, and add twelve mushrooms cut into halves, and the zest of a lemon. Cook for six minutes, place them on a dish, strain over the sauce, and serve with crofitons of fried bread covered with cooked goose’s fat livers for garnish. Stewed Plovers.—Draw and clean four Plovers, put them in a saucepan with a few truffles peeled and cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and add 1 wineglassful of white wine and sufficient brown gravy to moisten them to height. Put the pan on the fire, and when the birds are done, put them as well as the truffles on a dish, and pour over the strained sauce. Stewed Plovers with Bourguignotte Sauce.—Pluck, draw, and truss four or five Plovers, put them in a saucepan with a layer of slices of fat bacon at the bottom, pour over a little broth to moisten, put the pan on the fire, and cook the birds until done. Take them out, put them into another saucepan with bourguignotte sauce, and let the contents simmer for a few minutes. Take the Plovers out of this, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. PLUCK.—This consists of the heart, liver, and lights of an animal, and is so-called on account of its being plucked out after slaughtering. PLUMS {Ft. Prunes ; Ger. Pflaumen; Hal. Susine; <Sp. Ciruela).—This name, which is synonymous with the Plums—continued. Anglo-Saxon Plume, is applied to an immense variety of fruit of the Prunus family (see Fig. 262). Amongst those of importance to the cook or confectioner are the Orleans, Greengage, Magnum-bonum, Damson, Mirabelle, and Black Plum of Germany, and these, when sweet and ripe, may be used for dessert. As many of the following Fig. 262. plums. receipts apply to other Plums besides those mentioned, we have not ventured upon any special classification (see Prunes). The following are the average amounts of sugar found in the different varieties of Plums : Mirabelle (common yellow), 3'584 per cent; yellow-green, 2-960 ; large green, 3'405 ; black-blue, 1-996; dark black-red, 2"252; Mussel (common), 5-793; (Italian), 6-730. Bottled Plums.—(1) Take the required quantity of Plums, prick them all over, and drop them into a preserving-pan with some syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) just removed from the fire. When all the Plums are put in, place the pan in the hot screen or over a charcoal fire, where the syrup will become quite hot. Take out the Plums carefully, put them in a basin, and let them remain for twenty- four hours or so. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles, boil the syrup up once more, skim it well, and when nearly cold, pour it into the bottles over the Plums. Cork the bottles, tie down securely, put them into a saucepan with water to the shoulders of the bottles, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take them out when cold, and the preserve is ready for use. (2) Remove the stalks from the Plums and put them into wide-mouthed bottles, shake them down closely with- out injuring them, and fill up the bottles with cooled syrup at 22deg. (see Syrups). Cork and tie down the bottles, put them into a saucepan with water up to their shoulders, and boil for twenty minutes. Take them out when cold, and the preserve is ready for use. Candied Plums.—Take some good-sized ripe Plums of a nice shape, cut them in halves, and stone them. Lay them on a shallow dish, dredge plenty of powdered white sugar over, put them into a moderate oven, and keep the door shut for half-an-hour; then take them out, and lay the Plums separately on glass plates to dry. Compote of Plums.—(1) Cut short the stalks from the required quantity of Plums, prick them all over, drop them into a sugar-boiler of syrup, and simmer gently for five or six minutes, then pour the Plums and syrup into a basin. Put the Plums into a compote-dish or case with their stalks207 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Plums—continued. upwards and arranged in order, and pour over a little syrup flavoured with noyau (see Fig. 263). (2) Put three-dozen-and-a-half mirabelle or other Plums into a sugar-boiler with a little less than ^lb. of loaf sugar, and pour over a breakfast-cupful of water. Cover the boiler, put it on a slow fire, and simmer the contents Fig. 263. Compute of Plums. gently for ten minutes. Take out the Plums, drain them on a sieve, strain the liquor, return it to the boiler, and reduce it to 30deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Put the Plums in a compote-dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. Crystallised Plums.—(1) Select a few Plums before they are quite ripe, prick holes in them, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover. Place the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor begins to boil take out the Plums, pour off the water from the pan, put the Plums back into the pan, and cover them with syrup, made by mixing lib. of sugar to every gill of water (see Syrups). Put the pan on the fire and boil the contents gently for from fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming con- stantly ; remove the pan from the fire, and let the Plums remain in the syrup for twelve hours or so. Add a little more sugar, boiled to the crack (see Sugar boiling) to the syrup, pour it with the Plums into large jars, and put them in a cold cellar for a couple of days. Take out the Plums from the syrup, sprinkle them with caster sugar, put them in the hot closet to dry, and they are ready for use. (2) Select some large ripe Plums and weigh out an equal quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Peel the fruit with a silver knife, cut them into halves, and remove the stones; lay the Plums on a dish, strew half the sugar over them, and leave them until the following day. Next make a syrup by boiling the remainder of the sugar up with a small quantity of water, skim it well, add the Plums with their sugar, and boil the whole quickly for twenty minutes, skimming it and stirring at the same time. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels, split them in halves lengthwise, and add them to the jam. Boil it for ten minutes longer, then turn it into jars. When cold, cover, and tie them down. Pickled Plums.—(1) The Plums should not be too ripe; prick them all over with a fork, arrange them in layers in a jar with cinnamon, cloves, and orange peel between each layer, cover with vinegar, and let them soak for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, strain the vinegar off the Plums into a saucepan, boil it quickly for ten minutes, leave it till cool, then pour it over the fruit. In twenty-four hours’ time strain the vinegar again, boil it for ten minutes with some sugar, using 6oz. to every quart of liquid, pour it over the fruit, and leave till cold. Cover the jar or jars with stout paper, tie them tightly round with string, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. _ (2) Weigh out 71b. of Plums, 31b. of sugar, loz. of cinnamon, and loz. of cloves. Arrange the Plums in layers in a deep dish, with sugar and spice between the layers. Scald lqt. of vinegar daily and pour it over the Piums once each day for three consecutive days, then put the contents of the jar into a preserving-pan and let it come slowly to the boil. Pack the pickle in glass jars, and when cold it will be ready for use. (3) Take the Plums before they are quite ripe and put them into a saucepan with some vinegar, salt water, Plums—continued. fennel-seed, and dill, as much of each as will impart a flavour to the pickle. When it boils, put in the Plums, let it boil again, then take it off; let it stand till cold, then put the pickle into jars. (4) Select some green Plums that have been gathered before the stone is formed, and put them in a jar with a pickle composed of boiling vinegar, mustard-seed, and salt. Let them remain in this for twelve hours, then drain off the vinegar, boil it up once more, pour it over the Plums again, and when quite cold tie the jars over with bladder and put away till required for use. (5) Remove the peel from some fine large black Plums, put them into a bowl with a good supply of salt sprinkled over them, and expose them to the sun for a day or two. Drain off all the liquor and arrange the Plums in layers in bottles, alternating with layers of fresh chillies, pepper- corns, finely sliced ginger, and cloves of garlic. Add a little more salt if required, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, cork up the bottles, and expose them to the sun for about twenty days. Let the Plums remain for at least six months, and they will then be ready for use. This pickle is considered one of the best and most delicious of Indian pickles. (6) Put the required quantity of fruit into a damp cloth, toss them in it to remove the dust, put them in a bowl, sprinkle over salt, and place them in the sun for about four days. Drain off the liquor, put the Plums into wide-mouthed bottles, keeping them in layers and alter- nating with sliced ginger, peppercorns, ground mustard- seed, green or fresh red chillies, and cloves of garlic. Add a little more salt, fill up with vinegar, cork up the bottles, and expose them to the sura for twenty days. Let the Plums remain for about four months before the pickle is used. Plum Brandy.—This is prepared by mixing lib. of Plum essence with ill), each of bananas and acetic ether, and stirring in lgall. of syrup of gum arabic and 4galls. of pure spirit. Or it may be made by pounding prunes and their kernels in a mortar, exposing them to fermentation, and distilling before using. It is a favourite liqueur in Germany, where it is called Sligouitz. Plums in Brandy.—Take 81b. of half-ripe Plums, prick them, and put over the fire in cold water. As soon as the water boils and the Plums rise to the surface, take them out with a skimmer and lay them in a pan of cold water. Clarify 21b. of loaf sugar, boil it to the little thread (see Sugar boiling), put the Plums into it, and give them a boil; then remove the pan from the fire, and let them stand all night in the syrup. Next day take the Plums out of the syrup, give it a boil, put the Plums in again, give them a boil, and let them stand all night. Repeat this next day, and the day after drain the Plums, put them into bottles, boil the syrup to candy height (see Sugar-boiling), let it cool, and when quite cold add to it three-fourths of its own quantity of the best brandy, mix it well with the syrup, strain and pour it over the Plums. Cork the bottles well. Plum Cake.—(1) Make a raised paste with 3oz. of butter, lOoz. of flour, 2 table spoonfuls of sugar, three eggs, loz. of yeast, and the required quantity of milk. When it has risen to the required degree, turn it out on to a well- floured board or table, roll it out thin into a square shape, put it on a baking-sheet, and place a rim of paste round the edge. Let it stand for twenty minutes, brush the top over with butter, and sprinkle with a few bitter almonds, blanched, finely chopped, and mixed with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Cut the required number of black Plums in halves, remove their stones, arrange them on the paste with the skin side downwards, putting them so as to overlap each other, dust them with caster sugar, and put the cake in a moderate oven to bake. Take it out in about twenty or twenty-five minutes, when it should be done. Sprinkle over more caster sugar, let the cake get quite cold, cut it up into squares or any desired shapes, put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Blanch and cut into small pieces 2oz. of sweet almonds, and mix them with 1 breakfast-cupful of grated208 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Plums—continued. $ breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter beaten until creamy, 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Butter a shallow tin, line it with a thin tart crust, and spread half of the above mixture over it. Cut some Plums into halves lengthwise, and lay them, with the cut side upwards, all over the paste; strew sugar over them and cover with the remainder of the crumb mixture. Bake the cake in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. Plum Candy. -Peel some white Plums, fill a jar with them, and put it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water. When the Plums are done enough pour oft' the clear juice. For each pint of juice allow lib. of loaf sugar, which should be clarified and boiled to candy (see SUGAR BOILING) ; then add the juice of the Plums, and stir constantly till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Pour it into glasses, and set them in the stove to dry. Plum Cream-Ice.—Put Iqt. of the pulp of freshly-gathered Plums into a basin and work in lib. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, pour over Iqt. of cream, beat them well together, pass the mixture through a fine sieve into the freezer, turn it out into a mould packed in ice, and when it has set it is ready for use. Plum-and-Damson Jam.—Stone 611>. each of Plums and damsons, and put them into a preserving pan with 121b. of crushed loaf sugar and a little water. Place the pan on the fire, boil the contents, skimming frequently, and when the jam is done, pour it into jars; let them get quite cold, cover with paper or skin, and the jam is ready for use. Plum Pool.—Wipe some large Plums with a damp cloth, ake a slit down the side of each, and put them in a jar with till, of sugar and 1 pint of water to every 21b. of fruit; cover the jar, stand it in a saucepan, pour in boiling water to three-parts the height of the jar, and boil until the Plums are soft. Leave the Plums in the jar until the following day, then pass them through a wire sieve. Crack the stones and put them, with any skins of Plums that may have been left in the sieve, into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, a small piece of cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful of crushed cloves, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve over the fruit, pour in sufficient light red wine and water mixed in equal quantities to make a smooth weak syrup, ami sweeten to taste. Pour the stew into a bowl and stand it on ice until cold. Finely slice a roll, cut each slice into small squares, put them on a baking-sheet, dredge over sugar, and glaze them in a brisk oven or under a salamander. When the squares of bread are cold, lay them in with the fruit (see Fig. 264), that also being cold, and serve. Plum Jam.—(1) Select 121b. of large ripe Plums, peel them, divide them into halves, crack their stones, blanch the kernels, and pound them in a mortar. Put the parings and cracked stones into a pan with the juice of a very red beetroot, that has been pressed out in a mortar, and 6 pints of water, and boil it until reduced to half the original quantity, uien strain through a fine wire sieve. ^ Put the fruit in a preserving-pan with the strained liquor, the pounded kernels, and 1341b. of coarsely-crushed loaf Plums—continued. sugar. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and stir the contents until reduced to a still' jam. Turn it into jam pots and let it stand for several hours. \\ hen quite cold, sift a small quantity of caster sugar in each jar of jam’ cover them with rounds of paper that have been dipped in beaten egg, tie them down, and put them away for use. (2) See that the Plums are quite clean and dry, and allow 31b. of sugar to 41b. of Plums. Put the Plums into a pre- serving-pan on the fire and let them boil gently for three- quarters of-an hour, stirring to prevent them burning. As the stones rise to the surface take them out and crack nearly half of them. When the Plums have boiled for three-quarters-of-an-hour put in the sugar and boil for another quarter-of an hour; keep stirring, remove all the scum as it rises, and four minutes or so before it is done throw in the kernels. When a little cooled, put it into jars; when quite cold, cover with white paper soaked in brandy, and fasten over the top with white paper dipped in white of egg, beaten up but not to a froth. Plum Jam made without Sugar.—(1) Remove the stones from about 8lb. of ripe Plums, wipe them clean with a cloth, put them in a saucepan, and boil until soft. Pass the pulp of the Plums through a coarse sieve to separate the skin and stones, put it in a preserving pan, with seven or eight young green walnuts in their outer shells, and a small quantity of pounded cloves, and boil the mixture until reduced to a thick mass, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. Turn the jam into jars, and leave it until quite cold (in fact it will be all the better if left until the following day); then cover it first with rounds of white paper dipped in brandy and afterwards with parch- ment, the latter being tied securely round the jar with fine twine. (2) Pick the stalks oft' 61b. of ripe Plums and 31b. of elderberries; put the elderberries in a saucepan ami boil them until all the juice is extracted. Wipe the Plums with a cloth, stone them, and put them in a preserving-pan with the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon and | table- spoonful each of pounded cinnamon and cloves. Strain the elderberry-juice over the Plums through a fine hair sieve, and boil them, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Boil the jam until reduced to a thick pulp, then turn it into jars. When the jam is cold, put a round of brandied paper in each jar, and cover them with parchment, tying it down securely. Plum Jelly.—Put 411). of Plums into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water and let them stew gently for thirty minutes. Then put a sieve over an earthenware basin, pour the stewed fruit into it, and let all the juice drain through into the basin. Pour the juice into a preserving-pan, and to every breakfast-cupful add of white sugar and joz of gelatine. Let it come slowly to a boil, simmer for ten Fro. 265. Plum Jelly. or twelve minutes, and put it into moulds, or glasses when cool. Serve on a silver tray with spoons (see Fig. 265). The Plums left in the sieve may be boiled for ten minutes with half their weight of sugar, and used as a preserve. Plum Marmalade.—(1) Stone and peel some ripe Plums, lay them in a deep dish, and cover thickly with caster sugar put them in a cool place, and leave until the next morn ing. Put them in a preserving-pan with lib. of crushed loaf sugar for every lib. of fruit, weighing them after they1-—Watercress. 2. —Barberries. 3. —Button-mushroom. 4. —Truffles. 5. —Horseradish. 6. —Beetroot in slices and Shapes. GARNISHES. 7. —Border of Coloured Chopped Jellies. 8. —Cock’s Comb. 9. —Mushroom. 10. —Parsley. 11. —Lemon. 12. —Crayfish. 13. —Prawn. 14. —Shrimp. 15. —Croutons. 16. —Radishes. 17. —Small Cucumber. 18. —Gherkin. 19. —Haricot Beans. 20. Wreath of Kir; and Parsley. 21. —Flowers Cut out of Carrots and Turnips. 22. —Hard-boiled Eggs.209 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Plums—continued. have heen stoned, and boil until reduced to a pulp. Crack some of the stones and boil the kernels in the marmalade. Turn the marmalade into jars, leave it until cold, then cover them with paper, tying it down securely. (2) Peel the Plums, cut them into halves, and remove the stones. Weigh the Plums, and put them into a preserving- pan until a quarter their weight of crushed loaf sugar. Stir the sugar till dissolved by the side of the tire, then move the pan on and boil the contents to 33deg., stirring all the time. Move the preserve from the fire, allow it to cool a little, and turn it into glass jars. When quite cold, cover the jam first with brandied paper, then with white paper, tie them down, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. Plum Paste.—Remove the stones from some Plums, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water, and boil to a pulp. Pass it through a fine sieve, pressing it gently back into the pan, and boil, stirring continually until the pulp becomes quite thick. Weigh it, and to each pound use lOoz. of sugar. Put the sugar in a preserving-pan, clarify it, and boil to the feather (see SUGAR BOILING). Add the fruit pulp, boil for a minute longer, and if it is done, which can be determined by dropping a little from a spoon to see if it is sufficiently jellied, pour it on to a flat tin sheet, spread it with a knife, and put it in a warm closet for a day. Cut the paste into shapes, put them in boxes or tins with paper between the layers, and keep them until wanted for use. Plum-and-Pear Jam.—Peel and stone 41b. of ripe Plums, and peel an equal quantity of ripe pears; put the fruit in a preserving-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of the very best cider and about 1 teaspoonful of pounded cloves. Stir the fruit over the fire and boil it until reduced to a stiff mass, then turn it into jam jars. When the jam is quite cold, put a round of brandied paper in each jar, and cover with parchment. The jam should be kept in a dry store- cupboard. Plum Pulp for Ices.—Cut open the required quantity of Plums and extract the stones, put them into a saucepan with a little water, set the pan on the fire, and boil the Plums to a pulp; pass the pulp through a sieve, and for every pound weight of it add 4oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into bottles, and cork and tie them down securely. Put them in a deep saucepan with hay between to prevent them touching each other, pour in water to half their height, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Let the bottles remain in tlie pan until the water is cool, take them out, wax over the nozzles, and put away till wanted for use. Plum Soup (German).—(1) Put two or three dozen black Plums into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for a few minutes, take them out, and peel. Put them in a saucepan with a little water to moisten, and add 1 wine- glassful of white wine. Set the pan on the fire, add 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little lemon-zest, boil the Plums to a pulp, and pass them with the liquor through a fine sieve into a soup tureen. Pack the tureen in ice. When the Plum mixture is cool, cut two or three dozen more Plums into halves, peel them, remove the stones, put them into a preserving pan with a little light syrup mixed with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and boil. When this mixture is cold, pour it into the tureen with the other Plum pulp, and serve cold with slices of fried bread on a dish. (2) Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour and stir it over the fire until brown; then put in lqt. of Plums, having carefully picked them over and removed all the bruised and over ripe ones, also a few cloves or a stick of cinnamon, pour in water to cover, and boil until soft. Strain the liquor, pour in \ pint each of wine and water, sweeten to taste with crushed loaf sugar, and put it over the fire until boiling. Arrange slices of evenly-toasted bread in a soup tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. Plum Tart.—(1) Take off the peel from five dozen black Plums without putting them in boiling water, arrange them in a tart dish in layers, sprinkling each layer over with a little caster sugar. The stones must not be taken out Plums—continued. for this dish. Put a border of fine short paste round the rim of the dish, and cover it with a flat of the paste. Ornament the tart, brush it over with a little water, sprinkle over some caster sugar, and put it in a moderate oven to bake. When done, take it out and serve. (2) Line an open tart-dish with a layer of puff paste and sprinkle over a little sugar. Cut out the stones from the required quantity of Plums and arrange them in the dish, putting them close together so as to cover the paste. Place the tart in a moderate oven, Lake for tli rty minutes or so, take it out when done, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Split the Plums and take out the stones, put them into a stewpan with plenty of sugar and a small quan- tity of water, and stew them until tender. Prepare a nice short paste, mixing with it the yolks of three and the white of one egg, roll it out rather thinly, and line a buttered tart mould with it; trim it off nicely round the edges, spread a sheet of white paper over, and fill it with uncooked rice ; bake it in a good oven. When cooked, turn the paper with the rice out of the paste, put the stewed Plums into it, and serve. The tart is very nice served cold with a custard. Plum Tartlets.—Line six fluted tartlet-pans with Mb. of puff paste, rolled out 21in. by 8in. and cut round with a cutter. Press the paste at the bottom and sides so as to obtain the shape of the mould, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade equally divided, over this put twelve Plums cut into halves and stoned, dust them over with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Bring them to the oven door, dust the edges over with more powdered sugar, melt this for two minutes FIG. 266. PLUM TARTLETS. in the oven, take out the tarts and let them cool, turn them out of the pans, mask them with a little apple jelly, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 266). Plum Vinegar and Claret.—For each quart of Plums allow | pint of vinegar, 1 teacupful of claret, 4oz. of sugar, four cloves, and a small piece of stick cinnamon. Put the vinegar, wine, sugar, and spices in a lined pan, and place it on the fire until boiling. Select the Plums perfectly round and ripe, and put them, a few at a time, into the boiling vinegar; take each lot out as their skins begin to crack, and lay them on plates to cool. When all the Plums are done, boil the syrup for a few minutes longer, then take it off the fire, and let it get cold. Pack the Plums in jars, and pour the syrup over them. If the syrup does not cover them, they should be constantly turned about. In a week’s time the syrup should be strained off the Plums and boiled up again. Pour the syrup over the Plums, and cover the jars with stout paper, which should be tied securely down. Preserved Plums.—(1) Take some full-grown Plums, not quite ripe, but just turning colour, prick them, and put them into a saucepan of cold water over the fire; take them off directly the water is on the point of boiling, drain, put them into clarified sugar, boil them well, let them settle, and boil again. If they shrink and do not take the sugar, prick them without taking them from the syrup, and boil again; skim the syrup, take the pan from the fire, and let them stand all night. The next day, add to the fruit and syrup in the pan some sugar boiled to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), and boil them again ; put them in the stove and let them stand there all night. Next For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. P210 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Plums—continued. Plum Cakes—continued. day, drain the Plums from the syrup, sprinkle them with a little powdered white sugar, and dry in the stove. (2) Put the Plums into an earthenware jar, and pour over honey and water in equal quantities. Cover over the jar to exclude the air, and when the fruit is wanted for use wash them in cold water and dry them. They will last for eight or nine months in this way. If they are put into a jar in layers with cotton wool between them, they will remain fresh for a long time, if the jars are covered over and put in a place where the frost cannot get at the fruit. Stewed Plums.—Peel eighteen or twenty ripe Plums, cut them into halves, and stone them; put them into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of cold water, and add Jib. of granulated sugar. Place the pan on the stove, ami when the contents boil, skim well and cook for five minutes, stirring slowly from the bottom to avoid mashing the fruit. Remove the pan from the fire, and add immediately 1 gill of red curajoa, mixing well together for about half a minute. Pour the fruit into a bowl, let it cool, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. PLUM CAKES —It is impossible to say why confec- tioners use the word plum to indicate a certain kind of cake. As a matter of fact plum cakes usually consist of dried grapes in the form of raisins or grocer’s currants, and a variety of other things (except plums) too numerous to mention here, but which will be found enumerated in the following receipts: (1) Cream 1 Jib. of butter by warming and heating it in a basin with a wooden spoon, then add ljlb. of caster sugar; when well mixed, sift in slowly 2Jlb. of flour, and add loz. of salt. Chop finely lib. of dried cherries and 1 Jib. of mixed candied peel. Wash and dry lib. of currants, and add them to the flour and butter, with 8oz. of ground almonds, the grated peel of four lemons, 1 teaspoonful each of ground cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, and coriander-seeds; and mix with twelve eggs, J pint of brandy and 1 gill of caramel or burnt sugar colouring, if the caramel is not attainable. Line a tin hoop (see Fig. 267), with double layers of buttered paper, turn in the mixture, and bake it for two-hours-and- a-half in a steady oven. (2) Work lib. of warm butter with the hand until creamed, and then add lib. of caster sugar; when thoroughly mixed, beat in twelve eggs, two or three at a time. Mix slowly in ljlb. of flour, 31b. of currants, washed and dried, Jib. of Fig. 267. Cake-hoop. Fig. 268. Round Cake-tin. chopped candied peel, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Pour the mixture, when thoroughly mixed, in a large cake- tin lined with buttered paper (see Fig. 268), and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Mix with 21b. of flour Joz. of carbonate of soda, a little less of cream of tartar, and fib. of caster sugar; work in Jib. of butter, and when quite smooth, add lib. of currants washed and dried, 2oz. of chopped candied peel, four eggs (which should be added one at a time), flavour with a little essence of lemon, and mix to a dough with milk. Butter sufficient cake-tins to hold the mixture, turn it in, and bake. (4) Mix J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and a little more of cream of tartar in lib. of flour, and then work in 3oz. of lard; when quite smooth, add 4oz. of sugar, 31b. of currants washed and dried, and J teaspoonful of mixed spice. Make this into a dough with fresh milk, turn it into a buttered oblong cake-tin (see Fig. 269), and bake in a moderate oven. (5) Make a sponge by mixing together lib. of flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and J pint of warm milk. Warm 4oz. of butter, but do not let it oil; mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar, and beat until it becomes creamy, then add two eggs and 4oz. of flour. Mix up with the sponge and 1 lb. of currants, washed and dried ; heat all thoroughly together, turn it into a buttered cake-tin, and bake Tn a slow oven. (6) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, in which has been previously mixed 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder and J teaspoonful of salt; when quite smooth, add Jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of chopped candied peel, fib. of currants that have been well washed and dried, fib. of chopped raisins, and a small nutmeg grated. Beat two eggs with a little milk and four drops of essence of almonds. Stir this into the flour, &c., adding more milk if required to make a dough. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture in, and bake for two hours. (7) Rub into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour 1 breakfast- cupful of butter, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar, J teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed spices, Jib. of raisins chopped and stoned, Jib. of currants, the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, ) teacupful each of milk ami dark molasses, and 2 table-spoonfuls of any fruit syrup. If not dark enough, add a little melted chocolate. Bake in small tins, and ice over when cold. (8) Rub Jib. of fresh butter into lib. of caster sugar, add 1 dessert spoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia salt (saleratus), 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped raisins, 1 teacupful of sour milk, and 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. Sprinkle in enough flour to make a dough. Knead well, roll out to lin. thick, and cut into oblong pieces; put them on greased baking sheets, and bake in a quick oven. (9) Mix together eighteen eggs, ljlb. each of flour, sugar, and butter, 21b. eacli of stoned raisins and well washed and dried currants, ljlb. of candied citron peel chopped small, two nutmegs grated, 21b. of almonds blanched and shredded, 2 table-spoonfuls each of powdered cinnamon and mace, 1 small teaspoonful of powdered cloves, the same of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of grated ginger, 2 wineglass fuls of wine, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and 1 breakfast- cupful of milk. Let it rise for three hours, then bake slowly, and let it stand in the oven a good while after it it is baked. (10) Thoroughly wash and dry 21b. of cun-ants; blanch and chop Jib. of sweet almonds with about one dozen bitter almonds. Put ljlb. of butter into a saucepan with | pint of cream, and place it over the fire until hot and the butter has melted; then move it off, and stir in the cliopped almonds with 3 wineglassfuls of sack. Beat the yolks of five eggs together with the whites of three eggs and 1J teacupfuls of fresh ale yeast, then strain them through a fine hair sieve and mix with the cream. Put 21b. of flour into a basin, and mix with it the currants, 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, one grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cloves or mace if liked; then stir in gradually the above mixture, and work the whole well together for a few minutes. Butter a cake tin, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. The cake will require from two hours to two hours-and-a-half cooking. (11) Beat to a cream lib. of powdered loaf sugar and 12oz. of butter, add seven slightly-whisked eggs and 1 teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and grated nutmeg; then mix well in lib. of flour, half at a time. Pour in 1 gill, of brandy, mix well again, and add Jib. each of211 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Plum Cakes—continued. stoned raisins and well-washed and dried currants, 4oz. of finely-chopped citron, all well dusted with flour, and make the whole into a light hatter. Have ready one or two pans lined with paper, fill them with the mixture, hake in a moderate oven, and use when cold. PLUM PUDDINGS —The same remark applies to these as to Plum Cakes. Some of these are boiled in cloths, and some in basins or moulds. Besides the fol- lowing, which will be found suitable for all occasions, several excellent receipts for Plum Puddings are given under Christmas Pare. Cold Plum Pudding Warmed Up.—Cut the pudding into rather thick slices; put a lump of butter into a perfectly clean frying-pan, melt it, then put in the slices of pud- ding anil fry them lightly until well heated through. Beat the yolks of three eggs well with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, turn them into a small lined saucepan, and mix with them 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry. Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil or it will be spoilt. Put the slices of pudding on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Iced Plum Pudding.—Boil \ pint of cream with the thinly- shred rind of half a lemon and a small piece of citron. Put the yolks of four eggs in a basin with 4oz. of caster sugar and beat them well, then pour in gradually the boil ing cream. Stand the basin in a bain-marie and stir the contents until they begin to thicken, then take it out and mix in 1 teacupful of very dark caramel. When some- what cooled, turn it into a freezing-mould and leave it until about the stiffness of snow. Blanch and chop loz. of sweet almonds or pistachio-nuts, finely shred loz. of candied orange-peel and candied pine-apple, and chop loz each of candied cherries and sultanas; put all these in gredients into a basin, pour over ^ wineglassful each of brandy and curayoa, and let them soak for an hour or two. Whisk 4 pint of thick cream and one white of egg to a stiff froth; add the fruit mixture and the whipped cream to the frozen mixture and leave it in the freezer a short time longer. Afterwards pack it in a mould, close tightly, and bury it in ice. Prepare the following sauce : Rub the yellow rinds of one orange and one lemon with two or three lumps of sugar, put them in a basin, and squeeze in the juice of the fruit; add 1£ wineglassfuls of clarified syrup, and 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy. Work the sauce in the freezer until about half frozen. Dip the mould containing the pudding into hot water, take it out again quickly, wipe it, turn the pudding out on to a fancy dish, pile the frozen sauce up round it, and serve. See Fig. 270. Imitation Plum Pudding.—Put 71b. of moist sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boil- ing), remove the pan from the fire, grain the sugar, and mix in lib. each of sultana raisins and stoned Valencia raisins and 2lb. of well-washed and dried currants. Stir well with the spatula, and mix in loz. of mixed spice and lib. of almonds, blanched and cut into pieces to resemble suet when chopped; put the mixture into a damp cloth, Plum Puddings—continued. and hang it up until it is firmly set. Turn it out when required, and it is ready for use, and will have a very pleasing effect. Indian Plum Pudding.—The following receipt is the best for puddings that are to be sent to India, as their keep- ing good may be relied upon. Stone and chop coarsely lib. of muscatel raisins; pick, wash, and dry lib. of currants ; cut £lb. of mixed candied peel into thin shreds; blanch and chop Jib. of sweet almonds; and chop very finely lib. of the freshest beef-suet. Mix all these ingredients to- gether in a large bowl with Jib. of biscuit powder, Jlh. of sifted flour, and lib. of sugar. Season to taste with nutmeg and spices. Beat eight eggs thoroughly and mix with them 1 teacupful of old ale in which 4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Pour the beaten mixture in with the dry ingredients, and work the whole with a wooden spoon until thoroughly incorporated. Lastly, add to the mixture 2 wineglassfuls of the best brandy. Procure a square biscuit-tin from the grocer’s, and remove the piece that is turned in at the top, butter it thickly, and turn the pudding mixture into it. Put the lid on the tin, tie it down securely, put it into a large pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling fast for eight or ten hours, adding more water as the quantity becomes diminished. Afterwards, drain the pudding, let it cool a little, then remove the lid and wipe it quite dry. On the following day, put the lid on the tin again, paste a thick piece of paper round the edges to keep it air- tight, then completely envelop the tin in paper, and gum it down well. Plum Pudding.—(1) Beat up twelve eggs, and mix with them 1 4 pints of cream, and fill, each of sifted breadcrumbs and flour. When they are well heaten together, mix in 14lb. each of very finely-chopped suet, sugar, stoned and chopped raisins, and well-washed and dried currants, and 3oz of candied citron and the same quantity of orange peel, both citron and orange-peel cut small. Grate in a-nutmeg-and-a- lialf, and mix in well 6 table-spoonfuls each of brandy and white wine. Tie the pudding tight in a greased cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it constantly boiling for nine hours. (2) Beat twelve eggs very light, and work in gradually 3 gills of milk, then stir in fib. each of flour and sifted breadcrumbs, adding them a little at a time. Next mix in by degrees 141b. of moist sugar. Have ready 14lb. each of finely-chopped beef suet, picked, washed, and dried currants, and raisins stoned and cut in halves. Add now, and mix in, suet and fruit alternately, sprinkling the fruit well with flour to prevent it sinking to the bottom. Stir the whole well; then mix into the pudding 1 teaspoonful of salt, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon and powdered mace that have been mixed together, and three nutmegs, grated. When this spice is thoroughly incorporated with the above ingredients, stir in 14 wineglassfuls of brandy, the same of wine, and 3 gills more of milk. Continue to stir for a time after all the ingredients are mixed. Should the pudding not be stiff enough, add more flour or more sifted breadcrumbs, but lie careful not to add too much or the pudding will be hard. Dip a cloth into boiling water, wring it out, dredge a little flour over it, spread it over a pan, pour the pudding into it, and tie it up, allowing room for it to swell. Plunge the pudding into boiling water and boil incessantly for eight hours, then turn it carefully out of the cloth, and stick all over it strips of blanched almonds and citron. Serve the pudding with sauce flavoured with wine, grated nutmeg, and grated orange or lemon-rind. (3) Put 6oz. each of breadcrumbs, finely-shred beef-suet, well-washed and dried currants, and stoned raisins into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and add half a nutmeg grated, five eggs, a little finely-cut rind of lemon, and lastly 4 wineglassful of brandy. Put the mixture into a buttered or greased mould or basin, boil it for three hours in a saucepan of water, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. (4) Mix lib. of flour and half the quantity of shredded beef-suet in a basin, and add Jib. of breadcrumbs, a little For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fsc., referred to, see under their special heads. . p 2TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 212 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Plum Puddings—continued. grated nutmeg and ginger to flavour, lib. of stoned raisins, and make the whole into a thick paste by adding 2 table- spoonfuls of treacle and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Turn the mixture into a cloth or basin, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for four hours, when it should be done; turn it out, and serve. (5) Put 12oz. of shred beef-suet into a basin and nib it well into lib. of Hour; then add lib. each of washed currants or sultanas, moist sugar, and breadcrumbs, lib. of stoned raisins, 4oz. of chopped mixed candied peel, 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger, spice, and cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, the juice and grated rind of a lemon and orange, half-a-dozen bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and a very small quantity of salt. Stir in six eggs, 1 wineglassful of curapoa or brandy, and sufficient marsala or home-made wine to moisten and swell the ingredients. Let it remain for a day, then put it into a well-buttered mould, set it in a saucepan of water, and boil for eight hours; turn it out on to a dish, and serve. If the mixture is too much for one pudding, divide it in two moulds and boil for six hours only. (6) Put lib. each of washed and dried currants, stoned raisins, shred beef-suet, breadcrumbs, and moist sugar, one large apple, peeled, cored, and finely-chopped, 4oz. of candied lemon-peel, a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinna- mon, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 2 wineglassfuls of wine or brandy into a basin, and mix them thoroughly. If possible let this mixture remain for three days, then add eight well-wliisked eggs; turn the mixture into a cloth or tin, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for five hours, by which time it should be done. Take it out of the cloth or tin, put it on a disli, and serve. (7) Put Jib. each of crushed loaf sugar, washed and dried currants, and sultana raisins into a basin, and mix in Jib. of shred beef-suet, Jib. of grated lemon-peel, Jib. of Hour, Joz. of ground ginger, l teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and | teaspoonful of tartaric acid mixed with lib. of breadcrumbs, two well beaten eggs, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of ram or brandy, and lib. each of grated carrots and potatoes. Mix thoroughly, and pour in sufficient milk to moisten ; put it into a well-buttered basin, tie a cloth over, and boil the pudding in a saucepan of water for from six to eight hours. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (8) Mix Jib. of flour in a basin with Jib. of shred beef- suet, and add four eggs, gradually working each one in well with a spoon before another is added. Let the mix- ture remain for seven or eight minutes, then stir in Jib. each of crushed loaf sugar, stoned raisins, washed and dried currants, a small quantity each of salt, lemon zest, and grated nutmeg, a couple of powdered cloves, 6oz. of candied citron-peel chopped up very small, 6 or 7 table- spoonfuls of brandy, and three large apples, pared, cored, and finely minced. Have ready a channelled cylinder- mould, butter it well inside, dredge it with Hour, and put in the pudding mixture. Set the mould hi a sauce- 1 ian with water to half its height, put it on the fire, boil the water, and then remove the saucepan; put it in a quick oven, and let the pudding bake for an-hour-and-a half. Take the mould out of the saucepan, wipe it dry, turn the pudding out on to a dish, and pour over J wine- glassful of brandy and rum, in equal proportions, mixed with a little apricot marmalade to thicken it. (9) Put into a bowl or large basin 12oz. each of sifted breadcrumbs, crushed loaf sugar, stoned raisins, well-washed and dried currants, and finely-shred beef-suet; mix in 2oz. _ each of chopped candied orange and citron peels, the grated rind of a lemon, and a couple of russet apples, pared, cored, and cut up into small pieces. Sprinkle over a small quantity of salt and ground cloves, pour in 1 tea- cupful of rum, and beat six eggs in singly. Put the pudding into a buttered basin or plain mould, set it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for four hours, adding more boiling water as the other evaporates. Dredge caster sugar over a dish, turn the pudding out on to it, pour round 1 breakfast-cupful of warm ram, ignite it, and serve immediately. If preferred, a sauceboatful of Madeira sauce may be substituted for the breakfast-cupful of ram. Plum Puddings—continued. (10) Have ready 3oz. of malaga raisins, well picked, place them in a stone jar with J pint of old sherry, adding 3oz. of candied cherries cut into quarters, loz. of finely-chopped candied citron, and 2oz. of candied apricots, also cut into small pieces, then with the spatula mix gently together for one minute-and-a-half. Cover the jar and let them infuse for fully twelve hours. Prepare a chocolate cream ice, and just before removing it from the freezer add the above fruit preparation, mixing well with the spatula for ten minutes. Put on the cover and freeze again for five minutes longer. Take a 3-pint melon mould and fill it with the pudding preparation, put it in a pail containing broken ice and rock salt, cover it well with more ice and salt, and allow it to freeze for fully two hours. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put in a sauce- boat the yolks of two eggs with loz. of powdered sugar, place it on a slow stove, and with a whisk stir briskly, adding gradually 1 gill of brandy. Heat it well, but it must not boil, take it from the fire, set the pan on a table, and continue stirring for two minutes. Add 1 pint of well- whipped vanilla cream, mixing the whole well together with the whisk for two minutes. Pour the sauce into a china bowl, and place it in the ice box. Have a vessel ready containing warm water, lift the mould from the box, plunge it into the water to remove the ice and salt adhering, turn out the pudding, and place it on a dish with a fancy paper cover. Beat the sauce well, transfer it to a saucebowl, and send it to the table with the plum pudding. Plum Pudding without Suet.—(1) Put Jib. of Hour into a basin, and mix with it Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, and 1 breakfast-cupful each of grated carrots and potatoes; slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat in with it 2oz. of sugar; then work them in with the above in- gredients, moistening with water. Butter a pudding basin, turn the mixture into it, and tie a cloth over the top. Boil the pudding for an-hour-and-a half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sweet sauce poured over. (2) Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it in a lined saucepan with 1J pints of milk, and boil it gently until soft. Beat in with the rice 5 table-spoonfuls of flour, 2oz. of butter, fib. of stoned raisins, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, 5oz. of moist sugar, and five well-beaten eggs. Butter a fancy-shaped mould, turn the mixture into it, tie a cloth over, and boil for six hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve. Scotch Plum Pudding.—Prepare in the usual way Jib. of beef suet and Jib. of raisins, put them in a basin, and mix with them Jib. of caster sugar, 4oz. of breadcrumbs, 2oz. of thinly-slued candied peel, and lib. of marmalade. Beat five eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients, mixing the whole smoothly together. Turn the mixture into a buttered basin, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil for five hours. Prepare the following sauce for the pudding: Blanch and pound 2oz. of sweet almonds, moistening them occasionally with a small quan- tity of rose-water to prevent their oiling. Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it until creamy together with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then beat in the pounded almonds and 1 wineglassful of pale brandy. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with the cold sauce. POACHING.—By a remarkable metamorphosis this word, which was originally derived from the French poche —a pocket, in allusion to the yolks of poached eggs being pocketed as it were within the whites, has been by the French cooks themselves extended to a system of slow cooking or stewing, and is applied to almost any kind of food, especially oysters and mussels. “ To poach at the oven door ” is a common expression of the Continental cook, whereas the British cook adheres strictly to the original meaning. To poach eggs the water should be slightly acidulated with lemon-juice, and boiling hot, in a shallow pan, before the eggs are dropped in. A little salt in the waterTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 213 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Poaching—continued. adds to the flavour of the eggs. They must be deftly put in, and carefully taken out with a perforated slice, and should be drained on a napkin before serving on toast or spinach. See Eggs. A POELE.—For this French culinary term there is really no Euglish translation, unless it be vaguely termed “white stew.” The process (pooler) is really boiling and stewing meat in unctuous, slightly-acidulated white stock to preserve the whiteness of the meat. As will be seen by the follow- ing receipts, Poele can only be used in rich men’s houses; it is too expensive to be economical, although the same Poele may be used several times ; indeed, it is better the second time of using. (1) Fry together some fat bacon-trimmings, sliced onions, celery roots, carrots, and a small quantity of lean ham. All these may be proportioned by the cook. Add to this a bouquet garni, and moisten with white broth which has not had the fat removed. To every ‘2qts. of broth squeeze in the juice of one lemon, and add half a bottle of white wine. Boil slowly over a moderate fire for at least two hours, and it is then ready to cook poultry or veal. (2) Cut into pieces lib. of bacon-fat or trimmings, 21b. of veal, and fib. of lean ham; put them into a saucepan with lib. of butter, and add four carrots and onions also cut into small pieces. Set the pan on the fire, and when the butter is warm, add a bunch each of basil and thyme, half a laurel-leaf, half a blade of mace, two cloves, and a little pepper. Stir continually for a few minutes, then pour over h pint of white broth and the juice of two lemons, without the pips. Cover the pan closely, put it on a slow fire, and let the mixture cook gently for two hours. Turn it all out into a sieve placed over a basin, press it to extract all the goodness, and it is then ready to use for boiling poultry or game. (3) Cut lib. of bacon fat and the same quantity of beef- suet into good-sized pieces, and put them into a flat saucepan with their combined quantity of veal trimmings also cut up into pieces. Fry them all until the veal is quite white, then pour over all 3 pints of boiling water, and add a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, an onion stuck with three cloves, a large bunch of parsley, a few green onions or leeks, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt. Set the pan over the fire, and boil gently until the onion is quite cooked. Drain this Poele through a sieve, and it is then ready for use. FOIVRADE SAUCE.—See Sauces. FOKEBEEiEiIES.—The Poke is a plant that grows in North America (Phytolacca decandra), and is some- times called Cocum, Garget, Pigeon-berry, Pocan, or Poke-weed. It bears dark purple, juicy berries, which are used for colouring wine. The young roots are sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus. Pokeberry Syrup.—-Put the required number of berries into a porcelain kettle, cover them with water, and boil gently until the skins crack. Pour the berries and liquor into a sieve placed over a basin, and strain out all the juice. Measure it, pour it into a saucepan with lib. of sugar to each quart of juice, put the pau on the fire, and boil for a few minutes. Let it get cold, pour it into bottles, cork them, and the syrup is then ready for use. POLENTA.—In Italy this word is more often spelled Polena, and signifies a flour prepared from chestnuts. The term has also been applied to a kind of special preparation of Indian cornmeal. The following receipts refer to the latter preparation : Polenta a l’ltalienne.—Boil the required quantity of Polenta in water until well cooked, then strain off the water and mix in with the Polenta 2oz. or 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and a moderate-sized lump of butter; season to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, and any other flavouring desired, and stir it over the fire until well mixed. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a quick oven. In about a quarter-of- Folenta—continued. an-hour’s time take the mould out of the oven, turn the Polenta on to a hot dish, pour some rich, nicely-flavoured gravy over it, and serve. Polenta and Cheese.—Stir some Polenta into a sufficient quantity of boiling water, add a small quantity of salt, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents boil gently until cooked (it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes). Next turn the Polenta into a basin and leave it until cold. When cold, turn it out of the basin, cut it into slices, and trim them to a uniform shape and size. Butter a pie-dish and put the Polenta in, in layers, with grated cheese, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper strewn over each layer. Scatter plenty of grated cheese over the top, and put the dish in a quick oven. When nicely browned on the top, serve the Polenta while hot in the same dish. Polenta Timbale a la Milanaise.—Put 3 pints of water into a saucepan with a very small quantity of salt, set the pan on the fire, and when the water boils remove the pan to the side of the fire and sprinkle in about lib. of Polenta. Simmer gently until it is quite thick, then add a small piece of butter and stir well. Pour it into a well-buttered timbale-mould, and let it remain for four or five hours to cool. Turn the loaf of Polenta out of the mould by dipping it into a little hot water to loosen it, then wipe the mould inside, smear it over again with butter, and sprinkle in a few sifted breadcrumbs. Replace the loaf in the mould, cut out a round from the flat part, and scoop out some of the inside, leaving about |in. in thickness all over. Cut in slices two blanched sweetbreads, sprinkle-them over with salt and pepper, and put them into a saucepan with, a little warmed butter, and fry until the meat is set; then pour over 1 teacupful of white wine and add twelve mush- rooms cut into quarters, and 8oz. of lean ham or bacon cut into small pieces. Place the lid on the pan and reduce the liquor quickly to a glaze; now pour in a little Spanish sauce with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce mixed with it, and add a couple of dozen small veal quenelles rolled in flour and poached. Pass this mixture into the hollow of the loaf of Polenta, and cover over the top with the piece cut off, fastening it in its place with a little forcemeat or a little liquid Polenta. Spread a little butter over the top, put the mould back into the oven, let it remain for nearly an hour, then turn it out on to a dish. Loosen again by pushing a knife blade between the loaf and mould to ease it at the sides, and it is ready to be served. Garnish with potato croquettes (see Fig. 271). Savoury Polenta.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Polenta in a stewpan with some cold water, and boil it, stirring all the time. W hen cooked, mix with it about 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and loz. of butter; season to taste with salt and pepper, and stand the stewpan at the edge of the fire. Make 1 pint of rich gravy hot and flavour it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce; turn the Polenta on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. Tliis makes a very good accompaniment to pigeons or any kind of small roasted birds. POLISH CAKES.—See Baba and Cakes.214 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. POLISH SAUCE.—See Sauces. POLKA PUDDING.—See Puddings. POLLOCK or POLLACK.—A kind of coarse cod- fisli, sometimes called Green Cod, and usually exported from the Newfoundland fisheries as salted cod. POLONIES.—A vulgarism for Bologna Sausage. See Bologna. POMEGRANATES (Fr. Grenades ; Ger. Granatap- fel; Ital. Melagrave; Sp. Granadas).—The tree hearing this fruit (Tunica granatum) (see Fig. 272) is a native of Northern Africa and Western Asia. The name signifies an apple with many grains, in consequence of the interior of the fruit being made up of a quantity of grains or seeds, paoked closely and embedded in a very delicious red Fig. 272. Pomegranate. pulp. The rind is tough and leathery, of a golden brown colour, tinged with red; and as it contains a very large proportion of tannin, is used for curing skins, especially those known as Morocco leather. Compote of Pomegranates.—Cut a small circle out of the skins of five or six Pomegranates, and with the point of a sharp knife, cut them down the sides. Take out the pips without injuring them, put them into a compote-dish, pour over some syrup flavoured with maraschino or orange juice, and serve. Pomegranate Comfits.—Peel some good cooking apples, and put them over the fire hi just enough water to cover them; when they are quite soft, press the pulp through a sieve, and strain it. Add to the strained pulp the juice and grated rind of an orange and lemon, and the juice of two or three Pomegranates; boil all together and strain. To every pound of tliis add 1 |lb. of powdered white sugar boiled to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), and a colouring of cochineal. Take off the scum before it cools, pour it into glasses, and put them in a stove; when the tops of the cakes are dry, turn them, and put them again in the stove. When almost dry cut them into whatever shapes they are to be, and put them into the stove or the oven to harden; then lay them on sieves, and when perfectly dry, put them away in boxes with paper between them. They should be looked over occasionally, as they are apt to get damp. Pomegranate Jelly.—(1) Make 1 pint of syrup from some Pomegranate-seeds, put it into a saucepan with 4oz. of loaf sugar, loz. of gelatine, the juice of two lemons and the rind of one, h pint of water, and the beaten whites and shells of three eggs; add a few drops of cochineal. Stand the saucepan over a slow fire and whisk the con- tents till on the point of boiling, then move it off the fire and allow it to stand for ten minutes. Pour lqt. of boil- ing water through a jelly-bag to warm it, then pour the jelly through it several times till clear. Pour the jelly into a mould, and set it in a cool place. When quite firm, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, turn it quickly out on to a dish, and serve. Pomegranates—continued. (2) Take out the seeds of five fine Pomegranates, and squeeze out the juice by pressing it through a hair sieve; filter the juice and sweeten it to taste with clarified sugar, made rose colour with cochineal. Add to this some isinglass in the proportion of loz., soaked and dissolved in 1 gill of water, to 1 pint of juice. Mix juice and isinglass well together, pour it into an earthenware mould dipped into cold water so that the inside may be quite wet, let it stand till 'well set, then turn out on a glass or silver dish, and serve. Pomegranate Syrup.—Take the seeds (which must be very red) from five very ripe, good-sized Pomegranates, crush them, and put them over the fire in £ pint of water. When soft, put them into a straining-cloth and squeeze the juice from them. Clarify l£lb. of loaf sugar, boil it to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), then add the juice; mix it well with the sugar and give it a boil, and if not thick enough continue the boiling till it is. When of the required consistency, take it off the fire and let it cool; when quite cold, bottle and cork it. Five large Pomegranates should be sufficient to make lqt. of syrup. Pomegranate Water.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the juice of Pomegranates into a basin and add f pint of syrup at 32deg. (see SYRUrs), the juice of two lemons, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of roses to flavour. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into the freezer, and it is soon ready for use. Pomegranate Water-Ice.—(1) Put the pips from seven or eight Pomegranates on to a sieve placed over a basin, and squeeze them with a wooden spoon to extract all the juice. There should lie quite 1 pint of the juice, and if not one or two more Pomegranates must be used. Add to the juice 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup, the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of meringue, a few drops of cochineal to colour, and a little essence of vanilla to flavour it. Pour the mixture into the freezer, then into a mould packed in ice, and when it is set turn it out, and it is ready for use. Stewed Pomegranates.—Cut about four Pomegranates into halves, and take out all the grains; put the small ones into a cloth and press out all the juice into a saucepan; mix with it an equal quantity of water and 4oz. of loaf sugar, stir it over a slow fire until thick, then take it off and leave it until cold. Arrange the Pomegranates in a dish, pour the syrup over them, sprinkle in a few drops of essence of orange-flower water, put in a few small pieces of ice, and serve. POMERANIAN SOUP.—See Soups. POMPADOUR SAUCE—See Sauces. POMPANO.—Along some parts of the American coast this fish (Trachynotus carolinus) is regarded as a great delicacy. It has something of the flattened appearance of the sun-fish and the brilliant silvery lustre of the mackerel. When broiled it has a peculiar flavour, re- sembling pickled walnuts. Broiled Pompano.—Scrape and clean a Pompano, and if it is a large fish divide it down the back and through the head, but if a small fish weighing about lib. it may be cooked whole. Sprinkle well over with salt and pepper, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, with the skin side downwards, warm it a little, then brush it over with butter, and add a little more salt and pepper if desired. Return it to the gridiron and broil it on both sides until done. Put it on a dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve with a little tartar sauce either poured round or in a sauceboat. PONTAC KETCHUP.—See Ketchup. POOR MAN’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. " POOR MAN’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. POP-CORN.—See Indian Corn.215 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. POPE.—See Bishop. POP-OVERS—These are favourite American cakes, which are served hot, and resemble the French small souffles. The following receipt for making them is supplied by an American confectioner : Mix to a smooth batter 2 breakfast cupfuls each of flour and milk, the yolks of two eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Butter twelve small earthenware jars, and place them in a pan in the oven to heat; see that the oven is hot. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them quickly with the other ingredients, put the batter at once into the hot buttered jars, set them in the oven, and bake the Pop-overs until they rise well and are brown at the sides where they part from the jars. Turn them out Fig. 273 Pop-overs. of the cups, and serve them as soon as they are baked on a hot dish covered by a napkin (see Fig. 273). POPPIES.—However beautiful the flowers of the plant (Papaver somniferum) may be, and however ser- viceable for table decoration, they are not suitable for culinary purposes, because of their somniferous influence, due to the opium contained in the juice. Medicinal drops are sometimes made of them as follows : Poppy Drops.—Put some Poppy flowers (wild ones for pre- ference) in a basin with boiling water to cover them, to extract the essence. Put some sugar in a sugar-boiler, boil it to the ball degree (see SUGAR BOILING), add the essence of Poppies, and boil the syrup mixture to the crack. Pour it all out on to a well-oiled tin sheet, and put it in a warm place so that it will keep pliable. Pull off a small piece, roll it out to about the thickness of a clay-pipe stem, cut this up into equal-sized small pieces, roll them into balls, and put them on a board well sprinkled with caster sugar, covering them with it. Put them on a sieve, roll them about a little, then put them into boxes, and they are ready for use. FORGEY.—See Angel-fish. PORK (Fr. Pore ; Ger. Schwein-fleisch ; Ital. Carn di- porco; Sp. Carne de puerco).—The flesh of the pig was first called Pork in this country by the Norman Conquerors. It is derived from the Latin porous—a pig. Cooley tells us that the value of Pork as an article of diet is universally acknowledged ; that from the young and well-fed animal is savoury, easy of digestion, and wholesome. When pickled or salted, it is much less diges- tible. Walsh, in his “Domestic Economy,” says that pigs are sold by the ordinary butcher, as well as by the pork-butcher, at such a variety of ages that their flesh can- not so accurately be identified by the age as can that of many of the animals used as food. It sometimes makes its appearance on the table when five or six weeks old, and is then called a sucking-pig; when from three to eight months’ old, it comes into the markets as Pork. If allowed to exceed this age it is killed for bacon-meat or hams. Both Pork and bacon-meat vary greatly in quality ; breed and feeding being the chief elements in the dif- ference. Dairy-fed Pork holds the highest place in public estimation, which it richly deserves, when the pig is of a good sort; but this does not always happen. Farmers’ pigs, though dairy-fed, are not always confined to that Fork—continued. diet, for they are made the scavengers of the farm, and are allowed to eat any filth or carrion that happens to be within their reach. Pigs fed like those of the butchers are hard and devoid of fat, and unless finished with meal and A, Chine; B, Head ; C, Ham ; D, Hand ; E, Side. potatoes are not considered of superior quality. Thousands of pigs are fattened every year upon the refuse of the mill and starch-factories, and these are reckoned prime. The size best adapted for bacon-meat ranges from ten to fifteen score, with a moderate thickness of fat. For the agricultural labourer bacon can scarcely be too fat, because he uses it as a relish to his bread and potatoes; this is not, however, the case in the housekeeping of the middle class, and for them a medium degree is the most economical and agreeable to the palate. The pig is slaughtered by cutting the throat, but in some parts of the country it is pole-axed first; the latter mode is not often adopted, as it spoils the appearance of the face. After death the pig is cut up into parts, which vary somewhat in different parts of the country, and always with regard to its future use. For bacon the pig is cut up as shown in Fig. 274 ; for Pork the general plan is as follows (see Fig. 275) : A, the leg ; B, the loin ; C, the neck or fore-loin; D, the belly or spring; E, the hand; F, the head. Besides these parts there are the internal organs, such as the heart, liver, kidneys, &c., and the feet or pettitoes. When cutting up for curing, there are some pieces or trimmings removed, which are cooked fresh or pickled, and termed generally pig-meat, including the chine or griskin, spare-rib, and the blade bone. When the pig is not too large and coarse, and provided it has not been fed too long upon bean flour or other heating food, Fig. 275. Plan of Cutting up Pig for Pork. A, Leg; B, Loin ; C, Neck or Fore-loin; D, Belly or Spring; E, Hand ; F, Head. the meat is very well flavoured. On account of its cheap- ness it is extensively used by the wholesale sausage and Pork-pie manufacturers. See Bacon, Boar, Brawn, Ham, &c., and Pig (for Pig’s Cheek, Pig’s Ears, Pig’s Head, Sucking-Pig, &c). When buying Pork, it must be remembered that the flesh varies greatly in different animals. The flesh should be rather pale than red, and yield to pressure, springing back readily; the rind should be thin and delicate. Measly pork is known by the kernels that appear in the fat, and the flesh yields little specks of matter when pressed. The disease called Trichinosis does not often affect well-fed Pork. Baked Pork.—If the skin is left on the Pork, as it is sometimes, scrape it with a dull knife, wipe it thoroughly216 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. with a wet cloth, and score it into little squares. If the skin has been removed, trim off some of the superfluous fat, using a sharp, thin knife, cut out the chine or back- bone, disjointing it from the ends of the ribs, so that the meat may be carved with ease. Put into the dripping-pan a few slices each of carrot, turnip, and onion, a dozen whole cloves, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and a few leaves of parsley or celery. Lay the Pork on these vege- tables, put the pan in a moderate oven, and brown the meat; when brown, season it with salt, pepper, and pounded sage, and finish cooking it, allowing fifteen minutes to each pound of meat. An hour before the Pork is done, prepare the garnish for it as follows: Peel a dozen small white onions, without breaking the layers apart, put them into a pan with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a little salt and pepper, set the pan in the oven, and occasionally shake it to move the onions about, and insure their uniform browning. After the onions are prepared, wash four sour apples, quarter them, remove the cores, place them in a pan just large enough to hold them, with 1 table-spoonful of butter distributed over them, and bake until they are tender, but not at all broken, and keep the onions and apples hot to serve with the Pork. When the Pork is done, put it on a hot dish, arrange the apples and onions in little groups around it, and serve with a dish of plain boiled potatoes and brown gravy. To make the gravy, after the Pork is taken from the baking-pan, pour out nearly all the drippings, leaving in the scraps of vege- tables, set the pan over the fire, stir in a heaped-up table- spoonful of flour until it is brown, and then 1 pint of boiling water, adding the water gradually. Season the gravy thus made with salt and pepper, let it boil for a moment, strain it, and it is ready for use. Baked Shoulder of Pork with Potatoes.—Peel, boil, and wash lqt. of potatoes, seasoning them highly with salt, pepper, and pounded sage. Remove all the bone from a shoulder of fresh Pork, cutting from the inside, and leaving the meat as whole as possible; season the inside, stuff the mashed potato into the cavity, and sew up the shoulder so as to restore its original shape. If the skin is left on, scrape it with a dull knife, wipe it with a wet cloth, and then score it in Jin. squares. Put the meat into a very moderate oven so that it may cook slowly anti thoroughly, allowing twenty minutes to the pound, and serve with it boiled beetroots or cabbage dressed with vinegar or a sauce made of sour apples. If a gravy is desired, make it as follows: After the Pork is done, take it up, remove the strings, and keep it hot; pour out of the pan all but 2 table-spoonfuls of the drippings, set the pan over the fire, stir into it 2 table spoonfuls of flour, and let it brown; then stir in enough boiling water to make a gravy of the proper consistency, season with salt and pepper, let it boil for a moment, and then serve it with the meat. The flavour of the gravy can be changed by adding to it 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, or a dessert spoonful of mixed mustard, or 1 teacupful of pickles chopped very fine, or 2 table-spoonfuls of pickled onions very thinly sliced. Baked Tenderloins of Pork.—Wipe the tenderloins of fresh Pork with a damp cloth, lay them in a dripping- pan with sweet potatoes, and brown them quickly in the hot oven; season with salt, pepper, and powdered sage, and bake them for about forty minutes. In cool weather there is no meat more savoury than the tenderloin of fresh Pork. Prime ones are large, thick through the centre, bright red in colour, and closely intersected with lines of white fat. If the Pork is from a perfectly healthy animal, and thoroughly cooked, it is entirely wholesome for any person, except those who have weak digestions. The tenderloins may be split and stuffed before they are baked. Boiled Bladebone of Pork.—This very sweet joint is best cooked as follows: Take a bladebone from a bacon hog, put it into a saucepan of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil for about twenty minutes. Take it out, put it on a dish and sprinkle over with salt and pepper, put a Pork—continued. lump of butter and 1 teaspoonful of made mustard on it, and serve very hot. Boiled Leg of Pork and Pease-pudding.—Put a leg of Pork into a saucepan of water with a few whole carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and also lqt. of split peas that have been well washed and soaked for ten or twelve hours, and tied up in a muslin bag or cloth. Set the pan on the fire, and boil the contents slowly for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Then take out the peas, rub them through a fine sieve, and mix the puree with a small lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. A ell butter and flour a cloth, tie up the puree of peas in it, return it to the saucepan with the leg. of Pork, and boil for about thirty minutes longer, by which time the Pork, vegetables, ‘and peas should Fig. 276. Boiled Leg of Pork. all be cooked. Take out the Pork, drain it, put it on a dish with a garnish of the vegetables (see Fig. 276), and serve. Turn the pease-pudding out on to a dish’ and serve with the Pork. Braised Loin of Pork with Robert Sauce.—Trim off nearly all the fat from a loin of Pork, leaving it only Jin. in thickness, saw off the chinebone, rub the loin oyer with 4oz. of coarse salt, and put it into a bowl of pickle for two hours, turning it frequently. Take it out, wipe it well, put it into a saucepan with Joz. of butter’ sprinkle it over with a little salt and pepper, and fry on both sides to a light brown. Then add ] breakfast-cupful each of broth and white wine, a faggot, and an onion stuck with two cloves. Place the lid on the pan, set it on a slow fire, and simmer gently for a couple of hours, basting frequently. Put the Pork on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, pour it into a saucepan with 1 pint of Robert sauce, reduce for five minutes, pour it round the Pork, and serve very hot. Broiled Fillets of Pork.—Trim and prepare a dozen under- fillets of Pork as for Fillets of Pork Sautes, dip them in warmed butter, then breadcrumb them all over, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Arrange them on a dish, and serve with a little poivrade sauce in a sauceboat and any vegetables in season. Broiled Pork with Chilli Sauce.—The chilli sauce is to be prepared before cooking the meat and in a consider- able quantity, as it will keep some time. Have cutlets about Jin. thick cut from the leg of fresh Pork, put them between the bars of a double gridiron, and broil brown over a moderate fire, allowing about twenty minutes to cook them. When they are well done, put them on a hot dish, season with salt and pepper, put a little butter over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of chilli sauce. Broiled Pork Chops.—Cut off the required number of chops from a loin of Pork, trim off nearly all the fat, put them in a frying pan, and fry for a few minutes. Then take them out, put them on a gridiron or grill over a clear fire, and broil until they are done. Pour 1 " breakfast-cupful of milk into the frying-pan with the fat from the chops, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and thicken with a small lump of butter rolled in flour. Pour217 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. this sauce through a fine sieve on to a dish, arrange the chops in it, and serve. Broiled Pork Cutlets.—(1) Cut off the required quantity of cutlets from a loin of Pork, trim off the superfluous fat, sprinkle well with pepper, and put them on a hot gridiron or grill placed over a clear fire, and broil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, turning them frequently so as to cook both sides. Put them on a dish, pour over a little brown gravy or piquant sauce, and serve very hot. (2) Cut off half-a-dozen cutlets from a neck of Pork, trim off the skin and superfluous fat, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, dredge over salt and pepper to taste, and put them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil on both sides for fourteen or fifteen minutes. Take them off when done, and put them on a dish in the oven to keep hot. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put a finely-chopped onion into a saucepan with a dozen or so blanched cloves of garlic, pour in a little oil, and cook them until they are of a light brown, then add a little broth and reduce it to a glaze. Now pour in a little gravy, boil up once more, and add a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and mint, a very little cayenne, the pulp of a lemon without the pips, and two bitter oranges peeled and cut into quarters. Boil for a few minutes longer, and add l table spoonful of mustard, mixed with a little Madeira. Pour this sauce over the cutlets, and serve very hot. (3) Cut some cutlets about Ain. thick from a loin of small Pork and trim them. Fry the trimmings with some thin slices of ham and bacon and a few sliced onions; when brown, put them in a saucepan and boil for two hours in just enough water to cover them. Strain, and when cold skim off all the fat, add a little gelatine and browning, and boil it. Broil the cutlets, and when done mask them with the glaze, dish them in a circular form, fill the centre with fried sliced tomatoes, and serve. Broiled Pork Cutlets served with Gherkins.—Trim of!' all the fat from a neck of Pork and cut it up into cutlets, taking six from each side and cutting them in a slanting direction; beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, trim them into shape, sprinkle over with salt and pepper to taste, dip them into warmed butter, and cover with breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil for twelve or fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. Pour If tumblerful of vinegar into a saucepan on the fire and re- duce to one-third its original quantity ; then add A tumblerful of gravy, boil it, thicken it with a little cooked roux, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Skim off the fat, strain the sauce into a basin, and add a small quantity of pepper and a few table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped gherkins. Put the cutlets in a circle on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Broiled Slices of Cold Pork.—Cut the Pork into rather thick slices, season them on both sides with a sprinkling of salt, pepper, and finely-powdered dried sage, and broil nicely over a clear fire on a hot gridiron. Cheshire Pork Pie.—Remove the skin and fat from a loin of Pork so as to have 21b. of the lean, cut this up into small thin pieces, and sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Have ready a little puff paste, line a pie-disli with it, then put in a layer of the pieces of Pork, then a layer of pared and cored pippins; sprinkle over 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and put a layer of Pork on the top of all. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, put a few small lumps of butter on the top of the Pork, cover the dish with a fiat of the paste, make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape, brush the paste over with egg, and put the pie in a moderate oven to bake. Let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half, take it out, and serve. Cold Pork en Blanquette.—Cut off some small slices from any part of roasted Pork when cold, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper and a little finely-powdered mace. Put 12oz- of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted thicken it with a little flour and add a dozen button Fork—continued. mushrooms cut into pieces. Toss the pan over the lire so that they will cook without taking colour, then pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry and 1 breakfast-cupful of beef stock. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and boil gently until the liquor is reduced to a little less than half its original bulk. Add the slices of Pork, let them get thoroughly warmed through, then mix in a liaison of three eggs mixed with a little lemon-juice. Turn the whole out on to a dish when ready, and serve very hot. Cold Pork Broiled a la Tartare.—Cut into small pieces any part of a roasted leg or shoulder of Pork, clip each piece into clarified butter, then in breadcrumbs mixed with a small quantity of sweet herbs and a shallot finely-chopped, and sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Every piece of meat must have as much of the seasoned breadcrumbs attached to it as possible. Put the pieces of meat on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them for about ten minutes, when they should be done and of a light brown. Put them on a dish, pour over a little Tartar sauce, and serve very hot. Collared Pork.—Cut the crusts from a stale sixpenny loaf, and soak them in water; grate and sift the crumb, and when the crust is soft enough squeeze the water from it, mash it up, and mix it with the sifted crumb. Add to this 1 table-spoonful of sweet basil dried and powdered, 2 table spoonfuls of sweet marjoram dried and powdered, a bunch of pot herbs chopped very fine, two nutmegs grated, Aoz. of cloves powdered, Joz. of mace powdered, 1 table- spoonful of black pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of salt. Mix all these thoroughly together and then work them to a paste with two beaten eggs. Take a small leg of fresh Pork, remove the bone, rub the meat with salt where the bone came out, and stuff the vacant place with the prepared stuffing. Bind the leg into shape with tape, fastening it tightly round it, lay it in a baking tin with a very little water, and bake it in a hot oven for two-hours-and- a-half. If served hot, add an egg and a little white wine to the gravy. Curried Pork.—(1) Cut off the skin and nearly all the fat from 2Alb. of Pork, and chop it up into small thin slices. Put them into a saucepan with a little butter, fry them for a few minutes, then add four onions cut up into small pieces and fried, 1 table-spoonful each of curry- paste and powder, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. When these are mixed, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water or stock, put the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove the pan to the side and let it cook gently for from three-quarters of-an-hour to an hour. Take out the pieces of meat, put them on a dish, reduce Fig. 277. Curried pork. the liquor to half its original quantity, pour it over the meat, and serve with a border of well-boiled rice as a garnish (see Fig. 277). If preferred the rice may be served separately. (2) Mix in a basin 1 table-spoonful each of bruised and ground garlic and ground ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground chillies, I teaspoonful of roasted and ground coriander- seeds, and £ teaspoonful of ground roasted cumin-seeds. Pour over 1 teacupful of vinegar, put in 21b. of fat Pork cut up into squares, sprinkle over 1 saltspoonful of salt, cover the meat with the mixture, and let it steep for a day or so. Put 6oz. of mustard-oil, fat, or lard into a frying-pan, make it hot, add the curry mixture and meat, put in a few peppercorns and bay-leaves, and cook gently for about two hours, by which time the meat should beTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 218 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. well cooked. Turn tlie curry out on to a dish, and serve either with or without a border of boiled rice. Pillet of Pork a la Chasseur.—Cut off the meat from a leg of Pork weighing about 51b., stuff the cavity (where the bone was taken out) with seasoned Pork stuffing, score the skin, and lard the upper or thick surface with thick lardoons of Pork. Put a few slices of bacon-fat, carrots, onions, and a hunch of sweet herbs into a braising-pan, place the meat on top, brown the latter slightly, add a little brown stock and vinegar to moisten, and cook until the meat is thoroughly done. Take out the meat and put it on a hot dish to keep warm, drain the liquor, thicken with a little dissolved gelatine, and add colouring as required; reduce the liquor by boiling, pour it over the meat, and serve hot. Fillets of Pork Sautes.—Cut off a dozen under-fillets of Pork, flatten them with a cutlet-hat and trim off all the fat and gristle, cut them into an elongated pear-shape, lard them with strips of fat bacon, and put them into a saute-pan. Pour over sufficient mirepoix to nearly cover them, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until they are quite done. Take out the fillets, glaze them, and they are ready for serving. They may be sent to table in various ways, such as arranged in a circle on a dish with a puree of endive in the centre; or with a little cooked celery, or tomato, cardoon, or mushroom puree in the centre, and a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Fried Pork Cutlets.—(1) Cut off all the skin and nearly all the fat from a loin of Pork, chop it up into cutlets, put them into a frying-pan with a, little butter, and fry until they are cooked and of a good brown colour. In the meantime put the bones, skin, and any trimmings of bacon or ham into a saucepan with a couple of onions cut up into slices, and when they are well browned pour over sufficient water to barely cover the whole of the bones, &c.; boil for two hours, then strain it and skim off all the fat. Pour it into another saucepan with a little isinglass to thicken it, and mix in a small quantity of browning to colour. Brush the cutlets over with this glaze, place them on a dish, pour a little tomato sauce round them, and serve quickly. (2) Cut off half-a-dozen or so cutlets from a loin of Pork, trim oil' nearly all the fat, and scrape clean the top part or projecting ends of the bones. Brush them well over or dip them into well-beaten egg, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs slightly seasoned with finely-chopped sage, and dust them over with salt and pepper to taste; smear a little warmed butter over them and plunge them into a frying pan of boiling lard or drippings from roasted beef. Set the pan on the fire, fry them to a light chest- nut colour, take them out, drain them on a cloth, put them on a dish, leaning against a pyramid of mashed potatoes, and serve very hot. A little gravy should be served in a sauceboat. Hashed Pork.—Cut some cold boiled or roast Pork in slices, and sprinkle them with salt and a very small quan- tity of cayenne. Put into a saucepan over the fire I Joz. of butter, 1 small teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 dessert- spoonful of walnut liquor, and 1 dessert spoonful of soy or mushroom ketchup. Make this sauce very hot, put into it the slices of Pork, and let them get hot through, taking care that the sauce does not boil. Lay the Pork on a hot dish, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice into the sauce, pour it very hot over the Pork, and serve. Melton Mowbray Pies.—The receipt for these is supposed to be a secret known only to the makers. Their chief merit lies in the quality of the Pork used, and the delicacy of the flavouring. See Pork Pie. Minced Pork.—Chop very finely 21b. of lean fresh Pork; break ilb. of stale bread and soak it till soft in f pint of milk. Mix together the minced Pork, soaked bread, two well beaten eggs, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and powdered sage; put the mixture into a buttered earthen- ware baking-dish, place it in a moderate oven, bake for two hours, and serve hot. Fried apples make a good accompaniment for this dish. Pork—continued. Neck of Pork d la Remoulade.—Wrap a neck of Pork in a sheet of buttered paper and roast it, keeping it well basted; put 11 teacupfuls of white sauce in a stewpan with l teacupful of veal broth and boil it, then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of tartar sauce, and h teacupful of chopped Indian pickle; keep the sauce hot at the side of the lire, but do not let it boil again. When the meat is nearly cooked, remove the paper and brown it. Pour the sauce on to a hot dish, place the meat upon it, and serve. Neck of Pork a la Venetienne.—Peel and chop a moderate- sized onion, put it in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and toss it about over a brisk fire until lightly browned. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the onions, stir in gradually 1 \ breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce, and boil until somewhat thickly reduced, stirring it well at the same time. Season the sauce with one or two chopped mushrooms, a small quantity of chopped parsley, 1 scant teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste; turn it out to get cool. Make an opening between the flesh and skin of a neck of Pork, sufficiently large to hold the above mixture, and stuff it in. Fasten the opening up securely, wrap a sheet of oiled paper round the Pork, and roast, keeping it continually basted. Put 2 table spoonfuls of chopped shallots in a stewpan with a small quantity of salad-oil, and fry them for two or three minutes ; then add 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut; toss them about over the fire for another five minutes, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of brown sauce and chicken broth, and ^ breakfast- cupful of tomato sauce. Stir the sauce and boil it for fifteen minutes. When the Pork is just upon cooked, remove the paper, and let it brown. Pour the sauce on to a hot dish, place the Pork on it, and serve while very hot. Pork-and-Apple Pie.—Cut off nearly all the fat from some Pork chops; chop each of them into three or four pieces, leaving the bone attached to the meat, roll them well in flour, and sprinkle them over with ground allspice, salt, and pepper to taste. Pare, core, and cut into quarters a few apples, taking in bulk about half that of the meat. Fill a teacup with cider, invert the cup in a pie-dish, then put a layer of Pork at the bottom of the dish, then apples, and so on, until they are all used up and the dish is full, but the last layer must he of apples. Pour over 1 teacupful more of the cider or the same quantity of stock, put a cover over the dish of good solid crust, without too much butter or fat, push the dish into a moderate oven, and bake until the pie is quite done. Take it out, add a little more boiling gravy to it if required, and serve. Fork Cheese.—(1) Stew in a small quantity of water until quite tender any bits of Pork such as head, feet, &c.; when cooked, strain the liquor (which should jelly when cold) into a basin, mince the meat as finely as possible, mixing with it some chopped mushrooms, and seasoning highly with pounded mace, cloves, allspice, and salt and pepper, then moisten it with its cooking liquor. Press the mixture tightly into a rather shallow plain round mould with slant- ing sides, and set it away in a cool place for several hours. When ready to serve, turn the cheese out on to a plate, then turn it over on to a round dish. This makes a nice breakfast or supper dish, and is a good way of utilising small odd bits or trimmings of Pork. (2) Chop the Pork, and season with finely-minced onion and chives, grated lemon-peel, and salt and pepper; stir an egg into the mixture ancT dredge in sufficient flour to form a thick paste. Shape it like a round cake. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the Pork cake and place it over the fire, turning it until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked take the cake out, put a sliced onion in the stewpan with a piece more butter, and fry them until nicely browned, dredging in flour occasionally. Stir in with the onions sufficient clear broth to make the required quantity of sauce, season to taste, boil it up, then put in the cake, and make it hot again. Put the cake on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. (3) Procure a head and twelve hogs ears; put the head in cold water and leave it for three or four days, changingTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 219 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. the water every day; then scrape it and leave it a couple of days longer, changing the water as before. Scrape the head again, wash it well, put it in a saucepan, cover well with water, and boil until the bones will leave the meat easily. More water should be poured in as the quantity diminishes. When sufficiently cooked, take the head out of the hot water, put it into milk-warm water for a few minutes, then turn it into cold water with a lump of salt. Clean the ears and boil them until tender; then drain and chop them while still hot, seasoning well with salt and pepper. Chop the meat of the head and put it with the ears into a press (see Fig. 278), pressing it down tightly, then put a weight on the top and leave until cold. (4) Trim off the fat and skin from some cold cooked Pork, chop the lean very finely, and mix with it two grated potatoes and a finely- minced shallot; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and work in sufficient soui- cream to bind it. When well mixed, turn the prepara- tion into a baking dish and bake it in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the Pork cake on to a hot dish, garnish it with pickles, and serve. Pork Chops Sautes.—Take six thick Pork chops, pare and flatten them, and season with a pinch each of salt and pepper. Put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and cook on the stove for six minutes on each side. Arrange the chops on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy, and add l breakfast-cupful of broth. Let it come to a boil, strain over the chops, and serve. Pork Collops.—Finely-mince 111), of Pork, and mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped fat bacon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs; season the mix- ture with salt and pepper, and bind it with two well- beaten eggs. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley in a stewpan with the same quantity of minced chives, a small quantity of sage, and a very small quan- tity of tarragon. Put a lump of butter in the pan with the herbs, and cook them for a few minutes over a slow fire, stirring them constantly. Put the collops in with the herbs, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and sufficient clear gravy to prevent them burning. Let them simmer gently at the edge of the fire for half-an-hour, turning them at the end of ten minutes to the other side. Peel and parboil a few fine potatoes, then slice them, and fry them until delicately browned in butter. When cooked, arrange the collops in a circle on a hot dish and put the fiied potatoes in the centre. Mix more well-seasoned gravy with that in which the collops were cooked, boil it up, turn it into a sauceboat, and serve with the collops. Fork Croquettes.—(1) Chop up lib. of cold roasted Pork, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, put them into a saucepan with \ pint of good stock, and add two shallots and onions finely-minced, a little powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the onions and shallots are quite done. Turn the mixture out on to a board, and make it up into the form of sausages; flatten them a little, dip them first into egg and then into breadcrumbs, and put them into a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry them until they are done. Put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Finely-chop l^lb. of fat Pork, and mix 4oz. of finely- grated breadcrumbs and two well-beaten eggs with it. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, shape it into balls, then flatten them; dip the collops in beaten egg, then put them in a frying-pan in which a lump of butter Fork—continued. has been melted, and fry them till lightly browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Finely mince about lib. of cold roast Pork; mix loz. of flour in a stewpan with \ pint of clear stock, and put in a moderate-sized finely-chopped onion and two chopped shallots. Boil them until tender, then put in the pieces of meat with a small quantity of finely-chopped sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, then turn it on to a plate and leave it until cool. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, mould them into balls, and roll them in beaten egg and finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when boiling, put in the croquettes and fry them until nicely and evenly browned. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley or water- cress, and serve. (4) Make some sausage meat of two-thirds Pork lean and one-third Pork fat, anti add an equal amount of bread- crumbs taken from a stale household loaf. Add 2oz. of butter, a little ground allspice, pepper and salt to taste, and put them all into a mortar. Pound well together, and work in the yolks of two eggs to make a consistent mass. Make it into balls and fry them, or use it for stuffing. Pork Cutlets and Anchovy Sauce.—Take seven nicely cut and trimmed cutlets of Pork, and broil them on a hot well-greased gridiron over a clear fire. Put some Fig. 279. Pork Cutlets with Anchovy Sauce. anchovy sauce warmed on a very hot dish, place frills on the bones of the Pork cutlets, lay them round the dish, overlapping each other (see Fig. 279), and serve very hot. Garnish the dish freely with fried parsley. Pork Forcemeat with Bacon.—Cut lib. of lean Pork and the same quantity of lean bacon into slices, and put them in a stewpan with just sufficient water to prevent the meat from sticking to the bottom of the pan, and add 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and an onion cut into small pieces. Place the cover over the pan, put it on the fire, and leu the contents simmer gently until the meat is quite tender, then take it out, and mince very fine. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into the pan with the gravy, and add a little mace, herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and six eggs well beaten; stir them up well and then add the meat. Take a circular tin dish, line it with a light paste, and put the mixture in; cover with a lid of paste, make a small hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven until done. When cold turn it out of the dish, and serve. Pork Fritters.—Cut some slices of Pork, and fry them till well cooked through. Beat two eggs with 1 teacupful of sour milk, then sift in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, stirring it at the same time to keep it smooth ; add a pinch of salt. Drain the pieces of Pork and dip them into the batter, giving them a thick coating, then return them to the frying-pan in which they were first fried, and brown the batter. When cooked, drain the Pork, arrange it on a hot dish, and serve. Fig. 278. Pork-cheese Press.220 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. Pork—continued. Pork Fritters and Cabbage.—Boil some cabbage and strain it well, then chop it and fry in a little butter or dripping. Season with pepper and salt, and lay on it slices of cold boiled or roasted Pork, seasoned with pepper and salt and lightly fried. Serve very hot. Fork-and-Kidney Pudding.—Cut some rather thick slices from the chump end of a fore loin of Pork, and trim them neatly; cut half as many Pork kidneys as there are slices of meat into four pieces each; finely mince 4oz. of fresh beef-suet and mix it with lib. of flour, add 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir it into a smooth paste with water. Put the dough on a floured table, roll it out, and line a buttered pudding-basin with it, trim it round the edges, and roll out the trimmings to form a cover for the top of the pudding. Put a layer of the Pork at the bottom of the basin, then dust it over with salt and pepper, next put in a layer of the kidneys and a layer of Pork force- meat. Fill the basin then with alternate layers, season- ing each layer slightly with salt and pepper. Moisten to height with water or clear stock, cover with the round of paste, and pinch the edges together. Tie a floured cloth over the top of the pudding, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, being very careful not to break it, and serve quickly. Pork Fatties.—Make some good pie crust, roll it out rather thin, divide into pieces about 6in. long and 3in. broad, lay on some of these pieces of paste some young Pork cut in bits about Jin. square well seasoned with pepper and salt, lay on top another piece of paste, moisten the edges with cold water and press them together, brush the patties over with beaten egg, and bake. As an im- provement put into each with the meat a little baked apple. These may he made round by cutting with a round paste- cutter and pinching the edge with a fork (see Fig. 280). Fig. 280. Pork Patty. Fork Pie.—(1) To lib. of flour allow Jib. of lard and Joz. of butter ; rub about one-third of the lard in the flour, and melt the rest with the butter in a small quantity of hot milk and water; skim and mix it in slowly with the flour, adding a little salt and more milk or water if necessary to bring the paste to the desired consistency. Knead it well and raise the crust in an oval shape. Cut some rather lean Pork into small pieces, season it with chopped sage, salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of cayenne and mace. Put the Pork in the crust and cover it; trim the edges of the paste, moisten them, and press them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut them into leaves, moisten at the bottom, and ornament the top of the pie with them; a small hole should be cut in the top of the crust. Bake it in a moderate oven for about two hours or more according to the size of the pie. With the trimmings of the Pork prepare some nicely-seasoned gravy, and when the pie is cooked filter it in through the hole at the top. Serve it either hot or cold. (2) Remove the skin and bones from some lean spare-rib or loin of Pork and neck of veal, taking them in the proportion of three parts Pork to one part veal. Chop up the meat into small cubes, mixing them well, and sprinkle over ground allspice, salt, and pepper. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with a little water and a few sweet herbs, and boil until all the goodness is extracted from them; reduce it if there is too much, strain it, and put it in a cool place until wanted. Well butter a pie-dish or mould, line it with a good pie crust, put a few thin slices of ham at the bottom, then the meat intermixed with forcemeat balls, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, slices of truffles or button mushrooms, and pour in sufficient gravy to moisten but not to soak the meat. Cover with a crust, decorate it with leaves or flowers cut out in paste with tin cutters, put it into the oven, and bake until done. Take it out, let it get cold, turn it out of the dish or mould, and it is ready for serving. (3) Prepare a good Pork pie crust as follows: Put 4oz. of lard or clarified dripping into a saucepan with It tea- cupfuls of water, and boil them; pour it while still hot over lib. of flour in a basin and add a pinch of salt. Work these into a stiff paste, cut off about one-third of it for the covers, and roll out the remainder on a well-floured board or table. Cut this up into as many equal-sized pieces as are required, roll the pieces up into balls, make an indent with the knuckles in the centre of them, and gradually work them up into shape, taking care to have the paste of an equal thickness all over and without any air holes that the gravy could ran out of. Cut off lib. of lean with a little fat from the chump end of a fore-loin of Pork, chop it up into small cubes, pour 1 table-spoonful of water over it, and sprinkle with a little more than 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little less than 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Put this minced meat into the pie shapes, roll out the covers and put them on, keeping them in a good high shape; trim the edges, and ornament the lids with leaves made of the trimmings. Place the pies on a baking sheet, brush them over with the yolk of egg, and when the paste is cool and set, push the baking sheet into a moderate oven, and bake for an-hour-and a half or until the liquor boils out of them. In the meantime prepare a good gravy with the bones and trimmings of Pork, making it so that when it is cold it will jelly ; fill the pies up with this, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. It would perhaps be preferable to make this quantity of paste into only one pie, as great care is required in making them and the moulding operation must he performed whilst the paste is quite hot, and it must be done as quickly as possible or the effect will be spoilt. Although these pies can be made in moulds, forming them with the hand is considered to give them the neatest appearance. (4) Yorkshire.—Put 4oz. each of finely-slired suet and butter into a basin and rub them into lib. of flour. Turn them into a saucepan, and as soon as the butter and suet are melted, return the mixture to the basin and work it into a stiff paste. Cover the basin with a cloth and put it in front of the fire until wanted. Cut into pieces 21b. of the lean of neck of Pork without any skin, sprinkle them over with 1 teaspoonful of powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Roll out the paste on a well-floured board or table, cut it up into equal parts, and with each of these make a small raised round shape, keeping suffi- cient of the paste for a lid; fill these shapes with the Pork mixture, cover with the lid, pinching it round the edge to fasten it, ornament the top and sides (see Fig. 281) put the pies on a baking sheet in a hot oven, and bake for an-hour-and a-lialf. When the pies are done, take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Pork Pudding.—Line a pudding basin with some good suet crusts and put in a layer of slices of Pork, using about 1 Jib. in all, then put a layer of fib. of sausage-meat or sausages cut up into slices, add a few dried sage leaves, one onion cut up very small, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the basin with a round of the crust, tie over a well-floured cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two-hours-and-a-half. Take it out when done, remove the cloth, turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve very hot. A little gravy stock or water may be added before the top crust is put on.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 221 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. Pork Sausages.—(1) Empty and clean the intestines of an ox, cut these skins into required lengths, and put them in a basin of salted water or a weak solution of lime water, and let them remain for about four days, turning them frequently inside out and back again. Take them out, scrape the inside clean, and put them into a basin of slightly salted water, and let them remain until wanted for use, when they must be thoroughly drained. In the meantime, put about 101b. of Pork with a fair quantity of fat on it into a bowl of pickle (see Brine), and let it remain for a week. Take it out, drain, mince it very fine, and sprinkle over Jib. of salt, loz. of pepper, and a little allspice, say about 1 teaspoonful. Put this sausage meat into the skins, filling them quite full, and securely tying both ends, wrap them round with muslin, and smoke them for twelve or fourteen days. Take them out, rub them well over with pepper, and let them hang in a cold place until wanted, when they should be boiled, and when cold again cut them into slices and serve. The meat may be put into plain brine instead of pickle if preferred, but the pickle gives better results. (2) Take the meat from the loin and necks, remove the skin, cut the meat into small pieces, mixing with it a good proportion of fat to prevent the sausages being too dry, and pass it through a small mincing machine. For every pound of meat season with 1 teaspoonful of spice composed of the following ingredients: pepper, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, and ground mace. Season also with finely- chopped sweet herbs and shallots, and mix the whole with a third portion of grated breadcrumbs. When thoroughly incorporated, pass the mixture again through the mincing machine, cutting it off into lengths as it comes through. Do not put the sausages into skins, but dredge them well with flour. They will keep good for a week or ten days in a cool place. When ready to cook, fry them in beef dripping. (3) German.—Put the ears, muzzle (previously boned), tongue, and feet, pricked all over with a trussing needle, into a basin or bowl with sufficient saltpetre brine to cover them, and let them remain for five or six days. Take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan of water, and add a few vegetables, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan on a moderate fire and boil slowly until they are all well cooked. Take them out, remove the bones, and cut the meat up into small pieces or fillets about 2in. in length. Put them all into a basin, sprinkle over a little more salt and pepper, and stir well to mix them. Clean an ox-gut-bladder, stuff it with the pig mixture, tying the ends, and taking care to exclude all the air. Prepare a broth with the bones, put the bladder in it, and boil slowly until it rises to the surface, when it will be done. Take it out, drain, put it in with a weight on the top, and let it get quite cold ; then place it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of aspic jelly. Pork Sausages boiled in White Wine.—Put half-a-dozen Pork sausages into a '-ante-pan with \ pint of white wine, and sprinkle over a little pepper. Set the pan on the fire, cover with the lid, and boil the contents gently for eight minutes. Take out the sausages, put them on a dish, add 1 teacupful of poulette sauce to the liquor, reduce it for four minutes, then remove the pan from the lire and stir in loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley. When the butter is melted, pour the liquor over the sausages, and serve. Pork Soup.—Put a large salted knuckle of Pork into a basin of water and let it soak for a few hours. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and add one whole carrot and onion. Set the pan on the fire and boil for a couple of hours, then pour in 2 break- fast-cupfuls of dry peas, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Pork and peas are both well done. Take out the knuckle of Pork and cut it up into moderate- sized pieces or squares. Strain off the liquor from the peas and pass the latter through a fine sieve, having taken out the carrot and onion. Put the liquor and peas back into the saucepan, boil them again, stirring fre- quently, then add the pieces of the knuckle of Pork. Simmer gently at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an- Pork—continued. hour, skim off the fat from the soup, pour it into a soup- tureen, and serve very hot with a few slices of toast on a dish. Pork Souse.—Clean the feet and ears of a pig thoroughly, put them in a basin with a large lump of salt and cold water to cover them, and let them stand all night. On the following morning drain them, put them into a sauce- pan with fresh water, and boil until tender. Drain the feet and ears, split them, and leave them until cold. Pour sufficient vinegar to cover the feet and ears in a saucepan, with a blade of mace and a dozen peppercorns, and boil them for several minutes together. Put the ears and feet into a large stone jar with a little salt, and pour the boiling vinegar over them. This souse will keep good for a month or two. Pork Steaks in Rolls.—Season some thin steaks of young Pork with salt and pepper, roll them to an oval shape, and bind them round with twine, putting a few green sage leaves on the outside. Put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and place them over the fire until the moisture has reduced and they are nicely browned, turning them occasionally and basting with their own gravy. When cooked, put the rolls of Pork on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, garnish with cut lemons, strain what remains of the sauce over, and serve. Potted Pork.—Cut 21b. of lean Pork into nice-sized pieces; line an earthenware jar with chopped beef suet, put in the pieces of meat with a piece of mace, and dust over with salt and pepper. Pour in H breakfast-cupfuls of water and cover with chopped suet. Tie a stout piece of paper tightly over the jar, and put it in a very moderate oven. In about three hours’ time take the jar out of the oven and leave it until the following day. Then take the pieces of Pork out of the jar, put them in a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste; add more salt and pepper if required, and any other seasoning that may be liked. Press the meat into small jars, leaving about Jin. space at the top of each, which fill up with clarified suet. Tie the jars over, and put them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Roasted Chine of Pork.—(1) Hang up a chine of Pork in a cool place and let it remain until quite tender, then put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil it gently for thirty minutes. Take it out, drain, and make several small incisions in the meat, and fill these up with very finely-chopped sage. Brush the chine all over with egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and put it in a Dutch oven to roast. When done, take it out, put it on a dish, arrange a few boiled cauliflowers round it, and serve. (2) Put a chine of Pork into a bowl, cover it with salt, and let it remain for three days. Take it out, score the skin deeply, cutting it so as to reach the meat, and stuff it with Pork stuffing and apple sauce in equal pro- portions. Put it in front of a clear fire or in a quick oven, and roast it, basting frequently; allow twenty minutes’ cooking to each pound of meat. Take it up when done, put it on a dish, thicken the liquor with a small lump of butter rolled in Hour, pour it over the meat, and serve hot. Roasted Leg of Pork.—Take a leg of Pork weighing about Gib., score the rind evenly with a very sharp knife, put it on a spit or in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and roast it, turning frequently so as to cook it equally. A leg of this weight will take about two hours, that is, twentjiafiiinutes for each pound. Baste it frequently with its own drippings, and when it is done put it on a dish (see Fig. 283); thicken the drippings or gravy with a little flour and butter, pour it over, and serve. A sauceboatful of tomato sauce should also accompany it. Roasted Leg of Pork in Imitation of Goose.—Parboil a leg of Pork and take off the skin. Then roast it, bast- ing it with butter and a little each of dried and powdered sage, sifted breadcrumbs, finely-chopped onions, and ground black pepper mixed together. Continue sprinkling with222 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. this powder and basting with butter till it is almost done. Make some forcemeat balls of the same ingredients as those used to baste the Pork, mixed with a little beaten egg, fry them, and garnish the dish with them. Serve with brown gravy. Boasted Loin of Fork.—Select a loin of Pork weighing 41b. or 51b., score it all over, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. It should not be placed too close, or the outside will be done before it is cooked through. Baste it frequently with its own drippings, and let it remain for about two-hours-and a half, when it should be quite done. Put it on a dish, add a little thickening of flour to the drippings or gravy, pour it over the Pork, and serve with a sauceboatful of apple sauce. It may also be served stuffed with sage and-onion stuffing; or the stuffing may be baked separately and served round the dish with the loin of Pork, or on a separate one. Boasted Loin of Fork a la Bordelaise.—Trim off the greater part of the fat from half a saddle or chine of Pork, take out the spine-bone, and slightly score the fat, then thrust in at each end a clove of garlic. Truss the loin and put it into a baking-pan with i pint of water, and sprinkle it well over with powdered sage, salt, and pepper, Cover the meat with a piece of buttered paper, put it in a moderate oven, and roast it for an-hour-and-a half, basting it frequently. When it has been cooking for an hour and ten minutes, put a few button mushrooms round it, and baste them with the liquor in the pan. Take out the Pork, put it on a dish, and garnish with the cooked mushrooms Skim off the fat from the gravy, add to it a few table- spoonfuls of rich gravy or a little glaze, boil it once, then pass it through a sieve or strainer over the meat, and serve. Boasted Loin of Pork a la Franqaise.—Score a large loin of Pork, cut off the minion or small fillet, take off the skin from it, remove the sinews, and finely chop it. Add an equal bulk of breadcrumbs to this minced meat, and mix in a little each of sage and parsley and a small onion, all finely chopped; sprinkle the mixture over with salt and pepper, and make it into a stiff paste with the yolks of two or three eggs. Fill the cavity of the loin, where the fillet was taken from, with this stuffing, cover it with a piece of pig’s caul, then fill the flap (bavette), and tie up the loin with thread or fine string. When ready, set it in front of a clear fire and let it roast for an hour. Put it on a dish, sprinkle it over with salt, pour over a little piquante sauce or rich gravy, and serve. A few Westphalian pickles may be served with it. Boasted Marinaded Pork.—Trim off all the skin from a piece of Pork, any kind may be used, rub it well with salt, put it in a deep dish, with a few sliced onions, sage- leaves, thyme, basil, and a few juniper berries and cloves, dust- ing it over with plenty of pepper. Baste the meat with 4 or 5 table spoonfuls of vinegar and leave it for a few days, basting and turning it two or three times each day. When the meat is sufficiently marinaded, put it witli the other ingredients into a baking-dish, place it in the oven, and bake until half cooked. Take the dish out of the oven, pour in boiling water, and stir it round well; strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve, return it to the oven, and finish cooking it. The meat should be well basted during the baking, to prevent its being dry. Put the meat on a hot Fork—continued. dish, skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve. Boasted Neck of Pork.—Take a neck of Pork, trim it, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast, basting it frequently with a little butter and its own drippings. Put it on a dish, and serve. The neck of Pork may be garnished with a few stuffed tomatoes on either side, and a little d’Uxelles sauce in a sauceboat or a little poivrade sauce only may be used; or it may be garnished with a circle of putbe of onions or chestnuts and a little half-glaze served in a sauceboat; or in any other manner that the ingenuity of the cook may suggest. Boasted Pork Griskin.—Put a griskin into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, place the pan on the fire, and immediately the water boils take out the griskin, rub it well over with slightly warmed butter, then with flour, put it in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and roast it. When it is done (it will take about fifteen minutes for each pound), take it out, and it is ready for use. Boasted Pork with Herring (German).—Select a nice piece either of the neck, breast, or loin of Pork, take out all the bones, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Clean and bone a Dutch herring, cut it into fillets or shreds, season them with pepper, and lard the meat all over with them. Roll the meat up, skewer it, and bind a few slices of lemon round the outside. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, make it hot, then lay in the Pork and brown it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of water over the meat and baste it occasionally until cooked. Put the meat on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over it, and serve it with a dish of sourcrout. Boasted Saddle of Pork.—Remove the skin and fat from a saddle of Pork taken from a young and small pig, cover it with a sheet of well-buttered paper, and roast it before a clear fire until done, allowing twenty minutes to each pound of meat. Baste it constantly, and when quite done put it on a dish and serve with a little brown gravy poured over it, and a little Robert or tomato sauce in a sauceboat. The buttered paper may be substituted by covering the saddle of Pork over with its own skin, fastening it in its place with skewers, and removing the skin about half an-hour before the meat is cooked, basting it frequently and sprinkling it over with flour to give it a good brown colour. Boasted Shoulder of Pork.—Bone a shoulder of Pork, and spread it over inside with a stuffing of sage and onions, and filling the cavity where the bone was taken from. Roll it up, securing it with string, and put it in front of a clear fire with a pan underneath it to catch the drip- pings, ami let it roast until done. It will take about twenty minutes for each pound. Put it on a dish when done; skim off the fat from the pan, add a little water and 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, boil the gravy up, pour it through a strainer over the meat, and serve. Boasted Stuffed Leg of Pork.—(1) Take a rather small leg of Pork, score the skin all over, making incisions with a sharp knife at about Jin. apart, and make a slit in the knuckle; lift up the skin and fill the cavity with stuffing of sage and onions, and fasten the skin down in its place with a skewer. Place the leg at a little distance from a clear fire, so that it will not cook too fast, and roast it, basting frequently with its own liquor. A few minutes before removing it from the fire, brush it over with warmed butter, sprinkle over with flour, and set it closer to tlie fire so as to make it crisp and brown. When done, place it on a dish, thicken the gravy in the pan with a little butter rolled in flour, pour the gravy over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of apple sauce made with baked apples. (2) Select a leg of Pork weighing 61b. or 71b., cut it down parallel to the bone, and trim it so as leave the skin longer than the meat. Have ready some potatoes, well - boiled and mashed, mix them up with a small lump of butter and a finely-chopped onion, a little finely-powdered sage, cayenne, and salt to taste. Stuff this mixture into223 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. the cavities made in the leg, draw the skin down, and fasten it with skewers so as to prevent the stuffing fall- ing out. Sprinkle the leg over with a little salt, cayenne, and powdered sage, put it at a little distance from the fire, and let it roast slowly until done, allowing twenty minutes to each pound weight of Pork. Put the leg of Pork on a dish; skim off the fat from the gravy, thicken with a little flour, boil it up, pour it through a strainer over the Pork, and serve. A sauceboatful of apple or cranberry sauce should be served with it, and the dish may be garnished with cooked vegetables cut up in slices. Boiled Belly of Pork.—Cut off the belly part of either fresh or salt Pork, dust it over copiously with powdered sweet Fig. 283. Rolled Belly of Pork. herbs and sage, chopped shallots, and a seasoning of salt and pepper, roll it up as tightly as possible, tie it round with broad tape (see Fig. 283), and either hake or roast it until done. When cold, untie it, and serve. Boiled Neck of Pork.—Bone a neck of Pork and cover it over inside with a layer of forcemeat. Roll up the neck as tightly as possible, securing it with string; put it in front of, hut at a little distance from, a clear fire, and roast it. When it is nearly done, put it closer to the fire so as to brown it; and when quite done, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of apple sauce. Stewed Fillets of Pork.—The fillets should be cut from under the loins; trim off the skin, beat to flatten them, and lard them with fine strips of bacon. Put some slices of bacon and onions in a stewpan, with a bunch of thyme and parsley and a bay-leaf, lay in the fillets, pour in 1 pint of stock, and stand it over the fire till beginning to boil. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, ami cook the contents slowly. Pour 1J breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of broth, a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar. Boil the sauce till rather thickly reduced. Brain the fillets when cooked, and dress them in a circle on a hot dish, pile some stewed white sourcrout in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Stewed Pork.—Cut up the spare rib or loin of Pork into chops, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put them into a saucepan with enough water to nearly cover them ; set the pan on a slow fire, and simmer gently for half-an-hour, skimming frequently as the scum rises. To each pound of meat, add to the saucepan 1 teaspoouful of flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and about loz. of butter, mixing them well with the pieces of Pork. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer again for another quarter-of-an-hour, wdien the meat should be quite tender. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Stewed Pork Collops.—Remove the skin and bones from l|lb. of fat Pork and finely mince the meat. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with sufficient water to make a good quantity of gravy, season it with salt, pepper, and any other flavouring liked, and stew them for half-an-hour. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs and two well-beaten eggs with the minced Pork, season it Fork—continued. with salt and pepper, divide the mixture into equal-sized quantities, and shape them like round flat cakes. Strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stew- pan, put in the collops, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for twenty minutes, turning them to the other side after they have been cooking ten minutes. When the collops are cooked, take them out of the liquor and keep them hot. Work loz. of butter with 1 table- spoonful of flour, then put it into the gravy and stir it over the fire until thick; put in 1 table-spoonful of mixed shallots or capers. Arrange the collops tastefully on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve them. Stewed Stuffed Bibs of Pork.—Joint the bones of a young- loin of Pork. Peel, core, and cut into quarters a suffi- cient quantity of cooking apples, and stuff the Pork with them, trussing it so as to keep them in securely; lay the meat on a baking dish, baste it with a few table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, and bake it in a brisk oven until lightly browned all over. Put the meat into a stew-- pan, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of clear boiling broth over it, put the lid on, and keep it at the side of the fire, where it may stew slowly for a little over two hours. Baste the meat frequently, adding more water as that becomes reduced. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot dish; skim the fat oil' the cooking liquor, and strain through a fine hair sieve over the meat. Fickled Fork.—The flesh of the pig preserved by pickling is a universal favourite, excepting perhaps among sailors, who. not having been supplied with the very first quality, have ever held up their casks of salt “ junk ” to ridicule. Indeed, some of the specimens that have fallen to the lot of the poorer class of sailors can scarcely be regarded in the light of a joke. The following receipts for Pickling Pork are strongly recommended: (1) As soon as the pig is dressed and cool enough to cut up, pack the side pieces in a cask with plenty of salt, and pour in water until level with the top of the Pork. Put a cover over with a heavy weight on the top to keep the Pork well under the brine, and place it in a cellar. Keep the Pork urell excluded from the air until it is wanted. Alum or finely-crushed rock salt should be used for rubbing and putting the meat down in the cask, and if the Pork is bloody it would be better to salt the meat well with fine salt, and leave it to drain on boards for four days and nights before packing it in the cask. (2) Rub each piece of Pork lightly with salt, let them lie singly on a board for a day and a night, then wipe them quite dry. Pack them closely together in a perfectly clean tub or large jar. Make a pickle of 2galls. of water, 2oz. of saltpetre, 51b. of salt, and lib. of brown sugar. Let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, skimming off all scum that rises. Let this pickle get quite cold, and then pour it over the Pork, putting a weight on top sufficiently heavy to keep the meat well under the pickle. This quantity of pickle is enough for 501b. of meat if closely packed. (3) Pour 3galls. of water into a large saucepan, and dissolve in it £oz. of saleratus (see Ammonia) and loz. of saltpetre; then put in 211b. of salt, boil it, and skim it quite clear. Cover the bottom of the pickle-tub with salt, put the pieces or joints to be pickled into it, pour the contents of the saucepan, when cold, over them, ami let them remain for a few days with a weighted piece of wood on the top to prevent them floating. Baked Leg of Fickled Pork (German).—Skin a leg of young Pork, put it on a dish with 1 teacupful of pounded shallots, three bay-leaves, a few juniper-berries and cloves, two cloves of garlic, a sprig of tarragon, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 heaped teaspoonful of ground black pepper. Pour over the Pork 1 teacupful each of red wine and vinegar, and leave it in the marinade for five days, turn- ing and rubbing it well with the seasoning every day. At the end of that time, put the Pork in an earthenware baking-dish with 2oz. of butter in small bits, strain the pickle through a fine hair sieve over it, and put it in the224 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fork—continued. oven ; baste the meat frequently while baking until it is nicely browned. Half-an hour before taking the meat out of the oven, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream over it. When the Pork is thoroughly done through (it will re- quire about three hours’ slow baking), put it on a hot dish; skim the fat off the sauce, and strain it over the meat. Serve the Pork while very hot. Baked Pickled Pork and Beans.—Put Iqt. of haricot beans that have been soaked for twelve hours into a saucepan of water, and boil them gently until they are done and can be easily pierced with a pin. Great care must be taken not to boil them too fast, or they will break. A small chopped onion may also be boiled with them if desired. Turn them out into a colander and pour over cold water to cool them. Put fib. of salted Pork cut into three or four strips into a deep baking-dish, and pour in sufficient boiling water to cover the bottom of the dish. Bury the pieces of Pork in the beans. Put 1 tea- spoonful of salt into a basin, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of mustard mixed with \ teacupful of molasses; pour in sufficient boiling water to make the quantity l pint in all, pour this mixture over the beans and Pork, and add more boiling water so that they are all well moistened. Put the dish into a moderate oven and bake for an hour. Turn the beans out on to a dish, and serve with the pieces of Pork in the centre (see Fig. 284). A teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda may be added to the saucepan in which the beans are being boiled, and it will destroy the acid taste of the skins. Baked Pickled Pork on Toast.—Cut the Pork into thin slices; have as many slices of bread as there are of Pork, toast them, then trim off the crusts and lay them on a dish that will bear the heat of the oven and that can be served at table. Put the slices of Pork on the toast. Beat half-a dozen eggs with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and pour them over the Pork; dust a small quantity of salt and pepper over. Bake it in a quick oven for twenty minutes, then take it out, and serve while hot. Boiled Belly of Pickled Pork.—Select a good streaky piece of the belly part of pickled Pork, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil until it is quite done, allowing forty-five minutes or thereabouts for each 4lb. of Pork. Put the Pork on a dish, garnish it with boiled greens or cauli- flowers, and serve very hot. Boiled Chine of Pickled Pork.—Pickle a chine of Pork for ten days, turning it daily. Take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan with water to about 2in. above its height, set the pan on the fire, and boil it, skimming frequently. It will take a little more than fifteen minutes for each pound to cook it thoroughly. Take it out, drain, put it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of boiled greens or cauliflowers. A little apple sauce sent to table with it in a sauceboat is a valuable addition. Boiled Hand of Pickled Pork.—Put a salted hand of Pork into a basin of water, and let it remain for a couple of hours to soak. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, set the pan on a clear fire, and boil gently for about an hour. Take it out when done, drain off all the liquor, put it on a dish, and serve. A dish of peas-pudding or cooked greens, or both, should be sent to table with it. Boiled Leg of Pickled Pork.—Rub a leg of Pork well over with salt, put it into pickle, and let it remain for For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pork—continued. seven or eight days, rubbing it well with the pickle every day. Take it out, put it into a bowl of water, and let it soak for an hour. Put it into a saucepan with a large supply of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until it is done, removing all the scum as it rises. When done, take it out, drain off all the liquor from it, put it on a dish, and serve with a dish of hot pease-pudding as an accompaniment. The liquor may he used for making pea- soup. The ham may be boiled in a cloth, in which case the liquor will not be of any further use and may be thrown away. Boiled Pickled Pork and Cabbage.—Pare neatly and divide a medium-sized cabbage into four pieces; wash them well, parboil for ten minutes, and put them into any kind of vessel with lib. of well-washed salt Pork, three sausages, a branch of celery, an onion, two large carrots, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, half a pinch of pepper, but no salt, and cover with a buttered paper. Simmer on a gentle fire for an-hour-and-a-half; then place the cabbage in a dish, using a skimmer, also the Pork and sausages, laying them on top; decorate the dish with the rest of the vegetables, and serve. Boiled Pickled Pork -with Parsnips.—Salted Pork and parsnips are stewed together for half-an-lionr; the water is drained oil’, and the Pork and parsnips are sliced and browned together, with a seasoning of salt and pepper. This is a favourite American dish. Pried Pickled Pork and Apples.—Slice lib. of salted Pork about Jin. thick, put it over the fire in plenty of boiling water, and boil it for half-an-hour; then drain it, and roll it in corn-meal seasoned with salt and pepper. Put into a large frying-pan enough dripping to cover the bottom, and while it is heating cut some sour apples in eights, without peeling them, and remove the cores. When the drippings are hot, put in the Pork and apples, and fry them together until the apples are just tender, but not at all broken, and the Pork is brown. Serve them on the same dish. The drippings may be poured over them unless this is likely to make the dish too fat. Omelet of Pickled Pork.—Cut loz. of salted Pork into small square pieces, also 2 table-spoonfuls of crust off a fresh loaf of bread cut the same way, and fry them together in a frying-pan with loz. of butter for about two minutes, adding a boiled potato cut into small squares, a pinch of chopped parsley, half a pinch each of chopped chives, salt, and pepper. Beat twelve eggs for four minutes in a bowl, pour them into the pan, and make an omelet, as described under Omelets. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve. Pickled-Pork Stuffing for Turkeys.—Chop fine Jib. of fat and lean salted Pork, and break fine 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of bread; put them over the fire in a frying-pan with 2 piled table-spoonfuls of blitter, and fry them brown. Season this forcemeat rather highly with salt, pepper, and any powdered sweet herbs, except sage, and use it for stuffing a turkey. Boasted Leg of Pickled Pork a la Boisseau.—Procure a leg of Pork that has been in salt for about four days, put it in boiling water for a few minutes, then take it out and skin it. Roast the Pork in front of a clear fire for an-hour-and-a-half, then cover it with plenty of bread- crumbs, baste it well, and continue roasting it till well browned. Put some finely-chopped sage and onions into a saucepan with a small quantity of thick brown gravy, and boil till the onions are tender. Put the sage and onions on a hot dish, and when cooked lay the Pork on the top. Serve it while very hot with a sauceboatful of apple sauce. Boiled Pickled Pork.—Remove all the small bones from a breast of young, fresh Pork, rub it well with salt and a small quantity of saltpetre, and leave it for two or three days. When required for use, wash it in plenty of cold water, then wipe it dry. Put a layer of sliced pickled gherkins and tongue over the Pork, dust it with black pepper and a small quantity of powdered cloves, roll it up and bind it tightly with twine. Put a few sliced onions, two bay-leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs in a deep ices, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads.225 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continu ed. saucepan, put in the Pork, pour in sufficient water to cover it, anti place it over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, drain the Pork and press it between two plates until cold. Remove the binding from the Pork, cut it into slices, arrange them on a dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Stewed Pickled Pork and Tomatoes.—Put lib. of salted Pork into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onions and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of tinned tomatoes, season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of powdered mace and nutmeg, and add 1 table-spoonful of sugar and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Put the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents at the side of the fire for nearly two hours. When cooked, stir 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb in with the stew, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. PORRIDGE.—A food made by boiling meal in water or milk. See Cornflour, Oatmeal, &c. PORT.—A dark red or purple wine, made in the locality of Oporto, hence its name. Most authorities speak very highly of Port wine, which is generally full- flavoured, fine coloured, 'invigorating, and wholesome. Unfortunately, a good deal of the wine which is sold as Port in this country is little better than imitation. See Wines. Imitation Port Wine.—(1) German cherry juice, 15galls. ; rectified spirits of wine, lOgalls.; pure water, lOgalls.; syrup, 4galls.; tincture of krameria, 1 pint; and port wine (cenanthic ether), 2oz. Thoroughly blended, this is a very useful liquor for cooking; but not recommended where the real thing is at command. (2) For making this wine a mash-tub with a wooden tap at the bottom should be employed. Chop up into lin. lengths 14lb. of autumn rhubarb, bruise it with a wooden mallet, put it into the mash-tub, which should be perfectly clean, then add lgall. each of mashed bilberries and elder- berries ; pour over all 4|galls. of boiling water, cover the tub with a thin cloth, and leave it to ferment. In about five days’ time there will be a crust formed on the top ; then carefully draw off the liquor, taking special care not to break the crust, pour it into a cask, and add 31b. of brown cane sugar to each gallon. Keep back out of the cask lgall. of the liquor to fill up the cask when the after fermentation has ceased, which will be in seven or eight days’ time. Put 2oz. of gelatine into a little of the liquor to soak, then add to it 1 pint more of the liquor, made hot, let it get cold, pour it into the cask, bung up securely, and in four or five months’ time the wine will be fit for use. (3) Pour igall. of elderflower wine into a cask, and add an equal quantity of strained elderberry juice at I70deg. Fahr. In these infuse |oz. of red sanders wood, and dis- solve |oz. of alum and loz. of citric acid. Then pour over ogalls. of sweet cider and 1 |lb. of sugar, 1 tumbler- ful of gin, and lastly loz. of gelatine dissolved as in No. 2. Bung up securely, and use in about six weeks’ tune. Port-Wine Jelly.—(1) Put loz. of isinglass and loz. of gum Arabic in a basin with 1 pint of Port wine, and cover it with a plate. Leave it until the following morning, then turn it into a lined saucepan, mix with it 2oz. of brown sugar candy and a small piece of nutmeg, and simmer gently until the isinglass has dissolved. Strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve and pour it into a mould. When quite cold, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. (2) Steep loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of Port wine for twelve hours. Then put it into a saucepan with 3oz. of sugar candy and boil it until the isinglass is dissolved. Rinse a mould out with cold water, then strain the jelly into it through a jelly-bag, and stand it in a cool place. Whip 1 pint of thick cream with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla. When quite cold and set, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pour the cream round it, and serve. Port—continued. (3) Pour lqt. of calf’s-foot stock into a saucepan and add 1 teacupful of strained lemon-juice, the thin rind of a lemon, |lb. of crushed loaf sugar, and | pint of Port wine. Put the saucepan on the side of the fire and let the liquor simmer gently for five minutes, then add the whites of six eggs, whipped to a stiff froth, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Turn the mixture into a jelly- bag hung over a mould and strain it. Pack the mould in ice, and when the jelly is set and firm turn it out on a dish, and serve. Port-Wine Negus.—Pare the yellow rinds thinly off two oranges, put them in a jug with their strained juice and the juice of one lemon, pour over them 3qts. of boiling water and a bottle of Port wine. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and flavour with a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg. Strain the whole into a lined saucepan, place it over the fire until almost boiling, then back again into the jug, and serve without delay. Port-Wine Sauce.—(1) Pour 1 gill of Port wine into an earthenware jar, and add I wineglassful of melted red- currant jelly, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a small quantity of cayenne, and 1 teacupful of thick brown stock, or the same quantity of the drip- pings from meat, skimmed of all fat. Put the jar into a saucepan of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil. Pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Pour 1 wineglassful of Port wine into a saucepan, and add the juice of half a lemon, a small quantity of cayenne, I table-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and three shallots cut in slices. Set the pan on the fire, boil gently for three minutes, strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. (3) Make | pint of melted butter sauce, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of Port wine, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and boil it gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring it occasionally. At the end of that time, the sauce is ready for serving. PORTER.—This well-known beverage originated with a brewer named Harwood, who manufactured it as a compound suitable for the refreshment of the hard-work- ing London Porter. “The characteristics of pure and wholesome Porter,” says Corley, “ are its transparency, lively dark-brown colour, and its peculiar bitter and slightly burnt taste. Originally, these qualities were derived from the ‘ high- dried malt,’ with which alone it was brewed. It is now generally, if not entirely, made from ‘ pale ’ or ‘ amber malt,’ mixed with a sufficient quantity of ‘ patent ’ or ‘ roasted malt ’ to impart the necessary flavour and colour.” It is to be feared that a great deal of the Porter sold in retail beerhouses is little better than a vile concoction, composed of what is called Porter Extract, dissolved in the beer that runs down the waste-pipe. Porter Cup.—Pour lqt. of Porter into a basin and add l pint of sherry wine, a little nutmeg, and four thin slices of lemon. Cover the basin, pack it in ice, and when the mixture is very cold it is ready to serve round in pint cups. Porter Jelly.—(1) Boil a cow-heel in 5 pints of water until the liquor is reduced to 3 pints, and then strain it. When cold, skim the fat off the jelly, put it into a pan with the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and sugar to taste. When on the point of boiling, mix with the jelly | pint of Porter and the white of one egg to clarify it. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag into a mould, and keep it in a cool place. Turn it on to a dish when ready to serve. This jelly is very nourishing. (2) Clean thoroughly and wash one cow-heel and two calf’s feet, put them into a saucepan with 5 pints of water, and boil them until the flesh separates from the bones; next strain the liquor through a fine sieve into a large bowl, stand it in a cold place, and leave it until the following day. Pour the stock into a saucepan with lib. VOL. II.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 226 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Porter—continued. of loaf sugar, the juice and thinly-pared rinds of four lemons, \ pint of Porter, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten. Boil the liquor, and as it rises to the top of the saucepan pour in 1 teacupful of cold water. Let it continue boiling slowly for about twenty minutes, then pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy and boil it for five minutes longer. Next move the saucepan to the side of the fire and leave it until the scum has well risen to the top of the jelly. Skim it well, and strain it through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Pour it into small moulds, and when cold cover and tie them down. PORTERHOUSE STEAK.—A steak cut from a sirloin of beef, including the upper and under part. See Beef. PORTLAND PUDDING.—See Puddings. PORTUGAISE, A LA.—In Portuguese style. PORTUGAL PUDDING —See Puddings. POSSETS.—This word is derived from the Welsh Posel, which signifies a beverage composed of milk, curdled by boiling with wine or cider. The following are favourite receipts for its manufacture: (1) Boil together in a clean saucepan \ pint of new milk, 1 wineglassful of sherry or marsala, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle or molasses. This is known as treacle Posset, and is ready to serve as soon as the milk coagulates. (2) Sometimes lemon-juice, strong old ale, cider, or vinegar is substituted for the wine; powdered ginger or nutmeg being added at discretion. (3) Bake three or four nice-sized cooking apples. When well done, take them out of the oven and mash them, removing the skin and cores. Cut some slices of white bread about Jin. in thickness, and trim off all the crusts. Put the bread in a saucepan with 1 pint of fresh milk, and boil it till soft; then remove it from the fire, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and flavour with about ,1 tea- spoonful of powdered ginger. Pour the milk and bread into a bowl, gradually stir in the pulped apples, and serve it. (4) Grate up coarsely the crumb of a penny roll and boil it in an enamelled saucepan, adding the grated peel of a bitter orange; when this is clear, add 3oz. of sweet and loz. of pounded bitter almonds, half the juice of an orange, 1 large table-spoonful of moist sugar, and 1 pint of good wine. POT-AU-FEU—This is the standing dish of the French household; from it the cook makes his soups and sauces. According to the mode of preparing it given by most of the French cooks, it answers to our beef-broth. According to Gouffe it is the soul of domestic cookery, and constitutes the most nutritious part of the daily food. In this country it is made in an ordinary sauce- pan, but in France it is usual to make it in an earthenware pot. The following receipts for prepar- ing Pot-au-Feu are supplied by very famous cooks: Thoroughly wash twice in cold water either 61b. of brisket or 81b. of shin of beef. Put it in tlie stockpot and entirely cover with cold water, put it on the fire, and be very careful, as soon as it comes to the boil, to thoroughly skim off all the scum. Add two medium- sized, sound, well-cleaned carrots, one turnip, one good- sized, well-peeled onion with six cloves stuck in it, and two leeks tied together. Season with 2 pinches of salt and eighteen whole peppers; let it boil for four hours. Strain either through a napkin or a sieve into a bowl. Cut the carrots, turnips, and leeks, into round pieces Jin. thick; add all these to the broth, and serve with six quarters of toasted rolls. Half a pound of liver - added with the vegetables improves the colour of the gravy. Pot-au-Feu—con tinned. French Pot-au-Feu.—Trimmings off any kind of joints can be used in the construction of this dish. Melt a lump of butter, in a large saucepan, then put in the pieces of meat, which should have been well washed, with some beef- or mutton-bones, and if possible an old fowl or rabbit. Put the lid on the saucepan, and shake the contents over a slow fire for a few minutes; next move it to the side, pour in boiling water, judging the quantity by that of the meat, and keep it simmering gently at the edge of the fire for three or four hours. At the end of that time put in some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, &c., that have all been nicely prepared, season well, and let the whole continue stewing gently until the vege- tables are tender. A bunch of sweet herbs, tied in a muslin bag, should be put in with the vegetables. When ready, take the vegetables carefully out of the soup and put them in a soup-tureen, strain the liquor through a fine sieve over them, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Pot-au-Feu Soup.—Wash about 5lb. or 61b. of rump of beef in plenty of water, remove the bone, roll it, and tie it with string. Put the meat into a stockpot with a small knuckle of veal and a few poultry giblets; add a small lump of salt. Cover the meat with 6qts. of cold water and place it over a moderate fire. Remove the scum off the liquid as it rises to the surface, and when it commences to boil pour in a small quantity of cold water. Move the stockpot to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently for five hours, keeping them only partially covered with the lid of the stockpot. Two hours after the liquid has boiled put into the pot a few carrots, one large turnip, a parsnip, a root of celery, an onion that has been browned in the oven, and half a blanched colewort. When nearly done put in the soup a few cloves, a bay- leaf, and a bunch of chervil. When cooked, skim and strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a soup-tureen, put in some of the vegetables and some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve it. FOTAGE.—A French term applied generally to soups. POTASH.—A mineral salt figuring largely among the constituents of certain foods. POTASS, NITRATE OF —See Saltpetre. POTATOES (Fr. Pommes de Terre; Ger. Kartoffeln; Ital. Patate; Sp. Patatas).—There is no other vegetable in this world that is so universally esteemed as the Potato, the tuber of a plant belonging to the order Solanacepe, introduced into this country towards the latter part of the sixteenth century by Thomas Herriott, who accompanied Sir Walter Raleigh on several of his voyages. It is said that the Potato originated in Chili and Peru; be that as it may, it is quite certain that the numerous varieties now grown in this country entitle the British Islands to the credit of having very highly cultivated the tuber and brought it to a state of perfection as a vegetable. The Potato (Solanum tuberosum) is exceedingly nutri- tious, and when forming part of a mixed diet is very whole- some. Lindley tells us that in addition to their use as a vegetable, Potatoes furnish a large quantity of starch, employed for various purposes in the arts. It forms the basis of certain farinaceous foods, as Bright’s Nutritious Farina, &c., and is mixed with wheaten flour in the manu- facture of bread. This adulteration can readily be detected by the microscope, especially on the addition of a solution of potash, which causes the starch granules of the Potato to swell up, while no effect is produced on the starch grains of wheat. From Potato-starch is also pro- cured a substance analogous to gum, called dextrine, which is employed as a substitute for gum, size, and paste. The pulp of the Potato, after extracting the starch, becomes so hard and homy when dried, that at one time snuff-boxes were said to be made from it. RawTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 227 Potatoes—continued. Potatoes scraped are a popular cooling application to burns and scalds. From Potatoes a coarse-tasting brandy is pre- pared in large quanti- ties on the Continent. The stem and leaves have slightly nar- cotic properties, on which account the extract from them has been employed as a narcotic to allay pain in cough and rheumatism, &c. Po- tatoes, when decay- ing, have been stated to emit a phospho- rescent light, but this requires confirma- tion. The celeb rated Sweet Potato (see Fig. 285) of America is the tuber of a climbing plant, to which the name “ Potato ” was first applied. It is not known in this coun- try, although it was introduced by Sir Francis Drake and Sir John Hawkins, and a good crop was grown at F ormby, in Lancashire. It forms a prime vege- table of the Southern and Central States of America. Another name for it is the Spanish Potato. Boussingault gives the following as the average com- position of the tubers of the Potato: Moist. Dry. Water 75-9 — Albumen 2-3 9-6 Oily matter 0-2 0-8 Fibre 0-4 1-7 Starch 20-2 83-8 Salts 10 41 100-0 100 0 In culinary matters the Potato is chiefly known as “ New ” or “ Old”; but Nicholson, in his “Dictionary of Gardening,” describes the following varieties : Kidney-shaped.—Ashleaf, Myatt’s Prolific, a well known, prolific sort, which follows the old variety in season. Ashleaf, Old, a very old variety, but still one of the best for early supplies. Ashleaf, Veitch’s Improved Early, of handsome appearance, excellent quality, and fine flavour. Beauty of Hebron, early, very handsome, smooth in texture, and slightly tinged with pink round the eye. Cosmopolitan, an excellent early white variety, of fine form, and of superior quality. Covent Garden Perfection, a second early white variety, of medium size and very handsome shape, remarkably free from disease. Early Dwarf-top, early. Early Rose (see Fig. 286), a first early, American variety. International Kidney, one of the finest kidneys. Lapstone, a well-known and good sort, of fine shape and excellent quality. Magnum Bonum, a late sort, very free from disease. Miss Fowler, a late white variety, seedling from Woodstock Kidney, but much more prolific, and a thorough disease-resister, of moderate size, very even, and of finest quality. Prince Arthur, one of the best, an excellent keeper, white, very floury, and of first-class quality. Welford Park Kidney, large, of first rate quality, Potatoes—continued. very smooth, with clear white skin; one of the finest varieties. Woodstock Kidney, of beautiful shape, with very level eyes and rather rough skin, white and mealy. Worrn- Fig. 286. Early Rose Potato. leighton Seedling, an excellent sort and a good keeper. Yorkshire Hero, a variety of unusual excellence, smooth, handsome, and a long keeper. Bound.—Beauty of Kent, a very handsome, second early variety; flattish-oval, rich rosy pink colour, keeps good till March. Bedfont Prolific, a second early sort, of the finest quality. Blanchard, a fine large variety, of good shape with clear white skin, beautifully streaked with purple. Dalmalioy, a second early variety, of excellent quality. Dunbar Regent, a well-known, good late sort. Early Coldstream, a remarkably early variety, of good shape, and very white and floury. Early Regent, early, and of good flavour. Grampian, skin pinkish white, flaked with rich rosy pink round the eyes. M.P. (see Fig. 287), an excellent white variety, with rather deep eyes. Paterson’s Victoria, large and excellent. Porter’s Excelsior, a capital variety. Radstock Beauty, of fine quality. Reading Hero, of ex- cellent quality, and very free from disease. Reading Russet, second early variety, of good quality. Red Emperor, or Main Crop, skin clear light red. Schoolmaster, Fig. 287. M.P. Potato. a very superior variety, large, round, of regular form, with small eyes, white and floury when cooked. Scotch Champion, a good variety, very free from disease. Vicar of Laleham, purple, round, of first-rate quality. Machines for peeling Potatoes with rapidity and accu- racy have been recently invented; the peel removed is so thin that there is a great saving over the usual hand process of peeling; and it obviates the necessity of handling the vegetable, as the knife follows the shape Q For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. o228 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saucest dsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. of the Potato so closely that there is hardly any trimming required afterwards. They will also peel carrots, turnips, radishes, oranges, or lemons. Baked Potatoes.—(J) Put lib. or 21b. of Potatoes as nearly of a size as possible into a bowl of water and scrub them well, take them out, wipe them dry on a cloth, put them in a hot oven, and bake for an hour, by which time they should be quite soft and mealy. Fold them in a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 288), and serve with butter and seasoning. (2) Peel and wash the Potatoes, which should be large, and cut them into slices about Jin. thick; spread a layer of them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table, spread plenty of butter over them, cover with another layer, and so on until all are used, allowing about fib. of butter for each pound of Potatoes; dust them over with salt and pepper, and bake them in a good oven until tender. When the Potatoes are cooked, garnish round them with a border of fried parsley, and serve very hot. (3) Well wash and peel 2qts. of Potatoes, cut them up in rather thick slices, and put them in a baking-pan. Add a little of the green part of an onion, a small lump of butter, salt to taste, and pour in a little less than Jgall. of milk. Put the baking-pan in a very slow oven at first, gradually increasing the heat, and let the slices of Potatoes remain in the pan until the milk is nearly all dried up or has the appearance of cream, and it as well as the Potatoes are well browned on the top. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Baked Potatoes with Breadcrumbs.—Peel and boil lib. or so of Potatoes, mash them, and pass them through a sieve. Pile them on a dish in the form of a small cone, sprinkle them over with breadcrumbs, and pour over the breadcrumbs a little warmed butter; set the dish in the oven, and let it remain for a few minutes until the breadcrumbs are well browned. (A salamander may be used instead of baking if desired.) Take out the dish, which should be the one in which the Potatoes are to be served, and the puree is ready for use. Boiled New Potatoes.—Put lib. or so of new Potatoes into a bowl of water, scrape off the thin skins, and wash them. Drop them as they are skinned and washed into another bowl of water, and let them remain for an hour' or so. Take them out, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, set the pan on the fire, Potatoes—continued. and boil gently from fifteen to thirty minutes. Drain off the water and let them dry in the saucepan for a few minutes, turn them into a vegetable-dish, fold them in a napkin (see Fig. 289), and serve. Boiled Potatoes.—(1) Take twelve medium-sized Potatoes, wash them thoroughly, peel off a piece of the skin Jin. wide round each Potato to ensure mealiness, and lay them in a saucepan, covering them with cold water and adding J handful of salt; place the lid on and cook for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Drain, lay on a napkin placed on a hot dish in which you envelop the Potatoes, and serve. (2) Peel and cut into dice, |in. or Jin. thick, about lib. of Potatoes, put them into a saucepan of boiling water suffi- cient to cover them, and let them boil till tender. Take them out, skin them, return them to the saucepan without the water, add butter with flour worked into it, in pro- portion to the quantity of Potatoes, boil up once more, add a little chopped parsley, pepper them, and serve. Broiled Potatoes.—Peel six medium-sized cooked Pota- toes, cut them in halves, lay them on a dish, and season them with a pinch of salt. Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter over them and roll them well in it. Arrange them on a double broiler, and broil them on a moderate fire for three minutes on each side. Place them in a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Browned Potatoes.—(I) Peel and wash some Potatoes, and either boil or steam for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so. They must always be boiled or partly boiled before browning, as otherwise the outer crust would be very indigestible and the inner parts uncooked. Take them out of the saucepan, drain, put them into a baking-dish with a little fat or dripping, set the dish in the oven, and bake gently for about forty minutes, basting them frequently. Take them out when done and well browned, drain off all the fat, put them in a vegetable-dish, and serve. (2) Boil the Potatoes for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so, sprinkle them well over with flour, and put them in the dripping-pan about an hour before the meat is done. When taken out, all the grease or fat must be strained off before being served. As the addition of cold Potatoes would lower the temperature under the meat, add them whilst hot from boiling. Casserole of Potatoes.—Boil lib. or 21b. of Potatoes, and when done take them out and mash them. Make them into a stiff paste by adding a little butter and cream and a slight sprinkling of salt, and form it into a casserole. Put it on a dish, make an opening in the centre, brown it in the oven, and it is ready for use. Chip Potatoes.—Peel and wash a dozen or so of rather small Potatoes, divide them into pieces resembling the sections of an orange, and plunge them into a basin of water. Take them out, dry them on a cloth, put them in a frying-pan with melted fat to a little more than half their height, and let them fry until they are partly done and begin to float. Skim out the Potatoes, set the pan on a fiercer fire, and when the fat is smoking hot return the Potatoes to it and fry until the pieces blow them- selves out and are quite brown. Take them out, drain off all the fat from them, dust over -with salt, and serve in a vegetable-dish. Creamed Potatoes.—Cut Jib. of cold-boiled Potatoes into small cubes or dice about Jin. in diameter, put them into a shallow baking-pan, pour over sufficient milk or cream to cover them, put the pan in the oven or on the side of the fire, and cook gently until nearly all the milk is absorbed. Then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoon- ful each of finely-chopped parsley and salt, and J salt- spoonful of pepper, and mix thoroughly. When the whole are thoroughly warmed turn them into a vegetable-dish, and serve at once. Curried Potatoes.—(1) Have ready boiled lib. or 21b. of Potatoes, leave them until cold, and then cut them into slices. The Potatoes should be rather underdone than overdone. Peel and slice a couple of onions, put them in a stewpan with a large lump of butter, and fry them229 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., rej'erred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. until beginning to brown; then put the Potatoes in with them, dust over with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, season to taste with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, moisten with a small quantity of clear stock that has been perfectly freed from fat, and toss the whole over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick out the required quantity of good sound Potatoes, peel and wash them, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with a peeled and sliced onion and a lump of butter, and fry them lightly. Dredge 1 table-spoonful of curry powder over them, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of stock to cover; add a tomato and a small boiled vegetable-marrow, both sliced, also a small quantity of the milk from a cocoa-nut. Let the curry simmer gently at the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. When ready, squeeze the juice of half a lemon in the curry, turn it into a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve it with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. Fried Potatoes.—Peel and wash six large Potatoes, cut them up into fine slices Jin. in thickness, plunge them into very hot clarified beet-suet or fat, and cook slowly. When they are soft lift them out with a skimmer. It generally takes ten minutes to cook them. Heat the fat again to boil- ing-point, put the Potatoes back, smooth them down with a skimmer, and after two minutes they will swell up con- siderably ; lift them out with the skimmer, drain, sprinkle over with 1 pinch of salt, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. These Potatoes answer for garnishing chops and other meats. A little glaze may be put in with fat if desired. Glazed Potatoes.—Boil and skin lib. or so of floury Potatoes, roll them in yolk of egg, and place them before the fire to brown. Serve hot. Imitation New Potatoes.—Peel the Potatoes round and round until the size of new ones, wash them, and boil for ten minutes; drain, roll them up quickly in a cloth, and put them on the hob at the side of the fire for ten minutes longer. Next put them in a stewpan, moisten them to height with cream, and boil very gently at the edge of the fire until they are quite tender. When the Potatoes are cooked, take them one at a tune out of the stewpan, put them on a hot dish, pour the cream round them, and serve. Care must be taken to avoid cooking them too much, or they will break. White sauce may be used instead of cream if more convenient. Mashed Potatoes.—(1) This is considered the best way to serve Potatoes that are very old. Peel and wash the Potatoes, put them into a bowl of cold water, and let them remain for an hour or so to soak; then put them in a saucepan with sufficient slightly-salted water to cover them, set tbe pan on the fire, and boil gently from half to three-quarters of-an-hour. Drain off all the water when they are done, turn the Potatoes into a mortar or large bowl, and pound them well with a pestle or end of a rolling- Potatoes—continued. pin. If there is about lib. weight of the pulp, put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk, warm it on the fire, and stir it into the mashed Potatoes, care being taken not to have them too wet. Put the mash into a vegetable-disli, mark it over with a fork, brown it in front of the fire or with a salamander (see Fig. 290), and serve. (2) Indian Style.—Cut up into slices a large onion and two hot green chillies, put them in a basin, squeeze over the juice of a fresh lime, and let them remain for several hours to soak. In the meantime well boil about ten good-sized Potatoes, add h teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of mustard oil, bruise the Potatoes with a fork, add the onions and chillies and a little lime-juice, and mix thoroughly with the hand, using it lightly so that the Potatoes, although well mashed and mixed, will not cake. When ready put the mixture on a dish, and serve. This dish is usually served as an accompaniment to curry and rice. Potatoes a la Barigoule.—Peel and wash ten Potatoes, put them into a saucepan with broth to cover, and boil them gently until tender. Drain the Potatoes as carefully as possible so as not to break them. Pour about 1 teacupful of olive oil into a deep frying-pan, put it over the fire until hot, then put in the Potatoes, and turn them about gently until lightly browned all over. Put them on a dish, sprinkle salt, pepper, and vinegar all over them, and serve hot. Potatoes a la Duchesse.—Beat some nice floury Potatoes to a flour with a fork, not pounding them but whipping them up lightly while hot. Have two eggs ready beaten, whites and yolks separately, the whites being beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the yolks in lightly to the mashed Potatoes, together with salt and pepper to taste, 1 table- spoonful of butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream; whip all together to a creamy heap, and then lightly and quickly whip in the frothed whites. Put the mixture in a saucepan over the fire, and stir all together till thoroughly hot, then turn it on to a dish and let it stand till quite cold. Dip a cake-cutter into cold water, and with it cut the Potato paste into rounds or squares. Grease the inside of a baking-tin, lay the Potato cakes in it in rows, but not so closely as to touch one another, and bake them in a quick oven, as soon as they begin to brown brushing them over with beaten egg. Fold a napkin on a hot dish, arrange them nicely on it, and serve. Potatoes a la Gastronome.—Peel, clean, and with a tube- cutter cut twelve medium-sized Potatoes into pieces Him long. Place them in a saucepan, cover with water, add 1 pinch of salt, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Drain them, place on a hot dish, pour over 1 gill of hot pdrigueux sauce, and serve. Potatoes a la Genevoise.—Peel, wash, and drain four medium-sized Potatoes, cut them into shreds, and wash and drain them again. Season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper. Butter lightly six tartlet-moulds with clarified butter, cover the bottoms with grated Parmesan cheese, arrange a layer of Potatoes on top, sprinkle more cheese over them, and continue till all are filled, finishing by sprinkling cheese over the surface and dropping a little clarified butter over all. Set them on a very hot stove for two minutes, then place in a hot oven, and bake them for twenty-five minutes. Turn them out, place them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve. Potatoes au Gratin.—(1) Wash some Potatoes, put them in a saucepan of water with their skins on, and boil them. Peel and mash them well. Spread a layer of the Potato in a baking-dish, grate some Parmesan cheese over, and put in a few lumps of butter. Use up the remainder of the Potato in this manner, finishing at the last with grated cheese and butter. Brown under a hot salamander or in the oven, and serve while very hot. (2) Mash eight cold boiled Potatoes, place them in a dish (a silver one preferrred), sprinkle over them 2 table-230 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, t&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. spoonfuls each of Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, spread well over them a piece of butter the size of a walnut, then place the dish in the oven. After ten minutes, when of a good golden colour, serve. Potatoes d l’ltalienne.—(1) Take some nice floury boiled Potatoes, and beat them to flour with a fork. ' Do not pound them, but whip them up lightly while hot. Have two eggs ready beaten, whites and yolks separately, the whites to a stiff froth. Beat the yoiks in lightly to the mashed Potatoes, together with salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Whip all together to a creamy heap, and then lightly and Fig. 291. Potatoes a l’Italienne. quickly whip in the frothed whites. Butter a baking-tin, and pile the mash into it, making the top as rocky as possible. Brown in a quick oven, slip on to a hot flat dish, and serve. See Fig. 291. (2) Boil eight medium-sized Potatoes in boiling water, peel them, put them in a saucepan, and mash them; add loz. of butter and a piece of fresh bread the size of a French roll, without any crust, soaked in milk; add 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, in order to form a pliable paste, three yolks of eggs, and the whites of three beaten to a froth; season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper, and J of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well together, pile it high on a baking dish, pour over it a little melted butter, sprinkle over a little Parmesan cheese, and place it in the oven. After ten minutes, when of a good golden colour, serve. Potatoes a la Julienne.—Peel Potatoes of medium size, cut them in slices and crosswise with a fluted vegetable- knife, fry them in plenty of smoking-hot fat, and serve hot. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise.—Cut eight boiled Potatoes into round slices, lay them in a frying-pan with 1 ioz. of butter and the round slices of a fried onion, and season with \ Fig. 292. Potatoes 1 la Lyonnaise. pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook well together for six minutes until well browned, toss them well, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over the whole. Sec Fig. 282. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel.—(1) Peel and boil some nice Potatoes, taking care not to overdo them; drain, and leave them until cold, then cut them into rather thick slices. Put a large piece of butter into a flat stewpan, dredge in \ table-spoonful of flour, and stir it until - dissolved and melted; mix in gradually 1 breakfast- Fotatoes—continued. cupful of broth, and continue stirring until it boils, then put in the Potatoes, with about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and pepper to taste. Stew the Potatoes for two or three minutes, then move the pan to the edge of the fire, and stir in quickly the yolk of one egg that has been beaten with 1 teaspoonful of cold water and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice. When the egg has thickened, turn the Potatoes with their sauce on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Take eight medium-sized boiled Potatoes, peel them, cut them into slices, and place them in a saucepan with loz. of butter and 1 pinch of chopped parsley; season with | pinch each of salt and pepper, J pinch of nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Warm all together, toss well, add \ breakfast-cupful of cream, heat slightly once more, and serve. Potatoes with. Bacon.—Cut loz. of bacon or pork into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with |oz. of butter, and cook for live minutes; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir, and brown well for four minutes; moisten with 1 pint of white broth, and cook for five minutes longer. Put in eight well peeled, washed, and sliced raw Potatoes, season with half a pinch of pepper and ^ of a pinch of nutmeg, put the lid on, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Then skim off' the fat, and serve in a hot deep dish. Potato Balls.—(1) Mash lib. of boiled Potatoes, rub them through a wire sieve, mix with them Jib. of grated ham, a little chopped parsley or finely-powdered, dried sweet herbs, a small onion very finely chopped, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and the beaten yolks of two Fig. 293. Potato Balls. eggs. Roil this mixture into balls (see Fig. 293), flour or egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry them in dripping, or brown them before the fire in a Dutch oven, and serve on a hot dish. (2) Peel and boil the Potatoes, mash them through a fine hair sieve, beat them up with the yolks of two or three eggs and a little thick cream, but do not make them too liquid; add a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and onion, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the mixture up in table-spoon- fuls and mould it into small round balls with floured hands. Put a lump of butter in a saute-pan, and place it on the fire; when melted, lay the balls in carefully and fry them slowly, turning them when done on one side. When nicely and equally browned, drain the Potatoes on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire for a minute. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Potato balls on it, garnish round with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Beer.—Peel four or five white sweet Potatoes, rub them through a coarse grater into a bowl, pour over 3galls. of boiling water, flavour with ten or twelve cloves, and sweeten to taste. Clarify with egg-shells, let it stand for a day or so, strain, pour it into bottles, cork them up tightly, and in six or seven days it will have fermented slightly and be ready for use. Potato Biscuits.—(1) Procure good mealy Potatoes and boil them till soft, then peel and mash them, and mix loz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt with them. When231 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. the butter lias dissolved, pour in \ pint of milk and 1 teacupful of yeast. Mix sufficient flour with the Potatoes to bring them to the consistency of thick paste, and put it in a warm place to rise. When the paste has well risen, mould it into small biscuits, leave them for fifteen minutes to rise, and then bake them. (2) Put into a mortar about 12oz. of pulp from roasted Potatoes, add Jib. of butter, and pound them well. Then add 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 2oz. of Hour, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt, and continue to pound until a smooth paste 'is obtained. Put this on a floured table, divide it into pieces about the size of a walnut, roll them out to about 3Jin. in length, put them on a slightly- buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with egg, and bake in a slack oven until they are well coloured. Put them into a dry closet until they are crisp, and they are then ready for use. (3) With 4oz. of sugar rub off the rind of a quarter of an orange or lemon, put it into a mortar, pound it, and add the yolks of three eggs and 1 table-spoonful of orris powder. Work well with a spoon for about ten minutes, then add the whites of three eggs whipped to a froth, also ljoz. of dried and sifted Potato-flour, and continue to work until a smooth paste is obtained. Put this into small tartlet-pans, having them well-buttered and dusted with sugar, sprinkle more sugar over the surface, and bake in a moderate oven for from eighteen to twenty minutes. Take them out, remove them from the pans, and serve. Potato Borders.—These are much used to form walls for holding various kinds of thick stews, hashes, minces, or ragouts. The Potatoes are first boiled, and then mashed up either with or without butter and beaten eggs. If a mould is used (see Fig. 294) it should be first well buttered, and the Potatoes beaten up thoroughly and worked into a nicely-seasoned paste with two eggs to every pound of Potatoes. Press the paste firmly into the moulds, level off with a knife, set in a quick oven for half-an-hour, or only a few minutes, according to whether the Potato border is desired browned or not. Turn out on to a dish. A border Fig. 294. Moulds for Potato Borders (Adams and Son). of mashed Potatoes may be laid round a hot dish with a spoon, and after being worked into shape, and roughened with the prongs of a fork, it can be set in a hot-closet or moderate oven to warm up again before putting in the stew, or whatever it is intended to contain. Potato Cake.—(1) Large.—Mash some cold boiled Potatoes, dredge them over lightly with flour, season them well with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of yeast. Mix the Potatoes with a little cold milk or thin cream into a not too thin paste, and roll it out to a round shape about lin. in thickness. Procure a frying-pan that will hold the cake nicely, put a lump of butter in it, and melt it; then put in the cake, cover it with a plate, and cook it over a good fire. When one side of the cake is done, turn it carefully over, adding more butter if necessary, and cook the other side. Drain the cake well, lay it on a. lace-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin spread over a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Blanch and pound together 2oz. of sweet and 6oz. of bitter almonds, mixing a small quantity of the white of egg with them occasionally to prevent them oiling. Separate the yolks and whites of ten eggs, and whisk the yolks well with 6oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the pounded almonds, 1 breakfast-cupful of mashed Potatoes, 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, and the grated rind of half a lemon, and work the ingredients until well incor- porated. Whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff snow, then stir them in gently with the above mixture. Potatoes—continued. Thickly butter the interior of a cake-tin, strew in some bread raspings, shake out what is loose, and pour in the cake batter. Sufficient room should be left in the mould for the cake to rise. Bake in a brisk oven. When cooked turn the cake out of the tin, and serve cold. (3) Bake sufficient Potatoes to make lilb. of the pulp when rubbed through a fine sieve, put this into a mortar, and work in gradually 12oz. of butter, 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, loz. of candied pounded orange-flowers, a little salt, the yolks of six eggs, and about 1 teacupful of double cream. Pass the whole of the mixture through a fine sieve, form it into the shape of a cake, put it into a moderate oven, and bake until done. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. (4) Small.—Wash the Potatoes, and roast them in the oven; when cooked, scoop them out of their skins into a mortar, pound them with a small piece of butter, mix with them in moderate quantities some finely-minced shallot and parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Mould the mixture into small cakes, and dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cakes and fry them a delicate brown. Take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of paper for a few minutes to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli- cover over a hot dish, arrange the cakes on it with a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve them. Potatoes in Cases.—Well wash eight or nine Potatoes, selecting them as large and mealy as possible, put them into hot ashes or in a quick oven, and bake them. Take them out, cut off a round of the peel the size of a florin from the top or end of them, and carefully scoop out all the inside pulp. Mash this, pass it through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk and cream in equal proportions, and Hoz. of warmed butter. Set the pan over a slow fire and boil gently, adding gradually the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth. Fill up the Potato skins with this mixture, put them in the oven till they are thoroughly warmed, put them in paper cases, arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Potato Cassolettes.—Mince very finely a few sprigs of thyme, carefully picking out every trace of stalk. Mash \ lib. of mealy Potatoes until quite smooth, mix in the thyme, 1 pinch of powdered mace, and a very small grating of nutmeg, and season with pepper and salt. Use a little butter and two beaten eggs to make this into a paste, and then form the paste into cakes of any shape preferred, and either poach in the oven or fry in fat until brown. Serve very hot piled on a dish, or used as a garnish for a chicken ragout. Potato Cheese Cakes.—(1) Peel and wash sufficient Potatoes to weigh 6oz. when boiled, and mash them up as. fine as possible. In the meantime, put Jib. of lemon-peel into a saucepan of water, and boil it until quite tender; then take it out, drain it, put it into a mortar with 4oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar, and pound well. Put this mixture into a basin containing the mashed Potatoes, and work them together by adding 4oz. of butter warmed in a little hot cream. Have ready some small patty-pans lined with puff paste, a little more than half fill them with the Potato pulp, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, put them into a hot oven, anil bake for thirty minutes. Take them out, turn the cheese cakes out of the pans, let them get quite cold, and they are ready to be served. (2) Mash smoothly about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold 1 toiled Potatoes, and mix with them Jib. of butter, work- ing it in well, 6oz. of washed and dried currants, and 4oz. of moist sugar. Butter some patty-pans, strew grated breadcrumbs inside, fill them with the Potato mixture, and bake them in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, turn them out of the patty pans, put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (3) Beat Jib. of lemon-peel in a mortar with Jib. of sugar; add Jib. of floury boiled Potatoes mashed smooth, and then232 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. mix in Jib. of butter warmed in a small quantity of cream. Mix all well together, and let the mixture stand till cold. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, dredge a little powdered white sugar over them, and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. Potato-and-Chervil Soup.—Peel and wash Jib. of Potatoes, boil them, and pass them through a sieve into a saucepan; add a small lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient milk to make it of the required consistency; set the pan on the fire, and boil once. Sprinkle in a handful of chopped chervil, turn the soup into a tureen over a few pieces of fried bread, and serve. Potato Chops.—(1) Boil some Potatoes, and when cooked season them with salt and pepper, and mash them smoothly with a little milk. Bone a nice loin chop, trim it, beat it with a cutlet bat, put it into a stewpan, pour a small quantity of clear well-seasoned gravy over it, add a little rice, and stew it gently. When the chop is tender, turn it with the rice and gravy on to a hot dish, spread the Potatoes in a thick layer over the top, baste them with ] or 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, and brown them in a brisk oven or under a salamander. Serve while hot on the same dish. (2) Trim some loin of mutton chops neatly, and spread over them some finely-chopped mint that has been fried in a little butter. Mash some cold boiled Potatoes together with loz. of butter, moistening them with a small quantity of milk, and seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Cover the chops with the Potatoes, completely enveloping them. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a fiat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when it boils, put in the chops, and fry them till nicely browned. When cooked, put the chops on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain off as much of the fat as possible. .Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the chops on it, garnish them with freshly-gathered mint and watercress, and serve. Potato Colcannon.—Peel, wash, and boil lib. of Potatoes, and when done mash them. Clean an equal bulk of cabbage or greens, put them in a separate saucepan, and boil them; take them out when done, drain and squeeze them quite dry, and chop them up very small. Mix these ingredients together, and add a large lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Butter a pudding- dish, put in the mixture, place the dish in a quick oven, and bake for seven or eight minutes. When done, turn it out on to a flat vegetable-dish, and serve. Potato Cones.—Peel and boil plenty of floury Potatoes, and when soft drain and mash them to a smooth paste, adding butter and milk to moisten them. Shape the paste into several small cones, brush them over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten egg, and lay them carefully in a frying-basket, being careful not to damage their shape. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan and place it on the fire until it boils; then put in the basket with the cones, and fry them a bright golden brown. Drain them when cooked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental disli-paper, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 295), and serve. Potatoes—continued. Potato Cream with Rum.—Dissolve Joz. of gelatine in a glass of water. Put the yolks of eight eggs into a stew- pan with 1 table-spoonful of Potato-starch and 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar; stir the mixture with a spoon, adding gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and con- tinue stirring it over a slow fire till thick and on the point of boiling; then pour it into a basin and leave till cool. Pour 1 wineglassful of rum into 1 teacupful of apricot marmalade, ami when well mixed stir it into the above cream; then add the dissolved gelatine. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir it over ice till thickened; then pour it into a cylinder- mould, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Potato Cream Soup.—Boil in 3qts. of water till reduced to 2qts. some veal-bones, a small knuckle bone of ham or a slice of pickled pork, and a bunch of vegetables. Finely chop an onion, and put it into the soup. Peel and boil two large Potatoes, and when cooked drain them and mash them, mixing in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk. Mix the Potato-cream with the soup, then strain it through a colander into a soup-tureen, season it with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and serve. Potato Cream Soup without Meat.—Peel and wash lib. of Potatoes, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them. Chop up half-a-dozen each of carrots and onions, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them likewise. Drain the Potatoes when they are done, mash them, and work up with them lqt. of milk and Jib. of butter. Rub this through a sieve into the saucepan containing the cooked vegetables, stir them all well, and the soup should be ready to be served, and as stiff as cream; if too thin add a thickening of flour, if too thick a little more milk. Potato Croquettes.—Take four large floury boiled Potatoes, add to them half their weight of butter and the same quantity of powdered white sugar. Put them into a mortar, and pound them together with a little salt, the grated peel of half a lemon, and two beaten eggs. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, roll the paste in the mortar into short thick shapes like a cork, dip them in the beaten yolks, and then roll them in sifted breadcrumbs; let them stand for an hour, then dip them in the beaten egg or brush it over them, roll them again in the breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling lard or butter. Lay them on paper to drain, arrange them on an ornamental paper, spread over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Potato Croustade.—Put lib. of the pulp of boiled Potatoes into a bowl, and mash it very smooth and dry; add the yolks of two eggs, set the bowl over the fire, and stir well until it is again dry. Form it into a case or shell brush it over with yolk of egg, put it in the oven, and bake to a light brown. Take it out, and it is ready for use. In the meantime pour 1 gill of white sauce into a saucepan, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, half that quantity of essence of anchovies, and the flesh of a lobster or half a tin of preserved lobster; set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and heat the mixture without letting it boil. Pour this sauce (which should be quite thick) into the Potato case, and serve. Potato Crulles.—Peel and wash the Potatoes, then cut them round and round in curls (see Fig. 296), something in the same manner that apples are peeled. Put two flat stewpans over the fire with an equal quantity of lard in each. When boiling, throw the crulles into one of the pans of lard, and fry them until just beginning to take colour, then take them out quickly with a drainer and throw them into the second pan of boiling lard. When nicely browned and soft, take the Potatoes out of the fat, and drain them for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Potatoes on it, dredge a small quantity of salt over them, - and serve while very hot; or they make a very pretty garnish.233 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. Potato and Cucumber.—Peel and boil lib. of Potatoes until they are tender (they should not be too much done, or they will break), drain them, and cut them into thin slices. Slice a cucumber, arrange the slices tastefully with the Potatoes in a salad-bowl, strew minced chives over the top and a small quantity of chopped tarragon. Prepare a dressing with salad-oil, vinegar, sour cream, and one egg, the oil predomi- nating. Beat the mixture well, season it with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. The Po- tatoes may be either served hot or cold. Potato Custard.—Put lib- of baked Potato pulp into a basin, and mix in ill), of butter, fib. of caster sugar, 1 pint of milk, and half-a- dozen eggs. Stir these in well, anil add 1 wineglassful of brandy and a little grated nutmeg and cinnamon to flavour. Line a pie-dish with a light pastry crust, put in the Potato mixture, place the dish in a mode rate oven, and bake until the pie is done, then serve; or to lib. of Potato pulp use twelve eggs beaten separately, 12oz. of butter, lqt. of milk, lib. of sugar, a flavouring of nutmeg and cinnamon, and proceed as before. Potato Cutlets with Tomatoes.—Cut some cold mutton into slices of moderate thickness, and spread them over on each side with a layer of mashed Potatoes that have been seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a large lump of clarified fat or butter into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets and fry them. As they brown, take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper before the fire to drain. Put some ripe tomatoes in boiling water until their skins will come off easily, then peel them. Put them in a small saucepan, break two or three eggs over them, and stir them at the side of the fire until thick and somewhat resembling scrambled eggs in appearance. Pile the tomatoes in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round them, and serve. Potato Eggs.—Mince the remains of some cold veal or fowl, freeing it from skin and bone, mix with it a third of its quantity of mashed Potatoes, and a few chopped mush- rooms, and season with plenty of pepper and a small quantity of salt. Work in a small lump of butter with the mixture, bind it with beaten egg, and then with two table-spoons mould it into egg-shaped balls. Put a large piece of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the balls and fry them a delicate brown. As each lot of balls are cooked, take them out of the fat, drain them, and pile them on a hot dish on which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Serve hot. Potatoes for Entrees.—Take out all the insides of six baked Potatoes, work in with it a little butter, salt, breadcrumbs, and chopped parsley, beat well with a fork, and work in an egg. Boil some salsify-root until tender, pass it through a fine sieve, mix it with a little cream, and season to taste. Half fill some well-buttered egg-cups with the Potato mixture, put 1 teaspoonful of the salsify cream over, fill up with more of the Potato mixture, turn them oirt, brush them over with egg, dust with bread- crumbs, plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry. Take them out, drain them, and serve hot, with a cream sauce poured round or in a sauceboat. Potato Flour.—Thoroughly wash about 1 bushel of Potatoes, grate them on a coarse cheese-grater, put the Potato flour Potatoes—continued. into deep dishes with plenty of water, and leave it until the following morning. Strain off the water, which will carry away a portion of the fibrous matter, pour in more, stir well, and leave it for twelve hours longer; then pour off the water again. Repeat this operation until the white sediment is quite free from all fibrous matter, then leave until dry. W hen perfectly dry, pass the flour through a fine hair sieve, put it into bottles, and keep them well stoppered. The summer is the best time for preparing this flour. Potato Pritters.—(1) Mix 1 gill of cream into 6 table- spoonfuls of finely-mashed Potatoes, beat it up lightly, and nib it through a sieve; mix with it the yolks of five eggs beaten up light with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, and continue to whisk till the mixture is a creamy froth; then add the strained juice and half the grated peel of a lemon, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and loz. of self- raising flour, and whisk for five minutes longer; beat in then the whites of five eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Drop the batter in spoonfuls into boiling lard, and fry the fritters a pale brown. Lay them on a paper to drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve at once with wine sauce. (2) Peel and wash lib. of Potatoes, and boil them ; when tender, drain the water off thoroughly, and mash them in the saucepan, mixing 1 pint of milk with them. Stir them over the fire until boiling, then put in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of crushed macaroons, and stir for two or three minutes longer; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and stir them in quickly with the Potato mixture. Spread the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cold. Put about 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs on a sheet of paper, and beat an egg well. Divide the cold mixture into small quantities, mould them into round balls, dip them in the beaten egg, and roll them well in the bread- crumbs. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the balls, and fry them until a golden brown. Take them out as they are cooked, and put them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain off the fat. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters on it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (3) Mash fine two good-sized floury boiled Potatoes, mix with them 1 table-spoonful each of cream and white wine, a few drops of lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four eggs and the whites of three, well beaten. When all these are thoroughly mixed, continue to beat the batter for at least half-an-hour. Fry in plenty of boiling lard, dropping the batter in by spoonfuls. Serve with hot wine sauce; or a sauce may be made of the strained juice of one lemon, 1 dessert-spoonful of almond or peach-leaf water, 1 glass of white wine, and sugar to taste, mixed together and made hot. (4) Scrub and clean one dozen or so large Potatoes, put them into a quick oven, and bake until they are quite soft. Take them out, scrape out all the pulp, and rub it through a fine sieve into a saucepan. Work in with a wooden spoon a third of its bulk of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar to flavour it, and the yolks of nine or ten eggs. Set the pan over a slow fire, and beat the contents till quite smooth ; then turn it out on to a baking-sheet, and when quite cool separate it into small equal-sized pieces. Roll these into the shape of a cork, flatten them with a knife, cut them into small rounds with a tin cutter, dip them into well-beaten egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fiy. Take them out when done, drain off all the fat, roll them in caster sugar, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. (5) Put two or three large Potatoes into a bowl of water, and scrub and wash them well; put them into a quick oven or on hot ashes, and bake or roast them. Take them out, scrape out all the insides into a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a small quantity of salt, a little cream and butter, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Beat in with a wooden spoon one or two eggs, adding only sufficient to make the mixture into a stiff paste. Let this get quite Fig. 296. Potato Crulles.234 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. cold, form it into small balls, dip them into hatter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take them out when browned and floating, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve at once. Potatoes with Herring's.—Wash and boil 21b. of Potatoes in their skins, and drain them before they begin to break. Peel them and cut them in slices. Peel and slice two small onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until beginning to colour; next dredge them over with flour, pour in h teacupful of vinegar and about 1 teacupful of water, add one bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer at the side of the fire. Wash a couple of Dutch herrings, bone them, cut the flesh into small pieces, put them into the sauce, and let them simmer for a few minutes longer; next put in the Potatoes, with 1 teacupful of milk and loz. of butter, and stir the whole gently over the fire until very hot. In the preparation of this dish care should be taken not to break the slices of Potatoes. When ready, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. Potato Klosse.—(1) Warm 6oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then beat in with it six yolks of eggs and three whites; mix with them 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, h' saltspoonful of salt, and sugar to taste; next work in smoothly sufficient Potato flour to mix the whole into a stilt' mass. Divide into equal quantities, mould them into round balls, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the klosse and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, drain them well on a piece of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental | dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the balls on it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Peel and boil lib. of Potatoes, and when tender (they must not be too soft or broken) drain them, leave ! until cold, and then grate them. Warm 4oz. of butter, j beat it until creamy, and then stir in three well-beaten eggs. Mix the eggs and butter with the Potatoes, season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir them with a wooden spoon until well mixed. Shape the mixture into small balls, throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently for ten minutes. Serve the Potatoes with meat as a garnish, or with soup. (3) Mix with fib. of mashed Potatoes lib. of bread that has been soaked in milk, add a few finely-minced chives and 1 table-spoonful of Hour, season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir in three well-beaten eggs. Work the mixture until quite smooth, then divide I it into equal quantities with a table-spoon, leaving the mark of the spoon on each. Throw the balls into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for ten minutes. Cut two or three rashers of bacon into small pieces, and fry them until crisp and brown. Put the Potato-balls on a hot dish, garnish them with crisp pieces of bacon, pour the fat over them, and serve while very hot. (4) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy; then mix with it the beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Mix in with the eggs 1 teacupful of grated bread, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, sugar to taste, and sufficient Potato-Hour to form a rather stiff paste. Work the mixture well, divide it into moderate-sized portions, and roll them round. Dip the balls in beaten egg, and then in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, put in the balls, and fry them till of a golden brown. Drain them, arrange them in a group on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, strew caster sugar over them, and serve. Potato Loaf or Pain.—Use some cold boiled Potatoes, with the remains of any kind of cold green vegetable, such as cabbage, &c. Mash the Potatoes, chop the vege- tables, mix them together, and season to taste. Put the mixture into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and stir it over the fire until hot through. Butter a mould, press the mixture well into it, and put it in a brisk oven till Potatoes—continued. nicely browned on the top. When ready, turn the loaf on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while very hot. Potato Nests.—Select some large equal-sized Potatoes, wash them, and bake them in the oven. When tender, cut a slice off the top of each, and carefully scoop out some of the interior. Rub the Potato that is scooped out through a fine sieve, and mix in with it loz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of cream, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the whole into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire. M hen hot, move it to the side, and stir in the beaten whites of one or two eggs. Fill the Potato-skins with this mixture, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed Fig. 297. Potato Nests. butter. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, put the Potatoes on it, the cut part upwards, garnish them with fried parsley (see Jig. 297), and serve. Potato Nudels.—Grate about 21b. of firm cold boiled Potatoes, and beat them up with four eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, and a small quantity of salt; then dredge in a sufficient quantity of flour to form a stiffish dough. Lay this on a floured paste board, roll it out rather thin, and with a small tin cutter cut it into round cakes. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, put the cakes into it, and boil them for five minutes. Next drain the nudels thoroughly, and diy them on a clean cloth. Put a^ large piece of butter into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the nudels and fry them till lightly browned. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Potato Omelet. (1) Peel and boil three or four large Potatoes, and when soft, drain and mash them. Beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, mix them with the Potatoes, and flavour to taste with herbs, salt, and a small quantity of pepper. Cut 4oz. of lean bacon into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until crisp and brown, then mix in the Potatoes, and stir them over the fire until set. M hen nicely browned on both sides, fold the omelet over, slip it on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Grate sufficient boiled floury Potatoes to fill a teacup, beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir them in with the Potato, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and any kind of herbs liked. Put 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of finely-minced ham into a frying pan, and fry them for a few minutes. Then put in a piece of butter, about loz., and when it has melted put in the Potato mixture, and stir continually until it has set. Then leave the omelet to brown. M’lien ready, double it over, put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it, and serve. Fotato-and-Onion Salad.—Peel and boil the required quantity of Spanish onions and large Potatoes, but do not cook them too much ; drain them well, and leave them until cold. Cut the vegetables into slices, and put them in a dish that has been rubbed lightly over with garlic. Prepare a sufficient quantity of dressing with salad-oil and vinegar, the former predominating, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the vegetables. Arrange a border of quarters of hard-boiled eggs and pickled cabbage round the dish, strew in the centre some chopped olives, capers, and powdered sweet herbs, and serve with as little delay as possible.235 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads Potatoes—continued. Fotato-and-Onion Saute.—Use an equal quantity of small new Potatoes and onions of tlie same size. Peel the vege- tables, put them in a saute-pan with a good-sized lump of butter, and toss them about over the lire for about a-quarter- of-an-hour, taking care not to let them burn. Pour in water to about half the height of the vegetables, season with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and stew them gently for nearly half-an-hour. When cooked, squeeze in the juice of a small lemon, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Potatoes in Parsley.—Peel and wash a sufficient quantity of Potatoes, small ones are the best, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for live minutes; strain olf the water, pour in sufficient fresh boiling water to moisten to height, add a lump of butter and a small quantity of salt, and boil them until tender. When suffi- ciently cooked take the Potatoes carefully out, put them in a hot deep dish, and keep them near the fire. Put in the liquor that the Potatoes were boiled in, a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley, and boil it for a few minutes until somewhat thickly reduced. Pour the sauce over the Potatoes, and serve them. Potato-Paste Sausage Rolls.—Mince ilb. of lean cooked meat, mix in one large onion also cooked anti chopped, and sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, with salt and pepper to taste. Pour A gill of water well flavoured with mushroom ketchup into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is warm add the minced meat and onion, and stir well until the whole becomes quite thick; then turn it out on to a plate and let it cool. Put lib. of boiled Potatoes into a basin, mash them, mix in 1 teaspoonful of warmed butter or dripping, and add suffi- cient flour to make a stiff paste. Roll this paste out very thinly on a well floured board or table, and cut it into squares about 5in. in diameter. Divide the meat mixture and put it in the centre of the squares of Potatoes, fold over two of the sides, and press down the edges to bind them. Put them into a hot oven, and when they are well browned take them out and serve them on a dish; or the paste may be cut in rounds a little less in diameter, the edges damped and fastened in the centre, and the rolls or shapes fried in boiling fat. Potato Patties.—(1) Chop fine 6oz. of cold meat, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley mixed with a little chopped onion, 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a very little milk. Mash finely lib. of cooked Potatoes with about 4 table-spoonfuls of milk. Grease half-a-dozen good-sized patty-pans, line them with the mashed Potato, put a good spoonful of the seasoned minced meat into each, and cover with a crust of the mashed Potato. Put a bit of butter on the top of each, bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour, turn out of the pans, and serve hot. (2) Mash seven or eight cold boiled Potatoes and moisten them with a small quantity of milk. Warm 2oz. of butter and beat until creamy, then mix it with the Potatoes. Boil the remainder of \ pint of milk, stir it into the Potatoes, turn all into a saucepan, and stir the mixture over the fire until reduced to a smooth paste. Move it off the fire, mix two beaten eggs with it, and turn it into a dish until cool. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and whisk the whites separately to a stiff froth, mix the eggs gently into the batter, and stir it till quite smooth. Coat the interior of some small patty-pans with butter, strew in grated breadcrumb, and shake out all that do not adhere to the butter. Fill the patty-pans with the batter, put them in a quick oven, and bake until lightly browned. When cooked, turn the patties out of the tins on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper spread on a hot dish, and serve without delay. Potato Patties with. Game.—Pick out all the best flesh of the remains of three or four cold roasted snipe, cut it into small pieces with ill', of lean cooked beef, and pound them in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings of the game into a saucepan, with a piece of celery, two or three onions and carrots, a bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, half a blade of mace, salt to taste, and moisten only to height with water, first pressing the ingredients down tightly. Potatoes —continued. Let the whole simmer at the edge of the fire for two hours. Peel and wash 21b. of Potatoes, put them in a saucepan with water, and boil for ten minutes, then strain off all the water, put in a good-sized lump of butter, salt to taste, and finish cooking them gently. When the Potatoes are quite tender, mix in with them the yolks of three eggs, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and beat them over the fire for five minutes. Pass the Potato mixture through a fine hair sieve on to a dish, and flatten it out to about Him in thickness. When the Potato paste is cold, cut it into rounds with a paste- cutter 2in. in diameter, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and mark a circle over the top of each with a Him tin cutter, then let them rest awhile. Strain the above liquor, mix it with the pounded meat, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, and heat it gradually over a gentle fire. Melt a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, put in the Potato patties, and fry them until lightly and equally browned. Drain the patties, lift up the marked circle, and scoop out some of the inside. Fill the hollows with the puree of game, lay the patties on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Pie.—(1) Peel and boil the requisite quantity of Potatoes, and when cooked mash them smoothly with a small quantity of milk or butter. Any kind of cold meat can be used, but if fowl or veal, a few slices of ham or tongue should be put in the pie. Fill a dish with alternate layers of Potatoes and slices of meat, seasoning to taste with herbs, salt, and pepper, making the last layer of Potatoes. Baste the Potatoes with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Bake the pie in a good oven until nicely browned over the top, and serve it while very hot in the same dish. (2) Peel the Potatoes, wash them, and cut them into slices. Sprinkle 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped suet in a pie-dish, put in a layer of sliced onions, then sift in a small quantity of the best Scotch oatmeal; put a layer of the Potatoes on the top of that, season with salt and pepper, and continue with alternate layers until the dish is full, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and putting Potatoes at the last. Put 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and A teaspoonful of salt in lib. of flour, and rub in 4oz. of lard. When quite smooth, mix in sufficient water to make a paste and roll it out on a floured board. Cover the pie with the crust, trim it round the edges, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. Serve hot. (3) Cut a loin of mutton into chops and trim oft' the bones and some of the fat; cut three or four sheep’s kidneys into slices, and cut a cow-heel into small pieces. Butter the edges of a large pie-dish, and line it with a good crust; then put in the above ingredients, mixing with them about twenty bearded oysters, several chopped mush- rooms, and a few slices of onion, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper and any spices that may be liked, and moistening with a small quantity of water. Cover the whole with a thick layer of thinly-sliced Potatoes. Roll out thinly a flat of pie-crust, cover the pie with it, trim it oil evenly round the edges, moisten and press them together, and make a hole in the top. Cover the pie with a sheet of paper to prevent the crust taking too much colour, and bake it in a moderate oven. Put the bones of the mutton and cow-heel into a stewpan with any trim- mings of mushrooms and oysters, pour in 1 pint of water season to taste, and boil them gently until the goodness is well extracted. Afterwards strain the gravy, and when the pie is cooked pour it in through the hole at the top Serve while hot. (4) Free some cold cooked fish from skin and bone, cut it into small pieces, lay them in a pie-dish, strew some chopped parsley and thyme over them, season with salt and pepper, and moisten them to height with clear gravy and a small quantity of vinegar. Bake the fish for ten or fifteen minutes in the oven. Mash some boiled Potatoes with a lump of butter, season them with salt and236 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. pepper, and cover the fish with a thick layer of them. Return the pie to the oven until the Potatoes are nicely browned over the top. Serve hot. (5) Steam or boil a dozen or so Potatoes, cut them up in slices, and put them in a saucepan of syrup seasoned with whole cloves or allspice; set the pan on the fire and scald the Potatoes, then remove it from the fire and let the liquor cool. Line a deep pie-dish with a light paste, bake it, arrange the slices of Potato in it, spread over a lump of butter pulled into small pieces, and pour over 1 wine- glassful of Madeira or brandy. Set the dish in the oven, and when the pie is thoroughly browned, take it out, and serve on a napkin (see Fig. 298). A little caster sugar may be sifted over the pie. Potatoes with. Piquant Sauce.—Peel and chop an onion, put it in a stewpan with 4oz. of fat bacon cut into small pieces, and fry them until lightly browned. Mix 1 table- spoonful of flour in a small quantity of water until smooth, then stir it in with the onions, &c.; pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and stir them over the fire until boiling. Partially boil the required quantity of Potatoes, then drain, and cut them into slices, put them in with the above ingredients, and boil gently until tender. They should not be overdone or they will break. When cooked, arrange the slices on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve them. Potato Pone.—Peel and grate sufficient sweet Potatoes to fill a quart bowl, working very quickly so that they may not become discoloured; mix with the pulp J pint of sweet milk, 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered ginger, and Jib. of butter beaten to a cream with Jib. of sugar; if oranges are in season, add the grated rind and juice of one. Pour the batter thus made into a buttered pan, and bake the pone in a moderate oven for about an hour, or until the Potato is quite done. Potato Pudding.—(1) Peel and boil six large Potatoes, and when cooked mash them through a fine hair sieve; mix with them the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a few drops of essence of lemon, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly. Butter a pudding-mould, strew in some grated breadcrumbs, and shake out those that do not adhere to the butter; then pour in the Potato mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sweet sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. (2) Bake a few large Potatoes in a slow oven, and when tender grate them. Butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of the grated Potatoes, dust in a little salt, spread a layer of marmalade over, then put in another layer of Potato, and so on, until the dish is full, squeezing a few drops of lemon-juice between each layer. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of milk, flavour it with any kind of essence liked, and pour it over the Potatoes. Bake the pudding in a good oven, and when nicely cooked and browned, turn it into a hot dish, sift plenty of caster sugar over it, and serve hot. (3) Grate about lib. of cold boiled, rather firm Potatoes. Slightly warm 6oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 6oz. of caster sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of blanched and pounded sweet almonds. Separate the yolks and Potatoes—continued. whites of nine eggs, beat the yolks first by them- selves and then in with the butter mixture, and when they are well incorporated work in the Potato-Hour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow and stir them into the mixture. Thickly butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, tie a pudding-cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for an- hour-and-a-half. Prepare a nice white sauce. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (4) Peel and boil fib. of Potatoes, and when soft mash them as smoothly as possible; mix with this 1 teacupful each of scraped carrots and moist sugar, fib. each of finely-chopped beef-suet and flour; add Jib. of well-washed currants, loz. of thinly-shred candied lemon-peel, six blanched and shred bitter almonds, and a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a floured pudding-cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for six or seven hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Peel and slice some nice mealy Potatoes. Prepare a light suet paste, and line a buttered pudding-basin with it; put in a layer of the Potatoes, and on them put a few little bits of butter, a small quantity of chopped ham or bacon, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; cover with another layer of Potatoes, and proceed in this way until the basin is full. Moisten with a small quantity of water, and cover with a fiat of paste, pinching the edges well together. Tie a floured cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and- a.-half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once with a sauceboatful of rich nicely-flavoured gravy. (C) Mash three cooked floury Potatoes very smoothly with a little milk. Boil Iqt. of milk with a piece each of lemon-peel and cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Strain this when it has boiled, and mix it with the mashed Potatoes. Stir till it cools a little, and then add Jib. of marmalade, four well-beaten eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of whisky or brandy. Put the pudding into a dish, and bake it. Serve hot. (7) Clean, boil, and mash 12oz. of Potatoes; mix them up with loz. each of finely-grated cheese and well-shred suet, and work the mixture into a thick paste by adding 1 teacupful or so of milk. Put the paste into a baking- dish, set it in a quick oven, and bake until it is quite done. Take it out, and serve very hot. (8) Put lib. each of butter and caster sugar into a basin, warm and beat them to a cream, add lib. of Potatoes, boiled, mashed, and passed through a sieve, 1 teaspoonful of ground spice, 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy, half that quantity of rose-water, and lastly eight well- beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a pie-disli, and set it in a hot oven ; when done, take it out, and serve. (9) Mash plenty of boiled Potatoes with a lump of butter and six eggs, and season with salt and a small quan- tity of cayenne. Finely mince any kind of cold cooked meat, season to taste, and moisten it with a small quantity of good gravy. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with the Potato paste, put the minced meat in the centre, cover it with a layer of Potatoes, and tie a pudding-cloth over the top. Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve. Potato Puffs.—(1) Large.—Peel, wash, and boil sufficient Potatoes to make 1 pint of pulp when mashed; mix in a little butter, a seasoning of finely-chopped parsley, celery-salt, salt and pepper, and add sufficient milk or cream to make the paste quite soft. Let it cool, then stir in the yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten separately. Turn the mixture into a shallow baking-dish, piling it up in the form of a rock, put the dish in a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes, when the mixture should be puffed and well browned. A little finely-chopped cooked meat may be added to the Potato paste if desired. " (2) Small.—Procure plenty of cold boiled Potatoes, and mash them smoothly, seasoning with salt, and workingTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 237 Potatoes—continued. them into a paste with beaten egg. Chop up very finely some remains of cold meat, mix with it a moderate quantity of chopped pickles, and season with salt and pepper. Dredge flour over a table or paste-board, put tiie Potato paste on it, roll it out, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter. Put a small quantity of the meat on half of each round, and double the other half over, pressing it well round the edges. Put a large lump of lard or clarified butter in a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire ; when it boils, put in the puffs, and fry them until nicely and equally browned. When fried, take the puffs carefully out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a hot dish, arrange the puffs on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Peel and wash three large-sized Potatoes, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil till they are quite soft. Drain off all the water, and mash the Potatoes with 3oz. each of caster sugar and Hour, a small lump of butter, two beaten eggs, and a little grated nutmeg to flavour. Form this paste into small cakes, put them in a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry them until they are light brown. Put them on a dish, and serve. Potato Puree.—(1) Cut 1 pint of Potatoes into pieces, and cover them with lqt. of white broth in a saucepan, passing the broth through a napkin, adding about ‘2oz. of butter and a bouquet garni. Season with J table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and cook well for thirty minutes; then strain the soup, add J break- fast-cupful of cream, and serve with sippets of toast. Do not let it boil again after the cream has been put in. Add one bunch of cut-up leeks fifteen minutes before serving. (2) Peel and boil the required quantity of Potatoes, and when tender rub them through a fine hair sieve; put this in a stewpan with a moderate-sized lump of butter, and a suffi- cient quantity of milk and white stock in equal proportions to bring it to the consistency of cream. Season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve. Potato Quenelles.—Mash lib. of diy floury boiled Potatoes while they are still hot, mix with them 2oz. of butter, a seasoning of salt and black pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, a little chopped parsley, a small quantity of finely- minced ham, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; and when these are all well mixed, beat in tlie well-whisked whites Fig. 299. Potato Quenelles. of four eggs. Shape the mixture into quenelles with 2 teaspoons, drop them into boiling butter, and let them fry for five minutes. Drain them on paper, and serve hot on a napkin. See Fig. 299. Potato Ragoti.t.—Mash lib. of boiled floury Potatoes, make them into balls with yolk of egg, flour them, and fry them in butter. Drain off all the grease, put them on a dish, cover with brown sauce, and serve. Potato Rechauffe.—Chop some cold boiled Potatoes veiy finely, season them with salt and pepper, and moisten them with the beaten yolk of one egg and a small quan- tity of cream. Cut some thin slices of cold veal, spread a layer of the mixture on each, and roll them up tightly. Prepare some rather thin batter with beaten egg, milk, and flour. Put a large piece of lard into a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when blue smoke rises, dip Potatoes—continued. the rolls in the batter, put them in the fat, and fry until nicely browned. Drain them on a sheet of kitchen- paper in fxont of the fire, spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the rolls on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Rissoles.—(1) Mash some cold boiled Potatoes smoothly with a lump of butter and one or two well- beaten eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Mould the mixture into small egg-shaped balls, roll them in grated breadcrumb, then in beaten egg, and bread- crumb them again. Put a large lump of good beef dripping into a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire until blue smoke rises; then put in the rissoles, and fry them a bright golden brown on all sides. Drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire, then pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Mash some cold Potatoes to a smooth paste with a lump of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of mixed sweet herbs, and add some flour to bind it. Roll the paste out on a floured table to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a small tin cutter. Mince some cold meat, season it well, and put a small quantity of it on half of the rounds of Potato paste; place the remaining rounds on the top of them, press them well together at the edges, and strew with vermicelli. Put a large lump of beef-dripping in a deep frying-pan, and place the pan on the fire; when boiling, put in the rounds, and fry them until nicely browned. Take them out carefully with a slice, drain them as free from fat as possible, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been laid a lace-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. These rissoles may also be put in a baking-dish with a little butter on the top of each, and browned in the oven. Potato Rolls.—Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan with :}lb. of butter, and place it over the fire until the butter has dissolved; then move it off, and let it cool a little. Peel and boil Jib. of Potatoes until tender, then drain them well, and mash them in a basin with a wooden spoon. Stir the milk and butter into the Potatoes with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, \ table-spoonful of salt, 1 teacupful of brewers’ yeast, and sufficient flour to thicken it. Work the mixture until1 smooth, then cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place for the night. On the following morning, knead the batter with sufficient flour to make a dough, and let it rise for about three-quarters-of-an-hour longer. When well risen, place the dough on a paste-board that has been dredged over with flour, roll it out to about lin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds about 3in. in diameter with a tin paste-cutter, or if preferred a saucer may be used instead. Brush each round over with a paste-brush that has been dipped in warm butter, then double them in halves. Dredge a small quantity of flour over a baking- sheet, lay the rolls on it a short distance from each other, and let them rise for the third time in a warm place; then put them into a brisk oven, and bake for nearly fifteen minutes. When cooked, pile the rolls on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve them while very hot with butter. Potato Salad.—(1) Peel and boil the required quantity of Potatoes, but do not overcook them, as they must not break; when cold, cut them into slices. Rub a salad-bowl over with garlic, and lay the Potatoes in it. Mix J teacupful of tarragon vinegar with 1 teacupful of salad- oil, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Potatoes ; then strew over them some parsley, tarragon, chervil, and mint, all finely minced and mixed in small quantities, and serve. (2) Cut into neat slices some rather firm cold boiled Potatoes, and arrange them in a salad-dish. Wash and bone five or six anchovies, put them in a mortar with three hard- boiled eggs, a few tarragon-leaves, and § table-spoonful of French mustard, and pound the whole until smooth. Pass the mixture through a fine sieve, and beat it well up with For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. UNI VERSIFY LIBRARY LEEDSTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 238 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.} referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. Potatoes—continued. a sufficient quantity of salad-oil and one-third the quantity of vinegar. Season the dressing to taste with pepper, adding a small quantity of salt if necessary, and pour it over the Potatoes. Strew some finely-minced truffles over the top, and serve. (3) Put half-a-dozen boned anchovies and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a mortar and pound them, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of made mustard and a few chopped sprigs of tarragon; add gradually a little salad- oil, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt to taste. Have some slices of cold boiled Potatoes arranged on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and sprinkle over a good supply of finely- minced cooked truffles. (4) Cut half-a-dozen firm cold boiled Potatoes into nice slices, and slice half their quantity of boiled beetroot, half their quantity of plainly-boiled Spanish onions, and a small quantity of pickled cucumber. Arrange the slices of vegetables in pretty order on a salad-dish. Prepare a sufficient quantity of dressing with salad-oil and tarragon vinegar, the former predominating. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the vegetables. Garnish round the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, strew a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs over the centre, and serve. A small quantity of English mustard can be mixed with the dressing if liked. (5) Put 1 pint of hot Potato pulp into a basin, and mix in 1 teacupful each of finely-chopped boiled cabbage and celery, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, a small pickled cucumber, and a hard-boiled egg cut up as small as possible. Pour over sufficient salad-dressing to moisten the mixture, and spread it out on a dish placed on ice. When it is quite cold, put about 2 table-spoonfuls each on large fresh lettuce-leaves, arrange them on a dish, and serve in this way. (6) Boil or bake four or five large Potatoes, peel them, cut them up in thin slices, and put them in a salad-bowl with 2 wineglassfuls of red wine, and one or two onions cut in quarters. Stir well until they are all mixed, adding gradually a good supply of salad-oil, one or two thin fillets of smoked herrings, a little vinegar, a few chopped chervil-leaves, and salt and pepper to taste. Remove the quarters of onions, and serve quite cold. (7) Boil a dozen or so medium-sized Potatoes with their skins on, peel them, cut them up into squares or dice, put them in a basin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper to taste, and pour over a little salad-oil and vinegar, toss- ing the basin frequently to cover the Potatoes all over. In the same way cut two sour apples that have been peeled and cored, a few gherkins, and the fillets of two or three pickled herrings that have been steeped and cleaned. When these are all mixed, add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped cooked onion, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of pickled beetroot, also cut up into small pieces. Turn the salad into a salad-bowl, tossing it frequently to mix them all thoroughly, and serve. (8) Procure small red Potatoes, boil them in their skins until tender hut not broken, then drain them and leave them until cold. Peel the Potatoes and cut them into slices of moderate thickness. Cut the tenderest part of a red cabbage into thin slices. Mix the Potatoes with an equal quantity of the cabbage and the same of cooked beetroot also thinly-sliced. Put the mixture in a salad- bowl, season it with salt and pepper, pour a sufficient quantity of salad-oil over it, and just enough red vine- gar to colour the Potatoes. Serve the salad without delay. (9) German.—Cut into small pieces a sufficient quantity of cold boiled Potatoes, and mix them up in a salad- bowl with a few stoned and chopped olives, three or four boned and chopped anchovies, a few pieces of celery and beetroot, some capers, and a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a basin, and mash them smooth with 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, and 1 teaspoonful each of caster sugar and made mustard; when quite smooth, stir in gradually a little more than 4 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Season the dressing to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, pour it over the contents of the salad-bowl, mix thoroughly, and serve. Potato Sandwiches.—Mash some cold boiled Potatoes as smoothly as possible with a little butter, and when quite free from lumps roll the paste out to about Jin. in thick- ness. Cut some cold meat of any kind into thin slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, dust them over with salt and pepper, and fry them over a gentle fire for a few minutes. Lay the pieces of meat on one half of the Potato paste and cover them with the other. Cut the sandwiches into rounds, and press the edges of the paste together, so as to completely envelope the meat. Dip the sandwiches on both sides in beaten egg and roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a large piece of clarified fat or butter in a flat stewpan, and put it on the fire; when boiling, put in the sandwiches, Fig. 300. Potato Sandwiches. and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper near the fire, then put them on a hot dish with a dish-paper laid over it, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 300), and serve. Potatoes with Sardines.—Peel and partially boil about 21b. of large Potatoes, then drain them, and cut them into slices Jin. thick. Peel and chop two or three onions, put them in a frying-pan with a moderate quantity of finely- chopped parsley and a lump of butter, and cook them over a gentle fire without browning them. Skin and bone a few sardines, chop them, put them in with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Melt a lump of butter in a dish that can be served at table and will stand the heat of the oven, cover the bottom with half of the Potatoes, spread the mixture over them, and cover with the remainder of the Potatoes. Cover the dish, put it into a quick oven for ten minutes, then remove the cover, and serve. Potato Sauce for Salads.—Rub two mealy Potatoes to a paste with the yolk of a raw egg, and add 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a small quantity of salad-oil. Season the mixture with salt and pepper; if the vinegar is very sharp, let a small piece of loaf sugar be dissolved in it before using. Potatoes Sautes.—(1) Cut up eight medium-yized cold boiled Potatoes. Place ljoz. of butter in a frying-pan, add the Potatoes, season with 4 pinch each of salt and pepper, and toss them well in the pan for two minutes. Give them the shape of an omelet, and let them take a golden colour, which will require five minutes. With a spoon take up all the butter which lies at the bottom of the pan, slide the Potatoes on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Peel and wash the required quantity of Potatoes, cut them into small balls with a vegetable-scoop, put them into a stewpan with a large lump of butter and plenty of salt, put the lid on, and stew them gently for about an hour, or until tender. When cooked, drain the Potatoes, turn them on to a hot dish, strew finely-chopped parsley over them, and serve. Potato Scones.—(1) Season some cold boiled Potatoes with salt, and mash them as smoothly as possible with a fork. When ready, roll them out to about Jin. in thickness, cut them into cakes, lay them on a griddle, prick them with a fork, and toast them over a clear fire. W hen lightlyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 239 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. browned on one side, turn them and brown the other side. Serve the scones hot with butter. (2) Mash some boiled Potatoes as smoothly as possible, and work in with them about 1 teacupful of cream, a small quantity of salt, and sufficient flour to stiffen them. Mould them into scones, prick them with a fork to prevent their blistering, and toast them over a clear fire. When cooked, split the scones open, put plenty of butter between them, pile them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve very hot. Potato Snow.—(1) Wash some large Potatoes but do not peel them, and boil them in salted water until tender. Drain the Potatoes and peel them, then rub them through a coarse sieve on to a hot dish. Serve at once, or the pretty effect of snow will be lost. (2) Take three or four large cold boiled Potatoes, rub them through a sieve into a saucepan, and add foz. of butter dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of hot cream or milk. Sprinkle over a seasoning of salt and pepper, set the pan over a slow fire, and stir until the mixture is nearly dry. Turn it out lightly on to a dish, piling it up as high as possible, and serve. Potato Souffle.—(1) Put six large Potatoes weighing about lib. into a bowl of water, scrub and wash them clean, and | put them in a quick oven to bake for three-quarters-of- an-hour. Take them out, cut them lengthwise into halves, taking care not to injure the skin, scrape out all the inside pulp, and put it into a hot basin. Mash it until it is quite firm, then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 tea- cupful of milk, the whites of two eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Fill the half-skins with this mixture, brush them over with white of egg, letting it adhere rather thickly, put them in a moderate oven, and allow them to remain until they are quite brown on the top. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Boil two large Potatoes, and when cooked, peel them and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Beat the yolks of four eggs up with the Potatoes, flavour with essence of vanilla, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly with the mixture, turn it into a buttered souffle-mould, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, serve the souffle at once in the tin, round which a napkin should be pinned. (3) Put 2oz. of Potato-flour into a saucepan with a little milk, stir them well together, and add gradually 3 breakfast- cupfuls of cream, 2oz. of butter, and a little salt. Bring this slowly to the boil, stirring continually for about eight j minutes; turn the whole into another saucepan, and work 1 in 4oz. of sugar previously nibbed on lemon-rind and two eggs. Stir well for a minute or two, then add the yolks of four eggs, letting the mixture stiffen slightly over the fire. Line two dozen dariole-moulds with fine puff paste, fill them with this mixture, put them into a slow oven, and bake to a light colour. Take them out, dust over with sugar, and serve as required. (4) Peel and wash the required quantity of large Potatoes, cut them into slices about Jin. thick, dry them on a cloth, and put some of them in a frying-basket. Have two stew- pans at the side of the fire, and into eacli place a large lump of lard. When the fat boils, put tire basket of Potatoes into one stewpan, and leave it for two or three minutes ; then take it out, and plunge it into the other. When very highly browned and somewhat swollen, turn the Potatoes on to a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain off some of the fat. Proceed with the others in the same way. Pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Soup.—(1) Boil about one dozen Potatoes in their skins, and when cooked peel them and pass them through a fine sieve. Put a lump of butter about the size of an egg in a saucepan, melt it, put in 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot, and stir over the fire until well browned; then put in the Potatoes with as much well-flavoured stock as will be required for the soup, add the Potatoes, and boil Potatoes—continued. all together. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Mash about 21b. of cold boiled Potatoes, and rub them through a fine wire sieve. Peel and thinly slice three moderate-sized onions, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over the fire until nicely browned. Next put in the prepared Potatoes, stir in smoothly 3 pints of milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir the soup over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, strew in some finely-powdered dried herbs, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (3) Wash the Potatoes but do not peel them, boil them, and when sufficiently cooked drain off the water and dry them over the fire; then peel and mb them through a fine sieve. Finely mince two or three moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, J table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a few celery-seeds, and cook them gently. Stir the Potatoes in with the onions, put in a bay-leaf, and stir in slowly sufficient boiling milk and water in equal quantities to bring the soup to a thin cream. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it for two or three minutes. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (4) Put a piece of lean breast of mutton into a sauce- pan with 5 pints of water, and leave it over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, remove all the scum, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Peel 21b. of large Potatoes, wash them and cut them into halves length- wise, also peel and slice three or four turnips and onions, and cut a washed head of celery into convenient-sized pieces. Put all the vegetables into the soup, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Remove the mutton and strain the soup through a wire sieve, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. Return the soup to the saucepan, boil it up again, and then move it to the side of the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg up with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it into the soup, which must not boil after this is added. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. (5) Make several incisions in 2Jlb. of shin of beef so as to let out the gravy, put it into a saucepan with Hgall. of water, and add 24lb. of peeled and washed Potatoes cut into small pieces, U pints of green peas, and 2 break- fast-cupfuls of rice. Set the pan at the side of the fire, simmer gently for two-hours-and-a half, and then take out the meat. Pour off all the liquor into a basin, and pass the rice and vegetables through a fine sieve into another sauce- pan, adding salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the soup, and add three or four heads of celery cut into short pieces, set the pan back on the fire, and cook gently for another thirty minutes, by which time the celery should be well cooked. Cover the bottom of a soup tureen with slices of toast cut into small triangular-shaped pieces, pour the soup over, and serve very hot. It will keep for several days, and is just as good warmed up. (6) Peel, wash, and cut into slices lib. of Potatoes; put them into a saucepan with five or six chopped onions, and pour over sufficient stock to cover them. Set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the onions and Potatoes are thoroughly cooked and quite soft. Add 1 teaspoonful each of curry powder and curry paste, stir them well in, then pass the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil for a few minutes longer, skimming frequently. Remove the pan from the fire, add \ gill of cream, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (7) Put 2A-lb. of trimmings of veal or the scrag end of a neck of mutton into a large saucepan, with plenty of large Potatoes that have been peeled and sliced and half their quantity of onions also peeled and sliced; add a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in 6 pints of water, and season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of mace. When boiling, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 240 Potatoes—continued. and keep the soup simmering for four hours. At the end of that time, skim it well, and add 3 pints of fresh milk and 1 table-spoonful of pounded hitter almonds. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the Potatoes and onions through as much as possible, return it to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling again. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. Potatoes with. Sour Cream.—Peel the required quantity of Potatoes, and cut them into slices about Jin. in thickness. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, and melt it; then put in the Potatoes with a minced onion, season with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire until lightly browned, but taking great care not to break the slices. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, pour it over the Potatoes, and stir over the lire until on the point of boiling. When cooked, turn the Potatoes on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Potato Steak.—Boil some nice mealy Potatoes, and when cooked, mash them smoothly with loz. of butter, a small quantity of milk, and salt to taste. Procure a thick slice of tender steak, trim off all skin and gristle, dust it over with salt and pepper, and strew over it a moderate quantity of chopped sage and onions, the latter having been slightly moistened with boiling tarragon vinegar. Put two or three small pieces of butter over, and spread the Potatoes on the top. Roll the steak up tightly so that it encloses the Potatoes, and tie it round with twine. Lay the roll in a baking-dish, baste it with 1 table-spoonful of port wine and 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy, and bake it. When cooked, put the steak on a hot dish, with a border of Potatoes round it, garnish with watercress, and serve. Potato Straws.—Wash 1 pint of Potatoes, peel them very thin, slice them about Jin. thick, put them into plenty of boiling salted water, and boil until they are tender, which should take about ten minutes. Turn them into a colander with large holes, and let the water drain off until the Potatoes are quite dry. Sprinkle over them 1 tea- spoonful of salt and J saltspoonful of white pepper, hold the colander over one end of a large dish, and press upon the Potatoes with a Potato-masher, moving the colander towards the other end of the dish as the Potatoes are pressed through it, so that they will fall upon the dish in long rows. Continue to move the colander from one end of the dish to the other, until all the Potatoes are Fig. 301. Potato Straws. pressed through it, and laid in uneven rows (see Fig. 301). Wipe the edges of the dish with a clean towel, set it in the oven for two or three minutes to heat the Potatoes, and serve. Potatoes Stuffed with Cheese.—Procure seven or eight medium-sized Potatoes as nearly as possible of one shape, scrub them perfectly clean, and dry them. With a small tin pastry-cutter, cut through Jin. deep on the flattest side of each of the Potatoes, and bake them. When quite cooked, remove the covers marked by the tin cutter, and scoop out the insides of the Potatoes with the handle of a spoon, being very careful not to break the skin. Rub the pulp through a fine hair sieve, mix until it one-third of the quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, season to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper Potatoes—continued. and grated nutmeg, and bind it with the beaten yolks of two eggs and a small quantity of milk. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in quickly with the mixture. Fill the Potatoes with the preparation, levelling it oft evenly at the top, stand them side by side in a baking dish, the open part upwards, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned at the top. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the Potatoes on it, garnish them plentifully with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Stuffing.—(1) Peel raw Potatoes, cut them into slices of a moderate thickness, then cut them into small squares ; rinse in cold water, drain, and put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, a chopped onion, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the lid on the saucepan, and keep it at the side of the fire, shaking the contents occasionally until they are nearly cooked. Finely chop an equal quantity of pig’s liver, and stir- it into the Potatoes a few minutes before ready to use the mixture. (2) Peel, boil, and mash lqt. of mealy Potatoes, and add to them Jib. of butter and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and any sweet herb except sage. This forcemeat is used for stuffing a turkey. Potato Tarts.—Boil the Potatoes, mash them fine, mix them smoothly with a little cream, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs, a small quantity of finely-powdered sugar, a little powdered cinnamon, and a few currants washed and dried. Line some buttered tart-tins with puff paste, pour in the mash, and bake it brown in a quick oven, being careful not to bake it too much. Dredge them with powdered sugar when taken out of the oven, turn them out of the tins, and serve hot. Potato Tea-cakes.—Mash some cold boiled Potatoes, and rub them through a fine wire sieve. Measure them with a breakfast-cup, and for every 2 breakfast-cupfuls mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, a small quantity of salt, and loz. of butter. Work the mixture until smooth, bind it with beaten egg, divide it into two or three equal portions, and with floured hands mould these into round flat cakes; lay them on a buttered baking- dish, with a little space between each, as they will rise, and bake them in a brisk oven. When the cakes are done, split them open, butter them well, cut them into halves or quarters according to the size, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve quickly. Potato Timbale.—Put into a mortar about 21b. of the inside pulp of roasted or baked Potatoes, add Jib. of butter, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, Jib. of powdered macaroons, and a very little salt, and pound them well together; then add the yolks of six eggs and whites of two, loz. of finely-chopped candied orange-flowers, the whipped whites of two eggs, and 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Line a timbale-mould witli puff paste, fill up with the mixture, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve immediately. Potato Turnovers with Herrings (German).—Peel and boil the required quantity of Potatoes, then drain, and mash them with a piece of butter. Mix the Potatoes to a smooth stiff paste with beaten egg, spread it out on a board about Jin. in thickness, and leave it until cool. Cut the Potatoes into round cakes with a round tin cutter. Bone two red herrings that have been soaked in water for a few horn's to remove the salt, and chop them finely, then mix with them two minced hard-boiled eggs and 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley. Season the mixture to taste with pepper, put a small quantity of it on half of each round of Potato, and fold the others over to make a turnover. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, strew thickly with breadcrumbs, arrange them on a baking-dish, and bake in a quick oven till lightly browned. When cooked, arrange the turn- _ overs on a dish on which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disk-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to,1. —Beef Sausages. 2. —French Sausages. 3. —Pork Sausages. Ham, Chicken, and Tongue Sausage. SAUSAGES. 5. —Luncheon Sausage. 6. —German Sausage. 7. —German Sausage with Garlic. 8. —Black Pudding. 9*—French Sausages with Garlic. 10.—Small Black Pudding. 11-—Brunswick Sausage. 12. —Saveloy. 13. —Polony.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 241 Potatoes—continued. Potato Waffles.—Mix to a smooth hatter l breakfast-cupful of sweet Potatoes boiled and mashed, 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and 1 pint of milk. Bake the batter at once in a hot waffle-iron; or, if no iron is available, the batter may be baked on a griddle, in the form of cakes. Potato Yeast.—(1) Have ready in a kettle on the fire 3qts. of boiling water. Peel and wash three large Potatoes, and put them into a basin to soak. Put J teacupful of flour into a bowl, with an equal quantity of sugar and 1 table- spoonful of salt, over these grate the Potatoes quickly, without waiting to scrape eveiy particle or remove that which adheres to the grater, and stir the whole well with a wooden spoon, so as not to have it of a dark colour, which would be the case if it were not done quickly. Pour 1 pint of the boiling water over the grater into the bowl to wash off the Potato from it, stir it into the mixture, and add more of the boiling water, to make the mixture of the consistency of thin starch. The amount of water cannot be determined, as it depends very much upon the quality of the flour and Potatoes. Should the mixture refuse to thicken, pour it into a double boiler over the fire, and stir continually till it does so. Pour it through a tine sieve into another bowl, and let it cool. When it is luke- warm right through (that is, not merely at the top but at the bottom and in tbe centre as well), stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast. Put a light covering over the bowl, and set it in a warm but not hot place, and let it remain until it is light and covered with a white foam. When it begins to rise, beat it well, as this makes it stronger; when it has well risen, pour off into wide- mouthed earthenware jars. Let it remain for a night, or about twelve hours, then cover the jars tightly over, and let it remain in a cool place Half a pint or so of the yeast should be put into a small glass jar, for use in making tbe next lot of Potato yeast. The jars should always be well shaken before tbe yeast is used, and they should be kept in a cool place, and used from there to iill the basin as required, not brought into a warm kitchen. Yeast made in this way will keep for a fortnight, and it is whiter and of a better appearance than that made from hops, while it has not the bitter flavour. Tbe flour may be omitted, and more Potato or less water used; or boiling hop-water—made by steeping h teacupful of hops in 3 pints of water for five minutes, and strained before being poured into the flour and Potato—may be sub- stituted for the plain water if the bitter flavour is desired, ora little less than 1 teaspoonful of finely powdered ginger may be added to the Potato, Hour, &c. ; but if these two last (that is, hops and ginger) are used, the yeast will be dark, which will not be perceptible in bread. (2) Peel, boil, and mash smoothly six floury Potatoes, and stir into them Jib. of sugar and 1 pint of boiling water. Let this mixture get quite cold, then mix with it 1 pint of cold water and rather less than J pint of yeast, and let it stand in a warm place for twelve hours. It is then ready for use. Shake it well before using. (3) Peel three large old Potatoes, soak them in water, and boil them until they drop to pieces; then drain off all the water, and mash them. Put 1 teacupful of loose hops into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them, having ready another quart of water boiling. Pour the 2qts. of water through a fine sieve to prevent the hops getting in, stir them well up with the Potato mash, and turn them all into a sieve over a saucepan, rubbing as much of the Potato through as possible. Set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils put in 3oz. of flour made into a smooth paste with a little cold water and 6oz. of sugar. Let the mixture boil for five minutes, stirring it well, pour it into a bowl, let it cool, and add £ breakfast-cupful of yeast; then set it to rise, and when it has well risen, add J teacupful of salt. Turn the yeast into a jar, cover it over, and put it in a cool place. Bread made with this yeast will not turn sour, even in very hot weather. Rolled Potatoes with Sweet Sauce.—Peel and wash 21b. of Potatoes, boil them until they are quite soft, put them in a mortar, and pound them to a pulp, adding gradually Potatoes—continued. a little grated nutmeg and well-beaten mace, and J wine- glassful of white wine. When these are incorporated, add the yolks of one or two eggs and a little warmed butter. Turn the mixture out on to a board or table sprinkled with breadcrumbs, form it into a roll, coating it with the breadcrumbs, put it into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put it on a dish (see Fig. 302), and pour over a sauce made as follows-^ Put 1 gill of white wine into a basin, and stir Fig. 302. Rolled Potatoes with Sweet Sauce. into it gradually loz. of caster sugar, one well-beaten yolk of egg, and a seasoning of grated nutmeg. Put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the sauce is thick and ready for use. Scalloped Potatoes.—(1) Boil 21b. of Potatoes till soft and mealy, put them in a basin with 1 teacupful of cream, a piece of flutter the size of a walnut, and a little salt, and beat them with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Put the mixture into scallop or table-shells, score the surfaces with a knife, place thin slices of butter on tbe tops, and brown them in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire. Finely chop the white of a hard-boiled egg, and grate tbe yolk; sprinkle half of the scallops with each, arrange them on a dish, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Mash 21b. of cold boiled Potatoes with 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, 3oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Have ready some fluttered patty pans or table-shells, fill them with the mixture, smooth over the tops, mark with the prongs of a fork, and put them in tbe oven to brown. Then take them out, and whilst they are still hot glaze them over with butter, and grate another ounce of the cheese over that; put them into the oven again to finish, and then serve them on a dish. (3) Peel and boil some Potatoes; when cooked, drain and mash them smoothly, mix with them the third of their quantity of finely-minced ham, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs. Butter some scallop-shells, fill them with the mix- ture, marking it over the top with a fork, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and put them in a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top, put the scallops on a hot dish with a circle of poached eggs round them, and serve. Steamed Potatoes. -Pare lib. or 21b. of Potatoes, taking off the peel as finely as possible, wash them, plunge them into a bowl of cold water, and let them remain for five or six minutes; then put them in a steamer over a pan of boiling water, and let them cook until they are done and can lie easily pierced with a fine skewer. Turn them into a vegetable-dish, and serve immediately, or they will soon get discoloured. Stewed Potatoes.—(1) Put in a saucepan over the fire Jib. of raw Potatoes cut in small pieces, 2oz. of butter, a medium-sized onion peeled and chopped, 1 teaspoonful of common salt anil celery-salt mixed, 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, and 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Let all these simmer together till tbe Potatoes are soft, then add :} pint of milk and 1 table-spoonful of flour blended smooth with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar; stir well till it boils, then boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, sec under their special heads. VOL. II.242 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respecting Culinorv Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads* Potatoes — continued. (2) Peel the required number of Potatoes, boil them until half cooked, then cut them into slices £in. in thickness. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of minced fat bacon into a stewpan with a peeled and chopped onion, and fry them over the fire until lightly browned. Mix 1 table spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with water, stir it into the onions and bacon, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. When the sauce boils, put in the sliced Potatoes, strew over them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped parsley, and stew them gently until tender, but not broken. If the sauce boils away before the Potatoes are quite done, pour a small quantity of milk over them. Stewed Potatoes with Herrings (German).—Wash some Potatoes, put them into a saucepan with their skins on, and boil till tender but not overdone, or they will break. Peel, cut them into moderately thick slices, and place them where they will keep warm. Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it until lightly browned; then dredge it with flour, put in a bay-leaf, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little less than 1 pint of water, season with salt and pepper, and let the sauce simmer at the edge of the fire. Wash two Dutch herrings, cut them lengthwise down the back, and carefully lift out the bones ; cut the flesh into small pieces, and put them in the sauce. After the fish has boiled in the sauce for a few minutes, put in the Potatoes, and stir them gently round, taking care not to break the slices. Put ‘2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of milk in the stew, and stir it over the fire until beginning to boil again. When cooked, turn the stew into a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Potatoes with Sardines (German).—Peel the required quantity of Potatoes, partially boil them, then cut them into slices. Put a lump of butter into a stew- pan and place it over the fire until melted, then lay in half of the sliced Potatoes. Put two finely-chopped onions into a smaller stewpan, with a lump of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, and cook them over a gentle fire until tender. Skin and bone five or six sardines, chop them, and stir them in with the onions. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then spread it over the Potatoes in the stewpan, cover with the remainder of the Potatoes, put the lid on the pan, and cook them slowly for ten minutes longer. When cooked, turn the Potatoes and sardines on to a hot dish, and serve hot. Stuffed Potatoes.—(1) Chop lib. of beef steak as fine as possible, mix with it J table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Select eight or ten large Potatoes, peel them as thinly as possible, wash them, and cut a small piece off the top of each. Scoop out the insides, leaving a wall about Jin. in thickness, then stuff them with the chopped meat. Roll the Potatoes and their tops in ■well-beaten egg, and then fix the tops in their original places again, pressing them on firmly. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then lay the Potatoes in carefully, cover the stewpan, move it to the edge of the fire, and stew them for an hour. Turn the Potatoes now and then, so that they may be evenly browned. When cooked, drain the Potatoes well, arrange them in an upright position, the cut side uppermost, on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve very hot. (2) Wash and boil four Potatoes in their skins until tender, peel, put them in a basin, and mash with a wooden spoon; then mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped fat salted pork, h table-spoonful each of chopped shallots, chopped onion, and chopped parsley. Work the mixture together with 2oz. of butter, and season it with salt and pepper. Pick half-a-dozen large Potatoes of an equal size, scrub them well, and split them into halves lengthwise. Scoop out a hollow in each half of Potato with an iron spoon, then fill them with the above mixture, making the top convex, which should be Potatoes—continued. smoothed over with the blade of a knife. Spread a thick layer of butter over the bottom of a baking-dish, put in the halves of Potatoes, the cut part upwards, and place them in a moderate oven. When about three-parts cooked, brash the tops of the Potatoes with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, return them to the oven, and finish baking them. When quite cooked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve them while hot. (3) Peel twelve Potatoes, empty them with a Potato- scoop, blanch them in boiling water for two minutes, drain, and fill them with sausage forcemeat. Lay them in a buttered saute-]>an, place in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Surprise Potatoes.—(1) Bone a dozen small birds, and stuff them with sausage-meat. Select twelve large equal-sized Potatoes, wash them thoroughly, leaving their skins on, cut a piece off the top of each, and scoop out the insides. Put a bird in each Potato (see Fig. 303). Make a stiff paste with flour and white of egg, and use it to stick the tops on the Potatoes again. Lay them on a baking tin, and bake Fig. 303. Surprise Potato. in a brisk oven. In about three-quarters-of-an-hour, the Potatoes should be sufficiently baked. Arrange them on a hot dish that has been covered with a dish-paper or folded napkin, and serve. (2) Prepare and mash smoothly some cold Potatoes as for Potato Croquettes, form them into twelve balls the size of eggs, scoop out the centres, and fill in with a salpicon a la financiere. Close the opening with a little more Potato, dip them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in very hot fat for three minutes. Take them out, drain, and serve them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin. Sweet or Spanish Potatoes.—The following in- structions for cooking this foreign vegetable (Batatas edulis) (see Fig. 285) have been supplied by a famous American chef: Peel and slice them very thin, and soak overnight or for several hours in cold water; sometimes a small piece of alum is dissolved in the water to harden the flesh of the tubers. Before they are fried, they should be carefully dried on a towel, and then plunged into plenty of boiling fat, a few slices at a time. When they float on the fat they are done, and should then be skimmed off with a perforated slice. They are served either hot or cold. POT-BROILING.—See Broiling. POT CHEESE.—See Cheese. POTEEN.—An Irish term for illicitly distilled whisky. Written also Potheen and Potteen. POT-HERBS.—This term is applied to any kind of plant any part of which can be boiled for food. . It is ' generally used by the cook to signify a selection of vegetables suitable for flavouring soup or broth.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 243 POT-POURRI.—This term is sometimes applied to a sort of ragout composed of different kinds of meats, vegetables, and other things, cooked together in a terrine. As Pourri signifies rotten, the term does not recommend itself as applicable to a pleasing dish. POTS AND PANS .—Under this heading might be included almost every vessel employed in domestic economy that will hold either liquid or solid. As all those of any special utility in the culinary art are described under separate headings, reference should be made to them for special information. POTTED MEATS.—See special headings and Potting. POTTLE.—A basket or small vessel used for hold- ing fruit, especially strawberries. POTTING.—The processes necessary for preserving various foods, such as meats and fish, in pots, are included under this heading. The flesh must be carefully rid of all bone, gristle, and skin, and then pounded to a paste in a mortar; butter, spice, and seasoning being added accord- ing to taste. Detailed instructions will be found under special headings. Other kinds of Potting will be found described under Jams, Preserves, &c. POULARDES.—These are young fowls which, in the French cook’s signification, have been specially fattened. They may be regarded as the female of the capon, and are usually sent to market plucked and prepared (see Fig. 304) for cooking. Receipts for their use will be found under Fowls. POULETTE.— The French for a hen fowl. This also gives the name to a standard sauce. See Sauces. POULTRY (Fr. Fig. ,504. Poular.de. Volaille; Ger. Geflii- gel; Hal. Pollame; Sp. Aves de coral).—Under this heading are classified all sorts of domestic fowls reared for the table or for eggs and feathers; this definition will include fowls, capons, ducks, turkeys, and geese, to which some add the guinea-fowl and the peacock. All these are described and treated under their special headings. POUND.—This word has two meanings in cookery, one to bniise or pulverise in a mortar, and the other a weight consisting of 16oz. Avoirdupois and 12oz. Troy. POUND CAKE.-See Cakes. POUTARGUE.—See Boutargue. POWDERS, BAKING. —See Baking-powders. PRAIRIE HEN or CHICKEN. —This name is given to an American grouse (Tympanuchus americanus) which frequents the prairies of the Central United States ; it is very delicious when cooked according to any of the following receipts: Baked Prairie Hen.—Pluck, singe and draw the bird, clean it thoroughly, and cut off the claws to about half their length. Truss the bird and bind some thin-slices of fat salted pork over its breast, lay it in a baking-tin with a good- sized lump of butter, and bake in a quick oven, basting it continually. The bird should be kept rather underdone. \V hen cooked, take it out of the oven, remove the bacon, place it on a hot dish, split it into halves, tie round with Prairie Hen or Chicken—continued. ribbon, and decorate the legs with coloured paper frills. Garnish with watercress (see Fig. 305). Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the dripping pan, season to taste with salt and Fig. 305. Baked Prairie Hen. pepper, strain it through a gravy-strainer over the bird, and serve. Broiled Prairie Hen.—(1) Pluck, clean and draw the bird, and split it into halves lengthwise. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the bird and fry it over a brisk fire until a little more than half cooked, turning the halves once or twice. Wrap each half of the bird in a sheet of thickly-buttered paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put 1 teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms in the pan in which the bird was first cooked, season with salt, pepper, and a little allspice, dredge in a small quantity of flour, and pour in 1 teacupful each of white wine and broth. Stir the sauce over the fire, and boil it until reduced to a thickness that coats the spoon. Remove the paper from the halves of the bird, lay them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat; or, if preferred, put the bird on the dish without the napkin, and serve it with the sauce poured over it. (2) Pluck, draw and clean the bird, and split it lengthwise down the back; cut the legs at the first joint and run them through the skin so that the ends come out on the inside. Dip the pieces of bird in beaten egg, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating; lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Work in well with 2oz. of butter 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley and the juice of a lemon. Turn the pieces of bird constantly while broiling, and when they are cooked put them on a hot dish, spread the prepared butter over them, garnish with parsley, and serve while hot. Chartreuse of Prairie Hen.—Pluck, singe, draw, and clean a Prairie Hen. Butter the interior of a baking-tin, put in the bird, dust over with salt and pepper, baste with 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of cold water, and bake it, keeping it rather underdone. When ready, cut the breast into three slices lengthwise, and the remainder of the bird into four pieces, making in all seven pieces. Peel, slice, and cut into small square or round shapes one large carrot undone turnip, put them into a saucepan with cold water and a small lump of salt, and boil gently until tender. Drain the vegetables and plunge them into cold water. Clean a small head of cabbage, put it in a saucepan with Jib. of lean salted pork and water to cover, and boil it. When done, drain the cabbage as free from water as possible, and finely chop it. Butter a charlotte-mould, ornament the bottom with shapes cut out of boiled beetroots, and fill up the spaces between with some of the carrots and turnips. Lay horizontally a row of pieces of carrots all round and against the sides of the mould, place a similar one of turnips on the carrots, and so on until the top of the mould is reached. Put a thick layer of the cabbage at the bottom of the mould, put in the pieces of fowl, ami cover them with cabbage. The bird should be put in, in such a way that it will be completely enveloped with the For det&ih respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. R 2244 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, il'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Frairie Hen or Chicken—continued. Frairie Hen or Chicken—continued. cabbage. Bake the chartreuse for about a-quarter-of-an- hour in a brisk oven, then carefully turn it over on to a hot dish, lift the mould oil', and serve. Fricassee of Prairie Chicken.—Clean and singe the bird, cut it up at the joints, and flatten them slightly with a cutlet-bat. Put the pieces of bird in a saucepan, with one onion stuck with two cloves and a bunch composed of one or two small sprigs of thyme and parsley and a bay- leaf; pour in sufficient broth to cover the bird (water can be used, but it will not be found so nice as broth). Place the saucepan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently until the bird is tender. Put a good-sized lump of butter, say about 2oz., in a stew pan, with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until melted, then pour in the cooking-liquor of the bird, passing it through a strainer; .season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue Stirling over the fire until it boils again. Put a few sliced mush- rooms in the liquor, let it boil a few minutes longer, then put in the pieces of bird. Stir the beaten yolk of one egg into the fricassee, then turn it all on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Prairie-Hen Croquettes.—Any cold remains of Prairie Hen can lie used. Chop up the flesh very small. Peel and chop fine a middling-sized onion, put it in a stewpan Avith loz. of butter, and fry until lightly brow ned; then dredge in a small quantity of flour, and stir in gradually three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of clear broth. Put in the chopped meat, season Avith salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir over the fire until boiling. Move the steAvpan to the edge of the fire, and mix in quickly Avliile stirring the beaten yolks of two eggs and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped trullles. Pour the mixture on to a dish, spreading it out, and leave it until cold. Strew breadcrumbs thickly over a paste board, and lay the mixture on it in table-spoonfuls; roll them round to the shape of a cork, giving them a good coating of breadcrumbs. Dip each of the croquettes in beaten egg, then roll again in the breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of fat or dripping into a steAvpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the croquettes, a few at a tune, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As each lot of the croquettes are cooked, take them out of the fat and lay them on paper in front of the fire to drain. When all are cooked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Prairie-Chicken Pie.—Skin and bone a Prairie Chicken, chop and Aveigh the flesh, and allow an equal quantity together of ham, salt pork, and calf’s liver, all finely chopped; mix them with the chicken-flesh, then put the Avhole in a mortar, and pound well. Season the mixture Avith salt, pepper, finely-minced parsley, pounded cloves, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon. Work these ingredients Avell together, adding gradually sufficient beaten egg to bind them. Rub 6oz. of butter into lib. of flour, then mix with it 1 pinch of salt, one beaten egg, and sufficient Avater to make a stiff paste. Knead the paste, put it on .a paste-board over which a little flour has been dusted, roll it out to Jin. in thick- ness, fold it in tAvo, and roll doAvn again. Repeat this for six times, then roll it out to Jin. in thickness, giving it as round a shape as possible. Butter a mould, line it Avith the paste, and trim it off evenly at the top Avith a sharp knife. Line the sides and bottom of the paste Avith thin slices of fat pork and put in the mixture of meat, building it in a dome. Roll out the trimmings of the paste to about Jin. in thickness, brush the sides of the paste in the mould Avith a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then put the paste cover on the top; trim it off round the edges, and pinch the tAAO pastes together. Make a hole about lin. in diameter in the top of the cover. Cut five pieces of paste about 3in. square, dust them slightly Avith flour, and place them one upon the other on the left thumb, which should be in an erect position; then Avith the light hand take hold of the pieces, bringing the edges close together so that the top Avill form a ball, and Avitli a sharp knife make tAvo cuts across and through the five pieces; form a kind of stem Avith these pieces, and plant the stem in the hole made in the cover of the pie. Brush the pie over Avith a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and ornament it all round the top Avith fancy-shaped pieces of paste, brushing these over Avith beaten egg. Bake the pie in a good oven from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. To prevent it from becoming too broAvn, Avlien it begins to take colour cover it Avith a sheet of paper. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, leave it until cold, then cut the cover all round, lift it off, and fill any holloAV spaces that may be left Avith aspic jelly; replace the cover, put the pie on a dish, garnish round it and on the top of the cover Avith crotitons of the same jelly, and serve. Prairie Hen Saute.—Clean a young Prairie Hen and cut it up at the joints. Put ljoz. of butter in a steAvpan, melt it, then put in the pieces of bird, and fry them over a brisk fire, turn in often till of a nice golden brown. When the bird is brOAvned, drain the superfluous butter oil', dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and pour in h pint of Avhite Avine and sufficient broth to cover it. Add a bunch of thyme and parsley tied together Avith half a bay-leaf, one onion stuck with tAvo cloves, and a small quantity of salt. Put the stewpan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently until the bird is tender. Put a feAV mushrooms in AA'itli the bird ten minutes before taking it aAvay from the fire. Place the pieces of bird on a hot dish, garnish AA'itli the mushrooms, pour the cooking-liquor through a strainer over them, and serve. Koasted Prairie Chicken.—Clean and singe a bird, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the stomach and legs, and rub it Avell in. Lay some thin slices of bacon on the breast, fastening them in position with tAvine or small skewers, then wrap the bird in a slieet of buttered paper; fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a good fire, basting con- stantly. The bird will take from tAventy minutes to lialf- an-hour to cook, according to its age. About five minutes before taking it up remove the paper, but leave the slices of bacon on it. Put the bird on a hot dish; mix the juice of half an orange with the gravy in the dripping- pan, season Avith a small quantity of salt and pepper, and strain through a fine hair sieve over the bird. Garnish Avith Avatercress, and serve. Stewed Prairie Chicken.—(1) Put about 3 table-spoonfuls of small squares of fat salted pork into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and toss them about OATer a brisk fire until melted. Prepare and trass a bird, put it in the fat, Avitli a bunch of SAveet herbs, one large onion, and a small carrot cut in slices, and fry the Avhole gently until begin- ning to take colour. Then moisten to height Avitli Avhite Avine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire. When the bird is tender, pirt it on a hot dish; boil the cooking-liquor for a feAV minutes to slightly reduce it, pour through a strainer over the bird, and serve. A puree of either beans, peas, asparagus, or mushrooms is a good accompaniment. (2) Skin the birds, cut off their heads and feet, draw them Avithout breaking the intestines, and truss them so that they Avill be short and plump. Put them into a large saucepan with sufficient butter to prevent burning; Avlien they are broAvn, add for each one 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir them about until the flour is brOAvned, then put in 1 gill of tomato ketchup for each bird, enough boil- ing Avater to cover them, and a good seasoning of salt and pepper, and cook sloAvly for tAvo hours, or until tender. Serve the birds on a dish Avitli their sauce, and plain boiled potatoes for a garnish, or in a separate dish. (3) Clean and lard tAvo Prairie chickens. Put Jib. of thin rashers of bacon in a stewpan, AA'itli four sliced onions, one large carrot cut into small pieces, one small dried sausage, and a cabbage that has been blanched and finely shredded. Add a small bunch of thyme and parsley, one bay- leaf, tAvo or three cloves, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Put in the birds, lay three or four thin slices of the bacon ^over them, and pour in sufficient broth to cover them.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 245 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Prairie Hen or Chicken—continued. Boil the whole for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for two hours unless the birds are young, when about half that time will be sufficient. When cooked, drain the cabbage and put it on a dish, lay the birds on the cabbage, arid garnish with Fig. 306. Stewed Prairie Chicken. the sausage cut in slices and the bacon (see Fig. 30(1). Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, and boil up again quickly; pour some over the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. PRALINES.—Any sweets made with burnt sugar, such as burnt almonds. "Varieties will be found described under their special headings. PRAWNS (Fr. Crevettes; Ger. Flohkrebs).—The origin of this word is said to be unknown, but Kettner believes it to be derived from the word prong, on account of the projection on the front of the Prawn’s head. The English Prawn (Palxmon serratus) is caught when small, in large quantities, on most coasts, and is sold in our markets as “ pink shrimps,” being of a pinkish-red when cooked. But these are readily distinguished from the brown shrimp, not only by the colour, but also by the shape of the body, which is narrower and slightly humped in the centre (see Fig. 307), and on account of the saw- like projection springing from between the eyes. Large Prawns are caught singly, by a tedious process, amongst the rocks of the sea-shore. They are much used for garnish, and for ornamental dishes. Prawns are some- times sold preserved in tins, but they are not so good as those that are fresh. See Bisk. Boiled Prawns.—Put 1 pint of Prawns that have been well washed into a saucepan of water, sufficient to cover them, and add salt in the proportion of Jib. to every gallon of water. Set the pan on a quick fire and boil for eight minutes or so, skimming frequently. Take them out, drain on a sieve, and they are ready for serving. They may be served in several ornamental ways, such as putting them in rows as closely as possible round a lemon, fixing them by their horns or tails; or the crumb of a roll may be used instead of the lemon, when it should be cut up like a cake and served with them, a few sprigs of parsley being intermixed. Buttered Prawns.—Pull 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Prawns out of their shells, dredge over with salt and pepper to taste, I put them into a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls j of good rich gravy, and add a small lump of butter well kneaded with flour to thicken it. Set the pan at the side Prawns—continued. of the fire, and simmer gently for five or six minutes, then turn the Prawns out on to a dish, and serve. Curried Prawns.—(1) Slice a moderate-sized onion and a shallot, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until brown; then mix in with them 1 heaped table-spoonful of curry powder, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of broth. Stir until boiling, then put in a small piece of grated cocoa-nut rind, and let the whole simmer at the side of the fire for an hour. Next pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cool. Pick about \ pint of Prawns from their shells, put them and the sauce into a stewpan with the milk from the cocoa-nut and the juice of a lemon, and heat gently ; then turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. (2) Take about a hundred fresh Prawns, pull them out of their shells, put them into a saucepan with 4 table- spoonfuls each of rich veal gravy and cream, and add half a blade of mace. Warm loz. of butter, and mb it into 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls of curry- powder ; when in a smooth paste, stir them into the Prawn mixture, set the saucepan at the side of the fire, ami simmer gently for an hour or so. When nearly done, dredge in a little salt, add the juice of half a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Indian Style.—Remove the heads and shells from about forty large Prawns, thoroughly wash the meat in salted water, put it into a mortar, and pound it well, adding gradually 1 teaspoonful each of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted bread- crumbs. Make the mixture into a mass by adding one well-beaten egg and a little broth if required. Well wash the heads of the Prawns, pick out all the soft inside parts, put it into a mortar with 1 dessert spoonful of unroasted coriander-seeds, and pound well together. Boil 3oz. or 4oz. of fat or mustard oil, using the latter for preference, add loz. of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, half the quantity each of ground green ginger and peppercorns, 1 saltspoon- ful of ground garlic, and 1 dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped sweet herbs. Brown these slightly, sprinkle a little water over them, add the forcemeat ball anil salt to taste, brown them, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of broth or water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about two hours, or until the balls are done. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Lobsters and crabs may also be used, and require to be treated in the same manner. (4) Parboil about two dozen large Prawns, then remove their shells, and pick the coral out from their heads. Put the trimmings of the Prawns in a stew- pan with J breakfast-cupful of cold water, and boil for about ten minutes, then strain the liquor. Put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful of ground turmeric, and a small clove of garlic finely minced; add a small quantity of ground chillies, and fry the whole for a few minutes. Next put in the Prawns, season to taste with salt, and when they are nicely browned pour in the liquor from the trimmings. Stew them gently at the edge of the fire for about ten minutes. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve while very hot. Curried Prawns with Pumpkin (American).—For this large Prawns should be obtained. Remove the heads and shells from about twenty, and parboil them to get rid of the disagreeable fishy smell and taste. Put 2oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, put in 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, and J teaspoonful of ground garlic, and brown them; then add the Prawns and 1 (, teaspoonfuls of salt, and fry them brown. Take off the green skin from a quarter of a large pumpkin, remove the seeds, and cut it up into 2in. squares; steep them in cold water, and drain them. If cucumbers are used, about the same bulk must be taken. Pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cocoa-nut milk, add 4 blades of lemon- grass, three or four ground cloves, and the same of ground cardamoms and ground small sticks of cinnamon. SimmerTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 246 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Prawns—continued. gently for lialf-an-hour or so with the lid on the pan, remove the blades of lemon-grass, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Dried Prawns.—Remove the shells from some Prawns, put them in a basin with a small quantity of salt and turmeric, and let them remain for a day or so. Take them out, string them, place in the sun for from fifteen to twenty days, and they are ready for use. Potted Prawns.—Use freshly-boiled Prawns, pick the meat out from the tails, and pound it in a mortar with half its weight of fresh butter. Season to taste with pounded mace, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, pack it into moulds, and cover with clarified butter. When ready to use, turn it out of the moulds, and garnish with watercress or small salad. Prawns in Aspic.—(1) Put a little slightly-warmed aspic jelly in the bottom of a mould packed in ice, decorate it with a little lobster coral, chopped white of hard-boiled egg and gherkins, small quantities of the yolks of the eggs rubbed through a sieve, and cover this over with more of the jelly; then put in lib. of Prawns taken out of their shells, pour in more jelly, let it set, then decorate again, then more jelly and Prawns, and fill up the mould with Fig. 308. Prawns in Aspic. the jelly. When set firmly, turn it out on to a dish, garnish with wedge-shaped croft tons of aspic jelly and small quantities of lettuce finely chopped surmounted by Prawns in their shells (see Fig. 308), and serve. (2) Put 21b. of knuckle of veal into a saucepan with a calf’s foot, a few slices of lean bacon, some sliced vege- tables, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and 2qts. of water; boil the whole until the liquor will jelly when cold, then strain it into a basin. When cold, remove the fat, put the jelly in a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of sherry and the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and boil it; then strain through a jelly-bag. When nearly set, pour a layer of the jelly into a mould, then put in a layer of shelled Prawns, next another layer of jelly, and so on until the mould is quite full. Each layer of jelly should set before another layer is poured in. Pack the mould in pounded salt and ice, and leave it for several hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the contents out very carefully on to a dish. Prawn Cromeskies.—Take about a hundred Prawns, pull them out of their shells, and chop very fine. Put them into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, adding gradually a very small quantity of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock, and a little seasoning of ground allspice, salt, and pepper. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a basin, and beat in the yolk of an egg; stir this into the Prawn mixture, turn it out on to a board or table, and let it cool. Separate it into the required number of pieces or cromeskies, wrap them round with thin slices of bacon, dip them in warmed butter, and Prawns—continued. put them into a frying-pan over a clear fire, and fry gently for five or six minutes; put them on a dish when done, and serve. Prawn Cutlet.—Well wash three or four dozen Prawns, remove the heads, split them down the centre, and slightly flatten them, forming the whole into a cutlet shape. Sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and finely powdered sweet herbs, brush over with yolk of egg, and dust them with flour. Place the cutlet in a pan of fat, and fry over a moderate fire until of a light brown colour; then put it on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Prawn Omelet.—Pick the Prawns out of their shells and chop them coarsely; put them in a basin with 1 table- spoonful of minced parsley and three eggs, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and beat all well together. Melt a lump of butter or clarified fat in an omelet-pan, put in the above mixture, and fry it. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper over a small dish, place the omelet on it, and serve while hot. Prawn Pilau.—Remove the shells from twelve large Prawns, and put them in a saucepan with a good hard cocoa-nut cut up into small pieces; add a seasoning of onions, ginger, and salt, pour over 1 pint of water, and boil until the whole is done. Take out the Prawns and strain the gravy into a basin. Put 4oz. of ghee or fat into a saucepan, boil it, add twelve onions cut in slices, cook them to a light brown, and push them on one side of the pan or take them out. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of rice to the fat, cook until it is absorbed, then add a few cloves, four cardamoms, six small sticks of cinnamon, ten peppercorns, one or two blades of mace, and 1 dessert spoonful of salt. Pour over sufficient cocoa-nut milk to cover the rice, and boil gently until the liquor is all absorbed. Place the lice in the centre of a dish, strew over the fried onions, garnish with the Prawns and two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and serve. Broth may be used instead of the cocoa-nut milk, but if the latter is used it will impart a sweet and very agreeable flavour to the dish. Should it be too sweet for taste, the strength may be reduced. Prawn Powder.—Well wash 21b. of Indian dried Prawns, and pound them well in a mortar, adding red pepper and grated nutmeg to taste ; pass the powder through a very fine sieve, bottle it, and it is ready for use. Bread-and- butter spread over with this is considered a luxury. Prawn Salad.—Remove the skins and heads of the Prawns, arrange them on a dish with a handful or two of pickled parsley, and dredge over with salt. Squeeze the juice of three lemons into a basin, beat it, together with 3 table spoonfuls of the best salad-oil until well mixed, then pour it over the Prawns, and serve. Prawn Salad made from Tinned Prawns.—Open a tin of Prawns, wash and drain them. Put the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs in a bowl, and mix with them 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, a few drops of essence of shrimps, 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a sufficient quantity, in equal portions, of shallot, malt and chilli vinegar, to make 1 table-spoonful more. Work the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Wash in plenty of water two or three freshly-gathered lettuces and some mustard-and-cress, cut the lettuces into thin shreds, mix them on a round dish with two-thirds of the Prawns and the dressing, and put a bunch of the cress in the centre. Cut the whites of the eggs into rings, fill each ring with a small bunch of the cress, arrange them round the dish, strew the re- mainder of the Prawns over the centre of the salad, and serve without delay. Prawn Soup.—(1) Pull out the meat from 3 pints of Prawns, put them, shells and all, into a saucepan with a blade of mace, and pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of water and 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil for twenty minutes. Pour the liquor through a fine sieve placed over another saucepan containing |gall. of fish stock. Put 2 pints of the boiled Prawns into a mortar with the crumb of a French roll and 4 table spoonfuls of the stock, and 'pound the whole to a pulp. Rub it through a fine sieveTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 47 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Prawns—continued. into the saucepan with the stock, add a small lump of butter well kneaded in Hour, the strained juice of a lemon, and 2 table spoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Set the saucepan on a clear fire, and boil for forty-five minutes ; then add the remaining pint of Prawns, and when they are quite hot, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve at once. (2) Clean half-a-dozen whiting and a large eel; put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil, skimming frequently until no more scum arises. Add a bunch each of thyme and parsley, a little ginger, one onion, three cloves, and a few whole peppers, and continue to boil until all of them are boiled to a mash. Pick out the meat from about a hundred Prawns, put the shells into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, vinegar, and salt, and boil for a few minutes; strain off the liquor and pound the shells in a mortar with a French roll, gradually adding the shell liquor. Put this mixture into the saucepan containing the whiting-and-eel soup, add the meat of a lobster finely minced, pour in lqt. of good beef gravy, and then add the meat from the Prawns. Roll a lump of butter in a little flour, add it to the soup to thicken it, warm the whole over the fire, add a little more seasoning if required, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot. Salpiijon of Prawns.—Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from six Prawns all chopped up small. Thicken this well, let it cook for five minutes, and then serve. Salpiqon of lobster, crayfish, or shrimps will answer when Prawns are not attainable. Scalloped Prawns.—To lqt. of the meat of boiled Prawns allow 1 qt. of dried breadcrumbs, 1 gill each of vinegar and tomato ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter. Put these ingredients into an earthen dish in layers, with a seasoning of salt and pepper, making the top layer of crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve the scalloped Prawns hot, in the dish in which they were baked. Several small dishes or scallop-shells may be used in place of the large dish if preferred. Shrimps can be cooked in the same way. Stewed Prawns.—Pick out the meat from 2qts. of Prawns, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white wine, and add a small blade of mace. Set the pan on the fire, and cook them for about fifteen minutes; then stir well and pass them with the liquor through a sieve. Put this into another saucepan, and add a grated nutmeg, a small quantity of salt, and 4oz. of butter well kneaded in flour, and toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes longer to finish the cooking. Put a round of toast cut into quarters at the bottom of a dish, pour the stewed Prawns over, and serve with a few sprigs of parsley for garnish. Tinned Prawns Sautes.—Put a can or tin of Prawns into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and toss the pan over the fire until they are perfectly hot, but not browned. Sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and cayenne or other pepper. Turn them when done on to a hot dish, pour over the contents of the pan, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon cut in quarters. PRESERVES and PRESERVING. — These terms are so indefinite in their literal sense that, in spite of their being generally accepted to signify the manu- facture of jams, jellies, &c., they may be considered inconvenient for the use of the cook or confectioner. Many different modes of Preserving are described under different headings in this Encyclopaedia, and reference should be made to them for any special information or instruction. See also Jam. PRICKLY FEARS.—These are the fruit or berries (see Fig. 309) of a cactus (Opuntia) common to various parts of America, other varieties being found along the shores of the Mediterranean and some parts of India. They are usually sent to table as follows : Remove the skin of the fruit by cutting a slice off both ends; then make an incision lengthwise through the skin, Prickly Pears—continued. and peel it off with one quick motion. Cut the fruit into slices, put them on a glass dish, cover with white sifted Fig. 309. Prickly Pear. sugar, pour over 1 wineglassful of brandy and the strained juice of an orange, and serve. PRIMROSES.—The flowers of a spring plant {Primula vulgaris) closely allied to the cowslip. They are supposed to have a peculiarly delicate flavour, resembling new milk, for which reason they are sometimes used in cookery. Primrose Pudding.—Decorate a well-greased mould with any fruits, such as dried cherries, pistachios, almonds, &c. Put 4lb. of sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, stir in 1 table spoonful of sugar, and pour over 1 teacupful of boiling milk. Finely chop lib. of suet (mutton for preference), add to it the breadcrumbs, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Primrose petals, and three eggs (one at a time, beating well after each addition so that the pudding may be quite light). Pour the mixture into the mould, taking care not to disarrange the decorations, tie over with a cloth, and steam for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Turn out and serve with champagne sauce. Primrose Salad.—Gather some young shoots before the leaves begin to develop, tie them in bunches, and soak them in salted water for lialf-an-hour. Drain the Primroses, and boil them in slightly-salted water for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain them, and leave till cool. Put the Primroses in a salad-bowl with a small quantity of onion (or the onion may be omitted if not liked), pour over them a plain salad dressing, and serve. Primrose Vinegar.—Put Gib. of the coarsest brown sugar into a large pan with 4galls. of water, and boil it for a- quarter-of-an-hour. Clear the liquor with the shell and white of one egg. Put 1 peck of Primroses, with their stalks on, into a tub, anil strain the boiling liquor through a fine hair sieve over them. When quite cold, mix in jib. of yeast, and leave for a couple of days, stirring it often every day. At the end of that time turn the whole into a barrel, cover the opening lightly with a sheet of paper, and keep it in a warm place. In about ten months the vinegar will have turned sour, when it may be drawn off into bottles, and corked down tightly. Primrose Wine.—For this the Primroses should be freshly gathered. Mix Gqts. of them without their stalks with 2qts. of cowslip-pips. Put 7 Alb. of loaf sugar into a saucepan or sugar-boiler with \oz. of powdered ginger and 2£galls. of soft water, anil boil for forty-five minutes, skim- ming frequently. Clarify by adding the well-beaten whites of two or three eggs, and continue the boiling and skimming until the liquor is perfectly clear. Pour this while still boiling over the flowers, stir well, and add 141b. of stoned and chopped raisins and the juice and thin rinds of three lemons; cover the vessel securely, and let the whole infuse for fully three days, stirring well once or twice a day. Then warm up the liquor, and work in j teacupfulTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 248 uces, <Scc., referred, to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Primroses—continued. of yeast; set it to ferment for three days, strain it, and afterwards filter it into a cask that will exactly contain it. Put a slight covering over the bung-hole, and let it remain until it has ceased to ferment, when pour in f pint of brandy with Joz. of isinglass dissolved in it, bung up the cask securely, and let it stand for a year. Bottle the wine, and in six months’ time it will be fit for use. Sand or some other material should be placed over the bung to prevent air from entering. PRINCE ALBERT PUDDING.—See Puddings. PRINCE’S BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. PRINCE’S CREAM.—See Cream. PRINCE’S PUDDING.---See Puddings. PRINCE’S SAUCE.—-See Sauces. PRINCE’S SOUP.—See Soups. PROFITEROLLES.—A name given by some French pastrycooks to a very delicate kind of puff pastry. Gouffe gives some good receipts for their use and preparation. Frofiterolles with Chocolate.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with a small pinch of salt, loz. of sugar, and l pint of milk; set the pan on the fire, and when the liquor is warm add a flavouring of orange- or rose-flower water and sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. Remove the saucepan from the fire and beat in three or four eggs, making it of such a consistency that it will easily drop from the spoon. Drop a little at a time on to a well-floured slab or board, roll them into balls tlie size of plums, put them on a baking-sheet at a little distance from one another, set the baking-sheet in a slow oven, and bake until they are done and rather crisp and dry. Take the Profiterolles out, and let them cool; make an opening in the top of each one, and fill them with a little frangipani cream, well flavoured with almonds and lemon-zest,. Spread a little of this cream at the bottom of a dish, pile the Profiterolles on it to form a pyramid, ami put them in a very slow oven or dry closet to keep warm. A few minutes before serving, pour over l pint of liquid choco- late, thicker than it is usually made for drinking, and serve. Profiterolle Pudding. —Pour l pint of water into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of butter and loz. of sugar, set the pan on the fire, and when the liquor boils dredge in ilb. of sifted flour, stirring it with a wooden spoon over the lire and working for four minutes. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add three eggs, one at a time, beating each one well in before another is added. If the paste will drop from the spoon it is of the proper consistency; but if it will not, a little more egg must be worked in. Pour the paste into a funnel made of paper, cut off the tip, leav- ing a hole about Jin. in diameter, and squeeze out the paste on to a baking-sheet in lumps about the size of a walnut (or this may be done with a biscuit-bag) ; brush them over with egg and flatten them a little on the tops, set the baking-sheet in the oven, and bake for a few minutes until the Profiterolles are done ; then make a slight hole in the top and fill all of them with apricot jam thus: Put the jam into another paper funnel, make a small hole at the top, insert the end in the holes made in the Profiterolles, and squeeze in the jam. In the meantime wash and stone 4oz. of raisins, and cook them in a little syrup at ‘20deg. (see SYRUPS). Put loz. of gelatine in a basin with a little water and let it steep. Pour ]qt. of boiled cream into a saucepan over the yolks of ten eggs and 12oz. of sugar; set the saucepan over the fire and stir continually until the custard thickens, but without letting it boil. Remove the pan from the fire and stir for three or four minutes longer. Add the gelatine, drained of the water, and when it is dissolved pass the mixture through a very fine sieve into a basin. Pack a cylindrical mould in ice and let it remain to get quite cold. Add 1 teacupful of kirschenwasser to the strained custard mixture, Profiterolles—continued. and when it is cold pour a little of it at the bottom of the mould to about fin. in thickness. Put a few of the Pro- fiterolles on this in a circle, intermixing with a few of the cooked raisins, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Cover the mould with a tin, pack the ice on it, and when it has frozen for about an hour, turn the pud- ding out on to a dish, and serve. Profiterolles for Soup.—Put 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with loz. of butter and 1 pinch of salt, set the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the butter is melted dredge in sufficient flour to make the mixture into a still' paste, and then work in one egg. Drop the paste on to a baking-tin or dish, letting it fall in small lumps the size of a pea, set the tin or dish in the oven, and bake the Profiterolles to a pale colour, when they are done. They must be added to the soup only just before it is put into the tureen. PROOF SPIRIT.—See Alcohol. PROSANICO.—The name of an Italian wine pro- duced in Umbria. PROVENCAL.—Of or belonging to Provence. A name given to a sauce and some other kinds of French cookery. PRUNES (Fr. Pruneaux ; Ger. Pflaumen).—What are generally known as Prunes, or French Plums, are the driedfruits of a plum-tree cult ivated in many parts of France specially for the purpose. The fruits are, however, delicious when ripe, and are covered with a rich bloom, which makes them valuable for dessert. They are frequently grown in connection with vineyards, the broad leaves of the vine protecting the roots of the Prune-trees from the intense heat of the summer. The process of drying is thus described in a journal devoted to catering:—The fruit is not considered ready to be gathered for drying until it falls from the tree when shaken. As soon as harvested it is taken to a building where it remains for a few days to complete maturity, and it is then subjected to not less than three, and frequently to four, distinct cookings before being pronounced ready for market. The first two preliminary cookings are intended to produce evaporation of the water contained in the fruit, and the final cooking dries the fruit and imparts a certain brilliancy much sought after by buyers. Sun-dried Prunes are most delicious in taste, but the exigencies of the trade do not permit of such long preparation. In preparing the oven for the first cooking care is exercised that the degree of heat shall not exceed 50 deg. cent., and in the second not moi’e than 70 deg. If the heat is too strong, an ebullition is produced in the fruit, the skin bursts, the juice discharges, and the Prune becomes sticky, loses its flavour, and consequently its commercial value. After each cooking, which occupies about six hours, the fruit is removed from the oven and exposed to the air. When the Prunes are cold, they are carefully turned by women specially charged with this duty, who avoid disturbing the fruit while it is warm, as the touch renders it glutinous and prevents the juice from congeal- ing. The third cooking is performed at a temperature of from 80 deg. to 90 deg. and occasionally at 100 deg. After the third cooking the Prunes are sorted, and such as are found imperfectly cooked are again submitted to the oven. The degree of perfection in cooking is obtained when the fruit presents a dark purple colour, a solid and brilliant surface, mobile and elastic to the touch, and when the kernel is well done and intact to the shell. When these condi- tions are not obtained, the kernel ferments and alters the entire Prune, which very soon becomes mouldy and worthless. During the various processes the fruit loses about 70 per cent, of its original moisture. The dark colour depends largely upon the degree of maturity at the time of gathering. The brilliancy of sur- face has no other commercial value than that of provingTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 249 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Prunes—continued. the cleanliness observed in preparation and attracting the attention of buyers. The fruit is divided into nine classes, taking the number of Prunes necessary to the pound as a basis, No. 1 being 90 to 92 to the pound (see Fig. 310), and No. 9, 30 to 31 (see Fig. 310). When ready for exportation the fruit is pressed flat between two cylinders covered with rubber, and then Class 1 Class 9. Fig. 310. Prunes. packed into cases by a special machine called a packer. Many dealers, however, still perform this operation in the primitive manner of foot pressure, which is simple, speedy, and equally satisfactory. Compote of Prunes.—(1) Put lib. of French Plums into a basin of water and wash them, take them out, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and add loz. of loaf sugar and a small piece of cinnamon, and put the pan on the fire. When the water boils, remove the pan to the side and simmer the contents gently for forty-five minutes. Take out the Prunes when done, place them on a sieve to drain, and then put them into a compote-dish. Add2oz. more sugar to the liquor when it has been strained, put hack into the saucepan, and reduce it to syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups), and when cold pour it over the Prunes and serve. (2) Put 1 lb. of Prunes into a sugar-boiler with 1 teacupful of water, half the quantity of white wine, and loz. of crushed loaf sugar. Set the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes; take out the Plums, drain them on a sieve, arrange them in a compote-dish, pour over the strained liquor when it is cold, and serve. Gateau of Prunes.—-Remove the stones from lib. of Prunes, crack them, blanch the kernels, which put with the Prunes into a lined stewpan, add 1 pint, of water, sugar to taste, and the strained juice and grated rind of a small lemon. Stew the Prunes gently at the side of the fire until soft, then put in foz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water. Colour the mixture with a few drops of cochineal, turn it into a plain mould that has Fig. 311. Gateau of Prunes. been rinsed out with cold water, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould into a dish, and pour whipped cream round it (see Fig. 311). Prunes—continued. Preserved Prunes.—Wash 21b. or 31b. of Prunes, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and add the grated rind of a lemon. Set the pan on a slow fire, and cook gently until the fruit is quite tender; then take it out, and pass it through a sieve. For each pound of pulp use fib. of sugar ; put the sugar into a preserving-pan with a little water, and when it is melted add the pulp. Boil for fifteen minutes longer, skimming frequently. Pour the preserve into jars or pots, and it is ready for use. Prunes a la Russe.—Put lib. of Prunes in a pan with a small quantity of water, sugar to taste, and stew them gently. When tender take the stones out of the Prunes, crack them, and put the kernels in with the fruit. Decorate the sides of a cylinder-mould with blanched and split sweet almonds, using a small quantity of liquid jelly to make them adhere, then carefully pour in layers of Prunes and of jelly. Pack the mould in ice and leave it for a few hours until the Prunes and jelly are quite cold and firm. Sweeten some cream to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with a few drops of essence of almonds, anil then whip to a stiff froth. When the jelly is ready, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn out the contents on to a glass dish ; fill the hollow with the cream, and serve. Prunes in Brandy.—Procure a wide-mouthed bottle, and pack the Plums in it in layers, strewing plenty of caster sugar over each layer; fill up with the best brandy, cork, and stand the bottle in the corner of a warm stove. In a few hours’ time the bottle may be removed, and shortly after the Plums will be ready for use, but they improve by keeping. Prune Cake.—Put 11b. of Prunes in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, boil them gently until soft, then strain them, stone, and cut into small pieces. Mix in a basin Jib. of flour, Jib. of ground rice, and 1 teaspoonful of baking- Fig. 312. Prune Cake. powder; rub in 2oz. of butter, and when quite smooth mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar and the Prunes. Well beat one egg, add to it \ pint of milk, then thoroughly mix it with the above ingredients. Butter and flour a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half. Turn the cake out of the mould on to a glass dish, and leave till cold. Garnish round the dish with candied plums and apricots, or half peaches (see Fig. 312). Prune Brink.—Prick eight or nine Prunes, put them into a stewpan with 1J pints of water, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender. At the end of that time strain the liquor through a fine wire sieve, pressing the Prunes with a wooden spoon to extract as much of the juice as possible. Sweeten the beverage to taste, and leave until cold, when it will be ready for serving. Prune Jelly.—Wash lib. of Prunes in a little warm water, then put them in a stewpan with sugar to taste, a small piece of lemon-peel, half a stick of cinnamon, and water to cover, and stew till tender. When cooked, remove the stones and pass the Prunes through a fine hair sieve; crack the stones, and mix the kernels with the Prunes. Soak loz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water, and mix it with the Prunes, adding 2 wineglassfuls of port wine.250 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Prunes—continued. Turn the jelly into a stewpan, and boil it for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds and split them lengthwise into halves, ornament the interior of a mould with them, fixing them in with a little liquid jelly, carefully pour in the Prune jelly, and stand it on ice or in a very cool temperature. Make some nice cream sauce and let it get cold. When ready, dip the mould quickly into hot water to loosen the jelly, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Prune Loaf.—Put lilt, of Prunes into a lined saucepan with loz. of moist sugar, J pint of port, and nearly | pint of water; boil them until tender, and then remove the stones. Cut some rounds of bread about lin. in diameter, pour over them some warmed butter, and then line a mould with them; next spread in a layer of marmalade, put in the Prunes, and cover them with some of the rounds of buttered bread. Tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the loaf out on to a dish. Prune Pudding.—(1) Pour lqt. of milk into a basin, and add two well-beaten eggs and sufficient flour to make the whole into a thick paste; sprinkle a little Hour over Jib. or so of well-washed Prunes, stir them into the paste, and turn it into a floured pudding-cloth ; put this in a saucepan of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil for two hours. Turn the pudding out on to a dish and serve with a little butter and sugar, or a sauceboatful of wine sauce. (2) Put 4 table spoonfuls of flour into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted ginger and a small quantity of salt. Mix it smoothly with the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, and pour in gradually lqt. of milk. When quite smooth add fib. of Prunes. Rinse a cloth out in hot water, flour it, and tie the pudding mixture up in it. Put it into a basin that will exactly hold it, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for one hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust it over with caster sugar, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and serve. (3) Put lib. of Prunes into a lined stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of moist sugar, and moisten them with h pint of port wine and 1 teacupful of water. Stew them gently irntil tender, then remove the stones, crack them, and put the kernels in with the fruit. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out about Jin. thick, and spread the Prunes over it, leaving a clear margin all round, which moisten with a paste-brush dipped in water. Roll up the paste, and pinch it well at the edges so that the Prunes shall not escape. Roll it in a well-floured and buttered stout pudding-cloth, tie up firmly, and boil between two and three hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet wine sauce poured over it. (4) Finely chop 6oz. of beef-suet and mix with it in a basin 7oz. of grated breadcrumbs, 2oz. of sugar, and lib. of chopped Prunes. Well beat three eggs together with 1 tea- cupful of milk and I dessert-spoonful of ratafia, and stir them in with the dry ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Let the whole stand for an hour, then tie a pudding-cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. The pudding should be stirred again before tying the cloth over it. When cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish and serve. Prune Sauce.—Put Jib. of Prunes into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil them until soft; remove the stones from the fruit, break them up small in a mortar, then put them in with the fruit, and add a thin strip of lemon-peel, the strained juice of the lemon, sugar to taste, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and 11 wineglassfuls of port wine. Let the sauce simmer at the edge of the fire for a few minutes, then nib it through a coarse wire sieve, and serve. Stewed Prunes.—(1) Put lib. of Pnines into a basin of lukewarm water and wash them well; then put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water in which Jib. of sugar has been dissolved, and add the juice and thin rind of a lemon. Set the saucepan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for an hour, by which time the fruit Prunes—con tinued. should be so tender that it will mash when gently pressed. Take out the Prunes and drain them, put the saucepan with the syrup on the fire, and boil it to that degree when it is on the point of resolving itself into sugar. Put the Pnines in a shallow dish, and pour the syrup over, shak- Fig. 313. Stewed Prunes. ing them until well covered, but taking care not to break them. Let them remain in this syrup for twelve hours, then put them in a pile in a glass dish (see Fig. 313), and serve. (2) If the Prunes are at all gritty they should be washed in cold water. Put them in a basin with plenty of sugar and sufficient cold water to cover them, put a plate on top of the basin, and stand it in a moderate oven. When tender, let the Prunes get cold, then turn them into a glass dish, and serve with custard or whipped cream piled on the top of them. They are also very nice served hot with plain boiled rice. (3) Put lOoz. of Pnines in a vessel with lqt. of cold water, let them soak for four hours, and afterwards drain them. Put them in a saucepan with J pint of cold water, the zest of a lemon, a 2in. piece of cinnamon, 2oz. of butter, and 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Place the pan on a slow fire, and with a spatula stir carefully and gently now and again, to avoid breaking the fruit. Let them cook slowly for two hours, then remove the pan from the stove and add immediately 1 pint of Bordeaux wine; replace it on the stove and heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to boil again. Take from off the fire, pour the Prunes into a stone jar, and let them get cold. FRUNELET.—A liquor made from sloes or the German black plum. PRUSSIAN CHARLOTTE.—See Charlottes. PTARMIGAN.—These are a kind of grouse which inhabit the northern countries and high mountains of Europe, Asia, and America. The European Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) and some other varieties have brown plumage in summer, which turns white or nearly white in winter. The feet are usually feathered to the ex- tremity of the outside claw. Ptarmigan can be cooked according to the receipts given for grouse, or as follow: Broiled Ptarmigan.—Pluck, singe, and wipe three fat Ptarmigan, chop off the heads, and split the birds down the backs without separating them. Place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, pour over 1 table- spoonful of sweet oil, roll the birds in this, and put them to broil over a moderate fire for seven minutes on each side. Place six pieces of toast on a hot dish, arrange the birds on the top, cover with about 1 teacupful of maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with a garnish of water- cress. Roasted Ptarmigan.—(1) Pluck, draw, and singe four or five Ptarmigan, and truss them in the same way as a grouse. Put them on a spit or in front of a clear fire, and roast for about half-an-hour. A few minutes before they are cooked, dredge them over with flour, and baste well with their drippings and a little butter. Put them on a dish well sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and serve with a little bread sauce and brown gravy in separate sauce- boats.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 251 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ptarmigan—continued. (2) Pluck, draw, singe, and truss two or three Ptarmigan, lard the breasts, wrap the birds up in slices of fat bacon, and roast them in front of a clear fire for lialf-an-hour, basting frequently. Have ready a few slices of toast in the dripping-pan, place them on a dish with a bird on each, ami serve with 1 sauceboatful each of fried breadcrumbs and rich gravy. If desired, the Ptarmigan may be stuffed with breadcrumbs soaked in warmed butter. Salmis of Ptarmigan a la Chasseur.—Pick, singe, draw, and wipe two Ptarmigan, cut off the wings, legs, and breasts, put the carcases into a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and cook in the oven for six minutes. Take them out, chop them up, return them to the pan with 1 pint of white broth and a bunch of sweet herbs, and cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes longer. Put loz. of butter into a saute pan, place in the legs, wings, and breasts, season with salt and pepper, and cook over a sharp fire for three minutes on each side; pour in J wineglassful of Madeira and J pint of Spanish sauce, add the zest of a lemon and the strained liquor from the carcases, and cook for twelve minutes longer; add twelve mushrooms cut in halves, cook for another four minutes, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve with any desired garnish. FUCHERO.—This is to Spain what the pot-au-feu is to France. To be thoroughly appreciated it should be eaten in Spain, where it would probably be prepared as follows: Put 21b. of brisket of beef into an earthenware stock- pot, and add Jib. of blanched ham or salted pork, a pig’s ear cleaned and singed, a fowl’s giblets, and 3 handfuls of “garbancos” (a kind of chick-pea) that have been softened in water. Pour over 5qts. or 6qts. of water, put the stock- pot on the lire, and skim frequently. As soon as the liquor begins to boil remove the stockpot to the side of the fire and let it remain for a couple of hours. Add a bunch of chervil, a small quantity of “ liierba buena ” (wild mint), a large slice of “courge” (pumpkin) without the peel and seeds, a large carrot, two leeks tied together, half of a blanched savoy cabbage, and a head of cabbage lettuce. Let these simmer gently for an hour, then add a “chorizo” (a kind of pork sausage), and continue the cooking. When the soup is done, pour it slowly into a sieve placed over a saucepan and then into the soup- tureen, and add the leeks and cabbage lettuce cut up into small pieces, and a few slices of bread fried in butter. Serve with the beef put in the centre of the dish and surrounded with the chorizo, ham, giblets, &c., and the remaining vegetables. PUDDINGS (Fr. Poudings; Ger. Puddinge).— Under this heading are given a variety of receipts for the preparation of certain dishes which have no more definite appellation. The term itself, which, according to Skeat, is of Celtic origin, is in culinai-y parlance extended so widely by the fancies and tastes of cooks that it is difficult to assign any limitation to its application. Webster describes a Pudding as a species of food of a soft or moderately hard consistency variously made, and this we are compelled to accept, having nothing more definite to offer. For numerous other Puddings see their special headings. Acid Pudding.—Pare off the yellow rind as thinly as possible from four large lemons and one Seville orange, and steep it in 1J pints of boiling water until the flavour is well extracted; then strain the water and mix with it the strained juice of the lemons and fib. of moist sugar. Slice three small plain sponge cakes, lay them in a glass dish, and pour the above mixture carefully over them. When the cakes are well soaked, stick 2oz. or 3oz. of blanched and split sweet almonds over them, mask them well with a little dissolved jelly, using strawberry, rasp- berry, or lemon, and serve. Adam-and-Eve Pudding.—Thoroughly mix lib. of white breadcrumbs moistened with milk, Jib. of finely -chopped beef- suet, Jib. of caster sugar, six eggs, the zest of two lemons, Jib. of sultanas, and lib. of apples peeled and coarsely cut up. Puddings—continued. Put the mixture into a mould greased with butter, and either steam or bake in the oven, standing the mould upright in a tin containing a little water. Bake for an- hour and-a-half, and serve with a custard sauce made with 1J pints of milk, 6oz. of sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and ljoz. of cornflour flavoured with brandy. Adelaide Pudding.—(1) Put the whites of three and the yolks of six eggs into a bowl, and beat them well. Put 1 pint of water and 9oz. of sugar into a saucepan and boil; when scum rises, pour it over the eggs, add the grated rind and the juice of a lemon, and whip the whole well together for about twenty minutes. Dredge in slowly about 8oz. of flour, and when well mixed, pour it into a buttered tin or mould, set it in a quick oven, and bake for twenty minutes; then turn it out, and serve. (2) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and add an equal quantity of sugar, four well- beaten eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. W hen all are incorporated, turn the mixture into a well-huttered mould or tin, set it in a slack oven, and bake gently for about twenty minutes. Turn it out, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Agnew Pudding.—Peel, core, and quarter 21b. of nice cooking apples, and stew them together with moist sugar to taste, and a small piece of lemon-peel, if the flavour is liked. 'When reduced to a pulp, remove the lemon-peel, if any were used, and beat the apples up well with two eggs that have been whisked to a froth and 3oz. of slightly- warmed butter. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into a pie-dish, the edges of which should be lined with puff paste, and bake. When the paste is cooked, the pudding is ready for serving. Albemarle Pudding.—Slightly warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until frothy, then mix with it 4oz. of sugar and the grated rind of one lemon. Whip separately the whites and yolks of three eggs, then mix all the ingredients to- gether, sifting in gradually Jib. of flour, and continue beating the whole until quite smooth. Butter a Pudding- basin and ornament it with raisins that have been split into halves and stoned; pour in the mixture very care- fully so as not to displace the raisins, cover the top with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for an- hour-and a half. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Albert Pudding.—(1) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and work in gradually 4oz. of finely- powdered crushed loaf sugar. When these are well incor- porated, beat in the yolks and whites of five eggs (beaten separately), then 8oz. of dried and sifted flour, the grated rind of a lemon, and lastly 8oz. of well-washed and stoned raisins. Arrange slices of candied lemon- and orange-peel at the Fig. 314. Ai.uert Pudding. bottom of a mould, pour in the Pudding mixture, tic over with a cloth, and boil or steam it for about three hours. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over a little punch sauce, and serve. (2) Sift 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix it with the yolks of seven eggs, working them well together252 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. into a paste. Put 6oz. of butter and 4oz. of beef marrow into a basin in a saucepan, and melt them together. Take this off the fire, and when the fat has lost some of its heat, pour it gently into the sugar mixture and work to a froth. Sift in 8oz. of flour and add the well-whisked whites of seven eggs. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, add Jib. of candied cedrat- and lemon-peel cut into small pieces, and the same amount of well-washed and dried currants, sprinkled over slightly with flour to prevent their sinking to the bottom; add lastly a little each of finely-chopped lemon- and orange-peel. Butter and Hour a Pudding-cloth, put the mixture in the centre, tie it up securely, plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. Take it out when done, turn it out of the cloth on to a dish, pour over a little chocolate sauce (see Fig. 314) or sabayon, and serve. Half the quantity of ingredients will make a fair-sized Pudding. Alderman’s Pudding.—Pour 1 pint of cream into a very clean saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, a small piece of mace, and sugar to taste. Boil all to- gether for a few minutes, then take out the piece of lemon-peel, pound it in a mortar, return it to the cream, and pass all through a fine hair sieve. Let the cream stand until thin, mix it gently with the beaten yolks of six eggs, and pour it into a mould with a lid ; stand it in a saucepan with a little boiling water, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the Hre for three-quarters- of-an-hour. When ready, turn it out of the mould on to a fancy dish, let it stand until cold, then mask it with currant or apple jelly, and serve. Alexandra Iced Pudding.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or cream into a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs and sufficient sugar to taste, and stir them into a custard. Turn this custard into a basin, and when it is cold mix in 4oz. of ratafia cakes broken in pieces and rubbed through a sieve, and flavour with 2 or 3 drops of extract of bitter almonds. Pack the basin in ice, and freeze until the mixture is reduced below freezing-point. Put a layer of this iced mixture at the bottom of a mould, and on top of it arrange a few strawberries preserved whole from which the syrup has been drained, and which have been dipped one at a time into lemon-juice. Continue to put in these layers until all the ingredients are used up, then return the mould to the ice, let it remain for two hours, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve. Alexandra Pudding.—(1) Put 3oz. of breadcrumbs into a basin, and mix in tin equal quantity of sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and lastly 1 gill of milk. Have ready a pie-dish lined with puff paste, mask the bottom with strawberry or apricot jam, pour in the Pudding mixture, set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Take it out when done, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of ten eggs in a basin, and add slowly 1 teacupful of cream, 2 teacupfuls of milk, and 2oz. of caster sugar. Put the whites of live eggs into another basin, whisk them gently, and add 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla to flavour. Stir this into the yolk mixture, pour it through a sieve into a mould that will exactly hold 3 breakfast-cupfuls, and that has been well buttered and covered at the bottom with three rounds of paper also buttered, cover the top of the mould with a thick piece of buttered paper, put it into a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam gently for an-hour- and -a-quarter. When done, pack the Pudding in ice, and let it remain until quite firm and set. Turn it out of the mould on to a dish, decorate with a little red-currant jelly, and serve. All-Threes Pudding.—Mix together 3oz. each of chopped and stoned raisins, peeled, chopped, and cored apples, finely- chopped suet, and sifted breadcrumbs, and three beaten eggs, leaving out the white of one. Boil the Pudding in a cloth for three hours. Alma Pudding. -Mince 4oz. of beef-suet, put it into a basin, warm it, and mix with it an equal quantity each of breadcrumbs and caster sugar, and 3oz. each of finely- chopped candied citron-, orange-, and lemon-peel; mix Puddings—continued. these thoroughly, and add the grated rind of half a lemon, Jib. of apricot marmalade, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, and a small quantity of salt. Line the inside of a well-huttered dome-shaped mould with paper also well buttered, pour the mixture in it, put it in a saucepan with water to half its height, place the pan in the oven, and cook for about five hours. Turn it out on to a dish when done, pour round a little Madeira or sweet sauce, and serve. Amber Pudding.—(1) Put 8oz. each of butter and sugar into a saucepan over the fire and let them warm for five minutes, then turn them out into a basin over the yolks of eight well-beaten eggs. Have ready a pie-dish lined with puff paste, cover it at the bottom with orange mar- malade, pour over the mixture, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. Take it out and it is ready for use. It may be eaten either hot or cold as desired. (2) Peel, core, and cut into slices six large sound apples; put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, 3oz. of sugar, and the juice and thin rind of a lemon ; set the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the apples are done and quite tender. Turn the mass on to a fine sieve placed over a basin, rub it through, and mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Turn the mixture into a pie-dish lined with rich puff paste, and bake it gently in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take it out, spread over it the whites of three eggs whipped to a still' froth, and dredge over a little caster sugar; replace the Pudding in the oven for a few minutes for the white froth to set, but without let- ting it take colour, then take it out, and it is ready for use. (3) Peel and core half-a-dozen large apples, cut them up in slices, and put them in a saucepan with 3oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. of butter, and the thin rind of a lemon; set the pan on the fire and cook gently until the apples are done and quite tender. Put an edging of puff paste round a pie-dish, decorating it in ornamental designs, beat in the yolks of three eggs to the apple mixture, pour it into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a still froth, spread it over the top of the Pudding, sprinkle over more caster sugar, and place a few preserved cherries on the top and half cherries round. Put the Pud- fling in a cool oven to set, let it remain for ten minutes or so, by which time it should be of a light golden colour, then take it out, and serve. See Fig. 315. American Black Pudding.—Put lqt. of small berries, such as blue or elderberries, into a saucepan with 1 break- fastcupful of sugar and 1 pint of water, and cook until the berries are done. Cut a small loaf into thin slices, butter them well, put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour over a little of the berry mixture, and fill up the dish in this way. Put the dish in the cellar, and when the Pudding is perfectly cold serve it with cream and sugar. Amhurst Pudding.—Well butter a Pudding-dish, and line it with thin slices of bread-and-butter. Peel and slice some sour baking apples, fill the dish with them, sprinkle with brown sugar and a little powdered clove and cinna- mon, and cover the apples with slices of bread-and-butter. ^Turn a plate or dish over the Pudding so as to cover it253 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—cordi nu ed. closely. Bake in a moderate oven for two-hours-and-a- lialf, then turn it out, and serve with cream sauce. Angel Puddings.—For Jib. of flour allow an equal weight of caster sugar and butter, four eggs, and 1 pint of milk. Put the butter and milk in a saucepan and stir them over the fire until the butter has dissolved. Put the flour and sugar in a basin, and pour the milk and butter over them, stirring at the same time to keep them perfectly smooth. Beat the eggs thoroughly and stir them in with the above, mixing well. Butter some patty-pans, three-parts fill each with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned. When cooked, take them out of the pans, ar- range them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve with cut lemons. Aunt Louisa’s Pudding. -Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grated j breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over them three breakfast- cupfuls of warmed milk, mix well, and add 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, ljoz. of butter, the well-whisked yolks of six eggs, and the juice and grated peel of a lemon. When these are thoroughly J incorporated, turn the mixture into a buttered pie-disli, place it in a quick oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. In the meantime, work 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar into the juice of a lemon poured into a basin, and beat in the whites of the six eggs whisked to a still' froth. Take the Pudding out when done, mask it on the top with apricot jam, heap the frothed egg on the top of that, set in the oven for a few minutes to lightly brown it, and serve. Baby’s Pudding.—Lightly nib the interior of a small basin I with butter, and put in it a penny sponge cake that has ! been broken in small pieces. Whisk an egg with J pint of milk, pour it over the cake, and leave until well soaked. Tie a sheet of paper over the basin, put it in a small saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for half-an-liour. Turn the Pudding out of the basin five minutes after it is taken up, and serve. Baden-Baden Pudding.—Wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it in a saucepan with a small piece of stick vanilla and J pint of milk, and boil until soft. Before the rice is quite cooked, put in Joz. of dissolved gelatine and boil it. Sweeten 1 pint of cream with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and whip it to a still' froth. When cooked, take the rice of! the fire and leave it until slightly cooled, then stir in the cream quickly. Rinse a mould with cold water, pour in the mixture, and put it in a cold place until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Pudding on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Preserved fruit can be served with the Pudding if liked. Baked Californian Pudding.—Well beat three eggs with f pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with a few drops of essence of almonds, and add J wine- glassful of pale brandy. Stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, then move it off. Put some small pieces of stale sponge cake in a pie-dish with ljoz. of thinly- shredded citron-peel, pour the custard over it, and leave for half-an-liour. Slightly warm 6oz. of butter and beat it with 6oz. of caster sugar until frothy. Spread this mixture oyer the Pudding, and bake for an hour. It may be served either hot or cold. Balloon Pudding.—Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of fresh milk, then turn it into a saucepan and stir by the side of the fire, adding gradually five well-beaten eggs and a lump of butter. When on the point of boil- ing, move the mixture from the fire. Butter some tea- cups, half fill them with the mixture, and bake for fifteen minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the pud- dings out of the cups on to a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. Bank-Holiday Pudding.—Mix 4oz of finely-shredded suet with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of ground rice, and the grated rind of a lemon, and work in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered Pudding-basin, put it in a steamer over a sauce- Puddings—continued. pan of boiling water, and cook for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over a sauce made with melted butter, sugar, and a little white wine, and serve. Barford Pudding.—Chop fib. of beef suet, and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, 5oz. of moist sugar, Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins, four well-beaten eggs, and a small quantity each of salt and grated nutmeg. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, then turn the whole into a well- buttered basin; tie a cloth over the basin, and boil the contents for three-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, ami serve. Bath Pudding.—Put 3 teacupfuls of milk into a basin, and work in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of flour to make a light paste. Put 6oz. of butter into a basin at the side of the fire, and stir in the flour mixture until the butter is melted; let it get cold, then add the grated rind of a lemon and the juice of half a one, six well-beaten eggs, sufficient sugar and grated nutmeg to taste, and h wine- glassful of brandy. Put a layer of puff paste round the edge of a dish, pour in the mixture, set the dish in a quick oven, and bake until the pudding is done. Take it out, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Beaufort Pudding.—Butter a shallow dish, line it with a good puff paste, and spread a thick layer of strawberry jam at the bottom. Whisk the yolks of four eggs and the white of one well together with 4oz. each of sugar and slightly-warmed butter and a few drops of ratafia. When ready, pour this mixture over the jam in the dish, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Beaulieu Puddings.—Melt 6oz. of butter, then beat till creamy, and mix it with 1 teacupful each of flour and caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, 2oz. of sliced mixed candied peel, a few blanched and chopped bitter almonds, and double the quantity of sweet almonds, also blanched and chopped. Mix the above ingredients thoroughly, adding b wineglassful of brandy. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a hot dish, and serve (see Fig. 316). Bird’s-Nest Pudding.—(1) Peel and core eight apples, but do not cut or break them. Arrange them in a good-sized Pudding-dish, and fill the places where the cores were with sugar. Then with 1 b pints of milk, 3oz. of flour, and four eggs, make a batter; pour this over the apples, and bake till the fruit is done. For the sauce beat Jib. of butter till very light; add Jib. of powdered white sugar and J pint of cream. Stand the bowl in which the mixture is in a basin of hot water, and stir till all is creamy. Two minutes ought to be enough. Serve in a tureen. (2) Pare and core a few moderate-sized cooking apples, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water and plenty of sugar, and stew until tender. Put 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of sago in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, the strained juice of a small lemon, and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and boil it until reduced to a jelly, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. Turn the sago on to .a deep dish, put the stewed apples in it, and place on each apple a small quantity of raspberry-and- currant or strawberry jam. Serve cold. (3) Cut off the peel of half-a-dozen oranges, put it into a basin with about Jgall. of water, and let it remain for254 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. ten or twelve hours. Take it out, drain quite dry, and with a pair of scissors cut it up into small pieces or strips. Put these pieces of peel into a saucepan of water and boil until quite tender, then take them out and drain on a sieve. Put 1 teacupful of sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water and boil to a syrup; then put in the pieces of orange-peel, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Turn the whole into a basin and let it stand for a day. Put 1 pint each of sugar and water into a sugar-boiler, and boil to the thread degree {see Sugar-boiling), which will take about twenty minutes. Put the pieces of orange- peel from the other syrup into this and boil for thirty minutes; then take them out, drain well, and put them on a dish in the oven. Put loz. of gelatine into 1 teacupful of cold water, let it soak for two hours or so, then pour over sufficient boiling water to make, together with the strained juice of six oranges and the water with the gela- tine, about 5 teacupfuls. Mix in 1 teacupful of sugar, and when it is dissolved pour the whole through a line sieve into a shallow dish. Make small holes at the -ends of six eggs, empty them, and wash them well inside; drain them quite dry, and fill them with warm blanc- mange. Put them in a basin of meal or Hour, having the ends with the holes uppermost, and let them get quite cold. When the jelly is quite cold and firm, break it into small lumps, put it on a dish, and with the pieces of orange-peel form half-a-dozen nests in the jelly. Put the eggs in these nests, and serve. Bishop’s Pudding.—Line a dish with puff paste, and spread over a layer of any jam or preserve. Cut a thin round of bread from a household loaf, spread it well over with butter, place it on top of the jam or preserve, pour over 1 teacupful of ground rice well worked into lqt. of milk, and add four well-beaten eggs, sufficient sugar to taste, and a slight flavouring of lemon. Put the Pudding in a quick oven, and bake for forty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve. Blackcap Pudding.—Cut two penny French rolls into slices, butter them, and remove the crusts. Brush a quart mould over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, ornament it inside with stoned raisins, then lay in the slices of buttered roll. Blanch and peel fifteen or sixteen sweet almonds, mince them finely, mix with them about 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced citron-peel, and sprinkle these over the roll. Make a rich custard, flavour and sweeten to taste, and pour it carefully in with the other ingredients, but not quite filling the mould, as room must be allowed for swelling. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and steam the Pudding for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Boiled Californian Pudding.—Well beat four eggs, mix them with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add 1 h wineglassfuls of sherry and A wine- glassful of pale brandy. Pour the mixture into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire until thickened; but it must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Line a mould with slices of sponge cake, and strew over it a moderate quantity of chopped sultana raisins and candied citron-peel. Pour the custard over the contents of the mould, stand it in a saucepan witli boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour. When cooked, leave the Pudding until cold, then turn it on to a dish, and serve. Bombay Pudding.—(1) Beat three eggs together with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, pour them into a lined saucepan, and stir over a slow fire until thickened, but not boiling. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, a small lump of butter, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Then grate a cocoa-nut and add it to the mixture. Butter a shallow dish, line it with good puff paste, and spread the cocoa-nut mixture over it. Put the Pudding in the oven, and bake until lightly brown. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Cut off two or three slices about £in. thick from a household loaf, and toast them lightly. Pour some boiling For details respecting Culinary Processes, Puddings—continued. syrup over the pieces of toast in a dish, and when they are thoroughly soaked serve them. (3) Half roast about lib. of soojee (a ground but not pulverised Indian-wheat), and then boil it in water until thick. Butter a soup-plate, turn the soojee on to it, and leave until cold, when it should be firm. Divide the soojee into equal moderate-sized pieces, mould them into round cakes, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and dredge lightly with flour. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when boiling, put in the cakes and fry until nicely browned. Prepare h pint of thick syrup, with loaf sugar and a small quan- tity of water, and flavour it well with lemon-juice. Drain the cakes from the butter, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. Boston Pudding.—Peel and core 21b. of cooking apples and cut them into small pieces; put them into a stewpan with a small piece of stick cinnamon, two or three cloves, and the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon; moisten them with a little water and stew them gently until reduced to a pulp. When cooked, sweeten the apples to taste with moist sugar, and pass them through a fine sieve. Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one with 3oz. of warmed butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and the grated peel and strained juice of half a lemon; add the whole to the apple mixture, and beat thoroughly. Butter and line the edges of a pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. Bowdoin Pudding and Pumpkin Pie.—Mix with 1 pint of cornflour 2oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses. Well beat two eggs with l pint of milk, and stir them in with the above ingredients. When quite smooth, stir in gradually 11- pints of boiling milk. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for four hours in a moderate oven. Pour a little cold milk occasionally over the top of the Pudding to prevent it from becoming too dry. Meanwhile prepare a pumpkin pie as follows: Peel and stew the pumpkin in a small quantity of water until soft, then drain and mash it, sweeten to taste, beat three eggs ui) with it, and add the grated peel of half a lemon, small quantities of powdered ginger, cinnamon, and salt, also a few drops of essence of rose-water and loz. of warmed butter, lastly mixing in with it 1| pints of boiling- milk. Line a buttered dish with paste, turn the above mixture in to it, and bake. Serve the pie with the Pudding while hot. Brandy Pudding with Brandy Sauce.—Dissolve 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar in A pint of boiling milk; when cool, beat in six eggs. Lay at the bottom of a well- buttered basin a thick sprinkling of stoned and chopped raisins and some chopped candied orange-peel; over these lay some thin slices of stale bread that have been saturated in brandy, and then pour in the beaten eggs and milk. Cover the mouth of the basin with a piece of buttered paper, tie it tightly down, and let the basin stand for a few minutes; then put it in a saucepan partly filled with water, and steam for an-hour-and-three-quarters. Make a sweet sauce and flavour it with brandy and vanilla. Turn the Pudding out, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Buff Pudding.—Mix 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with 1 salt-spoonful of salt and 1 pint of milk, turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until quite thick ; then take it off and stir in 3oz. of butter, five or six lumps of sugar, and a moderate quantity of grated lemon-peel. Beat three eggs well, and when the mixture is cold stir them in. Butter and line the edges of a pie- disli with puff paste, turn in the mixture, and bake the Pudding for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When ready, put a few table-spoonfuls of marmalade on the top of the Pudding, and serve either hot or cold. Cabinet Pudding.—(1) Thickly butter the interior of a mould and arrange a pretty design at the bottom with fancy-shaped pieces of citron-peel and raisins; over these -put a layer of sponge cake cut into strips of any lengthTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 255 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. and about |in. thick; over the layer of cake put some citron, some candied fruit cut into small square pieces, and some raisins; then add another layer of cake, some more fruit, and so on until the mould is full. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and beat them well. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, place it on the fire till just on the point of boiling, then stir it gradually into the beaten egg. Pour the custard over the ingredients in the mo.uld. Place the mould in a pan with cold water to about a third its height, put it over the Fig. 317. Cabinet Pudding (No. 1). fire until boiling, then put the pan and mould in a moderate oven and bake. In about an hour’s time the Pudding will be cooked. Turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish (see Fig. 317), and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (2) Butter a mould, and spot the inside with dried cherries or raisins split in halves. Put at the bottom a few ratafia drops and macaroons, and over them thin slices of sponge cake. Line the sides with sugar biscuits or slices of sponge cake. Half fill the mould with pieces of cake, mixed with any small pieces of candied peel. Make a custard with eggs and milk, flavoured with sugar and 1 wineglassful of cognac. Pour some of this over the cake into the mould, then fill up with more cake and add the rest of the custard. Soak it well, cover the top with a piece of well-buttered paper, then tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil quickly Fig. 318. Cabinet Pudding (No. 2). for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or an hour, according to size. When done, turn it out on a dish, ornament with coloured icing, and serve with sweet sauce poured round (see Fig. 318). (3) Cut two stale penny French rolls into thin slices. Thickly butter a mould, and line it with sultanas, sticking them in close together. Fill the mould with alternate layers of the slices of roll, ratafias, and macaroons; while doing this pouring in occasionally 1 table-spoonful of brandy, using altogether 2 wineglassfuls. Well beat six eggs with 4 pint each of milk and cream, sweeten with 6oz. of caster sugar, and flavour with the grated rind of a small lemon and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Pour this mixture over the Pudding, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for two hours. When cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve. Puddings—continued. (4) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with a little thin rind of lemon and a very small quantity of salt; boil, and pour it while hot over lib. of savoy biscuits broken in a basin, working them to a pulp with a spoon. When the mixture has cooled, mix in the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the well-whisked whites of six. Adorn a plain buttered mould with preserved cherries or other fruit, pour the mixture into it, set it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam until done. Turn the Pudding on to a dish, pour over a mixture of 1 table- spoonful of arrowroot, with sugar to taste, and sufficient white wine to make it very liquid after it has been boiled up once, and serve. Cambridge Pudding.—Cut loz. each of candied oranges, lemon-, and citron-peels into slices, and arrange them alter- nately at the bottom of a mould lined with puff paste. Put 6oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, work in an equal quantity of sugar and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir over the fire until the mixture boils. Pour it into the dish with the candied peels, set it in the oven, and bake slowly for forty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve. Castle Puddings.—Put three eggs and 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, which set into a larger one containing hot water, and beat the eggs and sugar together for about twenty minutes, retaining a temperature of not less than 90deg. by replacing the water as it cools with more boiling water, and add a little grated rind of lemon or lemon extract to flavour. At the same time put 3oz. of butter into a saucepan and bring it to the same temperature as the egg mixture. Mix the two, and stir in lightly but well 4oz. of sifted flour. Half fill some buttered small tins or cups; with the mixture, put them in a quick oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out on to a dish and serve with a sauceboatful of the following sauce: Put 1 dessert-spoonful of French potato flour into a basin and mix it smooth with 2 table-spoonfuls of water; add 1 teacupful of boiling sherry, the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to taste. Put the basin at the side of the fire, and stir until the sauce is quite thick and ready for use. Children’s Pudding.—Mix together fib. of flour, 41b. of suet chopped very fine, \lb. of currants, well washed and dried, and jib. of treacle. Tie it in a fioured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and keep it boiling constantly for three hours. Circassian Pudding.—Boil together in a saucepan fib. of dried breadcrumbs and lqt. of milk. Mix in the yolks of half-a-dozen eggs beaten up with fib. of sugar and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Take it off the stove, and by degrees stir in the beaten whites of the six eggs; flavour with a few drops of essence of ratafia or vanilla. Let the mixture get cool, then pour it into a buttered dish, and bake in a slow oven. Clarence Pudding.—Well butter and flour a basin that will hold a little more than a pint, turn it upside-down, and shake out the flour that does not adhere. Have ready cleaned 8oz. of sultana raisins, and arrange part of them in various ways on the sides of the basin, right up to the edge. Cut off the crust from a French roll and grate the crumb over the raisins; over this again put 2oz. of candied citron cut in slices, alternately with the raisins until they are all used up, and pour over 1 wineglassful each of brandy and white wine. Put four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and add gradually 1 pint of milk and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Pour this over the raisins, &c., in the basin and let it remain for an hour; then tie the basin over with a cloth dipped in boiling water and wrung out, tie it over securely and closely, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Clarges-Street Pudding.—Put loz. of isinglass into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, add one bay-leaf, the thinly-pared yellow rind of a Seville orange, a small piece of lemon-peel, and sugar to taste. Stir the whole over the fire and boil until the isinglass is dissolved, then moveTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 256 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of eight eggs and 1 pint of cream. Strain the Pudding through a line hair sieve, and when nearly cold mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy; pour it into a mould, and set it in a cool place for an hour or two. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Put 1 teacupful of water in a small saucepan with 1 teacupful of lemon-juice and 1 teacupful of sugar; add the thinly-pared yellow rinds of two lemons that have been partially boiled and cut into thin shreds, and simmer until the peel is quite tender. Let the sauce get cold, and then turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a dish. When ready to serve, pour the sauce over it in such a way that the shreds remain on the top. Clifton Pudding.—Put 4oz. of ground rice into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and boil gently until the mixture begins to thicken, stirring continually. Put the yolks of six eggs into a bowl, whisk them well with the whites of two eggs, and add gradually 4oz. of finely- crushed loaf sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, 3oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Remove the ground rice mixture from the fire, and when it is cool stir in the other mixture; pour the whole into a well-buttered pie-dish, place a few slices of candied peel on the top, set the Pudding in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty or twenty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Coburg Pudding.—Peel and cut into slices enough apples to three parts lill a deep pie-dish, dredge them over with a little caster sugar, put a layer of warmed butter on the top of them, and next a layer of apricot jam or any other preserve. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and arrow- root into a basin and work into a smooth paste by adding a little milk; mix in 1 break fast-cupful of cream and then 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, less the quantity used in the first mixing. Pour this into a saucepan and stir con- tinually over the fire until it boils; then pour it over the jam in the pie-dish. Set the Pudding in a moderate oven and bake gently for forty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve. Cold Puddings a la Diaz. -Put 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin, mix in two eggs and the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, beat with a whisk for two or three minutes, set the basin on the stove, and beat vigorously for a few minutes longer. Remove the basin to the table and beat slowly for a few more minutes. Mix in 4oz. of sifted flour slowly, using a wooden spoon, and again stir for two or three minutes. Put a sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, spread the paste over to Jin. in thickness, place it in a moderate oven, and hake for a-quarter-of-an- liour. Take it out and let it cool, turn it upside-down, remove the paper, cut the paste into small dice-shaped pieces, and mix them up with loz. eacli of washed and dried currants and finely-chopped candied citron-peel. Butter six small Pudding-moulds, each holding about J J gills, dust them over inside with caster sugar, and fill them equally with the preparation. Put 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin, whisk in two eggs, beat for two or three minutes, pour in 1 pint of cold milk, strain the whole into another basin, add I teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and stir well for a minute or two. Pour this, a little at a time, over the Puddings, giving them time to absorb it; place them in a pan with warm, not boiling, water, to half the height of the moulds, and put them in a moderate oven to steam for thirty minutes. Take the Puddings out, put them in a cool place, or on the ice for an hour; then place them on a dish, pour over a fruit sauce, and serve very cold. College Puddings.—(1) Fried.—Grate 2lb. of crumb of bread into a basin, and mix with it ill), of finely-chopped beef-suet, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, ‘2oz. of thinly-shred candied citron- and orange-peels, Jib. of sugar, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat the whites and yolks of three eggs separately, and mix them with the dry ingredients. Divide the mixture into equal portions, and shape them like eggs. Put Jib. of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the Puddings and fry them a delicate brown, turning them two or three Puddings—continued. times. The fire should be rather slow, so that the Puddings will cook through. Drain them, arrange them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a fancy dish-paper, Fig. 319. College Puddings. and serve them with a sauceboatful of brandy sauce in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 319). (2) Boiled.—Use the same ingredients as for No. 1. Butter the insides of some cups or dariole moulds, and fill with the mixture. Cover the tops with floured cloths, and boil for one hour. Turn them out on to a hot dish, dust over the tops with caster sugar, and pour round a good wine sauce. Conservative Pudding.—Put 3oz. of sponge cakes and 2oz. each of macaroons and ratafias in a basin, pour over them J pint of thick cream, and leave them until well soaked. Afterwards well beat up the cakes, and work in, one at a time, the yolks of six eggs; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and mix in J wineglassful of brandy. Butter a plain mould, ornament the interior with sultanas, pour in the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over Abe mould ; stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Care must be taken not to let the water get into the mould. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of brandy sauce. Constance Pudding.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream, and then add, in the order given, working one ingredient well in before another is added, the following: Jib. each of sugar and flour, four eggs, 2oz. or 3oz. of finely-chopped candied peel or fruits, and lastly the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Decorate a well-buttered plain mould with pre- served or candied fruits, pour in the mixture, set the mould on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for about three hours; then turn it out on to a dish, pour over a little hot wine sauce, and serve at once. Cornwall Pudding.—Whisk five eggs thoroughly together with 1 pint of thin cream, and strain them into a basin that has been well buttered. Tie a cloth over the basin, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Mix in a saucepan with 1J wineglassfuls of white wine the strained juice and thinly-shred peel of a small lemon and 3oz. of caster sugar, and boil until reduced to a thin syrup. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a deep dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Cottage Pudding.—(1) Put 2J table-spoonfuls of mixed butter and lard into a basin, and warm and boat to a cream with 1 breakfast-cupful of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Stir in one well-beaten egg and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in I breakfast-cupful of milk, and add a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put 1 pint of Hour into a basin and work into it 2 table-spoonfuls of cream of tartar; add it to the other mixture, stir well, put the whole into a buttered basin or mould, and bake in a quick oven for forty-five minutes. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour round or over a little sweet or wine sauce, and serve. (2) Whisk live eggs in a basin, and mix in ljlb. of flour and sufficient milk to make a thick batter; add 8oz. of washed and dried currants, lib. of stoned raisins, a little grated nutmeg, and enough sugar to sweeten. Turn theARTISTIC SUPPER DISHES 6 -Small Birds on watercress with £lieed lemon garnish. i Sardines plain or fried. Gherkin sliced 8. -Lobster cutlets Small salad . Coral. Lemon . 9. -Mutton or Lamb Cutlets . Parsley and lemon dressin* ornamented with small tomatoesTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 257 Puddings—continued. mixture into a buttered basin or well floured cloth, place it in a saucepan of water over the fire, and boil for five hours; then turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Crystal Palace Pudding's.—Put 4 table-spoonful of corn- flour in a basin and mix it thoroughly with \ teacupful of new milk and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Add joz. of isinglass, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and boil for ten minutes, stirring the same way all the time. Move the pan to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Continue stirring until the mixture is nearly cold. Rinse some small tin moulds with cold water, and place some crystallised cherries at the bottom and round the sides; pour in the mixture and fill up the moulds, which pack in ice and leave for two or three hours. Before serving, dip the moulds in hot water to loosen the contents, wipe them, and turn the Puddings on to a fancy dish. Cumberland Pudding.—(1) Peel, core, and chop sufficient apples to fill a breakfast-cup, also chop jib. of beef suet, and thoroughly wash jib. of currants. Mix the above ingredients together with 6oz. of flour, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, 1 pinch of salt, and three well-beaten eggs. Turn the mix- ture into a buttered Pudding-basin, tie a floured cloth over it (see Fig. 320), put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, pour a wine sauce over it, and serve. (2) Well wash 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of Madeira, and boil for half-an-liour. Cut 2oz. of ratafia cakes in slices, add them Fig. 320. Mode of Tying to the rice, together with 1 wine- Cloth over Mould. glassful of brandy, a flavouring of nutmeg, and sufficient sugar to taste. When these are incorporated, work in the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Have ready a pie-dish lined with puff paste, pour the mixture in, set the dish in the oven, and bake for forty- five minutes. When done, take it out, and serve. Cup Puddings.—Put 3oz. of butter into a basin, warm and beat it to a cream, adding gradually 2oz. of sugar and 3oz. of flour. Work the whole into a paste by adding 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, pour it into buttered teacups, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn the Puddings out on to a dish, and serve. Cup Puddings as Baskets.—Put 3oz. of butter into a basin, warm it slightly, then beat it until creamy. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat the yolks well, pour them in with the butter, and mix in 3oz. each of flour and sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in gently with the other ingredients. Butter some cups, anil fill them with the mixture. Bake the Puddings for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave them until cold, then turn them out of their cups. Scoop out the middle of the Puddings, mask the outsides of them with a thick layer of red-currant jelly, roll them in white sugar, and put a small quantity of apricot jam in each. Sweeten 1 pint of cream with caster sugar, and mix the juice of a lemon with it, whisk it to a stiff froth, and put it on a fine hair sieve to drain. Pile the cream on the top of each Pudding, fix a strip of angelica across each to form a handle, put them on a fancy dish, and serve. Curate’s Puddings.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and heat it over the fire; then turn it into a basin, and when somewhat cooled stir in gradually 4oz. of flour, the grated peel of one lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Puddings—continued. Beat separately the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, then mix them in with the other ingredients. Beat the mixture well for a few minutes, then pour it into some buttered cups, each of which should only be half filled. Bake them for twenty minutes or half-an- liour. When cooked, turn them out of the cups on to a dish, and serve with a nicely-flavoured custard or sweet sauce poured over them. Daisy’s Pudding.—Cut in slices sufficient small sponge cakes to about three parts fill the mould to be used, put the slices into a dish, and soak them well in port wine. Cover the inside of the mould thickly with butter, and stick some blanched almonds, stoned raisins, or preserved cherries all over it. Put in the soaked slices of cakes, and pour in sufficient rich custard to fill the mould to the brim. Put a piece of buttered paper on the top, cover the mould with a cloth, tying it securely, put it into a sauce- pan of water over a clear fire, and boil for an hour. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve. Damkorf Pudding.—Soak 4oz. of grated breadcrumb in \ pint of boiling milk until cold, then stir in 4oz. more breadcrumbs, 4oz. of finely-minced suet, 3oz. each of crushed ratafias and thinly-sliced candied peel, \ salt- spoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Whisk five eggs together with 4oz. of moist sugar, then pour them into the basin with the other ingredients and mix thoroughly. Butter a quart basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve it until a wine sauce. Danish Puddings.—(1) Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of tapioca in 3 pints of water all night. Put it in a double boiler, and cook it for one hour. Stir frequently, and dissolve in it \ teacupful of caster sugar, 1 tumblerful of bright jelly, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix thoroughly. Rinse a mould out with cold water, turn the mixture into it, and put it away to set. When cold, turn the Pudding on to a dish, and serve with caster sugar and cream. (2) Prepare a thick batter with flour and milk, adding a little salt to taste, and beating it well with a wooden spoon. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drop the batter in in small quantities at a time, and let them simmer for about five minutes; take them out with a skimmer as they rise to the top, drain off all the water, and place them on a dish. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a handful or so of breadcrumbs, cook them until quite crisp, put them over the small lumps of batter, and serve immediately. An egg or two and a little milk may be used in making the batter should it be required richer. Delaware Peach Pudding.—Beat o eggs well; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, lqt. of milk, 1 table- spoonful of slightly-warmed butter, and. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Continue beating the whole until quite smooth. Peel, halve, and stone twelve or fourteen Peaches, and lay them at the bottom of a pie-dish, squeeze over them a small quantity of either lime, lemon, or orange- juice, pour over the batter, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, dust over with caster sugar, and serve the Pudding with a wine sauce. Delaware Pudding.—Chop 4oz. of suet, and mix it with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted cornflour, 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and one well-beaten egg. Pour over these ingredients lqt. of boiling milk; mix thoroughly, and turn the whole into a well-buttered mould. Bake the Pudding for an hour. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Delhi Pudding.—Blanch and pound ljoz. of sweet almonds. Blend 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; mix with it the pounded almonds and 2oz. of sugar. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire; when it boils, pour it on the mixture of arrowroot, milk, and almonds, stir well, return it to the saucepan, and stir till it boils. Pour it at once into a mould wetted For Mails respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. IX.258 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. inside with cold water, let it stand till quite cold, then turn into a glass dish, and garnish with guava jelly and candied fruit. Derry Pudding.—Grate the yellow rind of half an orange, and chop the pulp of two oranges very fine, removing all skin and pips. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two with Jib. of sugar, and when whisked very light, beat in loz. of butter warmed till quite soft, and whisk till the mixture is a smooth cream; add the orange, and continue to whisk for five minutes, then stir in gradually 6oz. of self-raising flour beaten up smoothly with 1 pint of milk. Pour the Pudding at once into a buttered Pudding- tin, fit the cover on, plunge immediately into boiling water, and boil for an hour. Serve hot with jelly sauce. Devonshire Padding.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with five well-beaten eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg, and make them into a custard. Put a few slices of cold plum Pudding into a basin, and soak them in a little brandy for two or three minutes; take them out, arrange in a well-buttered mould, putting them crosswise over one another, then pour over the custard, and by this time the mould should be quite full. Cover the mould with a cloth, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. Take it out, turn it on to a dish, and serve with a little custard mixed with brandy poured over. Dingy Pudding (German).—Soak 1 table-spoonful of grated brown bread in as much port wine as it will absorb, then mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 3 table- spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 2oz. of sweet almonds that have been cut into thin shreds but not peeled, 3oz. of washed and dried currants, and a small quantity of pounded cloves. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs; mix the yolks first with the above ingredients, then add the whites. Turn the mixture into a buttered mould, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to two-thirds its height, and steam for two hours. Turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of chocolate sauce. Diplomatic Pudding.—-Wash and dry 6oz. of currants, and blanch and cut into fillets 2oz. of pistachio-kernels. Procure a plain mould with a lining to it, ornament it with the currants and pistachios, fill the outer part with a clear, nicely flavoured jelly, and set it in a cool place. Put 1 pint of milk into an enamelled stewpan with a stick of vanilla and loaf sugar to taste, boil until nicely flavoured, and dissolve loz. of isinglass in the milk. Beat the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and stir the flavoured milk gradually in with them. Strain the custard into the stewpan, and stir it at the side of the fire for a few minutes but without letting it boil, then let it cool. Move the lining of the mould, and fill the hollow with alternate layers of sponge cakes and macaroons, strewing between each layer a few chopped candied fruits. Poul- in the custard and stand the mould in a cool place or on ice until the custard is firm. When ready, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the Pudding on to a dish. Diplomatic Pudding with Punch Sauce.—Pare off and remove the skin and string from 4oz. of veal-suet and 3oz. of beef-marrow, lay them in a saucepan with 2oz. of finely- chopped plums and 3oz. of flour, place the saucepan on a slow fire, and stir well with the spatula for six minutes. Add three yolks of eggs and one whole egg, \ gill of sweet cream, J2 gill of maraschino, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and \ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg; stir all together thoroughly for six minutes, not letting it boil. Take it off the fire, and lay the pan in a cool place, adding loz. of whole pis- tachios, 2oz. of macaroons pounded in a mortar, loz. of angelica, and loz. of candied cherries, all well chopped; mix well for one minute. Peel, core, and chop up three medium-sized apples, add them to the preparation, with 2oz. of powdered sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla flavour- ing, and stir all together for twelve or fifteen minutes. Butter and flour a cloth, arrange it in a deep vessel, Puddings—continued. and pour the preparation into it; lift up the four corners, close them together, and tie firmly with a string, leaving- space about the eighth of the contents to allow for swelling. Have ready a saucepan half filled with boiling water, plunge the Pudding in, and boil for fully three hours. Tire Pudding will float, therefore it may be turned now and again until thoroughly cooked. Remove it, drain for two or three minutes, untie, lift it from the cloth, and dress it on a hot dish. Prepare the following sauce: Put into a saucepan J gill of rum, 3oz. of powdered sugar, the grated rind of half an orange, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Put it on the stove, and as soon as the liquid ignites, put on the lid and let all infuse for one minute. Take the sauce off the fire, and immediately squeeze in the juice of an orange; strain through a sieve over the Pudding, and serve very hot. Down-East Pudding (American).—Put 1 pint of molasses into a basin, and work in lqt. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 3 pints of blackberries. Put this into a buttered basin, tie it over with a well-floured cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of water, and boil for three hours. In the meantime, put 1 tea- cupful of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and mix in gradually 1 teacupful of sifted crushed loaf sugar and 1 teaspoouful of brandy. Put the yolk of an egg into a basin, beat it well, and add the white beaten to a stiff froth. Add this to the other mixture, pour in 2 teaspoonfuls of boiling water, and stir well, but very carefully. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour the cream mixture over or round it, and serve. Duke’s Pudding.—Thickly butter a basin, dredge it lightly over with flour, and ornament it inside with raisins ; grate the crumb of a French roll and strew it lightly over the raisins together with 2oz. of thinly-shred citron-peel, and moisten with a wineglassful each of brandy and white wine. Beat four eggs thoroughly with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste, pour it gradually into the basin, and let it stand for some time until the crumbs are well soaked. Afterwards tie the basin over with a Pudding cloth that has been dipped in boiling water and wrung out, and boil the Pudding for an hour. When cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a dish, and serve hot. Uurliam Pudding.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon, and when boiling stir in 3oz. each of finely-grated breadcrumb and warmed butter, the beaten yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, and sw-eeten to taste. Butter a tart-dish, line it with puff paste, mask the bottom with a layer of marmalade, pour in the above mixture, and bake for nearly tliree- quarters-of-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. Dutch Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan with lib. of butter, set the pan on the fire, and stir until the butter is dissolved; then mix in 21b. of flour, eight well-beaten eggs, and lastly 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast. When these are incorporated, add Jib. of finely-crushed and sifted loaf sugar and lib. of well-washed and dried currants. Pour it into a buttered mould or tin, set it in the oven, and bake for an hour. Turn it out when done, and serve at once if wanted for a Pudding; but if allowed to get cold, it makes a very good cake. Dutch Wafer Pudding.—Put 1 pint of cream in a sauce- pan over the fire; when hot, stir in Jib. of butter, and dredge and mix into it Jib. of well dried and sifted flour. When the flour is well scalded in the cream, pour it into an earthenware pan, mix with it the yolks of seven and the whites of three eggs well beaten, with sufficient sugar to sweeten the Pudding; put a cloth over the pan, and let it stand before the fire for an hour. Then bake it in small saucers or patty-pans till the tops are nice and brown. The oven should be pretty hot and the saucers or patty-pans should lie well buttered. Turn the Puddings out on a hot dish, and serve at once with wine sauce poured over them. Editor’s Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish and line it with a rich puff paste; stone some preserved cherries, put them ~ at the bottom of the dish, grate in the yellow peel of a259 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Puddings—continued. lemon, anil add the juice; cover them with thin slices of buttered roll, over that put a layer of cherries, next a layer of buttered roll, and so on till the dish is nearly full. Caster sugar should be sifted between each layer. Beat seven eggs with J teacupful of cream and 1 wine- glassful of brandy, pour them over the Pudding, and bake it. Serve either hot or cold. It is much improved by * ' freezing. Essex Pudding.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sago to soak in just sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it steep all night. Next day put it into a flat stewpan with just enough water to cover it, and let it stew till quite soft and it has absorbed all the water. Beat up five eggs, work into them Jib. of sugar, and then by degrees J pint of milk, and stir in Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, beating it to a batter. Next put in 3oz. of finely-chopped suet, after that 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold milk, and lastly the boiled sago and a sprinkling of salt. Continue to beat the batter vigorously for some time. Put about Jib. of raisins with the stalks picked off into a basin, pour boiling water over them, and let them lay in it for two minutes. Butter a Pudding-tin, putting on the butter very plentifully, and lay the raisins in a pattern of rings or stripes over the bottom and sides, stick- ing them firmly in the butter; then put the Pudding into the tin a spoonful at a time, not to disturb or disarrange the raisins, cover the tin, and steam for an-hour-and-a- lialf, or boil for an hour. Dip it in cold water, let it stand a minute, and turn it out on a hot dish. Serve jelly sauce with it. Eve’s Pudding.—Peel, core, and chop three large apples, and mix with them an equal weight each of grated bread- crumb, well-washed and dried currants, linely-chopped suet, and moist sugar; also the grated peel of one lemon, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and allspice. Beat six eggs with 1 wineglassful of brandy, and stir them in with the dry ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Butter a Pudding-basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a cloth over the top, and boil it for three hours. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Excellent Pudding.—Blanch Joz. of sweet almonds with two or three bitter ones, cut them into thin fdlets, put them into a basin with 6oz. of pea-flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, beat the yolks, and stir them in with the above ingredients ; then whisk the whites to a stiff snow, and mix them in lightly at the last. Butter a Pudding-tin, pour the mixture into it, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Steam the Pudding for an hour, then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve. Flame Pudding (German).—Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it with 4oz. of caster sugar to a creamy froth. Separate the yolks and whites of ten eggs; beat the yolks and add them to the beaten butter, then mix in smoothly 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of blanched and pounded almonds and Jib. of sifted flour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, stir them in lightly with the above mixture, and make the whole rather thick with grated stale sponge cakes. Thickly butter a Pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a stout Pudding-cloth over the top, put. it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, fix a small glass in the centre of it, which fill with brandy, allowing some to run over the sides, set light to it, and serve immediately. Fortunatus’ Pudding.—Slightly warm 3oz. of butter and beat it until creamy with 3oz. of caster sugar; then beat in two eggs. Butter a shallow dish and line it with puff paste, spread a layer of apricot or any other kind of jam preferred over the bottom, and pour in the batter. Bake the Pudding for a quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes. Serve it on the same dish. Frankfort Pudding.—Melt Jib. of butter in a basin, work it to a cream, and add the yolks of six or seven eggs, Puddings—continued. beating well until the mixture is quite frothy; then stir in 5oz. of almonds, blanched and pounded, with the same quantity of crushed loaf sugar flavoured with vanilla, and the whole rubbed through a sieve before being added. Mix these well for a few minutes, then add 4oz. of brown bread dried, crumbled, and rubbed through a fine sieve; when this is incor- porated, add 4 taWe- spoonfuls of fi n e 1 y- chopped mixed candied peel and a small quantity each of ground cinna- mon and salt. Work in the wldtes of six eggs whipped to a froth, turn the mixture into a dome-shaped mould with a shoulder ridge (see Fig. 321) well buttered and glazed with sugar, put "it in a saucepan of boiling water, place in a bain-marie or in a slack oven, and bake for from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour round cherry sauce, garnish round the shoulder ledge with half cherries, and serve. French-and-Italian Pudding.—Beat six eggs and mix them with 1 pint of cream or milk, then add lib. of finely- chopped suet, and as many slices of roll as will thicken it; sweeten the mixture with caster sugar. Butter a pie- dish, line it with puff paste, then put in, in alternate layers, some slices of apple, some stoned raisins, a few sliced and stoned dates, some finely-shredded candied orange-peel, some sugar, and a small quantity of mixed spice. Pour the above mixture over it, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. When lightly browned, take the Pudding out of the oven, and serve. Frozen Pudding.—Put 1 teacupful of flour in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and beat in a couple of eggs; pour in 1 pint of boiling milk, turn the mixture into a saucepan, and cook for twenty minutes; then add 2 table- spoonfuls of soaked gelatine, stir well, turn the mixture out into a basin, and let it cool. When quite cold, add 4 table-spoonfuls of wine, another breakfast-cupful of sugar, and lqt. of cream. Pack the basin in ice, let it remain for ten minutes, then add Jib. or lib. of French candied fruit, stirring it well in. Put the mixture into a mould, pack in ice, and let it remain for two or three horn's, or until quite firm. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve with whipped cream piled round it. Fun Pudding.—Peel, core, and cut in slices sufficient apples to three-parts fill a pie-dish, dredge over a little caster sugar, cover the apples over thinly with a layer of butter, and over this again put a layer of apricot jam. Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot and a small quantity of crushed loaf sugar; stir it well over the fire until the liquor boils, then pour it over the jam; put the dish in a moderate oven, bake for twenty minutes, and serve. German Pudding.—(1) Cut off about lib. of slices of bread from a household loaf, put them in a flat dish, pour over milk enough to cover, and let them soak thoroughly; then squeeze them dry and beat them up with a wooden spoon. Add 5oz. of warmed butter, beaten to a cream, with the yolks of five eggs and the grated peel of a lemon, and stir in lastly the whites of the five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put a rather thick layer of this mixture at the bottom of a buttered mould and a layer of orange mar- malade on the top of it; continue in this way till the mould is full, finishing up with a layer of the bread mixture. Cover the mould, tie it in a cloth, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, mask the top with more of the orange marma- Fig. 321. Dome-Mould with Shoulder Ridge. For details respecting Culina.ry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. S oTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 260 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Puddings—continued. lade mixed with the strained juice of a lemon, and serve with a little sweet sauce poured round. (2) Cut up the remains of any kind of cold cooked fruit Pudding, mincing it as small as possible, and mix it up with a quarter of its weight in moisj sugar, shredded beef- suet, flour, and black currant or any other kind of jam or preserve. Make the mixture into a thick paste by adding well-beaten egg, put it into a buttered pie-dish, set it in a slow oven, and bake until done, which will be in about two hours, taking care that the outside does not become hard before the inside is done. Turn it out on to a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve. Gertrude’s Pudding.—Put 4oz. of tapioca into a pie-dish with as much milk as it will absorb and sugar to taste, and bake it until three-parts cooked. Peel about half- a-dozen cooking apples, core and cut them into slices, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and some moist sugar, and boil gently until tender. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of tapioca and apples, put a few bits of butter on the top, and grate some nutmeg over. Return the Pudding to the oven to finish cooking, and serve in the same dish. Gloucester Pudding.—Beat four eggs well, and mix with them 4oz. each of flour and butter and 6oz. of moist sugar. Whisk the mixture well for half-an-hour, then mix with it loz. of blanched and pounded bitter almonds. Butter some small moulds, half fill each with the mixture, and bake them for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a dish, and serve. Golden Pudding.—Finely mince 6oz. of suet, grate 6oz. of crumb of stale bread, and mix them together with 6oz. each of moist sugar and marmalade, and one egg beaten in about J teacupful of milk. Butter a Pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a Pudding-cloth over the top, and boil for nearly three hours. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Golden-Ball Puddings.—Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds with three or four bitter ones, and pound them in a mortar, moistening with a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent their oiling. Mix with the almonds 1 i teacupfuls of apricot jam and 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb. Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it well with four eggs, adding them one at a time; mix the eggs and butter with the dry ingredients, working them in well. Butter some small cups or moulds, three-parts fill each with the above mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the cups on to a hot dish, and dust them over with caster sugar. Gotham Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a basin, and mix in four well-beaten eggs, a small quantity of salt, and a piece of saleratus the size of a small nut. Dredge in sufficient flour to make it of the consistency of thick batter, add Jib. of citron cut up into small pieces, or, if preferred, lib. of well-washed currants; work the mixture thoroughly, turn it into a mould, tie a cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Turn it out on to a dish, pour a little vine sauce over it, and serve. It may, if preferred, be simply tied up in a cloth without the mould, and boiled in the same way. Hampshire Pudding.—Prepare a rich puff paste, and line a buttered tart-dish with it, then spread a layer of any kind of preserve at the bottom. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three together, add 6oz. each of slightly-warmed butter and caster sugar, and continue whisk- ing the whole until quite thick; then pour it over the preserve at the bottom of the dish, and bake for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Hanover Pudding.—Put 6oz. of stale crumb of bread cut into small squares into a basin with the finely-minced rinds of two limes, 3oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, and 1 oz. of sweet and ten bitter almonds blanched and pounded ; moisten with 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira. Put loz. of sugar into a pan, and brown it over the fire; then stir in Puddings— continued. well J pint of cream, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and 3oz. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture by the side of the fire until thickened, then strain it into the ingredients in the basin, and mix well. Butter a mould, ornament it with thinly-shred candied peel, fill it with the mixture, and steam for one hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve with a sweet sauce poured round. Harem Puddings.—Put \ teacupful of flour into a basin and mix in gradually 1 pint of cream; turn it into a sauce- pan and stir over the fire until cooked; then take it off and let it get cold. Mix then with the thickened cream Jib. of well-washed currants, Jib. of sugar, Jib. of slightly- warmed butter, four well-beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped pistachio-nuts. Butter some small dariole-moulds, fill them with the mixture, and bake. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of strawberry jam into a small lined saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and stir over the fire until boiling; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Strain the sauce, and pour it gradually over 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot; turn all back into the saucepan again, and stir over the fire until thickened. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. See Fig. 322. Hasty Pudding.—Put an egg into a basin and beat it well, adding gradually 1 pinch of salt and 1 table-spoonful of flour; and pour in sufficient milk to make a light batter. Have ready 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk in a sauce- pan, pour the flour mixture into it, and stir well over the fire for about twenty minutes until well boiled; then pour it out into a dish, and serve. Helen’s Pudding.—Boil 1 pint of milk in a saucepan; beat up the yolks of two eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar and toz. of cornflour. Take the milk from the fire, and while it is scalding hot stir into it the cornflour, sugar, and eggs. Continue stirring till well mixed, and add a few drops of essence of almonds to flavour it; pour it into a Pudding-dish, and cover with the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth with 2oz. of powdered white sugar. Bake in the oven till slightly brown. Helena Pudding.—Boil 1 pint of milk with 1 teacupful of cream, and pour it over 1 breakfast-cupful of grated bread- crumb. When cooled, mix with these ingredients the grated peel of a small lemon and the beaten yolks of five eggs with the whites of two; beat the whole well to- gether. Spread a thick layer of strawberry jam at the bottom of a dish, pour the mixture over it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Herefords Pudding.—Peel, core, and chop Jib. of apples, chop Jib. of suet, wash and dry Jib. of currants, and mix these ingredients together with Jib. of flour, 1 heaped table-spoonful of moist sugar, and two eggs well beaten in J pint of milk. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. Homely Pudding.—Put a thick layer of jam at the bottom of a Pudding-dish, and over this lay about f breakfast cupful of breadcrumbs or perhaps a little more. Put 1 jiint of milk over the fire and let it almost boil; take it off, and when sufficiently cool add an egg, with 1 table-TUB ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY,. 261 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 4c., referred to, see under their special heads, Puddings—continued. spoonful of sugar; pour this gently on the breadcrumbs, so as not to disturb the jam, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake for thirty minutes. Hunter’s Pudding.—Trim the skin off Jib. of beef-suet, and mince it finely; put it in a basin and mix with it Jib. of flour, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins, the grated rind of one small lemon or half a large one, and J table-spoonful of powdered Jamaica peppers; then add a small quantity of salt. Well beat six eggs with 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour them over the above ingredients, and mix all together with sufficient milk to make a stiff batter. Rinse out a stout Pudding-cloth in boiling water, spread it over a basin, and dredge over with Hour. Pour the Pudding mixture on to the cloth and tie it up securely, but allowing room for it to swell; plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for eight hours. More boiling'water must be poured into the saucepan as the quantity diminishes, as the Pud- ding must be kept well covered. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with any kind of sweet sauce, either in a sauceboat or poured over it. Hunting Pudding.—Beat four eggs well, and stir them into J pint of cream; then mix them gradually with Jib. each of flour, chopped suet, and washed and dried currants, 2oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, loz. of chopped orange- peel, ‘2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and J wineglassful of brandy. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, then turn the whole into a well-buttered basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for an-hour and-a-half. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a dish, and serve. Ice Pudding.—Put into a freezer lqt. of clarified syrup and the strained juice of four lemons. When nearly frozen, add ljoz. of pistachio-nuts blanched and split lengthwise, and essence of citron to taste; let it freeze completely, put it into a mould, and let it stand on ice till required for table. Iced Cabinet Pudding.—Cut in slices of a moderate thick- ness some sponge cakes, also some preserved pine apple, ginger, apricots, and pears, all in equal quantities. Fill a plain Pudding-mould with .alternate layers of the above ingredients, strewing between each layer a few raisins and currants, pour over these ingredients a sufficient quantity of wine to moisten the cake, and leave them for an hour. Soak loz. of gelatine in cold water, then strain it into a basin, and add the beaten yolks of four eggs, 4oz. of caster sugar, 3oz. of grated chocolate, and 1J pints of milk; stand the basin in a bain-marie, and stir the mixture until thickened. Pour the hot custard over the contents of the mould, and cover it securely. When the contents are cool, bury it in pounded ice and salt for seven or eight hours. Afterwards dip the mould into hot water, quickly remove it again, wipe it, turn the Pudding on to a fancy dish, garnish with crofltons of red currant jelly, and serve. Iced Pudding.—(1) Prepare a custard with 1 pint of cream, the yolks of twelve eggs, and 12oz. of crushed loaf sugar. Mix in 1 wineglassful of maraschino cordial, freeze until quite stiff, add ljoz. each of preserved dried cherries, pine-apple, peal’s, and citron, all cut into very small pieces, and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract; stir well and freeze again. Have ready a melon-shaped mould packed in ice and salt, fill it with the mixture, cover it over, pack more ice on top, and let it remain for two hours. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, cover it with a mixture of the whites of six eggs whipped to a stiff froth and lightly mixed in with 6oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, sprinkle over a few pistachios chopped very fine, and serve at once. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of plombiere cream ice into the freezer, and when it is nearly set add 1 breakfast- cupful of well-whipped cream, 2oz. of diavolini, and Jib. each of dried cherries and apricots cut up very small. Put the mixture into a mould, pack in ice, and when firm and set turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Iced Swiss Pudding.—Cut into small pieces an equal quan- tity of tinned pine apple and preserved ginger, and allow a third of the quantity of dried currants. Mix these ingre- Fuddings—continued. dients in a basin, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of rum or maraschino, and let them soak for three or four hours. Strain the juice from the pine apple, and mix it smoothly with 6oz. of cornflour, 6oz. of moist sugar, and the well- beaten yolks of seven or eight eggs; then stir in gradually 1 pint of boilings cream. Stand the basin in a bain- marie, stir the contents until thickened, and then take it out. When the mixture has cooled, turn it into a freezer, and work it until frozen. Whip J pint of cream to a stiff snow together with the ’white of an egg, and add it with the fruit to the frozen mixture. Strew some currants in a mould, fill it with the above mixture, cover closely, and pack in ice. The Pudding should be left in the ice for at least four hours. Before serving, dip the mould into hot water, quickly taking it out again, wipe it, and turn the Pudding on to a fancy or glass dish. Imperial Pudding.—Finely chop 4oz. of beef-suet, and mix with it 4oz. of grated breadcrumb, 2oz. of ground rice, J teaspoonful of baking-powder, and the grated rind of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, and moisten with two well- beaten eggs and a small quantity of milk. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, fix a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and steam the contents for an-hour- and-a-lialf. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and serve with lemon sauce. Indian Pudding.—Spread a little butter over the bottom of a saucepan, pour in lqt. of milk or water, and mix in 6oz. of corn-meal. Cover the saucepan, set it at the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for an hour or so. Remove the saucepan from the side of the fire, work in 5oz. of butter, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, six well-beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of molasses. Pour the mixture into a basin or mould, put it in a moderate oven, bake for half-an-hour, and serve. Italian Pudding.—Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste; at the bottom put a layer of seven or eight apples, peeled, cored, and cut into slices, and on tlie top of them a layer of dates cut in slices, lib. of stoned raisins, and 3oz. or 4oz. of candied peel, also cut up, all intermixed. Sprinkle over a little ground spice and sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour over a mixture made with five or six eggs beaten into 1 pint of cream and enough of the crumb of rolls to thicken it to the required consistency, grate over a little nutmeg, put the Pudding into a moderate oven, and bake to a light delicate brown. Take it out when done, and serve. Jenny Lind Pudding.—Cut a dozen small sponge cakes into slices, and arrange them at the bottom of a pie-dish intermixed with a dozen each of cocoa-nut cakes and macaroons. Pour over lqt. of custard flavoured with 1 teaspoonful of extract of lemon or 2 table-spoonfuls of wine, sprinkle over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of freshly -grated cocoanut, and serve. Juke’s Pudding.—Finely chop 6oz. of beef-suet and mix with it 6oz. of grated breadcrumb, 3oz. of sugar, and two eggs well beaten together with 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. When well incorporated, turn the mixture into a buttered Pudding-basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve with a wine sauce poured over it. Junior United Pudding.—Cut Jib. of sponge cake two days old into slices Jin. thick, and spread them with butter, allowing 3oz. of butter for them. Well butter a plain tin mould that will hold 1J pints, and arrange the slices of cake, buttered side downwards, in it, putting between each layer of cake a thin layer of orange marmalade (about Jib. of marmalade will be sufficient). Boil 2oz. of loaf sugar in J pint of fresh milk, let it cool a little, and then mix with it four well-beaten eggs. Pour the milk and eggs over the slices of cake in the mould, and allow it to stand for half-an-hour to let the cake soak; then bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, turn out carefully, and serve with wine sauce. Kendal Pudding.—Beat two eggs well together with 1 pint of milk, and sweeten to taste. Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a good puli' paste; next spread in two or threeTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 262 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. layers of different kinds of jam, and pour in the beaten mixture. Strew over the top some finely-grated lemon- peel and a small quantity of caster sugar, and bake the Pudding in a slow oven until nicely browned on the top. Serve either hot or cold. Lady Wrottesley’s Puddings.—Beat 2oz. of warmed butter with 2oz. of caster sugar, and mix it with £ pint of cream; beat in gradually 2oz. of finely-sifted Hour, and when quite smooth stir in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Flavour with a few drops of rose- water. Butter some small cups or moulds, and three-parts fill them with the above mixture. Bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a hot dish, dust lightly over with caster sugar, and serve with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. Lancer Pudding.—Cut lib. of beef suet into small squares, but do not chop it finely. Stone fib. of raisins and mix them together with (ioz. of flour, Coz. of moist sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of four eggs. Work the mixture well, then whisk the whites of two eggs to Fig. 323. Lancer Pudding. a stiff froth, and add them. Flour a cloth, turn the mix- ture into it, and boil for six hours. W hen cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with brandy sauce either poured over it or in a sauceboat (see big. 323). Leamington Pudding. -Beat the yolks of four eggs together with the white of one and f pint of cream; then stir gradually into them 3oz. each of flour, moist sugar, and slightly-warmed butter. Beat the whole until thoroughly mixed. Turn the mixture into three oval-shaped moulds or tins about an inch deep, but each one a size smaller than the other, and bake for an hour. When cooked, turn the largest Pudding out of the tin on to a dish, over that spread a thin layer of apricot jam, turn the next size out, cover with more jam, then turn the smallest on the top. Serve with vine or sweet sauce. Leicester Pudding.—Put 3 teacupfuls of flour in a basin, and mix with it 1^ teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, 6oz. of finely-chopped beef suet, fib. of stoned and chopped raisins, 1J table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, the grated peel of a . small lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix these ingredients thoroughly with 1 pint of milk, and turn the whole into a buttered basin; tie a cloth over the top and boil for three hours. When ready, turn the Pudding on to a dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. Light Pudding with Sabayon Sauce.—Put Coz. of flour and 3oz. each of sifted crushed loaf sugar and butter into a saucepan with a little salt, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and work well with a spoon until the in- gredients are incorporated; then pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of warm milk, put the pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture commences to thicken; then put it back again, and work vigorously until quite smooth. Put it once more on the fire, boil for five minutes, and then turn it into a basin to cool. When nearly cold, mix in 3 table- spoonfuls of lemon-sugar, then add, one at a time, the yolks of nine eggs, and lastly 14oz. of butter. Beat the mixture well until quite light, then add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff' froth. Turn the mixture into a mould previously buttered and floured, set it in a sauce- pan with water to half its height, and let it steam for Puddings—continued. forty to forty-five minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, and pour over sabayon sauce. Little Constance’s Pudding.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a bowl, and beat in ten eggs, warming them slightly and whisking or beating for two or three minutes. Add gradually fib. of warmed flutter, 1 breakfast-cupful of lukewarm milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and lastly lflb. of flour. Have ready some shallow baking- pans well greased and floured, put in the mixture only fin. in depth, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and bake until done and of a light golden colour. Take them out, arrange them on a dish, pour over a little sweet sauce, and serve. Louis Philippe Pudding.— Put 2lb. of peeled and cored whole apples into a saucepan smeared with butter at the bottom, pour in a little water to prevent the apples from burning, and add 2oz. of sugar, a little cinnamon, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Place the saucepan over a slack fire, and cook until the apples are done; but care must be taken not to let them cook too fast, or they will break. Put them carefully into a buttered mould, pour 1 table-spoonful of apricot jam into the cavity where the core was cut out, and push a thin strip of candied orange- or lemon-peel into the hole. Grate over the whole of them four macaroons, pour over a still’ cream highly flavoured with vanilla, covering the apples well with it; set the mould in the oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Turn it out, and serve; or it may be allowed to cool, and then frozen before being turned out. Madeira Puddings.—Break four eggs in a basin, and weigh them; then weigh an equal quantity each of flour and caster sugar; whisk the eggs well, then mix gradually in with them the flour and the sugar. Warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, then work it in with the other ingredients, and continue beating the whole well together for a few minutes. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, put them in a brisk oven, and bake for about a-quarter-of-an-liour. When the Puddings are cooked, turn them out of the moulds on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet Madeira sauce in a sauceboat or poured round them. Madonna Pudding.—Finely chop fib. of beef suet and mix with it 3 breakfast-cupfuls of grated breadcrumb, fib. of moist sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, f wineglassful of brandy, and one well-beaten egg. When thoroughly mixed, turn the whole into a buttered Pudding-basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for an hour. Serve either hot or oold. Maids-of-Honour Pudding.—Put lqt. of cream into a saucepan with a blade of mace, three cloves, and half a grated nutmeg; boil for a minute or two, and then let it cool. Beat together the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of three, strain them, mix in fib. of blanched and pounded almonds, and 1 table-spoonful each of sifted flour and orange-flower or rose-water. Now stir them in with the cream, turn the mixture into a cloth well damped and dusted with flour, tie up tightly, plunge into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour. Turn the Building carefully out on to a dish, dust it over with caster sugar, and serve with sweet or wine sauce poured round. Malaga Pudding.—Beat 8oz. of warmed butter to a cream, and stir in gradually an equal weight of sugar and the yolks of fifteen eggs. Work well until the mixture is quite frothy, then add 4 table-spoonfuls of apple mar- malade, previously mixed with a little of the mixture so as to work it in the easier, and stir in lastly the whites of eight eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Have ready a well- buttered plain or cylindrical-shaped mould, put a layer of the preparation at the bottom, cover this with small finger biscuits soaked or dipped in malaga wine, and continue in this way until the mould is quite full and all the materials are used up. Tie the mould over with a cloth, place it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, put the saucepan in a bain-marie, and cook for about forty minutes. When done, turn the Pudding on to263 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. i*or details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. a dish, pour over sabayon sauce well flavoured with malaga wine, and serve. Malvern Pudding.—Well butter a plain mould or basin, and at the bottom and round the sides put a few slices of dry stale bread cut about jin. thick; fill up the cavity in the centre with some boiling hot stewed fruit, put two or more slices of the bread on the top, and let the Pudding stand for a day. Turn it out carefully on to a dish, pour over a little rich custard or cream, and serve. Manchester Pudding.—Put lqt. of fresh milk over the fire, and when it boils stir into it 6oz. of sifted breadcrumb, the grated rinds of two lemons, and sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten. Take it from the fire, then stir into it 6oz. of well-warmed butter and eight well-beaten eggs. Line a Pudding-dish with putt' paste, put a layer of marmalade or preserve at the bottom, pour the Pudding over it, and bake. Marlborough Pudding.—Peel, core, and stew six large apples till they can be rubbed through a sieve with a masher; melt 6oz. of butter by gentle heat, and mix it with the apple. Grate the rind and strain the juice of two lemons, and put them with the apple; then beat the yolks of six eggs to a cream with 8oz. of sugar, and add them also. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, add them to the Pudding, and bake it in an earthenware dish, lined with paste, for about half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot. Marmalade Pudding.—Prepare some good puff paste, and line a buttered shallow dish with it. Beat the yolks of four eggs thoroughly together with 4oz. of warmed butter and 1 teacupful of marmalade. Turn the mixture into the dish, and bake in a slow oven. Serve either hot or cold. Marque Pudding.—Finely shred 3oz. of suet and mix with it 4oz. each of grated breadcrumb and strawberry jam, the juice and grated peel of one lime, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix thoroughly, moistening with two well-beaten eggs. Turn the whole into a well-buttered mould with a lid, and boil for three hours. Just before the Pudding is ready, prepare the following sauce : Put hoz. of butter in a small saucepan, melt it, then stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour and 1 breakfast cupful of boiling water; when quite smooth, add 1 table-spoonful of strawberry jam, the juice of a lime, and 4 wineglassful of brandy. Stir the sauce over the fire, let it boil gently for five minutes, then mix loz. of butter with it. When the Pudding is cooked, turn it out on to a dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. Marquise Pudding.—Remove the peels and cores from ten pears, selecting bon chrdtien if possible; put them into a preserving-pan with 3 pints of syrup at 12deg. (see SUGAR-BOILIXG), and simmer slowly without reducing the syrup until done; then take them out, rub them through a sieve, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup at 30deg. Cut 8oz. of pine-apple into small squares, put them in a pre- serving-pan, and cook them in syrup at 18deg.; also cook 4lb. of cherries cut in halves in syrup at 16deg. Strain the syrup of the pineapple when cold into the pear syrup, and turn it into a freezer, working well with a spatula against the sides until nearly frozen. Add the whites of three eggs of Italian meringues, and work well with the spatula until the mixture is quite frozen; then add the cherries and pine-apple well drained of their syrup. Turn the Pudding into a dome-shaped mould about 5in. high and 6in. across, cover the mould, and hermetically seal it with butter to prevent the ice when melted from getting into the Pudding. Pack the mould in ice and bay-salt, and let it remain for two hours; then turn it out on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Pour 1 teacupful of syrup at 30deg., together with h pint of champagne into a small freezer; when it is frozen, add 1 tablespoonful of Italian meringue, turn it into a sauceboat, and serve with the Pudding. Maud’s Pudding.—Rub a moderately large stale sponge cake through a fine sieve into a basin, and pour over sufficient boiling milk to form it into a batter, adding P uddings—continued. gradually a small lump of butter and 4oz. of washed, picked, and dried currants. When well mixed, turn it into a dish lined with puff paste, put it in a quick oven, and bake for an hour. In the meantime, put jib- of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, beat in the white of an egg and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and continue to whisk until the mixture is white and light and will not fall when piled up. Remove the Pudding from the oven, heap up the white of egg mixture, and serve at once. Michael Pudding.—(1) Put 2qts. of milk into a bowl, add a small quantity of rennet to turn it, press the whey from it, and rub the curd through a fine sieve into a basin. Mix in 4oz. of warmed butter, the crumb of a French roll, sufficient sugar to sweeten, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 1 wineglassful of white wine flavoured with 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water. When these are thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture into buttered patty-pans or cups to about three-parts fill them, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Turn them out on to a dish, decorate them with small pieces of candied orange-peel and blanched almonds alternately, sprinkle over with caster sugar, and serve with a little sweet sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Put 2|lb. of curd, as if prepared for making cheese, into a basin, and mix it up with the well-beaten yolks and whites of nine or ten eggs, whisked separately, the whites being of a still' froth; add l£lb. of stoned raisins soaked in brandy, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 3oz. of citron cut into slices, hoz. of powdered cinnamon, and lastly 1 teacupful of brandy and rum in equal proportions. Well and thickly butter the inside of a mould, and dredge over 2 or 3 handfuls of crust of bread finely grated, making them adhere as much as possible, and turning the mould over so as to let those crumbs that do not stick fall out. Put in the Pudding mixture, set the mould in a slow oven, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half, by which time the top should be well browned. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and mix in a little cream or milk, finely-chopped candied citron, and 1 wineglassful of rum or brandy. Turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. A mixture of milk or cream and breadcrumbs can bo substituted for the curd if this is unobtainable. Milton Pudding.—Put 1 pint of thick cream into a saucepan with three ground blades of mace, the grated peel of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten; boil them together for a few minutes, turn the mixture into a basin, and let it get quite cold; then work in the well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, pour the mixture into a buttered mould or basin, tie it over with a cloth, put it in a saucepan of water on the fire, and boil for an hour. Turn it out when done (see Fig. 324), and serve hot with a little jam or any preserve poured round; or it may be eaten cold, when a little brandy poured over will be an improvement. Minute Pudding.—Put h pint of milk into a saucepan on the fire, and when it boils stir in 0 teacupfuls of either264 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. wheat or rye flour, half a nutmeg grated, and 1 teaspoon- ful of salt. Let these boil for a minute, stirring con- tinually ; then remove the pan from the fire, add three well-beaten eggs, replace it on the fire, and stir until the mixture is quite thick. Turn it on to a dish, and serve very hot. Mocha Pudding.—Beat 2oz. of powdered white sugar into the yolks of two eggs, add by degrees loz. each of flour and potato-flour, and then mix in lightly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. When the Pudding is well mixed, put it into a well-buttered plain mould, and bake. When taken from the oven, turn it out of the mould and put it away till quite cold. Make an icing of Jib. of fresh butter and 2oz. of powdered white sugar by beating them together to a cream, adding, a drop at a time, 1 table-spoonful of the strongest coffee. When the Pudding is perfectly cold, spread most of this icing evenly all over the top, and ornament it with a piping of the remain- ing icing. The Pudding should be kept on ice or in a very cold place till served. Monmouth Pudding.—Break about 3oz. of crumb of stale bread into a basin, pour over it 1 pint of milk, and let it soak for half-an-hour. Beat three eggs well and mix with them the strained juice and grated peel of one lemon, 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Spread a thick layer of any kind of jam at the bottom of a rather shallow pie-disli, pour the mixture over it, and bake for about twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold. Montreal Pudding.—Put three eggs into a basin, beat them thoroughly, and pour them through a sieve into another basin containing 2oz. of moist sugar, J teacupful of milk, and a flavouring of grated nutmeg. Dredge in slowly, working vigorously with a spoon, 4oz. of sifted flour; when this is thoroughly incorporated, add 7oz. of fine breadcrumbs, and work them all together for half-an-hour or more. If desired, Jib. of stoned raisins may be added. Put the mixture into a well-buttered basin, tie it over securely with a cloth, put it in a saucepan of water over a quick fire, and boil without stopping for three hours. Turn it out, and serve on a hot dish. Mousseline Pudding.—Put 6oz. of butter into a lined sauce- pan, melt it, then mix in with it 6oz. of caster sugar, the grated rinds of two small lemons, and the beaten yolks of fifteen eggs. Stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, but not boiling, then strain it through a fine sieve into a basin. Whisk the whites of the fifteen eggs to a stiff froth, and when the above mixture has somewhat cooled stir them in lightly. Butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam for twenty minutes. Great care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. When the Pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour some preserved apricots round it, garnish with cherries, and serve. Nassau Pudding.—Put into a saucepan over a slow fire lib. of fresh butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar, break in four eggs, drop in also the yolks only of four other eggs, and stir all over the fire for nearly half-an- hour. Line a shallow dish with puff paste, putting a thick layer of the paste at the bottom, pour the contents of the saucepan on top, put it in the oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes. Neapolitan Pudding.—Put 3Joz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, mix it up with 12oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, and beat in ] wineglassful of rum, the rind of a lemon very finely chopped, and lastly four well-beaten eggs. Put 6 table-spoonfuls of cream into a basin, add three more well- beaten eggs, and continue to whisk until they are incor- porated. Put a layer of ratafias intermixed with a few breadcrumbs at the bottom of a well-buttered plain mould, next a layer of the mixture, then of the slices of sponge cake thickly spread with any kind of jam or preserve, and continue in this way until the mould is quite full, finishing up with the mixture. Set the mould in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Turn the Pudding Puddings—continued. on to a dish, pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly warmed and mixed with a little white wine, and serve. Nelson Puddings.—Well butter and sugar six small Pudding- moulds. Prepare twelve lady’s-finger cakes, cut them into halves, paring them neatly and carefully so as to be able to line the moulds evenly, and cut the parings into small pieces. Mix in a plate 3oz. of candied cherries with 2oz. of well-chopped citron, cover the bottom of the moulds with 2oz. of this, and on it put a layer of the lady’s fingers; spread half of the remaining fruit on top, and fill with the rest of the cake, finishing with the balance of the fruit. Then pour over custard made as follows: Put into a basin 4oz. of powdered sugar and three eggs, and beat briskly with a whisk for two minutes; add 1 pint of cold milk, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of lemon essence, and mix for one minute longer; then strain through a sieve into another basin, and with a ladle divide it evenly over the six Puddings. Set the moulds in a tin pan, with warm water to half their height, and place in a moderate oven to steam for thirty-five minutes ; take them out, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet wine sauce. Nesselrode Pudding.—(1) Peel the outer skins off about forty chestnuts and boil them in water for about half-an- hour; take them out, remove the inner skin, and then pound them to a paste, adding 1 pinch of salt during the pounding. Pass this paste through a sieve, moistening it with a little ci-eam. Have ready 1 pint of boiled custard, and add it to the chestnut paste. Put the whole in the freezer, and when it is firm beat 1 breakfast-cupful of cream to a froth and work it in; freeze again, and add 2oz. each of raisins, citron-peel, and stewed or candied pine apple, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and 1 teacupful of mara- schino. Work them well and freeze again, then put the Pudding in a dome-shaped mould on ice, and when wanted turn it out and decorate with angelica points and half cherries, garnishing round the dish with crystallised apricots or greengages. (2) This delicious ice can easily be prepared by closely attending to the following directions: Boil fifty chestnuts, remove the shells and skins, and either rub them through a sieve with a potato-maslier or pound them to a pulp in a mortar. There should be about 1J pints of chestnut pulp. Mix with it an equal quantity, by measure, of fine sugar, and 1J pints of very thick cream whipped to a stiff froth, and freeze it like ice-cream. In the meantime, put over the fire lib. of sugar and 1J pints of water, and let it boil. While the syrup is heating, pick over 4oz. of sultana raisins, and cut into small dice 4oz. each of citron and candied pineapple; and when the sugar has melted, put them into it, together with 4oz. of candied cherries. Boil the fruit in the syrup for five minutes, and then strain it, saving the syrup. When the fruit is put into the syrup, boil and peel twenty-five more chestnuts; when they are done, return the syrup to the fire with 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and boil it until large bubbles form on the top. Begin to test it by dropping a little into ice-water. As soon as it is hard and crisp directly it touches the water, dip the nuts into it and lay them on an oiled dish. The candied nuts are to be used as a garnish for the Pudding after it has been frozen. After the cream is frozen, mix the fruit with it, and pack it in a fancy mould for the second freezing, or in paper cases, and freeze a second time. Serve the candied nuts round the Pudding when it is sent to table. (3) Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan, pour over them 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and stir until the eggs begin to thicken. Turn it out into a basin, mix in 2oz. of savoy biscuits broken up into small pieces, and 6oz. of sugar, and stir frequently until the mixture is quite cold. Add the whites of three eggs whipped to a stiff froth, pour the whole into a freezer, and let it remain. When nearly frozen, stir in loz. of blanched and pounded almonds, 2oz. of preserved or dried cherries, Joz. of pistachio-nuts cut up into small pieces, and 2oz. of picked, washed, and dried currants. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon into a basin containing 1 gill of cream whipped to a stiff foam, add this to the other265 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. ingredients in the freezer, and stir well with the spatula until the whole is quite frozen. Put the mixture into a mould or moulds of any shape or design, and set on ice; turn the Pudding out when firm, and serve. (4) Take off the outside shells from 1J pints of chestnuts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour; take them out, mb off the inner peel, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste. Blanch and pound also 1 pint of almonds. Put the liquor from a preserved pine-apple into a saucepan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of sugar and the same of water, put them over the fire, and boil for twenty minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and beat in the yolks of ten eggs. Place the saucepan in a bain-marie, or in a larger saucepan of boiling water, and whisk briskly until the mixture thickens. Take the saucepan out again, put it in a bowl of cold water, and beat for ten minutes longer. Put the pounded almonds and chestnuts in a basin with 1 pint of cream, stir them well, and rub the whole through a verv fine sieve into a basin. Pour in the egg mixture, add i'lb. of French candied fruit, 1 pint can or pot of pine apple, both cut up into very small pieces, J teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract, and 4 table-spoonfuls of wine. Pour the mixture into a plain or ornamental mould packed in ice, cover it with a lid, hermetically seal it with butter, pack the ice on top, and let it remain until quite set and firm. Turn the Pudding out on to a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Newark Pudding.—Put 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of rice-flour into a basin, and add sufficient cold water to moisten it. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs into another basin with a little more than sufficient milk to cover them; when they are well soaked, stir in the rice-flour, then the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, then the remain- ing quantity from lqt. of milk after the amount used for soaking the crumbs, next 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and a little essence of vanilla to flavour. Put Jib. of angelica or preserved cherries cut in halves at the bottom and round the sides of a buttered plain mould, pour the mixture in, and steam it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water; or it may be baked in a quick oven. It will require two hours for steaming, and one for baking. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour sweet or wine sauce either over or round it, and serve. New College Puddings.—Finely chop Jib. of suet, and mix with it a grated penny roll or Jib. of Naples biscuits, Jib. of washed and dried currants, 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and J saltspoonful of salt. Mix thoroughly, moistening with two well-beaten eggs and suiiicient cream to bring it to the consistency of frying-batter. Put a large lump of butter in a frying-pan over the fire ; when it is boiling drop in the mixture by table-spoonfuls, and fry to a golden colour. When cooked, drain them, ornament the top of each with a preserved cherry or piece of angelica, pile them on a dish, and serve. Newmarket Pudding.—Put 1J pints of milk in a sauce pan with a bay-leaf, the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and sugar to taste, and boil it until nicely flavoured. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, and arrange them in layers in a pie-dish, strewing a few well-washed and dried currants between each layer. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, and when the milk has somewhat cooled stir it in gradually with them, and strain the whole over the bread- and-butter. Bake until nicely browned on the top. Nonpareil Pudding.—Put lqt. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over lqt. of milk, and work in Jib. each of warm butter and crushed loaf sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of five eggs; put the mixture into a mould, and bake gently until well set in the centre. Take it out of the oven, spread over 1 breakfast- cupful of any fruit jelly, then return it to the oven, and let it remain until the jelly is boiling hot. Take it out, spread over a meringue paste made with the whites of five eggs, Jib. of sugar, and a little vanilla or other flavour- Puddings—continued. ing, put the Pudding into the hot-closet to dry and slightly colour, then take it out and serve. Norfolk Puddings.—Put two eggs into a basin, beat them in with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and a little salt, and add sufficient flour to give the mixture the consistency of batter. Put a saucepan of water on the fire, and when it boils drop the batter in, in spoonfuls ; boil them for two to three minutes, then take them out, drain on a sieve, put them into a dish, stir them up with a lump of butter, and serve at once. The water in the saucepan must be boiling fast, or the Puddings will spoil. Northumberland Puddings.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of flour and milk into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and let them stand for several hours; they should be mixed and left for a day if possible. Add 4oz. of clarified butter, working it in with a spoon in order to break any lumps that may lie in the mixture, also 6oz. of currants, washed, dried, and broken in a mortar, 2oz. of finely-chopped candied lemon-peel, sufficient sugar to taste, and lastly 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mix'ture into small cup-shaped moulds or basins, set them in a moderate oven, and bake slowly for half-an-hour; then turn them out on to a dish, pour over a little sweet wine sauce, and serve. Nottingham Pudding.—Prepare lqt. of light batter; pare and core ten large cooking apples, and fill the hollows left by the cores with moist sugar. Arrange them in a pie- dish, pour the batter over, and bake for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. Nun Pudding.—Break four eggs into a basin and beat them well, then mix with them 2oz. of flour and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar; pour in gradually lqt. of milk, and stir until smooth. Turn it into a saucepan, stir over the fire until thickened (but take it off before it boils, or the eggs will curdle), and continue to stir it by the side of the fire. Put Jib. of macaroons in a dish, pour the custard over them, and leave until cold. Strew Jib. of grated cocoa-nut over the top, and a small quantity of caster sugar, and serve. Orleans Pudding. -Beat five eggs well and stir in gradu- ally with them 1 pint of cream that has been boiled and 6oz. of caster sugar. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until thickened, then move it off and add Joz. of gelatine that has been soaked in cold water ; stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain the mixture through a tammy cloth into a bowl. Put J teacupful of rum into a small saucepan, with Joz. each of chopped candied citron- and orange-peels, Joz. each of well-washed currants and stoned raisins, and stir them over a slow fire until the rum is reduced. Put a layer of the cream at the bottom of a cylinder-mould, then a layer of the fruit, over that a layer of crushed macaroons and slices of sponge cakes, then another layer of cream, and so on until the mould is full. Cover it securely and pack it in pounded ice for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the Pudding out on to a dish. Oxford Pudding.—(1) Put 6oz. each of finely-shredded beef-suet and well washed and stoned raisins into a basin with Soz. of breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls each of flour and moist sugar, 1 pinch of salt, 1 saltspoonful of ground mixed spice, and a few drops of essence of almonds to flavour; work the whole into a stiff paste, by adding 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Turn this mixture into a buttered Pudding-basin, put it into a saucepan of water, set over a clear fire, ami boil gently for about three-hours-and-a-half. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour over a little wine or brandy sauce, and serve. (2) Put Jib. each of washed and dried currants, grated biscuits, and shredded beef-suet into a basin, and mix them thoroughly with 1 table-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar, and a little flavouring of nutmeg. Work into a stiffish paste by adding the yolks of three eggs, and form it into small balls; put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry them to a light golden266 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Foi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under tlteir special heads. Puddings—continued. colour. Put the Puddings on a dish, and serve with a little white wine sauce poured over them. Palm-tree Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan and add 2oz. each of crushed loaf sugar and flour; work them over the fire for three or four minutes, then turn out into a dish to cool. Cut the mixture into small diamond-shaped pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them; then take them out and arrange them on a dish. In the meantime put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan with 4oz. of sugar and one well-whisked egg, set the pan over a very slack fire, and let it remain, skimming frequently, until the sides of the pan have a slight coating of it. Remove the pan from the fire, and as soon as the mixture is cool, pour it, together with the juice of two lemons, over the pieces of Pudding, and serve. Pembroke Pudding.—Finely chop 2oz. of beef-suet, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 1 pint of milk. Season the mixture with spices or lemon-peel, turn it into a pic- dish, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve hot with jam. Penelope Pudding.—Beat the whites of eight eggs to a still froth, sifting in gradually at the same time Jib. of caster sugar. Mix 4oz. of flour with 1 pint of milk, flavour it with sherry or essence of vanilla, then mix in the whites of eggs, and beat all together for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a shallow basin, stand it in a quick oven, and bake well. Decorate the Pudding when cold with chocolate icing, and serve. Peripatetic Pudding.—Break six penny sponge cakes into a basin, and mix wit h t hem 1 breakfast-cupful of marmalade and 2 wineglassfuls of any kind of sweet wine. Slightly warm 4,1b. of fresh butter and beat it well with Jib. of caster sugar; then beat in, one at a time, six eggs. Pour the beaten mixture over the other ingredients and beat the whole well together. Line a tin mould with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Polka Pudding.—(1) Beat 4 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and mix in four well-whisked eggs and 3oz. of butter pulled into very small pieces. Blanch and pound 3oz. of bitter almonds, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water to prevent them from oiling. Add the almonds and 1 pint of boiling milk to the arrowroot mixture, stirring briskly until the whole is quite thick; put it into a plain or fancy mould packed in ice, let it set until it is quite firm, turn out on to a dish, and serve with rich sweet sauce poured over. Three table-spoonfuls of cream may be substituted for the 3oz. of butter if desired. (2) Bake a sponge-cake mixture in the mould that is intended for the Pudding, turn it out, and with a sharp knife cut off the bottom about Jin. in thickness. Put the cake back in the mould and cut out as much of the inside as possible, leaving the same thickness as the bottom slice, and taking care not to injure the outside. Put a layer of orange-flower water or vanilla cream ice at the bottom, next one of apricot jam, and so on until the cake is quite full. Replace the bottom or lid, and put a sheet of tin over the top of the mould to prevent the ice from melting. Pack the mould in ice, let it remain for a short time, pour a little warm brandy round a dish, turn the Pudding out of the mould in the centre of it, pour over a little more of the brandy, and serve immediately. Poor Man’s Pudding.—Cut a roll into thin slices, leaving the crust on; pour over them 1 pint of milk mixed with two beaten eggs and a small quantity of sugar and grated nutmeg. Let the slices soak in this custard for an hour, pour it off, and let them drain for an hour; then fry them brown, and serve hot with wine sauce. Porcupine Pudding.—Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, put it into a saucepan with some new milk, and boil until tender. If the rice becomes too dry, add more milk to it. When cooked, move the rice to the side of the fire and stir in four well-beaten eggs, the grated peel of half a Puddings—cont inucd. lemon, and sugar to taste. Beat the whole until well mixed, then turn it into a buttered mould and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Blanch and peel jib. of sweet almonds, and cut them into long shreds. Turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, stick the almonds all over it, and serve. A rich custard poured round the Pudding is a great improvement. It may also be served cold. Portland Pudding.—Beat fib. of fresh butter with fib. of powdered white sugar till it is like cream, then add nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, ami mix in by degrees fib. of flour and 2oz. of candied peel cut small. Beat all together for ten minutes, pour the Pudding into small tins, and bake. Portugal Pudding.—Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it is warm add 3 table-spoonfuls of ground rice and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream ; stir well until it boils, then remove the pan to the side of the fire. When the mixture is cool, add the whites of four eggs and the yolks of six, also 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar. (1 table- spoonful of arrowroot worked to a smooth paste with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream in a saucepan, fib. of butter, and 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and the whole boiled for a short time, may be used as a substitute for the ground rice and cream if desired.) Pour the mixture into a well-buttered basin, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour; then take it out, turn it upside-down on a dish, put a thick layer of apricot or any jam on the top, and serve. Princess Pudding.—Put 2oz. of French gelatine into a large basin with 1 pint of cold soft water, and let it soak for an hour or a little longer; then pour over 1 pint of boiling water, stir it in well, and whilst doing so add 3 breakfast- cupfuls of moist sugar, the strained juice of four lemons, and 1 pint of Madeira or Malaga wine. Pour the mixture into a saucepan on the fire, and when it begins to thicken add the whites of four eggs which have been previously beaten to a stiff froth. Turn the whole into a princess mould (see Fig. 325) packed in ice, and when it is set and firm turn it out on to a dish and serve with ]qt. of rich custard poured round it. The dish may afterwards be garnished with crystallised fruits, macaroons, ratafias, or other sweet fancy biscuits. Pudding a la Cleveland.—Boil in a saucepan J pint of milk with a quarter of a vanilla bean. Put in a vessel Jib. of powdered sugar and the yolks of three eggs, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; add them to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, pour the whole into a copper basin, and place it on a moderate stove to heat for five minutes, continually stirring at the bottom with the spatula and being careful not to let it boil. Remove the vessel from the fire, place it on a table, add imme- diately J pint of sweet cream, mixing for two minutes more, then let the mixture cool for thirty minutes; strain through a sieve into a freezer, and freeze; when frozen let it rest. Put the yolks of three eggs into a copper basin with loz. of powdered sugar, J gill of maraschino, and J gill of kirschenwasser, and with a whisk beat well together for two minutes. Place the basin on the hot stove and stir briskly with the whisk for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, immediately put the basin in a vessel containing ice-water, and stir continually for two minutes more. Add f pint of whipped vanilla cream and mix well with the rest for three minutes. Cover the basin, and let it rest also. Have ready Jib. of candied chestnuts and break them into pieces on a plate. Take a 3-pint melon-mould, arrange the vanilla cream round, dividing it evenly and filling up with alternate layers of the biscuit preparation and the candied chestnuts; cover the mould tightly, and place it in a pail having broken ice mixed Fig. 325. Princess Mould (Temple and Crook).267 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. with rock-salt at the bottom; fill the pail with more ice and salt, and freeze for fully two hours. Two minutes before serving, bathe the mould in warm water to remove the ice and salt that adhere, turn the Pudding out, and send to the table immediately, with a sauceboatful of the following sauce: Add to A pint of whipped vanilla cream 1 gill of strawberry juice and \ gill or 2oz. of yellow char- treuse ; beat well together with the whisk for two minutes, and pour it into the sauce-bowl. Pudding a la Liscard Hall.—Well beat four eggs and mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 saltspoon- ful of salt, J pint of cream, and a few drops of essence of kernels. Butter a Pudding-mould, pour the mixture into it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling vrater to three- parts its height, place the lid on, and set by the side of the fire. Break two eggs in a stewpan, mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, J salt-spoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of almonds. Beat well with a wire whisk into a stiff froth, and continue whisking them at the edge of the fire until lukewarm, but they must not get too hot. When set, turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve immediately. Pudding a la Theodore.—Cut into small pieces six lady’s- finger cakes, and put them into a basin with 3oz. of candied cherries cut in halves, 3oz. of preserved quinces cut into very fine pieces, 2oz. of dried currants, 3oz. of powdered sugar, and 2oz. of finely-chopped candied apricots ; break in three eggs, pour over A pint of cold milk, and with the spatula mix well together for two minutes. Peel, core, and chop up three medium-sized apples, add them to the other ingredients, and mix lightly for one minute. Well butter and sugar round the inside of a 3-pint Pud- ding-mould, pour in the preparation, lay it in a tin pan with warm water to half the height of the mould, put in a moderate oven, and steam for an hour; then remove, and with a towel turn it out on to a hot dish, serving with a sauce made as follows: Put 5oz. of peach marmalade into a saucepan with loz. of quince jelly and loz. of butter; place the pan on the stove, and stir with the spatula, letting it boil for one minute. Take it off the fire and add immediately 1 pint of champagne; then return to the stove and stir well, heating it thoroughly, but not allowing it to boil. Remove, strain through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and send to table very hot. Pudding without Milk or Eggs.—Well butter a baking- or pie-dish, put a layer of sifted breadcrumbs at the bottom, on the top of that put a layer of apples, pared, cored, and finely chopped, and sprinkle over brown sugar, pounded allspice, and a very few small lumps of butter. Continue with these layers until the dish is full, finishing with the breadcrumbs. Pour over 1 breakfast-cupful each of wine and water mixed, set the dish in a quick oven, and bake for an hour. Pudding with Molasses Sauce.—Slightly warm 6oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then mix with it 6oz. of caster sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 pint of hot milk. Put 6oz. of flour in a basin, and stir the above mixture into it, mixing smoothly. Thickly butter the interior of a Pudding basin, pour the mixture into it, put into a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. While the Pudding is baking, prepare the following sauce : Put 2 table- spoonfuls of flour into a small lined saucepan, and mix in with it 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses and 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar; stir this mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then move it a little to the side, and stir for five minutes longer. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Quaking Pudding.—Put the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three into a basin and beat them up with 1 pint of cream, grate in a nutmeg and the crust of a small well-baked loaf of bread, and add a slight flavour- ing of rose-water. Put the mixture into a cloth that has been spread over with butter and floured, tie it up, allowing a little room for swelling, plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for half-an-hour. Turn it out when done, and serve. If preferred, 1 or 2 table- I Puddings—continued. spoonfuls of flour or rice-flour can be mixed with a little of the cream and used as a substitute for the grated bread-crust. Queen Pudding.—Finely mince Jib. of mutton-suet, mix it well into 1 breakfast-cupful of whole meal, then mix in six or eight bananas cut into slices about Jin. in thickness, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk sweetened with 2oz. of sugar. Put a plate over the basin containing the mixture, and let it stand for about an hour; then stir three eggs into the mixture, adding one at a time, and well beating after each addition, so as to make the Pudding light and thoroughly mixed; put it into a greased mould, and steam or boil. In mixing, should the preparation be too thick, a little more milk must be added. When done, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour over 2 wineglassfuls of red-currant wine, and serve with wine sauce poured round. Queen Mab’s Pudding.—Put 1 pint of milk into a lined saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, half a pod of vanilla, and about 1 teaspoonful of blanched and bruised bitter almonds. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire, and allow the contents to heat very slowly; when on the point of boiling, mix in loz. of isinglass and A saltspoonful of salt. When the isinglass has dis- solved, strain the whole through muslin into a clean saucepan, add to it 4oz. of loaf sugar and 1 breakfast- cupful of rich cream, and place it over the fire until it boils; then remove it to the side, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of six eggs. Continue stirring the Pudding at the edge of the fire until thickened, but do not let it boil again or the eggs will curdle; then turn the Pudding into a basin and stir until half cold, when mix in 2oz. of dried cherries and loz. of thinly shredded candied citron-peel. Pour the mixture into a mould, and set it in a cold place. When ready to serve, turn the Pudding on to a dish. Slices of preserved ginger may be substituted for the cherries if liked, in which case pour the syrup from the ginger round the Pudding. Raglan Pudding.—Decorate the bottom of a buttered plain mould with pieces of candied citron, orange, and lemon peel cut into various shapes, and cover the sides with figs cut flatwise in halves, having the skin side towards the centre of the mould. Put the yolks of seven eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk into a saucepan with any kind of flavouring, such as vanilla, &c., and sufficient sugar to sweeten ; set the pan on the fire, and stir well until the custard is quite thick. Pour it into the mould, taking care not to disturb the peel or figs, cover over the top of the mould with greased paper, set it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam until done and quite firm. Take it out, let it get quite cold, turn out on to a dish, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot or any other jam or marmalade mixed with 2 wineglass- fuls of sherry, and poured over. Revere Pudding.—To Iqt. of boiled milk allow 1 table- spoonful of flour, six pounded crackers, Jib. of sugar, half-a-dozen eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, as much chopped suet as butter, one grated nutmeg, A teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon; mix all together, put into a pudding dish, and bake. For the sauce, beat Jib. of butter till it is white, then stir in by degrees Alb. of finely-powdered white sugar ; continue beating the butter and sugar till it is a cream, then put it in a glass dish, and grate a little nutmeg over it. Rich Pudding.—This Pudding is a great favourite in Madeira; it requires a long time to boil, and great care in turning out of the mould, which must have a bottom that will take out. Well butter the mould, and upon the bottom of it place a round of puff paste to fit, over this put a layer of preserved apricots, then another layer of paste, then one of any other preserve; continue in this way until the mould is full, finishing with paste. Cover the mould and boil for several hours. Serve with sweet or brandy sauce. St. John’s Pudding.—Prepare and roll out a paste composed of 6oz. of beef-suet, Jib. of flour, and sufficient water.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 268 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. Mask a Pudding-basin with red-currant jam, then cover over with the paste, fill up the basin with shredded cherries and apples in equal quantities, sprinkling in a good supply of sugar, cover with more of the paste, and steam for two hours. Serve hot with whipped or clotted cream. Savoury Pudding.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs in a basin, and pour over them as much boiling milk as they will absorb. Chop Jib. of beef-suet as finely as pos- sible, mix it with the breadcrumbs, and add 1 small tea- cupful of oatmeal, three partially-boiled and chopped onions, a small quantity of chopped or powdered sage, and four well-beaten eggs, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Put a good-sized lump of pork dripping in a shallow baking-dish, place it in the oven until melted, then pour in the mixture, and bake the same as York- shire Pudding. If served with goose or pork, the Pudding may be baked under the meat. Saxe-Weimar Pudding.—Put fib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream; then add singly the yolks of six eggs and the white of one, next a couple of cakes of chocolate in powder, the weight of the chocolate in sifted crushed loaf sugar, 5 table-spoonfuls of powdered biscuits, and lastly the whites of five eggs whipped to a froth. Turn the preparation at once into a buttered and floured fancy-shaped mould, put it in a saucepan of water in the bain-marie, and cook for half-an-hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over chocolate cream sauce well flavoured with vanilla, and serve. Schneider Pudding.—Mix 2J table-spoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly with a small quantity of water, then pour in gradually 1 J pints of boiling milk; turn the whole into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boil- ing. Allow the arrowroot to cool a little, then stir in the beaten yolks of five eggs, and sweeten to taste. Peel and slice some large cooking apples, put them in a stewpan with a piece of lemon-peel, plenty of sugar, a few cloves, and a small quantity of water, and stew them until tender. Butter a pie-dish, turn the apples into it, pour the arrowroot on the top, put a few small pieces of butter about, dust well over with caster sugar, and bake the Pudding until nicely browned. It can be served either hot or cold. Seven-Cup Pudding.—Finely chop sufficient beef-suet to fill a breakfast-cup, and put it into a basin with 1 break- fast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped apples, and 1 table-spoonful each of sugar, flour, and well-washed and dried currants. Blanch and finely chop 3oz. of sweet almonds, and add to the above ingredients, with 1 saltspoonful each of ground ginger, mixed spice, and ground cinnamon. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 breakfast-cupful of tepid milk; then mix the milk with the other ingredients, and stir vigorously until all are well incorporated. Thickly butter the interior of a Pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, tie a floured Pudding-cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. Add more boiling water to the saucepan every now and again to keep up the original quantity. When cooked, take the Pudding out of the saucepan, remove the cloth, and turn it on to a hot dish. A sweet sauce may be served with it. Sir Watkin Wynne’s Pudding.—The ingredients for this Pudding should be prepared anti mixed the day before it is wanted. Chop finely 10oz. of beef-suet and put it in a basin with lOoz. of finely-grated breadcrumbs and 6oz. of ground rice. Beat the yolks of six eggs with the whites of three, and stir them in with the above ingredients; then add 6 table-spoonfuls of marmalade. When ready to cook the Pudding, butter a large mould, stir the mixture lip again, pour it in the mould, tie a floured cloth over the top, and put it in a saucepan of boiling water. Boil the Pudding between four and five hours; then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet or wine sauce. Snow Pudding.—(1) Put Joz. of gelatine into a basin con- taining 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, let it remain for ten or twelve hours; then add the juice of a lemon and the grated rinds of two, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. Pour Puddings—continued. over J pint of boiling water and stir well, and strain the whole into a deep bowl; then add the unbeaten whites of three eggs, whisk well and vigorously for three-quarters-of- an-hour, then put the bowl in a cool place for the mixture to cool. Turn it out on to a dish, pour round a custard made with the yolks of the eggs and well flavoured with vanilla, and serve. (2) Dissolve Joz. of gelatine in J pint of water, then mix with it Jib. of caster sugar, the whites of two eggs and the strained juice of two lemons. Whisk the whole well for half-an-hour; then turn it into a mould and set it on ice until ready to serve. Make about 1 pint of nicely- flavoured and sweetened custard, and leave that also until cold. When ready to serve the Pudding, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. Snowdon Pudding.—(1) Mix together lib. eacli of finely- chopped suet, sifted breadcrumbs, and powdered white sugar; add four beaten eggs, the grated rinds and the strained juice of two lemons, and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Butter a basin, line it with sultana raisins, pour the Pudding in, and boil for five hours. (2) Mix together Jib. of suet chopped very fine, Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, 6oz. of powdered sugar, 6oz. of lemon or orange marmalade, 2oz. of sago well steeped in cold water, half-a-dozen beaten eggs and J wineglassful of brandy. Butter a mould and stick scalded raisins into it, so as to form a pattern; when the Pudding is well mixed, pour it in, cover it, boil for an hour, and serve hot with marmalade sauce. (3) Finely chop 4oz. of beef-suet and mix with it Jib. of ground rice and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Well beat two eggs with J teacupful of orange marmalade, and mix them with the dry ingredients, beating the whole well together. Thickly butter the interior of a Pudding- basin and fill it with the Pudding mixture; stand it in a saucepan with boiling water a little more than half its height, and steam for three hours. Turn the Pudding on to a hot dish when cooked, and serve with wine sauce. Sponge Puddings.—(1) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter without oiling it, then beat it till creamy. Mix with the butter, four beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 2oz. of caster sugar, and beat the ingredients slowly until well mixed. Butter the interior of half-a-dozen small fluted moulds, fill them with the batter, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the cups on to a dish, and serve with a rich wine sauce poured over them. (2) Separate the yolks from the whites of twenty eggs, beat the whites to a firm froth, then gradually mix them in with 6oz. of ground rice flavoured with any kind of essence preferred, and beat the mixture well. Put 3 pints of milk in a saucepan, and set it over a slow fire until boil- ing ; then put in 1 table-spoonful of the mixture at a time, and poach them. Have a saucepan with 1 pint or so of syrup in it standing near the fire, where it may keep slowly boiling, and as each Pudding is cooked, take it out with a strainer and throw it into the syrup. Afterwards take the Puddings out of the syrup, drain, arrange them on a hot dish (see Fig. 326), and serve. (3) German.—Put loz. of butter into an enamelled .saucepan, melt it, then mix in smoothly 1 breakfast-cupful269 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. of milk and § breakfast-cupful of finely-sifted flour. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the flour is well cooked, when it will separate from the sides of the pan ; then move it from the fire and leave until somewhat cooled. Warm loz. of butter, beat until creamy, then mix it with 2oz. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the yolks of five eggs. Stir this mixture in with the flour, &c., and work the whole until well incorporated ; then whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for two hours, taking care to prevent the water from entering the top of the mould. When cooked, turn the Pudding- out on to a hot dish, and serve immediately with a sauce- boatful of sweet wine sauce. Tipsy Pudding.—Well beat up six eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar, then mix gradually in with them 6oz. of the best white flour that has been finely sifted, and beat well for ten minutes. Melt a lump of butter in a small saucepan and pour it into some dariole moulds, turning them about so that they may be equally coated with it; strew some caster sugar inside them, then shake out all that does not adhere to the butter. Fill the moulds with the above mixture, making them perfectly smooth at the top, and put them into a slow oven. The Puddings will require about twenty-five minutes’ baking. When cooked, turn them out on to a hot dish. Sweeten about J pint of rum until caster sugar, pour it over the Puddings, strew some finely-chopped cocoa-nut over, and serve when cold. Toast Pudding.—Any stale pieces of toast may be used, but the harder they are the better. Soak about Jib. of them in water till quite soft, then drain off as much of the water as possible, and mash the toast up with a fork. Mix fib. of stoned raisins, nearly 1 teacupful of moist sugar, a small quantity of chopped lemon-peel if liked, 1 teacupful of flour, and lqt. of skim milk with the toast. Butter a Pudding-basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a stout floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Traveller’s Pudding.—Cut 2oz. or 3oz. of mixed candied peel into very thin strips, and arrange them, intermixed with a few preserved cherries, at the bottom of some well- buttered cups or small moulds. Put 1 teacupful each of dried flour and crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix them up with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, two eggs, and sufficient milk to form a stiffisli paste. Directly it is made, pour it into the moulds or cups, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Turn the Puddings out carefully on to a dish, and serve with a little sweet or white wine sauce poured round them. Vegetable Pudding.—Put fib. each of washed and dried currants, stoned raisins, and finely-shredded beef-suet into a basin, mix in a little moist sugar, grated nutmeg, and salt, and make the mixture into a paste by adding fib. each of grated raw carrots and potatoes, which will con- tain sufficient moisture for the purpose. Place the Pud- ding in a buttered basin, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil gently for about four hours. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over sweet brandy or white wine sauce, and serve at once. Venus Pudding.—Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three with J pint of cream, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir over the fire until thickened, but not quite boiling; mix with the custard Joz. of gelatine dissolved in 1 teacupful of milk, and leave it until cold. Butter the interior of a mould and ornament it with pre- served ginger cut into small pieces. Mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with the custard, pour it into the mould, and bury it in ice. Before serving, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and then turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. , Victoria Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan with 6oz. of sugar and 2oz. of sago, and boil gently for forty-five minutes; then add 6oz. of any fresh Puddings—continued. fruit, and continue to boil for one hour longer. Pour it into a mould packed in ice, and when set and firm turn it out on to a dish, pour a little syrup round it, and serve with milk or cream. Vienna Pudding.—Put into a basin 5oz. of the crumb of bread cut up into small cubes, 2oz. of candied-peel cut up small, the grated rind of a lemon, and 3oz. of sultana raisins. Put loz. of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan on the fire and let it remain until it is of a dark brown colour; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin and whisk them well, pour in the milk and browned sugar, work them, and pour the whole over the bread and peel, &c. Add 1 teacupful of cream and 1 wineglassful of sherry, turn the mixture into a buttered mould, put it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Turn it out on a dish, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Violet’s Pudding.—Put a couple of eggs into a basin, beat them well, and mix in gradually 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Have ready six small sponge cakes cut into slices, arrange them at the bottom of a dish, pour the milk mixture over them, and let them remain for about fifteen minutes to soak. Put the dish into a sharp oven, bake for about thirty minutes, then take it out, and serve. Wafer Pudding.—(1) P ut the weight of an egg in butter into a basin, warm it and work it to a cream; add slowly an equal weight in flour and J table-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar, and make the whole into a paste by adding 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Put the mixture into flat well-buttered pans or saucers, and decorate with candied peel cut into various shapes. Place the Puddings in a quick oven, bake for twenty minutes, then take them out and let them cool; cut them flatwise in halves, put a layer of jam between, and serve. (2) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it well with 2oz. of caster sugar; when creamy, beat in gradually 1 table-spoonful of flour, two eggs, J teacupful of cream, and about § breakfast-cupful of milk. Beat the mixture for ten minutes, then turn it into saucers, a small quantity in each, put them in a brisk oven, and bake until browned. When baked, turn the wafers out of the saucers, pile them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve, either with or without quarters of lemon or a wine or fruit sauce. Jam may be laid over the wafers, if preferred. Water Pudding.—Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of water Jib. of sugar, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, Jib. of warmed butter, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them to the above mixture. Butter a pie-dish, pour the Pudding into it, and bake for one hour in a very slow oven. Serve the Pudding either hot or cold on a folded napkin or in a flat dish. Windbags or German Light Pudding.—Put 5oz. of butter in a lined saucepan with a little more than J pint of water, place over the lire, and when hot, stir in very slowly 6oz. of flour and three whole eggs, sweetening to taste with loaf sugar. Stir the whole together until thick, then drop the paste in small portions on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. When nicely but lightly browned, place them on a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper that has been spread over a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve at once. Wrexham Pudding.—Mix well together in a basin six well- beaten eggs, 5oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. of sago, Jib. eacli of shredded beef-suet and sifted breadcrumbs, 1 table- spoonful of brandy, and 7oz. of orange marmalade. Put into a buttered mould or basin a few stoned raisins, shredded and scalded, and arranged around the bottom of the mould, put in the mixture, tie it over with a cloth, fastening securely, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil gently for an hour. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour over a little warm orange marmalade sauce, and serve.270 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. PUFFS.—A kind of light pastry already described under various headings; the secret of their manufacture is to make them as light and airy as possible. Prom the following receipts it will be seen that the Puif is very widely known. They must not be confounded with the French souffles, which they in some degree resemble. Cottage Puffs.—Mix together f pint each of milk and cream and the beaten yolks of six eggs; add then a sprinkling of salt and stir in the whites of the six eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Chop up 1 Joz. of butter, stir it in together with sufficient self-raising flour to make a thick hatter, pour it into muffin-rings, and bake in a quick oven. Serve sweet sauce with them. English Puffs.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, let it boil up, and while boiling stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter of the consistency that if cold a spoon would stand up in it. Take it from the fire, let it cool a little, then add 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 dessert spoonful of butter softened at the fire, drop in five eggs one at a time without previously beating them, and mix them into the batter. Have a pan of boiling lard over the fire, drop the Fig. 327. English Puff. batter into it in spoonfuls, and fry to a golden brown. Serve the Puffs at once, sprinkled with powdered white sugar. (2) Roll out some Puff paste a little more than fin. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 2 Jin. in diameter, then with a cutter 1 fin. in diameter mark a circle on each round. Beat an egg together with a little caster sugar. Lay the Puffs on baking-sheets, brash them over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten egg, and bake for half-an-liour- in a quick oven. When cooked, leave the Puffs till cold, lift out the centre, scoop out the in- side, then fill them with jam, replace the piece on the top, and serve (see Fig. 327). French. Puffs.—(1) Make fib. of Puff paste, roll it out to lft. square and Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a small fluted tin cutter. Brush a baking-sheet over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay the pieces of paste on it, and brush them over also with beaten egg; cut a small circle half through the paste in the centre of each, and bake them in a slow oven. When baked, sift caster sugar over the pieces of paste and glaze them. Remove the marked pieces of paste from the centre, and scoop out the soft paste; lay them on a clean sheet of paper to drain off the butter, then fill the hollowed centres with different coloured jams, and serve. (2) Make several small vol-au-vents with Puff paste, bake them, and when cooked press them hollow with the fingers, then leave them until cold. Mask the outsides with Italian meringue, and ornament with chopped pis- tachios. When the meringue has dried, fill the hollow of the vol-au-vents with preserved fruits, put them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve them. German Puffs.—(1) Put 1 saltspoonful of salt into f pint of milk, and let it stand until it is dissolved. Work 2oz. Puffs—continued. of butter to a cream; beat the yolks of three eggs with 3oz. of sugar; add this by degrees to the butter and stir it in; then mix in by degrees the | pint of salted milk. Shake in gradually 6oz. of flour, stirring all the time. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and lightly stir them in, adding six or seven drops of essence of vanilla. Half-fill some well-buttered teacups with this batter, and bake till nicely browned. They will take fifteen or twenty minutes. When they are done, serve immediately with sweet sauce. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with \ pint of cream, then stir in with them the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four, beaten separately; when smooth, add 2oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds and a little orange-flower water. Pour the mixture into buttered tins, and bake for fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the Putt's out on a dish, and serve with wine sauce. Irish Puffs.—Blanch 6oz. of sweet almonds and ljoz. of bitter ones; put them in a mortar and bruise them rather coarsely, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water. Whisk the whites of three eggs together with 6oz. of caster sugar to a stiff froth, then mix them well with the almonds. Butter some small patty-pans, line them vdth a good Puff paste, and put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each. Dust over with plenty of caster sugar, and bake them in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Serve either hot or cold. Italian Puffs.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with lib. of flour, rub into it jib. of lard or dripping, mix it to a dough with a little cold water, roll it out thin, and cut it into fifteen or eighteen round pieces. Mix together Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, fib. of cold meat, minced fine, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 tea- spoonful each of mixed herbs, finely-chopped onion, and sugar, pepper, and salt to taste, and J pint of milk; when all these are thoroughly incorporated, put some of the mixture on each piece of paste, fold the paste over it, moisten the edges with a little cold water or milk, and press them together. Grease a baking-tin well with lard or dripping, lay the Puffs in it, and put them in the oven, basting them three or four times during the baking with the grease in the tin. When taken out of the oven, lay them on kitchen paper to drain, and serve very hot. Prussian Puffs.—Beat three eggs together with a little flour and 1J pints of milk; then mix in some chopped mixed candied peel. Three-parts fill some cups with the batter, and bake. While they are cooking, prepare the following wine sauce: Put 1 teaspoonful of flour into a small saucepan with 2oz. of butter, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then pour in J pint of boiling milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with grated nutmeg or lemon-peel, and continue stirring it over the fire until thick. When taken off the fire, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry and J wineglassful of brandy with the sauce. Turn the Putt's out of the cups on to a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Spanish Puffs.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and loz. of sugar, bring it to the boil, and drop in Jib. of flour in one lot; stir it well to a smooth paste, and boil for five minutes longer. Remove the pan from the fire, let the mixture cool for fifteen minutes, then drop in an egg and beat with a wooden spoon until well and smoothly worked in; add two more eggs in the same way, and with a dessert-spoon drop the mixture in lumps into a saucepan of lard about to smoke. Only put in a few at a time, to allow for swell- ing, and fry them, but not too quickly, until they are well browned all over and quite double their original size. Take the pieces of paste out with a skimmer, drain them on paper, open them at the side, and fill with vanilla- flavoured cream. Sprinkle them liberally with icing sugar, and serve cold on a dessert-dish. Transparent Puffs.—Put J pint of water in a sauce- pan with ljoz. of butter, and boil it. Mix 3 table- spoonfuls of cornflour with a little water, then stir the "boiling water gradually over it; return all to the sauce-TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 271 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Puffs—con tinned. pan, and stir it over the ^fire till a smooth paste. Move the saucepan off the fire and stir in, one at a time, two whole eggs and three whites. Beat the mixture well, then drop spoonfuls of it, the size of a poulet’s egg, on slightly-greased baking-pans, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cool, cut the Puffs open at the side, and fill them with jam or cream. PUFF PASTE.—See Paste and Pastry. PULLED BREAD.—See Bread. FUXLNA WATER.—See Aerated Water. PULQUE.—An intoxicating Mexican drink made from the American Aloe. PULSE.—A general term for leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, peas, &c. PUMPERNICKEL.—A sort of bread made of un- bolted rye, which forms the chief food of the Westphalian peasants. It is acid but nourishing. PUMPION.—Another name for the pumpkin. PUMPKINS.—This word is evidently derived from the Greek Pepon, signifying cooked by the sun, ripe or mellow. It was formerly known as the pompion (Cucurbita Pepo) or pumpkin gourd (see Fig. 328). There are several varieties, differing in shape and size. The Pumpkin is used for soups or stews in America, but more frequently in this country it is mixed with sliced apples, to which a little sugar and spice are added, and served under the name of Pumpkin pie. Fig. 328. Pumpkin. The melon Pumpkin is one of the largest fruits of the gourd tribe. It is roundish, often flattened at top and bottom, slightly ribbed, of a pale buff or salmon colour, and thickly netted over its surface with narrow vermicular processes. It has a peculiar flavour, resembling a mixture of carrots and turnips, and is the Potiron of the French, who use it largely in soups, and serve it mashed as a vege- table. In North America it is much used as an article of food, some of the varieties, which are yellow, green, and grey, weighing upwards of 2001b. each. Mashed Pumpkin.—fare off the rind from a large slice of Pumpkin, remove the pips, and cut it into squares; put the pieces of Pumpkin into a stewpan with a large piece of butter and a small quantity of water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew over a gentle fire until quite soft. Mash the Pumpkin with a wooden Pumpkins—continued. spoon, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, and then stir in the Pumpkin pulp, moistening with a small quantity of milk and seasoning with grated nutmeg. Stir the whole well over the fire until very hot, then pile it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Preserved Pumpkin.—(1) Allow an equal weight of Pumpkin and coarsely-crushed loaf sugar; peel the Pumpkin and scoop out the inside and seeds. Put the latter into a saucepan with some water and boil them. Cut the remainder of the Pumpkin into thin slices, place them in a preserving-pan with lib. of whole ginger to 81b. of Pumpkin, strain the seed-water over, adding more water if not sufficient to cover, and boil gently until the Pumpkin is almost tender. Then take it out of the liquor, put in the sugar, and boil until a clear syrup is obtained. Return the fruit to the pan, and boil it very gently for an- liour-and-a-half. At the end of that time remove the ginger, turn the preserve into jars, and set them in a cold place. On the following day put into each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, and tie down. (2) Cut a fresh Pumpkin into slices, peel them, and remove the seeds. Arrange the slices of Pumpkin in a deep dish, with crushed loaf sugar between each layer, allowing lib. of sugar for each pound of fruit; pour over the strained juice of two large lemons, and let them steep for two days. At the end of that time, put the Pumpkin in a preserving-pan, with A pint of water to each Gib. of the sugar, and add the finely-shred peel of a large lemon. Boil the slices of Pumpkin until they are tender, then turn all into a bowl, cover them, and let them remain for five days. Put the slices of Pumpkin into jars ; boil the syrup up again till very thick, then skim it, and pour it in the jars. When cold, cover them with brandied papers, and tie thick brown paper closely over. Keep them in a cool dry cupboard. Pumpkin a PItalienne.—Place some slices of Pumpkin in salted water and boil them for fifteen minutes. Put a large piece of butter in a saucepan and melt it; drain the pieces of Pumpkin, put them in with the butter, adding salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Lay the slices of Pumpkin on a baking-dish, pour the butter over, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese on the top, and bake till nicely browned in the oven. Serve at once when done. Pumpkin Butter.—Bake 21b. of Pumpkin, and when soft mash it through a strainer. Mix with the mashed Pumpkin lib. of sugar, 4oz. of butter, and the thinly- shred peel of one lemon. Put it in a saucepan, and let it simmer at the side of the fire for an hour, or till it becomes thick and semi-transparent. When cool, put the Pumpkin mixture into jars, cover them with rounds of brandied paper and then with stout paper, tie them tightly down, and keep them in a dark dry place. Pumpkin Cheese.—Peel the Pumpkin and cut it into thick slices, but do not remove the seeds. Boil them until tender in a preserving-pan over a gentle fire, then turn them on to a fine hair sieve and rub them through with a wooden spoon. Measure the pulp, and for every break- fast-cupful allow f breakfast-cupful of coarsely crushed loaf sugar and A teaspoonful of ground ginger. Return the pulp to the preserving-pan with the other ingredients, and boil them whole over a gentle fire until thickly reduced, keeping it constantly stirred with a wooden spoon. Pour the mixture into some moulds, cover them with paper, tie them down, and keep them in a cool place until ready to serve, when they may be turned out of the mould on to a dish. Pumpkin Custard Pies.—Prepare a custard with one egg, t pint of milk, and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Steam sufficient Pumpkin to make 1 breakfast-cupful; when soft, mash it, and mix it with the custard, adding another egg if liked, and grating a little nutmeg over the top. Line two deep buttered tins with short paste, fill272 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pumpkins—continued. them with the mixture, and bake. When baked, serve the pies. Pumpkin Flowers Stuffed with Forcemeat.—Wipe twelve well-opened Pumpkin-flowers, and remove the pistils. Make a stutiing with two-thirds lean mutton, one-third beef- kidney suet, and 1 breakfast-cupful of partially cooked rice; mix with it a small quantity of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and two or three beaten eggs. Stuff the flowers with the forcemeat, and close them carefully. Line the bottom of a flat stewpan with ham, bacon, and minced vegetables, put the Pumpkin-flowers in, cover them with thin slices of bacon, and add a little broth and 1 tea- cupful of tomato sauce. Boil gently till the liquor is reduced to half, then move the stewpan to the side of the lire and simmer till the vegetables are tender. Take the Pumpkins, &c., out, and put them on a hot dish; pour a little gravy in the stewpan, boil it up, skim it, drain it over the vegetables, and serve. Pumpkin Fritters.— Trim off both the ends of some long- shaped, but not too large, oval Pumpkins, cut them into long square fingers, put them in a dish, dust salt over, and leave them for ten minutes; shake the dish once or twice during the time. Dram the pieces, wipe them on a cloth, Fig. 329. Pumpkin Fritters. and nib them over quickly with flour. Put some dripping in a frying-pan, and when hot turn in the pieces and fry them. When cooked, drain them and sprinkle with salt. Serve in a hot dish (see Pig. 329). Pumpkin Pie.—(1) Boil and strain the Pumpkins, allowing for 3 pints 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, four eggs, lib. of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2qts. of milk. Mix all together while the Pumpkin is hot. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a thin layer of short paste, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for a little under an hour. Serve the pie while hot. (2) Drain 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cooked Pumpkin as dry as possible and mash it smoothly; mix with it 1 tea- cupful of moist sugar, 1 teacupful of flour, J teaspoonful of ground ginger, and a small quantity of salt. Pour in gradually 1 teacupful of milk, and work it until perfectly smooth and free from lumps. Rub 2oz. of lard into Jib. of flour, and add 1 saltspoonful of salt; when very smooth stir in gradually sufficient water to make a stiff paste, then roll it out. Butter a shallow pie-dish, line it with the paste, pour in the squash mixture, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-liour. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and leave it until cold before serving. (3) Peel the Pumpkin and cut it into small pieces, removing all the seeds. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with a good pie-crust, put in the pieces of Pumpkin, with 2oz. of well-washed and dried currants, 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg. Cover the pie with a flat of the paste, trim it off round the edges, which moisten with a little water and press together. Bake the pie in a brisk oven for half- an-liour, and serve when cold. (4) Peel the Pumpkin, slice it, and remove the seeds; boil the Pumpkin in water with a small piece of salt in it, and when tender, mash it through a fine hair sieve. Beat six eggs well and stir them into the pulp with sufficient cold milk to bring it to the consistency of a Pumpkins—continued. moderately thick batter. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with very small quantities of powdered cinnamon, ginger, and grated lemon-peel. Butter a shallow dish and line it with puff paste; spread in the above mixture, dust it over with grated nutmeg, and bake for an hour in a good oven. Serve hot. (5) Boil the Pumpkin gently until soft enough to mash, then drain; and pass it through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Mix sufficient milk with the Pumpkin to make a thin batter; measure the batter, and to every breakfast- cupful mix in one well-beaten egg and 1 table-spoonful of sugar. Flavour to taste with essence of lemon and grated nutmeg, adding a small quantity of salt, also ground ginger if liked. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good pie- crust, pour in the Pumpkin mixture, put a cover of the same crust over it, and trim it off neatly round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. ' Ornament the top of the pie with the trimmings of the crust rolled out and cut into fancy shapes, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or until delicately browned. Serve either hot or cold. (6) Butter a pie-mould and sift Indian meal over it aboiit Jin in thickness. Mix with Iqt. of boiled and strained Pumpkin lqt. of milk, a small quantity of ground rice, and ginger and sugar to taste. Turn the mixture into the pie-dish, and bake. Pumpkin Pudding.—Boil lib. of Pumpkin till soft, then strain and pass it through a colander. Beat Jib. of warmed butter and Jib. of sugar to a cream, then mix it with the Pumpkin puree, also four beaten eggs, 1 teaspoonful of spice, and 1 wineglassful each of brandy, wine, and rose- water. Line a buttered pie-dish with puff paste, pour the Pumpkin mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven. Pumpkin and Rice.—Peel a Pumpkin, cut it into slices, and put them in a stone jar with a lump of butter, one onion, a small piece of celery, two or three cloves, a dust of salt, and some water. Put a lid on the jar and stand it in a slow oven. When cooked, pass the Pumpkin through a sieve. Well wash and boil some rice; when three-parts done, mix the Pumpkin with it, and finish cooking them together. When ready to serve, mix a little cream and pepper with it, and if necessary more salt. Pumpkin Soup.—(1) Peel a thick piece of Pumpkin and cut it into small squares, put them in a stewpan with a lump of salt and sufficient water to cover, and boil. When tender, rub the Pumpkin through a line hair sieve. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, and stir them over the fire until browned ; then mix in the Pumpkin pulp, add gradually sufficient stock to make the soup, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg ; continue stir- ring over the fire, and boil it for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with J teacupful of cream, strain them, move the soup to the side of the fire, and when it goes off the boil stir them in. Turn the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small crop tons of bread that have been fried in butter. (2) Cut half a small Pumpkin into slices, peel them, and remove the seeds. Cut the slices into small squares, put them iin a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and boil till reduced to a pulp. Mix with the Pumpkin a little salt and 3oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Boil lqt. of milk, mix a little salt and sugar with it, and stir it in with the Pumpkin purde. Put some crofitons of fried bread at the bottom of a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (3) Peel the Pumpkin, cut it into convenient-sized pieces, and scoop out all the seeds; turn the pieces into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil them until reduced to a thin pulp. Put 2oz. of butter in a stew- pan with \ teacupful of cream, and mix them over the fire; next pour in the Pumpkin pulp, season to taste with salt and pepper, and dredge in a small quantity of flour. Stir the soup over the fire until boiling again, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for a-quarter-of an-hour. Mix in quickly the beaten yolk of an egg, turn the soup -into a soup-tureen, and serve.273 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pumpkins—continued. (4) Cut twelve long Pumpkins into slices, season them, and fry in butter. Put twelve slices of bread freed of the crust in a deep dish, and moisten them with toppings of broth; sift grated Parmesan cheese over, then put the Pumpkin on in layers, alternating each layer with Parmesan; place some slices of bread on the top, moisten with toppings, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Bake for a quarter-of-an-liour, basting occasionally with toppings. Serve the Pumpkins thus prepared with a soup- tureen full of pot-au-feu broth. (5) Take three or four full-grown but not hard-skinned Pumpkins, slice them, and put them into a stewpan with two or three peeled onions and a good-sized piece of butter; set the pan over a moderate fire until the Pumpkins are quite tender, being very careful that they do not burn. When done, add 2oz. of crust of bread, ‘2qts. of good consomme, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne; boil for ten or fifteen minutes, skim off the fat, and strain the soup through a sieve. Serve very hot with fried bread. Pumpkin with Tomatoes.—Peel a large piece of Pumpkin and remove all the pips; partially boil it, then drain and wipe it on a cloth, cutting it into small squares. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it; next turn in the pieces of Pumpkin, season with salt and pepper, and toss them for a few minutes over the fire. Moisten the Pumpkin to height with tomato sauce, and stew it gently until quite cooked. Turn the Pumpkin on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Pumpkin.—Peel and remove the seeds from a Pumpkin, and partially boil it; drain it well, wipe it on a cloth, and cut it into small pieces. Put about 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the pieces of Pumpkin; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them over the fire until quite soft. Butter a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, and that can be served at table; turn the Pumpkin mixture on to it, strew over plenty of grated Parmesan cheese and a few grated breadcrumbs, and put the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes or until browned over the top. Serve the Pumpkin while hot in the same dish. PUNCH (Fr. Ponclie; Ger. Punsch).—In “Fryers’ Travels,” dated 1672, we are told that Punch is an enerva- ting liquor, drunk on the Coromandel Coast, and deriving its name from the Hindustani Panch, signifying five, the number of ingredients required—sugai-, water, spirit, acid, and spice. In 1680 appeared, from the pen of Captain Radcliff, a doggerel poem, entitled “ Bachanalia Coelistia,” which had immense popularity. In this effusion is represented the minor deities on Mount Olympus, hearing, for the first time, of the beverage just in- vented on earth, and determining to try it, accordingly all united to compound a jovial bowl. With regard to the lemons used the poet says: Juno for lemons sent into her closet, Which, when she was sick, she infused into posset: For goddesses may be as qualmish as gipsies— The sun and the moon we find have eclipses. These lemons were called the Hesperian fruit, When vigilant dragon was sent to look to't; Three dozen of these were squeezed into water, The rest of th’ ingredients in order came after. Apollo found the water, Venus the sugar, Bacchus the wine, Mars the brandy, Saturn the nutmegs, and Neptune the biscuits—and they all sang “Jolly good health to Char’les II.” The five ingredients—spirit, water, sugar, lemon, and spice—were in time reduced to four. Whene’er a bowl of punch we make, Four striking opposites we take : The strong, the weak, the sour, the sweet, Together mixed, most kindly meet; And when they happily unite, The bowl is pregnant with delight. Punch—continued. From the following receipts it will be understood that Punch, as it is now known, admits of many variations: Adam-and-Eve Punch.—Cut four golden pippins into very thin slices, put them into a bowl, sprinkle sugar over the layers, pour over 1 wineglassful of brandy, then add 1 pint of iced sweet cider. Stir them all well together, then pass through a fine strainer into the punch bowl. Pour in 1 bottle of iced chablis, and serve immediately. Put a dozen or more of the slices of pippins at the bottom of the bowl. Army Punch.—Put Iqt. of brandy into a Jgall. jar with the thin rinds of six lemons; cork the jar securely, keep it in a warm place for three days, and give it a shake now and then. Put lgall. of rum into a large bottle, strain in the lemon-flavoured brandy, mix well, and add gradually 2qts. of plain syrup. Now add lqt. of boiling milk, strain the whole through a flannel or jelly bag, and bottle off. It may be used in three days’ time, but if kept for six months in a cool place it will improve. Baronet’s Punch.—Infuse sufficient green tea in boiling water to make 1 pint, then strain it into a jug; mix with it 1 pint of lemon jelly and 3 or 4 teaspoonfuls of honey, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it at the edge of the tire. Empty two bottles of P brand old Dublin whisky into a china or silver punch- bowl, mix with | pint of curapoa, stir in the hot tea and jelly, and lastly pour in 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Serve the punch at once. Beaufort Punch.—Mix together 2 bottles of high sau- terne, 1 wineglassful of curapoa, ^ pint of pineapple syrup, the strained juice of four oranges, iqt. of German seltzer water, and the following infusion : a bunch each of borage and balm, half a thinly-sliced hothouse cucumber, and six leaves of verbena; steep them in J, pint of thin cold syrup for two hours. Strain it into the above in- gredients, and turn all into the freezing-pot and freeze for about lialf-an-hour. Bourbon Punch.—Mix in a large jar pint of tincture of Seville oranges, 1 fluid ounce each of tincture of all- spice, cloves, and coriander, and I fluid ounce of tincture of nutmeg. Pour over these ingredients Hgalls. of whisky, and mix them well with the brush-agitator, afterwards pour in slowly 2galls. of syrup and mix again. Let the Punch stand in the jar for three days, when it may be drawn off into bottles. Cork, and keep them in a cool cellar for use. British Punch.—(1) Mix together 1 pint each of old mm and brandy, and i pint of thick syrup made with loaf sugar and a small quantity of water. Empty a small pot of pineapple jam into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Burn the spirit mixture for eight minutes, then add the jam to it with 1 liqueur-glassful of curaqoa and a bottle of champagne. Serve the Punch in a Punch-bowl. (2) Pack a freezing-pot in ice, and put in it 2 bottles of clicquot champagne, \ pint each of strawberry syrup and pineapple syrup, the strained juice of three lemons, the rind of one rubbed on sugar, the juice of three oranges also strained, and lqt. of German seltzer water. Work it over the ice till frozen, then serve. Cardinal Punch.—Put an orange on a plate in the oven and bake until light brown. Make a boiling syrup with 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar and water, with twelve cloves in it; drop the baked orange into it, add 2 break- fast-cupfuls of port or other red wine, and let it remain until cold. Cut the orange, press out the juice, and strain it and the Punch into a freezer, add 1 breakfast-cupful of wine jelly, and freeze. If in season, add red strawberry - or raspberry-juice to heighten the colour. Cider Punch.—Rub off the rind of half a lemon with 2oz. of loaf sugar, pound it in a mortar, put it in a bowl, and sprinkle over two or three thin slices of cucumber and the remaining half lemon cut into slices; squeeze over the juice of the other half lemon, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, then 2 bottles of cider. Sprinkle over the top a little ground spice (any desired), and serve with ice. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.274 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Punch.—c o ntinued. Claret Punch.—(1) Pour 1 wineglassful of syrup into a tumbler, half fill it with small pieces of ice, then add a little tincture of cloves, say about ^ teaspoonful; give the tumbler a shake so as to mix the ingredients, pour in 1 wineglassful of claret, put a thin slice of lemon on the top, and add also one or two ripe strawberries or rasp- berries, or even a bunch of red or white currants, and drink through straws. (2) Put 2 wineglassfuls of syrup into a Punch-bowl packed in ice, anti add half a sweet orange cut into slices, and two or three thin slices of cucumber; mix these well together, and pour in 1 liqueur-glassful of noyau, then a bottle of claret. Sprinkle in any spice to taste, and lastly about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed ice. A few minutes before serving pour in a bottle of soda-water. Commander-in-Chief Punch.—Pour lqt. of claret and a bottle of soda-water into a punch-bowl; add a wine- glassful of cura.foa, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it all; stir in a handful of picked and bruised mint-leaves, and 21b. of crushed ice; then pour in lqt. of champagne, stir well, and serve at once. 'Egg Punch.—Put into a casserole or lined saucepan lib. of loaf sugar, the grated yellow rinds and the juice of three large lemons, lqt. of wine, and 1 pint of mm. Beat twelve or fourteen eggs thoroughly, and mix with them by degrees 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water. When a stiff froth, mix the eggs with the other ingredients, place the saucepan over the fire, and whip the contents until hot. Remove the Punch off the fire before it boils or the eggs will curdle, and serve it hot in large glasses. Brandy or arrack may be used in place of the rum, if preferred. Empire Punch.—Mix together the following tinctures: loz. of cloves, ioz. of cinnamon, 2oz. of essence of almonds, and add them to 4galls. of Bourbon whisky. Afterwards mix in thoroughly 1 pint each of raspberry spirit and cognac, loz. of tincture of chillies, and lastly, 7galls. of thin syrup. When all the ingredients are thoroughly blended, pour the punch into bottles, cork them, and pack them away in a cool store cupboard or cellar. In seven or eight days the punch will he fit for use. Encore Punch.—Make 1 pint of green tea, strain it into a jug, and put in it 4 pint of calfs-foot jelly and J tea- cupful of pure honey. Stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the contents occasionally until the jelly has dissolved. Slice a small lemon and put it in a punch-bowl; pour over the slices a bottle of “ Encore ” whisky and 2 wineglassfuls of maraschino. When ready to serve, pour in the hot tea and jelly. German Rhine Wine Punch.—Rub §lb. of loaf sugar on the peel of two lemons until all the yellow rind is off, then put it into .a Punch-bowl and squeeze in the juice of the two lemons. Make 1 pint of strong green tea; put 2 pints of Rhine v ine into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until on the point of boiling; then mix it with the tea, and pour the whole into the bowl with the lemon. Pour in 1 pint of the best rum or arrack, stir it well, and serve. Iceberg Punch.—Freeze some clear water in a cone-shaped mould and ornament it with small bunches of straw- berries, grapes, and currants. Turn the ice into the centre of a Punch-bowl, and lay round it two or three sliced lemons. Mix well together in a basin 1 pint each of rum, maraschino, and syrup, then pour them over the lemons in the Punch-bowl. Add two bottles of champagne, and serve. Iced Punch with Pineapple and Champagne.—Peel a large pineapple rather thickly; pound the peel and mix with it a little grated lemon and orange-peel, and \ pint of tepid syrup at 28deg. In half-an-hour’s time pass the liquor through a sieve into a lined pan, add the strained juice of three lemons and two oranges, and sufficient water to bring the syrup down to 22deg. Pour the mixture into the ice-box, pack it in pounded ice, and work till frozen. Mix with the frozen liquor three whites of eggs of Italian meringue and half a bottle of champagne, pouring it in slowly, and working all the time. Add 1 teacupful of kirschenwasser at the last, and serve. Punch—continued. Imperial Punch.—Put the thinly-pared rind of a Seville orange into a lined pan with lin. of stick vanilla and a small piece of stick cinnamon; pour in lqt. of water, put the lirl on the pan, and scald the contents at the side of the fire. Peel four sweet oranges, divide them into quarters, and put them into a Punch-bowl; peel and cut a pine- apple into thin slices, place them in with the oranges, adding also the yellow peel of one lemon rubbed off on to lumps of sugar, and the strained juice of four lemons. Strain the liquor with the orange-peel through a fine hair sieve into the bowl and cover it until quite cold. Pour into the punch 1 pint each of arrack and hock, and last of all a bottle of champagne and 1 pint of seltzer water. Stir the Punch briskly, and serve it without delay. Indian Punch.—Mix ioz. of essence of lemon-peel with 1 gill of arrack essence. Pour a bottle of brandy (cognac) into a bowl, stir in the lemon mixture, and add two or three sprigs of syringa and one bottle of port wine. Mix lqt. of syrup with 1 pint of clarified lime-juice syrup, add them to the other ingredients, and put in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of ice; pour in two bottles of seltzer water, and serve immediately. Irving Punch.—Put three large bunches of carefully picked barberries into a china Punch-bowl, and pour over them 1 pint of Bourbon whisky and 1 pint of cognac. Mix in slowly lqt. of syrup, and stand the bowl on ice for an hour or two. When ready to serve, pour in two bottles of champagne. Kingston Punch.—Cut a lemon into thin slices and lay them at the bottom of a Punch-bowl, with three or four pieces of preserved ginger; pour over them 1 pint of white rum and 2 wineglassfuls of white rum. Mix in also 1 pint of plain syrup and 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup of the preserved ginger. Stand the bowl on ice until ready to serve, but leaving it there for at least one hour. When ready, pour in a bottle of sweet aerated water. Kirsch Punch.—Mix with 1 pint of water 3 teacupfuls of sugar, the strained juice of one lemon, and 1 wine- glassful of kirschenwasser. When the sugar has quite dissolved, strain the liquor into the freezer and work it till nearly frozen; then add the well-whipped whites of two eggs and finish freezing. The Punch is then ready for serving. Ladies’ Punch.—Put three or four sprays of lemon verbina into a Punch-bowl, then add 15 drops of essence of vanilla mixed up with 2 gills of brandy ; stir in 1 pint of lime- juice syrup, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed ice, 1 bottle of moselle, and serve at once. Lord-of-the-Isles Punch.—Make 1 teacupful of hot green tea, strain it into a jug, and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of loaf sugar and 1 table-spoonful of guava jelly; stand the jug in boiling water, and keep it near the fire. Put the thinly- pared rind of a small lemon into a Punch-bowl with the strained juice of two and 2 wineglassfuls of curafoa. Poui- in a bottle of Islay whisky, the hot tea mixture, and a small liqueur-glass of arrack. Mix the Punch well, and serve.- Mecklenburg Punch.—Cut a lemon into slices and put it in a Punch-bowl. Over this pour 1 bottle of whisky, 1 pint of best Jamaica rum, 3 pints of thin syrup, and 1 pint of ice-water. Milk Punch.—(1) Cut off the rinds or peels of forty limes, put them into a bowl or basin with 1 pint of rum, and let them steep for a couple of days. Put 4lb. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with 3qts. of water, boil to a syrup, grate in three nutmegs to flavour, turn the whole into a large vessel, pour in 6qts. of rum, add gradually lqt. each of lime-juice and boiling milk, and stir vigorously while adding. Let the mixture stand for one or two hours, strain several times until clear, pour it into bottles, and it is ready for use, and a welcome refresher at all times of .the year. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar into a good-sized tumbler, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and stir till the sugar is dissolved; then pour in £ wineglassful I of the best rum and 1 wineglassful of the best brandy,275 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Punch—continued. and mix well. Half-fill the glass with finely-powdered ice, fill it up with cold milk, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. (3) Put 1 tahle-spoonful of powdered white sugar into a good-sized tumbler, add 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water, and stir till the sugar is partly melted; then pour in I, wineglassful of the best rum and 1 wineglassful of the best brandy, and fill up the tumbler with hot milk. HXuscovite Punch.—Stir together freely lqt. of thin syrup and lqt. of fine rum, add 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon and 1 gill of lime-juice. To this when well mixed add 1 pint of strong tea. Serve with plenty of ice-water in summer time, or neat in winter. Oxford Punch.—The only Punch worthy of the name is described under Oxford Night-cats as Brown Betty or Leander Punch. Pompadour’s Punch.—Cut two lemons into slices, put them into a jar with a wide mouth, add a bottle of brandy, tie down the jar, and let it stand for a day. Pour in a bottle of sherry, next |gall. of syrup, then 1 pint of infusion of green tea, and strain the whole into another jar. Add to this 1 pint of milk and 1 teaspoon- ful each of the tinctures of clove and coriander; stir up well, and bottle. Pot-Still Punch.—Make 1 pint of green tea, strain it into a jug, and mix with it 1 pint of orange-jelly and 1 table- spoonful of honey. Stand the jug in hot water. Make a Punch-bowl hot by keeping it in boiling water, wipe it, pour in the tea, &c., and two bottles of Irish whisky, 2 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and 1 wineglassful of rum. Stir the whole thoroughly, and serve. Punch Essence.—(1) Put |lb. of loaf sugar into a sauce- pan with the grated peel of four lemons and as much water as it will absorb. Boil the sugar till reduced to a clear syrup, then put in the strained juice of five lemons. Move the syrup away from the fire, let it cool, then mix with it 3 pints of rum or arrack. Pour the essence into bottles, cork tightly, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (2) Put the thinly-pared rind of eight lemons and three Seville oranges into a large bottle; squeeze in the juice of twelve lemons and three oranges, and pour in 3 pints of rum or arrack. Cork the bottle and leave it for a week. Put 2£lb. of loaf sugar in a saucepan, pour in 1 h pints of good amber-coloured wine, and boil until reduced to a clear syrup; then move it off the fire and let it cool. Filter the syrup through a fine piece of flannel, and mix it with the juice and rum. Pour the liqueur into small bottles, and cork them tightly. Rip Van Winkle Punch.—Pour 1 pint of Bourbon whisky into a large bowl, and mix two or three drops of essence of lemon with it, also 1 teacupful of lime-juice cordial. Put \ pint of ice cream in the centre in the form of a cone. The cream may be flavoured with either raspberry, lemon, or strawberry. At the last moment pour in a bottle of lemonade, and serve. Roman Punch (Ponche Romaine).—(1) Putin a freezing- pot lqt. of peach water-ice, a bottle of dry champagne, 2 wine-glassfuls of noyau, and the strained juice of four oranges. Colour it a delicate pink with a few drops of cochineal, and flavour with essence of vanilla. Work the mixture till nearly frozen, then add gradually three whites of eggs made into Italian meringue; work all together quickly till smooth, and serve. (2) Mix together lqt. of sherry water-ice, 1 bottle of Moselle, 2 wineglassfuls of kirschenwasser, and 1 wine- glassful of noyau; put these ingredients in a freezing-pot embedded in ice, work them thoroughly while freezing, then add the whites of three eggs of Italian meringue paste. When finished, serve the Punch in glasses. (3) Dissolve breakfast-cupfuls of loaf sugar in 1 pint of hot water. Grate the rind of one lemon in a basin, squeeze in the juice and also that of an orange; then mix the hot syrup in with them, and let it stand till cool. Strain the Punch into a freezer, and work it till nearly frozen; beat in the whipped whites of two eggs, add 1 teacupful of either rum or wine, and serve in glasses. Punch—continued. (4) Select for this two or three juicy limes, squeeze out the juice into a basin, mix it up with the juice of four oranges or lemons, strain the liquor, and stir in 21b. of loaf sugar. Put the whites of ten eggs into a basin, beat them to a froth, mix them with the sweetened juice, turn the mixture into a pewter vessel, pack it in ice, and stir well until it hardens. Put 2qts. of champagne into another vessel packed in ice, let it get as cold as possible without freezing, add to it the sweetened juice, turn the whole out into coloured glasses, and serve. A great improvement to the flavour can be obtained by working in 1 wineglassful of rum. Virginia Verder Punch.—Take nine lemons and nine oranges, pare off the yellow peels as thinly as possible, and let them steep in a bottle of brandy for twenty-four hours. Cut the lemons and oranges into halves, and squeeze the juice through a strainer, so that it may be quite free from pips, on to 31b. of loaf sugar. Pour on to this Ingalls, of boiling water and 3 pints of boiling milk, then add the brandy, and stir all together. Strain the Punch through a jelly-bag as often as required to free it from sediment. When perfectly clear, bottle it, cork the bottles well, and keep them in a cool place. Whisky Punch.—Put 1 heaped-up table-spoonful of white sugar in a tumbler, pour in 1 wineglassful of either cold or hot water (according to whether the Punch is to be hot or cold), and let the sugar melt; then add a small piece of lemon-peel, and, if liked, \ teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 1 wineglassful of whisky, and as much hot or cold water as is desired. The Punch is then ready to drink. Punch is a very favourite flavouring with some cooks and confectioners, and is used for a variety of purposes. Amongst those more generally known and appreciated are the following, in which the Punch ingredients are added all together, singly, or only by suggestion. Bavaroise of Punch.—Squeeze the juice of four lemons into a stewpan; thinly pare the rind off two lemons, and add it to the juice, together with loz. of isinglass, ilb. of loaf sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Boil the above ingredients gently until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, then pass it through a fine hair sieve or tammy into a basin, and leave it till cold. Mix 2 wine- glassfuls each qL rum Punch and maraschino, and \ wine- glassful of arraSr with the bavaroise, then stir it over ice until on the point of setting. Mix 1 pint of whipped cream with the above ingredients, turn the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice until frozen. When ready to serve, the mould should be dipped in warm water, then wiped, and the contents turned quickly out on to a fancy dish. The stated quantity of isinglass may be too much or insufficient, as it greatly depends on the quality of the isinglass; the best plan is to try a small quantity of the mixture on ice before adding the cream; if not stiff enough, more clarified isinglass must be added, but if the reverse, the mixture can be thinned by adding more Punch. Garnish with crystallised fruits. Punch en Surprise.—Have six different fancy moulds, resembling in shape a pear, apple, banana, tomato, pine- apple, and peach. Fill a tin pan with ice well mixed with rock salt, lay on it the six moulds, opened flat, fill them with cold water, also the pan to half its height, and let them rest for half-an-hour, feeling the insides of the moulds to find whether a frozen crust adheres to them. Have ready any kind of Puncli; take up each mould separately, empty out the water, fill one after another with Punch, close tightly, and lay them in a pail previously prepared with broken ice and rock salt at the bottom ; cover with plenty more ice and salt, and let them freeze for an hour. Have ready a cold dish with a folded napkin over; put some warm water in a vessel, take up each mould sepa- rately, dip them into the water and hastily wash off any ice or salt that may adhere, turn them out carefully, lay them on the dish, and send to table at once. Punch Cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of gum arabie in 1 teacupful of hot "water, then strain it through a piece of muslin into a basin with a few drops of essence of bitter For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. T 2TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 276 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Punch—-continued. almonds, and as much icing sugar as it will absorb, and work the mixture into a rather stiff paste. Prepare a royal icing by working together the beaten whites of two eggs, 1 wineglassful of rum, loz. of lemon sugar, tiie strained juice of a lemon, and sufficient icing sugar to make an ordinarily stiff-bodied yet somewhat liquid royal icing. Dredge some caster sugar over a sheet of paper, fill a biscuit-forcer, having Jin. tube at the end of it, with the gum mixture, and press the mixture out on to the sheet of paper, cutting it off with a knife held in the other hand into tin. lengths. Stand the paper of sweets on a baking-plate, and put them in a screen for ten minutes to dry their surfaces. Take the bonbons up, one at a time, on the tip of a fork, and dip them in the second mixture of royal icing, placing them out of hand on a closely- latticed wire tray; as each tray is filled, set them in the screen and dry them for ten minutes longer. To keep the bonbons, pack them away in cardboard boxes, between sheets of white paper. Punch Cream Ice.—Make about | teacupful of strong green tea, strain it when cold, mix with it 1 pint of thick cream, and add 2 wineglassfuls of rum and the strained juice of a small lemon. Sweeten the cream to taste, 'pour it into a freezing-pot, work it until frozen, then pack it in a mould and bury it in pounded ice and salt for an hour. When ready to serve, the mould must be dipped into hot water, quickly wiped, and then turned out on to a fancy dish. Punch Drops.—Mix fib. of crushed loaf sugar to a stiff' paste with rum and lemon-juice. Put the paste in a sugar-boiler, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Let the mixture fall slowly in drops on to a baking-sheet. When cold, dry the drops in a screen of moderate heat. Punch Jelly.—(1) Clarify 2oz. of gelatine with the juice of four lemons, fib. of caster sugar, 2| pints of water, and the peel of half a lemon. Add f pint of rum to the jelly when it is hot. Pour it into a plain cylinder-mould, pack it in ice, cover with a baking-sheet with ice on the top, and let it stand for two hours. Turn it on to a dish, and serve. (2) Cut two calf’s feet into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and place them over the fire. When the water boils throw it away, wash the feet well, return them to the saucepan with 2qts. of fresh cold water, and boil gently for three hours, keeping the liquor well skimmed. At the end of that time strain the the liquor into a basin, leave it until cold, then remove the fat, and wash the top carefully over with a flannel dipped in hot water, so that no fat remains. Turn the jeily into a saucepan, removing any sediment that may have settled at the bottom, and melt it. Mix with the jelly a small quantity of very strong green tea, the juice of a lemon, also the thinly-pared rind, sugar to taste, and the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Beat the whole over the fire until boiling, and flavour to taste with old rum. Put the peel of half a lemon in the jelly-bag and pour the jelly over it; if not quite clear the jelly should be strained again. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the jelly, and stand it on ice or in a very cold place until firmly set. When ready to serve the jelly, dip tiie mould into hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. Punch Souffle.—Pound 4oz. of ratafias and mix with them 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 3oz. of flour; beat the yolks of ten eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients. Butter a plain oval mould, tie a strip of buttered paper round the top, and sprinkle breadcrumbs over the inside. Whip the whites of ten eggs to a stiff' froth, stir them in with the mixture, and turn all into the mould. Bake the souffle for half an-hour. Turn the souffle out of the mould, pour a custard flavoured with essence of Punch round it, and serve. Punch Water-Ice.—Make 1 pint of syrup, and mix with it the grated peel of two lemons; boil it for two or three minutes longer, then mix in t pint each of lemon-juice and water. Pour the mixture into a jug and leave it for two or three hours; at the end of that time strain it Punch—continued. through a fine hair sieve, mix with it 1 wineglassful each of brandy and rum, and pour it into a freezing-pot. Work the mixture until frozen, then pack it into either a plain or fancy-shaped mould, close it well, and pack in ice and salt for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the ice out on to a dish. PUNCHEON.—A cask holding sometimes 72 galls., and sometimes 120 galls., according to its use; the form r is applied to Beer measure, and the latter to Scotch whisky. FUNSHKI.—This is the name given to tasty Russian patties held in great esteem amongst the Russian nobility and wealthy classes. They are prepared for the table of the Czar as follows : Fry a chopped onion in a little butter with a sliced minion fillet of veal; season, remove it from the fire, and leave till cool. Mix with the onion and meat two or three chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 pinch of parsley, and a little reduced sauce. Prepare 1 Jib. of coulibiac paste, roll it out thin, and cut out of it thirty-six rounds with a plain tin cutter l|in. in diameter; damp them slightly, put a small quantity of the mixture on half of them, and cover with the remaining half. Press the patties round the edges, and cut them with a larger cutter; place them on a floured cloth and let them rise. ' Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling plunge the Patties in and fry them till nicely browned. Drain and arrange the Patties on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. PURGES. —Kettner informs us that the word Puree is a corruption of poivree, signifying peppery. In modern times it is supposed to be something purified by being passed through a sieve or tammy. Kettner further observes that one of the leading points of difference between English and French cookery turns on the greater carefulness of the latter in making a Puree. It is not a question of skill, it is wholly one of good faith. The English cook is content with slovenly work, hence mashed potatoes full of lumps, and spinach full of strings, and ''i /' t I . Fig. 330. Sieve and Pestle fob Making Purees. coarse. The English cook shirks the labour of the sieve. If the thing is worth doing, it is worth doing well, and it must be repeated that the result depends not upon skill, but upon honesty. It is the honesty of their work, as much as anything else, that gives French cooks their superiority in dressed vegetables. Kettner evidentlyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 277 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Purees—continued. alludes to the untrained British cook, for there are some British cooks upon the staff of this Encyclopaedia who are capable of taking their place with the best French cook in the country, either in the matter of Purees or in anything else. Purees are generally used for adding substantiality to soups. They are made by moistening the cooked material, whatever it may be, and rubbing it through a fine wire sieve by means of a wooden pestle (see Fig. 330). FURL.—A drink that is not much in vogue at the pre- sent time. It was formerly a malt liquor, medicated with wormwood. Modern Purl is beer mixed witli gin, sugar, and spice, and to which bitters are sometimes added to give it a tonic virtue. PURSLANE (Fr. Pourpier; Ger. Portulak; Ital. Pouellana).—At one time this plant (Portulaca oleracea) was commonly grown as one of our garden herbs. In modern times it is not much used in this country. The young shoots are sometimes put in salads, and the older ones used as a pot herb. The following are two good receipts for preparing it: Fried Purslane a la Milanaise.—(1) Lay some brandies of Purslane on a dish with a stick of cinnamon, dust them over with caster sugar, and squeeze plenty of lemon- juice over them. Let them steep for a few hours. Beat an egg well with t pint of milk, then stir in sufficient flour to make a rather stiff batter, mixing it quite smooth. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises. Dip the Purslane well in the batter, then put it in the boiling fat and fry over a moderate fire. When cooked, put the branches of Purslane on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain for a minute. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, arrange the Purslane on it, and serve. (2) Prepare the branches of Purslane, put them in a bowl, and cover with a mixture of lemon-juice, sweetened with caster sugar and flavoured with powdered cinnamon. Let them steep in this marinade for several hours; it is well to put them in the night before they are wanted, and leave them until the following morning. When ready, pre- pare a batter of eggs, milk, and flour, and add the marinade mixture to it. Put a large piece of butter into a fiat stewpan, and place it over the fire until boiling; dip the branches of Purslane in the batter, then put them into the boiling fat, and fry until nicely browned. Drain them, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. QUAILS (Fr. Cailles; Ger. Wachteln ; Ital. Quaglie ; Sp. Codornig).—The Quail (Coturnix communis) is regarded by all European cooks as one of the most tasty of our table-birds. It is spoken of frequently as superior to the partridge, the. superiority probably arising from the fact that they are in season during the summer months, when the partridge is not. They are imported in large quanti- ties from Egypt, some consignments being as much as fifty thousand at a time, out of which not more than seven per cent, would perish on the road. The plumage is of an ashen grey colour, mixed with black, in a sort of shell-like pattern, in consequence of which the birds have received their name from the French Ecaille—shell. There are several ways of cooking Quails, French cooks being especially expert with them. They are usually sup- plied by the poulterers plucked, trussed, and dressed ready for cooking. The following receipts have been collected from various sources : Aspic of Quails l’lmperatrice.—Take six prime Quails, or as many as may be required, trussed and larded as for roasting, place them in a stewpan containing 4oz. of lean ham, six allspice, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, a small carrot and an onion chopped up, and a little thyme and paisley; moisten with 1 pint of chicken stock and 1 wine- Quails—continued. glassful of sherry. Put on a tight-fitting cover, and let them simmer gently until thoroughly cooked. When done, remove the stewpan from the stove, and allow the Quails to remain in the liquor until cold. Then take them out and wipe them with a clean cloth; cut each Quail into halves and fill up the interior with foies gras, dip each half into reduced supreme sauce, and just before they begin to set sprinkle over them some chopped black truffles and tongue. - When set, place them upon a fiat dish, giving them plenty of room in between, pour over a little liquid aspic jelly, repeating it until the Quails have a thick coating over them; place them upon the ice so as to get them thoroughly set. Just before they are wanted for table, trim them round carefully with the point of a knife, dish them upon a cone of rice which Fig. 331. Aspic of Quails a l’Imferatrice. has been previously prepared, garnish in the centre with a ragoftt of cocks’ combs and small truffles, put round the base croutons of aspic with chopped red aspic in between (see Fig. 331), and serve. Aspic of Quails a la Strasburg.—Take six Quails, bone them, and cut off' the feet. Stuff them with the following: Rub down some foie gras with a knife, add some chopped black truffles and mushrooms, two yolks of eggs, and season with a dust of cayenne. Having filled the Quails, roll them up in buttered paper, twist the ends in so as to keep them a good shape, and put them into a saute-pan with a little stock, a little mixed vegetables chopped very fine, twelve allspice, and three bay-leaves. Bake them in the oven. When done, let them get cold, and then remove the papers and cut each one into halves. Mask them with the following: Mix together 1 gill of reduced brown sauce and 1 gill of aspic jelly; having done this, set one dozen small dariole-moulds upon the ice, pour in just sufficient liquid aspic to cover the bottoms, and decorate these with boiled whites of eggs and black truffles cut up into slices and stamped or cut out into different designs. Next pour in a little more aspic; when set, put in the Quails, half-fill the mould with aspic, and when this is set also, finish filling them up; when set, turn out and place them upon some small salad, decorate the dish with c.rofftons of aspic and with coloured chopped aspic laid in between, with a pile of shred lettuce in the centre. Ballotmes of Quails with. Perigueux Sauce.—Bone the Quails, stuff them with chicken forcemeat, and roll them round; tie each up in a separate piece of cloth, and braise them in mirepoix sauce and Madeira wine. Fill a buttered border mould with cooked potatoes, press them down, and poach for a few minutes in a bain-marie. Turn the potato border out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the centre with the Quails, pour over some perigueux sauce, and serve. Braised Quails and Celery Sauce.—Take six nice fat Quails, singe, draw, and wipe them well. Truss and cover the breasts with a thin layer of lard. Place them in a saute-pan with a piece of pork rind and half a carrot and onion, both cut up, and let them get a good golden colour on the fire. Moisten with £ breakfast-cupful of water, put them in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Serve with 1 pint of celery sauce and a little meat glaze poured over, or with a financiere garnish.278 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Quails—continued. Broiled Quails.—Singe and draw the Quails, split them lengthwise down the back, and wipe them with a damp cloth. Season with salt and pepper, rub them thickly with warmed butter, and dredge with flour. Put the birds on a grid iron over a clear fire, and broil for ten minutes. Cut some thick slices of bread, remove the crusts, toast and butter them, and lay them on a hot dish; put a Qaail when cooked on each slice, garnish with parsley, and serve. Broiled Quails Served with Bacon.—Singe, draw, and wipe well six fine fat Quails, split them through the back without separating the parts, and break the two leg bones. Put them on a dish, season with 1 pinch of salt, j pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil, mixing them in well, and put them to broil on a moderate fire for six minutes on each side. Arrange six toasts on a hot dish, lay the Quails on top, pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’hotel butter, decorating with six slices of broiled bacon, and serve. Chaudfroid of Quails.—Draw and clean the birds, remove the breasts and backbones, but leave the legs. Cut 4oz. of fat bacon in small pieces, fry it for a few minutes, then add Jib. of calf’s liver, also cut up, one chopped carrot and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When well cooked, pound the above mixture in a mortar till quite smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Stuff the birds with the liver forcemeat. Tie each one separately in a piece of muslin, and lay them in a stewpan. Chop the bones of the birds, put them in with them, add some chopped vegetables, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme tied together, j pint of stock, and 1 teacupful of sherry. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire and let the contents stew slowly for thirty minutes. When cooked, take the birds out of the stewpan, drain and press them lightly between two dishes. Strain the cooking- liquor of the birds through a silk sieve, return it to the stewpan, and boil till reduced to a glaze. Take the pieces of muslin off the Quails, baste them several times with the glaze to coat them well, and leave till cold. When ready, arrange the birds in a circle on a dish, garnish them with chopped aspic jelly, fill the centre with small salad, and serve. Collops of Quails with Truffles.—Cut off the fillets of twelve Quails, divide each into halves, and trim them to a round shape. Trim and cut into rounds lib. of truffles, and cook them in Madeira. Season the collops and fry them in butter; when cooked, drain and mix them with the Fig. 332. Collops of Quails with Truffles. truffles. Fill a plain border-mould with boiled rice, press it down, and stand it for a few minutes in a bain-marie. Turn the border of rice out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the centre with the collops and truffles (see Fig. 332), pour over them some Spanish sauce that has been reduced with Madeira, and serve. Compote of Quails.—(1) Singe and draw six Quails, remove their claws, and truss them with their legs inwards. Cut two or three slices of bacon into small equal-sized pieces, blanch them to remove the salt, then put them in a stewpan and fry them with a piece of butter; take the pieces of bacon out, put the Quails in, and fry them. When lightly browned, make a roux in the stewpan, add 1 breakfast-cupful of veal gravy, a bunch of parsley, some Quails—continued. green and small white onions, and a few mushrooms, and season with pepper and salt. When the Quails are nearly cooked, add the bacon, and finish cooking. Put the Quails on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, garnish with the mushrooms, onions, and bacon, and serve. (2) Singe and draw the Quails and truss them with their legs inside. Put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in with them one sweetbread cut into slices, a slice of ham, a few truffles and button mushrooms cut into dice, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in sufficient rich stock to cover the birds, and add 1 wineglassful of chablis, and 2 table- spoonfuls of baked flour. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently till the Quails are done. When cooked, put the Quails on a hot disli and keep them warm. Strain their cooking- liquor, boil it for two or three minutes to reduce it to the proper consistency, then pour it over the Quails, garnish with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Galantine of Quails.—Singe, draw, and bone ten Quails, and stuff them with galantine forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles; roll them to an oval shape, and tie them up in some pieces of cloth. Cook the Quails in mirepoix, and when done leave them till cool. Fix a block of fried bread 2in. in diameter in the centre of a disli, put a rice socle round the bread, and coat it with montpellier butter. Drain and unwrap the Quails, glaze them with game glaze, put one on the top of the bread and the others on the socle, leaning against the sides, garnish with chopped aspic and croft tons of aspic, and serve. Larded Quails.—Singe, draw, and wash the Quails; lard the breasts and legs, run a small skewer through the legs and tail, and bind them firmly round with thread. Baste the breasts with a little clarified butter, sprinkle a little salt over, and dredge them thickly with flour. Place the Quails in a baking-dish and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Put a layer of bread sauce on a hot disli; when cooked, untie the birds, put them on the dish with the bread sauce, sift plenty of fried breadcrumbs over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. Filau of Quails.—Prepare the Quails, wrap a large vine- leaf round each, then a thin slice of fat bacon, which should be secured with a small wooden skewer. Put jib. of butter into a stewpan, place it over the fire until it has melted, then put in the Quails and cover the stewpan; cook the Quails over a slow fire, turning them occasionally. More butter may be added if the above quantity is not sufficient to cook the birds in. Thoroughly wash lib. of rice, throw it into a saucepan with plenty of water and a small lump of salt, and boil quickly for ten minutes without stirring. At the end of that time drain the water off the rice, cover it with fresh cold water, which drain away also. Then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and cover the rice with a thick-folded cloth. Put jib. of butter in a frying-pan over the fire and let it melt; peel and thinly slice a large onion, put it with a bay-leaf into the butter, and stew slowly until soft. Dust a small quantity of white pepper into the butter; when well flavoured with the onions, strain the butter into the rice, also the cooking-butter and gravy of the Quails, stirring to mix well. Put the Quails on a hot dish, turn the rice over them, and serve. Potted Quails.—Bone a dozen Quails, using a penknife for the purpose, then cut each one into halves lengthwise. Chop lib. of veal and lib. of fat bacon, mix them together, and season with 1 teaspoonful of mixed mace, cloves, and white pepper, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and finely-chopped lemon-peel. Put a thin layer of the forcemeat in a jar, fill the jar with alternate layers of Quail and forcemeat, the last layer being forcemeat, put one or two thin slices of bacon on the top, and cover the whole with a flour-and-water paste. Put the jar in a pan containing water, and set it in the oven for three hours. When cooked, remove the crust, drain off the fat and gravy, then put a small plate inside the jar with a weight on the top of that, to press the meat. When cold,279 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Quails—continued. fill the jar up with clarified butter, cover it with stout paper, and tie tightly down. If the bacon is not liked, plenty of fresh butter can be used in its place. Quails a la Crapaudine.—Singe and draw the Quails, re- move the claws, and truss them with their legs inwards. Pinch the breast, and scollop it without quite reaching the skin; beat the birds flat, dust over salt and pepper, and dip them twice in clarified butter and breadcrumbs. Broil them over a clear fire, and serve with Italian sauce. Quails a l’Espagnole.—Take a good-sized piece of butter, say nearly ilb., and work into it the strained juice of one lemon and "a good sprinkling of pepper and salt. Pick, draw, and clean half-a-dozen Quails, stuff them with the mixture of butter, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free, and truss the birds into a good shape. Cover the bottom of a sauce- pan with thin rashers of bacon, put the Quails on the bacon, and cover with more rashers of bacon. Pour a gravy over them made of equal quantities of white wine and stock, place them over the fire, and let them simmer for thirty minutes; then take the birds up, drain, untie, and lay them on a hot dish, with a piece of fried bread laid under each Quail. Serve with clear Spanish sauce and a little glaze. Quails a la Freres Provenqaux.—Draw and bone the Quails. Mix in equal quantities some raw chicken’s flesh, cooked chicken’s livers and fat bacon, all finely chopped. Season the mixture, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of raw truffles cut into small dice; stuff the Quails with the forcemeat, roll them round, fastening the skin underneath, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warm butter. Roll out a flat of short paste, and divide it into as many squares as there are Quails; put a bird, breast downwards, on each flat, fold the edges of the paste over the bird, and press them together. Place the Quails on a baking-dish, resting them on the jointed side of the paste; surround each with a small strip of buttered paper, butter the tops slightly, and bake them in a moderate oven, putting buttered paper over the paste ten minutes after they have been in the oven. In three-quarters-of-an-hour’s time remove the strips of paper, put the Quails on a hot dish, and serve. Quails au Gratin.—Bone and stuff twelve Quails with a fat-liver forcemeat, put a rounded truffle in each, and roll them up. Butter an entree croustade-mould 2in. deep, and line it with short-paste; put a layer of the same force- meat on the bottom 1 in. deep, and arrange the Quails on it all round the mould, putting a round piece of bread wrapped in fat bacon in the centre; cover the pie with a round of flat paste, pinch the edges together, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the croustade out of the mould, and Iremove the cover, cutting round the inside of the pinched edges. Take the piece of bread out of the centre, mop the fat out of the hollow with a cloth, and fill it with a ragofit of cocks’ combs and truffles. Pour in some half glaze, and serve. Quails a la Jardiniere.—Draw and trass the Quails, and put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of fat bacon, 1 breakfast-cupful of mirepoix, and 1 teacupful of Madeira; stew them gently till cooked. Butter a plain border-mould, fill it with braised cabbage lettuces, and press them tightly down. Turn the border out on to a dish, and fill the centre with cooked carrots, turnips, and French beans; arrange the Quails, resting half on the borders and half on the vegetables, brush them and the border over with melted glaze, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted glaze. Quails a la Turque.—Truss eight or ten Quails, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till lightly coloured. Drain off a little of the fat from the Quails, dust them over with pepper and salt, putin lib of well-washed and dried rice, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and fry the rice for two or three minutes; pour in broth to double the height of the rice and birds, add 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree, and boil till the rice is soft. When cooked, put the rice on a hot dish, place the Quails on it, and serve. Quails—continued. Quails Boiled in Bladders.—Singe the Quails, bone the breasts, and draw them; fill the hollow with a raw truffle and a little butter, and fasten the skin over; roll each Quail in a double piece of pig’s bladder, and bind them round with thread. Put the birds in a stewpan of boiling water, and boil them for forty minutes. Take the bladders off the Quails, put them on a hot dish, pour over a little rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of perigueux sauce. Quails in Cases.—Singe and draw the Quails, and remove half of the backbones. Fry the livers of the Quails with the same quantity of chicken’s livers in a little rasped bacon-fat, and season them with salt and pepper. \\ hen cold, pound the fried livers with an equal quantity of chopped ham and some chopped truffles. Stuff the Quails with half of the prepared forcemeat, truss them, put them in a stew- pan with a little butter, and fry till half cooked. Mix with the remainder of the forcemeat 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Spread a layer of it in the bottom of the required number of oiled oval-shaped paper cases, and place a Quail in each (see Fig. 333); spread two sheets of paper over a baking-sheet, put the cases on it, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When the birds are cooked, take the cases up, put them on a hot dish, pour in each a little sauce that has been reduced with Madeira, and serve. Quails with Green Peas.—Singe, draw, and truss the Quails as for boiling, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till nicely browned; then put in ill), of streaky bacon, blanched and cut into squares, 14 pints of green peas, one onion, a bunch of parsley, salt, and sufficient broth to cook them in. Put the lid on the stew- pan with hot cinders on the top, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, drain the Quails and cut off the strings. Remove the parsley and onion from the peas, stir a piece of kneaded flour and butter in with them, turn the peas on to a hot dish, put the Quails round on the peas, with the legs towards the centre, brush them over with melted glaze, and serve. Quails in Macedoine.—Singe and draw the Quails, dust pepper and salt over the livers, mix a little chopped bacon with them, and put them back in the bodies of the birds. Truss them, and put them side by side in a stewpan with some trimmings of ham, bacon, and mixed vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, .a small lump of salt, and sufficient broth and white wine mixed in equal quantities to reach to nearly the height of the birds; cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and boil them till the liquid is reduced to half its original quantity; then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and finish cooking the birds. When cooked, drain and untruss them, and glaze them with a paste- brush dipped in melted glaze. Pass the cooking liquor through a sieve, mix a little bechamel sauce with it, and stir it over the fire till succulent and thick; then mix with it a cooked macedoine of whatever vegetables are in season. Pour the sauce and vegetables on to a hot deep dish, place the Quails on it, and serve. Quail Fie.—Draw the Quails and wrap them separately in thin slices of fat bacon, with the livers, gizzards, and a small quantity of fat bacon. Prepare a forcemeat, flavouring it with salt, pepper, and thyme. Line the buttered edges of280 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Quails—continued. a pie-dish with puff paste, cut two sweetbreads into thin slices, and fill the dish with alternate layers of sweetbreads, forcemeat, and Quails, putting in here and there a few mushrooms or truffles. Place a few small pieces of butter on the top, dust over lightly with salt, pepper, and spices, and cover with puff paste. Bake the pie in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. Quail Salad.—These birds make a very delicious salad ; they must be first cooked and left till cold, then the tfesli should be cut off the bones, trimmed into small nice-shaped pieces, and put in a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, and left for an hour or so. Two Quails are sufficient for a good-sized salad. Thoroughly wash the hearts of two cabbage-lettuces, pull them to pieces, and put them in a salad-bowl. Drain the pieces of birds, put them in with the lettuces, and pour over a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish them with chopped hard-boiled eggs and rings of lemon-peel, made by cutting the lemon into slices, then cutting round the pulp close to the peel. Serve the salad directly the dressing is added. Quails with Truffles.—(1) Draw and singe six Quails, and only half remove their back bones. Pare five or six black truffles, cut them into little rounds, and keep them covered. Fry the livers of the Quails with four chicken’s livers in a little bacon-fat. When cool, pound them in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped fat bacon and half the trimmings of the truffles. Pass the forcemeat through a sieve, season it, and stuff the birds with it; trass and sew them up, put them in a saute-pan with the trimmings of the bacon and ham and the rest of the truffle trimmings, dust in a little salt, pour in white wine to half their height, and lay a sheet of buttered paper over. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put ashes on the lid, and let the contents simmer. When cooked, drain the Quails, remove the strings, and put them on a hot dish; strain and skim the liquor in w hich they were cooked, mix a little brown sauce with it, and stir over the fire until somewhat reduced. Mix with the prepared truffles 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry, and boil them for two or three minutes. Pour the sauce over the Quails, garnish round with the truffles (see Fig. 334), and serve. (2) Singe, draw, and completely bone the Quails, open them, season with salt, spread a layer of forcemeat over the insides, put a truffle on each, and roll them up. Tie the Quails in separate cloths, and braise them in Madeira and mirepoix. Fill a plain buttered border-mould with chicken forcemeat, and poach it in a bain-marie. When cooked, drain and untie the Quails, turn the border on to a hot dish, fill the centre with hot sliced truffles, rest the Quails partly on the border and partly on the truffles, glaze them and the border, and serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce reduced with essence of truffles. Quails in Vine-Leaves.—Roll three or four Quails sepa- rately in vine-leaves, cover with thin slices of bacon, and fasten them with skewers. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, melt it, place in the Quails, cover with the lid, and stewr gently, turning the birds occasionally. Have ready some fried pieces of bread, pour over the liquor from the pan, place a bird on each, and serve. Boasted Quails.—(1) To prepare this dish successfully a clear hot open fire is best, but in default a very hot oven will do. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, wipe them with a wet towel, cut off the heads and feet, wrap each bird in a Quails—continued. slice of fat salted pork, and pack them closely in a sauce- pan just large enough to hold them. Season the Quails highly with salt and cayenne, pour over just enough boil- ing water to cover them, put the cover on the saucepan, and place it over a hot fire for five or ten minutes; then take up the Quails, remove the pork, wipe the birds on a clean towel, rub them all over with butter, and roast them brown before a very hot fire or in a hot oven, basting them twice with more butter and their drippings. Meanwhile strain the gravy in which they were stewed, and melt with it an equal quantity of red-currant jelly to form a sauce, or serve cold red-currant jelly with them. Serve the birds hot directly they are brown. (2) Draw some fat Quails, chop the livers with a small quantity of fat bacon, then mix with the forcemeat 1 table-spoonful eacli of chopped parsley and shallot, add 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, season with pepper, and bind the ingredients together with half a beaten egg. Stuff the Quails with the forcemeat and run them through with an iron skewer, placing alternately between each a bay-leaf. Roast the Quails in front of a brisk fire for ten or twelve minutes, basting them continually with lard. Put some of the fat that has dripped from the birds into a flat stewpan, add |lb. of raw ham that has been cut into small pieces, and a little more than | teacupful of freshly-grated breadcrumbs, and fry them for a few seconds ; then mix in gradually 1 wineglassful of white wine and a small quantity of gravy. Stir the sauce and let it boil for a few minutes, then move it from the fire, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons. Place the bay-leaves on a hot disli with the Quails on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Pick six fine, tender, fat Quails; singe, draw, and wipe them well, truss them, and lay a thin layer of lard on the breasts. Put them in a roasting-pan, spreading a very little butter on top of each, pour in £ breakfast-cup- ful of water, season with 1 pinch of salt, and cook in the oven for eighteen minutes. Place six heart-shaped pieces of toast on a hot dish, untruss the Quails, and arrange them on top, garnishing with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. Salmis of Quails.—Draw and prepare two Quails, cut them into halves lengthwise down the back, put them into a pan with a little butter, and cook them. Have ready two crofitons of fried bread, and place the birds on them ; reduce and thicken the liquor, strain it, pour it over the birds, and serve with a little lemon juice squeezed over each. Stewed Quails.—(1) Pluck and singe the birds, bind slices of bacon-fat round them, and place them in a stewpan; put in a lump of butter, fry the Quails until lightly browned, strew breadcrumbs over them, and when they are browned put in an onion, a bay-leaf, 1 wineglassful of wine, and sufficient water to cook them in. Season with salt and pepper, stew the birds gently at the side of the fire until tender, then put them on a hot dish; strain their cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, and serve it with them in a sauce-tureen. (2) Draw and truss the Quails, and put them in a stew- pan lined with bacon and ham ; add some chopped veal, a carrot, onion, clove, laurel-leaf, and a bunch of parsley; pour in white wine and stock, mixed in equal quantities to the height of the birds, cover them with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper, and stew them gently till done. Blanch some well-washed lettuces in veal stock, and warm them in the liquor in which the Quails were cooked. Put the Quails on a hot dish, pour a little rich gravy over them, garnish with the lettuces, and serve. QUAKING CUSTARD. —See Custards. QUAKING PUDDING—See Puddings. QUART—The fourth part of a gallon; two pints. See Weights and Measures. QUASS.—A kind of vinegar made in Russia by mixing rye-flour and warm water together, and setting them near a fire until the liquor turns sour.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 281 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. QUASSIA.—The bitter wood of the Picrsena excelsa, used chiefly for making bitters, or as a substitute for hops in inferior beers. QUEEN’S BREAD.—See Bread. QUEEN’S CAKES.—See Cakes. QUEEN’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. QUEEN’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. QUEEN’S SOUP.—See Soups. QUEIMADO. —This is a kind of punch manufactured by the Portuguese in Bombay; it is made of the liquor of the cocoa-nut palm, well spiced and seasoned, and is drunk hot. QUENELLES.—These are described in old cookery books as a kind of delicate forcemeat, either forming a dish by themselves, or made into balls and used for gar- nishing. Kettner says, “ Quenelle is one of the many words of the French kitchen which Frenchmen—learned and simple—have given up as inscrutable. It is the name for the most delicate forcemeat, which French cooks prepare sometimes from chickens, sometimes from whitings, sometimes from game, but originally from young rabbits. Quenelle is a doublet of the old French name for a young rabbit—connil. a little cony, and it is formed from the Latin cuniculus in the same way as the French name for a distaff (Quenouille) is formed from conucula, a corruption of the Latin colucula. Quenelle of rabbit, therefore, is a pleonasm, meaning a little cony of rabbit, and Quenelle of chicken is an absurdity, meaning a little cony of chicken.” By force of habit cooks have come to speak of Quenelle as Quenelles when the forcemeat is made up into balls for garnishes or other purposes. The art of moulding these consists principally in keeping them of equal size and the surfaces quite smooth; this is accomplished by the aid of two spoons : one is filled with the forcemeat, the piled sur- face being smoothed over with a knife, and the second spoon is then dipped in boiling water and pressed over the top of the Quenelle, moulding it to its own shape. By a gentle rotatory movement the shape of the Quenelle is perfected (see Fig. 335), and it is then ready for cooking. Receipts for special Quenelles will be found under their different headings. Butch Quenelle.—Make some forcemeat, either game, chicken, or veal, put it into a mortar, beat it well, and mix in two beaten eggs. Line a plain mould with some thin slices of fat bacon, fdl it with the forcemeat, and press well down. Put the mould into a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the con- tents for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the Quenelle out on to a hot dish, removing all the bacon, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce. Quenelle Soup.—Pour 1 teacupful of water into a saucepan on the fire, add a small piece of butter and 1 pinch of salt, stir well until it boils, add sufficient flour to form a moderately thick paste, turn it out on to a dish, and set it away to cool. Cut ilb. of lean veal into small pieces and pound them well in a mortar, adding gradually 2oz. of the above paste and 3oz. of butter; beat well together, Quenelles—continued. then add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and season to taste with grated nutmeg, salt, ami pepper. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, adding a small quantity of cream, and with the aid of two teaspoons form the mass into Quenelles. Place them side by side in a saucepan, pour in carefully sufficient boiling stock to cover them, and cook gently for a few minutes. Pour the required quantity of highly-flavoured stock or broth into a tureen, add the Quenelles, and serve hot. The stock in which they 'were cooked may also be added if desired. Quenelles for Soups and Entrees.—Put into a basin the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, half their weight of hot boiled potatoes, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little cayenne and salt, and the yolk of one egg, and mash all tvell together. Make the mixture into balls the size of cherries, using flour on the hands, drop these into a stew- pan of boiling water, and poach for a minute or two; then take them up with a skimmer and drop them into the soup a few minutes before serving. Quenelles for Stuffed Soles.—Remove the skin and bones from about ili). of raw whiting, and put the fish in a mortar with 2oz. of butter and about 1 teacupful of finely- grated breadcrumb. Pound the mixture thoroughly, add one egg, season with salt and pepper, rub it through a fine hair or wire sieve, mould it into small balls, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the Quenelles, and serve them with the stuffed soles. Stuffed Quenelles.—Put loz. of gelatine in a basin, cover it with cold water, and soak for an hour. Trim off all the skin from the flesh of a chicken, pick the meat from the bones, chop it finely, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped and pounded pork, and pass the 'whole through a fine hair sieve. Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of stale breadcrumbs and milk in a small saucepan, and boil for ten minutes, stirring at the same time to keep it smooth. Mix the breadcrumbs with the pounded meat, season with 1 tea- spoonful each of onion-juice and lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste; add 6oz. of warmed butter, 1 teacupful of white stock or cream, the yolks of three eggs, and lastly the well-beaten whites, and work the mixture till quite smooth. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan together with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till smooth but not browned; stir in gradually 1 pint of cream, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small pinch of mace, plenty of salt and pepper, and boil for two minutes ; then stir in the soaked gelatine, and remove it from the fire. Mix 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked chicken in the sauce, and set it away till cool. Butter eighteen egg-cups, line them with a thick layer of the forcemeat, fill the centre with the chicken and-sauce mixture (it should have become quite firm), then cover it with the forcemeat. Stand the egg-cups in a steamer, place a sheet of paper over them, put the lid on the steamer, set it over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the Quenelles for thirty minutes, without allowing the water to boil too rapidly. When cooked, take them up and put them away till cool. Turn the Quenelles out of the egg-cups, dip them well in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry for three or four minutes in boiling fat to lightly colour them. Drain the Quenelles, put them on a hot dish, garnish with stoned olives, and serve. Sweet Quenelles.—Beat the whites of three or four eggs to a stiff snow, and sweeten to taste with crushed loaf sugar. Take them up in table-spoonfuls, and lay them in a tureen of hot milk soup. QUILLAIA BARK. —This is obtained from a tree which is a native of Chili (Quillaja saponaria), and is used in infusion to impart a soapiness to water; hence it is utilised by aerated-water makers to give a head to ginger ale, and other effervescing beverages. QUINCES (Fr. Coings; Ger. Quitten).—“The Quince has gone out of fashion,” remarks Kettner, “and it is natural that when the best fruits of the tropics are brought to our shores quickly in ships we should282 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Quinces—continued. neglect some of those grown at home. It is to be desired, however, that apple pie should never go out of fashion, and ' Quinces have this curious virtue : that being of little value | themselves—not nearly so good as apples—they improve 1 an apple pie beyond the power of words to describe.” j The common Quince (Cydonia vulgaris) takes its name from Cydon (now Candia) in the Isle of Crete. It is stated by some authors to have been introduced from Greece to Italy, “but this can only refer,” says Lindley, “ to a particular variety, for Pliny, in his fifteenth book, says: ‘ There are many kinds of this fruit in Italy, some growing wild in the hedgerows, others so large that they weigh the boughs down to the ground.’ Sir Joseph Banks states that the Romans had three sorts of Quinces, one of which was called Chrysomela from its yellow colour. They boiled them with honey as we make our marmalade. According to the best modern botanists, the species grow spontaneously on the hills and in the woods of Italy, in the South of France, in Spain, Sicily, Sardinia, Algeria, Constantinople, the Crimea, and in the south of the Caucasus; they also grow abundantly on the banks of the Danube.” According to Drs. Roxburgh and Royle, the Quince is found in Cashmere, and even in the North of India, and “De Candolle thinks its native country extends perhaps as far as Hindoo-Coosh ; but it is not cultivated in the north of China. In Imiretta, a region in the Fig. 236. Portugal Quince. interior of Mingrelia, a variety is said to have been found with fruit as big as the head of a child. It appears from the foregoing that the Quince is indigenous over a great extent of Europe and Asia, and that it is likewise found in the North of Africa. Phillip says, in his ‘ Historical and Botanical Account of Fruits known in Great Britain,’ ‘ The learned Goropius maintains that Quinces were the golden apples of the Hesperides, and not oranges, as some commentators pretend. In support of his argument he states that it was a fruit much revered by the ancients, and he assures us that there has been discovered at Rome a statue of Hercules that held in his hand three Quinces.’ ‘ This,’ he says, ‘ agrees with the fable which states that Hercules stole the golden apples from the gardens of the Hesperides.’ ” Galesio, in his treatise on the orange, has shown that the orange tree was unknown to the Greeks, and that it did not naturally grow in those parts where the gardens of the Hesperides were placed by them. The Quince tree, according to the “ Hortus Kewensis,” was introduced into this country in 1573, but Gerarde, who was alive at that date, says it was often planted in hedges and fences to gardens in his time, and from this it may be Quinces—continued. concluded the tree was common long before the period above mentioned. The fruit of the Quince is large, roundish, or regular oval, according to the variety; the Portugal Quince (see Fig. 336) being the best. As they ripen they assume a beautiful golden colour, but have a strong odour with an austere flavour, which renders them unfit for eating raw. They are, however, much esteemed when prepared according to any of the following receipts: Bran died Quinces.—Peel 41b. of small ripe Quinces, and boil them in a small quantity of water for half-an-hour, then drain, and leave them until cool. Put ‘21b. of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with a little of the water in ■which the Quinces were cooked, boil for ten minutes, add the Quinces, and continue boiling quickly for half-an-hour, then drain the Quinces, and put them into jars. Boil the syiup till thickly reduced, turn it into a basin, and leave till cold. Mix in an equal quantity of brandy, pour it over the Quinces, anil cover the inrs with papers that have been dipped in white of egg. Pickled Quinces.—Pare and cut half-a-dozen Quinces into small pieces, put them, together with lgall. of water and 21b. of honey, into a large saucepan, mix well together, and set them on a slow fire for half-an-hour, then strain the liquor into a jar. When quite cold, wipe the Quinces perfectly dry, put them into the liquor, and cover closely. Preserved Quinces.—(1) Carefully peel and core the required quantity of Quinces, removing both from parings and fruit everything that is not perfectly good. Cut the Quinces either into quarters or across into slices, put them in a preserving-pan over the fire in a very little water, and cover them with the parings. Place the lid on the pan to keep the steam in, and let the fruit simmer till soft. Take out the slices or quarters of Quinces, and strain the liquor in the pan through a jelly-bag. Put the strained juice again over the fire in the pan, together with lib. of loaf sugar to every pint, of juice, and keep stirring this till the sugar has completely melted, and has come to the boil, then let it boil for ten minutes, skimming off the scum as it rises. Put in the quarters or slices of Quinces, and let them simmer in the syrup for twenty minutes. When they look clear and are well sweetened, lift them out with a skimmer, first taking the pan from the fire, and put them into glass jars. Let the syrup cool a little, and pour it over them warm. When quite cold, lay a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on top of the preserve in each jar, and cover the jars air-tight. (2) Prick some Quinces, boil till soft, drop them into cold water, peel them, prick them again right to the middle, put them in a preserving-pan with some thin syrup that has been boiled to the small thread (see Sugar boiling), and boil them for two or three minutes; then take the pan off' the fire, skim the syrup, and turn all into an earthenware pan. On the following day again put the Quinces in the preserving-pan with fresh syrup, and boil to one degree more. Repeat this boiling for four days, the last day boiling the syrup to the large pearl. Turn the Quinces into jars, pour the syrup over them, and keep them covered. They are then ready for use. (3) Peel and core 5lb. of Quinces, put them in a stewpan with lib. of powdered white sugar and f pint of water, place the pan over the fire, and when the Quinces get dry moisten them with a little rose-water and white wine; cook until soft, then take them from the pan, rah them through a coarse sieve, put the pulp back again over the fire, and add ‘21b. of sugar and a little orange-flower water and rose-water, and boil for a short time longer. A little of it dropped on a plate or saucer will come off clean when it is sufficiently boiled. Take the pan from the fire, let the Quince paste cool a little, and put it into shallow glass jars. Scatter perfumed comfits over the paste in each jar, and close them air-tight. Quince-and-Apple Butter.—Use twice as many sour apples as Quinces, and half their combined weight of sugar. Pare, quarter, and core the Quinces, tying the cores and peelings in a thin cloth; put both Quinces and cores into a- porcelain-lined pan with just enough cold water to283 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Quinces—continued. cover them, and boil gently until they begin to get tender. In the meantime peel, quarter, and core the apples, add them to the Quinces, and boil to a pulp. \Y lien the fruit is reduced to a pulp, add the sugar, boil the mixture to the consistency of thick marmalade, stirring it Constantly to prevent burning; then cool and put it into jars, and pack away in a cool place until wanted. Quince-and-Apple Jelly.—Peel, core, and cut up an equal quantity of Quinces and apples, stew them separately until tender, putting the Quinces on first, as they require longer cooking. Strain the juices from the fruit and mix them, for every pint of juice allowing fib. of crushed loaf sugar. Put the juice in a preserving-pan, boil it for lifteen minutes, then put in the sugar, and boil it until reduced to the consistency of jelly. Turn the jelly into small pots or glasses, and when cold cover and tie them down for use. Quince-and-Apple Tart.—Butter a shallow dish, line it with a good puff paste, then spread in a thick layer of Quince marmalade. Peel .and core a few cooking apples, and cut them into small equal-sized shapes according to fancy, with a large round for the centre; arrange them in the form of a large star over the marmalade, making each Fig. 337. Quince-and-Apple Taut. slice overlay the other (see Fig. 337), strew plenty of moist sugar over, put a few small bits of butter on the top, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, the tart may be served either hot or cold. Quince Blanc-mange.—Peel and core 21b. of Quinces, put them into a preserving-pan with lqt. of water, and keep them simmering gently until broken but not reduced to a pulp. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag into a clean pan, and put in 1 toz. of gelatine and 12oz. of caster sugar. Stir the mixture gently over a clear fire, and boil it till it leaves the spoon when drawn from the pan. Skim carefully, remove all the scum, then pour it into a basin, and mix with it h pint of thick cream; stir it briskly until nearly cold. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the blanc-mange, and leave till quite cold and set. It should be made with ripe Quinces only. When ready to serve, turn the blanc-mange out of the mould on to a fancy dish. Quince Cakes.—(1) Put some Quinces in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and boil them gently until a knife will easily pass through them. Drain the Quinces on a sieve, peel and scrape them, and remove the cores. Rub the pulp through a sieve, put it in a saucepan with an equal quantity of caster sugar, and boil slowly until some- what stiffly reduced. Pack the Quince mixture into small moulds, and keep them in a warm place. (2) Pare and core nine Quinces, boil them till quite soft, rub them through a sieve, and strain the pulp; add to this f pint each of syrup of barberries and syrup of Quinces and 6oz. of powdered white sugar. Put this mixture over the fire, boil it to the crack (see SUGAR- boiling), then pour into small shallow moulds; let them cool a little, and put thorn into a stove to dry. Quince Cheese.—Peel ami core 41b. of ripe Quinces and cut them into small pieces. Put the trimmings at the bottom of a preserving-pan, and place a plate over them to keep them down. Put the Quinces on the top of the plate, and pour in 1 pint of water. Cover the preserving-pan and let the contents simmer till the Quinces are quite soft. Take the h'111 out, strain the water off the parings, mix with it 21b. of crushed loaf sugar, stir it over the fire till dis- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Quinces—continued. solved, then boil till a light foam rises, and skim it. Mash the Quinces, put them in with the syrup, and stir over a slow fire till reduced to a stiff jelly. Procure some flat earthenware dishes with lids, line them with tissue paper, pour the cheese mixture in them, and leave till cold. Cover the cheeses with tissue paper, put the lids on the dishes, and they are then ready for use. Quince Cordial.—This is made by mixing 2igalls. of the juice of Quinces with lgall. of syrup of white sugar and igall. of pure spirits. Let the whole remain for several days in a covered stone jar, and it is ready for use. Quince Cream.—Roast four or five ripe Quinces, but not sufficient to soften them, then pare and core them, and cut them in thin slices. Put them over the fire in a saucepan with 1 pint of rich cream and a little ginger, and simmer till the cream gets pretty thick. Strain it, flavour it with a little rose-water, anil add sugar to taste. Quinces with Cream.—Pour into a large flat earthenware pan 3qts. of unskimmed milk, warm it, then move it to the side of the fire and keep it at the same degree of heat for two hours without disturbing it. At the end of that time the surface of the milk will be covered with a thick solid cream. Cut it into squares, remove it with a skimmer, put it on a dish, and sprinkle caster sugar over. Peel and core some ripe Quinces, boil them in a thin syrup, taking care to keep them whole. Drain and leave the Quinces till cold, put them on a fancy dish, garnish with the cream, and serve. This is a highly-esteemed Turkish dish, the solidified cream being known as “ cairnae.” Quince Cream Ice. —Put some peeled and sliced Quinces in a preserving-pan with a third of the quantity of peeled and sliced apples and a little water. Boil them till soft, then pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Weigh the pulp, and for every two pounds use Hlb. of crushed loaf sugar; put all in a preserving-pan, and boil quickly till reduced to a jelly, stirring all the time, then pass it through a fine hair sieve and leave till cold. Add to each pound of the mixture 1 pint of cream and a little lemon-juice, sweeten to taste, turn it into a freezing-pot, and freeze. When frozen, put the Quince cream into moulds, cover them, and embed them in pounded ice and salt. When ready to serve, turn the ice out of the moulds on to a fancy dish. Quince Iced Pudding.—Beat together till foamy three eggs and 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and l teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted flour. Add 1 teacupful of cold water to the beaten eggs, then stir in with the Hour and mix all thoroughly. Butter the inside of a plain oval shaped border mould about 4in. high, pour the mixture into it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a slow oven. Leave the pudding in the mould until nearly cold, then turn it out on to a flat dish. Beat the whites of two eggs with 11 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, flavour it with a few drops of vanilla essence, ice the pudding over with it, and set it away till dry. In the meantime, mix with lqt. of cream 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, I pint of custard, and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract. Put it in a freezer and freeze it, like ice-cream. Mask the inside of the pudding with Quince jelly, and fill it with the frozen cream. Pile whipped cream on the top and round the pudding, and serve at once. Quince Jelly.—(1) Select fine ripe Quinces; peel, core, and cut them up, put them in a saucepan with just as much cold water as will cover them, and stew gently until tender, but not red. Strain the juice off the Quinces without pressing them, measure it, and for each breakfast-cupful allow an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar. Put the juice into a preserving-pan and boil it for twenty minutes, then add the sugar and boil till reduced to the consistency of jelly, keeping it well stirred at the same time. Skim the jelly and strain it through a jelly-bag. Pour it into small jars, and when quite cold cover them with paper and tie down. (2) Peel and slice 41b. of Quinces and 21b. of apples, put them in a copper preserving-pan with 2qts. of water, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.284 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Quinces—continued. and boil quickly till they are well softened, then strain the liquor two or three times through a jelly-bag till clear. Boil 41b. of crushed loaf sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar boiling), put in the Quince-juice, and boil it quickly from fifteen to twenty minutes. When the jelly is done (this can be ascertained by dropping a little of it on a plate and putting it in a cold place ; if the jelly sets in a minute or two it is done), remove it from the fire, skim it, turn it into pots, and leave until set. Cut some rounds of paper, dip them in brandy, and put them over the jelly. In a day’s time cover the jars over, and tie down. (3) Peel about 141b. of Quinces, cut each one into quarters, and remove their cores. Put the well beaten white of an egg into a stewpan with 3qts. of water and 31b. of caster sugar, place it over the fire until boil- ing, then skim it well, putin the fruit, and continue boil- ing till it is reduced to a thick pulp. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in a piece of alum the size of a pea, and boil it gently for two minutes. Skim the syrup, pass it again through the sieve, return it to the saucepan, colour with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and boil it until thickly reduced. Turn the jelly into jars, leave it until nearly cold, then cover them tightly, and put them by in a cool place until wanted. Quince Liqueur.—(1) Select ripe yellow Quinces, dry them in a cloth, then grate them on a coarse bread-grater with- out peeling them. Strew caster sugar over the Quinces and leave them until the following day. Press the Quinces to extract all the juice, and filter the latter through flannel. Measure the juice, and for every quart mix with it lqt. of the purest proof spirit and lib. of caster sugar. Pour the mixture into a large bottle, and let it stand for a fortnight in a warm place, shaking it once or twice each day. At the end of that time the liqueur may be poured into smaller bottles, corked, and put by for use. (2) Put the grated pulp of twelve Quinces into a bottle or jar, add 31b. of loaf sugar, pour over lqt. of white rum (or plain spirit), cork securely, and let it remain for fully ten days, giving it a vigorous shake every now and then. Strain through flannel into another jar, stir in loz. each of spirit essence of bitter almonds and tincture of cloves, and 2oz. of tincture of coriander-seeds. Let it stand for two days longer, pour it into bottles, and cork. Quince Marmalade.—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices 41b. of Quinces; put them in a preserving-pan with 21b. of peeled and sliced apples and 2qts. of water acidulated with lemon-juice. Put the cover on the pan and boil the contents quickly till well softened; then put in 31b. of crushed loaf sugar and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till a thick paste. Remove the pan from the fire, pour the marmalade into jars, and leave it till cold. Put brandied paper in each jar and tie them down. (2) Put the required quantity of Quinces in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil them. When the Quinces are soft, drain and leave them till cold; then peel them, and remove the cores. Press the fruit through a fine wire sieve, rubbing it through with a wooden spoon. For every pound of the fruit put fib. of lump sugar in a preserving-pan with just as much water as it will absorb, and boil until transparent bubbles rise to the top. When ready, put the fruit into the syrup and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until reduced to a thick pulp. Turn the marmalade into jars, leave it until cold, then cover and tie down. Quince Paste.—Boil the Quinces in water till they are soft, then drain, pound, and pass them through a sieve. Weigh the pulp and put in a preserving-pan an equal weight of crushed loaf sugar; boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar boiling), add the mashed Quinces, and stir them over the fire till gently boiling. Pour the paste into shallow tin dishes, and leave it till set. Cut the paste into leaves, rings, &c., put them on a wire tray, and dry in a screen. Pack in boxes between layers of paper. If liked, the paste may be coloured by adding a little liquid carmine with the pulp before it is mixed with the sugar. Quinces—continued. Quince Pie.—Peel three Quinces and six or seven cooking apples, core them, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and 1 teacupful of sugar, and boil gently until tender. Turn the Quinces and apples into a pie-dish, cover with a flat of rich puff paste, and bake for thirty minutes in a brisk oven. When the pie is cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, sift caster sugar over the top, and serve plain or with a cold custard. Quince Pudding.—(1) Boil seven large Quinces till very soft; peel, core, and mash them, then add the yolks of four eggs beaten together with 1 pint of cream. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and flavour it with a little powdered ginger and cinnamon. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, put a strip of puff paste round it, pour in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, sift caster sugar over, and serve with a rich custard. (2) Pare and core some ripe Quinces, boil them till quite tender, and rub them through a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and to half a pound of this allow jib. of caster sugar, 1 drachm each of powdered ginger and powdered cinnamon; mix the sugar and spice with the Quince puree. Beat well the yolks of four eggs in J pint of cream, and mix this into the spiced and sweetened Quince pulp. Tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour. (3) Boil six Quinces till tender, then peel them; scrape off all the soft part into a basin, and mix with it 1 tea- spoonful of ground ginger, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and stir it well. Butter .a pie-dish, and pour the mixture into it. Sweeten the whites of the three eggs with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and whip them to a stiff froth; then spread them over the top of the pudding, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, serve the pudding while hot. Quince Ratafia.—Put into a jar 4oz. of angelica and lib. of Quinces, both cut into thin slices; add a little (say about two-pennyworth) of oil of juniper, loz. of crushed coriander-seeds, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled soft water, and lgall. each of proof spirit and stock syrup. Cover the jar closely, sealing it, and let it stand for six weeks; at the end of that time, strain, filter, and bottle it. A little colouring of saffron may be added should the ratafia not be bright enough. Quince Salad.—Peel two or three ripe Quinces, and cut them into thin slices; arrange them in a salad-bowl, and sprinkle some finely-chopped sweet herbs over them. Mix together some oil and vinegar, using more of the latter than of the former, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the Quinces, and serve. The Quince is the only top- fruit that can be recommended to be eaten with the above dressing. Quinces Stuffed with Almond Paste.—Select six very large Quinces, peel them, and cut a piece off the blossom- end of each, which should be reserved, as they are after- Fig. 338. Quinces Stuffed with Almond Paste. wards to form covers. Scoop out the cores and a greatei part of the pulp. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds with eight or ten bitter ones, put them in a mortar, and pound welL adding a little white of egg to keep them from oiling, f ill the hollows of the Quinces with the pounded almonds,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 285 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Quinces—continued. place the tops on them again, and tie them up separately and tightly in pieces of line muslin. Slice a dozen each of apples and Quinces without peeling them, put them in a preserving-pan with ^lb. of loaf sugar and sufficient cold water to cover, and boil until the water acquires a red hue. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and return it to the pan without the apples or Quinces; put in for every quart of juice 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil It until the sugar is dissolved and reduced to a syrup. Put the Quinces in muslin in the syrup, move the pan to the edge of the fire, unless the fire is very slow, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, which can be ascertained by pressing the Quinces with a wooden spoon, take them out of the syrup, take off the muslin, and lay them on a glass dish (see Pig. 338). Boil the syrup until it will jelly when cold, adding more sugar if not sufficiently thick, then skim it and pour it care- fully over the Quinces. It will be better to allow the liquor to cool a little before pouring it over the Quinces, so that they may be covered with the jelly. This makes an extremely pretty dessert-dish. Quince Trifle.—Pare the Quinces and cut them into quarters; put them in a stewpan with Alb. of sugar for each pound of fruit, a small piece of lemon-peel, and a sufficient quantity of water to prevent their burning at the bottom of the pan. Let them stew gently at the side of the fire until quite tender. When cooked, rub them through a fine wire sieve into a basin, and leave them until cold. Sweeten 1 pint or more, according to the quantity of fruit, of thick cream with caster sugar, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of vanilla. Whisk it to a stiff froth, which skim off as it rises and put on a sieve to drain. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with a layer of slices of sponge cakes, and moisten them with a few table- spoonfuls of sherry. Spread the Quince pulp over them, and pile the whipped cream on the top. Sprinkle over with coloured nonpareils. Keep it in a cool place until served. Stewed Quinces.—(1) Peel and core twelve ripe Quinces, cut them into quarters, and put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water and fib. of granulated sugar. Place the pan on the stove, and when the contents boil skim well and cook for fifteen minutes, stirring gently from the bottom with a spatula to avoid mashing the fruit. Remove from the fire and immediately add 1 gill of maraschino; stir lightly again, pour the preparation into a bowl to cool, and serve on a dish. (2) Canadian Style.—Make a sufficient quantity of thin syrup to barely cover the fruit, and keep it boiling at the side of the fire. Peel the Quinces, cut them into quarters, but do not remove the seeds; drop them into the boiling syrup, and let them boil gently until soft. When the Quinces are cooked, they may be served either hot or cold, as liked. Sugared Quinces.—Choose good firm Quinces, rub them over slightly with a damp cloth in order to remove any dust, peel them, cut each one into eight pieces, and take out the cores. Put the Quinces into a preserving-pan on the stove, pour on them enough boiling water to cover, and let them boil gently until they are tender; then drain the water off and let them cool. Weigh the Quinces and allow an equal weight of sugar. The peels and cores should have been tied in a muslin bag and boiled with the Quinces. When the Quinces are quite cold, put them and the sugar into glass or earthenware jars in alternate layers, first sugar then Quinces, and so on, and cover. In covering be sure that the air is completely excluded. Look at them from time to time to see if they show any sign of fermentation, if there is any, put the jars into a pan of warm water and loosen the covers, let the water boil till the Quinces are well scalded, and cover the jars down as carefully as before. Syrup of Quinces.—Take some very ripe Quinces, pare them, anti grate or scrape them into a straining-cloth; squeeze the juice from them and stand it in the sun, or in a very warm place, till a sediment forms at the bottom; then strain it well, and to 1 pint of strained juice add 41b. Quinces—continued. of sugar. Put the juice and sugar together over the fire, and boil them to the degree of heat at which little raised balls are formed on the surface of the sugar {see SUGAR- BOILING). Take it from the fire, and let it cool; when almost cold bottle it, and when perfectly cold cork it air- tight. Another kind of Quince not often ripening in this country is the fruit of the familiar Pyrus japonica. It is sometimes impoi-ted from Japan, and may be treated as follows: Wash the fruit, put it in an earthenware or stone jar, and cover with cold water; put the jar, with a plate or cover over it, in a moderately hot oven, and leave it until the fruit is soft, which will take about twenty-four hours or perhaps longer, according to its ripeness. Put a quarter of the quantity of green fruit in another jar, with water to cover, and place that also in the oven, as before, until soft. When ready, mash both lots of fruit to a pulp, measure it, and mix with it double its quantity of coarsely- crashed loaf sugar. Put it in a pan and boil slowly for an hour, keeping the cover on excepting when removed to skim the fruit. When cooked so far, beat the preserve with a wooden spoon until smooth, then turn it into jars. When the preserve is cold and set, cover the jars and put them away in a dry store-cupboard. This preserve makes an excellent relish with roasted meat, or it may be eaten with bread-and-butter. QUINNAT. —The Californian Salmon (Oncorhynchus chouicha), known also as King Salmon, Chinnook Salmon, and Sacramento Salmon, is one of the most important productions of that country. It closely resembles the European Salmon, and can be prepared and cooked in the same way. RABBITS {Fr. Lapins; Ger. Kaninchen; Ital. Coniglii; Sp. Conejos).—The cony, as he is familiarly called, is a great favourite with cooks, having white flesh, and being very tasty and inexpensive. The British Rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) was considered at one time the best in the world; now those that are more frequently met with are imported from Ostend to this country ready dressed and pressed flat for cooking. The wild Rabbit is preferred by connoisseurs, yielding flesh that “ is whiter,” says Grimod de la Reyniere, “ more tender, and more juicy than that of the hare, and when young it is easily digested. Nourished on thyme, wild thyme, and marjoram, barded with bacon and cooked to the proper point, it per- fumes the mouth and inundates the palate with delights.” Tame Rabbits are bred and fattened for the table, but they are apt to taste of the hutch, or of the cabbages on which they are usually fed. In Belgium, Rabbits are bred in immense numbers for the sake of their skins, which are useful for many pm-poses, the bodies being exported to the London markets, where they are sold by fishmongers and cheesemongers, but rarely by poulterers, for some reason best known to themselves. Wild Rabbits are very small in this country, and should be very plentiful, as they produce young two or three times in the year; such pro- lific habits having rendered them a pest in some parts of Australia and New Zealand. When selecting a Rabbit, examine the inside to see if the fat is white, and if it smells quite sweet. A young Rabbit can be distinguished from an old one by compressing the under-jaw, which should in a young animal snap or give way readily. Rabbits may be cooked in a number of ways, as shown by the following receipts. They must first be drawn and skinned, the drawing being effected by opening the belly and removing all the organs through the opening. This is generally done by the poulterer in the case of wild Rab- bits, but Ostend Rabbits are sold already drawn and skinned. Along the edges of the slit in the belly the skin is readily stripped off the body, and then the extremities are pulled through, the feet being chopped off at the firstTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 286 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. joints. To truss for roasting, the legs are pinned close to the body by means of skewers, and the head is thrust back into a position, and held there by a skewer passed through the mouth into the neck; or it may be tied with string passed under the fore-legs and fastened over the Fig. 339. Rabbit Trussed for Boiling shoulder. When a Rabbit is trussed for boiling, the head is drawn round to the side (see Fig. 339) and fastened to the body with a skewer; the fore-legs are then fastened backwards, and the hind-legs forward. Attereaux of Rabbits a l’ltalienne.—Take the fillets of four young Rabbits, and cut them into pieces lin. square. Have 4 table-spoonfuls of mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, and six shallots chopped fine, put them to fry with a lump of butter over a slow fire till they are done; then put in the bits of Rabbit and fry gently. When nearly done, drain them, and season with a little salt and pepper. Take the sweet herbs in which they have been filed, and make a sauce for the attereaux as follows: Add 1 table-spoonful of Hour to the herbs, mix it well and smooth with a rvooden spoon, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of good stock broth, and let the whole boil until the Hour is quite done. Skim off the butter, reduce the sauce until it is thick, and then further thicken by adding the yolks of two eggs. Throw into this sauce the square pieces of Rabbits, and let them get quite cold. Have ready a few pieces of boiled calf’s udder (some cooks say that pieces of fat boiled bacon are quite as good), and cut them to half the breadth of the pieces of Rabbits, but not so thick. Run an attelettc first through one of the pieces of Rabbit dipped in the sauce, next through a piece of udder, and so on until the attelette is nearly but not quite full, taking care that pieces of Rabbit are the last and first on. Trim the sides of the bits after trussing, baste with sauce, and dip in fine breadcrumbs. Fiy till of a fine colour, drain, and serve on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, with Italian sauce in a boat. Dipping into a thick, well-seasoned batter, and frying in plenty of fat, is also recommended. Baked Rabbit.—(1) Cut a Rabbit into joints, put it into a stewpan with an onion and a small quantity of water, and stew gently until tender; then put the pieces of Rabbit in a deep pie-dish. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of the liquor in which the Rabbit was stewed, and stir it over the fire until thickened ; season it with 1 table-spoonful of soy and 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, also a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour it over the Rabbit. Make the following batter: Mix Jib. of finely-chopped beef-suet with 41b. of flour, and stir in two well-beaten eggs, with a sufficient quantity of milk to bring it to the proper consistency. When quite smooth, pour the batter over the Rabbit, and bake it in a moderate oven for an- hour-and-a-quarter. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve the Rabbit while hot. (2) Clean a Rabbit, and lard the fleshy parts with strips of salted pork. Line the bottom of a baking-disli with slices of carrots and onions, put in the Rabbit, dredge it over with salt and pepper, and put a few pieces of butter on the top. Pour in sufficient cold water just to cover the bottom of the dish, and put it in a brisk oven. In a-quarter-of-an-hour’s time, turn the Rabbit over on to the other side, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and finish baking it, basting frequently with the drip- pings in the dish. If the gravy in the dish is dried up before the Rabbit is cooked, pour in a little broth or water. When cooked, put the Rabbit on a hot dish; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the gravy, then Rabbits—continued. pour it through a fine hair sieve over the Rabbit, garnish with watercress, and serve. Baked Tinned Rabbit.—-Melt the jelly in a 2lb. tin of Rabbit, pour it into a saucepan, add J gill of well-seasoned gravy, and put them at the side of the fire to keep hot. Mince Jib. of ham or bacon, mix in 1 teaspoonful each of thyme and finely-chopped parsley, double that quantity of marjoram, 3oz. of sifted or grated breadcrumbs, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish, a layer of Rabbit on top of that, and so on until the dish is full, or the materials are used up. Pour over the gravy, put the dish with a cover over it into a moderate oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Serve very hot. Barbecued Rabbit.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, chop off its head, open it all the way down the belly from the neck to the tail, wash it well, put it flat in a bowl or dish, pour over sufficient salted water to cover it, put another dish with a weight on the top of it, and let it soak for about half-an-liour. Take it out, wipe it dry with a cloth, score it nine or ten times down the sides where the meat is thickest, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done, turning it frequently so as to have both sides equally cooked. When cooked, put it on a dish or plate, which must be kept very hot; dust the Rabbit over with salt and pepper, pour over warm butter, and turn the Rabbit continually, so as to absorb as much of the butter as possible. Put it on to a clean hot dish, Fig. 340. Barbecued Rabbit. cover it over, place it in the oven for five or six minutes, take it out, pour over 1 table-spoonful of made mustard mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot vinegar, garnish the dish with fried parsley (see Fig. 340), and serve at once. Blanquette of Rabbits.'—(1) Skin and clean a couple of Rabbits, cut them up, put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter and two or three small onions, and cook them for a few minutes. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, add Goz. of ham cut into small pieces, and cook for five minutes longer; then add 1 tea- cupful of Hour, and pour over sufficient broth and white wine in equal proportions to cover them. Stir it until the liquor boils, add a small bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and a dozen or so mushrooms, and boil quickly for eight or ten minutes to'reduce the liquor to one-tliird of its original quantity; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is done. When cooked, skim off the fat, add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little cream to thicken it, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, sprinkle over a little pepper and parsley, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, turn the con- tents of the saucepan on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Take two good Rabbits, bone them, and remove the fillets; cut off the hind quarters, put them into a saute pan •with some butter, cover with well-buttered paper, and put the pan in the oven for about lialf-an-hour. When done let them get cold, then cut up the meat into very small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with two or three truffles, Jib. of tongue chopped fine, 1 gill of white sauce, a little chicken glaze, and six yolks of eggs, season- ing with cayenne pepper and salt; bring to a boil, and then pour it out on to a flat dish and let it cool. When cold, proceed as for croquettes. When cold, cut the fillets287 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. into collops, put them into a stewpan with sliced truffles, button-mushrooms, and collops of tongue, also 4 pint of white sauce, and heat them. L ish up in the form of a dome, pour a little of the sauce over the blanquette, garnish with the croquettes, and serve. Boiled Rabbit.—Skin and clean a young Rabbit, truss it, put it in a basin of warm water, and let it soak for two hours or so, changing the water frequently. Take it out, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, put in a lump of stale breadcrumb, place the saucepan on a good clear fire, and boil for from thirty to forty-five minutes. Take out the Rabbit when done, remove the skewers, put it on a dish, cover it with thick onion sauce, and serve. If desired a bunch of sweet herbs may be boiled with the Rabbit to give it a flavour; and it may be served with finely- chopped onions, fried in butter, well seasoned, and thickened with bechamel sauce. A few slices of fried or broiled bacon or salt pork should always accompany it. Boiled Rabbits and Celery.—Prepare the Rabbits, and boil them. Trim and wash three heads of fine white celery, cut it into pieces about lin. long, put them into a saucepan, cover them well with water, add a small lump of salt, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain the celery, lay it in a stewpan with \ pint of milk and 2oz. of butter that has been kneaded with loz. of flour, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Shake the celery over the fire until the butter has melted and the sauce thickened. Drain the Rabbits, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with small rolled slices of ham and tongue, and serve. Boudins of Rabbits.—Put l£lb. of the flesh of a young wild Rabbit into a mortar, pound it well, and nib it through a fine sieve. Put lib. of panada (made with rice-flour and broth) into a mortar, and work it well; when it is quite cold, add the Rabbit pulp, and pound again for seven or eight minutes; then add Jib. of warm butter. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, mix in the yolks of three eggs and salt and pepper to taste, and work well for two or three minutes longer; then rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Turn the mixture out on to a large sheet of paper, making it into an oblong shape, fasten the paper round, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water for a couple of seconds. Remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let the forcemeat poach for ten or twelve minutes, taking care not to let the water boil again. Take it out, unwrap it, let it get cold, cut it into long slices, dip these in egg, breadcrumb them well, put them in a frying-pan with a lritle butter, and cook them on both sides until they are brown. Have ready about lqt. of green peas, boiled in salted water and thickened with white sauce and hutter; put this in a dome shape in the centre of a dish, place the boudins round it, overlapping one another, and serve. Boudins of Rabbit with. Celery Sauce.—Finely mince the white flesh of one or two Rabbits, put it in a mortar, pound it till quite smooth, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir in smoothly a sufficient quantity of boiling water to make a thick paste; stir it until it leaves the sides of the stewpan clean, then let it cool. Mix with the pounded Rabbit half its quantity of the above paste and a quarter of its quantity of butter. Pound the whole together in the mortar, season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of powdered spices, and pass the mixture again through the sieve. Work in gradually four or five yolks of eggs and three whites. Butter some small tin moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling- water to three-parts their height, and steam for half- an-hour. Meanwhile prepare a thick puree of celery, flavouring it nicely, and turn it into a hot dish; when the boudins are cooked, turn them out of their tins on to it, and serve as soon as possible. Braised Rabbit with Pistachio-nuts.—Clean and truss a large Rabbit as for roasting. Boil Jib. of rice, and when tender mix with it 3oz. of blanched and finely-chopped pistachio Rabbits—continued. nuts and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped sultana raisins. Stuff the Rabbit with this mixture. Pound two or three small onions to extract the juice. Rub the Rabbit well over with curry-powder and then with the onion juice. Put |lb. of butter in a braising-pan, melt it, put in the Rabbit, and braise it gently at the side of the fire, turning it occasionally; at the last, put it right over the fire and brown it. Put a heaped teacupful of well-washed rice into a stewpan with 2oz. each of blanched and sliced pis- tachio-nuts and almonds, 3oz. of sultana raisins, and sufficient white stock to cook them in. When done, strain the rice and other ingredients, pour them over the Rabbit, and stir them up well with the hutter. Fry a few thin slices of streaky bacon and tie them up in rolls. Place the Rabbit on a hot dish with the rice, &c., round it, garnish with the rolls of bacon, and serve while very hot. Broiled Rabbit.—(1) Skin and clean a Rabbit, cut it up into joints (four limbs and loin), wrap each one separately in pieces of well-buttered paper, put them in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and broil until done, tvuning' them frequently so as to cook on both sides. When cooked, remove the papers, put the pieces of Rabbit on a dish (see Fig. 341), mask them with a little anchovy or maitre- d’hotel butter, and serve very hot. (2) Skin, draw, and behead two or three young Rabbits, chop off the limbs and cut out the loins, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes to set the flesh. Take them out, drain them, dip them into well-beaten eggs, cover them well with breadcrumbs, dip them into clarified butter, put them on a warm gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until they are well done on both sides. Pour a little hot rich gravy on a dish, place the pieces of Rabbit on it, and serve. Broiled Rabbits in Paper Cases.—Skin and clean a couple of young Rabbits, cut them up into joints, and take out all the large bones. Prepare a stuffing 'with parsley, bacon, breadcrumbs, garlic, mushrooms, shallots, and salt and pepper. Cover the pieces of Rabbits over with this, wrap them round with a thin slice of fat bacon, put them into paper cases that have been well buttered, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Take them off, arrange them in their cases on a dish, and serve. Civet of Rabbit.—Clean a Rabbit, disjoint it, and cut the body into four pieces Cut 41b. of lean salt pork into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and toss it over the fire until the butter has melted; then put in the pieces of Rabbit, and fry them till lightly browned. Dredge them over with 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in 4 pint each of claret and broth, add eight or ten small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and two cloves, and put the stewpan over the fire until the contents boil; then move it to the side, and let them simmer gently until the Rabbit is tender. When cooked, put the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish, arrange the onions round them, strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve or strainer over them, and serve. Colloped Rabbits.—Cut the fillets of two or three Rabbits into collops, and place them round the inside of a well- buttered dish, with thick slices of truffles between them.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 288 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits — continued. Put the trimmings into a mortar, pound them well, mix them into some reduced Spanish sauce, pour the whole over the collops, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, place the dish in the oven, hake until cooked, and serve very hot. Curried Fillets of Rabbits.—Cut some fillets of Rabbits into halves, lard them, and braise them in the same way as sweetbreads. Thoroughly wash |lb. of the best rice, and boil it till nearly cooked; then drain it, put it into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter and 1 pinch of saffron, and finish cooking it. Put two or three slices of onions and the same of apples into a stewpan, with 4oz. of butter, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and five or six peppercorns, and toss them over the fire till brown and tender; dredge in 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and flour, and stir it till mixed; then pour in gradually 4 pint of white sauce and 1 pint of white stock. Boil the sauce for fifteen minutes, then strain it through a fine hah- sieve into another saucepan, skim it, season with salt and pepper and 1 pinch of sugar, and boil it up again. When cooked, glaze the fillets, brown them under a salamander, lay them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the prepared rice dome- shaped in the centre, pour a little of the sauce round the fillets, and serve them with the remainder in a sauceboat. Curried Rabbit.—(1) Cut a Rabbit into joints, and soak them in salted cold water for half-an-hour; then drain, and put them into a saucepan with A-lb. of salt pork cut into strips, one onion cut in slices, a small bunch of parsley nicely washed, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and suffi- cient cold water to barely cover; let it stew till the Rabbit is tender, then take the meat out and lay it on a dish near the fire to keep hot. Let the liquor boil for five minutes, then take it from the lire, let it stand a few minutes for the fat to rise, skim it, and strain it. Put it over the fire again, blend 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour with a little of it, and when it is almost boiling stir it into the rest, stirring till it thickens; then mix in 1 dessert-spoonful of good curry powder, put in the Rabbit and tiie pork, and keep all quite hot for a-quarter-of-an- hour without letting it boil; then take the meat out and pile it on a chafing-dish. Add \ pint of cream and two beaten eggs to the gravy, and stir it for one minute; then pour it over the meat, cover it, and let it stand in the chafing-dish for five minutes before serving. (2) Peel and slice a Spanish onion and one large sour apple, put them in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned; next stir in 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of curry paste, and 1 pint of broth. Cut the Rabbit into small pieces, splitting the head, dredge it with flour, and put it with a slice of bacon cut into small pieces in with the other ingredients. Put the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents gently until the meat is tender and will easily leave the bone (it will require about tliree- quarters-of an hour to cook). Prepare a border of plain- boiled rice upon a hot dish, and when the curry is cooked skim off all the fat, and turn it into the centre of the dish. Serve while very hot. (3) Cut the Rabbit up into moderate-sized pieces ; melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and then put in the pieces of Rabbit, with two or three peeled and thinly-sliced onions, and 4oz. of bacon cut into thin pieces. Toss the Rabbit over the fire until the pieces are lightly browned, then strew over them 1 table-spoonful each of flour and the best curry powder ; stir in 1 pint of common stock, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let the curry simmer at the side of the fire for an hour, or until the pieces of Rabbit are tender. Boil some rice till very soft, then beat it up with a small quantity of butter; pack it in a border mould, which stand in a bain-marie for a few minutes. Turn the border out of the mould on to a hot dish, and lay the pieces of Rabbit in the centre. Skim the fat off the sauce, move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Pour the sauce over the Rabbit, and serve. Rabbits—continued. (4) Cut the remains of some cold cooked Rabbit into small pieces. Work 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder well with jdb. of butter. Peel and slice four or five large onions and two shallots. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the onions and shallots, and fry them until nicely browned ; next put in the mixed curry powder and butter, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then put in the pieces of Rabbit, and fry them for fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring frequently. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. (5) Put lib. of pickled pork into a saucepan with twc or three onions and a sprig or two of thyme ; pour over lqt. of water, put the saucepan on the fire, and boil until done. Skin and clean a young Rabbit, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil it also until quite tender. Take out both the pork and Rabbit, and cut the pork into thin slices and the Rabbit into joints. Place the head chopped in halves, liver, neck, &c., back into the saucepan with the onions, together with all the bones of the pork, put the saucepan on the fire, and boil for an hour, skimming frequently; then strain the liquor into another saucepan, reduce it, add the pieces of Rabbit and pork, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour. Take out the onions, rub them through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix them up with 1 teacupful of milk or cream in which 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of curry powder and curry paste have been mixed to a smooth paste. Put this into the saucepan with the Rabbit, stir it well over the fire until the liquor is quite thick, turn the contents of the pan out on to a dish, and serve with boiled rice. (6) Cut some cold cooked Rabbit into convenient-sized pieces. Peel and slice a large onion, put it into a stew- pan with 4oz. of butter, and fry it until nicely browned; dredge it over with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and fry it two or three minutes longer; next put in the pieces of Rabbit, dust them over lightly with salt, and toss them over the fire for two or three minutes. Moisten with about § breakfast-cupful of milk, stirring it in slowly; put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmer- ing at the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Squeeze the juice of a small lemon into the curry, turn it out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. (7) Cut the meat of a cold cooked Rabbit into small pieces. Mix 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of curry powder into a paste with jjlb. of butter. Peel and chop six moderate-sized onions, put them into a stewpan with three finely-minced shallots and a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly browned, taking care not to burn them. Put the curry paste in with the onions, and when it has dissolved put in the pieces of meat, and stir them over the fire until they are very hot. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. Devilled Rabbit.—Cut a Rabbit into joints and parboil them; when they are perfectly cold, score them to the bone, making the cuts about |in. apart. Melt over the fire 3oz. of butter, mix with it a little cayenne pepper, salt, and mustard, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 1 tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce; stir all this well to- gether, rub every piece of Rabbit with it, rubbing it well into the scoring, and broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, turning the pieces as soon as they begin to drip. When they are brown, lay them on a hot dish, melt some butter, and pour it over them. Let them lie in this for three or four minutes, turning them frequently. If any of the mixture is left, pour it over them, and serve. Epigramme of Rabbits.—Cut the fillets oft' three large Rabbits, and divide each fillet into halves ; lard half of these, and leave the remainder plain. Braise the larded fillets like sweetbreads, brush them over with glaze, and brown them under a salamander. Put the plain fillets into a frying-pan with a lump of butter and the juice of half a lemon, dust some salt and pepper over them, and fry them slowly, turning when done on one side andA, SHOWS MODE OF FORMING FOOT OVER A BASIN, WITH SUPPORTS DRAWN IN DOTTED DINES ; B, THE BASKET INVERTED, ALSO SHAPED OVER A BASIN ; OR Stage for Fruit, fitting into the Basket; p, the Basket completed and laden with Fruit.289 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rabbits—continued. finishing the other. While the fillets are cooking, pre- pare the following sauce: Pour 1 pint of brown sauce into a saucepan, add \ pint of broth, boil it, skim it, then mix in A teacupful of tomato sauce, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, some blanched mushrooms, and some small Rabbit forcemeat quenelles, seasoning with salt anti pepper. Lay a pile of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, then arrange the fillets on it, putting the plain ones one side and the larded ones the other. Mask the plain fillets with a small quantity of the sauce, pour the rest with the quenelles and mushrooms in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 342), and serve. Essence of Rabbit.—Put some bones and any pieces or trimmings of Rabbits that can be procured into a sauce- pan with a carrot, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and two or three cloves; pour in a pint of Madeira, and boil quickly till the moisture has entirely evaporated ; then pour in 3qts. of broth, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the liquor simmer for nearly two hours by the side of the fire, skimming it occa- sionally. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin or a silk sieve into a basin, and when it has cooled slightly skim it well. Keep in tightly-corked bottles for use. Fillets of Rabbit.—(1) Cut the fillets off three Rabbits, trim them to a nice shape, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of water to make a stiff paste, and when boiling- take it off the fire and let it get cold. Take some of the flesh that is left on the Rabbits after the fillets have been removed, put it into a mortar with half its quantity of the above paste, a quarter the quantity of butter, five or six mushrooms, and pound the whole well together. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve, return it to the mortar, and beat it up with the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Form the mixture into small balls, lay them in a buttered stewpan, leaving a clear space on one side, in which pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover the balls; dust them over with salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Lay the fillets in a thickly-buttered tin, dust over with salt, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in the oven. Spread a puree of tomatoes over a hot dish, drain the quenelles, and arrange them in a circle, alternately with the fillets, over the puree. Fill the centre with button-mushrooms that have been boiled in salted water and lemon-juice, and serve with as little delay as possible. (2) Skin and clean four Rabbits, cut off all the fillets, trim them as nearly as possible to one size, put them into a basin with a marinade of lemon-juice, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, slices of shallot, and salt and pepper, and let them remain for a couple of hours. Take them out, drain them, dip them into well-beaten white of egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them to a golden brown. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish with poivrade or Spanish sauce poured over them, and serve. Fillets of Rabbit a la Valencienne.—Skin the Rabbits, cut the fillets from the bones, and if large cut each fillet into halves; trim them to the shape of a small cutlet, beat them, put them in a buttered saute-pan, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, dredge them over with Rabbits—continued. salt and pepper, and place them over a moderate fire, turning when cooked on one side and finishing the other. The fillets should not be browned. When quite firm, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pour a little more than 1 pint of white sauce into the saute-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock, stir it over the fire, and reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon; then mix in £ teacupful of cream and a little lemon-juice, and season with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Fillets of Rabbit with Cucumber.—Peel and thinly slice a couple of large cucumbers, put them into a basin with vinegar and salt, and let them macerate for a couple of hours, turning them frequently. Take out the slices of cucumber, arrange them on a board, place another weighted board on the top, and let the cucumber remain thus until cold and moderately dry. Put it into a saucepan with a little butter, warm it at the side of the fire, add a seasoning of thyme, chives, parsley, and laurel-leaf, place the pan on the fire, and stir well to give it a light golden colour. Sprinkle over a small quantity of flour, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock, set the pan back at the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the liquor thickens, which will be in about half-an-liour. Cut the fillets from one or two roasted Rabbits, put them into the saucepan with the cucumber, warm them thoroughly but without boiling, add salt and pepper to taste, turn the contents of the pan out on to a dish, and serve. Fillets of Rabbit with Liver Sauce.—Cut off the fillets of one or two plump young Rabbits, trim them nicely, and lard them with thin fillets of fat bacon. Chop the trim- mings of the Rabbits, and put them in a mortar with half their bulk of paste panada and 4oz. of butter, and pound the whole until smooth, seasoning with a moderate quantity of powdered spices and sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and stir into it the yolks of three eggs and the white of one that have been beaten together with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and strained. Mould the mixture into pieces the shape and size of an egg with two table spoons, put them into a buttered saute-pan, pour in at the side sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil for ten minutes. Lay the larded fillets in a thickly-buttered baking-dish, dust them over with salt, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them in the oven. When cooked, drain the quenelles, arrange them alternately with the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, garnish them with button mush- rooms, and pour in the centre a sauce made as follows: Blanch the livers of the Rabbits, and finely chop them ; put loz. of butter into a stewpan with ^ table-spoonful of flour and 1 table-spoonful of minced shallots, and stir them over the fire for three or four minutes ; next pour in a sufficient quantity of clear gravy to make the sauce, put in small quantities of powdered sweet herbs and spices, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 wineglassful of red wine, and stir over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, put in the livers, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Put in the sauce 4oz. of butter in small pieces and the strained juice of half a lemon. Serve the fillets while very hot. Fillets of Rabbit with Parmesan Cheese.—Cut the fillets off' two or three Rabbits, trim off the inner skin and small sinews, beat them lightly with a cutlet-bat dipped in water, trim them, dust them over with salt and pepper, put them in a baking-dish with plenty of butter, and bake them. When taken out of the oven, press the fillets between two dishes until cold. Mix in equal quantities some grated Parmesan cheese and grated breadcrumb, and season them with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs. When the fillets are cold, dip them in warmed butter, roll them in prepared crumbs, and leave them until the butter has cooled on them; then dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumb them again, only using plain breadcrumbs this time. Leave the fillets for an hour or two. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until boiling; For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ttc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. IITHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 290 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saucc£ referred to, see under their special heads, Rabbits—continued. then put in the fillets, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain them for a minute or two on a sheet of paper, then arrange them on a dish over which has heen spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve; or they may be served with, macaroni and cheese, or a puree of tomatoes. Fillets of Rabbit with Potatoes.—Divide the fillets of two or three Rabbits each into two or three pieces, beat them with a cutlet-bat or the flat of a large knife to an equal thickness, trim them to the shape of small cutlets, and put in a buttered saute-pan ; squeeze a little lemon- juice over them, season with salt and pepper, and fry them over a moderate fire, turning them when done on one side to cook the other. Cut the same number of pieces of bam into the same shape as the fillets, put them in a sauce- pan with a small quantity of broth, and make them hot. When the fillets are firm to the touch of the fork they are cooked; then drain them, and arrange them in a circle alternately with the ham on a potato mound on a hot dish. Pour 1 pint of white sauce and half that quantity of broth into the saute-pan, stir it over the fire, and reduce it till it coats the spoon; then put in some blanched heads of mushrooms and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Boil the sauce up again, and finish it with h tea- cupful of cream. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Fillets of Rabbit with Truffle Puree.—Trim and lard the large fillets of half-a-dozen Rabbits, roll the ends round a little in the form of the tail of a J, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them; then take them out and glaze. Put a croustade filled with truffle purde on a dish, place the fillets round it, porn- over a little hot half-glaze, and serve at once. Forcemeat of Rabbit.—(1) Chop 2lb. of fat bacon and lib. of the flesh of a wild Rabbit, pound it well in a mortar, and flavour with a little sweet herbs; add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and a little salt. When well mixed, it will be ready for use. (2) Cut off the meat of one large Rabbit or two small ones, put it into a mortar, pound it well, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Take a good calf’s udder (pre- viously boiled), and when it is cold remove the skin and pound it in a mortar. Weigh it, and to every pound of udder add 6oz. of panada and lib. of Rabbit-meat. Season with a little nutmeg grated, a little shallot, salt and pepper, and mix well. Take three eggs and add them gradually, then three more yolks only, and when tho- roughly mixed it is ready for use. Fricassee of Rabbit.—(1) Cut a Rabbit into nice-sized pieces, and steep them in cold water for a couple of hours; then blanch them in boiling salted water, and refresh them with cold water. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and mix them over the fire; then stir in gradually breakfast-cupfuls of white stock that is quite free of fat, add a couple of small onions, a few cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Drain the pieces of Rabbit, put them into the sauce with some button-mushrooms, and stew gently at the side of the fire. When cooked, pile the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish, and arrange the mushrooms in a circle round them. Strain the cooking-liquor, return it to the saucepan, and boil it up again. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of half a lemon, and stir them into the sauce, first moving it off the fire, as it should not boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. Pour the sauce over the Rabbit, and serve. (2) Carefully skin two Rabbits, draw them, wash the insides with 1 teacupful of vinegar, and save it, together with the blood, after straining them through a fine cloth to free them from any fur which might get mixed with them. Wipe the Rabbits with a wet cloth to free them from fur, cut them in small pieces about 2in. square, and roll them in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Peel and slice one Spanish onion or half-a-dozen small ones, put them in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and the Rabbits, and quickly brown them; then pour in 1 Rabbits—continued. breakfast-cupful of milk and sufficient boiling water with the vinegar and blood to cover them ; season with salt and cayenne, cover the frying-pan, and stew them gently for about half-an-hour, or until they are tender. Serve very hot. (3) Skin and clean a couple of young Rabbits, chop them into joints, splitting the head in halves; dredge them well with salt, pepper, and flour, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry them a light brown. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, one or two truffles, two or three shallots finely chopped, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy, cover the saucepan, place it at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for thirty minutes. Skim off all the scum, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or other ketchup to the mixture, together with the juice of half a lemon, remove the herbs, put in a small piece of butter kneaded with flour, place the saucepan on the fire, and boil until the liquor is thick and quite smooth. Remove all the fat, pour the fricassee out on to a dish, surround with pieces of lemon for a garnish, and serve very hot. (4) Skin and clean a couple of Rabbits, chop off their heads and necks, and cut the remainder into joints ; put these into a basin of warm water, and let them soak for an hour or so. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water or thin veal broth, and add one onion, three chopped shallots, half a blade of pounded mace, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, the thin peel of half a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, and a very small quantity of salt. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire, cover it, and simmer the contents gently for thirty minutes; then remove the herbs, lemon-peel, and onion, and put in a small lump of butter well kneaded with flour. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil up quickly, and skim well and frequently. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, beat them up well with a little cream and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, add them to the mixture in the saucepan, and toss or shake it in one direction until the liquor is quite thick. Remove the pan from the fire, add the juice of half a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with small pieces of lemon for a garnish. (5) Disjoint a Rabbit, and steep it in cold salted water for an hour; then drain the pieces, dry them on a clcth, put them in a stewpan with plenty of butter, and toss them about over the fire until lightly browned. Moisten the pieces to height with clear stock that has been well freed from fat, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, with two small onions, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stew the Rabbit gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, pile the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish ; strain their cooking-liquor, return it to the stewpan, and boil it up again. Beat the yolk of an egg with the juice of half a lemon, strain it, and stir it into the sauce, first moving the stewpan to the side of the fire, as the egg must not boil. Pour the sauce over the Rabbit, garnish with small cooked mushrooms, and serve while hot. Fried Rabbit.—Skin and draw a Rabbit, cut it up into joints, dividing the back into halves; sprinkle them well with flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with boiling hot butter, and fry them for about fifteen minutes, by which time they should be a light brown colour and quite done. Sprinkle the centre of a dish over with a shallot very finely minced, pour over this 1 tea- cupful of mushroom ketchup and about Ihoz. of butter, both made hot, place the pieces of Rabbit on this, and serve. Fried Rabbit with Mushrooms.—Skin and draw a Rabbit, cut o f all the flesh lengthwise from the back, divide this into squares of equal size, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until quite done and tender. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, put them on a dish, place a stewed mushroom on each (see Fig. 343), pour round a little of the mushroom stock, or thin sauce highly flavoured with mushroom ketchup, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 291 Rabbits—continued. Galantine of Rabbit.—Skin and clean two or three Rabbits, bone them, leaving the head still remaining in its place, and cut oil’ a little of the meat from the insides of each. Chop this meat very small, and mix it up with an equal quantity of finely-minced bacon; add a little powdered herbs and minced truffles, and salt and pepper to taste. Lay the Rabbits on a napkin, open, and with the skin, side downwards, put a thin coating of the forcemeat on them, on that again put a layer of ham, bacon, and truffles cut into thin slices, then more forcemeat and slices of ham, &e., until they are filled; then roll up into the original shape, tying securely with string or sewing them up. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, place the Rabbits on these, and surround them with slices of carrots and onions, laurel-leaves, thyme, and parsley, and salt and black pepper to taste. Pour over sufficient stock and white wine to moisten them, cover with slices of fat bacon, and then with well-buttered paper; place the saucepan on the lire, and cook slowly until the meat is tender. After the Rabbits have remained in the saucepan off the lire for half-an-hour, remove the paper and slices of bacon, take them out, and put them on a dish. Strain the liquor into another sauce- pan, skim it well, add a little whipped white of egg to clarify it, pour it over the Rabbits, and let it get cold and jellied. If preferred, the clarified liquor may be allowed to get cold ; it will then form a jelly, and can be cut into shapes, and used as a garnish for the dish. Fig. 343. Fried Rabbit avith Mushrooms. Gibelotte of Rabbits.—This is a kind of fricassee very popular in France and more especially in Paris, where it is prepared to perfection. Remove the skin from a couple of Rabbits, clean them, and chop them up into rather large-sized pieces. Put them in a basin with two onions and a few sweet herbs, baste them with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and let them remain for two hours or so to macerate in this. Take them out, drain them, wipe them dry with a cloth, put them in a saucepan with a little melted lard or fat bacon, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and fry them until they are dry and of a light colour. Dredge over a little flour and pour over sufficient white wine to cover them, and boil quickly for seven or eight minutes, stirring continually; then add 6oz. of streaky bacon cut up into small cubes, and a bunch of sweet herbs; remove the pan to the side of the fire, and continue the cooking. When the meats are nearly done, add fifteen or sixteen raw mushrooms, and cook for ten minutes longer; then add two dozen small onions glazed, sprinkle a little pepper over the onions and mush- rooms, remove the sweet herbs, turn the remainder out on to a dish, and serve. Grenadines of Rabbit.—Use some rather thick fillets of Rabbit, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan with a small piece of glaze, and when melted put in the fillets and fry them until tender. When cooked, brown the larded part of the fillets under a salamander. Put the fillets on a hot dish, garnish them with cooked truffles and mushrooms, and serve them with a sauceboatful of bechamel sauce. Hashed Rabbit a la Portugaise.—Free the flesh of a cold roasted Rabbit from skin and bone and any tough parts, and chop it very small. Break up the bones of the Rabbit, and put them into a steAvpan Avith any trimmings of meat, 1 pint of Avhite stock, and h pint of Avhite Avine, seasoning Avith salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. SteAV Rabbits—continued. the bones gently for nearly an hour, then strain the liquor through a hue hair sieA’e. Pour it back into the steAA’pan, put in the hashed meat, Avith 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces, a small quantity of saffron, and salt to taste. Stir the hash at the side of the fire for a feAV minutes Avithout letting it boil, and Avlien the meat is hot turn it into a hot dish, garnish Avith poached eggs, and serve. Jugged Rabbits.—Take tAAro Rabbits, clean them carefully, and cut them into joints. If the joints Avlien cut are alloAved to lie in milk-and-water all night, it Avill be an im- provement. Lay some thin slices of salted pork at the bottom of an earthenAvare jar, on them put some of the joints of Rabbit, streAV over a little chopped parsley and finely-minced onion, over this lay another slice or tAVO of pork, then joints of Rabbit, onion, and parsley, and so on till all is used up. Pour in \ pint of gravy, cover the jar close, stand it in a pan of boiling Avater in the oven, and let the contents cook for tAvo hours, or until the meat is tender. When quite done, arrange the pork and Rabbit on a hot dish, strain the gravy into a basin, and stand it in cold Avater for a minute to make the fat rise; skim this off, and add to the gravy 1 dessert-spoonful of red- currant jelly and a little broAvned flour that has been blended Avith 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy. Put the gravy into a saucepan, let it boil for a feAV minutes, and pour it over the meat on the dish. A feAV forcemeat balls may be served in the gravy if desired. Legs of Rabbits a la Maintenon.—Put a small quantity of butter into a saucepan, Avith a feAV small pieces of bacon, salt, pepper, spices, bay-leaf, and parsley, place the pan on a *s1oav fire, and cook them a little. Put in the boned legs of as many Rabbits as required, and cook them gently until they are quite tender; then take them out and let them cool. Cut pieces of paper a little larger than the legs, so that they will Avrap round, put a thin slice of bacon on them, then the legs on that, then a little of the mixture they Avere cooked in; cover this over Avith another layer of bacon, and wrap the paper round the Avhole. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, broil them, put them on a dish Avith a napkin spread over it, and serve hot. Marbled Rabbits.—Select large plump Rabbits, clean them, and take out the livers and kidneys, Avhich put in a saucepan with a small piece of butter, and cook them OA’er a gentle lire until tender. Blanch the Rabbits in lukewarm Avater, drain and put them in a steAA’pan, Avith an onion stuck AA’ith four or live cloves, a bunch of SAveet herbs, tAvo bay-leaves, salt and pepper in moderate quan- tities, and cold water to cover them. When boiling, move the steAvpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmer- ing gently until the Rabbits are tender. Pick all the meat off the bones, and cut that from the legs and back into neat slices. Put the bones back into the steAvpan Avith the cooking-liquor, add £oz. of gelatine that has been soaked in Avater, and boil gently until the liquor is thickly reduced. While the liquor is simmering, put in it three or four slices of bacon or ham, leave them till cooked, and then take them out. Pick out the best pieces of the Rabbit- flesh, and mince the remainder very finely AA’ith an equal quantity of bacon, seasoning it Avith chopped parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Bind this mixture AA’ith beaten egg, form it into small balls, and cook them for ten minutes in the above liquor; then take them out and drain them. Strain the liquor, pour a small quantity of it into a mould, and tAvist it about until the Avhole of the interior is coated Avith it (it sets better if the mould is first rinsed out AA’ith cold Avater). Fill the mould Avith the pieces of meat, slices of bacon cut into small pieces, the balls, a feAV halves of hard-boiled eggs, and the livers and kidneys, Avhich should be cut into small pieces. Season the liquor to taste, giving it rather a sharp flavour with lemon-juice, pour it over the contents of the mould, and put it on ice or in a cool larder. If possible, leaA’e it until the following morning. Before serving, scrape all the fat off the top, dip the mould quickly in warm AA’ater to loosen the jelly, then turn the contents on to a dish over Avhich has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads. U292 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. garnish it to taste. This makes a very pretty dish if the various colours are made to contrast nicely. Matelote of Rabbit.—Skin and clean a Rabbit and an eel, cut the Rabbit without its head into joints, and the eel into short pieces. Put a little butter into a saucepan with a dozen or so small onions, brown them a little over the fire, then take them out; treat the pieces of Rabbit in the same way. Put 1 teaspoonful of flour into the saucepan with the butter and Rabbit, stir well until it is smooth, add the pieces of eel, the onions, a few chopped mushrooms, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, a small bouquet of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic cut in halves. Pour over sufficient white wine and rich broth to moisten, put the saucepan on a clear tire, and boil very quickly until the whole is cooked. Place the pieces of Rabbit in the centre of a dish with the pieces of eel round it. Remove the garlic and herbs from the sauce, boil it up for two or three minutes, pour it over the Rabbit, and serve very hot. Minced Rabbit.—(1) Finely mince the flesh of any cold remains of Rabbit, and mix with it a third of its quantity of minced fat bacon. Season the mixture to taste with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Turn it into a stewpan, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of good stock, but do not make it too liquid, and stew it gently for fifteen minutes; then add a piece of butter that has been kneaded with a little Hour. When ready, turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croft tons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Use any remains of Rabbit that has been recently cooked, free the pieces from skin, and mince them. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and mix them well over the fire; then put in the mince, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, spices, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs. Moisten the mince with stock, but do not make it too liquid, and keep it at the edge of the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg up with the juice of half a lemon, and strain it. When the mince is thoroughly heated, stir the beaten egg in with it, and add a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croft tons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve it at once. Mumbled Rabbits.—Cut off all the meat from a couple of Rabbits that have been boiled and are quite hot, mince it very fine, and mix in the juice and grated or finely- chopped rind of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Put the mince into a sauce- pan with fib. of butter and nine beaten eggs, place the pan on the fire, and stir well for about fifteen minutes. Turn the contents of the saucepan out on to a hot dish, garnish with pieces of fried bread and slices of lemon alternately (see Fig. 344), and serve hot. Potted Rabbit.—-Draw, skin, and clean two or three young Rabbits, chop off the hind-legs at the thigh, and put them together with all the flesh into a small saucepan, packing them in as tightly as possible and sprinkling them well with powdered mace and allspice, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Put several large pieces of butter on the top, which should be as flat as possible, cover with the lid, put the saucepan into a slow oven, and bake gently for from two to two hours-and-a-half. Let the meat remain in the pan for two or three days, then put it into Rabbits—con tin ued. pots, cover the tops with hot butter, let this cool, and the meat is ready for use. The livers may also be added, if desired, and are a great improvement. Preserved Rabbit.—Bone a Rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham, season it well with pepper and salt both inside and out, roll it up tightly, beginning with the legs, and tie it tightly with twine. Put it into a stewpan over the fire with some oil, a little thyme, basil, and a bay-leaf, and keep it over the fire until the meat is tender, but do not let the liquor boil. When the Rabbit is cooked enough, take it from the stewpan, drain, and put it away till cold ; then cut it into small pieces, put these into bottles, fill up with oil, and tie them over with wet bladders. When required for use, take them from the bottles, cut them into fillets, lay them on a dish, and garnish them with sprays of parsley and a little oil. Pulled Rabbit.—Parboil a couple of Rabbits in water, with a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and an onion; then take the Rabbits up, pull the flesh to flakes, add to it the livers boiled and bruised, a small quantity of salt, chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, and pepper. Put this over the fire in a stewpan, with a little of the liquor the Rabbits were boiled in and loz. of butter rolled in flour, shake it round now and then till it boils, let it boil ten minutes, and serve. Rabbits au Gratin.—Cut off all the flesh from a couple of cold roasted Rabbits, or any pieces that may be left, remove all the skin and sinew, chop it very fine, put it into a saucepan, and pour over sufficient reduced bechamel sauce to moisten it. Put a little more of this reduced sauce into a silver dish, and gratin it, or boil it in the dish till it sticks to the bottom but does not burn. Smear this over the dish, let it get cold, put a border of soft bread round the inside, place the mince in the centre, smooth the surface with a knife, sprinkle the top over with breadcrumbs, then baste it with warm butter, and then again more breadcrumbs and butter. Brown the top with a salamander, and on no account must the dish be put into the oven again, or the gratin would burn and the effect be spoilt. Decorate the dish with slices of bread fried in butter and cut into various shapes, and serve. Rabbits en Friteau.—Skin some young Rabbits, cut each one into four pieces, put them in a dish with some slices of shallots, a sprig of parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, and some lemon-juice,-and leave them for three or four hours. Drain the pieces of Rabbit, flour them well, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, dress them on a fancy-edged dish paper on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Rabbit a 1’Italienne.—Cut up the Rabbits at the joints, and trim each piece neatly. Rub a stewpan over with garlic, put in the pieces of Rabbit, with plenty of olive oil, and toss them about until they begin to brown. Moisten the Rabbit to height with white wine, add two or three peppercorns, a small quantity of bruised coriander-seeds, a sprig or two of rosemary, and salt to taste, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender. Finely mince in equal quantities some capers, shallots, and boned anchovies, put them in a stewpan with some olive oil, and fry them for a few minutes; then dredge them lightly over with flour, moisten them with a sufficient quantity of gravy to make the sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered spice, ami stir the whole until boiling. When the pieces of Rabbit are cooked, pile them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Rabbit a la Jardiniere.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, dis- joint it, and put it into a saucepan, with a good supply of any vegetables that are in season, a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste ; then pour over sufficient broth or gravy to cover them, and cook gently on the side of the fire until the meat is quite tender. Takeout the pieces of Rabbit and arrange them on a dish. Rub the vege- tables through a fine sieve, put them round, and serve with a garnish of fried thin slices of bacon.2 93 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. Rabbit Broth.—Skin and clean a young Rabbit, disjoint it, put it into a saucepan with some veal or beef bones, a few onions and carrots, a sprig or two of parsley, a small quantity of salt, and a good supply of water. Place the saucepan on the fire, and boil for live or six hours, skimming frequently as soon as it boils. When done, strain the broth into a soup-tureen, and serve. If preferred, the meat of the Rabbit as well as the vegetables may be left in the soup. Rabbit Collops served in a Border.—Skin and clean half-a-dozen young Rabbits, cut off the fillets, and trim the twelve larger ones into collops; put them into a saute- pan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, place a little more butter on the top of each, and toss them over a clear fire until done. Trim the twelve small or minion fdlets, stick a small piece of truffle on the thick end of each, making it adhere by means of white of egg, curve them, put them into a saute-pan with a small quantity of butter, and cook them also. Well butter a plain border-mould, fdl it with Rabbit forcemeat, put it into a saucepan of boiling water or in the bain- marie over the fire, and let it remain until the forcemeat is poached. Turn it out on to a dish, glaze it, and put the small fillets on it. Mix the collops with a little Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Rabbit, put them in the centre of the border, and serve with Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. Rabbit Cream.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, cut off all the meat from the bones, mince it, and pound it in a mortar. Rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and pour in a little sweet cream. Rub the inside of a casserole shape or mould with butter, put the mixture in it, having orna- mented the sides of the shape or mould with slices of truffles cut in various shapes, put a piece of paper on the top, cover and tie this over with a cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water. Cover over the pan, set it on the side of the fire, and keep the water hot without boiling for about two hours, by which time the preparation should be steamed and cooked. Turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre with cooked peas, asparagus points, or mush- rooms, pour round bechamel or mushroom sauce, and serve. Rabbit Croquettes. —Cut off the flesh from the legs and back of a Rabbit, remove all the skin ami gristle, mix in an equal bulk both of truffles and mushrooms, and cut the whole up into small pieces; pour over some thick Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Rabbit, and mix well. Put the mince on to a hoard or table well sprinkled with sifted breadcrumbs, divide it into as many equal- sized parts as wanted, roll them up into balls or cork shapes, dip them into egg well-beaten with oil, salt, and pepper, cover them with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out, drain, dust over with salt, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with tomato, poivrade, or other sauce in a sauceboat. Rabbit Cutlets.—(1) Cut off the hind-legs of four young Rabbits, remove the bones without opening the legs, stuff up the holes with seasoning and a little veal, bacon, ham, and sweet herbs, and sew them up into the shape of little hams, with the thin end bone put at the top for a mock cutlet bone; dust over with salt and pepper, put them into a flat stewpan with a little butter, and braise well on both sides. Turn them out, on a board with another one on the top, and let them cool. Trim them to the shape of cutlets, dip them into egg, then into breadcrumbs, put them .again into a flat stewpan, and brown them to a nice colour on both sides. Put a paper ruffle round the bones, dish the cutlets in a circle, mask them with piquant or eolbert sauce, and serve very hot. (2) Skin, clean, and cut off the fillets of three Rabbits, cut each fillet again in halves, trim them to the shape of cutlets, and insert a small rib bone in the thin ends. Rip the cutlets into egg, breadcrumb them well, put them into a frying-pan with oil, and fry to a light brown When cooked, place the cutlets on a border of mashed Rabbits—continued. potatoes on a hot dish, arrange more of the mashed potatoes in a pyramid in the centre, put a circle of cooked carrots and turnips alternately round it, pour over the whole some reduced brown sauce, and serve. (3) Cut off the hind-legs of four young Rabbits, bone them without opening, and stuff them with highly- seasoned forcemeat; tie them round with thread to the shape of small hams, put them in a flat saucepan with a little butter, and cook gently on both sides. Take them out, put them under a slight weight, and let them cool. Trim them to the shape of cutlets, insert the thin leg bone at the points of each, dip them into egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry them a light colour in a little butter. Take them out when done, drain, put a small paper ruffle on the bones, arrange them in a circle on a dish, and serve with eolbert or piquant sauce poured over or round them. Rabbit Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Chop off the hind- legs of two or three Rabbits, bone and trim them to the shape of cutlets, cover them over with Rabbit force- meat mixed with sweet herbs and breadcrumbs, put a small bone in the thin ends to give them the appearance of cutlets, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and warm them. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish or board with a weight on the top to flatten, and let them get quite cold; then trim them round, dip them in egg, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done to a light brown. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, pour over thin tomato sauce, and serve very hot. Rabbit Dumplings.—Bone a Rabbit, cut the meat into small nice-shaped pieces, nib them well with lemon-juice, then roll them in a mixture of finely-chopped herbs and shallots seasoned with white pepper. Wrap each piece of meat in a good pudding crust, fastening it securely so that the juice may not escape, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil slowly for an hour. Mean- while, make some nice well-flavoured sauce with t he bones and trimmings of the Rabbit, and when strained squeeze the fig. 34o. Rabbit Dumplings. juice of a lemon in it. Drain the dumplings well when cooked, place them on a hot dish, and serve at once with the sauce in a sauceboat, and a little poured over each and round the dish. See Fig. 345. Rabbit Entree.—Skin and clean a couple of Rabbits, cut them into joints, put them inco a saucepan with milk, add a seasoning of shallot, peppercorns, cloves, &c., but no salt, and stew slowly until they are quite tender. Take them out and keep them hot; strain the liquor into another pan, thicken with cornflour, sprinkle in salt to taste, put back the pieces of Rabbit, and keep them warm. Put .jib. of macaroni on to stew in rich brown stock. Place the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish; add the yolk of an egg to the liquor, pour it over, garnish with the macaroni and some blanched parsley, and pour over a little rich stock. Rabbit Forcemeat Cakes. —Cut off all the flesh from three young Rabbits, and chop it up small. Take an equal Aveiglit of fat bacon, cut it up also, put it into a saute-pan over a clear fire, melt it, and add the pieces of Rabbit and a seasoning of thyme, bay-leaf, parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Stir Avell, and cook for a few minutes; then turn the whole into a mortar, and pound it well, adding half the bulk of bread panada. When well pounded, rub the ivliole through a fine sieve into a basin, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Rabbit and three eggs. Mix thoroughly, anil add twoTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 294 For details respecting Culinaru Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. or three truffles, cut up into very small pieces. Have ready two round moulds well buttered, one being larger than the other, fill them both with the forcemeat, put them in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and poach the forcemeat. Take them out, and let them get quite cold; then turn the cakes out, trim them, and glaze with a little game glaze. Put a round rice socle in a dish, pour over montpellier butter, put the larger cake of forcemeat on it with the smaller one on top, pile a little aspic on this, garnish both the tops and base of the cakes with pieces of aspic, and serve. Rabbit Grenadines a la Pinanciere.—Lard a dozen fillets of Rabbits, put them into a saute-pan with mirepoix to about three-quarters their height, cook them, ami glaze them. Fill a well-buttered plain border-mould with Rabbit forcemeat, put it in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of boiling water, and poach the forcemeat. Turn the border of forcemeat out on to a dish, fill the centre with a ragout of truffles, cocks’ combs, kernels, fat livers, and Rabbit forcemeat quenelles, put the fillets round the top of the border, and serve. Rabbit-Liver-and-Lemon Sauce.—Take the fresh and per- fectly sound liver of a Rabbit, wash it well, and boil it for about five minutes in 1 teacupful of water; then either chop it very fine or pound it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve. Pare off the yellow rind of a lemon as thinly as possible, then peel oft' all the white, and cut the lemon into slices rather thicker than a crown piece; take out the pips, and cut the slices into small squares. Chop a little of the yellow peel very fine, add it, together with the squares of lemon, to the liver, put both liver and lemon into 1 gill of melted butter sauce in a saucepan, and let them get quite hot, but do not allow them to boil. Serve in a sauce-tureen. Rabbit-Liver Sauce.—Stew a Rabbit’s liver in veal gravy till tender, then finely chop it, together -with a little shallot and a few pot herbs. Put this back into the gravy to thicken it, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, and serve. Rabbits’ Livers fried with Bacon.—(1) Wash two livers and disgorge the vessels of clotted blood, dry thoroughly, and cut into slices or collops. Have ready some fine breadcrumbs mixed with finely-chopped parsley, and a beaten egg. Wipe over the pieces of liver with the juicy part of a lemon, roll them in the breadcrumbs, then dip them in the egg, and roll them a second time in the breadcrumbs and parsley. Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon, and after trimming it thoroughly, roll it up, and tie in two places with bits of thread; cook these in the frying-pan, and when done, drain them on crumpled paper; then fry the pieces of liver in the same manner, pile them in the centre of a dish, squeeze a little lemon- juice over, and arrange the bacon round the edge. An ornamental paper over the dish adds to the appearance. Garnish with fried parsley. (2) Wash two or three Rabbits’ livers, and thoroughly disgorge and then dry them. Fry a few slices of fat bacon, take them out when cooked, and lay them on a flat dish. Set these in the oven to keep warm. Dust the livers over with flour, and cook them either whole or cut into slices in the fat that has melted from the bacon. When done, lay the livers in the centre of the dish on the bacon, and serve very hot. Rabbit Mulligatawny.—Cut the best pieces of meat off a fine Ostend Rabbit, trim them into nice-shaped small pieces, and season them with a small quantity of powdered cloves. Put the bones and trimmings of the Rabbit into a sauce- pan with plenty of water, and boil them for three or four hours to make a nice stock. Place a large lump of butter into a stewpan, put in the pieces of meat with two sliced onions, and fry them until nicely browned. Dredge 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour over the fried ingredients, and pour in the stock, first straining it; then add 1 saltspoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon, and keep the whole simmering gently for fifteen minutes. When ready, pour the soup Rabbits—continued. into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a dish of plain boiled rice. Rabbit with Olives.—Clean a nice large Rabbit, cut it into about ten pieces, put them into a stewpan with some chopped fat bacon and a small lump of butter, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain the fat off the pieces of Rabbit, and moisten them to height with nicely-flavoured stock ; add a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Blanch and stone 1 handful of French olives. Strain the cooking-liquor of the Rabbits and free it from all fat; put loz. of butter and 4-oz. of flour into a clean stewpan, mix them over the fire, then pour in the strained liquor, and stir until boiling. Put the olives and pieces of Rabbit Fig. 346. Rabbit with Olives into the sauce, and let the whole simmer for a few minutes. Turn the Rabbit with the olives and sauce on to a hot dish, and serve it with a plate of cut lemons (see Fig. 340). Rabbit-and Oyster Pie.—Select a nice plump Ostend Rabbit, cut it into pieces, and season them well with pepper, grated lemon-peel, and finely-minced parsley. Beard three dozen oysters, drain them, saving their liquor, and put them with the Rabbit. Line the edge of a buttered dish with a crust, fill it with the Rabbit and oysters, put in a few small pieces of butter, and moisten with b pint of chablis and the liquor of the oysters. Cover the pie with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven for a little over an hour. Serve either hot or cold. Rabbit Panache.—Clean two Rabbits, take out their livers and kidneys, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and cook them over a slow fire until tender. Blanch the Rabbits in plenty of boiling water, then put them into a saucepan with an onion stuck with four or five cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf; pour in sufficient cold water to cover the Rabbits, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. When the Rabbits are cooked, cut the flesh off the backs and legs into nice pieces, and scrape the remainder off the bones. Soak |oz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water, put it into the saucepan with the Rabbit liquor, together with the bones, heads, and necks, and two or three rashers of ham or bacon. Boil the liquor until reduced to 1 pint, taking out the rashers when they are cooked. Finely chop the scraped pieces of Rabbit, and mix an equal quantity of finely- chopped bacon with it, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and half that quantity of thyme, seasoning the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix in sufficient beaten egg to bind it to a stiff paste, divide it into small quantities, and roll them into balls. Put the balls in the saucepan with the other ingredients, boil them for ten minutes, then itake them out. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, pour a small quantity of it into a deep mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and leave it until set. Arrange, in some fancy design in the mould, the pieces of Rabbit, the balls, the bacon, livers and kidneys, and a few hard-boiled eggs cut into halves. They should not be too closely packed, and should be placed so that the colours will contrast as much as possible. When the mould is full, season the remainder of the liquor with lemon-juice or vinegar to give it a piquant taste, and pour it carefully over the Rabbit and other ingredients. Pack the mould in ice, or stand it in a cool place for several hours until the contents are quite - firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water,295 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. wipe it, then turn the jelly out on to a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper that has been spread on a dish. Rabbit Pate.—Skin, draw, and disjoint as many Rabbits as required, according to the size of the pate-dish. Put a few thin slices of bacon at the bottom of the dish, cover them with mincemeat of any kind highly seasoned with mushrooms, chives, parsley, garlic, and pepper ; arrange the jueces of Rabbits on this, putting them as close together as possible, cover again with more seasoned mince- meat, shaking the dish so as to let it settle well in between the pieces of meat; put a few more thin slices of bacon on the top, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, and place the lid on the dish, hermetically sealing it with paste made of flour and water. Put the dish into a slow oven, and bake until the whole is quite done. Take it out, let the meat, &c., get quite cold in the p&te dish, and serve. Rabbit Pie.—(1) Skin and clean two or more Rabbits, cut them up into joints, ilien again into small pieces, removing all the largest bones; add about lib. of steak and a few slices of bacon also cut up small, sprinkle the whole over with iinely-ininced parsley and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste ; put them at the bottom of a pie-dish intermixed with a few forcemeat balls or yolks of hard-boiled eggs, pour over sufficient stock or water to moisten, put a crust of light paste on the dish, brush it over with beaten egg slightly salted, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for a couple of hours. Take it out when cooked, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Soak a Rabbit in salted water for lialf-an-hour, wash it well, cut it into eight pieces, and stew them till they are half done in just enough water to cover them. Lay some slices of salted pork at the bottom of a pie-dish, on these lay the pieces of Rabbit, shake over a very little powdered mace, and squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice; over the Rabbit lay some slices of hard-boiled eggs and some little bits of butter, and sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and over this put a thin layer of thin slices of salted pork. Pour in the water in which the Rabbit was stewed mixed with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, cover with puff paste, cut a slit in the middle, and bake it for an hour. Lay a piece of paper over it to prevent it from browning too fast, and when done serve hot. (3) Select a young and tender Rabbit, skin and draw it, chop it in pieces, put them into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and add 8oz. of bacon, one or two onions, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a sprig each of parsley and thyme. Put the saucepan on the fire and boil quickly for about forty-five minutes; then take out the Rabbit, remove all the bones, return them to the saucepan, and reduce the liquor to \ pint. Take out the bacon, cut it into thin slices, put half of them at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the Rabbit-meat on the top, intermixed with till, of veal-and-ham forcemeat or any kind of sausage meat rolled into small balls with the yolk of egg to bind them, and cover with the rest of the slices of bacon. Strain and skim the gravy, mix .in 1 teaspoonful eacli of salt and pepper, pour it over the bacon, cover the dish with a flat of puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Take it out when cooked, and serve either hot or cold. The liver of the Rabbit should be cooked, minced with a little parsley, and added to the forcemeat, as this improves the flavour. (4) Skin and draw a couple of young Rabbits, and cut the legs and backs into good-sized pieces, taking out as many bones as possible; put the pieces of meat into a saucepan with a little scraped bacon and 6oz. of uncooked ham or streaky bacon, and cook them gently over a clear fire; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, stir in a few chopped mushrooms, pour over 1 wineglassful of white ■wine, cover the pan, and stew until all the meat is cooked. Put a round flat of short-paste on a well-buttered baking-sheet, spread over this a layer of veal forcemeat seasoned with finely-chopped parsley, leaving a clear margin all round, pile the pieces of Rabbit on this after they have got a little cool, and cover them with more veal forcemeat, smoothing over the surface. Damp the edges of the flat of paste, cover the forcemeat dome with Rabbits—continued. a thin layer of puff paste, and make it adhere to the flat by pressing them together. The paste should be gradually thinned as it reaches to the under flat of paste, that is, it should be thicker at the top of the dome than at the base. Trim off the pastes where they join, leaving about Hin. projecting at the base of the forcemeat. Have ready a strip of puff paste, place it round the dome to about half its height, cementing it at the bottom to the flat; decorate the dome with leaves of paste, make a hole in the centre, place a leaf on it, brush the dome and the upper edge of the strip of paste with egg, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When done, take it out, slip it off the baking-sheet on to a dish, take off the leaf covering the hole, pour in a few table-spoonfuls of rich sauce, place the leaf back again, and serve either hot or cold. About Hlb. of veal forcemeat will be required. (5) Skin and clean one or two Rabbits, chop off their heads, and disjoint them, cutting the backs each into four equal- sized pieces and the legs into halves. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add a few mush- rooms, one shallot, and a little parsley, all finely chopped; cook them a little, then add the pieces of Rabbit, and stew them until the meat is quite firm. Sprinkle over salt, pepper, and ground mixed spice, and strain off the butter. In the meantime, prepare a paste, form a raised pie shape, put in the pieces of Rabbit, and bake them with the paste. When cooked, cut a round off the top of the pie, pour over a hot ragoCit a la financiere, put the cover on again, and serve. Rabbit-and-Fotato Fie.—Cut a Rabbit into middling- sized pieces, and wash it in warm water. Peel and ■wash about eighteen large potatoes, and cut them into slices. Peel and chop five or six onions. Grease the interior of a baking-dish with butter or fat, cover the bottom with a layer of the potatoes, then half of the pieces of Rabbit, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and strew over some of the chopped onions. Season with salt, pepper, and powdered sage, and proceed with the remainder of the ingredients, placing them in layers as before described, the last layer being potatoes. Moisten the whole with a small quantity of water, cover the dish, and put it in a slow oven. In about two hours’ time take the pie out of the oven, take off the cover of the dish, and brown the potatoes with a salamander. Serve while very hot in the dish in which it was baked. About 1,1b. of bacon will be required. This makes a very tasty dish. Rabbit Pudding.—(1) Skin and clean a Rabbit, and wash it in several waters; remove the head, cut the body into small pieces, and season them with salt, pepper, and mush- room powder. Finely mince 4oz. of veal-suet, mix it with lib. of flour, and add a small quantity of salt and suffi- cient water to knead it into a smooth paste ; roll this out, put the pieces of Rabbit in it, dredge them lightly over with flour, moisten them with a small quantity of water, close the paste round the pieces of Rabbit, and tic it up in a floured pudding-cloth. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two-liours-and-a-half, keeping it well covered with water, but do not let it cease boiling. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve Fig. 347. IUubit Pudding. it with a sauceboatful of clear gravy and a garnish of boiled potatoes. The pudding may, if preferred, be boiled in a basin in the ordinary way, and garnished with table- spoonfuls of mashed potatoes (see Fig. 347).296 TEE ENC YCLOPJEDTA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. (2) Clean and cut into joints two young Rabbits, wrap each joint up separately in thin slices of bacon, and put them into a basin well greased and lined with suet crust, placing a bay-leaf and a little lemon-peel in the centre of the pieces of Rabbit. Season to taste, pour in as much rich stock as is required, cover with more paste, and steam for two hours. Rabbit Puree.—Skin and clean two or three Rabbits, cut them into halves, put them in a saucepan with about lqt. of game consomme, place the pan over the tire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise until they are done. Take out the pieces of Rabbit, let them get cold, remove all the skin, pick off the meat, chop it fine, and pound it in a mortar. In the meantime, strain the sauce into an- other saucepan, skim it, reduce it to half its original quantity, pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce, reduce the sauce again, add it to the meat in the mortar, rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin or jar, and it is ready for use. Rabbit Puree with Rice.—Cut off all the meat from one or two roasted Rabbits, chop and pound it with a quarter of its bulk of butter, and rub it through a fine sieve. Put the Rabbit trimmings and bones into a saucepan with a little stock and brown thickening, boil them until all the goodness is extracted, pour in some of it to the pounded meat to make the mass of the required con- sistency, turn the puree into a dish lined with hot boiled rice, put a few soft boiled eggs round for a garnish, and serve. If preferred, a layer of cooked paste may be sub- stituted for the rice after the stock is added to the meat. They should lie served at once if required hot, as the puree must not be warmed again, or the flavour would be quite spoiled. Rabbit Rissoles.—Prepare a light but stiff paste with |lb. of flour, Jib. of butter, and two eggs; roll it out very thinly, and cut it into lozenge-shaped pieces. Cut some cold roasted Rabbit into thin slices, season them to taste with salt and pepper, and squeeze some lemon-juice over them. Lay a slice of the meat on each piece of paste, cover them with similar pieces of paste, moisten the edges, and pinch them together securely. Dip these in beaten egg and roll in powdered vermicelli. Put a large lump of lard into a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises, put in the rissoles and fry them a nice golden brown, turning when done on one side. When all the rissoles are cooked, drain them a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper, arrange them on a hot dish over which bad been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with neat groups of Med parsley, and serve. Rabbit Salad.—Cut off some fillets from roasted Rabbits, put them into a basin with vinegar and oil, and add a seasoning of finely-chopped tarragon leaves, chives, and pimpernel; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and let them remain for an hour or so to soak, turning them frequently. Put a few lettuce-leaves at the bottom of a salad-bowl, place on these the fillets of Rabbits intermixed with chopped or sliced beetroot, capers, fillets of anchovies, finely-chopped pimpernel-leaves and chervil, and hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Add a few white hearts of lettuces, and serve. Rabbit Sausages.—Skin the Rabbits while fresh, paunch j them, and wash them in plenty of cold water. Disjoint the Rabbits, and cut all the meat off the bones. Break j the bones and put them with the heads split open into a saucepan; pour in water barely to height, season with salt and pepper, and stew gently over a slow fire. Cut out the gall-bags, being careful not to break them, put the livers into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and steam them over a gentle fire until cooked through; then take them out, and chop coarsely. Finely mince the meat that was cut off the bones, mix it with the livers, and season the mixture highly with salt, pepper, and pounded cloves. Strain the liquor from the bones, which should have been boiled down to a glutinous gravy, season it to taste, mix it with the mince while warm, and stir all together until thoroughly amalgamated. Clean a large sausage-skin, fill it with the mixture, and Rabbits—con tinned. tie it tightly round the end. Put the sausage into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it slowly at the side of the fire for an hour. When cooked, drain the sausage, and hang it tip until cold. When serving, cut the sausage into slices, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with a few bunches of parsley. Rabbit Saute.—Skin and clean a young Rabbit, and cut it up into joints. Put a few pieces of ham into a saute- pan with a little butter, toss the pan for a few minutes over the fire, add the pieces of Rabbit, and a little finely- chopped parsley, thyme, and onion, and cook for a few minutes longer; sprinkle the Rabbit over with flour, pour in stock and white wine in equal proportions and suffi- cient to moisten, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is quite tender. Put the meat on a dish to keep hot; pour the sauce through a sieve into a saucepan, add a few chopped mushrooms, stew for a few minutes longer, pour it over the Rabbit, and serve very hot. Rabbit Saute with Tomatoes.—Skin, clean, and disjoint two or three Rabbits, put them into a frying-pan with Goz. of melted bacon, fry them over a clear fire for a few minutes, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and adil to them a finely-chopped onion and Goz. of lean bacon cut up into small pieces. Toss the pan over the fire for ten minutes or so longer, then turn the whole into a saucepan, and add a small bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and five or six tomatoes cut up into pieces and without their seeds. Cover the saucepan, place it on a moderate fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook till the Rabbit meat is quite tender. Baste the pieces of Rabbit with a little melted meat-glaze, dust them over with a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, take out the sweet herbs, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve very hot. Rabbits Sautes with Truffles.—Clean two young plump Rabbits and divide each into six pieces—that is, the two legs, two shoulders, and two nice pieces from the back. Put Jib. of butter into a saute-pan, and place it over the fire till it has dissolved; then put in the pieces of Rabbit, and fry them slowly till brown, adding more butter if required, and turning them when one side is brown. Drain all the butter out of the saute-pan, pour over the Rabbit 1 pint of brown sauce and h pint of clear broth, and put it over the fire. Peel some truffles, cut them into thin slices, and put them in with the Rabbit when the sauce boils; season with a small quantity of sugar, and stir occasionally till the sauce is reduced to a thick creamy consistency. Adieu ready, arrange the Rabbit and truffles in a group m the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Rabbit Souffle.—Cut off all the meat from a couple of cold roasted Rabbits, remove the skin and sinews, chop the meat very small, and pound it in a mortar. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient veloute sauce to moisten it, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, and add the beaten yolks of six eggs. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let it remain until the yolks are cooked; then remove it quickly from the fire, add a lump of butter, and stir well. Whip the whites of the six eggs to a froth, pour them into the saucepan, turn the mixture into a souffle-dish, brown the souffle slightly in the oven for ten or twelve297 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. minutes, take it out. and serve. A baked pie-crust or eroustade may be substituted for the souffle-dish. (See Fig. 34S.) Rabbit Soup.—(1) Clean the Rabbit, and cut it into con- venient-sized pieces. Put some slices of lean bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, with two large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and half a blade of mace; put in the pieces of Rabbit, cover them with cold water, and leave it on the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently for one-hour-and-a-half. Put into another sauce- pan a sufficient quantity of white stock that has been freed from fat to make the soup, and place it over the lire until boiling. When the Rabbit is tender, strain its cooking-liquor into the soup; pick the meat oil the bones, chop it, and pound it in a mortar. When quite smooth, put the pounded meat in the soup with the crumb of a penny roll, and boil it gently at the side of the lire for half-an-hour longer. Next strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of thick cream in it, and make it hot again, but do not boil it. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter. (2) Clean two Rabbits, cut them into joints, and steep them for an hour or two in cold water; drain, dry them on a cloth, put them in a stewpan with a few sliced onions and a lump of butter, and fry them till half done. Wash and cut a head of celery into small lengths, put it in with the Rabbit, with lib. of split peas, and pour in 3qts. of cold water. When boiling, skim the soup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the lire for four or five hours. When ready, strain the soup through a hair sieve into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a golden brown in butter. (3) Skin and clean four Rabbits, put the whole into a saucepan with 61b. of shin of beef, and add two turnips, one head of celery, four or five onions, and two or three carrots. Sprinkle over about 1 teaspoonful of pepper, pour over about 7qts. of water, add a little salt and cayenne if desired, and boil gently for five or six hours. Pass it through a sieve into a basin, and when it is cold skim it, and to every 3 breakfast-cupfuls of soup add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Cut off all the meat from the Rabbits, pound it in a mortar, put it in the saucepan with the soup and cream, make the whole quite hot without boiling, turn it into a tureen, and serve. (4) Skin and clean a large-sized Rabbit, put it into a saucepan on top of lib. of bacon or ham cut into slices, and add half a head of celery cut up small, an onion stuck with two cloves, salt and pepper to taste, and £gall. of water. Put the saucepan on the fire, and cook slowly until the flesh of the Rabbit is quite tender; then take out the Rabbit, and pass the soup through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Cut off a few of the prime pieces of the Rabbit; put the remainder of the meat into a mortar, pound it, and rub it through a fine sieve into the saucepan with the soup; boil up once more, then add the pieces of Rabbit-meat, 1 pint or so of cream, and the yolks of two eggs beaten up in 1 table-spoonful of milk. When the soup is quite hot, without being boiled again, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. If boiled after the eggs are added, they will curdle, and the soup will be spoilt. Rabbit Stock.—Take an old Rabbit that is too tough to be cooked in any other way, cut it into small pieces together with ilb. of ham and two calves’ feet, put them in a saucepan, pour on a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover the whole, and place it over the fire. Remove the scum as it rises to the top, and when the water boils put in two or three carrots and onions, a head of celery washed and cut into small pieces, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley tied together, two bay-leaves, half a blade of mace, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the stock boil gently at the side of the fire for three or four hours, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. When Rabbits—co n tin ued. cold the stock should be freed of all fat, and it will be ready for use. Rabbit with Tarragon.—Cut a Rabbit into moderate- sized pieces, splitting the head lengthwise. Separate the stalks and leaves from a good handful of tarragon, cut up the stalks, put them in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cup- ful of clear stock, and stew them for an hour. Dust the pieces of Rabbit over with salt and pepper, put them in a stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them over th ■ fire until lightly browned and tender. Strain the liquor from the tarragon stalks, return it to the saucepan, add the tarragon-leaves, and boil it up again. Drain the pieces of Rabbit from the oil, pile them on a hot dish, pour the tarragon sauce over, and serve. Rabbits Trussed like Poultry.—Cut off the heads of a couple of Rabbits, turn the backs upwards, have the legs stripped to the end, and truss them with skewers in the same way as the legs of a fowl; turn the fore legs, and truss them like the wings of a fowl. If the Rabbits are to be roasted, lard them, and serve with good gravy ; if boiled, do not lard them, and serve with bacon, cabbage, and celery sauce. Rabbits in Venetian Style.—Skin and clean three or four young Rabbits, and chop them up as follows: Cut oil' the head from the neck, and the neck from the body ; cut the legs into halves, and the back into quarters. Put a small quantity of rasped bacon into a saucepan witli a little butter, and add a mixed quart of mushrooms, shallots, and parsley, all finely chopped ; sprinkle them over with ground allspice, salt and pepper to taste, put the saucepan on a slack fire, and stew gently for a little while. When these fine herbs are nearly done, add the pieces of Rabbit, and cook until the meat is quite tender. Take out the joints of Rabbit, tilt the saucepan, and skim oft' the fat. Add 1 table-spoonful of veloute sauce or 1 teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little broth, boil quickly for a few minutes, then add a liaison of the yolks of four eggs to thicken; add the strained juice of a lemon and a slight sprinkling of cayenne, stir well, and if the sauce is too thick add a little broth. Put in the pieces of Rabbit, warm them up without boiling, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. RagoAt of Rabbit. —(1) Cut a Rabbit into convenient- sized pieces, put them into a stewpan with a bruised clove of garlic and a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them over the fire until lightly browned. Next drain the pieces of Rabbit, put them in a stewpan with about § breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them gently until quite tender. When cooked, mix with the ragofit 1 small table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish it with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Clean a Rabbit and cut it up into joints, but do not use the head. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of chopped lean bacon in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until beginning to brown; then turn the bacon on to a dish and put the Rabbit in the stewpan in which the bacon was cooked, with a little more butter if necessary, and fry lightly. Dredge it over with flour, cover with water and red wine in equal quantities, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices. Put the stewpan over a gentle fire, and stew the contents for fifteen minutes. Put a quantity of small pickling onions into a frying-pan with loz. of butter anilTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 298 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. 1 teaspoonful or more of moist sugar, toss them about over the fire until they are nicely browned, and glaze them; then mix them and the bacon with the Itabbit. A few button-mushrooms may be added if desired. Keep the ragofit boiling gently at the side of the fire for about twenty minutes or half-an-hour‘longer. When it is ready, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, turn the ragofit on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 349), and serve. (3) Having prepared the Rabbit, cut it up into con- venient-sized pieces (if a large one it should make about ten pieces); put them in a stewpan with plenty of butter, and strew over them some finely-minced shallot, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms; season to taste with salt and pepper, dust them over with a small quantity of flour, and toss them about over the fire until lightly browned. Pour in sufficient white wine and stock to moisten the pieces of Rabbit to height, add the liver of the Rabbit, and boil the whole gently for twenty minutes. Next take out the liver and pound it in a mortar; when smooth put it in again with the pieces of Rabbit. Turn the ragofit on to a hot dish, garnish it with crofltons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. Roasted Rabbit.—(1) Skin and clean a Rabbit, chop off the fore-legs at the first joint and the hind-legs above the knuckle joint, truss it, put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for about twenty-five minutes. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with poivrade or other sauce in a sauceboat. A slice or two of fat bacon should be tied over the back to prevent it burning, and this should be taken off a few minutes before the Rabbit is done, so that the back will brown. The Rabbit may be larded or not, as desired. (2) Skin and clean a Rabbit, and stuff it with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped beef-suet, and fat pork, seasoned with 1 pinch of sweet marjoram, a chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient hot water to moisten. Sew up the cut with fine thread, tie the legs close to the body in a kneeling position, place it in a roasting-pan with its back upwards, pour over § pint of water, cover with another pan inverted, and roast for about forty- five minutes. Remove the cover, dredge the Rabbit with flour, and baste it well with the drippings in the pan and a little butter; when well browned, put it on a dish and keep it hot. Strain the drippings, skim off the fat, add a little seasoning, thicken until browned flour, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Bring it to the boil, pour a little over the Rabbit, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. (3) Put lib. of veal and 4oz. of pork into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for a couple of hours. Take them out, chop them very fine, and mix in four rolled crackers, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of pepper and sweet herbs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 24 teacupfuls of the stock from the veal and pork. Put this forcemeat into a saucepan at the side of the fire and keep it hot. Draw, skin, and clean a Rabbit, cut off its head, wash it well, and sprinkle it inwardly with salt and pepper. Put in the hot stuffing, sew up the Rabbit, trass it to give it the appearance of being on its knees, brush it over with warmed butter, and sprinkle it with flour. Pour a little water into a baking-dish, put the Rabbit in it, place it in a quick oven, and cook for half-an-hour, basting frequently. Put a border of mashed potatoes round a dish, place the Rabbit in the centre, pour the strained gravy over, and serve very hot. Roasted Rabbit served with Currant Jelly.—Draw a Rabbit, wash it in warm w^ter, and wipe it dry on a cloth. Wash the liver, heart, and lungs, and put them on one side. Peel and chop a moderately large onion, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Chop fine the liver, heart, and lungs of the Rabbit, put them in with the onion, and fry them also, seasoning with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley; stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes with a wooden spoon, then move it to the side, and stir Rabbits—continued. in the beaten yolks of two eggs and loz. of butter. Fill the Rabbit with the mixture, sew up the incision, lay the Rabbit on its belly on the table, and skewer the ears so that they seem to be naturally bent on to the back of its neck; with a trussing-needle fasten the fore legs so that they look also as if naturally bent by the animal when at rest. Bind a sheet of buttered paper round it, fix it on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it continually with butter. When cooked, remove the paper and skewers from the Rabbit, put it on a hot dish, garnish with crofltons of red-currant jelly, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear gravy. Raspberry jelly is also very nice served with it. Roasted Rabbit served with Olives.—Clean a Rabbit, lard its fleshy parts with strips of salted pork, wrap it up in a sheet of buttered paper, fastening it with skewers or binding twine round it; fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently. About ten minutes before taking the Rabbit from the fire, the paper should be removed to allow it to brown. When the Rabbit is cooked, pour the gravy out of the dripping-pan into a small saucepan, adding some clear beef gravy if there is not sufficient, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and put in three dozen stoned olives. Stir the sauce over the lire and boil it for five minutes. Untruss the Rabbit, put it on a hot dish, garnish round with the olives, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Roasted Rabbit and Oysters.—Select a nice plump Rabbit, remove the heart and lights, and wipe it on a clean cloth. Beard and drain a dozen oysters, chop them finely, mix with them two chopped sponge cakes and 2oz. of butter, and season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stuff the Rabbit with the mixture, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it slowly for an hour, removing the paper ten minutes before taking it up from the fire so that it may brown. Put 2oz. of fresh butter and 4 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until well mixed, then pour in gradually the oyster liquor, and season with a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and cinnamon. Continue stirring the mixture, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Strain the sauce on to a hot dish, lay the Rabbit on it, and serve. Scotch Rabbit Pie.—Prepare 41b. of puff paste. Skin, wash, and dry a Rabbit, dismember it, and cut it up rather small. • Cut off and chop about 1 table-spoonful from 4oz. of fat bacon, and slightly cook the remainder. Parboil and mince the heart and liver of the Rabbit, put it into a basin with the table-spoonful of chopped fat bacon, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs or grated bread, half that quantity of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little seasoning of grated nutmeg and pepper. Stir thoroughly, and add half an egg well beaten to form a paste. Separate this into small pieces, and roll them into balls. Put a layer of the Rabbit at the bottom of a pie- dish, over this put some of the bacon cut in slices, then some of the forcemeat balls, and continue in this way until all are used up. Pour in a good supply of stock or water, cover the pie with the paste, brush the surface with egg, and bake for an hour in a moderately hot oven. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Smothered Rabbit in Onions.—Cut a Rabbit into con- venient-sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with four large peeled onions, a few cloves, a lump of salt, five or six peppercorns, and plenty of water, and boil for fifteen minutes; then take out the onions and chop them finely. Put a small lump of butter in a clean saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; then put in the onions and pieces of Rabbit, moisten with milk to height, and season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Keep the whole simmering very slowly at the side of the fire for an hour. At the end of that time put loz. of butter with the Rabbit, and when it has melted turn the whole on to a hot dish. Garnish with crofltons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve while very hot. Stewed Rabbit.—(1) Draw, skin, and wash a Rabbit, and cut - it into pieces about 2in. in length. Cut 4lb. of streaky299 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. bacon into pieces about ljin. by lin., blanch and dry them, put them into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, and fry them to a light yellow colour. Take them out, put in fifteen button-mushrooms, and fry them also; then put them on a plate and keep them hot. Place the pieces of Rabbit into the frying-pan, and fry them gently for ten minutes ; then dredge in loz. of flour, stir well for a couple of minutes, and add 3 teacupfuls each of broth and red wane, one faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and the mushrooms and pieces of bacon. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about twenty minutes; then add 2 pints more of mushrooms, and cook five minutes longer. Remove the faggot, turn the remainder out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Cut a Rabbit into joints, and dredge them well with flour. Put Jib. of thinly-sliced bacon into a frying-pan, and fry for a few minutes; then take it out of the frying- pan, and put it into a stewpan. Put the pieces of Rabbit into the frying-pan with the fat, and turn them about until browned on both sides; then put them in with the bacon, add a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, salt and pepper to taste, pour in 1J wineglassfuls of brandy, and stew gently for an hour. When cooked, arrange the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor over them, and serve. (3) Draw and wash a Rabbit, clean it in plenty of water, cut it up at the joints, and chop the body into four pieces. Put about 2 teacupfuls of sweet oil into a stewpan, and place it over a brisk fire; when it is on the point of boiling, put in the pieces of Rabbit, dust them over with salt and pepper, and turn them about occa- sionally until lightly browned all over. Then put in a small bunch of herbs composed of two sprigs of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, adding also a few sliced mushrooms and truffles. Put the lid on the stew- pan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire until the Rabbit is tender. When cooked, put the Rabbit on a hot dish, placing the pieces as much as possible in their original form; pour over some Italian sauce, garnish with the slices of truffles and mushrooms, also some crofltons of bread fried a golden brown in butter, and serve with as little delay as possible. (4) Skin and clean a Rabbit, chop off its head, cut the body into quarters, lard them, and fry in a little butter, but do not cook them too much; take them out and keep hot. Pour 3 breakfast-cupfuls of stock into a sauce- pan, and add a small bunch, of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the saucepan at the side of the lire, and let the contents simmer gently for abont tliree- quartersof-an-hour. Pass the gravy through a sieve into another saucepan, add a little lump of butter well kneaded in flour to thicken, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, and stir well until it is quite hot. Pour it at once over the Rabbit, and serve. Stewed Rabbits with Pine Herbs.—Put a few chopped mushrooms and shallots into a saucepan with a little butter, add a small quantity of minced parsley, place the saucepan on the fire, and cook them until done; then put in two Rabbits cut up into pieces, sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put in a small bunch of sweet herbs, and toss the pan over the fire for a little while; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, place the cover on the pan, pack hot ashes on it, and let it remain on the fire for about twenty minutes. Add the juice of a lemon, a small lump each of butter and meat- or game-glaze, sprinkle over a little flour, and stir well for two or three minutes. Turn the whole out on to a dish, piling it up, and serve. Stewed Rabbits and Onions (Spanish Style).—For this dish an earthenware pipkin with a close-fitting cover will be required. Cut two Rabbits into small pieces, and peel and cut in thin slices four moderate-sized Spanish onions. Fill the pipkin with alternate layers of Rabbit and onion, seasoning well with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs between each layer. Put in a few rashers of bacon, and lastly a few more slices of onions. Put the cover on the mould, and stew the contents very gently for two hours. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Rabbits—continued. Stewed Rabbit in a Paste Case.—Prepare a paste of flour and water, with it line a plain mould which has been well buttered, fill the centre with flour, and bake it. Take it out, let it get cold, and turn out the flour; then take out the paste crust, decorate it with leaves, &c., of uncooked paste, and brush it over with egg. In the mean- time, chop one or two Rabbits into joints, put them into a saucepan over the fire, add a small onion, two or three cloves, a small quantity of glaze, and some good rich gravy. (_ ook until the meat is done and the liquor quite thick, then turn the whole into the crust of paste, which should have been kept hot in the oven to cook the leaves that it has been ornamented with ; put it on a napkin folded on a dish (see Fig. 350), and serve. Stewed Rabbit in Venetian Style.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, cut it into joints, lard the largest of them, and put them all into a saucepan with a few thin slices of veal; pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, half the quantity of olive oil, add four heads of garlic, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Cover the saucepan, put it on a slow fire, and cook the contents gently until the meat is done and tender. When done, take out the pieces of Rabbit, put them in a heap in the centre of a dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Rabbit with White Sauce—Cut a Rabbit into joints, put the pieces into a basin, cover them with boil- ing water, and steep them for an hour or two. Put J pint of stock into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until it boils; then drain the pieces of Rabbit, put them into the stock, add one onion, a small piece of lemon-peel, season with salt and pepper, and stew the whole gently at the side of the fire until the Rabbit is tender. When the Rabbit is nearly cooked, put into a smaller saucepan loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed ; then pour in 1 teacupful of cream, continue stirring it until boiling, then remove it from the fire. Arrange the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish; strain their cooking-liquor, stir it into the cream sauce, and boil it up again; then add a squeeze of lemon-juice, pour it over the pieces of Rabbit, and serve. Stewed Tinned Rabbit with Onion Sauce.—Open a 21b. tin of Rabbit, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain until the meat is quite hot. Pour off the liquor from it, and put a fewr lumps of butter on top; when this is melted, turn the contents of the tin on to a dish, pour over onion sauce, and serve. Timbale of Rabbits.—Skin and draw a couple of Rabbits, cut them into pieces, put them in a basin with a few pounded sweet herbs, sprinkle well with salt and pepper, and let them macerate for a couple of hours or so.' Put a couple of chopped onions into a frying-pan with a small quantity of lard, fry them, and add 2 or 3 handfuls of mushrooms, also chopped, and continue the cooking until their moisture is reduced; then add a very small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and 5oz. of un- cooked ham cut into small cubes. Put lOoz. of finely- chopped fat bacon into a basin, add the onion mixture to it, and stii in a few table-spoonfuls of Madeira wine or good brandy. Have ready a timbale-mould lined with short-paste, cover the bottom and sides with the mixture, arrange the pieces of Rabbits in the centre, intermixingTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 300 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—con tinned. with a little move of the mixture, and cover the mould with a flat of the paste. Put it in a moderate oven, and hake for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, make a small hole in the top, pour in a few table-spoon- fuls of gravy mixed with a little each of Madeira wine and game-glaze, turn the timbale out on to a dish, and serve. Turban of Rabbits.—Skin and clean three Rabbits, cut off the lillets from the hacks, and divide each of them into halves. Lard six of the fillets and leave six plain; put the larded ones in a saucepan with fried onions, parsley, and a bunch of herbs tied in a bag, pour over stock to half their height, cover the pan, place it on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise them until cooked, which will take about half-an-hour. Fill a border mould with mashed potatoes, and turn it out on to a dish. Take out the larded fillets, glaze them, and brown with a salamander; saute the plain fillets, and put them alter- nately round the border. Pour 1 pint of brown sauce into the saute-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of consomme, place the pan on the fire, boil, and skim; then add £ wineglass- ful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, a little sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and about two dozen Rabbit-forcemeat quenelles made from the legs and trim- mings. When the sauce is ready and the quenelles are cooked, put the latter in the centre of the border, pour the sauce over the plain fillets, and serve. RACAHOUT.—This was originally nothing more nor less than a preparation made from acorns, used by the Arabs as a substitute for chocolate. The French have given the name of Racahout to the following beverage: Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful each of chocolate or cocoa paste, powdered white sugar, and flour of rice, 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, and two vanilla beans powdered and sifted. When thoroughly mixed, bottle and cork tightly. When required for use, blend 1 dessert-spoonful of the mixture with a little cold water, and pour over it, stirring all the time, 1 teacupful of boiling milk. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, let it boil for a few minutes, continue stirring, and serve very hot. RACES.—The cook is sometimes called upon to pre- pare a luncheon to be eaten on the race-course, and to pack suitable viands in hampers in such a manner that they shall not be injured by the heat of the sun or dust of the road to which they are likely to be subjected. The class of goods suitable may be much the same as those provided for an ordinary pic-nic or boating party; they should be wrapped in a plentiful supply of clean cabbage leaves, with clean napkins enfolding them. This precaution of wrapping will serve to preserve them firm, and as cool and fresh as if just removed from the pantry. Meats and poultry should be free from bone, and are very convenient and savoury when made into galantines, rissoles, or boudins. Salads should be chopped ready for mixing, but the dressing can be conveyed in a bottle to be used when required. The bottom, sides, and top of the hamper conveying the food should be well lined with cabbage leaves; and, if possible, the utensils, such as plates, knives, forks, spoons, &c., should be packed in a separate hamper. RACINE SOUP.—See Soups. RACK.—This term is applied to several kitchen fittings, as a bottle-rack, a plate-rack, a bacon-rack. &c. It does not require any special explanation. RACKING.—See Brewing, British Wines, &c. RADISHES [Ft. Radis; Ger. Rettige; Ital. Rava- nelli; Sp- Rabanos).—The term Radish is undoubtedly derived from the Latin radix—a root, that being the edible part of the plant Raphanus sativus. The green tops are sometimes chopped up and mixed with a salad, but are not recommended, the large leaves being far too Radishes—continued. tough. Kettner says: “Not a word against the Radish. Still, it may be lawful to record that it is not of much use in cookery, whatever it may be in eating. May I also venture to say that it is a mistake in salad, an intrusion, and that the only way to eat it is to nibble it by itself while waiting for the feast, or in any convenient interlude. Be it added that there are few combi- nations of colour so beautiful and rich as the red and white of radishes against the green of their leaves. In glass dishes on a dinner-table they are an orna- ment which may vie with the finest flowers.” In the time of the Pharaohs the Radish was extensively culti- vated in Egypt, whence it made its way into Europe, but does Fig. 351. Turnip not appear to have reached this Radish. country till about 1548. The root is fleshy and variable in form, in some varieties fusi- form, as with the long Radish (see Fig. 352), in others round like a small turnip, or semi-globular as the turnip Radish (see Fig. 351), and in colour a red as the China Rose Radish (see Fig. 353), reddish purple, white yellowish, or deep brown. The flesh is white, crisp, and tender, abounding in a peculiar nitrous juice, which is much relished by epicures, although the root itself has no particular nutritive value. The following varieties are mentioned by Nicholson in his “ Dictionary of Gardening,” as having special merits : Black Spanish, an excellent sort for autumn and winter use. China Rose, oblong or somewhat conical, bright rose coloured ; also a line variety for autumn and winter. Early Frame (Wood’s), one of the earliest, shorter than the Long Scarlet. Early Rose Globe, a very early and much esteemed sort, of a fine, clear rosy-scarlet, compact. French Break- fast, a beautiful olive-shaped variety, with white tip, of very mild flavour ; one of the best for early and summer use. Long Scarlet Short Toj>, one of the best and most esteemed varieties, because of its bright colour. Olive Scarlet, an excellent sort, of fine colour. Red Turaip-301 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Radishes—continued. rooted, crisp, and of mild flavour. White Turnip-rooted, has a white skin, but otherwise differs very little from the red variety; it is equally good, but the colour of the latter is generally preferred. Radishes may be sent to table either quite plain or as follow: (1) Select fresh turnip Radishes, both white and red, put them into a bowl of water, and brush them well to remove all the dirt; take them out, cut off the tops of the leaves and ends of the roots, dip them again in water, put them in a cloth, shake them in this, arrange on a dish with a garnish of watercress, and serve. (2) If the Radishes are large, take three bunches; if small, four bunches, being careful to select those that are round, firm, and the reddest procurable. Cut off the stems, leaving only the two prettiest leaves on each Radish, and trim round the bottoms, taking off a little of the peel at the base. With a sharp knife cut the remaining part of the peel into five or six equal-sized leaves, beginning at the root-end and cutting towards the green stems, hut being careful not to detach the leaves. They can bo formed into any desired design by cutting them with care. Put them as done into cold water and let them remain until required. Arrange them artistically in a circle on a flat small dish, with the green leaves lying outwards, sprinkle over chopped ice, and serve. (3) Select Radishes having smooth dark skins but white inside, remove the peels, and cut them into slices. Put them into a basin, sprinkle salt over, and let them remain for five or six hours. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Boiled Radishes.—Wash and trim some Radishes, and when they are all done plunge them into a saucepan of well-salted boiling water, and boil until they are quite tender (they will take about thirty minutes). Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, pour over melted butter or butter sauce, and serve. Boiled Radish-Leaves.—Wash and pick over some Radish leaves, chop off the thickest of the stems, put them into a basin of cold water, and let them soak for half-an-hour or so. Take them out, drain them as much as possible, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, put in a piece of common soda about the size of a pea, and boil for about half-an-hour. Take them out, drain them, chop them up, and serve. These greens are a good substitute for spinach-greens when the latter cannot be obtained, and should be served with roasted ham or boiled pig’s head. Pickled Radisli-Pods.—Put the required quantity of young Radish-pods into a saucepan of well-salted water and let them remain for ten or twelve hours, then take them out and drain. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil the salted water, turn the pods into a jar or pot, pour the boiling water over them, and let them stand for a day or so with the jar closely covered. Continue in this way until the pods are perfectly green, put them out on to a sieve, and drain them quite dry. Put a sufficient quantity of vinegar, using white wine vinegar for preference, into a saucepan with a seasoning of long pepper, ginger, mace, and horse- radish, pour it when boiling over the pods in the jar, and cover it; when the liquor is cold or nearly so, strain it back again into the saucepan, boil it up, and pour it once more over the pods. Cover and tie down the jar, place it in a cool place, and the Radish-pods will be ready for use in a few days. Radish-Leaves in Salad.—Pick over some Radish-leaves, selecting the best, which throw into a large bowl of water; immerse them two or three times with the hands, then drain them thoroughly. Mop the leaves with a cloth till almost dry, and put them in a salad-bowl. Sprinkle some chopped leaves of chives over the salad, pour over a plain dressing of oil and vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve. Radish-Pods in Salad.—Procure some rat-tail Radish-pods that have been gathered when they are only half grown. Cut them lengthwise, put them into a basin of strongly Radishes—continued. salted water, and let them soak for half-an-hour. Boil four potatoes, and when cold cut them into thin slices; arrange them in a salad-bowl, drain the pods, add them, also some pickled shallots, and a few capers. Mix together in equal quantities some oil and vinegar, season it with salt anil pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. Radish Salad.—Scrape four large Radishes, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a salad-bowl. Peel and slice a moderate-sized cucumber and put it in with the Radishes. Mix in equal quantities some salad-oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and pour the mixture over the salad. Sprinkle some chopped capers and herbs over the salad, and serve. Radish Sauce.—Select the required quantity of black winter Radishes, and peel and grate them. Season with salt and pepper, and mix with them a sufficient quantity of salad-oil and vinegar to make a smooth creamy sauce. When well mixed, the sauce is ready for use. Stewed Radishes. -Pick and scald some young Radishes. Cut them into halves or quarters, and boil them in stock with a slice of bacon. Let them boil only a very short time, take them out, drain them, and put them over the fire with some good veal gravy or consomme and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them stew in this till they are a good colour and the gravy thick; they are then ready for serving. RAGLAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. _ A RAGOUTS.—The literal meaning of this term is any- thing that restores the appetite, encouraging the epicure to continue his feast, even though the requirements of nature are satisfied. In this sense it is applied to those famous French stews which abound in aromatic spices and wines, and which are commonly served after the solid courses are disposed of. In addition to the numerous receipts given under special headings, such as Chicken, Lamb, Mutton, &c., the following receipts will be found useful: Dried Powder for Ragoht.—Dry well before the fire Aoz. of salt, loz. each of dried mushrooms and truffles, the grated peels of half a lemon and half a Seville orange, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, ^oz. each of pepper and mace, and drachm of cayenne. When these are thoroughly dry pound them very fine, sift the powder through a fine sieve, bottle it, and cork well till required for use. Ragodt a la Chambord.—This is prepared as for Ragout A LA FlNANClEBE (No. 1), adding 1 pint of reduced Madeira, and mixing it well with the sauce. Soft roes of carp, crayfish-tails, and a little essence of anchovy must also be added. Ragout a la Financiere. -(1) Put the required number of cocks’ combs into a cloth or towel, sprinkle them well with salt, take up the cloth by its four corners, and dip the part with the cocks’ combs into a saucepan of boiling water. Let the cocks’ combs remain in the boiling water for a minute, take them out, drain, and toss and shake them well so as to remove the outside skin. If the skins will not come off, repeat the operation, taking great care not to let the combs get firm, for if so they will not whiten in cooking. When all are skinned, take them out, and with a sharp knife ] ieel the small black points to extract the blood; put them into a saucepan of water at the side of the fire and let them remain for a couple of hours, keeping the water at such a temperature that the hand can be borne in it, or about blood heat; this will draw out the blood. Take them out, blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a preparation made of butter, salt, water, and a thin slice of lemon, trying them fre- quently to prevent their being too much done. Put the required quantity of cocks’ kidneys or kernels and fat livers into a saucepan and cook them, taking care that the water does not boil, otherwise the kidneys will burst and spoil. Put them into the saucepan with the cocks’ combs, add a few eggs that have been boiled only suffi- ciently to take off the shells, and keep the whole hot302 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils% Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ragouts—continued. without boiling. Have ready a few poached quenelles, put them into a saucepan with some turned mushrooms, pour over a little Spanish sauce, and reduce it; drain the cocks’ combs, kidneys, and eggs, put them into the saucepan with the sauce, and stir gently, taking care not to break the quenelles. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and the Ragout is ready for use. (2) Pour lqt. of Spanish sauce into a stewpan, and mix with it ^ pint each of essence of chicken, essence of mush- rooms, and essence of truffles. Boil the sauce till thickly reduced, then strain and mix with it some slices of truffles ami equal quantities of collops of fat livers, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, cocks’ kernels, and cocks’ combs. (3) Put a slice of raw ham cut into small pieces into a saucepan with l wineglassful each of white wine and stock, one mushroom, a small bunch of herbs, and a sprinkling of pepper; reduce over the fire until the liquor is half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine sieve. Put a small lump of butter into another saucepan, warm it, and mix in a little Hour; stir well until it is quite smooth, pour in a little stock, and reduce this to half its original quantity also. Now pour in the strained liquor, and add some cooked cocks’ combs, fat livers, mushrooms, artichoke- bottoms, and truffles. Warm these thoroughly in the sauce without boiling, and it is ready for use, and may either be served as it is, or as a garnish to fowls, &c. Ragofit a la Godard.—This is prepared the same as for Ragout a la Financiere (No. 1), adding stewed pigeons and larded sweetbreads, and keeping the sauce thin with- out reducing it. Two wineglassfuls of Madeira and a little sugar boiled down to almost a glaze should be added to the sauce to give it the peculiar flavour necessary. Ragoftt of Sot-l'y laisse.—The translation of the term sot-l’y laisse is “ a fool leaves it,” and is the tender part of the flesh on both sides of the backs of birds directly under the flat bone connecting the back to the breast. Take off these pieces of meat from the backs of some cooked fowls, capons, turkeys, or other birds, pare them, put them into a saucepan with a few button-mushrooms split in halves, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce reduced with extract of mushrooms, place the saucepan in a bain-marie, and let it remain for ten minutes. Have ready a border of boiled rice on a dish, put the r ago (it of sot-l’y laisse in the centre, and serve. Ragoflt of Young Roots.—-Pare four carrots and four turnips and cut them into the shape of long tubes about lin. thick, and cut these into thin long slices; blanch the carrots in boiling water for five minutes and drain them. Put 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and when it begins to brown put in a lump of butter and the turnips, and toss them over the fire until they are covered with a coating of the glaze. Put in the carrots and 18 table-spoonfuls of half-glaze, and simmer gently at the side of the fire till the vegetables are cooked. Take out the vegetables with a skimmer, and put them on a sieve to drain; reduce the sauce, sprinkle in a little pepper, strain it through a fine sieve into another sauce- pan, put in the vegetables, heat them all up, and serve. Turkish Rago&t.—Cut lib. of beef or mutton into small pieces, put them into a deep frying-pan or stewpan with a small quantity of fat, and fry them, adding salt and pepper to taste and a small quantity of water; now add about lib. of French beans, carrots, or any such like vegetables, and simmer gently until cooked, adding more water if required. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. RAHAT LAKOUM.—This is a favourite sweetmeat in the Levant, where it is made to perfection by the ladies of Scio. It is better known in this country as “ Turkish Delight.” Put 31b. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, boil it to a syrup, and clarify with the strained juice of a lemon and the whites of three eggs. While it is boiling stir in 6oz. of wheat-starch dis solved in 3 teacupfuls of water and strained, and continue to boil until the liquor is reduced to two-thirds its Rahat Lakoum—continued. original quantity, when it should be quite thick. Add a little sweet essence of any kind, especially essence of roses, stir it well in, and let the preparation cool. Rub a little almond oil over a toffy-slab, turn the mixture on to it, spreading it to about lin. in thickness, let it get quite cold, then turn it over on to another slab or dish sprinkled with caster sugar. Cover the Rahat with blotting-paper to soak up the oil, cut it into squares, dust them all over with sugar, and put them away in a cool place until wanted. Sometimes this Rahat is made with cherry or rose-flavoured syrup, and a few shred blanched almonds mixed in before the syrup thickens. RAISINS (Fr. Raisins secs ; Ger. Rosinen).—These are commonly described as the prepared or dried fruit of the Vitis vinifera. In Spon’s “ Encyclopaedia of Manu- factures and Raw Materials ” the following interesting information is given concerning the growth of Raisins and their preparation for the market: “ They are not, as might be supposed, produced wherever the vine is cultivated, on the contrary their preparation is a speciality of certain districts. One of the most important of these is a strip of Spanish territory bordering the Mediterranean, about 100 miles long and five to six wide. Two kinds of Raisins are here produced: the mus- catel or dessert Raisin, chiefly in the neighbourhood of Malaga, and the common pudding Raisin, peculiar to Valencia. Unfortunately the phylloxera has made such ravages throughout the district that the industry is almost threatened with extinction. The region next in import- ance has its outlet at Smyrna. Here the small stoneless or sultana Raisin is grown, not only on the mainland, but also on the island of Chesme, which gives its name to a portion of the crop. There are large districts in Persia where Raisins are produced, but the expense and difficulty of transport cause them to be consumed locally. Greece furnishes small supplies of sultanas. California is becom- ing a large producer of muscatels, for consumption both in the Eastern States and in China. The decay of the Cape wine trade has driven the growers to convert much of their grapes into Raisins. Finally, South Australia is rapidly developing a Raisin trade. “ The vines begin to bear in the second year, but are not in full bearing till the fifth; they continue productive for fifty to seventy-five years. The sultana vines are planted in rows, six to seven feet apart; they are productive in the third year, and are in perfection at the fourth to sixth year. The matured fruits do not fall off, but remain attached to the plant, where, with sufficient heat, they wither and dry. The drying is an operation requiring the greatest care. It is usually hastened by one of the follow- ing methods : In Spain the ripe bunches are clipped off one by one, and placed on sloping floors, covered with small pebbles, to cure in the sun. Perhaps the finest kinds are obtained by partially severing the stalks and leaving the bunches hanging on the vines, the leaves being at the same time removed so as to admit the sun. In Asia Minor the plucked fruit is slightly sprinkled with oil during the curing, to prevent too rapid evaporation, and to favour the preservation of the fruit in transit. Occasionally the bunches are dipped into warm water, or a lye of wood ashes and lime, especially in Valencia. Of course it is essential that damp shall be rigidly excluded during the drying period. When dry the fruit is carefully assorted. The muscatels are classed as layers (neatly packed in fancy boxes), bunch, and loose, the last being picked off the stems. The best are for the London market; the worst, chiefly for Scotland and America. Of Valencia Raisins about half come to London, a large proportion of the remainder going to the United States and Canada. “ Sultanas are very largely consumed in Germany and in our Midland counties. The eleme (or hand-picked) are specially packed for our colonies and for ships’ stores, and come chiefly from Karabourna and Vourla (Asia Minor). The Chesme growth, unpicked and unselected, form the303 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Raisins—continued. great bulk of the German importations, and are popular in our Eastern counties.” Raisins of any kind may be cleaned by placing them in a sieve or colander and standing it in a large bowl of water so that the currants may be washed by shifting them about the sieve. When the sieve is lifted they can be drained thoroughly, then turned out on to a large cloth, over which they must be spread, carefully picked over, and then put by to di-y. Sultanas require very little washing, as they are packed quite clean for exportation. Malaga Raisins should have the pips removed, using a sharp small knife, or the fingers, and dipping either into a basin of water to prevent sticking. Machines for stoning Raisins are advertised, which would save much labour if effectual in their work. Besides the following receipts, Raisins are used in plum cakes, plum puddings, and other dishes described under special headings. Layer Raisins are served accom- panied with blanched Jordan almonds, and form a standard English dessert dish. The grocers’ currant, or Corinth grape, will be found fully described under the heading of Currants. Baked Raisin Pudding.—(1) Put So/., of dripping into a basin, warm it, and work in lib. of flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Add 1 teaspoonful of ground mixed spice, loz. of candied lemon-peel cut up small, 4oz. of moist sugar, and 6oz. of stoned Raisins. Mix them well, and make the whole into a paste by adding two eggs beaten up in 1 teacupful of milk. Turn the mixture into a well-greased tin or dish, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When done, take it out, turn the pud- ding out of the tin or dish, sprinkle it over with caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 354. (2) Butter the inside of a plain oval mould. Stone and pick the stalks from fib. of Raisins, putting some of these in the buttered mould in any fancy design. Cut some thin slices of bread, trim them, remove the crusts, dry Fig. 354. Baked Raisin Pudding. them before the fire, butter them, and cut them into strips about If in. wide. Line the mould with some of these pieces, and put a layer of Raisins at the bottom, shaking 1 table-spoonful of white powdered sugar over them. Add a layer of the pieces of bread-and butter, then a layer of Raisins sprinkled as before with sugar, and continue adding alternately bread-and-butter and Raisins sprinkled with sugar till the mould is nearly full. Let the top layer be bread- and butter. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 1 table-spoonful of white powdered sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of rose-water, and 1 pint of milk; pour this mixture into the mould, and let it stand for a couple of hours to soak. Bake it in the oven for three-quarters-of an-hour; or lay a buttered paper over it, tie a cloth over that, and boil it in a steamer for an-hour- and-a half. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Boiled Raisin Pudding.—(1) Put 8oz. each of sifted bread- crumbs, finely-shred beef-suet, stoned Raisins, and dried flour into a basin; grate over a little nutmeg, and add 2oz. of citron cut up small, a little powdered ginger, and 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar. Mix these thoroughly, and make them into a stiff paste by adding four well-beaten eggs, 1 table- spoonful of brandy, and 4 gill of milk. Turn the mixture into a well-floured cloth, put it into a saucepan of water over a clear fire, and boil for about four-liours-and-a-half. Turn it out on to a dish when done, dust it over with sugar, and serve. (2) Rub Jib. of dripping or mutton-suet into lib. of flour, add Jib. each of moist sugar and sultanas, or stoned Raisins, Raisins—continued. 1 teaspoonful of yeast powder, Jib. of treacle, and a flavour- ing of ground ginger, spice, and cloves. Beat the whole into a paste by adding sufficient skimmed milk or water, turn it into a floured cloth or buttered basin, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about four hours or until it is done. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (3) Put Jib. each of stoned Raisins, flour, and shred beef-suet into a basin, mix them, and add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and a couple of well-whipped eggs. Place the mixture into a floured cloth, tie it up securely, or put it into a buttered basin, cover with a cloth, place it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from two- hours-and-a-half to three hours, by which time the pudding should be done. Turn it out and serve. Iced Raisin Pudding.—Stone 12oz. of Raisins, and boil them gently for fifteen minutes in lqt. of milk or cream with a small stick of cinnamon ; blanch Jib. of almonds’ and pound them fine in a mortar with a few drops of rose-water. Thinly slice 2oz. each of preserved ginger and citron, and beat the yolks of four eggs to a cream together with 4H). of powdered sugar. Strain the Raisins anti cinnamon from the milk, return the milk to the fire, and stir while the eggs and sugar are being added to it. Con- tinue stirring until it begins to thicken, then remove it from the fire, and when it is cold add the fruit and almonds with lqt. of sweetened cream. Put this into a freezing-pot and freeze, pile on a dish, and then pack it in ice. In serving the pudding, whipped cream flavoured with wine, brandy, or rum, is placed round it (see Fig. 355). Raisin Cake.—Put lib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream, and add gradually lib. of sifted flour, the same of crushed loaf sugar, and the yolks of six eggs. Stir these well, and when they are incorporated add 1 wineglassful of brandy, a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of water, and lastly the whites of the six eggs whipped to a froth. Work well until the mixture has a light and creamy ap- pearance, then add lib. of stoned Raisins or cleaned sultanas, finely chopped and sprinkled over with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour to make them mix in easier. Pour the cake mix- ture into a tin or mould lined with well-buttered paper, bake for an-hour-and-a-lialf, turn it out when done, and it is ready for. use. A few rose-leaves steeped in the brandy will add to the flavour of the cake. Raisin Crusts.—Stone some bloom Raisins, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of moist sugar and suffi- cient sweet wine to moisten, and stew them. Cut some pieces of bread about 3in. square and Jin. thick, and trim off all the crust. Put a lump of butter or lard into a deep frying-pan, and when boiling put in the squares of bread, and fry them until lightly and evenly browned ; next drain them well, put them on a hot dish, pour the stewed Raisins over, dust them with caster sugar, and serve. Raisin Roly-poly.—Pour boiling water over Jib. of Raisins, let them steep in it on the stove for ten minutes, then drain, and wipe them dry. Stone and chop them to a pulp. Mix together 1 lb. of the best sugar, barely 1 salt-THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 304 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Raisins—continued. spoonful of cream of tartar, and J pint of cold water; put this mixture in a saucepan over a moderate fire, and let it hoil till when a little of it is tried in cold water it forms a soft jelly; then take it from the fire, and let it stand closely covered for a few minutes. Beat it to a smooth cream with a wooden spatula or spoon, flavour it with extract of roses, and turn it out on to a paste board and work in the Raisins. If the cream should get too soft to work, shake in a little confectioner’s sugar; if it should get too stiff, work in a little jelly or rich cream, or put it into a basin standing in warm water for a few minutes. When the Raisins are worked in, roll the mixture out with a rolling-pin, spread over it a thin layer of strawberry jelly, and roll it up. Make a stiff icing of the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth together with some confectioner’s sugar, and flavoured with extract of roses; spread it over the roly-poly, and let it stand to harden. Serve it cut in thin slices on a glass dish. Raisin Sherbet.—Put 31b. of Raisins in a stone or earthen- ware jar, with four small lemons cut into thin slices, and Alb. of caster sugar; pour in 6qts. of water, and let it remain for three days, stirring it three or four times each day. Next strain the liquor through flannel, and pour it into stone bottles, but without quite filling them. Cork the bottles, wiring them down tightly, and keep them in a cool cellar. In three weeks’ time the sherbet is ready for use. Raisin Wine.—(1) Chop up the required quantity of Raisins, put them into a tub, and pour over tepid water, allowing J gall, to every 41b. of fruit. Stir well daily for a month, then pass the liquor through a fine sieve into a cask, pressing the fruit to obtain as much liquor as possible. In warm weather it will commence to ferment in a few days ; it is wiser not to wait, but to put 1 pint of freshly- grown yeast into the cask and stir it in freely before the must is cool. Let it remain for ten days, then bung up the cask, and let. it stand for six months or so; draw it off into a clean cask, and leave it for two months longer. Dissolve a little isinglass in a little of the wine, then pour it in through the bunghole and rummage the wine gently. Bung up again tightly. It should now stand for quite a year, when it will be fit for use, but the longer it stands the better it will be. Smyrna or Valencia Raisins are the best for this wine. A little brandy may be added, but it is quite unnecessary if the fermentation has been properly conducted. (2) Take some Malaga Raisins, press and chop them fine, and to 101b. of Raisins put 2galls. of water. Let them steep for three weeks, stirring now and then during the time. Squeeze out the liquor, and put it in a cask that will just hold it, but be careful not to bung down until it has left off hissing, then bung it up close. It will be fit for use in six months. Stewed Raisins.—Thoroughly wash lib. of Raisins that have been freed of stalks, and put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water ; place the saucepan over the fire, and boil the Raisins gently until they are swollen; then sweeten them to taste with caster sugar, and boil for a few minutes longer. Remove the Raisins from the fire, leave them in their liquor until cold, then pour them into a glass bowl, flavour with a few drops of essence of rose or orange-flower water, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, put in three or four lumps of ice, and serve. Sultana Cake.—Rub Jib. each of lard and butter into 21b. of the best white flour, and when quite smooth add lib. of Sultanas, Jib. of moist sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of baking-powder. Beat two eggs well, and stir them into the above ingredients, also a sufficient quantity of cold milk to moisten. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out of the tin when cooked, and stand it up on its edge to let the steam escape. RAKI.—In Cyprus, Dalmatia, and other places, a spirit of this name is made by fermentation and distilla- tion from the expressed juice of primes, or the husks of grapes, flavoured with aromatics. RAMAZAN CAKES.—See Cakes. RAMEKINS (Fr. Ramekins ; Ger. Kasekrapfen).— The licence that all artists claim for themselves and their doings is strongly marked in the cook’s treatment of Ramekins. Originally the word signified a mixture of cheese, eggs, and other things, formed in a mould, or served on bread it is now, used in the plural sense, applied to almost any kind of cheese cake, or cake containing cheese. Some receipts for this are given under Cheese! as Cheese Puffs. The following may be considered very special: (1) Cut up small Jib. each of fresh butter, Gloucester cheese, and Cheshire cheese; pound them to a paste in a mortar, add to them the crumb of a small French roll boiled in cream, and work it into the paste. Mix in next the beaten yolks of four eggs and lastly the well-whisked whites of four eggs. Put the paste into small oblong- paper cases, and brown nicely before the fire in a Dutch oven. Serve very hot. (2) Beat up four eggs very light, then add loz. of butter warmed soft, 4oz. of grated cheese, and salt to taste. Beat all together for ten minutes, and bake immediately in paper cases or small patty-pans. (3) Grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese into a basin, and mix it up with an equal quantity of ground ginger ; add salt, cayenne, and pepper to taste, and the yolks of six eggs, well beaten together with 4oz. of warm butter. Mix thoroughly, and add the whites of the six eggs whipped to a froth. Put the preparation in small paper cases, place them in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When done take them out, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (4) Put 2oz. of grated cheese into a mortar, and mix in the beaten yolk of an egg, loz. of warm butter, a small quantity of pepper, and lastly one boned anchovy. Pound these well, spread the mixture on pieces of toast, brown them before the fire, and serve. (5) Put Jib. of puff paste on to a well floured board, roll it out moderately thin, grate over some cheese (Par- mesan for preference, but Cheshire or Gloucester may be used), fold the paste over, and roll it out again. Repeat this process, making three times in all, then cut the paste into any desired shape, brush them over with well-beaten yolk of egg, put them on a buttered baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake for about fifteen minutes. When done, put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve. Dijon Ramekins. -Pour J tumblerful of water into a sauce- pan, add 6oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of crushed loaf sugar, and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the mixture com- mences to bubble add Jib. of sifted flour, stirring well for five minutes until the paste is quite smooth. Turn it into a clean saucepan, add four or five eggs, and stir in gently 5oz. of finely-chopped Gruyere cheese. Drop the paste on to a buttered baking-sheet in lumps the size of a walnut, -brush them over with egg, lift them up care- fully, place them on small thin slices of cheese, put them into a quick oven, and bake until done. Take them out and serve very hot. Dutch Ramekins.—Put ljoz. of butter into a mortar, warm it, and mix in the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and 4oz. of cheese, using Gloucester or Cheshire for pre- ference. Pound them well until they are quite smooth, spread the mixture over slices of bread-and-butter, brown the surface with a salamander or in the oven, and serve at once. Fried Ramekins.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with them 2oz. of warmed butter; whisk again to mix well. Fry in butter some slices of bread that have been trimmed to a neat shape, and when of a pale golden brown colour drain them and spread the beaten egg and butter over. Strew each one thickly with finely- grated Gloucester cheese, lay them on a baking-sheet over which has been* spread a sheet of white paper, and put them in a brisk oven for five minutes. Garnish a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper,ARTISTIC FISH GARNISHES.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 305 VOL. II. X Ramekins—continued. put the Ramekins on it, strew a small quantity of cayenne pepper on the top of each, and serve while very hot. Ramekins a la Genevaise.—Cover the bottom of a well- buttered shallow dish with slices of bread cut Ain. thick, and pour over as much milk as they will absorb without breaking. Put a sufficient quantity of grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere) to cover the slices of bread into a saucepan on the fire, and dissolve it in milk and butter or cream, stirring well until it is quite smooth. Spread it over the bread, put the dish Raspberries—continued. and in Scotland the fruit and plant alike are generally known as rasps. The juice of the Raspberry is exceedingly luscious, and possesses a peculiarly rich aroma, for which reason it is Fig. 356. Ramekin a la Genevaise. Fig. 359. Raspueriues. much used by cooks, confectioners, and the manufacturers of liqueurs. Nicholson, in his “ Dictionary of Gardening,” recommends the following varieties, but Red Antwerp is considered the best. Baumforth’s Seedling, large, dark crimson, of excellent fla- vour; Belle de Fontenay, large, round, red ; Carter’s Prolific, large, deep red, firm, of good flavour; Fastolf, very large, globu- lar, bright red, of good flavour ; Large-fruited Monthly, rather large, deep purplish-red, of excellent flavour ; McLaren’s Prolific, roundish, large, deep crimson ; Northumberland Fillbasket, large, deep red, of good flavour ; October Red and October Yellow, red and yellow respectively; Prince of Wales, very large, globular, deep crimson, of excellent flavour; Red Antwerp, large, conical, dull red, of brisk flavour; Yellow Antwerp, medium-sized, pale yellow, rich, and sweet. Bottled Raspberries. -Remove the stalks and unsound fruit from the Raspberries, put them into bottles, and pour over sufficient syrup at ‘26deg. (see SUGAR-BOILING) to fill; place the bottles in a large saucepan with water to half their height, and simmer very gently for five minutes. Let the bottles cool, pour off all the syrup into a sugar-boiler, and turn the fruit from one bottle into that of another, so as to have two lots of it in one bottle. Add to the syrup a quarter of its bulk in Raspberry-juice, boil up once, skim well, pour it into the bottles over the fruit, cork them down when cold, and the Raspberries are then ready for use. in a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes, by which time the cheese should be quite brown, and adhere to the dish. Vi hen done, take it out and serve at once. Bee Fig. 356. RAMFION.—A plant (Campanula Rapunculus) of the bellflower family. It is much cultivated in France and Italy, and sometimes in Great Britain, for the roots (see Fig. 357), which are boiled tender and eaten hot with sauce, or cold with vinegar and pepper. At one time the Rampion highly esteemed as a vege- able in this country, but as the cultivation was super- seded by other root crops, that yielded more satisfac- torily (to the horticulturist), this root was neglected, and becoming scarcer, and con- sequently more expensive, was eventually discarded from the kitchen as being too costly as compared with its culi- nary value. This neglect is not altogether wise, for it may be grown in fields, and the leaves form an excellent food for cattle. RANGES.—See Stoves and Ranges. was much used and very Fig. 357. Rampion. RAPE.—The refuse stems and skins of grapes or raisins, from which the must has been expressed in wine- making. A poor thin wine is made from these. RARE.—A term sometimes used to signify underdone or nearly raw meat, such as Rare beef or mutton. RAREBIT.—See Cheese for Welsh Rarebit. RASP.—A coarse broad file with a turned-back handle (see Fig. 358) used by bakers to remove the burnt crust from loaves, rolls, &c. RASPBERRIES (Fr. Fram- boises ; Ger. Himbeeren).—The F,G- ^58. Rasp- plant (Rubios Id;eus) from which this delicious fruit (see Fig. 359) is gathered is a native of Great Britain, and of most countries in Europe. The term rasp is given to it because of the roughness of its berry. In some parts the fruit is called hindberry, Frozen Raspberries. —Put I pint of sugar and lqt. of water into a sugar-boiler and boil for lialf-an-hour; then add Agall. of ripe Raspberries and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Let this mixture cool; add the juice of three lemons, pour the whole into the freezer, work it well, take out the beater, and pour in 1 pint of well-whipped cream. When the preparation is frozen turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Iced Raspberries. -The Raspberries must be large and good; hull them and carefully examine the hollows to be sure that there are no insects in them. Beat up the white of an egg with \ wineglassful of water; dip the Raspberries, one at a time, into the mixture of egg and water, roll them in powdered sugar one at a time as they are taken out of the water, lay them apart from one another on white paper, and leave them there till they are quite dry, which will probably take six hours. When perfectly dry, keep in a dry cool place till served for dessert. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 30G For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. Preserved Raspberries.—(1) Large Raspberries are best; they should be quite ripe, and care should be taken that there are no insects in the hollows of the berries. Weigh them, and to every pound of Raspberries allow a pound of sugar. Put the Raspberries and sugar in alternate layers in a preserving-pan, being careful to have a layer of sugar at the bottom and also at the top, and let them stand in the sugar all night. In the morning, pick off the stalks from some ripe red currants, bruise them, and squeeze the juice out through a cloth. Add 1 breakfast- cupful of this juice to each 21b. of Raspberries and sugar, weighed together; add the currant-juice to the Raspberries and sugar already in the pan, put it on the stove, and gently stir till it boils. Take off all the scum as it rises and continue stirring to prevent the Raspberries sticking, but be careful not to break them. Continue to boil till clear, let them cool a little, and then put them into jars. When cold, cover and put away in a cool dark place. (2) Take some ripe but not over ripe Raspberries, pick and hull them, and put them into a preserving-pan, adding lib. of clarified sugar boiled to the ball (sec Sugar-boiling) to each pound of Raspberries. Put them over the fire and give them about a dozen boils; skim the syrup, take it from the lire, and let it stand till the next day, then drain the Raspberries from the syrup and put them into jars. Put the syrup over the fire, together with some strained cherry-juice, boil it to the crack (see Sugar- BOILING), and pour it over the Raspberries; add to each jar 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly. When quite cold, lay on the preserve in each jar a piece of white paper soaked in brandy, and cover the jars air-tight. (3) Wash and drain well lOqts. of ripe Raspberries. When ready fill up ten jars, pour into each 1 pint of syrup, and put on the covers very securely; place them in a large saucepan, seeing that they do not touch one another, otherwise they might break, and pack a little hay or straw between them. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, and placing it on the hot stove boil for five minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift out the jars one by one, putting them in a dry but not a cold place. Let them stand until thoroughly cold, then put them away and use as desired. Raspberry-and-Almond Cream-Ice.—Put lqt. of Rasp- berry-juice into a basin with an equal quantity of syrup at 35deg. (see SUGAR-BOILING); mix well, and pass the whole through a fine sieve. Put 3 pints of cream into a saucepan, boil it, and let it cool. Mix in {,1b. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and the yolks of twelve eggs, stir well over the fire, but without boiling; when the mixture begins to thicken add {lb. of sweet and {oz. of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, with 1 table-spoonful of kirschenwasser, and pass this also through a fine sieve into a basin. Put the Raspberry mixture into a freezer Fig. 360. Raspberry-and-Almond Cream-Ice. and the almond cream into another, and work them both until sufficiently frozen. Put them, mixing them or in layers, on to an ornamental paper spread over a dish (see Fig. 360), and serve. Raspberry Biscuits.—Put lib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin with an equal weight of blanched and Raspberries—continued. pounded sweet almonds; add a little grated lemon-rind and sufficient yolk of egg to form a stiff' paste. Roll half of this out very thin, cover it with a layer of Raspberry jam, place the remainder of the paste on the top, and let it stand for a day. Cover the top with royal icing, cut it up into strips about 3in. long by lin. wide, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake until done. Take them out and serve cold. Raspberry Blanc-mange.—Put lgall. of Raspberries into an earthenware bowl, press them well with a spoon, turn them out on to a sieve over a saucepan, and strain off as much of the juice as possible. Mix in l{oz. of gelatine and 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar. Place the saucepan over a clear fire and boil until the gelatine is dissolved, and then add gradually 3 teacupfuls of cream, stirring continually until the mixture is of the required consistency. Let it get cool, turn it into a mould, set it on the ice or in a cold jdace, and when the blanc mange is firm turn it out, and serve. Raspberry Bouchees des Dames.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin and beat them up with {lb. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, working them well for about five minutes. Add the whites of the eggs, whipped to a stiff froth, and mix in 4oz. of Hour. Turn the mixture into a biscuit-forcer or paper funnel, squeeze out rounds about l{in. in diameter, letting them fall on sheets of paper, dust them over with caster sugar, and bake them. When done, take them out, trim them, mask half of them with Raspberry jam, cover with the other half, glaze them with Raspberry icing, by dipping them into it, holding one at a time on a skewer, drain, put them in the hot closet for two or three minutes to set, take them out, and when they are cold they are ready for use. Raspberry Brandy.—(1) Blanch eighteen or twenty bitter almonds, and cut them into small pieces. Pick carefully over 21b. of ripe Raspberries to remove all the stalks and leaves, and put them in a quart bottle with the almonds and lib. of caster sugar. Fill the bottle up with brandy, cork it tightlp, and keep it in a warm place for a month. Shake the bottle occasionally. If possible, the bottle should be exposed to the sun. At the end of that time it may be mo vedto a dry store-cupboard. The brandy ought to be kept ten or twelve months before it is used. (2) Take l pint of good ripe Raspberries, remove the hulls, taking care that there are no insects in the hollows of the fruit. When carefully picked, bruise and put them in a wide-mouthed bottle, pour on to them lqt. of the best brandy, cork up the bottle, and let the fruit stand in the brandy for a fortnight. Then put Jib. of loaf sugar into a small saucepan with 1 gill of cold water and boil it, taking off the scum as it rises, till it becomes clear. Add this syrup to the fruit and brandy, pour all into a jelly-bag, and let it drain through. When the liquor is strained from the Raspberries, bottle and cork it up, and keep it in a cool dark place for a fortnight, then strain it again; be careful not to disturb the sediment when pouring it out. When the liqueur is perfectly clear and bright put it into clean bottles and cork it up. (3) Put .the Raspberries into a stone or earthenware jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and scald the fruit until the juice will run without pressure. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan, pour over the juice, which should be lqt., boil it, and skim well until the liquor is clear. Pour it out into a large bottle, mix in an equal quantity of brandy, shake the bottle well, pour the liquor into smaller bottles, cork them down when cold, and the brandy is then ready for use. (4) Mix 2oz. of essence of Raspberry and the same of acetic acid with 1 pint each of syrup of gum Arabic and Raspberry-juice, and turn the whole into a cask contain- ing half a barrel of pure spirits. Raspberry Butter Sauce.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, slightly warm it, and work in {lb. of loaf sugar, crushed and sifted. Pour in sufficient Raspberry-juice to colour and flavour it, and it is ready for use.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 307 X Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Cake.—(1) Large.—Remove the tops from Iqt. of Raspberries, put them into a stewpan with 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and place them over a slow fire. Shake the fruit occasionally, and when it is cooked lift it out of the stewpan with a slice and let the syrup con- tinue boiling. Blanch and pound 2oz. of almonds, mixing a little white of egg with them to prevent oiling. Warm 3oz. of butter, beat it, and when creamy mix with it the almonds, 14 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2 table spoonfuls of grated breadcrumb, and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and when the above ingredients are thoroughly mixed stir them in lightly. Butter a shallow tart-tin, line it with plain short paste, put in the fruit, pour over the syrup, and lastly pour over the beaten egg. Bake the cake in a brisk oven. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Small.—Take some Raspberries that are not quite ripe, free them from the hulls, and put them in the stove to dry. When they are dry weigh 4lb. of them, place in a mortar, and pound. Clarify 1 Jib. of powdered white sugar, boil it to the crack (see SUGAR boil- ing), and stir in the 41b. of Raspberries together with 1 dessert-spoonful of white of egg beaten up with a little cream; continue to stir and give it a boil. Pour it into shallow paper cases and dry in the stove. Raspberry Caramels.—Put 61b. of sugar and 4gall. of cream into a sugar-boiler, stir well, and add 41b. of glucose ; boil for about fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Add 1 olb. of butter and boil it to the crack. Add 2 table- spoonfuls of Raspberry extract, stir well, turn the mixture out on to a well-oiled plate, and let it cool. Mark it in the required shapes, break it when cold, put the pieces away into boxes or bottles, and let them remain in a dry place until wanted. Raspberry Charlotte.—Take 21b. of ripe Raspberries, remove the hulls, see that there are no insects in the hollows of the berries, and have ready also lib. of dry breadcrumbs. Then butter a pudding-dish, and cover the bottom with a fayer of dry breadcrumbs; on top of this put a layer of Raspberries, sprinkle plenty of sugar over them, add another layer of breadcrumbs, then a layer of Rasp- berries sprinkled with sugar, and so on till the dish is filled; let the last layer be breadcrumbs. On this last layer put bits of butter. Lay a plate or cover over it and ba,ke for half-an-hour. Remove the plate or cover a few minutes before serving and let it brown. Serve cream with, it. Raspberry Cheese.—Pick carefully over the Raspberries, put them in a mortar with some sugar, and pound them well. When well mashed pass the puree through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix a small quantity of melted Fig. 361. Raspberry Cheese. isinglass with it, and beat it well with a wooden spoon. Whisk 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, then stir it in with the Raspberry puree. Add more sugar if not sufficiently sweetened, and whip the mixture over ice till the isinglass is well incorporated with the other ingredients. Turn the Raspberries—continued. cheese into a plain mould, close it, and pack it in pounded salt and ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cheese out on to a fancy dish, and garnish round with macaroons or ratafias (see Fig. 361). Attend particularly to stirring the cheese when it is over the ice to ensure its being well mixed. Raspberry-and-Cherry Jam.—Put Sib. of Raspberries into a preserving-pan, with 4lb. of stoned cherries, and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim off the scum, if any, and add 91b. of sugar. Boil again for about an hour or until the jam hangs on the spoon, skim it again, pour it into pots, cover them when cold, and they will be ready for use. Raspberry Compote.—Put lib. of Raspberries and a little lemon-juice into a saucepan, pour over sufficient weak syrup to moisten, simmer gently at the side of the fire for two or three minutes, take out the Raspberries, drain, put them on a dish, boil up the syrup to the thread degree (see Sugar boiling), pour it over, and serve. Raspberry Cordial.—(1) Allow 41b. of powdered white sugar to each pound of Raspberries, remove the hulls, put them into a pan, mash them a little, and strew the sugar over; cover the pan and let them stand all night. Next day put them into a thin linen cloth and squeeze and wring the juice from them. To every pint of juice add lqt. of double rectified whisky. Mix the juice and whisky well together and bottle it. Cork the bottles well. It will be fit for use in a few days. (2) Add to lqt. of deodorized alcohol lqt. of Raspberry - juice, let it stand for a week, and then add 2 tea- spoonfuls of vanilla and lqt. of syrup made of loaf sugar. Strain it then and bottle it. (3) This is prepared by adding 24gall. of Raspberry- juice and lgall. of syrup, made from white sugar, to each 4gall. of spirits. Raspberry Cream.—(1) Rub lqt. of Raspberries through a fine sieve to remove the seeds; mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and sufficient caster sugar to sweeten. Put all into a stone or earthenware bowl, whisk well, and as the froth rises skim it off with a spoon and put it on a hair sieve. Put the cream that is left in the bowl in a deep glass dish, pile the whipped cream on top, mounting it up as high as possible, decorate with a flower in the centre, and serve. (2) Dissolve 4oz. of isinglass in 4 breakfast-cupful of milk, and sweeten it with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Put about half a small jar of Raspberry jam on a fine hair sieve, pour over it 1 pint of thick cream, and rub it through the sieve. Mix the isinglass and milk with the cream, and stir it over the fire until thick and smooth. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the cream into it, and set it away in a cool place. When quite cold and set, turn the cream out of the mould on to a fancy or glass dish, and serve. (3) Put 2oz. of gelatine into a lined saucepan with 3 pints of milk, and boil until it is dissolved. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, and leave until cold ; then mix with it 1| breakfast-cupfuls of juice that has been extracted from ripe Raspberries and strained. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and mix well. Beat the mixture with an egg-whip until cold, then turn it into a mould, close it tightly, and bury it in pounded ice and salt. When the cream is well frozen dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn its contents on to a fancy dish, and serve. (4) Dissolve foz. of gelatine in rather less than | pint of water. Add to f pint of cream 41b. of Raspberry jelly, the strained juice of a lemon, a sweetening of powdered white sugar, and a very small quantity of cochineal; stir it well, and then add and stir in the dissolved gelatine. As soon as it begins to set pour it into an earthenware mould well wetted inside with cold water. (5) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Raspberries into a basin with 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar and two or three drops of cochineal, bruise them well, and rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin packed in ice. Add 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of well-whipped cream and 4oz. of gelatine, dissolved in a little water; stir well, turn the whole into a mould, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.308 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.. referred to. see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. cover it with a lid, pack ice on the top and all round it, and let it remain until the cream is set firm. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Raspberry jam may be substituted for the Raspberries. (6) Imitation.—Put 4oz. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar into a basin with an equal quantity of Raspberry jam or jelly and the whites of four eggs, and beat the whole for about an hour, when it will have the appear- ance of cream. Take it up in lumps about the size of an egg, and drop it into the dish in which it is to be served. Raspberry Cream-Ice.—(1) Put lib. of Raspberries and 41b. of red currants into a saucepan, bruise them, and add |lb. of crushed loaf sugar. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture boils; pass it through a fine sieve into a basin and let it cool. Pour over 1 pint of cream, turn the whole into the freezer, and when it is stiff and well frozen it is ready for use. (2) Put 41b. each of picked Raspberries and Raspberry jam into a basin, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, the juice of one or more lemons, a little milk, and a slight colouring of carmine; mix well, turn the cream into a freezer, and when firm it may be used. Raspberry Cream-Ice en Surprise. -Put 3 pints of picked Raspberries into a dish and sprinkle over 1 breakfast- cupful of crushed loaf sugar. Put 3 pints of cream into a freezer, together with 3 teacupfuls of sugar and 2 table- spoonfuls of wine. When this mixture is frozen, take out the beater from the freezer and work the cream to the sides with a spatula, leaving a hollow in the centre. Fill this with the Raspberries and sugar, cover them, with the cream, put the cover over the freezer, and let it stand for an hour or two. When ready, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Raspberry-and-Cream Pie.—Make some rich puff paste, line a pie-dish with it, and fill the dish with Raspberries, picked free from hulls, &c. ; add sugar to taste, and cover with puff paste, but do not press down the edges. Lay it on as lightly as possible, and rub down the edge of the lower crust with a little flour to prevent the top one from sticking to it. Bake in a quick oven. Blend 1 table- spoonful of cornflour smooth with a little milk. Put 4 pint of milk over the fire to get warm, add to it a very small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, not more than will lie on a threepenny bit; when the milk is warm stir into it the blended cornflour, mix in 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, stir till it boils, and pour it into a basin. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the thickened milk in the basin, whip it to a cream, and let it stand till cold. When the pie is baked, lift up the top crust and pour in the whipped cream. Put the crust on again, and put the pie away to get cold. Serve cold with a little white sifted sugar sprinkled over it. Raspberry Crusts.—Cut two or three stale penny French rolls across into slices about Jin. thick, and lay them side by side on a dish, strew some caster sugar over them with some grated lemon-peel and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Pour over them two well-beaten eggs and 1 pint of milk, and leave them to soak for an hour or two. Put lib. of Raspberry jam in a stewpan with 4 pint of claret and 1 teacupful of water; stir it on the fire until mixed. Mix 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a little of the sauce, then mix it with the remainder, and stir until boiling and thickened. Sweeten the sauce to taste with caster sugar, stir it for a short time off the Raspberries—continued. fire, and leave until cold. When the slices are sufficiently soaked, put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put them in and fry till nicely browned. Drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour the mixture over the toast, dredge caster sugar over them, and serve with the cold sauce in a sauceboat (see Fig. 302). Raspberry-and-Currant Jam.—Carefully look over the Raspberries to see that there are no insects or stems left among them; then weigh, and to every pound of Rasp- berries allow lib. of sugar. To each 21b. of Rasp- berries and sugar allow 1 breakfast-cupful of the juice of red currants, obtained by bruising the currants in a cloth and squeezing the juice out through it. Put the currant-juice and the Raspberries into a preserving-pan, place it on the stove, break the Raspberries with a wooden spoon, and keep stirring; let them boil quickly till the juice is reduced to about one-third, then add the sugar, but do not stop stirring. When the sugar is all melted let the jam boil slowly for five or six minutes longer, stirring it occasionally to prevent it burning. When cool put the preserve into jars, and when quite cold cover and pub away for future use. Raspberry-and-Currant Jelly.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in 4 pint of cold water. Put 21b. of red currants and 21b. of red Raspberries into a stone jar and mash them thoroughly with a wooden masher and strain out all the juice. Add to the soaked gelatine 1 lb. of white sugar and 4 pint of boiling water, stir it in a saucepan over the fire till gelatine and sugar are completely melted, then strain into it the juice of the fruit. Stir all together and strain again through a flannel-bag without shaking or squeezing it. Wet the inside of a mould that has a cylinder in it, and pour in the jelly. Let it stand in ice till quite firm, turn it out on a glass dish, and fill the centre with well- sweetened whipped cream. (2) Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of red currant-juice into a preserving-pan over lqt. of Raspberries, set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the Raspberries will easily mash; turn the whole on to a sieve over another preserving-pan, and strain through all the juice. Measure it, and to each breakfast-cupful allow 6oz. of sugar. Boil slowly for about half-an-hour, skimming as often as required. Pour it into pots, cover them when cold, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Raspberry-and-Currant Pie.—Make a rich paste and line a deep pie-dish witli it. Remove the stems from 1 pint each of Raspberries and currants, and put them into the pie-dish ; sprinkle over 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and cover it over with paste, melting the edges of the crusts to make them adhere. Cut two or three slits in the upper crust, brush it with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, dust with sugar, and serve liot or cold. Raspberry-and-Currant Pudding. Pick the stalks off lib. each of red currants and Raspberries, put them in a preserving-pan with AID- of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, place it over a very slow fire, and stew gently for half- an-hour. At the end of that time remove the fruit from the fire and leave it until cold. Whisk 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, cut eight or ten thin slices of bread, cover the bottom of a glass dish with a few of the slices, and mask them with a layer of the cold fruit; over that put another layer of the slices of bread, next the fruit, and so on, until all are used. Pour the whipped cream over the fruit and bread, and leave it for a few minutes so ' that the bread may absorb some of the fruit juice, then serve it. Raspberry-and-Currant Shrub.—Hull 31b. of red or white Raspberries, put them into a straining-cloth, together with 41b. of red or white currants, bruise well, and strain all the juice from them. Put the juice in a preserving- pan over the fire, and boil up quickly and hard for ten minutes. Then put in 21b. of loaf sugar, broken small, and when it melts let it boil up once. Skim it, take it from the fire, and let it get quite cold ; then if there is any more scum, skim it again. Add 1 pint of the best309 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. brandy, and shake it hard or stir it well for five minutes. Bottle it, cork well, and seal the corks; lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. This shrub will keep for years, and be improved by age. Raspberry-and-Currant Syrup.—This is prepared by mixing Raspberry and currant syrup in the proportion of \ pint of the former with 2 pints of the latter, ami bottling. Raspberry-and Currant Tart.—Line a tart-dish with rich sweet-paste, put in Raspberries and currants in equal proportions, sprinkle them over with moist sugar, set the dish in a moderate oven, and when it has been in for a- quarter-of-an-hour, cover with buttered paper and bake until quite done; then take it out, and serve. Raspberry-and-Currant Tartlets.—Butter some patty- pans, line them with a good short paste, fill with uncooked rice, and bake. Make a syrup with crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of water, and when boiled and skimmed move it to the side of the fire and mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy. Pick the stalks off the Raspberries and currants, and put them in the syrup. When the tart-cases are cooked, empty out the rice, and fill them with the fruit and syrup. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, place the tartlets on it, and serve them, accompanied, if preferred, with cream or custard. Raspberry-and-Currant Water-Ice.—Mash the Raspberries and currants in equal quantities to extract all their juice, which strain through a line hair sieve. For every break- fast-cupful of the fruit juice allow I breakfast-cupful of clarified syrup. Mix the juice and syrup together, put in a freezer, and work it against the sides until frozen. Next press the frozen mixture into a mould, close it, and pack it in pounded ice and salt; leave it there for about two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and then turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Raspberry Custard.—Rub 1 breakfast-cupful of Raspberries or Raspberry jam through a fine sieve to extract the seeds. Put the pulp into a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk with 4 table-spoonful of cornflour mixed smooth in it, then add a well-beaten egg, turn the preparation into a saucepan, and boil it, stirring constantly to prevent it burning or sticking to the pan. When done, turn it out on a dish, and serve cold. Raspberry Custard Pudding. —Moisten 2 table-,spoonfuls of cornflour in a little cold milk. Boil 1 pint of milk, and while boiling stir in the 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour; then let the boil go off, and add two eggs beaten up with Jib. of sugar: let it thicken to a custard. Spread a large pot of Raspberry jam over the bottom of a flat dish, and pile the custard over it (see Fig. 363). Serve warm with cream and sugar. Raspberry Custard with Wine. —Pour I breakfast-cupful each of Raspberry-juice and red wine into a preserving- pan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and warm the whole over the fire. Add 5oz. of cornflour mixed with a little water, stir it into the liquor until it thickens, taking care not to let it boil. Turn the preparation into a mould, and let it remain for three or four hours. When quite firm turn it out on a dish, and serve. Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Drops.—Put 141b. of sugar into a light copper sugar pan with |oz. of cream of tartar and 6 breakfast- cupfuls of cold water. Set the pan on the fire and stir continually until the water boils; remove it from the fire and stir until all the sugar is dissolved. Put it back on the fire, and before it reaches the crack degree [sec Sugar- BOILING) add a slight colouring of prepared cochineal so as to give it a tint to imitate Raspberry-juice. When boiled to the crack turn it out on to a slab, mix in toz. of tartaric acid and 4 dessert-spoonful or so of essence of Raspberries. Work the paste in the same way as dough, form it into shapes, or pass it through a machine. Let the drops get quite cold, and they may then be packed away for future use. A slight quantity of cream of tartar may be added should the sugar grain too quickly. Raspberry Dumplings. —Make some puff paste and roll it out, not too thin, on a floured table or board; spread a layer of Raspberry jam over the paste, roll the paste as for jam rolled pudding, then cut it oft' into lengths, which shape round, pulling the paste over the edges to keep the jam in. Plunge the dumplings into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for an hour. When cooked, drain the dumplings, put them on a hot dish, dredge with caster sugar, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet melted butter sauce. Raspberry Fool.—(1) Pick the tops off' 141b. of Raspberries and mash the fruit to a pulp. Pass it through a fine hair sieve, mix it smoothly with h pint of milk, sweeten with caster sugar, and turn it on to a glass dish. Whip 4 pint of thick cream to a stiff' froth and spread it over the Raspberries, garnish them with slices of sponge cake, and serve. (2) Pick the tops off the Raspberries and mash them well with a wooden spoon; sift plenty of crushed loaf sugar over them, and keep them in a cool place for an hour or two. Measure the mashed Raspberries, put them in a basin, and for each pint of them pour in 4 pint of water and the same quantity of white wine. Stir them until quite smooth, then serve with sponge cakes or sippets of fancy bread. Raspberry Fritters. -(1) Pour 4 teacupful of boiling cream into a basin over two grated or pounded Naples biscuits and let them cool. Pour in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, stir them well into the biscuits, then add 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and sufficient juice of Rasp- berries to flavour and give the required pink colour. Take up the batter with a spoon, drop it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until all are done. Take them out, drain them, stick a few small strips of citron in some and the same of blanched almonds in the others, and serve. (2) Finely grate two arrowroot biscuits or the crumb of a stale French roll, stir them into 1 breakfast-cupful of hot cream, leave it till cold, then add the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, and stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of mashed Raspberries. Take the mixture up in table-spoon- fuls and drop it into boiling lard ; as soon as the fritters are set firm, take them out, stick a blanched and split almond into each, sprinkle them over freely with caster sugar, place them on a dish-paper on a dish, garnish with bunches of white currants, and serve Raspberry cream separately. Raspberries Glacees. —Take Jib. or so of preserved Rasp- berries, drain them, and dry them in the hot closet. Dip them into Raspberry icing, set them to cool, and they are ready for use. Raspberry Icing. —Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with 1 pint of water, set the boiler over the fire, and a few minutes before it reaches the breaking-point add sufficient Raspberry-juice to reduce the syrup to 38deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Remove the boiler from the fire, let the icing cool, work it smooth with a spatula, and put it in a basin until wanted for use. A little pre- pared cochineal may be added to colour it by warming half of it and then working it well with the remaining half. Raspberry Jam.—(1) Put an equal weight of picked Rasp- berries and moist sugar into a preserving-pan, stir over theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 310 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. fire until the sugar melts, breaking the fruit with a wooden spoon, and boil until the jam will stiffen if a little is put on a plate. Then pack away in jars. (2) Boil lib. of sugar to each pound of Raspberries in a preserving-pan, and when nearly done add to each pint of jam jr pint of red-currant jelly. Let it boil for a few minutes, stirring well, then take the pan off the stove, let the jam cool a little, put it into jars, and cover in the usual way. (3) Put 2lb. of red currants into a preserving-pan, bruise them, and add 121b. of Raspberries and 1 pint of water. Place the saucepan on the fire and stir well for a few minutes, then pass the whole through a fine sieve, rubbing it well, into a large earthenware pan. Put 121b. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with sufficient water to dissolve it, and boil to the pearl degree (see Sugar boiling). Add the fruit pulp, boil quickly for twenty minutes, stirring continually, by which time the jam should be done and hang from the spoon. Let it get cold in pots or jars, cover with paper soaked in brandy or white of egg, then with bladder or paper, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. Raspberry-Jam Pudding.—Blanch 2oz. of sweet and a dozen bitter almonds, and beat them together; put them in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, tlh. of sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Beat four eggs well and stir them in with the ingredients in the basin, adding-also jib. of slightly-warmed butter. Butter a baking-dish and spread a thick layer of Raspberry jam at the bottom, then pour in the mixture in the basin. Stand this dish inside a larger one containing a little water, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the pudding in the same dish. Raspberry Jelly.—(1) Remove the tops and pick carefully over 1 pint of freshly-gathered Raspberries; put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stir them till hot, then strain them through a jelly-bag. Mix with the liquor loz. of dissolved isinglass and ilb. of caster sugar; stir the whole over the lire till hot, then strain it Fig. 364. Raspberry Jelly. through a fine hair sieve. Pour the jelly into a mould, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out on to a dish, garnish with candied fruit (see Fig. 364), and serve. (2) Soak joz. of gelatine in 4 table-spoonfuls of water, put it in an earthenware jar, place it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until dissolved. Add 1 breakfast- cupful of Raspberry syrup, stir well, pour the jelly into a mould packed in ice, turn it out on to a dish when firm, and serve. (3) Pour 41b. of Raspberry-juice into a preserving-pan over the fire and boil quickly for about twenty minutes, then add 34lb. of loaf sugar, removing the pan from the fire while stirring it until it is dissolved, and then boiling quickly again for another fifteen minutes. Skim well, pour Raspberries -continued. the jelly into jars, cover them when cold, and they are ready for use. Raspberry Juice.—Put the required quantity of Raspberries into a preserving-pan, bruise them well, boil for a few minutes, pass the juice through a fine sieve or jelly-bag, and it is ready for use. Raspberry Jujubes.—Put lib. of gum Arabic into a basin, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, soak, and strain it into a sugar-boiler. Add 14oz. of sugar and stir well over the fire until the syrup reaches the small pearl degree (see Sugar boiling), then add 1 teacupful of filtered Raspberry-juice and a little colouring of cochineal. Remove the boiler from the fire, stir well, skim off all the scum, pour the mixture into impressions made in starch powder, such as are used for pastilles or bonbons, turn them out when cold, and they are ready for use. Raspberry Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Raspberry syrup into a large glass with a liqueur-glassful of brandy, fill up with crushed ice, arrange a few sprays of Raspberries on the top, dust over with sugar, and drink through straws. Raspberry Liqueur.—(1) Pick lqt. of ripe Raspberries, put them into a large bottle with 2qts. of pure spirits, cork it tightly, and keep it in a warm place for a month. At the end of that time put 21b. of lump sugar into 3 pints of water and boil it. When small transparent bubbles form on the top of the syrup, take it off the fire and leave until cold. Filter the liqueur through a piece of flannel and mix the syrup with it. Pour the liqueur into small bottles, cork them well, and put away for use. (2) Put into a jar 31b. of Raspberries, using red and white in equal proportions, and add double the quantity of sugar, lqt. of distilled water, and 3qts. of plain or silent spirit. Cork up securely, sealing if necessary. Give the jar a shake daily for a week, strain through flannel and filter through paper, add cochineal or cudbear to colour, bottle off into clear glass bottles, and use as required. Raspberry Marmalade.—To each pound of Raspberries allow 4lb. of sugar. Hull and pick the Raspberries, rub them through a sieve, and put the pulp over the fire; stir it constantly till reduced to one half. Have ready some sugar clarified and boiled to the little ball (see Sugar- boiling), and when the Raspberry pulp is reduced to half its original quantity pour it over it; mix them well together, give the marmalade a few boils, take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and put it into pots. When quite cold, lay over the marmalade in each pot a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover air-tight. Raspberry Marzipan.—Mix together with a wooden spatula 411». of marzipan, 2oz. of Raspberry jelly, a little cochineal, and the strained juice of two lemons. When these are well mixed, add some powdered white sugar and about 3oz. of flour. When the paste is well worked up roll it into pieces about the size of a finger. Cut the fingers into dice, each of which roll into a ball pointed at one end like a Raspberry. But each of these into a separate paper case, and place them in a dry warm place for nine or ten days. Then put a little powdered white sugar, a little cochineal, and some syrup of Raspberries into a pan, stir them well together with a spoon, and throw a few of the Rasp- berries into it. Take the pan in both hands and shake it about so as to cover the Raspberries equally with the red syrup. Have some coarsely-crushed loaf sugar spread over a large sheet of paper, take the Raspberries out of the syrup, lay them on the crushed loaf sugar, lift the paper up by its two sides, and roll the Raspberries about in the sugar till it sticks all over them. Take them out of the sugar carefully and lay them separately on paper; put a few more Raspberries into the syrup, roll them about in it and in the paper of sugar. When all are done anil laid separately on paper, put them into a warm place for some days before putting them in boxes. They will keep for years. Raspberry Nip.—Half fill a wineglass with Raspberry shrub, and fill up with brandy and Eau d’Or (liqueur) in equal quantities. Drink at once.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 311 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Noyau.—Put Alb. or so of gum mucilage into a saucepan with sufficient blanched and founded almonds and Raspberry jam to taste ; place the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn tbe whole out on to a slab, work in sufficient finely- powdered loaf sugar to make a stiff paste, roll it out into Fig. 365. Raspberry Noyau. a square sheet about lin. in thickness, with wafer-paper at the top and bottom, cut the paste into blocks (see Fig. 365), put them away in boxes, and the noyau is then ready for use. Raspberry Pastille Brops.—Put Aoz. of Raspberry-juice and 3Joz. of sugar into a spouted saucepan over a moderate fire; as soon as the sugar commences to melt, stir well for a couple of minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and drop off small lumps about the size of peas, in rows on a sheet of paper. Let them remain until they are well set, turn the paper upside down, brush it over with water, and let the drops fall into a sieve. Shake over the fire for a few minutes to dry, put them in jars or bottles, securely stopper them, and keep in a dry cool closet until wanted. Raspberry Pie. -Remove the stalks from lib. or so of Raspberries, put them in layers in a tart-dish, with sugar sprinkled between the layers, raising the fruit to a point above the level of the dish. Put a strip of puff paste round the edge of the dish, cover the whole with a round of the paste, ornament it, dust it over with sugar, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for about tliree- quarters-of-an-hour. When done, take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Raspberry Pudding.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it up with three well-beaten eggs. Stir in 4oz. of sugar and lib. of Raspberry jam. Have ready £lb. of fine breadcrumbs, put a layer of them at the bottom of a buttered mould, then a layer of the jam mixture, and continue in this way until the whole is used up. Set the mould in a moderate oven and bake for about an hour. Turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy with Goz. of caster sugar; next beat in the yolks of eight eggs, 1 teacupful of Raspberry jam and 1A teacupfuls of thick cream. Butter a shallow dish, line it with a good puff paste, and spread the above mixture in it. Bake it in a moderate oven, and serve hot or cold. Raspberry Pulp for Ices. -Put some Raspberries into a bowl with a few red currants and a small quantity of water, bruise them well, rub them through a rather coarse sieve into another basin, and mix in 4oz. of sifted sugar to each pound of the pulp. Put the preparation into bottles, cork and tie them down, place the bottles in a large kettle with water to half their height and a little hay between them to prevent their breaking, and simmer slowly for about fifteen minutes. Let the bottles cool in the liquor, take them out, dip the nozzles into wax, and put them away in a cool dry place until wanted. An Raspberries—continued. ounce of cream of tartar may also be added to the pulp while mixing. Raspberry Salad.—(1) Pick the tops off lqt. of ripe Rasp- berries and pile them on a compote-dish. Press 4 pint of red currants well to extract the juice, which strain through a fine hair sieve, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add A teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and A wineglassful of brandy. Pour the sauce over the Raspberries, and serve them. Or they can be done as follows: Having picked the tops off the Raspberries, arrange nicely on a dish, sift some caster sugar over them, squeeze the juice of two oranges in a cup, mix with it 1 wineglassful of maraschino, pour it over the fruit, and serve them. (2) When picked arrange the Raspberries dome-shaped in the centre of a dish, put a border of fine white currants round them, and garnish with leaves. Put 1 teacup- ful of sugar in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and stir it over the fire to a syrup, then take it off and leave till cold. Mix with the syrup 1 wineglassful of maraschino, pour it over the fruit, and serve. Raspberry Sauce.—(1) Squeeze the juice from sufficient ripe Raspberries to make A pint, pour it into a small lined saucepan with the juice of a lemon, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and place it over the fire until boiling. Put 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot in a basin, strain the juice, and stir in slowly with the arrowroot. Return the whole to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick and boiling again. The sauce is then ready for use. If the fresh Raspberries cannot be obtained 1 breakfast-cupful of Raspberry jam can be used with A pint of water. Use the lemon-juice, but if sweet enough the sugar may be omitted. (2) Break four eggs in a saucepan, and beat them thoroughly, mixing in at the same time 2 teaspoonfuls of flour. Mash Raspberries till 1 pint of juice is obtained, which pass through a fine hair sieve and stir into the beaten eggs; put in 4oz. of caster sugar and whisk the sauce over the fire until thick and frothy, without letting it boil. Serve the sauce directly it is cooked before the froth subsides. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Raspberry-juice or syrup and the same of water into a saucepan, and add 1 break- fast cupful of sugar with 2 teaspoonfuls of starch mixed in it. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire and simmer gently until the sauce is thick and clear; strain it and it is ready for use. (4) Beat four eggs in a saucepan, and add 1 dessert- spoonful of flour and 4oz. of sugar; mix well, and add 2 breakfast cupfuls of Raspberry-juice. Put tbe saucepan on the fire, whisk well until the sauce is light, and it is ready for use. Raspberry Sherbet.—(1) Put 1A pints of water and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar into a saucepan, and boil them for twenty minutes, then add the juice of two lemons and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Raspberry-juice; strain the liquor into a freezer, and when it is frozen it is ready for use. (2) Put 2Alb. of loaf sugar, crushed and sifted, into a basin, and mix in lloz. of powdered tartaric acid, lOoz. of bicarbonate of soda, and Joz. of essence of Raspberries. Add a little cochineal to colour, and 2 or 3 drops of attar of roses to improve the flavour and smell. The sugar, acid, and soda should be well pounded and mixed together before the other ingredients are added, and they should be stirred in well with the hand. Put the mixture into bottles, and it is ready for use. Raspberry Sponges.—Pass Alb. of Raspberry jam through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and mix with it 1 break- fast-cupful of milk. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in A pint of water, and strain it into the jam. Beat 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth with 4oz. of caster sugar and 1 table- spoonful of finely-grated lemon-peel, mix it with the other ingredients, and whisk the whole to a sponge. Turn the mixture into a mould, and leave it for an hour or two in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn it on to a dish. Raspberry-and-Strawberry Jam.—This is made the same as for Raspberry and Cherry Jam, using Alb. of Raspberries to each pound of strawberries, and fib. of sugar.312 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see xtnder their special heads. Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Syrup.—(1) Put 61b. of Raspberries into an earthenware pan, press them gently, sprinkle with 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours. Pass the juice through a very fine sieve, measure it, pour it into a preserving-pan, and boil for twenty minutes, skimming frequently. To each breakfast-cupful of the juice add 4oz. of loaf sugar, roughly crushed; boil until the liquor commences to thicken, pour it into an earthenware bowl to cool, and then into bottles. Cork and seal them, and put in a dry place until wanted. (2) In selecting the fruit for this care must be taken to reject unsound or damaged berries. Put the required quantity into a tub, mash them well with a pounder, and set it in a place with a temperature of from 70deg. to 80deg., and let it remain for twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally. Press out all the juice, leave it for a night, and in the morning mix with Cologne spirit or deodorised alcohol, using loz. avoirdupois of the latter to each pound avoirdupois of the juice. Stir well, and leave it till the following day, then filter it. To each pound of this put into a saucepan or vessel I Jib. of the best sugar, bring it to the boil, remove the pan or vessel at once from the heat, take off the scum, and pour it when cool into clean bottles rinsed with a little of the above named spirit. Cork and use as desired. (3) Acidulated.—Pour lqt. of water into a basin, dissolve in it 2Joz. of citric or tartaric acid, add 61b. of Raspberries, and let it stand for a day. Strain it, taking care not to break or injure the fruit, and to every break- fast-cupful add 1 -Jib. of crushed loaf sugar, stirring well until the latter is dissolved. Let- it remain for three or four days, pour it into bottles, cork and seal them, and the syrup may then be used. A small quantity of this syrup in a tumblerful of water makes a refreshing summer beverage. (4) Imitation.—Put loz. of orris-root into a mortar with 2 drachms of cochineal, powder them coarsely, put them into a vessel with 2 drachms of tartaric acid and 2 pints of water, and let them infuse for twenty-four hours. Strain through flannel into a saucepan, add 4lb. of sugar, bring it to the boiling point, strain again, and bottle when cool. Raspberry Tablets.—Put 71b. of loaf sugar and 6 break- fast-cupfuls of water into a sugar-boiler with about ioz. of cream of tartar, boil for about ten minutes, and work in lib. of melted butter. As soon as the butter is added the sugar will begin to froth, taking up twice the room previously used. Boil to a very weak crack, colour a deep red, and stir in essence of Raspberries to taste and a very little tartaric acid. Pour the whole on to an oiled slab, and when it commences to cool turn over the edges and knead it until it is stiff enough to be pulled. Pull it over a hook fixed in the wall until quite spongy, form into long ribbons, and cut it into tablet shapes; then let them get quite cold before packing away in bottles or tins. These must be kept away from the air, otherwise they will have a sticky tendency, especially in summer time. Raspberry Tart.—Line a flat dish with rich paste, ever this spread 12oz. of apple marmalade, place a strip of paste round the rim, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Remove the tart to the oven door, sprinkle it over profusely with caster sugar, push it back into the oven, close the door, and bake for about two minutes to melt the sugar. Take it out, let it get cold, scoop out with a spoon about half of the apple, fill it up with 14 pints of well-picked and cleaned Raspberries, spread over the top with 2oz. of apple jelly, and serve cold. Raspberry Tarts with Cream.—Butter some rather large patty-pans, and line them with a thin layer of puff paste. Pick the Raspberries over carefully to remove all the stalks, &c., put them in the pans, dust with caster sugar, and cover with paste, trimming it off neatly round the edges. Bake the tarts in a quick oven. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 4 pint of cream, and sweeten slightly with caster sugar. When the tarts are cooked Raspberries—continued. lift the covers, pour in the cream, replace the covers, and put them in the oven for seven or eight minutes longer. The tarts may be served hot or cold. Raspberry Trifle.—Pick all the stalks off some freshly - gathered ripe Raspberries, lay the fruit in a basin, sift caster sugar over them, arid leave for an hour or two. Cut two or three stale sponge cakes into slices, lay them at the bottom of a glass dish, pour 1 wineglassful or more of sherry over them, and let them soak. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with it, and whisk it. Skim the froth off the cream as it rises and put it on a fine sieve. Pass the Raspberries through a fine sieve on to the cakes, pile the frothed cream on the top of them, and serve. The dish may be ornamented with a selected few of the fruit (see Fig. 366). Raspberry Venice Cakes.—Put 411). of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin and beat it up with six eggs, adding gradually 8oz. of butter warmed to a cream. When these are well mixed dredge in 8oz. of flour, spread the mixture on a tin to about fin. thick, and bake it in a moderate oven. Let it cool, open it with a knife, put a layer of Raspberry jam inside, mask the top with royal icing, cut it into shapes, let the icing set, and the cakes are then ready for use. Raspberry icing may be used if preferred. Raspberry Vinegar.—(1) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of dis- tilled white vinegar with an equal quantity of syrup of Raspberries or the spirit essence, and bottle. (2) Put the Raspberries in a large bowl and mash them well; for every quart of fruit pour over lqt. of vinegar. Cover the jar and stand it in a warm temperature for two or three days. When ready, strain the vinegar until clear through a jelly-bag, and for every quart sweeten with 111), of lump sugar. Put the vinegar over the fire until it begins to boil, then skim off any scum that may have risen to the top, let it simmer gently for five minutes, move it away from the fire, and leave it until cold. Pour the vinegar into small bottles, cork tightly, and put them away till required for use. (3) Put 61b. of Raspberries into an earthenware jar, pour over 1 pint of white vinegar, and let them macerate in a cool place for nine or ten days. Remove the scum, pass the liquor through a jelly-bag into another jar, pour over an equal quantity of syrup at 32deg. (sec SUGAR BOILING), stirring well. Pour it off into bottles when cold, cork them down, and keep in a cool place. Aerated mineral waters or spring water should be mixed with it when wanted for use. (4) Yorkshire Style.—Put lgall. of Raspberries (red or white) into a preserving-pan on the fire or gas-stove, and stir continually with a wooden spoon until the juice runs. Strain through a jelly-bag back into the preserving- pan, and add lib. of loaf sugar to_ each pint. Boil and skim till no more scum rises, pour it into a jar with an equal quantity of distilled white vinegar, pouring in a little of each at a time, and mix in 4 gill of French i __ brandy (cognac) to each pint of the combined liquors.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 313 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. (5) Imitation.—Put about 61b. of ripe Raspberries into a large jar, having first looked them over and picked out any that were rotten. Put 2Joz. of tartaric acid in 1 pint of cold water and stir it until dissolved, then pour it over the fruit in the jar. Let it remain untouched for twenty-four hours, then strain oft the juice without pressing the fruit. Measure the juice, and for every quart allow 2£lb. of pounded loaf sugar. Stir well until the sugar has dissolved and leave it for two days. Afterwards slum the acid, pour it into bottles, and keep them tightly corked. Raspberry-Vinegar Syrup.—Pass lqt. of Raspberry-juice through a fine sieve into an earthenware jar and let it ferment. In the meantime put 21b. of sugar into asugar- boiler, pour over 1 wineglassful each of water and vinegar, let the sugar dissolve, then boil to 33deg. (see Sugar BOILING). Pour in the fermented juice, boil to 32deg., skimming it carefully while boiling, let it cool, pour it into bottles, and when it is quite cold cork them up, and the syrup is ready for use. Raspberry "Water.—Put 41b. of picked Raspberries into an earthenware bowl, mash them well, and add 12 breakfast- cupfuls of water, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup, and a little cochineal to colour. Strain this mixture several times through a Haunel bag into a basin set on ice, and when quite cold it is ready for use. A little lemon-juice may be added if desired. Raspberry Water-Ice.—(1) Place in a basin Jib. of powdered sugar, squeeze in the juice of three lemons, and add 1 pint of picked and well cleaned Raspberries. \V ith a spatula beat briskly for five minutes; add lqt. of cold water, mix- ing again for one minute, and strain through a sieve into the freezer. Put on the lid and lay the freezer in an ice tub, filling in all round with broken ice, mixed with a little rock-salt. Turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a spoon detach the cream from all round the freezer and the bottom as well. Remove it and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more. LTncover and detach the cream as before, being careful that no salt or ice drops in. Put the lid on and repeat three times more. The cream should by this time be quite firm ; turn it out on to a cold dish over which has been spread a folded napkin and serve. (2) Put lib. of Raspberries and half the quantity of red currants into an earthenware bowl, bruise them, and add Jib. of sugar and 1 teacupful of water. Turn the whole into a saucepan, stir well until it boils, strain it back into the bowl, pour in 1 pint of syrup, and put it in the freezer until wanted for use. Raspberry Wine.—(1) To lqt. of picked Raspberries add lib. of powdered white sugar and lqt. of boiling water. Cover with a thin cloth and let it stand in a cool place for four days. Then strain through a coarse cloth and bottle it. Let it stand uncorked in the bottles for four days, then cork it up and put it in a very cool dry place. It will keep for twelve months. (2) For every pint of Raspberries allow 1 pint of cider. The Raspberries are best when gathered in fine dry weather, for if they are wet they do not make such good wine. Remove the hulls and put the fruit with the cider in a tub and let it steep for two days. Next press the Rasp- berries and strain all the juice through a fine silk sieve. Measure it, and for every 2qts. allow 1 Jib. of loaf sugar; mix them together and stir occasionally until the sugar has dissolved. Pour the juice into a cask, and for every 2galls. add 1 pint of brandy, and close the bung down tightly. In three months’ time draw off the wine into bottles, cork well, and stow them away in a wine cellar. In another three months’ time the wine will be ready for drinking. (3) Take 31b. of raisins, wash, clean, and stone them thoroughly. Boil 2galls. of spring water for half-an-hour; as soon as it is taken off the fire pour it into a deep stone jar and put in the raisins, with 6qts. of Raspberries and 21b. of loaf sugar. Stir well together, cover closely, and set it in a cool place, stirring twice a day. Then pass it through a sieve, put the liquor into a close Raspberries—continued. vessel, add another lib. of sugar, let it stand for a day and night to settle, then bottle it, adding a little more sugar. (4) Use freshly-picked Raspberries, and for every quart allow lqt. of boiling water and lib. of caster sugar. Put the Raspberries and sugar in a large pan or bowl, pour the boiling water over them, cover with a cloth, and keep them in a cool temperature. In about four days’ time press the Raspberries, strain the juice through a cloth, and pour it into bottles. Stand the bottles uncorked in a cool temperature for nearly a week, then ■cork them tightly and stow them away in a cool dry cellar. RATAFIA.—There appears to be a good deal of con- : fusion about the origin of this word. Some authorities believe that it is a corruption of rectifie, as being made with rectified spirits of wine; [others endeavour to connect it with ratify, supposing that bargains were ratified or confirmed over a glass of Ratafia; out Webster considers this term to be a combination and corruption of the Malay Araik and tafia, signifying a spirit distilled from molasses. In France the name is applied generally to liqueurs com- pounded of spirit sugar, and the odoriferous and flavour- ing-principles of vegetables, more especially those containing the juice of fruits, or the kernels of apricots, cherries, or peaches. The French liqueur-makers recognise the follow- ing as standard Ratafias: Ratafia d’Angelique, Ratafia d’Anis, Ratafia de Baume de Tolu, Ratafia de Brou de Noix, Ratafia de Cacao, Ratafia de Cafe, Ratafia de Cassis, Ratafia de Cerise, Ratafia de Chocolat, Ratafia de Coriss, Ratafia de Creme. Ratafia de Curayoa, Ratafia de Fram- boise, Ratafia de Genievre, Ratafia de Grenoble, Ratafia de Noyau, Ratafia d’Oillets, Ratafia d'Ecorce d’Orange, Ratafia de Fleurs d’Orange, Ratafia a la Proveiu-ale, Ratafia des Quatre Fruits, Ratafia Rouge, Ratafia Sec, and Ratafia a la Yiolette. The following preparations and receipts for their further use are specially selected: (1) Put into a vessel 61b. of black heart cherries, lib. of small black cherries, and 21b. each of raspberries and straw- berries, bruise them well, and let them stand for several hours; strain off the juice, and to each pint add 4oz. of refined loaf sugar or syrup, and lqt. of brandy. Stir frequently for two or three hours, and run the liquor through a jelly-bag. Bruise Joz. of cinnamon and 1 drachm of cloves, infuse them in brandy for two weeks, strain, and add the liquor to the other to flavour it. Bottle and use as required. The cinnamon may be omitted and more cloves added if liked. (2) Chop Jib. of freshly-gathered angelica-stems into small pieces, and macerate in ‘2qts. of brandy and 1 pint of water for two months. Previously dissolve 21b. of sugar in the water, and add slowly to the brandy before putting in the angelica. Add also 1 pinch of cloves and a bruised stick of cinnamon. Strain at the end of the time named, filter through clean blotting-paper, and bottle up. Take care that the brandy is both good and aged. (3) Put the thinly-pared yellow rinds of six lemons, 1 drachm of bruised cinnamon, and Joz. of coriander-seeds in a jar; dissolve 11b. of sugar in 3 gills of water, and put it also in the jar; then pour in lqt. of the best French brandy, cover the jar, and let it stand for a month. Strain the liqueur, bottle it, and cork the bottles air- tight. (4) Mix 3 pints of the juice of fruit with lqt. of brandy, 31b. of sugar clarified with 3 pints of water, and J- table- spoonful each of essence of vanilla, cloves, and cinnamon. When the ingredients are well mixed, put the liqueur into bottles, cork, and wax them down. In nine or ten months the liqueur will be ready for use. Currant, raspberry, or any kind of fruit may be used for this. (5) Take equal quantities of the juice of ripe cherries (morella for preference), raspberries, currants, and straw- berries, each juice expressed and strained separately, and put them all into a jar; add syrup to sweeten to taste, strain once more, and for each pint of the mixture pour in 1 gill of brandy. Flavour with the crushed kernels ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 314 Ratafia—continued. cherries or apricots and a little mace, hottle, ami cork securely. (6) Put into a stone jar or hottle lib. of wormwood, 2oz. of juniper-berries, Joz. of cinnamon, and 1 drachm of angelica root, all bruised in a mortar; pour in 4Jqts. of proof sjm'its of wine, and let them macerate for from three to five weeks. Pour off the spirits, add 4 pint of water to the ingredients in the jar, and leave it for a few days; pour off all the liquor, add it to the spirits together with 1 4oz. of orange-flower water and lOoz. of sugar, filter, and bottle. In preparing these liqueurs, should any peel such as lemon, orange, &c., be used, it must be carefully peeled or rubbed off with lumps of sugar; and all seeds and woods must be bruised before infusion. Ratafia Cream.—(1) Pour 4 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, add two bay-leaves and a small quantity of essence of Ratafia, and boil up once; remove the bay- leaves, and add the yolks of four eggs beaten up with 4 table-spoonfuls of cream and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Put the saucepan at the side of the fire, and stir the contents well in one direction until the liquor thickens, taking care not to boil, but only to simmer. Turn it out on to a glass dish, and garnish when cold with slices of candied fruits and Ratafias (see Fig. 367); or it may be used as an ingredient in preparing other disbes. (2) Put 4lb. of Ratafias into a saucepan, and add the thin rind of a Seville orange, 1 wineglassful of Ratafia, 5oz. of crushed loaf sugar, the yolks of seven eggs, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk. Put the saucepan on the lire, and stir well until the liquor thickens; then pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in 2oz. of dissolved gelatine, 1 breakfast-cupful of well- whipped cream, 2oz. each of preserved ginger, cherries, and orange, and half that quantity of candied lemon-peel, all cut up small. Put the mixture into .a mould packed in ice, and let it set. Turn it out when ready, and serve. Ratafia Cream-Ice.—(1) Put 8oz. of crushed Ratafias into a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Ratafia cream (No. 1), add the yolks of six eggs and a small quantity of sugar, and stir well over the fire until the mixture is quite smooth and has the appearance of custard. Pass it through a fine sieve into a freezer, work it well, turn it into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain until wanted. The Rata- fias should be crushed as finely as possible. (2) Put 2oz. of crushed Ratafias into a saucepan, mix in the yolks of two eggs, Jib. of sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Ratafia cream, and a little milk. Stir over the lire until the mixture has the consistence of a custard, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Let it cool, and put it into the freezer. When it has frozen sufficiently, mix in 2oz. more of the Ratafias, veil pounded and rubbed through a sieve, add 1 wineglassful of Ratafia or noyau, pour the mixture into a mould packed in ice, and let it get firm. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Blanch twelve bitter almonds, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar, moistening them with a few drops of water; then pound in with them 2oz. of loaf sugar, and stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and let it boil gently for a few minutes; then add it to 14 pints more cream, and strain it. Work the mixture in a freezing-box till nearly frozen, then pack it up in a mould, cover closely, and bury it for an hour or two in pounded ice and salt. 4\ hen ready to serve the ice, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the ice on to a dish. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ratafia—continued. Ratafia Balls.—(1) Blanch Jib. of bitter and 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar with 4oz. of caster sugar, and beat them well. Mix with the almonds fib. of caster sugar and the whites of two eggs, and work the mixture to a paste. Divide the paste into small portions, and roll them into balls. Spread wafer-paper over some baking- sheets, lay the balls on it, and bake them gently. When done, leave the balls to cool before putting them away. (2) Blanch 6oz. of bitter and 3oz. of sweet almonds, and pound them to a paste in a mortar together with the whites of three eggs and Hlb. of powdered white sugar. Make the paste into balls about the size of an olive, lay them on a wafer-paper, and bake them on tin plates in a slow oven. Ratafia Pudding. (Baked).—(1) Put lqt. of cream into a saucepan, sprinkle in 4lb. of dry sponge cakes, well crushed, and boil for about half-an-hour; add 3oz. or4oz. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, 1 wineglassful of wine, and a little grated nutmeg to flavour, and stir well over the fire for a few minutes; then turn into a basin to cool. When it is nearly cold add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and 2oz. of almonds, blanched and pounded with a little brandy or lemon-juice, and mix all thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a pie- dish, sift over a little sugar, put it into a sharp oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve. (2) Put 4lb. of sponge cake into a well-buttered dish, cut it across, dredge it over with Jib. of Ratafias crushed in a mortar, pour over a small quantity of Ratafia, or sherry wine, and let it soak for about half-an-hour. Cover the whole with a layer of any fruit preserve, and pour over the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two well whisked together with 2oz. of sugar and a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon, or any other flavouring. Put a few whole Ratafias on the top, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, serve either hot or cold. (3) Put a couple of sponge cakes at the bottom of a pudding-dish, pour over them sufficient sherry to soak them well, and add to each table-spoonful of sherry 4 tea- spoonful of Ratafia. When the cakes are well soaked, put over them a layer of two kinds of jam. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, mix with them | pint of milk, sweeten and flavour to taste, and pour it into the dish over the preserve. Put 2oz. of Ratafias on top, and bake for a-quarter-of an-hour. Fig. 268. Ratafia Pudding. (4) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan over the fire with two laurel-leaves; when it comes to the boil, take the laurel-leaves out, break into the cream Jib. of Naples biscuits, and stir in Jib. of butter and a little grated nutmecr. Take it from the fire and let it cool. W hen it is almost cold, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of sherry and loz. of.sweet almonds blanched and grated fine. Pour the pudding into a pudd ing - dish, lay over the top 2oz. of Ratafias soaked m a little cream, grate a little white sugar on top, and bake for hall- an-hour. . , (5) Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of Ratafias, and pound them, adding a little rose-water. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two with loz. of powdered white sugar; add this to.the pounded almonds, and mix; then by degrees stir in 2 wineglassfuls of white wine and 1 pint of rich cream. Line s, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads.315 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ratafia—continued. a dish with rich puff paste, pour the pudding into it, and bake it for forty-live minutes. (6) Boiled.—Stick Ratafias all over the inside of a well- buttered slightly-domed mould, fill it up with sponge cakes cut in slices and another handful of Ratafias, and pour over six eggs beaten up in 1 pint of milk ami sweetened to taste. The mould should be quite full. Tie a wet cloth over it, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with Ratafia flavoured sweet sauce. See Fig. 3C8. (7) Put ilb. of crushed Ratafias and half-a-dozen small queen or sponge cakes into a basin, and work them well with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of whipped cream ; add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and pour in 1 wineglassful of Ratafia and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Smear the inside of a mould very thickly with butter, stick all over it 3oz. of dried cherries, pour in the mixture, tie a cloth over the mould, plunge it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve. (8) Butter an earthenware mould. Pick the stalks from some raisins, stone them, and cover the bottom of the mould with them. Cut one or two slices of thin bread- and-butter, trim them, cut the crusts off, and lay them over the raisins; on the bread-and-butter put a layer of Ratafias, then raisins and more bread-and-butter, then Ratafias again, and so on till the mould is almost full. Whip four yolks of eggs together with l table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, beat in with it by degrees 1 wine- glassful of Ratafia and 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and then mix with it 1 pint of well-sweetened cream. Pour this mixture over the pudding in the mould, and let it stand for two hours. Lay a piece of buttered white paper on the top, tie a cloth over it, and boil for an-hour- and-a-half. Turn it out on a dish, and serve wine sauce with it. (9) Steamed. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two in 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire till thickened but not boiling. Butter a pudding-mould, line it with candied cherries and crescent-shaped pieces of candied peel, then three-parts fill it with alternate layers of Ratafias and crumb of French roll, putting a few candied cherries and pieces of candied peel between each layer. Pour the custard carefully on the top, and then add 1 wineglassful of Ratafia. Put a sheet of buttered paper over the mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the pudding for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a dish. It may be served either hot or cold. Care must be taken that the water does not enter the top of the basin. Ratafia Trifle (American).—Put a tin of grated pine apple into a glass dish, sprinkle it well with caster sugar, place Ilb. of Ratafias on the top, and pour over 2 wine- glassfuls of Ratafia to moisten them. Flavour 3 break- fast-cupfuls of double cream with noyau, sweeten with sugar to taste, and whip it well ; as the froth rises, take it off and put it on a sieve to drain, continuing in this way until as much as possible is obtained. Place the froth lightly on top of the Ratafias, garnish round the base with preserved fruits, and serve. RATAFIAS.—Small biscuits (see Fig. 369), so-called because made with almonds, taking their name from the liqueur. They are very useful for garnishes, and are best made as follows. They can then be used in the preparation of some very tasty dishes, as described under Ratafia. (1) Blanch and pound in a mortar ^lb. each of bitter and sweet almonds, adding gradually the whites of seven eggs. When the almonds are finely pounded sift 21b. of caster sugar into the mortar, and work it in thoroughly with the pestle. It is very important that the sugar should be well incorporated with the other ingredients. Wash a bladder very clean, cut a small hole at one end of it, and fasten by binding a glass tube the size of a large quill into it; or use a biscuit-bag. Put into the Ratafias—continued. bladder or bag the Ratafia paste, press it gently through the tube, and let it drop on to an egg wafer-paper, dropping the biscuits so that they do not touch each other. *Bake them on tin baking-sheets in a hot oven. Separate, trim off the egg paper with scissors, and set in the screen to dry. (2) Take lib. of ground sweet to Ilb. of bitter almonds, or equal parts, and 211. of caster sugar, and work up with about eight whites of eggs, a little at a time. The paste must be so soft that it will pass readily through a biscuit- bag. Drop it on to white note-paper in pieces of a size convenient for confectionery. Bake in a moderately hot oven, and when cold pull them off for use. (3) Put lib. of fine sugar into a basin and mix in Coz. of ground almonds and 2oz. of bitter almonds; put these into a mortar, pound them well, adding the whites of four eggs, two at a time, and work the whole into a stiff paste. Put it into a biscuit-forcer or paper funnel, drop it on to sheets of paper, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take off the paper when done, and put them away in boxes till wanted. Or they may be made with lib. of ground almonds, 2oz. of rice-flour, the whites of nine eggs, and 21b. of sugar. One or two of the Ratafias should be cooked first, to ascertain if the paste is of sufficient consistency not to run while baking. Ratafia Apple Tart. -Peel and core lib. of cooking apples, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a pie-dish with sugar to taste and the strained juice of a lemon. Mix l teacupful of moist sugar with 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs and 1 teacupful of crushed Ratafias, and cover the apples with them. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake. A few pieces of butter placed over the top is an improvement. Serve the tart either hot or cold with a sweet sauce flavoured with Ratafia. Ratafia Blanc-mange.—Crush ilb. of Ratafias, pour over them lqt. of boiling cream, and mix well; then leave the Ratafias till dissolved, stirring them occasionally. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 teacupful of warm water, and add it to the Ratafias. Stir the mixture well, flavour with Ratafia, and pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. The blancmange must lie quite firm and cold before it is turned out of the mould. Ratafia Cheese Cakes. -Put lqt. of milk into a basin, and add sufficient rennet to turn it to a curd; put this into a sieve, drain it, and pound it in a mortar, adding gradually three well-beaten eggs, l|oz. of well-crushed Ratafias, 2oz. of warmed butter, loz. of sugar, and ^ wineglassful of Ratafia. Put the mixture into patty-pans lined with puff paste, place in a moderate oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out of the pans, let them get cold, and serve. RAVENSDALE PUDDING.—See Puddings. RAVIGOTE.—The literal meaning of this French term is a “pick-me-up,” from the verb ravigoter—to cheer or strengthen. It is applied to a mixture of tarragon, chervil, chives, and burnet, minced very finely or used as a faggot. Minced Ravigote is a favourite garnish for salads, and is then served on a saucer by itself, each herb being kept separate, the whole constituting, therefore, four little heaps, so that each may be used at discretion. Ravigote butter is made by kneading up some butter with chopped Ravigote, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice.316 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. iices, the., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ravigote—continued. Ravigote sauce is English “ melted butter,” or butter sauce with which chopped Ravigote has been mixed. RAVIOLES.—Probably derived from the French ravir—to delight exceedingly, literally to ravish. The following receipts are essentially French. Others will be found under special headings, such as Game, &c. Baked Ravioles.—Take Jib. of veal, 4oz. of calf’s liver, 3oz. of sausage-meat, 4oz. of either beef-marrow or calf’s kidney fat, and a little mixed herbs; mince all up very fine, season with salt and pepper, and pound in a mortar; add a handful of spinach which has been blanched, boiled, drained, and warmed in butter, the same quantity of curd cheese which has been squeezed in a cloth so as to extract all the milk, and pound again; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and whisk up the whites and add them to it. Make some short-paste as for rissoles and cut it into small squares; wet the edges, fold them over a little of the forcemeat placed in the centre, and poach in boiling- stock for five minutes; then drain, place on a dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, moisten with stock, brown in the oven, and serve very hot. See Fig. 370. Ravioles d la Genoese (for Soups).—Divide lib. of nouille paste into halves, and roll them both out very thin, having them of an equal size and as nearly square as possible. Put any kind of forcemeat into a paper funnel, and squeeze it out in small lumps, in rows, over one of the halves, keeping the lumps about tin. apart; cover with the remaining half of the paste, pressing it down between the forcemeat, and then cut out the Ravioles with a small round tin cutter, say about 1 Ain. in diameter. Place them as they are done upon a well-floured cloth, using only half of it, and covering over with the other half. When all the Ravioles are cut, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three minutes ; then remove the pan from the fire, cover, and let it stand for four minutes longer. Put the Ravioles on a sieve to drain, place them in a saute-pan, pour over lOoz. of melted butter, and dredge over a few table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Warm them for a minute, remove the pan from the fire, and toss it; then take out the Ravioles with a skimmer, put them on a dish, sprinkle over a little more grated Parmesan cheese, and pour over a few table-spoonfuls of hot glaze mixed with an equal quantity of tomato sauce. A tureenful of rich soup should always accompany these. Ravioles d la Grecque.—Cut off lib. of the tender part of a braised loin of mutton, and chop it small, together with a cooked sheep’s brain; pound them both to a mass, season them, and mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs and the yolks of three eggs. Put 20oz. of nouille paste on to a board, roll it out rather thin and into a square shape, brush it over with a little water, and at intervals over half of the paste put some small lumps of the brain mixture. The lumps should be put about Jin. apart and as nearly in a row as possible. Turn the remaining half of the paste over, pressing it down between the lumps of meat mixture; cut them into shape with a round tin-cutter, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three or four minutes. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, grate Parmesan cheese over them, pour over a little rich gravy flavoured with tomato sauce, and serve. Ravioles aux Tomatoes.—Prepare a sufficient quantity of firm paste with eggs, flour, and a small quantity of milk- Ravioles—continued. and-water, roll it out very thinly on a floured table, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter about 2Jin. in diameter. Thoroughly wasli some freshly-picked spinach in plenty of water, and boil it; when tender, drain it well, pass it through a fine hair sieve, mix with it an equal quantity of breadcrumbs that have been soaked in as much rich milk or cream as they will absorb, ‘2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a small quantity of this mixture in the centre of each round of paste, fold them over, and pinch up the edges all round, first moistening them with a paste-brush dipped in water. Have ready over the fire a stewpan of boiling salted water, put in the ravioles, and boil them gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the ravioles, place them on a hot dish, pour some tomato sauce over, and strew them thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Serve very hot. RAYFISH.—See Skate. RECHAUFFE.—Fr. for “ warmed again.” The name is applied to various hot dishes made up of cold cooked meat and other things. RECTIFIED SPIRITS.—See Alcohol. RED CURRANTS.—See Currants. RED DEER.—See Yenison. RED HERRINGS.—-See Herrings. RED MULLET.—-See Mullet. RED PEPPER.—See Capsicums. REDUCING.—One of the most valuable processes to sauce-makers is that which the cook terms reduc- ing, applying it to the reduction of bulk or quantity, and the increase of quality. The sauce to be reduced should be strained quite clear and then put into a broad shallow stewpan, placed over a quick fire, and made to boil at a gallop. By leaving off the lid the water of the sauce evaporates with extraordinary celerity. It should be remembered that as water only evaporates, the remaining bulk would necessarily contain a greater proportion of material in solution. This is sometimes overlooked by inexperienced cooks, who season the original quantity with salt and other things, forgetting that when reduced to half its bulk there will be double the proportion of seasoning. REED-BIRDS. — These American singing-birds (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) are considered great delicacies when cooked according to the following receipts : Broiled Reed-birds. -Dress the Reed-birds without split ting them, put an oyster in eacli one, season them with salt and pepper, broil them quickly over a hot fire for about five minutes, and serve at once. Fried Reed-birds.—Pluck and dress the birds, splitting them down the back; season rather highly with salt and pepper, roll them in flour, corn-meal, or sifted bread- or cracker-crumbs, and fry them brown in butter and lard equally mixed, made smoking hot before the birds are put into it. Or dress, split, and season them, and fry without breading or flouring them. They must be served hot as soon as they are brown. Potted Reed-birds (Refreshed).—Take the butter off the top of the potted birds, throw them one by one into a saucepan of boiling water, and leave them for half-a-minute; then take them out, and dry them thoroughly both inside and out. When all the birds are thus treated, leave them until quite cold; then season with salt, pepper, and powdered mace, pack them closely in jars, and pour clarified butter on the top. When potted birds are sent a long way, the odour is often so bad as to be unendurable, from the rankness of the butter. If prepared as described above they will be as though freshly potted.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 317 for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Heed-birds—continued. Reed-bird Pie.—Pluck and dress the birds, leaving them whole, and stuff them either with veal and ham, bread- crumbs, or oysters. Line an earthenware baking-dish with a good rich paste. Put the birds into the dish in layers, allowing to each dozen birds 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter, 1 wineglassful of wine or 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, and a rather high seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered spice. Cover the birds with paste, wetting the edges of the crust to make the cover adhere. Make a few incisions in the crust to permit the escape of steam while the pie is baking, brush it with beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven until evenly browned. Roasted Reed-birds.—Procure twelve freshly-killed, fine’ fat Reed-birds, cut off their legs and wings, pick the eyes out, remove the skin from the heads, clean and wipe them neatly, and with a skewer remove the gizzards from the sides; then cover their breasts lightly with thin slices of bacon, arrange them on three small skewers, four on each, and lay them in a roasting-pan; season with 1 pinch Fig. 371. Roasted Reed-birds. of salt, spread over a very little butter, and set them in the oven to roast for seven minutes. Place them on a hot dish on pieces of toast, garnish with watercress (see Fig. 371), and serve immediately. Refrigerating—continued. very rarely used in the kitchen, the result obtained from ' ice being considered preferable. Meat and other foods are preserved during the hot weather by a system of refrigeration, or storing in cham- bers kept cold by ice (see Fig. 372). Confectioners use Refrigeration for setting jellies and freezing ices but all these are sufficiently described under other headings. REGATTA CARE.—See Cakes. REGENCY SAUCES (a la Regence). — See Satjces. REGENCY SOUP (k la Regence).—See Soups. REGENT PUNCH.—See Punch. REINDEER TONGUES.—As an article of food the flesh of the reindeer is said to be equal to our best venison, but as it is not obtainable in this country it would be superfluous to give receipts for its preparation. The tongues, however, salted and dried, are brought into this country in small quantities, the tongues of other deer being frequently substituted for them. The following is the best way to prepare them for the table ; Put two or three dried Reindeer Tongues into a bowl of cold water, soak them for three hours, and then dry them in the air. Repeat this operation twice more. Scrape the tongues very clean, put them into a saucepan of cold water, and bring it slowly to the boiling-point; then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for about two hours. Take out the tongues, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. REFECTION.—A term used generally to signify a lunch or repast. REFECTORY.—The name given to dining-halls of monasteries or convents. REFORM SAUCE.—See Sauces. REFRIGERATING.—This term is applied to any process by which the temperature of an article is lowered. Fig. 372. Refrigerator (A. Lyon). For this purpose the cook uses ice, which is contained in an ice-chest, ice-room, or other form of refrigerator, of which there are many designs. Freezing-mixtures are RELISHES.—See Sauces. REMOULADE.—This name is given to a salad dress- ing. taking its meaning from the verb remouler—to grind, referring to t he process by which the hard-boiled yolks of eggs are worked down with oil and other things.—See Sauces. REMOVES.—This name is usually applied to large dishes, such as joints, &c., which occupy the principal place on the table. RENNET.—Sometimes spelt Runnet. It is the name given to the salted dried fourth stomach of the calf. When taken from the animal after it is killed it is freed from the outer skin, fat, and superfluous mem- brane, and well washed. It resembles a piece of parch- ment, and is commonly known as veil. Cooley tells us that “Rennet is employed to curdle milk. A piece of the requisite size is cut off and soaked for some hours in whey or water, after which the whole is added to the milk for curdling, slightly warmed, and the mixture is slowly heated, if necessary, to about 122deg. Fahr. In a short time, after this temperature has been attained, the milk separates into a solid white coagulum (curd), and into a yellowish translucent liquid (whey). Two square inches from the bottom of a good veil are sufficient for a cheese of sixty pounds. It is the gastric juice of the stomach that operates these changes. The stomachs of all sucking quadrupeds possess the same properties.” Rennet has a powerful digestive virtue, of which medical men avail themselves for administering in the form of wine to dyspeptics. Essence of Rennet is fre- quently used instead of the ordinary veil; it is prepared as follows : Cut up very small lib. of fresh calf's stomachs, dust them over with about 3oz. of common salt, and work them well together with the hands. Leave this, with what juice exudes, in a cool place for five or six weeks. At the end of that time, pour into the vessel containing the Rennet 1 pint of soft water and 1 wineglassful of proof spirits or good rum. Leave this to digest for a couple of days, thenTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 318 Rennet—continued. filter off the fluid and colour with a little brown sugar. Some manufacturers use white wine instead of water, when a few days’ soaking is sufficient. 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls of this is sufficient to curdle 1 qt. of milk. REVALENTA ARABICA.—The name given to a mixture of the red Arabian or Egyptian lentil with barley-flour, to which is added a little sugar or salt. It makes a capital invalid food prepared as follows: Pour some water in a saucepan over the fire, and when boiling, stir in the required quantity of Revalenta; con- tinue stirring it, and boil for half-an-hour. Sweeten the Revalenta to taste, mix some boiling milk with it, and serve. RHEIMS BISCUITS. See Biscuits. RHENISH CREAM.—See Cream. RHENISH WINES.—See Rhine Wines. RHINE WINES—Of all the German wines, those produced from the vineyards along the banks of the Rhine are considered the best. Of these the Hock stands first, followed very closely by Johannisberger and Liebf r auenmilch. RHUBARB (Fr. Rhubarbe; Ger. Rhabarber; Ital. Reubarbo; Sp. Ruibarbo).—The technical name of the plant (Rheum) is said to be derived from Rha, the ancient name of the Volga, on whose banks Rhubarb grows naturally; but, according to others, the name comes from the Greek rlieo—to flow, alluding to the purgative pro- perties of the roots. There are two or three varieties of Rhubarb grown in this country for culinary purposes— Giant Rhubarb (see Fig. 373), Medium, and small red-stalked Rhubarb, all of which are probably merely cultivated varieties of one stock. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Garden- ing,” recommends the fol- lowing varieties: Cham- pagne, Early Red, Goliath, Linnatus, Paragon, Scar- let Defiance, and Victoria. Lindley, in the “ Treasury of Botany,” informs us that in Queen Elizabeth’s time Rhubarb-leaves were used as a pot herb, and were considered superior to spinach or beet. The use of the tender leaf-stalks is compara- tively of modern date, for although they are now so common during the spring and early part of the summer, it was not until the beginning of the present century that they came to be employed for tarts, and were found so valuable for various other culinary preparations. Fig. 373. Giant Rhubarb. They are excellent either stewed alone or with rice, and a capital preserve has been made from them in the form of jam, which is equal in flavour to that made from currants. When too large and old for cooking, the stalks are subjected to a process by which the juice is expressed from them, and made into a delicious wine, similar to that from green gooseberries, and closely resembling champagne; indeed, it may be suspected that much of the so-called champagne commonly drunk is no For details respecting Culinary Processes, Rhubarb—continued. other than a preparation from the stalks of Rhubarb. The juice is stated to contain oxalic acid, as well as nitric and malic acid, in abundance. It is these which give an agreeable taste to the stalks when cooked, but which render them ill-suited to persons of weak digestion. In the Gardener's Chronicle, Mr. A. Forsyth first directed attention to another part of Rhubarb as being suited for culinary purposes, and to which he gave the name of Rhaflower. This is the large globular pouch of unopened flowers, which is described as being of a beautiful colour when dressed in the same manner as Rhubarb, of a milder flavour, and forming altogether a dish of great delicacy. Bottled Rhubarb.—Cut the required quantity of stalks of Rhubarb into pieces about lin. long after they have been peeled (if young they will not require it), put them into wide-mouthed bottles with a little water in each, and place the bottles in a saucepan of cold water with a little hay between them; when the water boils, continue to boil for a quarter-of-an-hour, cork the bottles quickly, take them out when cool, wax them over, ami they are ready. Preserved Rhubarb.—Cut 81b. of Rhubarb into pieces about 2in. long. Put 31b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a preserving-pan with just sufficient water to pre- vent it burning at the bottom, put in the Rhubarb, with the thinly-shred rind of a large lemon, and place it over a gentle fire. When it boils, remove the pan on to a fiercer fire, and let the contents boil quickly, but taking great care not to let it burn. Skim carefully, and in about half-an-hour’s time the Rhubarb will lie sufficiently boiled. Stand as many glass jars or bottles on the stove to get warm as will lie required, and have ready prepared a small quantity of boiled flour-and-water paste and several rounds of paper a little larger than the tops of the jars. When the Rhubarb is ready ladle it from the pan into the jars and paste the rounds of paper on immediately, putting three pieces over each jar to keep them perfectly air-tight. The first rounds of paper should be pasted to the rim of the jars and the others on to the paper. They should be placed on carefully and smoothly. Each jar should lie filled to the top. Pack them away in a dry store-cupboard. Rhubarb-and-Apple Jelly. Wipe and skin about 51b. of Rhubarb, cut it into small lengths, put it into a pre- serving-pan with 31b. of cooking apples that have been peeled and cored and the thinly-pared yellow rind and strained juice of half-a-dozen lemons, and pour in from li pints to 2 pints of water. Boil the whole gently until reduced to a pulp. When ready, strain the juice through a jelly-bag, pressing the fruit well. AVeigli the juice, put it in the pan with lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar for each pound, boil, and skim until it jellies. When ready, turn the jelly into small jars, and leave it until cold; then put a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy in each, cover with parchment, and tie the jars down tightly. Keep the jelly in a dry store-cupboard for use. Rhubarb Champagne.—Cut some Rhubarb-stalks into small pieces and bruise them; for 51b. of Rhubarb stalks pour over 1 ■gall, of water, and leave them for three days, stirring two or three times each day. At the end of that time, strain, and press the Rhubarb through a sieve, and for each gallon of the liquor put in 31 111. of loaf sugar, and stir it well. When the sugar has dissolved, barrel the liquor. When the champagne has finished working, suspend through the bung-hole a small muslin bag of isinglass, allowing Hoz. of isinglass for every lOgalls. of the liquor; then close the bung-hole down tightly. In six months’ time draw the champagne off into bottles, cork, and wire them down. Keep them standing up for a month, then lay them down in a single row, or in bottle-racks for preference lest any of the lower bottles of the pile should burst and endanger those above. Rhubarb Cheese.—(1) Peel and cut 21b. of red Rhubarb into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, place the lid on, and stew the contents over a gentle fire -until quite tender. Dissolve hox. of gelatine in a small quantity see under their special heads. Utensils, Sauces, <kc.y referred to,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Rhubarb —continued. of boiling water and mix it with the Rhubarb, add lib. of crushed loaf sugar, and boil the whole for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. Flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon. Pour the Rhubarb into a buttered mould, and keep it for several hours in a cool place. Pre- pare the following custard: Beat the yolks of two eggs in h pint of milk, pour them into a small lined sauce- pan^ sweeten to taste, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla; stir the custard over the fire until thickened, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle, then put it away to get cold. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn the Rhubarb on to a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. See Fig. 374. (2) Cut some Rhubarb into small pieces, boil them until tender, and rub through a fine sieve sufficient to fill a quart measure. Return to the saucepan, and add 4oz. of gelatine dis solved in hot water and lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Boil well for about a-quarter-of-an-hour, add a flavouring of essence of lemon, and pour the preparation into a mould. Turn it out on to a dish when cold and firm, pour round rich custard, and serve. Rhubarb Cider.—Pick about 2Slb. of good Rhubarb, cut it into 2in. pieces, put them into a tub, pound them well, pour over 3galls. of water, stir well, cover with a cloth, and let the liquor ferment. As soon as the fer- ment rises to the surface, skim it off, put it on a sieve, and return any liquor that drains from it back into the tub. Continue in this way until no more scum rises; then pour it (with the exception of about tgall.) into a cask, add 31b. of loaf sugar to each gallon, and leave it for about a fortnight or until the after fermentation has ceased ; then pour in the remaining tglll., having first dissolved 4oz. of gelatine in it, and bottle oft' in about two months’ time from then. Rhubarb Cream.—Cut a bundle of Rhubarb into lin. lengths, skinning where necessary, put them in a pie-dish with a very small quantity of water, plenty of moist sugar, and a few thinly-shred pieces of lemon-peel; butter and line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover the top with crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, take off the to] > crust, which cut into small squares or diamond-shaped pieces. Colour 1 pint of thick cream slightly with cochineal, and whisk it to a stiff snow, gathering off the froth as it rises and putting it on a fine sieve. Pile the cream on the top of the Rhubarb, put the pieces of crust all over it, and serve. This makes a very pretty dish, which can either be served wliile the Rhubarb is hot or when cold. Rhubarb Cream-Ice.—Peel sufficient Rhubarb to make 3 pints, cut it into small pieces, put them into a preserving- pan, add 1 pinch of salt, and cover with cold water. Stew the Rhubarb gently until tender, then drain it, put it in a stewpan with 7,11 >. of preserving-sugar, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a pulp; pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 pint of cream and some more sugar if required. Put the Rhubarb mixture into a freezing-pot, work it till frozen, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice till required for use. Rhubarb—continued. Rhubarb Tool.—(1) Boil 3 pints of peeled and chopped Rhubarb in salted water till tender. Strain the Rhubarb, pass it through a fine hail sieve into a stewpan with Sugar to taste, and stir it over the fire for about ten minutes. Turn the Rhubarb puree into a glass dish, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and serve. (2) Cut a small bundle of Rhubarb into convenient lengths, put it into a stewpan with a small quantity of water and plenty of sugar, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till tender. When cooked, drain the Rhubarb, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cool. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and pour in gradually 1 pint of milk ; sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and grate in the peel of a small lemon. Turn the custard into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but it should not quite boil or the eggs will curdle. When cooked, let the custard get cold, beat it up gradually then with the Rhubarb, pile it on a glass dish, grate a small quantity of nutmeg over the top, and serve. Rhubarb Fritters. -Cut some sticks of young Rhubarb into pieces about lin. long, and boil them in water for ten minutes; then drain, and put them into cold water. When quite cold, drain the pieces of Rhubarb, lay them on a dish, strew caster sugar over them, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of brandy, and let them marinade for an hour or two. Dip the pieces of Rhubarb in some frying-batter, put them in boiling lard, and fry them a nice colour. Drain on paper for a minute or two to absorb the fat, place them nicely on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or a fancy dish- paper, and serve. Rhubarb Ginger.—Trim 31b. of Rhubarb, rub the stalks well with a damp towel, then cut them into small equal lengths. Bruise coarsely loz. of whole ginger, put it at the bottom of an earthenware jar, then pack on the top of it in alternate layers the Rhubarb and 31b. of lump sugar, and leave for two days. Strain oft the syrup from the Rhubarb, pour it into a preserving pan, and stir it over a clear fire with a wooden spoon until boiling. Pour the syrup over the contents of the jar, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. At the end - of that time pour the syrup, Rhubarb, and ginger into the preserving- pan, and stir it over a brisk fire until boiling; then move it to the side and let it simmer for half-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed. Turn the preserve into jars, and leave it until cold ; then dip some rounds of white paper in spirits, place one on the top of each jar, then cover with stout paper, and tie them down. Keep the preserve in a dry store-cupboard for use. Rhubarb-and-Ginger Jam. —Trim off the tops of some Rhubarb, skin it, and cut it into pieces about 2in. in length. Weigh the Rhubarb, put it into a preserving- pan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until soft. For each pound of Rhubarb put in lib. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar. Keep it well stirred, and continue boiling .it till reduced to a thick syrup. For every pound of sugar put in a basin 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and mix it to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water; then stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Mix the ginger with the fruit, stir it well, and boil for a few minutes longer. Pour the jam into jars, and leave it until cold. Dip some rounds of white paper, cut the same size as the tops of the jars, in white of egg, then put one on the topi of each jar, and tie them over with stout paper or parchment. Keep them in a cool dry cup- board. Rhubarb Jam.—(1) Peel and trim several stalks of Rhubarb, weigh them, and allow to each pound of Rhubarb lib. of sugar and one lemon. Take a large bowl and pare as thinly as possible the yellow rind off a lemon into it; then cut off and throw away the white part of the skin, and slice the pulp of the lemon into the bowl, taking out and throwing away the pips. Cut the Rhubarb into pieces about Ain. thick, put it into the bowl, on the top of the lemon, and put the sugar on top of the Rhubarb, letting it all stand for a night. Next morningTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rhubarb—continued. empty the bowl into a preserving-pan, put it on the stove, and let it boil very slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then move the pan from the stove, let the jam cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, put a piece of white paper soaked in brandy on the top of the jam in each jar, and cover so as to keep it air-tight. (2) Crit up into convenient lengths 121b. of Rhubarb, first wiping the sticks and peeling them ; put them into a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, and stew them over a slow' fire until quite tender; then put in 121b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of four large lemons, and Jib. of sweet almonds that have been blanched and cut into thin fillets. Boil the jam for three-quarters-of-an-hour longer, keeping it constantly stirred and skimmed. When ready, pour the jam into jars, almost filling them to the top, and leave them until the following day. Cut as many rounds of paper as there are jars of jam, and dip them in brandy; put a round of paper in each jar, cover with parchment, tie them down, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Select large green sticks of Rhubarb, and cut them into pieces about lin. long. Weigh the Rhubarb, and for each 31b. allow the same quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and the juice and grated peel of twro large lemons. Put the Rhubarb with the lemon-juice and peel into a preserving- pan, and boil it gently for two hours; then put in the sugar, and boil it for half-an-hour longer, stirring fre- quently. The Rhubarb should retain its green colour. If preferred, the lemon-peel may be put in whole, and removed when the jam is finished. When reduced to a pulp, turn the jam into jars, and leave it until cold; then cover the jars, and tie them round with string. Rhubarb Jelly.—Select 81b. of nice red Rhubarb, wipe the stalks, cut them into convenient lengths, and put them in a stone or earthenware jar •with the thinly-pared rinds of three large lemons. Cover the jar, and place it in a moderate oven until the Rhubarb is tender. When cooked, strain the juice from the fruit into a lined sauce- pan, squeeze the juice of the three lemons into it, and boil very gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time strain the juice through a jelly-bag and measure it, and for every breakfast-cupful allow ] J breakfast-cupfuls of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Dissolve the sugar in the juice, and boil the mixture for three-quarters-of-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed and stirred all the time. Pour the jelly into jars, and leave it until the following day; then put in each jar a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy, and cover them with parchment, tying them down tightly. Keep the jelly in a dry store cup- board. Rhubarb-Jelly Border with Whipped Cream.—Cut up into pieces 31b. of Rhubarb, put them into a preserving- pan with an equal quantity of sugar, and pour over a little water to prevent the pieces burning or sticking to the bottom. Set the pan over a very slow fire, and stir well until the fruit is quite soft; then pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and to each quart of pulp mix in Fig. 375. Border Moulds (Adams and Son). 2oz. of dissolved gelatine. Turn the preparation into an orna- mental border mould (see Fig. 375), and let it set firm. Turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre with well-whipped cream, and serve. Rhubarb Marmalade.—String and cut into very small pieces lqt. of Rhubarb. Peel thinly half-a-dozen oranges, and cut the yellow rind into thin shreds; free the oranges of all the white pith, cut them into slices, and remove the pips. Put the Rhubarb into a pan with the oranges, their peels, and lAlb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and place the pan over a gentle fire. Stir the mixture until reduced Rhubarb—continued. to the usual consistency of marmalade; then turn it into jars and leave it until the following day. Put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover them with parchment, and tie down. This mar- malade is excellent, and will keep for some time. Rhubarb with Meringue.—Cut the Rhubarb into short lengths, put it in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently until tender; then mash it together with about lib. of moist sugar, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes longer; then turn it into a pie-dish. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, spread it over the Rhubarb, and put in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Serve hot. Rhubarb-and-Orange Jam.—Rub the stalks of 31b. of young Rhubarb with a damp cloth, then cut them into pieces about 2Jin. long. Put 311 >. of oranges into a preserv- ing-pan with plenty of cold water, and boil them slowly at the edge of the fire for three hours. At the end of that time drain the oranges, and cut each into four pieces. A silver knife is the best thing to use for this purpose. Put 61b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into the preserving-pan with just sufficient water at the bottom to prevent it from burning, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling; then put in the oranges and Rhubarb, stir it again till boiling, move the pan to the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for fifteen minutes. Turn the preserve into jars, and leave it until cold; then put a round of brandied paper on the top of each, cover with parchment, and tie them round with fine twine. Keep the jars in a dry store-cupboard till used. Rhubarb Pie.—Pare off the leaves, and peel the stalks from two bunches of fine Rhubarb ; cut them into small pieces about Ain. long, put them in a basin with 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix well. Place them in a pie- dish, cover with paste, brush the surface with beaten egg, and bake for fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Bring the pie to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered loaf sugar, and put it into the oven again to melt the sugar. Take it out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Rhubarb Pudding (Baked).—(1) Put a few thin slices of well-buttered bread at the bottom of a pie-dish, moisten them with a little boiling water, then put in a layer of Rhubarb cut up into small pieces, and sprinkle a good supply of moist sugar over them, as well as a little grated rind of lemon. Continue in this way until the dish is full, finish- ing with the sugar; place a few small lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in the oven, and bake. Take it out when the surface is well browned, and serve. (2) Boiled.—Peel five or six sticks of Rhubarb, cut them in pieces, put them into a basin lined with a suet crust, sprinkle in Jib. of moist sugar, cover with a crust, tie a floured cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, ami boil for two hours or a little longer. Turn it out when done, and serve. Rhubarb Shape.—Skin and cut the Rhubarb into small pieces, put it in a pan with a sufficient quantity of crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of water, and let it simmer gently. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour smooth with a little water, and when the Rhubarb is almost done stir it in. Continue stirring it over the fire until the cornflour is i cooked, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and set it in a cold temperature. When ready to serve, turn the Rhubarb on to a glass dish, and pour some wlupped cream over it. Rhubarb Sherbet. —Wash six or eight sticks of Rhubarb, dry them well, cut them up, and boil them in lqt. of water for ten minutes. Put into a jug 2 table-spoonfuls of clarified sugar and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon. Strain the liquor of the Rhubarb through a cloth over the sugar and lemon-peel in the jug, and let it stand for five or six hours, when it will be fit to drink. Rhubarb Tartlets.—Select some nice young Rhubarb, wipe it on a cloth, cut it into convenient lengths, put it in a stewpan with two or three small pieces of lemon-peel, the juice of a lemon, a small quantity of water, and plenty321 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rhubarb—continued. of sugar, and stew it gently at the side of the fire. Make some good short-paste, line some buttered tartlet-pans with it, trimming it off neatly round the edges, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them in a moderate oven. Mix the well-whisked white of an egg with i- pint of cream, and sweeten it with loaf sugar that has been rubbed on the yellow rind of a lemon and then pounded, and whisk it to a stiff froth, standing the basin if possible over ice. When the tartlets are cooked, turn the rice out, and take them out of their tins; fill each with some of the Rhubarb, and pile the cream on the top of them. Spread , a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, I arrange the tartlets on it, and serve. Rhubarb Vinegar.—Boil 3qts. of water and let it get cold; bruise 7lb. of Rhubarb in a tub, pour the water over it, and let it steep for ten days, keeping it frequently stirred. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and pour it into a barrel with 21b. of moist sugar for every gallon. Paste a piece of strong paper over the bung-hole, and prick it full of holes to admit the air. Rhubarb Wine. —(1) Take 91b. of ripe Rhubarb cut small, add lOgalls. of soft water, and boil it in a copper pan till the Rhubarb is quite soft; then strain the liquor through a sieve, and add to it 2 or 3 handfuls of barm, either dried or fresh. Add to each gallon of liquor Mb. of Malaga raisins stoned and chopped, and 31b. of loaf sugar, and stir it till the sugar is melted. Let it cool till it is lukewarm, put it into a cask, and in three weeks bung it down. Bottle it in six months. It will keep for twenty years, but will be fit for use in three months. (2) Procure green Rhubarb-stalks, bruise them, and weigh them ; for each 41b. of the fruit allow lgall. of water, mix them together, and leave for three days, stirring well two or three times each day. At the end of that time strain the liquor, pressing the Rhubarb to extract as much of its juice as possible. For every 3galls. of the liquor mix with it 1 pint of the best pale brandy and 10.Ub. of loaf sugar. Barrel the wine, and suspend through the bung-hole a small quantity of isinglass tied up in muslin. The wine should only three parts iill the cask. Bung the cask up tightly, and leave it for half a year. When the wine is ready, draw it off into bottles, cork them tightly, and stow them away for use. The wine should not be bottled until the sweetness is sufficiently off, it may therefore require longer than the specified time. Stewed Rhubarb.—(1) Take some thick sticks of Rhubarb, cut them in pieces about 14m. long, and plunge them into fast-boiling water. As soon as they are tender (about three minutes ought to be sufficient), drain off the water and serve the Rhubarb with plenty of white sifted sugar strewn over it. Fig. 376. Stewed Rhubarb (2) Put a saucepan of water on the fire, and when the water boils plunge in lib. of Rhubarb cut into pieces about 2in. long; push the pieces to the bottom, cover the pan, and boil for about three minutes. Strain off the water, turn the Rhubarb out on to a dish, sprinkle over Mb. of caster sugar and the grated rind of a lemon, and serve. (3) Cut 21b. of Rhubarb into convenient lengths, removing all the stringy parts, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, stir it well with a wooden spoon, stew it gently Rhubarb—continued. until tender, and then strain off all the water. Do not let the Rhubarb over-cook, or it will break. Turn it into a glass dish, strew over it lib. of loaf sugar and the grated rind of two lemons, also their strained juice. Leave the Rhubarb until cold, then pile over it some well- whipped cream (see Fig. 371>) or custard. The loaf sugar should be put in lumps over the Rhubarb, not crushed. Stewed Rhubarb and Figs.—Peel and wipe about 311). of Rhubarb, cut it into small pieces, put them in a deep dish, and cover them first with Mb. °f hgs and 2oz. of candied lemon-peel, all cut up small, and over that sprinkle about 2Mb. of moist sugar. Let them remain in this way for a day or so, then tie the dish over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for an hour. Take it out, and serve; or the ingredients, after they have remained for a day, may be turned into a saucepan and then boiled. RIBBON CAKE.—See Cakes. RICE (Fr. Riz ; Ger. Reis; Ital. Riso; Sp. Arroz).— What the cook knows as Rice is the cleaned grains of seeds (see Fig. 377) of a grass (Oryza sativa) which grows in huge bunches on soft marshy lands. It is supposed to be of Asiatic origin, “ though,” says Lindley, “travellers in South America mentioned finding the Rice-plant ap- parently in a wild state on t he banks of the rivers there. Throughout the Chinese Empire and the continent of India, as well as all the f great islands in the Indian Archipelago, Rice is the principal, and frequently the only food of the great mass of the population. In the Southern States of America, whence it has formed a valuable article of exportation, its culture did not begin sooner than A.D. 1700, when it is said to have been accidental.” Its cultivation in Europe is limited chielly to Lom- bardy. Several varieties of Rice are known to commerce, distinguished chielly by the name of the country or district which produced them. The finest comes from Caro- lina, and a very fine quality is grown in the neighbour- hood of Patna, in the pre- sidency of Bengal, India. “ As an article of diet,” Cooley tells us, “Rice is highly nutritious and wholesome when combined with fresh animal or other nitrogenised food; but, owing to the very small quantity of ‘flesh-formers ’which it con- tains, and its comparative destitution in saline matter, it is totally unfit to form the principal portion of the diet of the working-classes, or the poorly fed, at least in this climate.” It does not appear so well calculated for European consti- tutions as the potato, for we find the poor constantly reject it when potatoes can be had, this preference evidently depends on something more than mere whim or taste, for, some years ago, when Rice was substituted for potatoes in some of our Union Workhouses, the most serious con- sequences followed. In one of these, nine or ten deaths from scurvy and allied diseases occurred in a single fort- night. Large quantities of Rice are annually imported into Britain, and used by distillers in the manufacture of spirits. In China, it is much used in making wine. Fig. 377. Rice. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. YTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 322 For Uetails respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. According to Letheby the composition of Rice is, in a hundred parts : Nitrogenous matter ... ... ... 6-3 Carbo-hydrates ... ... ... ... 79o Fatty matter ... ... ... ... 0-7 Saline matter ... ... 0-5 Water ... ... . . . ... 13'0 By the following receipts it will be seen that Rice can be used in a great many ways, either by itself or in com- bination with other things, sweets, or savouries. It is also much used by artistic cooks for making what are called, socles, borders, &c.; before using, Rice should be washed as follows : Put the Rice in a large strainer, and set it in a bowl of water, lifting the Rice carefully so that the grit and dirt will fall to the bottom of the bowl through the sieve. Con- tinue in this way, changing the water frequently, until it is perfectly clear. Boiled Rice.—(1) Well wash about 12oz. of Rice, using several waters, tie it up in a cloth, allowing plenty of room to swell, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and boil for about two hours. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve with jam or sweet sauce. (2) Clean and wash about fib. of Rice, place it in a saucepan with 1 h pints of cold water and 1 pinch of salt, put the lid on, and boil for twenty-two minutes. Pour it through a colander, being careful to let it drain thoroughly without crushing the Rice, otherwise the appearance will be spoiled. When well drained, return it to the sauce- pan, put the lid on, and leave it on the corner of the stove to dry gradually for five or six minutes, when it will be ready to use as required. Boiled Rice with. Apricots.—Thoroughly wash a scant teacupful of Rice, put it in a saucepan with as much milk as it will absorb and loaf sugar to taste, and boil it gently until tender. When cooked, flavour slightly with essence of vanilla, move the Rice away from the fire, and let it get cold. Put the beaten yolks of four eggs in a stewpan with 1 teacupful of milk, stir them over the fire until thickened but not boiling, and leave it until cold. When the custard and Rice are cold, mix them together. Whip I pint of cream to a stiff froth, having previously sweet- ened it with caster sugar, and mix with it ioz. of isinglass that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water. Stir the cream lightly in with the Rice, put the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice. Cut some apricots (tinned ones will do nicely), into halves, remove the stones, put them in a stewpan with syrup to cover them, and let them simmer gently until tender. Drain the apricots, and keep Fig. 378. Boiled Rice with Apricots. them in a cool place. When ready to serve dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the Rice on to a glass dish, and arrange the apricots round it (see Fig. 37 S). Boiled Rice with Cheese. Have ready 2 or 3 breakfast- cupfuls of boiled Rice, put a little of it at the bottom of a dish, sprinkle over a little grated cheese, cover with Rice—continued. tomato sauce, and continue in this way until the dish is full. Warm in the oven, and serve. A covering of bread- crumbs with a few pieces of butter over them may be added. Boiled Rice and Cream.—Put 1 pint of cold milk into a saucepan, add 1 pint of water and h saltspoonful of salt, and place the pan on the hot stove; when boiling, throw in 4oz. of well-cleaned raw Rice, and with a spatula stir slowly and continually at the bottom while it is cooking for twenty-five minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and add immediately 4oz. of powdered sugar and loz. of butter, and mix well together with a spatula for two minutes. Transfer the mixture into another vessel, and set it in a cold place for one hour. Whisk to a stiff froth 1 pint of sweet cream, cover the basin with a napkin, and let it rest for twenty minutes; should there be any milk settled at the bottom pour it off, and add to the cream 2oz. of powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring; then with a wire whisk beat together for two minutes longer. Take the Rice from the vessel, drop it gradually into the whipped cream, and mix the whole together slowly and carefully for three minutes, bine a 2qt. melon-shaped mould with 3oz. of peach marmalade, fill the mould with the preparation, put on the cover, and after placing a little broken ice at the bottom of the pail lay in the mould and cover it entirely with broken ice (no salt is necessary for this), and freeze for one hour. Have a vessel with 2qts. of lukewarm water, lift up the mould from the pail, dip it into the water, wash off the ice, and raise it up immediately; remove the cover, turn the pre- paration on to a cold dish, and send to table. Boiled Rice for Curry.—Well wash the Rice, put it into a saucepan with a good supply of water and a little salt, and boil for a few minutes; pour off the water, add more cold water, and boil up a second time. When the Rice is soft, which can be ascertained by trying one or two grains, pour off all the water again, turn the Rice on to a hot plate, and stir it well with two forks, so as to let the steam evaporate, and have the Rice well done and the grains separate. Boiled Rice Dumplings.—Pick over 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, wash it in cold water, put it in a saucepan over the fire to boil in 2qts. of boiling water containing 1 table- spoonful of salt, and boil the Rice fast for twenty minutes, then drain it on a sieve. While the Rice is being boiled, peel and core half-a-dozen medium-sized apples of good flavour, and fill the centres 114111 sugar and spice or any jelly or marmalade. When the Rice is drained, put some of it round each apple in a layer about tin. thick, taking care to entirely cover the apples, and tie each one in a small pudding-cloth. When all the dumplings are pre- pared, drop them into boiling water, and boil them steadily for an hour; then remove the cloths, and serve the dumplings without breaking them. Use any sweet sauce with them. An egg may be mixed with the Rice before putting it over the apples by way of varying the dish. Boiled Rice with Sweet Sauce.—Wash tlb. of Rice and lib. of currants, tie them together loosely in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for an hour. Prepare the following sauce: Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix them over the fire; then stir in gradually 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence liked, continuing to stir the sauce until boiling. When the Rice is cooked, turn it out of the cloth on to a hot dish, pour the sauce ovei if, and serve. Carriole of Rice. -Wash a sufficient quantity of Rice well, and boil it in water for five minutes; then strain it, and put it over the fire in a stewpan with a slice of bam, an onion, and a bit of butter, and stew it till tender, lake it from the fire, and mix well into it the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten. Line a mould with veiy thin slices of bacon, then put in all over the bacon a layer of the mixture of boiled Rice and eggs tin. thick, so that the mould is lined throughout with bacon and Rice; put into it a ragout of veal, rabbit, fowl, or any otherTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. £23 Y S>ice—continued. meat, fill up and cover with the boiled Rice, put it into a quick oven, and hake for an hour. Turn it out, pour over it some good gravy or curry sauce, and serve hot. Casserole of Rice.—Put l£lb. of washed Rice in an open stewpan, cover it to twice its height in stock, and simmer, stirring occasionally till the Rice is quite soft. Skim oil' the fat. When the Rice is cold, work it with a wooden spoon till a smooth paste, adding more stock if too dry; put it into a casserole 5in. high and 7in. in diameter, work it with the hand as if for a raised pie, and orna- ment the outside with slices of cooked carrots cut into various shapes, such as stars, crescents, &c. Brush the whole over with clarified butter, and stand it in a hot oven for half-an-hour. Take it out, remove the top of the casserole, and clear away the Rice that does not adhere to the crust, which should lie quite clear. Mix some Spanish sauce with the spare Rice, put it again in the casserole with, such r ago fits as may have been prepared for it, glaze, and serve. Cream of Rice Soup.—Prepare 2qts. of chicken stock (or the water in which a fowl has been boiled will answer the purpose), put in 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice, one small onion, a stalk of celery, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the soup just simmer by the side of the fire for two hours; it should barely bubble. At the end of that time, strain the soup through a sieve, mix lqt. of milk or cream with it, and allow it to just come to the boil again. If milk is used, 1 table-spoonful of butter should be added. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a dish of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Creamed Rice.—Boil 1 teacupful of washed Rice in H pints of milk till quite soft and thick; when it is about half cooked, put in some thinly-pared lemon-peel chopped very small, a little grated nutmeg or a laurel-leaf, and sugar to taste. When the Rice is quite done, pick out the laurel-leaf, pour the Rice into a shape, and let it stand till next day. Turn it out, and serve with jam round it, or a thick custard poured over it. Croustades of Rice a la Reine.—Wash thoroughly and boil in a saucepan lqt. of Rice with 2qts. of broth and loz. of butter. Keep it as dry as possible, so that it remains firm, and add to it toz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and A teaspoonful of nutmeg. Mix well with a wooden spoon, then put it in a buttered saute- pan, spreading it lfin. thick, and cover with a buttered paper. Leave it to cool with a weight pressed down on Fig. 379. Croustades of Eice a la Reuse. the top. Then cut it out with a paste-cutter into six croustades (being careful to dip the cutter in warm water each time it is used), and with a smaller paste-cutter make a mark on the surface of each without cutting. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and repeat this operation; then fry them in very hot fat for five minutes, drain, empty them with a vegetable-spoon, and fill the insides with a hot salpiyon of shrimps, mush- rooms, and cream sauce. Put the covers on top, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 3"9). Croustade of Rice Meringue.—Roll Alb. of puff paste into an .oval shape Jin. thick, lay upside down on it an oval dish lOin. long by 6in. wide, and with a knife cut away the paste close to the edges of the dish. Remove the dish and place the oval paste in a baking-sheet; then roll out the pieces which were cut away, and with a small fancy paste-cutter cut it into shapes. Wet the edges of the oval paste with a small pastry-brush dipped in beaten egg> anil arrange the pieces all round, crown-shaped. Rice—co n Unit ed. Bake the croustade in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Have ready 6oz. of boiled Rice. Peel and core six medium-sized apples, put them into a saucepan with ‘2oz. of powdered sugar, 1 gill of cold water, and A saltspoonful of salt; put on the lid, and let this cook on a slow fire for twenty minutes. Arrange half the Rice on the croustade, dress the apples over, and fill up the cavities with the rest of the Rice. Add to the juice of the apples in the pan 2oz. of apricot marmalade, mix well for two minutes, and pour it over the whole; then set ifiin a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Beat up two eggs as for a meringue, mixing in 2oz. of caster sugar; put this into a pastry-bag, anil decorate the surface of the croustade artistically with it, sprinkling a little sugar over all. Return it to the oven for five minutes to take a light colour. Pass a knife gently under the croustade, dexterously slide it from the baking-sheet on to a hot dish, and serve. Curried Rice.—(1) Mix smooth 1 dessert-spoonful of curry paste with 1 teaspoonful of rich brown gravy, put it into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful more of the gravy, and boil; then add lib. of washed Rice, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for about half-an-hour, or until the Rice is done. Turn it out on to a dish, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and serve. (2) Put 1 teacupful of water into a saucepan, boil it, add 1 teacupful of washed Rice, cover the pan, and boil the contents for twenty minutes if Patna Rice, and for half-an- hour if Carolina Rice. By this time the liquor should have evaporated and the Rice boiled dry, and all the grains be separate. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder with t,oz. of butter, put it into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of stock, and cook gently for about twenty minutes; add it to the Rice when quite smooth, and let the saucepan remain at the side of the fire for about a-quarter-of-an- liour. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Pried Rice.—Boil the Rice, and cool it in a dish; when it is cold, turn it from the dish, cut it into slices nearly lin. thick, season them with pepper and salt, and roll them in corn meal. Have ready a frying-kettle half-full of smoking hot fat, and fry the slices of Rice in it until they are golden brown. Take them from the fat with a skimmer, put them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, and serve hot. Fried Rice Balls. —Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice in several waters, then put it in a saucepan with sufficient milk to cook it in, and boil very slowly for twenty-five minutes. \\ hen the Rice is cooked, stir in gradually the yolks of two eggs and 2 table spoonfuls of sugar; when well mixed, turn the whole on to a plate, and leave it until cold. Dredge flour over a board, put the Rice mixture upon it, divide it into small quantities, and roll into balls. Lightly beat the whites of the eggs, dip the balls in it, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, seeing that they are well coated. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises; then put in the halls and fry them until lightly browned. Take the balls out with a slice, put them on a sheet of kitchen- paper in front of the fire for a minute or two to drain, arrange them in a pile on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve them with any kind of preserve liked. Fried Rice Cakes.—Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, put it into a lined stewpan with sufficient milk to cook it, and boil until tender, but not too soft-; then sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and work well in with it Hoz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and a few washed and dried currants. Butter a tin sheet, spread the Rice out on it, and let it cool; then cut out of it some moderate- sized pieces, and mould them flat and round, using plenty of breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumb them again. Melt a large piece of butter in a flat stewpan, put in the cakes, and fry them until nicely but not too darkly browned. Make a nice chocolate sauce for them. Drain the cakes, pile them on a dish, garnish with a fancy dish- paper, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 324 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. Glazed Rice.—Thoroughly wash 4 pint of Rice, put it in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it till tender. Drain the Rice on a sieve, and pour 4 teacupful of syrup oyer it. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan with a small piece of lemon-peel and boil it. Beat the yolks of four eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, pour in gradually the boiling milk, turn it into the saucepan, and stir it by the fire until thick, without allowing it to boil. Pass' the thickened mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stir it over ice till it has cooled, then mix with it 1 \ pints of whipped cream. Put a layer of the cream mixture in a cheese mould, then a layer of Rice, next a layer of the cream, and so on, until all is used. Cover the mould with a sheet of paper, then fix the lid on, pack the mould in pounded salt and ice, and leave it for an hour or two. When ready for serving dip the mould in warm water, then wipe it, pass the blade of a knife between the sides of the mould and the Rice, and turn it quickly out on to a dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper. Gratin of Rice.—Put 2oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with more than sufficient milk to cover it, and boil slowly until the Rice is soft; add half-a-dozen each of sweet and bitter almonds, blanched, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve, sweeten to taste with sugar, and sprinkle in a little salt. Turn the preparation into a gratin-dish, cover with a piece of paper, and let it remain over a slew fire to gratin or brown for about an hour. Rice cooked in this way requires to be served very hot in the dish it was cooked in. Ground-Rice Biscuits.—(1) Rub 2oz. of butter smoothly into ilb. of ground Rice, and mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, the grated rind of a small lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, beat the yolks up with a little milk, and stir it in with the above ingredients; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in with the mixture. Butter some small biscuit-tins, fill them with the mixture, and bake for five minutes in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out of their tins, and leave them until cold; then pack them away in biscuit-tins, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (2) Mix well together J2lb. each of ground Rice, flour, pow- dered white sugar, and butter. Then break two eggs into the centre of the mixture, and gradually work it into a stiff dough ; form this into small biscuits, and bake them on tin sheets to a light brown, being careful not to let them burn. Let them cool thoroughly, ami store them in a tight-shutting tin canister. Ground-Rice Blanc mange.—(1) Mix l|oz. of ground Rice and foz. of arrowroot with 1 pint of fresh milk in which a small quantity of cream has been mixed, sweeten it with loaf sugar, but do not make it very sweet, and flavour it with cinnamon, orange essence, or laurel-leaf. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, stir well, and boil it for rather more than half-an-hour; then pour it into a mould that has been well wetted inside with cold water, let it stand till quite cold, and then turn it out. (2) Put over the fire 1 pint of milk and 3 table-spoonfuls of loaf sugar, and flavour with either essence of lemons or almonds. Mix till quite smooth 1 teacupful of ground Rice with 1 pint of milk. When the milk on the fire commences to boil, mix the batter in with it, and stir it over the fire for about ten minutes, till it is thick. Pour the Rice into a wetted mould, and leave it till cold and firm. When ready to serve, turn the blanc-mange out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and garnish round it with any kind of preserved compote or jam that may be desired. Ground Rice and cornflour make a very similar blanc-mange. Ground-Rice Buns.—Slightly warm 4oz. of butter and beat it till creamy; then mix slowly with it 4oz. of caster sugar and 4oz. of ground Rice. When quite smooth, mix in 41b. of sifted flour, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to make the whole into a stiff batter. Spread a sheet of buttered white paper over a baking-sheet, drop the mixture on it in equal-sized quantities,put them into a brisk oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. When cooked, take the buns off the paper, and lay them on a dish. Rice—continued. Ground-Rice Cake.—(1) Put fib. of sugar in a 1 iasin with a little grated orange-peel, 1 pinch of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs, and stir them together till smooth and light; then add the well-beaten whites of the eight eggs, and sift in 6oz. of ground-Rice. When the above ingredients are well mixed, turn it into a savoy cake-mould that has been brushed over with warmed butter. The mixture should not rise to more than three parts the height of the mould. Bake the cake in a moderate oven. (2) Beat seven eggs well, then work in with them 41b. each of ground Rice and caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of gin, and a few drops of essence of lemons or almonds; beat all the above ingredients together for twenty minutes. Line a cake-tin with well-buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven. It will require about three-quarters-of-an-hour, and can be tried by run- ning a skewer down the middle; if this comes out perfectly clean, the cake is done. (3) Put 41b. of butter in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until hot; then mix in gradually fib. of ground Rice, and stir it over a slow fire for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them into the mixture, and stir it for two or three minutes longer. Mix 14 pints each of boiling milk and boiling syrup with it, put the lid on the saucepan, and leave it for five or ten minutes. Stir the mixture well, then set it in small quantities with a table-spoon on a hot dish, leaving the mark of the spoon on each, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. (4) Put a little more than 111), of butter in a saucepan and place it over the fire until melted ; then stir in by degrees 4 table-spoonfuls each of flour, ground Rice, and powdered starch. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until slightly browned, then mix in 5 table-spoonfuls of blanched and skinned almonds, and stir it for a few minutes longer; then add to the mixture 2| pints of boil- ing syrup and 14 pints of boiling milk; move the sauce- pan off' the fire, put the lid on, and leave it for a-quarter- of-an-hour. At the end of that time, put a few drops of rose-water in the cake, and stir it vigorously with a wooden spoon. Turn it on to a hot dish, building it dome- shaped, dust it with a small quantity of powdered cin- namon, and serve. (5) Put lib. of ground Rice into a basin, and mix with it 6oz. of chopped sultanas and I40Z. of thinly-shred citron- peel. Slightly warm 111), of butter, mix fib. of caster sugar with it, and beat it until creamy; then beat in six whole eggs one at a time. Stir the beaten mixture in with the dry ingredients, mixing the whole smoothly and well. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake it in a brisk oven; if it begins to colour too darkly on the top, cover it with a sheet of paper. This cake can be kept for two or three weeks if put in a tin with a cover to it. (6) Warm slightly fib. of butter, and beat it until creamy, mixing in gradually with it }2lb. of caster sugar. Next mix in 4lb. of ground Rice and four eggs, also a few drops of any kind of flavouring liked. Butter some patty-pans and three parts fill them with the above mixture, put them into a good oven, and bake for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the cakes out of the pans, and when cold keep them in a dry place. (7) Work 21b. of butter on a marble slab to extract the water, then warm it slightly. Mix with the butter 21b. of caster sugar, and work it with the hands for a few minutes; then beat in, one by one, twenty eggs; when well beaten, sift in 2flb. of flour, fib. of ground Rice, and beat that also. Flavour the cake mixture with a little essence of lemon. Butter some cake-tins, turn the mixture into them, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven. (8) Beat lflb. of butter together with 141b. of caster sugar till creamy; then add ten well-beaten eggs, and beat them for a few minutes longer. Mix together 41b. of flour, 41b. of ground Rice, loz. of cream of tartar, and f-oz. of carbonate of soda. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into small hoops with paper round the sides, and bake them. When cooked, leave for two or three minutes, then take them out of the hoops.325 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rics—continued. (9) Mix l pint of milk or water in a basin with 2 break- fast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice, and sprinkle in 12 or 14 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice. Divide the mixture into small cakes, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a sharp oven. When done and of a good colour, slip them off the baking-sheet on to a dish, and serve. (10) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it until frothy with 5oz. of caster sugar, flavouring with a few drops of essence of lemons. Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs. Beat the yolks, and mix them with the above ingredients; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and add them also; sift in gradually a sufficient quantity of ground Rice and flour in equal portions to thicken the mixture, beating and stirring well at the same time. Butter some small deep tins, half till each with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, turn them out of the tins, and let them get cold. To keep- the cakes fresh any time they should be packed away in biscuit-tins. Ground-Rice Cake Glazed with Apricot or other Jam. —Break sixteen perfectly fresh eggs in a lined saucepan, add lib. of caster sugar, and whip them over a very slow fire for fifteen minutes; then mix in fib. of butter in small pieces, ilb. of ground Rice, and I wineglassful of maras- chino, and stir the whole lightly till well mixed, but move them off the fire when commencing to boil. Butter a fluted cylinder-mould 3in. high, and dust it over with a little flour, shaking out the superfluous; then turn the cake mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the mould, and mask it with hot apricot or other jam that has been reduced with syrup. Sprinkle the cake while hot with blanched and chopped sweet almonds and pistachio-kernels, then leave it till cold before serving. Ground-Rice-and-Cocoanut Pudding.—Grate a large cocoa- nut, put it in a basin, pour over f pint of boiling water, beat it well with a wooden spoon, and leave it for a few minutes. Strain the liquor, mix smoothly in it about Mb. of ground Rice, and sweeten to taste. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and boil it gently until it thickens, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it until nicely browned. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. A few pieces of butter put on the top before baking will improve it. Ground-Rice Cream.—(1) Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice, loz. of butter, and the rind of a lemon nibbed off on 2oz. of loaf sugar; add hoy., of dissolved gelatine, and boil for five or six minutes, stirring continually; then pour the whole into a basin, and let it cool. Mix in 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, and turn the mixture into a mould packed in ice; when it is firm, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice and 2 table- spoonfuls of milk into a saucepan, work them to a smooth paste, and add the well-whisked yolks of four eggs and whites of two, and sugar to taste. Pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling milk, boil for two or three minutes, and turn the preparation into a mould. Let it get still' and firm, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Boil 3 pints of fresh milk; mix 7oz. of ground Rice in sufficient water to make a smooth batter, then stir it in gradually with the boiling milk, put in 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of orange-flowers. Stir the mixture over the fire until smooth but not too thick. Rub the interior of a mould with oil of almonds, pour the mixture into it, and leave it in a cold place till firm; if wanted quickly, it is best to pack it in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a dish. (4) Mix 2oz. of ground Rice in a small lined saucepan with 1 h table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, loz. of fresh butter, and 1 pint of new milk. Flavour with a few drops of essence of almonds or vanilla, and boil it for about twenty minutes, stirring all the time to keep it smooth and prevent it from burning. Rinse a mould out with cold For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Rice—continued. water, pour the cream into it, and stand it in a cool place. When quite cold and set, turn the cream on to a dish, garnish with stewed fruit, and serve. Ground-Rice Custard.—Blanch and pound h table-spoonful of bitter almonds, put them in a basin with U table- spoonfuls of ground Rice, and stir in gradually If, pints of milk and cream, mixed in equal quantities, and 1 wine- glassful of rose-water. Sweeten the mixture to taste witli caster sugar, turn it into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow lire. Boil it for five minutes, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour the custard into a dish, strew caster sugar on the top, and serve it. Ground-Rice Dumplings.—Put 4oz. of ground Rice into a basin, and mix in sufficient cold milk to make a thick paste; stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and add ‘2oz. of butter and 1 pinch of salt. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and boil until thick, stirring continually. Remove the saucepan from the fire, let the mixture cool, and then add three well-beaten eggs. Take a little of the preparation up in a spoon, and drop it into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Continue to do this till all the preparation is used up. Let the dumplings boil for about five minutes, take them out, drain, put them on on a dish, and serve with caster sugar sifted over them; or serve with raspberry-and-currant or other jam. See Fig. 380. Ground-Rice Flummery. -(1) Place lqt. of fresh milk into a saucepan over the fire, then put into it the grated rind of half a lemon, foz. of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and Jib. of loaf sugar; when this is quite melted, stir in Jib. of ground Rice, let it come to the boil, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time. Pour it into a mould, and when quite cold turn it out. (2) Put 4oz. of ground Rice into a double-boiler with 1 pint of new milk, and stir well over the fire until it thickens; then add ten or twelve drops of essence of almonds and 3oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Turn the mixture into a mould, let it remain for a day, turn it out, and serve with preserve. Ground-Rice Fritters.—Put Jib. of ground Rice into a lined saucepan, stir in gradually 1 pint of new milk, and add the peel of half a lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until quite thick, then pour it into a basin, and stir in Jib. of fresh butter and caster sugar to taste. When the mixture is quite cold add four well beaten new-laid eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and beat well until quite smooth. A wineglassful of brandy or sherry may be mixed in if liked. Put a large lump of lard in a frying- pan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, pour in a sufficient quantity of the batter to spread over the pan. Fry in the same way as for pancakes, and proceed the same with the remainder of the mixture. Roll the fritters up, place them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, dust them lightly over with caster sugar, and serve; a little powdered cinnamon may also be sprinkled over them if liked. Ground-Rice Hasty Pudding.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire in a farina-kettle, and when very hot stir in 3 table- spoonfuls of ground Rice blended with a little cold milk. Let it boil for thirty minutes, stirring it constantly; then Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.326 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fdr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. stir in 1 teaspoonful of salt and loz. of butter, draw it to the side of the fire, let it stand in hot water for three minutes after the butter and salt are stirred in, and then pour it into a deep dish. Serve cream and sugar with it. Ground-Rice and Honey Pudding.—Boil J pint of white honey and skim it; make till, of butter hot, then turn it into the honey; put in also 1 breakfast-cupful of ground Rice, J pint of hot water, and 1 saltspoonful of bicar bonate of soda, which should have been previously dis solved in the water. Put the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir until thickly reduced. Butter a baking-dish, pour the mixture into it, level it over the surface with a spoon, and put it in a quick oven. When the pudding is nicely browned, cut it into squares or triangles, arrange them iii a group on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. Ground-Rice Milk. -Put 1 table spoonful of ground Rice into a basin, stir in a little milk until smooth, turn it into a saucepan, add more milk to make up 3 breakfast- cupfuls in all, flavour to taste with cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and boil until commencing to get thick. Then add sugar to taste, cook for a few minutes longer, and serve. Ground-Rice Pudding.—(1) Mix together eight eggs well beaten, lqt. of milk, and 3 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice, and stir over the fire till boiling. Stir in Jib. of butter, the grated rinds and strained juice of two lemons, and sugar to taste. Line a pudding-dish with puff paste, pour the pudding in, and hake. (2) Mix Jlli. of ground Rice Smoothly with 1 pint of milk, turn it into a lined saucepan, put in a small piece of stick vanilla, and stir it over the fire until hoiling and cooked. Leave it until cold, then mix with it 4oz. of sugar, 4oz. of slightly warmed butter, 1 teacupful of cream, and 4 wineglassful of brandy. Butter round the edge of a pie dish, line it with a strip of puff paste, pour in the pudding mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (3) Boil 1 pint of milk for ten minutes with a piece of stick vanilla and caster sugar to taste, then remove the vamilla and stir in by degrees 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice. When the mixture is quite smooth, stir in the well- heaten yolks of four eggs. In about five minutes’ time, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and mix in Joz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and set it on ice or in a cool place until firm. Pass a small jar of any kind of jam through a fine hair sieve, and beat it up with 1 wineglassful of sherry and the strained juice of half a lemon. When ready, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish, pour the jam round, and serve. (4) Boil 5 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice in lqt. of new milk together with a flavouring of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and keep stirring it till it boils. Then pour it into a bowl, and stir into it J pint of cream, Jib. of butter, Jib. of powdered white sugar, and, if it requires it, a little more cinnamon and nutmeg. Let it stand till cold. Wash Jib. of currants, dry them thoroughly, and sprinkle them with flour. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of four, and stir them into the pudding, a spoonful or two at a time, alternately with a spoonful or two of the floured currants; when all the eggs and currants are mixed in, add either J wineglassful of mixed wine and brandy or J wineglassful of rose-water, i’ut the pudding into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake it a light brown. (5) Put 4oz. of ground Rice into a basin with sufficient milk to form a smooth paste, put it into a saucepan with the remainder of lqt. of milk, and stir well over the fire until it boils. Add the white of one egg and the well- beaten yolks of two, Joz. of butter, and 3oz. of sugar, as well as 1 wineglassful of brandy and a flavouring of nutmeg. Turn the preparation at once into a pie-dish, set it in a sharp oven, bake for forty-five minutes, take it out, and serve. Rice—continued. (6) Put 3oz. of ground Rice into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, boil it until it thickens, turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Mix in 6oz. each of crushed loaf sugar and warm butter, a few blanched and pounded bitter almonds, the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of nine. Put the mixture into a greased mould or dish, bake it until it is firm, turn it out on to a dish, stick pieces of blanched sweet almonds all over, and serve. (7) Put I teacupful of ground Rice into a lined stewpan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it until thick; then mix with it 2oz. of blanched and chopped almonds, Jib. each of caster sugar and warmed butter, the yolks of four, and the whites of eight well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly, turn it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, stick all over the top some blanched and split sweet almonds, and serve. Ground-Rice Snow. -Put lqt. of milk over the fire, and when scalding hot stir into it 5 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice blended with a little cold water; stir it till it boils and begins to thicken, then add powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, and Jib. of powdered white sugar; continue stirring, and let it simmer for five minutes. Take it from the fire, pour it into a basin, beat into it IJoz. of butter, and let it get quite cold; then stir into it a flavouring of vanilla, lemon, or ratafia. Beat up in a large basin the whites of four eggs, add and beat in, a spoonful at a time, the boiled Rice after it has been flavoured; when it is all beaten into the whites, pour it into a mould wetted inside with cold water. When quite firm, turn it out. Serve cream with it. Ground Rice Souffle. —(1) Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of ground Rice in a basin, and mix it smoothly with a small quantity of cold milk; then stir in gradually J pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened. Leave the Rice mixture until rather cold, then stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and flavour it with a few drops of any kind of essence liked. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff' froth, and mix them in lightly with the above. Turn the mixture into a souffle-mould, dust it over with caster sugar, and put it into a brisk oven. It will require about twenty minutes’ baking. When well risen and nicely browned on the top take the souffle out of the oven, and serve it at once in the same mould. (2) Blanch and pound 8oz. of sweet almonds and loz. of bitter almonds, put them into a basin, pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of nearly boiling milk, and strain through a fine cloth. Put 2oz. of ground Rice into a saucepan, stir in a little of the almond liquor, and, when smooth, pour in the remainder, keeping the mixture quite smooth; then add 2oz. of butter and a little salt, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Now add Jib. of powdered loaf sugar and two eggs, put the mixture into dariole- moulds lined with rich puff paste, dust them over with sugar, and bake for a few minutes, or until lightly browned. Take them out, and they are then ready for use. Ground-Rice Soup.—Prepare, skim, and strain sufficient white stock to make the required quantity of soup, season it nicely, and for each quart of soup allow IJ breakfast- cupfuls of ground Rice. Mix them together, and boil gently until the Rice is cooked, stirring constantly. When ready, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. Iced Rice Pudding.—(1) Put Jib. of blanched Rice into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled cream and 12oz. of sugar, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for an hour. Let the mixture cool, then put it into a freezer ; when it is partly frozen add the two whites of egg of Italian meringue, and continue to work with the spatula until it is quite frozen. Have ready about an equal quantity of finely-chopped preserved fruits, stir them in, turn the mixture into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain with the cover on for about two hours. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with wine sauce in a sauceboat.327 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. (2) Put ]2oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, and boil for an hour; pour off the water, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, ; and continue the boiling until the Rice is done, adding gradually 8oz. of sugar and a little vanilla or other flavouring. Put the mixture into a mould packed in ice, turn it out when sufficiently frozen, and serve. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Rice into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a flavouring of cinnamon, and simmer gently at the side of the fire with the lid on the pan until the Rice is tender, which will be in about balf-an-hour. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of milk, pour in a little of the liquor from the Rice, turn it into the saucepan with the Rice, and heat over the fire again but without boiling. Take out the cinnamon, which should be in one piece, let the preparation cool, and put it into the freezer; in a few minutes add 1 teacupful of well-whipped cream, put it into a mould packed in ice, and let it get firm. Turn it on to a dish, garnish with candied fruits, sliced and whole, and serve. See Pig. 381. Italian Rice Balls. Take some cooked Rice, not too moist, and nicely flavoured and sweetened, roll it flat, cut it into pieces of a convenient size, and roll them up in the shape of a sausage, putting a little preserve in the centre of each. Brush them over with egg, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them. Serve hot. Italian Rice Pudding.—Wash and boil 1 teacupful of Rice, then drain and mix with it Jib. of finely-chopped beef-suet, 2oz. of sultana raisins, 2oz. of caster sugar, and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Flavour the mixture to taste with a few drops of ratafia or vanilla, and stir in lightly the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Butter a pudding-mould, pour the mixture into it, tie a cloth over, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. In the meantime prepare a brandy sauce. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hoi dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Neapolitan Risot.—Put a chopped onion into a saucepan with a little oil and slightly colour it; add lib. of well- washed Rice, cook for a minute, and then pour over con- sonun4 to about three times its height; add a chopped tomato without seeds, and cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grated cheese and a ragout of cooked mushrooms, oysters, and crayfish-tails. Cover the pan, cook for two or three minutes longer, turn the risot out on to a dish, and serve. Rice a la Bearnaise.—Put ill), of blanched Rice into a saucepan, pour over sufficient warm milk to moisten, set the saucepan over a slow fire, and cook gently until the Rice is done. Sweeten to taste, stirring the sugar in with a fork, cover the pan, and let the Rice cool. Mix in \ wineglassful of maraschino, and put the mixture in layers into a dome-shaped mould packed in ice, covering each layer with preserved fruit cut up small, and con- tinue in this way until the mould is full, finishing up with the Rice. Put a piece of paper on the top, place the cover of the mould over, seal it hermetically with fat, and let it remain for an hour. Turn it out, and serve. Rice—continued. Rice a la Conde.—(1) Boil together 1 pint each of milk and water; when boiling drop in 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice, and boil for twenty-five minutes, stirring continually. When cooked, stir in J saltspoonful of salt, 4oz. of caster sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water. Mix well for one minute, break in three whole eggs, and stir again Fig. 382. Rice X la Cond^. for two minutes. Arrange the Rice nicely on a hot dish, keeping it high in the centre, and decorate it with stewed peaches, 2oz. of dried currants, and loz. of candied angelica cut in small lozenge-shaped pieces (see Fig. 382). Serve cold. (2) Put loz. of Rice into a disli with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and bake until the Rice is soft; then remove the skin from the surface, and let the Rice get cold. Put a little of it at the bottom of a dish as nearly round as possible, over this put a layer of jam or marmalade of any kind, and continue in this way until all the Rice is used up. Pour over some rich custard, and serve. Sice a la Pranqaise. —Wash well and blanch in boiling water for ten minutes Jib. of Patna Rice. Boil it in a saucepan with loz. of butter, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, 1 pint of milk, two bitter almond maca- roons, J- teaspoonful of orange-flower water, Joz. of candied orange-peel cut into shreds, about twelve candied cherries cut into halves, and twelve large stoned muscatel raisins, also Joz. of thin slices of candied angelica. Pour into a mould, and when cold turn out, and serve with a sauce thickened with 1 gill of sherry, kirsch, or rum. Rice a 1’Imperatrice. —Thoroughly wash § teacupful of Rice, and boil it in 1 pint of milk, with a piece of stick vanilla and caster sugar to taste. When quite tender, turn the Rice into a basin, and leave it until cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, stir them over the lire until thickened and on the point of boiling, then move it off. When the custard is cold, stir it up with the Rice. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a small quantity of water, and whip \ breakfast-cupful of cream to a stiff' froth; mix them with the Rice and custard. Turn the mixture into a mould, place it on pounded ice, and leave it for a few hours. Stew some ripe plums with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water until tender. When the plums are quite cold, turn them on to a fancy or glass dish, turn the Rice out of the mould on to them, and serve. Rice a la Menagere.—Put 6oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of boiling water, and blanch it for five or six minutes; then take it out and drain it. Blanch 4oz. of streaky bacon, cut it up into pieces about lin. square, put them into a deep frying-pan, and fry them until they are yellow; then add the Rice, a little pepper, and about 3 breakfast-cupfuls of rich broth. Stir frequently over the fire for about twenty minutes, remove the pan from the fire, add 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Rice a la Milanaise.—Put 1 teacupful of milk or white stock into a saucepan on the fire; when it boils, add 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice and a little finely- chopped onion. Cover over the pan, and boil slowly for about twenty minutes, by which time the Rice should beTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 393 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. soft and dry. Add a little saffron worked up in 1 oz. of 1 Hitter, loz. of grated cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir well, let the mixture remain on the side of the fire for ten minutes, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Rice a la Ristori.—Well wash and drain ^lb. of Rice. Shred 2oz. of bacon into small pieces, and place them in a saucepan with a medium sized, chopped-up, raw cabbage, letting them steam for thirty minutes. Add 1 pinch of salt, l pinch of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; put in the Rice, and moisten with A pint of white broth. Cook for fully a-quarter-of-an-hour longer, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over. Rice-and-Apple Pudding. -Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice into a saucepan with water and boil for ten minutes; then turn it out on to a sieve and let it drain. Place a cloth in a pudding-basin, make a crust with some of the Rice round the sides, fill up with apples cut in small pieces, add a little lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a couple of cloves; cover the top villi the remainder of the Rice, tie up the cloth, and put it with the basin in a saucepan of water. Boil for an hour, turn the pudding out carefully, pour over sweet sauce or melted butter, and serve. Rice Ralls (German).—Wash 4oz. of Rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil gently until soft, shaking it occasionally but not stirring it. When dry and tender, take the Rice off the fire and leave it until cool; then mix it with an equal quantity of finely- minced veal or chicken, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half that quantity of chopped lemon-peel, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir in sufficient beaten egg to bind the mixture, keeping it con- sistent. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, which roll to an egg shape, put them into a saucepan of slightly-salted boiling water, and boil them for five minutes. Drain them, put them on a hot dish on which a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper has been placed, and serve them. They may also be .served as a garnish for meat. Rice Batter Cakes.--Put 1 teacupful of washed Rice into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil it quite dry, with the lid on the pan. Put it into a basin, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 6oz. of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder mixed with it, the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, or two whole eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of molasses. Work the paste well, form it into cakes, put them on a gridiron, and bake until done. They are then ready for use. A small quantity of salt should also be added, and butter-milk and bicarbonate of soda may be substituted for tbe sweet milk and baking-powder; or 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked Rice worked smooth with the milk can be used for the freshly-boiled Rice. Rice Blackcap Pudding.—Thickly butter the interior of a quart pudding-basin, and stick firmly all round the sides and bottom plenty of prunes; put in |lb. of Rice, then tie a pudding-cloth tightly over the top, put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil quickly for .two hours, keeping the pudding well covered with the water. The boiling water will enter the basin and be absorbed by the Rice. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter into a small saucepan with the same quantity of moist sugar, and stir it over the fire until melted; then pour it over the pudding, and serve. Rice Border.—(1) Arrange plain boiled Rice in a circle, as for serving curry; or work it into a border-mould as follows: Wash thoroughly in two or three waters 1 break- fast-cupful of Rice, put it into a saucepan with 3 break- fast-cupfuls of cold water, and boil slowly for half-an- hour; then stir in it 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat this up till very smooth, and then add two eggs previously beaten. Stir well, put the mixture into a buttered mould, and set it in the oven for a few minutes. Turn out on to a dish, and fill the centre with curry, fricassee, or anything else prepared for the purpose. Rice—continued. (2) Put Alb. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with sufficient rich broth to keep it moist when cooked, add loz. of butter, 1 handful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Turn the preparation into a border mould, let it remain for five or ten minutes, turn it out, and it is ready for use. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice and 3 breakfast- cupfuls of water into a saucepan, and boil them together for half an-hour; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer gently for an hour. Beat the Rice up with a sjioon until it is very fine and quite smooth, add two well-beaten eggs, and stir well for two or three minutes. Fill a border mould with the mixture, set it in the hot closet for ten or twelve minutes, turn it out, and it is ready for use. Rice Border with Mushrooms.—Wash Alb. of Rice, put it in a stewpan with U pints of boiling broth, one onion stuck with three or four cloves, a blade of mace, and loz. of butter, and boil it gently for one hour-and-a-half, stirring it frequently to prevent it sticking. When the Rice is cooked, remove the lid off' the saucepan, and let it steam until quite dry. Take it off the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, the white of one, 2oz. of butter in small bits, and a moderate quantity of salt. Butter a castellated border mould, and strew in thickly round the sides and bottom some finely-grated breadcrumbs. Let the Rice cool a little, then fill the mould with it, and bake it in a quick oven between thirty and forty minutes. Peel about a dozen large mushrooms. Put 2oz. of buttei in a stewpan, and brown it over the fire; then put in the mushrooms with 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, dredge them over with flour, season to taste with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and toss them over the fire for fifteen minutes. When ready, turn the Rice Fia. 383. Rice Border with Mushrooms. out of the mould on to a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre (see Fig. 383) with the sauce over them, and serve while hot. They are also very nice stewed in a little brown gravy. Rice Broth.-—Wash I teacupful of Rice, put it into a saucepan with plenty of salted water, and boil it until soft. When cooked, strain the Rice as dry as possible, put a cloth over the top of it, and stand it at the side of the fire. Put into a saucepan as much clear broth as will make the required quantity of soup, season it to taste, and stand it over the fire. When the broth boils, stir in the Rice, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Rice-and-Cabbage Soup.—Clean and well wash a savoy cabbage, put it into a saucepan with A gall, of rich broth, and boil for ten minutes; then add lOoz. of Rice, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour; now add I handful of grated cheese, Coz. of finely-chopped bacon-fat, and a seasoning of sage. Boil quickly for five or six minutes longer, turn the soup into the tureen, and serve. Rice Cake.—(1) Blanch lib. of sweet and Aoz. of bitter almonds, put them into a mortar with a little water, and pound them to a pulp; then add 2qts. of water, and strain through a cloth into a saucepan. Add 12oz. of well- washed Rice, blanched in boiling water for a few minutes, also Alb. of crushed loaf sugar, and a slight quantity of salt. Bring the liquor to the boil, and stir gently and - frequently until the Rice is so cooked that it will easily329 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. break when pressed between the fingers. Pound it all ■well again in a mortar, pass it through a fine sieve, and mix in the yolks of six eggs to bind it and form a paste, which should be quite firm. Put it into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven till done. (2) Put Jib. of Rice into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it slowly until the Rice is nearly soft; then drain off the water, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of white wine and water, and add the juice and finely- chopped rind of a lemon, and 6oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir well over the fire until the Rice is quite soft, remove the pan from the fire, and let it cool. ell butter the inside of a mould, sprinkle it with a little white wine, turn the mixture into it, and let it remain for ten or twelve hours until it is quite firm. Turn it out on to a dish, ornament it with pieces of candied or preserved fruits, and serve. (3) Boil 2oz. of Rice for twenty-five minutes. When well done, drain, and add to it a short-paste, made of Jib. of flour, 6oz. of butter, the whites of two eggs, and J salt- spoonful of salt. Pound the paste and Rice well together in a mortar. Have ready a baking-sheet covered with a sheet of buttered paper, lay the paste on top, spreading it out about 6in. square, and put it in the oven for about twenty minutes. Remove it, detach it from the paper, lay it on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve hot. (4) Wash Alii, of Rice in several waters, pick out any impurities, put the Rice in a saucepan with a stick of cinnamon and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon cut into small pieces; pour in lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and boil gently until the Rice is tender and has absorbed all the milk. When cooked, turn it into a basin, remove the pieces of lemon-peel and cinnamon, and let it get cold. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, stir them in with the Rice, and add 2oz. of thinly- shred candied peel. Thickly butter the interior of a cake- tin, strew in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs, pour the mixture into it, ami bake the cake in a brisk oven. In about half-an-hour’s time it should be cooked. (5) Wash in several waters about § breakfast-cupful of Rice, put it in a saucepan with a piece of lemon-peel and stick cinnamon, sugar to taste, and rather under lqt. of milk. Boil the Rice gently at the side of the fire until it is quite tender and has absorbed all the milk; then turn it into a basin, and remove the lemon-peel and cin- namon. When the Rice is cold, stir into it the beaten yolks of four eggs, the white of one, and 2oz. of thinly- shred mixed candied peel. Thickly butter the interior of a plain cake-tin, and strew in some grated breadcrumbs; shake out all the superfluous, pour the Rice into the mould, and bake it in a brisk oven for half-an-hour. Serve the cake when cold. (6) Put Jib. of Rice in cold water, and let it steep all night; then boil it very soft, drain, mix into it 2oz. of butter, and let it cool. When quite cold, stir into it 1 pint of milk and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Take three eggs beaten light and Jib. of sifted flour, and add them by degrees in small quantities and alternately. Beat all the ingredients well together, and then bake the mixture in small cakes of a convenient size on a griddle over the fire. Butter them, and serve hot. Rice Case or Croustade.—Put 8oz. of Rice into a sauce- pan with lqt. of water and loz. of butter or fat from cooked bacon, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and boil until the Rice is quite tender and dry. Put it into a mortar, pound it well, form it into the shape of a ball on a baking-sheet, and then into the shape of a raised pie. Brush it over both inside and out with warm butter, set it in the oven to colour, take it out, and it is then ready for use. It may be filled with forcemeat, sausage-balls, or anything else that is desired. Rice Cassolettes.—Wash some Rice thoroughly, first in warm water then in cold, rubbing it well between the hands; drain it, put it into a stewpan with some toppings that have been strained, some pieces of fat ham, and 1 pinch of salt. Put the Rice over a slow fire, and stir it frequently till well cooked. When quite tender, strain the Rice through a colander. Grease the interior of some Rice—continued. dariole-moulds with some of the cooking-fat of the Rice, then turn them upside down so that any liquid may drain off. Put a layer of the Rice all round the inside of each mould, leaving a small hollow in the centre of each. The hollow may best be accomplished by filling the moulds with Rice, then digging a peeled carrot into it. bill the hollows in the Rice with some cold minced fowl that has been mixed with some bechamel sauce, cover . the mince carefully with Rice without allowing them to mix together, then leave the cassolettes till the Rice is quite cold and firm. Put a large lump of dripping into a deep frying- pan and make it very hot. Turn the cassolettes out of the moulds, put them in the dripping, and fry them care- hilly. Drain, arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. Rice Cheese.—Boil lib. of Rice in little less than J pint of milk until it becomes as thick as hasty pudding, pour it hot into a basin over IJoz. each of butter and loaf sugar, mix it well together, and let it stand till cold ; then add the yolks of two eggs and the white o! one, and a little white wine, and serve. Rice Cheese Cakes. -Boil 4oz. of Rice in Jgall. of water, drain it well, put it into another saucepan, and add 8oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, and Jib. of powdered loaf sugar. Make the whole into a paste by adding 1 wineglassful of brandy and six well-beaten eggs, ami stir well over the fire until the mixture is thick ; then remove the pan from the fire and let the mixture cool. Have ready some patty-pans lined with puff paste, put the Rice mixture into them to about three-parts their height, put them into a slack oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take them out when done, turn them out of the pans, and serve either hot or cold. Rice Coffee.—Brown 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice in the oven, grind it finely, put it in a jug, pour over it 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand for one hour. Strain it, and serve with sugar and cream. Rice Cream.—(1) Blanch 2oz. of pistachio kernels, and cut them into thin slices. Wash 1 scant teacupful of Rice, put it in a pie-dish with 2oz. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and lqt. of milk, and place it in a moderate oven until tender. When cooked, skim off the brown at the top, and mix with the rice the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, 1J wine- glassfuls of eurapoa and the pistachio-nuts. As these in- gredients should be mixed in while the Rice is very hot, the eggs should be beaten before the Rice is quite ready. Fill some small moulds with the mixture, leave them till nearly cold, and then stand them on ice. When ready to serve, turn the Rice shapes out of the moulds on to a dish. (2) Steep Jib. of well-washed Rice in water for several hours, afterwards turn it out on to a sieve and let it drain until dry. Bruise the Rice coarsely in a mortar, put it into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it gently. When tender, turn the Rice into a basin, and leave it until cool. Mix loz. of dissolved isinglass and 1 pint of cream with the cooled Rice, sweeten it. to taste with caster sugar, and whip it to a still' froth. Put some fresh fruits, such as strawberries or currants, that have been carefully picked over, into a mould, pour the Rice cream over them, and leave in a cool place for several hours. When ready to serve, turn the cream on to a fancy dish. Rice Cream Soup.—Cut about 1 Jib. of loin of veal into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with 2qts. of milk and J breakfast-cupful cf well-washed Patna Rice ; put in a small onion, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is very tender and the Rice reduced to a pulp. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, then return it to the sauce- pan ; when boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot, accompanied, if liked, with a plate of sippets of toast or330 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. r'&r details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. Rice Cream Soup ■with Fowl.—Put 3qts. of fowl broth into a saucepan over the fire, boil it, and add lOoz. of well-washed Rice; then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the Pice is done. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, and keep it warm. In the meantime, remove the upper bone from about fifteen pinions of young fowls, push the meat well into the cavity of the bone, forming the pinions as much as possible into the shape of a pear, blanch them, refresh them in cold water, put them into a saucepan with sufficient rich broth to cover them, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and boil slowly till they are done. Take them out, drain and trim them, put them into the saucepan with the Rice, together with the liquor they were cooked in, and cook slowly for another ten minutes. Skim well, add the yolks of three eggs and 3oz. of butter to thicken, remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir for a few minutes. Turn the soup into the tureen, and serve. Rice Croquettes (Savoury.)—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice into a double boiler with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of milk, and when it is hot add 1 table-spoon- ful of butter, one well-beaten egg, a little pepper and cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of parsley finely minced, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Take it out when warmed and let it cool. Make it into rolls, dip them into breadcrumbs, egg and breadcrumb again, and fry in hot fat until done and a light brown colour. (2) Sweet.—Put \ pint of well-washed Rice into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of water, or milk and water in equal proportions, and steam for half-an-hour or so until the Rice is quite soft. While it is still hot, add 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of butter, the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a small quantity of hot milk, if required to moisten it. Let it get cool; then make it into oval shapes, and put them into crumbs, egg, and then crumbs again, and fry for a few minutes in boiling fat until done and light brown. After making the mixture into oval shapes, some cooks push the thumb into the centre of each, and in the cavity put two boiled raisins or candied cherries, or a little jelly or marmalade, then press the Rice over the hole again, and then dip in crumbs, egg, and then crumbs again, and fry. (3) Put lib. of blanched Rice into a saucepan, and pom- in sufficient milk so that when the Rice is boiled it will be moist but stiff; stir in while hot 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs. Stir over the fire until the mixture is firm, then add 6oz. of finely-chopped candied orange peel and a small quantity of well-whipped cream. Turn the preparation out on to a board, keep it about Ain. in thickness, and let it cool. Cut it up into shapes, dip them in egg and breadcrumbs, colour them well in boil- ing fat, drain them, roll them in caster sugar slightly flavoured with orange juice, pile them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of apricot sauce. (4) Boil about 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice in just as much milk as it will absorb ; when cooked, mix in with it 2oz. of butter, the yolks of four eggs, 1 table-spoonful each of blanched and chopped sweet almonds and pis- tachio-nuts, 1 table-spoonful of chopped citron-peel, and sugar to taste. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cold; then shape into croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, and breadcrumb them. Put a rather large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when it boils, put in the croquettes and fry them. When nicely and equally browned, drain them on a sheet of paper. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish- paper over a hot dish, put the croquettes on it, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. (5) Wash 41b. of Rice well, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it till the moisture is .absorbed. Beat the yolks of five eggs with Jib. of loaf sugar. Move the Rice to the side of the fire, put in Jib. of butter, and stir in the beaten eggs and sugar. Flavour it with orange-flower water, and stir it by the side of the fire until the eggs have thickened. Turn the mixture on to Rice—continued. a plate, and leave it until cool. Divide it into small portions, mould these into egg-shaped balls, dip them in beaten yolk of- egg, and then roll them well in grated stale breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the croquettes, and fry them a golden brown. When they are cooked, take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of paper to drain. Make lib. of either strawberry or raspberry jam hot, and put it in a circle round a hot dish; put the croquettes in the centre of the dish, dust caster sugar over them, and serve. Rice Croquettes a l’ltalienne. —Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Rice into a saucepan, and boil it with milk so that when it is done if will be soft and pasty. In the meantime chop fine half of a cold cooked fat liver, season it, put it into a basin, and mix in a third of its bulk of truffles also cut fine. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, add the trimmings of the truffles, reduce the liquor, and add 1 teacupful of thick gravy or melted glaze; when the mixture is of a good consistency, strain it into the basin with the fat liver. Pack the basin in ice, and when the mixture is quite cold take a little up at a time in a small spoon, roll it into a pear shape, and cover it with the Rice, taking care that it is firm. When Fig. 384. Rice Croquettes A i.Ttalienne. they are all done, dip them into egg and breadcrumbs, fry them carefully in boiling fat, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 384), and serve. Rice Croquettes and Cheese.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice into a saucepan with a little white sauce, warm it, and mix in a well-beaten egg, salt and pepper to taste, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese. Let the mixture cool, form it into croquettes, dip them first in the breadcrumbs, then egg, and lastly breadcrumbs again, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them hi own. Drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Crusts.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Rice into a saucepan with sufficient milk to make a thin mixture, and stir gently at the side of the fire until the mixture is quite soft; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of sugar, one egg slightly beaten, salt to taste, and enough flour to make the mixture bind. Spread it out on to a baking-sheet, keeping it about Jin. thick, put it into a quick oven and bake it. Take it out when done and serve with syrup, either in a sauceboat or poured over. Rice Custard.—(1) Take 1 teacupful of boiled Rice, sprinkle into it as much salt as would lie on a sixpence, stir it then into lqt. of milk; beat up three eggs and stir them in; rub loz. of butter into Jib. of moist sugar, and stir it in; then pour the mixture into a buttered pudding-dish, and hake it for half-an-hour in a hot oven. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, boil, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of well- washed Rice. Remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the Rice is soft; then add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, and boil slowly for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a mould or basin, let it get cold, turn it out, and serve. Rice Cutlets.—Put 4oz. each of cold boiled Rice, finely- chopped boiled beef-suet, and breadcrumbs, into a basin, mix them well, and add a little minced parboiled onion, cayenne, and salt, and sufficient cream or broth to make The mixture into a paste. Put it into a dish, cut it up331 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. into the shape of cutlets, dip them first into egg and then breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them brown. Take them out when done, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Drop Cakes.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Rice into a saucepan with a little milk, warm it, and stir well until it is soft; then beat in 1 saltspoonful of salt Fig. 385 Rice Drop Cakes. and the yolk and white of one egg whipped separately. Drop the preparation on to a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven, and hake until the cakes are crisp. Take them out, and serve either hot or cold. See Fig. 385. Rice Fandango.—Stew some fresh fruit such as goose- berries, currants, or raspberries, with sugar. Make a custard with two eggs, 1 pint of milk, and sugar and flavouring to taste. Thoroughly wash Jib. of Rice, and boil it in milk until tender—it should he rather dry. Turn the Rice on to the centre of a hot dish, pour the fruit over it and the custard round, and serve. It can either lie served hot or left until cold. Rice Flawn. -Line a dawn circle with puff paste, and fill it up with Rice boiled in vanilla-flavoured cream, thickened with butter and a few table-spoonfuls of well-whipped cream. Carefully remove -the ring, wrap the flawn round with a strip of paper, tying or sewing it with thread, cover over the top with paper, and bake the flawn in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Take it out, remove the paper, and it is ready for use. The paper on top should be removed before serving. Rice Fool (German).—Thoroughly wash 4oz. of Rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cook it in, and let it .simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the Rice is soft (the grains should he whole), shake it well, then turn it into a tureen; sift plenty of crushed loaf sugar over it, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and leave it in a cool place for an hour or two. Mix water and red wine in equal quantities, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and sweeten to taste; then pour it over the Rice, and serve. Rice-and-Fowl Cutlets.—Chop the remains of some cold fowl freed from skin and bone with an equal quantity of cold ham, put them in a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste. Boil 4oz. of Rice in some clear stock ; when tender, drain it as dry as possible, and pound it in the mortar; then put in the ^ fowl mixture again, and pound the whole together. Fry a finely-chopped onion in butter, and when cooked, add it to the mince, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into equal quantities, mould them to the shape of cutlets, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, and when it boils, put in the cutlets and fry them until delicately browned all over. Drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, put a group of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Rice Fritters.—(1) Put barely 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice in sufficient warm water to cover it well, and let it steep for three hours; then put it with the water in which it was steeped in a farina kettle, and let it simmer till the Rice is dry ; next pour 1 pint of milk over it, and simmer till the milk has all soaked into the Rice; then stir in loz. Rice—continued. of butter, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Beat up three eggs and 3oz. of sugar together very lightly, and when the Rice has cooled pretty well, stir them in with grated nutmeg, salt to taste, and 1 table-spoonful of flour. Flour a paste-board well, and make up the mixture with well-floured hands into flat cakes ; put in the middle of each cake two or three raisins that have been “ plumped ” by soaking in boiling water for two or three minutes, roll the edges of the cake over the raisins so as to form a ball, flour the balls well, and fry them in boiling lard. Sprinkle them with powdered cinnamon and sugar, and serve on a napkin folded on a hot dish with sweetened cream. (2) Take 2 breakfast-cupfuls "Of boiled Rice, mix with it while hot loz. of butter, and let it cool ; then mix into it three eggs beaten up very light. Form this paste into balls, and fry them a light brown in plenty of boiling lard. Drain them on hot paper, and serve hot with molasses. (3) Put 6oz. of blanched Rice into a saucepan with sufficient boiled milk to more than cover it, and boil slowly until the Rice is done and not too dry ; sweeten to taste, add a little lemon zest, and a few’ table-spoonfuls of cream, and cook slowly for ten or twelve minutes, or until the Rice is dry. Remove the saucepan from the fire, take out the zest, work in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped candied-peel, the yolks of four eggs, and 3oz. of butter in small pieces. Turn the preparation into a basin and let it cool; then form it into small balls, dip them first in well-beaten egg, then breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a good colour. Take them out, drain, roll them in finely- powdered loaf sugar, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Rice-and-Fruit Pudding.—(1) Wash a small quantity of Rice, and put it in a pie-dish in the oven with a little water; when the water is dried up, add to the Rice a small quantity of milk, stir it, and put it again in the oven, stirring it from time to time till it is soft, adding more milk if required. A little cream stirred in is an improve- ment. Fili a pie-disli almost full of fruit, sweeten it well, and then lay the Rice unevenly over it in spoonfuls. Put it into the oven, hake till the Rice is brown, and then serve. (2) Put Jib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with milk to cover it, and boil it until swollen and dry. Mix Jib. of any kind of fruit with the Rice, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and bind it with three or four well- beaten eggs. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the mixture into it, and tie a floured pudding-cloth over the top. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a dish, and serve. Rice Griddle Cakes.—Pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold- boiled Rice a sufficient quantity of warm water to cover, CM Fig. 386. Rice Griddle Cakes. and let it soak for some time. Beat an egg well with 1 pint of sour milk, then stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of flour to make a stitt batter, and add a smallTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 332 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. quantity of salt. Beat the Rice well, mixing the batter gradually in with it. When quite smooth, stir in 1 scant teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Drop the mixture in moderate quantities on a floured griddle, and bake the cakes. Butter them, and serve while hot. See Fig. 386. Rice Gruel.—(1) Wash 2oz. of Rice, and boil it in 1 pint of water for three or four hours; then strain the gruel from the Rice. When required for use, warm it up with an equal quantity of milk, and sweeten it with loaf sugar. (2) To 1 pint of water add 2 level dessert-spoonfuls of ground Rice and 1 level teaspoonful of salt, put it on the stove, and let it boil for thirty minutes, stirring it now and then. Serve at once. If desired, a stick of cinnamon may be boiled in it, or a glass of brandy may be stirred into it before serving. (3) Put loz. each of well-washed Rice, pearl barley, and sago into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and simmer until the whole is quite tender, or for about two hours, by which time the liquor should be reduced to lqt. Strain the liquor into a basin or jug, add sufficient sugar to sweeten and a little flavouring of any kind, and serve. Rice -with Hard boiled Eggs.—Put a layer of boiled Rice at the bottom of a dish, and cover it over with a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs with a little thin cream sauce poured over them. Fill the dish in this way, having the top layer either Rice or buttered breadcrumbs. Warm in the oven, and serve. Rice Jelly.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed and picked Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of cold water, and boil for an hour, or until the Rice is dissolved. Add salt and sugar to taste, letting the sugar predominate, and a little lemon-juice. Strain the liquor into a mould packed in ice, turn it out when cold and firm, and serve with cream and sugar. (2) Rub off the rind of a lemon with 2oz. of loaf sugar, put them into a saucepan with Hoz. of butter, and add 8oz. of ground Rice and sufficient milk or cream to give it the consistency of custard. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil for five minutes, stirring constantly; add |rOz. of dissolved gelatine. Turn the mixture when cold into a mould packed in ice, turn the jelly out when set, and serve with preserves. (3) Wash and blanch lib. of Rice, put it into a sauce- pan with ligall. of water, and boil for an hour. Strain quickly into another saucepan, put it on the fire, add lib. of loaf sugar and the strained juice and finely-chopped rind of a lemon, and simmer gently until the sugar is dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire, pour in 1 wine- glassful of kirschenwasser, turn the mixture into a mould smeared over with olive oil or oil of almonds, and let it remain until the jelly is stiff and cold. Turn it out, and serve with preserve. Rice Kedgeree.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of cold-boiled Rice with an equal quantity of cold cooked fish freed from bones, put the mixture into a dish, and add a little minced parsley, two or three chillies, anti two boned an- chovies, sprinkling over salt and pepper to taste. Cover the mixture with two soft-boiled eggs, pour over H table- spoonful of warmed butter, set the dish over the fire or in the oven, make the preparation hot, and serve at once. Rice Kheer (Indian).—Put Jib. of good boiling Rice (barsunette or cheeneesuckur) into a saucepan of water, and boil until done: then drain off' all the liquor, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of new rich cow’s milk, and stir well over the fire until warm. As the Rice absorbs the milk, add two or three small sticks of cinnamon and 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar to sweeten. When the whole of the milk is absorbed, turn the kheer out on to a dish, and serve; or put it in a mould, allow it to get cold, and then serve. Rice with Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed Rice into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water or milk, boil it gently until soft and all the liquor is absorbed, and mash it well. Line a well-buttered plain border mould with it, place the mould in the oven, Rice—continued. and brown the surface. Turn the border out on to a dish, fill the cavity with a mixture of lamb’s sweetbreads and Fig. 387. Rice with Lamb’s Sweetbreads. cocks’ combs, cooked separately in brown sauce (see Fig. 387), and serve. Rice-and-Macaroon Pudding.—(1) Wash 6oz. of Rice, and boil it in lqt. of milk with a small piece of lemon- peel until stiff, but not done to a jelly; then take it off the fire and leave it until nearly cold. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 4oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and stir them well into the Rice. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them gently into the above in- gredients. Butter a pudding basin, put in a layer of the Rice, over that put a layer of bitter macaroons, next a layer of Rice, and so on, until the basin is full. Tie a floured cloth over the basin, put it in a saucepan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not enter the basin, and steam it for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sweet sauce. (2) (German Style).—Wash 1 teacupful of Rice, put it into a lined stewpan with a little more than 1 pint of milk and a piece of lemon-peel, and boil it slowly; when cooked, the Rice should have absorbed the milk, but with- out being too much done; then move it from the fire, and leave it until cool. Warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then beat in the yolks of five eggs, and mix them with the Rice. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the Rice. Butter a mould, put in a layer of the Rice, and on that put a layer of macaroons, then another layer of Rice, then another of macaroons, and so on, until all is used. Tie a sheet of buttered-paper over the top of the mould, stand it in a stewpan in boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for an-hour-and-three-quarters. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a wine sauce. Rice in Maltese Style.—Put 111>. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of boiling water, add the juice of two or three lemons, and boil slowly until the Rice is soft. Turn it out on to a sieve, put it when drained into a basin, add the strained juice of four oranges, 1 wineglassful of maras- chino, and a little each of orange syrup and kirschen- wasser. Stir frequently until the Rice is nearly cold, drain it, and fill a dome-shaped and a border mould witli it. Pack the two moulds in ice for an hour. Turn the border mould out first, then the dome-shaped one in the centre of the other, decorate them with pieces of angelica, candied peel, and preserved fruit (see Fig. 388), and serve Rice Mange.—Put lqt. of milk into a lined saucepan with a piece of lemon-peel, a bay-leaf, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped sweet almonds, and loaf sugar to taste, and put it over the fire. Mix 2oz. of ground Rice smooth with a small quantity of cold milk, and stir it in with the above; when it boils move it to the side of the fire, and stir it until thick. Rinse a mould out with cold Avater, pour the Rice in it, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve and the mange has quite set, turn it on to a glass dish, and pour a cold custard over it. Rice Manx Cake.—Put eight eggs into a basin, and beat vigorously for half-an-hour. Put 8oz. each of rice flour andTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 333 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bice—continued. crushed loaf sugar into another basin, and mix well; make a cavity in the centre, pour in the eggs, and add the grated rind of a lemon. Turn the preparation into a buttered tin or mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Take out the cake when done, turn it out of the mould, and it is ready for use. Bice-and-Meat Balls.—Mix together A pint each of boiled Rice and of cold pork minced fine, a baking apple peeled, cored, and chopped fine, a seasoning of chopped sage, pepper, and salt (a very little sage is sufficient), 2oz. of butter, and A pint of boiled milk; when all these are thoroughly mixed, stir in a beaten egg, and roll the mixture into balls. Fry them and serve hot. Bice Meringue.—(1) Put 4oz. of Rice and 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of milk into a saucepan, and boil slowly until the former is quite soft and well done; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, let the Rice cool, and work in the grated rind of a lemon, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and 2Joz. of crushed loaf sugar. Turn the whole into a buttered dish, cover over with the whites of five eggs whipped to a froth, put the dish in a slow oven, and bake the meringue for about ten minutes. Take it out when ready, and serve at once. (2) Put J,lb of Rice in a stewpan with plenty of water, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, strain it off, and pour over the Rice 1 pint of milk; add 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and the thinly pared rind of a small lemon. Boil the Rice gently until quite tender, take out the lemon peel, and stir in gradually the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pile the Rice in the centre of a dish, and pour some stewed or preserved fruit over it. Whisk the whites of the three eggs with a heaped table- spoonful of caster sugar, and pour them over the fruit. Bake for half an-hour in a cool oven, then serve the Rice on the same dish. Bice Milk.—Put lib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of water, parboil it, drain off the water, and add only sufficient milk to moisten so that it will boil dry and not pulpy. Sweeten to taste with powdered loaf sugar, turn the whole out on to a dish, smooth over the surface, cover over the top with a piece of paper cut in an orna- mental fashion, and cover this over with powdered cinna- mon and sugar, so that when the paper is removed the pattern may be traced with more powdered sugar. Finish the design with the sugar, and serve. Bice Muffins.—Put lqt. of flour into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin. Stir in gradually three eggs beaten up in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and work well until the paste is light and smooth : then add 2 break- fast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice. Turn the preparation into well-buttered small pans, put them in the oven, and Bice—continued. bake. When done, take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Bice-and-Oafmeal Pudding (Baked).—Put 1 breakfast- cupful each of well-washed Rice and oatmeal into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Rice is soft. Turn the mixture into a deep pie-dish, and mix in 2oz. eacli of moist sugar, currants, or finely-chopped raisins, and shred beef-suet, a small quantity of mixed spice, and pour in lastly 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out, and serve. Bice-and-Onion Soup.—Mince a dozen or so of onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and brown them ; add 1 table-spoonful of Hour, and stir well until it is also well browned. Pour in slowly A gall, of boiling rich broth, add a few peppercorns and a little salt, and boil up once more; then add IA pints of cold-boiled Rice. Make the soup quite hot, turn it into a tureen, and serve at once. Bice Pancakes.—(1) Wash Alb. of Rice, put it into a sauce- pan with some water, and boil it to n jelly, adding more water when required. When cooked, leave it till cold; then mix with it 1 pint of cream, eight eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Warm Alb. of butter, then stir it in with the other ingredients, adding as much flour as will make a thick batter. Fry the pancakes as usual, using as little butter as possible. Serve them either plain or with jam or preserves. (2) Have ready 1 pint of Rice boiled quite soft; sift together 1 pint of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of baking- powder and salt; beat three eggs and mix them with ] pint of milk. Before putting these ingredients together, see that the griddle is hot; then mix the pancakes, and begin to bake them at once. If the first ones seem too stiff, add a little more milk to the batter. Serve the pancakes hot as soon as they are cooked. Bice Paste.—Wash well 2 table-spoonfuls of Rice, and put it over the fire in a saucepan with a small piece of onion and 6 table-spoonfuls of milk or milk and water. Let it simmer till it gets quite soft, and then stir in a beaten egg. Put two or three pork or mutton chops into a small pie-dish, season them well, cover them with the Rice paste, and bake them. Bice Paste for Savouries.—Wash some Rice well, and put it in a saucepan with an onion and a small quantity of milk or milk and water. Keep the Rice simmering gently until tender, then beat it up well with an egg. This paste can be used for various things, such as cover- ing over well-seasoned chops, &c. Bice Paste for Sweets. -Boil Alb. of ground Rice in as little water as it can be boiled in without burning it, strain it as dry as possible, and beat or pound it in a mortar with loz. of butter ami two eggs beaten very light. Bice Paste for Tarts.—Sift Alb. of ground Rice, and rub into it Jib. of fresh butter; mix and knead this into a paste with a little cold water. Sprinkle flour over a paste- board and rolling-pin, and roll out the paste pretty thin. Cut Jib. of butter into little bits, and stick them all over the paste. After this fold and roll it out again three times, each time sprinkling flour over the paste and under it, all over the paste-board and rolling-pin. Cover the tarts, brush the paste over with well-beaten white of egg, sprinkle it with powdered sugar, and bake. Bice Patties.—Put Jib. of washed Rice into a saucepan with sufficient white stock to more than cover it, and boil slowly at the side of the fire until the Rice is soft and the liquor all absorbed. A little milk should be added to the broth to give the Rice a white appearance. Add a handful of grated Parmesan cheese to flavour, and when the Rice is nearly of a jelly turn it out into a pan, keep- ing it about 2in. in thickness. Cut the preparation into rounds with a tin cutter, mark the centre with a smaller cutter, brush them over with egg, cover them with bread- crumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and brown them. Take them out when done, remove theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 334 "Rice—continued. centre where they have been marked, till the cavity with cooked forcemeat or anything else desired, and serve. Rice and Peas (Italian).—Boil separately 1 breakfast- cupful of green peas, and 1 teacupful of Rice. Peel three or four onions, choir them, put them into a frying-pan with several leaves of parsley finely chopped and a lump of butter, and fry them till they are lightly browned. When the peas and Rice are nicely cooked, drain them, and stir them in with the onions, mixing thoroughly. Pile the mixture on to a hot dish, and serve. Rice-and-Pea Soup.—Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of Rice, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of white stock, and let it boil gently until very tender. Put A pint of young- green peas into another saucepan with 1 pint of white stock, and stew them until tender. When both the above vegetables are cooked, mix them together, and add as much more stock as will make the required quantity of soup; when boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with A teacupful of cream. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Rice Pie (Turkish). — Butter a pie-dish and line it with puff paste. Wash 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Rice in several waters, then put it in a saucepan with plenty of water and a lump of salt, and let it simmer until swollen ; then drain the Rice, and mix with it Jib. of butter and four well-beaten eggs. Put a layer of the Rice at the bottom of the lined pie-dish, over that put a layer of tinned lobster, then a layer of Rice, anil so on until the pie- dish is full. Cover with a fiat of the puff paste, moisten the edges with a little water, and pinch them together. Put the pie in a brisk oven, and bake it. When cooked, serve the pie while hot. Rice Pilau. —(1) T1 now fib. of Rice into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, add a small lump of salt, and place it over the fire until boiling. After the Rice has been boiled five minutes, drain off the water, refresh it with cold, drain that off also, cover the Rice with a thick folded cloth, and leave it by the edge of the fire until swollen and soft. Put fib. of fresh butter in a basin, and place it in the oven or near the fire until dissolved ; then remove any scum that may be on the top, and pour the butter over the Rice. It is then ready for serving with the compote. (2) Put lqt. of nicely-flavoured stock into a stewpan, with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, J table- spoonful of coriander-seeds, a few cardamoms, a clove of garlic, and A teaspoonful of ground ginger. Boil the stock until the onion is soft, then strain it, and return it to the stewpan with fib. of well-washed Patna Rice, and boil it. When cooked, mix with the Rice a large lump of butter and a small quantity of salt. Toss the whole over the fire until the butter has dissolved, then pile it in the centre of a hot dish, garnish it with halves of hot hard- boiled eggs with fried parsley between them (see Fig. 389), and serve. Rice Pilau •with. Scallops.—Put the scallops in a bowl of water, wash them well, and scrape the shells; open the shells, but do not separate them. Peel about fib. of onions, chop them very finely, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over a brisk fire until lightly browned. Wash lib. of Rice in plenty of water to remove For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Rice - continued. all the dry flour that adheres to it, then drain and put it in with the onions, season with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Stuff the scallops with the Rice-and-onion mixture, put them in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, cover them with water, place a plate that will go right in the stewpan over them, and put the lid on. Boil the scallops gently until all the moisture has evaporated, and arrange them nicely on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. They may be served either hot or cold. Rice Porridge.—Put fib. of Rice into 3qts. of boiling water, and let it swell till it is quite a jelly; then add to it Jib. of oatmeal mixed with cold water, and stir it well in ; add also loz. of onion finely chopped, salt and pepper to taste, and Aoz. of bacon-fat, lard, or butter, and boil all together, stirring constantly. The quantity of oatmeal may if desired be larger—it may even be the same as the Rice. Rice Pudding (Baked).—(1) Take 1 teacupful of Rice boiled in milk till three-parts cooked, add two beaten eggs, 2oz. of currants washed and dried, loz. of butter, and sugar and grated nutmeg to taste; a little cream also is a great improvement. Mix well, put the pudding into cups, and bake. Serve hot with wine sauce. (2) Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, and boil it in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water; when nearly done, add lqt. of milk, and continue cooking till the Rice is quite soft. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with fib. of sugar, A salt- spoonful of salt, and I teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; stir all this well into the Rice and milk, and then remove it from the stove and stir in the beaten whites of four eggs. Add fib. of sugar to the other four whites, and beat them up to a very stiff froth. Put the pudding into a baking-dish, lay all over the top the froth of the beaten whites of eggs, and put it in the oven to brown. (3) Simmer 1 teacupful of Rice in 1 pint of water with a seasoning of chopped parsley, chopped onion, mixed herbs, celery-seed, pepper, and salt. When the Rice is cooked quite soft, mix with it Jib. of cold meat minced and beaten into two eggs, 1 gill of milk, and 1 table-spoon- ful of ketchup; mix it in well, pour it into a greased pudding-dish, and bake it for three-quarters-of-an-hour. This pudding may lie served either hot or cold. (4) Boil in a saucepan lqt. of milk, add Jib. of washed Rice, and with a whisk stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire, let it cool, and add 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute. Break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, and with a ladle fill them with the Rice, place them in a tin pan, filling it to half its height with warm but not boiling water, put it in the oven, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Remove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them; turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of flour, Aoz. of cornflour, and 3oz, of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes. Return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly until it comes to a boil; then remove it, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauceboat, and serve. (5) Blanch Jib. of Rice in boiling water for five minutes, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of milk, Uoz. of butter, 8oz. of sugar, and sufficient vanilla sugar to flavour. Boil slowly for about an hour, let it cool, add three eggs, and beat them in. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for half-an-hour. Take it out when done, dredge over caster sugar, and serve. (6) Put 8oz. of well-washed and drained Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, add the thin rind of half a lemon, set the saucepan over a slow fire, and boil gently •ices, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 335 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Add 2Aoz. of sugar and 2oz. of butter, and continue to cook gently until the Rice is quite soft. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in four well- beaten eggs, turn the whole into a mould or basin, and bake for half-an-hour longer. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Any kind of jam or preserve may be served with it. (7) Put Jib. of Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, add 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and boil gently, stirring well until the Rice is soft. Let it cool, mix in half a grated nutmeg, 1 table-spoonful of rose-water, and eight well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a dish lined with puff paste, put it in a moderate oven, bake for about an-hour-and-a-lialf, take it out, and serve. (8) Well wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, using several waters, put it into a pie-dish, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, a little salt, and a flavouring of nutmeg or cinnamon. Set the dish in the oven, and bake for two or three hours, with a sheet of buttered paper over the top to prevent burning. Take it out, and serve. If desired, only five of the breakfast-cupfuls of milk may be cooked with the Rice from the com- mencement, and the other added after the liquor has boiled down a little. (9) Boiled.—Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of Rice, put it in a saucepan with I pint of milk, and boil it until tender, then move it off the. lire, and mix in a small lump of butter. Finely chop 4oz. of suet; beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites of two; and thoroughly wash and dry Jib. of currants. Mix these ingredients with the Rice; add also Jib. of sugar, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a pudding-cloth over the top, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for two hours. At the end of that time, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a dish (see Fig 390), and serve. Rice Pudding a la Marquise. -Put sufficient Rice into a saucepan with milk so that when it is boiled and nibbed through a sieve there will be I breakfast-cupful of the pulp. Mix this pulp or puree with a little vanilla cream, rub it again through the sieve, anil let it fall into the freezer. Work it well until frozen, then line a bomb- mould packed in ice with it, till the centre with a mixture of preserved fruits mixed up with a little half-set pine apple ice, close the mould, sealing it hermetically, and cover well with salted ice. Let it remain for about tliree- quarters-of-an-hour, turn it out on to a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Pudding a la Reine. —Put 4oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with loz. of butter and 2oz. of sugar, pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of new milk, and boil slowly till the Rice is soft. Let it get cool, then mix in an egg. Sprinkle a few breadcrumbs over a well-buttered pie-dish or mould, put in a layer of the Rice, sprinkle over a few more breadcrumbs, cover with a layer of apricot marmalade or jam, and continue in this way until all the Rice is used and the dish full. Set it in a moderate oven, and bake (it will take about an hour). A'lien done, let it stand for five or six minutes, turn the pudding on to a dish, and serve with custard poured round or over it. Rice Pudding with Apples.—(1) Put lOoz. of washed Rice into a basin of boiling w'ater, blanch it, drain, refresh it Rice—continued. in cold water, put it into a saucepan, covering to double its height with boiled milk, and set it to boil. As soon as it commences to boil remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, swreeten to taste, and cook gently until the Rice is soft. Add a little chopped lemon-peel, 2oz. or 3oz. of stoned raisins, and lastly five eggs, working one well in before another is added. Let the mixture cool; sprinkle a buttered charlotte-mould over with breadcrumbs, turn in the mixture, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. Take it out, cut off' a thin round from the top, and scoop out the inside, taking care not to leave the sides too thin. Fill the cavity with cooked minced apples mixed with a small quantity of apricot marmalade, place the round back in its place, turn the pudding out on to a dish over a little more of the apricot marmalade, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve at once. (2) Put Jib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of boil- ing water, let it remain on the fire for fifteen minutes, pour off' the water, add 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil until the Rice is soft; turn it out into a basin and let it cool. Peel and core half-a-dozen large apples, cut them into quarters, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and add 2oz. of butter, sugar to taste, and a slight flavour- ing of nutmeg or cinnamon. Cook gently over the fire until the apples are done, taking care that they do not fall to pieces. Put 6oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in an equal weight of sugar, a little salt, and the yolks of six eggs. Beat well, pour a little of this at the bottom of a buttered souffle- or pudding-dish, cover with a layer of the apples when cold, then with a layer of the cold Rice, continuing in this way until all the in- gredients are used up or the dish full, having a layer of the Rice at the top. Set the dish in a moderate oven, bake for an hour, take it out, and serve. Rice Pudding with Orange. —Clean Mb. of fine Rice, wash it in lukewarm water, and drain it in a colander. Put 3 pints of milk in a saucepan, place it on the hot stove, and when about to boil drop in the Rice. Cook slowly for twelve minutes, stirring frequently from the bottom with a spatula; remove it from the fire, and add loz. of fresh butter, 3oz. of powdered sugar, and the grated rind of a medium-sized orange. Mix well for two minutes, add 3oz. of well-skinned and cleaned marrow finely chopped, 2oz. of cleaned and dried currants, 2oz. of bitter-almond macaroons, loz. of finely-shied candied orange- peel, three yolks of eggs, one whole egg, 4 gill of brandy, and A saltspoonful of salt, and mix well together for ten minutes. Have a buttered and floured cloth, arrange it in a deep basin, and pour the preparation into it, lift up the four corners, and tie them firmly, being careful to leave an empty space about one-eight h of the contents. Place a saucepan on the stove half filled w ith boiling water, plunge the pudding in, and cook for an-hour-and-a-lialf, turning it over a couple of times ; remove, drain for one minute, untie, and lift, from the cloth. Dress on a dish, and serve with orange sauce. Rice Pudding served with Walnuts. -Put Alb. of Rice in a mortar and pound it rather coarsely; turn it into a saucepan with 3 pints of boiling water, flavour with rose- water, and stir it over the fire till thick. Sweeten the mixture to taste with caster sugar, and turn it into a dish. Peel a few walnuts, put them in a mortar, and pound them. When the pudding is cold sift the pounded walnuts over it, and serve. Rice Puffs. -Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked Rice into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, ) table-spoonful of warmed butter, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and sufficient milk to make the whole into a stiff' paste. Now add the whites of the four eggs beaten to a stiff' froth ; take the preparation up in a spoon, drop lumps into a frying-pan of boiling fat, brown them, take them out, drain off all the fat, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Pyramids for Forcemeat or Sausages. -Boil some Rice, and press it into small tin pyramid shapes about 3in. high ; scoop out some of the Rice from the middle,336 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bice—continued. and fill the cavity with rich forcemeat or sausage-meat. Turn them out on a dish, and pour round some good brown gravy. Garnish in between them with fried parsley. See Fig. 391. Bice Quische.—Prepare a short-paste with lib. of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and 5oz. of butter; spread this over a buttered baking-sheet, and place a few small lumps of butter over it. Put £lb. of Itice into a saucepan with more than sufficient milk to cover, and boil slowly until the Rice is done, add a little cream, three or four eggs, and 3oz. of butter. Mix well, sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg and sugar, spread the mixture over the flat of paste, dredge over a handful of grated Parmesan cheese, put the sheet into the oven, and bake. When done, take out the quische, and serve. Bice-and-Raisin Pudding.—Wash Mb. of Rice, mix with it Mb- each of stoned raisins and sugar, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put all together into a cloth, tie it very loosely, allowing room for the Rice to swell, and boil for three hours. Serve hot with sweetened butter sauce. Bice Shape.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Rice is quite soft, adding during the cooking the finely-chopped thin rind of a lemon, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, a laurel-leaf, a little cinnamon, and 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a mould, pressing it down tightly, turn it out -when cold, and serve with a garnish of any preserve. (2) Put {■ 1 b. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, add 2toz. of sugar, a little grated lemon- peel, and cook slowly at the side of the fire until the Rice is soft and all the milk absorbed. Put the prepara- tion into a mould, pressing it in, turn it out when cold, and serve. Bice Snowballs.—Put 4oz. of washed Rice into a sauce pan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, add 2oz. each of sifted crushed loaf sugar and blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and boil slowly until the Rice is quite soft. Fill some moulds (see Fig. 392) with the mixture, turn them out on to a dish when cold and firm, and serve with custard or sweet sauce. Bice—continued. Bice-and-Sorrel Soup.—Thoroughly wash some Rice and sorrel, and boil them separately in salted water until three parts done. Skim perfectly free from fat as much clear stock as will make the required quantity of soup, and turn it into a saucepan. When ready, drain the Rice and sorrel, chop the latter finely, and add them to the stock; finish cooking the whole together. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Rice Souffle.—Boil 3qts. of milk, flavouring it with vanilla or any other flavouring that may be desired. Wash 11b. of Rice well in warm water, and put it over the fire in a saucepan of cold water. When it has boiled for a few minutes strain it, put it into the flavoured milk, set it on the fire, and as soon as it boils take it from the fire and put the saucepan on hot ashes so that the Rice may burst gradually; let it remain for three- quarters-of-an-hour, add a small lump of salt, fib- of fresh butter, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Renew the hot ashes under the saucepan so that it may be kept simmer- ing for fifteen minutes longer, then if the. Rice is suffi- ciently soft, rub it quickly through a cloth into another saucepan so that it shall not cool, and keep it on hot ashes. Beat separately the yolks and whites of sixteen eggs to a stiff' froth. Stir the beaten yolks into the Rice in the saucepan; the mixture ought then to be of the con- sistency of cream. Next stir in very lightly a fourth part of the frothed whites, and afterwards stir in the remainder very lightly, as lightly as for biscuit-paste. Have a crou- stade baked and ready, 3|in. high and llin. in diameter, pour the mixture into this, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half. Take it from the oven, and place it immediately on a baking-tin covered with red cinders to prevent its falling while it is masked with powdered white sugar and glazed with a salamander. Have ready a dish with a hot napkin folded in it, place the souffle on it, and serve as quickly as possible. Bice Soup.—(1) Boil an onion, peeled, a stick of celery, and 1 teacupful of Rice in 1 pint of water till the Rice is perfectly soft; then mix into it 1 table-spoonful of flour stirred well over the fire into loz. of butter; add and mix in with the 1 lice strained stock made of veal-bones till the soup is of the required thickness. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add last thing 1 table-spoonful of cream, pour it into the tureen, and serve. (2) Wash 1 teacupful of Rice and pick it over carefully to remove any impurities, put it in a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient water to cover, and boil it until the grains burst. Then strain off' all the water, put a folded cloth on the top of the saucepan, and leave it at the side of the fire. Clarify as much stock as will be required for the soup, flavour it nicely, and boil it up; next stir in the Rice and turn it into a soup- tureen. Serve the soup with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (3) Put into a saucepan lib. of lean ham cut into slices; then cover it with 2lb. of veal and beef also cut in slices, and on the top of this again place a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, four onions, two turnips, and two or three heads of celery all cut into small pieces. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, toss the pan frequently over the fire for half an hour, pour in 3qts. more of boiling water, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and cook slowly for about two-hours-and-a-half. Skim well, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add |lb- °f dry boiled Rice and 1 table-spoonful of browning, boil for ten minutes, turn the soup into the tureen, and serve very hot. (4) Steep 4oz. of Rice in cold water for an hour, then boil it with sufficient water to cover; add 3qts. of gravy,, season with a pinch of cayenne and a little salt, and boil for live minutes before serving. (5) Almond Flavour.—Put lOoz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with (.gall, of slightly-salted water; boil up, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and stir until the Rice is soft. Pour in lqt. of boiling milk, boil for fifteen minutes more, and season well with salt and pepper. Pound 3oz. or 4oz. of blanched almonds, put them into aFRENCH CHEF D’CEUVRE — ARTISTIC CENTRE PIECE FOR SUPPER TABLE.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 337 Hice—continued. saucepan with lqt. of boiling milk, let it stand at the side of the fire with the lid on for a few minutes, turn it into the saucepan with the Rice, and thicken with the yolks of four eggs beaten up in a teacupful of cream. A few minutes before serving add 4oz. of butter pulled in small pieces and a small quantity of sugar, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. (6) Turkish Style.—Wash Jib. of the best Rice in several waters, put it in a saucepan with 2qts. of clear soup stock, add a small quantity of salt, and boil gently until the Rice is tender. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and the juice of two lemons; turn them into a saucepan and stir them over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then take them off at once. When the Rice is soft, pour the sauce gradually into the soup, stirring it quickly at the same time to prevent the eggs curdling. Pour the soup into a tureen, dust a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over it, and serve. Rice Soup a la Maintenon.—Take lqt. of broth, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add to it half a raw chicken; cook for twenty minutes in a saucepan on the fire, then take the chicken out and thicken the soup with the yolks of two beaten eggs and 1 teaspoonful of powdered curry mixed with 1 teacupful of cream. Rub all through a fine sieve and serve, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled Rice and the breast of the half chicken previously cooked in the soup and cut into small pieces. Rice Soup with Mussels.—Put a finely-chopped onion and the white part of a couple of leeks into a saucepan with a little oil or butter, brown them well, add two chopped tomatoes, without pips, fry for a few minutes, then pour in lgall. of boiling water. Tie up a few sprigs of parsley with a bay-leaf, put them into the soup together with four or five cloves, and as soon as the liquor commences to boil add lib. of washed Rice; boil up once more, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, add a little pepper and 1 pinch of saffron, and stir well until the rice is cooked. Wash and clean five dozen mussels, put them into a saucepan without any liquor, and toss them over the fire until they open; take them out of their shells, cook them in a saucepan in their own liquor, add them to the soup, boil for two minutes, remove the bunch of parsley, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Rice with Stewed Fruit.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk on the stove in a saucepan. When boiling, add 3oz. of well- cleaned Rice and J saltspoonful of salt, and cook for twenty minutes, adding loz. of butter. Mix for one minute, then remove from the fire, and let it cool for thirty minutes. Add the yolks of two eggs. Beat the whites to a froth in a basin with a wire whisk, add them to the Rice, sweeten with 3oz. of powdered sugar, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Mix well together for five minutes. Peel and core four apples, and cut them into slices about Jin. in thickness. Butter the sides of a saucepan lightly, cover the bottom with a layer of the prepared Rice Jin. thick, put a layer of sliced apples over this, and so dispose of all the apples and Rice in alternate layers; run a larding-needle down through it in a dozen places at equal distances and pour over J gill of Russian kummel. Put on the lid, place it in a moderate oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Remove and dress it neatly on a dish, sending it to table with a bowl of sauce prepared thus: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of flour, Joz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beat- ing the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. When the milk boils, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes; return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it conies to the boil, adding immediately 1 gill of kiimmel. (2) Well wash some Rice and boil it till three-parts done; then drain it, mix with it some cream, and finish cooking ; when quite done, mix the beaten yolks of three eggs with it. Procure a flat border mould, butter it, and fill it with the Rice. Place the mould in a bain-marie Rice—continued. or double boiler, and poach the contents for twenty-five minutes. Peel and slice a pine-apple; cut two-thirds of the slices into halves, put them in a stewpan with some syrup at 28deg., and stand them at the edge of the fire. Cut the remaining pieces of pine-apple into small squares, and put them into a stewpan with an equal quantity of preserved cherries, green almonds, preserved apricots, and a small piece of angelica, all of which should be cut up into pieces the same size as the pine-apple. Wash 2oz. of Smyrna raisins, and blanch the same quantity of pistachios; mix them with the salpieon of fruit, pour in 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and stand the stewpan over a slow fire. Drain the moisture off the chopped fruit, and mix with them half a small pot of apple marmalade that has been flavoured with vanilla. Turn the border of Rice out on to a hot dish, and fill the centre witli the salpifon of fruit. Pile a compote of cherries on the fruit salpiyon, garnish round them with the half slices of pine apple, and garnish round the rice with candied greengages (see Fig. 393). Serve with a sauceboatful of apple marmalade that has been warmed with some maraschino. Rice Stuffing for Sucking-Pig.—Thoroughly wash the Rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cook it, and stew gently at the side of the fire. When soft and dry, mix with the Rice a few table-spoonfuls of finely-minced ham or bacon and the same of boiled split peas. Bind the mixture with a sufficient quantity of butter and well-beaten egg, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Rice-and-Tapioca Pudding.—Put a little more than J tea- cupful of Rice (without being washed) into a deep pie-dish, and add a little less than J teacupful of tapioca. Mix these well, add J teacupful of crushed loaf sugar, pom- over 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and sprinkle over a little ground cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Set the disli in a slack oven, bake for about four hours, take it out, and serve. Rice Timbale flavoured with. Almonds.—Well wash 12oz. of Rice, put it into a saucepan with more than suffi- cient cohl water to cover it, and boil. Pour off all the water, and let the Rice dry in the saucepan set at the side of the fire. Blanch and pound 12oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, stir them into 6 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, and strain through a cloth. Pour this into the saucepan containing the Rice, and mix in 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of butter, and a little salt; set it to boil, remove to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an hour, so that the mixture will become firm. Test the grains of Rice; if they are soft and break easily between the thumb anil finger, they are ready; if not, add a little more milk and continue the slow cooking. Stir in Jib. of bitter macaroons in powder and the yolks of six eggs and whites of two; when well mixed, add the whites of four eggs whipped to a froth and 4 table-spoon- fuls of well-whipped cream. Have ready Jib. or so of fine puff paste, roll it out rather thin, cut it into strips, and line a dome-shaped mould with them, forming a spiral coat- ing. Fill up with the Rice mixture, put the timbale into a VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Z338 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. quick oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when ready, and serve at once. Rice Timbale with Candied Citron-peel.—Proceed as for Rice Timbale flavoured with Almonds, using 12oz. of Rice, 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, 4oz. of butter, 6oz. of powdered sugar, a little salt, the chopped rind of a lemon, ‘2oz. of candied citron-peel cut into small pieces, ‘2oz. of crushed macaroons, the yolks of six eggs and whites of two, and when these are incorporated add the well-whipped whites of two eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Rice Timbale flavoured with Coffee.—Put 6 breakfast- cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it com- mences to boil add Jib. of roasted coffee; cover the pan and let it remain for fifteen or twenty minutes. With l‘2oz. of Rice, proceed and finish as for Rice Timbale FLAVOURED WITH ALMONDS. Rice-and-Tomato Soup.—Put Jib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with ‘2qts. of vegetable stock and boil until tender. When the Rice is cooked, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and mix in a large bottle of tomato conserve and loz. of butter. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Rice in Turkish Style.—(1) Put 3 pints of clear stock into a saucepan with plenty of French tomato sauce and salt and pepper to taste; when it boils throw in Hlb. of well- washed and dried Rice and let it simmer gently until the moisture is all absorbed by the Rice. Melt a large lump of butter, pour it over the Rice, and leave it by the edge of the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve, stir the Rice well, and turn it on to a hot dish. (*2) Wash Jib. of Rice well, and blanch for ten minutes in boiling water. Put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and let it cook, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and a lump of sugar on to which has been nibbed the peel of half a small lemon; also Joz. of good butter, loz. of washed and dried grocers’ currants, and 1 salt- spoonful of salt. After twenty minutes remove from the fire and thoroughly stir in the yolks of four eggs. Place this in a puff paste croustade and put it in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Remove, sprinkle with a little sugar, pass a hot shovel or salamander over the top, glaze it well, and serve at once. Rice Waffles.—(1) Mix 1 pint of soft boiled Rice with 1 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire, stirring them well until they are hot, then take them from the fire; beat the yolks of four eggs smoothly with 1 pint of cold milk, and add them to the Rice, together with 1 teaspoonful of salt and sufficient flour to make a batter just stiff enough to hold for an instant a drop from the spoon. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, stir them lightly into the batter, and bake at once in a hot buttered waffle-iron. Serve the waffles hot with powdered sugar dusted over them. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Rice into a basin with 1 teacupful of lukewarm milk, and mix well until it is quite smooth; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, 1 teacupful of flour, mixed up with 1 tea- spoonful of baking-powder, a little salt, 1 table-spoonful of syrup, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one. Mix thoroughly, turn the preparation into a waffle-iron, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve. Rice Water.—Well wash 2 table-spoonfuls of Rice, pick it over so as to have only sound grains, put it into a sauce- pan with lqt. of water, and boil for an hour, by which time the Rice should be quite soft. Sprinkle in salt and sugar to taste, the sugar to predominate, and add a piece of cinnamon; in a few ndnutes strain, and serve either hot or cold. Should it not be liquid enough, add more boil- ing water and boil longer. Risotto.—(1) Peel and finely mince a small onion; put loz. of butter into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire; when mixed, put in the onion and fry it until lightly browned. Wash Jib. of Rice, drain it, put it in with the onion, pour in sufficient clear stock to cook it in, and boil until the grains have swollen but not mashed to a pulp. Shake the stewpan occa- - Rice—con tinned. sionally, but do not stir the Rice with a spoon. When it is cooked, season to taste with salt and pepper, and strain in a small quantity of lemon-juice. Turn the risotto on to a hot dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over, and serve. (2) Put 4oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with only sufficient water to cover it, and boil gently until the rice swells but does not become soft. Add 1 table-spoon- ful of tomato sauce or a little saffron to give it a good colour, and loz. each of butter and grated cheese. Stir well for a minute or two, turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Venetian.—Peel and chop an onion, a clove of garlic, and half a small carrot; put the vegetables in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Chop some sheep’s kidney, put it in with the vegetables, toss it over the fire until browned, then pour in 1 pint of clear broth and stew gently until tender. Put in with the above ingredients 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice, Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and a small quantity of salt. Stir the risotto well to mix it, and when the Rice is sufficiently cooked turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Risotto a la Milanaise.—Peel and mince a small onion, put it into a stewpan with 3oz. of butter, and fry until it begins to brown; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed Rice. Fry it for seven or eight minutes, and pour in just sufficient stock to boil the Rice in. Add a pinch of saffron, and let it simmer gently until tender. When the Rice is soft, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir it over the fire until the cheese has melted. Cut three rounds of bread, toast it a delicate brown, then trim off the crusts. Butter the toast and lay it on a hot dish. Season the Rice mixture to taste with salt and pepper, turn it on to the toast, and serve. Savoury Rice.—(1) Wash the Rice and partially boil it in water, then drain off the water; mix with it 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder and sufficient stock to finish cooking it in, and let it simmer until tender. Fry in bacon-fat as many eggs as will be required, and trim neatly. When the Rice is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, lay the fried eggs on it, and serve. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed Rice into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock, either white or brown; season well with powdered herbs, chopped paisley, salt and cayenne, and cook until the Rice is soft. Stir in gently with a fork 1 table-spoonful of butter, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Put 1 table-spoonful each of chopped onion and butter into a saucepan, fry to a light yellow, then add a little less than 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed Rice; colour this slightly, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of chicken stock, and cook for about balf-an-hour. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Savoury Rice Pudding.—Put 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich fish or meat stock, add a finely-chopped onion, and boil until the Rice is soft. Turn it into a dish, and pour over a custard made with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, a small quantity of chopped ham or tongue and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the dish in a slack oven and bake the contents until done; take it out, and serve. The ham and tongue may be omitted, and a little salted fish used instead. Turban of Rice and Stewed Apples.—Boil Jib. of Rice. Butter a mould holding 3 pints, cover the bottom and sides with Rice, pressing it even with a wooden spoon. Peel, core, and cut into quarters six large cooking apples, put them into a saucepan with 3oz. of loaf sugar, 1 tea- cupful of cold water, and J saltspoonful of salt. Place the pan on a hot stove, put on the lid, and cook for ten minutes. Remove and fill the mould with eighteen of the pieces, reserving the other six for later use, and put the mould in a slow oven for twelve minutes. Use a towel to remove it from the oven. Lay a dish on the top, turn them over, and lift off the mould. Decorate the base with the rest of the apples, inclining them slightly, and the top339 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. with ‘2oz. of cleaned currants. Garnish between the apples with 4oz. of dried cherries, and set a ring of them on top Fig. 394. Turban of Rice and Stewed Apples. (see Fig. 394). Return to the oven for five minutes, then serve. RICHELIEU CAKE.—See Cakes. RICOTTA.—The literal meaning of this term is cooked again, a signification that seems to have been lost to some extent, seeing that it is now applied to a kind of cream cheese which is prepared as follows, and used for making very delicious tarts, for which receipts are given hereunder: Put 2qts. of fresh, strained whey into a flat lined pan, and place it over a gentle fire; when the froth begins to rise pour in 1 pint of milk and stir lightly with a wooden spoon until the whole surface is covered with a thick froth. Skim the froth oft' and drain it in a rush or grass basket, or on a fine sieve or colander. On no account must the milk and whey boil. When well drained, the froth or Ricotta is ready for use. Savoury Ricotta Tart.—Mix six well-beaten eggs with lib. of Ricotta; add 6oz. of finely-minced ham, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Butter a tart-dish, line it with short-paste, spread the mixture over it, and cover with a Hat of the paste; trim it evenly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the tart in a quick oven, and serve it while hot. Sweet Ricotta Tart.—Mix with lib. of Ricotta Mb. of caster sugar, loz. of thinly-shred candied peel, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and five well-beaten eggs. Butter a shallow baking dish, line it with short paste, spread the mixture over it, and cover with a flat of the same paste; trim it neatly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the tart, and when cooked dust it over with caster sugar, and serve. White Ricotta Tart.—Mix with lib. of Ricotta 4oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, loz. of thinly-shred candied peel, jib. of caster sugar, the yolk of one egg that has been beaten up with h teacupful of milk, and a few drops of orange-flower water. Work the whole until all the ingredients are well mixed, then stir in lightly the whites, of three eggs that have been whisked to a stilt' froth. Butter a tart-dish, line it with a good puff paste, and spread the mixture over it. Dust over the top with caster sugar and powdered cinnamon, using only a small quantity of the latter ingredient, and bake it. Serve the tart while hot. RIND.—This is an Anglo-Saxon word signifying bark or crust, as of bread ; used in more modern times to denote the external covering or skin, as of fruit, bacon, &c. RINFRESCO.—A liqueur resembling anisette, manu- factured in Modena. RING'S.—A great number of different rings are manufactured in cookery, consisting of paste, sugar, apples, Rings—continued. and other fruits. These are all described under their particular headings. RISCASOLI CAKE.—See Cakes. RISSOLES.—This word is derived from the French risoler—to fry brown. They are usually prepared by rolling out a piece of puff paste to the thickness of a penny, stamping this into rounds, putting a small ball of croquette-meat in the centre (see Fig. 395, .A), doubling the paste over to make a half circle (see Fig. 395, B), and Fig. 396. Making Rissoles (Second Method). frying in hot fat. Another method is that of rolling out a long strip of paste, arranging down the centre a few balls of croquette-meat, folding over, and cutting B Fig. 397. Making Rissoles (Third Method) out in half rounds with a scalloped cutter (see Fig. 396); or several rows of balls may be arranged over the half of a sheet of paste (see Fig. 397, A), which is then folded overTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 340 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rissoles—continued. and exit out with a fluted cutter (see Fig. 397, B), the Rissoles in each case being fried in hot fat. Several receipts are given under special headings, such as Beef, Crayfish, Fowl, &e. RISSOLETTES—Literally small rissoles. See Beef, Mutton, &c. RIZINE.—A preparation of rice, which is strongly recommended by its originators for the purpose of making puddings, &c. ROACH (Fr. Gardons ; Ger. Rotaugen).—A Euro- pean fresh-water fish (Leuciscus rutilus). It is silver Fig. 398. Roach. white about the body, with red fins, and dai-k green back (see Fig. 398). The Roach is not much valued as a food fish. It may be cooked as follows : Boiled Roach.—Wash and clean a Roach, put it on a dish, cover with a mixture of vinegar, claret, and salad-oil, and sprinkle over a few minced sweet herbs, pepper, and ground mace, and cloves. Let the Roach remain in this for a couple of hours, then put it into a saucepan with the liquor, and boil gently over a quick fire until done. Lay it on a dish, strain the liquor over, and serve. Broiled Roach.—Scale and draw the fish, remove the gills, wash it, and dry it on a cloth. Lay it on a dish with a few slices of ginger, some rosemary and marjoram, and any other sweet herb liked; add peppercorns, cloves, and mace, and baste it with a few table-spoonfuls of vinegar, salad-oil, and claret. Leave the fish for two or three hours, then lay it on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning it often and basting with a small quantity of the liquor in which it was macerated. Put \ pint of white wine in a stewpan with a third of the quantity of pickled oyster liquor, the strained juice of two oranges, and a small quantity of vinegar; when boiling move, the sauce to the edge of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg and a small lump of fresh butter broken into little pieces. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Stewed Roach.—Scale the fish, trim off the gills, and wash them well; dry them on a clean cloth, rub them over with flour, and fry in butter. Put \ pint of claret in a stew- pan with \ pint of water, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the fish with a sliced orange, a finely- chopped anchovy, a small slice of ginger, three or four cloves, salt and pepper, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and pounded mace. Put the lid on the stewpan and stew the fish gently until it is tender, turning it occasionally. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, arrange the slices of orange round it, and the spices on the top. Take as much of the cooking-liquor of the fish as will be required to make the sauce, mix with it a small lump of butter, boil it up, and pour over the fish. Garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. ROASTING.—The process of cooking known by this name may be regarded as distinct from baking, broiling, and frying, although it bears some resemblance to them as being affected by dry heat, at the highest possible tem- pei-ature that can be used without incinerating. In this Roasting—continued. it differs materially from boiling, stewing, &c., the heat in these latter cases being applied through water or other liquid which admits only of the degree of temperature at or a little above that of boiling water, and often a few degrees lower. A celebrated authority on cooking has given the following instructions : “ The essential condition of good Roasting is constant basting, and this the meat is not likely to have when shut up in an iron box oven; and what is not easily done is easily neglected. Make up your fire, not by shooting on a scuttle of coals, but laying on the coals with your hands, using an old glove. Arrange the lumps of coal so that air passes freely into the fire. By this arrangement you may avoid stirring the fire, which should be done as little as possible. Just before putting down the meat (which may be suspended by a piece of worsted, if you have no other arrangement) clear up the fireplace and throw to the back of the fire all the cinders and a little small coal slightly wetted. This will prevent waste of fuel, and throw the heat where you want it, in the front. If you have a meat-screen, place it before the fire, so as to get moderately heated before the meat is hung to the fire. “ Heat reflected from bright metallic surfaces never dries or scorches the meat. Arrange the dripping-pan so that no ashes can fall into it, and just as far below the meat as will enable you to baste it easily. If you have a little dripping or stock, put about a gill into the dripping for basting. Place a newspaper on the floor, this will keep your hearth clean. There is a right and a wrong way of hanging a piece of meat to roast. The thickest part should hang a trifle below the centre of the fire, and if this can be best done by hanging the shank of a leg of mutton downwards, do so. The time required for roasting will be modified by circumstances, and different kinds and qualities of meat require somewhat different treatment. The time usually allowed is from fifteen to twenty minutes for a pound. Before removing the meat from the fire press the lean part with the thumb; if the meat yields easily, or if the meat steams to the fire, it is done. Never sprinkle salt over the meat till about a quarter of an hour before it is ready. Pour away the dripping before using the salt, because fat for puddings, pies, and frying, is better without salt. You may dredge a little flour over it, and every part should be of a nice pale brown. If any part be scorched or blackened, you have failed in your cooking. Pour off the dripping, leaving in the pan the pure gravy free from fat. Have a gill or half-a-pint of stock or broth, or water ready, pour it into the dripping-pan, rinse it round, strain it into the dish, and send it to table as quickly as possible. Some cooks tie a piece of buttered paper on the meat.” Whilst quite prepared to admit that some excellent advice is given in the foregoing instructions, they are nevertheless somewhat crude, requiring a considerable amount of additional information to render them of specific value to the cook. Roasting is an art requiring special knowledge, not only of the foods to be operated 1 upon, but also of the different effects of different degrees of heat upon various substances. This requires practical experience, governed by common sense, enabling the cook to distinguish between those meats which roast easily to the centre, and those which offer at the r very outset considerable resistance to the inward actionTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 341 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roasting1—continued. of the fire. It may be observed that the heat of a roasting-fire may be as high as 1145deg. Fahr., meat requir- ing nothing higher than 450deg., and often not higher than 350deg. When roasting a large piece of meat, say of beef weighing 201b. more or less, the great difficulty the cook experiences is to roast this through to the centre without burning the outside. A delicate bird, too, will burn on the outside before it is warmed through. Fig. 400. Apparatus for Roasting Fig. 401. Bottle-jack. Large Bird (S. Armour and Co.). This lias been met successfully by the use of an iron spit piassing through the bird (see Fig. 399), the iron acting as a conductor, and therefore passing a higher degree of heat through the body of the bird than could otherwise be done. Under the heading Heat- Conductors, this lias been fully explained, as also a system of carbonised heat collectors, in the shape of metal balls, &c., in connection with either a spit or Fig. 402. Spit with Central Spikes (Adams and Son). metal skewer; but many good cooks are disposed to depreciate any such assistance. These heat-conductors are nevertheless strictly correct in their conception, and a fowl or any large bird cooked, as shown in Fig. 400, with collectors and sjiit, will prove this by the readiness by which it is cooked through, and without burning the surface. The ordinary roasting- or bottle-jack (see Fig. 401) is that which is generally used in small families, Fig. 403. Cradle-Spit (Adams and Son). and being automatic and the distance from the fire variable and adjustable, renders it equally valuable with the system of spits turned by a smoke-jack in the chimney, requiring a powerful upward draught from the fire to work it. Roasting—continued. The varieties of spits used where a smoke-jack is available are very numerous, consisting of long straight rods, with sharpened points, some fitted with central arms or spikes (see Fig. 402), others with a cage or cradle (see Fig. 403), &c.; but as these are only met with in very ! large kitchens, they require no further description here. It has been suggested that meat could be more readily roasted if surrounded by fire, instead of receiving all the heat from one face only. This was evidently the notion of the early Italian cooks, who contrived a spit of a very primitive character, turned by a hand crank, over a fire consisting of hot ashes. But, as will be understood from the accompanying illustration (see Fig. 404), the process of basting was not understood, or it was ignored. By a knowledge of the science of heat, it was ascer- tained that the rays of heat could be arrested and thrown back again, as it were, by a polished metal surface opposite to it. This led to the invention of screens, as they are called, which have undergone various modifications, and been adapted to various other Fig. 405. Roasting-Screen or Hot Closet. purposes. For instance, one kind of roasting-screen (see Fig. 405) is used also as a hot closet for warming dishes, keeping meats hot, and occasionally for drying cakes, biscuits, or confectionery. A round screen fitted with basting-tray is very effective set round a bottle- jack, or fitted with a patent apparatus which works inside the screen. These are all modern inventions, and are merely a few amongst many. A useful form of basting-tray is shown in Fig. 406. j With regard to the process of roasting, the first step in putting a joint before the fire is to ensure that cut I surfaces shall be sealed, as it were, by a hardening of342 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roasting—continued. the albuminous juice which runs over its surface. This is done by setting the joint as close to the fire as possible, and then removing it to a more suitable distance for cooking. Alexis Soyer advises that, as an invariable rule, all dark meats, such as beef and mutton, should be put down to a sharp tire for at least fifteen minutes, until the outside has acquired a coating of osmazome, or condensed gravy, and then removed back, and allowed to cook gently. Lamb, veal, and pork, if young and tender, should be done at a moderate fire. Veal should even be covered with paper. "V ery rich meat, if covered with paper, does not require basting. Fowls, &c., should be placed close to the tire to set the skin, and in about ten minutes rubbed over with a small piece of butter pressed in a spoon. Meats, whilst Fig. 406. Basting-Tray (Adams and Son). roasting, should be dredged with flour, just at the time when the gravy begins to appear; the flour absorbs it, and forms a coating which prevents any more coming out. Hares and small game should be treated in the same manner. The time required for roasting different meats under ordinary circumstances as to the power of the fire and the distance between it and the joint, may be esti- mated as for beef, mutton, and veal—a-quarter-of-an-hour per pound; lamb, poultry, and small game, twelve to fourteen minutes per pound. Pork takes from a-quarter- of-an-hour to twenty minutes per pound, and it may be said that the flesh of old animals requires somewhat longer than the flesh of young ones. Something also depends on the quality of the joint; inferior, tough, and bony meat, requiring much cooking. Cooley informs us that roasting is not an economical way of cooking pieces of meat abounding in bone or tendinous matter, since the nutritious portion of these is either destroyed or rendered insoluble by the heat employed. Thus, the raw bones from a joint are capable of affording a rich and excellent basin of soup, highly nutritious, whilst the bones from a corresponding joint which has been roasted are nearly worthless when so treated. The same applies with even greater force to the gristly and tendinous portions of meat. A dry heat either destroys them or converts them into a horny substance unfit for food, whilst by boiling they are transformed into a highly succulent and nutritious article of food, besides affording excellent soup or jelly. Hence the policy of boning and trimming meat before roasting or baking it, or, at all events, of removing the bony and tendinous portions which would be most exposed to the action of the fire. The first consideration is to have a well and evenly- lighted fire, which should never be allowed to get low, and should be replenished with fuel in such a way as not to deaden it. Gouffe advises that a small quantity of broth should be put in the dripping-pan for the purpose of basting. Large joints, poultry, and game, should be basted five or six times during cooking; partridges and small game three times. The following table of times required for roasting is, as previously described, subject to slight variations, according to conditions and circumstances: A piece of Beef weighing from 15lb. to 201b. ... 4 hours A piece of Beef ,, ,, 7H>. to Sib. ... 2 hours Neck or Loin of Veal,, ,, 31b. to 41b. ... H hours Roasting—continued. Fillet of Veal weighing from lOlh. Leg of Mutton ' „ „ Tib. to 101b Shoulder of Mutton ,, ,, 01b. Leg of Lamb „ ,, Gib. Fore Quarter of Lamb,, ,, 7 lb. or Sib. Leg of Pork ,, ,, Tib. or Sib. Neck or Loin of Pork, about 311 Loin of Pork ,, Oil Haunch of Venison ... Hare ... Hare’s Back ... Turkey, about Sib. to 91b. Small Turkey, about 3Mb U to Goose Capon Fowl Pool aide D nek Duckling Pheasant Partridge Woodcock Wild Duck Widgeon Pigeon Quail Larks ... Oil 41b. 31b. I hours ! hours H hours 1 i hours 2" 3 1 2 hours hours hour hours to 5 hours 1J hours Q hours 2 hours | hour 1J2 hours 50 to 00 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 40 minutes 35 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 0 to 10 minutes To the above list may be added the following remarks given by Gouffe iu his “ Royal Cookery Book “ There are different natures and qualities of meat which cook more or less rapidly. It will, therefore, always be necessary to ascertain whether a joint is done before taking it off the spit. The easiest way to find this out is, in the case of meat, to press the fleshiest parts with the finger; in the case of poultry and game, the flesh of the leg should be tested. If the cooking is perfect, both will give way to the finger; if not, there will be a certain degree of resistance.” See also Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Frying, &c. ROBERT.—Some doubt exists as to the origin of this term, but Kettner informs us that it is a corruption of the word Roebrewet, which signifies sauce for a roe. It is of very ancient date, being mentioned by a French cook, named Taillevent, in the middle of the thirteenth century. It is now almost exclusively used for pork and goose. See Sauces. ROBINS.—These birds are not often found in the vicinity of the kitchen, excepting as winter beggars. They are not sufficiently numerous to make a dish, although we are informed by Mr. Hayward that the Robin Redbreast is remarkable for a delicate bitter flavour, for which reason it is recommended that they should be cooked and eaten like larks. ROCAMBOLE.—A plant of the allium tribe (A. Scorodoprasum), closely allied to the garlic (see Fig. 407, on next page). It is a native of Denmark, and used for flavouring, its aroma being considered more delicate than either that of the garlic or the shallot. It is not much grown in this country. ROCHELLE BRANDT.—A class of brandy that stands as number twelve on the French list. It is not often met with in the English markets. ROCK.—This is the popular name given to a sweet- meat made of sugar boiled to a candy; it is flavoured with almond, cocoa-nut, &c., and will be found described under their special headings. ROCK CAKES.—See Cakes. ROCKFISH.—A famous Californian food fish (Sebastichthys ruber) noted for its beautiful red colour. It infests the rocks along the coasts, and as it assumesTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 343 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rockfish—continued. the goodly size of from I8in. to 30in. long, and is very thick and deep, it forms an excellent dish. They are almost universally boiled and served with egg sauce, the cold meat making an excellent salad. See Bass. Boiled Rockfish..—Scrape off the scales of a Rockfish, take out the gills, and wash it nicely; put it in a pot with sufficient cold water to cover and 4 table-spoonful of salt, and let it boil slowly, keeping the pot covered all the while ; when done, skim well and drain the water from it, lay it on a dish, and garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Rockfish Salad.—Remove tire skin and bone from a cold boiled Rockfish, and flake the flesh with two forks; put it into a deep dish, cover with oil and vinegar mixed in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, and let it stand for four hours. Wash the hearts of two lettuces, pull the leaves asunder, and put them in a salad-bowl; ' drain the fish, put it in with the lettuces, and mix well in with it some picked shrimps. Pour a mayonnaise dressing over the salad, garnish it with sliced beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and some small white leaves of lettuce, and serve. Fig. 407. Rocambole. ROCOLNIC .—The Polish name for a soup made with poultry and other things, for which the two follow- ing are good receipts. See also Ducks. Rocolnic Soup.—(1) Put a couple of fowls into a saucepan with their scalded giblets, and add lOoz. of ham or lean bacon, 61b. of veal, and 21b. of beef cut into pieces. Pour over sufficient water to moisten, boil up quickly, remove the pan from the fire, set it at the side, and boil slowly for an hour. Add three carrots, a stick of celery, a large bunch of parsley, and six cloves, and continue to simmer till all the meat is done. Remove the cloves, strain the liquor through a line sieve into another saucepan, add 12oz. of ground buckwheat or semolina, and cook slowly for half-an-hour. Skim well, add a little chopped parsley and fennel-leaves, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve with the meat from the fowl and the ham or bacon. (2) Polish Style.—Put a small finely-chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, blown it, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and when that is nicely browned add 4. gall, of rich broth and 1 pint of the iiquor from gherkins preserved in salted water. Stir well until the liquor boils, then add two fowls, and boil until they are nearly done; take them out, skim and strain the soup into another saucepan, boil it up again, and keep the soup hot. In the meantime cut a few carrots and a little celery into small pieces, blanch them, put them into a, saucepan with a little chopped parsley and a small quan- tity of broth, and cook gently until the liquor is reduced to Rocolnic—continued. a glaze. Now add them to the soup, together with a few slices of gherkins blanched in a little syrup, thicken the soup with a little sour cream mixed with the yolks of three eggs and passed through a sieve, sprinkle in a little finely-chopped green fennel, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. ROD GRO.—The name of a famous Danish dish which is prepared as follows: Put lqt. of the juice of any red fruit into a saucepan with 4-gall, of water, add fib. of sago and sufficient sugar to taste, and stir slowly over the fire until the sago is quite transparent, but without becoming at all thick or clogged. Turn the preparation into a mould, let it stand until it is set and firm, turn it on to a dish, and serve with vanilla cream. ROES (TV. Laitances ; Ger. Rogen).—There are two kinds of Roe, classified as hard and soft. The bard Roe is the eggs of the female fish, and the soft Roe is the milt of the male. Hard Roes are known to us as caviare, boutargue, and the dried and smoked Roe of the cod. These are all described under their own head- ings. The soft Roe or milt is best cooked in a sort of ragout or stew. The following are well-known receipts: Roe Soup.—This is said to be the invention of the celebrated scholar Erasmus. Take lib. of soft Roe of any fish and cook it for ten minutes in acidulated salted water; then take it out, and put it into cold salted water to get rid of the acid. Drain it, cut it into pieces, and then warm them up in 2qts. of good broth, with lqt. of young peas; when the peas are cooked, pour the broth over some croutons of fried bread in a tureen, and sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped fennel. Roe Toast.—Slices of buttered toast with cooked Roe upon them, seasoned with pepper and salt. Stewed Roe.—(1) Blanch the Roe in acidulated water, then drain it; put it into a saucepan, pour over some highly- seasoned and strained liquor that fish has been boiled in, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Then take the Roe out and keep it hot. Boil the liquor until somewhat reduced, mix in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and the juice of half a lemon, stir it at the side of the fire until thickened, but without letting it boil again, or the eggs will curdle. Place the Roe on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (2) Blanch the Roe, then put it into a saucepan with a large lump of butter, a few crayfish-tails and artichoke- bottoms, and 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and chives. Pour in h pint of fish broth and boil the Roe for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take it out of the sauce- pan, place it on a hot dish, and keep it near the fire. Move the sauce to the edge of the fire and mix in quickly the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and a few drops of vinegar. Stir the sauce until thick, but it must not boil again or the eggs will curdle; pour it over the fish, and serve. ROEBUCK (Fr. Chevreuil; Ger. Rehbock).—The flesh of almost all animals of the deer kind might be classified under the comprehensive heading of venison, but to the British cook there is a wide distinction between tire flesh of the Roebuck and that of the Fallow or Park Deer, which they alone recognise as venison. The Roebuck is commonly eaten in Paris and in Scotland, where it is known as the Red Deer, but in either case it is considered inferior to tame venison. The following receipts are chiefly of French origin : Baked Larded Saddle of Roebuck.—Trim a saddle of Roebuck, lard it with strips of fat bacon, put it into a baking-dish over a few vegetables cut in pieces, sprinkle over a little salt, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine to moisten. Set the dish in the oven and bake, basting frequently; put the saddle of Roebuck on a dish when cooked, glaze it with a brush, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 344 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roebuck—con ti nued. Braised Haunch of Roebuck.—Take oft’ the outer skin from a haunch of Roebuck, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, put it into a large basin, add a few finely-chopped sweet herbs, pour over 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and let it remain for five or six hours, basting it fre- quently with the liquor. Take it out, drain it, lard it on the top with strips of fat bacon, put it into a sauce- pan, pour in the wine in which it was macerating, and add sufficient rich broth to moisten. Put the lid on the pan, cover with hot ashes, and set the haunch to braise. When done, put it on a dish with a paper ruffle round the bone, garnish with forcemeat quenelles, pour over a little of its strained stock, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Chaudfroid of Roebuck.—Cut oil' a dozen or so slices from a roasted or braised saddle of Roebuck, trim them of an equal size, .dip them into warm chaudfroid sauce so as to have them well covered, and put them on a baking-sheet in the hot-closet until the sauce has set; place the slices of Roebuck on a dish over a layer of aspic jelly, arrang- ing them in a circle, fill up the centre with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Crepinettes of Roebuck.—Cut into small pieces about I Jib. of the minion fillets of Roebuck, put them into a basin with half the bulk in raw truffles cut into small pieces, sprinkle over a little salt and ground allspice, moisten with Madeira wine, and let the whole macerate for about an hour. Mince about |lb. of fat pork, add two or three poultry fat-livers, cooked and pounded, put these with the mixture in the basin, and mix thoroughly; take the preparation up in small quantities about the size of an egg, give them an oblong shape, cover separately with a piece of pig’s caul, flatten them a little, brush them over with butter, and broil on a gridiron over a clear fire for about fifteen minutes, turning so as to cook both sides. Pour a little hot thick gravy at the bottom of a dish, place the crepinettes in it, and serve. Epigrammes of Roebuck with Truffles.—Cut off half-a- dozen cutlets from a Roebuck, place them into a raw marinade, then put them into a saucepan ■with a little oil, cover them with paper, and keep the saucepan at the side of the fire. Prepare a little quenelle forcemeat with the trimmings from the cutlets and a little lean veal, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped raw truffles, divide the mixture into six parts, form them into the shape of sausages, flatten them like cutlets, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water to poach. Take them out when they are set, drain them, let them cool, and dip into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. Cut five or six truffles into slices, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient Madeira wine to moisten. In the meantime put any bones and trimmings of game into a saucepan with a little white wine and broth, add a few sweet herbs, cloves, and peppercorns, and boil slowly until the liquor is somewhat reduced, then cook the cutlets in it. Fry half a-dozen cutlet-shaped pieces of forcemeat in a frying-pan with a little butter. Take out the Roebuck cutlets when done, put them on a dish to keep warm, add the peel of the truffles to the saucepan, pour in 2 teacupfuls of sharp sauce and a little Madeira wine, and boil slowly until the sauce is reduced. Put the sauce- pan with the truffles on to a brisk fire, cook quickly to reduce the moisture, strain the sauce from the truffles, trimmings, &c., over them, and boil for a few minutes longer. Put the cutlets on a dish alternately with the pieces of forcemeat, arranging them in a circle, put the truffles in the centre, and serve. Hashed Roebuck.—Remove the skin and sinews from 21b. or 31b. of roasted saddle or quarter of Roebuck, and cut it into thin slices. Pour Iqt. of rich thick brown gravy or wine sauce into a saucepan over the fire, and boil slowly until it is reduced to about one-third its original bulk, then add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly; boil for a few minutes, add the slices of Roebuck, dust over a little pepper, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover, and cook the meat slowly without boiling; put them on j a dish, garnish with pieces of fried bread, ami serve. Roebuck—continued. Minced Roebuck.—Chop the fillets from a saddle of Roebuck, then cut the fillets slantingly into collops; trim off the sinewy skin, beat them lightly with the handle of a knife, and season with salt and pepper. Melt a lump of butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry over a brisk fire, turning as one side is cooked and finishing the other. When cooked, pour 1 teacupful of Madeira wine over them, put in half the quantity of raw truffles as there are collops, cutting them first into halves, and boil the wine till reduced. Prepare a border, half of it being puree of chicken’s livers and the other half game quenelle forcemeat. When the border is poached, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish. Put the ragout of collops ami truffles in the centre, pour a little financiere sauce over, ami serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Roasted Haunch of Roebuck.—(1) Remove the end of the bone from a leg of Roebuck, and the thick bone from the thick end ; take off the sinewy skin, and let the haunch macerate in a cooked marinade for five or six hours. Take it out, drain, lard it with fat bacon, put it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire for from three-quarters-of- an-hour to an hour. When cooked, put it on a dish, and serve with red-currant jelly and a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. (2) Lard a haunch of roedeer with strips of fat bacon, lay it in a deep dish with plenty of sliced carrots and onions, and any flavourings liked, such as chopped parsley, sweet herbs, peppercorns, cloves, and salt; moisten it with equal quantities of oil and red wine, and leave it in the marinade for four days, keeping it well basted. At the end of that time wrap the haunch up in a sheet of paper that has been well oiled or buttered, fix it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and baste well with butter. About fifteen minutes before taking the joint from the Fig. 408. Roasted IIaunch of Roebuck. fire, remove the paper, so that it may brown. A hen cooked, glaze it, place it on a hot carving dish, put a frill round the bone (see Fig. 408), and serve it with red- currant jelly and rich gravy. Roasted Leg of Roebuck.—Trim and lard a leg of Roebuck, put it into a bowl, dredge over a little salt, and pour over olive oil. Let the leg of Roebuck remain in this for five or six hours, take it out, drain it, put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast, basting frequently with a little olive oil. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of poivraile sauce. Should the leg of Roebuck be required more seasoned, it may be soaked in olive oil and red wine, sprinkled over with salt, ground mixed spice and thyme, and hasted frequently for a couple of days. Roebuck Cutlets.—(1) Put two or three cutlets of Roebuck into a saucepan, dust them over with salt and pepper, and add a little butter. Cook them slowly, turn them when they are half done, sprinkle in a little flour, and add sufficient white wine and stock to moisten, a few finely-chopped shallots and blanched mushrooms, and a little minced parsley. Continue to cook until the cutlets are done, take them out, put them in a circle on a dish, reduce the liquor, pass it through a fine sieve over the cutlets, and serve. (2) Chop the cutlets from the necks of two Roebucks, trim them, dip them in butter and then breadcrumbs, place them over a good fire, and broil them. Put them345 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Roebuck—continued. in a circle on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of meat gravy with a little cayenne and lemon-juice added. Roebuck Cutlets a la Chasseur.—Prepare some cutlets taken from the necks of two Roebucks, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry them. Take some sliced shallots previously fried in butter, and a piece of meat glaze, put them into a stewpan, reduce for five minutes, and add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Put the cutlets on a dish in a circle, and strain the gravy over them. Roebuck Cutlets a la Marechale.—Chop off half-a-dozen cutlets from the necks of one or two Roebucks, dip them into warmed butter then into breadcrumbs, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. When done put them in a circle on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy mixed up with the juice of a lemon and seasoned with cayenne pepper. Roebuck Cutlets a la Perigneux.—Put eight Roebuck cutlets into a saute-pan, dust them over with salt and pepper, add a little oil or butter, and fry until done; drain off the butter or oil, add a few table-spoonfuls of glaze, reduce the liquid, put the cutlets on a dish in a circle, pour over the liquor, and fill the cavity in the centre with game quenelles. Pour over these a little peri- gueux sauce, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Roebuck Cutlets a la Toulouse.—Butter the interior of a border mould, decorate it with truffles cut into fancy- shaped pieces, fill it with game forcemeat, and poach it in a bain-marie. Cut a drum-shaped piece of bread, fry it till lightly browned, then place it in the centre of a dish. Garnish a nicely-carved rice or bread croustade with small ornamented quenelles, leaning them against a small bread support that has been coated with game forcemeat and fixed in the centre. Garnish an attelette-skewer with a truffle and a cock’s comb, and fix it in the centre of the support. Carefully trim about fifteen Roebuck cutlets, and saute them in a mixture of oil and butter. When cooked, drain them, soak up the fat with a cloth, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Turn the forcemeat border on to a dish, and fix the croustade on the -piece of bread in the centre. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on the border of forcemeat. Pour a small quantity of brown sauce that has been boiled with some Madeira wine and trimmings of truffles at the bottom of the dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Roebuck Cutlets with Chestnut Puree.—Take a dozen Roebuck cutlets and beat them well with a cutlet-bat, remove the skin, and lard them with fat bacon all on the same side; sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and put them side by side in a stewpan on the top of some trim- mings of bacon and chopped vegetables. Add sufficient broth to cover them, put the pan on the fire with the lid on, cover the top with hot ashes, and reduce the liquor to half its original bulk. When quite done, glaze them with a brush. Dish the cutlets in a circle with a puree of chestnuts in the centre, basted with a little melted glaze, and serve with a boatful of Madeira sauce. Roebuck Cutlets Sautes.—Take the necks of two Roebucks and divide them into cutlets; trim them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry them until done. Serve either with a croustade filled with rabbit puree and some Spanish or poivrade sauce poured over them and a little served separately in a boat, or with a croustade filled with truffles and some Spanish sauce in a boat. ROLL CAKE.—See Cakes. ROLLA CHEESE.—See Tripe. Fig. 409. Plain Rolling-pin (Mathews and Son). ROLLING-PIN .—An article of supreme value to the pastry-cook. Rolling-pins are usually made of wood, and Rolling-pin—continued. sometimes of glass. There are two kinds of wooden ones, the plain shape (see Rig. 409) and the “pin” fitted with Fig. 410. Revolving Rolling-pin. an axle and two handles (see Fig. 410), but there is little to choose between them; each serves its purpose admir- ably. ROLLS.—See Bread. ROLLY-FOLY.—See Jam. ROMAN CAKE.—See Cakes. ROMAN CREAM.—See Cream. ROMAN PUNCH.—See Punch. ROOKS.—“ If this useful bird,” wrote Waterton, “were | not so closely allied to the carrion crow in colour and in shape, we should see it sent up to the tables of the rich as often as we see the pigeon. But prejudice forbids the appearance of broiled Rook in the lordly mansion. If we wish to partake of it, we must repair to the cottage of the lowly swain, or here and there to the hall of the homely country squire whose kitchen has never been blessed by the presence of a first-rate cook, and whose yearnings for a good and wholesome dish are not stifled by the fear of what a too highly polished world will say.” There is nothing much to add to this, beyond that the Rook (Corvus frugilegus) is a common European bird resembling the crow, but somewhat smaller. Its plumage is black, with purple and violet reflections. Rooks are gregarious, living in flocks and building permanent nests at the tops of high trees, whence young birds are easily secured when wanted for cooking. The following will be found excellent receipts for Rook pie : (1) Draw half-a-dozen fine Rooks and skin them. Soak them in cold water for two hours, then dry them, cut out their backbones, season well with salt and pepper, and pack them closely in a pie-dish; cut Jib. of fresh butter into thin slices, lay them over the Rooks, and moisten with f breakfast-cupful of rich brown gravy. Cover the pie with a flour-and-water paste, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. Take the pie out at the end of that tune, leave it until the next day, then remove the coarse paste, cover it with a good puff paste, and bake for about half-an-hour or three-quarters-of-an-hour. (2) Skin and clean four Rooks; remove the bitter part by putting the birds on their breasts and with a sharp knife cutting out a piece of the flesh from the spine about the size of a finger. This part is good to eat, but is con- sidered too bitter. Put a rump-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the Rooks on it, dust them over with salt and pepper, and add three hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces and 2oz. of butter pulled in lumps. Cover with a layer of rich puff paste, and bake for about two hours or until the pie is done. Take it out, and serve. (3) Skin the Rooks, remove the back and the liver, and let them soak for awhile in milk. Cut them up and season with salt, white pepper, a small quantity of nutmeg and mace, and a very little cayenne, mixed together and finely powdered. Put the pieces of Rook into a pie-dish in alternate layers with slices of ham or gammon of bacon, putting in among them forcemeat balls and slices of hard- boiled eggs, pour in a small quantity of water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake it. (4) Skin and draw four Rooks, and cut out the back bones; great care must be taken in preparing the birds not to break the gall, as it would render them very bitter; should this happen, however, they should be steeped in34 6 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Rooks—continu ed. plenty of strong salted water. Season the birds inside and out with salt and pepper, butter the edges of a pie- dish, line them with a good paste, and put in the birds with a piece of butter and f breakfast-cupful of water; cover them with a flat of paste, trim it off evenly round the edges, moisten them with water, and press together. Cover the pie with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it for from two-hours-and-a-half to three hours. Serve the pie hot or cold. ROOTS.—This term is applied generally by cooks to vegetables growing under ground, such as turnips, carrots, &c. ROSBACH WATER.—See Aerated Waters. ROSES.—These are more often used in confectionery than might be supposed, a fine flavour being abstracted from the flowers, to which it is usual to add a characteristic pink colour. Attar of Roses for Flavouring.—This is a very valuable article with which to flavour liqueurs, as it keeps well and imparts the pure aroma of the Rose. It is soluble in strong alcohol, but much more so in pure glycerine. Although rose-water gives a like flavour, like orange-flower water, it is much less stable than the attar of Roses. Candied Rose Petals.—(1) Soak a quantity of the petals of freshly-gathered Roses in cold water for a few minutes, and dry them in a soft cloth. Make a syrup of Jib. of loaf sugar and a little water, boil it till when a little of it is tried in cold water it is quite brittle, add to it then a drop or two of attar of Roses and a very little carmine; throw in the Rose petals, and stir them about in the syrup very carefully with a silver fork till they aiy well coated with sugar, then lay them on a sieve to dry. See Fig. 411. (2) Put about h pint of Rose petals over the fire in clarified sugar, crisp them, and boil them to the blow (see Sugar-boiling). Take the pan from the fire and pour the Rose-leaves on a sieve, letting the syrup ran from them and rubbing them with the hands; put them into a stove to dry. Place the syrup over the fire and boil it to the blow again ; mix a little carmine in to colour it, and pour it into a mould. Then put the Rose-leaves on the sugar and with a fork push them down gently so that they are completely covered with the syrup. Let the mould stand in a moderate oven or stove for five days. Drain off the syrup, and turn the candied leaves out of the mould on to a sheet of paper. Confection of Roses.—Trim off the white ends of lib. of freshly-gathered Rose-leaves, put the other parts in a basin with 2 Alb. of caster sugar, and work it together till the mixture is reduced to a paste; put the mixture into jars or glass bowls, arrange them on a tray, and place them where the heat of the sun is powerful. When near sunset, take the jars in, cover them, and leave them till the following day, when again place them in the sun, first removing the covers. Continue like this till the top of the confection is nicely crystallized, which will take about a month. This confection is often used with pastry. Conserve of Roses.—Boil fib. of sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar boiling), flavour it well with double distilled Rose-water, boil it to the pearl degree, colour it with a little prepared cochineal or carmine, and pour it into moulds. Roses—continued. Cream of Roses.—(1) Procure some pink cabbage Roses; take lOoz. of the petals, being very careful that none of the green is mixed up with them, put them in a jar, and pour over lqt. of warm water. Leave them for two days, then strain the liquor through muslin. Mix lqt. of brandy with the liquor, lib. of loaf sugar, and a few coriander- seeds, also a few drops of essence of cinnamon. Leave the mixture for ten days, when it should be strained again through filtering paper. Pour the liquor into small bottles, and cork them tightly. (2) Put 21b. of dried Rose-leaves into stone jars with 3qts. of spirits of wine (iOdeg. over proof; mix frequently for a month, add 10 drops of the oil of Roses, 4qts. of water, and 2Aqts. of capillaire; filter and bottle. Essence of Roses.—Put 2oz. of Genoa Rose-flowers into a bottle with 1 pint of rectified spirits of wine, cork it down tightly, and keep it in a warm temperature for a fortnight. At the end of that time decant the essence, and pour it into smaller bottles. Rose Candy.—Put the required quantity of sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil it to the ball (see Sugar boiling) ; colour while boiling with carmine or cochineal, flavour with Rose-water, and with a spatula rub a little of the sugar against the pan until it turns white. Oil some tins, put them on the stove to warm, pour the sugar into them when cool, mark it in squares, and when cold pack away in tms or boxes. Rose Cream Cordial.—Put 12 drops of the oil of Roses and 3 drops of the oil of nutmeg into a bottle containing lqt. of spirits; shake the bottle vigorously, pour in lqt. of syrup when the oils are dissolved, and add pink colouring to give the required Rose-coloured tint. Pass the liquid through filtering-paper into small bottles, cork them town, and set them aside in a cool place until wanted. Rose Cream Ice.—Put about 2 handfuls of freshly- gathered Roses in a basin, pour 1 pint of rich boiling cream over them, cove', and leave it for a few hours. Pass the cream through a sieve, beat the yolks of eight eggs, and mix them with it; sweeten with Alb. of caster sugar, and stir the cream over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Pass the cream through a silk sieve, leave it till cold, then put it in the freezer and freeze. When frozen, the cream may be put in a mould and packed in ice for two or more hours. When serving, dip the mould in warm water, then turn the cream quickly out on to a dish. Rose Drops.—Sift some crashed loaf sugar through a rather coarse sieve and then through a line sieve; take 21b. of the sugar that remains in the second sieve, put it into a basin, flavour with essence of Rose, and add, gradually, working well with a spoon, sufficient water to make a paste of such consistency that it will drop from the spoon without adhering to it. Colour with a little finely-ground cochineal moistened with water, put the paste into a pan with a spout to it, set it on the stove, and with a spatula stir well until all the sugar is dissolved and makes a noise. Remove the pan from the stove just before boiling, and work again with the spatula until the sugar is so thick that when dropped it will retain its form and not spread too much. A little finely-powdered sugar may be added if the paste is too thin. With the pan in the left hand and a piece of bent wire in the right, proceed to cut off small drops, letting them fall upon cartridge-paper or a smooth tin. Set them away to dry for about two hours, remove them carefully, and pack away in tins for further use. Rose Jam.—Gather the Roses when in full bloom, pick off about lib. of the largest petals, cut off the white ends, and put them in a stewpan with some small Rose petals; put the large petals in a basin. Pour J pint of water in the stewpan with the white ends and small petals, and place it over the fire until boiling. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, squeezing the petals well, then throw them away. Put the strained liquor in the sauce- pan with 3Alb. of caster sugar, stir it until dissolved, then put in the large petals, and boil until reduced to a thick347 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roses—continued. syrup. Try a small quantity of the mixture on a plate, and if it sets it is cooked. Remove it from the (ire, leave till cold, then pour it into preserve jars; cover them air-tight, and keep in a rather cool cupboard. Rose liqueur. -Put 1 j-lb. of bruised petals of Roses into a large jar or bottle with foz. of ground cinnamon and joz. of bruised fennel-seed; pour over 9J pints of spirits of wine GOdeg. over proof, and keep the jar in a warm [dace for a month, giving it a shake daily. Pour oft' the spirits, add to the jar 7J pints of water, let it stand for a few days, pour it into the spirit, add 3J pints of capillaire and a little red colouring, stir well, filter through a flannel bag, and bottle. Rose Lozenges.—Sift some crushed loaf sugar over a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, and pour in sufficient dissolved gum to make a thick paste. Half a pound of gum arabic should be dissolved in 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Add a flavouring of essence of Roses and a colour- ing of ground cochineal wetted with water, and roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness. Dust it over with starch powder and caster sugar, and with the palm of the hand smooth the surface. Cut it into lozenge-shaped pieces, put them on trays in the dry-closet or on the stove until dry, pack them away in boxes, and use as required. Rose Souffles.—Sift Jib. of sugar into a basin and work in the white of an egg, beating well for fully ten minutes. Now add a few drops of essence of Roses and sufficient carmine to give it a bright Rose colour. Dust the board well with sifted sugar, roll out the paste on it, and cut it into strips the thickness of a linger; cut them into dice, and roll them round in the palm of the hand. Moisten slightly with water, put each one into a paper case, fin. hi width and Jin. in height, wet the finger, and slightly press down the toj>. Put them into a slack oven, and when about Jin. over the cases (this will take about fifteen minutes) take them out, but not before the surfaces are quite dry, and they are ready for use. Rose Syrup.—(1) Boil 411). of loaf sugar in 2qts. of cold water to a clear syrup, work in the beaten whites of four eggs, let it boil again, take it from the fire, let it cool, and as it cools skim it. When the syrup has cooled to lukewarm, scatte over it 11b. of fresh Rose-petals, cover it closely, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Strain it then, and put in another pound of fresh Rose-petals and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Strain it again, and add for the third time 111), of fresh Rose-petals, letting it stand as before for twenty-four hours. Strain it through muslin, add lqt. of the best brandy, strain it through a double linen bag, and bottle. This syrup mixed with ice water is a nice summer drink. It is also useful for flavouring custards, creams, &c. (2) Pour 1J pints of water into a very clean saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in about lib. Goz. of freshly-gathered Rose-petals. Boil them up once, then take the saucepan off the fire, put the lid on, and leave the contents until cold. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and add 2-flb. of caster sugar and the well-beaten white of one egg. Stir | the mixture, place it over the fire until boiling, then take l it oft, skim it well, and leave until nearly cold. Pass the syrup through a silk sieve or a piece of cloth, pour it into a bottle, cork it tightly, and put it by for use. Rose-water Cake. -Mix 1 teaspoonful of egg-powder in Jib. of flour, then rub in until quite smooth 2oz. of lard. Add Jib. of caster sugar and 1 heaped teaspoonful of ground almonds. Separate the yolk and white of an egg, and beat the yolk with J- teacupful of milk, 1 wineglassful of Rose-wate:, and lastly the well-whisked white of the egg. Stir the liquid mixture in with the dry ingredients and mix it well. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a quick oven. In about an hour’s time the cake should be sufficiently baked, then turn it out of the tin. Less Rose-water can be used if a strong flavour is not liked. Rose Water Ice. -Prepare an ice mixture with the zest of three lemons and the strained juice of seven; add a little Roses—continued. water and 3 teacupfuls of simple syrup, flavour with a few drops of essence of Roses, and colour with cochineal. When mixed the preparation must be frozen, and can be moulded or not as desired. ROSE CAKE.—See Cakes. ROSE COLOUR.—See Carmine. ROSEMARY.—A garden herb (Rosmarinus officinalis), the leaves of which are sometimes used as a culinary herb, but of late years it has gone considerably out of date. ROSOLIOS.—A name given by Francatelli to little sweets strongly flavoured with coffee, and made in the shape of coffee-berries. There is also a liqueur called Rosolio [see Cordials and Liqueurs). Stick some coffee-berries with gum paste a short distance from each other on a piece of flat board, the rounded side of the berries to be stuck to the wood, presenting the open part of the berries outwardly. When they are dry and (ixed tightly on, the contrivance can be used for making coffee-berry impressions in a tray of carefully levelled starch-powder (Amydon). Boil some sugar to the hall (see Sugar-boiling), work in a small quantity of maraschino, and colour small quantities of the sugar with various colours. Make the coffee-berry impressions in the starch, and pour in the coloured sugar from a very small spoon a little at a time. The syrup will form the round of the berry naturally. Boil the sugar to the crack, and dilute to the feather degree with a strong extract of coffee. ROSQUILLAS.—A sweet Spanish cake made in the form of a spiral or any other fancy shape. The follow- ing is a very good receipt for their manufacture: Put the yolks of two dozen eggs into a bowl, and beat them up with lib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, sprinkling in about 1 dessert-spoonful of grains of aniseed. Dredge in flour to form a stittish paste, and let it stand for awhile; then roll it out moderately thin, cut it into any spiral or other desired shape with a sharp knife or a plain or fancy biscuit-cutter, and bake to a good colour in a moderate oven. When done, ice them with white of egg and sugar, dry them in the hot-closet or at the mouth of the oven, and serve. ROTTERDAM SOUP—See Soups. ROUEN DUCKS.—See Ducks. ROUT.—The meaning of this word, according to its modern acceptation, is a fashionable assembly. Accord- ing to Skeat, the word is derived from the Latin rwpta (pp. of raptus, broken, from rumpere). This Latin word nipt a came to mean a fragment of an army, a troop, etc. Its adaptation is therefore sufficiently obvious. ROUT BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. ROUT CAKES.—See Biscuits. ROUX.—The literal meaning of this term is russet. It is simply flour and butter fried together, and used for thickening and colouring soups and gravies. There are two kinds, one brown, and the other white, which are made as follows: Brown Roux.—Place 2oz. of good butter in a saucepan on the hot range, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook rapidly for about seven minutes, or until it assumes a rich brown colour. Let it thoroughly cool off, and then it may be used in different sauces as directed. White Roux. -Put in a sau epan 2oz. of butter, place it on (he corner of the hot range, and add to it 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour. Keep sti ring constantly for seven minutes, but do not let it brown Then let it cool, and when cold it may be used in various sauces as directed.348 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. ROWAN BERRIES.—See Ashberries. ROYAL BISCUITS—See Biscuits. ROYAL CONSOMME.—See Consomme. ROYAL CREAM.—See Cream. ROYAL DIPLOMATIC PUDDING.—See Pud- dings. ROYAL ICING.—See Icing. ROYAL PASTE.—See Paste. ROYAL PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. ROYAL SAUCES.—See Sauces. ROYANS.-A fish very similar to the sardine, but smaller, less oily, and more delicately flavoured. They are great favourites in France, prepared as follows: Boiled Royans in Bordeaux Style.—Wipe several Royans dry on a cloth, squeezing the tips of the tails firmly, dust them over with salt, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire; as soon as the flesh nearest the fire begins to whiten, turn the fish, and let them cook for about two minutes' longer. Put them on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter sauce. Royan Salad.—Drain the oil from a box of Royans, and split each one into halves lengthwise. Wash a head of lettuce, trim off the outside leaves, pull the remaining ones apart, and put them in a salad-bowl; then put in the fish, and put some oyster crabs round them. Mix in equal quantities some salad-oil and vinegar, season it with salt and pepper, pour it over the fish, and toss it about lightly. Sprinkle some chopped fresh herbs over the salad, and serve it. RUDD.—A European fresh-water fish (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus) (see Fig. 412) of the carp family. It is about the size and shape of the roach, and can be cooked in a similar manner. RUPPS AND REEVES.—Birds (Pavoncellapugnax) closely allied to sandpipers, the male being called Ruff, and the female Reeve. They are natives of Europe and Asia. The male, during the breeding season, has a ruff of feathers round the neck. They are very rare, but when caught can be cooked as4follows: Roasted Ruffs and Reeves.—Pluck the required number of Ruffs and Reeves, trass them by passing a skewer through the thighs and pinions, and fasten them in shape with string. Put them on a small spit with fat bacon over the breasts and between them, place them in front of a clear fire, and roast for about twenty minutes, basting them frequently with butter. When the birds are done, put them on a dish over pieces of fried bread or toast, pour round rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of the gravy with a little lemon-juice squeezed into it. RUM (Fr. Rhum; Ger. Rum; Ital. Rum; Sp. Ron). —A well-known spirit, distilled from the molasses of the sugar-cane; or more generally from the fermented Rum—continued. skinnings of the sugar-boilers, the drainings of the sugar- pots and hogsheads, the washings of the boilers and other vessels, together with sufficient recent cane-juice to impai’t the necessary flavour. When first distilled Rum is colourless, and has a peculiar unpleasant flavour, which is generally understood to proceed from the rind of the sugar-cane. It can be removed, however, by filtering thi-ougli charcoal and lime. Pineapple juice is added by some Jamaica planters to give Rum the flavour that it assumes in old age, and colouring is effected with burnt sugar. The best Rum is imported from the West Indies, under the name of Jamaica Rum, a very good kind also reaching us from Martinique and Guadaloupe. The average strength of Rum, when imported into this country, is about 20 over proof. See Alcohol. The origin of the term Rum seems to have some kind of mystery about it, and is believed by some to be a shorten- ing of the word Rumbulion, signifying a noisy tumult, that being probably the result of an over-dose. Although the use of Rum is declining in this country, there are some favourite receipts in which it holds a prominent position. Rum Buns.—Thickly spread some small moulds with cold butter, and half fill them with Savarin paste; allow them to rise one-third in height, and then bake in a moderate oven until a straw can be passed into them without any of the cake sticking to it. When cool, set the buns in a dish containing Rum syrup until they have absorbed enough to soften them. The syrup is made by dissolving in cold water as much white sugar as it will absorb, and then flavouring it with Rum. Savarin paste is made as follows: Sift 21b. of flour into a deep bowl, make a hole in the middle, put into it loz. of yeast dissolved in 4 pint of lukewarm milk, and in the milk mix enough of the flour to form a thick batter in the middle of the flour. Cover the bowl, and let the batter rise in a warm place until it is foaming; add loz. of sugar, 4oz. of salt, mix in the rest of the flour, and knead in six eggs, one at a time; then mix in Rib. of butter, knead in six more eggs, one at a time, and enough warm milk to make a batter thick enough to retain its form when dropped from a spoon upon paper. Stir in a little sliced citron, or a few stoned raisins, and bake the cakes. Dust the Rum buns with sugar before serving. See Fig. 413. Rum Butter.—Mix with lib. of brown sugar a small grated nutmeg and about 6oz. of warmed butter, add 1 wine- glassful of Rum, and beat the whole up well. Pour the butter on to a dish, and when cold, sift caster sugar over it. Serve with oatmeal biscuits. This is used in the counties of Westmoreland and Cumberland when a child is born ; it is given for good luck to the mother and visitors who come to see her. Rum Cream. -Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cream into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and three eggs, and stir Avell over the fire until the mixture has the appearance and consistency of custard. Let it cool, then mix in joz. of gelatine boiled in a little milk, and 1 wineglassful of Rum. Pour the cream into a mould, and let it get firm; then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Rum Favourite (German).—Put loz. of soaked gelatine into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until it has dissolved. Rub the yellow peel of two lemons on 6oz. of loaf sugar, and put it into the milk. Beat the yolks of ten eggs withTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 349 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bum—continued. 1 pint of cream, and stir them in with the milk, also stir the mixture close to the edge of the fire until it has thickened, then move it away and continue stirring it until half cold; then mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of Rum. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and stand it on ice or in a very cold place. In a few hours’ time, or when the pudding is quite set and cold, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and serve. Rum Jelly.—Put loz. of gelatine into a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and let it soak; then add the strained juice and thin rind of three lemons, 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar, eight cloves, ten peppercorns, half a stick of cinnamon, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour in lastly 11 teacupfuls of Rum. Whisk well, pour the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and stir well until the gelatine has dissolved; then add the well whisked whites of two eggs, and after it has boiled for two or three minutes, pass it through a jelly-bag, con- tinuing to strain until the jelly runs clear; then stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy. Turn the jelly into a mould packed in ice, and let it get quite firm; then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Rum Julep.—Put into a large glass 1 wineglassful each of syrup and white Rum, add to these h wineglassful of bay Rum, and fill up with ice; add a few drops of lemon- juice, or rub round the rim of the glass with lemon; over this arrange a little sweet balm and a few slices of banana, and drink through straws. Small grapes may be used instead of the balm and banana, if desired. Rum Milk Punch.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of Rum, and 1 pint of milk warm from the cow, then strain it. Rum Omelet.—Put six eggs and a little milk into a basin, add 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered loaf sugar, and beat well, but not to make the omelet too light. Turn the mixture into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry Fig. 414. Rum Omelet. until done, rolling the omelet into shape as soon as it begins to get stiff. Turn it out on to a dish, dredge over a little sugar, pour round 1 teacupful of Rum. ignite it (see Fig. 414), and serve at once. Rum Preserve.—Put 111), each of strawberries and rasp- berries, 21b. of powdered loaf sugar, and 1 pint of Rum into a deep stone jar, and stir them gently. Tie bladder over the jar. Pick the stalks off lib. of ripe currants and put them in the jar with lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Con- tinue in this way as the various fruits ripen, putting in lib. of sugar until each pound of fruit. The fruits that can be used, in addition to those mentioned, are: cherries, green- gages, plums, nectarines or apricots, and blackberries or mulberries; gooseberries must be excepted, on account of their skins, and the large fruits should be cut into halves. When all the fruits are in, tie the bladder over the jar, and let it stand in a dry place a couple of months, when the preserve will be ready for using. Rum Pudding. —Pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs just sufficient Rum to moisten them. Beat the yolks of six eggs with the whites of two, and 5 table spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix them with the soaked Bum—continued. breadcrumbs, and flavour with the grated peel of a lemon and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. W liisk the whites of four eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with the above ingredients. Butter the interior of a dome- shaped mould, fill it with the mixture, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and steam it for an hour. Care must be taken not to let the water enter the mould. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour 1 wineglassful of Rum over, ignite it, and serve immedi- ately with a sauceboatful of orange sauce. Rum Punch.—(1) Put lqt. each of Rum and brandy into an earthenware jar, with 1 breakfast-cupful each of rack or arrack, and strong green tea liquor, and add twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, and thirty coriander seeds all well pounded in a mortar, a small grated nutmeg, 211). each of loaf sugar and pine apple cut in slices, the thin rind of four lemons, and the strained juice of twelve. Pour over igall. of boiling water, cover the jar with bladder, and let it stand without being moved for two days. Add £gall. of boiling sweet milk, strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, put it into bottles, and cork them down. Tire punch is then ready for use, but it should be iced before serving. (2) Mix together in a large stone_ bottle or jug 1 pint of strong syrup, lqt. of water, 1 pint of Rum, 1 pint of brandy, and 1 breakfast-cupful of strained lemon-juice. Stand the jug or bottle in a tub, surround it with broken ice and a small quantity of salt, and leave it until ready to serve. It should be in the ice at least an hour. Serve it in small glasses. (3) For Bottling.—Put into a bowl lgall. each of clarified syrup and white Rum, and stir them well together. Mix loz. of essence of lemon with lqt. of bay Rum, and add it to the syrup mixture. Have ready 1 putt of in- fusion of tea, and mix it with an equal quantity of clarified lime-juice. Pour all together into a barrel, work it well, let it stand for a day, and bottle. After three months in bottle it will be fit for use. Rum Sauce.—(1) Put i pint of water with 4oz. of granulated sugar in a saucepan, and place it on the stove, adding 1 teaspoonful of caramel; when boiling, add loz. of corn- flour diluted in 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, stir wgll with a spatula, and cook for two minutes. Remove from the fire, and add immediately 1 gill of Jamaica Rum, mix- ing well; then strain it through a fine sieve over the pud- ding it is to be served with. (2) Beat to a smooth cream the yolks of two eggs, 2 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth. Just before serving the sauce, quickly and lightly mix with the whites 2 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, then mix in the yolks, and finally 1 wineglassful of the best (old Jamaica) Rum, or more, according to taste. Use the sauce as soon as it is made. Rum Slirub.—(1) Put 1 pint of strained orange-juice into an earthenware hasin, and mix in 21b. of loaf sugar and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of Rum. Let it remain, stirring occa- sionally, until the sugar is dissolved. Pass the liquor through a jelly-bag, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and in a few days’ time the shrub will be ready for use. (2) Cut off the rinds of six oranges and six lemons, paring them as thinly as possible, and put it into a 4gall. jar or cask; pour over 2gall. of Rum, and squeeze in the juice of the oranges and lemons, passing it through a fine strainer; now stir in 41b. of sugar, and let it stand for two weeks, giving it a vigorous stir daily for seven days. Ascertain if it is clear by pouring a little off; if not suffi- ciently clear, add loz. of gelatine dissolved in water over the fire, adding it while hot. Stir up well and vigorously, bung up securely, let it remain for three days, and bottle. (3) Put lgall. of Rum into a jar, add loz. of essence of orange and loz. of the essence of lemon, then add 1 break- fast-cupful of lime-juice, and work in lqt. of syrup. It is then ready for use. Rum Sling.—Put 1 wineglassful or a little more of Rum into a tumbler, fill up with milk, put in a lump of ice, ami drink at once.350 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i:c., referred to, see under their special heads. RUSKS.—The word Rusk is probably a corruption, of the Spanish Roscullor, from Rosea, a screw, or spiral. In the course of time it has assumed a much more general application, as will be seen from the following numerous receipts for their preparation. (1) Make in a large pan a ferment, by dissolving loz. of German yeast in lqt. of warm milk, adding about 41b. of flour, stirring well together, and setting aside to rise. Rub Jib. of fresh butter into 31 lb. of pastry flour, and form it into a bay, or well, adding Jib. of caster sugar. When the ferment has ceased working and begun to drop, pour it into the hollow bay in the flour, and then make of these a good stiff dough; cover over with a cloth, and set aside to swell, or prove, as it is called. When it has proved itself, cut off pieces of about I Jib. each, and shape them into long rolls about the size of a large rolling-pin. Place these on buttered roll tins, flatten down a little with the hands, cover with a cloth, set in a warm place for an hour or longer, and then put into a moderately quick oven until the tops arc brown. Then, when cold, cut into slices, place on baking-sheets, and put into a quick Fig. 415. Rusks. oven until the cut surface is brown. Remove, and turn, to make the other cut surface also brown (see Fig. 415). Let them dry slowly in a screen, or before the fire, and when cold they will be ready for use. (•2) Cut up Jib. of butter rather small, put it into 1J gills of milk, and warm them sufficiently to soften the butter without absolutely melting it. Sift lib. of flour into a pan, pour the milk and butter into it together with a beaten egg, add 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 1 table-spoonful of rose-water, and lastly 1J wineglassfuls of the best yeast, and stir all together with a knife. Knead the dough well on a paste board sprinkled thickly with flour, and divide it into pieces of an equal size. Knead each of these pieces into a thick round cake, put them on a buttered fin, prick the tops with a fork, and place them in a warm place to rise. When they have risen, well bake them in a moderate oven. (3) Rub 3oz. of butter into lib. of flour till quite smooth ; then mix in J teaspoonful of baking powder and I Joz. of caster sugar. Beat two eggs with a small quantity of milk, and mix them with the dry ingredients, adding more milk if necessary, as the dough should not be too stiff. Divide the dough into equal portions, mould them into balls with floured hands, place them on a baking-sheet, and let them stand for ten minutes; then put them in a brisk oven. When nearly done, draw them out, cut each into two or three slices according to the thickness, lay them out, and put them in the oven again. When of a pale golden brown and very crisp, take them out of the oven. They will keep in well-covered tins for some time. (4) Put i breakfast-cupful of dissolved yeast into a basin, add an equal quantity each of sifted crushed loaf sugar and cream, four eggs, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, and set it to rise; then work in a little more flour and 1 tea-cupful of warm butter and lard in equal proportions, and let it rise again. Form the mixture into cakes or rolls, and bake them in a slow oven. Take them out when done, and serve. (5) Chop fine 4oz. of sweet almonds without removing the skins, mix them up in a basin with Coz. of flour and Rusks—continued. loz. of aniseed, and stir in lightly ten eggs beaten up with Jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar for about twenty minutes. Put the mixture into long narrow moulds, and bake to a light colour. Turn them out when cold, and let them remain for a day. Cut them up into slices, brown them in the oven, anil serve. (6) Put Jib. of almonds with the skins on into a mortar, and crush them ; then turn them into a basin, and mix in gradually an equal weight of graham flour that has been well sifted. Beat twelve eggs and 14oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar for about twenty minutes, stir them into the flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of essence of almonds. Divide the mixture into four parts, put them into long narrow moulds, and bake them in a slack oven until done. Let them get cold, cut them up into slices, brown them in the oven, and serve. Prench Rusks.—Put lib. of light-bread dough into a bowl, warm it in front of the fire, and mix in 2oz. each of crushed loaf sugar and butter and 1 teacupful of milk. Set the dough to rise again, add the yolks of two eggs, a little vanilla or lemon flavouring, and sufficient flour to make the whole into a stiff paste. Knead it well on a board, and set it to rise again for three hours; then knead it well again, form it into biscuits or cakes, let them rise for about an-hour-and-a-lialf, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. Take them out when done, brush them over with vanilla-flavoured syrup, and serve. German Rusks.—(1) Break half-a-dozen fresh eggs into a basin, mix Jib. of caster sugar with them, and whisk them well; then add the grated peel of a lemon and 4oz. of aniseed, and sift in gradually sufficient flour to form a stiff batter, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon. Divide the dough into two equal portions, and roll to a long shape. Butter a baking-tin, lay the rolls on it, leaving about 2in. clear space between each, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave them until nearly cold; then cut them into slices, lay them on the tin, and return them to the oven, which should be much cooler than when they first went in. When crisp and yellow, take the Rusks out, and keep them dry in tins. (2) Put 1 Jib. of sifted flour into a basin with 6oz. of of sugar, make a well in the centre, and put in 1J break- fast-cupfuls of warm milk in which 3 table-spoonfuls of yeast have been mixed. Mix the whole lightly, then put in 6oz. of butter that has been cut up into small pieces. Cover the basin with a cloth, and keep it in a warm temperature until the batter has well risen; then beat it thoroughly, and leave it to rise a second time. Cut the dough with a knife into strips lin. thick and ljin. broad. Butter some baking-sheets and lay the Rusks on them, leaving lin. or 2in. clear space between each. Let them rise again, then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and bake them in a good oven. When cooked, take them out of the oven and leave them until the following day; then Fig. 416. German Rusks. split them open (see Fig. 41G), lay them on baking-tins, the crust side downwards, and put them in a cool oven. \\ hen crisp and yellow take the Rusks out, and keep them packed in biscuit-tins in a dry plaee for use. Italian Rusks.—Sift into a basin 8oz. of flour and 6oz. of suga’-, and mix them up with 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, a little salt, and the yolks of six eggs; then work in vigorously 4oz. of slightly-warmed butter, the whites of the. six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly 2oz. ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 351 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Rusks—contin tied. Rusks—continued. blanched pistachio kernels. Put the hatter into four moulds, 8in. long, 2in. deep, and 2in. wide, and bake to a light colour. Turn the hatter out when cold, cut the four pieces crosswise into slices, brown them slightly in the oven, and serve. A few minutes only will suffice for this last browning, as the Rusks must not become dry through. Rusk Cake.—Blanch and peel 6oz. of almonds, and pound them in a mortar, mixing in occasionally small quantities of white of egg to keep them from oiling; then beat with them the yolks of fourteen eggs, Jib. of caster sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Stir the above ingredients for half-an-hour. Pound Jib. of Rusks in a mortar, then sift them through a tine hair sieve, and add, with the juice of one lemon, to the above mixture. Work the whole well for a few minutes, then mix in lightly the whites of the fourteen eggs, which should have been whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a cake mould, pour in the mixture, which should only three-parts till the mould, allowing room for it to rise. Bake the cake in a moderate oven. Rusk Fritters.—Pare all the crust from half-a-dozen Rusks ; cut each Rusk into slices about lin. thick, pour a glass of sherry over them, and let them soak for a few minutes. Beat up three eggs with 2oz. of caster sugar. Lay the slices of Rusk on a sieve to drain, dip them into the beaten egg, and fry them in boiling lard. Drain them on kitchen paper, lay them on a hot dish, sprinkle them over with powdered cinnamon and caster sugar, and serve hot. Rusk Ices.—Prepare some lemon water ice and coffee cream ice, and freeze them separately. Coat a Rusk ice mould with the coffee cream ice, leaving a hollow in the centre; fill the hollow with the lemon water ice, and pack the mould in pounded ice and salt. Before serving, turn the frozen preparation out of the mould, and cut it across into slices with a knife dipped in hot water. Put some vine leaves on a glass dish, arrange the slices on them, and serve. Rusk Pudding.—Put a couple of Rusks at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish. Beat an egg up in a basin, pour over 1 breakfast cupful of boiling milk, sweeten to taste, and flavour with vanilla or lemon. Pour the mixture over the Rusks, set the dish in a slow oven, and bake for about an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a dish, spread over a little apricot or straw- berry jam made hot, and serve. Rusks with Raspberries.—(1) Pick off the stalks from 1 pint of raspberries, and put them into a saucepan with 6oz. of loaf sugar, 1 pint of water, and half that quan- tity of white wine. Boil the fruit for five minutes, then pass the liquor through a fine wire sieve, and leave it until cold. Lay some Rusks on a baking-dish, sift Fig. 417. Rusks with Raspberries. crushed loaf sugar over them, and glaze them under a sala- mander. When the Rusks are cold, arrange them in a glass dish, pour the raspberry liquor over them (see Fig. 417) and serve. (2) Glaze some Rusks, lay them in a glass dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and pour light wine and raspberry syrup over them in equal quantities. Rusk Shape (German).—Spread a few thin Rusks over with any kind of jam, and cover with more Rusks; butter a plain mould, and lay them carefully in. Beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites of two, stir them in with 1 breakfast-cupful each of cream and milk, and pour them over the Rusks. Leave the mould until the Rusks are well soaked with the custard; then tie a sheet of paper over the top, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet wine sauce poured round it. Savoury Rusk Pudding.—(1) Beat up four eggs, mix them with 1 pint of veal or chicken stock that has not been flavoured 'with onion or garlic and that has had all the fat well skimmed off, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Break four Rusks up into moderate- sized pieces, put them in a buttered pie-dish, pour the eggs and gravy over them, and bake in a slow oven. Serve hot. (2) Cut about ill), of lean mutton or veal into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar. Beat lqt. of milk in with the meat, then pour it into a stewpan and let it simmer very slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Do not let the milk boil. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, and mix two well beaten eggs with it. Break three Rusks into moderate-sized pieces, lay them in a buttered pie-dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and pour the savoury custard over them. Bake for nearly an hour in a slow oven. Serve while hot. (3) Put four Rusks in a basin, pour over them 1 pint of boiling veal or mutton broth or beef tea, cover the basin, and leave the Rusks until they are well soaked. Skin and finely mince 2oz. of veal kidney-suet, mix it with the Rusks, add three eggs, season to taste, and beat the mixture well. Butter a pudding basin, pour in the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over it, stand it in a sauce- pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an hour. Do not let the water enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Swiss Rusks.—Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream with a wooden spoon. Sift in 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir in, one at a time, eight eggs, beating one well in before another one is added; then add and stir in 8oz. of sifted dried flour and 4oz. of ground sweet almonds. Have ready a square tin with a turned-up edge, butter it well, and dust it with sugar; pour in the mixture to about lin. in thickness, smoothing over the surface with a spatula, put it into a moderate oven, and bake. Take it out when cooked, and turn it bodily out on to a sheet of paper. Let it get cold, cut it into shapes, and serve. Vanilla-flavoured Rusk Pudding.—Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with Jib. of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; add one well-beaten egg, and suffi- cient essence of vanilla to flavour it, and stir the paste over the fire till thick; then move it off. Cover some slices of Rusk with the mixture, and put them in a buttered pie-dish. Beat one egg in A pint of milk, pour it over the Rusks, and bake them in a moderate oven for an hour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of syrup and a little vanilla flavouring, and stir it over the fire till boiling. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve at once. RUSSETS.—See Apples. RUSSIAN COMPOTE.—See Compotes. RUSSIAN PATTIES.—See Patties. RUSSIAN SALAD.—See Salads. RUSSIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. RUSSIAN WAFERS.—See Wafers. RUSSIAN WINES.—These are very rarely met , with in tKs country, although they are largely manu- | factured in Caucasia. The history of wine-making inTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 352 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Russian Wines—continued. Transcaucasia dates back to time immemorial, and the opinion prevails that the vine was introduced into Europe from that country. The peculiarity of Russian wines is that they are fermented in jars and preserved in other jars buried under-ground. RYE (Fr. Seigle; Ger. Roggen; Ital. Segala; Sp. Centeno).—The seed of a plant (Secale cereale) which is largely cultivated in Russia, Germany, and the northern parts of Europe, for making bread (see Bread). It is also used for some other purposes, furnishing an excellent malt for the distillation of spirit, and is much used in the making of Hollands. Cooley informs use that Rye bread is very likely to cause diarrhoea to those unaccus- tomed to partake of it. Rye bread is acid, and dark in colour, but about equal in nutritive value to wheat bread. Green Rye Soup (German).—In all parts of Germany, where this soup is in great demand, the Rye is cut when the grain commences to ripen, but while still green; it is then dried in the sun and afterwards threshed out. The corn prepared in this way is used only for soups. Pre- pare about 2qts. of rich vegetable soup, put it into a saucepan with lib. of Rye prepared as above and well washed in several waters, add six leeks and a head of celery tied up in a bunch, and boil slowly for about four hours. Take out the bunch of vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces, together with the white parts from two more heads of celery and the yellow parts from six leeks all cut up; return them all to the soup, thicken with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smooth in cold stock, and stir well until quite smooth. Add a small quantity of moist sugar, and boil slowly for about an hour. Skim thoroughly, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve hot. Rye Batter Cakes.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted Rye- meal into a basin, add a little salt, and pour in suffi- cient warm milk to form the whole into a thin batter. Beat well, add 1 gill of yeast, and set it to lise; then | add a little flour if it should be too thin, form it into cakes, put them on a griddle over a clear fire, and cook them. Take them off when done, and they are ready for serving. Rye Cakes.—Mix 4oz. of wheat-flour with 4oz. of Rye-meal, then mix them to a smooth paste with 1 pint of milk and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a few small cake-tins, three- parts fill them with the batter, put them in a brisk oven, and bake them. When cooked, turn the cakes out of their tins, put them on a hot plate, and serve them at once. Rye in Imitation of Coffee.—Well wash the required quan- tity of whole Rye, put it into a saucepan with a good supply of water, and boil it gently until it is soft, taking care that the grains do not burst. Take it out, drain, spread it out on paper placed in the sun or in a slow oven, and let it dry. Bum it in the same way as coffee, grind it, and it is then ready for use. Rye Gems.—Put § breakfast-cupful of Rye-meal into a basin, add \ teacupful of wheat-flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix well. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of sifted crushed loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; turn this into the dry mixture, and add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a still" froth. Put the mixture into gem pans or mould cups, with a slice of candied-peel in each, set them in the oven, and bake them for from thirty to forty minutes. Turn them out when done, and they are ready for use (see Fig. 418). The quantity of the ingredients used above is sufficient to make half-a-dozen gems. Rye—con tinned. Rye Muffins.—(1) Put 3 teacupfuls of sifted Rye-meal into a large bowl, and add an equal quantity of flour, 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, h teaspoonful of salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar all rubbed together through a sieve. Beat well two eggs, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stir this into the dry mixture, and work to a stiffish paste. Dip a table-spoon in cold milk, fill it with the batter, drop it into boiling fat in a frying-pan, and fry for about ten minutes. Take out the muffins as they are done, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. They may also be made with U breakfast-cupfuls of Rye-meal and flour in equal quantities. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk and 1 teacupful of molasses into a bowl, and add a little Rye-flour mixed up with 1 saltspoonful each of salt and ground cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Beat well a couple of eggs, mix them into the other ingredients, and work in sufficient of the Rye-flour to make a batter that will drop from a spoon. Dip a table-spoon in milk, take up a little of the batter, drop it into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fry for about ten minutes. Take out the muffins, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Put i breakfast-cupful of Rye-flour or sifted Rye-meal into a basin, and mix in J teacupful of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, with 2 table-spoonfuls of baking-powder mixed up with it. When these are well incorporated, add an egg beaten well in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and mix at once. Put the preparation into heated gem or muffin pans, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. Turn them out when done, and serve. A teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar may be substituted for the baking-powder. Rye Mush.—Put 1 teacupful of Rye-flour into a basin, mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and pour in sufficient cold water to make a thin smooth paste; then stir it into a sauce- pan containing 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, set the pan on the fire, and stir frequently for twenty minutes. Turn the mush into a bowl, and serve with cream or molasses. It should be quite thick when it is done. RYE WHISKY.—See Whisky. SAB A YON.—A kind of whipped froth, which is some- times served separately, or used as an accompaniment to sweet puddings. The following are excellent receipts for it: (1) Put into a stewpan the yolks of eight eggs and *>. of caster sugar, mix thoroughly, and moisten with 1 wine- glassful of white wine. Set the stewpan over a very slow lire, and whip the contents continuously until it is quite as frothy as whipped cream. It should then be served immediately, either in custard glasses or spread over the pudding with which it is to be served. (2) Put the yolks of ten and the whites of two eggs in a saucepan, and whisk them well, adding gradually 8oz. of caster sugar and I wineglassful of kirschenwasser. Put the saucepan over a very slow fire or in the bain- marie, and continue to whisk until the contents become quite frothy ; then remove the pan to a quicker fire, and whisk for two minutes; and then remove it to the side of the fire, whisking it continually until it has cooled a little. Put the pan on the ice, whisk it until it is firm, pour it into glasses, and serve quickly. (3) Mix in a saucepan the yolks of thirteen and the whites of three eggs, and Rb. of caster sugar, and beat them together; then add 7 wineglassfuls of wine, half a stick of vanilla, a small piece of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon. Whip the mixture over the fire till frothy, then take it off the fire, and continue whipping till cold. Mix with the above 3oz. of clarified gelatine and 1 teacupful of rum, pour the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice. In two hours’ time, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a folded napkin placed on a dish, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 353 S ABOTIERE.—An apparatus used by the French for making ices. SACHSEN SAUCE.—See Sauces. SACK.—A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines. A corruption of Sec—dry. SADDLE.—A name given to a part of an animal con- taining a portion of the back-bone with ribs on each side. A double loin. See Mutton, Venison, &c. SAFES.—(Fr. Garde-mangers). The term itself is sufficiently suggestive of the apparatus referred to—a closet or chamber used for keeping food. The Safe should therefore be situated in a cool corner, and so contrived as to permit free ventilation. Perforated zinc answers well for tin doors and sides of Safes; but the rule being to use zinc for the door only no air can pass through, and then the ventilation is rendered almost inactive. The Safe shown in Fig. 419 is ventilated according to Keen’s principle, and answers well, if the doors are ventilated also. It may be taken for granted that one of the prime objects of a Safe is to keep flies away from meat and other food, therefore it is advisable that the perforations should not be too large. SAFFRON (Fr. Safran; Ger. Safran; Ital. Zaffe- rano; Sp. Azafran).—At one time Saffron was used extensively in cookery for colouring sweetmeats and broth ; but now its use has dwindled almost down to obliteration, be- ing rarely met with ex- cepting for colouring confectionery and liqueurs. Saffron, as known to us, consists of the prepared stigmas of a plant called Crocus sativus (see Fig. 420), and is sold in two varieties— Hay Saffron and Cake Saffron. One probable reason for its falling into disuse is that it is rarely if ever sold unadulterated. The extract is made as follows : Put a small quantity of saffron in a jar, pour about 1 teacupful of boiling water over it, and leave it till the colour is drawn out. Strain the extract, and bottle it; or it can be used immediately. Fig. 420. Saffron Plant. SAGE (Fr. Sauge; Ger. Salbei; Ital. Salvia; Sp. Salvia).—This herb (Salvia officinalis) is best known to us in conjunction with onions for stuffing pork and geese. It has a peculiar grayish green leaf, powerfully aromatic. In some countries it is used to flavour cheese. The leaves may be dried and powdered for winter use as follows: Pick the Sage-leaves on to a sheet of paper, and dry them slowly before the fire, or in a slack oven. \V hen very crisp, nib the leaves between the hands to obtain as fine a powder as possible. The powder must be kept in a tightly-corked bottle, or it will lose its flavour. Sage Gargle.—Put a large handful of Sage-leaves in a saucepan over the fire with 1 pint of water, cover the saucepan close, and let the water boil very fast. W hen it is reduced to 4 pint, strain, and let it stand till quite cold; then add “to it 4 pint each of vinegar and port wine. Sweeten with brown sugar or honey. Sage-and-Onion Stuffing.—(1) Put into a pan 2qts. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onion, 1 large table-spoonful of chopped Sage, and 1 table- spoonful of salt and pepper. Beat up one egg in 1 breakfast-cupful of warm water, pour it over the bread- crumbs, and work in 1 breakfast-cupful of lard. (2) Boil two large onions till nearly soft, then strain them, chop them finely, and mix with them double their quantity of grated stale breadcrumbs, 1 scant dessert-spoon- ful of chopped Sage, and 2oz. of butter. Season with pepper and salt, and bind the stuffing with the beaten yolk of one egg. SAGO (Fr. Sagou; Ger. Sago).—The term itself is derived from the Malayan Sagu, which signifies pith. The Sago of commerce is obtained from the interior of the trunk of several palms, being imported to us from Sumatra, Java, Borneo, and Malacca. It resembles arrowroot in many of its characteristics, but it is greatly over-rated as a nutrient food. It is much used in this country for making puddings and pies, and other sweet dishes. Sago-and-Apple Pudding.—Peel about half a score of large cooking apples, core them, cut them into quarters, and lay them in a pie-dish; put 1 heaped teacupful of Sago in with them, pour in sufficient cold water to cover, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. If it becomes too dry, add more water. Serve it hot. Sago-and-Beer Soup.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Sago into a stewpan, with the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon, a few cloves, sugar to taste, and 2qts. of ale. Boil gently until the Sago is dissolved, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon; then put in a lemon cut into thin slices, from which all the pips have been removed, and 2 wineglassfuls of Rum. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Sago Cakes.—Beat lOoz. of butter till creamy in a basin, then mix in gradually, while still beating, six eggs, a Fig. 421. Sago Cakes. little more than lib. of Sago, and lOozl of caster sugar, and beat the mixture until quite smooth. Butter a deep baking-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake it. Put 6oz. of loaf sugar in a stewpan with 34 pints of water, VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. A354 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sago—continued. and stand it by the fire to keep it lukewarm. When the cake is well browned, take it out of the oven, and baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the sugar and water; then put it back in the oven until the moisture is absorbed. Continue the basting until all the sugared water has been used and absorbed. Cut the cake into nice-shaped pieces, arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, dust caster sugar over them (see Fig. 421), and serve. Sago Cream.—Put 4oz. of Sago in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until dissolved; then stir in with it 1 pint of boiling beef-tea and 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling cream. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve while hot. Sago Dumplings for Soup (German).—Boil the requisite quantity of Sago in milk, stirring it with a wooden spoon until thick and clear ; then turn it on to a dish in a layer about lin. thick, and leave until cold; then cut it into small rounds with a tin cutter, and form them into balls. Pour boiling soup into a soup-tureen; dip the balls in beaten egg, put them in the soup, and serve. Sago Gruel.—Scald 2oz. of Sago with boiling water, strain it, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of fresh water, and boil it gently until thick and clear, keeping it well skimmed. When cooked, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and mix 4 pint of port wine with it. Serve it with slices of lemon and dry biscuits. Sago Jelly.—(1) Put J breakfast-cupful of Sago into a saucepan, with the grated peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and sufficient wine and water in equal quantities to cook it, sweetening to taste with loaf sugar. Stir the Sago over the fire with a wooden spoon till clear and thick, pour it on to a flat dish, and leave it until cold. Put 1 pint each of white wine and water into a bowl, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, sweeten with 6oz. of loaf sugar that has been rubbed on lemon-peel, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then set the bowl in a cool place or on ice. Cut the Sago-jelly into small fancy shapes with tin cutters, put them into the wine mixture, and serve. (2) Peel and slice two large cooking apples, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them gently for an hour. At the end of that time strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and mix with it 2oz. of Sago, the juice of one lemon, and 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of sugar. Boil the Sago very gently until re- duced to a clear jelly. Rinse a jelly mould out 'with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and keep it in a cold place until set. When ready to serve, turn the jelly out on to a glass dish. Sago Milk.—Soak 3 table-spoonfuls of Sago in a little cold water for one hour, then put it in a saucepan with 14 pints of boiling milk, sweeten and flavour to taste, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Serve while hot. Sago Pudding (Baked).—(1) Boil the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon in lqt. of new milk. Take the lemon-peel out of the milk, and put in 1 teacupful of washed Sago and f tea- cupful of sugar. Let the Sago simmer for twenty minutes or until tender, then remove it from the fire and leave it ! till cool. Line a buttered pie-dish with rich puff paste; I mix 2oz. of butter and five well-beaten eggs with the Sago, turn it into the pie-dish, and bake it for one hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the pudding in the same dish. (2) Wash 6oz. of Sago, let it steep in cold water for half-an-hour, then pour the water off. Have lqt. of milk boiling hot in a saucepan over the fire, stir the Sago into it gradually, let it boil ten minutes, stirring it constantly. Then remove it from the fire, and continue to stir until it is cool. Add two eggs beaten up with 1 or 2 table-spoon- fuls of cold milk, 2oz. of sugar, and grated lemon-peel to taste. Mix these thoroughly into the Sago, pour it into a pudding dish, put it in a slow oven, and bake for an- hour-and-a-half. (3) Boiled.—Wash about J teacupful of Sago, and boil it in 1 pint of milk until soft. Leave it till cold, then Sago—continued. mix with it five well-beaten eggs, two Naples biscuits, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and sugar to taste. When well mixed, pour the above ingredients into a buttered pudding- basin, tie a cloth over the top, stand it in a saucepan, with boiling water to three-parts the height of the basin, and boil it for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour a sweet wine sauce over it, and serve. (4) Soak 1 teacupful of Sago in sufficient cold water to cover it all night. Put it over the fire in a farina kettle with 1 pint of milk, and let it cook till it is quite clear and soft and has absorbed all the milk; then take it from the fire, and let it cool a little. Beat together Jib. of sugar and loz. of butter. Beat up five eggs, and mix with them 1 pint of milk ; and when the Sago is nearly cold, beat it in with them ; also stir in powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, and the beaten butter and sugar. Butter a pudding-dish, pour the pudding in, and bake for half-an-hour; or pour it into a buttered pudding- tin, and boil for an hour. If served hot, send wine sauce with it; if cold, serve it with cream and sugar. (5) Put 1 teacupful of Sago into a small saucepan with 14 i>ints of milk, and boil it. When the Sago is cooked, turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Remove the skin and any discoloured parts from 4oz. of beef-suet, chop it finely, and mix it with the cold Sago; add also 1 break- fast-cupful eacli of breadcrumbs and sugar, 1 teacupful of stoned and chopped raisins, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon. Beat four eggs well with 1 wineglassful of brandy, and stir them in with the other ingredients. Butter a pudding basin, pour the Sago mixture into it, cover it with a sheet of paper, and stand it in a saucepan with boiling water a little more than half the height of the basin, and steam it for three hours. Prepare the following sauce for the pudding: Beat the yolks of four eggs well with 4 pint of white wine, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, turn the sauce into a small lined saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened ; before the sauce boils, it must be taken off the fire. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish ; whisk the sauce well for a couple of minutes, then pour it over the pudding (see Fig. 422), and serve. (6) Cold.—Press sufficient juice from some red fruit to fill 1 breakfast-cup, strain it into a lined saucepan, mix with it 1 pint of water, and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Place the saucepan over the fire, and when the liquor boils put in l teacupful of Sago, and boil it gently until dissolved. When cooked, turn the pudding into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it on ice or in a cool temperature. Meanwhile, prepare a nicely-flavoured custard, and let that get cold also. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the pudding out on to a fancy dish, and pour the custard round it. (7) Wash 1 teacupful of Sago, put it in a lined sauce- pan with 14 jiints of water, loaf sugar to taste, and a few drops of any kind of flavouring liked, and boil it until transparent. When cooked, mix 2 wineglassfuls of port wine with the Sago, and boil it for a minute or two longer. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the Sago into it, and stand it in a cool place or on ice until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn the pudding on to a dish, and garnish it with goose- berry jelly.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 355 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sago—continued. Sago Pudding with Fruit.—Soak about loz. of Sago in f pint of water till it is quite a jelly. Put some plums or apples, peeled, quartered, and cored, into a pie-dish with sugar to sweeten. Sweeten the soaked Sago, lay it over the fruit, and bake. Sago Shapes.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Sago into a stew- pan with 1 pint of milk, a stick of cinnamon, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it, stirring occasionally to prevent its burning. Dissolve l <>'/.. of gelatine in 1 teacup- ful of hot milk, and when the Sago is cooked, mix all together, and boil for ten minutes longer, stirring all the time. Rinse a mould out with cold water, turn the Sago into it, and set it in a cool place. When quite cold and set, turn the Sago out of the mould on to a glass, dish, garnish it with jam or any kind of stewed fruit, and serve. Sago Soft-cake.—Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan until 1 pint of water, and place it over the lire until re- duced to a nice syrup. Blanch and skin 4 table-spoonfuls of almonds, put them in a saucepan with 4lb. of butter, and stir them over the fire until the butter is hot; then mix in gradually lib. of Sago, and continue stirring over the fire until the almonds are browned. Pour quickly over the above ingredients the boiling syrup and an equal quantity of boiling milk, and stir until well mixed ; then put the lid on the saucepan, and leave the contents undisturbed for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time flavour the mixture with a few drops of rose-water, turn it on to a hot dish, shape it like a dome, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Sago Souffle -Put 4 teacupful of Sago into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a piece of stick cinnamon, sweeten to taste with white sugar, and boil gently until the Sago is thoroughly done, keeping it .well stirred at the same time; then move it oil' the fire and let it get cold. Beat the yolks of six eggs, mix them in with the Sago, and remove the piece of cinnamon. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the above mixture. Turn the whole into a mould, leaving room for it to rise at the top, dust it over with caster sugar, put it into a brisk oven, and bake for about twenty minutes, or until well risen and lightly browned. Serve the souffld immediately it is cooked in the same mould. Sago Soup.—(1) Wash Jib. of Sago, and boil it for one hour in plenty of water, adding a small piece of cinnamon, the rind of one lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. At the end of that time, mix with the Sago three or four slices of lemon, sufficient red wine to make the required quantity of soup, and sugar to taste. Stir the soup over the fire till boiling, then take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon. Dust some powdered sugar and ground cinnamon in with the soup, and serve it. (2) Wash 6oz. of pearl Sago, and boil it in plenty of water, with a little salt, for ten minutes. Drain the Sago on a sieve, put it back in the saucepan, with nearly 2qts. of broth, and let it simmer gently until it is soft. Thicken the soup with a liaison of three or four yolks of eggs, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. (3) Wash the Sago, and soak it in cold water for one night. On the following morning, put the Sago in the required quantity of broth, with some sweet herbs, and whatever vegetables are in season, chopped small, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire until the Sago is soft. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast. Sago-and-Vegetable Pie.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Sago to soak in water over night. Next day, peel and cut into slices a few carrots, turnips, onions, and tomatoes; also cut into small pieces some celery. Put a layer of the Sago into a pie-dish, then a layer of the vegetables, then another of Sago, and so on, until all are used, strewing between eacli layer a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs, salt, and peppe". Moisten with clear stock, and cover the whole with a layer of paste, trimming it off neatly round the edges. Bake the pic in a quick oven. When cooked, take it out, and serve while hot. SAILOR’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. ST. AGNES PUDDING.—See Puddings. ST. AMANDE CAKE.—See Cakes. ST. CLAIR PUDDING.—See Puddings. ST. HONORE CAKE.—See Cakes. ST. MENEHOULD SAUCE.—See Sauces. SAINTONGE.—The sixth class of French brandies. SAKE.—A Japanese beer made of rice. SALADS (Fr. Salades ; Ger. Salate; Ital. Insalate ; Sp. Ensaladas).—The English cook prides himself on the simplicity of his preparations ; the Continental cook revels in compounds; yet, strange to say, the English cook, in most cases, serves a salad as an incongruous mess, whilst the Continental cook serves it in its simplicity. When we take into consideration the virtues of a Salad, or at Fig. 423. Salad-bowl. any rate those that are claimed for it, it is almost a wonder that some English cooks have not made the mixing of Salads a special study. Salads should be essentially English dishes, but, as a matter of fact, one may enter the best restaurant in this country, and, asking for a Salad, will be provided with a plate of wet vegetables, and a flask of creamy mixture called Salad cream or dressing. Kettner observes that in our own system of cookery, which boasts of its naturalness, and which therefore ought to hold the Salad in hi ghest honour, it occupies but an inferior place, and is nearly always spoilt. In respect of salads, therefore, the French ami Italians have beaten us in our own line. Salads should be considered as of two classes, which may be styled—first, simple, and second, compound; the Figs. 424 and 425. Salad-servers. simple Salad consisting entirely of vegetables, either green or coloured, and seasoned with some sort of dressing. Compound Salads consist of a simple Salad, combined more or less with some sort of cold fish or cold meat. Fruit is sometimes also made the subject of a Salad. But, as the name in such a case, that is applied to fruit, scarcely realises what we prefer to understand as a Salad proper, although they are described under the heading of the special fruit from which the Salad takes its name, they may be356 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. regarded more in the light of compotes. The meaning of the word Salad is literally that which is eaten with salt, and is therefore scarcely applicable. Compound Salads will be found described under their particular headings, such as Anchovy, Artichoke, Asparagus, Cress, &c. Other kinds are dealt with in the receipts following this article. The simplest form of Salad would be made by wiping perfectly dry a few leaves of lettuce, cutting them into broad shreds, and then dressing them as follows: Put the lettuce in a deep Salad-bowl (see Pig. 423) fitted with a pah- of servers, one partaking of the character of a spoon (see Fig. 424), and the other that of a fork (see Fig. 425). Supposing the bowl to be about two-thirds full of the lettuce, and having ascertained that it is carefully dried, pour into the spoon four charges of best Lucca oil, and mix this freely into the leaves, stirring vigorously with both servers. Next dust in sufficient salt to season nicely, then pour into the spoon about 1 teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, fill the spoon up with the best malt vinegar, and stir this in briskly. The Salad is then ready to be served. From this simple plan of mixing a Salad many deviations can be made, and a variety of other herbs used and introduced, for many of which the highest virtues are claimed. A celebrated authority tells us that lettuce is a powerful sedative, and that endive is a cure for gout, as well as possessing some of the virtues of coffee, for which the ground dried root (chicory) is often sub- stituted. Beetroot is a purifier and strengtliener of the blood. Cucumber impi-oves the com- plexion ; dandelion stimulates the liver; tomato and celery stimu- late the amorous inclinations of man; and onions are provocative of love in woman. Any of these, therefore, have two qualities to recommend them, medicinal and nutritive, their effects and flavours being delicately enhanced by the use of Salad oil. When prepared dressing is not served with a Salad, oil and vinegar, both of the very best quality, should be set on the table; and for holding these nothing can be more convenient than two jug-shaped bottles in a frame (see Fig. 42(3). Besides the receipts for salads given under special headings, the following will be found very acceptable: Bohemia Salad.—Wash and well dry some lettuces, cut them into shreds, and put them in a Salad-bowl, with some slices of beetroot on the top. Beat up the yolks of two raw eggs with a little chopped onion, salt, and mustard; when well beaten, add 3 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, a little at a time, beating well. Pour this dressing over the lettuce, and serve at once. Bouquet Salad.—Wash two bunches of watercress, and keep them in ice water till crisp; then take them out, Fig. 427. Bouquet Salad. shake all the water from them, and tear them into pieces. Chop four hard-boiled eggs, and prepare a Salad cream, mixing 1 teaspoonful of sugar with it. Place a layer of Salads—continued. the watercress in a dish, put in a few nasturtium flowers or buttercups, sprinkle over half the egg, and pour in half the dressing. Repeat this, put a wreath of flowers round and a few in the centre (see Fig. 427), and serve. Brunswick Salad.—Peel and cut a fresh celery-root into line shreds, and soak it in water for a-quarter-of-an-lmur. Peel and boil four truffles for three minutes in a little Madeira wine. Rub the inside of a basin with a clove of garlic, put in it the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs, and mash them to a smooth paste with a spoon; then add 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teacupful of oil, and a little vinegar. Drain the celery-root ami truffles, and mix them with the eggs. Season the Salad, turn it into a Salad-bowl, sprinkle over it a little chopped tarragon and cloves, and serve. Convent Salad. -Cut some cold boiled potatoes into nice slices and peel and slice a cucumber, and mix them together in a Salad-bowl with a few minced chives and a small quantity of minced tarragon. Prepare a dressing with oil, sour cream, one well-beaten egg, and a small quantity of vinegar, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the dressing over the contents of the Salad- bowl, mix thoroughly, and serve. Country Salad.—Wash thoroughly in plenty of cold water some tender dandelion-leaves, an equal quantity of young dock-leaves, some wood sorrel, and young mint. Dry the herbs, put them in a Salad-bowl, with some chopped chives and nasturtium buds, season with salt and pepper, Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour in some Salad- oil. Toss the Salad about lightly, garnish with wild flowers, and serve it. Dumas Salad.—Pound together a very small quantity of tunny and anchovy (about 1 teaspoonful of each); put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a Salad-bowl, with 1 table- spoonful of Salad-oil, and mash it to a paste; then mix in the pounded tunny and anchovy, and a small quantity of French mustard. Finely chop the white of the egg, a small pickled cucumber, a few stalks of chervil, and a little soy. Mix all the ingredients together in the Salad- bowl, with 1 wineglassful of wine vinegar, then arrange tastefully over the Salad a few slices each of boiled ] otatoes, beetroot, turn ip-rooted celery, and rampion, and season to taste with salt and Hungarian pepper. Stir the above mixture with a fork for about twenty minutes, then serve it. The above Salad is from a receipt designed ami much used by Alexander Dumas. Dutch Salad.—Skin and bone a herring, and cut it into small pieces; wash and bone eight or ten anchovies, and divide them into four pieces each. Take an equal quan- tity of each, of cold fowl and German sausage, and cut them into small square pieces. Chop in equal quantities some pickled gherkins and beetroot, and cut in rather large pieces twice the quantity of cold boiled potatoes. Mix all the ingredients, excepting the anchovies, together with one or two chopped hard-boiled eggs and about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped capers. Prepare a dressing with two parts olive-oil ami one part tarragon vinegar, and mix smoothly in with it a small quantity of French mustard, seasoning to taste with white pepper. Pour the dressing over the Salad, and serve. Farmer’s Salad.—Thoroughly wash some dandelion-leaves, picking them over at the same time and removing all the bruised leaves. Put the leaves in water for five hours, then drain and wipe them on a cloth. Arrange the leaves in a Salad-bowl, grate ilb. of fresh made cottage cheese over them, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped onion. Put 1 dessert spoonful of flour in a small sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, pour in gra- dually a little less than 4 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then turn the milk into a basin, and leave it till cold. When cold, season the thickened milk with salt and pepper, and mix some fi nely-chopped sorrel and mint-leaves with it. Pour the dressing over the Salad, and serve it. Another way of making this is to mix together in a bowl some young onions, young beet- root tops, and leaves of mustard-seed, and then to pour over them a bacon Salad sauce. Fig. 426. Salad Frame (Adams and Son).357 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. Fisherman's Salad.—Cut six boiled potatoes into slices; trim oft’ all tlie skin and hone from about 11,1b. of cold boiled fresh fish, and divide it into flakes with two forks. Take a quarter of a cabbage, cut it into shreds, and put them in a Salad-bowl; lay the slices of potatoes on the top, then put on the fish. Sprinkle over the salad 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and pickles, dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, pour over the ingredients 1 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 J teacupfuls of Salad-oil. Finely chop two hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle them on the top of the Salad, and serve it. Florida Salad.—Cut up lib. of pumpkin into symmetrically - shaped pieces, and boil them for a few minutes in salted water. Prepare a bed of finely-shredded lettuce and endive, and set the pieces of pumpkin upon it. Pour over all a dressing made by mixing 1 teacupful of salad-oil with rather less than 1 teacupful of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of linely-chopped sweet herbs. French Salad.—(1) Chop finely a bunch of parsley, two shallots, and six anchovies ; lay them in a bowl, and mix with them mustard and salt to taste, 2 table-spoonfuls of Salad-oil, and 1 gill of vinegar. Mix all well together, and then add, two or three at a time, some very thin slices of cold roasted or boiled meat, not more than 3in. or 3|in. long. Shake the slices well in the dressing as they are put in. Cover the bowl close, and let the Salad stand three hours. Serve garnished with parsley and some slices of fat meat. (2) Cut up some well-washed endive, lettuce, dandelion- leaves, or other salad herbs, and mix with them small quantities of chopped shallot or garlic, chervil, and tarragon. Mix together 1 teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of Salad-oil, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the Salad herbs into a Salad-bowl, stir the mixture of oil, spice, and vinegar, pour it over the Salad, and stir it all together. Any cold meat or fish cut small may be added to this Salad. Genoa Salad.—Boil a small sea-swallow, and leave it till cold; then cut the fillets into small pieces, and put them in a basin with a crayfish tail, boiled and cut into slices; dust some salt and pepper over them, and cover them with oil and vinegar in equal quantities. Boil separately, but in equal quantities, some heads of asparagus, beetroot, artichoke bottoms, French beans, salsifies, carrots, cauli- flowers, green peas, and potatoes. When cooked, drain the vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces; place each vegetable on a separate plate, dust some salt anil pepper over them, and moisten with oil and vinegar. Stone some olives, and put them in a basin with some chopped gherkins and pickled mushrooms, a small quantity of capers, some fillets of anchovies, and some boutargue cut in thin slices. Cut two slices of bread lin thick, and dry them in the oven; then cut off the crusts, rub them on both sides with a clove of garlic, and soak them for a few minutes in vinegar and water; then lay them at the bottom of a dish. Drain the vegetables and the fish, and arrange all the articles on the pieces of bread, building them in such a way that they present a dome of varied shades, and in as regular order as possible. Garnish three silver atellettes with prawns, and stick them in the dome, one in the middle, and the other two at the sides. Fry a small quantity of pignoli-nuts in oil, and when nicely browned, drain them, and put them in a mortar with a few swelled pistachios, and the grated crusts of the two slices of bread, the cooked trimmings of the fish, and the fillets of four anchovies, seasoning with a small quantity of chopped parsley, mint, and cayenne pepper. Pound the mixture to a paste, pass it through a fine hair sieve, then mix gradually with it 1 breakfast-cupful of oil, and mix with it the oil and vinegar in which the fish and vegetables were marinaded. Pour some of the sauce over the dome, the rest in a sauceboat, and serve. German Salad. -(1) Put Mb. of pickled cabbage in cold water for a few minutes, then drain it, and cut it into shreds. Pour some boiling water over Mb. of sour-crout; in five minutes, drain it off, and leave "it till cool; then Salads—continued. cut it into shreds, and mix with the cabbage, and add one chopped and blanched onion, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated horse radish, J table-spoonful of chopped chervil, J tea- cupful of oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and pepper and salt. Fix a paste croustade on a dish, fill it with the Salad, and serve. (2) Cut lib. of cold boiled beef into long narrow strips, put them in a Salad-bowl with 2 table-spoonfuls each of minced onions and minced pickles, a sliced beetroot, a small quantity of finely-shred pickled red cabbage, two boiled and sliced potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, one finely-chopped pickled pepper, and some tarragon and sorrel-leaves. Put J pint of Rhine wine in a basin, with J l teacupfuls of Salad-oil, and 2 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Beat the liquids till well mixed, then pour them over the Salad, and toss it about with a fork ; then stand the bowl over ice or in an ice box, and leave it for four hours. At the end of that time the Salad is ready for serving. (3) Blanch about 11 b. of sauer kraut in boiling water for ten minutes, then drain them and leave them till cool. Put the leaves in a Salad-bowl, and grate a root of horse- radish over them. Boil three or four Frankfort sausages for twenty minutes; when cooked, drain and leave them till cold; then cut them slantwise into pieces about fin. in length. Put the pieces of sausages over the sauer kraut, and garnish round with some slices of black radishes, and sprinkle over the Salad about 1 table-spoon- ful each of chopped shallots, pickles, and capers. Pack the Salad-bowl in pounded ice and leave it for a few hours. Mix some oil and vinegar together, allowing the oil to predominate, season the mixture with salt and pepper, and when ready, serve it with the Salad. Italian Salad.—(1) Peel some carrots and turnips, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then boil them in chicken broth, with a little salt and some sugar. Boil the broth till reduced to a glaze, then take the carrots and turnips out and leave them until cold. Cut some beetroot, boiled potatoes, and the carrots and turnips into slices Jin. thick, and mix them all together in a basin, and add some chopped ravigote, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Fix a paste croustade on a dish, put the Salad in it, and serve. (2) Put two Dutch herrings in water or milk, and soak them for an hour. Finely chop Jib. of cold roast veal, half that quantity of German sausage, three or four small pickled beetroots, the same of small pickles and sour apples, and three boiled potatoes. Arrange the fish in the centre of a dish, to represent the hub or nave of a wheel, and arrange the other ingredients like spokes. Cut the whites of some hard-boiled eggs into crescents, and arrange them round the wheel to represent a tyre. Put the milt of the herring in a mortar, and pound it to a paste with 1 teaspoonful of French mustard and a small quantity of salt; then mix in H teacupfuls of Salad-oil and J teacup- ful of tarragon vinegar. When the ingredients are well incorporated, pour the mixture over the Salad. Pack the bowl of Salad in ice, and leave it for a few hours. When ready to serve, sprinkle 1 table-spoonful of minced capers over it; or the capers can be omitted if liked. (3) Remove all the bones and skin from the white flesh of some cold fowl, and cut the meat into small pieces. Pile it in the centre of a round dish, prepare a sufficient quantity of nice Salad-dressing, mixing cream with it, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the fowl. Arrange round the dish a border of nicely picked and washed watercress, endive, and small hearts of lettuces. Boil a few eggs hard, put them into cold water until cold, then peel and cut them into slices; lemove the yolks, and arrange the rings of white on the top of the salad. Cut a boiled beetroot into slices, trim them into small rounds, all of one size, put a round in each egg ring, and serve. Japanese Salad.—Mince three medium-sized truffles very fine, also two large cold boiled potatoes; put the whole into a basin, and season with J pinch each of salt and pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg; pour over \ wineglassful of champagne, and let it stand for two hours. AddTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 358 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. eighteen whole cooked mussels, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, and the same quantity of chopped parsley. Mix all well together, put the Salad into a bowl, decorating it with six small white lettuce leaves, and six lillets of anchovies, and serve. Jardiniere Salad.—Cut into fine strips some beetroot, potatoes, carrots, and turnips, mix with them some haricot beans, green peas, and lentils, put them all together in a saucepan with a lump of butter, cover with water, and boil them till cooked, then drain off the water and leave them till cold. Make a dressing with some oil, mayonnaise sauce, 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, and a little cayenne pepper and salt. When well mixed pour the dressing into a Salad-dish, mix the pre- pared vegetables lightly in (see Fig. 428), and serve. Kitchener’s Cooked Salad.—Boil a variety of vegetables, whatever are in season, such as cauliflower, cabbage, sea kale, peas, beans, and artichoke-bottoms. Drain them well, and when cold arrange them tastefully on a glass dish. Prepare a dressing with some aromatic herb vinegar and oil, and with 1 table-spoonful of either capers, chopped gherkins, or pickled nasturtium-flower buds thrown in. Pour the mixture over the Salad, and serve. Macedoine Salad.—Have a medium-sized carrot and turnip ; peel and wash them well, and cut them with a vegetable- scoop. Put them into separate saucepans of boiling salted water and cook the carrot fifteen minutes and the turnip ten. Drain, let them thoroughly cool, and place them in a Salad-howl with 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked peas, the same quantity of French beans cut into small pieces, 1 pinch of salt, \ pinch of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and I J table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Mix all thoroughly together and turn them into a Salad-bowl. Decorate the howl with cooked cauliflower or a few asparagus-tops or Brussels sprouts, and send to table at once. Nantese Salad.—Peel three small Spanish onions, scoop a little out of the centre of each, and put in the hollow a lump of butter; season with pepper and salt, and bake the onions till brown. When cooked leave them till cold, then cut them into quarters and put them in a Salad- bowl. Scrape the skin off six sardines, then split them down the backs and carefully remove the bones; lay the fillets of fish on the onions. Slice four hard-boiled eggs, place them on the fish, and strew over them 1 table-spoon- ful each of finely-chopped tarragon leaves, parsley, and chervil. Mix 1 teaspoonful of curry-powder with \ pint of mayonnaise and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. When well mixed pour the dressing over the Salad, and serve. Plain Salad.—Any vegetables, such as watercress, lettuces, boiled beets, endives, shallots, chives, and radishes, can he used for this, and must be thoroughly washed, dried, cut up small, and arranged in a Salad-bowl according to taste. To prepare the dressing, mix in a basin 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, | teaspoonful of made mustard, 2 salt- spoonfuls of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Add 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, pour this over the Salad, then 1 table-spoonful or so of Salad-oil, and lastly 1 table- spoonful of rich cream. Mix carefully in the bowl, and serve. Polish Salad.—Moisten lqt. of finely-chopped cooked game or poultry flesh with some French Salad-dressing, and let it macerate for two or three hours in a cold place. Rub the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs to a powder, and chop the whites very fine. Wash and dry two small heads Salads—continued. of lettuce, cut them into shreds, put them on a dish, pile the meat in the centre, sprinkle the egg all over, and serve. Red Salad.—Procure some small red potatoes, and wash and boil them in their skins ; when cooked, skin and cut them into slices a little less than Jin. thick. Thinly-shred an equal quantity of the tender part of a red cabbage and beetroot. Prepare a dressing of oil and vinegar, the former predominating, and season with salt and pepper. Put the above ingredients in a Salad-bowl, pour the dressing over them, mix well, and serve. Russian Salad.—(1) Cut into thin slices the best part of some cold remains of salmon, chicken, and partridges, arrange them on a Salad-dish, and mix with them in moderate quantities some cooked asparagus-heads, carrots, turnips and cauliflower, all cut into small pieces, a few stoned olives, three or four anchovies, boned and cut into small pieces, a few capers, shrimps, and a small quantity of caviare. Prepare a sufficient quantity of dressing with oil, vinegar, mustard, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; 1 table-spoonful of minced shallots should also be added. Pour the mixture over the above ingredients, and stand the Salad on ice until ready to serve. Care should be taken in making the Salad that all the ingredients taste, but that none predominate. (2) Cut into small squares an equal quantity of French beans, pickled cucumbers, haricot beans, celery, asparagus, peas, cauliflower, green peas, cold boiled beetroot, cold boiled carrots, and cold chicken or tongue; mix the above ingredients in a Salad-bowl with some mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle over some minced tarragon, burnet, and chervil, arrange some fillets of anchovies, cooked truffles, and olives on top, and serve. (3) Cut up separately into small dice loz. each of cooked roast beef, cooked ham, cooked ox-tongue, cooked chicken, the same of lean leg of cooked mutton, and two truffles. Put them all into a Salad-bowl, separating each kind by six boned anchovies; pour 1 table-spoonful of Tartar sauce in the centre, covering the sauce with two chopped leaves of lettuce, and serve; it should be mixed together just before serving. Russian Salad with Aspic Jelly.—(1) Put the meat from the tails of two boiled sea crayfish or lobsters in a basin and pour some oil and vinegar over them. Boil some various kinds of vegetables, and when cold, cut them up in small pieces; mix with them the claws of the lobsters or cray- fish, and some mayonnaise set with aspic. Pack a cylinder timbale-mould in ice, ornament the sides with white of egg cut in diamond-shaped pieces, raw gherkins, or boiled beetroot, putting first white of egg and then beetroot or gherkin, and so on, making them come in regular order, and dipping each piece in half-set aspic jelly. Fill the mould with the Salad and leave it in the ice for one hour. Prepare a pain-vert, and fix it on a dish. Dip the mould in tepid water,-wipe it, and turn the Salad on to the pain-vert. Dip the slices of crayfish in aspic jelly, arrange them in circular order on the top of the Salad, garnish the hollow with chopped aspic, put some croutons of jelly round the base (see Fig. 429), and serve with a sauceboatful of _ mayonnaise sauce.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 359 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. (2) Trim and cut into shape some cauliflowers, carrots, turnips, potatoes, Spanish onions, artichokes, and olives. Partially boil them, then drain, fry them in butter, and leave till cool. The day previous to making the Salad, soak and colour some plain dry biscuit with spinach-juice. Pound and pass them through a line hair sieve. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 tea- spoonful of made mustard, and \ pint of cream; mix with them the pounded biscuit, anil some little pieces of cold fish or poultry-flesh. Put the vegetables on a glass dish, pour the dressing over them, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve. Russian Salad with Caviare.—Pack a conical-shaped mould in ice, and decorate the inside with anchovy fillets, poached whites of eggs, gherkins cut in small pieces, and preserved French beans, all dipped in a little half-set aspic jelly to make them adhere to the mould. Cover all with a thin layer of the aspic jelly and let it set. In the mean- time prepare a Salad of boiled beetroots, potatoes, and carrots (a little of each), as well as a few pickled button mush- rooms and capers, a little salted cucumber, and a few sticks of celery, all except the capers being cut up small; add a few fillets of anchovies or salted herrings, a small piece of any cooked fish, and a few crayfish-tails, all cut up small. Put the whole into a basin, pour over sufficient thick mayon- naise sauce to make the mixture thick, pack the basin in ice, and let the contents cool. Turn the Salad into the mould, let it remain in the ice for an hour, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of small rolls cut in halves and the centre scooped out and filled with caviare. Salad ala Chef de Cuisine.—Wash two heads of lettuces, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil till tender; then drain, and leave them till cold. Boil separately in salted water some potatoes, cauliflower, string beans, and cold slaw, and when cooked drain and leave them till cold. Cut each of the lettuces into eight pieces, mince the potatoes, and separate the sprigs of cauliflower. Mix all the ingredients together in a Salad-bowl, then add some chopped beetroots, gherkins, anchovies, capers, and some small white pickled onions. Make some little bread balls, fry them in olive-oil till crisp, then drain them and mix with the Salad. Garnish the Salad with fillets of an- chovies, slices of hard-boiled eggs, chopped sweet herbs, and serve. Salade d'Estrees. —Put in the centre of a Salad-bowl in equal quantities some endive and sticks of celery that have been blanched and cut into small pieces; surround these with slices of cooked turnip, rooted celery, cold potatoes, beetroot, and truffles, arranging the slices so that they overlap each other. Pour over the Salad some highly seasoned dressing, and serve. Salad a l’ltalienne. — Pare well a good-sized carrot and a good-sized turnip, cut them with a vegetable-scoop, and cook them separately in salted water; the carrot fifteen minutes and the turnip ten. Drain, cool, then place them in a Salad-bowl in a pile. Cut two good-sized truffles into julienne-shaped pieces, and serve six mushrooms the same way, also the breast of a cooked medium-sized chicken, cut lengthwise. Cover the vegetables with a cluster of the truffles, the same of the mushrooms, and repeat with the chicken, keeping each article separate; form a small cavity in the centre of the dome, pour into it 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and sweet oil, season with 1 pinch of salt and l pinch of pepper. Cover the cavity with a piece of cooked cauliflower or Brussels sprouts, or, in default of both, cooked asparagus-tops will answer the purpose; mix well, and serve. Salad of Vegetables with Aspic Jelly.—Boil some .green sprue asparagus and some heads of white large asparagus that have been cut into 2in. lengths and scraped. Boil also some flowerets of cauliflower, French beans, flageolet beans, carrots in balls, potatoes with their skins on, celery-roots’ and beetroots. Take a small bundle of the green asparagus, and keep it together with a ring cut out of carrot; put them on one side with part of the white asparagus and the balls of carrots. Mix the other vegetables together with a Salads—continued. few stoned olives, gherkins, and capers, dust in some pepper and salt, and baste with oil and vinegar. Let the vegetables soak for ten minutes, then drain them and mix up with a few table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing thickened with jelly. Pack a cone-shaped mould in pounded ice, fill it with the vegetable mixture, and leave till set. Fix a paste stand in the centre of a dish, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Salad out on to the stand. Dip the asparagus that was kept over in half-set jelly, and arrange it all round the base of the stand in an upright position; place a row of cauliflowers above the asparagus, then a row of round carrots; put a second row of cauliflowers, then a circle of olives. Set the small bundle of green asparagus on the top. Coat the Salad over with half-set aspic jelly. Scoop the yolks out of some halves of hard- boiled eggs, and fill the whites with different kinds of Fig. 430. Salad of Vegetables with Aspic Jelly. chopped cooked vegetables that have been mixed with aspic jelly. Garnish the base of the stand with these and croutons of jelly (see Fig. 430), and serve with a sauceboat- ful of mayonnaise sauce with eggs. Spanish Salad.—Bleach some heads of endive, and arrange them in a mound in the middle of a dish; peel some rather large tomatoes, divide them in sections, and place them round the endive. Boil some eggs hard, and when cold cut them into halves ; scoop the yolks out carefully, being careful not to break the whites, and put them in a mortar. Pick some shrimps or lobster, and put them in the mortar with the yolks, and pound to a paste. Fill the hollow of the whites with the paste, level it off at the top, and arrange them round the tomatoes. Strew some chopped shallot and sweet pepper over the endive; mix together in equal quantities some oil and vinegar, season the mixture with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Salad. Serve without delay. Sportsman Salad.—Procure a nice bunch of freshly- gathered watercress, wash it well, removing all the dis- coloured leaves, and drain rather dry on a cloth. Put the watercress in a Salad-bowl with a chopped onion and 2oz. of thinly-sliced undressed kippered salmon. Pour in a suffi- cient quantity of oil and vinegar, and *fetir it well up. Garnish round the bow l with quartered yolks of hard-boiled eggs and slices of beetroot, and serve. The flesh of kippered mackerel or haddock can be used in place of the salmon if desired. Suedoise Salad.—Cut 2oz. of cooked ox-tongue into small pieces; serve two cooked potatoes the same, also half a peeled apple, half a cooked beetroot, and half a cooked carrot. Place these in a bowl, adding the fillets of a boned herring cut into small pieces, and season with 4 pinch eacli of salt and pepper, 1 teaspoonful of diluted mustard, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and H table-spoon- fuls of oil. Mix all well together, then transfer to a Salad - bowl; sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. Summer Salad.—Thoroughly wash and dry three lettuces and some mustard and cress; the mustard and cress will require special attention, as it is very gritty. Cut theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 86 0 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—co ntinued. lettuces, cress, and some young radishes into small pieces. Four some Salad-dressing into a Salad-bowl, lay the above ingredients lightly on it, arrange tastefully on the top some slices of hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, and cucumber, and serve at once. Swedish Salad.—Mix together an equal quantity of cold roast beef, boiled potatoes, russet apples, and pickled herring cut in small squares. Steep four anchovies in water, drain, cut them into little pieces, and mix them with the above ingredients ; add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped gherkins, well-drained capers, and chopped tarragon, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped chervil, one finely- chopped hard-boiled egg, and twenty turned olives. Pour some oil and vinegar over the Salad, season it with salt and pepper, and serve it in a Salad-bowl with some freshly- opened oysters on the top. Winter Salad.—(1) Wash a pickled herring, and without cook- ing it pick the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces. Chop 1 breakfast-cupful of salsify, and 1 breakfast-cupful of red pickled cabbage into small pieces, mix them together in a Salad-bowl, and add a bunch of chopped watercress. Mix some oil and vinegar together, season with a little pepper and salt, pour it over the Salad, and serve. (2) Put a small red cabbage into boiling water and leave it for ten minutes; then take it out, drain, and let it cool. Cut the cabbage into thin shreds, sprinkle some salt over it, and let it pickle for three hours. Strain the moisture off the cabbage, pour l teacupful of vinegar over it, and let it marinade for two hours. Cut lib. of cold boiled potatoes into small squares, and serve an equal quan- tity of blanched and drained celery in the same way. Drain the cabbage, put it into a Salad-bowl with the potatoes, celery, 1 table-spoonful of chopped tarragon, 3 table-spoonfuls of oil, and a little pepper, add more season- ing to the Salad if required, and serve. (3) Skin some ripe tomatoes, cut them into slices, lay them on a dish, strew over plenty of salt, a moderate quantity of powdered ginger and cayenne pepper, poui- some vinegar over, and leave them for an hour or two. Peel and slice a cold cooked beetroot, wash and cut a celery root into nice pieces, and finely chop some of the young green leaves. When ready, put the tomatoes on a deep dish, and over those place a layer of sliced beetroot; arrange a border of the celery root all round the dish, and strew the chopped leaves over it. Boil two eggs hard, and when cold, peel them; separate the yolks and the whites, put the former in a basin with a small quantity of dry mustard, and beat them until smooth. Mix with them alternately, and in moderate quantities, some tarragon and chilli vinegar, making the dressing of the consistency of thick cream, then stir in a sufficient quantity of Salad-oil. Season the dressing to taste with salt, and pour it over the Salad. Garnish round the edge of the dish with a border of washed mustard and cress ; chop the whites of the eggs very fine, sprinkle them over the top of the Salad, and serve. (4) Procure some small red potatoes and boil them in their skins; when tender, peel and slice them. Put the potatoes in a Salad-bowl with some sliced pickled beet- root, apples, and celery ; the three latter ingredients should be used in equal proportions. Prepare a sufficient quan- tity of dressing for the Salad with sour cream, oil, and a small quantity of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the dressing over the contents of the Salad-bowl, mix all lightly together, being careful not to break the potatoes, and serve. Besides the dressings specially described in connection with any of the foregoing receipts, the following are con- sidered worthy of special attention, and suitable for almost any kind of Salad. See also Mayonnaise. Salad Cream.—Rub a lump of sugar over the yellow rind of a lemon, then dissolve it in £ teacupful of white vinegar. Mix the sugar and vinegar with sufficient sour cream to make the requisite quantity of Salad-dressing, stir them well together, and season to taste with salt and pepper, either white or cayenne. The dressing is then ready for the Salad. Salads—continued. Salad Dressing.—(1) Put the cold yolks of two hard- boiled eggs into a basin, mash them until quite smooth, add 1 teaspoonful each of salt and made mustard, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, and half that quantity of pepper; mix well, add gradually 1 table-spoonful of cream, and, when incorporated, add 1 table-spoonful each of Salad-oil and vinegar, and 1 dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. When well mixed it is ready for use. (2) Put the yolks of two raw eggs into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and whisk them well; then add, drop by drop, 1 pint of the best Salad-oil. When the oil is well mixed with the eggs, stir in 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 table- spoonful of chilli vinegar, and 3 table-spoonfuls of plain vinegar. Beat until all these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, then add a small quantity each of sugar and cayenne pepper. Turn the mixture into a bottle, and keep it tightly corked until wanted. (3) Remove the skin and bones of two sardines, put them in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pound to a smooth paste. Mix with the eggs and fish 1 teaspoonful each of caster sugar and dry mustard, 4 teacupful each of Salad-oil and cream, and 1 table-spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar. Season to taste with salt and cayenne or white pepper, and serve the dressing. The juice of a lemon is sometimes added if the dressing is preferred more acid. SALAD-OIL.—This is the very best, newest, and purest olive oil that can be obtained. It should be of a pale golden colour, almost odourless, and nearly tasteless, and should pour freely from the bottle. Let it be remembered that there are Salad-oils and Salad-oils in the market, and that the success of the Salad depends largely upon the quality of the oil. One word to the wise should suffice. SALAMANDER (Ft. Salamandre).—These are made with or without stands, and are so exceedingly use- ful to cooks who study appearances that it is advisable to have one in every kitchen. It consists of a thick plate of iron with a long handle (see Fig. 431), perforated or not for the pivot of a swivel-stand. When using the Sala- mander the iron plate is thrust into a hot fire until it is red hot; then it is taken out and put on the stand, if you have one, and the dish to be browned is put in a convenient position, so that the iron plate can be made to pass over any part, and brown it as required. When no stand is used the hand must be protected by cloths from the heat of the handle, and the manipulation is much more simple. SALERATUS.—See Ammonia. SALICYLIC ACID.—“ A white solid which forms acicular crystals,” is Cooley’s description of this sub- stance ; “ it melts at from 155deg. to 156deg. Cent.; it dissolves in about 1,800 parts of cold water, but is more soluble in boiling water as well as in alcohol and ether.” The use of Salicylic Acid as a preservative of food has long been an unsettled question. Its properties and effects are so powerful that its employment is regarded with suspicion, although no case of harm resulting from its use has been reported. Sanitary officers regard it more361 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salicylic Acid—continued. in the light of an adulteration, added to disguise some defects in the food so treated, and in this respect the sanitary officer is probably correct. Professor Kolbe found that almond emulsion, treated with a small quantity of Salicylic Acid, did not smell of almonds. Beer would not decompose; fresh milk mixed with 0 04 per cent, of Salicylic Acid, allowed to stand in an open vessel at a temperature of 18deg. Cent, curdled thirty-six hours later than a similar quantity of milk standing by the side of it, but containing none of the acid. The small quantity of Salicylic Acid present was not perceptible to the palate. Dr. Rudolph Wagner contends that Salicylic Acid can be used with impunity and good results for the following purposes : If a concentrated aqueous solution of Salicylic Acid be applied to fresh meat, and the meat be then placed in well-closed vessels, it will remaip perfectly fresh for a long period. This solution is also very useful in the manufacture of sausages and such food. Butter, contain- ing a little Salicylic Acid, will remain fresh for months, even in the hottest weather. The acid also prevents the moulding of preserved fruits, and in the manufacture of vinegar it is of great rvtility. Mr. Rother, an American chemist, contends that the antiseptic powers of Salicylic Acid have been much over-rated, and he states, as an example, that he tried it for the preservation of the syrups of marsh mallow, raspberry juice, and milk, and declares that in each case it failed signally. SALLY LUNNS.—These are sweet light teacakes, named after the inventor, of whom history does not seem to have kept any very accurate record. She is said to have prepared them for the Prince Regent, through whom they were introduced to Careme. This celebrated cook at once adopted the receipt as his own, and produced them before the elite of Paris as Solilemes, an evident plagiarism of the original. The following receipts are said to be equal to the original: Sally Lunns should be cut open, well buttered, and served very hot on a covered plate. (1) Melt loz. of sugar in 1 breakfast-cupful of tepid water, and add 2oz. of yeast. When it commences to rise pour it into a bay formed in ‘21b. of flour, and let it rise. Then add 2oz. of oiled butter, work the whole into a light dough, and let it rise again. Roll it out, cut it into pieces Gin. in diameter and l^in. deep, put them on slightly greased tins, let them prove, and bake in a quick oven. When nearly done, brush over with milk or white of egg, finish baking, and they are ready for serving. (2) Dissolve loz. of butter, stir into it 14 gills of luke- warm milk, then mix in \oz. of fresh German yeast, l salt spoonful of salt, loz. of powdered white sugar, and an egg. Sift into this mixture lib. of flour, and work all well together. Set the dough to rise for half-an-hour, then knead it well, and put it into tins. Let them stand till well risen, then bake in a moderate oven. (3) Prepare a sponge with 3oz. of flour, ?,oz. of yeast, and a small quantity of warmed milk; add the flour gradually. Set the mixture to rise in a warm place until double its original size. In the meantime put 9oz. more flour on a table or board, make a bay in the centre, and work in Joz. of salt, loz. of pounded loaf sugar, 5oz. of warmed butter, the yolks of four eggs, and 1 teacupful of cream. The paste should be quite soft; beat it lightly for a few minutes, using the palm of the hand, then add the sponge, work for a few minutes longer until the whole is smooth and elastic, put it into a buttered mould, and let it rise again. When about twice its original height, brush the surface with egg, and bake in a quick oven for about an hour. Take it out when done, cut it into slices, mask them with warmed butter, put them back in their original positions, and serve when cold. (4) Mix with 1 pint of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder and a scant 4 teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 teacupful each of milk and warmed butter, then mix them with the flour, &c. Add Sally Lunns—continued. the two beaten whites of the eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve while hot. Sally Lunn Pudding1.—Scoop out a piece from the under side of a Sally Lunn in such a way as not to injure the upper crust, and put it back again. Place the cake in a basin, pour as much boiling milk over as it will absorb, cover with a plate, and leave it for three hours. Beat an egg well together with 1 wineglassful of sherry, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a small quan- tity of spice. Take the piece out of the cake, pour the beaten egg in the hollow, and replace the piece again. Put it into a well buttered basin (one that will just hold it should be used), strew a layer of grated breadcrumbs on the top, and cover with a sheet of paper. Stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and boil very gently for an hour. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. SALMAGUNDI.—The origin of this word is very uncertain, the probability being that it is a dish named after the Countess Salmagondi, lady of honour to Marie de Medici. It is a sort of medley that has some merits, and is prepared as follows: (1) Wash two Dutch herrings, lift the flesh carefully off the bones, and lay it in a pie-dish. Peel a moderate- sized onion, cut it into slices, and lay them on the top of the fish. Put 1 pint of vinegar into a saucepan with a small quantity each of ground ginger, allspice, and popper, and boil for a few minutes; leave the vinegar until cold, then pour it over the herrings. It is better served on the following day. (2) Turn a dee]) saucer or a wide teacup upside down on a small dish and arrange round and over it in rows the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, chopped separately, the white meat of roasted veal or fowl, boiled beetroot, nicely seasoned with vinegar and pepper, pickled red cabbage, lean ham, tongue, a few anchovies, and a little parsley, all finely chopped, or anything else that has a good colour and a nice flavour. Make the rows at the bottom wider than the top ones, narrowing them gra- dually and varying the colours as much as possible and contrasting them nicely; arrange on the top a sprig of curled parsley, and garnish the dish with a border of parsley. Salmagundi Salad. -Put some blanched lettuce hearts in the centre of a deep dish, arranging Watercress and American cress all round. Grate some hung beef, sprinkle it over the Salad, then some powdered yolk of hard-boiled eggs, and lastly chopped whites. Place round a circle of chopped onions, beetroot, and cucumber, then round the edge some chopped red pickled cabbage and parsley; put some fillets of anchovy on the top, and serve with a dressing in a sauceboat. SALMI or SALMIS—A name given to a ragout of partly roasted game, stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments, suited to provoke appetite. Several receipts will be found under various headings. SALMI SAUCE.—See Sauces. SALMON (TV. Saumon; Ger. Salm ; Ital. Salmone ; Sp. Salmon).—Veritably this is the king of table-fish, and merits the title right well when dressed whole and freely garnished with such delicacies as crayfish and cucumber. The Salmon (see Fig. 432) (Salmo solar) is a native of northern Europe, Eastern and North America, California, and other sub-tropical climates. It ascends rivers, and penetrates to their head streams to spawn, and being very strong, leaps over obstacles that lie in the way of its progress. It has been known to attain the weight of 751b., but more generally it is caught weighing from 151b. to 251b. The best Salmon are those caught in the river Severn, and the Scotch rivers, and are at their prime from the middle of May to the close of362 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. September. During the close season a plentiful supply of very large Salmon is received from Holland; they are not, however, considered so good eating as the British Salmon. In choosing a Salmon, the freshness can always be determined by the redness of the gills and the brilliancy of the eye, which should be of a clear red and transparent. The flesh should be firm, and the fish short and round in shape, which means that it is fat and of an excellent quality. The head should be short and pointed, the back of the fish of a dark blue tint, covered with red spots, and the belly part with the appearance of silver. The whole surface is covered with small scales, packed closely together, which are very brilliant when the fish is fresh, but otherwise they are dull looking and clouded Baked Salmon.—(1) Thoroughly clean the head of a fresh Salmon, rub some salt over it, aud wrap it in thin slices of bacon, fastening them round with thread. Put the head in a stewpan with the trimmings of some fresh truffles, a bunch of thyme, basil, parsley, and laurel, pour in 1 teacupful of sherry, put the lid on the stewpan, seal it round with flour-and-water paste, put it into a moderate oven, and bake the head from two to three hours accor- ding to the size. When cooked take the head out of the stewpan, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Skim and strain the liquor, boil it till reduced, add a little sauce, and put in six raw truffles peeled and cut in quarters. When the truffles are cooked, mix the strained juice of two lemons and a little chopped parsley with the sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. (2) Bone some Salmon, cut it into slices, and season with cayenne pepper and salt. Roll 2oz. of butter in flour, put it in a saucepan, and melt it; then stir in 4 pint of water, 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and two anchovies. Put the slices of Salmon in a deep dish, strain the sauce over them, lay a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and put it in the oven. When the Salmon is cooked take it out, and serve. (3) Clean a small Salmon, and truss it with its tail in its mouth; nib on it, outside and inside, some pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Lay the fish on a stand or trivet in a deep dish, put over it some little pieces of butter that have been rolled in flour, and place it in the oven. Baste the Salmon constantly with the drippings in the dish while baking. Baked Salmon with Cream Sauce.—Take a middle cut of Salmon; butter a large sheet of white paper and wrap the Salmon in it, pinning the ends firmly together. Melt 4oz. of butter by mixing with it 3 table-spoonfuls of boil- ing water. Lay the fish wrapped in paper in a baking- pan and pour over the butter and water. Cover it and put it in a moderate oven for an hour, lifting the cover now and then to see that the paper is not burning. Boil \ pint of cream thickened with 1 heaped table-spoonful of cornflour; add to this loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. V\ hen the Salmon is taken out of the paper and dished, pour half the sauce over it, and serve the rest in a sauceboat. Boiled Salmon.—(1) Take a piece of the tail of fresh Salmon, put it into a fish-kettle with some salt, fennel, and spices in moderate quantities, \ teacupful of vinegar, and boiling water to cover. Boil the fish until tender. Salmon—continued. Prepare a sauce with 1 pint of the cooking-liquor of the fish, 1 wineglassful of white wine, two finely-minced anchovies, and boil it until somewhat reduced ; then mix with the sauce loz. of butter broken up into small pieces. Lay the Salmon on a hot dish that has been covered with folded napkins, garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 433), and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Clean a large Salmon, stuff it with any kind of fish stuffing desired, tie it up to its original shape, put it into a fish-kettle .with sufficient slightly-salted water to nearly cover, and boil first upon a quick fire for a few minutes, and then for about an-hour-and-three- quarters over a slow lire. Take out the fish, put it on a napkin spread on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with any desired kind of fish sauce in a sauceboat. Dutch sauce with capers is a good accompaniment. (3) Wash and dry the Salmon, stuff it until a mix- ture of butter, chopped onions, and paisley, seasoned with pepper and salt; sew the head up. Put the Salmon in a fish-kettle, and cover it with court bouillon made with red wine; when boiling, move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and cook the fish gently until done. Drain the Salmon, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of any sauce preferred. (4) Clean and truss a Salmon like the letter S, and boil it in salted water. Cut three large onions in slices, put them in a stewpan with a little salad oil, and fry till lightly browned; drain the oil off the onions, then put in with them three cloves, a little thyme, mace, and salt, one bay-leaf, I dessert-spoonful of sugar, 4 teacupful of port wine, 14 teacupfuls of brown gravy, and 14 pints of brown sauce; boil the sauce quickly over a brisk fire for fifteen minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and put it back in the stewpan; boil the sauce for ten minutes longer, then thicken it with loz. of anchovy butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce. Drain and put the fish on a hot dish, place a border of mashed potatoes round it, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve while very hot. (5) Put some slices of Salmon in a dish, pour over it a little boiling vinegar, and let it soak. Wrap a piece of linen round the slices of Salmon, and put them in a stew- pan with a sliced carrot and onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of basil, two bay-leaves, a shallot, a dust of spice, pepper and salt, and a small lump of butter; pour in 1 pint of red wine and a little broth. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an-hour. When cooked leave the fish in the liquor till cold. Make a sauce by mixing with Fig. 433. Boiled Salmon. 1 breakfast-cupful of oil 1 teacupful of vinegar and some chopped chives, chervil, and sorrel. Put the Salmon on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a cold dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Lay the slices of Salmon, which should be cut about fin. thick, in a deep dish, moisten them with some boiling vinegar, and let them soak for an hour or two. After- wards wrap the fish in a piece of clean cloth, put it in a saucepan with a few slices of carrot and onion, a few sprigs of parsley and basil tied together, with a couple of bay-leaves, a shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spice. Moisten to height with red wine and broth,' the former predominating, and keep Fig. 432. Salmon.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 363 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. simmering gently until the fish is tender. When cooked remove the fish from the fire and leave it in the liquor until cool. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar with 6 table- spoonfuls of oil, and add moderate quantities of chopped chervil, sorrel, and chives. When ready lay the fish on a dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Salmon Cutlets.—Cut three slices of Salmon about fin. thick. Put them over a slow fire in cold water with a small quantity of vinegar and salt in it, and when the water comes to the boil they are sufficiently done. Serve them on a hot dish garnished with parsley (see Fig. 434). Boiled Salmon Garnished with Aspic Jelly.—Clean a Salmon, rub it inside anil out with salt, let it remain for about three hours, wash it well, and wipe dry. Stuff it with whiting or other fish forcemeat, tie it up to keep it in shape, put it into a fish-kettle with a mirepoix, pour in 2 pints of champagne and sufficient fish-stock to nearly cover it, bring the liquor to the boil, lay a piece of buttered paper over the fish, boil slowly for an hour, and let the fish get quite cold in the liquor. Take up the fish with the drainer, carefully remove all the skin, glaze it on one side with a light fish glaze mixed up with a little crayfish butter, put the fish on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, over which put a row of cooked crayfish, and then with a row of cooked carp’s roes; decorate the Salmon with attelettes in aspic jelly, themselves ornamented with crayfish-tails and carp’s roes, and serve cold with one sauceboat containing a white mayonnaise with aspic jelly and the other with lemon sauce. Boiled Salmon Garnished with Lobster.—Boil a Salmon in mirepoix for an hour. Drain the Salmon, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and arrange round it some lobster en coquilles and bunches of parsley. Serve with a sauceboatful of lobster sauce. Or they may be garnished round with orlys of trout and bunches of fried parsley, and served with Genevoise sauce. Boiled Salmon with Oyster Sauce.—Put 21b. of very fresh Salmon in a fish-kettle, completely cover with cold water, season with a handful of salt, add one medium- sized sliced onion, \ wineglassful of white vinegar, eight whole peppers, two cloves, and two parsley-roots. Set the kettle over a brisk fire, and five minutes after coming to the boil the Salmon will be sufficiently cooked. Remove the fish from the kettle, drain it well, dress on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorate with parsley greens all round the Salmon, and serve with 1 pint of hot oyster sauce in a sauceboat. The necessary time to cook the above to perfection, from beginning to end, will be thirty- five minutes. Colbert sauce and cold boiled potatoes, cut in quarters, may be substituted for the oyster sauce and parsley greens. Boiled Salmon Served with Montpellier Butter.—Cut a piece of Salmon about 6in. thick; clean it, cut a little of the bone out from each end, and fill the cavities with carrots. Bind the Salmon round with thin slices of fat bacon, and boil it gently in mirepoix till cooked. Drain the Salmon, and when cold remove the pieces of carrot and the skin; brush it over with fish glaze. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, coat it with Montpellier butter, and lay the Salmon gently on it. Cut a strip of firm Mont- pellier butter, about |in. thick and lin. wide, and put it round the Salmon, the edge resting on the rice socle, and Salmon—continued. place a smaller strip round the top of the Salmon. Garnish with croutons of chopped aspic fish jelly, and serve. Boiled Salted Salmon with Spinach.—Put a piece of salted Salmon in cold water, and let it remain for a day or more, according to the size. Drain the fish, put it in a stewpan with some cold water, and when boiling move the pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for ten minutes. Put some boiled spinach on a hot dish, drain the Salmon, place it on the spinach, pour some butter sauce over it, and serve. Boiled Slices of Salmon with Piquant Sauce.—Cut five slices of Salmon, each fin. thick, from the middle of the fish, wash and dry them well, and put them in a sauce- pan of hot fish broth mixed with a little wine. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and let the contents simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes. When cooked, take the slices of Salmon carefully out with a slice, wipe them on a cloth, and arrange them in an upright position on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish ; put a group of boiled potatoes at each side, a bunch of parsley at each end, and serve with a saueeboatful of piquant sauce. Boudins of Salmon.—(1) Remove the skin and bone from lib. of Salmon, reduce it to a pulp, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the puree lOoz. each of bread panada and crayfish butter, season the mixture with pepper and salt, and bind it with two well-beaten eggs and a little reduced veloute sauce Imaigre that has been thickened with egg. Mix an onion that has been fried white and cut into small pieces with the forcemeat. Cut some strips of paper 4in. by 24in., and butter them. Put a piece of forcemeat, 3jin. by lfin., and lfin. thick on each strip of paper. Make a hollow in the centre of each piece of forcemeat about fin. deep and fin. wide. Fill the hollows with a salpicon of cooked Salmon and truffles mixed in stiffly reduced German sauce, cover them with a little of the forcemeat, and wrap the paper round. Put the boudins in a saute-pan with a little stock, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour over them some German sauce thickened with crayfish butter, and serve. (2) Pick out all the bones and skin from some cold boiled Salmon, and divide the fish into small Hakes with a fork, then put it into a mortar and pound it. Allow an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, soak them in as much milk as they will absorb, then squeeze them as dry as possible; put them in with the Salmon with half their quantity of butter, and pound the whole together. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it with beaten egg, using twice as many yolks as there are whites. Butter some small round moulds, fill them with the mixture, and stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height. Fig. 435. Boudins of Salmon. Steam them for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to a hot dish, arrange them in a circle, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 435), and serve with Dutch sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Salmon.—(1) Cut some slices of Salmon from the tail, put them in a deep dish, cover with chopped parsley, laurel-leaves, and mixed herbs, season with salt and pepper, pour over some olive oil, and leave it to soak for an hour. Broil the slices of fish on a gridiron, basting them occasionally with some of the marinade. \\ hen nicely364 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Salmon—continued. browned and cooked, put the Salmon on a hot dish, pour some white caper sauce over them, and serve. (2) Cut some slices of Salmon about fin. thick, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Lay each cutlet in a piece of well-buttered writing-paper, fold the edges of the paper upwards, and twist the corners. Put the cutlets in their paper cases on a well-greased gridiron over a clear tire, not too hot, and broil them for about eight minutes. Serve hot with a little bit of butter pounded with anchovy sauce laid on each. (3) Cut some thin slices from the tail-end of a small Salmon, and rub them over with salt. Cover a gridiron with bay-leaves, put the slices of fish on them, and broil over a moderate charcoal fire, turning them when done on one side. Blanch and peel 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar with a peeled clove of garlic, and pound them. Soak a small piece of crumb of bread in water, then squeeze it, and mix with the pounded almonds; pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, season with a small quantity of salt, and pound the whole together. Mix sufficient lemon-juice or vinegar and water with the pounded mixture to make a sauce, stirring it till quite smooth. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve while hot. Cliaudfroid of Salmon.—Take a piece about 4in. thick from the middle of a Salmon, and pass a sharp knife between the skin and the fish until almost but not quite separated; roll a small carrot up in a slice of bacon, and put it in the hollow of the fish to preserve its shape, then bind rashers of bacon round the whole of the fish, tying them with fine twine. Finely chop three rashers of fat bacon and 4oz. of beef-suet, put them in a stewpan with a few sprigs of parsley, a few slices of carrots and onions, the juice of a small lemon, 1 teaspoonful of cloves and peppercorns, and a moderate quantity of salt. Toss these ingredients over the fire for a few minutes without brown- ing them, then pour in as much water as will cover the fish, and boil it gently for an hour. Afterwards strain the liquor and let it cool. Put the Salmon in a stewpan that is not too large but will hold it comfortably, pour the sauce over it, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire. When cooked, leave the fish in the sauce till nearly cold, then drain it, and leave it till quite cold and firm. Wash and bone two anchovies and chop them with a few chives and green gherkins, 1 small table-spoonful of capers, and a small bunch of tarragon and parsley-leaves. Put all these ingredients into a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and pound them thoroughly. Add to the mixture 2oz. of butter, | teacupful of salad-oil, which should be poured in slowly, 1 scant table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Rub the mixture through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and keep it on ice until firm. Cut a thick oval-shaped slice of bread, trimming off all the crust, and fry it in butter till a bright golden brown colour. Spread some of the above mixture over the bread, put it on a dish, lay the fish on it, and cover the top of it with a thin layer of the same mixture, levelling it over with the blade of a knife occasionally dipped in warm water. Cut into various shapes some hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, and ornament the top of the fish with them; strew over it here and there a little lobster spawn. Garnish the dish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. The decorating of this dish can be varied according to fancy. Collared Salmon.—Scale the fish, split it right down, take out the bones, and wash and wipe it well. Mix together sufficient salt, white pepper, Jamaica pepper, and pounded mace to season the fish highly. Rub the seasoning well into each half of the Salmon, both inside and out, then roll each side or piece up tightly, ami bind them firmly with wide tape. Put the fish in as small a pan as will hold it, and cover with a mixture of two-thirds water and one-third vinegar; add two or three bay-leaves, a small quantity of salt, and a little of both sorts of pepper. Cover the pan closely, and let the contents simmer till the fish is done. Drain it, let the liquor boil fast till sufficiently reduced, then strain, and when quite cold pour it over the fish. Serve cold, garnished with fennel. Salmon—continued. Curried Salmon.—(1) Put a sliced Spanish onion in a stewpan with a piece of butter, fry it, then stir in 1 table- spoonful of curry powder and 1 teaspoonful of curry-paste ; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in gra- dually 1 pint of broth, and add 21b. of Salmon cut in small pieces. Let the curry simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour, skimming it occasionally. Prepare a border of rice, turn it on to a hot dish, put the curry in the centre, and serve. (2) Put a large onion cut in slices in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till lightly browned, then add H breakfast-cupfuls of highly-seasoned broth, 1 table-spoon- ful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper; boil it gently till the onion is cooked. Remove the skin and bone from some cold Salmon, cut it into small pieces, put them in with the sauce, and stir over the fire till hot. Pour the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. (3) Cut some slices of Salmon lin. thick, sprinkle a little salt over them, and lay each one separately on a piece of well-buttered writing-paper; fold the edges of the paper upwards and twist the corners. Put the slices of fish in their paper cases on a well-greased gridiron over a clear but not very fierce fire, and broil them slightly, turning them once. Take them from the papers, season them with ioz. of curry powder to each lib. of Salmon, put them in a stewpan, pour over just enough good stock to cover them, and stew gently for half-an-hour. Serve hot with a border of lice boiled in water round them. Darne of Marinaded Salmon.—Tie up two thick slices that have been cut from the middle of a Salmon; put some slices of carrot, turnip, and onions in a stewpan with some small pieces of celery, two bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, and 2oz. of butter. Set the stewpan over a brisk fire, and toss the contents about for ten minutes, then pour in 2 pints of water and 1 pint of vinegar; add a few peppercorns and a small piece of mace. Put in the slices of Salmon, and let them cook gently for one hour. At the end of that time move the stewpan away from the fire and leave the fish in the cooking- liquor till cold. Put the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs into a mortar with four well-washed anchovies, five or six gherkins, ^ teacupful of capers, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Pound the mixture well, and work it to a stiff paste with the beaten yolk of a raw egg, then pour in gradually 1 pint of oil, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Colour the mixture with a little extract of spinach, pass it through a line hair sieve into a basin, and set it on ice till firm. Drain the fish on a cloth, then put a slice at each end of a dish; put the egg mixture in the centre, sprinkle over some chopped gherkins, garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, pour round some very white tartar sauce, and serve. Darne of Salmon.—Cut a slice about Gin. thick from the middle of a Salmon, wash it well, and insert a potato in the cavity of the entrails so as to preserve the shape. Put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and bring it gradually to the boil. Immediately the flakes of the fish begin to separate take it out, remove the potato, and skin the fish care- fully. Let it drain until cool. Put a lobster into a saucepan of salted water and boil for twenty minutes; take it out, drain, and allow it to cool. Lay the piece of Salmon on a dish over a bed of watercress or lettuce-leaves, entirely cover it with mayonnaise sauce, put the lobster on the fish so that the tail falls into the cavity of the Salmon, and serve. Fillets of Salmon a la Parisienne.—(1) Cut some slices of Salmon into small fillets, and put them in a buttered saute - pan; dust a little salt and pepper over, baste them with clarified butter, and cover with a round of buttered paper; saute them over a clear fire. Fix a croustade on a hot dish, fill it with oysters and picked prawns that have been mixed in Dutch sauce, with the addition of some chopped parsley; arrange the fillets round the croustade,365 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. garnish with parsley (see Fig. 436), pour some of the Dutcli sauce over them, and serve. (2) Skin and hone 21b. of Salmon, cut the flesh into small equal-sized pieces, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Put a piece of lard in a frying-pan, Fig. 436. Fillets of Salmon A la Pakisienne. and when boiling put the fillets in, and fry them till lightly coloured. When cooked put the fillets on a hot dish, cover with Indian sauce, sprinkle over some finely- chopped green gherkins, and serve. Fillets of Salmon with Potatoes.—Cut and trim some thin slices of Salmon and put them in a buttered saute- pan ; dust some pepper and salt over them, put a little butter on the top, and cover with a round of buttered paper. Peel some potatoes, cut them with a fin. vege- table scoop, and blanch them in boiling water. Place some clarified butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, toss them over the fire, but do not brown them. Prepare some German sauce, and thicken half of it with lobster butter. Fix a croustade on a dish; fry the fillets of Salmon, arrange them in a circle round the croustade, put the potatoes into the sauce thickened with the lobster butter, and turn them into the croustade; coat the fillets with some of the plain sauce, and serve with the rest in a sauceboat. Fillets of Salmon with. Ravigote Sauce.—Cut some fillets of Salmon into small equal sized pieces, put them in a saute-pan with the juice of half a lemon, a little chopped parsley, clarified butter, and pepper and salt. Fry them over a slow fire, turning when done on one side and cook the other. Drain the fillets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some ravigote sauce in the centre, and serve. Fricasseed Salmon.—Fry in butter a thin slice of fat bacon and two sliced onions; when lightly browned, put the onions and bacon in a stewpan. Fry the slices of Salmon in the fat, then drain and put them in the stew- pan ; dust over some pepper and salt, pour in 4 pint of wine and 1 teacupful of water, and put the lid on the pan. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for half-an-hour. Take the pieces of Salmon carefully out, and put them on a hot dish; thicken the gravy with a little flour, pour it over the Salmon, and serve. Fried Salmon.—Cut some thin slices of Salmon, dust them over with salt, and leave them for a quarter-of-an-hour. Dredge flour over the slices of Salmon, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and fry in boiling salad-oil. When cooked, put the slices of Salmon, well drained, on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Salmon Cutlets.—(1) Take some cold boiled Salmon, pick it free from all bone and skin, pound it in a mortar, and to every 6oz. of Salmon allow 2oz. of finely-mashed potatoes; add to the potatoes salt, pepper, mace, and cayenne to taste. When the seasoning is well mixed in add the pounded fish, and mix all thoroughly. Flatten the mixture out and shape it into small cutlets. Brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle them with fine bread- crumbs, and fry a light brown. Serve anchovy sauce with them. (2) Take Alb. of cold boiled Salmon, remove the bones and skin, and pound it in a mortar, adding salt, pepper, mace, and cayenne to taste. When thoroughly well pounded, and the seasoning distributed through it, mix it Salmon.—continued. to a paste with a beaten egg. Shape it into cutlets, sprinkle them with fine breadcrumbs, and fry in butter till a light brown. Serve with anchovy sauce. Grilled Salmon Cutlets.—Mask three or four slices of Salmon with a little warmed butter, and dust a little salt and pepper over them. Broil over a clear fire, turning them occasionally till done, and basting with a little butter. Prepare a tomato or brown-butter sauce. Put the cutlets when cooked ou a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Hedgeree of Salmon.—Boil Alb. of rice till soft and dry. Cut some cold Salmon into slices; put a piece of butter in a stewpan, and when melted put in the Salmon, rice, and two finely-minced hard-boiled eggs, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the mixture lightly over the fire till very hot, then turn it into a warm dish, and serve. Mayonnaise of Salmon.—(1) Cut some cold boiled Salmon into small neat pieces of a uniform size and shape; pre- pare a mixture of two parts salad-oil and one part tar- ragon vinegar, season it to taste with salt and pepper, beat it up well, and dip the pieces of Salmon in it. Wash two or three freshly-gathered cabbage lettuces, trimming oil' the discoloured leaves, drain the water from the re- mainder, and cut them into fine shreds. Place the lettuces on a dish, and put the pieces of Salmon on the top of them, arranging them in a circle, each one overlapping the other. Wash the hearts only of some young lettuces, and cut them into quarters; also wash some garden cress and shake it well to free it as much as possible from water. Arrange some of the lettuce hearts and cress in alternate circles round the Salmon, and put some in the centre of the circle of Salmon. Put right in the centre of all a large slice of beetroot, on which stand half a hard- boiled egg, from which the yolk has been scooped out and the vacancy filled with capers. Put on each piece of Salmon a small round of beetroot with a caper on it. Garnish last of all with a border of halves of hard-boiled eggs and slices of beetroot. Serve the salad with a sauce- boatful of mayonnaise sauce. (2) Free about lib. of cold boiled Salmon from skin and bone, and divide the flesh into flakes. Wash and chop some spring onions, tarragon, and chervil. Put the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and pound them until smooth. Next mix in the beaten yolks of two raw eggs, 2A teacupfuls of salad-oil, 1 teacupful of common vinegar, and 4 teacupful of tarragon vinegar. Put half of the chopped mixture in a salad-bowl, then put in the fish, and cover with the remainder of the salad. Pour the sauce over all. Ornament the top with thin slices of beetroot and cucumber, and serve. (3) Thoroughly wash a lettuce, drain, and break it into little pieces, and put them on a dish. Place a slice of cooked Salmon in the centre, garnish round with alternate slices of cucumber, beetroot, and tomato, pour 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce over the Salmon, and serve. (4) Boil about 61b. of the middle cut of Salmon in some highly-seasoned fish stock. When the fish is cooked, move the fish-kettle off the fire, and leave it to cool in the stock. Drain the Salmon, put it on a dish, garnish with beetroot and watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. Mayonnaise of Salmon witli Aspic Jelly.—Remove the bones from 21b. of Salmon cut in slices, put them in a fish-kettle, cover with boiling fish broth, add a little salt, boil for three or four minutes, then move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer for ten minutes. Take the fish out when cooked, and leave it till cold. Turn a border of aspic jelly on to a dish, and fill the centre with alternate layers of mayonnaise and the slices of Salmon pulled to flakes, finishing with the mayonnaise, and serve. Pickled. Salmon. -(1) Boil a Salmon, and when cooked take it carefully out of the liquor and leave it till cold, reserving some of the cooking-stock. Remove the bones from the Salmon, and put it in a deep dish. Mix with the reserved liquor an equal quantity of vinegar, four366 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads Salmon—continued. bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful each of black pepper and allspice, and a little salt; pour it over the fish. Keep the Salmon in a cool place ; on the following day it will be ready for use. (2) Divide a Salmon into three pieces, and clean, wash, and boil them in a brine strong enough to iloat an egg; they should be put in cold brine and allowed to simmer gently till cooked, skimming frequently. Put lqt. of vinegar in a vessel with 3 pints of water, 1 breakfast- cupful of loaf sugar, and about 15 drops of oil of cloves, and boil them together slowly. Drain the Salmon, and when cold pack it carefully in an earthenware jar, and pour the pickle over it. Tie some stout brown paper over the jar, and keep it in a dry place. Pickled Salmon a la Turque.—Procure 61b. of Salmon, and cut it into slices; wash them, dry them on a cloth, rub over with salt, and fry them in olive oil till nicely browned on both sides. Pour 3 pints of vinegar into a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls each of saffron-water and caster sugar, and stir them over the fire till on the point of boiling. Cover the bottom of a jar with bay- leaves and myrtle-leaves, then put in the slices of fish, placing between each layer pieces of garlic, skinned pistachios, peppercorns, mixed spices, and bay- and myrtle- leaves v,:>ver the top slices with bay-leaves and myrtle- leaves, and pour over the boiling vinegar. Put a plate over the jar with a weight on the top to press the con- tents, and leave them for three days. At the end of that time the pickle will be ready for use; it may be kept for some time. Potted Salmon.—(1) Take a piece of Salmon, do not wash it, but wipe it very dry, and scale it; lay it on a dish, sprinkle salt over, and rub it well in. Let the fish remain in the salt till the salt has all melted and dr. Tied away, the dish being placed in a slightly-sloping posi 'on so that the salt may drain off as it dissolves. When ready, place the fish in a deep baking-pan, together with a seasoning of bruised mace, cloves, whole peppers, and three or four bay-leaves; put plenty of butter over it, cover the pan close, and bake the Salmon. When well done, drain the fish from the liquor, press it into pots, and let it get quite cold; then pour into each pot sufficient clarified butter to cover. (2) Take |lb. of cold boiled Salmon, pick it free from all bones and skin, and pound it in a mortar with 3oz. of butter, white pepper, cayenne, mace, and salt to taste. When it is well mixed and pounded to a smooth paste press it into a glass jar, and pour over sufficient butter melted before the fire to cover it completely. If this is stored in a cool place, it will keep good for a week or ten days. (3) Remove the bones and skin from some cooked Salmon, pound it in a mortar, put the paste into an earthenware jar, and stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height. When the fish is hot add a large piece of butter and a little essence of anchovies, move the saucepan off the fire, and stir the fish till cold; then put it into smaller jars, and leave it for one day. Pour a little clarified butter in each jar, tie over with paper, and keep them in a cool place. Salmon potted in this way will keep for six or eight days. Boasted Salmon.—(1) Procure a piece of Salmon from the middle, flour it well, put it in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, anil baste continually with butter while cooking. When cooked, put the Salmon on an ornamental dish- paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, and serve. (2) Remove the bones from a piece of Salmon, cut the flesh into small equal-sized pieces, rub them over with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, and leave them for an hour or two. Stick the pieces of meat on skewers, alternating each with a bay-leaf, put them in front of a moderate fire, and turn them occasionally until nicely browned. When cooked, put the pieces of fish on a hot dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley over them, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. Boiled Salmon a l’lrlandaise.—Parboil 31b. of boned Salmon, sprinkle it inside and out with 1 pinch of salt, £ pinch of Salmon—continued. pepper, and the same of nutmeg. Mix twelve chopped oysters, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, and h breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs with one egg. Roll up the Salmon after stuffing it with the foregoing mixture, then put it in a deep pan with loz. of butter. Bake in a hot oven for twenty-five minutes, and serve on a dish, pouring the gravy over. Salmon a l’Allemande.—Clean and wash a large Salmon, cut it into slices about 2in. thick, leaving the tail-part about 4in. long, and a thick piece attached to the head. Disgorge all the blood from the inside; sprinkle the pieces with salt, let them remain for half-an hour, turn them over, and serve in the same way; then wash them well and dry them. Put them all flat upon a well- buttered fish-drainer, place it in the kettle, cover the fish with slices of lemon freed from pips, and lay here and there a few slices of shallots, parsley-roots, and whole or chilli peppers. Cover the kettle, set it on a slow fire with hot ashes on the top, let the Salmon cook for thirty or forty minutes, uncover it, and ascertain if it is sufficiently cooked and the flesh firm. Remove it from the kettle, let it cool, taking away all the slices of shallots and lemons, and most of the parsley. Notv place the head on a napkin spread over a dish, next to it put the slice that was cut from it, and so on, until the fish is in its original shape, then garnish with sprigs of parsley. Pour into the kettle 1 pint of boiling consomme or stock, stir it round well, strain it into a sauceboat, and serve. Salmon d la Genoise.—Put 21b. or so of Salmon into a fish-kettle, and season with salt, a sliced onion, eight whole peppers, two cloves, and two roots of parsley; pour over sufficient cold water to cover, and add i wineglassful of white vinegar. Bring the liquor to the boil, and boil slowly for five minutes, by which time the fish should be cooked; take it out of the kettle by means of the drainer, let it drain, place it on a hot dish over a napkin, and glaze the surface of the fish with crayfish butter. Garnish with four clusters of mushrooms—four mushrooms in each cluster—and six cooked crayfish, and serve Genoise sauce in a sauceboat. Salmon a la Gouffe.—Wash the Salmon, and tie the head round with string; put it in a fish-kettle, cover it with mirepoix, put some sheets of buttered paper on the top, and let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour. Prepare a ragout of whiting forcemeat quenelles, mushrooms, carp’s roes, and truffles, mixed in Spanish sauce and reduced with essence of mushrooms and truffles. Drain the Salmon, remove the top skin, and stick four contised fillets of sole on it with a little forcemeat; place a sheet of buttered paper over all, and put the Salmon in the oven to cook the sole. Make a rice socle, 2in. high and a little smaller than the fish, on a dish; remove the buttered paper from the fish, put it on the rice socle, pour the ragout round it in the dish, arrange on the ragout some carp’s roes, six large whiting forcemeat quenelles, thirteen truffles, and ten crayfish, all prepared as for garnishes, and put round alternately. Stick a crayfish on each of four silver skewers, then a round quenelle, and lastly a mushroom ; pass the skewers into the Salmon through the contised fillets of sole. Serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce. Salmon au Gratin.—(1) Put some nicely-picked pieces of cold boiled Salmon on a dish, season them with salt and pepper, and pour over a little ketchup. Prepare some butter sauce, pour it over the fish, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs; baste them with warmed butter, put them in the oven, and heat thoroughly. Brown the top under a red-hot salamander, and serve. (2) Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of chopped mushrooms and chopped onions in a stewpan with a little salad-oil, and toss them for four or five minutes over the fire; then add 3 pints of brown sauce, and boil it till reduced one-third. Put in with the above ingredients 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey’s sauce and essence of anchovies, a little sugar, cayenne, a pinch of scraped garlic, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Remove all the skin and bones from some cold remains of Salmon, and season it with pepper and salt. Mask the bottom of a dish with a little of the367 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—■continued. sauce, put a layer of the fish upon it, then more sauce, and another layer of fish, finishing with the sauce. Sprinkle over it some breadcrumbs, put the dish in the oven till the contents are hot through, then brown it under a sala- mander, and serve while very hot. (3) Cut the Salmon into slices about lin. thick, and dust them over on both sides with salt and pepper; lay them in a buttered baking-tin, put a few pieces of butter on the top, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, anil bake for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time take the Salmon out, lay it on a hot dish, and pour the butter from the tin over it. Cover the slices with finely-grated Parmesan cheese and baked breadcrumbs, brown the top over with a red hot salamander, and serve while very hot on the same dish. Salmon a l’ltalienne.—Pour about U pints of fresh oil into a stewpan and mix with it a few cloves, coriander-seeds, cardamoms, two or three dried bay-leaves, and a small piece of mace; stew the whole gently in a slow oven until the oil is well flavoured with the spices, then take it out, and let it get nearly cold. Lay a nice Salmon steak in a baking-dish, strain the oil over it, seeing that it covers the fish, put it in a slow oven, and cook for about three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, leave it till quite cold, then move it carefully on to a round dish; pour the oil over it, garnish with a salad of dandelions, lettuces, &c., and serve. Salmon a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Squeeze a little lemon-juice over some slices of Salmon, and leave them for a short time. When ready, cover each slice with chopped fennel and parsley, put the fish in a saucepan, cover it with fish broth that has been thickened with flour and butter, and let it simmer gently till cooked. Put the Salmon on a hot dish, and serve it with maitre-d'hotel sauce. Salmon en Matelote.—Wash and truss a small Salmon like the letter S, and boil it in salted water. When cooked, drain it, put it on a hot dish, bend some legs of Lobster at the joints, and stick the ends in the hack of the Salmon, from head to tail. Have ready the following sauce: Put 6 table-spoonfuis of butter in H breakfast- cupfuls of butter sauce, stir it over the fire till hot, then mix in quickly two eggs that have been beaten with a little lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce over the fish, garnish it with small strips of fillets of sole that have heen dipped in beaten egg and bread- crumbs and fried, and serve. Salmon a la Montpelier.—Cut about 81b. from the middle of a large Salmon, put it into a braising-pan with a few sliced carrots and onions, Jib. of butter, a bunch of thyme, basil, and five or six bay-leaves, 3qts. of stock, 2qts. of water, and 4 bottle of chablis. Put the pan over the fire until the liquor begins to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for an hour. Blanch in equal quantities some chives and parsley, put them in a mortar with one or two boned anchovies, and pound them together with 4oz. of butter and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When quite smooth put the mixture on a plate, and set it on ice. When the Salmon is cooked, leave it in the liquor until cold, then drain it, and spread the above mixture over on both sides. Lay it on an oval dish, decorate it with lobster spawn, garnish the <lish with truffles, parsley, chopped whites of eggs, and croutons of aspic jelly; fill up the cavity in the body of the Salmon with parsley (see Fig. 437), and serve. Salmon—continued. Salmon d la Vatel.—Cut two slices out of the centre of a Salmon, wash them, and boil them in court bouillon and white wine. When cooked, leave the fish to cool in its cooking-liquor, then drain and wipe them on a towel. Prepare an oval-shaped pain-vert, and fix it on an oval- shaped bread stem that has been masked with fat anil cut up slantwise at each extremity; lean the two slices of Salmon against them, supporting them at the top with two silver skewers that have been garnished with cray- fish ; glaze them with reddened aspic jelly, surround with chopped jelly squeezed through a cornet, and garnish the intervals on both sides with a small group of crayfish and some parsley. Place the pain-vert on a stand moulded in fat, surround the base with croutons of jelly, and fix on the centre of the piece above the stem a subject modelled in fat, representing Vatel, a celebrated chef. Salmon with. Aspic Jelly.—Singe and cut into halves lengthwise two calfs’ feet, bone them, put them in a saucepan with some water, and boil gently over a slow fire. Pass the liquor of the feet through a fine hair sieve into a basin, skim off the fat, and leave it to settle. Boil a thick slice of Salmon in some court bouillon and wine, and when cooked leave it till cold in its cooking-liquor. Put half of the calf’s-feet liquor into a saucepan with an equal quantity of the cooking-liquor of the Salmon, add some chopped vegetables, a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, h table-spoonful of cloves and peppercorns, 2 teacupfuls of vinegar, 4 teacupful of water, and three well-beaten whites of eggs. Stir the above mixture over the fire till it commences to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer till the jelly is clear. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag into a basin, and leave it till cold. Put the slices of Salmon in a deep dish, distribute the jelly over it, piling it in the centre, and keep it in a cold temperature for twenty-four hours. Garnish with jelly croutons, hard-boiled eggs cut in halves and yolks (see Fig. 438). Salmon Bouchees.—Prepare some bouchee cases, and fill them with a paste made of pounded cold Salmon, seasoned, and moistened with lobster sauce. Salmon Cake.—(1) Large.—Steep |lb. of sifted breadcrumbs in \ pint of hot cream for ten minutes. Put 41b. of cold boiled Salmon and loz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire for ten minutes. Turn the Salmon and soaked bread- crumbs into a mortar and pound them to a smooth paste, adding 1 saltspoonful of salt, 4 saltspoonful of pepper, and a very little powdered mace; mix into it, when pounded quite smooth, two well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a buttered mould and bake for twenty minutes. Turn it out on a dish, and serve garnished with crayfish or prawns. (2) Small.—Free some cold boiled Salmon from all skin and bones, chop the fish, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes, and pound them until smooth; season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and mix well with it some pounded lobster spawn to give it a good colour, one beaten egg, and sufficient milk to moisten it. Do not make the mixture too liquid. Divide it into equal por- tions, which mould with floured hands into round flat cakes. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the cakes and fry them a bright golden brown. Drain them, put them on a hot dish with a dish-paper or folded napkin over it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 368 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. (3) Remove the skin and hones from some cold boiled Salmon, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes, and pound them together; season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, add some pounded lobster spawn, an egg beaten in a little milk, and sufficient Hour to make a stiff paste. Shape the above into little cakes, put them in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry till nicely and equally browned. When cooked, drain the cakes, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salmon Cassolettes.—Prepare some short or puff paste, roll it out thinly, and line some buttered oval-shaped tin dariole-moulds with it; put a sheet of white paper in each, fill them with raw rice, and bake. When cooked, turn the rice out and leave the paste cases till cold. Cut some kippered Salmon into as many thin slices as’ there are moulds. Mask each slice with some chutney and a small quantity of French and English mustard, roll them up, wrap them separately in sheets of buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes. When done, remove the paper and leave the fish till cold. Place a roll of the Salmon in each of the small patties, cover them with melted aspic jelly, and leave till set. Arrange the cassolettes on a fancy-edged dish-paper or folded napkin on a dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Salmon Cromeskies.—Boil some pieces of Salmon, such as the tail, &c., and when cooked, drain them, remove the skin and bone, and put them under a weight till cold. Cut the Salmon into small equal-sized pieces, and mix them with half their quantity of chopped cooked mush- rooms or truffles; thicken a little rich gravy with butter and yolk of egg, add the Salmon and truffles or mush- rooms, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then let them cool. Shape the mixture into small equal quan- tities, dip them in batter, and fry in butter till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the cromeskies, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Salmon Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop lib. of Salmon; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 table spoonful of butter together; boil J pint of cream, mix the butter, flour, and Salmon in with it, and stir over the fire for a minute. Work a well-beaten egg in with the above ingredients, remove them from the fire, and leave till cold. Shape the mixture into croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat. When cooked, drain the croquettes, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Pick the flesh of some cold cooked Salmon perfectly free from skin and bone, and chop it slightly. Put ljoz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, together with about J table-spoonful of flour, and mix them well, then stir in sufficient hot milk to moisten the mixture without making it too liquid; stir over the fire until boiling, then put in the fish with a moderate quantity of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the fish is hot move the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Spread the mixture on a dish, leave it till cold, then mould it with a table-spoon into egg-shaped balls; roll them in breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumb them again. Leave the croquettes in a cool pantry for an hour or more; put a lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when it boils put in the croquettes a few at a time and fry them until nicely and equally browned. As each lot are cooked take them from the fat and drain them on a sheet of paper. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, build the croquettes to a pyramid shape on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Salmon Cutlets.—(1) Pick all the meat from apiece of cold Salmon and cut it into small pieces, pound some lobster coral in a mortar with Joz. of butter, then rub it through a hair sieve. Put over the fire in a small saucepan J pint of milk, and mix into it loz. of flour rubbed into loz. of Salmon—continued. butter; continue to stir it till it is so thick that it comes away from the sides of the saucepan. Add the coral butter, the Salmon, and a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice; take it from the fire and let it cool. When cold enough make it into small thick rolls, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or fat. The cutlets should be served hot and garnished with fried parsley. (2) Choose the tail-end of a Salmon and chop it into cutlets about Jin. in thickness. Warm a little butter, and dip each one into it; when it has set brush them over on each side with yolk of egg, sift over some breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry on both sides till brown. Arrange them on a dish with the following sauce poured round: Thicken 1 breakfast-cupful of rich gravy with a little flour and butter, put it into a saucepan, warm it up, and add a little chopped West Indian pickles. (3) Frankfort Fashion.—Wash and wipe four slices of Salmon and rub them over with salt; cut into thin shreds two onions and a piece of parsley and celery-root, blanch them, if not quite young, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry over a moderate fire. Add a bunch of parsley, a few peppercorns, and some white wine and water mixed in equal quantities; boil all together for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of Salmon, and let them simmer by the side of the fire. Thicken the liquor with 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and a little aspic jelly; simmer for a few minutes longer, then take out the slices of Salmon with a skim- mer, remove the skin, and put them in a deep dish. Boil the sauce for a few minutes longer till reduced to a nice consistency, take out the parsley, turn it into a basin, and let if cool on ice. Pour the cold sauce over the slices of Salmon, and serve. Salmon Cutlets a l’An glaise. Cut off some slices of a Salmon, and divide them into the shape of cutlets (see Fig. 439); sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and toss over a good fire. Take out the cutlets when cooked, drain off the butter, put them on a dish, and serve with ravigote sauce, or a sauce made as follows: Put 3 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, and add one egg, 4oz.- of butter, a little salt, cayenne, some finely- minced parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix it well, and it is ready for use. Salmon Cutlet en Papillote.—Cut a slice about lin. thick from the middle of a Salmon, wrap it round in oiled paper, and fry in boiling fat. When done, take it out, drain, and serve with the paper still on. Salmon Cutlets with Caper Sauce.—Put some slices of Salmon in oil with a little chopped parsley and chives, and let them steep for one or two hours. Dip some pieces of paper in the oil that the Salmon has marinaded in, and wrap a piece round each slice. Put them on a greased gridiron, and broil over a slow clear fire for about three quarters-of-an-hour, according to the thickness of the slices, turning them occasionally. Remove the paper from the cutlets, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of white caper sauce. Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber.—Procure some slices of Salmon about Jin. thick and free them from skin and bone; flatten them with a cutlet-bat, and cut each slice into as many nice-shaped cutlets as possible. Thickly Fig. 439. Salmon Cutlets a l’Anglaise.. A, shows the Trophy complete; B, the Wooden Stand required; C, SPECIMENS OF GUM-PASTE BORDERS.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 369 B VOL. II. Salmon—continued. butter the interior of a baking-dish, lay the cutlets in it side by side, dredge them over with salt and pepper, and cover with a. sheet of buttered paper. Put the trim- mings of the fish into a saucepan with two peeled carrots, two peeled onions, a bunch of thyme, parsley, and a bay- leaf tied together, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in sufficient white stock to make the required quantity of sauce and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Peel a large cucumber, cut it into lin. lengths, then cut each piece into quarters and remove the seeds; throw them into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt and boil them. When nearly tender strain the cucumber, refresh in cold water, and drain again. Place about Hoz. of butter in a flat stewpan and melt it, then put in the pieces of cucumber with a small quantity of finely-minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; cover*the pan, and keep the contents warm at the side of the fire. Place the cutlets of Salmon in the oven and bake them for about ten minutes. Put ^oz. of butter and l table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan and stir them over the fire till nicely browned, then strain in the liquor off the trimmings of the fish, put in a small quantity of minced parsley, and boil up, stirring all the time. Arrange the cutlets of Salmon in a circle on a hot dish, pile the pieces of cucumber in the centre, pour the sauce over, and serve. Salmon Cutlets with Gherkin Sauce.—Trim some slices of Salmon into cutlets, beat them slightly, flour them, and dip them into eggs beaten with a little chopped parsley and onion, then roll them in finely-grated bread- crumb. Put a piece of butter in a flat stewpan and when melted place the cutlets in and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some gherkin sauce in the centre, and serve. Salmon Cutlets with Gravy.—Cut the Salmon into slices 4in. thick, and dredge them over with flour and a small quantity of white pepper; put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry them a golden brown. As the cutlets are cooked put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain off the fat, and keep them hot. Sift l table-spoonful of flour in with the cooking-butter in the pan, mix them well with a wooden spoon, and stir in gradually 1 tea- cupful of good beef gravy, having previously made it hot, 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, 1 table-spoonful each of mush- room ketchup, Harvey sauce, and anchovy sauce, and i table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. When the sauce is on the point of boiling put in the cutlets and keep them simmering gently at the side of the lire till tender. Arrange the cutlets on a very hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve immediately. Salmon Cutlets with Milanaise Sauce.—Cut a piece of Salmon into slices, and cut each slice into halves; trim away the skin and bone. Dip each piece in a little white wine, wrap them in sheets of buttered writing-paper, and secure them firmly at the edges. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when boiling fry the Salmon in it. When cooked, remove the papers from the Salmon, place them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of Milanaise sauce. Salmon Cutlets with Oyster Sauce.—Cut three large slices from the middle of a Salmon, and boil them in salted water. Put 1 teaspoonful of chopped onions in a saucepan with a little oil, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, but do not colour them. Cut four dozen oysters into small pieces, put them in with the onions, and stir them over the fire till warmed through; then mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, \ teacupful of oyster-liquor, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, a little essence of anchovies, and 1 pinch eacli of salt and cayenne pepper; stir the above ingredients over tbe fire, let them boil for a few minutes, stir in quickly the beaten yolks of four eggs, and keep it on the fire for half a minute longer. Pour the sauce on a dish and leave it till cold. Put the slices of Salmon on the sauce, brush them over with beaten egg, and Salmon—continued. sprinkle breadcrumbs over; brown them in a hot oven, garnish round with oysters, pour some lobster sauce over the fish, and serve. Salmon in Jelly.—Cut a fine piece out from the centre of a Salmon, and boil it together with the head and tail; when done, lift it out of the water very carefully not to break it, and leave it on the fish-kettle strainer to get cold, being careful to keep it in an upright posi- tion. He move all the flesh from the head, shoulders, and tail, season well with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, put it into a flat oval tin, and mix it up well with some liquid aspic jelly, filling the mould so that it lies flat and even at the top; set this on ice to cool. Meantime brush the Salmon with cold liquid jelly, repeat- ing this three or four times. , Take a cold dish, and turn it upside down on the top of the jelly in the mould, taking- care that it should be in the centre; turn dish anil mould together upside down, lift off the mould, and place the Salmon carefully on the shape. Brush over once again with liquid jelly, decorate the top with small jelly shapes, Fig. 440. Salmon in Jelly. and garnish round the dish with croutons of jelly arranged alternately with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy-flavoured fish forcemeat (see Fig. 440). Keep on ice till required for serving. Salmon Omelet.—Take about 2oz. of the flesh of some cold boiled Salmon, and shred it as finely as possible with a fork; put it into a basin with | table-spoonful of linely- minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and two or three small pieces of butter; break in three eggs, and beat the whole well together. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, place it over the fire, and when melted but not browned pour in the above mixture. Stir it over the fire with a flat sqioon until it begins to set, then cease stirring and toss it about for a minute or two. When delicately browned underneath, fold the Omelet over, and turn it on to a hot dish, the browned side upwards. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salmon Patties.—Skin and bone a nice piece of Salmon, chop the flesh well, and season it highly with grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, salt, and pepper; rub in a small quantity of fresh butter, and bind it with the beaten yolk of an egg. Butter some small tartlet-tins, line them with puff paste, and fill them with the Salmon mixture; cover each with a flat of paste, trim round the edges, moisten and press them together, and bake the patties. These may be eaten either hot or cold. Salmon Pie.—(1) Cut some cold Salmon into slices; put them in layers in a pie-dish with pieces of butter and a dust of pepper and salt between each layer, butter the edge of the dish, and line it with a strip of puff’ paste. Moisten the Salmon with a little of the liquor in which it was cooked, cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, damp the edges, and press them together. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for about an hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Prepare a forcemeat with lib. of cold boiled pike or whiting, an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and fib. of butter, mashed and pounded together; season it with salt and pepper, and mix to a paste with the yolks of four eggs and the white of one. Cut about 21b. of Salmon into slices lin. thick, and skin and bone them. Butter a plain mould, line it with short-paste, and fill it with For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. oTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 370 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. Salmon—continued. alternate layers of forcemeat and Salmon; cover it with a flat of paste, moistening and pressing the edges together, put a tliick layer of puff paste over all, make a hole in the centre, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-half. Serve the pie when cold. (3) Put a few slices of Salmon into a frying-pan with some butter, finely-chopped herbs, pepper and salt, and warm them. Line a mould with puff paste, lard the Salmon with fillets of anchovies, and put them in the mould ; covei with a layer of the same paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake the pie. Stir into some court bouillon that lias been seasoned with chopped shallots and parsley a little flour and butter that has been mixed together, and boil it for a few minutes. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, remove the paste cover, pour in the prepared sauce, garnish with crayfish, and serve. (4) Remove the skin and bones from about 21b. of boiled Salmon, pound the flesh in a mortar, seasoning it well with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and grated nutmeg. Butter a raised pie-mould, and line it with raised pie paste, pressing it carefully so as to take the pattern of the mould; put in the Salmon, cover it with paste, press it closely over, and cut a round piece out of the top to form a lid; brush it over with beaten egg, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, put it on a hot dish, lift the lid, and pour in some warmed butter. Serve with a plate of cut lemons. Salmon Pie with Truffles Served Cold.—Bone and skin a piece of fresh Salmon (that taken from the tail-end will be best), cut the fillets- into pieces, put them in a basin, and season with salt and spices. Peel seven or eight raw black truffles, cut them into quarters, season, and put them in a kitchen-basin; boil half the trimmings with some white wine and meat glaze. Chop the remainder with a little bacon, then pound and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Chop and pound the trimmings of the Salmon with lib. of pike-flesh, an equal quantity of bacon, 5o‘z. of truffles, and some salted fillets of anchovies. Mix with the forcemeat 6oz. of panada, seasoning to taste, and the extract of truffles. Put the bacon and trimmings of truffles that were pounded together in a saucepan, and when very hot add the pieces of Salmon, fry them for a few minutes over a quick fire, then pour in 1 teacupful of white wine. When boiling, move the stewpan off the fire, add the remainder of the truffles, cover with the lid, and let them cool. Put a sheet of coarse paper on a baking-sheet, set a pie-mould on it, butter the interior, and line it with short paste. Fill it with alternate layers of Salmon, forcemeat, and truffles. Cover the pie with the same crust, make a hole in the centre, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it for an hour, then pour in through the hole in the top \ pint of slightly-warmed aspic jelly. Serve when quite cold. Salmon Pudding.—(1) Pound a piece of Salmon, and pass it through a sieve; mix with it an equal quantity of butter and sufficient beaten egg to prevent it from break- ing, and dust in with it a little salt and cayenne pepper. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a cloth over, and steam it for an hour. Prepare some bechamel sauce, and mix with it a small quantity of essence of anchovies. When cooked, turn the Salmon pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. (2) Remove the skin and lione from 11b. of cold boiled Salmon, and chop the flesh very fine; butter the interior of a mould, and strew over 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs that have been browned in butter, shaking them about until they cover the inside of the mould. Mix with the chopped Salmon 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs and two boned and chopped anchovies; season with salt and pepper, and stir in four beaten eggs and I teacupful of cream. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, * and tie down. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and boil gently for an hour. Care must be taken that the water does not enter at the top of the mould. At the end of that time, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and serve. Salmon in Rhenish. Style.—Cut a piece of Salmon in about twenty slices, and cut and trim them into collops. Mix together some pike forcemeat and crayfish butter, and mould it into about thirty quenelles. Boil some crayfish in white wine, and blanch thirty oysters. Prepare a little brown roux, mix gradually with it the crayfish- and oyster-liquor, and add some fish broth and the bones and trimmings of the Salmon and pike. Stir the sauce till boiling, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for forty minutes. Skim and strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, boil it quickly till reduced, and thicken it with a liaison of two yolks of eggs; keep it in a bain-marie. Season half of the collops with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, breadcrumb them, and fry them in clarified butter. Fry the remaining collops as they are in butter; when cooked, drain the butter off, add the blanched oysters, crayfish tails, and sauce, and keep them hot. Have ready boiled 21b. of sour crout, drain it thoroughly, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of the sauce; pile it in a circle on a hot dish, pour the ragout of sauce and fish in the centre, put four crayfish that have had their tails picked on the top, lean the fried collops round the sour- crout, and serve. Salmon Salad.—(1) Remove the skin and bones from two Salmon steaks that have been broiled; Hake the flesh with two forks, put it into a basin, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with lemon-juice or vinegar and a very small quantity of oil, the fish being oily itself. Keep it in soak for an hour or more. Wash a lettuce in plenty of water, then drain it well, pull the leaves apart, and put them in a salad-bowl; drain the Salmon, put it in with the lettuce, pour over it a mayonnaise dressing, garnish it tastefully with slices of hard-boiled eggs, olives, and anchovies cut into small fancy shapes, and serve. (2) For a Salmon salad mix together one part of cold boiled Salmon and two parts of chopped celery that has been thoroughly washed and dried on a clean towel. Season them with salt and pepper, put them into a salad- bowl, pour over them a very little salad-oil and vinegar, using about 3 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar to Iqt. of salad, and then put a mayonnaise on top of the salad, and serve it at once. The salad may be garnished with cold hard-boiled eggs^ sliced or quartered, pickled beetroots, olives, and capers, or any of these articles, or it may he served without a garnish. (3) Remove the bones and skin from a piece of cold boiled Salmon; pull the flesh into flakes, season them, and steep them in oil and vinegar. Prepare a salad with some various vegetables cut into small pieces, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of pickled capers, mush- rooms, and gherkins; season it with oil and vinegar, and mix with it A teacupful of mayonnaise. File the salad in a dome shape on a round dish, lay the flakes of Salmon all over, coat the dome with a layer of mayonnaise with eggs, smoothing it carefully over with the blade ot a knife; garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs (see rig. 441), and serve. (4) Cut some slices of Salmon into collops of an equal size, dust them with pepper and salt, and fry them in - butter. When cooked, drain and leave the collops tillTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 371 B Salmon—continued. cool, then pour over them some oil and vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Pour a little white aspic jelly into a plain border-mould, and when it has set arrange tastefully, inside the mould, some cabbage lettuces cut in quarters, hard-boiled eggs, turned olives, and picked prawns; fill tbe mould with aspic jelly. When the jelly has set, turn the border out of the mould on to a dish, arrange the collops of Salmon inside the circle, and pour over them some half-set aspic seasoned with chopped ravi- gote, pepper, salt, and a little vinegar. When set arrange on the jelly another circle of Salmon collops, but going the reverse way to the first; pour over them some more jelly, and when set proceed as before, reversing and dim- inishing the circles to form a dome. Pour over some more jelly; put half a tard-boiled egg in the opened heart of a cabbage lettuce, fix it on the top of the salad, and serve. Salmon Soup.—Put lilb. of Salmon in boiling water without salt, and boil it till tender. Drain the fish, remove the bones and skin, cut it into halves, and divide one of the pieces into flakes. Put the other half in a mortar with a little butter, anchovy essence, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of flour; pound them well, then put them in a saucepan and stir in gradually sufficient clear stock to make the required quantity of soup; add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little lemon-juice, 1 pinch each of cayenne pepper and sugar, and a little salt. Boil the soup, then strain it through a large-holed colander, and put it again in the saucepan; add the flakes of Salmon and boil it up again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. Salmon Toast.—Cut as many slices of bread as are re- quired, trim oft’ tbe crusts, and toast them a delicate brown; butter them, and lay on each slice a very thin piece of smoked Salmon; dust them over with pepper, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them into a brisk oven for a few minutes. When very hot, arrange the pieces of toast on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Scalloped Salmon.—Cut some fresh Salmon into thin collops, and press them with the blade of a knife that has been dipped in cold water. Put a piece of butter in a sauce- pan, and when melted lay the collops in, side by side ; dust over them a little pepper and salt, and cook them quickly over a sharp fire. Warm some stock that has been reduced, season it with chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice, thicken it with the yolks of eggs, and drain the butter off the fish in with it. When nicely cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Soused Salmon.—Put some slices of cold boiled Salmon in a deep dish, sift pepper over them, and cover with vinegar and the cooking-stock of the Salmon mixed in equal quan- tities. This makes a capital cold dish for breakfast or lunch. Stewed Salmon. -Cut off a couple of lib. slices or steaks from a Salmon, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them; lay them in a flat saucepan, cover with finely-cut pieces of cooked ox-tongue and a few small lumps of butter, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of sherry and h teacupful of water, cover closely, and set it on the stove or fire where it will steam without simmering. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with stewed mushrooms. Vol -au-Vent of Salmon.—Prepare a putt' paste, giving it four turns, then gather it up and leave it in a cold place or ice-chest for half-an-hour. Roll the paste into a lOin. square, put it on a plate 9Ain. in diameter, and with a sharp knife trim round the edges; put another plate about 7in. in diameter in the centre, dip a sharp-pointed knife in hot water, and cut round the smaller plate, allowing it to go two-thirds through the paste. Put the paste on a Hat baking-tin and bake it for three-quarters-of-an-hour, being careful not to let it burn. When the vol-au-vent is taken from the oven, lift out the centre piece, and scoop out the inside with a spoon. Fill it with 141b. of cooked For details respecting Culinary Processes, Salmon—continued. Salmon that has been heated in a thick cream sauce. Put the cover on again, and serve at once. Kippered Salmon.—When Salmon is not in season, the flesh being deteriorated by spawning or other causes, it is usual to cut them open, salt them, dry them, and smoke them. They are then supplied to our markets as Kippered Salmon. They are prepared as follow: Split the Salmon down the back, and remove the roe and'inside; scale, remove the backbone, and wash the fish well, taking care that no blood remains. Put the Salmon in a deep dish, cover it with salt, moist sugar, and black pepper mixed in equal quantities, and leave it for three days, turning it frequently. Drain the Salmon from the pickle, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and leave it for two or three days longer; then cover it with ground black pepper, and dry it in a warm place, keeping it flat with skewers. Smoke the Salmon over dried seaweed and oak sawdust, or paint it with pyrolig- neous acid. Boiled Kippered Salmon.—Flake lib. of Kippered Salmon and put it in a saucepan with three chopped hard-boiled eggs, 2oz. of butter, a little flour, and 1 pint of milk; stir it over the fire till boiling. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes, turn them on to a hot dish, pour the Salmon mixture in the centre, and serve. Broiled Kippered Salmon.—Cut the Salmon into strips, and wrap each separately in buttered paper ; make a gridiron hot and grease it well, lay the pieces of fish on it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them occasionally. When broiled, remove the paper, put the pieces of fish on a very hot dish, and serve them at once. See Fig. 442. Canapes of Kippered Salmon.—Fry in clarified butter some fingers of bread, 24in. long, l Jin. wide, and jin. thick; when lightly browned, drain them, and leave them till cold. Mask the pieces of bread with anchovy butter, put some thin slices of smoked Salmon on each, sprinkle over them some chopped hard-boiled egg and parsley, and serve. Devilled Kippered Salmon.—Cut some Kippered Salmon into thin slices; soak three or four thin plain biscuits in clarified butter with a mixture of gravy, ketchup, vinegar, made mustard, chutney paste, and a small quantity of salt. Beat the whole well together, and mask the slices of Salmon with it. Wrap each slice separately in a sheet of white paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Take the slices of Salmon out of the paper, lay them on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Kippered Salmon.—Put the slices of Kippered Salmon in a deep dish, cover them with salad-oil, and let them macerate for several hours. Drain the oil off' the Salmon into a frying-pan, and when boiling put the pieces of Salmon in, and fry them quickly for four or five minutes. Drain the Salmon, put it on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve at once. Kippered-Salmon Paste.—Cut the Salmon into nice- shaped pieces, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and bake them. The pieces of fish must not be cooked too much, but when sufficiently done, trim off the skin, Hake the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound well, adding by degress some small pieces of butter. Season the paste with pounded mace, nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Pack it into small jars, and tie them tightly oxer. Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 372 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. Toasted Kippered Salmon.—Toast the Salmon in front of a clear fire, put it in a basin, the skin side downwards, and pour some boiling water over it, repeating the opera- tion once or twice. Put the Salmon on a hot dish, spread some butter over it, and place it in front of the fire for a minute or two. Garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve very hot. Tinned Salmon.—In consequence of the high price of fresh Salmon, as sold in our markets, certain enterprising persons conceived the idea of preserving pieces of Salmon in hermetically closed tins, as in many parts of America Salmon is plentiful and cheap, and the fish suffers little from preserving; it is largely used in this country. The following receipts are specially suitable for Tinned Salmon: Puree of Tinned Salmon.—Boil one onion in lqt. of milk for ten minutes. Take the onion out, thicken the milk with ‘2 table-spoonfuls of Hour and 1 table-spoonful of butter that have heen cooked together, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Remove the bones, skin, and oil, from half a tin of Salmon, and chop the meat very fine. Mix the Salmon with the milk, stir it over the fire till very hot, turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Tinned Salmon with Cucumber Sauce.—Take the Salmon out of the tin and put it into a basin with loz. of butter; stand the basin in a saucepan of hot water by the side of the fire to heat the Salmon, cai’e being taken not to let the water enter the basin. Pour the liquor from the tin of Salmon into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of coarsely-chopped cucumber, b table-spoon- ful of chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, I table-spoon- ful of vinegar, b table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and b pint of milk. Season with pepper and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Place the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in JjOz. of butter that has been kneaded with \ teaspoonful of flour. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened. When the Salmon is hot, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Tinned-Salmon-and-Custard Pudding.—Take the Salmon out of a tin and place it in a thickly-buttered pie- dish. Put three eggs into a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of anchovy sauce, beat them well, pour in 1 pint of milk and the liquor out of the tin of Salmon, season with pepper and a small quantity of ground mace, and stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, but not boiling. Pour the custard over the Salmon, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. In about forty minutes’ time the pudding should be sufficiently baked; serve while hot. Tinned-Salmon-and-Egg Patties.—Boil four eggs until hard, peel them, and put them into a mortar with 1 heaped teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful each of anchovy sauce and salad-oil, b table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and the liquor from a tin of Salmon. Add a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pound the mixture until smooth. Butter some patty-pans, and line them with some of the mixture; put about 1 table-spoon- ful of Salmon in each, and cover with the remainder of the paste mixture. Strew breadcrumbs over the top, put a small lump of butter in each, and bake the patties in a brisk oven until browned on the top. Spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, turn the patties out of the tins on to it, and garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 443); or they are very nice served cold garnished with fresh parsley. Salmon—continued. Tinned-Salmon-and-Egg Pudding.—Put lib. of Tinned Salmon into a mortar with four hard-boiled eggs, 1 tea- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful each of anchovy sauce, chilli vinegar, and salad-oil, the juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Pound the mixture well, add the liquor from the Tinned Salmon, and if too stiff a few drops of milk may also be added. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and press it down; tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and put the basin into a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height. Care must he taken not to let the water enter the basin. Steam the pudding for an hour, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Salmon in Jelly.—Put the liquor from a tin of Salmon into a stewpan, with 1 breakfast-cupful of water and loz. of soaked and strained gelatine; stir it over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then put in 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped onion, a few gum pastilles, 1 saltspoonful of pounded mace, and 1 saltspoonful of powdered cloves. Boil the mixture gently for ten minutes, then put in 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, b wineglassful of chilli vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Rinse out a mould with cold water, and put the Salmon out of the tin in it with a few hard-boiled eggs that have been cut into quarters lengthwise. Strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve over the Salmon, and stand the mould in a cold place. When set, turn the jelly out on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, and serve. Tinned-Salmon-and-Lobster Pie.—Take the fish out of a small tin of lobster and the same of Salmon, and put it into a thickly-buttered pie-dish : pour the liquor out of the tins into a stewpan. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin and mix it smooth with 1 teacupful of milk, then pour it in with the fish-liquor, and add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, \ table-spoonful of grated lemon- peel, a small quantity of pepper, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened and boiling, then pour it over the fish. Put a strip of puff paste round the rim of the pie-dish, cover with a flat of the same paste, trim it off round the edges, moisten them slightly with water, and press together. Put the pie in a brisk oven and bake for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, stand the pre-dish on a flat dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish- paper, and serve while hot. Tinned-Salmon-and-Macaroni Pie.—Put 4oz. of macaroni into a stewpan with b table-spoonful of finely-minced onion, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, b table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, 1 teaspoonful of sugar; b saltspoonful each of ground mace and nutmeg, a small quantity of pepper, and loz. of butter. Pour in the liquor from a tin of Salmon and f pint of water. Boil the macaroni slowly until tender. Butter a -pie-dish, put in the Salmon, and pour the macaroni over it; strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and place a few small pieces of butter here and there. Put it in a brisk oven, and bake until browned on the top. Serve either hot or cold. Tinned-Salmon-and-Oyster Pudding.—Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir it over the fire until well mixed, then put in % table- spoonful of finely-chopped onions, 1 teacupful of milk, the liquor from a small tin of oysters, 1 saltspoonful of ground mace, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the sauce oyer the fire until thick and boiling, then move it to the side and add 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Strain the liquor of a tin of Salmon into a saucepan, mix 1 pint of milk with it, and boil. Thickly butter a pie-dish, put in the Salmon with the oysters round it, pour in the sauce, and strew finely- grated breadcrumb over the top. Stir three well-beaten eggs into the boiling milk-and-Salmon liquor, season it with salt, pepper, a small quantity of powdered mace, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, and pour it over the Salmon and oysters. Put a few small pieces of butter on ' the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. In373 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils> Sauces, tbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. an hour’s time, or when the custard has set, take the pudding out of the oven; it may be served either hot or cold. Tinned-Salmon Patties.—Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir in the liquor of a tin of Salmon and a few drops of essence of anchovies, add a small quantity of pepper, and stir the mixture over the fire until boiling and tliickened. Put the Salmon into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced pickled gherkins, and beat it well, then mix in the thickened sauce. Roll out as thinly as possible, on a floured table, about lib. of puff paste, and divide it into pieces 3Ain. square. Put a small quantity of the Salmon mixture in the centre of each piece of paste, then double them over into three-cornered shapes; damp them with water round the edges, and pinch them together. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the patties and fry them. When nicely browned, drain them, freeing them as much as possible from the fat, then arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been spread over a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Tinned Salmon Pickled.—Put the liquor from a small tin of Salmon into a stewpan with 1 scant teacupful of water, 1 teaspoonful of chillies, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the mixture, then stir into it 1 teacupful of vinegar and 2 table-spoon- fuls of oil. Put the Salmon into a basin, pour the boil- ing liquid over it, cover the basin, and leave the contents until cold. When ready to serve, put the Salmon on a dish, with its pickling-liquor poured round it, and garnish with sliced cucumber. Tinned Salmon -with Potatoes.—Flake some cold Salmon with two forks, and season it to taste. Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, and when cooked drain and mash them perfectly smooth together with a little butter or milk, and season with salt and pepper. Spread half of the potatoes at the bottom of a pie-dish, then put in the Salmon, and cover with the remainder of the potatoes; level them on the top, and mark them with a fork; put two or three small pieces of butter here and there, and place the dish in a brisk oven. When the potatoes are nicely browned on the top, serve while very hot in the same dish. Tinned-Salmon Salad.—(1) Drain the liquor out of a tin of Salmon, and flake the fish with two forks, removing any pieces of bone. Wash a small head of celery, and mince it finely with an equal quantity of boiled beetroot. Mix all the ingredients together in a salad-bowl, and pour over them a salad-dressing composed of one part vinegar, three parts salad-oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Stand the salad in a cool place, or on fee for an hour. Trim off the outside leaves from one or two fresh lettuces, and wash the remainder in plenty of cold water. Drain the lettuce well, and cut it into line shreds. Have ready a few hard-boiled eggs, and peel and cut them into slices. Mix the lettuce with the contents of the salad- bowl, garnish with the slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (2) Drain the oil from a tin of Salmon, and mince the fish finely, removing all pieces of bones. Boil four eggs hard, lay them in cold water for a few minutes, then peel them; separate the whites from the yolks, and mash the yolks to a smooth paste with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet olive oil. Stir till dissolved in 1 teacupful of vinegar, I table-spoonful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Mix with the Salmon a third of the quantity of chopped white heart of lettuce or celery; put some leaves of lettuce, curled parsley, and the whites of the eggs cut into rings round a glass dish or salad-bowl, put the fish in the centre, pour the vinegar mixture over, and serve. Tinned-Salmon Souffle. —Butter a pie-dish, take the Salmon out of a small tin, and put it in; put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with h table-spoonful of finely- chopped onions, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; pour in the liquor from the Salmon—continued. Salmon, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and oil, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Stir the mixture over the fire until thick and boiling; move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of three eggs, then pour the custard over the Salmon. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth with 2 table-spoonfuls of an- chovy sauce. Spread the beaten whites over the Salmon, put it into a brisk oven, and bake it for half-an-hour. Al lien cooked, take the souffle out of the oven, and serve immediately. SALMON-TROUT (Fr. Truite Saumonee; Ger. Lachsforelle; Sp. Trucha Salmonada).—The fish that are known by this name are an inferior kind of sea-salmon (Sahno trutta)—inferior from a culinary point of view only. They are smaller than the salmon, and have much smaller scales. They are best cooked as follow: Boiled Salmon-Trout. -Clean a Salmon-trout, rub it well with salt, and let it remain for an hour. Wash it thoroughly, and wipe it dry; stuff it with fish forcemeat, tie up the head, put the fish on a buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, pour over a strained mirepoix, and add 2 pints of white wine and an equal quantity of fish stock or broth. Bring the liquor to the boil, remove to a slow fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Take out the fish, drain it, remove the skin, glaze it, put it on a dish, garnish with cooked truffles, and serve with mirepoix sauce in a sauceboat. Salmon-Trout a la Chef de Cuisine.—Clean a Salmon- trout, and marinade it; put it when ready on an oiled gridiron, and cook on one side only. Put it with the cooked side upwards on a drainer in a fish-kettle, add a mirepoix strained and mixed up with 1 pint of white wine, bring the liquor to the boil, basting the fish fre- quently with it, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Place the trout on a dish, and keep it hot. Skim the stock, add some perigueux sauce to it, reduce it, stir in butter to give it a rich and smooth appearance, then add two or three dozen each of button-mushrooms and quenelles of whitings mixed up with a few truffles, and ten carp's roes cut up into pieces; boil these together for a few minutes, or until done, pour the whole round the trout (see Fig. 444), and serve. A garnish of fried fillets of soles is an improvement. Salmon-Trout au Gratin.—Clean and wash a Salmon- trout, salt it well both inside and out, and let it stand for an hour; wash off all the salt, dry it, stuff it w ith fish forcemeat, tie up the head to keep it in shape, put the fish upon a well-buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, pour over 8oz. of butter sauce, add 2qts. of mushrooms, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a blanched shallot also chopped, and a little each of salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and ground spices. Pour in lqt. of white wine, bring the liquor quickly to the boil, set the kettle in the oven, and cook slowly for about an hour. Take out the fish, and skin it; untie the head, cover it with rasped bread, pour over a little warmed butter, set the fish in the oven for about five minutes, put it on a dish, and serve with half its strained stock poured over and the remainder in a sauceboat. Salmon-Trout a la Motlerne.—Clean and salt a Salmon- trout as for plain boiling, stuff it with fish forcemeat, tie up the head carefully, set the fish on a drainer in a fish- kettle, sprinkle it over with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and lib. of butter, pour in lqt. of champagne, and set it to boil. Remove it to the side of the fire where it will374 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon-Trout —cont in ued. simmer gently, but continually, jor about two hours, basting it frequently with its own liquor. Take out the fish, remove the skin carefully, glaze it, put it on a dish in the oven, glaze it once more, let it remain for about ten minutes, take it out, untie it, put it on a serving dish, garnish with parsley or any other garnish that may be desired, and serve with the strained liquor from the fish in a sauceboat. Salmon-Trout a la Polonaise.—Prepare a marinade with sweet-oil, slices of lemons and onions, a little each of parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Clean a Salmon-trout, crimp it (i.e., cut it in several places down the sides), stud' it with pike forcemeat, and tie up the head. Put the fish in the marinade, let it remain for an hour or so, turning it fre- quently, take it out, rub it well with oil, sprinkle it slightly with salt, put it on an oiled gridiron over a slow fire, and let it cook for half-an-hour. Turn it over so as to cook the other side, taking care that there is plenty of heat towards the back of the fish where it requires more; when done, put the fish on a dish, and serve with a ragout of mushrooms, crayfish tails, and oysters cooked in champagne. The fish should be served with the best coloured side upwards. Salmon-Trout with Truffles.—Scale and draw a Salmon- trout by the gills, and wash it. Peel and chop four fresh truffles, pound them in a mortar, and mix with them a third of their quantity of bread panada and the same of butter. Mix with the stuffing some pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and stuff the fish with it. Put the Salmon-trout on a baking-dish, place a lump of butter on the top, sprinkle over some salt, and bake it in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with the drippings in the pan; twelve minutes later, pour over the fish 1 wineglassful of white wine and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of glaze that have been boiled to- gether ; bake it for fifteen minutes longer. Put the fish on a hot dish, mix with the cooking-liquor a little white wine, boil it, then add a piece of kneaded butter, two chopped raw truffles, and stir it over the tire for three or four minutes longer; remove it from the fire, add the juice of one lemon, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a small lump of fresh butter. When veil mixed, pour the sauce over the Salmon-trout, and serve. SALOOP or SALEF.—An aromatic drink of this name was at one time greatly in favour for invalids in London. The principal ingredient was the farina (called Saloop or Salep) obtained by boiling the tubers of various orchids. This was flavoured with a decoction of sassafx-as, and other things. In Turkey Saloop, flavoured with spice, sugar, and wine, is sold in the streets. SALFICONS.—A French name given to a mince of chicken or ’game with tongue, mushrooms, truffles, and sometimes foie gras; generally used as a stuffing. The following receipts for various Salpicons are reliable: Salpiyon au Chasseur.—Cut the breast of a fine cooked partridge into dice, and put them into a saucepan on the hot range, with 4oz. of butter, 4 wineglassful of good sherry, three blanched chicken’s livers, one truffle, four mushrooms, and |oz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue, all cut into dice. Thicken with 4 pint of hot salmi sauce, and let all cook for five minutes. It may then be used for garnishing. Salpiqon a la Financiere.—Take either the leg or the breast of a roasted chicken. Cut it into dice, and put them into a saucepan with 4oz. of good butter, adding four mush- rooms, one truffle, 4oz. of cooked, smoked ox-tongue all cut in dice, and twelve small godiveau quenelles; thicken with J pint of Madeira sauce, and cook for five minutes. It will then be ready to use as a garnish. Salpiyon a la Montglas.—Mince, as for a julienne, four mushrooms, one truffle, the breast of a small cooked chicken, or of any game, and 4oz. of cooked ham, or the same quantity of cooked, smoked ox-tongue. Put all into a saucepan, adding 1 gill each of veil-reduced Madeira Salpitpons—continued. sauce, and tomato sauce; let this cook for five minutes, and use as required. Salpi<?on with Madeira Sauce au Madere.—Place 4oz. of butter in saucepan, adding 4 wineglassful of sherry, a blanched throat sweetbread cut into dice, four mushrooms, one truffle, and loz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue, all cut the same as the sweetbread. Let this cook for five minutes, then add 4 pint of Madeira sauce, and let it cook again for live minutes. It will then be ready to use for garnishing. SALSIFY (Fr. Salsifis).—The common name for this is the Oyster-plant (Tragopogon jporrifolius) (see Fig. 445), sometimes called a vegeta- ble oyster, because the root, when cooked, has some- times the flavour of oysters. In some respects it resembles scorzonera, having a long tapering root, full of milky juice, not unlike a parsnip. It is cultivated in many parts of the European Continent and Great Britain, but is not so much used as a food as it deserves to be. Boiled Salsify.—(1) Scrape the Salsify till it is quite white, and plunge it into boiling water with 1 hand fill of salt in it, and 1 or 2 spoonfuls of lemon- juice. Make a batter of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of flour, a seasoning of salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, and mace, mixed with water. When the Salsify has boiled quite tender, take it from the lire, and drain it; cut it in pieces, dip them in the batter, and fry them a light brown. Lay the Salsify on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. (2) Wash and scrape the roots, and cut them into pieces about 2Jsin. long. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of butter, the juice of a lemon, and a piece of salt, and boil them until tender, which will take about an hour. When cooked, drain the Salsify well, put it on a hot dish, pour a rich brown gravy over that has been thoroughly freed of fat, and serve. Boiled Salsify with Beef-Marrow.—Boil some Salsify in highly-seasoned stock; boil some beef-marrow in water. 4\ hen tender, drain the Salsify, and put them on a hot dish; coat the marrow with half glaze, put a piece of marrow on each piece of Salsify, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Boiled Salsify with Butter.—Cut the leaves and thin parts off some roots of Salsify; scrape them, and plunge them into acidulated water; drain the heads, cut them into halves, and boil them in salted water with a dash of vinegar in it and 1 pinch of flour. When cooked, drain the Salsify, cut each head up into pieces lin. long, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, the juice of a lemon, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley ; toss them about over the fire, then turn them on to a hot dish, and „ serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 375 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salsify—continued. Boiled Salsify with Cheese.—Boil some scraped roots of Salsify in acidulated water till tender, then drain them, and cut them into equal-sized pieces ; put them in a sauce- pan with some warmed blitter, grate in some cheese, and toss them over the fire. Put some slices of hot buttered toast on a hot dish, pour the Salsify and cheese over it, and serve. Tried Salsify.—Scrape off the outside of as much Salsify as required, cut it into slices, dip them first into beaten egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs, plunge them into a pan of boiling lard, and fry them. Take them out, drain them well, and serve as desired. Salsify a la Poulette.—Scrape fourteen or fifteen young heads of Salsify, cut them into 3in. lengths, and throw them into acidulated water. Cut into small pieces a head of celery, one turnip, one carrot, and two onions; put them into a stewpan 'with Jib. of lean ham, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves, and Jib. of beef-suet chopped fine; toss them over a brisk fire for ten or twelve minutes, then stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of flour and the strained juice of one lemon. Pour in gradually 2qts. of water and continue stirring till it boils, then add the Salsify; put the lid on the stewpan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently. When cooked, take out the heads of Salsify, and drain them. Put 1 pint of white sauce in a stewpan with 4 pint of white stock, stir it over a brisk fire, and when boiling add seventeen or eighteen button-mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg, sugar, pepper, and salt; add the Salsify, and let all simmer for half-an- hour. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the Salsify on it, thicken the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs beaten with 1 teacupful of cream, stir it over the lire till thick, but do not let it boil. Pour the sauce over the Salsify, garnish with the mushrooms, and serve. Salsify in Aspic.—Procure a mould the same size as the dish intended to serve the Salsify on. Take enough boiled Salsify to fill the mould, and cut it into pieces the same length; dip the pieces of Salsify in a little half-set aspic, and stick them round the mould in an upright position; fill the middle with small pieces of Salsify, and season them with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a little oil and vinegar, then pour in some tepid aspic and stand the mould on ice. When the jelly has set, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Salsify Cakes or Mock Oysters.—Scrape the roots, and steep the Salsify in cold water for fifteen minutes. Boil the Salsify, and when tender drain and leave it till cold, then mash it and remove all the fibre; add 1 table-spoon- ful of butter, a little milk, and two eggs to every 3 tea- cupfuls of the mixture, previously beating them. Shape the above into round cakes, dredge flour over them, and fry them in butter till nicely browned. Put each cake in a scallop shell, place them on a dish, and serve. Salsify Croquettes. --Thinly peel the Salsify, and boil it till tender. When cooked, drain the roots, mash them, and mix with each breakfast-cupful a small lump of butter, 1 teaspoonful of mixed salt and pepper, the yolk of one egg, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Pound the above ingredients together, then flour the hands and shape the mixture into small balls; fry them in boiling lard till lightly browned, then drain them, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salsify Fritters. -Scrape some heads of Salsify, soak them in vinegar and water, then boil them in salted water with a little flour in it. When cooked, drain the heads of Salsify, cut them into equal-sized pieces, mask them with white sauce, and leave till cold. Dip each piece into fry- ing-batter, then plunge them into boiling fat, and brown them. Drain the fritters, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salsify with Parmesan Cheese. -Prepare the Salsify, cut it into short lengths, and boil it until tender with a Salsify —continued. moderate quantity of salt in the water. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the lire, then stir in sufficient of the cooking-liquor of the Salsify to make the sauce, add 2oz. of grated Par- mesan cheese, and stir it with a wooden spoon until thick and smooth. Put the Salsify on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Salsify Fatties.—(1) Scrape off the outer skin of some roots of Salsify, cut them into pieces about lin. in length, and throw them into a basin of cold water acidulated with lemon- juice. Have a saucepan of boiling water in readiness over the fire, put in it a small lump of salt, a piece of butter, and a little lemon-juice; drain the Salsify, put it into the boiling water, and boil it quickly for half-an-hour or until quite tender. When cooked, take the pieces carefully out of the saucepan and lay them on a sieve in front of the fire to drain, but do not leave them long enough to get dry. Have ready a small quantity of veloute sauce; procure some small tins, butter them, and line them with a rich puff paste; lay two pieces of Salsify in each tin, and pour in each 1 table-spoonful of the sauce. Cover them with puff paste, trimming neatly round the edges, and bake them in a brisk oven until the paste has lightly browned. When cooked, turn the little shapes out of their tins, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Boil some Salsify, scrape it, cut it into small pieces, and pound them in a mortar. Bone and chop one or two anchovies, add them to the Salsify, season with pepper, and pound it again; a small quantity of pounded mace may be added if liked. Moisten the mixture with warmed butter and a sufficient quantity of cream to bring it to the consistency of a thick puree. Line some buttered patty-pans with a rich paste, trimming them evenly round the edges; fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them. Turn the Salsify mixture into a lined saucepan, and stir it over the tire until hot. When the patties are cooked, empty the rice out of them, and fill them with the above mixture. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish- paper over a dish, arrange the patties on it, and garnish them with parsley. Serve hot or cold. Salsify Salad. —Cut some boiled heads of Salsify into pieces 2in. long, and mix with them some chopped ravigote, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar; when well mixed, add some half- set aspic. Fix a paste croustade on a dish, pile the salad on it, and serve. Salsify Sauce.—Scrape the roots of Salsify, and put them out of hand into acidulated water. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with a little salt, and stir in gradually 1 pint of water. Continue stirring it over the fire till boiling, then put in the roots of Salsify, and let them stew gently till tender. When cooked, strain the roots, put them in a sauceboat with some butter sauce, and serve. Scalloped Salsify.—(1) Scrape a few roots of Salsify and cut them into lengths, throwing them out of hand into a basin of vinegar and water to preserve their whiteness. Afterwards boil them in salted water until tender. Next drain the Salsify; thicken sufficient of their liquor with flour and butter, to make the sauce, season to taste, and stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Beat the yolk of an egg with 4 teacupful of cream, strain it, and stir it into the sauce, which must not be allowed to boil again or it will curdle. Put the pieces of Salsify into the sauce and toss them about; a few drops of anchovy essence may be .added if the flavour is desired. Fill some scallop shells with the Salsify and sauce, squeeze in each a few drops of lemon-juice, and strew some finely- grated breadcrumb over. Put them in the oven until browned, then place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Boil some scraped roots of Salsify till tender; then drain, and cut them into small pieces. Put 1 table-spoon- ful of butter in a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and a little cream; stir it till well mixed, then add aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 376 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salsify—continued. little lemon-juice, a few drops of essence of ■ anchovies, and the beaten yolk of one egg; add the Salsify, turn all into a baking-dish, cover the top with breadcrumbs, put a few small lumps of butter about, and bake it for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve while hot. Stewed Salsify.—(1) Scrape the roots of Salsify and throw them out of hand into acidulated water to prevent them turning colour. Boil them till tender, strain off the water, cut them into pieces |in. long, and throw them into a saucepan. Add I table-spoonful each of sugar and butter, 1 teacupful each of vinegar and water, and pepper and salt to taste, and toss over the fire for a little while. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of yolk of egg, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Scrape the roots till white, then soak them in cold water. Boil the Salsify till tender, drain off the water, pour over it some milk, add a piece of butter and salt, and thicken with a little flour. Stir the mixture over the fire till cooked, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Scrape ami prepare the Salsify, cut it into slices, and boil them. Put them, when nearly done, into a saucepan with milk, add salt and pepper to taste, and continue to cook until quite tender. Serve as required. Stewed Salsify with Veloute Sauce.—Scrape the roots of Salsify and throw them into acidulated water. When a sufficient quantity has been scraped, put them in a sauce- pan with a piece of butter, the juice of one lemon, a little salt, and water to cover them well. Let them stew gently till tender, then drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour over either some veloute or Spanish sauce, and serve. SALT (Fr. Sel; Ger. Salz; Ital. Sale; Sp. Sal).— Not only for its seasoning qualities, but also for its chemical virtues, Salt (chloride of sodium) is invaluable in combination with the food of human beings. “ Common Salt,” says the Lancet, “ is the most widely distributed substance in the body; it exists in every fluid and in every solid, and not only is it everywhere present, but, in almost every part, it constitutes the largest portion of the ash when any tissue is burnt. In particular it is a constant constituent of the blood, and it maintains in it a proportion that is almost wholly independent of the quantity that is consumed with the food. The blood will take up) so much and no more, however much we may take with our food; on the other hand, if none be given the blood parts with its natural quantity slowly and unwillingly. Under ordi- nary circumstances a healthy man loses daily about twelve grains by one channel or the other, and if he is to maintain his health that quantity must be introduced. Common Salt is of immense importance in the processes ministering to the nutrition of the body, for not only is it the chief Salt in the gastric juice, and essential for the formation of bile, and may hence be reasonably regarded as of high value in digestion, but it is an important agent in promoting the processes of diffusion, and therefore of absorption. Direct experiment has shown that it promotes the decomposition of albumen in the body, acting prob- ably by increasing the activity of the transmission of fluids from cell to cell. Nothing can demonstrate its value better than the fact that if albumen without Salt is introduced into the intestine of an animal, no portion of it is absorbed, while it all quickly disappears if Salt be added.” In barbarous times the most horrible of punishments, entailing certain death, was the feeding of culprits on food without Salt; and in the experiments of the French Academicians, flesh deprived of its saline constituents by being washed with water lost its nutritive piower, and animals fed on it soon died of starvation. There was plenty of nutritious matter in the food, but there was no medium for its solution and absorption, and hence it was useless. The value of Salt has always been recognised, and its presence on the table endowed with much dignity. In Salt—continued. olden times the dish containing the Salt was placed in a position midway between, or dividing the master of the house, his family and honoured guests, from the servants and retainers. To sit above or below the Salt was a mark of distinction. The dish or pan in which the Salt was served was originally termed a saliere, from which the word cellar originated. To speak of a Salt-cellar, therefore, is some- what of a misnomer. There are two kinds of Salt commonly used for culinary pmrposes, the one being coarser than the other in grain. The coarser, known by the general term of kitchen Salt, is sold in large blocks; the finer kind, known as table Salt, being sold in packets or bags. With this latter the tables are supplied, the kitchen Salt being generally used for seasoning and cookery. Powdered rock-salt is some- times used as a garnish. As a matter of convenience Salt is sometimes mixed or flavoured with various herbs or splices. Celery Salt is Salt flavoured with the essence or powdered seeds of celery; spiced Salt is prepared as follows: Take 2 drachms each of basil, thyme, and bay-leaf, all of which have been dried in an oven, take also 2 drachms each of mace, allspice, and white pepper, and 4 drachms each of cloves and grated nutmeg. Put all these into a mortar and pound them as fine as possible. Put lib. of white Salt into the oven till it is thoroughly dry, then pound it as fine as possible, and mix with it very tho- roughly the pounded spices. Store it in a tin canister with a closely-fitting lid. SALTING.—iSee Pickle. SALT MARSH TERRAPIN—See Terrapins. SALTPETRE—Another word for nitrate of potash. The meaning of the term is sal—salt, and petra—a rock, as though it were rock salt, or salt from a rock. It is much used in pickling meats, and gives to them the red appearance which is sometimes so much coveted. SAMP.—An American food consisting essentially of coarsely-ground maize, cooked or softened by boiling; the word Samp being a corruption of the American Indian word saupac—made soft. The following are two good receipts for its use, taken from an American source: Samp Pancakes.—Boil 1 pint of Samp, and when cooked drain it and mix with it l pint of white corn-meal, 1 loz. of fresh butter, and a small quantity of salt. Leave the mixture until cold, then stir into it two well-beaten eggs, and form the mixture into round thin cakes. Grease a gridiron, lay the cakes on it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, serve the cakes with butter. Samp Pudding.—Put lqt. of milk into an enamelled sauce- pan over the fire, and when it boils put into it lib. of butter, 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a moderate quan- tity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture well, and leave it until cold. Beat ten eggs well together with 14 pints of cold boiled Samp, and stir them into the above mixture. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake for an hour. It may be served either hot or cold. SAMPHIRE (Fr. Bacile; Ger. Meerfenchel).—This plant (Crithmum maritimum) grows wild amongst the rocks and along the sea coasts of this and almost every other country. It has a spicy taste, slightly salt, on which account it has been held in great repute as an ingredient in salads, and was declared by Gerard to be “the pleasantest sauce, most familiar, and best agreeing with man’s body for digestion of meats.” Samphire is an um- j belliferous plant, but may be readily distinguished from others by the succulent, tapering leaves (see Fig. 446). These should be picked in May; that is before thedll THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Samphire—continued. appearance of the flower-stalk, otherwise they are apt to be tough and stringy. At one time pickled Samphire was so highly esteemed that other succulent marine herbs, worthless for pickling, were substituted for it under the name of Marsh Samphire or Samphire itself, and amongst these a plant called Salicornia hcrbacea frequently found a place. These herbs are easily detected and distinguished from Samphire by their shape and character. Lindley informs us that the etymology of the name Samphire is somewhat curious ; it was formerly written Sampler, a corruption of Saint Pierre; and, more anciently still, it was called by the French Perce-pierre; by the Italians, Herba de San Pietro, and in Latin, Petrus crescentius. Thus a herb properly enough called Rock-cress, from its growing in the crevices of rocks, came to be known as Peter’s cress (the name Peter meaning a rock). The change to Saint Peter’s herb was an easy one; the postfix “ herb ” being dropped, San Pietro became Sampier and then Samphire. Dried Samphire.—Have a large saucepan filled with water on the fire; when it boils throw in 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt and let it boil up again; then put in the Samphire in bunches, as it grows; when it turns a good green, take the saucepan immediately from the fire and lift out the Samphire with a fork; lay it on sieves to drain till cold, then place it on earthenware plates in the stove, strew plenty of powdered white sugar over, and let it remain all night. Next day turn it on to a sieve and strew more sugar over it; repeat this every day till it is quite dry. Be careful that the stove is not too hot. Pickled Samphire.—(1) Lay some green Samphire in a pan, sprinkle over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of salt, pour over sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. After it has been steeped in water for the required time, drain it from the water and put it into a copper saucepan over the fire with I table-spoonful of salt; take care that the fire be a very slow one. Leave the Samphire till it is quite crisp, then take it from the fire at once, for if allowed to become soft it will be spoiled; put it into a jar and when quite cold cover the jar air-tight. (2) Steep some freshly-gathered Samphire for two days in brine, then drain and put it into a stone jar with a lid. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover the Samphire, put the lid on the jar, and make it air-tight by covering with a stiff paste of flour and water. Place it in a moderate oven Samphire—continued. until very hot and the vinegar almost boils, then stand it on the top of the oven and leave it for lialf-an-hour. At the end of that time, remove the jar from the fire, and let the contents get quite cold. The paste may then be taken off and the pickle put into small jars. Tie the jars over with bladder, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Remove all the weeds from the Samphire, spread it out on a large dish, dredge it well with salt, and leave until the following day. Next put the Samphire in a colander and drain it. Put in a pan a sufficient quantity of white vinegar to cover the Samphire, with moderate quan- tities of mace, ginger, and pepper, and boil them. Wipe the Samphire dry on a cloth, put it into jars, and pour the boiling vinegar over. When the pickle is cold, tie the jars over with stout brown paper. The Samphire will be ready for use in about a fortnight’s time. Samphire Salad.—Select some small not too ripe red tomatoes, mince some Samphire pickles, and lay them in alternate rows in a glass dish, placing here and there a few slices of pickled eggs; if the eggs cannot be obtained use pickled walnuts. Make a dressing with the beaten yolks of two eggs, oil, and the vinegar from the pickled Samphire, seasoning it to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Samphire. This makes a pretty dish, the colours contrasting well. SAMSHOO.—A powerfully alcoholic liqueur, distilled by the Chinese from the yeast fluid in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure. SAND CAKES.—See Cakes. SAND-EELS.—These are small eel-like fish of the genus Gonorliynchus, caught in large quantities at low-tide on the sands of the Channel Islands and coast of France. They are mostly used for bait; but dipped in batter, or egg-and-breaderumbs, and fried, they are reckoned amongst the daintiest dishes of Jersey. A squeeze of lemon-juice over them after cooking is an improvement. SANDERS.—This name is given to a preparation of minced beef or other meat; they are prepared as follow: Finely mince some mutton or beef, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped onion, and moisten well with good gravy. Take some scallop shells or saucers, three parts fill them with the minced meat, and fill them up with boiled potatoes mashed smooth with a little cream; put a bit of butter on top of each, and brown them with a salamander, or in front of the fire, or in the oven. Serve hot. SANDWICHES.—It is said that some time during the last century the Earl of Sandwich invented the con- venient preparations that were afterwards known by his name. It was the happy thought of an enthusiastic sportsman to discard the usual paraphernalia of a set meal and satisfy his hunger with a slice of meat held between two slices of bread. The Earl’s Sandwich has undergone numerous modifications, some of which are not very much in its favour. The proverbial stale Sand- wich of the railway refreshment-room, and the slovenly manner in which others are prepared, have brought down upon these convenient modes of taking a snack a torrent of ridicule and abuse. When well and carefully made Sandwiches are very commendable. Numerous receipts for them will be found under various headings, such as Anchovies, Hams, &c. They should be made of tinned bread. If butter be used it should be made so soft that it will spread easily without crumbling the bread. When Sandwiches are to be kept any length of time, or to be carried any distance, it is sometimes a good plan to lightly toast the outsides of the bread. This prevents the bread drying and curling. Aberdeen Sandwiches.—Chop loz. of cold tongue or ham and 2oz. of cold chicken. Put the chopped meat into a378 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sandwiches—continued. saucepan with 4- teacupful of good sauce, and about half that quantity of curry paste; let it simmer for five minutes, stirring it all the time, then put it into a howl, and leave it till cool. Cut some thin slices of stale bread, stamp them into rounds about the size of a crown piece, and fry them a very light brown in boiling lard or oil. Lay them on paper to drain, then put a thick layer of the cooled mixture of chopped ham and chicken between two fried rounds of bread, arrange them nicely on a dish, bake them in the oven for five minutes, and serve hot. Garnish with fried parsley. Adelaide Sandwiches. -Take Jib. of cold chicken and 2oz. of cold ham, and cut them into small squares. Mix 1 table- spoonful of curry paste with ^ teacupful of sauce in a saucepan over the fire, and when they boil mix into it the ham and chicken; take it from the fire and let it cool, cut some thin slices of stale bread, stamp them into rounds about the size of a crown piece, and fry them a very light brown in boiling lard or clarified butter. Put a layer of the mixture of chopped meat and sauce between two pieces of the fried bread. Pound some grated Par- mesan cheese and butter (equal quantities of each) to- gether, and roll it into balls nearly as large as a walnut. Put one of these balls on top of each Sandwich, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them into a quick oven for five minutes. Serve them on a napkin. Duchess Sandwiches.—Skin and bone twelve anchovies, put half of them in a mortar with Jib. of butter, and pound them to a paste. Cut some thin slices oil' a tin-loaf, cut them into rounds with a small tin cutter, and mask them with the anchovy butter. Cut the remaining six anchovies into small pieces, and place some on the top of each round. Beat the yolks of four eggs well with 1 break- fast-cupful of plain broth, and season to taste with salt and pepper; pour it into a plain mould, cover with a sheet of paper, and stand it in a saucepan with boiling- water to three parts its height. Steam the custard until set.', then take if out of the saucepan, and let it get quite cold before turning it out of the mould. When turned out, cut the custard into thin slices, then cut them into rounds, using the same tin cutter that the rounds of bread were cut with. Put a round of the custard over each round of bread. Lay a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a dish, and arrange the Sandwiches on it; garnish them tastefully with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Indian Sandwiches.—(1) Cut into small pieces Jib. of either cooked veal, game, or chicken, four boned anchovies, and about 2oz. of lean cooked ham. Put l dessert-spoon- ful of curry powder and I teaspoonful of flour into a small saucepan, mix them smoothly with i- teacupful of milk, stir over the fire, and boil for three or four minutes ; then put in the chopped meat and anchovies, and add 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, cut some rather thin slices of bread, and trim them to an equal size, removing the crusts; put them in a flat stewpan in which a lump of butter or fat has been melted, and fry them until delicately browned. Drain the pieces of bread, spread half of them with the mixture, then cover with the remaining pieces of bread. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese with 2oz. of butter, then spread it over the top slices of bread. Put the Sandwiches in a brisk oven until very hot, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Garnish them with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. (2) Finely mince the white flesh of some cold pheasant, a small quantity of hot pickle, four olives and anchovies, the two latter ingredients should be well washed and the anchovies boned. Mix all these ingredients together with about J teacupful of mayonnaise sauce. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread half of them over with the above mixture, and cover with the remaining half. Cut each slice into strips about lin. wide, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish them with parsley, and serve. Lenten Sandwiches.—(1) Scrape the skins off four or five salted anchovies, split them, remove the bones, and finely Sandwiches—continued. chop them. Put them in a basin with the chopped yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and a bunch of chopped cress, dust in some pepper and salt, and add 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil and a small quantity of vinegar. Work the above ingredients to a paste; cut some thin slices of brown bread-and-butter, spread them with a layer of the mixture, then double one slice over another. Cut the Sandwiches into fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper that has been placed on a dish, garnish with some neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve. (2) Put the coral of two lobsters in a mortar with half their quantity of butter, and pound them. Scrape the skins off three salted anchovies, hone them, pound them, and mix them with the coral. Season the mixture to taste with salt and cayenne pepper, moisten it with 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and work it well. Cut some slices of bread-and-butter, mask them with a layer of the paste, put a lettuce-leaf on each, or some water- cress, and cover with another slice of bread-and-butter. Cut the Sandwiches into halves or fingers, arrange them on a dish-paper or folded napkin on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Pickle Sandwiches. —Cut some pickle in very thin slices lengthwise ; lay them on slices of bread, then put a thin slice of cold roasted veal or pork on the top of that, season with pepper, salt, and mustard, and cover with another slice of bread. Cut the Sandwiches into finger lengths, arrange them on an ornamental fish-paper or a folded napkin spread over a dish, garnish with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Savoury Sandwiches.—Take some cold cooked ham or corned beef or tongue, having a quarter of its quantity fat; chop it up very fine, and mix with it 1 teaspoon- ful of dry mustard, I saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to form a stiff paste. Then add | teacupful of butter worked to a cream. Take some very thin slices of stale bread, spread them over with the paste, put two slices together, having the paste inside, cut into shapes or rectangular pieces, and serve. SANGAREE.—A favourite West Indian drink, almost always made there with port wine; in America, and lately in this country, however, spirits or beer is generally substituted for the wine. (1) Mix \ pint of water with 3 pints of port or sherry wine, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with grated nutmeg and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Pour the compound into a saucepan and boil it; then move it off the fire, and keep it covered until cold. Next strain it, pour it into small bottles, and keep them corked. (2) Put 1 teaspoonful of sugar into a tumbler with 1 h wineglassfuls of port wine; fill up the tumbler with pounded ice, grate a little nutmeg on the top), and it is ready for drinking. (3) Put 1 heaped teaspoonful of sugar in a tumbler, add 1 table-spioonful of cold water, and let it melt; then fill the tumbler with ale or plotter from a freshly-opened bottle, grate a little nutmeg on it, and it is ready to drink. (4) Mix 1 wineglassful of brandy, whisky, or gin, and 1 wineglassful of syrup, with § tumblerful of coarsely- piowdered ice. On this pjour | wineglassful of port wine in such a way that it will swim on the topi. Let it stand for a few seconds, and it is then ready to drink. SANITARY SOUP.—See Soups. SANTA.—The Jamaica term for shrub. SAPODILLA.—An American tree (Achras Sopot a) which bears a fruit called the Sapodilla, a plum which is about the size of an ordinary quince, having a rough, brittle, dull brown rind, the flesh being of a dull yellowish-white colour, very soft and deliciously sweet. It is eatable only when it begins to be spotted, and is much used in desserts ; sometimes called Naseberry.379 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. SAPUCAIA.—This is a name given to the nuts of j a Brazilian tree (Lecythis Zabucajo), sometimes called Paradise Nuts. They are commonly sold in our fruit j shops, and are considered infinitely superior to Brazil nuts, to which they are closely allied. The flavour is more delicate, and the kernels are more easy of digestion. They are about 2in. long and lin. wide, covered with a longitudinally-furrowed corky shell, and grow in large hard woody fruits, shaped like m-ns, measur- ing about 6ft. in diameter, and having close-fitting lids at the top. Our supply comes from Para, and is principally the produce of the Brazilian forests. SARDINES (.Fr. Sardines; Ger. Sardellen; Ital. Sardelle; Sp. Sardinas).— It is said that these fish derive their name from the Island of Sardinia, where it is possible they may have been first caught and appreciated. They are said by naturalists to be the young of the herring, and are caught along various parts of the European coasts. Those of the French coast are con- sidered the best, owing in a measure to the greater care with which they are preserved, and the superiority of the oil used. An article that appeared in the Grocer's Chronicle gives us the following important information: “ In the case of decorated tins see that they bear the name of a French place, such as Nantes, L'Orient, Concorneau, Douarnenez, Port Louis, &c., besides the name of the packer, and make sure that they have been imported direct from France, as the French law prohibits the importation into France of foreign goods labelled or stamped as though they had been made or prepared in that country. The mere fact of the tins having the name of a French place on them is no guarantee what- ever that the Sardines are French. A buyer can only be sure of it if he can trace them to a Bordeaux steamer, or to a Willow Walk Station. For white tins there is no absolutely safe test at present, since they may have had their labels changed in France, as, notwithstanding the charges, the difference of value would make this a profitable transaction. It has been stated that the French law compels Sardine-packers to solder their tins at the side in the form of a tube; this is not correct, and plenty of Portuguese brands are soldered in the same way. With the present extreme scarcity of French Sardines, which shows no signs of giving way to more plentiful supplies, buyers are advised to discard the notion that there are no other really good Sardines to be got. There certainly have been, and still are, plenty of inferior Spanish and Portuguese Sardines sold, and some- times passed off as French ; but, on the other hand, there is no reason why a first-class article should not come from these countries, and as year after year the fishing is growing from bad to worse in France, some of the wealthiest French packers have put up factories of their own in Portugal, where the fish is selected and packed by tried old French hands, in the same way, in the same sweet Italian olive oil, and the same spices which they use in France; and by their own labels, those firms guarantee a superior quality in every respect. No French connoisseur or epicure will dream of refusing a first-class Portuguese Sardine thus packed if he cannot get the French article; and. although it must be admitted that Sardines caught on the French coast possess a delicacy of flavour not to be found in others, the high-class French-packed Portuguese Sardines are sure to find equal favour with the English public in the long run, and in the absence of the old French fish. Spanish and Portuguese packers are themselves to blame for the pre- judice which has grown up against their brands. Finding a market for cheap fish only, they could not afford to be particular either in the choice of the fish or in the quality of the oil (native instead of Italian) they used, and even at the present time the pick of the Portuguese fish is bought by French packers at comparatively high prices, whilst the bulk (which is not always of the finest or freshest kind) finds its way into native hands.” Sardines—continued. The mode of preserving them, as practised in the largest establishments, is as follows : The Sardines are thoroughly washed and their heads cut off. They are then plunged into oil that is nearly boiling for just two or three minutes. They are then drained and packed closely in tin boxes, which are subsequently filled with cold oil, which may or may not have been flavoured with bay-leaves; the boxes are then soldered down, and marked or labelled ready for the market. Sometimes Sardines are served in the box, the lid being simply opened along three sides, and bent up. This box may be enclosed in a case or ornamental box (see Fig. 447), or prepared according to the numerous receipts given hereunder: Baked Sardines.—Skin twelve Sardines, put them on a dish in the oven, and heat them through. Put the oil from the Sardines into a small saucepan, and when it boils mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 breakfast- cupful of water; stir it over the fire till thick, then add 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and season with salt and cayenne pepper; move the saucepan off the fire and add the yolk of an egg that lias been beaten together with I teaspoonful each of mustard and vinegar. Take the dish of Sardines out of the oven, pour the sauce over them, and serve while very hot. Bouchees of Sardines.—Pound one or two boned Sardines in a mortar together with a small quantity of cheese, and add salt, pepper, and chilli vinegar until the mixture has the taste and appearance of dressed crab. Mix in a few chopped oysters; put the mixture into small cases of bread fried in butter, and garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and mixed with finely-chopped parsley. Arrange these bouchees on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Broiled Sardines.—Select twelve good-sized firm Sardines; put them in a double broiler, and broil for two minutes on each side over a very brisk fire. Place six pieces of toast on a hot dish, lay the Sardines on, being careful not to break them, pour over 4 gill of maitre-d'hotel butter, garnish with six quarters of lemon, and serve. Canapes of Sardines. —(1) Bone six or eight Sardines, put half of them in a mortar with the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs, and pound them, mixing in gradually suffi- cient butter to form a smooth paste. Season the mixture with a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, chives, and tarragon, mustard, pepper, and a small quantity of vinegar. Rub all the ingredients together until quite smooth. Cut slices of bread into oval-shaped pieces and fry them in butter until well browned, but not too dark a colour. When fried, drain them, and spread over with the Sardine mixture. Arrange the slices on a dish over which has been put a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper. Cut a few more Sardines into small fillets, lay them on the canapes with very small slices of pickled gherkins and a few shelled prawns. This is a very pretty dish, and simple in construction. (2) Boil some eggs hard, remove the yolks, and mix them with an equal quantity of Sardines; rub them to a380 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sardines—continued. paste, flavour with lemon-juice, and spread it on thin slices of toast. Put two pieces together to make a sand- wich of them, and cut them in narrow strips. Curried Sardines.—(1) Mix together 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and curry powder, 1 teacupful of cream, and a few drops of lemon-juice; stir it in a saucepan over the fire till quite hot, then put in six or eight Sardines. When they are thoroughly heated, lay tliem on a hot dish with some fried slices of apple and onion, pour the sauce over, put an edging of boiled rice all round, garnish the top with capsicums, and serve hot. (2) Bone and split a few Sardines, dust over them mustard, salt, and pepper, squeeze some lemon-juice over, let them macerate for a short time, then broil them over a clear fire. Rub the inside of a small saucepan with a clove of garlic, then put in the oil from the Sardines; when boil- ing, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 teaspoonful of curry powder that have been mixed together, and 1 break- fast-cupful of milk ; stir the above ingredients over the fire till reduced to a stiff consistency, then move the saucepan off, add the beaten yolk of an egg, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a little salt and cayenne. Put the Sardines on hot buttered toast, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Devilled Sardines.—Scrape the skin off some Sardines, split them lengthwise, lift the bones out carefully, trim them neatly, and spread a small quantity of made mustard over them; season with moderate quantities of salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice. In about an hour’s time, lay the Sardines on a gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. When delicately browned, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Dressed Sardines.—(1) Remove the bones and skins from six or seven Sardines, and pound them in a mortar, mixing in at the same time 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and anchovy sauce. Fry some croutons of bread in boiling butter; spread the Sardine paste on them, and keep them hot in the oven. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till dissolved, then add % table-spoon- ful of flour, 1 teacupful of boiling water, 1 teasjroonful each of Worcestershire sauce and anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne. Put the croutons and Sardines on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Clean the Sardines, wipe them, put them on a grid- iron, and broil over a clear brisk fire, cooking them for two minutes .on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, sprinkle over some salt, baste with warmed butter, anil serve. (3) Lift the Sardines carefully out of the box to avoid breaking them, and lay them on a plate; neatly pare off Fig. 448. Dressed Sardines garnished with Parsley. the loose skins, then dress on a glass dish, and decorate with parsley. See Fig. 448. (4) Take nine Sardines from a tin box, drain off the oil, and put them in a glass dish; sprinkle over some chopped capers and parsley, cover with oil, not using that out of the box, and serve. Tried Sardines.—Draw the insides out and remove the heads of some Sardines; scrape them well, wipe them, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sardines—continued. rub over with flour. Plunge the Sardines into boiling oil, and fry them quickly. When cooked, drain the fish, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sardines a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skin some Sardines, cut off their tails, arrange them on hot buttered toast on a dish, and heat them in the oven. Put 1 teacupful of white sauce in a saucepan, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onion and a little chopped parsley, boil it for a few minutes, then add 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Take the dish of Sardines out of the oven, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Sardines en Papillotes.—Drain the oil off some Sardines, scrape and bone them ; fill them with a mixture of chopped mushrooms, fine herbs, and cold brown sauce. Wrap them carefully in paper, fastening it securely at the ends, and warm them in the oven. Put the Sardines on a hot dish, and serve. Sardines au Parmesan.—Drain the oil off some small Sardines, remove the skin and tips of the tails, and roll them in finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Cut some slices of bread about |in. thick, and toast and butter them. Cut the toast into strips a little wider than the Sardines; put a Sardine on each strip, and warm in the oven. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Sardines a la Piedmontaise.—Scrape some Sardines, and put them in the oven till hot. Put in a saucepan four well-beaten yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful each of tarragon vinegar, malt vinegar, and made mustard, a little salt, and J table-spoonful of butter. Stir the sauce over the fire till quite thick, but do not let it boil. Cut some slices of bread, remove the crusts, and fry them in boiling lard or butter till lightly browned. Drain the pieces of bread, arrange them on a hot dish, put the Sardines on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Sardines on Anchovy Toast.—Clean three anchovies, put them into a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, loz. of butter, and a seasoning of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and pound them to a smooth paste, then nib it through a hair sieve. Toast some thin slices of bread, and cut them into pieces about the breadth and length of a Sardine. Wash some Sardines in hot water, wipe them dry, divide into fillets by splitting them down the hack, and take the bone out. Spread the pounded anchovy on the toast, and lay a filleted Sardine on top of each piece. Pile the pieces of toast on a dish in cou]des, crossing one another like lattice work, and garnish with chopped hard-boiled eggs. Sardine Butter.—Remove the skins and bones from seven or eight Sardines, put the fish in a mortar, and pound it until smooth. Boil 2 large handfuls of parsley until tender, then squeeze it as dry as possible, remove all the stalks, and chop it. Put the parsley in the mortar with the Sardines and 4oz., of butter, and pound again. When well incorporated, mould the butter into shapes, and keep it on ice until the time of serving. The above is excellent spread on hot toast. Sardines in Cases.—Skin and bone twelve Sardines, and pound them in a mortar, then mix with them 1 table- spoonful of anchovy sauce, £ teacupful of cream, and 2oz. of warmed but not oiled butter. Season the mixture to taste with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Turn it into small ramekin-cases, strew grated bread- crumbs on top of each, and place on them some small hits of butter. Put the cases in a brisk oven, and leave them until the crumbs have browned, then take them out, place them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Sardines in Eggs.—Skin and bone ten Sardines, and put them in a mortar; remove the shells from ten hard-boiled eggs, cut them in pieces crosswise, put the yolks in the mortar with the Sardines, adding at the same time a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and 1 talde-spoonful of butter; pound them all together, fill the whites of the eggs Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 381 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Sardines—continued. with the above mixture, stick them together like whole eggs, arrange them on a dish with watercress between them (see Fig. 449), ancl serve. Fig. 449. Sardines in Eggs. Sardine Fingers.—Drain the oil from some Sardines, scrape off the skin, split them into halves lengthwise, and remove the bones. Dip them in remoulade sauce, then lay them in threes on slices of bread, cover with more bread, then cut each into three fingers, lengthwise with the fish. Wrap each linger in waxed paper, pile them on a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Sardine Fritters.—Cut two French rolls into moderately thick slices, and lay them in a deep dish ; beat three eggs together with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, pour them over the slices, and leave until well soaked. Put 3oz. of butter in a saucepan, and when it has melted put in the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley, half that quantity of tarragon, and a small quantity of burnet, all finely chopped. Stir the mixture over the fire for five or six minutes, put in 1 table-spoonful of capers and J table-spoonful each of lemon-juice or vinegar, gravy, salad-oil, and mustard. Thicken with grated breadcrumb, and stir all well together. Skin and bone nine or ten Sardines, mince them, and work to a smooth paste. Fry the soaked slices of roll in butter till delicately browned, drain them, and spread the Sardine paste over them. Arrange them in a circle round a hot dish, fill the centre with poached eggs, and pour the sauce over them. Put the dish in a hot oven for two or three minutes, then serve. Sardines with Mustard.—Skin about six Sardines, pick the flesh carefully off the hones, put it in a mortar with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and pound them to a smooth paste; mix 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced shallot with the paste. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard till quite smooth with vinegar, then* stir it into the other ingredients, add 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a small quantity of salt and cayenne pepper. Work the mix- ture until quite smooth, then put it into small jars, and keep them tightly corked or covered with bladder until the mustard is required for use. Sardine Omelet.—Have ready over the fire a frying-pan containing 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil. Remove the skins and bones from two Sardines, and cut them into Jin. lengths; beat the eggs with J saltspoonful of salt and a slight dust of cayenne pepper for a minute. Have ready J teaspoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. When the oil is hot, pour the eggs into the pan, place it over the fire, and, with a fork, slightly break the omelet on the bottom as it cooks, so that the uncooked portion can run upon the pan, but do not tear the edges of the omelet. When the omelet is cooked to the required degree (ami it should not be too well done), lay the Sardines on one side of it, pour the lemon-juice or vinegar over them, fold the omelet together, enclosing them, and then turn it out on a hot dish, and serve at once. The omelet should be served the moment it is done, as it hardens by standing. Sardine Salad.—(1) Steep the requisite quantity of Sardines in vinegar for half-an-hour, then scrape them carefully, refresh them in more vinegar, and arrange them round the edges of a dish. Finely chop a bunch of parsley Sardines—continued. and three or four small onions, stone several olives, mix them with the onions, and put the mixture in the middle of the dish. Put the strained juice of two lemons in a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and beat them well with a wooden spoon until of a smooth creamy con- sistency. Pour the sauce over the salad, and serve without delay. (2) Remove the skin and bones from three Sardines, put them in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pound them until smooth. Mix 3 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar with the same quantity of cream or salad- oil and 1 wineglassful of wine; season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg. Remove the skin and bones from the remains of any kind of cold cooked fish, and flake it with two forks. Cover the bottom of a dish with a layer of the flaked fish, over that place a few thin slices of pickled gherkins, capers, and Bologna sausage; on the top of these arrange some neat fillets of Sardines. Pour the vinegar mixture in with the pounded Sardines and eggs, and stir it until quite smooth, then pour it over the salad, garnish witli sliced hard-boiled eggs and lemons, and serve. (3) Skin, bone, and divide some tinned Sardines into fillets. Thoroughly wash some lettuces, chervil, American and watercress; drain them, cut them up, and put them in a salad-bowl; arrange the Sardines on the top, and sprinkle over some chopped capers. Masli the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and mix with them the juice of half a lemon and 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil; season the dres- sing with mustard, pepper, salt, and cayenne, pour it over the salad, put some slices of lemon round, and serve. (4) Skin eight Sardines, and boil them. Cut eight hard- boiled eggs and six peeled and boiled onions into slices; put them in a salad-bowl in alternate layers, with Sardines between each, sprinkle over some chopped tarragon, chervil, parsley, and piepper and salt; pour in some oil and vinegar, and serve. (5) Open a large tin of Sardines, strain off all the oil into a cup, and put it by; lift the Sardines out one at a time, scrape off their skins, split them lengthwise into halves, and remove the bones. Boil three eggs soft, cook- ing them for three minutes, then crack the shells and empty them into a basin. Mix with the eggs the strained oil of the Sardines, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, a moderate quantity each of malt, shallot, and chilli vinegar, 1 dessert- spoonful of French mustard, and a few drops of essence of anchovies; beat the mixture until smooth and well incor- porated. Prepare and cut into shreds two or three freshly- gathered lettuces, and thoroughly wash some mustard and cress. Mix the lettuce anil the sauce together on a salad- dish, pile some of the mustard and cress in the centre, and lay a whole red capsicum upon it. Arrange the Sardines round the salad, and finish with a border of the remain- ing mustard anil cress, and serve with as little delay as possible. The salad may be varied according to taste with watercress, endive, beetroot, and any other vege- table used in the composition of salads. (6) Skin and bone three or four Sardines; put their flesh in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and pound them smoothly, then beat them up with J tea- cupful each of cream, wine, and vinegar; season with salt, and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg. Cover the bottom of a large dish with a layer of any kind of cold flaked fish, over that strew some chopped capers and thinly-sliced pickled gherkins, and cover them with a layer of thin slices of smoked sausages. Skin and bone a few Sardines, divide them in halves, and arrange them neatly on the top of the sausage. Beat the Sardine- and-cream mixture up again, and pour it over the contents of the dish. Arrange round the edge of the dish a border of fresh nicely-picked watercress, over that lay, alter- nately, some slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon, and serve. Sardine Sandwiches.—(1) Drain the oil from five or six Sardines, skin and bone them, and cut off their tails. Put them in a mortar with one anchovy that has also been skinned and boned, add loz. of butter and a small quantity each of salt, mace, and cayenne pepper, and pound them until quite smooth. Cut some rather thin slices of brownTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 382 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sardines—continued. bread-and-butter, spread the mixture on them, and fold them over. Cut the sandwiches into finger lengths or quarters, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish tastefully with sprigs of well-washed parsley, and serve. (2) If the fish are large, split them in halves, but if small they should be left whole. Put the fish on slices of bread, strew some chopped hard-boiled egg over them, and season with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice; cover with slices of bread, cut them in lengths, and serve. Another way of making these sandwiches is to cut some thin slices of rye-bread, put a thin slice of Swiss cheese on half of them, on that place some fillets of Sardines, and strew them over with finely-minced capers. Spread some German mustard on the remaining slices of bread, lay them over the fish, and press gently together. Cut the sandwiches into halves or lengths, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Sardine Sauce.—(1) Skin and bone three or four Sardines, and finely chop the flesh ; pound the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs until quite smooth, together with the strained juice of a lemon, then mix with them the Sardines, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, 1 dessert-spoon- ful of chopped capers, 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of salt and cayenne pepper. Pound all the ingredients together till formed into a smooth paste, then mix thoroughly with it, first 1'teaspoonful of Florence oil, and lastly, by degrees, i, pint of white vinegar. Pass the sauce through a coarse wire sieve, and keep it in tightly-corked bottles until required for use. (2) Remove the skin and bones from four or five Sar- dines, and chop the flesh. Put 2oz. of butter in a sauce- pan with 1 table spoonful of flour, and stir it over the lire until browned, then put in 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and A teaspoonful each of finely-chopped onion and grated lemon-peel: squeeze in the juice of a lemon, add ^ pint of clear broth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of mace. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in the chopped Sardines. Boil it for three or four minutes, stirring all the time, then take it off the fire. The above sauce will be found a delicious accompaniment to almost any kind of boiled fish. (3) Trim away the bones and skin from three Sardines, put them in a mortar with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and pound them to a smooth paste. Put 1 table- spoonful each of sugar, oil, salt, and barely 1 table- spoonful of mustard in a basin, and stir them well till quite smooth. Then add three well-beaten eggs, and when well mixed 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Stand the bowl in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, and stir the mixture over the fire till it is of the consistency of soft custard. Stir the Sardine paste into the dressing, and serve with fish. Sardine Toast.—(1) Scrape the skin off some Sardines, split them open lengthwise, and remove the bones. Lay the Sardines on a plate, pour some of their oil over them, cover with another plate, and put them in a moderate oven until hot through. Cut the required quantity of slices about Jin. thick off a stale tin-loaf, toast them a delicate brown on both sides, and butter them. Cut the toast into fingers, and lay a Sardine on each; dust them lightly with salt and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the fingers of toast tastefully on it, garnish with a border of nicely-picked and washed watercress, and serve. The above makes a very tasty breakfast dish, and is soon prepared. (2) Drain the oil from five or six Sardines, and remove their skins and bones; put them in a mortar with 1 table- spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of gravy, and a dust of pepper, and pound them; then make the mixture hot. Remove the crust from some slices of hot buttered toast, spread them with the Sardine paste, put them on a hot dish, and serve. SARSAPARILLA.—The root of the Smilax offici- nalis, used as a medicine only. SASSAFRAS. — An American tree of the laurel family (Sassafras officinale). A decoction of the chips, under the name of Sassafras tea, was occasionally used as a medicinal drink. SAUCES.—This word takes its origin from the salt which it is supposed to contain in sufficiently large pro- portions to make it a valuable seasoning. Brillat Savarin says that the number of flavours is unlimited; yet it would appear from the number of Sauces that are known to the cook, that however numerous flavours may be, Fig. 450. Digester Stockpot. Sauces will be found to represent them. In English cookery the number of Sauces used commonly might be counted on the fingers of the hands, consisting essentially of gravies, and what is termed melted butter. A celebrated chef, Tom Pruday, who followed Soyer at the Reform Club, expressed an opinion that if it were Fig. 451. Dipper. not for the famous Worcestershire Sauce there would not be any British cooks in England. This was a gentle reference to his former preceptor (Soyer), whose list of Sauces was something enormous. It may be observed that whereas British cooks in so many cases rely uponTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 383 For detaits respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, **., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. such Sauces as Worcestershire, Harvey’s, anchovy, soy, mushroom, and other ketchups for their flavours, Continental cooks barely recognise their presence in the Fig. 452. Block-tin Colander. kitchen, relying almost exclusively upon obtaining the flavours they require from the articles themselves, using bottled sauces merely as supplements. Fig. 453. Copper Colander. The highest art of the culinary profession is exhibited in a preparation of Sauces; those that shall acquire the very flavour that it is necessary to increase, improve, or Sauces—continued. Kettner observes, “ The language of the English table suggests a distinction between Sauces and gravies, and I have in my time listened to many curious discussions as to what is and what is not a Sauce, what is and what is not a gravy. In common parlance and in the chief dictionaries, Fig. 455. Herb-tray. gravy always means the juice of roasted meat; in the kitchen and in cookery books, it has been found necessary to extend its meaning to the juice of meat however obtained, whether from roasting or decoction. The word Sauce in its origin is a doublet of salt, in its modern use it Fig. 456. Spice-box. Fig. 454. Broth-napkin Stretched on Frame. nearly always implies a liquid, and it may be defined in the most general terms as any liquid seasoning employed in the presentation of food. Gravy or the juice of meat is always a Sauce, although a Sauce is not always a gravy. On the other hand the great Sauces, as they are called in develop the flavour of the viand with which it is served, ilie celebrated Marquis De Cussy wrote that a cook or more roaster can be created by teaching, but to be a Sauce-maker the genius must be born in him. Fig. 457. Double Boiler. France, have gravy for their foundation, this too in its most concentrated form, and it would be more distinctive to call them, at least in England, gravies.” Before entering upon the consideration of individual Sauces, it will be advisable to give some instructions that384 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. shall apply generally to most or all, whether savoury or sweet. Some of these instructions may be applicable only to one particular class of Sauce, those of a savoury character occupying the greatest attention. It is necessary in the case of some savoury Sauces to have a good stock from which to prepare them. This may be provided either by the liquor in which the viand is cooked, or it may be specially prepared for the purpose; in the first case, the mode of procedure is sufficiently simple, in the second case the stock must be prepared by Fig. 458. Flat Sauce-strainer. simmering certain meats, &c., in a stockpot, and the most suitable vessel for this is the stockpot known as a digester (see Fig. 450), described under its own heading. In such a vessel the very essence of the meat, &c., can be extracted. When any of the stock is required, it may be taken out, after all the fat has been skimmed off, by means of a dipper (see Fig. 451), which may hold any amount, from a few table-spoonfuls to a pint. After the first boiling of the stock, which will probably contain meat, bone, vegetables, and herbs, it should be Fig. 459. Conical SauCe-strai'Ner. strained through a coarse colander, which may be made either of block tin (see Fig. 452) or when required for more extensive purposes of copper (see Fig. 453). When this stock is cold every particle of fat should be removed, and the stockpot thoroughly cleansed. The strained stock or broth may then be returned to the stockpot, or put into a large saucepan or a stewpan, and boiled down; then remove the lid until the stock becomes, when cold, a strong jelly, which will keep in a cool pantry for a length of time. Some cooks prefer to strain their first stock through a broth-napkin (see Fig. 454). This ensures a clear, bright Sauces—continued. result, and is generally practised by those cooks whose art is not crippled by scarcity of time. Savoury Sauces may be either made with meat (au gras) or without (au maigre); for the latter a stock would not Fig. 460. Bain-marie. be required. Sweet Sauces will not require stock, but are usually made in the form of melted butter, flavoured with fruit juices, spices, and wine, and sweetened. Starting with the stock, a certain quantity will be placed in a stewpan to be further seasoned with spices or herbs, both of which should be ready at hand in every well-regulated kitchen. The herbs, ground to a fine powder, are usually kept handy in a lierb-tray (see Fig. 455) and spices in a spice-box (see Fig. 456). When the stock merely requires to be warmed up, and not reduced by rapid boiling, it is better to use what is called a double boiler (see Fig. 457), this being merely one saucepan let into another, the outer saucepan con- taining water and the inner one the stock or Sauce; by means of this the most delicate Sauces can be prepared without fear of burning. Sauces should at all times be perfectly smooth and even, containing no lumps or irregularities whatever beyond those which are added, such as capers, shrimps, or Fig. 463. Egg-bowl. oysters, after the Sauce is made. To ensure this they should be passed through one or the other of the fine strainers shown in the accompanying illustrations (see Figs. 458 and 459). These are made of such a size that they fitTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 385 Sauces—continued. readily into the saucepots of the bain-marie (see Fig. 460), in which Sauces prepared for immediate use can be kept hot for almost any length of time without spoiling. The bain-marie is, of course, suitable for large kitchens wlieie several Sauces are probably required for one meal. When only one Sauce is used, as would probably be the case in a small family, an ingenious little apparatus (see Fig. 461) has been invented which will keep the Sauce hot by being placed in the mouth of a boiler, which it would, of course, be made to fit. Besides the usual flavourings and colourings used in Sauce-making, it is sometimes found necessary to thicken them either by adding flour or beaten egg. Flour with butter may be added in the form of brown or white roux (see Roux), or may be simply dusted in by means of a dredger (see Fig. 462). This latter principle is not often adopted after the Sauce has undergone its final straining, as the flour is liable to render the Sauce somewhat lumpy. Eggs for thickening should be beaten thoroughly and rapidly, and for this purpose it is advisable to use a cop- per egg-bowl (see Fig. 463) and a one-handed whisk (see Fig. 464). It may be a secret worth knowing that the French chef bases all his important Sauces upon a white and a brown. The white is famous for its soft character, which has gained for it the name of veloute or velvet-down, of which there are two recog- nised variations known as bechamel and German or Allemande. The brown Sauce is called Spanisli or Espagnol, and should always exhibit the flavour of roasted meat or flour. From the following long list of receipts collected from and contributed by the very best authorities in the world, it will be observed that numerous modifications are made of the original fundamental brown and white Sauces. Numerous other Sauces also will be found under special headings, such as Anchovy, Bread, Caper, &c. References to the following Sauces will be found in the receipts using them. Fig. 464. One-handeo Whisk. Savoury Sauces.—These do not include ordi- nary gravies, but are for the most part the standard Sauces of modern times. They are used for a variety of purposes, some of which are specially notified. Admiral’s Sauce (a l'Amiral).—Add to 1 breakfast-cupful of melted butter Sauce, two well pounded anchovies, four shallots chopped very fine, 1 teaspoonful of chopped capers, and a little very thinly-pared lemon-peel; put all these in a saucepan over the fire and let them simmer till the an- chovies are well blended. Pick out the lemon-peel, add the juice of one lemon, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and pour it into a sauce-tureen. Allemande Sauce.—See German Sauce. Aurora Sauce (a l’Aurore).—(1) Put the spawn of a lobster and a lump of butter into a mortar and pound them, then pass them through a line hair sieve. Prepare some brown Sauce, reduce it till it will coat a spoon, then mix with it the lobster butter and the juice of a lemon, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve the Sauce. (2) Put 4 pint of hot, highly-seasoned bechamel Sauce in a saucepan, add 1 wineglassful of mushroom liquor or ketchup, Joz. of butter, and 3 table-spoonfuls of very red Sauces—continued. tomato Sauce. Stir well over the fire for five minutes, then add six mushrooms cut into small squares, and serve. Australian Sauce.—Peel and boil two or three carrots, and boil four eggs until hard. Chop them small and put them into a stewpan with a few finely-chopped pickled cu- cumbers, 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped lean ham and chopped shallots, and 1 table-spoonful each of capers and parsley also chopped. Pour in 1 pint of stock broth, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little mushroom ketchup. Place the mixture over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Put loz. of butter into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and stir it over the fire until browned, then mix it in with the Sauce, and boil for three minutes, stirring it all the time; it is then ready for serving. This Sauce makes an excellent accompaniment for tinned meats. Bateliere Sauce.—Put into a stewpan 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms, with 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, shallots, and tarragon, 2 table-spoonfuls each of vinegar and sherry, two cloves, and a blade of mace. Boil the above ingredients till the moisture is almost entirely re- duced, then pour in lqt. of brown Sauce and 1 pint of broth; boil the Sauce till it will cc.at the back of a spoon, then add 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers and the same of chopped gherkins. When done, remove the Sauce from the fire, stir into it 1 table-spoonful of anchovy butter, and serve. Bavarian Sauce (a la Bavaroise).—Boil in a small sauce- pan 1 teacupful of vinegar, and when reduced to half its original quantity remove it to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them with the reduced vinegar, and add about loz. of butter and a small quantity of horse- radish. Beat the mixture well, season it with a little salt and grated nutmeg, and stir it over a rather slow fire till thick, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle. Pass the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan and mix in, small quantities at a time, 3oz. of butter. Beat the mixture over a slow fire till light and frothy, then add 3oz. of crayfish butter, and serve at once. Bearnaise Sauce (a la Bearnaise).—(1) Beat the yolks of five eggs in a saucepan, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 pinch of salt; stir the eggs over a slow fire till they begin to thicken, then take them off and stir in 2 more table-spoonfuls of butter; continue stirring at the side of the fire till the butter is dissolved. Season the Sauce with a little chopped fine herbs and parsley, and pour in 1 teaspoonful of French vinegar. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (2) Peel seven or eight shallots, put them in a mortar, and pound to extract the juice. Put the yolks of five eggs into a saucepan, and stir them over a slow fire till quite thick, then add an equal quantity of meat glaze, the juice of the shallots, the strained juice of two lemons, and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar. When thoroughly hot (the Sauce should not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle), pour the Sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of minced shallots into a stew- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of plain and tarragon vinegar; boil till the moisture is reduced to one-third its original quantity, then stir in 1 teacupful of white Sauce and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, beating each one well in before adding another. Take the stewpan oil' the fire at once so that the eggs may not boil, or they will curdle. Add gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of butter broken into small pieces, and strain the Sauce through a silk sieve. It is then ready for serving. Bechamel Brown Sauce.—Chop some lean veal, bacon, one carrot, one turnip, and two small onions; put them into a saucepan with a small lump of butter and fry them till nicely browned, then dredge in a little flour and fry that as well. Moisten the onions, &c., with some broth and \ pint of cream, add three cloves, one bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt. When on the point of boiling move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. C386 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. an hour. When strained, the Sauce will be ready for serving. Bechamel Sauce.—(1) Put into a saucepan half an onion, 3 table-spoonfuls of butter that has been worked with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, a large slice of carrot, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf, tied together, a small piece of mace, a little salt and grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of white stock. When boiling set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the Sauce simmer for thirty minutes, stirring frequently. When cooked, mix with the Sauce 4 pint of cream, boil it up again, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of highly-seasoned stock into a saucepan and boil it quickly till reduced to 1 pint. Put 2oz. of butter and 2oz. of flour into another saucepan and stir them over the fire till well mixed; when the butter begins to bubble, strain the stock into it, and continue stilling while it cooks. Mix with the Sauce 1 pint of cream and 2oz. more butter; beat it over the fire till on the point of boiling, tlien take the Sauce off, and serve it. (3) Put into a saucepan tlb. of chopped veal, ^lb. of chopped lean ham, one chopped onion, one shallot, a stick of celery, half a stick of mace, four mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of water; season with cayenne pepper and salt, and boil all for twenty minutes, then pour in I pint of milk, and continue boiling for about half-an-hour longer. Mix 4 teacupful of flour to a smooth paste with a little milk, then stir it into the Sauce. Stir the Sauce over the fire until the flour is cooked, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (4) Boil 1 pint of white Sauce, then mix with it 1 pint of boiling cream; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil them up again. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (5) Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then pour in gradually 1 pint of white stock, and continue stirring over the fire till boiling. Add seven or eight peeled mushrooms, put the lid half on the saucepan, and let the Sauce simmer for twenty minutes, skimming off the butter as it rises. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, put it into another saucepan, mix in 4 pint of cream and the juice of half a lemon, stir it over the fire, and let it boil for five or six minutes ; then pour the Sauce into a basin, and continue stirring it till cold. Mix some aspic jelly with the Sauce if used for making a cliaud- froid. (6) Put 41b. of flour into a basin, and mix it to a smooth batter with § pint of milk ; turn it into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire till it begins to thicken, then work it well while pouring in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk. Add 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped raw ham, two small onions, a bunch of well-washed parsley, a few peppercorns, and pepper and salt to taste. When boiling, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the con- tents simmer for twenty minutes, stirring them occa- sionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (7) Cut a small fillet of veal into little pieces, and put them into a saucepan with two sliced onions, two sliced carrots, and fib. of butter; fry them lightly, but do not brown them, add 6oz. of flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then put in about |lb. of mushrooms cut into slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, 3qts. of stock, and lqt. of cream, and dust in a little pepper and salt. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till boiling, then move the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for two hours, skimming off the fat as it rises. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into a clean saucepan, put in with it f pint of cream, and boil it quickly till reduced to a thick consistency. Turn the Sauce into a basin, and stir it with a spoon till cold. (8) Put 2oz. of butter with some finely-chopped parsley and chives into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little cream, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir the Sauce over the fire till thick, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Sauces—continued. Berlin Sauce.—Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped teaspoonful of flour; stir these over the fire until mixed, then mix in slowly 4 pint of milk. When it boils, move it to the side of the fire and stir in gradually four eggs that have been beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, 4 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Do not boil the Sauce again. It is ready for serving when the eggs have thickened. Beyrout Sauce (a la Beyrouth—Put 1 table-spoonful each of common vinegar, chilli vinegar, and chopped onions into a saucepan, add 1;} pints of melted butter, 1 teacup- ful of brown Sauce, and 4 teacupful each of mushroom ketchup and Harvey’s Sauce; stir the above ingredients over the fire till boiling, then move them to the side, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Skim the Sauce, place it over the fire again, and boil till thick and creamy; mix with it a sprinkling of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of anchovy essence, and serve. Blanquette Sauce (a la Blanquette).—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when melted sift in about 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; stir over the fire till well mixed but not browned. Mix in gradually sufficient boiling water to bring the Sauce to the proper consistency, then put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some cooked button-mushrooms and onions, and salt and pepper to taste. This Sauce can be used for warming up cold meats as a white fricassee. Blonde Sauce.—Put into a stewpan 1 breakfast-cupful of melted butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of rich stock, a sprig of parsley, an onion cut into slices, two mushrooms minced very fine, a lemon cut into thin slices, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Put the pan on a slow fire, and stew the contents for half-an-hour; add the yolks of three well- beaten eggs, and stir over the fire for six minutes; strain the Sauce through a sieve, and serve. Bordeaux Sauce (a la Bordelaise).—(1) Finely chop four shallots, boil them for a few minutes, then strain off the water, and put them into a saucepan with 4 pint of white wine. Boil the wine for twenty minutes, then add 1 pint of Spanish Sauce, a little chopped parsley, and pepper. Let the Sauce simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then boil it up, and serve. (2) Put some lean boiled ham that has been cut into small pieces into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown Sauce and 4 breakfast-cupful of claret. "When boiling, put in with the ham half a bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, two cloves, and a few peppercorns. Boil the Sauce till reduced to about two-thirds, strain it into another saucepan, let it simmer, and skim occasionally. Mix the strained juice of one lemon with 1 table-spoonful of claret, and stir it in with the Sauce to brighten and clear it. Boil the Sauce up again, and if for fish, add a pounded anchovy or a few drops of essence of anchovies; if for meat the anchovy should be omitted. Bourgeoise Sauce (a la Bourgeoise).—Put 1 table-spoon- ful each of blanched and chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon-leaves into a saucepan, and mix with them 1 tea- cupful of stock and 1 dessert-spoonful each of meat glaze, French mustard, and caster sugar; stir the above in- gredients over the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve the Sauce, squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste with a little salt and pepper. This Sauce makes a very good relish for cold boiled chicken or beef. Bretonne Sauce (a la Bretonne).—(1) Put in a basin 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and mustard and 1 table-spoonful of grated horseradish; mix with 4 teacupful of vinegar. This Sauce can be served with either hot or cold meat. (2) Mince twelve onions and fry them in butter till they are brown. Mix 1 teacupful of flour with a little beef or veal gravy and sprinkle it over them. Take off all the fat, season with salt and pepper, and strain through a tammy-cloth. Another way is to fry some small white onions cut in rings until they are brown; have the Sauce a little more liquid, and boil the onions in it. When done, skim off the fat.387 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. Brown Sauce.—(1) Peel and cut eight large onions into halves, and place them at the bottom of a stewpan with Jib. of butter. Put lib. of slices of lean ham on the top of them, then 81b. of leg of beef and veal, also cut in slices. Put the stewpan over a quick fire and fry the contents, keeping the onions at the bottom. When the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light brown glaze, prick the meat with a fork, remove the stewpan from the fire, deaden it with ashes, place the stewpan again over it, and let it stand half-an-hour longer, stirring twice during that time. Pour into the stewpan lOqts. of water, add three turnips, two carrots, two blades of mace, and a large bunch of sweet herbs. When boiling move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, season the contents with salt and pepper, and keep sim- mering for two hours, skimming off the fat and adding a little cold water occasionally to keep it the same quantity. Skim the liquor, thicken it with roux diluted with hot water, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. It is then ready for use. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan and when it is melted put in two mushrooms, one onion, and half a carrot, all chopped; fry them till nicely browned, then add 1 table-spoonful of flour and fry that also. Pour in h pint of stock, and colour it with 1 teaspoonful of caramel. Boil the Sauce gently for ten minutes, season with salt and pepper, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and use as required. (3) Fry 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion in 2 table- spoonfuls of butter for live minutes, then add 2 large table- spoonfuls of flour and stir well. Pour in gradually 1 pint of hot stock and stir it quickly as it thickens; season the Sauce until salt and pepper and any other flavour that is liked, and let it simmer gently for five minutes. When strained, the Sauce is ready for use. The onion may be omitted if desired. Cardinal Sauce.—(1) Prepare 1 pint of melted butter or butter Sauce, and colour it with pounded lobster coral; when that cannot be procured, pound together the red part of a lobster and some shrimps. Pass them through a fine hair sieve, and season them with salt, cayenne pepper, and the strained juice of a lemon. Stir the fish mixture into the Sauce while boiling, and when well mixed it will be ready for serving. (2) Mix loz. of flour with 4 pint of fish stock, then stir into it the coral from a lobster that has been pounded with loz. of butter. When quite smooth pour the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling. Add to the Sauce 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper; then serve the Sauce. (3) Prepare 1 pint of German Sauce, and when on the point of boiling mix with it sufficient crayfish butter to colour it; then serve. (4) Reduce some brown Sauce with a few table-spoon- fuls of consomme or chicken broth. When the Sauce is sufficiently reduced take some crayfish butter and throw it in. Work it well with a lump of fresh butter to prevent the other butter from turning to oil. Give it a good seasoning, and add .ne juice of a lemon. The spawn of a lobster is better than the crayfish butter, gives less trouble, and has a finer flavour. Carrier Sauce.—Finely chop six shallots, put them into a small saucepan with \ pint of brown gravy and 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Boil the shallots, turn the Sauce into a sauceboat, or pour it over a joint of roasted mutton, and serve. Chateaubriand Sauce.—(1) Put a small lump of meat glaze into a saucepan with \ teacupful of white wine, and stir it over the lire till melted, then pour in \ pint of Spanish Sauce and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Thicken the Sauce with maitre-d’hotel Sauce, and serve it. (2) Put a small quantity of glaze into a saucepan with 4 pint of white wine, and stir it over the fire until the glaze has dissolved. Thicken the wine with flour and butter, season it with a little pepper and salt, and let it simmer gently for about half-an-hour. Beat in a little warmed butter, some chervil and parsley, both chopped, add Sauces—continued. a little lemon-juice and grated nutmeg, stir it into the Sauce, and serve. Claremont Sauce.—Chop some onions, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of oil, and fry them until cooked; add some light veal gravy and boil it, skimming off the oil as it rises. The Sauce is then ready for serving. Colbert Sauce.—Put 2oz. of meat glaze into a saucepan over the fire with 4 teacupful of stock; stir until it has melted, then pour in 1 pint of the same stock, and stir in gradually loz. of butter broken into small pieces. When on the point of boiling, strain the Sauce, squeeze in the juice of a large lemon, add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Corinthian Sauce.—Put into a stewpan three chopped gherkins, 1 table-spoonful eacli of chopped shallots, red- eurrant jelly, capers, and chopped parsley, 1 dessert-spoon- ful of sugar, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt, and cayenne, and 4 teacupful of vinegar. Stir the above in- gredients over the fire and boil them for five minutes, then pour in with them 24 teacupfuls of tomato Sauce, 14 teacupfuls of white broth, and the same quantity of brown Sauce. Boil the Sauce, then skim and serve it. Crapaudine Sauce.—Pour 4 pint of light piquant Sauce into a saucepan on the fire, add four chopped mushrooms, and 1 teaspoonful of mustard diluted in 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Boil for five minutes, and serve. Czarina Sauce.—Mix in a saucepan with f pint of rich brown Sauce, a piece of partially-boiled lemon-peel and a few gherkins and sultanas, all chopped. Dust in a little pepper, and simmer till the gherkins, &c., are cooked. Mix in a lump of butter, and when it has dissolved serve the Sauce. Demi-Provenpale Sauce.—Put 24 teacupfuls of half-glaze into a saucepan until 2 teacupfuls of broth, and boil them quickly till reduced to two-thirds. Skim the Sauce, put 1 teaspoonful of scraped garlic and 1 saltspoonful of sugar into it, boil it for two or three minutes longer, and the Sauce is then ready for serving. Devil Sauce (a la Diable).—(1) Put three peeled and chopped shallots into a saucepan, add one clove of garlic, one bay- leaf, a bunch of parsley and thyme, 4 teaspoonful each of cayenne and coarsely-crushed white pepper, 14 pints of Spanish Sauce, and 4 pint of veal broth. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Skim the Sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (2) Put six washed and chopped shallots into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of chilli vinegar, two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, and loz. of meat glaze. Boil the above articles for ten minutes, then mix in with them 1 teacupful of tomato Sauce, 24 teacupfuls of gravy, and a little sugar. When boiling let the Sauce simmer gently for ten minutes, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of butter and when it has dissolved the Sauce is ready for serving. (3) Put into a basin 1 teacupful of gravy, and add to it 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar, chutney, ami mushroom ketchup, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard, and a little salt. Stir the above mixture till well mixed, then add Jib. of butter. This Sauce is used for devilling cold meats. The prepared meat should be put into the Sauce and stewed with it. Diplomatic Sauce.—Put § pint of bechamel cream Sauce in a saucepan, mix with it a little of the liquor in which some crayfish have been boiled, and boil it quickly for a few minutes; then serve. Duchess Sauce (a la Duchesse).—Cut up into small dice |oz. of cooked ham and two truffles; place these in a saucepan over a brisk fire, with 4 wineglassful of white wine, and let the liquor reduce for three minutes. Add 1 gill of good tomato sauce, boil for one minute with 1 table- spoonful of meat glaze, and add 4 pint of German sauce. Toss well while heating, but do not allow it to boil again, and serve very hot. Dutch or Holland Sauce (d la Hollandaise).—(1) Put J pint of vinegar into a saucepan with a small piece of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. O p o VTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 388 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. nutmeg and a few coarsely-bruised peppercorns ; boil it for a few minutes, then strain it into a larger saucepan, add 2oz. of salt butter, and stir it till dissolved. Lightly beat the yolks of eight eggs, mix the boiling vinegar gradually in with them, then turn the Sauce into the saucepan, and stir it over or near the fire till thick; do not let it boil again, or the eggs will curdle and spoil the Sauce. When thick, put in loz. of butter, stir it till dissolved, then move it from the fire; add another ounce of butter in small pieces, and serve. (2) Put equal quantities of coarsely-crushed mace and allspice into a saucepan with 1 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water and boil until reduced to 1 breakfast-cupful. Beat the yolks of three eggs, stir them in with the above liquor, first moving it away from the fire, and strain it. Season the Sauce to taste with salt, put in with it a little less than Jib. of butter, broken into small bits, and stir it at the edge of the lire until thickened but not boiling. When ready to serve the Sauce, squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice. (3) Put 14 wineglassfuls of vinegar in a saucepan and boil it until reduced to one-third, then add 4oz. of butter and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it at the side of the fire until the butter has dissolved, then mix in by degrees and in small quantities another fib. of butter. If too thick add a few drops of cold water to the Sauce, stirring well all the time. Season the Sauce to taste with salt and pepper. Great care must be taken not to let it boil. When it is sufficiently thick, if it is too soon to serve the Sauce, keep it hot by standing the saucepan in another one containing boiling water or in a bain-marie. (4) Put 4- pint of bechamel sauce in a saucepan; press the juice from a bunch of parsley and strain it into the Sauce, season it with salt and cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire till hot. When ready to serve, mix with the Sauce a little strained lemon-juice. (5) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar into a small sauce- pan with a little pepper and salt, and boil them quickly till reduced to 1 teaspoonful. Separate the yolks of two eggs from the whites; put the yolks in with the reduced vinegar, add 4 teacupful of cold water, and stir them over a slow fire for two or three minutes. Mix 1 table- spoonful of butter in with the Sauce, and take it off the fire till dissolved; stir the Sauce over the fire again for a minute, put in another table-spoonful of butter, then take it off and continue stirring till dissolved. Place the Sauce over the fire again, stir for a few minutes, add another table-spoonful of butter, and proceed as before. Mix 1 table-spoonful of cold water with the Sauce, warm it up again, and it is ready for serving. (6) Beat the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, then pour in \ pint of fish broth, 1 wineglassful of lemon-juice, and half that quantity of tarragon vinegar; season the Sauce with salt and pepper, and stir it continually over the fire until it begins to boil. Remove the Sauce immediately from the fire or it will curdle, stir it for a few moments at the side, and then serve it. D’Uxelles Sauce.—(1) Reduce \ pint of Madeira Sauce with 4 wineglassful of white wine; add to it twelve very finely- chopped mushrooms, two shallots also chopped up and browned in a very little flutter for five minutes, and Joz. of chopped cooked ox-tongue. Boil again for five minutes, and serve. (2) Put some chopped shallots, chibbals, button-mushrooms, parsley, and VAicon into a saucepan with a little butter; fry them lightly so as not to brown them, pour in 4 pint of white Sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a bay-leaf, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. When cooked, mix with the Sauce a little lemon-juice and a beaten egg, and pour it into a basin. When cool, the Sauce is used for coating meat previously to rolling it in breadcrumbs. (3) Finely chop two mushrooms, two or three sprigs of parsley, two chopped shallots, a clove of garlic, some laurel-leaves and thyme; put all the above ingredients into a saucepan with some scraped bacon and a little butter, stir them over the lire for a few minutes, then pour in 1 pint of white wine, and season with salt, pepper, Sauces—continued. and mixed spices. Boil the Sauce till reduced to about half its original bulk, then strain it through a line hair sieve, thicken it with a little white roux, and turn it into a basin. This Sauce is used for either chicken or game entrees. Hast Indian Sauce.—Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a basin and mash them till quite smooth, then mix with them 1 teaspoonful of curry powder; pour in gradu- ally 1 breakfast-cupful of salad-oil and 4 teacupful of tarragon vinegar. Continue stirring the mixture till it is quite smooth and the ingredients are well incorporated; it is then ready for serving. This Sauce is very nice with salad. Espagnole Sauce.— Sec Spanish Sauce. Fair Maid’s Sauce.—Put some white broth into a sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs and an onion cut into slices, and let the mixture simmer by the side of the fire. Chop the white flesh of a cold chicken or rabbit, put it into a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, season with pepper and salt, and pound them. Mix the pounded meat with the bread and broth, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Jf the Sauce be too thick warm it with a little milk. Financiere Sauce (d la Financiere).—(1) Put 1 pint of stock into a saucepan with loz. of brown roux (See Roux) and stir it over the fire till boiling, skimming it occasion- ally. Mix with the above ingredients 1 wineglassful each of mushroom ketchup and Madeira, a small piece of meat glaze, and a little cayenne pepper. Move the sauce- pan to the- side of the fire, and let the Sauce simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Skim the Sauce, boil it up again, and then strain it. The Sauce is then ready for use. 2) Put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful each of meat glaze, butter, and chopped mushrooms, and 1 teacupful of sherry; stir them over the fire for five or six minutes, then pour in 4 pint of brown Sauce. Boil the above ingre- dients till thick and creamy, strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (3) Put into a saucepan about 1 teacupful of chopped raw ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, trim- mings of truffles, three or four peppercorns, and pints of stock and white wine mixed in equal quantities. Boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix a little brown thickening with some reduced stock, stir it into the Sauce, and skim off all the fat. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (4) For Fish.—Put 1 pint of Spanish Sauce maigre into a saucepan with 4 pint each of essence of mushrooms and truffles, 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira, and a small piece of fish glaze. Boil the mixture, and reduce it till it will coat a spoon. Strain it through a silk sieve and it is then ready for use. (5) For Game.—Put into a saucepan 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish Sauce and 14 breakfast-cupfuls each of truffles and essence of game; boil them till reduced to half their original quantity. Strain the Sauce through a broth- napkin ; it will then be ready for serving. Flemish Sauce (a la Flamande).—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the red part of carrot cut into very small pieces in a saucepan with 14. breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, and let it simmer for one hour. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed, then add a slice of carrot, one chopped onion, a blade of mace, and sixteen or eighteen peppercorns. Stir the whole over the fire for a minute or two, then pour in 1 pint of stock, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of cream with the stock, boil it up once more, then strain it through a broth-napkin or a fine hair sieve. Strain the cooked carrot, put it into the Sauce, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped cucumber pickles, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful of grated horseradish, and salt enough to taste. Stir the Sauce well, and serve it. (2) For Codfish.—Put from 10oz. to 12oz. of butter into a stewpan, and let it melt; when it is quite hot addTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 389 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. to it slowly 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of mustard, the juice of a lemon, a little vinegar, 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix these well together and serve quite hot. French Sauce (a la Frangaise).—With the yolks of six eggs and lib. of butter prepare some bearnaise Sauce; season to taste until pepper and salt, and mix it with 1 teacupful of tomato puree. When cooked, dissolve in the Sauce loz. of chicken glaze, and add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and reduced chilli vinegar. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then serve the Sauce. Fricassee Sauce.—Stir gradually the yolks of three well- beaten eggs into a basin with 4 pint of white Sauce, put them into a jar, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the Sauce thickens. Just before serving, add the strained juice of half a lemon, after removing the jar from the boiling water. Geneva Sauce (a la Genevaise).—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, add 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till brown. Mix with the butter and flour 1 pint of fish broth, and 4 pint of red wine; add two sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the Sauce boil slowly for half-an-hour, then mix with it 1 wineglassful of Madeira, strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve or broth-napkin, and serve it. 1 teaspoonful of brandy may be added to the Sauce instead of the Madeira if preferred. (2) Prepare about f pint of fish stock until wine, and strain it through a sieve. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till smooth, then beat in the yolks of four eggs, and when well mixed, add the fish liquor and wine, which should be nearly cold. Stir the Sauce over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer. When ready to serve the Sauce, strain it, and mix with it a piece of butter and the juice of one lemon. (3) Peel and slice three onions, and put them into a stewpan with three shallots, half a clove of garlic, Jib. of flutter, and a dust of pepper. Fry the above ingredients till lightly browned, then put in with them a bunch of sweet herbs and a bottle of Burgundy. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the liquid simmer gently till the onions are tender, then pour in 2qts. of Spanish Sauce and 4 pint of veal broth ; boil the liquor till reduced to a stiff Sauce, stirring at the same time, then strain it through a broth-napkin into another stewpan; stir in over the fire 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles that have been cooked in Madeira and 4 table-spoonfuls of anchovy butter. When boiling, serve the Sauce. (4) Put about 1 table-spoonful each of chopped onions and shallots into a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of butter; when the onions are partially browned, put in with them one or two bay-leaves, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, a small piece of mace, two cloves, and 1 breakfast-cupful of port wine; boil them for ten minutes, then pour in lqt. of brown Sauce and a little more that 4 pint of broth. Boil the Sauce quickly till reduced to a thick consistency, season the same with salt, cayenne pepper, and 4 teaspoonful of sugar, and thicken it with 1 table- spoonful of anchovy butter; care must be taken not to let it boil after the butter is added. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (5) Peel a moderate-sized onion, mince it, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Pour in 4 pint of claret, add a bunch of sweet herbs and a few peppercorns, and boil the Sauce for fifteen minutes. Put in another stewpan loz. of butter and 1 table-spoon- ful of Hour, stir it over the fire until it browns, then strain in the above mixture; also mix in f pint of stock gravy, and keep it boiling slowly for ten minutes. Skin and bone three anchovies, put them in a mortar with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and pound them until smooth. Skim the Sauce, stir in the anchovy butter, and serve. (6) The following is a very good Sauce, by Gouffe, for boiled asparagus, whether served hot or cold :—Pass through Sauce s—con tinned. a sieve the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, put them into a basin, add the yolks of three raw eggs, and 1 good table- spoonful of mustard. Work the preparation with a spoon, introducing into it gradually 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, thus obtaining a kind of light mayonnaise, Finish the Sauce with 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and serve in a sauceboat. (7) Cut Jib. of lean ham into small pieces, and put it in a saucepan with 14 table-spoonfuls of butter; fry it for a few minutes, then add one small carrot, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, and half a blade of mace. Let the above articles stew gently by the side of the fire for an hour, stirring them occasionally; then sift in a little flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, pour in gradually 1 pint of veal stock, and let it simmer for lialf-an-hour. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, mix with it 14 wineglassfuls of white wine and the strained juice of half a lemon, thicken it with a small lump of butter rolled in flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then serve it. Genoa Sauce (a la Genoise).—Strain about 2 table-spoon- fuls of cooked mirepoix and moisten with 4 wineglassful of red wine; reduce to half on the hot stove, then add 4 pint of Spanish Sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of white broth, and 1 scant table-spoonful of pepper. Cook for ten minutes, then strain through a sieve; put in 4oz. of good butter and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy Sauce, and serve. German Sauce (a l’Allemande).—(1) Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour to thicken. Stir well so that it shall not brown, then moisten with 1 pint of white broth, beating con- stantly, and cook for ten minutes. Beat three yolks of eggs separately in a bowl, pour- the Sauce over the eggs, a very little at a time, strain through a strainer, and finish with 4<>z. of good butter, and the juice of half a lemon, taking care that it does not boil a second time. (2) Put 1 pint of white Sauce into a saucepan, and when it boils move the saucepan off the fire and stand it in another one containing boiling water; mix with the Sauce 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and butter, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Beat the yolks of six eggs together with 1 teacupful of cream, mix them with the Sauce, and stir for three minutes. Strain the Sauce, squeeze a little lemon-juice into it, taking care to keep back the pips, then serve. Godard Sauce (d la Godard).—Put about 41b. of pieces of raw ham into a saucepan with a carrot and onion, both sliced, and Jib. of butter; fry them till lightly browned, then pour in 14 pints of dry champagne and simmer for lialf-an-hour. Strain the liquor into a stewpan, and mix until it lqt. of Spanish Sauce and 1 breakfast-cupful of essence of mushrooms. Boil the Sauce till of a thick creamy consistency, then strain it through a broth-napkin into a bain-marie pan. It is then ready for use. Gothic Sauce.—Boil five eggs hard, and when cool, peel and separate the yolks from the whites. Put the yolks in a mortar and pound them well, mixing in gradually 3 table spoonfuls of olive oil, a pounded chilli, a small quantity of saffron, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste. When these ingredients are well mixed, stir in sufficient vinegar to bring them to a creamy thickness, strain through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Green Sauce.—(1) Use 1 handful each of all or any of the following green herbs: Tarragon, chervil, or curled parsley, parsley, burnet, and chives or young green onions. After wash- ing them in cold water put them into boiling salted water, and boil for two minutes, then drain, put them into cold water for a moment, again drain, and rub them through a sieve with a masher. Mix them with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a sieve, 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. When the Sauce is made, keep it very cold until wanted. (2) Put four or five slices of ham and veal into a sauce- pan with 14 pints of white wine and stock mixed in equal quantities. Boil the above gently over a slow fire till the390 THE' ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. liquor has reduced a little, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Pound some mixed herbs (fresh ones) in a mortar and strain the juice into the Sauce; thicken it with yolks of eggs, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and serve. (3) Pound in a mortar one sprig of parsley and three spikes of chervil; add three medium-sized vinegar pickles, half a small white onion, one anchovy, and 1 teaspoonful of capers. Mix these with soaked bread the size of an egg, and pound all well together. When this is reduced to a paste, rub it through a fine sieve, put it in a bowl, and stir well, adding A breakfast-cupful of olive oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, A teaspoonful of pepper, and A table-spoonful of salt. This Sauce should be firm and green. Grill Sauce.—(1) Mix about A table-spoonful each of cream, vinegar, Harvey’s Sauce, and tomato ketchup in a stew- pan, stir in smoothly 1 heaped teaspoonful of mustard, season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire until hot. Serve the Sauce poured over the grill. (2) Rub about loz. of butter into \oz. of mustard-flour mixed up with 1 pinch of white pepper and cayenne. Put them into a saucepan, which should be enamelled, and stir them well over the fire until the butter is melted; pour in 1 wineglassful of port wine and 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey’s and Worcester Sauces, mix well, and add 4 table-spoonful of mushroom or other ketchup, and 1 salt- spoonful each of soy and essence of anchovies. Continue to stir over the fire until the Sauce is about to boil, and it is then ready for serving. (3) Mix together 1 table-spoonful of rich cream and an equal quantity of vinegar and any kind of ketchup, adding a small quantity of cayenne and salt and 1 teaspoonful of made mustard or Harvey’s Sauce. When warmed without boiling it is ready for use. Hanover Sauce.—Place the boiled liver of a chicken in a mortar and pound it, then mix with it the juice of half a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and pepper and salt to taste; stir the Sauce over the fire in a saucepan till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for a minute or two. Serve while hot. Holland Sauce.— Sec Dutch Sauce. Holstein Sauce.—Beat the yolks of three eggs in 14 wineglassfuls of either port or sherry, and sweeten well with sugar. Pour the mixture into a small saucepan and whisk it over a very moderate fire until of a stiff froth, but take it off the moment it shows signs of boiling or the eggs will curdle. Turn the Sauce into a tureen and serve. Indian Sauce (a l’Indienne).—(1) Brown in a saucepan a few slices of onion, loz. of raw lean ham, one sprig of thyme, and twelve whole peppers, with loz. of butter. Add 1 teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in 1 pint of velvet Sauce (veloutd), and boil for ten minutes. Strain through a strainer into another saucepan. Pour in A breakfast- cupful of cream, the juice of half a lemon, and two egg yolks. Then serve. (2) Put A teacupful of chopped shallots into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of white vinegar that has been strained off a bottle of mild Indian pickles; boil them for two or three minutes, then pour in 1 pint of white Sauce and 1 teacupful of white broth. Stir the Sauce over a quick fire till reduced to a creamy thickness, then strain it through a broth-napkin into another stewpan; mix with it A teacupful of cream, and five or six of the Indian pickles cut into pieces, stir it over the fire, then serve. Italian Sauce (d l’ltalienne).—(1) Put a large lump of liutter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped mushrooms and shallots, and 1 pint of white wine; boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix with the above ingre- dients 1 breakfast-cupful of veloute Sauce, and A breakfast- cupful of stick ; boil them quickly over the fire till thick. Skim the Sauce, and keep it warm in a bain-marie till ready to serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Sauces—continued. (2) Boil in A pint of beef and veal stock, mixed in equal quantities, two chopped mushrooms, and 1 teacupful of white wine; simmer slowly for a quarter-of-an-liour, then add to the above ingredients the strained juice of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and two lumps of sugar. Boil the Sauce up again, then keep it hot in a bain-marie till wanted. (3) Fry in a saucepan with a little salad-oil, 1 teacupful of chopped onions and shallots, mixed in equal quantities ; pour in with them when fried 1 pint of white Sauce, A pint of broth, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for ten minutes, then skim off all the fat, stand the saucepan over the fire again, and stir with a woorlen spoon till the Sauce is of a thick creamy con- sistency. Add 1 table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, I teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and one of sugar, a little salt, and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the Sauce over the fire for a few minutes, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve. (4) Put 14 teacupfuls of broth into a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of Chablis, and let them simmer till reduced to half their original quantity. Chop some mushrooms finely, and mix with them half their quantity of finely- chopped shallots; season with a little parsley, thyme, salt, and pepper, and mix them with the reduced liquor. Stir a little flour and butter in a frying-pan over the fire for three or four minutes, then mix them with the above ingredients, and stir them slowly over the fire for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time the Sauce is ready for serving. (5) Put lqt. of Spanish Sauce into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 teacupful each of veal stock and d’Uxelles Sauce, and A pint of reduced Chablis. Boil all together for five minutes, then skim the Sauce and keep it in a bain- marie till ready to serve. (6) Prepare some brown Italian Sauce. Trim some black truffles, and boil them for a few minutes in a little broth. Drain the truffles, mix them with the prepared Sauce, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Season the Sauce well, and keep it thin. It is then ready for serving. Jardiniere Sauce (d. la Jardiniere).—Cut three peeled carrots into slices A*n- thick, and with a small long and round vegetable-cutter cut each slice into as many pieces as possible. Pr epare some turnips in the same way, put them with the carrots into a saucepan with twenty peeled button-onions, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and fry over a moderate fire from ten to fifteen minutes; then pour in 1 A breakfast-cupfuls of broth, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire till the vege- tables are tender; then boil it up to reduce the moisture a little, and skim off all the fat. Put § pint of brown Sauce into another saucepan with H teacupfuls of broth, and boil it quickly till thick and creamy; then put in with it some small pieces of cauliflower, seven or eight heads of asparagus, 2 table-spoonfuls of green peas, 1 table-spoonful of French beans, and the prepared vege- tables, and let them boil gently for iifteen minutes. Season with a little salt and sugar, move it off the fire, put in 1 table-spoonful of butter, and stir it till dissolved. The Sauce is then ready for serving. A bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf will improve the flavour. Livernaise Sauce (4 la Livernaise).—Peel and wash four or five carrots and turnips, cut them into small balls with a vegetable-cutter, and scald them in boiling water. Drain the vegetables, put them in a stewpan with about 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar and a small quantity of clear stock or broth, and boil them gently until the liquor is reduced to a glaze. Care must be taken that the vege- tables do not break. Put the glazed vegetables into an- other stewpan with 1 pint of Spanish Sauce, toss them about gently over the fire until the Sauce is on the point of boiling, then serve it. Maintenon Sauce (a, la Maintenon).—Finely chop a slice of lean ham, and put it into a saucepan with a sprig of parsley, two mushrooms, and two shallots, all finely- chopped, 4 table-spoonful of butter, two lumps of sugar, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.391 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. and the juice of a lemon, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Mix 1 tahle-spoonful of flour with a little water, then mix with it gradually 4 pint of stock, and stir it into the saucepan with the other ingredients; season it to taste, and continue stirring the Sauce over the fire for twenty minutes. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and thicken the Sauce with the beaten yolks of four eggs. When thick, the Sauce is ready for serving. Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce (a la Maitre d’Hotel).—(1) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with 4 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little finely-minced thyme and onion, and pepper and salt to taste. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, and whisk the contents with an egg-whisk till on the point of simmering; then remove the saucepan from the fire, and serve the Sauce. (2) Mix with 1 teacupful of dried flour 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and make it a smooth paste with a little cold water; then turn it into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, and stir it over the fire till thick. When the Sauce is cooked, take it off the fire, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve it. (3) From 1 pint of stock take out about 2 table-spoon- fuls, and with them mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour to a smooth paste; put the remainder of the stock on to boil. Stir the cornflour into the boiling stock, and boil it gently for five minutes, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of maitre-d’hotel butter, then stir them gradually into the boiling mixture. Stand the saucepan containing the Sauce into another saucepan with boiling water, place them over the fire, and stir constantly for three or four minutes. Turn the Sauce out, and serve it. (4) Add to £ pint of warm Dutch Sauce, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 4oz. of butter, 1 scant teaspoonful of pepper, and 4 teaspoonful of nutmeg; then serve. Mandram Sauce.—Peel and finely chop a cucumber, put it into a basin, cover it with water, and let it steep for five minutes. Drain the cucumber well, mix with it one sliced onion, a little cayenne, a small piece of a capsicum, 1 table-spoonful of white wine, and a small quantity of vinegar. When well mixed, the Sauce is ready for serving. (2) Slice a cucumber, and chop a green chilli and a shallot; mix them up with 2 table-spoonfuls each of Madeira and vinegar, and the Sauce is ready for use. It is frequently ■ served with roast beef or mutton. It is most essential that green chillies he used, not dried ones, otherwise the flavour will not be so good. Marshal's Sauce (a la Marecliale).—Put 1 teacupful of green tarragon into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of white vinegar, a lump of sugar, and \ saltspoonful of salt, and boil quickly till the vinegar has reduced to half its original quantity; then pour in 1 teacupful of Sauce tournee that has been stiffly reduced, and boil it up once; then stir in the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with a little milk or cream. Continue stirring the Sauce by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil. Strain the Sauce through a broth-napkin, return it to the sauce- pan. mix with it Jib. of butter, and work it by the side of the fire till dissolved. Serve the Sauce while quite hot. Matelote Sauce (a la Matelote).—(1) Put some slices of onion into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them till In-owned; then take them out, leaving the butter in the stewpan. Pour in with the butter 14 pints of wine and stock, mixed in equal quantities (either white or red wine can be used), and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the Sauce till reduced one-third, then put in some cooked mushrooms and the onions, and serve it. (2) Put into a saucepan 4 pint each of broth and white wine, some chervil, tarragon, and two bay-leaves ; season with pepper and salt to taste, and boil the Sauce gently till reduced to half the original quantity. The Sauce is then ready for use. (3) Cut three onions into slices, and put them into a saucepan with four shallots, a small bunch of thyme, one bay-leaf, and 14 breakfast-cupfuls of Burgundy. Stew the onions gently till tender; then strain the liquor into Sauces—continued. another saucepan, mix with it lqt. of Spanish Sauce, and boil quickly till reduced to the consistency of cream. Strain it through a broth-napkin, and it is then ready for serving. (4) Put 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar into a saucepan, and stir it over a sharp fire till brown; then put in about 14 table-spoonfuls of butter and seventeen or eighteen peeled button-onions, and fry them till brown; then pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and when boiling add 1 pint of brown Sauce and 24 teacupfuls of broth. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire for the contents to simmer till the onions are tender; then skim the Sauce, and put in eighteen small quenelles, eight heads of mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful each of ketchup ami essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper. The Sauce is then ready for serving as required. Matrimony Sauce.—Make 4 pint of butter Sauce, using plenty of butter, season with 1 pinch of salt, and add sufficient vinegar and crystallised sugar to give it piquancy. This Sauce gives a nice relish to vegetables. Mayonnaise Sauce.—(1) Beat the yolks of four eggs that have been freed of all whites in a basin with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, and stir in drop by drop 1 teacupful of salad-oil, adding also a few drops of vinegar; if too thick, a little water may be used. When ready to serve, mix in with the Sauce a few chopped chervil leaves. (2) Mix 6 table-spoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly with 3 table- spoonfuls of German Sauce and 2 table-spoonfuls of salad- oil. Stand the basin on ice and beat the contents, adding at the same time a small quantity of pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. When it begins to freeze, the Sauce is ready. (3) Beat well the yolks of three eggs, strain them into a basin, and set it on ice or in a very cool place. Add to the beaten yolks 3 saltspoonfuls of salt, mix it well in, and then pour in, a few drops at a time, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, stirring the mixture well; when this is thoroughly incorporated with the eggs, stir in also by degrees l \ teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Continue adding and mixing in oil and tarragon vinegar till the Sauce is of the consistency of very thick cream, then add white pepper to taste, and if necessary more salt. (4) Separate the yolk from the white of an egg, and remove the germ. Put the yolk into a basin that has been rubbed over with garlic, and add 1 teaspoonfu 1 of made mustard, and 1 saltspoonful of salt and pepper. Beat the egg well with a fork, then mix in slowly some olive oil. When the quantity of Sauce is as much as is required, stir in a little malt vinegar. (5) Put the cold hard-boiled yolk of an egg in a basin and mash it with a wooden spoon till smooth, moistening it with a few drops of salad-oil. Fiee the yolk of a raw egg from every particle of white, put it into the basin with the other, season with pepper, salt, made mustard, and cayenne, then add the remains of 1 teacupful of salad oil, stirring well and always in one direction, to prevent the Sauce from curdling. When the mixture is smooth and creamy add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve it. Milan Sauce (a la Milanaise).—(1) Put into a saucepan two chopped mushrooms, one or two washed and boned anchovies, ami 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and stir over the fire till browned; then sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir that also for a few minutes till nicely coloured; pour in 4 pint of stock and 4 wineglassful each of caper vinegar and marsala, and continue stirring them till boiling, then add a small quantity of mixed mustard, a small pinch of cayenne, and a little salt. Let the Sauce simmer for twenty minutes, then strain it, and put it back into the saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of capers. After five minutes boiling the Sauce will be ready to serve. (2) Cut fib. of boiled macaroni into pieces fin. in length and put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of small pieces of cooked ham and white cooked mushrooms, also cut into pieces; pour in with them 3 teacupfuls of white Sauce and 1 teacupful of white broth, seasoning to taste392 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For detail* respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. with salt, cayenne, and add a little sugar. Boil the Sauce for ten minutes, then mix ■with it 2 large table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir over the lire for fifteen minutes. Lastly mix with the Sauce 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and serve it. (3) Prepare some thin brown Sauce, put into it about 1 teaspoonful of unmixed mustard and 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. This Sauce is generally served with boiled fish or mutton. (4) Prepare some rather thin cream Sauce, and while in the saucepan grate in about 1 table-spoonful of Parmesan cheese, and stir it by the fire till melted. This Sauce should be served very hot. Military Sauce (aux Militaires).—Put into a stewpan a slice of ham, half a head of celery cut up, some chervil, thyme, tarragon, parsley, a bay-leaf, a shallot, half a sliced lemon, b teacupful of strong stock, and the same.quan- tity of white wine. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently till the moisture is reduced to half its original bulk. Strain the Sauce and serve it. Minim’s Sauce.—Beat some yolks of eggs in salad-oil, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire till thick. It is then ready for serving. Mirepoix Sauce.—Put an equal quantity of finely-chopped carrot and onion into a saucepan with a piece of chopped celery and some trimmings of bacon, and fry them till brown; then pour in lqt. of broth, 1 wineglassful of Chablis, and some mushroom trimmings, fine herbs, and the pulp of a lemon freed of the pips. Boil the Sauce till stiffly reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Mixed Sauce (Melangee).—Put an equal quantity of chopped mushrooms and onions into a saucepan with some chopped parsley and 1 table-spoonful of butter, and fry till lightly browned; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and b pint of vinegar, seasoning with pepper and salt to taste. Let the Sauce simmer for a-quarter-of-an- hour, then serve it. Musketeer Sauce (a la Mousquetaire).—Put one shallot, some tarragon, cress, and chervil leaves, into a mortar, and pound them. Mix with the pounded leaves 1 dessert- spoonful of meat glaze, I teaspoonful of mustard, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Pass the Sauce mixture through a broth-napkin, mix with it 4 teacupful of olive oil and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and serve. Neapolitan Sauce (a la Napolitaine).—Reduce in a sauce- pan 2 table-spoonfuls of raw mirepoix with |oz. of butter; after five minutes moisten it with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, b pint of Spanish Sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato Sauce, and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of game. Reduce for ten minutes, and rub through a sieve. Nonpareil Sauce.—Chop a slice of boiled ham, an equal quantity of breast of cooked chicken, a pickled cucumber, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one anchovy freed of skin and bone, a head of shallot, and a little parsley. Put them into a saucepan with some ketchup, and boil all together for a few minutes. Serve with either meat or fish. Normandy Sauce (a la Normande).—To l pint of velvet Sauce (veloutfj) add 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Reduce the Sauce for ten minutes, and place in it 2 table-spoonfuls of fish stock. Let it just boil again, then add two yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon, strain through a fine sieve, and stir in loz. of fresh butter. This Sauce should be stiff. Palestine Sauce.—Peel and turn twelve Jerusalem artichokes into small balls, put them into a saucepan with \ table- spoonful of sugar and 2ioz. of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in 1j pints of bechamel Sauce, and b pint of white broth, and let the Sauce simmer gently till the artichokes are tender, skim- ming occasionally. Mix with the Sauce a liaison of three yolks of eggs, stir it quickly, and it is then ready for serving. Sauces—continued. Palestine Sauce a la Bourgeoise.—Peel and cut twelve artichokes into round balls, put them in a stewpan, and toss them over the fire with a little butter and sugar till well covered. Mix with the artichokes b table-spoonful of flour, and then stir in gradually 3 teacupfuls of white Sauce. Boil the artichokes very gently till quite tender, season the Sauce with a little salt, thicken it with a liaison of yolks of eggs, and stir it quickly by the side of the fire, but do not boil it again. It is then ready for serving. Palestine Sauce aux Maigre.—Glaze some balls of arti- chokes in butter and sugar as directed for Palestine Sauce ; then dredge over them 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and stew the arti- chokes gently till they are tender. Add salt and pepper to taste, stir in 1 table-spoonful of butter and a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs, and stir quickly till thick and smooth ; then serve it. The Sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Fapillote Sauce.—(1) Chop two onions, put them into a stewpan with £oz. of scraped fat bacon, and stir them over the fire for five minutes; then pour in 1 pint of brown sauce. When boiling, put in with the Sauce 1 table- spoonful each of chopped parsley and mushrooms, a small quantity of scraped garlic, a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the Sauce, and boil it till reduced to a creamy thickness; then take it off the fire, and leave it till cold. This Sauce is generally used for cutlets a la Maintenon. (2) Put 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms and b tea- cupful of chopped shallots into a saucepan with 2 table- spoonfuls of scraped fat bacon, and fry them for ten minutes; then stir in a little flour, and when well mixed pour in gradually lqt. of half glaze. Let the glaze simmer for ten minutes, then add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, b teaspoonful of caster sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the Sauce over the fire, and boil it quickly till reduced to a creamy thick- ness ; then pour it into a basin, and use when required. Pascaline Sauce.—Prepare some rather thin Italian Sauce. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a little lemon-juice, and stir them into the Sauce by the side of the fire, continu- ing to stir it till thick, but not letting it boil. When ready to serve the Sauce, mix with it a little blanched and chopped parsley. Perigueux Sauce (a la Perigueux).—(1) Peel and chop four truffles, put them into a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of sherry, and boil for a minute; then pour in 1 pint of half glaze, and add a little salt and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Stir the Sauce over the fire till boiling, then serve it. (2) Put into a stewpan fib. of ham cut into large squares, one sliced onion, one shallot, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 pinch of mignonette pepper. Fry them till the onion is lightly browned, then add b flint of Madeira, and boil it till reduced to one half its original quantity. Mix with the above ingredients lb pints of Spanish Sauce, b pint of veal broth, and b pint of essence of truffles. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the Sauce and strain it into another saucepan, boil it till reduced to the consistency of thick cream, add 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped truffles that have been cooked in Madeira, and serve. (3) Chop some lean ham, one onion, and one shallot, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown; then pour in 1 pint of white wine, and boil it till reduced to about half its original quantity. Stir into the Sauce the same quantity of reduced stock, a few pieces of chopped truffles, and some brown thickening. Let it simmer for some minutes longer, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, add a few slices of truffles boiled in wine, and serve. (4) Put into a saucepan H pints of thin Spanish Sauce, 4 pint of essence of mushrooms, and an equal quantity of essence of truffles. Boil the Sauce till thickly reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, mix with it about393 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles that have been cooked in a little Madeira, and serve it. (5) Chop up very fine two large truffles, place them in a saute-pan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce over the hot stove for five minutes. Add 4 pint of Spanish Sauce, allow it to come to the boil, and serve very hot. Piquant Sauce.—(1) Prepare some melted butter, flavour it to taste with elder-flower, tarragon, or malt vinegar, a little pepper, and mustard if liked. Stir the Sauce over the fire till cooked, then move it to the side, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and serve. (2) Place a piece of butter in a stewpan; when melted, put in with it two sliced onions, one carrot, one parsnip, two shallots, a little thyme, basil, and parsley, and a clove of garlic, and fry them till nicely browned; then dredge in a little flour, and moisten with broth and 1 table-spoon- ful of vinegar. Boil the Sauce over a slow fire, skim, and strain it through a sieve. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. (3) Prepare 1 pint of butter Sauce, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped pickles, olives, capers, 4 teaspoonful of onion-juice, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and lemon-juice, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till cooked, then serve the Sauce at once. (4) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots into a stew- pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil them till the moisture has evaporated somewhat. Pour in with the shallots 1J pints of half glaze and a little over £ pint of broth, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Skim the Sauce, then add 4 teaspoonful of sugar and 2 table-spoon- fuls of chopped gherkins. Season the Sauce with cayenne pepper, but do not let it boil after the gherkins are added. (5) Make some brown Sauce, and mix with it 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, a piece of onion, half a bay-leaf, and some bruised peppercorns. Stir the Sauce over the fire till cooked, then strain it, add a few capers, and serve. (6) Fry one chopped onion with 1J table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; when nicely browned, add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire till coloured; add 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, 4 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teacupful of water, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the Sauce, and let it simmer for ten minutes or more, then strain it, and serve. (7) Chop very finely three mushrooms, one shallot, and a small carrot or half a large one. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the above ingredients, and fry them till nicely browned; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 4 pint of rich brown stock, add a bay-leaf, one or two sprigs of thyme, and 1 table-spoonful of Harvey’s Sauce, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Stir in 4 teacupful of vinegar, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Strain the Sauce, and it is ready for use. (8) Put four washed and chopped shallots into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teacupful of vinegar, and stir them with a wooden spoon over the fire till the butter becomes clear and the vinegar has reduced; dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with the butter, and stir it till well mixed; then pour in slowly 1 pint of clear broth, colour the Sauce with a few drops of caramel, and boil it slowly for fifteen minutes. Add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped gherkins and parsley, and boil them; j then skim the Sauce, and serve. Poivrade Sauce.—(1) Put into a stewpan half-a-dozen scallions, a little thyme, a good bunch of parsley, two bay- leaves, 1 dessert-spoonful of white pepper, 2 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and 2oz. of butter, and let all stew together till nearly all the liquor has evaporated; then add 1 teacupful of stock and 2 teacupfuls of Spanish Sauce. Boil till this is reduced to one half, and strain. (2) Peel and chop two carrots, two onions, one turnip, one head of celery, one shallot, one clove of garlic, and two leeks, put them into a saucepan with Jib. of lean ham and a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly browned; then add three tomatoes cut into small pieces, a blade of ! Sauces—continued. mace, five or six cloves, two dozen peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Boil them till the moisture has quite reduced, then dredge in 3oz. of flour, and stir in slowly 3 pints of stock. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for one hour, stirring them occa- sionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and use it when ready. (3) Put into a saucepan a bunch of freshly-picked parsley, two small sliced onions, one small sliced carrot, three shallots, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, 1 teaspoon- ful of coarsely-ground white ]>epper, and 1 teacupful of vinegar, and boil till the vinegar is reduced to half; then pour in 1 pint of broth, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. Prepare a roux in another saucepan with loz. each of butter and flour, then stir in gently and by degrees the contents of the other saucepan, seasoning with salt to taste. Care must be taken to mix them well, or the flour will get lumpy. Boil the Sauce, and stir it continually for twenty minutes; then skim and strain it, and it will be ready for use. (4) Put lib. of fillet of veal and 4lb. of raw ham, both cut into small pieces, into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes; then add two bay-leaves, one carrot, and one large onion, both sliced, two shallots, two cloves, 1 pinch of pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Continue frying them for a few minutes longer, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and boil it till reduced, but stir the ingredients occa- sionally to prevent their burning. When the moisture has evaporated, pour into the saucepan lqt. of Spanish Sauce and 4 pint of veal broth. Stir all till boiling, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let them simmer for half-an-hour, skimming occasionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir it with a wooden spoon till cold to prevent a skin forming on the surface. Polish. Sauce (d la Polonaise).—(1) Peel and cut some turnips into small balls or olives, and boil them till tender in salted water with the addition of a little sugar. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till well mixed but not browned; then pour in 1 pint of liquor in which some fish has been boiled, and boil it quickly over the fire till somewhat reduced. Boil 1 pint of cream, stirring it con- stantly while boiling, then mix it with the Sauce; drain the turnips, add them, and season to taste. Serve the Sauce while hot. (2) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till brown and quite smooth; then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring it all the time. When boiling, put in with the Sauce 4 table-spoonfuls of grated horseradish, the juice of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil all for a few minutes longer, then add 1 table-spoonful of washed and chopped parsley, and serve the Sauce. It is generally used for roasted veal. Pompadour Sauce. —Put some chopped shallots and mush- rooms into a saucepan with a little butter, and sweat them for a few minutes on the fire; then put in with them 14 teacupfuls of Sauce tournee and 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour, keeping them well skimmed. Thicken the Sauce with the beaten yolks of three eggs, add 4 teacupful of cream, a little salt and pepper, punl stir the whole by the side of the fire till quite hot and well mixed. Blanch and finely chop a little parsley, mix it with the Sauce, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve it. The lemon-juice may be omitted if it is not. liked. Poor Man’s Sauce.—(1) Put \ pint of stock into a sauce- pan, add a slice of lemon and 1 table-spoonful of chopped onions, and boil till the onion is cooked; then take out the lemon, and serve. (2) Put in some rich broth 1 table-spoonful each of chopped shallots and vinegar, one onion, a bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Boil the Sauce till the394 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. shallots are tender, remove the bunch of parsley and onion, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. The Sauce is then ready for use. (3) Put | pint of vinegar and water mixed in equal quantities into a saucepan with a little lemon-juice, chopped shallots, pepper and salt, and let the Sauce simmer at the side of the fire till cooked. For warming cold leg of mutton, this Sauce will be found excellent. (4) Put into a small saucepan 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped shallots, 1 teaspoonful each of minced tarragon and parsley, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 2 table- spoonfuls of broth ; season with pepper and salt, and boil the Sauce for a few minutes. It is then ready for serving. Portuguese Sauce (a la Portugaise).—This Sauce should be made a minute or two before ready to serve it, for if allowed to cool it will be spoiled. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with the yolks of two eggs, a little lemon- juice, and a pinch of coarse pepper, and stir over the fire till hot, but do not let them boil. Remove the Sauce from the fire, and continue stirring it till thick. It is then ready for serving. Poulette Sauce.—Put loz. of flour and a little more than 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire for three or four minutes; then pour in gradually 1 pint of broth, and continue stirring for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Thicken the Sauce with a liaison of yolks of eggs and a small lump of butter, strain it through a fine hair sieve, season it to taste, and serve. Prince’s Sauce Salad.—Put some leaves of tarragon, mint, and chervil in some boiling water, with six blades of chives and half a bunch of cress; in three or four minutes’ time, pour the water off, and squeeze the herbs dry in a cloth. Skin and bone three anchovies; put their fillets into a mortar with the herbs, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, and 1 teaspoonful of French capers, and pound them to a smooth paste. Mix in gra- dually with the above 1 teacupful of salad-oil, 1 wine- glassful of tarragon vinegar, £ wineglassful of walnut ketchup, and the beaten yolks of two raw eggs. Pass the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in an ice- box till ready to serve. Princess Sauce.—Put eighteen chicken quenelles, two truffles cut into slices, and one blanched chicken liver cut into dice into a saucepan on the fire with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and let it reduce for three minutes; then add 1 table-spoonful of meat glaze, let it come to the boil, and add 1 pint of good German Sauce. Toss well together, but do not allow to boil, and serve very hot. Provenpale Sauce (a la Provenpale).—Put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls each of finely-chopped mushrooms and shallots, two cloves of garlic cut into halves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 4 teacupful of salad-oil; season with salt and pepper, and stir all over the fire for a few minutes ; then pour in gradually in equal quantities some broth and white wine. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for lialf-an-hour. Remove the bunch of sweet herbs, and serve the Sauce. Prussian Sauce -Add to § pint of hot bechamel Sauce 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 1 scant teaspoonful of red pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of grated horseradish, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Let it boil for four minutes, meanwhile stirring it well, and use when needed. Queen’s Sauce.—Put 1 pint of rich gravy into a saucepan with some breadcrumbs, and let them simmer till quite thick. Chop the meat from the breast of a cold fowl, and pound it with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and a few sweet almonds. Add the pounded mixture to the Sauce, season with salt and pepper, and stir it till hot, without boiling. It is then ready for serving. Ravigote Provenqale Sauce.—Put 1 teacupful of stock into a saucepan, with a bunch of sweet herbs and two cloves of garlic, dust in a little white pepper, and boil till somewhat reduced ; then take out the bunch of herbs and garlic, pour in 1 teacupful of meat glaze, and 1 tea- Sauces—continued. cupful of tarragon vinegar, and boil them for a few minutes. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, mix with it a small quantity of chopped chervil and tarragon-leaves and a lump of butter, and serve. Ravigote Sauce.—(1) Put 4 pint of stock into a saucepan with a little white wine. Finely chop some herbs, such as chervil, tarragon, chives, and parsley, or whatever are in season, making about 3 table-spoonfuls in all, and mix them with the stock ; season with a little salt and pepper, and stew them gently for twenty minutes or so. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful of butter, then stir them into the Sauce, and continue stirring them by the side of the fire till thick. Squeeze a little lemon- juice in with the Sauce, and serve it. (2) Pour into a saucepan 1 pint of veloute Sauce, 1 pint of white poivrade Sauce, and 4 pint of chicken broth, and boil till reduced; then thicken it with 14oz. of ravigote butter, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (3) Put 1 break fast-cupful of white Sauce into a sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of milk, and boil it for a few minutes; then stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of ravigote butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is melted, but do not allow it to boil. This Sauce should be served as soon as made. (4) Finely chop in moderate quantities some cress, pim- pernel, chervil, celery, chives, scallions, 1 table-spoonful of capers, and two boned anchovies; put all into a mortar, and pound them until smooth; then beat in the yolk of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve the Sauce when ready. (5) Wash some parsley, and blanch it with some tarragon, chives, chervil, and shallot; squeeze out all the moisture, chop them finely, put them in a mortar with two boned and skinned anchovies and some butter, and pound them. Pass the mixture through a sieve, and serve. Red Piquant Sauce (Spanish).—Soften two or three red capsicums by steeping them for less that one minute in boiling water, dry them, put them into a mortar with a little garlic, and pound to a paste. Add a little water, then turn it into a saucepan containing 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling oil, and season with salt and .vinegar. Fish should be cooked in this Sauce, and served with it poured over them. Reform Sauce.—Prepare 4 pint of poivrade Sauce, and when boiling mix with it 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, 1 wineglassful of red wine (port is the best), and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Leave the Sauce to simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then strain it, and use it when required. Regency Sauce (a la Regence).—Put into a saucepan 41b. of raw lean bam cut into pieces, two shallots, two onions, and |lb. of butter, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes without browning them; then pour in 1 pint of essence of chicken, and 4 pint of Spanish Sauce. Boil the Sauce till of a thick creamy consistency, then strain it through a broth-napkin, and serve when ready. Remoulade Sauce.—(1) Mix together in a basin 2 table- spoonfuls each of chopped chibbals, anchovies that have been preserved in oil, and capers, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of unmixed mustard, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix the above ingredients with salad-oil and a few drops of malt vinegar; 1 pinch of scraped garlic may be added if liked. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (2) Put an equal quantity of chopped mushrooms and chibbals, or small onions, into a stewpan with a little chopped parsley, 1 pinch of scraped garlic, and a little salad-oil, and fry them till browned ; then pour in some broth and 2 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar. \\ hen hot, stir in the Sauce 1 teaspoonful of unmixed mustard. This Sauce should not boil. (3) Chop up very fine twelve capers, one shallot, and three small vinegar pickles, and add 4 table-spoonful of chives, and 1 table-spoonful of parsley. Place them in a bowl with a whole raw egg, 1 teaspoonful of groundTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 395 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. English mustard, 4 teaspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. Mix well together, adding 4 table-spoonfuls of oil and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, but keep the Sauce sufficiently liquid. Serve when required. Robert Sauce.—(1) Chop a peeled onion into Jin. dice, and fry it in 1 table-spoonful of butter until it is brown, then add 1 teacupful of vinegar, ancl_ boil rapidly until the vinegar has nearly evaporated. Next stir in 14 breakfast- cupfuls of any cold brown gravy; or, stir in first 1 table- spoonful of dry flour, and let it brown, and then mix in H breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water. Season the Sauce highly with salt and pepper, and simmer it slowly for fifteen minutes. Just before using it, stir in 1 dessert- spoonful of mustard. (2) Peel and cut three or four onions into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with 4 teacupful of salad-oil, and fry them till lightly browned; then add 4 teacupful of vinegar, boil it, pour in 1 pint of brown Sauce and broth, mixed in equal quantities, and add a small piece of garlic and about half a clove. W hen the Sauce is boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for ten minutes ; then skim it, stir it over the fire, and boil it quickly till of a rather thick consistency. Move the Sauce oil’ the fire, thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of French mustard, season with a little salt and sugar, and serve it. (3) Fry two small chopped onions in a saucepan with Jib. of butter; when lightly coloured, put in 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned; then add 1 pint of stock, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 4 teacupful of vinegar, and a little cayenne and salt. Let the Sauce simmer for five minutes, then skim it, stir in 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, and serve. (4) Cut into small pieces three onions, and fry them in a little butter; when lightly browned, drain, put them into a stewpan with f pint of French white wine, and boil till reduced to a glaze; then pour in lqt. of Spanish Sauce, and when boiling move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the Sauce, stir into it 1 table-spoonful of meat glaze and 1 table- spoonful of unmixed mustard, mix it thoroughly, and serve. (5) Fry any bones or pieces of meat that have been cut off some veal cutlets with an equal quantity of trimmings of bacon; when nicely browned, drain the fat oft' the trimmings and put them in a stewpan. Fry three chopped onions in butter, then put them into the stewpan with the bones, &c., pour in 1 pint of water, and boil it till reduced to two-thirds. Skim and strain the gravy, thicken it with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a 1 little cold water, and stir it over the fire till cooked; then add 1 table-spoonful of butter and a little mixed mustard. When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. Royal Sauce.—(1) Put 4oz. of fresh butter and the yolks of three raw eggs into a small saucepan, and stir them over ' the fire till the yolks begin to thicken, but do not let them cook hard. Take the Sauce off the fire, and stir in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls of Indian soy, one finely-chopped green gherkin, 1 small pinch of caye ine pepper, and a little salt. When well mixed, keep tfie Sauce in a cool place. When cold, serve in slices with fish. (2) Whip 4lb. of butter to a cream, then Beat in the yolks of four eggs, add 4 table-spoonful each of tarragon vinegar and elder vinegar, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of soy, and a very small quantity of pounded mace. Turn the above ingredients into a saucepan, putin two or three little pieces of butter, stand the saucepan in a large one containing boiling water, place it on the fire, and stir the Sauce till thick and smooth, adding a little more elder vinegar if too thick. Serve the Sauce while hot. Sachsen Sauce for Fish.—Put 2oz. of butter into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well browned; then put in 1 table-spoonful of minced shallot, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and half that quantity of white vinegar. Pour in sufficient of the liquor in which fish has been boiled to Sauces—contin ued. make the requisite quantity of Sauce, and boil it for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring it at the same time. When ready to serve the Sauce, put in two or three thin slices of lemon and a lump of butter, allowing the latter to oil on the top. Sailor's Sauce.—-Chop three shallots, two truffles, and a fowl’s liver; put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoon- ful of oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, season with salt and pepper, anil let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Skim the Sauce well before using it. St. Menehould Sauce (a la Ste. Menehould).—Put about Jib. of butter into a saucepan and melt it, dredging in at the same time some dried flour, and stir till well mixed; then pour in slowly 1 pint of new milk, add some mush- rooms and chibbals, or small onions, season the Sauce with pepper and salt, and let it simmer, stirring occasionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and boil it up again with some chopped parsley. It is then ready for serving. Salmi Sauce.—(1) Mix together in a small saucepan 1 table- spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir it over the fire till lightly browned ; then pour in J pint of white wine and an equal quantity of broth, add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped shallots and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a lump of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil the above ingredients till reduced to about half their original quantity, pass it through a sieve, then mix in the meats, &c., prepared for the hash. (2) Add to 4 pint of Spanish Sauce a little cayenne, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Russian cranberries, and 4 glass of port wine. Boil for five minutes, and if it is too acid add a little sugar. This is a suitable Sauce for wild ducks, cutlets, hashes, &c. Sauce for Boar’s Head.—(1) Cut the rind very thin off two Seville oranges in small slips about 4in. in length, scald them in boiling water, drain them upon a sieve, and put them into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of mixed mustard, 4 table-spoonfuls of currant jelly, a little pepper and salt to taste, and mix well together; then add 1 tumblerful of good port wine, warm up together in a small saucepan, strain, and serve in a tureen. (2) Stir into 1 teacupful of red-currant jelly 2 table-spoon- fuls of best mustard and 1 teacupful of vinegar in which some shallots or small onions have been pickled. Serve as a Sauce in a tureen. (3) Take 6 table-spocnfuls of red-currant jelly, and dilute it with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine ; add to this the juice of two bitter oranges and part of the thinly-grated rind, lightly boiled and nibbed through a fine sieve. Serve in a sauce-tureen. Sauce for Boiled Brisket of Beef.—Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; add 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped or sliced onions, and brown them; add gradually 14 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well, and sprinkle in 1 tea- spoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Mix well, pour in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and lastly 2 wineglassfuls of vinegar. Stir well to prevent the Sauce being lumpy. Have ready a boiled fresh brisket of beef on a dish, pour over the Sauce, sprinkle over it six minced pickled gherkins or French beans, and lastly the minced yolks and whites of six hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. Sauce for Cold Salmon.—Beat the yolks of two eggs well with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, pour it into a lined stewpan, and stir it over the fire until thickened and on the point of boiling; then move off, and leave the Sauce until cold, stirring it occasionally. Mix with it 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, and serve. Sauce for Crabs.—Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with a wooden spoon; then mix with it 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire until thickened, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. It is then ready for serving.396 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Por details respecting Culinary Pro cesses, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. Sauce for Fresh-water Fish.—(1) Chop up four anchovies and one small onion very fine, put them into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and boil for a few minutes; then stir in J pint of butter Sauce or cream. Pour the Sauce over the fish it is intended to be served with. (2) Mince very fine one onion and two anchovies, put them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of sherry, 3 wine- glassfuls of fish or meat gravy, a piece of lemon- and orange-peel, and boil up for one minute. Melt 4oz. of butter, and mix with it the yolk of one egg well beaten; then stir it into the Sauce, boil it up again, mix with it the strained juice of an orange and lemon, and it is ready for use, either poured over the fish or in a sauceboat. Sauce for Goose.—(1) Pour l pint of port wine into a small saucepan, and place it over the fire till very hot but not boiling; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, season to taste with salt and cayenne, and it is ready for use, and should be poured over the bird just before serving. (2) Pour a little more than 1 wineglassful of port wine into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, half the quantity of salt, and a very little cayenne, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon- juice, a small lump of butter rolled in flour, and 1 teacup- ful of rich gravy. Mix well, turn all into a saucepan, continue to stir over the fire until very hot, and serve in a tureen. Sauce for Green Goose.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of fried breadcrumbs and sorrel-juice into a saucepan with %oz. of sugar, 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and a nutmeg cut in quarters, and boil well; then beat it until quite smooth, add a lump of butter, and serve. Sauce for Hare.—Put the liver of a hare in a stewpan, with some rich nicely-flavoured beef gravy, and boil it until tender; then chop it with a shallot and a few pot herbs, put them into a mortar, and pound them until smooth. Stir this into the gravy in which the liver was boiled, and add 1 wineglassful of port wine and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Pour the Sauce back into the stewpan, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. Sauce for Hashes.—Chop the bones of the joint, and put them with any other fragments of it, but not fat, into, a saucepan with sufficient water, about half-a-dozen berries of whole pepper, the same quantity of allspice, half a head of celery washed and cut in pieces, and a small bunch of paisley and lemon-thyme or sweet marjoram; cover the saucepan, and when boiling throw in 1 teaspoonful of salt; skim well, and let it boil for half-an-hour. Slice about 1 oz. of onion, lay it at the bottom of a stewpan, and fry it in loz. of butter until it is slightly browned; then dredge and stir in flour enough to make it into a stiffish paste. Strain the gravy from the bones, mix it by degrees with the paste in the stewpan, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring it all the time; at the end of ten minutes it should be as thick as cream; season it either with a little shallot or tarragon vinegar, or 1 table-spoonful of ale, or a little pickle liquor of any kind, or some capers with their liquor, or 1 table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup. Put the meat into this Sauce, and let it get thoroughly hot, but not boiling. Lay some sippets of toasted bread round the edge of a dish, pour the hash into it, and serve hot. Sauce for Loin of Veal.—Put the minced yolks of three hard-boiled eggs into a small saucepan with some sweet herbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, 1 table- spoonful of fine breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, two whole cloves, and a small quantity of beaten cinnamon. Moisten the ingredients with a sufficient quantity of clear gravy, and stir the Sauce over the fire until boiling. Put three slices of Seville oranges in it, and serve. Sauce for Perch.—Having boiled the perch with some slices of onion, roots and sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt, strain part of the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, mix with it 1 teacupful of veloute or bechamel Sauce, and boil it till reduced to Sauces—continued. rather a thick consistency. Shred some carrots and parsley- roots as for julienne, and boil them gently till soft in water, with the addition of a little pepper and salt. Drain the vegetables, mix them with the Sauce, add a little blanched and chopped parsley, a little lemon-juice, \ table- spoonful of butter divided into small pieces, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the Sauce by the side of the fire till the butter has dissolved, then serve it. This Sauce can be served with fillets of sole, as well as perch. Sauce for Pike.—Put \ pint of cream into a lined sauce- pan with | teacupful of walnut ketchup and 1 table- spoonful of essence of anchovy, and place them over the fire. Knead loz. of butter with 1 small table-spoonful of flour, and when the Sauce boils, put it in, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the Sauce until the flour has cooked and thickened. Season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and serve it. Sauce for Roasted Hare or Rabbit.—Pull out the crumb of a stale French roll, put it into a saucepan, and soak it in port wine; then place the pan on the fire, add a small lump of butter, and beat it to a pulp, adding salt and pepper to taste, then a little red-currant jelly, and | wine- glassful of vinegar. Boil up once, and serve very hot. Sauce for Roasted Meats.—Put a small lump of butter into a saucepan with a little chopped parsley, the juice of one lemon, and a little salt, and stir about on the fire for a few minutes; then pour in 1 teacupful of water and add a little meat glaze. When boiling, the Sauce is ready for pouring over the joints. Sauce for Sturgeon.—Take part of the marinade in which a sturgeon has been baked, and reduce it till thick with either some brown or white Sauce. Work 1 table-spoon- ful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, then stir it into the Sauce, with a little meat glaze, essence of anchovies, and the strained juice of a lemon. Season the Sauce with a little salt, if required, and serve it. Sauce for Sucking-Pig.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion and 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil into a saucepan over the fire, and cook gently until the onions are done, but without allowing them to take colour; then add 6 table-spoonfuls of milk, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry wine, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white Sauce, and boil for fifteen minutes, skimming frequently. Add 1 table-spoonful of minced mushrooms, half the quantity of parsley also minced, 1 table-spoonful each of salt and sugar, and a small quantity of white pepper. Boil up once and the Sauce is ready for use. Sauce for Tinned Meats.—See Australian Sauce. Sauce for Wildfowl.—Put in a saucepan over the fire a small onion, a little orange- or lemon-peel, and about six leaves of basil, with 1 breakfast-cupful of veal gravy, and let it boil for five or ten minutes; then strain it. Add to the strained gravy 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, 1 wineglassful of red wine, and the strained juice either of a lemon or a Seville orange. Serve it hot. Sicilian Sauce.—Put 4 table-spoonful of coriander-seeds and four cloves into a mortar, and bruise them. Put 14 breakfast-cupfuls of gravy and 1 breakfast-cupful of essence of ham into a saucepan with the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon and the bruised seeds and cloves. When the Sauce is boiling, put into it two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a sliced head of celery. Boil the Sauce till reduced to half its original quantity, then mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine. Strain the Sauce through a fine hafr sieve. Work 1 table-spoonful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it into a saucepan with the Sauce, and stir it over the fire till thick. Serve while hot, with roast meat or fowl. Soubise Sauce (a la Soubise).—(1) Peel three large onions, cut them into slices, put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter, fry them, but do not colour them. Mix with the onions 4 pint of veal gravy and boil till tender. Skim the Sauce, pass it through a fine hair sieve, season it with salt and cayenne, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of hot cream, and serve it.397 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. (2) Peel and blanch six large onions, slice them, put them into a saucepan with \ pint of milk, and boil them till tender. Drain all the milk from the onions and pass them through a fine hair sieve; put the onions into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white Sauce, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix 1 tea- cupful of cream with the Sauce, season it with salt, pepper, and a little caster sugar, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. It is then ready for serving. (3) Peel and blanch three large onions in boiling water, put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire, but do not brown them; then cover them with milk, and boil them till tender. Pass the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, mix with it suffi- cient cream to make a thin puree, and season with a little sugar and salt. When ready to serve, warm the Sauce in the bain-marie. (4) Peel and blanch six large onions, cut them into slices, put them into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and a little salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire till soft but do not colour them. Stir in with the onions two mashed baked potatoes, 4oz. of Hour, 1 pint of broth, and 4 pint of cream. Stir the Sauce by the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then strain it, and serve. (5) Peel and cut into slices six large onions, put them into a saucepan with a large lump of butter, and fry till lightly browned; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 4 pint of half-glaze, and 1 \ breakfast-cupfuls of brown gravy, and simmer gently till the onions are cooked; then season the Sauce with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and warm it up again when ready to serve. Spanish. Sauce (a l’Espagnole).—(1) Prepare a brown roux in a saucepan with fib. of butter and 4 teaspoonfuls of flour by stirring it over the fire in one direction with a wooden spoon till coloured; then leave it in the saucepan till cool. Pour in with the roux 1 pint of clear broth, stirring it gently at the same time till smooth. Let the Sauce simmer gently for an hour, skimming it often to clear it, then boil it quickly over the fire till reduced a little, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Stir the Sauce in a basin till nearly cold, then put in a small piece of butter. (2) Put the remains and trimmings of veal, game or poultry, or some of both, into a stewpan with three or four slices of ham and 2 pints of water, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently for one hour, skimming often; then put in a bunch of sweet herbs, a sliced onion, two shallots, a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, one bay-leaf, two finely-chopped carrots, and half a head of celery ; add 1 teacupful of raisin wine and 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup and soy, thicken the Sauce with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it simmer gently for an hour. When strained, the Sauce is ready for serving. (3) Fry together in a saucepan two or three thin slices of ham, one small onion, an equal quantity of carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, three or four cloves, and several peppercorns ; when nicely browned, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, and boil all gently for twenty minutes. Mix in | table-spoonful of red-currant jelly with the above in- gredients, and the juice of one lemon. When the Sauce is strained, it is ready for use. (4) Cut into moderate-sized pieces some veal and trimmings and giblets of fowl, put them into a saucepan with a slice of ham and a little butter, and fry them till brown ; then pour in \ pint each of white wine and stock, and the juice of a lemon. Let the Sauce simmer by the side of the fire for a few hours, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, put it in the saucepan again, and thicken it over the fire with a little meat glaze. It is then ready. (5) Put into a saucepan one carrot, one onion, one shallot, and four or five mushrooms that have been washed, peeled, and cut into small pieces, add 2oz. of butter, and try them till nicely browned ; then dredge in a little flour, Sauces—continued. not quite 2oz., and stir over the fire for a few minutes; pour in 1 pint of brown stock, and boil all for ten minutes. Add with the above ingredients 1 teacupful of tomato Sauce and 1 wineglassful of sherry, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the Sauce a few minutes longer; then skim oft' the fat, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. It is then ready for use. (6) Mix 1 pint of raw strong mirepoix with 2oz. of good fat. Mix with this compound 4oz. of flour, moisten with lgall. of white broth, and stir well; then add, if convenient, some baked veal- and ham-bones, and boil for three hours; remove the fat very carefully, rub the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and keep it for cooking purposes. (7) Put into a saucepan with a piece of butter some small pieces of ham, a carrot, three or four shallots cut into small pieces, a blade of mace, two cloves, a piece of bay-leaf, and seven or eight small mushrooms, and fry them for a few minutes over a slow fire. When they begin to take colour, pour in half a bottle of Madeira, add a small lump of sugar, and boil the wine till reduced to half its original quantity; then put in I 4 teacupfuls of Spanish Sauce and some trimmings of game, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim the Sauce, add more seasoning if required, and mix it with the hash. (8) Melt a small lump of butter in a large saucepan, cover the bottom with a layer of sliced onions, and over these put 241 b. of veal and 41b. each of beef and ham all cut into small pieces; moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock, and place the saucepan over the fire. Stir the meat constantly till nicely browned, then put in a carrot cut into small pieces, a bay-leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley tied together, two or three cloves, and peppercorns and salt to taste. Cover the whole with stock, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer gently at the edge of the fire for three or four hours. Put jib. of butter into a stewpan with 1 teacup- ful of flour, and stir them over the fire till well browned ; then strain in the stock, and keep it simmering at the side of the fire for an hour longer, skimming it occasionally. Turn the Sauce into a basin, and stir it often until quite cold. It should be kept for use in a cool larder. (9) Put three sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry them lightly; then put in 61b. of fish— pike, gurnet, and whiting—and 1 pint of French white wine, and boil quickly till the wine is reduced to a glaze ; then pour in 5qts. of fish broth, add three carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 pinch of mignonette pepper. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and simmer till the fish is cooked. Take the fish out. Put fib. of clarified butter into a stewpan with the same weight of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned ; mix a little of the above liquor with it, boil it for a few minutes, then mix it with the remainder. Let the Sauce clarify on the side of the stove, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a jar till required for use. Supreme Sauce (ft la Supreme).—(1) Mix with 1 pint of white Sauce three chopped mushrooms, the juice of half a lemon, and loz. of butter; stir over the fire while boiling for ten minutes. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and use it when required. _ (2) Melt fib. of butter in a saucepan, then mix with it eight or nine white peppercorns and a few parsley-stalks; sift in 2oz. of Vienna flour, and stir over the fire for ten minutes; then pour in 14 pints of chicken broth, and stir it till it has well boiled; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, season to taste with salt, and, if possible, add some well-washed trimmings of white mushrooms. Just before re- moving the Sauce from the fire, stir in 4 pint of cream. Pass the Sauce through a broth-napkin, and serve it. (3) Put lqt. of veloute Sauce into a saucepan with 1 pint of essence of chicken and 1 teacupful of essence of mushrooms. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour; then stir it over the fire till of a thick creamy consistency. Strain the Sauce through a broth-napkin into a bain- marie, and pour a few drops of chicken broth on the top, to prevent a skin forming.398 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. (4) Put the trimmings and some pieces of cold cooked fowl into a saucepan with one onion, 4oz. of butter, a slice of ham, two cloves, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stir over the fire till a light glaze is formed at the bottom of the saucepan; then pour in lqt. of light broth, and boil it gently at the side of the fire till reduced to one- tliird of its original bulk. Skim the Sauce well, strain it through a broth-napkin into another saucepan, add \ pint of bdcliamel Sauce and stir it over a sharp lire till it coats the spoon. Mix 1 teacupful of cream and a little sugar with the Sauce, strain it again through a broth- napkin, and use it when required. (5) Put 1 pint of fresh mushrooms and some trimmings of truffles into a stewpan with J pint of clear white stock, and boil them for fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor, return it to the stewpan with 2:j breakfast-cupfuls of veloute Sauce, and boil it slowly at the edge of the lire for twenty minutes longer, skimming frequently. Next mix with the Sauce 1 table-spoonful of cream and loz. of butter broken up into small bits. When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. Tartar Sauce (Tartare).—(1) Beat together the yolks of two eggs, 1 teacupful of oil, and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; when well beaten, add 1 table-spoonful of mustard, 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers, the same quantity of chopped cucumber pickles, the juice of an onion, and \ saltspoonful of pepper. This Sauce can be used with meats served in jelly, also fried and broiled meats and fish. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful each of mustard, shallot vinegar, chilli vinegar, claret, and 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey’s Sauce into a basin, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the ingredients till well mixed and hot. (3) Put 1 teacupful of vinegar into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions, and boil it for a few minutes; then put in loz. of butter and the yolks of four eggs, and beat them over the fire till the Sauce is thick and like softened butter, but do not let it boil. Take the Sauce off the fire, and beat in gradually 1 4 table- spoonfuls of olive oil; add salt, cayenne pepper, and a little minced gherkins, and serve. (4) Put a little more than 4 teacupful of bechamel Sauce into a basin with the yolks of two eggs, season with a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and mix well; then stir in, drop by drop, some olive oil till the Sauce is thick and creamy. Add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped tarragon, chervil, and shallot, and 2 table-spoon- fuls of tarragon vinegar. Serve the Sauce when ready. (5) Mash the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, mix with it the raw yolks of two eggs, season with pepper and salt, and stir them with a wooden spoon; then pour in very slowly, drop by drop, 1 pint of salad-oil, continuing to stir all the time, and adding occasionally a little tarragon vinegar. The Sauce should be rather thick. Mix with it 1 table- spoonful of chopped gherkins, J table-spoonful of chopped capers, 4 table-spoonful each of chopped shallots and chopped parsley, and a small quantity each of mustard, salt, pepper, and sugar. Mix the Sauce well, and serve it. (6) Put into a small basin 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and Worcestershire Sauce, 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix well together; then stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir them over the fire till hot. Put fib. of butter into a small frying-pan, and brown it; then strain it into the Sauce, and serve while hot. Toulouse Sauce.—(1) Prepar-e some rather thick German Sauce, then mix with it a ragout of cocks’ combs, fat livers, kidneys, mushrooms, and small quenelles, &c. Stir the Sauce till well mixed, then serve it while hot. (2) Put into a stewpan eighteen or nineteen cloves of garlic that have been peeled and boiled in salted water, add a little butter or fat, and fry them till nicely browned. Pour 1 pint of broth in with the garlic, and boil it gently till reduced to half. Dry a piece of crumb of bread in the oven, and pound it. Thicken the Sauce with 1 tea- cupful of the pounded bread, add the pulp of two Seville • oranges cut into slices and freed of the peel and seeds, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Mix a little rich I Sauces—continued. gravy with the Sauce, skim off all the fat, strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve it. (3) To 1 pint of Dutch Sauce add 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, one sliced truffle, and six minced mushrooms. Heat well without boiling, and when serving add a little meat glaze. Transparent Sauce.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour with 1 teacupful of sugar in a saucepan, then stir in \ pint of boiling water, and add half a lemon cut into slices and a small piece of butter. Stir the Sauce over the fire, and boil it till transparent. It is then ready for serving with fritters. Valois Sauce.—Chop two shallots, put them into a sauce- pan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and boil them until the moisture has entirely evaporated; then leave them till cold. Add the beaten yolks of five eggs and 1 table- spoonful of butter, and stir the whole over the fire for two minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire, put in another table-spoonful of butter, and stir over the fire again. Add loz. of chicken glaze cut into small pieces, another table-spoonful of butter, and mix them thoroughly off the fire. Place the saucepan on the fire, put in 1 table-spoonful each of butter and chopped parsley, and when well mixed serve. Veloute Sauce.—See Velvet Sauce. Velvet Sauce (Veloute).—(1) Put 31b. of fillet of veal and one hen with the fillets removed into a buttered saucepan with one sliced onion and 7 pints of stock, and let them boil. Skim the fat off the stock, add one large carrot, one bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and J salt- spoonful each of sugar and pepper. Cook the meat gently by the side of the fire, then take out the veal and hen. Strain the stock through a fine hair sieve, and skim off all the fat. Put into another stewpan 7oz. each of butter and flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but do not brown it; then pour in the stock gradually, and con- tinue stirring it over the fire till boiling. Put the lid on the stewpan, draw it to the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer for an-hour-and-a-half, skimming the fat off occasionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and put it by for use. (2) Mix in equal quantities some stock and Sauce tournee, and boil them till stiffly reduced. Boil some cream till reduced to three-parts its original bulk, then mix it with the reduced Sauce, and boil them all together for a few minutes. Season the Sauce with salt to taste, and strain it through a broth-napkin. A little sugar may be added with the Sauce if desired; it should be kept thin. (3) Put 41b. of fish (any kind of white-fleshed fish will do) into a saucepan with one large onion, one carrot, two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt and pepper, and 1 pint of French white wine. Put the lid on, and let the contents simmer very gently for a-quarter-of-an- liour; then pour in 2qts. of water, and boil it. Skim the fat off the liquor, and let it simmer gently till the fish is tender; then strain it through a broth-napkin. Put 6oz. of butter and 6oz. of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed, but not browned; then mix in the Sauce, and stir it over the fire for fifteen minutes, or till somewhat reduced. When strained through a broth- napkin the Sauce is ready for use. (4) Melt loz. of good butter in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir well, not letting it get brown. Moisten with 1| pints of good veal-and chicken stock, the stronger the better, throw in a bouquet of aromatic herbs, \ breakfast-cupful of mushroom liquor or ketchup, six whole peppers, J pinch of salt, and a very little nutmeg, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring con- tinuously with a wooden spatula; then remove to the side of the fire, skim thoroughly, and let it continue simmer- ing slowly for an hour; then rub it through a fine sieve. This Sauce will make the foundation for any kind of good white stock. Venetian Sance (a la Venitienne).—Reduce for four minutes 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and chervil vinegar with six whole peppers, loz. of lean cooked ham cut into small dice, six parsley-roots, one sprig of thyme,399 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. and one bay-leaf. Strain it through a napkin into a bowl, moisten with \ pint of veloute Sauce, and finish with twelve leaves of finely-cut tarragon, two drops of spinach green, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Victoria Sauce.—Pound 1 table-spoonful of lobster coral very fine with ioz. of fresh butter, and set it aside. In § pint of German Sauce place \ 'wineglassful of white wine and six chopped mushrooms, let it warm thoroughly without boiling in a saucepan, and then mix in the lobster coral. Stir well, and serve. Villeroy Sauce (Villeroi).—(1) Mix an equal quantity of butter and flour together, and stir it over the fire in a saucepan till highly coloured; then stir in 1 pint of either meat or fish broth, a few mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let the broth simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till somewhat reduced. When ready to serve, thicken the Sauce with the yolks of two or three eggs. (2) Put a lump of fresh butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted stir in a little flour and some white stock, add some chopped ham, mushroom trimmings, a bunch of sweet herbs and one onion stuck with three or four cloves. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let it boil. It is then ready to serve. (3) Strain and place in a saucepan with loz. of butter 2 table-spoonfuls of raw mirepoix, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Cook and mix well together for five minutes, moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and season with \ table-spoonful of salt. Boil for one hour, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for use. Vinaigrette Sauce.—Chop up together very finely one shallot, two branches of parsley, and the same of chervil and chives; when all are small, place them in a sauce- bowl, with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful ot pepper, and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir all well together, then add 4 table-spoonfuls of good oil, mix well again, and serve. West Indian Sauce.—See Mandram. White Sauce.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a small saucepan and melt it; then add 1 teacupful of flour that has been dried in the oven, and a chopped shallot, and stir over the fire till well mixed; then pour in slowly sufficient white broth to make a thin Sauce, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for an-hour-ainl-a-half, stirring it occasionally to prevent it sticking to the sauce- pan. Beat 1 wineglassful of white wine with a little cream, mix it with the Sauce, and turn it into a jar till ready to serve. (2) Put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, a sprig of lemon-thyme, and four or five whole white peppers into a teacupfui of cream, and leave them to steep for an hour. Put the cream, &c., into a small saucepan, and let it simmer for a few minutes to draw out the flavour of the lemon-peel; strain the cream into another saucepan, mix with it 1 dessert-spoonful of flour and 3 table-spoonfuls of butter that have been worked together, and stir it over the fire till thick. Season the Sauce with pepper and salt, mix £ pint of boiling white stock with it, and add the strained juice of a lemon. Serve as soon as made. (3) Boil lqt. of milk with two finely-chopped onions in it till reduced to 1 h pints. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, pressing the onion at the same time to extract all the juice. Return the milk to the saucepan, mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted flour, and stir it over the fire till of the consistency of thick cream. Take the saucepan off the fire, put in it 2 table-spoon- fuls of butter that have been broken into small pieces, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. "When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. (4) Put into a saucepan one carrot, one shallot, and a stick of celery, all cut into small pieces; add a bay- leaf, one clove of garlic, and a few peppercorns. Mix 2 Sauces—continued. table-spoonfuls of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, put it in with the above ingredients, and stir them for a few minutes over the fire, but do not brown them; then pour in slowly 1 pint of milk, and boil all for ten minutes. Strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 1 teacupful of cream, and stir it over the fire till boiling. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (5) Work together 1 dessert-spoonful of flour and a small lump of butter, put it into a saucepan with \ tea- cupful of water, the strained juice of half a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the Sauce over a quick fire, boil it two or three times, then take it off, and serve. (6) Put 'h pint of milk into a small saucepan, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour that have been worked together, and J teacupful of cream. Boil the Sauce, then mix with it the whites of two hard- boiled eggs that have been chopped, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, taking care to keep back the pips. Serve the Sauce at once. (7) Put 1 pint of cream and h pint of milk into a double boiler, and stand it over the fire. Mix 4 table- spoonfuls of flour with | pint of milk, and stir it in with the milk and cream when they boil. Stir the Sauce for two minutes, then cover it and cook for eight minutes longer. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupfui of cream, then mix them with the above ingredients, and take them off the fire at once. Add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper, and serve the Sauce. (8) Put 1 pint of nicely-flavoured white stock into a stewpan with a few sliced mushrooms, and toil it until reduced one-third; then move it to the edge of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs and \ pint of cream, and season to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Stir it over the fire again until on the point of boiling, then move it off at once, and it is ready for serving. (9) Finely chop Mb. of beef-suet, put it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of fat bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, one onion, five or six peppercorns, the juice and pulp of one lemon, and salt to taste, and stir over a slow fire till the suet has dissolved, but do not brown them. Pour into the saucepan the required quan- tity of boiling water, stir it well, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Thicken the Sauce with flour, and use it for braising. (10) Put 1 pint of the liquor in which fish has been boiled into a saucepan, and boil it quickly till reduced to half; then stir into it 1 dessert-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little water, and stir the Sauce over the fire till the flour is cooked. Beat two eggs in 1 table-spoonful of water, and mix them with the Sauce, moving the saucepan at once to the side of the fire. Stir the Sauce till thick, season it with pepper and salt, and serve it. (11) Wash the necks, gizzards, livers, and feet of some fowls, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of veal or mutton, add a few peppercorns, salt, and lqt. of water, and boil it till the liquor is reduced to 1 pint. Mix 4oz. of butter with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it in with the above ingredients, and boil them for five or seven minutes longer, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 1 teacupfui of cream, then mix them with the Sauce. Stir it over the fire till cooked, then serve it. (12) Wash and bone an anchovy, and cut it into small pieces. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; then put in the anchovy, two small onions finely chopped, a few minced olives, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in gradually sufficient stock to make the required quantity of Sauce, and stir it over the fire till thickened and boiling. The Sauce is then ready for serving. Yellow Sauce.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a sauce- pan ; when it has melted, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little milk, and stir them over the fire till well mixed, but not browned at all; then400 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. pour in gradually, while still stirring, 1 pint of milk and white stock, mixed in equal quantities, add one large carrot cut into halves, one small onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Put into the Sauce whatever meat is intended for the fricassee, and stew it gently by the side of the fire till tender, with the lid fixed tightly on the saucepan. Strain the Sauce through a silk sieve into another saucepan, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Serve while liot. Good Sauce for a fricassee. Sweet Sauces.—These are mostly used to ac- company certain kinds of puddings which, together with those given under specific headings, such as some Fruits and Wines, &c., make up a very large assort- ment. Chantausen Sauce.—Put J pint of cold water into a sauce- pan, with 3oz. of powdered sugar, six cloves, a hay-leaf, and a piece of cinnamon about lin. long, place the pan on the fire, and let the contents boil for five minutes. Dilute loz. of cornflour with 1 gill of cold water, add it to the contents of the pan, and with a whisk stir briskly for two minutes. Add 1 pint of chantausen wine, and stir for one minute longer; then take from off the fire, strain through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. Chaudeau Sauce.—Put the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs into a lined saucepan, with the strained juice of half a lemon, Jib. each of lemon sugar and loaf sugar, and lqt. of Chablis, and whisk them over a slow fire till a light froth is formed. When the Sauce is on the point of boiling, remove the saucepan off the fire, beat the Sauce a few minutes longer, and serve it. Diplomatic Sauce for Pudding.—Boil Jib. of caster sugar in 1 pint of water, then thicken it with flour. Let the Sauce simmer till clear, then mix with it some red fruit juice or red wine, a little pounded mace, and the juice of half a lemon. English Sweet Sauce (a l’Anglaise).—Put into a saucepan the yolks of four eggs, with 4oz. of powdered sugar, and stir with a spatula until it becomes a whitish colour. Add 2 gills of sweet cream, little by little, beating continually, and grate in the rind of one orange. Place the pan on a slow stove and stir the contents well for four minutes, being careful not to let them boil. Take the pan off, strain the Sauce through a sieve, and it is ready for use. Foam Sauce.—(1) Beat the whites of two eggs to a light froth, mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and beat them again for a few minutes ; then add the strained juice of a lemon and J pint of boiling milk. Serve the Sauce at once. (2) Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it till creamy; then mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and 1 wineglassful of fruit juice or syrup. When well mixed, add J teacupful of boiling water and the well-whisked white of one egg. Beat the Sauce till foamy, then serve it at once. (3) Rub ljoz. of loaf sugar over the yellow rind of a lemon, then put it in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, and stir in gradually three well-beaten eggs, | breakfast-cupful of water, and J wineglassful of rum, brandy, or maraschino. Place the saucepan over the fire, whisk the contents until well frothed and on the point of boiling, then move it off immediately. Serve the Sauce with either hot or cold dishes. German Sauce (a l'Allemande) for Puddings.—(1) Beat the yolks of six fresh eggs for about twenty minutes. Put Jib. of caster sugar into a lined saucepan with J pint of marsala, stir it over the fire until hot, and then move it to the side, as it must not boil. Stir the beaten yolks in with the wine, and add the strained juice of a small lemon. Whisk the Sauce at the edge of the fire until well frothed and thickened, when it will be ready for serving. (2) Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Pour J pint of white wine, hock if possible, into a jug, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, and add the eggs. Stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling- water, which should be placed by the side of the fire, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces—continued. whisk the contents to a stiff froth. Serve the Sauce either in a sauceboat or over the pudding for which it was intended, bearing in mind always that the Sauce must only be made just before it is wanted. Golden Sauce.—(1) Break a nutmeg into pieces, put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with lib. of sugar, then stir it into the boiling- water, and stir over the fire till the cornflour is cooked; then add Jib. of butter. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 table-spoonful of the Sauce, then stir them quickly into the remainder, which should be immediately removed from the fire, as the yolks will curdle if boiled. Strain the Sauce, and it is then ready for serving. (2) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it before the fire, and beat it by hand until creamy; then stand the basin over a saucepan containing hot water, mix with the butter 4oz. of brown sugar, and continue stirring until the sugar has completely dissolved. Next stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, and, when thickened, 1 wineglassful of brandy and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Serve while hot. Hard Sauce.—(1) Put in a bowl 2oz. of very fresh butter with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar; then with a spatula beat together sharply for twenty minutes, add J saltspoon- ful of powdered mace, beat briskly for five minutes longer, arrange it on a dish, and place it on ice for two minutes before serving. (2) Beat with 1 breakfast-cupful of butter 2 breakfast- cupfuls of caster sugar; when of the consistency of cream, add the strained juice of one lemon and J teacupful of white wine. Continue beating till the Sauce is nearly a solid mass, then smooth it with a knife, and stamp it. It should be kept on ice till ready to serve. (3) Beat 1 teacupful of butter to a cream in a warm basin, then mix 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar with it and beat them both well together; flavour the sauce with essence of lemon, vanilla, or a little grated nutmeg. Keep the Sauce on ice till ready to serve. (4) Slightly warm Jib. of butter, mix with it 6 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and beat it until creamy. Pile the Sauce in a small glass dish, grate a small quantity of nutmeg over it, and serve with the pudding. Polish Sweet Sauce (a la Polonaise).—Put loz. of butter into a sancepan, and melt it; then put in 1 table-spoonful each of flour and sugar, and stir them over the fire until browned. Mix with the above ingredients about 2 table- spoonfuls each of stoned and chopped raisins, well washed and dried currants, and blanched and thinly-shred almonds, also a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and bruised cloves. Moisten with 1J breakfast-cupfuls of red wine, and boil the Sauce gently for fifteen minutes, when the Sauce will be ready for serving. Sabayon Sauce with Madeira (au Madere).—Put into a saucepan the yolks of four eggs and ljoz. of powdered sugar; place it on a hot stove, and with a wire whisk beat well for two minutes. Drop in gradually 2 gills of Madeira wine, stir continually for two minutes, take from the fire, and strain through a fine sieve over the pudding with which it is to be served. Sauce a la Diaz.—Put into a saucepan J pint of rum, 3oz. of granulated sugar, and half a split vanilla-bean; grate in the rind of a medium-sized orange, and add 1 gill of marsala wine. Place the pan on the stove, and as soon as the liquid catches fire put on the cover and boil for one minute only. Set the pan on one side to allow the contents to infuse for five minutes, strain through a fine sieve into a bowl, transfer the Sauce to a jar, cover tightly, and let it cool off thoroughly. When ready to serve, pour the Sauce over the pudding, and serve it. Sauce for Plum Pudding.—(1) Put 1 large table-spoonful of butter into a stewpan ; when it has melted, stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and mix well; then pour in gradually 14 breakfast-cupfuls of hot water, and stir over the fire till cooked; then add Jib. of brown sugar, 2 teaspoon- fuls of lemon-juice, and a little grated nutmeg. When the sugar has dissolved, serve the Sauce. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.1. —Anchovies in Oil. 2. —Smoked Cod’s Bob. PRESERVED FISH. 3. —Sardines in Tin. 4. —Smoked Salmon. 5. —Smoked Pilchards. 6. —Smoked Mackerel. 1 • Norwegian Anchovies. 8. Anchovies in Bottle.401 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. (2) Put the yolks of four very fresh eggs into a jug with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, anil whisk them well. Pour in 1J wineglassfuls of pale brandy and 2 wineglass- fuls of sherry, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling- water, and whisk the contents with an egg-beater. When well frothed, the Sauce is ready for serving. (3) Put two whole eggs and one white into a basin, and whisk them well; mix J pint of milk with them, stand the basin in a stewpan of boiling water, and stir the contents over the fire until thickened. Flavour the Sauce well with ratafia, and sweeten it to taste with caster sugar. It is then ready for serving. Sweet Sauce.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of cream into a saucepan and boil it. Mix 1 teaspoonful of Hour with 1 wineglass- ful of sherry, stir it into the boiling cream, add a little grated nutmeg, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Let the Sauce simmer by the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time, and then serve it. (2) Prepare about f pint of good butter Sauce, mix with it while in the saucepan 1 wineglassful each of brandy and white wine, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire till boiling. It is then ready for serving. (3) Mix J table-spoonful of potato-flour to a smooth paste with 1 teacupful of cold water; then pour it into a saucepan, add J pint of boiling water, and sweeten it to taste. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till boil- ing, then mix in 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a small lump of butter. When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. Swiss Sauce.—Put 1 teacupful of cream into a saucepan, and when boiling mix with it 1 wineglassful of sherry that has been thickened with 1 teaspoonful of flour. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, grate a little nutmeg in, and boil it for fifteen minutes. The Sauce is then ready for serving. Yellow Sauce for Puddings.—Warm Jib. of butter in a basin, but do not let it oil, and beat it to a cream with Jib. of brown sugar; stand the basin in a saucepan containing boiling water, stir the sugar and butter till liquid, and then add the beaten yolk of one egg. Continue stirring, with the saucepan placed over a gentle fire, till the Sauce is thick, then mix in with it 1 teacupful of brandy, or wine if preferred, and a little grated nutmeg. The Sauce should be served without delay. Bottled Sauces (for flavouring).—These are des- cribed as liquid or semi-liquid condiments for seasoning food. At some time or another the demand for these kind Fig. 465. Sauce-frame (Adams and Son). of stock Sauces was very great, but, in later years, perhaps owing to the great number advertised, the presence of any particular Sauce does not seem to be so urgent. At one time, when there were but two or three of these Sauces—continued. Bottled Sauces, they were found in almost every kitchen ; now, there being so many, cooks have a wider choice, hence their favours are disti-ibuted. The following i-eceipts are sti'ongly recommended, and they will be found ample for all purposes requiring Bottled Sauces, but in the cases of those sauces having proprietory names, the receipts should be considered as merely approximate to the oi-iginals, or good “ imitations.” Bottled Sauces arc usually served in a frame similar to that shown in Fig. 465. See also Ketchup. Aristocratic Sauce.—Mix lib. of anchovies and about A teaspoonful each of cloves, mace, and Jamaica ginger with 1 pint of juice that has been pressed from some green walnuts and allowed to settle, put them into a saucepan, and boil them till the anchovies are dissolved. Strain the boiled liquor into another saucepan, add six shallots, 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, 1 breakfast-cupful oi vinegar, and J breakfast-cupful of port wine. When boiled leave the Sauce till cold; then put it into bottles, and keep it corked till wanted for serving. Cardinal Fish Sauce.—Mix together 1 pint of vinegar, 1 gill of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy liquor, 1 dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, Joz. of cayenne, two drachms of cochineal, and three cloves of garlic. Let it stand for forty hours, giving it about six good stirrings during that time. Strain it through a flannel bag, and put it into small bottles Chef Sauce for Steaks, &c.—Peel six shallots, cut them into halves, put them in a wide-mouthed bottle with Joz. of cayenne pepper and 4 table-spoonfuls of soy, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of mushroom ketchup, shake the contents of the bottle well, and fill it up with the best vinegar. Shake the bottle occasionally for two days, then leave it untouched for four days longer. Pour oft' J pint of the Sauce into a smaller bottle, which keep corked for present use; fill up the larger bottle again with more vinegar, cork it tightly, and leave it for about a month before using the Sauce. Coratch or Carachi.—(1) Put into a large jar 3 table- spoonfuls each of soy, mushroom ketchup, walnut pickle, and mango pickle, five pounded anchovies, l pint of vinegar, and a head of garlic cut into small pieces ; add J dessert-spoonful of cayenne and a little cochineal to colour it. Remove the garlic in two days, and leave the rest for a few days longer. Filter the Sauce through blotting-paper, and keep in tightly-corked bottles. (2) Put Jgall. of good mushroom ketchup, f pint of walnut ketchup, A pint each of chilli vinegar and Indian soy, and 1 gill of essence of anchovies into a gallon jar, and let it macerate for a fortnight. It may be then put into bottles for use. Devonshire Sauce.—(1) Press the juice from sufficient young walnuts to make 1 pint. Put the juice into a saucepan with lib. of anchovies, and stir them over the fire till the anchovies are dissolved. Strain the juice into another saucepan, put in with it 1A table-spoonfuls of broken mace, J table-spoonful of cloves, and loz. of peppercorns. Boil the above articles, then strain the Sauce into a basin, and leave it till cold. Keep the Sauce in tightly- corked bottles till ready for serving. (2) Mash up fib. of anchovies in f pint of young walnut juice, then strain the liquor until quite clear, and mix with it § breakfast-cupful of white wine vinegar, about loz. of mace, Joz. of cloves, and a few peppercorns. Boil the whole in an enamelled saucepan for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain it into a jug. When the Sauce is cold, bottle it, and keep it tightly corked. Gourmet's Sauce.—Macerate together for a fortnight or longer Jgall. of good mushroom ketchup, lqt. each of walnut ketchup and port wine, J pint each of chilli vinegar and soy, 1 breakfast-cupful of essence of anchovies, 4oz. each of braised garlic and white pepper, loz. of braised chillies, and Joz. each of mace anil cloves. Strain through coarse muslin, and bottle for future use. This Sauce is improved by keeping. VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads, DTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 402 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. Governor’s Sauce.—Cut h peck of green tomatoes into slices, lay them in a deep dish, strew over them 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of salt, and leave them until the following morning. Next drain the tomatoes free from their liquor, lay them in a saucepan with three or four chillies, either green or red, three finely-chopped onions, 1 table-spoonful of grated horseradish, 2oz. of brown sugar, Joz. each of cloves and allspice, and 4 teaspoonful each of white and cayenne pepper. Pour in a sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover them, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire. When the tomatoes are soft, turn them with the vinegar and other ingredients into small stone or earthenware jars, and leave them till cold; then close the jars well, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight, and pack them away for use. Harvey Sauce.—Prepare 12 fluid ounces of Sauce, made with mushroom and walnut ketchup, garlic, soy, and sprats, using in proportion igall. each of the ketchup to | pint of soy, 4oz. of garlic, and Ulb. of sprats, and boiling these together for fifteen minutes and straining. Put this into a saucepan with a little more soy and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne, and stir over the fire until warm. Hot Sauce.—(1) Scald ripe sound tomatoes, peel them, and weigh them ; to 5lb. add lib. of onions peeled and sliced, 5oz. of fresh red peppers, weighed after the seeds are taken out and then chopped fine, jib. of brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 pint of vinegar. Put all these ingredients over the fire in a porcelain-lined pan, and boil them slowly, stirring them frequently to prevent burning, and after the Sauce begins to boil it must be stirred almost incessantly. In about half-an-hour it will be quite thick, and it should be boiled until it is about the consistency of apple Sauce. When the Sauce has boiled enough, remove the pan from the fire, let the Sauce cool in it, then bottle it, and cork the bottles tight. (2) Mix together foz. of cayenne pepper, 2 table-spoon- fuls of soy, four anchovies, three cloves of garlic, and one shallot. Pound the above articles, and rub them through a fine hair sieve, then mix with them lqt. of vinegar. Strain the Sauce, pour it into a bottle, and cork it tightly down. In a fortnight’s time, the Sauce will be fit for use. Kitchener’s Sauce.—Put into a large jar 3oz. of salt, 2oz. of black pepper, loz. each of allspice, scraped horseradish, and chopped shallots, 1 wineglassful of burnt sugar colour- ing, and lqt. of mushroom ketchup. Let these macerate for three or four weeks, and then strain off into small bottles. Pink Sauce.—Put lqt. of good vinegar into a pan or wide- mouthed jar, add 1 breakfast-cupful of port wine, 2 table- spoonfuls of anchovy liquor, 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, {,oz. of cayenne, Joz. of cochineal, and six cloves of garlic. Let it stand for two days, stirring twice or three times a day; then strain it through a flannel jelly - bag into small bottles, and it is ready for use. Premier Sauce.—Mix together in a large wide-mouthed jar or bottle, 1 pint each of mushroom ketchup, and either port wine or claret, and | pint of the liquor of walnut pickle; add Jib. of pounded anchovies, loz. each of scraped horseradish, peeled and sliced shallots, and freshly-pared lemon-peel, Joz. each of ground black pepper and ground allspice, 1 drachm of bruised celery-seed, and either 1 drachm of cayenne or 3 drachms of curry powder. Cork it well, and let it stand for a fortnight, shaking it each day; then strain it, and put it into small bottles, corking them well. After the Sauce is strained, 1 gill of soy may be added if desired; but it is not necessary, as the Sauce is very good without it. Prince Alfred’s Sauce.—Bruise 2oz. of shallots, put them into a saucepan with loz. of chillies, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 table-spoonful of colouring, 14 pints of vinegar, and 4 pint each of water, walnut ketchup, and Indian soy, and boil tor fifteen minutes. Turn it into a jar till cooled, then strain it through a silk sieve. When quite settled, pour the Sauce into a bottle, and keep it corked down till required for serving. Sauces—continued. Quin’s Sauce.—Put into a large enamelled stewpan 1 pint each of walnut pickle and port uine, the walnuts being previously broken up; to this add lqt. of mushroom ketchup, two dozen each of finely-minced anchovies and shallots, 4 pint of soy, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Put the lid on the pan, set it over a slow fire, allow the contents to come to the boil, and then simmer slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Pour all this into a large jar, cork down tight, and leave it to macerate for a fortnight or more. It may then be strained into bottles for use. Heading Sauce.—Bruise loz. of shallots, and put them into a stone or earthenware jar with 1J pints of M'alnut pickle. Cover the jar, stand it in the oven, and leave it until the liquor has reduced to 1 pint. Put in another jar one chopped anchovy, Joz. of bruised ginger, loz. of mustard- seeds, and ;}oz. each of bruised peppercorns and cayenne pepper. Pour in 1 pint of water, stand the jar on the hob near the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an- hour. At the end of that time mix the u-alnut pickle and shallots with the contents of the other jar, stirring them well; then let all simmer for nearly half-an-hour longer. Cover the jar closely, and keep it in a cold temperature for two days; then put in a bay-leaf and a J pint of Indian soy. Leave the Sauce a week longer in the cold, keeping the jar Mrell covered, then strain it through a thick flannel bag. Pour it into small bottles, cork them down tightly, and pack them in the store cupboard. Regent Sauce.—Mix in a large jar six shallots, four cloves, 1 table-spoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 teacupful of soy, 1 teacupful of mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of an- chovy essence, and lqt. of vinegar. Shake the jar once every day for ten or twelve days, then strain the Sauce, and keep it tightly corked in bottles till ready to use it. Rose Sauce.—Remove the outer skin from a small beet- root, cut it into thin slices, put these into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon, and pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of water. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil for half an-hour or so, strain off the liquor into another saucepan, and add 4 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, the strained juice of a lemon, and 111), of loaf sugar. Boil for five minutes longer, let it get cold, pour it into bottles, cork them down securely, and keep them in a dry place until wanted. If securely sealed the Sauce M'ill keep good for several months. Savoury Sauce.—Pound very fine loz. each of salt and pepper, Joz. each of allspice, shallots peeled arid quartered, and scraped horseradish. When well pounded, put all together into a pint bottle of mushroom ketchup or walnut ketchup, cover it air tight, let it stand for a fort- night, and then strain it through muslin. A little of this is a nice addition to gravies for chops or steaks. Universal Sauce.—Put into a steuqian an equal quantity of broth and white wine, add two bay-leaves, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. When on the point of boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for three hours. Strain the Sauce, mix with it the strained juice of a lemon, and bottle. It is then ready for use. Worcester Sauce.—(1) Dissolve 3oz. of lump sugar in 1 pint of vinegar over the fire, then take it off and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls each of Indian soy and walnut ketchup, 4 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one nutmeg cut into thin pieces, tM'elve cloves, \ table- spoonful of ground ginger, three or four cloves of garlic, and a small piece of lemon-peel. Turn all the ingredients into a u'ide-mouthed bottle, and let it stand for a month, shaking it well every day. Strain off the Sauce into smaller bottles, and keep them tightly corked till required. (2) Put Joz- each of ground shallots, garlic, and cayenne pepper into an earthenware jar, pour in lqt. of white wine vinegar, and let these get well incorporated; then add 1 teacupful of soy, and bottle off for future use. (3) To one bottle of vinegar add 4 table-spoonfuls each _of M'alnut and mushroom ketchup, 2 table-spoonfulsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 403 SAUERBRATEN.—Ger. for literally sour roast. It is one of the national dishes of Germany, and as such requires special notice. Put a piece of lean beef in a shallow pie-dish, pour h pint of common vinegar over it, and leave for two or three days, turning it occasionally, and basting so that each part may be equally soaked. When ready to cook the meat, drain it from the vinegar, and dry it on a clean cloth. Cut some strips of fat bacon about 1 iin. long and |in. wide, and season them with a mixture of pounded cloves, salt, .and pepper. With a large wooden skewer bore some holes in the meat, and insert the pieces of bacon in them. Procure an iron saucepan that will just hold the meat, put a good-sized lump of butter in it, make it hot, put in the beef, and place it over a sharp fire ; dredge it with flour, and turn it when one side is browned. Peel and cut into quarters two or three carrots and one large onion, put them in with the beef, add two hay- leaves, the thinly-pared rind of half a small lemon, a dozen peppercorns, one blade of mace, and a moderate quantity of salt; moisten with 2§ breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, put the lid on the pan, and let the contents steam slowly for about two-hours-and-a-half, moistening occasionally with more water if becoming too dry. When cooked, take the beef out, put it on a hot dish near the fire, and arrange the pieces of carrot round it. Skim the cooking-liquor, thicken it with flour, and if desired give it a sharper taste with a little lemon or vinegar ; boil it, strain a little over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. SAUERKRAUT.—See Sour-Crout. SAUSAGES (Fr. Saucisses; Ger. Wurste; Ital. Salsiccie; Sp. Salchichas).—These are described by Webster as articles of food consisting of meat, minced and highly seasoned, and enclosed in a cylindrical case or Fig. 467. Salad served with dressing in Sauce-boats. Fig. 468. Digester Saucepan. Pig. 468) is a good example of what a Saucepan should be. The name is now applied to almost any vessel that is used for the purpose of boiling. _ SAUCERS.—Although this is described as a small dish, somewhat deeper than a plate, in which a cup is set at table, it was originally intended to hold sauce; our term is an evident adaptation of the French sauciere. SAUCISSES.—Fr. for Sausages. Fjg. 469. Sausage-machine (A. Lyon). skin usually made of the prepared intestine of some animal; but, according to the less erudite, they are simply “ Bags of Mystery.” There is probably more reason for this nickname, if the statement of Dr. Walsh, in his “ Manual of Domestic Economy,” is to he credited. He says “the quantity of inferior meat thus consumed is enormous.” It is well-known that in Birmingham, Liver- pool, Manchester, and other large manufacturing towns, very inferior meat finds a ready sale at less than half the price of the ordinary quality, and this is soon converted into some one or other of the various forms enumerated above by the agency of the Sausage-machine. Of Sausage-machines much might he written—many times more than the interest of the subject demands— without exhausting the details of their working. From the hand machine (see Fig. 469) to that worked by steam Sauces—continued. of soy, four cloves of garlic, and 2oz. of cayenne pepper, and let it stand for a week, shaking it frequently. Then add another bottle of vinegar to it, and let it stand another week. Strain it, put it into small bottles, and cork it well. SAUCEBOATS.—Small vessels of various shapes and designs (see Figs. 466 and 467) in which sauce is served to sauce, the boat is set in its own tray and is then served separately. SAUCEPANS.—Culinary vessels made of iron and tinned or enamelled inside, in which sauces were pro- bably originally made. The digester Saucepan (see Fig. 466. Boiled Fish with Sauce in Boat. at table. In the illustrations the Sauceboats are served in the dish, surrounded by the food the sauce is intended to season. But, as most persons prefer to help themselves For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 D 2THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 404 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads, Sausages—continued. power; from the little family machine (see Pig. 470), which is so useful for many purposes, to the giant machine which is capable of chopping up whole pigs one after the other, and turning out some tons of Sausages in a given time. For small trade purposes a minor hut very compact machine may be used with a single and effective action (see Fig. 471); Fig. 470. Family Sausage-machine (A. Lyon). and for a larger trade a machine fitted with double-action cutters, and in each instance worked by a manual crank, would be sufficient (see Fig. 471). The old story of the Sausage-maker who suddenly disappeared, and whose fate was only known by the appearance of a button in a Sausage some time after is, perhaps, an exaggeration, but there can be no doubt that all sorts of meat are supplied to these makers, and that when pork is dear or otherwise unavailable, some- thing must be found at a price to suit the market. Farmers can always sell their cows and sheep which they have been obliged to kill, if they are tolerably meaty, and within a given distance of a large market, although there may be a penalty for exposing it for sale; but there being no Fig. 471. Small Sausage-machine for Wholesale Use (A. Lyon). facility for examining the premises of the Sausage-maker, his business reputation is the sole guarantee to those who deal with him.” That they are honestly served with good meat an authority says: “ It may answer the purpose of a little Sausage-maker to smuggle into his cellar all sorts of trash, but on a large scale it would be utterly impossible to do this,” and we are quite disposed from experience to believe it. Approved receipts for making various kinds of Sausages, together with a full account of the seasonings to be used, will be found hereunder. It is only necessary to add that it is better to under- rather than over-season, and that a careful use of salt and pepper is indispensable. The meat should be coarsely chopped before putting it into the mincing machine, and all stringy parts and gristle removed. The seasoning must be added before mincing, and when herbs are used they should be finely chopped and cleared of stalk. If dried herbs are used it is advisable to soak the sprigs, sprays, or leaves in scald- Sausages—continued. ing water for an hour or so, and then chop them as if they were fresh leaves. Unless very finely divided before pass- ing through the machine they are likely to be in large pieces and irregularly distributed. Prepare the skins for holding the Sausages by scalding and soaking, turning inside out, and thoroughly cleansing. Fig. 472. Double-action Sausage-machine for Wholesale Use (A. Lyon). Whilst still wet thread the skins on the filling tube, and, as the machine minces and mixes the meat with seasoning it will automatically fill the skins. The divisions in length are made by pinching and twisting at the desired points. Sausages may be made of cooked meat, and then dried or smoked according to taste. See also Black Pud- dings, Forcemeat, Polonies, &c. Bath Sausages.—Chop very fine lib. of beef-suet, first skinning it well; cut lib. of lean meat from a leg of pork, take all skin and sinew from it, and finely mince also. Then mix the pork with the suet, pound them together in a mortar, season with a little salt, plenty of pepper, and a little finely-chopped sage, mix in 2 heaped table-spoon- fuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and work all well together with the yolks of two eggs. This Sausage-meat will keep for some time if closely pressed down in an earthenware jar. When required for use, form it into rolls the shape and size of ordinary Sausages, dredge them well with flour, and fry them in a hot frying-pan over a clear fire. No dripping or lard need be put in the pan, their own fat will he sufficient. If, instead of being floured, they are dipped in egg and rolled in breadcrumbs, they must he fried in boiling lard or dripping. Black Forest Sausages.—These Sausages are mostly made of wild swine pork, hut the swine of any country can be used provided they are fully grown and fed on acorns. Use the lean parts of the pork, chopping it almost to a paste; for every 51b. of the lean, use lib. of solid fat, which cut into small squares. For every 51b. of the mince, season it with 2Joz. of salt, Joz. of coarsely-ground black pepper, and a very small quantity each of saltpetre and finely-ground cloves. Work the seasoning in well with the minced lean meat, then add the fat. Stuff the mixture tightly into well-cleaned ox-skins, tie them into lengths about §yd- _ long, secure them firmly at each end, and hind them allTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 405 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sausages—continued. the way round with broad tape. Put the Sausages into a saucepan of cold water, place it over a slow fire until the water begins to boil, then move it to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering gently for an hour. Drain the Sausages and serve them when cold. To make them a rich dark colour, mix with the mince, if it can be obtained, some pig’s blood, which should be caught while killing, and into which should be immediately stirred a good-sized lump of salt. Bologna Sausage.—(1) Finely chop lib. each of beef, pork, veal, and rather fat bacon; mix with the above ingredients fib. of beef-suet, also finely chopped, and season with sage, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Press the mixture into a large skin, secure it tightly at both ends, and prick it in several places. Put the Sausage into a saucepan, cover it with boiling water, and let it boil slowly for an hour. When cooked, put the Sausage on straw to drain. (2) Put 31b. each of lean beef and pork into a stewpan, cover them with hot water, and boil for half-an-hour. Drain the meat, cut it into small pieces, mix with it 2lb. of bacon and l£lb. of beef-suet, both finely chopped, and season with ground mace, chopped thyme, and pepper. Fill large skins with the mixture, and tie them into lengths. Put the Sausages into beef brine, and leave them for nine days. Smoke them as for ham. When smoked, rub the Sausages over with pepper and keep them in a dry cool place. Cambridge Sausages.—Take off the skin and gristle from 8oz. each of beef and veal and cut them into small cubes. Mix these with double the quantity each of bacon and pork, also cut up small, and stir in lib. of finely-minced suet, a few sage-leaves, dried and powdered, and a small quantity of sweet herbs, with salt and pepper to taste. Well wash and clean two large skins, press the Sausage- meat into them, tie the ends securely, prick them slightly, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. Take them out when done, drain them, wipe them on a cloth, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. They may be eaten hot if preferred. Frankfort Sausages.—Any part of pork may be used for these Sausages, having the same quantity of fat as there is lean; mince the meat finely, and season it with ground coriander-seeds, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; the quantity of seasoning must be judged according to the quantity of meat. Fill the skins (they should have been well cleansed and steeped in cold salted water for a few hours), secure them at the ends, and hang them in a cool dry place until wanted. German Sausages.—This term is applied generally to a kind of large cooked Sausage, usually dried or smoked. The Bologna Sausage is commonly known as a German Sausage, whereas more genuine receipts will be found under Frankfort Sausages, Maintz Sausages, and Mecklenburg Sausages. Knack Sausages (German).—Select a piece of pork without much fat, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew it over a very slow fire. When nearly cooked, drain the meat, mince it as finely as possible, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, allspice, and grated lemon-peel. Fill some small skins with the mixture and secure them at the ends. Put the Sausages in a saucepan of cold water and boil them for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time drain the Sausages, plunge them into cold water, then hang them up in a cool place to dry. Lent Sausages.—The use of meat being discarded by certain persons at this season, some good sausages suitable for the occasion may be made of minced hard eggs (see Egg Sausages), or fish forcemeat (see Fish) such as would lie used for making fish quenelles being specially recommended. Madrid Sausages.—Remove the rind and gristle from an equal quantity of fat bacon and lean pork. Chop them up very finely, and season with salt, pepper, and ground .spices. Fill some well-cleaned skins with the mixture, and divide it into Sausages about 2tin. long. Maintz Sausages.—Cut into small pieces 81b. of pork, and mix with it 1 handful of pepper, and £ saltspoonful of Sausages—continued. saltpetre; mince the meat, and mix with it gradually 1 h pints of cold water. Put the mixture into some small prepared pig’s intestines, tie them into short Sausages, and hang them in a warm place to dry for two days. Broil the Sausages on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning them often. When cooked, put the Sausages on a hot dish, and serve. Mecklenburg Fressed Sausages.—Finely chop an equal quantity of raw fat bacon and lean beef, and season the mixture well with pepper, salt, and allspice, also a very small quantity of pounded cloves. Fill some ready pre- pared skins with the mixture, and tie them securely at the ends. Pack the Sausages closely together on a dish, strew plenty of salt over them, put another dish on the top, over which put a heavy weight until the following morning, then cover each one separately with a piece of muslin, and hang them up in the smoke for a week. At the end of that time put the Sausages without the muslin into a saucepan of cold water, place the pan over the fire until the water boils, then move it to the side of the fire and keep the water boiling gently for an hour; as the quantity of water decreases, more boiling water should be poured in, as the Sausages must be kept well covered during the cooking. Serve the Sausages when cold. Mecklenburg Sausages.—Procure the required quantity of lean pork, also a small quantity of fresh blood, that has been caught when killing the pig, and which should have had a piece of salt stirred into it at once. Chop the meat until very fine and mix the blood until it to darken the colour. For every 31b. of meat season it with H table- spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of black pepper, \ tea- spoonful of ground pimento, and one finely-minced clove of garlic. Fill some thoroughly cleaned pig’s or sheep’s skins with the mixture and tie them at the ends. Put the Sausages into a saucepan of cold water and boil them slowly for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, take the Sausages out of the saucepan, plunge them in cold water, then hang them up in a cool dry place. When the Sausages are quite dry and cold, cut them into round slices, lay them on a dish, garnish with a few neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Oxford Sausages.—(1) Remove the skin and gristle from 21b. each of pork and veal, mince them, keeping them separate, and chop up also 21b of beef-suet. When they are all ready, thoroughly mix them together with lib. of grated bread, two grated nutmegs, the peel of a lemon cut up small, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, and 2 table-1 spoonfuls of salt, and lastly one or two sprigs of savoury thyme and marjoram, and a dozen or so sage leaves; all these should be dried and finely powdered. Have ready cleaned the required quantity of skins, squeeze in the mixture, pressing it tightly and securing the ends. The Sausages are now ready for use, and should be fried in butter for about twelve minutes or until they are well browned. (2) Remove all the skin and sinew from 31b. each of veal and pork, and finely chop them ; mix with the meat l|lb. of beef-suet, also well skinned and finely chopped, together with the crumbs of two penny rolls well soaked in water, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and dried sage, very finely powdered. Mix all very thoroughly together, put the mixture into well-cleaned skins, and tie them at intervals with fine twine. (3) Without Skins—Take off all the skin from ljlb. of pork, cut from the griskin if possible, chop it up to a mince, and mix with it one third of the quantity of veal also finely chopped. Remove all the skin from the same quantity of beef-suet as pork, and chop it up separately. Put the pork and veal into a mortar, pound them to a pulp, and mix in five well-beaten eggs. Work this mixture until the hand, and add gradually a seasoning of 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 2 table- spoonfuls of well-dried and sifted sage. Put the Sausage-meat into jars, pressing it down tightly, and if covered over with melted fat it will keep for several weeks. When wanted for use, it must be turned out on 'to a well-floured table or board, made into the shape and size of Sausages,406 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sausages—continued. dipped into egg, and then rolled in Hour. In frying them very little grease, if any, is required, as there is sufficient of their own. Persian Sausages.—Trim the meat of a loin of mutton, chop it, and mix with it an equal quantity of fat hacon also chopped; season the mixture, divide it into small equal-sized portions, roll them round an iron skewer, giving the Sausages a round elongated shape. Roast these Sausages Neapolitan fashion, with coal on both sides, and turning the skewer with the hand. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, garnish with slices of celery, and serve. Royal Sausages.—Take all the meat off a partridge and also from a capon or pullet, and finely mince it, together with a slice of leg of veal and some gammon and other bacon; mince also very finely and mix with the meat some mushrooms, truffles, a little garlic, some chives, and parsley. Mix all together very thoroughly and season with salt, pepper, and ground spices, then mix into it the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs and a little cream. Form this mixture into short Sausages about 3in. in thickness. Beat some thin fillets of veal with a rolling- pin, wrap a slice round each Sausage, and put them in a stewpan lined with thin beef-steaks and rashers of bacon ; lay beef steaks and bacon over them, close the saucepan, and place it over a moderate fire with hot cinders on the lid and let it remain for twelve hours, then remove it from the fire. When the Sausages are quite cold take them carefully out of the pan, remove the veal and fat, and cut the Sausages neatly in slices; arrange them on a dish, and serve cold garnished with parsley. Smoked Sausages.—Mix with 101b. of finely-chopped beef 1 teacupful of salt, and 1 pinch of saltpetre. Add 41b. of chopped pork and 21b. of chopped fat bacon; season the meat with 8oz. of cumin, 4oz. of pepper, 2oz of pimento, all of which must be ground. Peel and chop a few cloves of garlic, mix them with the above ingredients, and chop all together for a few minutes longer, adding gradually at the same time 1 pint of water. Fill some pig’s intestines with the mixture, tie them into small Sausages, and smoke them for a few hours. Boil the Sausages for five minutes, then drain and let them cool. Swiss Sausages.—Remove all the gristle and skin from the required quantity of pork, and chop it finely; put the mince into a large howl, and season it with moderate quantities of finely-chopped parsley, thyme, burnet, mint, marjoram, and garlic, also small quantities of powdered cloves, salt, and pepper. Beat the whole with a wooden spoon until the seasonings are well worked into the meat, and for every pound of meat add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Soak some well-cleaned skins in water with plenty of lemon-juice in it, then take them out one at a time, dry them on a cloth, and stuff them with the meat. Tie it into ordinary Sausage lengths and hang them up in a cool dry place for twelve or fourteen days, or until required to cook. They are best boiled. Westphalian Sausages.—Use uncooked pork, the fat and lean of which should be as nearly as possible in equal quantities; cut it up into small squares, and for every pound of meat season with |oz. of salt and a small quantity of freshly-ground black pepper. Thoroughly clean some pig’s skins, and soak them in cold salted water for one or two horns. Fill the skins with the Sausage mixture, and hang them up in smoke. In a week’s time the Sausages will be sufficiently smoked, and may be prepared for serving when liked. If the Sausages are to be eaten fresh, they would be improved by hanging another week in a cool and very dry place. White Sausages.—(1) Procure an equal quantity of fat and lean pork, and chop it finely. Mince one-third of the quantity of veal, then mix it with the pork, and mince them both together until like a pulp, moistening occasion- ally with a little water and seasoning with salt and white pepper. Stuff the mixture into prepared skins, secure them at the ends, and hang them in a cool dry place till wanted. Sausages—continued. (2) Mince almost to a paste 31b. of lean pork that has been cut off the ribs. Cut lib. of cold boiled fat bacon into rather thick slices, and chop them into small squares. Soak 4lb. of crumb of bread in milk, then mix it with the fat bacon and minced pork. Season the mixture with the grated peel of one lemon, salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the whole until thoroughly mixed, then stuff it into skins that have been well cleansed and secure them at the ends. Put the Sausages into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for half-an-hour. When cooked, drain the Sausages; leave them until cold before serving them. Numerous other receipts for preparing special kinds of sausages, such as Beef, Pork, &c., will be found under those headings. The following receipts give a very useful variety of dishes : Baked Sausages.—(1) Place twelve Sausages on a baking- dish, prick them a little, and separate them by twelve slices of bread cut the same length as the Sausages. Bake in the oven for twelve minutes, baste them occasionally with their own liquor, and serve on a metal dish with \ pint of hot Madeira sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Prick twelve lean Sausages with a fork, put them in a tin baking-dish, and cook them for six minutes in the oven. Add two raw eggs to H pints of mashed pota- toes with 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, mix well together, and lay it on a baking- dish. Place the Sausages on the top, put them in the oven, and cook for six minutes. When finished, take them out and serve on a dish with 4 gill of melted lialf-glaze poured over. Boiled Sausages and Artichokes.—Wash, peel, and boil l|lb. of Jerusalem artichokes. Put fib. of Sausages, into boiling water and boil them for aquarter-of-an-hour. Put 14oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire ; as soon as it is melted, add and mix in 3 dessert spoonfuls of flour, then mix in by degrees f pint of milk, a small quantity of salt, and a small onion chopped fine; continue stirring till it boils, and boil for ten minutes. When the Sausages are cooked, lay them on a hot dish, put the artichokes round, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. Broiled Sausages with Truffles.—Peel seven truffles and cut them into small squares. Finely chop ^lb. each of pork and fat bacon; chop the trimmings of the truffles, and mix them in a basin with the pork, bacon, and truffles. Steep in warm salted water some sheep’s intestines, wipe them, and fill with the above mixture; tie them into 2in. lengths, and hang in a cool place for twelve hours. At the end of that time, cut the Sausages apart, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them frequently; care should be taken that the Sausages are well cooked. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried parlsey, and serve. Devilled Sausages.—Steam some pork Sausages for an hour, then leave them until cold. Cut some pieces of bread about 2in. in length and 1tin. wide, and fry them a pale golden colour in butter; drain them, and mask them with a thin coating of curry paste. Skin the Sausages and cut them lengthwise into thin slices, then cut each slice into halves, place half a slice of Sausage on each piece of bread, and spread a little mango chutney over them. Place them in the oven with a cover over, and leave until hot. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the Sausages on it, garnish them with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve. Fried Breaded Sausages.—Wipe the required number of Sausages dry, dip them into beaten egg-and-breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-basket, and plunge it into boiling fat. Cook for ten minutes, and serve on a hot dish, with a garnish of toasted bread and parsley. Fried Sausages and Chestnuts.—Roast fifty Spanish chestnuts and remove their husks and inner skins. Take some Sausage-meat, nicely seasoned, but without any sage in the seasoning, make it into seven round flat cakes, fry them slowly in a little butter till they are a nice brown, „ then take them from the frying-pan, and pour into a407 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., refeired to, see under their special heads. Sausages—continued. saucepan nearly all the fat they have been fried in; stir in 1 good table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until it is quite brown, then add by degrees a bare \ pint of strong beef or veal broth, and 2 glasses of white _ wine. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a few sprigs of savoury herbs (but not sage), give it a boil, then lay the fried cakes of Sausage-meat in the saucepan, put the chestnuts in the centre, and let them simmer very gently for almost an hour. Arrange the cakes of Sausage-meat on a hot dish, laying them near the edge, pile the chest- nuts in the centre, strain the gravy over them, garnish with fifed parsley, and serve as hot oossible. Fried Sausage-Meat. -Turn some Sausage-meat out of the skins, and divide and roll it into small balls; wrap each ball in a thin rasher of bacon, and pass a skewer through to keep it on. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry lightly. When cooked, lay them on a hot dish that has been spread with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and garnish with fried parsley and small croutons of fried bread. Serve at once. Fried Sausages with Rice.—Pry twelve or fifteen Sausages in a stewpan over a slow fire. When cooked, take them out, drain them, leaving the fat in the stewpan. Put in with the fat a chopped onion, fry it, then add 1 breakfast- cupful of well-washed rice, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, pour in gradually 1-2 pints of warm broth, put in a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, one or two cloves, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and the Sausages. Boil till the moisture has evaporated, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire for five minutes. Arrange the rice in a pile on a hot dish, rest the Sausages all round, and serve. Sausages a l’ltalienne.—Peel an onion, a carrot, a parsnip, and a few artichokes; wash and cut them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with one or two sticks of celery, also cut into small pieces, a few sprigs of parsley and lemon-thyme, and a sufficient quantity of clear gravy to make the sauce. Boil the vegetables until tender, then remove the bunch of thyme and parsley and pass the vegetables and sauce through a coarse wire sieve. Pour the pur6e into a saucepan, and mix in with it a small quantity of butter that has been kneaded with flour. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour in moderate quan- tities of Worcestershire sauce and soy, and smaller quantities of mushroom ketchup and Harvey’s sauce. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Boil plenty of nice potatoes, and when cooked drain and mash them until quite smooth, mixing small quantities of butter with them. Cut the required quantity of Cambridge Sausages into halves, rub them with flour and butter, and toast them until nicely browned all over. Make a mound with the potatoes on a hot dish, smoothing it evenly all over, and brown the top under a salamander. Arrange the halves of Sausages on the top of the potatoes like the spokes of a wheel; mix 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers and some of their vinegar with the sauce, pour it round the potatoes, and serve. Sausage Balls.—Prepare a Sausage forcemeat, and divide it into small portions; flour the hands and roll it into balls. Put some butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the balls, a few at a time, adding more butter when required. Turn them continually about, and when equally browned drain them, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sausage Cakes.—Pound in a mortar lib. of Australian meat with 2oz. of butter and a seasoning of ground cloves, pepper, and salt. When thoroughly mixed and pounded to a smooth paste, make it into small cakes, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of sifted bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling dripping. Serve hot. Sausage Entree.—Chop some pork, and mix with it a third of its quantity of chopped beef; season highly with pepper, salt, lemon-thyme, ground cloves, and allspice. Press the mixture into bags, tie them tightly, and keep in a cool dark place. Cut the Sausage-meat into thin slices, dip them in beaten egg, and dust with flour; put Sausages—continued. a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and when hot fry the slices in it till nicely browned on both sides. Put a mound of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the slices on the top, and serve. Sausage-Meat Cakes.—Mince separately 21b. of the lean part of pork and Hlb. of the fat part of bacon; mix them well and sprinkle over a seasoning of 2 table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered sage, and grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste. Turn this mixture into a mortar and pound it to a mass; take a little out at a time, form it into flat cakes, brush them over with egg, put them into a frying- pan without any fat, and fry gently for twelve minutes or so. Take them out when done, put them on a dish with a garnish of potatoes, boiled and mashed, and serve. Sausage Omelet.—Skin three raw Sausages, then put them into a saucepan with |oz. of butter; set it on a hot fire for five minutes, and stir well until they are cooked. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, fold over the side opposite the handle of the pan, lay the Sausages in the centre, fold the other side over, and serve with \ pint of hot Madeira sauce poured round the omelet. Sausage Rolls.—Make some puff paste, roll it out, and divide it into squares ; put a roll of Sausage-meat in the centre of each square, and fold the paste over to form a long roll. Moisten and press the edges together, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake. Sausage Salad.—Cut some cold cooked Sausages into slices, arrange them round the edge of an oval dish, mask each slice with a thin layer of mayonnaise, put another slice on the top of these, and spread over another layer of mayonnaise. Sprinkle them with chopped capers. But a mound of chicory in the centre of the dish, mix some oil and vinegar in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, pour the mixture over the chicory, strew it with chopped eggs and some minced herbs, and serve. Sausage Sandwiches (German).—Cut some slices of bread about iin. thick. Cut some slices of German Sausage and remove the skin. Butter the bread with fresh butter, cover a slice of bread-and-butter with the slices of Sausage, turn another slice buttered side downwards over the slices of Sausage, and press them together. When all the sand- wiches are made, pile evenly one on top of another, as many as can easily be cut through, trim the edges evenly, cutting off the crust, and then cut the sandwiches into pieces of a convenient size. Lay a napkin on a dish, and arrange the sandwiches neatly on it. Sausage-and-Tomato Pudding.—Season three well-beaten eggs with \ table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, 1 tea- spoonful each of sugar and chilli vinegar, and 1 salt- spoonful of salt. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, then add the beaten eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato-juice. Butter a pie-dish, put in some Sausages, and pour the batter over them. There should only be as many Sausages as the batter will well cover. Put the pudding into a brisk oven and bake it. When the batter begins to set, put two or three lumps of butter over the top. Serve the pudding very hot. Stewed Sausages (German).—Peel eight large apples, cut them into quarters, and core them; lay them on a dish, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, cover with another dish, and leave them for a few hours. Wash 1 teacupful of grocers’ currants, then put them in a bowl of hot water, and leave them until well plumped. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, make it hot, then put in some Sausages, first pricking them in several places with a fork; put the apples in between them, strew the currants over the top, and place the lid on the stewpan. Put the stewpan over a moderate fire and fry the contents, turning the apples, and taking them out as each piece is cooked, and keeping them hot. Turn the Sausages constantly until they are well cooked, then take them out, and arrange them on a hot dish, putting the apples round them. Pour t teacupful of claret in the stewpan, stir it well over the fire until hot, then pour it over the Sausages, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 408 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. San sages—continu ed. Stewed Sausages with Beer.—Prick the Sausages in several places with a fork, put them in a stewpan in which a piece of butter has been melted, and brown them over a brisk fire. When the Sausages are nicely browned, pour in 4 pint of mild dinner ale, and put the lid on the stew- pan. When the liquor boils, draw the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. When cooked, strain the Sausages, put them on a hot dish, and serve with mashed potatoes. Stewed Sausages with Cabbage. -Procure a medium-sized white cabbage, remove all the green leaves, and cut it into quarters, removing the centre stalks. Wash thoroughly in cold water, drain well on a cloth, cut them into small pieces, and put them into boiling salted water for five minutes. Remove into cold water to cool moderately, take the pieces of cabbage out, drain in a colander, and put it into a saucepan with 1 gill of fat from soup stock called toppings, or loz. of butter. Season with a good pinch of salt, and 4 pinch of pepper, also a whole medium- sized onion and a carrot cut into four pieces. Put on the lid of the saucepan, remove to a moderate fire, and cook for half an-hour. Take twelve Sausages, prick them with a fork, add them to the cabbage, and let all cook together for twelve minutes. Dress the cabbage on a hot dish, and arrange the Sausages and carrots on top. Serve very hot. Stewed Sausages with Wine.—(1) Fry some small Sausages till nearly done, then take them out and drain their fat into a stewpan. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs in with the fat, and lightly colour them over the fire, then pour in 4 pint of white wine, and stir it till boiling; put the Sausages in, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Put the Sausages on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Brown a very finely-chopped onion in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Moisten with 4 wineglassful of white wine, and add two Sausages; prick them slightly with a fork, cover the pan, and cook the contents for five minutes. Put in \ pint of Spanish sauce, cook for five minutes longer, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. / SAUTE.—Modern cooks are so accustomed to use this word, as potatoes sautes, that its significance becomes rather obscure, whereas in its native sense the full mean- ing is evident. The French sauter—to leap, or cause to leap, to toss, tells its own tale; but the object of tossing when cooking in a frying-pan is not so plain. Potatoes and some other foods, such as kidneys, &c., require not only to be fried brown on the outside, but also to be cooked through. As the frying by itself would brown the outsides before the insides were cooked, a French cook devised the plan of tossing, the substances being fried, so that whilst catching the full heat occasionally they should also, now and then, have a short respite of cooking. In this way the cooking is brought to perfection, being light brown and done through. Unfortunately we have no word in the English language to express saute-ing. “Jumping” has Fig. 473. Saute-pan. been used, but nobody would take “jumped potatoes” for potatoes or pommes-de-terre sautes. The pan used (see Fig. 473) and known as a saute-pan or sautoir, is shallow with straight sides, and of various sizes. SAUTERNE.—A Bordeaux wine made from white grapes, which were allowed to remain hanging some time upon the vine. It is a capital luncheon or dinner wine. SAVARIN CAKE.—See Cakes. SAVELOYS (Fr. Cervelas; Ital. Cervellatte).—Our Saveloy is a corruption of cervelas, and cervelas is again a corruption of cervelet, the small or animal brain, the cerebellum. The original Saveloy or Italian sausage was made with pig’s brains as one of its ingredients. The brains are no longer used, but the name remains—brains or brain sausages. The term is now generally applied to sausages that are sold ready cooked, either hot or cold. Amongst these are to be found the (correctly speaking) Bologna, Brunswick, and other cooked sausages. The British Saveloy is made as follows : (1) Cut into small pieces fib. each of fresh lean pork and salt lean pork, and Jib. of pork-fat; afterwards mince them in a mincing-machine. Add to the mince 41b. of sifted breadcrumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls each of dried and sifted pennyroyal and powdered sage, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, and salt to taste. Have some skins dyed red, and fill them with the mixture, but without pressing it in. Tie Fig. 474. Saveloys. the Saveloys into lengths (see Fig. 474), plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, drain the Saveloys, and hang them up. When cold they are ready for use. (2) Cut off all the skin from Gib. of pork and put it into a jar or bowl with a pickle of salt and saltpetre and let it remain for three days. Take it out, drain it, mince very fine, and sprinkle over it 3 table-spoonfuls of pepper and a dozen or so sage-leaves, dried and powdered. When these are all well mixed, stir in lib. of breadcrumbs, and fill up with it the required number of cleaned skins. Put the Saveloys into a slack oven and bake gently for lialf-an- liour or so. Take them out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Smoked Saveloys.—Procure lib. of pig’s ears, put them into a basin with water to cover, soak them for an hour, after which drain and dry them on a cloth. Put them in a large jar, strew plenty of salt and saltpetre over them, and leave for a week. At the end of that time drain them from the brine, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil. When tender, drain, bone, and cut them into thin shreds. Chop 21b. of pork and fib. of fat bacon; mix them together with 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 4 teaspoonful of salt- petre, 2 teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 4 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and 4 table-spoonful each of pounded cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Chop the mince for ten minutes, and when fine mix it or pass it through a mincing- machine (see Mincing) with the shred ears. Clean and soak some pig’s intestines, and stuff them as full as possible with the mixture. Tie the Saveloys into lengths, and smoke them for two days. Afterwards put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain the Saveloys, wrap them up in cloths, and tie tightly. When quite cold, cut the Saveloys into thin slices, lay them on a dish over an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. SAVOURY CUSTARD.—See Custards. SAVOYS.—See Cabbages. SAVOY CAKES.—See Cakes. SAVOY COMPOTE.—See Compotes. SAVOY SOUP.—See Soups.409 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinq Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. SAWS.—These are very useful in a kitchen for the purpose of cutting through bones. There are several kinds, one being combined with a sharp kitchen knife (see Fig. 475), and another of a more substantial character usually Fig. 475. Meat-saw and Knife Combined. used by butchers (see Fig. 476) and capable of cutting through the largest bone. A small ribbed Saw, such as would be used by a carpenter, is, perhaps, the most useful of any in a small kitchen. The advantage of a Saw over Fig. 476. Meat-saw. a cleaver in cutting through bones is that no jagged bits are left, but the dust is equally objectionable, so that all sawed surfaces should be carefully cleaned before cooking or serving. SAXEWEIMAR PUDDING.—See Puddings. SAXON PUDDING.—See Puddings. SCAD.—A fish (Trachurus saurus) about the size of a herring, found very abundantly on the European coasts, and less commonly along the shores of America. Its flesh is too coarse to be of any particular food value. SCALDING.—The term is derived from either the old French escalder, or Latin excaldare, all having much about the same signification. In cookery it is used with two distinct meanings, one being to scald meat or other solid by plunging it into boiling liquid, and the second meaning is applied to liquids which are scalded by being exposed suddenly to a violent heat. Solids are scalded in the process called Blanching, and milk is sometimes scalded to prevent putrefactive changes, SCALES.—See Weights and Measures. SCALLIONS.—Another name for shallots, or onions of Ascalon. SCALLOPS (Fr. Petoncles).—During the months of January and February the epicure indulges his appetite for these beautifully clean and handsome shell-fish. At this time the roe (commonly called the tongue) is full and of a bright orange colour. There are several varieties of them of different sizes, all belonging to the same ichthyo- logical family (Pectinidae). Scallops frequent deep waters and are brought to the surface by dredging. They should be quite fresh when cooked, and care used, or the flesh will be liai’d, tough, and indigestible. The following receipts are strongly recommended: Baked Scallops.—Take the Scallops out of their shells, and trim oft' the beards and all the black parts. Wash the deep shells of the Scallops, dry them, put in the Scallops, and pour J table-spoonful of vinegar over each. I Blanch a small bunch of parsley and chop it finely; mix it with the grated breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt ) and pepper, and bind the mixture into a paste with a little milk. Spread some of the paste over each shell, j strew a few dry breadcrumbs on the top, and put a small ! piece of butter on each. Put them in a brisk oven and Scallops—con tinned. bake for twenty minutes. Serve the Scallops very hot and in their shells, on a folded napkin on a dish. Fried Scallops.—(1) Trim off the beards and black parts, clean the Scallops well, and drain them. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the Scallops and fry them until lightly browned. Drain them for a moment on a sheet of paper, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Wash the Scallops in cold water and dry them on a clean towel. While they are being dried put over the fire a frying-kettle half-full of fat, and let it get smoking hot, then quickly roll the Scallops in Indian corn-meal seasoned with salt and pepper, drop them into the hot fat, and fry them a light brown. As soon as they are brown take them up with a skimmer, lay them for a moment on brown paper to free them from fat, and serve hot. Slices of lemon served with the Scallops greatly improve the flavour and appearance of the dish. Watercress, if in season, may replace the lemon. (3) Drain the Scallops from their liquor, lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and squeeze the juice of a large lemon over them and leave for an hour or two. Make a puree of tinned French peas, mix- ing a small lump of butter with them, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir them over the fire till hot. Prepare a sufficient quantity of frying-batter for the Scallops; when ready, put a good-sized lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then dip the Scallops, one at a time, in the batter and put them in the fat. Fry them till nicely browned all over, then take them out of the fat and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain for a minute or two. Spread the puree of peas over a hot dish, and arrange the Scallops on it. Serve while very hot. Scallop Salad.—Put the Scallops into a basin of salted water and steep them for an hour, then rinse them in plenty of cold water and boil slowly for twenty-five minutes. When cooked, plunge the Scallops into cold water, then drain them and cut them into slices. Cut up the white stalks of a head of celery, put them in a salad- bowl, add the Scallops, pour over them a mayonnaise dressing, and serve. Scalloped Scallops.—(1) Take the required quantity of Scallops out of their shells, trim oft' their beards, and cut them into three pieces each. Put a large lump of butter in a frying-pan with the Scallops, and fry them until nicely browned, shaking the pan all the time. Wash the deep shells of the Scallops and dry them, then fill them again with the Scallops; strew a thick layer of grated breadcrumbs over each, and put a small bit of butter on Fig. 477. Scalloped Scallops. the top. Brown them under a salamander or in a very hot oven, then arrange the shells on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 477), and serve, (2) Clean and trim off the beards of some Scallops; grate some stale crumb of bread as finely as possible, season it with salt and pepper, spread a thick layer of the breadcrumbs at the bottom of a shallow dish, and lay the Scallops on them; cover with more breadcrumbs, and put a few thin slices of butter on the top. Bake them in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. When cooked, serve them in the same dish. (3) Open and prepare the required quantity of Scallops, removing the beards, &c. Wash and dry the deep shells410 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Scallops—continued. ancl butter them; cut the fish into small pieces, put two Scallops into each shell, strew over them some finely- grated breadcrumb, season to taste with salt and pepper, and put in each shell a small quantity of made mustard, about 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and h table-spoonful of cream; place a small lump of butter on the top of each and put them into a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top arrange the shells on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Stewed Scallops.—(1) Put some Scallops in a stewpan with half a blade of mace, a small quantity of sugar, and sulli- cient water to cover them; stew them gently by the side of the fire for about lialf-an-hour or until tender. Put Uoz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the fire, then stir in some of the liquor in which the Scallops were stewed, 3 table-spoon- fuls of cream, and flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Arrange the Scallops on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Blanch 1 pint of Scallops in loz. of butter for ten minutes, then drain and chop them. Chop up two onions and put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter; when brown add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stirring carefully, and moisten with l pint of the Scallop liquor, or white broth. Reduce while stirring, season with a good pinch of salt and b pinch of white pepper, also a very little cayenne pepper; add the chopped Scallops, four yolks of eggs, and a bruised clove of garlic, also \ breakfast-cupful of fresh breadcrumbs, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well for two minutes, put the whole into a dish, and set it aside to cool. Fill six Scallop-shells with the mixture, sprinkle the tops with sifted breadcrumbs, moisten slightly with clarified butter, and lay them on a baking- sheet; brown them nicely in the oven for five minutes, serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley-leaves. SCALLOPED—Any kind of fish or other food may he scalloped, that is, cooked or served up after cooking, as though they were actually scallops (see Fig. 478). For this purpose, as real scallop shells would not be at all times available, the French cook, not caring to forego this delicious mode of cooking, has invented metal shells (see Fig. 479) which answer every purpose, and are usually known as “ coquilles,” the viand being served “ en coquille.” Considerable taste in the designs of these table-shells has been shown, some being exceedingly elaborate and made of silver, hut the block tin shell indicated in the drawing is quite good enough for most purposes. Scalloping is a modification of the “ au gratin.” SCHABZEIGER CHEESE.—See Cheese. SCHENK BEER.—A small beer brewed in Bavaria. SCHNAPPS.—The Dutch name for Holland’s Gin, or Schiedam. SCISSORS (Fr. Ciseaux; Ger. Schere).—The mean- ing of the term is quite evident, but over the derivation there is some doubt; Skeat, however, holds that it is traceable to the Latin csedere, to cut. Their mode of Fig. 480. Scissors. construction and action renders Scissors invaluable instruments in the kitchen, or the service at table. For cutting off the fins of fish and the claws of birds a strong pair of Scissors (see Fig. 480) should be used. For serving poultry a most useful weapon known as carving Scissors (see Fig. 481) is sometimes wisely employed; and for dividing the branches of a hunch of grapes ornamental Scissors (see Fig. 482) are indispensable. The vii’tue of the Scissors depends upon the double cutters working towards each other, and the extraordinary leverage secured by their mode of construction. SCOLLOPS.—See Collops. SCONES.—These famous Scotch cakes are appreciated throughout the British Islands, and probably in other parts of the world. They are usually large round cakes divided by a deep cut into four portions (see Fig. 483) and cooked on a griddle. The following receipts are exceptionally good, being supplied from reliable sources. See also Barley, Cream, Potatoes, &c. (1) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour; when quite smooth add 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar and 1 table- spoonful of baking-powder, and stir in sufficient sour milkTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 411 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Scones—continued. to make them into a stiff paste. Work it well, then roll it out on to a floured table and divide it into squares. Bake them on a gridiron and serve while hot. (2) Mix ljoz. of cream of tartar and foz. of bicarbonate of soda with 31b. of flour, and rub in 3oz. of lard. Add 3oz. of sugar, Joz. of salt, and 8oz. of well-washed and dried currants; make a hollow in the centre, and pour in sufficient butter-milk to form a dough. When thoroughly mixed form it into shapes, put them on flat tins, brush them over with egg, and bake in a moderately hot oven. They may be eaten hot or cold. (3) Mix a little salt with some flour, then stir in suffi- cient boiling water to make a stiff paste. Work it well with the hands till smooth, then roll the paste out on a floured table to a little under Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds. Bake the Scones on a griddle over a clear brisk fire, cook both sides equally, and serve hot. Fig. 483. Scones. (4) Beat up three eggs, add to them by degrees a scant 1J pints of warm milk, mix in then 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and stir in ljlb. of flour; divide the dough into twelve cakes, roll them to the size of muffins, lay them in front of the fire with a cloth over them, and when they have risen well bake them, then split them in halves, butter them, and serve. (5) Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with lib. of flour, rub in smoothly 2oz. of butter, and add Jib. of well- washed currants and a moderate quantity of sugar. Beat an egg well in 4 breakfast-cupful of water and stir it in with the above ingredients. When quite smooth, divide the cakes into rounds, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve the Scones hot with butter. (6) Sir Henry Thompson’s Receipt.—Mix with 21b. of whole meal flour Jib. of fine white flour, 4 saltspoonful of salt, some yeast powder, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter. When the above ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, mix them into a paste with some milk. Divide the paste into equal portions, and bake the cakes till browned in a quick oven; then lower the temperature and finish cooking them through. May be served either hot or cold. Brown Scones.—(1) Mix with 34lb. of brown flour foz. of bicarbonate of soda and Joz. of tartaric acid. Stir in sufficient milk to make the whole into a smooth dough, and work it well. Dredge flour over a table or paste- board, put the dough on it, and roll it out about lin. thick; cut it into rounds 2in. in diameter, lay them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Put \ pint of milk in a saucepan with a small lump of butter and a pinch of salt; when boiling sift in suffi- cient brown-bread flour to make a stiff’ paste. Roll the paste out on a floured board to about Jin. in thickness, and bake them on a griddle over a brisk, clear fire. When crisp and brown put the Scones on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Fried Scones.—Dissolve J tcaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid in 1 pint of milk, then stir it smoothly into Jib. of sifted flour. Put a lump of butter into a small frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when it has melted pour in a layer of the flatter and fry it like pancakes. Proceed the same with the remainder of the batter; spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, lay the Scones on it, one on top of the other, dusting a little salt over each, and serve. SCORZONERA (Fr. Scorzonere).—Lindley, in the “ Treasury of Botany,” informs us that this plant (Scorzo- nera hispanica) is a native of Spain, “ but is cultivated in this country, and its root is sold in the markets as Scorzonera, a name de- rived from escorzo, the Spanish for a serpent, in allusion to its cooling anti-febrile effects, it hav- ing formerly been em- ployed in Spain on account of these properties for the cure of serpent bites.” The root is shaped some- thing like a long radish (see Fig. 484). It is dark- coloured outside and pure white inside. The taste has something of a nutty flavour, which is exceed- ingly agreeable to in- valids, and as it is de- clared to be a great aid to digestion, it should be more liberally cultivated. Prepared as follows it is excellent: Boiled Scorzonera.— Wash, scrape, and cut off the tops of the roots as for carrots. Tie them in small .bundles, put them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil gently until tender. When cooked drain the Scor- zonera, put them on slices of toast on a hot dish, pour over some melted but- ter or butter sauce, and serve. Boiled Scorzonera with C h e e s e.—W ash and scrape some Scorzonera roots, tie them together in bundles, put them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil until tender. Put 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese in a lined stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of milk and stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved, then stir in 1 teacupful of cream ; if too thick, add a little more milk to the sauce. Stir it until nearly boiling. Drain the roots of Scorzonera, lay them in a deep dish that will stand the heat of the oven, pour the sauce over them, cover the top with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and put it in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Serve the Scorzonera very hot in the same dish. Fried Scorzonera.—Boil some Scorzonera-roots till tender; mix with Jib. of flour 1 saltspoonful of baking-powder, two beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of cold water, season with pepper and salt. When cooked, drain the roots, dip them in the batter, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned put them on a hot dish, and serve. SCOTCH ALES.—At one time ales known by this name were very famous, having a peculiar sweetness, due to Russian honey being used in their brewing. This practice has long since been abandoned, nevertheless Scotch Ales keep up their character for strength and purity. SCOTCH BKOSE.—See Brose. SCOTCH BROTH.—See Broth. SCOTCH CAKES.—See Cakes. SCOTCH KALE.—See Kale. SCOTCH PUDDING.—See Puddings.412 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ±c., rejerred to, see under their special heads. SCOTCH SHORTBREAD.—See Shortbread. SCOTCH WHISKY.—See Whisky. SCOTCH WOODCOCK.—If ever a dish deserved a special nomenclature, most assuredly this does. It is not only appreciated by the Scotch themselves, hut by every- body else who has had the exceeding good fortune to partake of it. (1) Cut some slices of bread into triangle-shaped pieces and fry them till a golden brown in butter. Wash and scrape some anchovies and chop them. Beat the yolks of four eggs with \ pint of milk, put it in a saucepan by the side of the fire, and stir until thick, but do not allow it to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Put the chopped anchovy between the slices of bread, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish, pour the custard over them, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve. (2) Put I pint of cream into a saucepan with the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir it over the tire till on the point of boiling, then move it off at once. Toast some slices of bread, trim off the crusts, butter them, spread with anchovy paste, and put them on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over the toast, and serve without delay. (3) Put 1 table-spoonful of anchovy paste in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of butter and stir in 1 wineglassful of cream and the beaten yolks of three and the whites of two eggs; season to taste with black and cayenne pepper. Pour the mixture into a small lined saucepan, place it over a bright fire, and stir the contents, always the same way, until thick. If it is not stirred the same way it will curdle and spoil. Put two or three slices of hot buttered toast, nicely trimmed of their crusts, on a hot dish, pour the mixture over, and serve at once. SCOTER.—See Black-Diver. SCOURING.—There is something very drastic in the sound of this word when applied to the cleansing of kitchen utensils. It is used in this sense to signify cleansing by friction, as with a brush, glass paper, or sand. The origin of the term is doubtful. SCREENS.—See Roasting. SCULLERY.—A place for washing plates and dishes. Probably the word is formed from the English swiller, with suffix y. SCULLION.—The original meaning of this word was a swab or dish-clout, being a corruption of the old French escouillon, a servant employed for base offices. The term scullion has been associated with the word scullery, and scullery with scullion, although, as an etymological fact, they have little or no connection. SEA-BASS.—See Bass. SEA-BREAM.—See Bream. SEA-CRAYEISH.—See Crayfish. SEA-HEDGEHOG.—The Sea-Hedgehog or Sea- Urchin is a shell-fish greatly relished by gourmets. They are found on the coasts of the Mediterranean, and at Marseilles. The summer is the best time for them, and they are prepared for serving as follows : In the middle of the bristling shell will be found a small aperture; dig the point of a large chisel into it, and cut all round, so as to lift the half of it off; drain the water, ami remove the dark parts between the rays of coral forming a star. Put the Hedgehogs on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve them. The red and soft meat are the only parts eaten. SEA-KALE,—An old French author wrote of Sea- Kale (Crambe maritama) as the “Chou marin sauvage d’Angleterre,” having possibly partaken of a dish of the wild plant. When cultivated and blanched (see Fig. 485) there is no other vegetable surpassing it in delicacy of flavour. The wild plant grows abundantly among the sand and shingle of seaside places, and is then easily Sea-kale —continued. recognised on account of its broad, wavy, toothed, grey- coloured leaves, covered with a light bloom. The flowers are white and smell strongly of honey. According to some historians Sea-Kale was known to the Romans, who gathered it in its wild state and stored it in barrels for use during long voyages. Al- though residents by the seaside have recognised its value as food for many cen- turies, it was not offered for sale in our markets before the middle of the eighteenth century. Its introduction to our table as a cultivated vegetable is said by some to have been brought about by Sir William Jones, of Chelsea, whereas others give Dr. Lettsom, of Camber- well, the credit of its ex- tended appreciation. When Careme visited England he fig. 435. Sea-kale. found it very plentiful, and described it in his writings as sekals, or sikeles, re- sembling “ branches of celery, and are to he served like asparagus with a butter sauce ; hut I prefer to serve them with Spanish sauce.” Sea-Kale should be cut when the leaves are purple ; if left till green they will be found hard and bitter. The young shoots and unopened leaves are the best parts, hut i the largest leaves do very well for soups. Forced Sea- j kale is very good in mid-winter. | Boiled Sea-kale.—(1) Put five heads of Sea-kale into a basin of water and wash them thoroughly to remove all the grit. Tie them up in a bunch and chop off the roots. Put the Sea kale in a saucepan with a little salted water, boil for twenty minutes, and drain it in a colander. Arrange some slices of toast without crusts on a dish, lay the Sea-kale on them, pour a little melted butter Sauce over, and serve. (2) Wash the Sea-kale, tie it into small bundles, and put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient boiling- water to cover. When about half cooked, drain the kale, put it into a saucepan with some brown gravy and stock, and colour with a little browning. Stew the kale till cooked, then take it out, put it on a hot dish, thicken the liquor with a little flour, season it to taste with salt and pepper, pour it over the kale, and serve while hot. (3) Prepare the Sea-kale, tie it up into bundles, and put it into a saucepan of quickly-boiling water with a lump of salt. Prepare the following sauce for it: Pour f pint of clear white stock into a stewpan, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, and half a blade of mace. Boil the stock for about lialf-an-hour, when strain it. Mix J2 table-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a small quantity of milk, add it to the stock, pour the whole back into the stewpan, and stir it on the fire until boiling again. When the Sea-kale is cooked, drain it, place it on a hot dish over which has been put two slices of toast, mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with the sauce, pour it over the kale, and serve. (4) Wash the kale well, tie it in bundles, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil very fast till tender. Put into a basin 2 table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, 1 table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. Beat the above ingredients till well mixed and smooth. Drain the Sea kale when it is cooked, put it on to a hot dish, pour the dressing over, and serve. (5) Wash and trim the kale, tie it up in bundles, put them in a saucepan with plenty of boiling salted water, and boil quickly until cooked. Put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, put in 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire; mix in smoothly 1 f- break- fast-cupfuls of hot water, and stir until boiling. SeasonTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 413 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sea-kale—continued. the sauce to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; when sufficiently thick, move it to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up uith the juice of a small lemon and strained. When the Sea-kale is cooked, drain it as much as possible, place it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Sea-kale Salad.—(1) Cut the Sea-kale into small pieces, put them in a basin, cover with cream and a small quantity of tarragon vinegar, place a cloth over the basin, and leave all night. On the following morning trim some nice fresh lettuces and endive, wash them well, and cut into quarters. Arrange them in a salad-bowl, pile the Sea-kale cream on the top, ornament tastefully with pieces of beetroot, and serve. (2) Chop some remains of cold boiled Sea-kale, and put it into a salad-bowl. Prepare a dressing with salad-oil and strained lemon-juice, and season it with salt and pepper; when well mixed, pour it over the Sea-kale, garnish with cut lemons, and serve with as little delay as possible. Stewed Sea-kale.—Wash the Sea-kale and trim it nicely. Boil it till tender, being careful to keep it nice and white, then drain it. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient rich, clear, well-seasoned brown gravy to cover it, and let it simmer very gently for twenty minutes. Serve on a hot dish. SEASONS.—Almost every kind of food has its parti- cular season—that is, the period of the year when it is at its prime. Produced out of season they may fetch higher prices, but however grateful they may be to the gourmet, there are few foods that do not lose flavour by being forced, or supplied out of season. A large variety of foods are in season all the year round, but this does not apply to the majority. The following list may be found of some use to the cook, although the best guide as to what is in season is a visit to the markets, remembering always that when foods are cheapest and most plentiful they are most frequently prime; when dear they are generally out of season. It may be taken for granted then, that when dear or cheap in season, they are scarce or plentiful and good ; but when dear out of season they are never cheap, and they need not necessarily be good; the chances are that they are not. January.—Meat.—Beef, Doe Venison, House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Capons, Canvas-back Ducks, Capercailzies, Chickens, Ducks, Fowls, Geese, Golden Plovers, Grouse, Hares (prime), Larks (very plentiful), Mooi- Game, Partridges, Pheasants, Pullets, Babbits (at then- best), Snipe, Tame Pigeons, Turkeys (prime), Widgeons, Wild Ducks, Woodcocks. Fish.—Barbel, Bream (sea), Brill, Carp, Cod, Crabs, Crayfish, Dace, Eels, Flounders, Haddocks (prime), Hake, Halibut, Herrings, Lampreys, Ling, Lobsters, Mackerel, Mussels, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns, Salmon Trout, Shrimps, Skate, Smelts, Soles, Sprats, Sturgeons, Tench, Thornback, Turbot, Whiting, Winkles, Whelks. Vegetables.—Beetroot, Broccoli, Brussels Sprouts, Cab- bages, Cardoons, Carrots, Celery, Chervil, Colewort, Cresses, Endive, Garlic, Kale (Scotch), Leeks, Lettuces, Onions, Pars- nips, Potatoes, Salsify, Savoys, Sorrel, Tarragon, Turnips, Winter Spinach. Forced Vegetables.—Asparagus, Cucumbers, Jeru- salem Artichokes, Mushrooms. Fruits.—Almonds, Apples (French Pippin, Golden Pippin, Golden Russet, Kentish Pippin, Nonpareil, Winter Pearmain), Chestnuts, Grapes, Medlars, Nuts, Oranges, Pears (Bergamot d’Holland, Bon Chretien, Chaumontel, Colmar), Walnuts. February.—Meat.—Beef, House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Capons, Chickens, Curlews (prime), Ducklings (prime), Fowls (wild), Godwits, Green Geese (prime), Grouse, Guinea Fowls, Hares, Larks, Partridges, Pheasants, Plovers, Poults (at their best), Pullets, Rabbits (tame), Snipe, Turkeys, Woodcocks. Se asons—continued. Fish.—Barbel, Bream (sea), Brill, Carp, Coal-fish, Cockles, Cod, Crabs, Crayfish, Dace, Eels, Flounders, Haddocks, Hake, Halibut, Herrings, Lampreys, Ling, Lobsters, Mackerel, Mullet, Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns, Roker, Salmon (primest), Shrimps, Skate, Smelts, Soles, Sprats, Sturgeons, Tench, Thornback, Turbot, Whelks, Whiting, Winkles. Vegetables.—Beetroot, Broccoli, Cabbages, Cardoons, Carrots, Celery, Chervil, Cresses, Endive, Garlic, Leeks, Lettuces, Mushrooms, Onions, Parsnips, Potatoes, Salsify, Sea-kale, Shallots, Sorrel, Spinach, Sprouts, Tarragon, Turnips, Winter Savoury. Forced Vegetables.—Asparagus, Cucumbers, Jerusalem Artichokes. Fruits.—Apples (French Pippin, Golden Pippin, Golden Russet, Holland Pippin, Kentish Pippin, Nonpareil, Wheeler’s Russet, Winter Pearmain), Chestnuts, Oranges (plentiful), Pears (Bergamot de Pasque, Winter Bon Chretien). March.—Meat.—Beef, House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Capons, Chickens, Ducklings, Fowls, Goslings, Green Geese, Grouse, Guinea Fowls, Leverets, Moor Game, Pigeons, Plovers, Snipe, Tame Rabbits, Turkeys, Widgeons, Woodcocks. Fish.—Bream (sea), Brill, Carp, Cockles, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs, Dories, Eels, Flounders, Haddocks, Ling, Lobsters, Mackerel (prime), Mullet (prime), Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns, Salmon, Salmon Trout, Shrimps, Skate, Smelts, Soles, Sturgeons, Tench, Turbot, Whitebait, Whelks, Whiting, Winkles. Vegetables.—Artichokes (Jerusalem), Beetroot, Broccoli, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbages, Cardoons, Carrots, Celery, Cher- vil, Cresses, Endive, Garlic, Lettuces, Mushrooms, Onions, Parsnips, Potatoes, Sea and Scotch Kale, Sorrel, Spinach, Turnips, Turnip Tops. Forced Vegetables.—Asparagus, Beans, Cucumbers, Rhubarb. Fruits.—Apples (French Pippin, Golden Russet, Holland Pippin, John Apple, Kentish Pippin, Nonpareil, Norfolk Biffin, Wheeler’s Russet), Chestnuts, Grapes, Oranges, Pears (Bergamot, Chaumontel, St. Martial, Winter Bon Chretien). Forced Fruit. —Strawberries. April.—Meat.—Beef, Grass Lamb (prime), House Lamb, Mutton, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, Ducklings, Fowls, Green Geese, Guinea Fowls, Leverets, Pigeons, Pullets, Rabbits, Turkey Poults, Wood Pigeons. Fish.—Brill, Carp, Chub, Cockles, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs (prime), Dories, Eels, Flounders, Gurnets, Halibut, Herrings, Ling, Lobsters (very good), Mackerel, Mullet, Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns (prime), Salmon (prime), Shrimps, Skate (prime), Smelts, Soles, Sturgeons, Tench (good), Trout, Turbot, Whelks, White- bait, Whitings, Winkles. Vegetables.—Asparagus (prime), Beans, Broccoli, Carrots, Chervil, Cucumbers (very good), Endive, Fennel, Lettuces, Mushrooms, Onions, Parsnips, Parsley, Peas, Radishes, Rhubarb, Sea-kale, Small Salad, Sorrel, Spinach, Turnips, Turnip Tops. Fruits.—Apples (Golden Russet, John Apple, Nonpareil, Wheeler’s Russet), Nuts, Oranges, Pears (Bergamot, Bon Chretien, Carmelite, St. Martial), Strawberries (if early). Walnuts. Forced Fruits.—Apricots, Cherries, Strawberries. May.—Meat.—Beef, Grass Lamb (prime), House Lamb (prime), Mutton, Pork, Veal (very good). Poultry and Game.—Chickens, Ducklings, Fowls, Green Geese, Guinea Fowls, Leverets, Pigeons. Pullets, Rabbits, Wood Pigeons. Fish.—Brill, Char, Carp, Chub, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs (prime), Crayfish, Dace, Dories, Eels, Flounders, Gurnet, Haddocks, Halibut,Herrings, Ling, Lobsters (prime), Mackerel (the primest), Mullet, Mussels, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns (specially good), Salmon (good), Shrimps, Skate (prime), Smelts, Soles, Sturgeons, Tench, Trout, Turbot, Whelks, Whitebait, Whiting, Winkles.414 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Seasons—continued. Vegetables.—Artichokes (prime), Asparagus, Cabbages (good), Carrots, Cauliflowers (good), Chervil, Corn Salad, Cucumbers, Endive, Kidney Beans, Lettuces, New Potatoes (prime), Onions, Peas, Radishes, Rhubarb, Salads of all kinds, Sea-kale, Sorrel, Spinach (prime), Turnips. Forced Vegetables.—Artichokes, Asparagus, Kidney Beans. Fruits.—Apples (Golden Russet, John Apple, May Duke, Winter Russet), Cherries, Currants, Gooseberries, Melons, Oranges, Pears (L’Amozette, Scarlet Strawberry, Winter Green). Forced Fruits.—Apricots, Cherries, Nutmeg Peaches, Strawberries. June.—Meat.—Beef, Grass Lamb (prime), House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal, Venison. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, Ducklings, Fowls, Gos- lings, Green Geese (prime), Leverets, Ortolans (prime). Pigeons, Plovers, Poulardes, Pullets, Quails (good), Rabbits, Reed Birds, Turkey Poults, Wheatears (prime), Wood Pigeons. Fish.—Brill, Carp, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs (prime), Cray- fish, Dace, Dories, Eels, Flounders, Gurnets, Haddocks, Hali- but, Herrings, Lobsters (prime), Mackerel, Mullet, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns (prime), Salmon (prime), Salmon Trout (prime), Shrimps, Skate (prime), Smelts, Soles, Sturgeons, Tench, Trout, Turbot, Whitebait (prime), Whiting. Vegetables.—Artichokes, Asparagus, Beans (French Kidney, Windsor), Cabbages, Carrots, Cauliflowers, Chervil, Cucumbers, Endive, Garlic, Leeks, Lettuces, New Potatoes, Onions, Parsley, Peas, Radishes, Rhubarb, Salads (prime and plentiful), Spinach, Turnips, Vegetable Marrows (prime). Fruits.—Apples (John Apple, Golden Russet, Stone Pip- pin), Apricots, Cherries (Bigaroons, Blackheart, Duke), Currants, Gooseberries, Melons, Pears (Wintergreen), Raspberries, Strawberries (prime). Forced Fruits.—Grapes, Nectarines, Peaches, Pines. Herbs for Drying.—Burnet, Mint, Orange Thyme, Tarragon. July.—Meat.—Beef, Buck Venison, Grass Lamb (prime), Mutton, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Chickens (prime), Ducks, Fowls, Green Geese (excellent), Leverets, Ortolans, Pigeons, Poulardes, Plovers (prime), Quails, Tame Rabbits, Turkey Poults, Wheatears, Wild Rabbits. Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs (prime), Crayfish, Dace (excellent), Dories, Eels, Flounders, Gurnets, Haddocks, Hake, Halibut, Herrings, Ling, Lobsters (good), Mackerel (good), Mullet, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Prawns (prime), Roker, Salmon (very good), Shrimps, Skate, Soles, Tench, Thornback, Trout (primest), Turbot, Whitebait, Whiting. Vegetables.—Artichokes, Asparagus, Beans (various), Carrots, Cauliflowers, Celery, Chervil, Cucumbers, Endive, Lettuces, Marrows, Mushrooms, Peas, Potatoes, Radishes, Rhubarb, Salads, Salsify, Sorrel, Spinach, Turnips. Fruits.—Apples (Codling, Jenneting, Margaret, Summer Pearmain, Summer Pippin), Apricots, Cherries, Currants (good), Damsons (prime), Gooseberries (good), Melons, Nectarines, Oranges, Peaches, Pears (Catherine, Green Chisel, Jargonelle, Musk), Pine-apples, Plums, Raspberries (prime), Strawberries. For Pickling.—Cauliflowers, French Beans, Garlic, Gherkins, Nasturtiums, Onions, Red Cabbages, Walnuts. Herbs for Drying.—Knotted Marjoram, Mushrooms, Winter Savory. August.—Meat.—Beef, Buck Venison, Grass Lamb, Mutton, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Blackcocks (prime), Chickens, Ducks, Fowls, Green Geese, Grouse (prime at the end of the month), Leverets, Moor Game, Tame and Bordeaux Pigeons, Plovers, Rabbits, Turkeys, Turkey Poults, Wheat- ears, Wild Ducks, Wild Pigeons, Wild Rabbits. Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs, Crayfish, Dace (prime), Dories, Eels, Flounders, Gurnets, Haddocks, Halibut, Herrings, Lobsters, Mackerel (prime), Mullet, Oysters, Perch (prime), Pike (good), Plaice, Prawns Seasons—continued. (prime), Salmon, Shrimps, Skate, Soles, Tench, Turbot (excellent), Whiting. Vegetables.—Artichokes, Beans (various), Carrots, Cauliflowers, Celery, Cucumbers, Endive, Leeks, Marrows, Mushrooms, Onions, Peas, Potatoes, Radishes, Salads (of all kinds), Salsify, Scarlet runners, Shallots, Spinach, Turnips. Fruits.—Apples (Codling, Summer Pippin), Cherries, Currants, Damsons, Figs (prime), Filberts (excellent), Gooseberies, Grapes, Lemons, Melons, Mulberries (good), Nectarines(prime), Peaches (prime), Pears ( Jargonelle, Summer, Bon Cinetien, Windsor), Pine-apples, Plums (Greengages, Orleans), Raspberries, Strawberries (Alpine). Herbs for Drying.—Basil, Sage, Thyme. For Pickling.—Capsicums, Chillies, Red Cabbages, Tomatoes, Walnuts. September.—Meat.—Beef, Buck Venison, Mutton, Pork, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, Ducks, Fowls, Green Geese, Grouse (prime), Hares (prime), Larks, Leverets, Moor Game (prime), Partridges (excellent) Pigeons, Plovers, Rabbits, Teal, Turkeys, Turkey Poults, Wheatears, Wild Ducks (prime), Wood Pigeons, Wild Rabbits. Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cockles, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs, Dace (very good), Dories, Eels, Flounders, Gray Mullet (prime), Gurnets, Haddocks, Hake, Halibut, Herrings, Lobsters, Mussels, Oysters (prime): Perch (good), Pike, (prime), Pilchards, Plaice, Prawns, Sea Bream, Shrimps, Soles, Tench, Turbot, Whiting. Vegetables.—Beans (French and Scarlet), Cabbages, Carrots, Cauliflowers, Celery, Cucumbers, Endive, Jerusalem Artichokes, Leeks, Lettuces, Mushrooms, Onions, Parsnips, Peas, Potatoes, Radishes, Salads, Shallots, Tomatoes, Turnips. Fruits.—Apples (White Caville, Pearmain, Golden Ren- net), Cherries (Morelia), Damsons, Figs, Filberts, Grapes (specially good; Muscadine, Frontignac, Red and Black Hamburgh, Malmsey), Hazel Nuts, Medlars, Peaches (prime), Pears (Bergamot, Brown Beurrc), Pine apples, Plums (prime), Quinces, Walnuts. October.—Meat.—Beef, Doe Venison, Mutton, Pork, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, Dotterels, Ducks, Fowls, Green Geese, Grouse, Hares, Larks, Moor Game, Partridges (good), Pheasants (prime), Pigeons, Plovers, Rabbits, Snipe, Teal, Turkeys, Wheatears, Widgeons (prime), Wild Ducks, Wild Pigeons, Wild Rabbits, Woodcocks. Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cockles, Cod, Conger Eels, Crabs, Dace, Dories (prime), Eels, Gudgeon, Haddocks, Hake (prime), Halibut, Herrings, Lobsters, Mullet (excellent), Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike, Prawns, Salmon Trout, Shrimps, Skate, Smelts, Soles, Tench, Turbot, Whiting. Vegetables.—Artichokes, Broccoli (prime), Brussels Sprouts, Cabbages, Cardoons, Carrots, Cauliflowers, Celery, Endive, Leeks, Onions, Parsnips, Peas, Potatoes, Radishes, Salads, Savoys, Shallots, Tomatoes (prime), Truffles (excellent), Turnips, Winter Spinach. F'ruits.—Almonds, Apples (Golden Pippin, Golden Rennet, Pearmain, Royal Russet), Bullaces (black and white), Chestnuts, Damsons, Figs (late), Filberts, Grapes (prime), Hazel Nuts (excellent), Medlars (very good), Mulberries, Peaches (October, Old Newington), Pears (Bergamot, Beurre, Bon Chretien, Chaumontel, Swan’s Egg), Quinces, Services, Walnuts (prime). November.—Meat.—Beef, Doe Venison, House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, Dotterels. Ducks, Geese (prime), Grouse (very good), Hares (excellent), Larks, Moor Game, Partridges, Pheasants, Pigeons, Plovers, Rabbits, Snipe (good). Teal (prime), Turkeys, Wheatears, Widgeons, Wild Ducks, Woodcocks (good). Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cockles, Cod (very good), Crabs, Dace (prime), Dories (prime), Eels, Gudgeon, Gurnets, Haddocks, Hake (prime), Halibut, Herrings, Ling, Lobsters, Mullet, Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike (prime), Plaice, Prawns, Dutch Salmon, Shrimps, Skate, Smelts, Soles, Sprats (good), Tench, Turbot, Whiting. Vegetables.—Broccoli, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbages, Cardoons, Celery, Chard Beetroot, Chervil, C'olewort, Endive,415 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Seasons—continued. Herbs (various), Jerusalem Artichokes, Leeks, Lettuces, Onions, Parsnips, Potatoes, Salads, Savoys, Shallots, Toma- toes, Turnips, Winter Spinach. Fruits.—Almonds, Apples (Golden Pippin, Holland Pippin, Kentish Pippin, Nonpareil, Wheeler’s Russet, Winter Pearmain), Bullaces, Chestnuts (very good), Grapes, Hazel Nuts, Medlars, Pears (Bergamot, Beurre de Chaumontelle, Colmar, Spanish Bon Chretien), Services, Walnuts. December.—Meat.—Beef, Doe Venison, House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal (all at the primest). Poultry and Game.—Capercailzies, Capons (prime), Chickens, Dotterels, Ducks, Dun-birds, Fowls, Geese, Grouse, Guinea Fowls (prime), Hares, Larks, Moor Game, Ortolans, Partridges, Peafowls, Pheasants, Pigeons, Ptarmigan, Quails, Rabbits, Snipe, Teal, Turkeys (prime), Wheatears, Widgeons, Wild Ducks, Woodcocks. Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cockles, Cod (prime), Crabs, Dories (prime), Eels, Gudgeon, Gurnets, Haddocks, Hake (prime), Halibut, Herrings, Ling (prime), Lobsters, Mullets, Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Salmon, Shrimps, Skate (good), Smelts, Soles, Sprats, Sturgeons, Tench, Turbot (prime), Whiting. Vegetables.—Beetroot, Broccoli (white and red), Brussels Sprouts, Cabbages, Cardoons, Carrots, Celery (prime), Endive, Herbs (various), Jerusalem Artichokes, Kale (Scotch), Leeks, Onions, Potatoes, Salsify, Scorzonera, Shallots, Spinach (winter), Truffles, Turnips. Fruits.—Almonds, Apples (Golden Pippin, Nonpareil, Winter Pearmain, Golden Russet), Chestnuts, Hazel Nuts, Medlars, Oranges, Pears (Bergamot, Beurrd d’Hiver, Colmar, Holland, St. Germain), Walnuts. SEASONING-.—Herein lieth much of the art of the cook, and can only be acquired by experience. All sorts of delicious flavours can be imparted to simple viands from numerous sources, such as herbs, spices, &c., but the modern cook confines the use of the term seasoning to the rendering tasty by the addition of salt and pepper principally. It is quite impossible to lay down any laws for seasoning, but by careful attention to the directions given in the receipts to be found in this Encyclopaedia, a clever cook will readily master the details. A golden rule is season lightly, as more can be added to suit the taste, but it would be diffi- cult to take any out after having once added it. Every large kitchen is supplied with one or more seasoning- boxes (see Fig. 486), divided into compartments, in which various seasonings, such as salt, di’ied parsley, &c\, are duly stored. The lids should be easily raised, and the compartments large enough to admit the hand of the cook, who, perhaps, has only one hand at liberty, the other being employed in holding still or open the article to be seasoned. See also Flavourings, Herbs, Spices, &c. SEAWEEDS.—See Alg;e. SEED-OIL.—An oil expressed from cotton-seed, said to be odourless and tasteless, and therefore a good sub- stitute for olive oil, for which it is frequently used in cooking. SEGUI.—A kind of silvery trout caught in the lakes of Savoy. It is a favourite Russian fish, and is smoked in large quantities for exportation. Its average weight is from 51b. to 61b., rarely, if ever, exceeding the heavier weight. Dubois tells us that the Russians prefer to bake it with butter, or it may be cooked in wine like salmon, or grilled. As it is only possible to get the Segui—continued. smoked fish in this country, the following receipt for preparing it may be useful: Mix loz. of mustard quite smoothly with 1 teacupful of olive-oil and ^ teacupful of Orleans vinegar, and season the sauce with a small quantity of salt and sugar. Pro- cure a smoked Segui, peel the skin off carefully, take out the fillets, and cut them into slices. Replace them, giving the fish its former shape, place it on a dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. SEIBLING.—A fresh-water fish resembling a trout, but having the belly red and marked over the body with stars. It grows to a large size, being sometimes caught weighing as much as 121b. It is common to the lakes of Bavaria, but a species of it, known as star-fish, is sometimes caught in the lakes of Scotland. Seibling are in season from September to January, but during the remainder of the year it is forbidden by Government to fish for them. The following receipts for their preparation are taken from the instructions given by Dubois : (1) Draw the fish by the rills, but do not scale it or cut the fins, and truss the nead. Put the fish in a fish- kettle with water and white wine mixed in equal quan- tities to half its height, and add a bunch of parsley and a little salt. When boiling, move the kettle to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for lialf-an-hour, or a little longer. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, remove the string from the head, put it on a drainer with a napkin folded over it on a hot dish, garnish with fresh paisley, and serve with a sauceboatful of Bavarian sauce. (2) Clean and prepare the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient court bouillon and white wine in equal quantities to cover it, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, take the fish gently out of the kettle, being care- ful not to break it, and leave it until cold. Slightly tinge some half-set aspic jelly with cochineal, then mask the fish with it. Stand the fish on its belly on a carved fish-stand, if possible, or if that is not convenient on an oval-shaped dish; garnish it with chopped jelly, then with croutons of the coloured jelly. Serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. SELTZER WATER.—See Aerated Waters. SEMOLA.—A food for infants and invalids made from wheat-flour, which is prepared in such a manner as to retain the largest amount of gluten, stated to be 48 per cent. The word is Italian for bran. SEMOLINA (Fr. Semoule).—The large hard grains of wheat-flour retained in the bolting-machine after the fine flour has passed through its meshes. Dr. Ure informs us that the best Semolina is obtained from the wheat of the southern parts ce Europe. The fine white Parisian bread called Gruau is made with it. Semo- lina can be used in a variety of ways. Semolina Cake (Turkish).—Put 8oz. of butter into a sauce- pan over the fire and stir well till browned, then add gradually lib. of Semolina and continue stirring until thoroughly mixed and browned- Put 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into another sauce- pan, and bring them to the boil. Blanch three or four dozen almonds, divide them into halves, put them into the saucepan with the Semolina, stir in the syrup, adding it slowly, mix well until a thick paste is obtained, pour the mixture into a mould, let it get cold and set, then turn it out, and serve. Garnish with square almond-flavoured biscuits (see Fig. 487). Semolina Consomme.—Put the requisite quantity of stock broth over the fire, and when boiling add some Semolina; boil it till the Semolina is tender, then turn it into a soup- tureen and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Any kind of puree can be mixed with the soup; in that case the Semolina should be kept thinner. Fig. 486. Seasoning-box (Attains anti Son).TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 416 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Semolina—continued. Semolina Cream.—Put loz. of Semolina in 1 teacupful of milk, and soak it for an hour. Soak £oz. of gelatine in £ teacupful of water. Boil the Semolina till soft in £ pint of milk, then stir in with it another £ pint of boiling milk in which the gelatine has been dissolved, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or any flavouring preferred. When a little cooled, turn the cream into a mould, and leave it till set. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a dish when ready to serve. Semolina Fritters.—lloil U pints of milk, sweeten it, and add gradually ^lb. of Semolina; boil it for a few minutes, stirring continually the while, then move it to the side of the fire, add a piece of butter, the beaten yolks of five eggs, and the white of one, and a little grated orange-peel. When the above ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, spread the mixture over a baking-sheet that has been moistened with water and leave it till cold. Cut the Semolina into rounds with a 12in. diameter tin cutter, then cut each round with a smaller tin cutter; the cutters should be dipped in warm water each time. Rub the fritters over with flour, then dip them in beaten egg, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and fry them in boil- ing butter. When nicely browned, drain the fritters, dust orange-flavoured sugar over them, put them in circles on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of gooseberry jelly. Semolina Cfnocchi.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of milk and water into a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling sprinkle in 1 lb. of Semolina and boil and stir continually. When sufficiently cooked turn out on to a damped table, let it get cold, cut it into pieces about the size of an egg or large walnut, arrange them on a dish, dust them over with grated Parmesan cheese, ground cinnamon, and caster sugar, put a few lumps of butter here and there, and bake in the oven for an hour. A Dutch oven if at hand should be used. Serve as hot as possible in the dish they were cooked in, and set on a folded napkin spread over a flat dish (see Fig. 488). Semolina Pudding (Baked).—(1) Put 2oz. of Semolina in a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling milk, boil it for about fifteen minutes, stirring it occasionally, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Move the saucepan from the fire, stir in quickly a beaten egg, turn the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, add a few pieces of butter if desired, and bake it for an hour in a slow oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. Semolina—continued. (2) Soak Jib. of Semolina in a little cold milk for lialf- an-hour, then stir it into lqt. of boiling milk; boil it for ten minutes, stirring all the time, then remove it from the fire and continue to stir till it is cool. Add to it two eggs beaten up with a spoonful or two of cold milk, 2oz. of sugar, and grated lemon-peel to taste. Mix these well into the Semolina, pour it into a pudding-dish, put it in a slow oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. (3) Put 8 table-spoonfuls of Semolina into a lined stew- pan with 1 h pints of milk and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened; next move them off the fire and let them cool. Put 3oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, then beat it up with the strained juice of two small lemons and the grated peel of one. Stir the butter in with the Semolina, and add gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of foiV that have been whisked to a stiff snow. Butter the edges of a pie-dish and line them with a good tart-paste; pour in the above mixture and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and nicely browned on the top serve the pudding. (4) Steamed.—Boil some lemon-peel in lqt. of milk then sprinkle in gradually 5oz. of Semolina and stir till very smooth; boil it for a few minutes, move the sauce- pan off the fire, sweeten to taste, and add four well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould and ornament the interior with sultanas and chopped mixed candied peel. Pour the Sem- olina mixture into the mould, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam for half- an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish and serve when cold with a custard. (5) Mix with 1 pint of milk a small lump of butter, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, and a little salt; pour it into a saucepan, and when boiling sift in gradually lib. of Semolina; stir it till quite smooth then sweeten to taste, and boil for ten minutes, stirring at the same time. Take the mixture off the lire, stir in quickly a piece of butter divided into small pieces and the beaten yolks of five eggs. Prepare a salpicon of preserved fruits, put it in with the pudding, adding the whipped whites of four eggs and half their quantity of whipped cream. Pour all into a plain buttered cylinder-mould, stand it in a saucepan, surround with boiling water to two thirds its height, and steam for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour over a little caramel syrup that has been flavoured with vanilla, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Semolina Quenelles.—Mix with 6oz. of fine Semolina 6 table-spoonfuls of butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a little grated nutmeg and salt. When well mixed shape the paste into quenelles and poach them in boiling water. Drain the quenelles when cooked, and serve them. Semolina Souffle.—Put 1 pint of new milk into a lined saucepan with the thinly pared rind of a lemon and sugar to taste; boil it, then move it a little to the side of the fire, and stir in gradually 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Semo- olina; when thick take the lemon-peel out and let the mixture cool. Beat the yolks of six eggs and whisk the whites of eight to a stiff froth; mix the yolks in first with the above mixture, and lastly stir in the whiskedTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 417 Semolina—continued. whites. Pour the whole into a souffle.mould and bake it in a brisk oven until well risen and nicely browned on the top. When cooked, dust the souffle over with caster sugar, and serve it immediately in the same mould, which should have a napikin pinned round it (see Fig. 489). Semolina Soup.—(1) Take the required quantity of nicely- flavoured stock Avell freed from fat, place it over the fire, and when boiling stir with one hand whilst shaking in with the other some veiy coarse Semolina. When the soup is sufficiently thick, stir for a few minutes longer over the fire. Turn the soup into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (2) Boil ^lb. of Semolina in milk for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the Semolina into a large saucepan with lqt. of highly-flavoured stock, and boil all together for a few minutes. Turn the soup into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Semolina Timbales.—Boil some Semolina in stock till cooked. Butter some small moulds, and fill them with the boiled Semolina. When cold, turn the timbales out of the moulds, sprinkle breadcrumbs over them, baste with yolks of eggs that have been beaten with warmed butter, and pepper, salt, and breadcrumb them again. Press a round tin cutter tin. less in diameter than the moulds into the top of each timbale, and fry them in boiling fat. When cooked, scoop out the middles of the timbales, and fill them with a cooked rabbit forcemeat that has been mixed with a puree of mushrooms. Put them on a dish in the oven to warm, then serve them. SEKiCIAIi.—A dry light-coloured Madeira wine of strong aroma and fine flavour, but not fit for tlie table until it is ten years old. SERVICE BERRIES.—The small apple-like fruit of the Service-tree, one of the Pyrus tribe. The name is also applied to the fruit of the American shad-bush, Mountain-ash berries, and Siberian crab-apples. Ser- vice-berries are used for making jams or jellies, and may be candied; suitable receipts for their preparation will be found under Crab-Apples. SERVIETTES.—The table-napkin or Serviette was introduced towards the middle of the fifteenth century, the table-cloth having hitherto been used for wiping the fingers at table, for which purpose it was usual to draw the cloth over the knees. According to Erasmus, it was at first usual to carry the napkin over the left arm or shoulder; a fashion that is now relegated to waiters. Thence it became usual to tie it round the neck to protect the full ruffs that were worn for a time, and from this practice arose the saying “ to make both ends meet,” a literal translation of the French proverb, “ noner les deux bouts de sa Serviette,” a playful allusion to the struggles of stout men with short arms to tie their napkins. Under the heading of Appearances, Mr. Corblet has very ably explained in this Encyclopedia the importance of decoration and ornament as an ac- companiment to food. Under Table-Decoration considerable information is given respecting arrangements of flowers, foliage, and different modes of lighting, such as candles and their holders, electricity, and gas ; but the value of the Serviette, or napkin, in adding grace to the table, requires special and individual treatment, where- fore some very elaborate and exquisite designs resulting from care, ingenuity, and skill, have been collected and inserted hereunder. Table-napkins, being rarely quite square, can be made so by turning in one side as much as will be necessary to form a square; this will give extra stiffness, which, in many cases, is an advantage. They must be well starched, or otherwise they will not remain in the folds or stand up, and they fold better when not quite dry. They should also not be too large, or, if they are beyond the usual size, should not be used for any of the smaller designs, as they Serviettes-- continued. are apt to look clumsy. Most napkins err on the side of smallness; they should not be less than 34 by 25in., and should match the pattern of the table-cloth. See Table-linen. Accordion Fan.—Fold the napkin almost in half, leaving an edge of about l|in. on the under-side, and turn up the bottom to the depth of 3in. Pleat it up in narrow pleats all one way, hold the bottom of it tightly in the left hand, with the folds towards you, and spread - it out at the top. Proceed to turn down the inner fold between each pleat, forming little points all the way along. Do the same to the upper fold, and to the edge of the napkin. This looks charming, but requires rather a stiff napkin and very careful handling. When finished, put it into a wineglass (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1). Arrow-head.—Fold the Serviette in three, lengthwise, double each end over towards the middle (as shown in Fig. 490); fold back A on either side to produce Fig. 491; keep the two sides flat on the table whilst you draw them towards the middle, causing the dotted line in centre to stand up: turn over the Serviette with top point towards you, fold this top point well over by the dotted line shown in Fig. 492, so that the centre portion again stands up, and cross the points A A underneath to produce the complete design (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1). VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 E418 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Serviettes—continued. Arum Lily, No 1.—This requires a perfectly square table- napkin. Have it open on the table with a point to- wards you; fold this point over to the opposite one, forming a half handkerchief, then make the two end points meet on the centre one so that the design forms a square. Take the bottom corner, and fold it as in Fig. 493; turn the napkin over, roll the left-hand point till near the centre, take the right hand point and tuck it securely into the outside fold on the left. Stand the napkin up, and hold it firmly whilst you bend over the two side points, leaving the centre one as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Arum Lily, No. 2.—If the Serviette be not quite square, the design can still be made by folding like a half c n handkerchief, but allowing the points to separate, as in Fig. 494. Bring point B to meet D, and A to meet c (Fig. 495); take point E, and turn it back twice, as shown in Fig. 493. Turn the Serviette over, and cross the two For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Serviettes—continued. sides, tucking one securely into the folds of the other; stand up the Serviette, and just turn over the side points leaving two upright in the centre, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Arum Lily, No. 3.—Commence as in Arum Lily, No. 1, by taking a perfectly square napkin, fold it like a half handkerchief as directed, then make the two end points meet on the centre one: this will represent a square. Take the bottom corner, turn it up towards the top corner, leaving a third of the napkin at the top ; then bend this point back again on itself in 2in. folds, as in Fig. 496a. Turn the napkin over, take both side points, and fasten them firmly by tucking the right-hand corner into the left-hand fold. Stand the Serviette up, and bend over the outside points to form the leaves, as in Fig. 496. The height of this design is regulated by the amount taken for the folds which form the base of the complete design. B.A.—This style cannot be done with a square napkin—- a good size is 27in. by 23in., and this is easily Fig 497. The B.A. managed by folding in a portion of an ordinary Serviette. Lay the napkin lengthwise before you, double the bottom s, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.419 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Serviettes—continued. edge over four times, making a 2in. fold, crease it down tightly, as in Fig. 497A, and turn the napkin over so that the fold comes in the middle with much the same Fig. 497a. effect as in Fig. 512A of the “Double Diamond” design. Turn it over again; take the left-hand top corner and bring it over along the centre; do the same with the other side, forming Fig. 497B. Take point C and bring it to point A, fold back D on to the triangle, then take A point B and do the same, folding back portion marked D, as before. Turn the Serviette over, and put the bread under the fold in the centre diamond. This design is very often used in folded tissue-paper for serving cheese tartlets or fancy pastry. Bat, Mo. 1.—Fold the Serviette in three, so that a single fold comes on the top, with the selvedge towards you, and turn back the two end points, leaving a space in the middle, as in Fig. 49SA. The dotted line in the diagram indicates where the lower edge is to be folded over once; then proceed to kilt up the Serviette like a fan, from A to B, being careful to pleat the upright points evenly. When the lower part is placed in a wineglass, the design will appear as in Fig. 498. Bat, Ho. 2.—A slight variation of the above pattern is made as follows: Place the Serviette open lengthwise on the table, take the top points and double over a third of Serviettes—continued. the width towards you, then fold back these two top points like wings, as in “ Bat No. 1” (see Fig. 499A). Double back the lower line A A in a 4in. fold, again double it back so that the fold comes well over the lower portion of the wings. Kilt from end to end, as in the first description; then, holding the Serviette firmly in the left hand, proceed to turn down the inner fold between each pleat, as shown in Fig. 499. This variety of the Bat pattern is the taller of the two. Bat, Ho. 3.—Another variation of this pattern, which has the advantage of being alike on both sides, is made by folding the Serviette into four, and this must be done as though the Serviette were kilted. Let the long side For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. 2 e 2THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 420 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. with the two folds he from you, and the two loose edges with fold in centre he towards you, as in Fig. 500A. Double back the upper two end points (A and B) so as to leave a space in the middle, as shown in Fig. 498a of “ Bat No. 1,” turn the Serviette carefully over and double the other two end points in a similar manner, kilt the design from end to end, and stand it in a glass. The pointed wings (Fig. 500) can either he allowed to stand out stiffly Fig. 501. The Bird. or be slightly drawn apart in a graceful curve so as to show more of the fan inside. Bird.—This is really the reverse side of the first Bat design (see Fig. 498), with a little additional finish. Serviettes—continued. Proceed as described for “Bat No. 1,” and, after the kilt- ing has been done, turn over the Serviette and hold it firmly in the left hand, whilst the inner fold of each of the pleats is turned down with the right hand ; this will be more easily managed if the Serviette he grasped round the middle of the kilts. The complete design is shown in Fig. 501. Bishop’s Mitre.—Take a perfectly square napkin and fold it in a half handkerchief; take the side points and make them meet on the centre one, thus forming a square. Turn back the two upper points to within lin. of the bottom, fold the next flap over the points, turning it hack a little way on itself (Fig. 502); then fold up point A in small flat folds till it just covers point B. Turn the Fig. 503b. napkin over, fold back the side points one over the other, and tuck the top one into the groove (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1). Boat.—The Serviette must be made quite square, and the best-sized boat is produced from a square of 22in. When the superfluous width has been folded over, double the421 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. Serviette in half from right to left, and again fold in half from the top to the lower edge, thus forming a square of 11 in. Double over the right-hand top corner to the centre line, turn over the Serviette, and fold over the second top corner to the centre line, forming Fig. 503. Double back the upper portion of edge A and B by the dotted line, and fold the left-hand corner under the left-hand side of the triangle (Fig. 503A). Turn over the Serviette, and double back the other portion of the lower edge as above, tucking the left-hand corner under the triangle as before (Fig. 503b). Double A over to C and B, under to where C would be on the other side; this forms another triangle. With both hands take hold of each side at C, and draw these sides apart until D D meet (Fig. 503c). Fold the upper portion of A up to B, turn over the Serviette, and repeat this, forming Fig. 503d. Again insert thumbs at C, draw the hands apart so that D and D meet (Fig. 503E). Take hold of points A and B, and pull them well apart to form the boat shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. The sides should be pressed together, and the boat will stand up firmly. It is good practice to make this design first in paper. Care must be taken to keep all the points as sharp as possible, and to thoroughly press the folds, as this greatly adds to the effect. Book-slide.—The Serviette must be folded over on two sides, so that it makes a square of 1(pin. After forming the square, fold the four corners into the middle, turn over the Serviette, and let one point be towards you ; fold over this point and the one exactly opposite to it, making them meet in the middle; then double these points back, so that they project slightly over the fedge, Serviettes—continued. as shown in Fig. 504. The (bitted lines in this illustra- tion show where the folds are to be made. It is easier to turn the Serviette over first, and then to fold back one point, as shown in Fig. 505. This point must then be doubled back again at the dotted line. The other point should he treated in the same way, and the Serviette can then be turned on to the right side. The two small points should stand up, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Butterfly.—The napkin for this design must not be square, but an ordinary Serviette can have one edge folded so as to be near to the size; a very good measurement is 28in. by 19in. Have the shorter edge nearest to you on the table, fold over in half from the top corners, so that the two short edges meet near to you; again fold over from the top, and then double the folded Serviette in half from left to right. Now notice that there are six points of the Serviette at the lower right-hand corner; raise the two top ones with the left hand and draw them along the lower edge to the left-hand corner; this will cause the right-hand top corner to be drawn down towards the centre as represented in Fig. 506 looking very like a cocked hat, Take point A and fold it over to 0, do the same with point B, creasing the folds well with a paper-knife ; these form the upper wings of the butterfly, as shown in Fig. 507 Let these wings fall back out of your way whilst you fold the long under-wings; refer again to Fig. 506 ; let point D meet F,TUE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 4-22 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. and bring point E to G, crease these thoroughly and replace the upper -wings as in Fig. 508. Imagine a perpendicular line pom H to H and from I to I, turn over the Serviette, and fold over the sides at these lines, so that one overlaps the other. In the Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1, is shown the complete design. The butterfly should stand on its head and be supported by the short wings and by the bread which is placed underneath. Casket.—Fold the napkin in half, place it in front of you with the narrow edge towards you, make two tin. folds Serviettes—continued. the bread or roll under the two folds, on either side of the crease. Crown.—The “ Double Pocket ” design, illustrated on Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, can easily be turned into a pattern sometimes called the “Crown.” Instead of opening the pockets, keep them flat, pass the hand under- at the bottom, and one lin. fold at the top, but turned on to the other side of the napkin; make the two top points meet in the centre, as in Fig. 509a. Bring the bottom edge of the napkin to within 3in. or 4in. of the top point (Fig. 509b). Take points A and B, make them meet on C, form- ing Fig. 509c. Fold the bottom of the napkin to about Sin. from the lower point, turn it over, and tuck the fight- liand corner into the left. Collegian.—Make the shape as described for the “ Every- day,” then carefully turn the folded napkin over, and place neath, and open the centre fold so as to make the Ser- viette take the form of a crown. The two outside points are then to be bent over. Double Boat.—Fold the napkin in three lengthwise, turn the ends over to meet in the middle, fold the two sides into the centre again (Fig 51 lA), and turn the napkin over;423 TilE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes— continued. then you have Fig. 511b. Take point A and point B, and make them meet in the centre, point B overlapping point A; press them down firmly (Fig. 511C). Double the napkin lengthwise, by bringing C and D together, stand up the Fig. 510. The Collegian. design (as in Fig. 511), and place the bread between the keels of the boats. Fig. 511. The Double Boat. Doable Diamond.—Fold the napkin lengthwise in three. Take the top fold, and double it back again twice on itself, making about l|in. folds. Leave it across centre, as shown in Fig. 512A. Turn the napkin, fold the sides Serviettes—continued. over about 4in., as shown in Fig. 512b, then fold again I A B Fig. 511b. so that points A B meet in centre, as in Fig. 512c. Turn over the Serviette, and fold sides together lengthwise, smoothing Fig. 512. The Double Diamond. it down flat (Fig. 512d). Take the top fold at A, bring it to the centre of the band, and press it down to form a diamond ; do424 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. the same with point B, and let these two points he caught under the hand, and the design is complete. Double-pointed Fan.—As a variation from the “ Pointed Fan,” the “Douhle-pointed Fan” will he found very effective. Fold the Serviette like a half handkerchief, hut do not let the corners meet (Fig. 513). Turn up the lower Serviettes—continued. the drawing out of the inner pleats can he omitted, and the superfluous portion of the Serviette be simply folded hack ; but the vandyked effect produced by drawing down Fig. 512c. edge 7in., and then fold it back 2in. on to itself (Fig. 514). Pleat up the Serviette from end to end, and, hold- ing the kilted part firmly with the right hand, draw out Fig. 515. the top part of the inner pleats is very effective, and the knack of folding these nicely is very soon acquired. the top portion of each inner pleat in the folded band with the left hand; press firmly, and place the base of Double Pocket.—Fold the Serviette in half and let one of the narrow ends be towards you; turn down the four the pleats in a wineglass, tucking in the two ends neatly, as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Of course corners as shown in Fig. 515, and bring points A A to meet at B ; this forms a square. Double this in half (as425 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. shown in Fig. 516), being careful to keep on the outside the portions folded over in Fig. 515 ; the corners marked C C are now to he folded inwardly between the two triangles, making Fig. 517. Bring together the points of the upper triangle, marked A A, and tuck the left-hand securely into the right-hand folds (Fig. 518); turn over the Serviette, and repeat with second triangle, thus forming two pockets. This is a good design for children’s suppers, as crackers look well standing in the Serviette (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2), and sometimes flowers or a small present is placed in one of the pockets. Easel.—This is a variety of the “ Every-day ” (described below). When the design shown in Fig. 519 has been Fig. 519. The Every-day. made, cross the two folds at the bottom, draw the right- hand one towards the left, and the left-hand one to the right, giving the design a triangular appearance. Turn over the napkin, and place the bread inside the opening or under the point (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Every-day.—Fold the napkin in three, crease the centre, and turn down each side of the top edge towards the middle to meet at the crease, as in Fig. 519 A ; fold two or three times, or roll the ends (A and B) till even with the lower edge, turn over the napkin, and bring the folds Serviettes-—continued. to meet in the centre (as in Fig. 519). The bread is placed between or underneath the folds. This is a very easy way, and very nice for every-day use. Fan.—Fold the napkin in three lengthwise, then pleat half of it as evenly as possible into the centre. Pleat from the other side also into the centre, so that the pleats face each other. Press them down firmly, and, holding the napkin tightly together, insert it in a rather large wine- or claret-glass; spread it out at the top, as in Fig. 520. This looks particularly pretty when put into red or green glasses. Fleur de Lis.—Have the Serviette open on the table, and fold it in half from you, and again in half length- wise, so that the selvedges are at the top. Fold the sides Fig. 521. to the middle, forming Fig. 521; turn the top points A and b to the centre so that they meet at C (Fig. 521a), turn over the Serviette, and fold the outside to the centre, producing Fig. 521B ; double A on to A and well press the folds with a paper-knife, then hold the Serviette firmly whilst you draw out the three inner folds on either side at the top. The two points marked C c should be turned upwards to form the base, as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, but before standing up the Serviette, the lower portion of the folded parts should be well pressed together at the waist.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 426 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Serviettes—continued. Flower-pot.—Fold the napkin almost in half, leaving an edge of about ‘2in. from the top on the under side. Then fold from the bottom over to within ljin. from tbe lower edge of the napkin, and again fold it over from the bottom to within lin. of the former fold, as in b ig. 522; then fold over the top of the napkin till it almost meets the first ridge. Now lay it in small kilts, all one way, holding it tightly in the hand ; turn up the little spaces between the pleats into small points as in the “Accordion Fan” (see Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1); do the other three ridges in the same way, only turning the points downwards; then stand the Serviette on the table, round, like a flower pot, as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes, ” No. 2. This shape takes so long to do, that, if required for a dinner party, it will be necessary to commence folding very early. This style is very much in vogue for wedding breakfasts, and is therefore some- times called the “ Bridal ”; it is often ornamented with flowers. If placed in a glass, and tightened at the bottom and spread out at the top, it forms a very pretty fan. Fountain.—Fold the Serviette like a half handkerchief, having the two single points towards you; fold back one of these points about llin., turn over the Serviette, and fold back the second point also llin., forming Fig. 523. Pleat the Serviette firmly from end to end, hold the lower edge with the right hand, and draw down the inner folds of the five or six pleats at either end with the left hand; place the ends of the centre pleats in a wineglass, and let two pleats at either end hang down at the sides (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Serviettes—continued. Four Pockets.—The Serviette must be quite square; if it should happen to be longer one way the extra length can he folded in. Have it open on the table and fold the four corners to the centre, creasing the folds well; again fold the corners into the middle and press the folds. Turn over the Serviette, and once more fold the corners into the centre (see Fig. 524). Again, turn over the Serviette and fold B Fig. 524a. back the centre points towards the corners, as in Fig. 524a ; these folded-back corners are the outsides of the pockets. Crease the Serviette from side to side, by folding it from A to A, and afterwards from B to B, keeping the pocket side always on the outside. These creases are simply to permit the Serviette to fall into its proper form when theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 42 7 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <S:c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. hand is placed underneath and the centre raised, so that the whole design stands on the four points of the pockets, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” Iso. 2. Pour-pointed Fan.—Fold the Serviette like a half hand- kerchief, but do not let the points meet (Fig. 525), which drawing is half the size proportionately of Figs. 526 and 527 ; bring point B to meet D, and A to meet C, forming Fig. 526, then take point E and turn it back by the dotted line, making Fig. 527 ; pleat the napkin, and stand it up in a wineglass (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). The pleats should not be too small for this design, and the four points should be carefully separated so as to show off the Serviette when finished. S er viettes—continued. Italian Cap.—Have the Serviette open on the table, and fold the corners to the centre ; again fold the corners to the centre, then double the Serviette in half, with the folded parts on the outer sides (Fig. 52S) ; draw the corners (C C) inwardly between the two triangles, making Fig. 528a ; bring together the points of the upper triangle (A A), and tuck the left hand securely into the right-hand folds (Fig. 528b) ; turn over the Serviette and repeat with second triangle. Pass the hand up through the large opening between the triangles, and shape out the cap. The larger points at top should be nicely curved, and the four little points be turned outwardly as shown in Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Mitre.—Fold the napkin in three, and turn both ends to meet in the middle as in Fig. 529. Take the top- right hand corner, and fold it into the middle. Take the Fig. 529. bottom left-hand corner, and fold that also into the middle; turn the napkin over and fold it in half lengtlnvise, as in Fig. 530. Bring the right-hand point (A) towards you, and tuck it into the inner fold at B. Turn over the napkin, and do the same with the other corner, which will now be also on the right hand. In Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, will be seen a complete design. The bread should be put in the centre.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 428 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. Note.—Fold over one side of the Serviette so that the width is 17in.; let a narrow end he towards you, and double this end from you to meet the opposite side. Take the right hand top corner and bring it to the folded edge, Fig. 531. as shown in Fig. 531; the left hand top corner is then to he doubled over in the same way as indicated by the dotted line; this produces Fig. 532. Then fold the line A B over three times towards you, so that the last fold overlaps the top point of triangle G. Turn over the Serviette, and fold over the two top corners so that they meet in the centre of the lower edge (Fig. 533). Again turn over the Serviette, take the two lower points of the triangle, and tuck them neatly under the small fold at the top of the triangle (Fig. 534). This is the wrong side: the reverse is shown in the complete design (see Plate Serviettes—continued. “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). This shape is sometimes used for folding note-paper when sending written messages. When time is an object the following pattern, which is really a simplified form of the other, will be found useful, as it is very quickly folded. Make the Serviette quite square. Have it open on the table, and fold it from you in halfTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 429 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. and then in quarter by turning the right over to the left hand edges (see Fig. 535). Fold A over to B by the dotted line, producing Fig. 536; pleat the Serviette from C to C, and place the design in a wineglass, leaving the points D d standing out on either side. Separate the top points a little, and let the lower point stand away from the back- ground (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Pointed Cap.—A very simple pattern is made by fold- ing the Serviette in four, with the selvedges at the top, as directed for the “ Fleur de Lis ” ; the sides are Fig. 537a. then turned to the middle, and the portions indicated by dotted lines in Fig. 537A are turned under. Take point A and roll it over to the centre line, to produce Fig. 537B . do the same with the second half from point B, press the rolled portion to keep it in place, and stand up the Serviette. Fig. 537b. Pointed Fan.—One of the prettiest varieties of the many fan patterns is made as follows: Place the Serviette open on the table, with one point towards you; make a 2in. fold or tuck across the top part of the diamond, turn- ing upwards, so that the top edge is about 6in. from the top point; make a similar fold of the same depth with its top edge about 9in. from the top point. Now turn Serviettes—continued. » under the lower point of the diamond so that it comes within lin. of the top point, forming a kind of backing to the tucked portion, as indicated by the dotted line in Fig. 538. Turn up 1 tin. of the lower edge, proceed to kilt the fan in rather wide folds, then hold the pleats firmly in the left hand whilst you draw down the inner folds of the pleats in each of the two tucks. The It in. fold at the lower edge must all go into a wineglass, and the fan will then stand well if the pleats be evenly and well pressed. Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, shows the complete design. Fig. 539a. Prince.—Fold the napkin in three lengthwise, double the top fold in small pleats backwards and forwards till half-way (Fig. 539a). Turn over the Serviette, and fold the sides into the centre, turn it over again, and fold the top corners to meet in the centre (as in Fig. 539b). This resembles a cocked hat. Take the bottom corners, fold them upwards into the centre, forming a perfect square430 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. (Fig. 539c). Turn the napkin over, and place the bread under the pleats. Roman-This is very like the last. Proceed as directed for the “Every-day” pattern, then turn the folded napkin over, as for the “ Collegian,” fold hack the flap as shown in Fig. 540, and id ace the roll beneath it. Rosebud.—Have the Serviette open on the table, and fold the four corners into the centre so that they overlap each other about 2Jin. Fold the outer points again into the centre, letting them just meet, and then repeat for the third time. Turn the Serviette over, and once more fold the points into the centre; pinch these well together with the left hand and hold them firmly, as this portion forms the short stalk. Carefully bend over the sets of short Serviettes—continued. leaves, and then draw out the longer ones from the inside ; these may be a little caught in the folds held in the left hand, Fig. 542. The Shielb. but the knack of drawing them out is soon acquired. Place in a wineglass, as in Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. St. Patrick’s Cross.—Have a square Serviette open on the table and fold the four corners so that they meet exactly in the centre, turn the table-napkin over, and again fold the four corners carefully to the centre, pressing the folds thoroughly; turn the Serviette over, and, for the third431 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. time, fold the four corners to the centre. Again turn the table-napkin over, and open out the folded corners into an oblong shape, as shown in two of the points in Fig. 541 ; this is the wrong side of the design. When all the corners are opened, turn over the Serviette, and the right side will appear as in Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Fig. 543. Tiie Slipper. Shield.—The Serviette must be folded so that its width is about 8in. ; place it lengthwise on the table, and fold the sides to the middle, as in Fig. 542a. Turn over the Serviette, and fold up the two lower corners (see dotted A lines in Fig. 542a) towards the middle, so as to form nearly a square (Fig. 542b). Fold across the middle, so that A meets B ; take the two corners, C and d, and cross them at the back, tucking the end of one into the fold of the other, and stand up the Serviette as in Fig. 542. Fig. 543b. Slipper.—Fold the Serviette in three, and lay it length- wise before you. Take the left-hand corner and turn it over along the centre; do the same with the other corner (as in Fig. 519a). Turn the Serviette over and fold up the Serviettes—continued. straight ends even with the lower edge of triangle (see Fig 543A). Double over the folded ends to the centre, so that B and C meet at A, and turn the Serviette over so that point A is nearest to you; raise this point as in Fig. 543b and turn it well under to represent Fig. 543. Place the bread so that it raises the toe of the slipper. Swiss.—Fold the table-napkin like a half handkerchief; turn the bottom over to within rather less than a third of the point. Turn this back again to meet the lower edge, as in Fig. 544a. Kilt it in small pleats all one way, but only from the triangle (A A), leaving the two ends plain. Hold the napkin at the back in the left hand, and with the right separate carefully the back pleats from the front ones. When putting the napkin into the glass, insert the rim of the glass between the pleats, and roll the ends away neatly at the back. Tent.—The Serviette must he open on the table; fold it in half, and again in half the reverse way, forming a square; then fold this square in half, bringing the top432 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. points to meet the lower ones, so that only one fold remains at the top. Take the two corners of this top fold and bend them inside between the upper and under portions of the Serviette so as to form a triangle (Fig. 545). Be sure, when bending these folds inside, to keep the top point of the triangle sharp and all the edges even. The dotted lines in the last illustration show where the next fold is to be made. Take the upper portion of the triangle at point A, fold it over at the dotted line, com mencing quite at the point of the triangle, then make a second fold into the middle as in Fig. 546. Double over twice from point B in a similar manner, then turn over the Serviette, and fold the other sides of the triangle in the same way. Double up the projecting points as in dicated by the dotted line in Fig. 546, and stand up the tent as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Tower.—Lay the napkin quite open flat on the table, with one point towards you, or in a diamond shape; Fig. 548. take the lower point, and bring it over so that it comes about lin. below the top point. Double over the bottom edge in four folds, each about 2in. wide (Fig. 547), and crease them down firmly; hold the napkin in your hand by the left-hand corner, and turn it round and round the hand, tucking the other end firmly underneath. Stand it Serviettes—continued. on the table and turn over one of the points as seen in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Tyrolese.—Have the Serviette in the usual three fold lengthwise before you, double the sides into the middle (Fig. 548), fold over the corners A and B to meet on the centre line (Fig. 548a), and turn the Serviette over, having the point towards you ; cross the points C and D, tucking the one into the upper fold of the other. This portion is the back of the design, as shown completed in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Fig. 548a. . Water-lily, No. 1.—'Take a perfectly square, large-sized table- napkin, and fold it so that the four corners meet in the centre; without turning the napkin, again fold the four corners into the centre. Repeat this once more, then care- fully turn the napkin over, and again fold the corners to meet in the centre. Turn the napkin over again, Fig. 549. The Water-lily, No. 1. draw back the first four comers from the centre to form the leaves, stand up the remaining points as petals (see Fig. 549), and place a roll of bread in the centre to support the small points. Water-Lily, No. 2.—To make the more elaborate design, have a square Serviette open on the table, and fold the corners to meet exactly in the centre ; repeat this twice more being particular to flatten all the folds well; then turn over the Serviette, and again fold the corners to the centre. Press these points firmly with the left hand, and with the right hand bring forward at each corner the four points that will be found on the under-side of the Serviette. In making these stand up at the right side do not draw them up at all roughly, and let the forefinger of the left hand keep the inside of each point in place, whilst with the right hand you form the shape of the petal with the point drawn up from underneath. Still hold down the centre whilst you draw up from between the comers the second set of petals from the under-side; these will not stand up very steadily until you bring up the third set again from under the corners, and this third set can be pulled up firmly. So long as the inside point of comer is well held down with the right fore finger these last petals hold the lily in a compact shape, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2.’ ■ <- * i V # ■