Saint Pancras Public Libraries, CAMDEN TOWN BRANCH. 18, CAMDEN STREET, N.W.I. (EUSton 1976). The Lending Library is open from 10 a.m. until 9 p.m. every weekday, except Wednesday, when it closes at 1 p.m. The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of twopence for the first week or portion of a week, and fourpence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday ; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week of such change. Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing to use the Libraries are required to return their tickets to the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible for all liabilities incurred. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden A*m-o books clean, to eaves, or making em. They must done to the books ey will be held (4775/52) H & S, Ltd. 30106023300618Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2153746xMETHUEN’S TEXT-BOOKS OF TECHNOLOGY INSTRUCTION IN COOKERYMETHUEN’S TEXT-BOOKS OF TECHNOLOGY EDITED BY G. F. GOODCHILD, M.A., B.Sc. PRINCIPAL OF THE WANDSWORTH TECHNICAL INSTITUTE AND G. R. MILLS, M.A. GONVILLE AND CAIUS COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER. By E. E. Brooks, B.Sc., Head of the Department of Physics and Electrical Engineering, Leicester Technical School, and W. H. N. James, A.R.C.S., Municipal Technical School, Manchester. With 17 plates and 210 diagrams. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. ENGINEERING WORKSHOP PRACTICE. By C. C. Allen, Head of the Engineering Department, Technical College, Auckland. With 152 illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. By F. C. Webber, Chief Lecturer to the Building | Trades Department, Merchant Venturers’ Technical College, Bristol. With 176 diagrams. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. BUILDERS’ QUANTITIES. By H. C. Grubb, Lecturer in Quantities to the 1 Beckenham Technical Institute. With 76 diagrams. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. REPOUSSE METAL WORK. By A. C. Horth, Instructor to the London County Council. With many diagrams and 8 plates. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF TEXTILE DESIGN. By Aldred F. I Barker, Head of the Textile Department, Bradford Technical College. With many Illustrations and design sheets. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. HOW TO MAKE A DRESS. By J. A. E. Wood. With 45 Illustrations. Fourth i Edition. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. MILLINERY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. By Clare Hill, Instructress to the West Riding County Council and Leeds Education Committees. With many Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 2s. INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY. By A. P. Thompson, Instructress to the London County Council. With 10 illustrations. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. METHUEN’S TEXT-BOOKS OF SCIENCE edited by G. F. GOODCHILD, M.A., B.Sc., and G. R. MILLS, M.A. 1 THE COMPLETE SCHOOL CHEMISTRY. By F. M. Oldham, B.A., Senior Science Master at Dulwich College. With 126 illustrations. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. AN ORGANIC CHEMISTRY FOR SCHOOLS AND TECHNICAL INSTITUTES. By A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc., Head of the Chemical Department, East Ham Technical College. With many illustrations. Crown 8vo. OUTLINES OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY. By George Senter, B.Sc. (Lond.), | Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemistry at St. Mary’s Hospital Medical School. With many diagrams. Crown 8vo. PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. By W. French, M.A., Principal of the Storey I Institute, Lancaster. Part I. With 57 diagrams. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. | is. 6d. Part II. With 56 diagrams. By W. French, M.A., and T. H. Boardman, M.A., Science Master at Christ’s Hospital. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. ELEMENTARY SCIENCE FOR PUPIL TEACHERS. Physics section by W. T. Clough, A.R.C.S. Chemistry Section by A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With many diagrams. Crown 8vo. 2s. | PRACTICAL MECHANICS. By Sidney H. Wells, late Principal of the Battersea Polytechnic. With 75 Illustrations and diagrams. Third Edition, Crown 8vo. EXAMPLES IN ELEMENTARY MECHANICS : Practical, Graphical, and Theoretical. By W. J. Dobbs, M.A., St. John’s College, Cambridge. With 51 diagrams. Crown 8vo. EXAMPLES IN PHYSICS. By C. E. Jackson, B.A., Senior Physics Master, Bradford Grammar School. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. TECHNICAL ARITHMETIC AND GEOMETRY. By C. T. Millis, M.I.M.E., Principal of the Borough Polytechnic Institute. With 195 diagrams. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. PLANT LIFE: Studies in Garden and School. By Horace F. Jones, F.C.S. With 320 diagrams. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.Mra FLETCHER AND RUSSELL’S GAS STOVEINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY BY A. P. THOMPSON INSTRUCTRESS TO THE LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL WITH IO ILLUSTRATIONS / 36 METHUEN & CO. ESSEX STREET W.C. LONDONFirst Published in 1908PREFACE WHAT is the excuse for including the following work in a series on Technology ? This question may be answered by quoting the following passage from the Report of one of the Moseley Commissioners : 4 The term “Technical Education ” has several con- notations ; sometimes the strictly mechanic arts point of view is adhered to, sometimes it1 is understood as that form of education which helps a man to earn a living.’ As a considerable number of women do earn their living by teaching cookery, it is hoped that the follow- ing hints may be of service to them, either during their training or afterwards. During the past five or six years, it has been curious to watch the development of domestic economy teaching. In some quarters science has been regarded as an enemy to practical cookery, whereas practical cookery is enormously improved by a thorough knowledge of scientific principles combined with manual dexterity.VI INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY All teachers should try to study their subject from every side; and the more truly scientific their knowledge is, the sounder their methods of practice are. This little book does not pretend to be a recipe book, but to give a few practical hints on the conduct of classes. Some few recipes are given which I have from time to time collected. Some are from the number of recipes which Miss Peacock, of the Leeds Training-School, has compiled, and this, in itself, will be a guarantee that they are practical. The chapters on Invalid Cookery and Infant-Feed- ing owe a great deal to the book of lectures, published by Dr. Robert Hutchinson, entitled ‘ Food and the Principles of Dietetics.’ Other suggestions in these chapters have been made by Mr. Ralph Thompson, F.R.C.S., M.Ch., Guy’s Hospital, now Surgeon at the Victoria Hospital for Children, Chelsea.vii CONTENTS CHAPTER PAGE I. STOVES : GAS, COAL, OIL GOOD TYPES OF STOVES - I II. BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING 1 SKETCH OF A LESSON ON YEAST AND BAKING-POWDER - 18 III. THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN : CLERICAL WORK, REGISTERS, RECORD BOOKS, NOTE-BOOKS, AND ACCOUNTS 31 IV. THE TEACHING OF THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY - 43 V. ECONOMY IN TEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY - 56 VI. CHEAP PROTEID FOOD OTHER THAN MEAT : SALADS 71 ■ VII. DIET IN DISEASES AND CONVALESCENCE - - 77 VIII. INFANT-FEEDING ------- 94 IX. EVENING CONTINUATION SCHOOLS : DRASTIC METHODS OF CLEANING - 99 X. CONCLUSION I THE COOKERY TEACHER—HER AIMS AND TRAINING I06 APPENDIX - - - - - - - - HO * ”5 INDEXLIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS PAGE FLETCHER AND RUSSELL S GAS HYGIENIC GAS STOVES - FLETCHER AND RUSSELL’S GAS EAGLE RANGE RIPPINGILLE’S OIL STOVE PRIMUS STOVES - PLAN OF COOKERY CENTRE CHOPPING stove - - Frontispiece - 4, 5 stove - Facing page 6 7 12 15, l6 - 37 - 48 VlilINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY i CHAPTER I STOVES STOVES are of first importance in both the practice and teaching of cookery, and it may be well to study in detail the various principles underlying the construction and use of the stoves most generally used. They may be heated by gas, coal, or oil. The question of the kind of stove used in a class must he regulated by the kind most used in the district, and every place worthy of calling itself a cookery school should show at least one of the kind most affected in the locality. In Yorkshire open coal ranges are the rule in a workman’s cottage, but these are awkward for a lecturer to demonstrate from, as apart from the unpleasantness of standing before an open fire, she has also to turn her back to her class. Therefore some sort of portable stove should always be provided as well. GAS STOVES Gas stoves are much less dirty to work than coal stoves, and, at the same time, are both cheaper and cooler, but the coal stove keeps the air purer. Gas2 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY stoves also give the greatest and most varying accom- modation for the greatest number of workers. They can be hired very cheaply from the agents of the local gas companies, but here it may be well to insert a word of caution. These gas agencies very often profess to supply any make of gas stove desired, but they will often press an inferior make or an old stove on anyone they consider ignorant. A student in training should carefully note the various kinds of stoves used in the training schools and in the elementary schools which she may have visited ; if she has carefully observed them, she will find that one large oven is preferable to two small ones. In one elementary school visited by the present writer there was a stove with two small ovens and a gas fire in the middle. These ovens became so fierce that every- thing was burned on the top or bottom, and only one small shelf in the middle was available. As the shelf was only about i foot square, it may be easily seen how much better a large oven would be in which three of the shelves can be used at one time. POINTS OF A GOOD GAS STOVE 1. Oven Tap—-The oven tap is best placed in a different part of the stove from the jets for the top, and it should be stiff and not easily turned. Half the accidents in gas stoves have been due to the fact that the oven tap has been inadvertently turned, and the gas allowed to go on escaping into the oven ; and directly the door is opened the gas on the top lights the volume of gas in the oven, and the unfortunate worker may be terribly injured. 2. Burners—There should be about six rings or jets of varying size on the top, and, if possible, one large3 STOVES burner with a double row of holes, which may be in- verted for grilling, or else a tile of fireproof clay may be used to deflect the heat downwards. The essential points in ensuring a good supply of gas, other than the vagaries of the gas company, are— (1) The operator must see that the air-holes are kept free from grease, flue, and black-lead, as the gas will burn with a yellow flame if these are blocked up. (2) She should also see that the gas-holes are kept free, and no black-lead should be used on these at any time. (3) The pipes should be * blown ’ out occasionally to free them from the deposit of the gas. This last must be done about once a year by a man who understands pipes. If there is a very poor supply of gas, it is well to ' apply to the company. It will be necessary to exercise some judgment in the combination of dishes cooked at the demonstration and in the class, so that the oven and top are never unduly crowded at one time. It is well to notice if any window or door affects the heat of the oven, as the metal sides of a gas oven are quickly cooled by a draught. The use of gas for cookery is largely on the increase in our large towns, and it is not correct to assume that children from even the poorest districts in London are ignorant of its use. Gas stoves are used a great deal in the model dwellings, such as the Peabody Dwellings in London, the ‘penny-in-the-slot ’ system being employed, though this is more expensive in the end. It costs about 2d. to cook a small joint, two vegetables, and a pudding, such as would be required for an artisan’s Sunday dinner—so that there is nothing unsuitable in teaching children to work with gas, 1—24 instruction IN COOKERY5 STOVES Good Stoves—Some of the best stoves in the market are those supplied by the Hygienic Gas Stove Company.6 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY It will be seen from the accompanying illustration that these stoves have a second top oven, which can be heated by the waste heat from the bottom one, or the burners may be deflected downwards and a capital ‘ browning ’ chamber made. The sides are packed with slag wool, which makes it less liable for the heat of the oven to be suddenly reduced by a draught, and the heat is retained longer after the gas is extinguished. All the burners and oven fittings can be removed by any amateur, and so it is easy to clean them. The stoves are very easily taken to pieces for cleaning, and it is not necessary to remove them to the manufac- turer’s for this purpose. If the enamel top of a stove has been very much neglected, it may be quickly cleaned with a little spirits of salt. The oven tap is guarded at the side by a perforated arrangement of metal, in which the fingers have to be inserted to turn it on. Thus nothing can catch in the tap and cause it to be turned on without the knowledge of the operator. An illustration of Fletcher and Russell’s stoves is also given as frontispiece. These stoves are admirable in every way. The oven tap is well at the side. This firm’s stoves have for years been supplied all over England, and most London teachers use them. COAL STOVES Undoubtedly those coal stoves which are not set into the wall, but are placed out in the room, are most convenient for a class. They are very easily transferred from one place to another, and the setting of the flue pipe is almost the only point about which it is necessaryFLETCHER AND RUSSELL’S GAS STOVESTOVES 7 ' to be particular in these stoves. The pipe should not be carried directly out into the air, but should run straight up for about 10 feet in height. If it com- municates with an ordinary chimney, the stove may be placed in front of an open fireplace. The fireplace should be stopped up with a large piece of sheet-iron ; this will prevent any down draught interfering with the proper drawing of the stove.8 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY As long as the flues of these stoves are kept clean, and the above directions observed as to setting, these little stoves are admirable in every way. Some of the best are sold by Smith and Wellstrode, and cost about £5 apiece. In a permanent cookery centre, or room only used for cooking, a fixed stove should always be provided in addition, and of these one of the small Eagle ranges or a small Westminster may be recom- mended. The advantage of the ‘ Eagle ’ range is that the flues are made of iron, and therefore the builder who sets it cannot exercise his individual fancy in making brick- work flues. Many of the varying accounts one hears of ranges are due to defects in setting them, and unless the bricklayer understands his work, the work- ing of the stove, however good it may be, is entirely spoiled. In the £ Eagle’ ranges a great advantage is attained by having two flues for each oven, both directly leading from the fire, and these enable the oven to be heated evenly, either from the top or bottom. In most ranges the heat has to travel round the oven before it reaches the bottom, and a much larger and better fire is required There is no doubt that in many ways these ranges effect an enormous saving in fuel. Flues—There are three possible defects in building flues: 1. The brickwork of the flues may be too small for the amount of flame and smoke which is to be driven up them. Supposing the oven fire smokes, this causes the flues to smoke ; then, if the operator opens another flue door—say, over the boiler—there is not enough9 STOVES draught over the oven for it to be heated, and the heat is deflected on to the boiler. 2. They may be too large, and then it is impossible for the flue door to prevent the flame and smoke driving up. This goes on each side of the door of every flue, and it is impossible to make any special part of the stove hot. 3. The flues may communicate with one another, or leak into one another or the chimney. This causes the heat again to be distributed and so wasted, and may be due to defective masonry. After the stove has been properly set the proper working of the flues is simply a question of their being kept clean; and the fire being carefully stoked. The top of the hot plates and the flue doors should be removed, and the flue-brush, which must be of a suitable size to work freely up and down, should then be inserted. The soot will fall to the bottom, and so will be found underneath the oven and boiler, and this should be very thoroughly raked out. Every teacher should be able to clean her own flues. It is no good for her to assume that flues are clean because she is told so, if the oven is not becoming as hot as it should be from the size of the fire. It is a great pity if the stoves are placed in such a position as to be easily affected by the wind. I have in my mind a certain little stove which will bake any pastry when the wind is in the west or south, but when the north or north-east winds blow it is impossible to cook anything in the oven. If a stove which has burned satisfactorily ceases to work, and the operator knows that the flues are clean, it would be well to have it thoroughly overhauled by an expert to see if any bricks have fallen across theINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY IO flues, or whether they have begun to leak. Sometimes the fire-clay next the oven slips away, and leaves a non-conducting space of air between the fire-heated clay and the oven. Regulation of Heat—If the oven is not provided with a damper, and is becoming hotter and hotter, after the required heat is reached it may be slightly cooled by placing a small tin of water in the oven, and also by using a cool oven sheet, and opening the door slightly and very carefully. The entrance to the flue must have the fire raked away from it. In baking large cakes in an oven liable to burn at the bottom, the cake tin should be placed in a deep baking tin filled with salt. This is a good non-conductor of heat, and will prevent the bottom of the cake being scorched; or tins with a corrugated false bottom may be used, or the tin may be placed on one or two bricks. Rice puddings may be placed in a similar tin containing water. Many ovens are provided with a knob which directs the heat either to the top or bottom. The little venti- lators in the oven door, when open, allow the steam to escape, and assist the oven to brown its contents. When closed they prevent the escape of the steam. If there is anything spilled in the oven, salt is the best thing to put on it, and this will prevent the smell rising to the top of the house. The cleaning of flues is the great drawback to all coal stoves, and unless these are kept very clean, and the top of the oven kept free from ‘ clinkers,’ it will be impossible to work a class satisfactorily with them, and in any case they must be lighted some time before they are needed.STOVES ii TEMPERATURE TABLE The accompanying table shows the heat required for various processes.in cooking: Temperature needed to Bake bread and puff pastry - Fahrenheit. - 340° to 410' Bake small pastry - 32°° Bake small cakes 320° Bake pies to ^0 0 0 Bake meat and big cakes 3I0° Fry white-bait 400° Fry fritters - - 34°° t0 375c Fry meat - 370° to 380' Fry fish - 360° to 375( Boil fast 212° Boil slowly - - 205° to 21o' Simmer ~o 0 0 0 00 M Scald I5°° OIL STOVES These are very excellent for a country class if they are properly managed. They are so portable that where it is impossible to have a gas stove fixed they can be used. There are several good makes. Those made by Rippingille’s Albion Lamp Company, Birmingham, which cost about 52s. 6d., are about the size required for a class, and no doubt they can also be hired. The London depot is 7-8, Stonecutter Street, Farringdon Street, but William Whiteley stocks and sells them, and they can be obtained in most large towns.12 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY THE MANAGEMENT OF STOVES The following directions and remarks apply to every oil stove: Cleaning—Place the stove on the table or some- where where it will be level. Take out the container and remove the wick; wash and dry the burner; un- screw the stopper, nearly fill with oil, and replace the wick; brush out the flues and the oven. Trimming the Wick—If the wick is charred rub it level with a piece of paper. See that it is level, and has no ragged edges; if not, the lamp will smoke and emit clouds of soot. To do this turn the wick nearlySTOVES T3 level with the top of the wick tube. A wick exactly the same size as the tube must always be used. All wicks should be carefully dried before use, and allowed to be thoroughly saturated with oil before being lighted. In putting in a new wick, cut it level with a pair of good scissors, push it carefully into the winders, and turn it then into position. Lighting the Stove—Draw out the oil container, turn up the wick, and light with a taper (not with paper); turn the wick down until nearly out; see that the whole of it is lighted; slide the container gently back into its proper position; then turn up the flame very gradually till it is as high as necessary—never more than £ inch. Extinguishing the Stove—Turn down the flame, draw out the container, and blow out across the flame. When not in use, the wick should be turned below the level of the tube, as this will prevent the oil from spreading over the tank. All petroleum oil has a tendency to creep, and it is necessary to wipe the tanks over with soft paper occasionally. If dampers are provided, they can be used to intensify the heat for the oven alone. In some poor parts of London, such as Plaistow, small inexpensive Sunrise stoves are used exclusively for cooking. Small detachable ovens are also used to fit over these. Oil Used—Petroleum is in its crude state a thick brown fluid, and principally comes from America, though Eastern Russia is found to be rich in mineral oil. It is now refined and purified to such an extent that much of the most inflammable part of it is dis- tilled away. These products include petrol, benzoline, naphtha, and their terrible inflammability is too wellINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY H known to need description. It is safe to infer that the cheaper oils are more dangerous than the expensive, but no oil with a lower flash-point than ioo° F. is allowed to be sold as lamp oil for burning purposes, though— and it seems a contradiction—naphtha is used for little hand lamps. The refined oil or petroleum, after these processes, is a safe article to be kept in the house. The best known are rock oil, crystal oil, and kerosene, and the best and safest makes are Alexandra Oil, Stranze’s A i Crystal, Pratt’s Astral, Royal Daylight, and White Rose Oil. These are all of much higher flash-point than the Government standard, and are cleaner and more economical in use than those of lower grades. The estimated cost of each burner of such a stove as is described above is about five-sixths of a penny an hour. In many of the big stoves the waste heat is utilized in heating a tubular boiler, which costs about £i extra. This is of great use for washing up in a class-room, where there is probably no hot water laid on. There is on the market an oil stove which is wickless. It is largely used in the open air, and for expeditions such as Nansen’s. It is of Norwegian origin, and is called the Primus stove; many large ironmongers stock it. This stove does not consume oil, but the vapour of oil mixed with air. The result is a blue smokeless flame, intensely hot. The principle of this stove is as follows : A container (b) filled with paraffin is fitted with a pump {a). By means of this pump the paraffin oil is forced into the tubular part, here indicated (c). The tubular part stands in a cup over which a littleSTOVES 15 methylated spirit is poured. This heats the paraffin to the point of giving off gas. This gas ignites at the point D, and unites with the atmospheric air, and a big rose jet bursts into flame at the top. The methylated spirit, being exhausted, goes out, and the heat generated by the flame now ignited continues to supply the necessary heat for the production of the gas. The pump at a has to be worked occasionally, and the more it is worked the hotter the flame. This stove has been supplied with an oven, and it is one of the quickest boiling stoves in the market. Some people consider the smell of the gas as rather a draw- back to indoor use. Another excellent make of oil stove with a blue flameINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY i6 is that called the Perfection oil stove. The oven, which is detachable, is heated by two large lamps with round wicks about 2 inches in circumference, allowing a free passage of air up the centre. This makes the flame as hot as a Bunsen flame is. It is consequently better than an ordinary flame, and much cleaner, and can be used for baking quite large batches of bread or cakes. A GRILLER FOR USE WITH A PRIMUS STOVE A chapter on stoves would not be quite complete without some mention of the Norwegian or Swiss ideaSTOVES 1 oil stove and coal stove (portable). J7 of a cooking-box. This may be made from a large deal soap-box packed closely with hay or some non- conducting material, as asbestos or slag-wool. Into this a saucepan or jar is introduced, covered very closely, and the top covered with hay. Previous to this the contents should have been boiling fast for quite 5 minutes, so that the whole of the contents when placed in the box are throughout at a temperature of 2120 F. This may be left for 10 or 12 hours in the box, and at the expiration of this time the contents will be perfectly cooked. It is an admirable way of doing stews or soups, and would be a great boon if introduced into working-class homes, as no fire is needed, and no attention required. The lid should not be removed until the food is required to be taken out. It would also be a good way of making f stock ’ during the night, or of cooking food in a camp or hut. EQUIPMENT FOR COOKERY CENTRE In fitting a permanent centre, the full equipment for a class of 18 children would be— 1 good coal stove, 1 large gas stove. If in a district where no gas is obtainable, a small portable coal stove set into the room and a coal range of local pattern. In a room fitted temporarily, either 1 gas stove and 1 coal stove (portable); or,18 CHAPTER II BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING WHENEVER a young or inexperienced teacher looks through a syllabus, she always seems to me to4 shy ’ at the bread lesson, unless she comes from one of the training schools in a district where bread-making is a home industry, such as it is in York- shire. It really is an easy lesson to give if a little methodical preparation is given beforehand, and the children are very keenly interested in it. Yeast—The best German yeast must be used. In London this must be ordered at the baker’s the day before, as the retail demand for this is so irregular. For every 3J lb. of flour, or 1 quartern, allow 1 oz. of yeast if made separately; but 2 oz. will raise more than 2 quarterns satisfactorily. Method—The best way is for the teacher, immedi- ately she comes, to put the flour and basins down to warm, have the kettle boiling, and see that the children wash their hands and arms scrupulously clean and put on their aprons and sleeves. She should try, if possible, to get them to come a little earlier on bread days. After calling the register, the teacher goes to her demonstration table and washes her hands before them. My readers may think that I am unnecessarily emphasizing the fact of clean hands,BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING i9 but they need only look at the dough after the children have kneaded to wonder where the dirt came from. The teacher should next make up 1 lb. of warmed flour, with \ oz. yeast and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and about J pint of warm water. (See recipe at the end of the chapter.) After demonstrating clearly that lukewarm water is blood-heat or comfortably warm water, and showing how it is made with 1 part of boiling and 2 parts of cold, it is well to let them test it with their fingers. The yeast should be mixed with a little sugar and liquefied, and allowed to ‘ sponge ’ for a few minutes. Then mix this with the flour after sprinkling with salt, knead well till quite smooth, and allow to rise for 1 hour in a warm place. After a further inspection of the children’s hands they may be allowed to stand round the table while two monitors give out the warm bowls and 6 table- spoonfuls of flour (6 oz.) to each child. The yeast is portioned out to each child, allowing a proper fraction of the amount given in the recipe. They are then allowed to mix it with a little sugar and lukewarm water, and proceed as above, mixing with a wooden spoon or fingers; but the teacher must be very careful not to allow them to make it too moist. After that they must knead it. Then half the class place their portions together in one bowl, and half in the other. Two girls at a time in turn knead the larger quantity; the rest of the class may be employed in washing the basins and some other light work, such as peeling potatoes, etc. Some children have very little idea of kneading, and so it will be necessary to give them a thorough practice in this very 2—2INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 20 necessary accomplishment. The quantity (6 oz.) may to the inexperienced seem as bad as the teaching of roast- ing by using mutton chops, but it must be remembered in a class of 18 children (allowing two monitors) at least 48 oz. or 3 lb., nearly a quartern, of flour is kneaded by each child when the dough is put together. A quartern will make four good-sized loaves, a very usual baking for a small family. In consequent revisions a quartern may be mixed by the child, and that is the limit any child of twelve can knead. Tea-cakes are more difficult than bread, as they are mixed moister, and therefore are not so easy for a beginner to handle. I have always found it easier for them to knead it at the board, picking up the dough with the tips of their fingers and pounding it with their closed fists. When quite smooth the bread may be put to rise in a warm place—the top of the gas stove when the oven only is lighted is very good, or in front of a coal stove with a screen round, or even on the top of a steamer with the water simmering very gently underneath ; but the heat must be even and steady, or the bread will not rise to time, and it is always important in a bread lesson to waste no time. This will make the dough begin to rise, but great care must be taken not to apply too great heat to the bottom, as this will cook the dough and practically make it useless. It is absolutely necessary to let the dough rise well for at least 1 hour, as, if not, it rises after shaping too much. Whilst the children’s dough is rising, the teacher may shape her own loaves. It would be well to show the children how to make the ordinary tin loaf a good shape. The tin should be warmed and greased* and a piece of dough should be selected to half fill it,BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING 21 kneaded lightly, and then grasped firmly with both the hands and rolled backwards and forwards till quite smooth on the under side. It should then be placed in the tin upside down, lightly pressed with the knuckles into the corners, pricked three or four times with a fork, and put to rise for io minutes in a warm place. A very good substitute for a tin is a i-lb. stone jam jar, warmed and greased, which has the advantage of taking up very little room on the baking-sheet, and also of making a very nice crust. The loaf bakes in a round cake shape, and it is a good shape for using for cut bread and butter or sand- wiches, if the bottom is cut first. The shaping of the cottage and Coburg loaves is not so difficult, but it is well to be careful in the very light handling of these as compared with the previous process of kneading. After the teacher has shaped her loaves and put them to rise, the children may be employed in scullery work or other cooking until their dough is sufficiently light to shape ; they also should write the bread recipe in their books. The teacher may put her bread now to bake in a hot oven, and explain clearly that the heat must be lowered after the first io minutes. Then comes the dividing of the dough for the children’s loaves. Cut it up into as many pieces as there are children. By this time it will be doubled in bulk, so there ought to be about enough for two loaves for each child, and one may be a Coburg and the other a tin loaf or baked in a jam jar. If there is not enough, half the class might make one kind and half the other. These may then be put to rise, and the boards and tables scrubbed. The monitors must now be responsible for baking the bread. The class should be made to understand thatINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 22 the oven must be much hotter for a large quantity than for a small quantity, and that it is well sometimes to move the bread about. The teacher’s bread ought to be baked before the children’s goes into the oven. The best way to'test it is to tap it, and if it sounds hollow, it is well baked. It should be put in a sieve to cool, and if a shiny appearance is liked, the loaves may be brushed over with a little warm milk while still hot. In order to ensure a thorough practical knowledge of bread-making, it is well for a second lesson to follow the above lesson the next time the class meets, and then in any sub- sequent lesson to allow two girls to make about i lb. each until all the class have practised. The second lesson may be managed as follows: Prepare warm flour, water, etc., as before. Directly the children have washed their hands, the warm bowls and flour should be portioned out, the yeast should be prepared and mixed with lukewarm water, and the bread ‘ sponged ’ and mixed. Then it may be kneaded as before, and put to rise. During the rising the following sketch of a lesson on yeast and baking-powder may be worked, and the children thus taught some of the practical properties of yeast or its substitutes. SUMMARY OF TIME SPENT IN A THREE- HOURS LESSON (9 to 12 o’clock) 5 minutes (9 to 9.5) : Register and washing hands. 15 minutes (9.10 to 9.25) : Teacher prepares, kneads her own bread, and puts to rise 1 hour. 1 hour (9.25 to 10.25) • Children mix and knead theirBREAD AND BREAD-MAKING 23 bread and put it to rise, cook other things, recess and write notes. 35 minutes (10.25 to 11) : Teacher shapes her loaves and puts them to rise 10 minutes, more cooking for children, and baking of teacher’s loaves. 15 minutes (n to 11.15): Children shape their loaves, finish notes, and begin scullery work. 15 minutes (11.30): Loaves put in the oven. 30 minutes (12): Taken out and put on sieve. SKETCH OF LESSON ON YEAST AND BAKING- POWDER (This may he inserted before the actual bread-making is given) Action of Yeast—Yeast is a very small plant, the cells of which float in the air, and will fasten itself on to anything on which it can feed and multiply. It grows rapidly on beer as brewers’ yeast, and on hollands as German yeast. It splits most sugary substances into gas and alcohol. When kept at blood- heat the gas causes bubbles. It is these bubbles which work in the dough of bread and make it light. The dough does not go on increasing in bulk in the oven, because the great heat kills the yeast plant; cold numbs it, and renders it useless. Baking-powder—Baking-powder is composed of a dry acid powder and a dry alkali powder mixed with cornflower, to separate the particles and spread it more evenly in the substance to be raised. When mixed with water or any liquid it fizzes up. Carbonate of soda and tartaric acid are used, as they are almost tasteless when mixed. Butter-milk and soda have a similar action. Self-raising flour is merely flour mixed with dry baking-powder.INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 24 Leaven—This has been in use since the time of Moses. Leaven is dough which has not been baked, and in which yeast plants have fixed themselves. It has a sour taste, owing to the formation of acids. Aerated Bread—This is simply bread made from dough into which gas has been pumped, as it is in the manufacture of aerated waters. Note for Teacher—This lesson must be illustrated by showing yeast, and mixing it into sugar and warm water. Point out the gas bubbles after it has stood. Again, various acids and alkalis may be mixed, and a bottle of soda-water may be shown, with an explana- tion of the bubbles, and how they got there. Bread—i oz. German yeast, i teaspoonful salt, 3J lb. flour, about if pints lukewarm water. Warm a bowl and put the flour into it. Add about i teaspoonful of sugar to the yeast, mix them well together with a wooden spoon, now pour on to this about J pint of lukewarm water, make a hole in the middle of the flour, pour the yeast and water into it, stir a small quantity of the flour into this, sprinkle some salt round the edge so as not to touch the yeast, and allow to rise covered up with a cloth in a warm place for about 20 minutes. Then knead up with more warm water, making a stiff dough, knead until smooth, then allow to rise again for about an hour, keeping it warm and covered up the whole time. Next make into loaves, and place in warm and greased tins. Let the loaves rise for about 15 minutes, then bake in a quick oven at first, and afterwards not so hot. If this quantity of dough is made into three loaves, they should take about an hour each. Brown Bread—1 lb. whole meal, 1 small teaspoonful salt, j oz. yeast, lukewarm milk and water.BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING 25 Place the flour in a warm bowl, mix the yeast with a little moist sugar until liquid, pour a teacupful of warm water on to it, and pour it into the centre of the flour, stirring a little flour in with it. Let it rise for 15 minutes. Sprinkle the salt round, and knead with lukewarm water and milk to a stiff batter. Beat well, then let it rise in a warm place for an hour. Put it into warm greased tins. Allow to rise for a few minutes. Then bake in moderate oven according to the size of the loaf. Yorkshire Tea-cakes—Ingredients: 1 lb. flour, 2 oz. lard, J oz. yeast (good weight), 2 oz. moist sugar, 2 oz. currants, 1 small teaspoonful salt, lukewarm milk. Method—Warm a bowl and put the flour into it, rub in the lard with the hands. Mix the yeast with a little sugar, and when liquid add J teacupful of luke- warm water, then a little milk (lukewarm), and pour this into the middle of the flour; sprinkle the salt round the edges, and allow to rise 15 minutes in a warm place. Now knead up with more warm milk to a rather lighter dough than bread. Let it rise for an hour, knead in the currants (cleaned) and the sugar (both of these should be slightly warmed), and let it stand again to dissolve the sugar. Make into tea-cakes, roll out slightly, place on a greased and warmed tin, allow to rise well in front of the fire, then bake in a quick oven 12 to 15 minutes. A loaf made from 1 lb. of flour should take about ij hours to bake. Points in Making and Baking Bread—Warm basins and flour. Do not mix too moist. Use lukewarm water. Knead till quite smooth. Allow to rise in a gentle heat till three times the bulk. Shape into loaves. Half26 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY fill the tins. Allow these to rise well for 15 minutes. Bake in a very hot oven. Lower the heat after the first few minutes. Brush over with milk. Turn the loaves on end to allow the steam to escape. A lesson on bread-making is hardly complete without some mention of flour and its quality. A grain of wheat can be divided into six parts— 1. The outer skin. 5. The glutin or flesh- 2. The middle skin. forming cells. 3. The inner skin. 6. Starch cells. 4. The germ. Flour is sold as Vienna, household, and brown flour— Pastry white or Vienna flour contains 5 and 6. Household flour contains 4, 5, and 6. Brown contains some of all six. The germ is very rich in fat and flesh-forming food, and should, if possible, be preserved as an article of food. There are two ways of grinding the flour, either between roller or stones. The latter produces a nicer and more digestible flour, but it is not so white. Bread made from this stone-ground flour is largely sold in the London shops, and recommended by doctors under the name of Farm-house Bread. This flour can be obtained direct from Jackson Bros., Nowell Mills, Newark, and costs 15s. 6d. per 10 pecks or stone, carriage paid, which is not expensive. In the modern makes of flour everything is sacrificed towards getting the flour a good colour, and though this may be essential for good pastry, it is not so good or digestible for bread.27 BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING Adulterations of flour are not so common as they were, but adulteration in bread still continues to be used. Amongst the working classes the one thing they like is very white bread, and this is often produced by the use of alum and the substitution of potato pulp for the best flour. The use of alum may be detected by sticking a hot knife into the loaf, which comes out covered with a stringy fibre if alum has been used. Flour should not be sticky to the touch ; if so, it is too new. It should not be kept in a damp place, for this will give a musty flavour to the bread. Scale of Weights for Flour—1 pint = 14 oz. flour ; 1 quartern = 2 pints or \ quartern ; 1 quartern = J of a stone = 3! lb. (and makes a loaf weighing 4 lb. 6 oz., the regulation quartern loaf); 1 stone or peck (14 lb.) makes about 17 or 18 lb. of bread. Substitutes for Yeast—Cookery teachers are often asked what can be used as a substitute for yeast in countries where it is difficult to procure and keep yeast. In Canada a patent compressed yeast is used, and there are also yeast powders to be obtained from many grocers. People get very tired of soda bread and baking-powder bread, and the following recipe is quiet satisfactory: Mash 2 ripe bananas or plantins with 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, J oz. flour, and \ pint tepid water. Mix well in a warm place, and expose to warm air for a few minutes. Bottle tightly in a ginger-beer bottle, and let it stand for 48 hours in a rather warm place. Use this quantity for about 1 quartern of flour, and strain it carefully into the centre of the flour. There is another made of 2 boiled and mashed potatoes, but this is apt to turn the bread a bad colour.28 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY It is done as above, but a few hops are added. All these methods are really only of use to start the dough. It is much better, having begun the fermentation of the flour in this way, to keep back about 2 tablespoonfuls of the dough, and then place this in a wide-necked bottle with a screw top, with sugar and warm water, to make the dough quite thin again, and leave this covered up in a warm place all night. Place this in the middle of the flour and knead it in the ordinary way. Allow it to rise till nearly three times the bulk of the flour. The quantity needed must be regulated by experience. It is much affected by the temperature of a climate like India, for instance, less being required in warm weather than in cold. A good reliable baking-powder is made as follows: 8 02. of flour, 4 oz. tartaric acid, 4 oz. cream of tartar, 6 oz. carbonate of soda. Sieve this and store in a dry tin. Soda Bread, etc.—Use J pint of butter-milk or sour milk, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix this into the flour until it is the consistency of dough. In a previous paragraph I alluded to the substitution of potatoes for flour in bread. This is a fraud if it is proved that the bread was sold as made with flour, but in a household where a large number of potatoes have been cooked, it would be a good and economical way of using them up to work them into the bread next day; but it must be remembered that, if it is desired to have them light and floury, they must be sieved immediately after cooking, before being allowed to get cold, and many kinds of potatoes become sticky and glutinous if mashed when cold.29 BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING Method—About 3 lb. of potatoes should be mashed for 1 stone of flour, or you may use 1 lb. to 1 quartern. A smaller quantity of yeast (§ oz. to 1 quartern) is liquefied and mixed with tepid water and the potato pulp, and then poured into a hole in the middle of the flour. Allow to ‘ sponge ’ for 1 hour, then knead up, let it rise for 2 hours, and shape into loaves; let them rise, and bake in a hot oven for 1 or 2 hours, according to size. It will be seen that this would be too long for a lesson, but a potato, boiled and mashed, may be added to most doughs. Tests for Oven for Bread—Put a piece of jwhite paper on the oven shelf. If this turns a pale fawn colour in 2 or 3 minutes, the oven is right for bread— about 350° F. Some say 410° F. when it is put in, but this is too hot. A brick oven is best of all, and there are no loaves so nice as those baked in one. Recipe for the York Brown Bread—Into a quartern measure put: 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful salt, 3 oz. of yeast, 2 tablespoonfuls treacle (dark brown), 4 tablespoonfuls melted lard or butter. Fill the measure up with lukewarm water. Add then 3 quarts of wholewheat flour; knead very well, and allow to rise 2 or 3 hours in a warm place. Shape into loaves, and place in warmed and greased tins. About half fill these, and allow to rise for another J-hour. Bake in a hot oven, but be careful not to burn, as, owing to the treacle, the bread is apt to catch. In this chapter I have advocated the mixing of 6 oz. of flour and a small portion of yeast by the children. This is only in first lesson. When more30 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY experienced, they can then in subsequent lessons be allowed to practise in twos and threes the mixing of the large quantity as well. I have given the information on flour, yeast, and substitutes for yeast, so that at any time it can be detached and given as a separate or complementary lesson.31 CHAPTER III THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN UNDER some education authorities a teacher is allowed to draw up her own syllabus, and in the hands of a skilful and sympathetic teacher this is a privilege which cannot be too highly valued. It is not possible to give a model syllabus which will exactly meet the requirements of every child in the many schools in the country. The age of the pupils, the length of the course, the number of courses possible during the school-life of the child, and the length of the lessons, must be taken carefully into consideration. The keynote of the best syllabus is always the needs of the neighbourhood, and is based on the probable income of the parents of the children attending the class. In London a skeleton syllabus has been drawn up based on the incomes and figures supplied in Charles Booth’s ‘ Life and Labour of the Peopled This gives the three standards as £2 10s., £1 18s., and £1 8s., and the families are supposed to include father and mother and four children.INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 32 SPECIMEN WEEKLY BUDGETS Weekly Budget “A” (Income per Week, ^2 10s.) £ s. d. Rent ------ 0 IO 6 Fuel and light - - - - 0 2 6 Food ------ 1 2 6 Father’s pocket money and travel- ling expenses - 0 3 6 Insurance, etc. - 0 2 6 Clothing 0 3 6 Cleaning materials - 0 1 0 Reserve fund - - - - 0 4 0 Number in family, 6. 10 0 Weekly Budget “B” (Income per Week, £1 18s.) £ s. d. Rent ------ 0 8 0 Fuel and light - - - - 0 2 0 Food Father’s pocket money and travel- 0 19 0 ling expenses - 0 2 6 Insurance, etc. - 0 2 0 Clothing - 0 2 6 Cleaning materials - 0 0 6 Reserve fund - 0 1 6 Number in family, 6. £1 18 0 Weekly Budget “ C ” (Income per Week, £1 £ s. d. Rent 0 6 O Fuel and light - 0 2 _ 0 Food ------ Father’s pocket money and travel- 0 12 0 ling expenses - 0 2 6 Insurance, etc. - 0 2 0 Clothing ------ 0 2 0 Cleaning materials - 0 0 6 Reserve fund - - - - - 0 1 0 N umber in family, 6. £1 8 0THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN 33 Supposing a teacher were teaching cookery in London, she could ascertain a good deal of the needs of her neighbourhood from the caretakers or women employed to clean, and a good deal more from a talk with the head mistresses of the girls she teaches. I think the homes in some districts in London will come as a shock to many who are new to the Metropolis. The 5s. a week * scullery cottages,’ so plentiful in the great manufacturing towns of the North, are wholly conspicuous by their absence in London. It may easily be seen, then, that rent is a very important feature in deciding on which of these budgets a teacher should base her lessons. It will not be enough to assume that because a man is earning £i 18s. a week the second budget would apply in all cases. He might be obliged to pay very heavy rent in the particular neighbourhood, and this would reduce the amount available for food, and consequently the dishes taught ought to be cheaper. The best skeleton syllabus is one which gives a practical demonstration (short for preference) in a certain process of cookery, followed by a practice lesson, which will enable the pupils easily to prepare and make the same dish themselves. In the provinces the girls leave school at thirteen, and the limit of fourteen has not been yet extended to these poor children who thus become wage-earners at an earlier age than in London. The children in the provinces will, therefore, probably not get a second and third course, and more has to be compressed into the first. Even now in London refusal of the Board of Education to pay grant on girls under eleven years of age will make the chances very small of a third course being given in cookery. 334 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY SKELETON SYLLABUS c{ 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- 10. 11. 12. T3- x4- 15- 16. x7* 18. 19. 20. Cleaning the various utensils used in a kitchen. Baking milk puddings, management of stoves. „ meat and Yorkshire puddings. ,, fish. ,, cakes. „ pastry. ,, —revision of pastry lesson. ,, bread. ,, —revision of bread lesson. Boiling vegetables. „ fish, sauce, potatoes. „ meat and dumplings and roots. „ suet crust and roly-poly and meat pud- dings. ,, —revision of suet crust. Steaming. Stewing (white)—Irish stew. „ (brown)—Haricot mutton. Frying (shallow) Pancakes. j) )j „ (deep) Potato balls and fish-cakes. jj >> >> Either the baking or boiling section might be taken first, as this makes it less monotonous for the teacher. This provides twenty lessons. In classes where three courses — one cookery, one laundry, and one household management class—are taken in a year, it would not be possible to go beyond the fifteenth lesson. In that case the second course should begin with stewing, and the revision should include all processes taught in the first course. They should, however, be illustrated in the practice lesson by dinners and teas, which gives the children practice in cooking to time.THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN 35 In the third course a few lessons should be devoted to invalid cooking, and suitable appliances likely to be able to be improvised, and also to the preparation of infants’ food. The cooking of dinners for a given number may be made a very valuable part of the instruction. The child’s mind will then associate a certain quantity of food with a certain number of people, and a certain amount of time for cooking that food. She will see also the order in which dinners should be cooked, as some things take longer than others, and some dishes are spoiled by being kept hot. In the afternoon classes a meal such as ‘ high ’ tea or supper should be cooked, and instead of the potatoes and greens cooked in the morning, the children might learn how to make various wholesome beverages, and scones and cakes. The proper making of tea and coffee, which is so unusual an accomplishment, might be taught, and useful hints given of the pernicious effect of tea which has been stewed too long. APPENDIX TO CHAPTER III BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT It has been suggested to me that it might be valuable to give the dimensions and equipment of a centre in this book. Few teachers are happy enough to design and equip their own building. Few cooking centres that I have seen come up to my ideas as far as the architect’s designs are concerned, though in London it is a teacher’s own fault if the centre is not properly equipped. The plan given comprises the kitchen, children’s 3—2INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 36 cloak-room, small teacher’s room and lavatory, a gallery for the children’s desks, and one cupboard in the wall, one coal stove, and a gas stove to the left of the demonstration table. There are also four other tables with a second shelf about a foot from the ground. These are much better than fixed counters, as they can be moved for cleaning. The building shown in the plan is larger than most cookery centres in the Metropolis, but is about the size of the laundry centres, which are, as a rule, larger than the cookery centres. Apart from its size, it has a teacher’s room and lavatory leading off the main room, which, if they were adopted as an essential part of every cookery centre, would add enormously to the teacher’s comfort and health. Again, if the centre is. built in the playground of a school, it must be placed sufficiently far from the offices provided for the children. (See diagram, p. 37.) EQUIPMENT Furniture 5 tables 6 feet long. 1 small table for writing. Desks to seat eighteen. Blackboard. 3 chairs. 1 towel-horse. Sitting-room furniture for teacher’s room. 3 cupboards. Crockery (T0 be renewed once a year) Tea-set — cups, saucers, tea-pot, milk jug. 1 bread pan. 8 hotpot dishes. OF CENTRE 3 small glass dishes. 6 small meat dishes. 2 large meat dishes. 18 mixing basins. 4 large mixing basins. 6 half-pint pie dishes. 2 one-pint pie dishes. 12 gill pie dishes. 12 dinner plates. 12 soup plates. 12 pudding plates. 12 cheese plates. 12 gill pudding basins. 6 half-pint pudding basins. 12 stone covered jars (for stores). 3 tumblers. 2 vegetable dishes.THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN 37 “ I sink r— CyPSOAftO I II CLOAK MOM lavatory OOOBlIII ■ ■ Teachers Room 1 . 1 G-allE rV r 1 GAS STOVE | table | I TABLE | UJ (u _I -J 05 m < < y- K W UJ _j -1 CD < y- (- TABLE CUPBOARD COAL STOVE LARDER38 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 1 tureen. 2 moulds. 6 white jugs. Ironmongery 6 baking plates (to fit oven). 3 baking tins. 2 bread graters. 4 cake tins. 2 dozen small cake tins. 2 colanders. 6 cook’s knives, i corkscrew. 6 dessert spoons, i dustpan. 1 Dutch oven. 2 fish kettles and steamers (large size). 1 fish still. 2 flour dredgers, i flue brush. 3 small frying pans. 1 large frying pan. 2 gravy strainers. 1 housemaid’s box. 2 sets of measures, i meat chopper. i hook, i saw. 3 meat stands. 4 pails (large), i pepper box. 6 plate covers (according to number of dinners sent out). I preserving pan. 18 root knives. 6 pint saucepans (3 enam- elled). 6 two-pint saucepans (3 enamelled). 4 eight-pint saucepans. Scales. Scissors. 3 wire sieves. 1 hair sieve. 2 sets of skewers. 1 spice box. 6 dessert spoons. 2 stewpans. 12 table knives. 12 table spoons. 12 tea spoons. 6 tin plates. 1 toasting fork. 6 iron pan stands. 3 trays. Dusters, tea cloths, glass cloths, house flannels, chamois leather, brushes (scrubbing, black-lead), brooms and banister brushes, pastry brushes, and wooden spoons. 2 flour tubs. 18 pastry boards. 6 oven boards. 18 rolling pins. 1 knife board. 1 salt box. Pens, exercise books, blotting paper, ink, and paper as required.THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN 39 CLERICAL WORK Registers—As these are the documents upon which depend the money paid by the State for the main- tenance of cookery classes, it is absolutely necessary that they should be accurately kept and punctually marked. The Board of Education requires every register to be marked in ink at the moment the class meets, and to be closed half an hour afterwards, accurately totalled and initialled by the teacher taking the class. Every pupil who arrives punctually receives a red mark. Every child who arrives less than half an hour late receives a black mark, and any child arriving after this is marked with an 4 0/ as though not present. Half an hour is deducted for every black mark in the child’s total number of attendances. Let no teacher be induced to accept any excuses for unpunctuality, or give a red mark when the pupil is late. The quickest way of totalling registers if hours and fractions of hours have to be reckoned is always to employ decimals, and to make out a simple table of these, as a ready reckoner. Supposing the duration of a class is 2J hours, or 2*5, the table would run as follows: and so on, deducting half an hour, or 0*5 of an hour, for every late attendance. If, as used sometimes to happen, 2f hours has to be reckoned, 1 attendance = 2*5 hours 2 attendances =5 ,, 3 >> = 7 5 ” 4 >> = 10 » 1 attendance 2 attendances 3 275 hoursINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 40 This may seem absurdly obvious, but it is wonderful what a number of cookery teachers spend hours over registers for lack of such a table, which can, by the way, be purchased at any stationer’s. The entries are made at the same time on a special sheet register, to be kept in the cookery teacher’s charge, and in a roll-book for the convenience of the school egister. The names should be entered in alphabetical order, with the age and standard next to the name. The Board of Education are becoming very particular about age, and therefore, if an inspectress was unable to see the ages of the children at a glance, she might withdraw the grant. Registers should be kept under lock and key. RECORD BOOKS These are books kept to show the lessons given and the work done by the pupils’ own hands. They are of great value as books of reference, for both inspectors and teachers, and essential in cases where the regular teacher is absent. Lesson. Date. Name of Class. J. Smith. CO bo bo l—I I M. Jones, j Cleaning - Revision - / / ' / / / / Boiling greens - / / / Revision - / Boiling meat - / / / Revision -41 THE SYLLABUS FOR CHILDREN The second line for revision need not be dated* Thus, the second lesson there would be revision of cleaning, which would be marked opposite cleaning, though not given on that day. Conduct marks may be given below this at each lesson, and these are useful, too, as a check on the children. If record books are kept faithfully, they will prevent one child always doing the same revision; but they must always be marked at the end of the lesson. NOTE-BOOKS Authorities differ as to the time devoted to these. Personally I incline to the theory that it is of value to a child, both educationally and practically, to write a clear synopsis of the chief parts of lesson in a note-book which she shall be allowed to preserve, and I think it is a good thing to have the children seated with their hands and eyes properly employed for a short time during the morning. I think the mere copying of recipes is of no use to anyone unless the greatest regard is paid to price and time of cooking; but the points which make for success in the various processes of cooking are very important. ACCOUNTS The simplest form of accounts is one which shows the money taken and spent each week at a glance (see next page). Separate vouchers or order sheets or books should be kept, and should be totalled each day, and entered at the end of the week in the account book. The money taken for sale of food should be entered daily. Some authorities advance money, and this should be entered, too, on the receipts side.42 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY {Left-hand page). Receipts from Sale of Food. Week ending— l 8 15 22 29 Total. Monday £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. Tuesday - Wednesday Thursday - Friday Money advanced or in hand | Total - | 1 {Right-hand page). Expenditure. Week ending— l 8 15 22 29 Total. Butcher i £ s. d. £ s. d. £ Is. d. ! £' ' r d. £ s. d. £ s. d. Baker Grocer — — Milkman - Greengrocer Sundries - Total -43 CHAPTER IV THE TEACHING OF THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY principal processes of cookery with which a j! teacher of children is concerned are— 1. Baking (or roasting). 3. Stewing. 2. Boiling and steaming. 4. Frying. 5. Grilling. Baking—The great difficulty experienced by all teachers of cooking is that it is not easy to make children personally responsible for the management of the oven, a thorough knowledge of the exact heat required having more to do with successful baking than anything else. The first example of a baking lesson is generally the making and baking of a milk pudding. In this lesson it is well to impress on the children’s minds the proper proportion of 2 oz. of starchy food to 1 pint of milk. The time spent on weighing and measuring the exact amounts, and showing them i-pint mugs, i-pint and J-pint pie dishes, is not wasted—for how many adults are absolutely sure of the quantities required for milk puddings ? They may also be shown such homely measures as tablespoons and cups. I well44 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY remember a small boy trotting by my side to school, who, being asked what he would like for dinner, said: ‘ Well, miss, I should like a nice milky rice pudding, not too sweet.’ That was a perfect description of what it should be. It is very difficult to get a perfect result into any pudding smaller'than a |-pint, but J-pint dishes are supplied by some authorities. Tapioca, if soaked all night, is very good for these small ones, as they are not so liable to dry up in the time required for cooking them. Semolina and barley are also the better for being cooked in a saucepan first; the latter may be ‘ creed ’ in water to make it soft, and then cooked in milk. Slow, long cooking is the keynote for all milk puddings. If the oven has browned the tops of the puddings before the inside is cooked, it is a good way to remove them from the oven and stand them in a tin of water on the top of the stove. They will thus go on cooking without any fear of being burnt. The next lesson after the milk-pudding lesson may be devoted to the making and baking of Yorkshire puddings and baked potatoes. The cooking of a joint may be demonstrated at this lesson, but it is difficult for every child to get real practice on such small pieces for roasting as are generally supplied, and steak, stuffed hearts, and stuffed steak may be used; but these give very little practice for large joints, so by far the best way is for each child to cook a heart or rolled steak, Yorkshire pudding and potatoes, and to cook a biggish joint in turn during the following lessons. The use of the Dutch oven should be shown and practised, as this is easily fixed on a parlour stove. The great point in teaching the baking of Yorkshire45 THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY puddings is to emphasize the fact that the batter should be poured into a flat tin well covered with smoking hot fat, and then placed in a hot oven. The real way of baking it under the meat is not easy for a class. This might be managed in a gas oven where only one Yorkshire pudding was required by suspending the meat from a hook so] that it dripped on to the baking tin containing the Yorkshire pudding. Each child should make up 2 oz. of flour, ^ egg, 3- pint of milk and water, \ teaspoonful of salt, and carefully stir the ingredients (the mixed egg and milk) very gently into a hole in the middle of the flour. This quite prevents lumps. Baked potatoes may be scrubbed and baked in their skins in a very hot oven, or they may be peeled, parboiled, and placed in a dish of hot fat, and basted with this at intervals. The next two lessons on baking may be devoted to the making and baking of short pastry. The best fat for children’s use is good fresh hard dripping or * vegetaline,’ which may be cut up very finely with a broad flat knife, and never touched with the hands. The proportion of ij oz. of fat to 3 oz. of flour is the most successful, and then a little baking-powder may be used. Great care must be exercised not to allow the children to mess it about with their hands. The teacher may show the class that fingers can be used to rub in fat as well as showing them that the fat can be cut up with a knife, but it is well to let children practise the latter only at the first lesson. The addition of the water is often a great difficulty, but a teaspoonful of water to each ounce of flour is the best proportion, though it must be varied if the flour is damp or the dripping hard. Some teachers use a46 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY wooden spoon for mixing, but it is much easier for the children to mix it dry or 4 short ’ with a knife than with a spoon, but it must be a broad-bladed knife. At the first lesson the children should always make turnovers or flat tarts, such as treacle tarts baked in flat tin plates. The treacle may be stiffened by the addition of about ^ oz. of white bread crumbs in which a little ginger has been mixed. Jam turnovers may be made by cutting a round the size of a saucer, and folding it by the lines with a little jam in the middle. It may be turned over and brushed with sugar and water. This gives it a glazed appear- ance much admired by the pupils. At the next practice of pastry more ambitious things may be taught. The teacher should again demonstrate pastry-making and the preparation of the fruit for a fruit tart; the cutting of the strips for the edge, and the making of the edge nicely. The easiest way to do this is to make it with a fork. These pies can be very successfully baked in the small gill pie dishes, and if they are to be served at dinner, it is well to have a little extra fruit stewed separately. Small cakes and scones may be made at almost any lesson when the oven is free, and the children, of course, love these dearly, and they find a ready sale. The bread lesson, which is the last of the baking series, is dealt with fully in Chapter II. The following points should be emphasized in baking lessons: Baking is cooking in a hot oven by dry heat. A very hot oven is required for pastry and bread. A moderate oven for small cakes and for baking meat. A slow oven for large cakes and milk puddings. The oven must be the right heat at the moment the food is put in.THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 47 If the ventilator is pulled out the food will be browner and crisper. If it is becoming too brown it may be covered with paper. The oven door must never be banged, and never be opened wide suddenly. Boiling Lessons—The boiling of fish and potatoes might well be demonstrated at the first lesson, and the boiling of meat and potatoes and root vegetables at the second lesson; the steaming of potatoes should also be taught. The boiling of greens may be demonstrated by itself, as the rules are so important for preserving the colour. I think brussels sprouts, beans, or peas are the best vegetables for demonstrating this. They can be so easily and well cooked in smallish saucepans, and they are quickly cooked. Of course it will be necessary in all the practice lessons to give some dish for revision if there is time; and it is well to record these by name, so that the children do get a fair practice in all. The boiling of fish is best taught by using small fresh haddocks, not slices of fish, as it is important to emphasize the cleaning, and that careful cooking prevents the skin from bursting. Fish should never be allowed to boil. Pieces of salt brisket and neck and breast of mutton with turnips and carrots form excellent examples for showing the boiling of meat and root vegetables. Salt meat must be put on to cook in cold water. The boiling of suet puddings is an important process to teach children, and it will be well to get them on to cook as soon as possible. Small basins with a rim are the best, and they may be boiled with a cloth over48 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY them, and, if steamed, covered with buttered paper. A large oval fish kettle with two steamers, one on the top of the other, may be used, and the top one might be used for potatoes if not needed for the puddings. The top one must have a very tight-fitting lid, and the fish kettle must be carefully watched, and renewed with boiling water from a kettle if there is a fear of its boiling dry. A great saving of suet may be effected by using Hugon’s suet, as the children waste so much in freeing it from the skin; but cheap mutton suet may be used for poor districts, though to a refined palate it has a taste of tallow, but it is less full of skin and con- nective tissue than beef suet. It is also much cheaper. A very good way of showing the children how to chop is to show them how to grasp their knives with the right hand firmly, and to merely guide with the left over the blade, and to show them that if they make much noise they are probably chopping the board and not the suet. It is also necessary to make them keep the board well over the table. Nothing is really better than hand-chopped food in49 THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY an ordinary kitchen, unless you have a really good and perfect machine, costing a good deal. The children may be taught to save a great deal of time by chopping properly. The suet-pudding recipe may be varied by the addition of sugar, treacle, and a pinch of soda in warm milk to mix it with. This makes a nice pudding. Currants, peel, and sugar and egg make a kind of college pudding. Half the quantity of bread crumbs may be used instead of all flour, and this makes suet puddings of all kinds much lighter. The word boiling as used in cookery is meant to include all viands cooked in plenty of hot water. When boiling fish, the water must never reach boiling point. In boiling meat, it should be boiling when the meat is put in, and allowed to boil 5 minutes, and then simmer the rest of the time, allowing 15 minutes to the pound and 15 minutes over. In boiling greens and suet puddings put into fast boiling water, and boil fast all the time. Stewing—We now pass on in the suggested syllabus from the plain baking and boiling to stewing. If very cheap meat is used, a longer time than 3 hours is needed for it. The quickly prepared stews are— Irish stew. Veal and rice. Haricot mutton. Stewed steak. Stewed rabbit. Hot-pot. Liver and bacon. The best way if you are obliged to use cheap shin of beef is not to fry it as you would steak, but to stew it for 2 or 3 hours very gently the day before. It is 450 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY well to show the children this, and then to compare some which has only been cooked during the lesson, and they will at once see the use of long, slow cooking. The principle of the bain-marie, a very useful one where there are liable to be distractions, may be shown with a jam jar and a large pan of boiling water, or jars in the oven may be used. Three 3-lb. jam jars can be made to stand in a large preserving pan of water, or straw can be put between them, and saucers used as lids. The proper thickening of stews is rarely understood. The children must be shown that for every pint of liquid 1 tablespoonful of flour previously mixed very smoothly with cold water may be stirred in. Stews are also thickened by the addition of peas, potatoes, barley, or rice. The flavouring and admixture of different vegetables is also very important. Stewing is cooking slowly in a small quantity of liquid in a closely covered vessel for a long time. It may be done in a covered jar in the oven, or in a covered thick pan on the fire, or in a covered jar standing in boiling water, forming a bain-marie or water bath. By this last arrangement the contents of the jar are never raised above simmering point. Stewing is the only process of cooking which renders tough and coarse meat tender. Frying—This savoury and popular method of cook- ing requires a greater amount of personal supervision than any other process in teaching cookery. The children are so liable to forget to hold the pan handle all the time, and then disastrous results may follow; and some children are quite overcome by the smell of heated fat.5i THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY It is well to spread a piece of linoleum on the floor near the stove, and also to protect the table in the same way. Shallow Frying is the first process to be taught. The examples of food to be fried should either be pancakes, eggs and bacon, sausages, or liver and bacon, steaks of cod, pieces of cold plum pudding, bubble and squeak, cold potatoes. It is best to devote two lessons to shallow frying, and show the pupils how to coat a steak or fish, or even sausages, with egg and crumb. An excellent way of using cold potatoes at a frying lesson is as follows : Mash some cold potatoes with salt and a very little onion. Make some bacon fat hot in a frying pan and pour the potatoes in en bloc; allow them to brown nicely, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with fried bacon for breakfast or high tea. The best way to teach children to fry pancakes is to teach them to mix the batter from the same recipe as Yorkshire pudding. A small portion, about the size of a walnut, of dripping is melted in a frying pan. When this is smoking hot the fat may be drained away and the pan rubbed well with soft paper. The batter will often stick to a frying pan which has been washed recently. Then put a fresh portion of fat into the pan, heat it up as before, moving the pan about to ensure even heating. Then pour into it enough batter to evenly coat the bottom of the pan. When sufficiently set, slip a broad-bladed knife under the pancake, shake it to loosen it, and slip the knife right under it, and turn it over thus. This is better than tossing them, unless you are sure of your result. It is well for a nervous teacher to use a little extra egg, so as to ensure success in her demonstration, and 4—2INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 52 to turn her pancake with a knife for fear of accidents. In tossing a pancake, move the pan rapidly forward as you toss, and then back again. A palate knife is a great help to a cookery teacher, though, of course, it is not an artisan tool. So also is a filleting knife and a very sharp French chopping knife. The pupils may, after mixing the batter, pour it into two bowls, and proceed to peel potatoes, while two at a time fry in two separate pans. It is not possible for a teacher to supervise more at one stove. Each girl should have a broad-bladed knife, J-gill measure, a plate, and a hot dish for her pancakes, and, if possible, allow each child to do two, as she will probably require considerable help with her first attempt. Deep Frying—The great economy of the complete bath of fat should be clearly shown by reference to the amount of fat soaked up in pancake-making and the small amount used for fish-cakes. Fish-cakes are a good example of this process, also potato balls, and these do not require a great amount of fat if a small pint saucepan is used instead of a large saucepan. Dough-nuts—Made by using a little dough made of yeast as for tea-cakes, or with the same mixture as for rock-cakes (omitting the currants). This should be rolled into a round about 3 inches in diameter, a small piece of jam placed in the middle, and then folded up, or one piece about ij inches may be fastened on to another by slightly moistening it. They should be put into hot fat and fried a golden brown, and then rolled in castor sugar while still hot. No lesson on frying should be given without over and over again impressing on the children the following facts :THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 53 Mediums Used—Dripping, lard, vegetaline, olive oil, and butter. The three first are the best and cheapest, as olive oil spurts so, and butter burns too quickly for it to be used for anything but omelettes or small pieces of tomato, or something similar. Rule I—The fat must be smoking hot and quite still. Rule II—The fat must be heated up between each piece of food being put in. Rule III—Do not put too many things in at a time, as this cools the fat too much. . Rule IV—Use very fine dry bread crumbs if a coating of qgg and crumb is used, and see that the things are cooked well. Rule V—Drain well on soft paper. Rule VI—Strain the fat after using and cooling through a very fine muslin or wire gauze strainer, so as to be quite sure that there is nothing left in it. Muslin must always be employed after anything made of potatoes has been used. The presence of water or gravy in fat makes it spurt, and is very dangerous. If a kettle should boil over on the stove into the frying pan there might be a bad accident. In the event of the fat catching fire, a teacher must have something to slip over the pan at once, such as a closely fitting lid or small board, which extinguishes it. The Best Way of employing Spare Pieces of Fat for making Dripping—Carefully remove all fat that will not be eaten from food before cooking. Cut this up, and either melt it in a dripping tin in the oven if it is required in a hurry, or place it in a stew pan54 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY with enough water to cover. Boil till all the water is evaporated and the fat is quite still, and the bits of skin left are brown ; then strain and set on one side till cold, when it will be white and hard. Lard, especially cheap foreign lard, has a very dis- agreeable odour when used for frying. Grilling—This is difficult to teach economically. The best things to cook are small pieces of meat cut from mutton or beef steak, and small chops cut from the neck. Herrings, mackerel, and oily fish may also be used. If the use of the Dutch oven is taught at the same time, bacon and sausages may also be used, and fish, dried or fresh. The main points to be emphasized are that the fire must be clear, and that all grilling should be done immediately before serving. This is the one method of cooking in which the article must be eaten immediately. It is, with a large class, a little difficult to practise in it. The gas grillers are used so much now, that it will be well to explain the use of them too.* Above all, the great digestibility of grilled food should be emphasized, and its consequent superiority to frying, which is the usual way of cooking chops amongst the ignorant. However, even that is better than the baking of them in a slow oven. Properly made bread sauce is a very savoury addition to the chop, and it is a good way to show the pupils this, seeing that it is a better accompaniment for an invalid to a grilled chop than a potato. I give a recipe for this on p. 90. * Steaming—Use an oval steamer with another steamer * The burners are inverted and the metal-work or fire- clay allowed to become red hot. The article to be grilled is placed under this and turned frequently.THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 55 on the top of it, and the bottom, entirely filled with boiling water, affords a great deal of accommodation, for the amount of fuel used. It is a much better way of cooking tough things or invalid food than boiling, and less goodness is lost. Steaming when done in an Ordinary Saucepan— Place the pudding or meat in a basin, cover over with greased paper, and stand on a saucer in a pan of water so that the water comes half-way up it. Put on the lid of the pan and place on the fire, and the pudding will cook, but be very careful not to allow the pan to boil dry, and also be careful that the water does not get into the pudding if it boils over.56 CHAPTER V ECONOMY IN TEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY THERE is no branch of elementary instruction which costs so much as the teaching of cookery. The money can, however, be partially recovered by the sale of the dishes cooked. Many people object to this, as it obscures the educational aim by laying too much stress on the practical result. Now, it seems to me that the faithful stewardship of public money entrusted to her care should be the first aim of every teacher of domestic economy. It is impossible to over- estimate the aggregate waste of such money in very small things. We see on every hand in public institu- tions this careless usage of stock and stores. The great scandals which from time to time shock the public are all the outcome of the elastic conscience which people possess in regard to things which are not their own. Now, a certain amount of saving may be procured by proper forethought. Many teachers buy meat in such small quantities, that a very large price is paid for it in the long-run. I should recommend that on Friday a teacher look through her syllabus for the ensuing week, and make notes of the amount of meat she will probably require. Suppose she has a stewing, a frying, and a roasting lesson fairly near together. If she were toTEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY 57 buy the scrag, neck, and breast of a piece of mutton, known in London as a target, she would be able to | stew the scrag, grill or fry the chops, and roll, stuff, and either stew or bake the breast of mutton. The objections against buying a large piece of meat such as this are: 1. The flies, attracted by it, are very liable to become a real source of annoyance and danger. This can, of course, only be avoided by having the meat-safe fixed above the door and away from the window. 2. Some people would say that the children would not buy in such quantities; but the whole target might be shown and cut up before them, and the full advantage pointed out, together with the exact part of the animal being cooked, and this would afford a more useful object-lesson than buying in bits. If there is a decent keeping-place, decomposition may be largely retarded by dipping the meat in boiling water for 4 or 5 minutes, and then covering it with a piece of muslin soaked in vinegar. Meat should always be kept in a draught. Again, supposing in a rich district a teacher were to buy a haunch of mutton, the leg and loin. This is, of course, where there was a demand for prime joints. She could then cut half the leg in half, use a piece of the top for fillet, and bone, roll, and stuff the loin, and, if liked, cut up the part of the top of the leg where there is bone for stewing. The fat must be carefully trimmed off and used for rendering into dripping. It is very extravagant to serve up large quantities of fat portions of meat for dinner, as very few people like a great deal of fat, and it can be trimmed off and reserved for so many other things. Scrag of mutton makes excellent meat and potato pie, and, having plenty of bone, the pastry is well supported.INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 58 The squab pie of Devonshire is made thus by using alternate layers of mutton, apple, and onion, and is very delicious, wholesome, and savoury. The melt makes excellent stock, and can be purchased very cheaply, but it must, like all inside organs, be purchased as fresh as possible. Cow-heel and ox-cheek make excellent and nutritious stews. Stock and milk should both be boiled if there is any fear of their going sour, and here it must be remembered that milk in London is always 12 hours old before selling, and in hot weather very often arrives sour. It should be scalded at once, as it can never be made into milk puddings if at all sour. Sour milk may, however, be used for cakes or scones, and if some carbonate of soda is added, this will to a large extent take the place of baking-powder. If treacle or jam are used for anything in cold weather they should be warmed, and then less will be required. In making treacle rolls a few bread crumbs flavoured with ginger sprinkled over the treacle may be used, as this prevents the treacle oozing out when baking them. It cannot be too strongly impressed on children that if their jam tarts have too much jam in them the jam will boil over, and not only spoil the tart, but also be wasted in making a great mess in the tin. In making fruit jelly, either gooseberry or currant, a very good sound jam for tarts, etc., may be made from the fruit after the juice has been stewed out. Rhubarb jam is a very good, economical, and cheap jam for cooking-lecture use. I give the following recipe for it: Rhubarb Jam—Peel the rhubarb, and cut it up into pieces about 1 inch long. Weigh the fruit, and noteTEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY 59 weight. Allow it to stand all night with about quarter its weight in sugar. Next day add f lb. of sugar for every pound of fruit. Place in a large pan with the sugar and juice, and add about J pint of water and the rind and juice of a lemon to every 4 lb. Add also a little root ginger. Bring to the boil, and boil, stirring all the time, till it sets easily. Place in jars and tie down. In country districts a cheap jam is blackberry and apple. The children should be encouraged to bring the blackberries when they are picked. Sometimes in London there is an enormous glut of plums, and many teachers take advantage of this to make jam for storing. It is becoming increasingly difficult to buy vegetables where they are grown, as they are all poured into London, and so a teacher in the Metropolis has many opportunities of buying these products more cheaply than her colleagues in the country. There might be an economy in buying potatoes by the sack if she had anywhere to keep them, but there again the loss by petty pilfering may counterbalance her profit. Children think that it is there for them to help themselves, and it is astonishing what things they will take in case they may be useful. The ‘ acquisitive faculty ’ is largely developed in them. Poor little things, they have to live by their wits, and one child on being searched, I remember, disgorged coal, matches, potatoes, lumps of sugar, and a handful or two of starch. She was betrayed by the starch dropping out. It is well, therefore, to strictly confine small dainties, as currants, peel, etc., to the amount required for the lesson, and not to undo the bags until the right moment. And here may I add a word of caution to young teachers about leaving money about ? It is not rightINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 6o to put children in the way of temptation if you can avoid it; but if by any chance you do find it gone, spare no effort to bring the offender to confess. A teacher may often lose more of her money than she can well afford, but also be sadly on the wrong side in her weekly bills, unless she is very careful. Of course, this is only common in very low neighbourhoods, and then she must always face the probability that in her class she has some professional thieves ; but it is not unknown in the best schools, as any head teacher will witness. It is better to sell at a loss than not to sell at all, and a very ingenious idea has lately been suggested by one whose experience and work in South London has been of inestimable service to all domestic economy teaching. She suggests that food enough to make up a dinner for four or six should be sold at a certain price at 12 o’clock, and that this should be ordered before the lesson and paid for. She finds that mothers whom hard necessity compels to go to work are glad to think that their little ones will have a hot dinner even if she is out. Another arrangement found satisfactory is the use of the food cooked in the centres in providing cheap meals at school for children. The willingness and anxiety of the poor to buy good food at a cheap rate in preference to buying at the so-called cheaper places is demonstrated by the pathetic little rows of waiting children outside the big fish shops on Saturday evenings. Surely if these big firms find it beneficial to do this, it will be a good thing for teachers, whose wares have already served an educational purpose, to do the same. As long as this does not impose extra work on the teacher, and encroach on her much-needed noontide rest, so that she is unfitted to conduct her afternoonTEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY 61 class, and also does not involve the serving of the meals in a room used for teaching in the afternoon (both of which the Act* condemns), it may prove useful both educationally and economically, but thirty- two is the outside number. As in the chapter on syllabuses I have advocated a combination of dishes suitable (for second and third course girls) for dinners, etc., and suppers for either sixteen or thirty-two, I propose in the following pages to give the dishes suitable for such meals. Each child would then cook for one or two persons. For this I shall presuppose two workable ovens—not one of which is merely useful for heating plates. A teacher should first of all make herself thoroughly acquainted with the cheap pieces of meat at the best local butcher, and explain to him that she is working her classes on a scale which will secure him custom for these pieces. On pp. 62, 63, 64, and 65, the reader will find a list of good reliable meat at London prices, so that a teacher can judge for herself as to the comparative prices she ought to pay. The practice of sending the children to look round the shops and pick up meat is theoretically good, but it is practically bad, as it generally results in tainted meat being palmed off on them. Let them go to fetch it by all means, and thus become acquainted with the prices of the various parts. With regard to fish, if there is a local man who goes round with a cart at regular times, his fish may generally be relied upon, and in London excellent fish may often be bought in this way. If the cooking class is held near one of the open * Provision of Meals Act.INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 62 BEEF English and Prime Scotch, American, per Pound. per Pound. s. d. s. d. Aitchbone from io lb. - - from Brisket (whole), fresh or salt, about O 6i O 5 18 lb. - O 6 O 5 Brisket (cut, either end) - O 7 O 6 Buttock (whole), from about 40 lb. - O 7i O ,, steak I 0 O 11 Fillet I 2 I 1 Flank, thick (whole), about 20 lb. - O 7h O 7 ,, ,, (best cut) 0 10 O 9 ,, thin O 4 O 3 Gravy beef O 8 O 7 Legs and shins (whole), about 20 lb. O 4 O 3 Pieces to stew O 8 O 8 Ribs, fore (whole), about 24 lb. O 9 O 6 i ,, back O 7 i O 6i ,, for rolling, over 10 lb. - O 9i O 9 ,, ,, under 10 lb.- O 10 O 92 ,, wing O ni O ioi ,, middle cut - O 11 0 9 i ,, top O 8 O 7 Rump (whole), about 24 lb. - O 9 O 8 ,, steak I 2 I 1 ,, first cut - I 0 O 11 ,, top Scotch collops .... O 10 O 9 O 10 Sirloins (whole), 28 to 35 lb. - O 9i O Si ,, (prime cut) O O I°2 ,, (wing end)- Silverside, fresh or salt (whole), O 10^ O 92 from about 18 lb. O 7\ O 6i Silverside (cut, either end) O 9 O 8 ,, (middle cut) - Skirt O 9| O Si O 9 O s-i Stock meat with bone - 0 6 O 5 Topside (whole), from about 24 lb. - 0 8* O 7i ,, (either end) - 0 10 O 9i ,, (middle cut), without bone 0 11 O ioi Sausages, beef - 0 5 — Suet 0 8 — ,, chopped ready for use - Ox tails 0 8 — 1 1 9 to 2 0 from 9 street markets, very good and cheap things may be bought at certain times in the morning, but it is noTEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY 63 MUTTON AND LAMB Scotch Prime Prime Finest and South Mountain English New New Down Mutton, Lamb, Zealand Zealand Mutton, per Pound. per Mutton, Mutton, per Pound. Pound. per Pound. per Pound. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. Whole 0 8 0 8i — 0 5 O 6 Sides- - 0 8 0 9 — O 5 O 6^ Hind-quarters - 0 10 0 10 I O 0 6J O 81 Fore-quarters - 0 8 0 8 O II 0 5 0 6£ Haunches - 0 io£ 0 M O — 0 7 — Legs - — 0 II I 2 0 9 ,, under 8 lb. 0 11 — — 0 7\ ,, over 8 lb. - Shoulders - 0 10 — — 0 7 — 0 8| 0 9 I I 0 6 0 8i Loins 0 ioi 0 io£ I I O 64r 0 8i ,, (trimmed) 1 0 — — 0 7\ — ,, (best .end) 1 1 — — 0 8 — Saddle 0 10 0 ioi I I 0 6 HP 00 0 Chops (trimmed) 1 2 — 0 10 — ,, (not trimmed)- 1 0 — — 0 8 — Chump, about 2 lb. - o g — — — ,, chops - 1 0 — — — Necks (whole) - 0 81 — O II 0 6 0 7 ,, under 6 lb. Necks (best end and 0 9 O 8£ — — middle), 4 lb. - Necks (best end and 0 ioi 0 11 — 0 8 0 10 middle, cut) - Necks (best end and 1 0 1 1 — — — middle), 3 lb. 1 1 — — — — Ribs - 0 6^ 0 7 O IO 0 4i 0 5i Pieces for stew - 6d. to 8d. Breasts 0 4 0 4 0 2^ 0 3i Suet - 0 5 Kidneys - 0 31 — — 1 3 each per doz. good dislocating the smooth working of a class by waiting for these while somebody goes out and brings them in, and that is one great reason why it is best to deal regularly with the same tradesmen. In providing dinners at 2d. ahead, if potatoes must be allowed per child. Of the following cheap vege-64 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY VEAL Per Pound. Per Pound. s. d. s. d Legs (12 to 20 lb.) O IO Breast (whole), about Loins (whole) from 8 lb. O 61 13 lb. - 0 8 Breast (best end) O 9 Loins (middle) - 0 10 Neck (whole), about ,, (kidney end) - 0 11 12 lb. - 0 7 Loins (chump end), Neck (best end) - I O under 5 lb. - 0 9 h Neck (middle), 2 to Shider (whole), about 3 lb. 0 8 12 lb. - o 7i Neck (scrag) 0 5 Oyster 0 10 Knuckles (according Fillet, 5 lb. and up- to cut) - 5d. to 8d. wards 1 1 Veal for pies (all Cutlets 1 3 meat) 0 10 PORK Per Pound. 1 Per Pound. s. d. ! s. d. Legs (fresh or salt) - O 8| Beef sausages - 0 5 Legs (small), under Pork ,, O 9 8 lb. 0 9i Pork ,, (farm - Loins, hind, with house) - O 9 kidney - H|w 0 M 0 Pork sausages (tomato Loins, fore 0 9 flavoured) 0 9i Neck end up to 4 lb. - 0 7i Midget sausages (about Middle 0 11 24 to the pound) 0 10 Hands 0 7 Bologna 0 10 Hand and spring 0 7\ Smoked (per bundle Heads 0 4 of 6) 0 10 Streaky (salt) - 8d. to9d. Ham and tongue I 0 tables, served with meat, the following guide is given to quantity: Vegetables— Haricot beans: 2 oz. to each child. Cabbage: a medium-sized cabbage will do for four people.65 TEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY SUNDRIES Calves’ heads (each) Ox kidneys (each) iod. from 3s. 6d. to ,, brains (per set) 6d. 6s. 6d. ,, palates (each) 5d- Calves’ heads (half) - 2S. tO 3s. 6d. ,, tongues (each) from 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d, ,, feet 6d. ,, feet (each) - iod. Calves’ sweetbreads ,, liver (per pound) - 6d. (pair) - - 3s. 6d. to Sheep’s brains (per 5s. 6d. set) - Sheep’s hearts (each)- 3d. Calves’ liver (per 4d. pound) - IS. ,, heads (each) - Sheep’s liver (per iod. Calves’ hearts from - 6d. ,, tails (each) Calves’ brains (per 6d. pound) - Sheep’s tongues (each) gd. 3d. set) - 8d. Pigs’ fry (per pound) 6d. Tripe (per pound) 8d. ,, liver (per pound) 7d. Celery : I stick for 1 Jd. will be enough for six children. Turnip tops : 3d. will be enough for twelve children. Rice : 1 oz. to each child. Beetroot: 1 for six children. Carrot: 1 large or 2 small ones each. Turnip: \ large or 1 small to each child. Beans: 1 peck for twelve dinners. Meat- Scrag of mutton : six children to 1 lb. Shin of beef: six children to 1 lb. Hearts : a beast’s heart for four. Liver and bacon : \ rasher for each child, six dinners for 1 lb., but it is best to buy a piece of bacon and cut it yourself with a sharp hot knife. In calculating for puddings, the following may be taken into consideration: Milk Pudding—1 pint of milk and 2 oz. of rice will make a pudding for four children. Skim milk as such is difficult to procure in London, 5INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 66 but it may be used in the country with the addition of a little finely chopped suet or vegetable fat. If tapioca is used, it should be soaked in cold water, and this economizes the milk. Yorkshire Pudding—J pint milk (or milk and water), J egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. If baked well with plenty of smoking hot dripping in the tin (9 by 6 inches), this should make enough for four people if liked thin. If liked very thick, twice the quantity will be required. Butter-milk, if it can be obtained, may be used in all these puddings, but it is difficult to get in some places. In making small meat puddings and tarts, 2 oz. flour and 1 oz. suet or dripping may be allowed, and about 2 oz. of meat. 3 oz. of flour and 1 oz. suet will make an open tart the size of a pudding plate. In an ordinary household the waste of bread is terrible, and I give some recipes for various kinds of bread puddings, which may prove useful for these school-children’s dinners. They are taken from the Leeds Training School recipes, an excellent book of which has lately been published at is. 6d. Savoury Pudding—Ingredients : 1 lb. bread crusts, 1 tablespoonful dried sage, 4 tablespoonfuls oatmeal, 2 eggs, 6 oz. suet (finely chopped), about ^ pint milk, 4 onions (half boiled), salt and pepper. Method—Soak the bread in cold water until soft, and then drain. Now beat up with a fork, add the suet, onions (finely chopped), sage, meal, and seasoning, and, lastly, the beaten egg and milk. Make some dripping hot in a pan, pour the mixture in, and bake in a quick oven. Cut in squares and serve.TEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY 67 Cheap Cabinet Pudding—Ingredients : A few large raisins, 1 egg, J pint milk, 1 tablespoonful fine moist sugar, 3 oz. stale bread. Method—Well grease a basin with butter, stone the raisins, and place them with the sticky side against the basin in a pattern. Add the sugar to the milk to dissolve it, beat up the egg, add the sweetened milk to it. Cut up the bread into small squares, strain the custard on to it, turn into lined basin, cover with greased paper, and steam 45 minutes. Scrap Bread Pudding—Ingredients : J lb. scraps (old bread), 3 oz. suet (finely chopped), 1 egg, about i pint milk, 3 oz. currants, 2 oz. moist sugar, salt, nutmeg grated. Method—Soak the crusts in cold water until soft. Drain all the water away, and press with the hands as dry as possible. Beat it up with a fork, add the chopped suet, currants (cleaned), salt, sugar, nutmeg, and, lastly, beaten egg and milk. Turn it into a greased basin, cover with greased paper, and steam ij hours. The same pudding may be baked, and if so, a little more milk should be used. It should be turned into a greased pie dish and baked from 45 minutes to 1 hour. The savoury pudding is excellent served with thick brown gravy, or with pork, or with ‘ poor man’s goose,’ or with breast of mutton rolled and stuffed with sage and onions and then baked. A very little of the egg or custard powders may be used in the milk for the cheap cabinet pudding, and a little flavouring, such as vanilla, is often used in these, which always brings back the familiar flavour of the penny ices eaten by the children. Pieces of crusts of bread well baked may be put into 5—2INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 68 cheap stews and soups to thicken them and to improve the colour of the gravy or soup, but they should be removed before serving. LIST OF SUITABLE DINNERS I append a list of suitable dinners, with notes on them. Potatoes and sometimes a second vegetable are presupposed in each case, but these dinners should properly only be cooked by second-course girls. Boiling and Baking Dinners— Boiled pork and pease pudding. Boiled fish, parsley sauce, suet pudding and treacle. Baked and stuffed hearts, cheap cabinet pudding. Baked and stuffed breast of mutton, savoury pudding, jam tarts. Baked and stuffed fish, baked puddings with currants in them. Soups and Frying— Pease soup, pancakes. Potato soup, fried fish. Stewing— Irish stew, apple dumplings (baked). Sea pie, baked apples or stewed rhubarb. Poor man’s goose, milk puddings, various shapes of rice, etc., and stewed fruit. Brazilian stew or Exeter stew, ox-cheek or cow-heel, roly-poly pudding. Pastry—Short pastry may be practised until it is known thoroughly, both for meat, meat and potato, and fruit pies. Flaky Pastry—This takes a very long time to teach69 TEACHING DOMESTIC ECONOMY satisfactorily. In making meat pies, the best way to get a good result is either to use meat which has been previously cooked and allowed to cool, or to put the meat on immediately before the pastry has been mixed, and allow to cook in a saucepan or in hot-pot dishes in the oven. Then let the children make up 4 oz. flour and 3 oz. fat, either in the method employed in making rough puff pastry or in the ordinary way, dividing the fat into two parts and putting it on in small pieces. Let them roll this into a complete round the size of a saucer. Bake on a baking-sheet, as the pastry for oyster patties is cooked. It can be cooked quickly and well in the oven, and there is no fear of its being indigestible, as it is if cooked on the pies. The very small pies that children make dry up so soon when meat has to be cooked in them. Baked Flour may be used for thickening the gravy of stews made from meat which is too cheap to allow of the meat being fried first. Vegetaline or cocoa butter is the vegetarian fat used for pastry or frying. It is far more palatable than lard, and may be obtained at 8d. per pound. Gravy—If it is desired to make gravy quickly for roast meat, it will often be found that if foreign meat has been used very little gravy has oozed out of the meat. If the meat is well roasted, boiling water or seasoned stock may be poured over it, and a very little of the baked flour referred to be stirred in. A few drops of any meat essence will add to the general flavour, but this might be too expensive for 2d. dinners. Every scrap of gravy which comes out of the meat in cooking should be preserved, as there is nothing like70 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY this for adding to stock, soup, etc., and it is infinitely preferable to the browning, etc., with which some people over-flavour their gravy. Flour should never be added until the gravy is nearly ready for serving, as the addition of thickening is said to arrest the softening of the fibres of the meat in a stew.CHAPTER VI CHEAP PROTEID FOOD OTHER THAN MEAT IN some neighbourhoods, and with some incomes, it will be quite impossible to provide butcher’s meat every day. What, then, is the best food which can be -taken to supply the need of the body for proteid ? In the recipes given by many of the most rigorous vegetarians great stress is laid on the white powder sold to be sprinkled into food, which is tasteless and expensive, and the last thing which a poor person would buy from choice. But I am not concerned in this chapter in showing methods of cooking dishes for those who are vegetarians from conscience or choice, but with those who are obliged to abstain from butcher’s meat from necessity. I propose to start with the ordinary herring or bloater, now so much less used among the working classes than in the days of Dickens. Dr. Smith says that the herring * offers the largest amount of nutriment for a given sum of any animal food,’ and two salt herrings contain as much proteid as need enter into the daily dietary of an ordinary working man. Herrings stewed in Vinegar—Remove the heads and tails from the herrings, split them, and roll them 7i7 2 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY up with a little parsley and chopped onion inside. Place in a pie dish half full of vinegar, add three or four cloves and a dozen peppercorns, cook very gently till tender. Allow to grow cold, and serve in the same dish. A little chopped lemon peel may be added if liked. Herrings may also be split and toasted in front of a clear fire, or cooked in a Dutch oven. Mackerel may be prepared as the above, but care should be taken to have it very fresh. Kippers may either be fried or scalded with boiling water, and allowed to stand a few minutes. Toasted Cheese or Welsh Rabbit—Next to fish, and especially herrings, we come to cheese. Hutchinson says: ‘To those who are seeking to use cheese as a cheap and efficient substitute for meat one could say, “ Buy Canadian or Dutch, and preferably the former, for in that way you will be getting much the most nutriment—in other words, the most muscle, blood, and brain—for the money you spend.” ’ Cut up some cheese and place in a pan. Melt with a little butter and mustard. Pour on to the toast, and then hold in front of the fire, or brown under the grill of gas stove, or with a hot shovel. Vinegar may be added if liked, and is sure to make the cheese more digestible. Cheese Sauce (for cauliflower, sprouts, haricot beans, macaroni, boiled fish, or steamed fish)— j- oz. of butter, i oz. of flour, J pint of milk and water, 2 oz. of grated cheese, and seasoning. Melt the butter, add the flour, then the liquid gradually, stir until it boils, and then add the cheese, chopped or grated. Pour over any of the above, and place in the oven for a few minutes.73 CHEAP PROTEID FOOD Stewed Cheese—Cut up about \ lb. of cheese, and place in a jar in the oven with enough milk to cover it. Allow to cook gently, and pour over a slice of fried bread or toast. This also may be added to soaked and cooked haricot beans. Cheese is not nearly so much introduced into soup in England as it might be. It greatly improves its nutritive properties, and may be served with thick purees of potato, or with thin soup into which boiled macaroni has been put. No cheese should be used for cooking which is the least mouldy or green. Chestnuts are a valuable article of diet. They make a very good and digestible stew prepared in the following manner: Peel off the red skin of i lb. of chestnuts. Blanch them in cold water by bringing it to a boil. Peel off the inner skin, and place in a stew pan with some stock and two onions. Allow to stew till tender, and serve with meat or by themselves. They also may be thickly covered with cheese sauce, as in the above recipe, using some of the milk used in stewing for the liquid. They are eaten very much in France, simply strained after blanching, as above, and served with milk and salt. Roast chestnuts are familiar to all of us, and they are infinitely preferable as an investment for children’s pence to the cheap sweets so much sold to the children in the junior schools. The common pea-nut, beloved by children, is also rich in nourishment. The ordinary vegetarian puts his faith very much on pulse foods as a substitute for meat. The amount taken to make up the necessary proteid gives too much work to the digestive organs; but of course they are very cheap, and they may be very well introduced into74 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY the meagre diet so often dictated by necessity. I give the following recipes for pease : Pea Soup—i lb. of peas, 2 onions, \ lb. of bacon rind, 6 pints of water or stock in which bacon has been boiled. Soak the peas, and allow to cook in the stock and water for 3 hours. Sieve and add some dried mint, or serve this separately. Pease Pudding—Soak 1 lb. of peas overnight; drain; place them in a cloth with 1 oz. of butter and i tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Tie them firmly, but allow room to swell. Boil till they can be passed through a sieve. Place in a stew pan with butter, pepper and salt, and a little dried mint. Stir till thick. Press into a greased basin, and put in the oven for \ hour. Turn out and serve either with bacon or salt pork. SALADS Salads are now so often an accompaniment of roast meat, and may be so cheaply and easily prepared, that it may be as well to give here some hints for cheap ones. Salads may be prepared from cooked or uncooked vegetables. If the former, care should be taken in the preparation to preserve the colour, which may be done by using a pinch of soda and absolutely boiling water. If the latter are used, they should be perfectly fresh, and well washed and drained. Lettuce Salad—Wash and prepare the lettuce, and dry carefully. Tear it up, and, if liked, a few spring onions may be introduced cut up very finely. Dress with two tablespoonfuls of oil and 1 of vinegar mixed with j saltspoonful of salt and more mustard. A very littleCHEAP PROTEID FOOD 75 sugar may be added if liked. Pour this over the salad, and agitate it well till every leaf is coated. Watercress and Endive may be similarly pre- pared. Green Raw Cabbage Salad—Strip the outer leaves from a well-bleached cabbage. Place in salt and water to remove the insects. Dry it well, and cut across the stalk with a sharp knife, wiping it carefully to prevent the steel flavouring the cabbage. Mix in some shreds of red pickled cabbage, and dress with a little onion and 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, i teaspoonful of sugar, and a little oil, salt, and pepper. It seems to require a sharper dressing than lettuce. Haricot Bean Salad—Soak about \ lb. of haricot beans over-night. Place in cold water with a little salt. Bring to a boil, and simmer gently till tender. Mix with cut celery and beetroot, or with cold cooked and cut-up French beans. Dress with oil and vinegar. Potato Salad—New potatoes are best for this, but old ones which are not too mealy may be used. Cut them up into small pieces, add a little chopped onion and parsley, and dress with oil and Tarragon vinegar, or with i yolk of egg hard boiled and pounded up with a little sugar. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of oil and 1 of Tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper. A quickly made fruit salad is made by cutting up some oranges, removing the pips, and slicing some bananas. Place these in a glass dish, and sprinkle a good deal of castor sugar over them. A little desic- cated cocoanut may be used as a garnish. This is immensely improved by the addition of orange-flower water, fresh and good, but it is rather an expensive addition. Almost any sort of fruit (except hard fruits uncooked,76 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY as apples) may be used in fruit salads, and almost any combination of fruits. The best foundation fruits are tinned and bottled pears and pineapples, and these are often sold off at amazingly low prices at big stores when the new stock is coming in. The jams, too, are amazingly cheap, and do very well indeed for cooking.CHAPTER VII 77 DIET IN DISEASES AND CONVALESCENCE THE diseases in which specific diet plays an important part are such diseases as diabetes (where sugar is excreted in the urine, and must therefore be kept out of the dietary), gout due to an excess of uric acid, affections of the stomach and bowels, disorders of the blood, and diseases of the organs of excretion. In acute diseases it is usual to recommend special diet, and in chronic cases to recommend abstention from substances likely to prove harmful. It is well to remember, too, that it is no use to force food of a special character where it is obnoxious to the patient, as food taken under these circumstances will do no good at all. It often falls to the lot of a cookery teacher to give courses of invalid cookery to nurses, and the following syllabus is suggested for such a course. Invalid Cookery Syllabus Lecture I. Diet in Fevers—A fluid diet. Practical Demonstration—Milk with cereal prepara- tions, as Benger; baked flour or malted milk; beef tea ; lemon jelly.78 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY Lecture II. Diet in Diabetes—Sugar and starch to be avoided. Practical Demonstration—The making of gluten bread ; almond meal cakes; the preparation of fruits for diabetic patients; omelette souffle. Lecture III. Gastritis and Gastric Ulcer, after the Patient is taken off a Milk Diet. Practical Demonstration—Barley water; blanc mange; junket; custard pudding. Lecture IV. Appendicitis, Diarrhoea, Dysentery. Practical Demonstration—Albumin water ; baked apples, pulp mashed ; potato puree; a cup of arrowroot. Lecture V. Constipation. Practical Demonstration—Stewed fruit; oatmeal por- ridge ; the use of olive oil and cream. Lecture VI. Anaemia. Practical Demonstration—Grilled chops, steaks, and cutlets; raw scraped meat sandwiches; marrow on toast; spinach with poached egg. Lecture VII. Beverages for Sickness. Practical Demonstration—Lemonade ; apple water ; orangeade; melon water; cold tea; toast water. Lecture VIII. Food for Convalescence. Practical Demonstration—Steamed fish in white wine ; sweetbreads ; savoury jelly; scalloped oysters. The first demonstration might be preceded by a short lecture on the serving of food, the times about which it should be given, and showing various designs for feeding-cups, arrangements for keeping food fresh, and cool or hot. With regard to the latter, a very good cooler, where it is difficult to obtain ice, may be made by using the flannelette-covered butter coolers sold so often in the cheap shops; also by using the more expensive terra-cotta butter coolers.79 DIET IN DISEASES In the making of beef tea for invalids the use of a jam jar standing in a pan of boiling water may be demonstrated, as well as the more elaborate double saucepan. The sterilizing of milk may be shown in ordinary bottles if they are packed over with straw. In giving such lectures as these care must be taken not to be too scientific. This ‘ kitchen physic,’ and the preparation of it in an appetizing way, cannot be too carefully advocated. The nurses will probably have a back- ground of the knowledge of foodstuffs, and why such foods are good, and the cookery teacher must be the one to improve their technical skill rather than to cram her lectures with half-understood science and one-sided theories. ’ I give the recipes for the dishes for demonstration at the end of this chapter, for the convenience of teachers who wish to prepare a similar course (see p. 85). I have not mentioned the methods for preparing the patent foods, as these are generally amply explained by the makers. Lecture I. Diet in Fevers ‘ Feed a cold and starve a fever ’ was the old practice, but now there is quite as much evidence in favour of the feeding the fever as against it. But, at the same time, it must be remembered that all the organs of the body are enfeebled in severe illness, and it is wrong to put any extra strain on them. The strength must be well maintained by non-irritating foods which shall be quickly assimilated. Milk with cereal preparations, and milk and barleyINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 8o water; milk thickened with rice, but the rice strained away afterwards; Benger’s Food is generally enjoyed. There is often terrible thirst, and this can better be assuaged by slightly acidulated drinks, such as barley water, apple water, and lemonade. Milk and soda may be given freely, but the milk should be sterilized, and very little soda put into it. A siphon is the best thing to use, as more gas is thus forced into the milk, and this divides the particles of milk, and makes them more digestible. Beef tea made with milk is nourishing, and forms a pleasant change, and Bovril also may be made with milk. Lemon and wine jellies, though they do not contain much real nourishment, are pleasant and cooling to the dry throat and tongue of a fever patient. Albumin water is also a very easy way of giving proteid food when the body is greatly debilitated. After an introduction as the above the dishes should be clearly and carefully demonstrated, and variations indicated, such as the substitution of orange for lemon jellies, in which case it will not be necessary to use the whites of eggs, as orange juice cannot be cleared. The use of veal or mutton or chicken in making a broth might be employed, and one or two good reliable cereal preparations, such as creme de riz, creme d’orge, and others of that kind. The constipating effect of too much boiled starch food may also be mentioned, and also of boiled milk. Lecture II. Diet in Diabetes The main symptom of diabetic patients is that they are unable to assimilate properly the starch or sugary81 DIET IN DISEASES constituents of food. It will therefore be necessary to avoid all articles of food which contain sugar and starch. The elimination of the starch and sugar from foods is a difficult and expensive process, and a diabetic diet is therefore a very expensive one. This makes many of the preparations placed on the market quite beyond the reach of a slender purse. It is well to buy these foods from a good place, such as Callard’s, 74, Regent Street, as many of the foods sold, which in price are very much below theirs, are perfectly useless from the diabetic point of view, and may do a great deal of harm. Butcher’s meat of all kinds, except liver, may be eaten. Fish, game, and poultry also contain no injurious constituents. Eggs, cheese, butter, and cream may be eaten, but not milk, unless specially prepared by a drying process which eliminates the sugar. Most green vegetables may be used, but not parsnips, beetroot, carrots, or potatoes. The things which a diabetic patient misses most are fruits and the ordinary bread. Gluten bread is not very nice. The recipes for it, and for an omelette souffle, are given at the end of this chapter, as also the preparation of certain specified fruits—gooseberries, cherries, cranberries, damsons, and blackberries. Nuts, except chestnuts, may be eaten freely. There is also a preparation of Irish moss which can be made into a mould, and the above firm supply a kind of glycerine which may be used for sweetening the pre- pared fruits. 6INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 82 Lecture III. Gastritis and Gastric Ulcer The first rule to be observed in these diseases is that the food must be given in such a form that the stomach will not have to exert itself much when it is passing the food into the duodenum. This means that it must be in a finely divided form, and should have been care- fully chewed, or if the patient has not strength for this, divided before it is served. Rest of the stomach is essential in treating these diseases, and therefore the food should not be presented to it in too great a bulk, otherwise the stomach will have too much to do in getting rid of it. In most cases of stomach illness the patient abhors cooked fat in any form. In very severe cases rectal feeding is adopted, but when that is not resorted to the diet should chiefly consist of milk mixed with lime water or barley water. A little beef tea may be given, but liquids must not be given very hot. Peptonized milk or junket may be given. After about a week of the above, if the patient is doing fairly well, custard powder or potato puree may be given. Lecture IV. Appendicitis and Peritonitis, Dysentery, and Diarrhoea Milk and water is the chief diet in the two first of these affections. The albumin water indicated before may be given, and later on beef tea. In Dysentery, after a milk diet for some days, many medical men give mashed potatoes and apples baked or stewed with no sugar. In Diarrhcea the diet must be as little irritating as83 DIET IN DISEASES possible, and in severe cases all food may be stopped for 24 hours, and only a little barley water, made fresh every day, or even twice a day in summer, given to quench thirst. After that, carefully prepared arrowroot may be given, and the albumin water mentioned above. Lecture V. Constipation In constipation the great point is to stimulate the action of the bowels by mechanical means. This can be done by introducing into the dietary foods which have a good deal of cellulose in their composition, such as wholemeal bread, oatmeal por- ridge, and green vegetables. Water should be given freely, preferably in the early morning. Olive oil taken by itself, with stewed prunes, potatoes, and with salad, is of great value in obstinate cases of constipation. Stewed fruit, especially figs and prunes, may be freely used. Lecture VI. Anaemia and Gout The great cure for anaemia is iron and fresh air—sea air, if possible—and highly concentrated animal food. The best food is underdone red meat, and the most appetizing and digestible way of cooking this is to grill small pieces of the best steak or good loin chops. Roast meat which has been roasted in front of the fire is admirable, and so is the gravy which comes from the meat when it is being carved. Hare soup and game may be given, but not white meat or poultry. A great deal may also be done by inducing the patient to eat raw scraped sandwiches, which should be carefully prepared, and so should raw beef tea, without his 6—2INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 84 knowledge, and disguised as much as possible according to the directions given. Gout—In catering for a gouty patient, all food which is too stimulating must be avoided. It is best to avoid most foods which produce uric acid, as beef, liver, etc. Too much tea, coffee, and meat extracts are also bad, and it will be well to limit the diet to one compound, mainly of vegetables, eggs, and milk. A spare diet is best, and no alcohol should be taken, except, perhaps, a little whisky. Good marrow on toast is nourishing, and, if the real thing, and not the slices of beef fat sold at some restaurants under the name, is both nourishing and appetizing. Raw eggs or poached eggs are good, and preparations of cheese. Lecture VII. Beverages for Sickness In nearly all the above diseases the patient is more or less affected by terrible thirst. Milk food, unless diluted with water or soda-water, has a very cloying effect on the palate. All drinks should be given under the doctor’s orders, as in some cases fruit drinks will be forbidden. They should be made from very fresh fruit, and should never be kept long before being given, as any sign of fermentation might be very bad in its effects. They should never be made very sweet. In icing them, if this is allowed, it is best to place the vessel containing them on to ice, and not put the ice into them, as very often the microbe which has been destroyed by using boiled water may be present in a numb state in the ice, and when thawed may be very dangerous to the patient in his weak state.85 DIET IN DISEASES Lecture VlII. More Elaborate Dishes for Convalescence In this last lecture almost any dishes which are digestible and not highly seasoned may be introduced, and for the typical demonstration I have indicated four which I always find are great favourites with people whose appetite is returning. Chops may also be given grilled with a really well-roasted potato and some properly made bread sauce. In demonstrations such as the above a great deal may be done by having the recipes typed out before- hand, and these sold at a moderate sum at the end of the course. Very few people can carry an immense number of recipes in their heads, even when they are constantly cooking. Most people will agree that nurses form a keenly appreciative audience, and many of them may find that a thorough knowledge of invalid cooking is of inestimable value if they either intend to take up private nursing or to embark on the more lucrative undertaking of a nursing home. Of course, the above- suggested syllabus in no way exhausts the subject of invalid cookery, but it claims to be fairly representative of the different kinds of diet required. RECIPES FOR THE DISHES FOR DEMONSTRATION Baked Flour—Place a sheet of white paper on to a baking tin. Spread some flour on this, and place in the oven till a pale fawn colour all over. If it shows signs of browning at the edges, remove the flour and spread it evenly again. Rub it carefully through a fine wire sieve.INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 86 Mix 2 teaspoonfuls with a little cold milk, and place the amount necessary to fill a small teacup in a white pan. Warm this, and mix it with the flour and cold milk. Return all to the pan and boil up. Strain and serve. Beef Tea—Place about £ lb. of shin of beef cut up finely into about J pint of cold water. Allow this to stand for i hour. Place in a jam jar, and stand it in a pan of boiling water. Cover up closely, and allow to cook for 5 or 6 hours. Strain, and give to the patient when desired. A little salt may be added. Raw Beef Tea—£ lb. steak, £ pint of cold boiled water, pinch of salt. Scrape the meat down the grain as fine as possible. Put in a jar, and pour on the water. Cover closely, and allow it to stand for 2 hours. Strain it, add the salt, and serve in a covered invalid drinking cup or a coloured glass. Wine Jelly—Put £ oz. of gelatine in a pint of water the night Tefore making the jelly, with the thinly-pared rind of 4 lemons. Add 12 oz. of sugar. Squeeze into a pint measure the juice of 4 lemons, a glass and a half of brandy, and some orange flavouring, and fill up with sherry or marsala. Place in a delicately clean brass pan. Beat the whites of two eggs very stiffly, and beat into the jelly. Boil up for a few minutes. Pass through a jelly bag wrung out of boiling water. Pass through again if it is not clear, and put into a clean mould just rinsed with cold water. Turn out by just dipping the mould in boiling water for a second or two. Gluten Bread—1 lb. gluten flour, 4 eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. yeast, about £ pint lukewarm water.DIET IN DISEASES 87 Put the yeast into the warm water when liquid. Work it into the flour. Add the eggs well beaten and the butter melted. Knead till quite smooth. Put in a warm place and allow to rise 1 hour. Shape it into loaves, and allow to rise 10 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Almond Meal Biscuits — Mix 4 oz. almond meal, 2 tablespoonfuls of specially ground bran, 1 oz. creamed butter, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 egg, and about a tablespoonful of milk. The Preparation of Fruits for Diabetic Patients— The fruits suitable are cherries, gooseberries, plums, blackberries, and cranberries. Wash the fruit, place in a pan, bring to a boil, and throw away that water. Put into fresh, cold water and stew till tender. A little of Callard’s prepared glycerine may be added. Omelette Souffle—Separate the whites and yolks of 3 eggs. Beat the whites till very stiff. Stir gradually into the beaten yolks. Make about 2 oz. of butter very hot in an omelette pan (aluminium or steel are the best), and place on a gas ring, stirring all the time. When brown underneath, hold in front of the fire till brown on the top, or place a very hot shovel on the top. This may be served with cream or Devonshire cream. Barley Water—Wash 2 oz. of pearl barley in cold water. Put it into a clean enamelled saucepan and bring to a boil. Boil 5 minutes, and pour off the water. Pour on to it 2 quarts of boiling water, and place in a pan with the thinly peeled coated rind of 1 lemon. When reduced to about a quart, add the strained juice of the lemon and allow to stand till cold. The lemon juice may be omitted if it is to be added to milk.INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 88 Blancmange—2 oz. gelatine, 1 pint cream, 1 pint milk, 3 oz. loaf sugar. Place the gelatine in the milk. When soft, place in a delicately clean pan on the fire till melted. Add the sugar; stir till it is dissolved. Whip the cream, and when the milk and gelatine are cool, but not setting, pour in the cream, and stir occasionally till cold. Pour into a wet mould, and when set turn out. Essence of cinnamon or essence of ginger may be added as a flavouring, as they are both useful as aids to digestion. Junket—1 pint milk. Sugar to taste. Rum or brandy (omit if not allowed). One teaspoonful essence of rennet. Warm the milk and sugar till it is about 98° F. Add the spirits and stir in the rennet. Place in a glass dish, and leave till set. It may be dusted over with powdered cinnamon or nutmeg, and if cream is allowed, it may be served with either Devonshire cream or raw cream. N.B.—The milk must never be allowed to boil. Custard Pudding—\ pint milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful sugar. Beat the egg well. Warm the milk and sugar, and pour it on to the eggs. Stir, and pour in a greased pie dish. Bake in a moderate oven till set. Albumin Water—Beat the white of 1 egg to destroy the membranes. Pass through a canvas bag, and add a little less than J pint of cold boiled water. Add a squeeze of lemon if allowed, and give in cases of great exhaustion. Baked Apple Pulp—Wipe some fine sound apples (Keswicks are the best). Place them on a flat china proof dish in the oven. Allow to bake till soft.89 DIET IN DISEASES Remove all cores and pips and skin, and place the pulp in a glass cup, after beating it well. A tiny squeeze of lemon may be added. Mashed Potato Puree—Specially for patients suf- fering from dysentery. Steam some potatoes or bake them in their skins. Rub them to a mash, and then beat well with a wooden spoon. Add a little hot milk and butter and a very little salt (no pepper). Beat well, and serve heaped on a plate very hot. Arrowroot—Milk may be used instead of water. One teaspoonful of arrowroot, \ pint of water, a little brandy. Mix the arrowroot with a little of the water. Boil the rest, and pour it on. Return to the pan and boil. Add the brandy, and serve at once. Stewed Fruit—The excellence of stewed fruit depends largely on the pan or jar used. An enamelled lined saucepan is the best, or a jar with a closely fitting lid. The sugar and water should always be well boiled first and skimmed, and the fruit put into this. Then the fruit must only be allowed to simmer gently. When it is stewed it should be lifted out, and the juice further reduced by boiling. Dried fruits such as figs, prunes, apricots, raisins, should be soaked over night, and then allowed to come to a boil in that water, and then the water should be drained away and a further syrup made in the above way, in which it should be simmered till done. Porridge—Put a quart of cold water in a pan with 1 teaspoonful of salt. When it boils sprinkle in about 5 oz. of oatmeal, stirring all the time. Boil gently for \ hour, stirring it often.90 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY It may be placed in a stew pan of boiling water, and allowed to simmer for another hour. Pour into hot plates, and serve with milk or cream or treacle. Grilled Steak—The filleted steak is the best, and only the finest English meat should be used in cases of anaemia. Beat the steak well with a rolling-pin, and grill quickly over a clear fire, using a gridiron made hot and greased with suet. Turn frequently, but do not use a fork, but steak tongs, as it is necessary to preserve the gravy. The gravy which drains away may be mixed with i teaspoonful of Anchovy sauce, \ teaspoonful of Wor- cester sauce, and I teaspoonful of vinegar, and this may be made thick and poured over the steak. Grilled Chop —Take a nice loin chop. Trim off a good deal of the fat, and if necessary skewer it up. Wipe and make the gridiron hot, and grease the bar with a piece of mutton fat. Dip the chop into boiling water just to set the outside. Place on the gridiron, and turn every 2 minutes. Place on a hot dish. Bread Sauce—J pint milk, 1 clove, J oz. butter, 1 onion, 2 oz. of bread crumbs. Peel and slit the onion. Place in a pan with the milk. Simmer till tender. Strain on to the bread crumbs and butter. Put back into the pan, and stir until it thickens. Marrow on Toast—Obtain a good-sized marrow bone from the butcher, or sometimes it is given in with a piece of bony beef. Cover the end of the bone with flour-and-water crust. Place in a pan with cold water and salt. Bring to a boil, and allow to cook for about 10 minutes. Remove the bone, and then take off the pastry from9i DIET IN DISEASES the end. Scoop out the marrow, and lay it on pieces of dry, hot toast. Serve with good black pepper and salt. Raw Scraped Meat Sandwiches—Buy some good steak. Beat it well. Scrape the meat with a knife held at right angles to it. Butter some very thin slices of well-toasted bread, allow to get cold. Spread this with either anchovy paste or Patum Peperium. Spread thickly with the meat pulp. Place another slice on the top, and press down. Serve neatly on a nice dish with a dish paper on it. These may be taken with a glass of red Australian Burgundy once or twice during the day, or just before going to’bed. Spinach with Poached Egg—Wash and pick some spinach. Put a very little water with some salt and a pinch of soda into a large enamelled pan. Bring to a boil, and put in the spinach. Cook, stirring all the time. Drain, and serve with a poached egg on the top. Poached Egg—Break a perfectly fresh egg into a cup. Have ready a shallow wide pan of boiling water with some salt in it. Slip the egg into the water and draw the pan back, and allow the egg to remain 2 or 3 minutes. Remove with a fish slice and place,-on toast, or, as above, on spinach. Lemonade — 1 large lemon, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, f pint of boiling water. Scrub the lemon well. Peel the lemon very finely, and place it in a jug with the sugar. Then add the strained lemon juice. Pour on the boiling water, and let it stand until quite cold. Strain, and it is ready. If allowed to stand too long it will be bitter. Some people think that a better flavour is obtained92 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY by rubbing the sugar on the lemons to extract the essential oil. A very little citric acid or cream of tartar may be used as well if liked. Orangeade—The juice of i tangerine orange, the juice of i large orange, the juice of i lemon. Squeeze these through a strainer and add i teaspoonful of sugar. Pour over them i pint of boiling water. Drink hot or cold. Apple Water—Peel and slice 3 large sour cooking apples. Place in a jar with 2 cloves, the rind and juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of sugar, and 1 pint of water. Stand the jar in a pan of boiling water, and allow to cook very gently for 1 hour. Strain, and serve cold. Toast and Water—Take a slice of bread. Toast it well on all sides till a rich dark brown. Place in a jug, and pour on it cold water. Allow to stand, and then strain off. Cold Tea—China tea is the best for this. Make the teapot very hot. Put 2 teaspoonfuls of tea to a pint of fast-boiling water. Allow to stand 4 minutes. Pour off through a strainer, and allow to get cold. Serve with a slice of lemon in it. Fish Steamed in White Wine—Fillet some fish, and place it in a pie dish with some white wine, pepper- corns, and a little salt and lemon, cover with greased paper, and allow it to cook for 15 minutes. Serve with a little parsley and yolk of egg sieved. Scalloped Oysters—1 dozen oysters, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, J pint oyster liquor and milk mixed, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream; salt, pepper, lemon juice, and cayenne. (Omit pepper if necessary.) Remove the beards from the oysters. Make a thick white sauce. Add the flour and then the liquid veryDIET IN DISEASES 93 gradually. Add the seasoning. Cook very well, stirring all the time. When cool add the cream and the oysters, and place in little greased china moulds or shells. Sprinkle with bread crumbs which have been browned with a little butter in the oven, and place for a few minutes in the oven. Sweetbreads in White Sauce—Wash them in cold water. Place them in a pan of cold water with a little salt and a squeeze of lemon juice. Bring to a boil, and throw away the water. Place them in a pan with a little well-flavoured white stock, and stew very gently for about J hour. Melt i oz. of butter in a pan. Add i oz. of flour and about \ pint of the stock they have been stewed in, and well mix. Flavour with lemon and cayenne and salt, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. If liked, oysters may be added, and in that case the oyster liquor may be added to the stock to make up the required amount of liquid. Lambs’ sweetbreads may be cooked in a similar way. Savoury Jelly—1 lb. shin of beef, 1 quart water, 1 onion, 1 piece of celery, 1 clove, salt, 2 or 3 pepper- corns, and a bouquet of herbs. Cut up the meat and place in the water. Allow to stand for 1 hour. Place in a jar in a pan of boiling water. Cover closely, and stew for 4 or 5 hours. Add the vegetables, and cook for another hour. Strain, season, and add a little port wine or marsala. Allow to grow cold. Remove the fat, and it will be found a thick jelly. Serve after placing on ice.94 CHAPTER VIII INFANT-FEEDING IN view of the terrible mortality among infants, many education authorities are anxious to place in their syllabus of domestic economy some lessons to elder girls on this very important duty which falls to the lot of most women. Milk—It cannot be too strongly impressed on all women that the woman who does not nurse her child herself, if she is able to do so, is not doing her duty by the child. If, however, she is unable to do this, artificial feeding must be resorted to. Fresh Cow’s Milk is the best food for children in lieu of their natural nourishment. As this forms too hard a clot in the stomach of the child, it is found that the addition of barley water or lime water lessens the toughness of the clot and makes it more digestible, and this is espe- cially true in the case of lime water. For the first month boiled milk may be mixed with twice as much barley water or plain water, or water and lime water mixed. Cream and sugar must also be added. The best way of adding cream is to put, say, i pint of milk into two tumblers, and cover it with muslin, in a cool place, and when the cream has risen add the cream from one tumbler to the other, and warm up the mixed milk and cream together till just boiling.INFANT FEEDING 95 Add a little sugar and the proper amount of lime water and barley water, and give J pint every 2 hours. Feed a baby up to the end of the first month with the above proportions. After one month and up to three months give an equal part of water and milk prepared as above—J pint every 2 hours, and twice during the night. Increase the amount of milk in proportion from six to nine months,and until the child is taking plain,sweetened milk, the cream may still be added, as a deficiency of fat is often the accompaniment of artificial feeding. Feed at first every 3J hours, and then every 4 hours. SUMMARY OF ABOVE Age Amount Time From birth to 1 month 1 to 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months J- pint of liquid con- taining 1 milk and § barley water, or lime water and plain water J pint of half milk, half barley water, or water and lime water, with cream and sugar 2 parts milk and 1 part lime water, with cream and sugar Plain milk with cream and sugar Every 2 hours. Twice during night. Every 2 hours. Twice during night. Every 3^ hours. Once during night. Every 4 hours. Barley Water for Babies—Wash 2 teaspoonfuls of pearl barley in hot water. Put into a pint of cold water, and simmer gently till only two-thirds of a pint Strain96 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY and use. Keep in a cool place. Make daily, and in hot weather twice a day, as it ferments very quickly. Lime Water—Slake a piece of freshly burnt lime about the size of an orange with cold water. Put the crumbled lime in a gallon jar, and fill up with water. Shake well, allow it to settle, and throw away the first water. Fill up with cold boiled water, shake, cork, and use after it has been allowed to stand 24 hours. Do not expose to the air. Condensed Milk—There are three kinds of con- densed milk : 1. Unsweetened and condensed whole milk. 2. Sweetened and condensed whole milk. 3. Sweetened and condensed skim milk. Among the first are the Viking and Ideal brands. They are all made by evaporating about two-thirds of the water in the milk, and then hermetically sealing it in tins. The disadvantage of these is that they go bad very soon after opening the lids. In the sweetened kinds a good deal of cane sugar is added, which is not good for a baby, and the result is that children fed on it very often become flabby. The third kind, the con- densed separated or skim milks, are entirely unsuited to a baby’s diet. Condensed milk is rather more digestible than cow’s milk, owing to the great dilution with water in its preparation for food. It is largely patronized as a food for infants by poor people, but it is really very expensive, as the following calculations will show : A tin costing 5jd. contains \ pint of condensed milk. This is diluted with 1 pint of water, and makes 1J pints of liquid. The best dairy milk is only 4d. for 2 pints. Another disadvantage of condensed milk is that in97 INFANT-FEEDING process of manufacture it is supposed to lose some of its antiscorbutic properties, and that is thought to be the reason why babies fed on condensed milk so often show symptoms of scurvy. With regard to patent foods, care must be taken not to give those containing any starch before a year old, and they none of them possess any advantage over con- densed milks, and should never be used if fresh cow’s milk is to be got. Too much cannot be said as to the great injury which is done to children by giving them unsuitable food. No child can digest starch before its first teeth appear, and therefore it is absolutely wrong to give it rice pudding, which to the uneducated mind sounds so innofcuous. There is no limit to the extraordinary articles of food which are pressed on babies to keep them quiet. After children are weaned—that is to say, about ten months old—they may be given eggs, bread crumbs, butter, and oatmeal, with a liberal supply of milk. Oatmeal with milk is a valuable source of flesh-forming food and of fat for children, and it has, moreover, the advantage of being very cheap. Suet pudding and crust also presents fat in a very digestible form. Bread dipped in bacon fat is good, and so is cocoa made with milk. Cleanliness—Want of cleanliness is accountable for a great deal of disease and mortality among children. A lesson might well be devoted to the cleansing and scalding of feeding-bottles and corks and teats. No feeding-bottle with a tube should be used. The use of the “ comfys, ” which spoil the shape of children’s mouths, and are a perfect breeding-ground for disease germs, especially for summer diarrhoea, is very bad. All the children should be shown how^to bring the 7INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY 98 water containing the bottles and teats up to a boil, and leave them in it to get cold. The milk jugs and vessels, too, in which any food is kept should be scrupulously clean, and covered with washable muslin. Children should not be allowed to suck anything that is handy, as they are usually allowed to do. The sterilizing of milk, and washing and dressing of the baby, shown on a toy doll, often proves a useful and instructive lesson, and one in which the children are very keenly interested.CHAPTER IX 7—2 99 EVENING CONTINUATION SCHOOLS FOR a long time the Evening Continuation School was, as far as a great many cookery classes were concerned, merely an excuse for a little play, and the pupils did not trouble to learn much except sweets and cakes. But lately the introduction of fees has ensured a more earnest kind of student. The fact that they are willing and able to pay gives a great scope to the teacher in the preparation and working of her syllabus. As time goes on, and the girls in the day-school receive a thorough grounding in the principles of cookery, a better result may be obtained in the evening classes. In the present arrangements a short demonstration, followed by a practice, is usual. If a teacher is deft and quick, and prepares a certain amount beforehand, she can generally manage to demonstrate two dishes in half an hour. I do not say cook them, but the actual finishing can only be shown during the practice class to the girls. It is by no means uncommon for a whole class from a girls’ club to come to a centre or engage a teacher for one evening a week. In that case the teacher may be helped, or very seriously handicapped, by the presence of the secretary or visitors. She must be veryIOO INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY strict as to the number allowed, and as to the proper registration of the girls. It is wonderful how very slow people are to see the necessity for keeping rules; but if a teacher gives in and endangers the grant, she will always have to take the blame. At one time, when a class such as the above came, it was considered quite allowable for one girl to personate another and answer to her name for one evening, so that the numbers should be kept up and the grant paid. Another difficulty is that every student objects to clear- ing up, and they are often far more untidy about their work than day-students (perhaps to some extent owing to the artificial light); hence a teacher requires great tact and firmness in enforcing neatness and order. The students cannot be governed as children can be: they must be led. With regard to the syllabus taught, it must be re- membered that the students have been working all day, and the lesson must be stimulating and attractive. Everything should be complete and properly dished, and this is easier to manage than in a day-school, as the girls have probably a great idea of how things should look. Simple garnishes should be encouraged, and cut tissue paper, or even kitchen paper, used where bought dish papers are prohibited. The demonstrations might be alternated with short lectures on stoves, prices of meat, suitable parts to be bought for certain purposes. One lecture on infant feeding might also be given, and two practical demon- strations on invalid cookery (see chapters on these). I do not think it easy for the students to prepare three-course dinners, as the time is so limited; but some combination of dishes can be practised with vegetables, if care is taken in the selection of these.EVENING CONTINUATION SCHOOLS ioi A suggested syllabus is the following: Lesson. 1. Pastry (short) 2. Cakes 3. Soup and stocks 4. Baked meat, potatoes, Yorkshire pudding 5. Flaky pastry 6. Revision of above 7. Frying, shallow ,, deep 8. Seasonable dishes or jam-making 9. Warming up meat 10. Stewing 11. Invalid cookery 12. Infant’s food 13. Boiled and steamed puddings 14. Baked puddings 15. Dishes suitable for high tea or supper 16. Breakfast dishes 17. Making and baking gingerbread and larger cakes 18. Yeast, soda 19. Invalid cookery Practical Illustration. Fruit pies, tarts. Cakes made by rubbing in the fat and by creaming the fat. Bone stock, potato soup, or pea soup. Ditto. Patties, sausage rolls. Meat pies. Pancakes. Fish cakes. Mincemeat, jam, pickles, marmalade, etc. Curry, shepherd’s pie. Tripe, stewed steak, rabbit. Beef tea, custard puddings, arrowroot. Barley water, lime water. Plum pudding or college pudding, cheap cabinet pudding. Apple charlotte, baked batter, apple dumplings. Baked herrings, kedgeree, macaroni cheese. Porridge, bacon and eggs, sausages. Tea cakes, scones. Steamed fish and sauce, orange jelly. Evening classes coming from a girls’ club have generally some exhibition or competition in view. Flaky pastry, stiffened moulds of fruit or blancmange,102 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY steamed plum puddings, fried articles egged and bread- crumbed, bread, and cakes, are the most portable and easily dished up. They also find a ready sale. Good Yorkshire tea cakes always take immensely in the South. Note-Books—There is always a tendency where these are allowed for them to degenerate into mere recipe books, a practice which is severely condemned by the Government inspectors. It is a good plan to have the recipes written out, or printed and mounted on cards, and let these be used on the tables, and collected, and used over and over again, as.it is most important to train people to work from printed recipes. The note-books should contain small points not always given in recipes, and, though every teacher ought to prepare her own black- board sketch for her own lessons, a few sketches of the sort of entry which is likely to be of most use to the pupils are given below. Pastry—Keep everything very cool, using a knife as much as possible. Handle lightly and mix very dry. Roll lightly. Bake in a very quick oven. Mixing of Cakes—In cakes where the butter is in greater proportion to the flour, J lb. butter to I lb. flour. The butter is creamed, and then beaten with the sugar. The eggs must be beaten, and beaten in gradually, to prevent curdling ; and, lastly, the flour and fruit must be stirred in lightly. Baking of Cakes—Small cakes require a quick oven. Large cakes require a moderate oven. Line tins for large cakes with paper, and place these on a tin filled with salt to prevent the bottom of the cakes burning.EVENING CONTINUATION SCHOOLS 103 Place a sheet of paper on the top of the cake if too brown. Frying—Frying is cooking in smoking hot fat. There are two kinds of frying—shallow frying, deep frying. Have the fat smoking hot and quite still. Do not put too much in at once. Heat up the fat between each batch. Drain on soft paper. If a coating of egg and crumb is used, use very fine dry crumbs. Shallow frying is more wasteful than deep frying. Mediums used—dripping, lard, oil, butter. Dripping is the best. Lard smells, oil spits, and the butter burns too quickly. DRASTIC METHODS OF CLEANING It sometimes happens that a teacher is sent to take charge of a centre in which the apparatus and fittings have been very much neglected, and which, perhaps, will require a very great deal of labour before the place can be restored to the high standard of cleanliness which she would like to see. The following hints may be of service to her. To clean a Furred Copper—Dip the brush in and out of the spirits of salt, and scrub the copper from the sides to the bottom. The fur will dissolve off with efferves- cence. The operator must refrain from inhaling the fumes as much as possible, as they irritate the throat and lungs. After the fur has been removed, fill the copper with the strongest soda water, and empty it gradually. Scrub it with Sapolio. The soda will check the action of the acid, and the Sapolio will polish it. This spirits of salt may be used to clean the enamel104 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY at the top of a gas stove which has been very much neglected, and to remove jam which has been burnt on the side of a china-lined preserving pan. It is quick and effectual, but very dangerous if left in improper hands, and should only be employed when other methods are out of the question. Neglected White Wood—If hard water and soap- suds have been badly smeared on tables and dressers, instead of properly washing them, the best way is to take a plain block of wood and a piece of very coarse sand paper, and work this across the grain of the wood, changing the sand paper as it is worn out. This method may be used for removing the traces of burns and chemicals on wood. It is quicker and easier and cheaper than scrubbing with sand or soap. Inkstains on Boards—These may be quickly removed with hot chloride of lime, and then rinsed off. Put about 2 tablespoonfuls of chloride of lime in an old jar (it injures the glaze of good crockery). Pour on to this some fast-boiling water. Scrub the stains with it, and rinse off. This will also remove fruit stains, such as black currant. The whole table should be lightly washed with the solution, or the marks of it will show yellow. It may then be washed with vinegar and water. Paraffin and soft soap may be used for neglected light-coloured paint, but if an outside door is weather stained it is best simply to clean it with a paraffin rag. The following is a trade receipt for cleaning floors which have been much neglected. This will remove paint and oil-stains : Take i part of caustic soda, 3 parts American potash, and 7 parts common soda; mix with boiling water, and apply very quickly. Rinse off intoEVENING CONTINUATION SCHOOLS 105 clean water. The liquid is very destructive to brushes and the hands. Galvanized Iron Pails and Baths—Rub well with a rag dipped in paraffin, and then with powdered brick- dust. Polish with dry brick-dust. Benzoline and petrol may be used in the same way, but these can only be safely used in a room in which there is no artificial light, or in the open air in the shade. They have the advantage of being quicker than paraffin, but are out of the question unless used by a very careful person. Petrol should never be thrown down drains, but poured on to the outside earth.106 CHAPTER X CONCLUSION THIS little book has been intended as a manual for young teachers, and to help them in their work. It is as important for a cookery teacher to keep up to date as for anyone else. She can do a great deal by occasionally taking short courses of cookery, by reading books, and by dining out at various restaurants. A good training will generally ensure that she is able to pick up ideas, and to grasp how things are made. She should notice various improvements made in stoves and in labour-saving appliances, and she must, above all, be very adaptable. The teaching of domestic subjects has gained ground considerably during the past ten years. The salary offered by most local authorities does not compare un- favourably with the salaries offered for other subjects, and there is always a reasonable prospect of employ- ment by local education authorities for a teacher who possesses diplomas for cookery teaching and house- wifery. Two of these should be first class, and when it is remembered that the students who obtain second- class diplomas in these subjects are in a very small minority in respect of the number trained, it will be seen that there must be a wide difference among the first class. This proves that a girl with average in-CONCLUSION 107 telligence and a good general education will always be able to obtain the required qualifications. In the higher appointments open to domestic economy teachers of experience, it will be a great addi- tional qualification if a candidate can show certificates of having passed some recognized examination standard^ such as the London Matriculation or the Cambridge Local Examinations, or, better still, possesses a degree. In the near future it will be easy to judge whether the introduction of the joint or combined diploma for domestic subjects will be an advantage to the pro- fession at large or not. A girl who wishes to train for these diplomas must be of fair physical capacity, able to speak and write clearly, and a knowledge of black- board drawing will be of great advantage in this as in any other subject. The profession divides itself into three classes of teachers: 1. Those who work in training-schools for training teachers of domestic economy, and who also give lessons to adults desirous of obtaining dexterity in the art of cookery. 2. Those who teach the children in elementary and secondary schools. 3. The peripatetic teacher. It is well to bear in mind which branch one will do well to take up, as special qualities are necessary in each. In a training-school it is necessary to have a marked talent for governing, for criticizing without discouraging others, and also to have considerable technical skill in the domestic arts themselves. The salaries paid in most training-schools are not so good as under the education authorities, except in the case of the head teachers; and there is a growing tendency, too, toINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY io8 appoint the lady principals of training-schools from the happy possessors of degrees, and with no domestic subjects qualifications at all. The peripatetic teacher requires a bright manner, good health, a power of making headway against the disadvantages of makeshifts of all kinds, and an insight into the wants and tastes of those she teaches. But the successful teacher of children requires unfailing patience, tact, and all those qualities portrayed in the chapters devoted to the ideal teacher in books on Method. But besides, the domestic economy teacher wants an insight into the terrible effects of improper feeding on the English race, the way in which food may be pre- pared so as to satisfy the craving for alcohol, and the needs of her neighbourhood. She should try to make herself acquainted with the standard works on certain social problems, such as Charles Booth’s 4 Life and Labour of the People of London,’ Mrs. Bosanquet’s ‘ The Standard of Life ’ and ‘ The Strength of the People,’ and a charming little book called ‘ The Queen’s Poor,’ by Miss Loame. I have mentioned these books because it is all-important for a teacher to have a literary knowledge of social problems and the many suggested solutions. But what is far better than reading is for the student to gain some insight into the homes of her pupils by personal visits to them, or by going a round or two with a district nurse; and while the lady of the house is pouring forth her woes, she may look at the stoves used. The few cooking utensils are generally well in view (especially the ubiquitous frying-pan). Owing to the untiring efforts of those in authority to produce a really good syllabus, it is generally becomingCONCLUSION iog possible to refute the charges that expensive savouries alone are taught to cottagers, and that nothing but the making of rock cakes is taught in the elementary schools. It has been suggested it would not be a bad thing for domestic economy students in training to have a district in the poorer parts of the town assigned to them, much as is done with the men at the ‘ clergy ’ schools’. They could be told the rents paid, and the wages earned in certain districts and callings in life; or, again, they might be attached to a lady sanitary in- spector, and accompany her on some of her rounds. I recommend these methods, as the poor differ so in different districts, and so few students trained in the provinces have any idea of the conditions which prevail in London, and vice versa. The Irish poor differ so much from the English poor ; the Scotch, again, are totally different, and it is very difficult for any girl coming straight from a training- school, say, in the North of Scotland to at once grasp the conditions of life under which London children are living. The clergy of the Church or any other minister would help her much, so would the Charity Organiza- tion Society, if properly approached, and a few minutes’ conversation with the head teachers of the schools which form the classes come in for instruction will teach her a great deal more. These problems cannot be grasped in a day, but it is certainly worth a cookery teacher’s while to study them, and, moreover, it is essential if her teaching is to be of any practical value, and if she is to make her teaching useful to those among whom she110 APPENDIX EXTRACT FROM THE REGULATIONS FOR THE TEACHING OF SPECIAL SUBJECTS [Quoted from the Board of Education 1907 Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools in England, by special permission of the Controller of His Majesty’s Stationery Office.] DOMESTIC SUBJECTS 15. Every scholar attending* a Course of instruction must be registered in that Course at its beginning, and no scholar may be added during the progress of the Course. Individual scholars may be allowed to attend particular lessons of a Course in which they are not registered if they have missed the corresponding lessons in other Courses in which they are duly registered, provided that their attendance does not increase the number present at any lesson beyond the limits specified by Rules 19 (<b) or 23 (b) of these Regulations. Such attendances must be entered in a supplementary list and may not be reckoned for purposes of grant in either Course. 16. Each lesson should, if possible, include both demonstration and practical work. When demonstration and practical work are not combined in one lesson, the practical work for all the scholars must be given within eight days of the demonstration lesson to which it is related, unless this is prevented by the School being closed for a special holiday, in which case alternative arrangements must be submitted as soon as possible for the approval of the Inspector. 17. Where any practical lesson is repeated in order to comply with Rules 19 (b) and 23 (b), the hours spent in such repetition must not be taken into account towards the total number of hours constituting the course, and no attendance may be reckoned for a scholar at a repeated lesson if she has attended the original.APPENDIX hi 18. No scholar may be registered in more than one Course in any one subject during the same Special Subjects Year, with the exception that girls over thirteen years of age at the beginning of the Special Subjects Year, who have not previously received any instruction in Cookery, may be registered in not more than two Courses in that subject, which must not be concurrent, during one such year. Cookery and Laundry Work. 19. (a) Every Course in Cookery must provide for not less than 48 hours, and every Course in Laundry Work for not less than 24 hours’ instruction. Not less than half the time provided by the Course must be assigned to practical work by the scholars with their own hands. (<b) The scholars registered in any Course may not exceed 54 in number for a Cookery, and 42 for a Laundry Work Course. At practical work a class for Cookery must not exceed 18 scholars, and for Laundry Work 14. After July 31, 1908, the number of scholars who may be registered in a Cookery or Laundry Work Course will be reduced to 18, and the number of scholars who may be instructed in a class at practical Laundry Work will be increased to 18. This Regulation may, with the approval of the Board, be brought into operation in the case of any Course beginning after August 1, 1907. (e) The scholars registered in any Course must be girls who are over eleven years of age at the date of the first lesson, with the exception that not more than one-sixth of the registered scholars may be girls who are between the ages of ten and eleven at the date of the first lesson, if it is shown to the Board that such an arrangement is desirable in any case in view of the organization of the ordinary school-work. (d) With the special sanction of the Board, boys in seaport towns over twelve years of age may be registered in a Cookery Course. 20. (a) A teacher will be regarded as qualified to give instruction in Cookery to scholars in Public Elementary Schools, either in Centre Courses or in School Courses, if either— (i.) she holds a Full Diploma for Cookery recognized under the Regulations for the Recognition by112 INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY the Board of Education of Diplomas awarded by Training Schools in Domestic Subjects ; or (ii.) she holds a Full Diploma for Cookery awarded by the Board ; or (iii.) she has been recognized under previous Codes as possessing a Full Diploma for Cookery. (<b) A Certificated Teacher on the ordinary staff of a Public Elementary School will be regarded as qualified to give instruction in Cookery to the scholars of that school if either— (i.) she holds a Limited Diploma for Cookery re- cognized under the Regulations for the Recogni- tion by the Board of Education of Diplomas awarded by Training Schools in Domestic Sub- jects ; or (ii.) she holds a Limited Diploma for Cookery awarded by the Board; or (iii.) she has been recognized under previous Codes as possessing a Limited Diploma for Cookery. (c) A teacher will be regarded as qualified to give instruction in Laundry Work to scholars in Public Elementary Schools, either in Centre Courses or in School Courses, if either— (i.) she holds a Diploma for Laundry Work recognized under the Regulations for the Recognition by the Board of Education of Diplomas awarded by Training Schools in Domestic Subjects ; or (ii.) she holds a Diploma for Laundry Work awarded by the Board ; or (iii.) she has been recognized under previous Codes as possessing a Diploma for Laundry Work. 21. (a) A Course will not be considered as eligible for grant unless the average attendance is not less that 75 per cent, of the number of scholars registered in the Course. (b) The average attendance will be found by dividing the total number of hours attended by registered scholars by the number of hours of instruction provided for in the Course (see Rule 17). (c) If a Course is eligible for grant, grant will be payable at the rate of 4s. in the case of a Cookery Course, and 2s. inAPPENDIX 8 ”3 the case of a Laundry Work Course, on account of each scholar registered in the Course. Combined Domestic Subjects. 22. A Course of instruction in Combined Domestic Subjects must include Cookery, Laundry Work and Housewifery. Such a Course must provide for at least 100 hours’ instruction, and may provide for any higher multiple of 10 hours up to 200 hours. About 40 per cent, of the time provided by the Course should be assigned to Cookery, about 20 per cent, to Laundry Work, and about 40 per cent to Housewifery. In each of these subjects at least half the time must be given to practical work by "the scholars with their own hands. 23. (a) Scholars registered in a Course in Combined Domestic Subjects must, as a rule, have previously undergone at least one full Course of instruction in both Cookery and Laundry Work, but this condition may be relaxed in cases in which the equipment of the Centre and the syllabus of instruction have been specially approved by the Board. (b) The number of scholars registered in a course must not exceed 42. For practical work the class must not exceed fourteen in number. After July 31, 1908, the number of scholars who may be registered in a Course in Combined Domestic Subjects will be reduced to eighteen, and the number of scholars who may be taught in a class for practical work will be increased to the same number. This Regulation may, with the approval of the Board, be brought into operation in the case of any Course beginning after August 1, 1907. (c) The scholars registered in a Course in Combined Domestic Subjects must be girls who are over twelve years of age at the date of the first lesson, with the exception that not more than one-sixth of the registered scholars may be girls who are between the ages of eleven and twelve at the date of the first lesson, if it is shown to the Board that such an arrangement is desirable in any case in view of the organization of the ordinary school-work. 24. A teacher will be regarded as qualified to give instruction in Combined Domestic Subjects to scholars in Public ElementaryINSTRUCTION IN COOKERY JI4 Schools, either in Centre Courses or in School Courses, if either— (i.) she holds a Diploma in Combined Domestic Subjects recognized under the Regulations for the Recognition by the Board of Education of Diplomas awarded by Training Schools in Domestic Subjects ; or (ii.) she holds Diplomas in Cookery, Laundry Work, and Housewifery, which have either been awarded by the Board or have been recognized by the Board either under the above-mentioned Regulations or under previous Codes. 25. Grant will be payable on account of each registered scholar who has attended during not less than 80 per cent, of the hours of instruction in the Course ; this grant will be at the rate of 7s. 6d. if these are not more than 100, and will be increased proportionately up to 15s. if a longer Course is given. 26. No girl who is registered in a Course for Combined Domestic Subjects in any Special Subjects Year may also be registered in a Cookery or Laundry Work Course during the same year.INDEX Accounts, 41 Albumin water, 88 Anaemia, 83 Appendicitis, 82 Apples, baked pulp, 88 Arrowroot, 88 Baked flour, 85 Baking bread and pastry, 47 Baking-powder, 28 Barley water for babies, 95 for invalids, 87 Beef, raw, 86 Beef-tea, 86 Beverages for sickness, 84 Blancmange, 88 Boiling, 49 Bread, brown, 24 lesson, 19 soda, 28 white, 24 York brown, 29 Budgets, weekly, 32 Cheese dishes, 72 Chestnuts, 73 Chopping, 48 Cleaning boards, 104 copper, 103 pails, 104 Clerical work, 39 Constipation, 83 Cooking box, 17 Custard pudding, 88 Diabetic diet, 89 Diet in disease, 77 et seq. Dinners, 65 I Drastic methods of cleaning, 108 Dysentery, 82 Economy, 57 et seq. Equipment of centre, 36 Evening classes, 99 syllabus, 101 Flues, 8 Frying, 50 Gas griller, 32 Gas-stoves, 1 et seq. Gastritis, 82 Grilling, 32 Herrings (stewed), 71 Infant-feeding, 94 Lime water, 96 Meat, prices of, 65 Milk, condensed, 96 pudding, 65 Plan of cookery, 37 Prices of meat, 65 Primus stove, 15 Proteid food, 71 Rent in London, 33 in provinces, 33 Rhubarb jam, 58 Salad, 75 et seq. Savoury pudding, 66 5INDEX n6 Scrap bread pudding, 67 Stewing, 49 Stoves, fire, coal, 6 et seq. Fletcher and Russell, 6 gas, 123 et seq. Hygienic, 4 Primus, 15 oil, 1, 11 Rippingille, 12 Syllabus for children, 31 for evening classes, 101 Syllabus for invalid cookery classes, 75 Temperature, registered, for oven, 11 Vegetaline, 69 Yeast, action of, 25 substitutes for, 27 Yorkshire pudding, 66 tea-cakes, 25METHUEN & CO., 36 ESSEX STREET, LONDON W.C. Price Is. 6d. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. With 45 Diagrams. HOW TO MAKE A DRESS BY J. A. E. WOOD \ TEXT-BOOK on Dressmaking for the City and Guilds of London Institute Examination; the Method of Instruction being based upon the Syllabus issued by that body. At the same time, all who make their own dresses will be able to gather from it much information which will aid them considerably in their work. CONTENTS. Introductory—Systems suitable for the City and Guilds of London Institute’s Examination—How to cut out, tack, and put together a plain dress-bodice—Methods of fastening a bodice—Fitting and correcting— How finished off —Another method of bodice-making—Skirts—Materials, linings, etc.—Trimmings—Stitches used in dressmaking—Pressing, and general hints—Matching stripes or brocades—Sleeves.METHUEN & CO., 36 ESSEX STREET, LONDON, W.C. Price 2s. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. xvi + 168 pages. MILLINERY THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL BY CLARE HILL INSTRUCTRESS TO THE WEST RIDING COUNTY COUNCIL AND LEEDS EDUCATION COMMITTEE AMONG the subjects taught under the auspices of Education Committees, Millinery has deservedly won a popular place. The cry of teacher and student alike is for a manual dealing with subject-matter that has hitherto proved too elusive for them to grasp, or not been included in their curriculum or training course. After many talks with teachers and students, and dis- cussing the points of shortcomings, the author has compiled a treatise which, while as concise and simple as possible, yet fully meets the demand, and thus makes no apology for offering the result of much wide and practical experience to the public, venturing to think that notes on Pattern-taking; Colour and Form, Draft- ing on Geometrical Principles, and Draping ; Renova- tions, Trimmings, Stitches used in Millinery, Widths and Costs, and Identification of Materials, more than warrant her in the assumption that this little book will prove a boon and friend to those who study its pages. A notable feature of the book is the large number of diagrams and illustrations.PRINTED BY BILLING AND SONS, LTD. GUILDFORDA LIST OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS ARRANGED ACCORDING TO SUBJECTS PUBLISHED BY METHUEN AND COMPANY 36 ESSEX ST., LONDON, W.C. CONTENTS PAGE COMMERCE . . . . . . - 3 DIVINITY ...... 3 DOMESTIC SCIENCE ..... 4 ENGLISH ...... 4 ENGLISH TEXTS ..... 5 FRENCH ...... 6 GENERAL ...... 7 GEOGRAPHY ...... 8 GERMAN ...... 8 GREEK ....... 9 HISTORY ...... IO LATIN . ...... 12 MATHEMATICS . . . . . . 13 SCIENCE ...... 14 TECHNOLOGY ...... 16 SERIES OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS . . . I7-2O Messrs. Methuen will be glad to send their complete Catalogue or Prospectuses of any of their Series to any Address, Post Free, on application November 1907NOTE TV yT ESSRS. METHUEN will be happy to receive applications for Specimen Copies of any of the books in this list from Heads of Schools. Specimen Copies of many of their School Books are supplied gratis, but a charge must be made in all cases for books marked with a dagger (+) in this List. Specimen Copies of Keys are not given. A copy of any book in this List can be seen at Messrs. Methuen’s offices, 36 Essex Street, Strand, W.C., and most of them may be consulted at the Library of The Teachers’ Guild, 74 Gower Street, W.C., and at the Library of the College of Preceptors, Bloomsbury Square, W.C. A copy of each of Messrs. Methuen’s Educational Books is sent to the Education Department Libraries in the Colonies. Books marked with an asterisk (*) are now in the press, and will be issued shortly.MESSRS. METHUEN’S Educational List -j- Commerce f Commercial Education in Theory and Practice. By E. E. Whitfield, M.A. Crown 8vo, 5s. Treats of the whole question of Commercial Education. Reliable information as to the work done by young clerks in modern business establishments is given, also hints as to the bearing of school work on such duties. A number of examination papers and lists of books are included. tA Guide to Professions and Business. By Henry Jones. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Precis Writing and Office Correspondence. By E. E. Whitfield, M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. t Commercial Esamination Papers. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D. Papers on Commercial Geography and History, French and German Correspondence, Book-keeping, and Office Work. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. The Economics of Commerce. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A Primer of Business. By S. Jackson, M.A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Commercial Law. By W. Douglas Edwards, LL.B. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. See also under “French“German“Geography" “History“Mathematics." Divinity The First Book of Kings. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D., Headmaster of Eltham College. Crown 8vo, 2s. The Gospel according to St. Matthew. Edited by E. Wilton South, M.A. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. The Gospel according to St. Mark. Edited by A. E, Rubie, D.D. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.MESSRS. METHUEN’S 4 The Gospel according to St. Luke. Edited by William Williamson, B.A. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. The Acts of the Apostles. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. The Students’ Prayer Book. The Text of the Morning and Evening Prayer and Litany. With Notes by W. H. Flecker, M.A., D.C.L., Headmaster of the Dean Close School, Cheltenham. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Old Testament History for use in Schools. By W. F. Burnside, M.A., Assistant Master in Cheltenham College. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. t An English Church History for Children. By Mary E. Shipley. With a Preface by the Bishop of Gibraltar. With Maps and Illustrations. Part I. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. net. A Primer of the Bible. By W. H. Bennett, M.A. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Instruction in Cookery. By A. P. Thompson. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. How to make a Dress. By J. A. E. Wood. Illustrated. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. “Though primarily intended for students, Miss Wood’s dainty little manual may be consulted with advantage by any girls who want to make their own frocks. The directions are simple and clear, and the diagrams are very helpful.”—Literature. Adopted by the London County Council Education Committee. Millinery: Theoretical and Practical. By Clare Hill. With numerous Diagrams. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. A Class Book of Easy Dictation and Spelling. By W. Williamson, B.A. Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. A Class Book of Dictation Passages. By W. Williamson, B.A. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. In use at over three hundred Schools, including Bath College ; Blackheath School; Bradford College ; Fauconberge School, Beccles; Cheltenham College ; High School, Dublin ; Edinburgh Academy ; High School, Glasgow; Elizabeth College, Guernsey ; Lancing College; Merchant Taylors’ School; Mill Hill School; Nottingham High School; Owen’s School, Islington ; St. Olave’s School, Southwark ; St. Paul’s School. A Junior English Grammar. By W. Williamson, B.A. With numerous passages for Parsing and Analysis, and a Chapter on Essay-Writing. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. t Junior English Examination Papers. By W. William- son, B.A. Fcap. 8vo, is. An Easy Poetry Book. By W. Williamson, B.A., Author of “Dictation Passages.” Crown, is. A little book for pupils of twelve or thereabouts. _ It is believed that all the selections are good as poetry, healthy and invigorating in thought, and suited to the capacity of beginners. See also under “ Greek ” Domestic Science5 EDUCATIONAL LIST Higher English. By F. J. Rahtz, M.A., Lecturer in English at Merchant Venturer’s Technical College, Bristol. Second Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, 3s, 6d. A course in modern English, suitable for pupils in the Upper Forms of Secondary Schools and candidates for London matriculation. Besides formal grammar, which has been reduced to a minimum, the book deals with exercises of various kinds, many entirely novel, including Order, Use, and Idiom of words, phrases, and sentences. Composition, Precis, Paraphrasing, Analysis, and Parsing. The history of the lan- guage, and on the nature and scope of Prose and Poetry, have been added. The Rose Reader. By Edward Rose. With numerous Illustrations, some of which are Coloured. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. And in Four Parts. Parts I. and II., 6d. each; Part III., 8d. ; Part IV., iod. Introduction for the Teacher separately, 6d. A reader on a new and original plan. The distinctive feature of this book is the entire avoidance of irregularly-spelt words until the pupil has mastered reading. Tommy Smith’s Animals. By Edmund Selous. With 8 Illustrations by G. W. Ord. School Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. This new and charming continuous reader, besides inculcating kindness to animals, conveys much natural history information. The animals dealt with are—frog, toad, rook, rat, hare, grass-snake, adder, peewit, mole, woodpigeon, squirrel, barn-owl. On the L.C.C. Requisition Lists. Tommy Smith’s Other Animals. By Edmund Selous. With 12 Illustrations by Augusta Guest. School Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. Uniform with the above. The animals dealt with are—rabbit, nightjar, weasel, blackbird, thrush, hedgehog, dabchick, moorhen, woodpecker, fox, cuckoo, watervole. On the L.C.C. Requisition Lists. Ballads of the Brave. Poems of Chivalry, Enterprise, Courage, and Constancy. Edited by F. Langbridge, M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A Short Story of English Literature. By Emma S. Mellows. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. English Texts THE LITTLE LIBRARY Pott 8vo. Each Volume, cloth, is. 6d. net. Each, where it is necessary, contains an Introduction, which gives (1) a short bio- graphy of the author; (2) a critical estimate of the book. Short notes are given at the foot of the pages. t A Little Book of English Prose. Edited by Mrs. P. A. Barnett. t A Little Book of English Lyrics. t A Little Book of Scottish Verse. Edited by T. F. Hen- derson. t The Early Poems of Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Edited by J. Churton Collins, M.A. t The Princess, and other Poems. By Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Edited by Elizabeth Wordsworth. t Maud, and other Poems. By Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Edited by Elizabeth Wordsworth. t In Memoriam. By Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Edited by H. C. Beeching.MESSRS. METHUEN’S 6 t Selections from Wordsworth. Edited by Nowell C. Smith. t Eothen. By A. W. Kinglake. Second Edition, t Elia, and the Last Essays of Elia. By Charles Lamb. Edited by E. V. Lucas. t Esmond. By W. M. Thackeray. Edited by Stephen Gwynn. A full list of this Series will ie sent free on application. f METHUEN’S STANDARD LIBRARY In paper covers, 6d. net; in cloth, is. net. Each volume is provided with a short introduction, but there are no notes. Aurelius (Marcus). The Meditations. Austen (Jane). Sense and Sensibility. Bacon (Francis, Lord Verulam). Essays and Counsels and The New Atlantis. Browne (Sir Thomas). Religio Medici and Urn Burial. Bunyan (John). The Pilgrim’s Progress. Burke (Edmund). Reflections on the French Revolution. Gaskell (Mrs.). Cranford. Goldsmith (Oliver). The Poems and Plays. Milton (John). Paradise Lost. Milton (John). Eikonoklastes and the Tenure of Kings and Magistrates. More (Sir Thomas). Utopia and Poems. Plato. The Republic. Shakespeare (William). The Works in Six Volumes. Southey (Robert). The Life of Nelson. White (Gilbert). The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne. A full list of this Series will be sent free on application. French METHUEN’S SIMPLIFIED FRENCH TEXTS Edited by T. R. N. CROFTS, M.A. Foolscap 8vo, is. each. The aim of this Series is to provide pupils who have been studying French about a year with simple translation books which they can understand, and which at the same time provide complete stories instead of a succession of little anecdotes. Vocabularies have been added, in which the chief idioms are explained. The first volumes are :— L’Histoire d’une Tulip©. Founded on “La Tulipe Noire,” by A. Dumas. Adapted by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A. Abdallah, ou le trefle k quatre feuilles. By Edouard Laboulaye. Adapted by J. A. Wilson. La Chanson de Roland. Second Edition. Adapted by H. Rieu, M.A. Memoires d© Cadichon. Founded on “Memoires d’un Ane,” by Madame de Segur. Adapted by J. F. Rhoades. L’Equipage de la Bell© Nivernaiso. Founded on “ La Belle Nivernaise,” by Alphonse Daudet. Adapted by T. R. N. Crofts, M.A. Le Doctenr Matheus. Founded on “L’lllustre Docteur Matheus,” by Erckmann-Chatrian. Adapted by W. P. Fuller, M.A.EDUCATIONAL LIST 7 Easy French Rhymes. By Henri Blouet. Illustrated. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. This little book contains many English nursery rhymes translated into French rhymes. It will supply children with an extensive and easily acquired French vocabulary. FRENCH WORKS BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Steps to French. Seventh Edition. i8mo, 8d. First French Lessons. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. Easy French Passages for Unseen Translation. Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. Easy French Exercises on Elementary Syntax. With Vocabulary. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 3s. net. French Vocabularies for Repetition: Arranged according to Subjects. Thirteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. t French Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Gram- mar and Idioms. Fourteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Fifth Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. A Junior French Grammar. By L. A. Sornet and M. J. Acatos, Modern Language Masters at King Edward’s School, Birmingham. With many Exercises. Second Edition. Cr. 8vo, 2s. t Junior French Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms. By F. Jacob, M.A., Assistant Master at Cheltenham College. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. A Junior French Prose. By R. R. N. Baron, M.A., Modern Language Master at Cheltenham Grammar School. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. French Prose Composition. By R. R. N. Baron, M.A. With Vocabularies and Notes. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 3s. net. Suitable for use in Upper Forms and for Candidates for Army Examinations. Nouvelle Grammaire Frangaise. By J. G. Anderson, B.A., Examiner to London University. Crown 8vo, 2s. Exercices de Grammaire Frangaise. By J. G. Anderson, B.A. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A Manual of French Commercial Correspondence. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. A French Commercial Reader. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. General t Junior General Information Examination Papers. By W. S. Beard. Fcap. 8vo, is. Key, 3s. 6d. net. t General Knowledge Examination Papers. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Sixth Edition, Revised to 1907. Key (Fourth Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 7s. net. The Rights and Duties of the English Citizen. By H. E. Malden, M.A. Seventh Edition, is. 6d.MESSRS. METHUEN’S 8 Geography The Dominion of Man. By Ernest Protheroe. With 32 full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. “Suitable for higher, elementary, secondary, and evening schools. The information is well selected and up' to date, and the relations between the different parts of the subject-matter are also considered. The book is really educational. Teachers would do well to obtain a copy. ”—Practical Teacher. A Historical Geography of the British Empire. By H. B. George, M.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. The purpose of this work is twofold—to describe in outline the British Empire, with its component parts so grouped as to snow forth the diversity of their relations to the mother country—and to point out the nature of the relations between the geography and the history of the British Islands, from the beginning, elsewhere from the time of their becoming British possessions. + The Student’s Modern and Historical Atlas of the British Empire. By C. Grant Robertson, M.A., and J. G. Bartholomew, F.R.S.E., F.R.G.S. Quarto, 4s. 6d. net. A Commercial Geography of the British Empire. By L. W. Lyde, M.A., Professor of Economic Geography, University College, London. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. A Commercial Geography of Foreign Nations. By F. C. Boon, B. A., Assistant Master at Dulwich College. Crown 8vo, 2s. Junior Geography Examination Papers. By W. G. Baker, M.A. Fcap. 8vo, is. t History and Geography Examination Papers. By C. H. Spence, M.A., Clifton College. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. German German Vocabularies for Repetition : Arranged according to Subjects. By Sophie Wright, late Scholar of Bedford College, London. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. A Companion German Grammar. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. German Passages for Unseen Translation. By E. M‘Queen Gray. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. t Junior German Examination Papers. By A. Voegelin, M. A., Assistant Master at St. Paul’s School. Fcap. 8vo, is. t German Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Gram- mar and Idioms. By R. J. Morich. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Third Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. A Manual of German Commercial Correspondence. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A German Commercial Reader. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Crown 8vo, 2s,9 EDUCATIONAL LIST Greek TEXTS Demosthenes against Conon and Callicles. Edited, with Notes and Vocabulary, by F. D. Swift, M.A. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. Greek Testament Selections. Edited, for the Use of Schools, by A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Fourth Edition. With Introduction, Notes, and Vocabulary. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. TRANSLATIONS t Aeschylus — Agamemnon, Choephoroe, Eumenides. Translated by Lewis Campbell, LL.D. Crown 8vo, 5s. f Lucian —Six Dialogues (Nigrinus, Icaro-Menippus, The Cock, The Ship, The Parasite, The Lover of Falsehood). Translated by S. T. Irwin, M. A., Assistant Master at Clifton. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. t Sophocles—Electra and Ajax. Translated by E. D. A. Morshead, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. GRAMMARS, EXERCISES, ETC. WORKS BY A. M. ffl. STEDMAN, M.A. Steps to Greek. Third Edition, Revised. i8mo, is. A Shorter Greek Primer. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Easy Greek Passages for Unseen Translation. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. Greek Vocabularies for Repetition: Arranged according to Subjects. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. t Greek Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms. Ninth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Third Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. + Junior Greek Examination Papers. By T. C. Weather- head, M.A., Headmaster, King’s College Choir School, Cambridge. Fcap. 8vo, is. f Examination Papers in Thucydides. Arranged by T. Nicklin, M.A., Assistant Master at Rossall School. Crown 8vo, 2s. Easy Greek Exercises on Elementary Syntax. By C. G. Botting, B. A., Assistant Master at St. Paul’s School. Crown 8vo, 2s. t Notes on Greek and Latin Syntax. By G. Buckland Green, M.A., Assistant Master at Edinburgh Academy, late Fellow of St. John’s College, Oxon. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Notes and explanations on the chief difficulties of Greek and Latin syntax, with numerous passages for exercise, for the higher forms of schools and the universities. Passages for Unseen Translation. By E. C. Marchant, M.A., Fellow of Peterhouse, Cambridge; and A. M. Cook, M.A., Assistant Master at St. Paul’s School. Fourth Edition. Cr. 8vo, 3s. 6d. Two hundred Latin and two hundred Greek passages, arranged in order of increasing difficulty. Has been carefully compiled to meet the wants of V. and VI. form boys at the public schools, and is also well adapted for the use of honourmen at the universities. Prose and verse alternate throughout.IO MESSRS. METHUEN’S t A Greek Anthology. Selected by E. C. Marchant, M.A, Fellow of Peterhouse, Cambridge. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. t New Testament Greek. A Course for Beginners. By G. Rodwell, B.A. With a Preface by Walter Lock, D.D., Warden of Keble College. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. The Greek View of Life. By G. L. Dickinson. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Makers of Europe. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. A text-book of European history concisely and carefully compiled, with a summary at the end of each chapter, for the Middle Forms of Schools. The whole course is designed to fill about two years at the rate of two short lessons a week. The Ancient World. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. With Maps and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. A sketch of the great landmarks of the History of the Ancient World. Uniform with the above. Easy Stories from English History. By E. M. Wilmot- Buxton. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. The book contains 35 stories, from Caradoc to Gordon, well and simply told, chosen with a view to illustrate each century. “Of elementary English Histories this is quite the best.”—School. Revision Notes on English History. By F. Wallace- Hadrill. Crown 8vo, is. A summary carefully arranged and classified for the benefit of students preparing for the Junior Local Examinations. A Handy Digest of British History. Comprising an Analysis and Commentary, with Appendices illustrative .of the points of contact between Great Britain, her Colonies, and Foreign Nations. By C. E. Snowden, M.A. Demy 8vo, 4s. 6d. The Story of the British Empire for Children. By F. M. Anderson. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. A geographical reader giving the history of the British Empire in a simple and interesting form. This book was included in the School World’s list of most notable books of 1905. Stories from Roman History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, Author of “ Makers of Europe.” Crown 8vo, is. 6d. This book provides an introduction to the study of Roman History by a series of stories in chronological order dealing with the main events and characters of the history of Rome. A Short History of Rome. By J. Wells, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Wadham College, Oxford. With Three Maps. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. “ The schoolmasters who have felt the want of a fifth-form handbook of Roman history may congratulate themselves on persuading Mr. Wells to respond to it. His book is excellently planned and executed. Broken up into short paragraphs, his manual does equal justice to the personal and the constitutional aspects.”—Journalof Education. + A Constitutional and Political History of Rome. By T. M. Taylor, M.A., Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, Porson University Scholar, etc. etc. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.EDUCATIONAL LIST ii A Junior Greek History. By W. Horton Spragge, M.A., Assistant Master at the City of London School. With Maps and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A First History of Greece. By E. E. Firth, Assistant Mistress at Croydon High School. With Maps. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A history for beginners written in biographical form. Those lives have been selected which best explain the rise and decline of the Greeks. A summary and questions have have been added to each chapter. A Student’s History of Scotland. By D. W. Rannie, M.A. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. t Battles of English History. By H. B. George, M.A. With numerous Plans. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. t English Records. A Companion to the History of England. By H. E. Malden, M.A. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. The French Revolution. By J. E. Symes, M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. t History and Geography Examination Papers. By C. H. Spence, M.A., Clifton College. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. + Examination Papers on the Constitutional and General History of England. By J. Tait Plowden- Wardlaw, M.A., King’s College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. British Commerce and Colonies from Elizabeth to Victoria. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. The Industrial History of England. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D. Twelfth Edit., Revised. With Maps and Plans. Cr. 8vo, 3s. English Social Reformers. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. English Trade and Finance in the Seventeenth Century. By W. A. S. Hewins, B.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A School History of Surrey. By H. E. Malden. With 4 Maps and 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A School History of Middlesex. By Victor Plarr and F. W. Walton. With 45 Illustrations and Plan of London. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A School History of Warwickshire. By B. C. A. Windle, D.Sc., F.R.S. With 2 Maps and 47 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A School History of Somerset. By Walter Raymond. With 4 Maps and 50 Illustrations. Second Edition. Cr. 8vo, is. 6d.- A School History of Lancashire. By W. E. Rhodes/ M.A. With 3 Maps and 43 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. These are the first volumes in a series designed to enforce the idea, so all-important in young people’s education, that history begins at home. The volumes are meant to bring history into connection with scenes which their readers know, to illustrate manners by local examples, and to teach that every place has its interest and its story. These associations may not in each district be described in full, but enough is told of them to give the small student the clue to their existence, and to teach him how to look for them in old buildings, names of places, and the natural features of his own county and neigh- bourhood. Maps and illustrations are freely added, and each county volume is written by an author who has made a special study of the county he treats.12 MESSRS. METHUEN’S Latin TEXTS Easy Selections from Caesar. The Helvetian War. With Notes and Vocabulary. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Illustrated. Second Edition. i8mo, is. Easy Selections from Livy. The Kings of Rome. With Notes and Vocabulary. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Illustrated. Second Edition. i8mo, is. 6d. The Captivi of Plautus. Adapted for Lower Forms by J. H. Freese, M.A. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. Taciti Agricola. With Introduction, Notes, Maps, etc. By R. F. Davis, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. Taciti Germania. By R. F. Davis, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. TRANSLATIONS t Cicero—De Oratore I. Translated by E. N. P. Moor, M.A. late Assistant Master at Clifton. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. + Cicero—Select Orations (Pro Milone, Pro Murena, Philippic 11., In Catilinam). Translated by H. E. D. Blakiston, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Trinity College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 5s. t Cicero—De Natura Deorum. Translated by F. Brooks, M.A., late Scholar of Balliol College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. t Cicero de Officiis. Translated by G. B. Gardiner, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. t Horace—The Odes and Epodes. Translated by A. Godley, M.A., Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 2s. t Thirteen Satires of Juvenal. Translated by S. G. Owen, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. t Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. Translated by R. B. Townshend, late Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. GRAMMARS, EXERCISES, ETC. WORKS BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Initia Latina : Easy Lessons on Elementary Accidence. Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. First Latin Lessons. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. First Latin Reader. With Notes adapted to the Shorter Latin Primer, and Vocabulary. Seventh Edition. i8mo, is. 6d. Easy Latin Passages for Unseen Translation. Twelfth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. Exempla Latina: First Exercises in Latin Accidence. With Vocabulary. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. Easy Latin Exercises on the Syntax of the Shorter and Revised Latin Primer. With Vocabulary. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Key, 3s. net. Original Edition. 2s. 6d. The Latin Compound Sentence: Rules and Exercises. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. ; with Vocabulary, 2s.13 EDUCATIONAL LIST Notanda Quaedam: Miscellaneous Latin Exercises on Common Rules and Idioms. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. ; with Vocabulary, 2s. Key, 2s. net. Latin Vocabularies for Repetition: Arranged according to Subjects. Thirteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. A Vocabulary of Latin Idioms and Phrases. Fourth Edition. i8mo, is. t Latin Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Gram- mar and Idioms. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key (Fifth Edition), issued to Tutors and Private Students only, 6s. net. t Junior Latin Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms. By C. G. Botting, B.A., Assist- ant Master at St. Paul’s School. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. t Examination Papers in Horace. Arranged by T. C. Weatherhead, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. t Examination Papers in Vergil. By W. G. Coast, B.A., Assistant Master at Fettes College. Crown 8vo, 2s. Latin Hexameter Verse. An Aid to Composition. By S. E. Winbolt, M.A., Assistant Master at Christ’s Hospital. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Key, 5s. net. Exercises in Latin Accidence. By S. E. Winbolt, M.A. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. t Notes on Greek and Latin Syntax. By G. Buckland Green, M.A., Assistant Master at Edinburgh Academy, late Fellow of St. John’s College, Oxon. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Latin Passages for Unseen Translation. ByE. C. Mar- chant, M.A., Fellow of Peterhouse, Cambridge ; and A. M. Cook, M.A., Assistant Master at St. Paul’s School. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Mathematics Easy Exercises in Arithmetic. Containing 5000 Examples. By W. S. Beard. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. With Answers, is. 3d. Without Answers, is. A course of Arithmetic for lower forms in Secondary Schools and pupils preparing for Public Schools, Naval Cadetships, the Oxford and Cambridge Preliminary Local Examinations. The examples are very numerous, carefully graduated, and do not involve the use of numbers beyond the grasp of young students. A New Junior Arithmetic. By H. Bompas Smith, M.A. Crown 8vo. With Answers, 2s. 6d. Without Answers, 2s. In this, book arithmetic is taught as the habitual application of common sense to questions involving number, not as the acquisition of mechanical facilities in certain rules. It is the cheapest arithmetic on reform lines yet issued. Junior Arithmetic Examination Papers. By W. S. Beard. With or without Answers. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. Contains 900 Questions arranged in papers of ten each, t Arithmetic Examination Papers. By C. Pendlebury, M.A., Senior Mathematical Master, St. Paul’s School. Sixth Edition. With Answers. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 5s. net. Commercial Arithmetic. By F. G. Taylor, M.A. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. A chapter on the Slide Rule has been added to this edition.14 MESSRS. METHUEN’S Technical Arithmetic and Geometry. By C. T. Millis, Principal of the Borough Polytechnic Institute. With Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. A South African Arithmetic. By Henry Hill, B.A., Headmaster, Boys’High School, Worcester, Cape Colony. Cr. 8vo,3s.6d. A Junior Geometry. By Noel S. Lydon of Owen’s School, Islington. With 276 Diagrams. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. Geometry on Modern Lines. By E. S. Boulton, M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics at Merchant Venturers’ Technical College, Bristol. Crown 8vo, 2s. A New Trigonometry for Beginners. By R. F. D’Arcy, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Easy Exercises in Algebra. By W. S. Beard. Crown 8vo. With Answers, is. 9d. Without Answers, is. 6d. A preparatory course in Algebra suitable for the Local Examinations. Test Cards in Euclid and Algebra. By D. S. Calderwood, Headmaster of the Normal School, Edinburgh. In three packets of 40, with Answers, is. each ; or in three books, price 2d., 2d., and 3d. Junior Algebra Examination Papers. By S. W. Finn, M.A. With or without Answers. Fcap. 8vo, is. The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry. By J. E. B. M‘Allen, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. t Examination Papers in Book-keeping. By J. T. Medhurst. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. Key, 2s. 6d. net. t Trigonometry Examination Papers. By G. H. Ward, M.A. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 5s. net. The Metric System. By Leon Delbos. Crown 8vo, 2s. Science The Complete School Chemistry. By F. M. Oldham, B.A., Senior Chemistry Master at Dulwich College. With 125 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. A complete course in practical and theoretical chemistry up to the standard of the London Matriculation and Army Entrance Examination. It is so arranged that a boy with no knowledge of chemistry may begin, the book and use it throughout his progress up the school. Short courses on volumetric analysis and on the common metals are included. Elementary Experimental Science. — Physics, by W. T. Clough, A.R.C.S.; Chemistry, by A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With 2 Plates and 154 Diagrams. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Elementary Science for Pupil Teachers. Physics Sec- tion, by W. T. Clough, A.R.C.S.; Chemistry Section, by A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With 2 Plates and many Diagrams. Cr. 8vo, 2s. Elementary Experimental Chemistry. By A. E. Dun- stan, B.Sc., Head of the Chemical Department, East Ham Technical College. With 4 Plates and 109 Diagrams. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. *An Organic Chemistry for Schools and Technical Institutes. By A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.C.S. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Intended for the use of the higher forms of schools taking the Special Science Course, and as a first year text-book in Technical Institutes.15 EDUCATIONAL LIST A Junior Chemistry. By E. A. Tyler, B.A., F.C.S., Head of the Chemical Department, Swansea Technical College. With 78 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. General Elementary Science. By J. T. Dunn, D.Sc., and V. A. Mundella, M.A. With 114 Illustrations. Second Edition Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Specially intended for London Matriculation Examination. Adopted by the Admiralty. The World of Science. Including Chemistry, Heat, Light, Sound, Magnetism, Electricity, Botany, Zoology, Physiology, As- tronomy, and Geology. By R. Elliot Steel, M.A., F.C.S. 147 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A Practical Chemistry Note-Book for Matriculation and Army Candidates: Easy Experiments on the Com- moner Substances. By S. E. Brown, M.A. (Camb.), B.A., B.Sc. (Lond.), Senior Science Master at Uppingham School. Crown 4to, is. 6d. net. Practical Chemistry. By W. French, M.A., Principal of the Storey Institute, Lancaster. Part I. With 57 Diagrams. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Part II. With 56 Diagrams. By W. French, M.A., and T. IP. Boardman, M.A., Science Master at Christ’s Hospital. Crown Svo, is. 6d. Suitable for Oxford and Cambridge Junior Locals. The teaching throughout is inductive. An Elementary Text-Book of Inorganic Chemistry. By R. Lloyd Whitely, F.I.C., Principal, Municipal Science School, West Bromwich. With 137 illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Plant Life: Studies in Garden and School. By H. F. Jones, F.C.S. With 320 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. “ This volume furnishes just the right kind of course, both in garden work and in class-room experiments, which is likely to stimulate a permanent interest in the mind of the pupil and lead him to continue his investigations after he has left school. We have great pleasure in recommending the book. ”—Schoolmaster. Practical Mechanics. By Sidney H. Wells. With 75 Illustrations and Diagrams. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Examples in Physics. By C. E. Jackson, B.A., Science Master at Bradford Grammar School. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A collection of over one thousand problems covering the average Physics Course in Secondary Schools. The Principles of Magnetism and Electricity. By P. L. Gray, B.Sc. With 181 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. + Physics Examination Papers. By R. E. Steel, M.A., F.C.S., Headmaster, County School, Northampton. Papers on Sound, Light, Heat, Magnetism, Electricity. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. t The Scientific Study of Scenery. By J. E Marr, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow of St. John’s College, Cambridge. With numerous Illustrations and Diagrams. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Agricultural Botany. By M. C. Potter, M.A. With many Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. Agricultural Geology. By J. E. Marr, F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. Agricultural Zoology. By Dr. J. Ritzema Boz. Translated by J. R. Ainsworth Davis, M.A. With 155 Illustrations. Second Edition, with full Index. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.i6 MESSRS. METHUEN’S Dairy Bacteriology. A Short Manual for the Use of Students. By Dr. Ed. von Freudenreich. Translated by J. R. Ainsworth Davis, M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Insect Life. By F. V. Theobald, M.A. With 53 Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. t Outlines of Biology. By P. Chalmers Mitchell, M.A. Illustrated. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Technology Electric Light and Power: An Introduction to the Study of Electric Lighting. By E. E. Brooks, B.Sc. (Lond.), Second Master and Instructor of Physics and Electrical Engineering Leicester Municipal Technical School, and W. H. N. James, A.R.C.S., A.M.I.E.E., Lecturer and Demonstrator in the Electrical Engineer- ing Department, Municipal School of Technology, Manchester. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. This work is an introduction to the study of Electrical Engineering, no previous knowledge being assumed, and very little mathematics being required. Engineering Workshop Practice. By C. C. Allen, Lecturer on Engineering, Municipal Technical Institute, Coventry. With many Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. This deals with the manufacturing operations employed in modern workshops, and is intended chiefly for students who have opportunities of both examining and using the machines and tools required. Carpentry and Joinery. By F. C. Webber. With 176 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. The drawings are intended to serve not only as illustrations, but also as examples for reproduction by the student. “ An admirable elementary text-book on the subject.”—Builder. Builders’ Quantities. By H. C. Grubb, Lecturer on Quanti- ties to the Beckenham Technical Institute, First Honoursman City and Guilds of London Institute. With 73 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. Repousse Metalwork. A Scheme of Street Metalwork for Schools. By A. C. Horth. With Diagrams and 8 Plates. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. An Introduction to the Study of Textile Design. By A. F. Barker, Head of the Department of Textile Industries, Brad- ford Technical College. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. “Altogether it is careful and painstaking, and will be regarded as indispensable in textile colleges, while for manufacturers it has a distinct value.”—Bradford Telegraph. “ A thoroughly practical manual.”—Scotsman. t Ornamental Design for Woven Fabrics, By C. Stephen- son, of the Technical College, Bradford ; and F. Suddards, of the Yorkshire College, Leeds. With 65 full - page Plates. Third Edition. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. Manual Training Drawing (Woodwork). Its Principles and Application, with Solutions to Examination Questions, 1892-1905. Orthographic, Isometric, and Oblique Projection. By F. Sturch, Staff Instructor to the Surrey County Council. With 50 Plates and 140 Diagrams. Imperial 4to, 5s. net.17 EDUCATIONAL LIST THE BEGINNER’S BOOKS Edited by W. WILLIAMSON, B.A., F.lt.S.L. A series of elementary class books for beginners of seven to twelve years, or there- abouts. They are adapted to the needs of preparatory schools, and are suitable for the use of candidates preparing for the Oxford and Cambridge Preliminary Local and the College of Preceptors Examinations. The series will be especially useful to lead up to Methuen’s Junior School Books. The author of each book has had consider- able experience in teaching the subject, while special attention has been paid to the arrangement of the type and matter, which is as clear and concise as possible. The books are beautifully printed and strongly bound, and are issued at one shilling each. Easy Dictation and Spelling. By W. Williamson, B.A. Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. Easy Exercises in Arithmetic : Containing 5000 Examples. By W. S. Beard. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Without Answers, is. With Answers, is. 3d. Easy French Rhymes. By Henry Blouet. Illustrated. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. Easy Stories from English History. By E. M. Wilmot- Buxton. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. An Easy Poetry Book. By W. Williamson, B.A. Cr. 8vo, is. A First History of Greece. By E. E. Firth. With Maps. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Stories from Roman History. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. CLASSICAL TRANSLATIONS Edited by H. F. FOX, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Brasenose College, Oxford. Crown 8vo. , A series of Translations from the Greek and Latin Classics. The Publishers have enlisted the services of some of the best Oxford and Cambridge Scholars, and it is their intention that the series shall be distinguished by literary excellence as well as by scholarly accuracy. HUschylus—Agamemnon, Choephoroe, Eumenides. Translated by Lewis Campbell, LL.D. 5s. Cicero—De Oratore I. Translated by E. N. P. Moor, M.A. 3s. 6d. Cicero—Select Orations (Pro Milone, Pro Mureno, Philippic II., in Catilinam). Translated by H. E. D. Blakiston, M.A. 5s. Cicero—De Natura Deorum. Translated by F. Brooks, M.A. 3s. 6d. Cicero—De Officiis. Translated by G. B. Gardiner, M.A. 2s. 6d. Horace—The Odes and Epodes. Translated by A. D. Godley, M.A. 2s. Lucian—Six Dialogues (Nigrinus, Icaro-Menippus, The Cock, The Ship, The Parasite, The Lover of Falsehood). Translated by S. T. Irwin, M.A. 3s. 6d. Sophocles—Electra and Ajax. Translated by E. D. A. Mors- head, M.A. 2S. 6d. Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. Translated by R. B. Town- shend. 2S. 6d. The Satires of Juvenal. Translated by S. G. Owen. 2s. 6d.18 MESSRS. METHUEN’S METHUEN’S COMMERCIAL SERIES Edited by H. de B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A. Crown 8vo. A series intended to assist students and young men preparing for a commercial career, by supplying useful handbooks of a clear and practical character, dealing with those subjects which are absolutely essential in the business life. Commercial Education in Theory and Practice. By E. E. Whitfield, M.A. 5s. An introduction to Methuen’s Commercial Series treating the question of Commercial Education fully from both the point of view of the teacher and of the parent. British Commerce and Colonies from Elizabeth to Victoria. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. Third Edition. 2s. Commercial Examination Papers. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. is. 6d. The Economics of Commerce. By H. de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. Second Edition, is. 6d. A German Commercial Reader. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. 2s. A Commercial Geography of the British Empire. By L. W. Lyde, M.A. Sixth Edition. 2s. A Commercial Geography of Foreign Nations. By F. C. Boon, B.A. 2s. A Primer of Business. By S. Jackson, M.A. Third Edition, is. 6d. Commercial Arithmetic. By F. G. Taylor, M.A. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. French Commercial Correspondence. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Third Edition. 2s. German Commercial Correspondence. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. A French Commercial Reader. By S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Second Edition. 2s. Precis Writing and Office Correspondence. By E. E. Whitfield, M.A. Second Edition. 2s. A Guide to Professions and Business. By H. Jones, is. 6d. The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry. By J. E. B. M‘Allen, M.A. 2s. Commercial Law. By W. Douglas Edwards. Second Edition. 2s. JUNIOR EXAMINATION SERIES Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Fcap. 8vo, is. This series is intended to lead up to the School Examination Series, and is intended for the use of teachers and students, to supply material for the former and practice for the latter. The papers are carefully graduated, cover the whole of the subject usually taught, and are intended to form part of the ordinary class work. They may be used viva voce or as a written examination. Junior French Examination Papers. By F. Jacob, M.A. Second Edition. Junior Latin Examination Papers. By C. G. Botting, B.A. Fourth Edition. Junior English Examination Papers. By W. William- son, M.A.19 EDUCATIONAL LIST Junior Arithmetic Examination Papers. By W. S. Beard. Fourth Edition. Junior Algebra Examination Papers. By S. W. Finn, M.A. Junior Greek Examination Papers. By T. C. Weather- HEAD, M.A. Junior General Information Examination Papers. By W. S. Beard. Key, 3s. 6d. net. Junior Geography Examination Papers. By W. G. Baker, M.A. Junior German Examination Papers. By A. Voegelin, M.A. METHUEN’S JUNIOR SCHOOL BOOKS Edited by O. D. INSKIP, LL.D., and W. WILLIAMSON, B.A. A series of school class books. They are adapted to the needs of the lower and middle forms of the Public Schools, and are suitable for the use of candidates preparing for the Oxford and Cambridge Junior Local Examinations. Each volume is the work of a Master who has had considerable experience in teaching his subject j while special attention has been paid to the arrangement of the type and matter, which is as clear and concise as possible. The books contain numerous ex- amination papers, and where the subject requires it are fully illustrated. In scholarship, in excellence of printing and lowness of price, this series will be found inferior to no other. A Class-Book of Dictation Passages. By W. William- son, B.A. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. The Gospel according to St. Matthew. Edited by E. Wilton South, M.A. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. The Gospel according to St. Mark. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. A Junior English Grammar. By W. Williamson, B.A. With numerous passages for Parsing and Analysis, and a chapter on Essay Writing. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. A Junior Chemistry. By E. A. Tyler, B.A., F.C.S. With 78 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. The Acts of the Apostles. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D. Crown 8vo, 2s. A Junior French Grammar. By L. A. Sornet and M. J. Acatos. Crown 8vo, 2s. Elementary Experimental Science.—Physics, by W. T. Clough, A.R.C.S. Chemistry, by A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With 2 Plates and 154 Diagrams. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. A Junior Geometry. By Noel S. Lydon. With 276 Dia- grams. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. Elementary Experimental Chemistry. By A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With 4 Plates and 109 Diagrams. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. A Junior French Prose. By R. R. N. Baron, M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. The Gospel according to St. Luke. With an Introduction and Notes by William Williamson, B.A. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. The First Book of Kings. Edited by A. E. Rubie, D.D. With 4 Maps. Crown 8vo, 2s. A Junior Greek History. By W. Horton Spragge, M.A. With Maps and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.20 MESSRS. METHUEN’S EDUCATIONAL LIST SCHOOL EXAMINATION SERIES Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. French Examination Papers. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Fourteenth Edition. A Key, issued to Tutors and Private Students only, to be had on appli- cation to the Publishers. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. net. Latin Examination Papers. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Thirteenth Edition. Key (Sixth Edition), issued as above, 6s. net. Greek Examination Papers. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Eighth Edition. Key (Third Edition), issued as above, 6s. net. German Examination Papers. By R. J. Morich. Sixth Edition. Key (Third Edition), issued as above, 6s. net. History and Geography Examination Papers. By C. H. Spence, M.A. Third Edition. Physics Examination Papers. By R. E. Steel, M.A. General Knowledge Examination Papers. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. Sixth Edition, Revised to 1907. Key (Fourth Edition), issued as above, 7s. net. Examination Papers in English History. By J. Tait Plowden-Wardlaw, B.A. TEXT-BOOKS OF SCIENCE Edited by G. F. G00DCHILD, M.A., B.Sc., and G. R. MILLS, M.A. Fully Illustrated. Practical Mechanics. By Sidney H. Wells. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. The Complete School Chemistry. By F. M. Oldham, B.A. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d. An Organic Chemistry for Schools and. Technical Institutes. By A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. Crown 8vo. Practical Chemistry. Part I. By W. French, M.A. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Part II. By W. French, M.A., and T. H. Boardman, M.A. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Elementary Science for Pupil Teachers. Physics Section, by W. T. Clough, A.R.C.S. Chemistry Section, by A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. Cr. 8vo, 2s. Technical Arithmetic and Geometry. By C. T. Millis, M.I.M.E. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Examples in Physics. By C. E. Jackson, B.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Plant Life. By H. F. Jones. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. TEXT-BOOKS OF TECHNOLOGY Edited by G. F. GOODCHILD, M.A., B.Sc., and G. R. MILLS, M.A. Fully Illustrated. Electric Light and Power. By E. E. Brooks, B.Sc., and W. H. N. James, A.M.I.E.E. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. Engineering Workshop Practice. By C. C. Allen. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Carpentry and Joinery. By F. C. Webber. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Builders' Quantities. By H. C. Grubb. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. An Introduction to the Study of Textile Design. By Aldred F. Barker. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. Rdpoussd Metal Work. By A. C. Horth. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d. HOW to Make a Dress. By J. A. E. Wood. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Millinery, Theoretical and Practical. By Clare Hill. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. Instruction in Cookery. By A. P. Thompson. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Printed by Morrison & Gibb Limited, Edinburgh.