CONVALESCENT COOKERYLONDON : PRINTED RV SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE AND PARLIAMENT STREETConvalescent Cookery BY CATHERINE RYAN JTcmboir CHATTO cSc WINDUS, PICCADILLY 1881 \_All rights reserved}/ \ .WELLCOv"r" INSTITUTE - Co4l Syv®!MOm©c No. ... 1% t\ ■PREFA GE. There are few women in the world on whom has not devolved, at some period of their lives, the duty of taking care of sick people; it may have been of members of their own families or of strangers. When worldly circumstances are easy, and permit of hired aid, the duties are lightened and the responsibilities shared ; trained nurses under skilled physicians antici- pate every want and meet every emergency. But patients of this class form the minority; beyond them are hundreds, nay thousands, to whom the doctor's bill is so serious a matter, that to find, in addition, the wages and board of a hired nurse, is simply an impossibility. Whenvi PREFACE. into the homes of such people illness comes, the sick patient has to rely upon such resources as can be found within the four walls of his own house. How often these fail, just when most needed, it would be impossible to calcu- late, and that not from want of affection nor lack of willingness in those in health, but from the absence of a little knowledge—such know- ledge as ought to be part of the education of every woman, no matter to what class in society she belongs. There are thousands of women into whose aimless lives comes no thought of the need of such knowledge as ' how to cook for convales- cents,' until it is too late to make its learning useful. When the grave has closed over one so dear to a woman that she would almost have <*iven her own life in exchange for the lost one, she thinks, with a pain from which GodPREFACE. vii keep us all, of what she might have done had she only known how; the ease she could have given and the pain she might have spared : happy is it for her if she does not think that the strength faded away because she was igno- rant of how to sustain it. To go into a hospital and have a nurse's training is only permitted to few women; home duties claim the time and energies of the vast majority, and neither means nor opportunities come within reach of many who would he willing enough to learn. But every woman in her own home can learn how to cook for sick and feeble people. As a general rule, they require nothing elabo- rate ; but to turn out a mutton chop daintily, to be able to improvise a refreshing drink which will be harmless, to know what has made the beef-tea unclrinkable, are thingsviii PREFACE. which, though not generally known, ought to be, by every woman in the world. This book is not intended to take the place of the ordinary cookery book—that bulky volume which good housekeepers delight to place upon their shelves—but only to give some plain hints, brought into a cheap and compact form, of how to solve those first terrible problems which make difficult the path of self-educating young cooks—for example, whether the meat or the vegetable is to go into hot water or cold; whether the pot lid is to be kept on or off; why the fish stuck to the pan instead of coming out brown and whole, and looking as nice as it might be at a dinner party ; and how long a pudding in a cup will take to boil in order to have it at the precise moment at which the patient may be able to eat it; the cookery bookPREFACE. i* always providing quantities for four or six people at the least. Dora Copperfield's salmon has become historical, because of that touch of nature which made so many women akin to her; but pretty as it is in the pages of a novel, it is not so in real life. A woman should be able to judge for herself when she goes to a butcher's,, or a baker's, or a fishmonger's, just as she would do were she to go to her milliner or her dressmaker, and should know if she has got the right article, and the full value of her money, or of her husband's—a highly moral view of the money question which is not always taken. The woman who begins with one dish fairly done, will find the pleasure of going on from one step to another; cookery is both an art and a science, and even in the longest life vouchsafed to a woman in this world, she willx PREFACE. never be obliged to sit down with folded hands and bewail that in cookery there are no more worlds left to conquer. It is particularly requested that those who wish to derive any instruction from this book will read the preliminary chapters over care- fully before trying any of the recipes. The arrangement adopted in ordinary cookery books has been departed from purposely, in order to ensure the study of rudimentary principles.CONTENTS. GENERAL. I'AGK 'Qualifications—Old recipe for a cook for convalescents —More modern and more practical ideas—Wear and tear of life—Convalescents—People who will never be well again ........ 1 WHAT A COOK FOR CONVALESCENTS OUGHT TO BE. Conscientious—Patient—Cleanly—Punctual . . .9 WHAT A COOK OUGHT TO KNOW. How to buy with advantage—To pay with ready money - -How to know good Beef—Mutton—Veal—Lamb— Tork—Fowls—Goufte on Fowls—Turkeys — Geese— Ducks — Fish — S hell-fish—Eggs— Anecdote—Flour meal—Grain—Fruit—Milk 17 IN THE KITCHEN. Nurse and cook in one—No cooking in the sick-room— Cleanliness — Washing pots and saucepans — A Frenchman on taking care of the kitchen - Water in which fish or vegetables has been boiled ( 'unking utensils 30xii CONTENTS. ON COOKING IN GENERAL. PAO) Weighing and measuring quantities—Short ways of Measuring—Pinches—Beef-tea—Best beef for soup —Kitchen tire—Vegetables in summer and in winter —How to add them to soup—The fire for roasting— For broiling Cooking vegetables . . . ,39. HE CI PES EOR BEEF-TEA AND BROTH. Beef extract—Beef-tea—Soyer's recipe for beef-tea— Gouffe's broth a la minute—Mrs. Becton's beef-tea— Mutton broth- Mutton broth quickly made—Calf's- foot broth--Chicken broth—Chicken extract—Cheap chicken broth ........ 46 BROILING AND FRYING. First solid given is generally broiled—Suitable fire— Broiling iron—To have it clean—Time required to broil meat of different kinds—Steak—Chop—Cutlet —Mutton kidney—Veal chop—Pork chop—Chop bread-crumbed—Broiling tongs—The pan—Lard— —Butter—To crumb chops and cutlets—Preparing bread crumbs - Frying the cutlet—A second way of dressing cutlets with crumbs—A third way—To broil a fowl 6ft ROASTING. Fire for roasting—Avoid having a draught—To know when roasted meat is done—Time required for beef— Leg of mutton—Neck or loin of veal—Turkey—CONTENTS. xiii Small turkey — Duck — Capon — Fowl —Pigeon- Pheasant —Partridge — Larks — Grouse — Hare — Leveret —Snipe — Plovers — Babbit — Roasting fat meat—Lean—Roasting-jack—The woollen thread— Basting—To make veal or fowls look well. . . 67 BOILING. To keep the water boiling—Skimming—Allowing pots to boil over—Boil slowly—Hard or soft water—Hot or cold water for vegetables—For fish—To know when boiled meat is done—On the boiling of mutton— Great authorities—Francatelli—Jewry—Gouffe—Hill —Beeton—Walsh—Liebig—Keeping pot-lids off or on —Time required for boiling different kinds of vege- tables—Carrots— Turnips— Parsnips— Cauliflower— Jerusalem artichokes—Spinach—Celery— Vegetable marrow—Asparagus—Onions—Beans . . .73 FISH. Boiled—Water—Time required for different kinds—Brill —Cod, head and shoulders, tail end—Turbot— Haddock—Flounders— Mackerel—Salmon— Skate— Sole—Whiting—Melted butter—Fried—Cod sliced— Mackerel — Flounders— Herring— Time required— Cod cutlets—Salmon cutlets Plaice - Skate— Soles—Whiting SO Game—Pheasants — Partridges— Woodcock — Snipe— Plovers—Teal—Widgeon 81 Rabbits—Stewed—Fricasseed—Heated Fried- Sonp . 86xiv CONTEXTS. Lamb Soup—Fowl soup—Cold fowl 92- Jelly—Calves'-foot—Cow's heel—For a weak child— Miss Nightingale on jelly—On food in general Liebig's extract 96 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 108 CONCLUSION 14* APPENDIX 147 DIET TABLES IN LONDON HOSPITALS . .117 INDEX 157CONVALESCENT COOKERYCONVALESCENT COOKERY. GENERAL. Miss Nightingale, in her book ' Notes on Nursing,' remarks that it is a very generally received opinion among people, that what is chiefly required in a sick-nurse is 'a good, loving heart;' others say that a nurse needs only to be ' devoted and obedient.' ' This definition,' adds the same lady, 'would do just as well for a porter. It might even do for a horse. It would not do for a policeman. Con- sider how many women there are who have nothing to devote—neither intelligence, nor eyes, nor ears, nor hands.' In an old book, written more than one hundred years ago, the famous American2 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. writer, Dr. Franklin, who was considered to be wisdom itself in human form, gives a receipt for making a good sick-nurse, who was to be also competent to cook the food for the sick person under her charge : — Take one grain of sense; Half a grain of prudence ; One drachm of understanding ; One ounce of patience ; One pound of resolution. 1 Intermix them together, and fold them up in your brain for twenty-four hours. Then put them into the bottle of your heart, stopping them with the cork of judgment. This, rightly made, and taken in proper doses so often during the twenty-four hours as may be necessary, will soon qualify you to be the most admirable nurse and the most successful cook for your invalid friends.' All very admirable ingredients to make a useful man or woman in any walk of life, but there is a great deal more to be learned beforeCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 3 a woman is fit to have the responsibility of providing food for sick people. Which of us, I wonder, if very weak and very hungry, would be satisfied to know that under the same roof with us was a wonderful woman, with sense, prudence, understanding, patience, and reso- lution, all blended together in the composi- tion of her character ? We would rather have a little beef-tea that we could swallow without being disgusted at the sight of it; or a chop that was not tough, burned to a cinder, and half cold; or some little tempting pudding, that we had never seen before, and which came to us as such a joyful surprise that it was impossible to help eating it; or an egg that did not appear to be half-hatched. Or if we had been lying for a whole hour, perhaps two or three, with a dry parched mouth, wishing for some cooling drink, and thinking of all sorts of forbidden things- like the Prince of Wales, who wakened into consciousness after his long illness begging for D 24 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. beer—the kind of understanding we should waut our nurse to have would be how to invent some drink which would meet with both our approval and the doctor's; that would be brought at once, without the delay of another hour; and which would be given in a clean glass or cup, just large enough to hold as much as we should like to drink, and yet not so heavy that we should have to ask some one to lift it to our poor parched lips for us. I am afraid I should not like the nurse of prudence, who should insist on my drinking all the old milk which had been in the house for twelve hours before she allowed me to have any of the new which had just come in; or the woman of resolution who would give me some water which had been in my room all night, instead of taking the trouble to go down to the pump or spring and get me some that was fresh and sparkling and had no taste of physic about it. Also I should like her to give it to me in some light vessel, perhaps a small cup with a handle, which ICONVALESCENT COOKERY. 5 could grasp, if a tumbler was beyond rny strength; but I would not like my drink out of a large delft basin, with a thick edge that hurt my lips, and a great side to drink at, which, as I could not swallow quickly, would send all the water over me, wetting my night-clothes and the bed-clothes. Even if a woman have enough natural perception and refinement to guess at these things for herself, there is a great deal to be learned about cooking for sick people that nothing but downright learning, patience, and practice will teach. In speaking of convalescents, we generally mean sick people who are returning to health ; who have had a long illness, and are recovering from it. To these people there comes a stage of convalescence when the doctor, having care- fully watched his patient all through the worst part of the illness, pronounces him to be out of danger, and that he only requires the cook now instead of the doctor.G CONVALESCENT COOKERY. We are very fond of talking of the c wear and tear of life :' by it some people mean the exhaustion of the mind; others apply the term to the bod}r only. It is part of what is called our animal economy that there is a certain degree of waste going on continually, which requires to be con- stantly recruited by a supply of fresh materials. Of this waste, the extent of it, and the changes it brings, we are scarcely conscious, especially while in health; but it is a fact that scarcely a single portion of our bodies consists of the same substance that composed it only a few years before. At all times, therefore, it is necessary that the food on which we live should be of such a nature as to repair this waste that is always going on. It must be of a certain hind, and in sufficieut quantities. During illness the waste goes on, not alone to as great an extent as during health, but in many cases the disease in itself causes greater waste ; and there is noCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 7 new supply of strength coming in from taking food, from fresh air, and from the exercise of the animal powers. There is enormous waste and there are no repairs; the latter are cut off altogether. So soon, therefore, as the disease has been checked, the repairs, by means of strengthening food, ought to begin. By strengthening the digestion more power is given to it, and the more food the patient is able to digest, the greater is the growth of all the animal powers, and the more complete are the repairs of the waste which has gone on. But all invalids who require to have nourishing food are not convalescents, nor ever will be. There are sick people who will never in this world be better or stronger, or leave the narrow room in which they are confined but for one narrower still; and yet their lives are precious, so very precious to those who watch them, that no labour is too great, no pains dare be spared, to keep them one week—nay, even one day— longer in this world. In such cases every8 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. morsel of food swallowed is counted as so much strength, and every little accession of strength is another day or hour of life; so, how important is it that eveiy woman should know before the need arises how to cook for sick people, and not find it out for herself when the experience comes too late to be of any use in prolonging the one life that was all the world to her—a thousand times dearer to her, perhaps, than her own. There is one great difference between pro- viding food for one who grows better every day and for one who is growing worse. For the convalescent returning health gives renewed strength and a better appetite, but with the fading invalid, every day's experience is a new difficulty; the palate is more fastidious, the appetite more capricious, and the powers of digestion have grown weaker. Then, indeed, will the abilities of the cook be tested to the utmost; she will find that all, and more than all, the skill she possesses is required.9 CONY, i LESCEXT CO OKER Y. WHAT A COOK FOR CONVALESCENTS OUGHT TO BE. If a motto were to be selected for all women who have to cook food, or to provide it for sick people, there is one, a very old-fashioned one, which I should like to recommend to them :— ' Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might.' It might even be made a compound one by adding to it a second part, written more than one thousand years later than the first:— ' Not with eye service, as men tleasers ; but in singleness of heart, fearing god.' For the cook must above all things be con- scientious. All her greatest successes depend upon attention to small things, care in minute particulars of which no one but herself is aware,10 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. and which she might neglect or be careless about, and no one but herself be able to trace the failure to its cause. The reason why people are apt to believe that a good, loving heart is the only requisite for a cook or a nurse, is because affection makes people conscientious in trifles which may or may not affect the health of the patient. To take trouble in small matters is even a pleasure for one we love ; no toil is then a grievance. Fatigue is disregarded, and all our perceptions are quickened by our affections. Our inventive powers come into play, and ingenuity seems to exhaust itself in devising remedies and comforts. The second qualification is patience. The cook must be unwearied in well-doing. No matter how capricious is the appetite of the patient, or how uncertain disease may make the temper, the cook must be steady in doing her work. If the patient ask for some particu- lar kind of food one day, and refuse to eatCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 11 that very same thing the next, the cook must only be thankful if her skill can produce some- thing else that will answer instead. Cleanliness is another point on which the cook must be irreproachable; not alone in her own person, but in her cooking utensils, in the food itself, and in the way in which she serves it up. Did you ever have a piece of bread and butter brought to you which had been cut with a knife previously used to peel and cut an onion ? Or have you tried to drink a cup of milk which had been warmed in a greasy sauce- pan ? Or have you ever seen some butter put down upon a table, one side of which had a suspicious appearance of having been nibbled by a mouse? Think of the wild schemes which one after another darted through your brain for inducing your entertainers to let you have your slice of bread without any butter. Think of how all these accidents seem to you when you are in health—if accidents you call them—and have some pity for the poor invalid12 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. who lies hopelessly at your mercy; he is obliged to eat whatever you bring him, or else remain hungry, feeling himself growing per- ceptibly weaker, because he has not had enough food even to check the waste of body going on, not to speak of the repairs which are necessary. By the time you have prepared something else for him to eat, his appetite is gone, actually because he has not strength enough left for swallowing. The next point to be insisted upon in a cook is punctuality, and with it may be joined order and method. To have the food prepared at a certain hour, it is absolutely essential that the cook shall have everything she may require in the house beforehand, everything she is in the habit of using kept in its right place, and every branch of preparation carried out in its proper order. The Baroness Burdett Coutts has a capital motto for the schools at Mnchley, which is worth putting down here :— Do everything at its proper time ; Keep everything to its proper use; Put everything in its proper place; Use everything in a proper manner.13 COXVALESCEKT COOKEJt Y. To be punctual, or to carry on the work with order and method, a great amount of fore- thought is required. The cook must not be satisfied with thinking what her patient will require to-day, but she must think for to-morrow also. Not that she can regulate the patient's appetite, nor exactly foresee what a doctor may order, but she ought to be prepared for any emergency which may arise, and that can only be done by being punctual and orderly in the regular duties required from her. Miss Night- ingale says that there are thousands of patients annually starved in the midst of plenty from want of attention to the ways which alone make it possible for them to take food. This want of attention is as remarkable in those who urge upon the sick to do what is quite impossible to them, as in the sick themselves, who will not make the effort to take what is perfectly pos- sible to them. For instance, to most very weak patients itli CONVALESCED COOKERY. is quite impossible to take any solid food before eleven o'clock in the forenoon, nor then if their strength is still farther exhausted by fasting till that hour. For weak patients have gene- rally feverish nights, and in the morning dry mouths ; and if they could eat with those dry mouths, it would be the worse for them. A spoonful of beef-tea, of arrowroot and wine, of egg-flip, every hour, will give them the requisite nourishment, and prevent them from being too much exhausted to take at a later hour the solid food which is necessary for their re- covery. And every patient who can swallow at all can swallow these liquid things if he chooses. But how often do we hear a mutton-chop, an egg, a bit of bacon, ordered to a patient for breakfast, to whom (as a moment's considera- tion would show us) it must be quite impossible to take such things at that hour. Again, a nurse is ordered to give a patient a teacupful of some article of food every threeCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 15 hours ; the patient's stomach rejects it. If so, try a tablespoonful every hour; if this will not do, a teaspoonful eveiw quarter of an hour. If we did but know the consequences which may ensue in very weak patients from ten minutes' fasting or repletion (I call it repletion when they are obliged to leave too small an interval between taking food and some other exertion, owing to the nurse's unpunctuality), we should be more careful never to let this occur. In very weak patients there is often a nervous difficulty of swallowing, which is so much increased by any other call upon their strength that, unless they have their food punctually at the minute, which minute again must be arranged so as to fall in with no other minute's occupation, they can take nothing till the next respite occurs ; so that unpunctuality, or a delay of ten minutes, may very well turn out to be one of two or three hours. And why is it not as easy to be punctual to a minute ? Life often hangs upon these minutes.16 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. One of the greatest authorities on cooking that we have is Monsieur Jules Gouffe, Her Majesty's head pastrycook. He advises cooks not to lose sight of one great practical principle; namely, that it is always better to be in advance in the preparation of any meal rather than behindhand. It is always easier to proceed slower when one finds oneself ready too soon, but when you are compelled to hurry things for want of time, there is every probability of doing badly, and it is rare that some part of the cook- ing should not suffer.17 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. WHAT A COOK FOR CONVALESCENTS OUGHT TO BE ACQUAINTED WITH. There is an old proverb which says, ' If fools went not to market, bad ware would not be sold.' But a great many people who have to cook for sick people never go to market at all—they trust to others to buy for them everything that they require; the worst of which is, that they do not know good meat from bad when it is brought in to them. Nor are they always quite sure whether they Lave the thing which they know is the best for their purpose. Rut whether a woman goes to market her- self or not, she ought at least to know how to choose in case it fell to her lot to go. She18 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. ought to be a judge of fish, flesh, and fowl, in their uncooked states, to know fresh vege- tables and fruit from stale, to have some clear ideas respecting first-class flour, or meal, or rice, or sago, or any of the one hundred and one things which a cook requires. She ought to know all about kitchen utensils, all the different kinds, which are essentials and which extras. And lastly, she ought to be most skilful in turning all her materials to good account and making the most of them. That a cook should be economical seems unnecessary to add, but it is not the least im- portant qualification. A good cook is never wasteful, and in times when illness comes into a house there is so much additional expense necessarily incurred, that in most households it is doubly necessary that the cook should be what the Scotch call 'a woman of faculty.' For instance, if she has used the yolks of one or two eggs in making some dish to go to theCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 19 sick-room, she ought to be able to turn the whites to account in the dinner for the family. From the meat which has been used for making beef-tea she ought to make some broth by adding some vegetables and a little spice; or she might turn it into potted meat for break- fast. It is only by knowing exactly how long each dish will take to cook that she will be able to economise in that most costly necessary—firing. She must learn how to prepare the fire at the proper time, of the exact heat required. A wasteful cook first makes a fire which is too hot, and then has to wait till it cools, if the food she is about to cook will not bear a strong fire. She will make as large a fire to warm some beef-tea as would roast a joint, and when the beef-tea is taken off, the rest of the fire is allowed to go to waste. A woman with fore- thought and skill, as well as of economical habits, will at once think if there is anything c 220 COXYALESCEXT COOKERY. ■which will be required on the following day which could he prepared beforehand—is there any sonp which might be put on to boil ? are there clean clothes to be aired ? or is there any other use to which the fire can be put ?CONVALESCENT COOKEIt Y. LI HOW TO GO TO MARKET. ' Ready money,' says Lord Byron, ' is Aladdin's lamp.' If you want to buy with advantage, try and pay ready money for everything. Then, if the beef be not prime in one shop, you may go to another; and if you know of some place where a basket of fresh eggs has just been brought in, you can have some of them, instead of being obliged to keep to a shop having stale ones, because you have a running account there. Good beef ought to be of a bright red colour, with light yellow fat, approaching the hue of fresh butter; the skin thick, with a thin layer of fat between the outer skin and the lean flesh. Inferior beef is hard and firm to the touch but the fat is not firm; the flesh of a dull brown red, with a good deal of gristle.22 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. Good mutton, like beef, is of a bright red colour, free from gristle, and very firm; white transparent fat. Inferior mutton is of a dull red colour, with yellow and opaque fat. The colour of the outside of a joint of mutton alters by being hung up for several days before being used, which is absolutely necessary; but experience soon teaches the buyer. Veal should be of a light colour, the fat exceedingly white and rather transparent. If the kidney be surrounded with thick solid white fat, and the flesh dry, not flabby, the meat is good. Veal lean, and the kidney surrounded by red-looking fat, is not good. Veal is in season from May till September, but can be had at other times, as some cows are required to calve all the year round to keep up the supply of milk. Lamb, which lasts from Maxell till August, must be used when freshly killed; the youngerCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 23 it is, tlie sooner after being killed it must be cooked. The vein of the fore-quarter in lamb is an excellent guide -whether it be fresh or not. It should be blue, without any tinge of green, for when green appears, it is a sure indication that the meat has been too long killed. In the hind-quarter the kidney fat turns slightly green, and gives a faint smell— not exactly putrid, but approaching to it. The knuckle also ought not to be limp, but should preserve its stiffness. The eyes of lamb are the best guide of all, for so long as they are full and bright, the buyer may rest assured that the lamb is only just hilled. Pork is rarely given to invalids, being far too indigestible; but it may be no harm to mention how it may be chosen, as the cook who goes to market to lay in stores for the con- valescent, may also have the wants of a house- hold to think of. She ought to take a thin piece of the lean between her finger, and if of a good quality it will readily yield to a smart24 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. squeeze. The colour ought to he rather pale than red. The rind ought also to he thin and delicate. The freshness is indicated hy the transparency and freedom from any green tint or unwholesome smell. Measly pork is known by the fat containing enlarged glands, called kernels in the trade, and hy the lean yielding little specks of matter on pressure. In this state it is quite unfit for human food. There is no food which is so much prized for invalids as fowls. Not only may the flesh he eaten of plain roast or boiled fowl, but many dainty dishes can be prepared from fowls. A fowl may be altogether boiled down into jelly in a meat digester, if the bones have previously been well broken; and when carefully made, no jelly contains the same amount of nutriment with so little demand for exertion of the weak digestive powers. From December 1st to May 1st great care is required in selecting fowls, as it is just possible they may not be very tender. After this, springCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 25 chickens may be had, which are better for invalids. A young fowl has always large feet and knee-joints, which become reduced in size as they grow older. A tough fowl has a thin neck and feet, and the flesh of the thigh has a slight violet tinge. Try the flesh of the pinion and breast; if both these are tender, the fowl may be used with confidence. So many artificial means are resorted to by fowl merchants for altering the appearance of the skin of a fowl, that it is impossible to judge by its skin. It ought in most instances to be fine, no matter what its colour be; but different breeds of fowls, such as Cochin, Dorking, &c, have skins differing in texture, even while at the same age; so the touch must be more relied upon than the colour. On the subject of fowls a great authority— Monsieur Gouffe, the head cook of the French Jockey Club, and brother to the Queen of England's chief pastrycook—says : ' Never use an old fowl in cookery. Whichever way you26 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. dress it, it never will be good. It is a great mistake to recommend, as in some cookery books, the putting of an old ben in tbe stock- pot. Instead of improving tbe broth, it can do nothing but impart to it the unpleasant flavour of the hen-house. It is well, however, to dis- tinguish between hard but young poultry and tbe toughness of an old fowl. With the former something may be done, but with the old and tough buds, I repeat most emphatically, nothing, absolutely nothing, can be done.' A good turkey will be recognised by the whiteness of the flesh and fat. Beware of those with long hairs, and those also the flesh of which on the legs and back is of a violet tinge. To select a goose, try the flesh of the pinion, and break off the lower part of the beak, which should break easily. The fat should be light-coloured and transparent. Ducks are chosen in the same way. Geese and ducks are mentioned, as wasCONVALESCENT COOKERY 27 pork, in the interests of the healthy; but both are unfit for weak digestions. To describe the different kinds of fish would require more space than we can spare, and to mention the seasons at which each kind can be had. But whatever is bought it ought to be fresh. 1st. The eyes must be bright. 2nd. The gills red. 3rd. The flesh firm. 4th. The fish should be well covered with scales. Make the fishmonger lift the fish by the head ; it will then be seen, if the body be stiff, or, if it fall, what is called flaccid. Fish is a light and very easily digested kind of food, but some of the richer and coarser kinds are rarely if ever given to in- valids. Shell fish, with the exception of oysters, are never given. Eggs.—A lady who knew very little about28 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. housekeeping, but wished to have it supposed that she knew a great deal, was giving instruc- tions to her servant how to choose fresh eggs. ' You are to put one into water,' she said, ' and if it be fresh, it will—let nae see—it will sink. No, I am wrong; if it is fresh, it will swim Well, I am not quite sure; but it will either sink or swim.' The servant must have found such instruc- tion a little bewildering. What the mistress meant to say was, that eggs, if very stale, will sink, and if very fresh, will swim. Some people pretend to be able to tell fresh eggs by putting the tip of the tongue to the narrow end, and if a little warmth seems to be in the shell, pro- nounce them fresh ; but this is a mistake, for if eggs have been greased when newly laid, to keep them fresh, all the imaginary heat in the shell is gone; the butter, or whatever has been used, coming between the tongue and the lime in the egg-shell.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 29 Good flour is smooth to the touch, cold, aud when pressed retains the form of the pressure. Good meal has a peculiarly sweet smell. Good grain is plump and firm. Vegetables for sick people ought to be very- fresh, in which case they are crisp, not limp. Fresh fruit has a downy, glossy look upon the skin. Fresh milk everyone can recognise. Many people use the condensed milk for cooking, mixing it with water. The Swiss condensed milk is much preferable to the English. It costs a halfpenny or a penny a tin more than the English, but it is quite worth the difference in price.30 CONVA LESCENT COOKEIt Y. IN THE KITCHEN. It is much easier to cook nice dainty dishes if a woman have no other occupation to follow, and nothing else to think of but roasting, stewing, and boiling. But it is quite another matter if she be wife, mother, nurse, and cook, all at one and the same time. A sick husband, three or four young child- ren (one perhaps an infant), very small quarters iu which to live, and very little money to pro- vide for the wants of so many people, and her task is no easy one. She will not be able to go out to buy what she wants, as a sick person cannot always be left alone, and it is always more expensive and less satisfactory to have to employ someone else.31 CONVA LESCEXT CO OKER Y. She must make the best of what is brought to her, for she is then in the position of the man in the proverb, who, not having what he liked, was obliged to like what he had. It seems almost unnecessary to advise people not to have any cooking done in the same room with the patient, for he will have little or no appetite left with which to eat his meal, if he has had to endure the fuss and smell of pre- paration first. Unfortunately, in many families, especially at the present price of firing, it is not easy to avoid difficulties of this kind. If it be necessary to keep up a fire in the sick per- son's room, the supply for the kitchen is neces- sarily limited, and occasionally the bedroom fire has to be made to do a little duty; but this should be as rarely as possible. The most important point in the kitchen is to have everything kept very clean. No .food will be palatable which is not made in clean vessels, nor will an invalid like the appearance of anything sent up which seems not quite free82 CONVA LESCEXT CO OKER Y. from dust or grease, or anything which, ought not to he in it. If it he possible to keep a different set of cooking utensils for the sick person's food, it is very desirahle to do so ; hut in many households the supply of pots and pans is too limited to allow of this, and some portion of the family dinner often urgently awaits the next turn of some particular saucepan. Whether a pot or saucepan is to he used immediately or not, it ought, directly after being emptied, to be filled with cold water. If it has been used for boiling rice, corn flour, porridge, or anything which clings to the sides, this will be loosened by the water, and make the after-cleaning easier. To clean saucepans, the remains of what has been cooke still adhering must be removed with a small scrubber of bent grass or heather—cooks of primitive habits have been known to use fresh hay for this purpose—and the inside well scoured with sand and a rough cloth. TheCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 33 saucepan must then be rinsed out, not once, but several times, with cold water, and dried. Careful cooks put the saucepans in front of the fire thoroughly to dry the insides. Before using them they should be wiped with a cloth inside, and again rinsed. When the saucepans are not in use, the lids ought not to be kept upon them, but hung up close at hand; and exactly the same care must be bestowed upon them as is given to the pots to which they be- long. A lid which has not been properly cleaned, on which the steam from one kind of food has settled, will be sure to give an un- pleasant taste to whatever it is put over—per- haps some compound of a totally different nature. Saucepans which are greasy can be cleaned by boiling ha them a little water in which a bit of common soda has been put. N.B.—Don't forget that the lid is also to be included in the soda process. But all the care in the world given to the D34 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. pots and pans is but half the battle, unless the kitchen itself is kept perfectly clean. Gouffe, the French cook I quoted to you just now, says, ' A kitchen may be small, badly- arranged, and ill-lighted; but it should never, on any plea, be dirty.' I quite agree with Gouffe: there is no ex- cuse for dirt in any shape. It is impossible to cook much, either for sick people or people in health, without some of the smell getting out of the kitchen and making its way up through the house. Have you perceived how much more unpleasant is the smell if the kitchen be not a particularly clean one, and smells of dirt and food blended together? Much smell may be prevented by keeping the chimney, especially round the mouth, clean and free from soot, and if it be a close range on which the cooking is done, by keeping the flues very clean; but it is still more necessary for the cook to be careful in not allow- ing anything to boil over either into the fire35 COXYALESCEXT COOKERY. or on the stove. No endeavours then will pre- vent the smell from making its way up-stairs, to the great disgust of the sick person. If the sick-room be close by, so much the worse for the patient. The water in which vegetables have been boiled, or fish, ought to be thrown away as soon as possible in every house, but especially in any house where there is illness; and it ought not, on any pretence whatsoever, to be allowed to run down the pipe from the sink, but taken away and emptied outside the house. This same sink is a place of great impor- tance. No scraps ought ever to be allowed to accumulate in the corners, as is sometimes to be seen even in respectable houses, and it ought to be washed out every day with soft soap and boiling water—a little soda in addi- tion is no harm—and then rinsed, well rinsed, with cold water. Much of the delicacy of cooking depends D 236 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. upon the vessels in which it is to he done. For the preparation of delicate food the saucepans lined with white enamel are the best, hut these are more costly than those which are tin-lined or else not lined at all. The ordi- nary iron saucepan, before it is tinned, is the best for general purposes ; but soups, sauces, or fruit, or anything which contains acids, must be put in a lined saucepan, an iron one tinned being the least costly. But in course of time it will be found that the tin is apt to melt from the sides, and run down to the bottom in small rido-es, which retain the dirt, and render it difficult to keep the vessel clean and sweet. All saucepans ought to have closely fit- ting lids. For making soup a meat digester is most valuable, but it is an expensive article, as a very small one costs seven or eight shillings. If the price be no object, there is no question but that the juice of the meat is more tho- roughly extracted, and the process of boilingCONVALESCENT C00KER1. 37 down performed more effectually than in the common stewpan. A frying-pan is a necessary; so also is a broiling-iron, for chops and steaks, broiled fowl, &c ; but as a general rule a cook who knows her business will make the daintiest dishes with only the ordinary kitchen utensils. A pestle and mortar will be found useful. One final word on the subject of cleanliness before leaving it. Do not try to be economical with respect to water. Wash the kitchen floor frequently, and if it be a large room, change the water you are using several times during the process. And in washing pots and saucepans do not try to make the same greasy water do for half-a-dozen, or perhaps more. Have plenty of clean, hot water, and the labour of cleaning will be much lessened. As soon as the cooking is over, clean up the stove, wash the pots, and open the kitchen window.38 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. Fresh air never did any one any harm, and if it were for no other reason than for the good of the cook's health, windows in the kitchen ought to be opened as regularly as in any other part of the house.CONVALESCENT COOKEJIY. 39 ON COOKING IN GENERAL. If the cook be inexperienced, she ought to begin by carefully weighing all the proportions given in each recipe ; but by degrees, as she improves and gains confidence, she will be able in a great measure to dispense with scales. Indeed it is as well that she should accustom herself as much as possible to tell by sight the weights of many things, and to be so familiar with short ways of measuring that time may be saved without departing from exactness. It would be impossible to give an accurate table of measurements which would save the cook being obliged to use the scales, but a few general rules will be found useful.CONVALESCENT CO OXER Y. 40 A tablespoonful of flour weighs 1-J- ounce. A tablespoonful of salt, 1 ounce. A tablespoonful of Scotch barley, 1 ounce. A teaspoonful of ground pepper, £ of an ounce. A teaspoonful of celery seed, \ of an ounce. A teaspoonful of ground allspice, half a quarter of an ounce. A middle-sized onion, 4 ounces, or ^ of a pound. A middle-sized carrot, 5 ounces. A middle-sized head of celery, lg ounce. Pinches of things are more difficult to describe. Every cook ought to find out for herself, once for all, how much is contained in her pinch, and keep that in mind. A woman with broad thumbs will take up twice as much in a pinch, and that quite unconsciously, as will the woman of taper fingers. It makes all the difference to the in- valid whether the pinch of salt in his cup of beef-tea be a large pinch or a small one. Small pinches of salt are about one sixteenth part of an ounce, and large ones about one quarter. The cook must find out for herself if the quan-COjNYALESCENT COOKERY. 41 tity which she lifts between her finger and thumb comes between these two measures. In severe illnesses, where it is important to keep up the strength, beef-tea is the most valuable form of nourishment. It can be made so very strong—so strong as to be literally the extract of the meat—that, with little fatigue from swallowing to the patient, a great amount of nourishment can be given. Miss Nightingale speaks rather slightingly of the advantages of beef-tea—so does she of arrowroot and many other things which are found to be of value in the sick-room ; but Dr. Christison and many other ecuially celebrated authorities are decidedly in favour of it. Before entering on the various recipes for making food for invalids, a few remarks must be made upon first principles which ought to be observed. The best beef for soup or for beef-tea is taken from the leg, extending from the shin and including the rump; the upper pai'ts of42 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. the shoulder, known as gravy beef, are also very generally employed. Meat for beef tea must be perfectly fresh. Have a good but slow fire—good enough not to require to be replenished for an hour or two, but not so strong as to hurry the boiling. Cover the pot closely. As it comes to the boil remove all the scum which comes to the top; do not allow the fat to boil through, but shim it off. When meat comes to the boil, it should be drawn to the side, and allowed to simmer very slowly. If vegetables are to be added to the soup, they should not remain in the pot a minute longer than necessary to be well cooked, as they will otherwise absorb some of the flavour of the broth ; a fact easily proved by tasting them when they have thus been allowed to linger in the broth after their proper cooking. It will then be found that they have taken mush of the richness of the broth, to the great loss of the broth itself.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 43 In spring and summer, vegetables, being tender, cook more rapidly; it is therefore necessary to make proper allowances for the difference of seasons. If it be desired to flavour the soup with herbs, the best way is to tie them up in what Trench people call a faggot. With them the term is confined to a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaves. To one handful of parsley there ought not to be more than one sprig of thyme and one bay leaf. Should, however, the bay leaf be objected to, marjoram, sage, and mint may be tied up with the parsley. Wash the parsley, place the thyme and bay leaf in the midst of it, and fold down the extremities of the parsley to enclose the other herbs. Tie it round with string, and trim it, so as none of the leaves shall break off in the pot. A properly made faggot ought to be about three inches long. The proper management of the fire is a most essential part of cooking. For roasting,44 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. fresh coal must be put upon the fire, and it must be thoroughly lighted and throwing out heat before the meat is put before it. For broiling, on the contrary, the fire should be made of cinders, which ought to be put on the fire at least a quarter of an hour before the chop, or steak, or fowl is to be done, so that the cinders shall be clear and quite free from smoke. N.B.—Great care must be taken of cinders: they are most valuable to the cook, especially to one who has to cook for sick people. Vegetables ought, if possible, to be gathered early in the morning of the day on which they are to be dressed. They ought to be washed at once, all the coarse, faded, and dead leaves picked off and thrown away. An hour before they are to be cooked, they must be put into a pan of cold clean water, with a little salt in it. This will free the vegetables from both insects and dirt. But remember carefully to drain off this salt water from the vegetables before puttingCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 45 them into the saucepan to boil, or the boiling will be too long kept back, and they will thus be deprived of their nice green colour. Kemeinber also to boil them in plenty of water; LET THE WATER BOIL FAST WHEN THEY ARE PUT in, and let it continue to boil fast till they beo-in to sink, and are quite tender, which are signs of their being done. To assist in preserving their greenness, it is usual to throw a small quantity of baking soda into the saucepan with them ; but this is a relic of barbarism never to be practised in a house where invalids are, as it makes the water in which vegetables have been boiled smell offensively. Bo not let vegetables be overdone, or their colour will be spoiled. When cooked, let them be carefully strained; do not allow them to remain in the water a minute after they are off the fire, or they will lose their colour, beauty, and flavour. Throw away the water in which they have been boiled immediately.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 46 RECIPES, &c. EXTRACT OF BEEF. Take one pound of lean beef, cut it up into small pieces, eacli about as large as a dice, put the meat into a bottle or jar with a little salt. Tie a piece of bladder over the neck of the bottle, or cork it closely. Put the bottle into a saucepan of cold water, and put the saucepan on a slow fire. As soon as the water boils, set tbe sauce- pan in some part of the fire which will keep the water boiling-, but no more, and as the water in the saucepan boils away, fill up with boiling water. At the end of four or five hours the meat will have discharged all its juice, which ought to be drawn off, strained through a piece of muslin, and left to cool. Any fatCONVALESCENT COOKERJ. 47 will then harden on the top, and can be re- moved. All beef-tea or extract is better when made the day before it is required, and then warmed up. EXTRACT OF BEEF. (another.) Take one pound of rump steak, mince it like sausage meat, and mix it with one pint of cold water. Place it in a pot at the side of the fire to heat very slowly. It may stand two or three hours before it is allowed to simmer, and then let it boil gently for fifteen minutes. Skim and serve. The addition of a small tea- spoonful of cream to a teacupful of this beef renders it richer and more nourishing. Some- times it is preferred when thickened with a little flour or arrowroot.COXTA LESCENT CO OKER Y. 48 RAW BEEF-TEA. (for typhoid fevee.) Two ounces of lean gravy beef, two table- spoonfuls of cold water. Chop the meat very fine; let it stand a quarter of an hour in the water, then pour off the liquid. Make no more than this at one time as it will not keep. BEEF-TEA. This is not so strong as the extract. Have the meat cut without fat and bone, and choose a nice fleshy piece. Cut it into small pieces about the size of hazel-nuts, and put it into a clean saucepan. To each pound of meat add a quart of cold water and a salt-spoon- ful of salt. Put the saucepan on the fire and bring the soup to boiling-point, carefully skim- ming it before it boils, to remove fat and scum. Allow it to simmer very slowly for two hours, until the quart of water shall have boiled downCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 49 to a pint. Strain it, and put it away until it is cold, and before warming it again remove any fat which may be on the surface. In heating for the patient it is well to put the quantity required in a cup, and put the cup in a saucepan or basin of boiling water. This prevents waste in the warming of either beef- extract or beef-tea, and it has another advan- tage : if the patient should be asleep when the beef-tea is ready, it can be kept hot, and yet ready at a minute's notice. If the patient be sufficiently convalescent to take beef-tea which has been flavoured with vegetables, greater variety of taste can be given. There are several ways of making this kind of beef-tea, or rather soup. SOTBr's recipe. Ingredients.—1 lb. of solid beef; 1 oz. of butter; one clove ; two button onions or half a large one, one saltspoonful of salt, one quart of water. ECONVALESCENT COOKERY. 50 Cut the beef into very small pieces, put it into a stewpan with the butter, clove, onion, and salt; stir the meat round over the fire for a few minutes until it produces a thin gravy, then add the water, and let it simmer gently from half-an-hour to three-quarters, skimming off every particle of fat. When done, strain through a sieve, and put it by in a cool place until required. The same, if wanted quite plain, is done by merely omitting the vege- tables, salt, and clove ; the butter cannot be objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming. One pound of beef ought to make a pint of beef-tea. If the meat be boiled a little more than three-quarters of an hour, it can be taken out, pounded, and spiced, and then potted ; potted meat is an excellent breakfast dish, and makes admirable sandwiches for luncheon. Francatelli, a famous cook, recommends beef- tea to be boiled very fast for half-an-hour, stirring it occasionally, and then taken up and strained through a bit of muslin.51 CONVALESCENT CO OXER T. gouffe's BROTH A LA MINUTE is not economical, but is supposed to be made quickly. Take one pound of lean beef, half a fowl with the bones taken out, pound together in a mortar, add a quarter of an ounce of salt, put it in a stewpan with two and a half pints of cold water, stir over the fire till boiling, then add carrots, onions, leeks, and celery, the whole cut fine; boil for half-an-hour, strain, and serve. MRS. BEETON'S BEEF-TEA. Mrs. Beeton gives a recipe for ' beef-tea in haste,' which is much better than Gouffe's. Take one pound of lean beef. With a sharp knife scrape the beef into fibres; this should be done on a board. Put the scraped meat into a delicately clean saucepan, and pour half-a-pint of boiling water on it; cover closely and set by K 252 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. the fire for ten minutes, strain into a teacup, place in a basin of ice-cold water, remove all fat from tlie surface, pour into a warmed cup, and serve. When required of greater strength, use half the above quantity of water, or even less, when the patient is able to take a spoonful only at a time. TEGETMEIER'S MUTTON BROTH. Two pounds of scrag of mutton put into a saucepan with three pints of water and a little salt. Let it simmer gently two hours. Strain through a sieve; when cold remove every par- ticle of fat; it can be thickened with arrow- root or ground rice. The mutton can be eaten by the family with parsley and butter. FRANCATELLI'S MUTTON BROTH. Chop a pound of scrag end of neck of mutton into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan, with two ounces of barley and ratherCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 63 better than a quart of water ; set the broth to boil gently on the fire, skim it well, season with a little salt, thyme, parsley, and a couple of turnips ; the whole to boil very gently on the side of the hob for an hour and a half; at the end of this time serve some of the broth, strained through a clean piece of muslin or a fine strainer into a basin. If the patient is allowed to have the broth with some of the meat and barley in it, give it; also a little bit of nice brown toast. MUTTON BROTH, QUICKLY MADE. One or two chops from a neck of mutton ; one pint of water; a small bunch of sweet herbs made in a faggot; a quarter of an onion ; pepper and salt to taste. Cut the meat into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with the bones, but no skin or fat; add the other ingredients; cover the saucepan, and bring the water quickly to boil Take the lid off and continue the rapid lolling54 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. for twenty minutes, skimming it well during the process ; strain the broth into a basin ; if there should be any fat left on the surface, remove it by laying a piece of thin blotting-paper on the top; the greasy particles will adhere to the paper, and so free the preparation from them. To an invalid nothing is more disagreeable than broth served with a quantity of fat float- ing on the top; to avoid this it is always better to allow it to get thoroughly cool, the fat can then be so easily removed. This quantity will only make half-a-pint of broth. ANOTHER KIND OP MUTTON BROTH. (Or it may be made with beef, or with veal, or with the three combined.) Take one pound of meat, free from the bone, and well washed in boiling water ; then dry it in a cloth, and put it on the fire with a quart of water: when it boils skim it as clear as pos- sible ; then add a little more cold water, which will make the scum rise afresh; then take itCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 55 off, and season with parsley root (a piece about the size of two fingers), a small carrot, an onion or two, a blade of mace, and about two ounces of clean bacon, if the palate of the invalid be strong enough to bear this addition ; boil it an hour and a half at least, till the meat is tender ; then strain it. This recipe is given on the authority of J. H. Walsh, Esq., F.E.C.S., assisted by a committee of ladies; but the advantage of first washing the meat in boiling water is questioned by many authorities equally to be relied upon. CALF'S-FOOT BROTH. Stew two calf's feet in three pints of water, or two pints of water and one of new milk, with a small bit of lemon-peel, very gently, until the liquid is boiled down to a pint and a half, very carefully removing any scum which rises to the surface. Set it by in a basin until quite cold, then take off every particle of fat.56 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. Warm up for the patient about half-a-pint of the broth, adding a little bit of butter about as large as a nut, a small lump of sugar, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg. Take it off the fire, add the yolk of an egg which has pre- viously been well beaten, stir the mixture over the fire until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil again after the egg is added, or it will curdle, and the broth will be spoiled. CHICKEN BROTH. Take half a fowl, or the inferior joints of a whole one; make up a bunch of sweet herbs in a faggot; add a blade of mace, half an onion, salt to taste, ten peppercorns. Put the fowl into a saucepan with all the ingredients and a quart of water; simmer gently for an hour and a half, carefully skimming the broth well. When done, strain, and put by in a cool place until wanted ; then take all the fat off the top, warm up as much as may be required, and serve with a little toast.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. CHICKEN EXTRACT. Cut the chicken or fowl into seven or eight pieces; that is to say, cut off the legs, the wings, the breast, and break up the body into two or more pieces. Put them into a soup- digester or close stewpan, with a quart of water (if it be a large fowl) and a little salt. If only a chicken, a pint or pint and a half of water will be enough. Bring it to boil, carefully skimming it, and then keep it simmering by the side of the fire for an hour. By that time the flesh will be done to rags. Take the pieces out of the saucepan, and pound flesh and bones thoroughly in a mortar. Put the pounded fragments back into the saucepan, bring it again to boil, and allow it to simmer for another hour. Strain the liquid, which will have boiled down to about one-fourth, carefully through a piece of muslin, and when cold it will be in a jelly. If very strong nourishment be required, mixCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 58 a spoonful of beef extract with two of the chicken extract, but be careful to ascertain whether the digestion of the patient will bear the beef or must have the chicken alone. To give chicken broth a little more flavour, and make it not quite so tasteless, the chicken may- be roasted for fifteen or twenty minutes first, but by this the strength of the broth is much diminished. ERANCATELLl's CHEAP KIND OP CHICKEN BROTH. In large towns, fowls' necks, gizzards, and feet may be purchased, which will make an excellent broth for those who cannot afford to have a whole fowl. Put about sixpence worth of necks and feet into a cloth, and pound them, so as to thoroughly break all the bones. Chop the gizzards into small pieces; put all together into a saucepan with a quart of water, and set it on to boil, keeping it carefully skimmed. Add a little thyme, some parsley, a little salt, a veryCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 59 small onion, and a little celery, and simmer gently for an hour. Strain the liquor, and put it back into the saucepan with two ounces of sago, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Instead of the sago, a little rice, which has been previously boiled in either milk or water, may be added, in which case the second boiling of the liquid, after straining, is quite un- necessary. BROILING AND FRYING. When a sick person recovers so far as to be past the stage for beef-tea, and able to eat a little solid food, the doctor generally orders for him a little broiled fowl or a mutton-chop. What curious, greasy, yet burned morsels come up to the sick-room, looking so unpleasant that even a person in good health, and perhaps at the time exceedingly hungry, would not like to swallow them !60 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. If a cook cannot manage to broil meat well, she ought to fry it, wliicb. is less likely to be a failure; but broiling is more highly recom- mended for weak digestions. First, the care of the cook ought to be the fire. The French cooks use charcoal, but in this country cinders are the substitute. The fire must be prepared at least a quarter of an hour before it is required; a layer of cinders about an inch and a half thick, spread over the hot coals, and left to burn clear. If not per- fectly clear at the last moment, a little salt thrown on the fire makes it burn more clearly and frees it from smoke. The ordinary gridiron is merely a square frame of iron, with cross-bars of the same. An improved kind is used for steak and chop broiling, with the upper surface concave or grooved, and all terminating in a hollow in the handle, so as to save a little of that rich gravy which would otherwise fall into the fire.CONVALESCENT COOKEEY. Gl Before using the gridiron—taking care that it is very clean—the upper surface, on which the meat is to rest, ought to he greased with lard, butter, or dripping, to prevent it sticking, and it should he set slanting downwards towards the hand of the cook. The steak or chop, or whatever meat is to broiled, is to be put on the gridiron, and con- tinually turned every half-minute, moving it gently each time it is turned, to avoid leaving the marks of the bars on the meat. Invalids are rarely allowed to have pepper, so salt is all that may be sprinkled over an invalid's chop. The length of time which meat takes to broil varies according to the thickness of the meat or the heat of the fire, but some idea may be had from the following table, until experi- ence teaches the cook. A rump steak of about H lb.—ten minutes. A fillet steak, rather under £ lb.—seven minutes.CONVALESCENT COOKER Y. 02 A mutton chop, trimmed, about 5 oz.—six minutes. A bread-crumbed mutton cutlet (ought to have a slow fire)—about seven minutes. A sheep's kidney (brisk fire)—four minutes. A veal chop, about 7 oz.—nine minutes. A pork chop, about 7 oz.—nine minutes. A bread-crumbed veal or pork chop— about eleven minutes. A tongs in which to hold the steak or chop is an advantage, as the fork with which it otherwise must be turned lets the gravy escape. To fry a chop well a frying basket is almost indispensable. The pan should be hot, and the dripping or lard in which the basket is held, very hot before the meat is put in. Do not try to be economical in the matter of drip- ping ; put in enough to almost cover the chop or steak. If a frying-pan with butter is to be used— which, if the patient's appetite be delicate, isCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 63 strongly recommended—the fire ought not to be too hot, for butter heats faster than fat. TO CRUMB A CUTLET OK, CHOP may be done in one or two different ways. French cooks prepare carefully a quantity of bread crumbs at a time, which is not a bad plan if they are likely to be required soon again, for it frequently happens that at the time for cooking not a scrap of stale bread can be had for love or money. Put the bread in a cloth, of which take up the four corners in one hand, and with the other rub the bread to break it up small; then pass it through a wire sieve, dry in a very cool oven, and put by in a closed box for use. For invalids the greatest care should be given to making food look as well as possible ; the appetite is often aroused by the sight of a daintily-dressed chop, when ten minutes before the patient had declared he could not eat a morsel.Gi CONVALESCENT COOKERY. The chop or cutlet must be nicely trimmed, and any superfluous fat removed, but a little should be left on during cooking, as it prevents the meat becoming too dry. Melt some butter in the pan, and dip the chop in it, so as to cover both sides equally. Lay it on a dish and sprinkle it neatly with the fine bread crumbs, in which a little salt, has been mixed, and, if permitted to the pa- tient, a little white pepper. A raw egg beaten up is daintier than melted butter. Put the cutlet into the pan in which is the remainder of the melted butter, and fry it. The fire for a crumbed cutlet must be slow, and seven minutes on an average will be long enough, dividing the time between the two sides of the cutlet, about four minutes to the first, and three to the second after the cutlet has been turned.68 CONVALESCENT COOKEUY. ANOTHER WAT OP BREADING- CHOPS AND CUTLETS. Instead of dipping the chop in melted butter, as in the foregoing recipe, a mixture is made of eggs, oil, water, salt, and a little pepper. Beat up an egg very well, add a small tea- spoonful of fresh olive oil, a teaspoonful of water, a very small pinch of salt, and the same of pepper. The water is added to prevent the breading being too thick. Fry as in the former recipe. ANOTHER WAT OF BREADING. Separate the yolk from the white of the egg, and having beaten up the yolk, add a dessert-spoonful of milk, a little pepper, and a little salt. Dip the chop into this mixture, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry in butter or lard. If the chop is to be broiled instead of fried, p66 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. it must be dipped into butter according to method the first, and not into the egg mixture. To broil fowl for invalids, which is con- sidered one of the lightest and most digestible modes of dressing, it must be cut in halves— divided down the middle—some butter rubbed upon it and a little pepper, but the salt is not to be put on until it has been turned for the last time. The inner side must be first done, which allows the upper to heat thoroughly ; it is then turned, a little salt sprinkled over it, and in a few minutes it is cooked. The grid- iron ought to be well rubbed with lard or drip- ping before the fowl is put on. Some prefer half roasting the fowl first, in which case it ought first to be cut in quarters, then roasted, then broiled. If a young chicken, it must not be roasted, but altogether done on the broiling-iron.CON I rA LJESCENT CO OKER Y. 07 ROASTING. Unless tlie fire be suitable for roasting meat, the result will be a hardened sodden mass of meat, indigestible for people in good health, therefore most of all unsuitable for invalids. While a fire for broiling should be chiefly made with cinders, a fire for roasting must be made with fresh coals, be evenly lighted before the meat is put before it, and not allowed to get low until the meat is quite done. A few small bits of coal added from time to time will keep the heat even. Avoid allowing any draught to pass between the fire and the screen; it will retard the cook- ing process and harden the meat. The time which meat or fowls will take to cook is so much modified by circumstances that it is impossible to lay down absolute rules, but68 COXYALESCEXT COOKERY. some idea may be gathered from the following table. Before taking roasted meat off the spit it should be ascertained whether it is done or not, as to put the spit through it a second time is ruinous to the meat, allowing the gravy to escape; and meat which has been sent to table underdone cannot be recoohed unless by treat- ing it as if it were cold meat. To ascertain if meat be fully roasted, draw it back from the fire and press the fleshiest part with the finger. If the cooking be perfect the flesh will yield to the finger; if not, there will be a little resistance. For fowls or game, exa- mine the leg; if the flesh yield and is ready to come away from the bone, the cooking is suffi- cient. There are small jets of steam to be seen coming from the meat at the side next the fire when it is nearly done.CO.XVA LESCEXT CO OK EE Y. 69 TIME FOR BOASTING. A piece of beef weighing 7 lbs.—one hour and three-quarters. A le? of mutton, 7 lbs.—an hour and three- quarters. Neck or loin of veal, 3 lbs.—fifty minutes. A turkey, 85 lbs.—an hour and three- quarters. Small turkey, 3 or 4 lbs.—forty-five minutes. Duck—20 minutes to 25. Capon, 4 lbs.—50 minutes. Fowl, 3 lbs.— 30 minutes. Pigeon—15 minutes. Pheasant—35 minutes. Partridge or woodcock—15 minutes. Larks—G minutes (brisk fire). Grouse—20 minutes. Hare—an hour and half. Leveret—an hour. Snipe—-15 minutes. Plovers—10 minutes. Eabbit (small wild)—15 minutes.70 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. The cook must use her own judgment, and calculate upon the strength of the fire and the size of what is to he cooked. These are only general rules. When meat is very fat it is unnecessary to put lard or dripping into the pan which is underneath the meat, as what drops from the joint is enough for hasting, hut on no account must the outside of the meat he allowed to get dry or scorched, or all the juice of the meat will either escape or dry up. A bottle-jack is generally used for roasting, and if mounted on a frame with a tin screen behind, so much the better—the meat will be sooner and better done. If there is no jack, a small hank of common worsted is used, as a woollen cord is more easily kept turning round. Suspend the meat from the string, and hang it up before the fire. If a spit is used, let it be carefully wiped before it is passed through the meat, or it will leave a black stain. The spit must not be run through the prime parts; inCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 71 such joints as necks, &c, it may enter two bones from the end, and run up the back till it reaches the other end. At first put the meat at a good distance from the fire, and as the inner part gets hot, bring it nearer. Do not put any salt on the meat until it is taken from the fire, as salt draws out the gravy. Basting is to take up the fat which is in the pan under the meat, in a ladle or large spoon, and empty it over the meat. This ought to be done at least once in every five minutes from the time the meat has grown hot until it is taken from the fire and served. The meat must be frequently turned. Veal, poultry, and game must be basted with clarified dripping or lard or butter, which must be put into the pan. If joints of veal be not fat, or if it be desired to make fowls look well, they must be covered with a sheet of white paper to keep them from scorching,72 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. which is not removed until the meat is three- quarters done. Fowls look nice if, when the paper is re- moved, some very fine bread crumbs are sprinkled over them, or a little flour, and then allowed to brown before the fire.73 COXYALESCEXT COOKERY. BOILING. The most important rule in boiling is, when the water has once boiled, never to allow it to go off the boil until the meat or vegetable be finished. If it be necessary, in consequence of the water boiling away, to add more, it ought to be boiling water, not cold nor tepid, nor even nearly boiling. The next rule is to pay attention, especially in boiling meat, to remove any scum which may rise to the top of the water. Before the water reaches boiling point, after the meat is put in, is the time for this, as, if the scum is allowed to boil with the meat, the taste as well as the look of the meat is affected by it. Never allow anything to boil over; never allow water in which meat is, to boil quickly, as it will harden the meat.71 COXVALESCENT COOKER Y. For butcher's meat, vegetables, and salted provisions, soft water is preferable to bard. For fresh fisb, salt water, or, if it can be pro- cured, sea-water; if not, bard water is more de- sirable tban soft. Never stint the water when boiling meat, and as it boils away add more, but be sure what you add is at boiling point. The joint should be covered, and allowing about a quart of water to each pound of meat in the joint is generally sufficient. To young cooks it is always a puzzle whether things to be boiled are to q-o into cold water or into boiling. In the case of a leg of mutton, the very best authorities differ from each other; but vegetables generally abide by the same rules. Into cold water are put all kinds of salt meat, salt fish, some kinds of fresh fish, and root vegetables—except very young potatoes, which are put into boiling water. Into boiling water are put all green vege-CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 75 tables, except artichokes, cabbage, beans, peas, vegetable marrow, brocoli, asparagus, and sea- kale. Into boiling water also must be put all shell- fish, besides herrings, soles, skate, mackerel, and all crimped fish. All kinds of puddings, whether of paste, batter, or rice, except plain boiled rice, which ought to be put into cold water. To tell when meat is boiled enough, it will look plump and shrink away from the bone. When vegetables are done enough they sink to the bottom of the water. When fish is done enough the eyeball falls out, and the fins are easy to pull away; but care must be taken not to separate them from the fish, as of some kinds they are the daintiest part. Beef is rarely given to invalids boiled, as in that case it is slightly salted, therefore unfit for delicate people. Boiled mutton is, however, both light and nutritious—much more easilyCONTA LESCEXT CO OKEIt Y. 76 digested than roast mutton. The time allowed is generally twenty minutes for each pound of meat, some onfy allow fifteen minutes; but the great art is in letting it boil very slowly. With respect to the question of whether mutton should be put into cold or into boiling watei', the following are valuable authorities for the different modes:— Francatelli would put it into cold water, let the water come slowly to the boil, taking not less than forty minutes, and then boiling slowly, very slowly, until done. Mrs. Jewry, author of the ' Model Cookery Book,' is of the same opinion. The Finchley books, published under the sanction of the Baroness Burdett Coutts for the Whitelands Training Schools, lay it down that tepid water is the correct thing. Gouffe, no mean authority, is in favour of salted boiling water. In the £ Household Manuals,' by Georgian a Hill, boiling water is enjoined.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 77 Mrs. Beeton is also in favour of boiling water for the first plunge, but she would then draw the pot bach and allow the water to cool sufficiently for the hand to bear being put in, and then simmered gently for two and a quarter hours. But Walsh seems, in following Baron Liebig's instructions, to have found the goldeu mean between these various methods. The meat may not be quite so tender as by the boiling water method, but the juices are retained in the meat. Liebig immerses the meat for five minutes in boiling water, then either lowers the tem- perature of the water by adding some cold, or removes the meat to another vessel containing water of the same heat recommended by Mrs. Beeton, and boiling it slowly until done. It is, however, doubtful whether five minutes is not too long a time to keep the meat in boiling water. The object of putting it in is to coagulate or harden the surface, and so keep78 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. in the juices, but it will be found that two or even one minute will do this quite effectually, and very reliable authorities recommend that it should then be placed in cold, not tepid, water. In boiling meat the lid of the pot or sauce- pan must be kept closely on, unless when lifted to remove the scum which rises to the top of the water. In boiling- vegetables the lid must be re- moved as soon as the water boils after putting in the vegetables. Fowls are to be put into boiling water. The slower they boil, the whiter and plumper they will be. The time which vegetables require to boil may be roughly calculated as follows :— Carrots—one hour. Turnips—forty minutes. Parsnips—one hour. Cabbage—20 minutes to half-an-hour.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 71) Green peas (young)—10 minutes. „ (old)—15 minutes. French beans (young)—10 or 12 minutes. „ (old)—20 minutes. Sea-kale—15 to 20 minutes. Brocoli (small)—10 to 15 minutes. „ (large)—20 to 25 minutes. Cauliflower (small)—12 to 15 minutes. „ (large)—20 to 25 minutes. Celery (stewed)—20 to 25 minutes. Jerusalem artichokes—20 minutes. Spinach—10 to 15 minutes. Vegetable marrow—20 minutes. Asparagus—10 to 15 minutes. Onions—40 minutes. Beans—15 minutes.80 CONVALESCENT COOKER Y. FISH. Fish is either boiled, broiled, or fried for invalids. The elaborate modes of dressing adopted by French cooks are better calculated for people in health. Freshwater fish is improved by being soaked in salted water for some hours previous to being dressed. In every case it ought to be very well washed, even after being prepared by the fishmonger. The smaller the quantity of water used in boiling fish the better, as much water makes it taste insipid. In boiling, if practicable, have a strainer whereon to place the fish in the saucepan. Some kinds of fish may be skinned ; turbot should retain the skin. Have the water in the fish-kettle before putting in the fish. Pouring the water on the fish will break it. The time which fish will require to boilCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 81 varies with the size. Experience alone will teach. Bough calculation of the time which fish will take in boiling, counting from the time the water boils:— Brill—10 to 15 minutes. Cod, head and shoulders—30 minutes, more or less. Tail end—20 minutes, more or less. Turbot, weighing 4 or 5 lbs.—20 to 30 minutes. Flounders—simmer for 5 minutes. Haddock—15 to 30 minutes. Mackerel—10 minutes. Salmon—allow 8 minutes to each lb. Skate—30 to 60 minutes. Sole—7 minutes for a medium-sized pair. Whiting—5 minutes. Boiled fish is to have melted butter served up with it (that is, at the same time) in a small tureen (see page 119), not poured over it.82 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. Cod may be cut into slices and broiled. It may be crumbed also, and fried like a cutlet. Flounders may be fried and crumbed like cutlets, but the crumbing must not be done until the lard or butter is melted and the pan ready for the fish, for before the fish is dipped into the egg or mixture it must be rubbed as dry as possible with a cloth, or it will stick to the pan, and the unhappy cook will be driven to despair on finding she is unable to turn the fish without it falling to pieces. The same rule applies to all fish which is fried. Mackerel is best broiled. Herrings are best broiled; a little oatmeal sprinkled over them, instead of bread crumbs, improves the flavour. TIME REQUIRED FOR FRYING FISH. Cod cutlets—seven to ten minutes. Salmon cutlets—five to ten minutes. Flounders—five to ten minutes.QOJSTFA LESCENT CO OKER Y. Mackerel (to broil)—ten minutes. Plaice—five to ten minutes. Skate (small)—ten minutes. Soles—five to ten minutes. "Whiting (to broil)—five minutes.84 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. GAME. To enter on the subject of game, and how it ought to be dressed, would be to go beyond the scope and intention of the present wort. Those who can afford to procure it for in- valids are generally of a class who can have access to larger works, where luxurious dishes are the rule and not the exception. A few words may, however, be said of some kinds, to enable the young student to compare the time required for cooking, and the general character of game as food, with a view to the enlarge- ment of her ideas. Grouse should have the heads twisted under the wings and be trussed like fowls. They are generally roasted before a brisk fire, basted with fresh butter, and sent to table with good brown gravy and some bread crumbs fried aCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 85 beautiful brown, and placed in little heaps round them on the dish. Pheasants are also roasted, and basted -with butter; rich gravy in the dish and bread sauce in a tureen. From half-an-hour to forty minutes. Partridges ought to be kept for from two days to a week after being shot. To be roasted for twenty minutes, or until the gravy begins to run out. Woodcocks also require twenty minutes roasting. Snipe will be quite enough done in a quarter of an hour. Plovers only require ten minutes. Teal will cook in from nine to fifteen minutes. Widgeon, if preferred to be well done, must have twenty minutes; if not, fifteen will be enough. Game ought not to be washed, but rubbed with a cloth.86 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. RABBITS. To choose a rabbit for boiling, see that it has smooth and sharp claws, in which case it is young. If the claws are blunt and ragged, and the ears dry and tough, you may be sure the animal is old—too old for cooking for an invalid. As Gouffe said of the fowls, you will never do any good with an old rabbit. After it has been emptied and shinned, the rabbit ought to be very well washed. If there still seems any remains of blood lingering about it, leave it to soak in water for a quarter of an hour. This is necessary, whether it is intended to be roasted or stewed, or boiled or baked. From half-an-hour to three-quarters is enough for cooking a rabbit in almost any way. Like the leg of mutton (page 76), authori- ties differ as to the boiling of a rabbit. Mrs. Beeton would put it into hot water.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 87 Walsh goes further, and says it must be boiling. Georgiaua Hill enjoins cold water, and so do several other eminent authorities. If it is to be boiled and ready for serving in half-an-hour or three-quarters, hot water or boilino- must be used. If it is to be stewed and served with seasoned gravy or sauce, the cold water is then desirable. BOILED RABBIT. After washing, put it into as much hot water as will cover it, boil till tender, which it ought to be in half-an-hour or three-quarters. As many invalids dislike onion, which is the popular accompaniment to boiled rabbit, the ingenuity of the cook must provide some other. Plain white sauce, or celery sauce, could be substituted for the onion, and there are inva- lids who would like parsley and butter.88 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. STEWED BABBIT. To stew a rabbit, if done with care, makes a more tempting dish than plain boiling. Cut the rabbit into small joints, and put them into a stewpan. Add (if the appetite of the invalid will permit) two small onions, six cloves, a very small teaspoonful of chopped lemon peel, a bit of butter about as large as a walnut, and a little salt. Pour in sufficient cold water to cover the meat, but no more, and stew very slowty, keeping the lid close. At the end of half-an-hour, blend a tablespoonful of flour and stir it in, and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Boil for three or four minutes and serve. KABBIT FEICASSEE. If any of the boiled rabbit (see No. 1) remain from the previous day, it can be made into a fricassee.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 89 Cut the meat of the rabbit into neat pieces, bone it or not according to fancy, put a little butter into a stewpan and melt it, and then add the meat, shaking it well. Have ready a little strong gravy, which put in with a little nutmeg and a sprig of parsley and a very small bit of thyme, tied together. A very small scrap of onion is an improvement. Stew for ten minutes, and put a teaspoonful of flour, blended, in to thicken the gravy ; serve. ANOTHER WAY OF HEATING COLD RABBIT. As the latter way of fricasseing rabbit requires a strong gravy as well as a strong appetite, it may not always be the method most suitable ; in which case put a little milk into a stewpan, with a small bit of butter and a little salt. If it be salt butter, no salt need be added. When the milk is warm put in the meat, which may be cut into small pieces, or minced according to taste. It must not be90 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. allowed to boil, but when hot ought to be served. FRIED RABBIT. This is a very tempting way of dressing rabbit. Cut it into neat joints, and either dust it over with flour or crumb it like a cutlet, and fry in the same way for ten minutes. Eabbit being in itself rather insipid, is generally served with bacon, and in every receipt for dressing it for people in health bacon forms an essential feature; so if the invalid does not object, a little fried bacon may be served up with the boiled rabbit, and in the fricassee some bits of bacon may be added, but this must be done with caution. RABBIT SOUP. If the rabbit has been boiled, and the invalid eaten as much of the flesh as he feels inclined, the cook must turn what remains toCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 91 account. The flesh must be cut off the bones and minced, and the bones broken up small. Put into a stewpan the liquor in which the rabbit had been boiled, with the minced meat and the broken bones. Simmer gently, skim- ming carefully, for half-an-hour after it boils, and then add an onion, a faggot of parsley, thyme and marjoram. A stalk of celery, or, if that cannot be had, about a thimbleful of celery seed tied up in a bit of muslin, some whole white pepper, and a very small bit of mace. Simmer for a quarter of an hour longer, and then strain. If it be possible, do this the day before the soup is to be used. Put this stock into a stewpan, and add a teacupful of milk. If neither cream nor new milk can be had, add to some skim milk a bit of butter as large as a hazel-nut. If condensed milk is used, a teaspoonful dissolved in a teacupful of boiling water is enough. When the stock and milk together have boiled, have some thickening ready blended. This may be either92 CON FA LESCENT CO OKER Y. a tablespoonful of arrowroot, or one of corn flour, or one of good flour. Unless the latter be of very good quality, the cornflour is better, but burns so easily that the cook is often puzzled, if she has other things to do, how to keep it continually stirred. With the thicken- ing ought to be added a spray of mint, which should not remain in the soup for more than two minutes or three, and then taken out. A little nutmeg is an improvement, but it must be very sparingly used, as ought all flavouring, so as not to allow the taste of one condiment to predominate over another. OTHER WHITE SOUP (LAMB SHANKS). The directions for making this soup can be applied in several other ways, substituting different white stock for that made from the remains of the rabbit. In many houses it is the habit of the cook to throw away the shank end of a leg of lamb,CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 93 it not seeming to her to be worth, the trouble of saving. One or two of these despised shanks ■will make a bowl of good stock, which, with the addition of the milk and seasoning, and served up with some toast, would be an excellent meal or two meals for some poor, sick, weak creature. Take the shank by the upper end, where it has been cut off the leg, and hold the toes for a few minutes in red-hot cinders, which will cause them to come off. Put the shank into boiling water, and the skin will come off, peel- ing and turning inside out without the least trouble. Break the bone up into small pieces, and proceed as in the rabbit soup. The stock will be found on cooling to be a strong jelly, exceedingly nutritious. A tablespoonful of corn flour or arrowroot will only be enough for thickening a small quantity. If there is any liquor in the house in which lamb has been boiled, it ought, of course, to be used for boiling the bones in; if not, water must be substituted.04 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. The remains of boiled fowls make a delicate soup; a small quantity of the liquor in which ham has been boiled, about a teacupful to every quart of other liquid, put on to boil with the bones, is a great improvement, provided the fat has been carefully removed from it first. ANOTHER WAT OF DRESSING RABBITS OR FOWLS. Melt some lard in a pan, or butter. Cut up the fowl or rabbit into two-inch pieces; dredge with flour, and fry. Fry one or two small onions and a small bit of bacon. Having all together in a stewpan, dredge in about one ounce of flour. Stir well together over the fire for two or three minutes; add some broth or stock and a little spice; stew for twenty minutes. Fifteen will be enough for a fowl, if young. COLD FOWL. It may be heated in a little gravy, and a little boiled rice added. The fowl ought to beCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 95 cut from the bones. The bones of a roast fowl broken up and simmered make a good gravy. As a general rule, meat which has been dressed a second time is not desirable for invalids, being more indigestible and less nutritious ; but the poorer people are, and the less likely to be able to afford fresh meat every day, the more necessary is it that they should learn how to re-dress meat in a tempting form. Minces, hashes, and fricassees ought never to be allowed t j boil, as the meat then hardens. Fish may be "heated simply in a little white sauce (see page 120). Lamb may be done in the snme way, but it must be minced small. Fowls also may be minced and served in the white sauce. Veal is rarely given to invalids, being more difficult of digestion than other meat. But the knuckle, or shank, or coarse parts, will boil down into stock, like the rabbit bones or lamb shanks.COXVA LESCENT CO OKER Y. 96 JELLY. CALVES'-FOOT JELLY is ordered for invalids, and is an expensive dish. Gelatine, which is often substituted for calves' feet, has no nourishing properties. The more costly kinds of jelly would be unsuitable in a book like this, but cheaper ones may be found useful. Take two calves' feet and scald them to take off the hair; slit them in two, remove the fat between the toes, and wash the feet very well in warm water ; put them into a stewpan with the above proportion of cold water, bring it gradually to boil, carefully removing all scum. Boil for six or seven hcurs, strain through a sieve into a basin, and put it into a cool place to set. When firm, remove all fat from the top ; remove the jelly from the sedi- ment and put it into a saucepan. To every quart add six ounces loaf-sugar, the shells and whites of five eggs very well beaten; stir theCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 07 ingredients together cold. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil ten minutes after it rises to a head, then throw in a teacupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer, then take the saucepan off, cover it closely, and let it remain half-an-hour near the fire. Have a flannel bag ready for straining it through; wring it out of hot water quite dry, and fasten it on a stand or the back of a chair, which must be placed near the fire, to prevent the jelly stiffening before it runs through the bag. Place a basin underneath to receive the jelly; then pour it into the bag, and should it not be clear the first time, run it through the baa- again. This stock is the foundation of all jelly. Wine and lemon may be added if they can be had. irCONY A LESCEKT CO OKEIl T. 98 COW'S-HEEL JELLY. This is a less expensive stock, and the cow's heel can be eaten by some of the healthy members of a family, with mustard and vinegar. The heel is first dressed, then boiled like the calves' feet for six or seven hours, and strained ; this should be done, if possible, the day before the jelly is to be made. To a quart of this stock, after re- moving the fat, add either a quart of home- made wine or a quart of beer, the juice and rind of two lemons, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and six eggs well beaten. Finish like calves'-foot jolly. Stout flannel is the best material for a jelly bag : the kind called double-mill, used for iron- ing-blankets, is recommended. The seam must be sewed twice, to ensure its closeness and equal filtration. The shape is that of a fool's cap, running to a point. It is more comfortable for the cook to have the mouth of the bag sewed round a hoop; some people tie it on with stringsCONVALESCENT COOKERY. £9 sewed to the flannel, and being thus stretched open, it is easy to pour in the stock. JELLY FOE A CHILD WITH WEAK LIMBS. Buy two pounds of shin beef-bone ; it is no object to have much meat upon it. Chop it up into very small pieces, not larger than a farthing piece. Wash and put these into a saucepan, with a quart of water and a good pinch of salt. Boil very gently for six or eight hours, the object being to extract the lime from the bones ; then strain through a jelly-bag and set aside in a basin. When cool, remove the fat, and if the bone of which it was made was without meat, the jelly will be quite tasteless, but very firm. This may be given to the child, a table- spoonful at a time, once, or if necessary twice, a day. It may be dissolved in warm milk, or a little sugar may be added, to induce the child to take it; or it may be melted and poured over bread for an infant. B 2100 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. Mutton shanks may be broken up and used also in this way, or as foundation for jelly. Miss Nightingale lias no respect for jelly; nevertheless it has been thought advisable to give these receipts for the use of those who differ from her in opinion. She says : 'Jelly is another article of diet in great favour with nurses and friends of the sick ; even if it could be eaten solid, it would not nourish, but it is simply the height of folly to take one-eighth of an ounce of gelatine and make it into a certain bulk by dissolving it in water, and then to give it to the sick, as if the mere bulk represented nourishment. It is now known that jelly does not nourish, that it has a tendency to produce diarrhcea, and to trust to it to repair the waste of a diseased constitution is simply to starve the sick under the disguise of feeding them. If one hundred spoonfuls of jelly were given in the course of the day, you would have given one spoonful of gelatine, which spoonful of gelatine has no nutritive power at all.'CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 101 No one ever said that gelatine had nourish, inent in it, but stock made from feet is another matter. The drawback to giving patients jelly is that it is too cold for the stomach; conse- quently too trying for weakened powers of digestion. Bat on other branches of the food question Miss Nightingale has valuable remarks to make:— 'It is an ever-ready saw that an egg is equivalent to a pound of meat; whereas it is not at all so. Also, it is seldom noticed with how many patients, particularly of nervous or bilious temperament, eggs disagree. All pud- dings made with eggs are distasteful to them in consequence. An egg whipped up with wine is often the only form in which they can take this kind of nourishment. ' Again, if the patient is able to eat meat, it is supposed that to give him meat is the only thing needful for his recovery ; whereas scor- butic sores "have been actually known to appear102 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. among sick persons living in the midst of plenty in Eno-land, which could be traced to no other source than this, viz. that the nurse, depending on meat alone, had allowed the patient to be without vegetables for a considerable time; these latter being so badly cooked, he always left them untouched. Arrowroot is another grand de- pendence of the nurse. To mix the patient's wine in, as being quickly prepared, it is all very well. But it is nothing but starch and water. Flour is both more nutritive and less liable to ferment, and is preferable wherever it can be used. ' Again, milk and the preparations from milk, are a most important article of food for the sick. Butter is the lightest kind of animal fat, and though it wants some of the things which there are in milk, yet it is most valuable both in itself and in enabling the patient to eat more bread. Flour, oats, groats, rice, barley— in fact, all farinaceous foods—are, as we have already said, preferable to all the preparations of arrowroot, sago, tapioca, &c, which areCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 103 ummtritious. Cream, in many long clironic diseases, is quite irreplaceable by any article whatever. It seems to act in the same manner as beef-tea, and to most it is much easier of digestion than milk. In fact, it seldom dis- agrees. Cheese is not usually digestible by the sick, but it has great nourishment in it; and I have seen sick, and not a few either, whose craving for cheese showed how much it was needed by them. ' But if fresh milk is so valuable a food for the sick, the least change or sourness in it makes it, of all articles, perhaps the most injurious; diarrhoea is a common result of fresh milk allowed to become at all soui\ ' The nurse therefore ought to exercise her utmost care in this. In large institutions for the sick, even the poorest, the utmost care is exercised. Ice is used for this express purpose in summer; while the sick person at home perhaps never tastes a drop of milk that is not sour all through the hot weather, so little doesio4 Convalescent cookery. the home nurse understand the necessity of such care. Yet if you consider that the only drop of real nourishment in your patient's tea is the drop of milk, and how much almost all English patients depend upon their tea, you will see the great importance of not depriving your patient of this drop of milk. 'Butter-milk, a totally different thing, is often very useful, especially in fevers. 'Almost all patients in England, young and old, male and female, rich and poor, hospital and private, dislike sweet things; and, while I have never known a person take to sweets when he was ill who disliked them when he was well, I have known many fond of them when in health who in sickness would leave off any- thing sweet, even to sugar in tea. Sweet pud- dings, sweet drinks, are their aversion: the furred tongue almost always likes what is sharp or pungent. Scorbutic patients are an excep- tion ; they often crave for sweetmeats and jams. . • •CONVALESCENT COOKERY. mo 'The nourishing power of milk, and the pre- parations from milk, is very much undervalued ; there is nearly as much nourishment in half-a- pint of milk as there is in a quarter of a pound of meat. But this is not the whole question, or nearly the whole. The main question is, What can the patient's stomach derive nourish- ment from ? and of this the patient's stomach is the sole judge. ' Chemistry cannot tell this. The patient's stomach must be its own chemist. The diet which will keep the healthy man healthy will kill the sick one. The same beef which is the most nutritive of all meat, and which nourishes the healthy man, is the least nourishing of al food to the sick man, whose half-dead stomach can assimilate no part of it; that is, make no food out of it. On a diet of beef-tea health men, on the other hand, speedily lose thei strength.'106 CON\'A L ESCEXT CO OKER Y. LIEBIG'S EXTRACT. It will be observed that during the previous pages no mention has been made of Liebig's extract, in which so many people repose impli- cit faith. The result of the discussions which were carried on in the columns of the ' Times ' newspaper in the autumn of 1872, after the condemnation of the extract by a member of the British Association, shook the confidence which many had previously had in it. That it has its virtues no one can question, but that it has been greatly overrated is also certain. In neighbourhoods where fresh meat for beef-tea cannot always conveniently be procured, Liebig's extract is a welcome substitute, but to compare it with fresh meat in its power to give strength is simply absurd. By watching and comparing the pulse of the patient, the nurse will soon satisfy herself of the correctness of the state- ment made by people who have lost their con- fidence in it; viz. that it might stimulate asQONVA LESCEXT CO OEER Y. coffee does, but cannot be relied upon giving such strength as will repair the wa which has gone on during the illness of 1 patient.COXYA LESCEXT CO OKER Y. 10S MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. MUTTON CUSTARD FOR BOWEL COMPLAINTS OR CONSUMPTIVE CASES. Two oz. of mutton shred fine, and half-a- draclim of cinnamon or some grated nutmeg, and boil in rather more than a pint of milk; when boiled, to be set by the fire till the scum rises, which should then be carefully taken off. Half a teacupful may be given, warm or cold as the patient prefers, three or four times a day. It should be continued till the complaint is quite cured. JELLY OR BLANCMANGE OP MEAT. Take the bones of a knuckle of veal, well scrape all the meat from them, break them up small, and stew them four or five hours in twoCOXVALESCENT COOKERY. 109 quarts of water and strain; when the jelly is cold, shim it clear from all fat and sediment; melt it, and flavour with home-made wine and a little lemon peel, or with any essence for which the patient may have a partiality. If for blancmange, the stock must be still more reduced, to bear the addition of some milk, fla- voured with laurel leaf or vanille and lemon peel; the addition of a little wine or brandy will of course improve it. COW-HEEL BAKED IN MILK. Clean well a cow-heel, and put it with two quarts of milk into an earthen jar ; let it stand in a slow oven for five or six hours. The heel may be taken and served with a little parsley and butter, or eaten with mustard and vinegar ; and the milk, which resembles blancmange, skimmed when cold, then melted and flavoured as in the above recipe.110 COttVALESCEXl COOKERY. SOOTHING NOUKISHMENT IN CONSUMPTION. Beat up a tablespoonf ul of oatmeal and a tablespoonful of honey with, the yolk of an egg; pour on it a pint of boiling water; then boil all together for a few minutes. ICELAND MOSS JELLY. Iceland moss, or, as it is known to some people, carrigeen moss, can be had of all che- mists. Put four ounces of Iceland moss to boil in a quart of water, stirring it the whole time it is on the fire ; and when it has boiled about three-quarters of an hour add two ounces of lump sugar and a glass of white wine; strain the jelly through a bit of muslin into a basin, and when it is set firm and cold, let it be given to the patient. This kind of jelly is most beneficial in cases of severe colds, catarrhs, and all pulmonary diseases of the lungs and chest.CONVALESCENT COOKEHY. Ill ICELAND BLANCMANGE. The former recipe, only substituting- milk for water and omitting the white wine. The milk requires some strong flavouring—almonds, lemon, or vanilla—as a marine taste often re- mains in the moss. The muslin through which it is strained must be coarse, or a coarse hair sieve will answer. ICELAND MOSS AND CURKANT JELLY. About four ounces of moss (carrigeen it is sometimes called), washed very clean in luke- warm water. Put it on to Loil slowly in a quart of cold water. When the moss is quite dissolved—about forty-five minutes ought to suffice—strain it on a tablespoonf ul of currant jelly, some sugar, and, if preferred, half a tea- spoonful of cream of tartar. Mix well, and turn into a mould to cool. This is admirable for coughs.112 COKVA LESCEXT CO OKER Y. GRAPE JELLY. The fruit should not be too ripe. Wash, remove the stems, and put into a porcelain kettle with just enough water to keep from burning. Simmer until the grapes are soft, then strain through a cloth or flannel bag, and to each pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil twenty minutes, and just before it is done add one teaspoonf ul of dissolved gum-arabic to each pint. GERMAN JELLY. Half a pound of rice flour; quarter of a pound of corn flour; mix into a paste with cold water. Boil quarter of a pound of red currants and one pound of raspberries, squeeze through a jelly-bag, and sweeten to taste. Eeturn the juice to stewpan and boil it again. When at boiling-point pour in the paste, mix very well, and boil for some time. Turn into shapes.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 113 POET WINE JELLY. One pint of port wine; one ounce of isin- glass ; one ounce of sugar. Put the isinglass and sugar into quarter of a pint of water; warm till all is dissolved, then add the wine, strain through muslin, and set to jelly. An excellent way of giving port wine. CEANBEEEY JELLY. One cup of cold water; two cups of sugar (crushed sugar best); three cups of cranberries washed and picked. Put all into a porcelain or earthenware jar; cook till the cranberries are done. It may be turned into a mould at once, straining to avoid the skins. It ought to form a jelly. VEGETABLE MAEEOW (FRIED). Having peeled and removed the seeds of a good-sized vegetable marrow, cut it in strips one and a half inches long by three-quarters of i1.14. COX I "A L ESC 'EXT CO OA'Ell T. an inch, square. Put these on an inverted plate placed in a basin, and strew plenty of finely-powdered salt over them. In a couple of hours take up the pieces of marrow and dry them in a cloth by wringing it at both ends— not so hard, however, as to break them. Put them in another cloth with flour and shake them well, so that each piece is well covered with flour. Put them in a f rying-basket aud plunge it into boiling fat. As soon as the strips begin to colour, take them up, drain in front of fire, and serve on very hot dish. COUGH SYRUP. Two ounces of gum-arabic, two ounces of sugar candy, the juice of one lemon and a little of the rind. Mis these in half a pint of cold water, and keep in a warm place until the gum and candy are dissolved. Stir well oc- casionally, then strain and take out the peel. A spoonful to be taken occasionally when theCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 115 cough is troublesome. To medicate this cough mixture, half an ounce of syrup of squills, half an ounce of ipecacuanha wine. DE. DOBELL ON MILK WITH EUM, WHISKY, OE BEANDY. Put one tablespoonful of rum, brandy, or whisky into half a pint of new milk, and mix well by pouring several times from one vessel to another. Bilious persons should heat the rum before adding it to the milk. A SMALL BATTEE PUDDING. Beat up in a basin an egg with a large tablespoonful of flour and a grain of salt; add by degrees a teacupful of milk, working all together vigorously; pour this batter into a ready greased inside of a teacup, just large enough to hold it; sprinkle a little flour on the top, place a small square clean rag on it; and I 2116 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. then, with the spread-out fingers of the right hand, catch tip both cloth and teacup, holding them up in order to enable you to gather up the ends of the rag tight in your left hand, while with a piece a string held in the right hand yon tie up the pudding securely, and put it on to boil in boiling water for a good half- hour. At the end of this time the pudding will be done, and should be eaten immediately with sugar and a few drops of wine, if allowable and procurable. A TEACUP BEBAD PUDDING. Crumb a piece of stale bread the size of an egg into a basin, and four lumps of sugar, and a very little nutmeg ; pour half-a-gill of boiling milk on these, stir all well together until the sugar is melted, then add an egg previously beaten. Whip up the whole thoroughly until well mixed, pour the mixture into a buttered tea-cup, tie it up in a small cloth as directed inCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 117 the previous recipe, boil twenty minutes, and turn out on a plate. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Put two tablespoonfuls of tapioca into a basin with four lumps of sugar, a grain of salt, and a lump of sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon; pour a gill of boiling milk over these ingredients, and cover them up with a saucer to steep ten minutes ; then add one egg; beat up all together, and boil in a buttered teacup tied up in a cloth for nearly half-an-hour; turn out and serve. AEKOWEOOT PUDDING. Mix a large dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with the same quantity of bruised sugar, and a teacupf ul of milk, in a clean saucepan; stir this on the fire until it boils, and keep on stir- ring it off the fire for five minutes, until the heat has subsided ; then add an egg, beat up and thoroughly mix it into the batter, and118 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. then boil the pudding according to the instruc- tions given for the batter pudding. SAGO PUDDING. Soak two tablespoonfuls of pearl sago, with a teaspoonful of hot milk, in a covered basin for a quarter of an hour; then add a very little grated nutmeg or lemon peel, sugar to sweeten, and an egg; beat all up together till thoroughly mixed, and then boil the pudding in a buttered teacup as directed in preceding cases. GROUND RICE PUDDING. Mix a large tablespoonful of ground rice with half-a-pint of milk, six lumps of sugar, and a very little nutmeg ; stir this in a sauce- pan on the fire until it has boiled for five minutes ; then mix in an egg, and boil the pudding for twenty-five minutes. (Tie up as in preceding recipes.)119 COXVA LESCEXT CO OKER Y. COEN FLOUR PUDDING. Mix a good dessert-spoonful of corn flour with half-a-pint of milk, six lumps of sugar, a grain of salt, and a very little grated orange- peel; stir these on the fire, to boil for five minutes, then add one egg, beat np until well mixed ; pour this batter into a buttered teacup, tie it up in a small cloth, boil it for twenty-five minutes, and serve it while hot. Should the invalid grow tired of these puddings, a change may be made by baking instead of boiling them ; but it will be neces- sary to bake them in a small dish, if one is to be had; and if nothing better can be found, a large saucer will answer. MELTED BUTTEE. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour to a smooth batter with half-a-pint of water; put into a saucepan, add two ounces of butter and a120 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. small pincli of salt. Keep stirring it one way till all the ingreclients are melted and perfectly smooth; let the whole boil for a minute or two, and serve. MELTED BUTTER WITH MILK. To be made by the directions for the fore- going, substituting milk for the water. This is the foundation for onion sauce, or oyster or celery, as it looks whiter than if made with water. In case of onion being used, it must be first boiled in water, and when the melted butter is made, the onion—chopped after boil- ing—is put in. The celery must be done in the same way, but unless it is put into the sauce immediately after being taken out of the water, it will blacken. PUDDING SAUCE. A little sherry and water sweetened with soft sugar; or a spoonful of brandy instead of sherry.CO XT A LESCENT CO OKER Y. 121 RICHER SAUCE. Mix two ounces of flour, the same of butter, same of sugar, in a small saucepan by kneading with a wooden spoon. Add half-a-pint of water, half-a-gill of some kind of spirits, and some chopped lemon peel. Stir it over the fire till it boils. Pour over the pudding. RICE. To boil rice plain, without either underdoing it or allowing it to burn, is a difficult)". When boiled each grain should be quite distinct one from the other, yet each fully cooked. To have a saucepan with a close-fitting lid is the first essential. To wash the rice very clean, chang- ing the water once or twice, is the second. Pat about three ounces of rice to a pint of cold water in a close-fitting stewpan, taking care that the water and rice do not more than half fill it, and that the rest of the space is left for the rice122 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. to swell in. Add about a saltspoonful of salt. Pat the stewpan on the fire and bring it to the boil j then take it off, and put the pot, still closely covered, near enough to the fire to keep hot, but not to boil, nor even simmer. Leave it for kalf-an-hour, and the rice will then be cooked. At no stage must it be stirred. Straining rice, as often advised in books, is decidedly a mistake, as what is allowed to drain away contains most of the nourishment. Not more water than the rice can absorb ought to be put in the stewpan. RICE DUMPLINGS. Take as much of the boiled rice as when kneaded into a paste would envelop two apples. Knead it with a spoon in a basin into a smooth compact kind of paste, peel two large apples, and take out the core, filling the hole left with brown sugar, one or two cloves, and a bit of cinnamon. Make the rice into two round balls,CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 123 and then roll them out with a rolling-pin to the size of a large saucer. Set an apple in the midst of each flat of paste, and fold the rice round it, purse-shaped. These are the dump- lings, which when finished are to be tied in buttered cloths and boiled for about three- quarters of an hour. The chief difficulty in making rice dumplings is to handle the paste with ease. Before shaping each one it is well to dip the hands in cold water. An easier way of shaping them is to place the buttered cloth in a breakfast-cup, spread the rice lining, and then put in the apple and tie it up; but the dumplings done in this way are never so light as if made by the other method. BAKED RICE AND APPLES. Peel and cut two or three large apples, and put them down with a little cold water, some brown sugar, and some cinnamon and cloves, tied in a piece of muslin, so as to be lifted out124 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. easily. Stew gently for about ten minutes, and then turn them into a flat dish; a saucer will hold quite enough for an invalid. Take some of the rice, which has been plain boiled, spread it lightly over the apples, and put the dish down to bake. If cold rice has been used, or the apples have been allowed to grow cold, the dish and contents must be made quite hot through and through, and then the white of an egg, pre- viously beaten to a froth, is spread over the surface, and without the delay of a moment put back into the oven. Care must be taken to remove the dish from the oven as soon as it is done, and serve at once. To make it richer, use the yolk and not the white of egg. PLAIN BAKED OR STEWED APPLES. Peel and core some apples, and fill the centres with sugar and spice. If to be stewed, put a little water with them into a stewpan,CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 125 and a little lemon peel and sugar. Cover closely, and simmer very slowly for half-an- hour—the slower the better. To bake them, put the peeled and cored apples into a deep dish, scatter sugar over them, add a little water, and bake. TO PREPARE SAGO PLAIN. Put a large tablespoonful of sago into a small saucepan with half-a-pint of hot water, four lumps of sugar—if possible, a glass of port wine. Stir the whole on the fire for a quarter of an hour, and serve it in a teacup. ANOTHER METHOD. Wash a large tablespoonful of the sago in cold water, put it into a saucepan with half-a- pint of milk, a little cinnamon, and when nearly done add two lumps of sugar. Simmer for half-an-hour.126 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. TAPIOCA. According to directions for sago. Choose the large tapioca. ARROWROOT may be made with water or milk. Genuine arrowroot requires no boiling. Blend a dessert- spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water. Fill up the teacup with boiling water, stirring- all the time. If the arrowroot be good, it will be quite clear, as clear as good starch; but if muddy, it must be put into a saucepan and boiled, carefully stirring all the time, before it can be given to the invalid. A little sugar and port wine may be added. It may also be made with milk instead of water, but, like corn flour, it is not wholesome if insufficiently cooked. GRUEL. Mix a tablespoonful of prepared groats or grits with a teacupful of cold water, pour this127 COXVA LESCEXT CO OKER Y. into a saucepan containing a pint of hot water, and stir it on the fire while it boils for ten minutes. Strain the gruel through a sieve or colander into a basin, sweeten to taste; if allowed, add a spoonful of any kind of spirits, or season with salt and a bit of butter. OATMEAL GRUEL. Put two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal into a basin, and pour over it a pint of cold water. This must be done some hours before it is wanted. Steeping the meal for as many as twelve or fourteen hours can do no harm. With a wooden spoon stir it well round, and mix the water through the meal. Strain it through a hair sieve, and boil the thin part in a very clean saucepan, stirring it all the time with a wooden pot-stick until it boils ; simmer it a few minutes after this and serve, seasoned as in the foregoing recipe. The coarse grains which remain in the sieve may be used inCO NY A L ESCENT CO OEER T. 123 broth, for, being perfectly good, it would be a sin to allow them to go to waste. CORN-FLOUR GRUEL. A good gruel can be made by mixing a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour which has first been blended with cold water into half-a-pint of hot water. Stir on the fire for ten minutes, sweeten with moist sugar, flavour with nutmeg or a tablespoonful of wine. RICE GRUEL, A REMEDY FOR RELAXED BOWELS. Boil very gently eight ounces of rice in a quart of water for about an hour in a saucepan covered with its lid, and placed on the side of the hob ; the rice must be so thoroughly done as to look as if the grains had dissolved; a bit of orange peel or cinnamon should be boiled with the rice, and when quite soft the gruel sweetened with loaf sugar, and a table-spoon- ful of brandy added.129 COX VA LA'S CENT CO OKER T. GETJEL "WITH PEAEL BARLEY. Put four ounces of pearl barley in a sauce- pan with two quarts of cold water and a small stick of cinnamon, and set the whole to boil very gently by the side of the fire (partly covered with the lid) for two hours; then add the sugar and the wine, boil all together a few minutes longer, and then strain the gruel through a colander into a jug to be kept in a cool place until required for use, when it can be warmed up in small quantities. N.B.—As this kind of gruel is a powerful cordial, it is to be borne in mind that it should never be administered unless ordered by a medical man. RICE WATER. Add six ounces of rice and two ounces of Valentia raisins to two quarts of water; boil these very gently for about half-an-hour, or rather more; strain off the water into a jug, K130 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. add about two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Rice- water prepared in this way is given in cases of dysentery and diarrhoea. APPLE WATEE DEINK. Slice up thinly three or four apples without peeling them, and boil them in a very clean saucepan with a quart of water and a little sugar until the slices of apple are become soft; the apple water must then be strained through a piece of clean muslin or rag into a jug. This pleasant beverage should be drunk when cold; it is considered beneficial in aiding to allay scorbutic eruptions. BEAN TEA, A EEMEDY FOE COLDS, ETC. Boil a large handful of bran in a quart of water for ten minutes, then strain off the water into a jug, sweeten it with one ounce of gum arabic and a good spoonful of honey. Stir all well together; and give this kind ofCONVALESCENT COOKEBY. 131 drink in all cases of affections of the chest, such as colds, catarrhs, consumption, &c, and also in the measles. FOR THE LOSS OF THE VOICE FROM COLD. Put half-an-ounce of sugar-candy on a saucer, add the white of an egg, whisk together till the candy is dissolved and the egg in a froth. Give a teaspoonful once in two hours. ORANGEADE OR ORANGE DRINK. Peel off the rind of one orange very thinly without any of the white pith, and put the rind into a jug; pare off all the white pith from three oranges so as to lay the pulp of the fruit quite bare; cut the oranges in slices, take out the pips as their bitterness would render the drink unpalatable ; add one ounce of suo-ar or honey, pour a quart of boiling water to these, cover up the jug, and allow the orangeade to stand and steep till quite cold ; it may then beCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 132 given to the patient. This is a cooling bever- age, safe to give in fever cases. LEMONADE. Proceed as in making orangeade, but substi- tute lemons for oranges. LINSEED TEA. Put a tablespoonful of linseed into a clean earthen pot or pipkin with a quart of water, and a little orange or lemon rind; boil this gently for about ten minutes, and then strain it through muslin into a jug; sweeten with honey or sugar, add the juice of a lemon, stir all to- gether, and give this beverage to allay irritation of the chest and lungs—in the latter case the lemon had better be omitted. Linseed tea in its purest form is an excellent accessory in aid- ing to relieve such as are afflicted with gout, gravel, &c.133 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. CAMOMILE TEA. Put about thirty flowers into a jug, pour a pint of boiling water upon them, cover up the tea, and when it has stood about ten minutes, pour it off from the flowers into another jug ; sweeten with sugar or honey; drink a cupful of it fasting in the morning to strengthen the digestive organs, and restore the liver to healthier action. A teacupful of camomile tea, in which is stirred a large dessert-spoonful of moist sugar and a little grated ginger, is an excellent thing to administer to aged people a couple of hours before their dinner. TOAST WATER. Toast a piece of bread, thoroughly browned to its centre without being burnt; put it into a jug, pour boiling water upon it, cover over, and allow it to stand and steep until it has cooled. The toast water will then be fit to drink.134 COX I '.I LESCEXT CO OKLll Y. BARLEY WATER. Boil one ounce of barley in a quart of water. for twenty minutes ; strain through muslin into a jug containing a hit of orange or lemon peel. TREACLE POSSET. Sweeten a pint of milk with four table- spoonfuls of treacle; boil this for ten minutes ; strain it through a, rag; drink it while hot, and go to bed well covered with blankets; your cold will be all the less and you all the better for it. WHITE WINE WHET. Put a pint of milk into a very clean sauce- pan or skillet, to boil on the fire ; then add half-a-gill of any kind of white wine; allow the milk to boil up, then pour it into a basin, and allow it to stand in a cool place, that the curd may fall to the bottom of the basin; then pourCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 135 •off the whey, which is excellent as an agent to remove a severe cough or cold. TO MULL WINE. See that the vessel in which the wine is to he mulled is exceedingly clean. Small tin warmers may he bought cheap, which are more suitable than saucepans, and ought to be kept •exclusively for the purpose. The quantity ■of spice must be calculated not only according to the quantity of wine to be mulled, but ac- cording to the taste of the person for whom it is intended. Put into a little water some cin- namon, cloves, and a little nutmeg, and boil till the flavour is extracted. Add wine and sugar, and bring it to boiling-point. Serve with strip of thin toast or biscuit. HOP TEA. Pour a quart of boiling water upon half-an- ounce of hops, cover this over, and allow the136 C0NVALESCEN1 COOKERY. infusion to stand for fifteen minutes; the tea must then be strained off into another jug. A, small teacupful may be drunk fasting in the morning, which will create an appetite, and also strengthen the digestive powers. ANTISPASMODIC TEA, FOE, INDIGESTION PAINS. Infuse two-pennyworth of hay saffron (sold at all chemists') in a gill of boiling water in a teacup for ten minutes ; add a dessert-spoonful of brandy, and sugar to sweeten, and drink the tea hot. This powerful but harmless remedy will quickly relieve from spasmodic pains occa- sioned by indigestion. CURE FOE CHILBLAINS (UNBROKEN). The pulp of a baked turnip beat up in a teacup with a spoonful of salad oil, ditto of mustard, and ditto of scraped horse-radish. Apply this mixture to the chilblains, and tie it on with a piece of rag.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 137 This recipe is inserted in deference to the opinion of others; but strong camphorated spirit, the stronger the better—homoeopathic camphor, if it can be had—is better than any mixture. Apply the spirit with the feather of a quill to the chilblain two or three times a day. CURE FOE THE STING OP WASPS AND BEES. Bruise the leaf of a poppy, and apply it to the part affected. SHERBET. Powdered white sugar, 1 lb.; carbonate of soda, 2 oz.; tartaric acid, 3 oz. Mix well to- gether and keep in a bottle; when required, mix well a teaspoonful of the powder in a tumbler of cold water, adding a drop of essence of lemon. MILK LEMONADE. Take six lemons and one Seville orange; slice them, and powder over them 1 lb. of loaf3 38' CONVALESCENT COOKERY. sugar; pour on a pint of boiling water and a pint of white wine; let stand for six hours covered; strain; pour in a pint of boiling milk; strain till clear. CREAM OP TARTAR DRINK. To half-an-ounce of cream of tartar add one of loaf sugar and a bit of orange or lemon peel; put these into a jug; pour on them a quart of boiling water, stir all together, and allow to cool gradually. EFFERVESCENT DRAUGHT. Squeeze the juice from a lemon, strain, and add to a tumbler of cold water with a little pounded sugar; put in half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; drink while effervescing.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 139 COFFEE. The excellence of coffee depends, first, upon the roasting of the berry, and secondly, upon the making of the beverage. If it be not sufficiently roasted, it will have little flavour, will lie heavy on the stomach, and probably produce nausea and vomiting. If too much roasted, it becomes acrid, and acquires .a disagreeable burnt taste. Properly roasted ■coffee should have a chocolate-brown colour, and look bright and oily. It should be kept air- tight, as it loses its aroma by exposure. Coffee will be found to act as an aperient if a glass of cold water be taken immediately be- fore partaking of it. Strong coffee is a power- ful stimulant and cordial. Coffee ought never to be boiled. It must be made with boiling water, and kept as hot as possible until fully infused. The French method is to allow one ounce of fresh-ground coffee to nearly half-a-pint of140 CONVALESCENT COOKEIU. water; the coffee is put into the upper chamber of the cafetiere, which is previously heated, and the mouth of the spout stopped with a cork; the water is poured in, and let slowly percolate by the side of the fire, with as much heat as it can have without allowing- it to boil. In making coffee in an old-fashioned coffee- pot, put in the coffee first, then pour on the boiling water; pour out a cupful, return it again; repeat this twice—it will soon clear itself; but it must not boil incessantly, for violent boiling will spoil it. Keep it closely covered, so as to retain the aroma. Allow one teaspoonful of the ground coffee to each cup. ANOTHER MODE OP MAKING COFFEE. Put half-a-pound of freshly-ground coffee in a basin, and break into it an egg entire, shell and all; and then mix it with a spoon to the consistence of mortar. Place this in aCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 141 coffee-pot witli tepid water; let it boil up and break three times; allow it to stand by the fire, but be careful it does not boil. It will come out as clear as amber—a rich drink. CAFE AU LAIT. Mix the coffee with boiling milk instead of water ; sugar to taste. CHOCOLATE AND COCOA. Genuine chocolate should dissolve in the mouth without a gritty feeling, leaving a sen- sation of freshness on the palate. It will dis- solve also in water entirely, leaving no sediment at the bottom of the vessel. It should not be made till required for use. Water is better for making chocolate than milk, but it should on no account be allowed to boil, as the oil would then pass to the surface. People unaccustomed to cocoa or chocolate find often that they disagree. By chewing and142 CONVALESCENT COOKEBY. swallowing a dry crust just before taking the* cnp of cocoa or chocolate this will in a great measure he remedied. « Both cocoa and chocolate may he made by mixing the quantity required into a paste with boiling water, adding a little sugar; then pouring in boiling milk with one hand, slowly, while it is beaten into a froth with another. It is then ready for use. TO PREPARE COCOA NIBS. Boil gently two ounces of cocoa nibs in three pints of water for two hours and a half, without allowing it to reduce more than one- third—that is, three pints should boil down to one quart. When sufficiently boiled, strain the cocoa from the nibs, mix it with equal propor- tions of milk, and sweeten with sugar if pre- ferred. Cocoa is naturally so sweet that many people, especially invalids, prefer it without sugar.CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 143 CONCLUSION. It only remains to nrge on cooks the necessity for giving the same care and thought to the manner in which the food is served as has been given to the food itself. Everything should be scrupulously clean as well as faultlessly neat. Cover the tray with a white cloth always, no matter how cheap the material of which it may be. The sight of a black tray, perhaps one which has seen better days, will not improve a sick person's appetite. Never fill a huge tray with a cover dish and one or two large plates, and a great carving- knife and fork. Anything which suggests weight to the patient fatigues. There are nurses who would not only bring up such a tray, but would deposit it on the bed.CONVALESCENT COOEER T. 144 Don't at the last moment rush to the kitchen dresser and seize the first plate you can find, possibly a big, heavy, coarse, delft one, and all chipped. The woman who would do that would put hot meat on a cold plate to a certainty. The spots from which the enamel is gone always look as if not clean. The coarser the ware the blacker the spot; so it looks like dirt. Think beforehand how much has to be put upon the plate. An ordinary breakfast-plate is generally large enough for a chop and its gravy, or whatever will be eaten at one meal. Choose the best plate you can find, in quality, and give all the more care to washing it after- wards, so that no harm happens to it. Warm the plate as hot as possible, and if you have a small delft or china, not a tin cover, warm it also; if not, take another plate. A dingy tin cover is own brother to an old japanned tray. See that the fork is very clean and bright. In case the patient wishes the meat cut up for him—many a sick person sends away food forCONVALESCENT COOKERY. 145 lack of energy to cut it—have a second knife and fork for the purpose. If salt is required, it must be carefully taken, fine, white, and very little of it. A spoonful taken from a salt-cellar which has stood upon the kitchen dresser, and received its share of coal-dust, will never look clean. Miss Nightingale says: ' Take care not to spill into your patient's saucer—in other words, take care that the outside bottom rim of his cup is quite dry and clean; if every time he lift his cup to his lips, he has to carry the saucer with it, or else to drop the food upon and to soil his sheet, or his bed-gown or pillow, or, if he is sitting up, his dress, you have no idea what a difference this small want of care on your part makes to his comfort, and even to his willingness for food.' To this may be added—addressed to the cook: < Don't fill the cup so full that it cannot be carried upstairs without spilling.' The same care given to choosing a plate L146 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. may be continued in finding a cup and saucer. Light, small, and a cup with a thin rim, will make tea taste quite differently. To put a heavy thick-edged cup, chipped perhaps, to poor fevered lips, from which all the skin is gone, is one of the tortures often administered by well-intentioned people. Claret in a mug, tea perhaps in a tin, water sipped from a big spoon, beef-tea in a saucer, new milk in a large coarse bowl, Liebig's ex- tract in a tumbler—all seem to change their natures under conditions unsuitable to them. In health people are aware of some of these distinctions; so think of them, remembering how illness intensifies nervous temperaments, making a patient feel absolute pain under what is apparently but a trifling infliction, and mul- tiplying in everyone, tenfold at least, the power of suffering.APPENDIX. { In the treatment of disease/ says Dr. Kirby, late physician to the London City Dispensary, ' the regula- tion of diet always demands particular attention; it may be made a powerful agent in the restoration of health, while negligence or errors are often exceedingly disastrous. The writer has seen cases lost which, humanly speaking, might have been saved had the nutrition of the patient been properly regarded; in other words, if he had had food in the proportion that his malady had medicine.' DIET TABLES AT PRINCIPAL LONDON HOSPITALS. Each London Hospital has regular dietaries adapted to every stage of illness, but the details may be varied by the physicians. At the London Fever Hospital there are three scales—low, middle, and full. The first consists of bread, milk, gruel with sugar j or it may be beef-tea diet—beef tea, milk, and bread. L 2APPENDIX. U8 The second gives bread, bi'oth, milk, rice or bread pudding with egg and sugar in it; or it may be fish diet —bread, fish (sole, haddock, cod, or brill), potatoes, cocoa, and milk. Full diet includes bread, meat, potatoes, cocoa, milk, and beer. Extras at medical discretion provide for the last diet beef tea in two degrees of strength, eggs as ordered, arrowroot, custard pudding, tea, sugar, and butter. In the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest there is no diet table which answers to that required for low patients in fever cases. For breakfast, patients have bread, milk, or cocoa ; for dinner, meat, potatoes, and porter ; for supper, bread pudding, rice pudding, gruel, corn-flour, or Scotch broth. The middle diet only differs from the full diet in giving a less weight of meat, and half the quantity of porter. At this hospital there is also a milk diet, and a beef-tea diet. The former allows bread, milk, and rice or bread pudding. The latter provides bread, milk, beef tea, and one egg per day to each patient. Every patient on being admitted to the hospital is placed on beef-tea diet until further orders. At King's College Hospital the full diet breakfast consists of bread and milk. Dinner of meat, bread, potatoes, and porter. Supper of gruel and milk.H9 APPENDIX. Middle diet differs only in the quantity allowed of meat and porter, being less than for full diet. Milk diet gives rice milk instead of meat, also rice pudding. Middlesex Hospital has convalescent and half- convalescent diets, both exceedingly liberal, even sub- stantial; dinner including joints of meat—legs and shoulders of mutton, sirloins and rounds of beef. The half-convalescent is similar, only the allowance of meat is reduced in quantity. Besides these two dietaries their are pudding diet, ordinary diet, half- ordinary diet, mutton-broth diet, fish diet, and simple diet. The extras include chops, beef tea, broth with neck of mutton, rump steaks, tripe, chicken, oysters, greens, eggs, arrowroot, sago, jellies, porter, wine, and spirits. London Hospital has a tempting dietary under the name of ' fancy.' It varies on each clay of the week, beginning on Sundays with roast mutton and rice pudding; then through the week, fish and batter lidding, rabbit and light pudding, roast mutton and rice pudding, etc. etc.; and for supper a pint of broth. Children have bread and milk daily, meat and potatoes five times a week, rice pudding twice a week. Among the extras here are green vegetables, water-cresses, wine, spirits, and porter. The diet in all the hospitals is the same for men and women, but the quantity of each article is less for the latter than for the former.APPENDIX. 150 SPECIAL DIETS, ETC.1 DIETETIC TREATMENT OF SPASMODIC ASTHMA. The diet must be regularly weighed out, and adhered to with the greatest strictness, the hours of meals being most rigidly fixed as follows :— Breakfast at 8 a.m.—To consist of half a pint of green tea or coffee, with a little cream, and two ounces of dry stale bread. Dinner at 1 p.m.—To consist of two ounces of fresh beef or mutton, without fat or shin, and two ounces of dry stale bread or well-boiled rice; three hours after dinner (not sooner) half a pint of weak brandy and water, or whisky and water, or dry sherry and water, may be taken, or toast and water ad libitum. Siq^er at 7 p.m.—To consist of two ounces of meat as before, with two ounces of dry stale bread. The patient is not to be allowed to drink any fluid whatever within one hour before his dinner or supper, and not until three hours after either of these meals. At other times he is not limited as to drinks, otherwise than that all malt liquors are to be prohibited. Soda or Seltzer water may be indulged in at other times when thirsty. 1 From A Formulary of Selected Diets, by E. A. Kirby, M.D. London : H. K. Lewis.151 APPENDIX. With this dietetic treatment sedatives are to be given as follows:— Three grains of the Extract of Conium are to be taken four times a day; namely, at the hours of seven, twelve, five, and ten, the dose to be gradually increased to five grains four times a day. To each of these pills & fourth of a grain of the Extract of Indian Hemp may be added, which may be gradually increased to one grain in each dose.1 DIETETIC TREATMENT OF APOPLEXY. The diet of the patient should be low till all ap- prehension of a relapse is passed, and limited to milk, boiled vegetables, light puddings, and fish. At no subsequent period ought he to indulge in a full animal diet, or to drink undiluted wines. At the same time, too lowering a regimen is to be avoided, as thereby the irritability of the system and th e heart's action generally are increased. All the causes of the disease already fully referred to should be avoided, counteracted, or overcome.2 1 Mr. Pridlrani, Brit. Med. Journal, June 9 to Dec. 21), 18G0. 2 Dr. Aitken, Science and Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 505.APPENDIX. 152 DIETARY IN CASES OF SLOW DIGESTION. Breakfast, 8 a.m.—Bread (stale), four ounces. Mutton chop or other meat (cooked), free from fat and skin, three ounces. Tea, or warm milk and water and sugar, or other beverage, three-quarters of a pint. Luncheon, 1 p.m.—Bread (stale), two ounces. No solids, such as meat or cheese. Liquid, quarter of a pint. Dinner, 5 or 6 p.m.—Bread (stale), three ounces. Potatoes and other vegetables four ounces. Meat (cooked), free from skin and fat, four ounces. Liquid not more than half a pint. Tea or Sujiper (not sooner than three hours after dinner).—Bread (stale), two ounces. No solid, such as meat or cheese. Tea or weak brandy and water, or sherry and water, or toast and water, to the extent of half a pint.1 DIETETIC TREATMENT IN EPILEPSY. In the adult the diet should be light, and the patient should live temperately. He should live by rule. He should rise early and take regular exercise in the open air, keeping his head cool and his feet warm. The diet of an infant so affected should be, if possible, its mother's milk, with or without arrowroot . If above three or four years of age, its diet should ' Dr. Leaved.153 APPENDIX. ■consist entirely of farinaceous or of other light vege- table food.1 [ REGIMEN AND DIET IN LOSS OF NERVE POWER, ETC. Regimen and diet in loss of nerve power, etc., always of importance in the treatment of every case, is especially so in those diseases in which phos- phorus or its combinations are indicated. Attention should, in the first place, be directed to the general health of the patient, condition of the digestive organs, and state of the bowels; where these are disordered suitable correctives should be pre- scribed before commencing as well as during the course of phosphorus. Constipation, so frequently persist- ently present, is to be relieved; and where there is torpidity of liver, mild mercurials, when not contra- indicated, or podophyllin in alternative doses, should be administered, combined with gentle aperients. They will effectually prevent the clogging of the liver of which some writers speak. It is to be borne in mind that phosphorus par- takes rather of the nature of food than of medicine; its office is to supply nutrition of a special character, and its operation is promoted by a judicious, and delayed, if not destroyed, by an injudicious manage- ment ; it is important therefore that the patient 1 Dr. Aitken, Science and Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 643.APPENDIX. 154 should submit to a prescribed regimen, enjoining absti- nence from, or extreme moderation in, the use of alcoholic drinks and tobacco, the avoidance of over- feeding, mental fatigue, strong muscular exercise, and excesses of every kind, that directly or indirectly fatigue, not to say exhaust, the forces and waste the tissues which the phosphorus is administered to sup- port and nourish. The adoption of early hours and the daily use of the bath (cold or tepid, according to the condition of the patient; the cold bath, either plunge, douche, or sponge, always to be preferred when admissible), and exercise in the open air, are all absolutely necessary. The Turkish bath is a valu- able help in the treatment of many disorders, and it may always be safely employed where there is no reason to suspect organic lesion. It is especially use- ful in nervous exhaustion from overwork. I know of no remedy which so quickly relieves brain fatigue. The diet must be simple and nutritions, and good of its land; fresh meat, mutton or beef, plainly dressed and not over-cooked, fish and fresh vegetables. Eggs, recently laid, uncooked, are at once easy of digestion and highly nutritious; in some cases as many as half a dozen may be taken in twenty-four hours. In cases where wine is advisable, Burgundy is to be preferred; tea and coffee, unless they be very moderately taken, had better be altogether avoided. The kind, as well as- the quantity, of the food, must, however, be determined by the digestive power of the patient, and this is155 APPENDIX. found to be frequently so impaired as only to admit of milk and easily assimilated farinaceous substances, such as lentil meal, corn flour, macaroni, etc. So important is the determination of the diet in the treatment of nervous disease—often dependent more or less entirely upon defective nutrition—that it should in every case be made the subject of a special prescription, in which the kind and quantity of the food should be definitively stated for the guidance of the patient. DIET FOR DIABETES. The important principle to be regarded is the ex- clusion of starch and sugar, and articles containing them; all else is of little consequence. Meat, poultry, fish, game, green vegetables, cress, celery, lettuce, spinach, and the like; butter, cheese, eggs, are all admissible. Van Abbot's and Bonthron's gluten bread and biscuits, and Blatchley's bran biscuits, are all very valuable substitutes for wheaten bread. Pepsine, Pancreatine, and Dilute Hydrochloric Acid, are very useful cligestants in diabetes. Dr. Pavy says diabetic patients may drink dry sherry, claret, sauterne, soda water, Burton bitter beer; must not drink milk (except sparingly), sweet ales, porter, stout, cider, sparkling wines.INDEX. ANT Antispasmodic tea, 136 Apple drink, 130 Apples, plain stewed, 121 Arrowroot, 126 Barley water, 131 Beef, to choose, 21 — extract, 16, 17 — tea, 12, 17 — tea, Beeton, 51 Francatelli, 52 Gotiffe, 51 Soyer, 19 Blancmange, meat, 108 Boiling, 78, 79 Bran tea, 130 Broiling, 58, 61 Butter, melted, 119 with milk, 120 Cafe au lait, 111 Calf's head broth, 51 Camomile, 133 Chocolate, 111 DIE Chicken broth, 56 — extract, 57 Chilblains, 136 Cleanliness in person, 11 — food, 11 — utensils, 11 Cocoa nibs, 112 Coffee, 139, 110 Conclusion, 113 Conscientiousness, cook and nurse, 10 Consumption, nourishment, 110 Cook, her motto, 9 Cough, Iceland moss for, 111 — syrup, 111 Cow-heel baked in milk, 109 jelly, 98 Coutts, Baroness Burdett, 12 Cream of Tartar, 138 Cutlets, 63-65 Diets, London Hospitals, 117- 119 — apoplexy, 151158 INDEX. DIE Diet, asthma, spasmodic, 150 — diabetes, 155 — epilepsy, 152 — nerve power, loss of, 153 — slow digestion, 152 Ducks, to choose, 26 Drinks, 129-138 Effervescent draught, 138 Eggs, to choose, 28 Firing, 19 Fire for cooking, 44 Fish, 80 — to choose, 27 — time to cook, 81 Flour, to choose, 29 Forethought, 12 Fowls, to choose, 24 — to heat, 94 Franklin, Dr., a good nurse, 1 Fruit, to choose, 29 Game, 84 Goose, to select, 26 Gouffe, Jules, on fowls, 25 preparing in advance, 16 Gruel, corn-flour, 128 — groats, 12S — oatmeal, 127 — pearl barley, 129 — rice, 128 Hop tea, 135 XIG Iceland moss blancmange, 111 and currant jelly, 111 jelly, 110 Jelly-bag, 97 Jelly, calves' foot, 96 — cow's heel, 98 — cranberry, 113 — German, 112 — grape, 112 — for weak-limbed children, 99 Kitchen, 31 Lamb, to choose, 23 Lamb shank, 92 Lemonade, 132 — milk, 137 Liebig's extract, 106 Linseed tea, 127 Marketing, 17 Meal, to choose, 29 Milk, 29 Mutton broth, 52, 53, 54 — to choose, 22 — custard, 108 Nightingale, Miss, on eggs, 101 — on jelly, 100 — on nurses, 1 — on patients' ways, 13INDEX. 159 OKA OKANGEADE, 131 Patience, nurse and cook, 11 Pinches of salt, etc., 40 Pork, to choose, 15 Pudding, arrowroot, 112 — batter, 115 — bread, 116 — corn flour, 119 — rice, 118 — sago, 118 — tapioca, 126 Babbits, boiled, 87 — fricassee, 88 — fried, 90 — soup, 90 — stewed, 88 — warmed-up, 90 Ready money, 21 Rice, 121 — dumplings, 122 — and apples, 123 — water, 129 Roasting, 67 WIN Sago with milk, 125 Sago, plain, 125 Saucepans, to clean, 32, 35 Sauce pudding, 120 richer, 121 Serving food, 143 Sherbet, 137 Sink, 35 Stings, wasps and bees, 137 Tablespoonfuls, 46 Tapioca, 126 Teaspoonfuls, 40 Toast water, 133 Treacle posset, 134 Turkey, to choose, 26 Veal, to choose, 22 Vegetable marrow, 113 Vegetables, boiling, 78 — to choose, 29 Voice, loss of, 131 Wine, white, whey, 134 — to mull. 135 LIBRARY LONDON : PRINTED BY BrOTIISWOODB AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE AND PARLIAMENT STREETCHATTO & WlNDUS'S List of Books. NE W FINE-AR T WORK. Large 4to, bound in buckram, 2U. Abdication, The; or, Time Tries All. An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrteff. With Seven Etchings by John Pettie, R.A., W. Q. Orchardson, R.A., J. Mac Whirter. A.R.A..Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth. andToM Graham, Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. Advertising, A History of. From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Spect- mens, and Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Architectural Styles, A Handbook of. From the German of A. Rosengarten by W. Collf.tt-Sandars. Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Art emus Ward's Works : The Works of Charles Farrer Browne, better known as Artemus Ward. With Portrait, Facsimile of Handwriting, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Bankers, A Handbook of London; With some Account of their Predecessors, the Early Goldsmiths: toge- ther with Lists of Bankers from 1677 to 1876. By F. G. Hilton Price. Bardsley (Rev. C. W.), Works by: English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. By Charles Wareing Bardsley, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. By Charles W. Bardslev. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d. Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of. By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.2 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume. Beautiful Pictures by British Artists: A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series. The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable, Turner, Mulready, Landseer, Maclise, E. M. Ward, Frith, Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Ansdell, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel Paton, Faed, Eyre Crowe, Gavin O'Neil, and Madox Brown. The Second Series containing Pictures by Armitage, Faed, Goodall, Hemsley, Horsley, Marks, Nicholls, Sir Noel Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon, Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren. All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A. " This book is ".veil got up, and good engravings by Jeens, Lumb Stocks, and others, bring back to US Royal Academy Exhibitions of past years."—Times. Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Bechstein's As Pretty as Seven, And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bechstein. With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations by Richter. One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated. Belgravia for 1882. A New Serial Story, entitled "AH Sorts and Conditions of Men," written by Walter Besant and James Rice, Authors of" Ready- Money Mortiboy," &c, and Illustrated by Fred. Barnard, will be begun in the January Number of Belgravia ; this Number will contain also the First Chapters of a New Novel, entitled "The Admiral's Ward," by Mrs. Alexander, Author of "The Wooing o't." &c. ; and the first of a series of Twelve Papers, entitled " About Yorkshire,'' by Katharine S. Macquoid, illustrated by T. R. Macquoid. The FORTY-FIFTH Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly hound in crimson, cloth, full gilt side and back, gilt edges, price js.6d., is now ready- — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at 2S. each. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, is. Belgravia Annual. With Stories by Wilkie Collins, F. W. Robinson, Dutton Cook, Percy Fitzgerald, J. Arbuthnot Wilson, Henry W. Lucy, D. Christie Murray, James Payn, and others. f A'ov. 10. Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21s. Blake (William): Etchings from his Works. By W. B. Scott. With descriptive Text. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Boccaccio's Decameron; or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Intro- duction by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.3 CHATTO &° WIND US, PICCADILLY. Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding. Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks: Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations. If. Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, is. Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations. If. Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is. Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations. If. Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is. Academy Notes, 1881. With 12S Illustrations, is. Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. If. Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. if. Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations. if. Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations. If.. Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, if. Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, if. The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 114 Illusts. if. The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. if. 6d. Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with nearly 600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery. With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 3s. UNIFORM WITH '-ACADEMY NOTES." Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, if. Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, if. Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, if. Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, if. Glasgow Institute of Pine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. if. Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. if. Glasgow Institute of Pine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. if. Glasgow Institute of Pine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. if. Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. if. Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. if. Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. if. Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, if. Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. if. Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. if. Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches: Canters in Crampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with Stag Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 2ij. Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. An entirely New and Revised Edition, with fine full-page Illustrations.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 4 Bret Harte, Works by: Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j. each. § Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author. Vol. II. Earlier Papers—Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches —Bohemian Papers—Spanish and American Legends. Vol. IIT. Tales of the Argonauts—Eastern Sketches. Vol. IV. Gabriel Conroy. Vol. V. Stories—Condensed Novels, &c. The Select "Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With Introductory Essay by J. M. Bellew, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, u.: crown Svo, cloth extra, 3$. 6d. The Luck of Roaring Gamp, and other Sketches. By Bret Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 21. Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, is. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d. Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 45. 6d. Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science. Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4*. 6d. Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One, the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian. THE STOTHARD BUNYAN— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d. Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved by Goodall ; and numerous Woodcuts. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Burton's The Anatomy of Melancholy: What it is ; its Kinds, Causes, Symptoms, Prognostics, and several Cures of it. In Three Partitions; with their several Sections, Mem- bers, and Sub-sections, Philosophically, Medically, and Historically Opened and Cut-up. A New Edition, corrected and enriched by Trans- lations of the Classical Extracts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 71. 6d. Byron's Letters and Journals. With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J. Campbell's (Sir G.) White and Black: Travels in the Uni-ed States. By Sir Geokgf Campbell, M.P.CHATTO &> WIND US, PICCADILLY. 5 Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js, 6d. Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig Salvator of Austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author. Post 8vo, cloth extra, ij. 6d. Garlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books. With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. Entirely New and Revised Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Century (A) of Dishonour : A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of the Indian Tribes. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Chap-Books— A History of the Chap-Books of the Eighteenth Century. By John Ashton. With nearly 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of the originals. *#* A few Large-Paper copies will be carefully piinled on hand-made paper, for which early application should be made. Large 410, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28J. Chatto and Jackson.—A Treatise on Wood Engraving : Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatto and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G. Bohn ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition. Small 4to, cloth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, 10s. 6d. Chaucer for Children: A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author. Derny 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. Haweis, Author of " Chaucer for Children." Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Map and Illustrations, 2s. 6d. Cleopatra's Needle: Its Acquisition and Removal to England. By Sir J. E. Alexander. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js, 6d. Colman's Humorous Works: " Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Colman. With Life by G. B. Buckstone, and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. bd. Convalescent Cookery: A Fami'y Handbook. By Catherine Ryan. [In tfu/tress.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY G Crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s. Chess, The Laws and Practice of. Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End Games. By the late Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. Wormald. Conway (Moncure D.), Works by: Demonology and Devil-Lore. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. Two Vols., royal Svo, with 65 Illustrations, 28*. A Necklace of Stories. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy. Square Svo, cloth extra, 6s. The Wandering Jew. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Thomas Carlyle. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s. Cook (Button).—Hours with the Players. By Dutton Cook. ^ Post 8vo, cloth limp, as. 6d. Copyright—A Handbook of English and Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Works. Being a con- cise Dio-est of the Laws regulatiDg Copyright in the Chief Countries of the World, together with the Chief Copyright Conventions existing between Great Britain and Foreign Countries. By Sidney JERROLD, of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-Law. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cornwall—Popular Romances of the West of England ; or, The Drolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations by George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7s. 6d. Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians; with Notices of the Early History of Eton College By Sir Edward Creasy, Author of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, js. 6d. Credulities, Past and Present. By William Jones, F.S.A., Author of'' Finger-Ring Lore, ' £c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6*. Crimes and Punishments. Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " Dei Delitti e delle Pene. By James Anson Farrer.CHATTO &•> WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 7 Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Two very thick Volumes, 71. 6d. each. Cruikshank's Comic Almanack. Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second from 1S44 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mayhew, Albert Smith, A'Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by Cruikshank, Hine, Landells, &c. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 24J. Cruikshank (The Life of George). In Two Epochs. By Blanchard Jerrold, Author of "The Life of Napoleon III.," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of his Works. [In preparation. Two Vols., demy 410, handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt, profusely Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, price £7 7s. Cyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress—Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military— from the Earliest Period in England to the reign of George the Third.' Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent, and a Genera! History of the Costumes of the Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald. The Volumes may also be had separately (each Complete in itself) at £3 13s. 6d. each: Vol. I.' THE DICTIONARY. Vol. II. A GENERAL HISTORY OF COSTUME IN EUROPE. Also in 25 Parts, at 51. each. Cases for binding, 5$. each. '* A comprehensive and highly valuable book of reference. . . . We have rarely failed to find in this book an account of an article of dress, while in most of the entries curious and instructive details are given. . . . Mr. PlanchPi enormous labour of love, the production of a text which, whether in its dictionary form or in that of the ' General History,' is within itsiutended scope immeasurably the best and richest work on Costume in English, , , . This book is not only one of the most readable works of tlte kind, but intrinsically attractive and amusing."—Athenaeum. "A most readable and interesting work—and it can scarcely be consulted in vain, whether the reader is hi search for information as to military, court, ecclesiastical, legal, or professional costume. . . . All the chromo-lithographs, and most of the woodcut illustrations—the latter amounting to several ihousandt —are very elaborately executed ; and the work forms a livre de luxe which rendc* t it equally suited to the library and the ladies' drawing-room."—Times. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d. Doran's Memories of our Great Towns. With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their Oddities. By Dr. John Doran, F.S.A. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s. Drury Lane, Old: Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Actor, and Manager. By Edward Stirling.8 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Demy 8vo, cloth, i6j. Dutt's India, Past and Present; with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shoshes Chundeh Dutt, Rai Bahadoor. Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume. Early English Poets. Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Grosart. "Mr. Grosart has spent ihe most laborious and the most enthusiastic care en ihe perfect restoration and preservation of the text. . . From Mr: Grosart we always expect and always receive ihe final results of most patient and competent scholarship."—Examiner. i. Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Com- 1 3. Kerrick's (Robert) Heoperi- plete Poems: Christ's Victorie in . des, Noble Numbers, and Complete Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth, Christ's Triumph over Death, and Minor Poems. With Memorial-In- troduction and Notes. One Vol. Collected Poems. With Memorial- Introduction and Notes, Steel Por- trait, Index of First Lines, and Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols. 2. Davies' (Sir John) Complete , 4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Corn- Poetical Works, including Psalms I. ! plete Poetical Works, including all to L. in Verse, and other hitherto those in " Arcadia." With Portrait, Unpublished MSS., for the first time I Memorial-Introduction, Essay on Collected and Edited. Memorial- | the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes. Introduction and Notes. Two Vols. Three Vols. ____ Imperial 8vo, with 147 fine Engravings, half-morocco, 36.5. Early Teutonic, Italian, and French Masters (The). Translated and Edited from the Dohme Series, by A. H. Keane, M.A.I. With numerous Illustrations. *' Cannot fail to he of the utmost use to students of art history."—Times. Crown 8v®, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s. Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Englishman's House, The: A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House, with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, -js. 6d. Evolution, Chapters on; A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Develop- ment. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S. Edin. &c. \In preparation. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Evolutionist (The) At Large. Py Grant Allen.CHATTO & IVINDUS, PICCADILLY. 9 Folio, cloth extra, £1 iij. 6d. Examples of Contemporary Art. Etchings from Representative Works by living English and Foreign Artists. Edited, with Critical Notes, by J. Comyns Carr. "It would not be easy to meet with a more sumptuous, and at the same time a more tasteful and instructive drawing-room ^^."—Nonconformist. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s. Pairholt's Tobacco : Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of 100 Illustrations by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. Familiar Allusions: A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like. Begun (but ltft unfinished) by William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction; " completed by Charles G. Wheeler. \_In the fress. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d. Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle. Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited by W. Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d. Faraday's Various Forces of Nature. New Edition. Edited by W. Crookes, F.C.S. Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d. Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries. " One of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruc tion."—Atiif.n*um. Gardening Books: A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, is. 6rf. Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By TOM and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2.?. 6d. My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth e.-ctra, 5*.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 10 One Shilling Monthly. Gentleman's Magazine (The), for 1882. The January Number of this Periodical will contain the First Chapters of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne, Author of "Garth," &c. "Science Notes," by W. Mattteu Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly. %* Now ready, the Volume for January to June, i88i, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price zs, each. Demy 8vo, illuminated cover, is. Gentleman's Annual, The. Containing Two Complete Novels. [Arov 15. THE RUSK IN GRIMM. —Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, js. 6d. German Popular Stories. Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations after the inimitable designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete, *' The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which they illustrate; and the original etchings, as I liave before said in the Appendix to tny ' Elements of Drawing,' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rem- brandt (in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . .. To make somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass, a>id never putting two lines wliere Cruikshank has put only one, would be an exer- cise in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt in sclwols."—Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin. Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d. Glenny's A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Manage- ment of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny. " A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. T>u amateur need not wish for a better guide."—Leeds Mercury. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Golden Treasury of Thought, The: An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys.6d. Greeks and Romans, The Life of the, Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Guhl and W. Koner. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by Dr. F. Hueffer. With 545 Illustrations.CHATTO &• WIND US, PICCADILLY. Square i6mo (Tauchnitz size), cloth extra, zs. per volume Golden Library, The: Ballad History of England. By W. C. Bennett. Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the Echo Club. Byron's Don Juan. Emerson's Letters and Social Aims. O-odwin's (William) Lives of the Necromancers., Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. With an Introduc- tion by G. A. Sala. Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast Table. Hood'3 Whims and Oddities. Complete. With all the original Il- lustrations. Irving's (Washington) Tales of a Traveller. Irving's (Washington) Tales of the Aihambra. Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations of Country Life. Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series Complete in One Vol. Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and other Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduc- tion by Edmund Ollikr. Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort d'Arthur: The Stories of King Arthur and of the Knights of the Round Table. Edited by B. Montgomkrib Ranking. Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New Translation, with Historical In- troduction and Notes, by T. M'Crib, D.D. Pope's Poetical Works. Com- plete. Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral Reflections. With Notes, and an Introductory Essay by Saint e- Beuve. St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and The Indian Cottage. Edited, with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh Hunt. Shelley's Later Poems : Laon and Cythna, &c. Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the Shelley Papers, &c. Shelley's Prose Works, includ- ing A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi St. Irvyne, &c. White's Natural History' of Sel* borne. Edited, with Additions, by Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4*. 6d. Guyot's Earth and Man; or, Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Mankind. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index. Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by: Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, Ss. New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ys. bd. Hall's (Mrs. S. C.) Sketches of Irish Character. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Maclise, Gil- bert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank. " The Irish Skctclies of this lady resemble Miss Mitford's beautiful English sketches in 'Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and bright."—Blackwood's Magazine.12 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Haweis (Mrs.), Works by: The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d. "A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to tkt point, she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her <nvn sex on the follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the ladies whom it concerns"—Athek/si'm. The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 100 Illustrations, ios. 6a?. The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo, handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, 10s. 6d. %* See also Chaucer, p. 5 of this Catalogue. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 51. Heath (P. G.)—My Garden Wild, And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of " The Fern World," &c. SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.—Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Heptalogia (The); or, The Seven against Sense. A Cap with Seven Bells. " The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts ; it should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and, in our opinion, its merits entitle it to be very zuidely read indeed."—St. Jamhs's Gazette. Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, Ss. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 151. Herbert.—The Poems of Lord Herbert of Cherbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Churton Collins. Complete in Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each. History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880. By Justin McCarthy, M.P. "Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval. This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled on words could say no more for it."— Saturday Review. New Work by the Author of " A HISTORY of OUR OWN TIMES." Four Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12J. each. History of the Four Georges. By Justin McCarthy, M.P. \Inpreparation. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d. Holmes's The Science of Voice Production and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C.P.E.CHATTO &> V/INDUS, PICCADILLY. 13 Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works, In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals. With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations. Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s. Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North Pole : A Noah's Artseological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by W. Brunton and E. C Barnes. " The amusing letterpress is profusely intersperse! with the jingling rhymei which children love and learn so easily. Messrs. Brunton and Barnes do full justice to the writer's Meaning, and a. pleasanter result of the harmonious com operation of author and artist could not be desired." — Times. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works, including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns, and Hoaxes; With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. Home's Orion: An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Hornej. With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and Review of the Trade Uaions of Great Britain, showing their Origin, Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Eco- nomical, and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell. " This book is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to place the work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the public from the working man's point cf view" — Pall Mall Gazette. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12J. 6d. Hueffer's The Troubadours: A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By Francis Hueffer. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Janvier—Practical Keramics for Students. By Catherine A. Janvier. " IVill be found .1 useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacturt or decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to knout something of the art."—Morning Post. A New Edition, Revised ann partly Re-wntten, with several New Chapters and Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Jennings' The Eosicrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full- page Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.1 + BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Jerrold (Tom), Works by: Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, is.bd. Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. " The combination of hints on cookery "with gardening has been very cleverly carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work. Mr. Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half tlie use of vegetables they might; and by showing how easily they can be grown, and so obtained fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular."—Daily Chronicle. Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14J. Joseplms, The Complete Works of. Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews." Small Svo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s. Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain, And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. " Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as tkt best of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories.' .... For the most part the ttories are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind. . . Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable."—Spectator. Square Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s. Knight (The) and the Dwarf. By Charles Mills. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas Lindsay. \Jn the press. Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2s. 6d. Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and • Imitate it. By Daisy Waterhouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustra- tions by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, 7s. 6d. Lamb's Complete Works, In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." " A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains to bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original appearance in various old periodicals."—Saturday Review.CHATIO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, ioj. 6d. Lamb (Mary and Charles): Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations. ■■ Very many passages will delight those fjnd of literary trifles ; hardly any portion will fail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister" Standard. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5.5. Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Princ© Dorus. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. " The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the heartt of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing"—A. C. Swineuknk. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Lares and Penates; Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy. " The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions. . . . . We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to zvealthy ones."— Gxaphic. Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6s. Leigh's A Town Garland. By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne." "If Mr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation—and there is no reason why that honour sltould not be accorded productions so delicate, so finished, and so full of humow—their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of the Strand."—Athenaeum. Second Edition.—Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s. Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology arid Compara- tive Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School. "It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator* mho in the intervals of his more serious professional labours sets himself to impart knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct, with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr. Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truthi of nature."—Saturday Review. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Life in London; or, The History of jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.BOOKS PUBLISHED Bi i6 Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Lights on the Way: Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, B.A. Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author o? " Thoreau : A Study." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood." With Portrait and Illus- trations by Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5.1. Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a. By a Sane Patient. " The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though tlie subject le. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to ait asylum, nothing car, be clearer than his sanity when he vjrote this book; it it bright, calm, and to the point."—Spectator. Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8j. Lusiad (The) of Camoens. Translated into English Spenserian verse by Robert Ffrench Duff, Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ. Mailook7s (W. HTWorks: Is Life Worth Living P By William Hurrell Mallock. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. " This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vin- dication 0/''religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared since Bishop Butler wrote, and is much more useful than either the Analogy or the Ser- mons of that great divine, as a refutation of the peculiar form assumed by the infidelity of the present day Deeply philosophical as the booh is, there is not a heavy page in it. The writer is 'possessed,' so to speak, with his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its extent,, and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the philosophy, and t lie literature of the day."—Irish Daily News. The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2i. 6<j!. The New Paul and Virginia : or, Positivism on an Island. By W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, Ss. A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. FT. Mallock. Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown*8vo, sis.CHATTO 6* WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 17 Macquoid (Mrs.), Works by: In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uniform with " Pictures and Legends." Square 8vo, cloth extra, ios. 6d. " This is another of Mrs. Macquoid's pleasant books of travel, full of useful ' information, of picturesque descriptions of scenery, and of quaint traditions respecting the various monuments and ruins •which she encounters in hir tour. . . To such of our readers as are already thinking about the year s holiday, we strongly recommend the perusal of Sirs. Macquoids experiences. The book is well illustrated by Mr. Thomas R. Macquoid."—Graphic. Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, ios. 6d. Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With go Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. "One of the few books which can be read as a piece of literature, whilst at the same time handy in the knapsack."— British Quarterly Review. Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. " The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wander- ingfrom one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm around each oft-depicted scene."—Morning Post. Mark Twain's Works: The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With 100 Illustrations. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s. A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, zs. A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, is. 6d. " The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man Iut Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make oj all this episode oj jfim Baker and his jays a piece of work t/iat is not only delightful as mere reading, but also oj a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The beck is full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the funniest of those that have gone before."-—Athen'jEUM, The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With ner.r]y 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Uniform with " A Tramp Abroad." [/« the press. The Innocents Abroad; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion to Europe and the Holy Land, with descriptions of Countries, Nations., Incidents, and Adventures, as they appeared to the Author. With 234 Illustrations. By Mark Twain. Crown 8vo, clolh extra, 7s. 6d. Uniform, with " A Tramp Abroad." [/« the frcss.i8 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, as. 6d. Madre Natura v. The Moloch of Fashion. By Luke Limner. With 32 Illustrations by the Author. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. Plandsomely printed in facsimile, price $j. Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum, printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. per volume. Mayfair Library, The: The New Republic. By W. H. Mallocic. The New Paul and Virginia. Ey W. H. Mallock. The True History of Joshua Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton. Old Stories Re-told. By Walter Thornbijry. Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By H. A. Page. By Stream and Sea. By Wil- liam Senior. Jeusd'Esprit. Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley. More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley. Puck on Pegasus. By H. Cholmondeley-Pennell. The Speeches of Charles Dickens. Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H. Cholmondeley-Pennkll. Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By Brillat-Savarin. The Philosophy of Hand- writing. By Don Felix de Sala- l" MANCA. Curiosities of Criticism. Ly Henry J. Jennings. Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies, Frolics. By W. T. Dobson. Pencil and Palette. By Robert Kempt. *»* Other Volumes are in preparation. Original Flays by W. S. Gil- bert. First Series. Containing: The Wicked World—Pygmalion and Galatea — Charitv — The Princess— The Palace of Truth—Trial by Jury. Original Plays by W. S. Gil- bert. Second Series. Containing: Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweet- hearts — Dan'l Druce — Gretchen— Tom Cobb—The Sorcerer—H.M.S. Pinafore—The Pirates of Penzance. Latter-Day Lyrics. Edited by W. Davenport Adams. Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S. Leigh. The Book of Clerical Anec- dotes. By Jacob Larwood. The Agony Column of " The Times," from 1800 to 1S70. Edited, with an Introduction, by Alice Clay. The Cupboard. Papers. By Fin-Bec. Pastimes and Players. By Robert Macgrkgor. Melancholy Anatomised: A Popular Ai ridgment of " Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy." Quips and Quiddities. Selected by \V. Davenport Adams. Leaves from a Naturalist's Note-Book. By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E. [In the press. The Autocrat of the Break- fast-Table. By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated by J. G. Thom- son. [/« the press.19 CHATTO 6* WIND US, PICCADILLY. Small 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, zs. 6d. Miller's Physiology for the Young; Or, The House of Life: Human Physiology, with its Applications to the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading. With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller. "An admirable introduction to a subject which all who value health and enjoy lift should have at their fingers' ends."— Echo. Milton (J. L.), Works by: The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the Management of the Skin; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths &c. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Smal Svo, is.; cloth extra, is. 6d. The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small 8vo, I*.; cloth extra, is. 6d. Square Svo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, fs. 6d. North Italian Polk. By Mrs. Comyns Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott. " A delightful booh, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really knew the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and read Mrs. Carr''spages instead. . . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift. . It is rarely that a book is so happily illustrated"—Con tkmporary Review. NEW NOVELS NOW IN THE PRESS. A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA. The Title of which will shortly be announced. 3 vols., crown Svo. SOMETHING IN THE CITY. By George Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown Svo. GOD AND THE MAN. By Robert Buchanan, Author of" The Shadow of the Sword," &c. 3 vols, crown 8vo. THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin McCarthy, M.P., Author of. "'Miss Misanthrope." 3 vols., crown 8vo. JOSEPH'S COAT. By David Christie Murray, Author of "A Life's Atonement," &c. With 12 Illustrations by Fred. Barnard. PRINCE SARONI'S WIPE, and other Stories. By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols., crown 8vo. A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin Gray," &c. 2 vols, crown Svo. THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tytler, 2 vols., crown Svo.20 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol. Old Dramatists, The: Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical Memoir by Wil- liam Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham. Three Vols. Chapman's Works. Now First Collected. Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays complete, including the doubtful ones; Vol. II. the Poems and Minor Traas- lations, with an Introductory Essay by Algernon Charles Swinburne. Vol. III. the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey. Marlowe's Works. Including his Translations. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham. One Vol. Massinger's Plays. From the Text of William Gifford. With the addition of the Tragedy of " Believe as you Lin." Edited by Col. Cunningham. One Vol. O'Shaughnessy (Arthur) Works by: Songs of a Worker. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Music and Moonlight. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap. 3vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, ios-. 6d. Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, 5*. each. Ouida's Novels—Library Edition. Held in Bondage. Strathmore. Chandos. Under Two Flags. Idalia. Cecil Castlernaine. Trieotrin. Puok. Folio Farine, D.og of Flanders, Pascarel. Two Wooden Shoes. Signa. In a Winter City. Ariadne. Friendship. Moths. Pipistrello. A Village Commune. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. •o, illustrated By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. By Ouida. *»* Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last two, post 8 boards, vs. each. Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d. Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Hand- book of. By Henry W. Lucy. Large 4to, cloth extra, gilt, beautifully Illustrated, 31J. 6d. Pastoral Days; Or, Memories of a New England Year. By W. Hamilton Gibson7. W'itli 76 Illustrations in the highest style of Wood Engraving. 11 The volume contains a prose poemt ivith illustrations in tlie ship? of wood engravings more beautiful than it can well enter into the hearts of most men to conceive."—Scotsman.WINDUS, 21 PICCADILL Y. CHATTO &* Library Editions, mostly Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each. Piccadilly Novels, The. papular ^torteiJ bp tije 33c^t Susans. Maid, Wife, or Widow ? By Mrs. Alexander. Ready-Money Mortiboy. By W. Besant and James Rice. My Little Girl. By W. Besant and James Rice. The Case of Mr. Lueraft. By W. Besant and James Rice. This Son of Vulcan. By W. Besant and James Rice. With Harp and Crown. By W. Besant and James Rice. The Golden Butterfly. By W. Besant and James Rice. By Celia's Arbour. By W. Besant and James Rice. The Monks of Thelema. By W. Besant and James Rice. 'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By W. Besant and James Rice. The Seamy Side. By Walter Besant and James Rice. Antonina. By Wilkie Collins. Basil. By Wilkie Collins. Hide and Seek. W.Collins. The Dead Secret. W. Collins. Queen of Hearts. W. Collins. My Miscellanies. W. Collins. The Woman in White. By Wilkie Collins. The Moonstone. W. Collins. Man and Wife. W. Collins. Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins. Mis3 or Mrs. ? By W. Collins. The New Magdalen. BvWilkie Collins. The Frozen Deep. W. Collins. The Law and the Lady. By Wilkie Collins. The Two Destinies. By Wilkie Collins. The Haunted Hotel. By Wilkie Collins. The Fallen Leaves. By Wilkie Collins. Jezebel's Daughter. W.Collins. Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. H. Lovett Cameron. Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs. H. Lovett Cameron. Felicia. M. Betham-Edwards. Olympia. By R. E. Francillon. The Capel Girls. By Edward Garrett. Robin Gray. Charles Gibbon. For Lack of Gold. By Charles Gibbon. In Love and War. By Charles Gibbon. What will the World Say ? By Charles Gibbon. For the King. Charles Gibbon. In Honour Bound. By Charles Gibbon. Queen of the Meadow. By Charles Gibbon. In Pastures Green. By Charles Giebon. Under the Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy. Garth. By Julian Hawthorne. Ellice Quentin. By Julian Hawthorne. Thornicroft's Model. By Mrs. A. W. Hunt. Fated to be Free. By Jean Ingei.ow. Confidence. Henry James, Jun. The Queen of Connaught. By Harriett Jay. The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay. Number Seventeen. By Henry KlNGSLEY. Oakshott Castle. H. Kingsley. Patricia Kemball. By E. Lynn Linton. The Atonement of Learn Dun- das. By E. Lynn Linton. Tee World Well Lost. By E. Lynn Linton. Under which Lord ? By E, Lynn Linton. With a Silken Thread. By E. Lynn Linton. The Waterdale Neighbours. By Justin McCarthy.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 22 Piccadilly Novels—continued. My Enemy's Daughter. By Justin McCarthy. Linley Rochford. By Justin McCarthy. A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy. Dear Lady Disdain. By Justin McCarthy. Miss Misanthrope. By Justin McCarthy. Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy. Quaker Cousins. By Agnes Macdonell. Lost Rose. By Katharine S. Macquoid. The Evil Eye. By Katharine S. Macquoid. Open! Sesame I By Florence Marryat. Written in Fire. F. Marryat. Touch and Go. By Jean Mid- DLEMASS. A Life's Atonement. By D. Christie Murray. Whiteladies. Mrs. Oliphant. The Best of Husbands. By James Payn. Fallen Fortunes. James Payn. Halves. By James Payn. Walter's Word. James Payn. What He Cost Her. J. Payn. Less Black than we're Painted. By James Payn. By Proxy. By James Payn. Under One Roof. James Payn. High Spirits. By James Payn. Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs. J. H. RlDDELL. Bound to the Wheel. By John Saunders. Guy Waterman. J. Saunders. One Against the World. By John Saunders. The Lion in the Path. John Saunders. The Way We Live Now. Anthony Trollope. The American Senator. Anthony Trollope. Diamond Cut Diamond. T. A. Trollope. By By By By NEW VOLUMES OF "THE PICCADILLY NOVELS' Now in theI>rcss. A Confidential Agent. By James Payn. With 12 Illustrations by Arthur Hopkins. The Violin-Player. By Bertha Thomas. Queen Cophetua. By R. E. Francillon. The Leaden Casket. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt. Carlyon's Year. By J. Payn. The Ten Years' Tenant, and other Stories. By Walter Besant and James Rice. A Child of Nature. By Robert Buchanan. Cressida. By Bertha Thomas. From Exile. By James Payn. Sebastian Strome. By Julian Hawthorne. The Black Robe. By Wilkxe Collins. Archie Lovell. By Mrs. Annie Edwardes. "My Love!" By E. Lynn Linton. [Payn. Lost Sir Massingberd. By James The Chaplain of the Fleet. By Walter Besant and James Rice. Proud Maisie. By Bertha Thomas. The Two Dreamers. By John Saunders. What She Came through. By Sarah Tytler. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Pianche—Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. By J. R. Planche. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Mackakness.23 CHA 7 TO & WIND US, PICCADILLY. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of. [Wilkie Collins' Novels and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had in cloth limp at zi. 6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, for Library Editions.^ Confidences. Hamilton Aide. Carr of Carrlyon. H. Aide. Maid, Wife, or Widow P By Mrs. Alexander. Ready-Money Mortiboy. By Walter Besant and James Rice. With Harp and Crown. By Walter Besant and James Rice This Son of Vulcan. By W. Besant and James Rice. My liittle G-irl. By the same. The Case of Mr. Lucraft. By Walter Besant and James Rice. The Golden Butterfly. By W. Besant and James Rice. By Celia's Arbour. By Walter Besant and James Rice. The Monks. of Thelema. By Walter Besant and James Rice. 'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By Walter Besant and James Rich. Seamy Side. Besant and Rice. Grantley Grange. By Shelsley Beauchamp. An Heiress of Red Dog. By Bret Harte. The Luck of Roaring Camp. By Bret Harte. Gabriel Conroy. Bret Harte. Surly Tim. By F. E. Burnett. Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. L. Cameron. Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs. Lovett Cameron. The Cure of Souls. By Mac- laeen Cobban. The Bar Sinister. By C. Allston Collins. Antonina. By WilkieCollins. Basil. By Wilkie Collins. Hide and Seek. W. Collins. The Dead Secret. W. Collins.- Queen of Hearts. W. Collins. My Miscellanies. W. Collins. Woman in White. W.Collins. The Moonstone. W. Collins. Man and Wife. W. Collins. Poor Miss Pinch. W. Collins. Miss or Mrs. P W. Collins. New Magdalen. W. Collins. ■The Frozen Deep. W. Collins. Law and the Lady ..W.Collins. Two Destinies. W. Collins. Haunted Hotel. W. Collins. Fallen Leaves. By W.Collins. Leo. ByDuTTON Cook. A Point of Honour. By Mrs. Annie Edwardes. ArchieLovell. Mrs A. Edwardes Felicia. M. Betham-Edwarjds. Rosy. By Edward EGgleston. Polly. By Percy Fitzgerald. Bella Donna. P. Fitzgerald. Never Forgotten. Fitzgerald. The Second Mrs. Tillotson. By Percv Fitzgerald. Seventy-FiveBrookeStreet. By Percv Fitzgerald. Filthy Lucre. By Albany ds FONBLANQUE. Olympia. By R. E. Fkancillon. The Capel Girls. By Edward Garrett. Robin Gray. By Chas. Gibbon. For Lack of Gold. C. Gibbon. What will the World Say ? By Charles Gibbon. In Honour Bound. C. Gibbon. The Dead Heart. By C. Gibbon. In Love and War. C. Gibbon. For the King. By C. Gibbon. Queen of the Meadow. By Charles Gibbon. Dick Temple. By James Greenwood. Every-day Papers. By Andrew Hallidav. Paul Wynter's Sacrifice. By Lady Duffus Hardy. Under the Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 24 Popular Novels—continued. Garth. By Julian Hawthorne. G-olden Heart. By Tom Hood. TheHunchback of Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo. Thomicroft's Model. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt. Fated to be .Free. By Jean Ingelow. Confidence. By Henry James, Jun. The Quean of Connaught. By Harriett Jay. The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay. Number Seventeen. By Henry Kingsley. Oakshott Castle. H.Kingsley. Patricia Kemball. By E. Lynn Linton. LearnDundas. E.LynnLinton. The World Well Lost. By E. Lynn Linton. Under which Lord ? By E. Lynn Linton. The Waterdale Neighbours. By Justin McCarthy. Dear Lady Disdain. By the same. My Enemy'3 Daughter. By Justin McCarthy. A Fan* Saxon. J. McCarthy. Linley Rochford. McCarthy. Mis3 Misanthrope. McCarthy. Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy. The Evil Eye. By Katharine S. Macquoid. Lost Rose. K. S. Macquoid. Open! Sesame I By Florence Marryat. Harvest of Wild Oats. By Florence Marryat. A Little Stepson. F. Marryat. Fighting the Air. F. Marryat. Touch and Go. By Jean Middlemass. Mr. Dorillion. J. Middlemass. Whiteladies. ByMrs.OnpnANT. Held in Bondage. By OuiDA. Strathmore. By Ouida. Chandos. By Ouida. Under Two Flags. By Ouida. Idalia. By Ouida. Cecil Castlemaine. By Ouida. Tricotrin. By Ouida. Puck. By Ouida. Folle Farine. By Ouida. A Dog of Flanders. By Ouida. Pascarel. By Ouida. Two Little Wooden Shoes. By Ouida. Signa. By Ouida. In a Winter City. By Ouida. Ariadne. By Ouida. Friendship. By Ouida. Moths. By Ouida. Lost Sir Massingberd. J. Payn. A Perfect Treasure. J. Payn. Bentinck's Tutor. By J. Payn. Murphy's Mastsr. By J. Payn. A County Family. By J. Payn. At Her Mercy. By J. Payn. A Woman's Vengeance. J. Payn. Cecil's Tryst. By James Payn. The Clyffards of Clyffe. J.Payn. Family Scapegrace. J. Payn.. The Foster Brothers. J. Payn. Found Dead. By James Payn Gwendoline'sIIarvest. J.Payn. Humorous Stories. J. Payn. . Like Father, Like Son. J. Payn A Marina Residence. J. Payn. Married Beneath Him. J. Payn. Mirk Abbey. By James Payn. Not Wooed, but Won. J. Payn. Two Hundred Pounds Reward. By James Payn. Best of Husbands. By J. Payn. Walter's Word. By J. Payn. Halves. By James Payn. Fallen Fortunes. By J. Payn. What He Cost Her. J. Payn. Less Black than We're Painted. By James Payn. By Proxy. By James Payn. Under One Roof. By J. Payn. High Spirits. By Jas. Payn. Paul Ferroll. The Mystery of Marie Roget. By Edgar A. Poe.CHATTO &> WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 25 Popular Novels—continued. Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs. J. H. RlDDELL. Gaslight and Daylight. By George Augustus Sala. Bound to the Wheel. By John Saunders. Guy Waterman. J. Saunders. One Against the World. By John Saunders. The Lion in the Path. By John and Katherink Saunders. A Match in the Dark. By A. The Way we Live Now. By Anthony Trollops. The American Senator. By Anthony Trollops. Diamond Cut Diamond. By T. A. Trollope. A Pleasure Trip in Europe. By Mark Twain Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. An Idle Excursion. M.Twain. Sabina. By Lady Wood. Castaway. By Edmund Yates. Sketchley. Forlorn Hope. Edmund Yates. Tales for the Marines. By j LamdatLast. Edmund Yates. Walter Thohneury. Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, is. each. Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. .Mr3. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne. Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's." Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's." Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's." Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis. The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham. Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 10s. 6d. Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men. Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhokne. New Edi- tion, with Medallion Portraits. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works. With Baudelaire's " Essay." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Primitive Manners and Customs. By James A. Farrer. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, y. 6d. Prince of Argolis, The: A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr Smith. With 130 Illustrations by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d. Pursuivant of Arms, The ; or, Heraldry founded upon Facts. A Popular Guide to the Science of Heraldry. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald. With Coloured Frontispiece, Plates, and 200 Illustrations.20 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Proctor's (R. A.) Works: Easy Star Lesson3. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year, Drawings of the Constellations, &c. By Richak-d A. Proctor Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. (•/„ f,reparatior.. Familiar Science Studies. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [/„ thcprcss< Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. A. Proctor, Author of "Other Worlds than Ours,"&c. Crown Svo,cloth extra, ds ' Pleasant Ways in Science. By R. A. Proctor. Cr.8vo.cl.ex.6s. Rough Ways made Smooth: A Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown Svo, cloth, 6s. Wages and Wants of Science Workers. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, -js. 6d. Rabelais' Works. Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gustavf. Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully executed Chart of the various Spectra, ?s. 6d. Rambosson's Astronomy. By J. Rambosson,. Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated. Second Edition, Revised, Crown 8vo, 1,200 pages, half-roxburghe, 12s. 6d. Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, Re- ferences, Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health; and other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c. Rimmer (Alfred), Works by: Our Old Country Towns. With over 50 Illustrations. By Alfred Rimmer. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 10s. 6d. Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. With about 60 Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth gilt, ior. 6d. [In the press. About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof, Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, \os. 6d. [In the press. Handsomely printed, price $s. Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7. Printed on fine plate paper, nearly three feet by two, with the prin- cipal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.CHATTO <Sr> WIND US, 27 PICCADILLY. Two Vols., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £2 16s. Rowlandson, the Caricaturist. A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famous Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries. With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By Joseph Gr'ego, Author of "James Gillray, the Caricaturist; his Life, Works, and Times." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each. " Secret Out" Series, The. The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or, Complete Art of Making Fire- works. By Thomas Kentish. With numerous Illustrations. The Art of Amusing: A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank Bellew. 300 Illustrations. Hanky-Panky: Very Easv Tricks, Very Difficult Tricks,White Ma»ic, Sleight of Hand Magician's Own Book: Performances with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All from Actual Experience. Edited by W. H. Cremer. 200 Illustrations. Magic No Mystery: Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully descriptive Directions ; the Art of Secret Writing ; Training of Performing Animals, &c. Coloured Frontispiece and many Illustrations. The Secret Out Edited by W.H.Cremer. 200 Illusts. | One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and The Merry Circle : other Recreations ; with Entertaining A Book of New Intellectual Games Experiments _ in Drawing-room or and Amusements. By Clara Bellkw. \ "White Magic. By W. H. Cremer. Many Illustrations. 1 300 Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes. An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William Senior ("Red Spinner"), Author of " Stream and Sea." Shakespeare: Shakespeare, The First Folio. Mr. William Shakespeare's Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true Originall Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Iaggard and Ed. Blount, 1623.—A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile by a photographic process—ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail. Small 3vo, half-Roxburghe, 7*. 6d. Shakespeare, The Lansdowne. Beautifully printed in red and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. 6t?. Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and plain, by J. Movr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, ios.6d. Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account of 350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the Present Time. By Alfred Roffe. 4to, half-Roxburghc, 7s. Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algernon Charles Swin- BURNK. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8i.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 2S Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, js.6d. Sheridan's Complete Works, with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Transla- tions, Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d. Signboards: Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable Characters. By Jacob Lakvvood and John Camden Hotten. With nearly 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Filt, 6s. 6d. Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal. An Entirely New Edition , revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged. Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2s. 6J. Smoker's Text-Book, The. By J. Hamer, F.R.S.L. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^ Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology: An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, L.L. B. Crown 4ro, uniform with "Chaucer for Children," with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d. Spenser for Children. By M. H. Towry. Illustrations in Colours by Walter J. Morgan. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 9*. Stedman's Victorian Poets: Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Stp.dman. Post 8vo, cloth extra, $s. Stories about Number Nip, The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children, by Walter Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s. Stories from the State Papers. By Alex. Charles Ewald, Author of "The Life of Prince Charles Stuart," &c. [Nearly ready_ Two Vols., crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 24J. Strahan.—Twenty Years of a Publisher's Life. By Alexander Strahan. With Portraits snd Illustrations. [/« the pressCHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 29 Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d. Strutt's Sports and Pastimes of the People of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations. Way Games, Mummeries, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited by William Hone. Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra Suburban Homes (The) of London ■js. 6d. A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society, Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and House Accommodation. Crown bvo, clotn extra, witii Illustrations, js. bd. Swift's Choice Works, In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the Maps in the Original Edition of "Gulliver's Travels." Swinburne's Works: The Queen Mother and Siosa- mond. Fcap. 8vo, $s. Atalanta in Calydoa. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Chastelard. A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 7s. Poems and Ballads. First Series. Fcap. 8vo, gj. Also in crown 8vo, at same price. Poems and Ballads. Second Series. Fcap. Svo, gs. Also in crown 8vo, at same price. Notes on "Poems and Bal- lads." 8vo, ii. William Blake: A Critical Essay. With Facsimile Paintings. Demy Svo, 16s. Songs before Sunrise. Crown 8vo, ioj. 6d. MR. SWINBURNE'S NEW DRAMA, Mary Stuart: A Tragedy, in Five Acts Swinburne. Botliwell: A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 12X. 6d. George Chapman: An Essay. Crown 8vo, -js. Songs of Two Nations. Crown Svo, 6s. Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s. Erechtheus : A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 6s. Note of an English B,epublicaH on the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, i.v. A Note on Charlotte Bronte, Crown Svo, 6s. A Study of Shakespeare. Crown 8vo, 8s. Songs of the Springtides. Cr. 8vo, 6s. Studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s. Crown Svo, cloth extra, fj. By Algernon Charles \_lu prcparaHon. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, IHustiated, 21s. Sword, The Book of the : Being a History of the Sword, and its Use, in all Times and in all Countries. By Captain Richard Burton. With numerous Illustra- tion^ \In preparation. Medium 8vo, cloth extra, wun Illustrations, js. bd. Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours, in Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and In Search of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustra- tions, in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Hotten.3° BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Four Vols, small Svo, cloth boards, 30*. Taine's History of English Literature. Translated by Henry Van Laun. »«* Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15*. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6*. Tales of Old Thule. Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith. One Vol. crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas: " Clancarty," "Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn." " Plot and Passion." *** Tho Plays may also be had separately, at is. each. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his every- day reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimiled from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence. With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunning- ham, and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Thornbury's (Walter) Haunted London. A New Edition, Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous Illustrations by F. W. FAIRHOLT, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Timbs' Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. By John Timbs, F.S.A. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Timbs' English Eccentrics and Eccentrici- ties: Stories of Wealth and Fashion. Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By John Times, F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s. Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Pro- Consul and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell: Historic Portraits. By W. M. TORRENS, M.P. In Two Vols.3* CHATTO & WIND US, PICCADILLY. Demy 3vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations. Tunis: the Land and the People. By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg. Many fine illustrations. [In the press] Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, js. ba. Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence: Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow- Academicians. By Walter* Thornbury. A New Edition, con- siderably Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimiled from Turner's original Drawings. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Flans, 141. Walcott's Church Work and Life in English Minsters; and the English Student's Monasticon. By the Rev. Mackenzie E. C. Walcott, B.D. Large crown Svo, clotn antique, with Illustrations, js. bd. Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and In- structions how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris Nicolas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume. Wanderer's Library, The : Merrie England in the Olden Time. By George Daniel. With Illustrations by Robt. Cruikshank. The Old Showmen and the Old London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. The Wilds of London. By James Greenwood. Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings; Including the Origin of Signs, and Rr-.miniscences connected with Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. By Charles Hindlev. With Illusts. Circus Life and Circus Celebri- ties. By Thomas Frost. The Lives of the Conjurers. By Thomas Frost. The Life and Adventures of a Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater- nity. Edited by Charles Hindlev. The Story of the London Parks. By Jacob Larwood. With Illusts. Low-Life Deeps. An Account of the Strange Fish to be found there. By James Greenwood. Seven Generations of Execu- tioners : Memoirs of the Sanson Family (168S to 1S47). Edited by Henry Sanson. The World Behind the Scenes. By Percy Fitzgerald. London Characters. By Henry Mayhew. Illustrated. The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures of Artemus AVard. By E. P. Hingston. Frontispiece. Wanderings in Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By Julius Beerboiim. Illustrated. Summer Cruising in the South Seas. By Charles Warren Stod- dard. Illustrated by Wallis Mac- Kay. {In the fircss The Twenty-second Annual Edition, for 1881, cloth, full gilt, 50J. Walford's County Families of* the United Kingdom. By'.Edward Walford, M. A. Containing Notices of the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c, of more than 12,000 distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country Ad- dresses, Clubs, &c.32 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &> WINDUS. Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., zs. Warrant to Execute Charles I. An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals. Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price zs. Warrant to Execute Mary C^ueen of Scots, An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and a Facsimile of the Great Seal. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4s. 6d. Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porce- lain ; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Hoddes M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. What shall my Son be P Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their Sons. By Francis Davenant, M.A. Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is. Whistler v. Ruskin: Art and Art Critics. By J. A. Macneill Whistler. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, zs. 6d. Williams' A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieu Williams, F.R.A.S., F.C.S. A~HANDSOME GIFT-BOOK.- Small 8vo, cloth extra, ~6s7~ Wooing (The) of the Water-Witch : A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. With One Hundred and Twenty-five fine Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d. Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-Way Matters. By Eliezer Edwards. [/« the press. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, is. 6d. Wright's Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures, &c. By Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d. Wright's History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting, from the Earliest Times to the Present Day. By Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST. JCHN STREET, E.C(I