•St •jl. Lett -":" f 'V & ’ • i-^M’i.- L‘ • '. •' •' • K-^w-■'■ • ■■"'■■■’• f J-- /zamefc fesS Hu^h Robert Duff, Esq. of Muirtcwn, INVERNESS. •#;.v -& '* ' SSrgSRj yi-*».■ ^V'l' KJp R&V j5fp?Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 4 https://archive.org/details/b21504751THE ART OF FRENCH COOKERY. A. B. BEAUVILLIERS, RESTAURATEUR, PARIS. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1824.IXJVDON* : Printed by A. & It. Spottiswoode, New-Street-Square.PRELIMINARY DISCOURSE. The Art of Cookery, simple in its origin, but refined from time to time, is now so complicated, that many authors have written upon it without having been able to investigate all its departments. Our pleasures are rare; the ideas that renew them are fugitive and variable; the endeavour to fix those ideas is cer- tainly justifiable; and it is a pursuit natural to man to enlarge the sphere of his enjoyments, by turning to the best advantage the gifts of nature. We all pur- sue, consciously or unconsciously, this object; and in the secret of approximating to it, happiness may be said to consist. • Those who unsparingly censure the whims of an often necessary superfluity in others, are by no means inclined to quarrel with it in themselves, and would repine under the privation of delicacies, were they no longer attainable ; since, therefore, it is im- possible for us to confine ourselves to Spartan broth, it is certainly more reasonable to enjoy the refinements of our sensuality than affect to scorn them; and more conformable to our tastes to augment than diminish them. Our complaisant epicures will relish my theory, and far perhaps from censuring it, would rather carry it into practice. It would be difficult to sur- pass the delicacy to which cooking was carried in the last century. The French gloried to see their gout a 2PRELIMINARY IV in culinary affairs bear equal sway with that of their language and fashions over the opulent states of Europe from north to south. I know not, if we have attained the refinement of the grandees of Asia, or of the Apicii of Rome ; but certain it is, that we have been acknowledged umpires of elegance in this art; and that our superiority has never been called in ques- tion. The studiers of delicacies, engaged in ideas less dangerous and more substantial than those of meta- physicians, had made that course of observations which their fortune opened to them; the doctrine of profes- sors was established, they expected no farther pro- gress, although ready to encourage the discovery of any new pleasure. I have had the opportunity of fol- lowing the most accredited methods, and often indeed of improving on them, by successive experiments, and it is the statement of these ameliorations, and my particular method, which I here present, with the cir- cumstances necessary even for those who are well ac- quainted with the first elements. It is not my object here to enter into long details on the Art of Cooking, but to unite, according to the respective seasons, the fashionable dishes, to cook those formerly admired, and thus to present to the amateurs a precise idea of an excellent and well con- ducted repast. If I have extended the limits of our knowledge on this subject, I may also flatter myself with having added new attractions by a clear and ra- pid survey, which coincides with the considerations of economy. Curiosity certainly may lead to new experiments, and necessary variety may introduce changes in the simple decorations without affecting the chief ingre- dients. An ingenious cook, such as Laguippiere,DISCOURSE. V Daligre, &c. adds something to the composition or decoration of a known dish, or takes something from it, and gives it some fanciful name; such for in- stance as that of his master. This variety of expres- sion for the same idea may confuse the learner, and produce confusion in the preparation ; but the new name it acquires gives it the advantage of novelty; thus for example, the Cotelets a la puree d’oignons has been named ft la Soubise. Far from priding myself on copying the learned in this art, I have made different useful innovations, and I lay myself under a particular obligation of ex- posing with precision my method, which I believe to be carried to perfection, according to the first officiers de bouche, comptrollers of the royal palaces, and the cooks of the highest repute, under whom I learned and exercised it. I give circumstantial instructions and new ideas on the best methods of distilling li- queurs, of choosing wines, of bottling, preserving, and repairing them. I offer a complete system for the store- rooms, as ices, preserves, &c. A mistress of a family may from this book learn all known dishes, together with those I have invented, and likewise be able to direct their composition. I give my methods in all their details; I present my courses as they ought to be, according to their kinds; but especially as they were prepared when foreigners themselves did justice to the delicacy of our taste, and the refinement of our luxury. 1 have thought it necessary to add an index of re- ferences to their composition. In this work, I can flatter myself with having enabled inn-keepers, cooks, confectioners, or ama- teurs, with the assistance of the commonest cook,PRELIMINARY DISCOURSE. Y1 to make a great display and excellent cheer, by the simplest and most economical means. The experience of forty-four years is a guaranty for my doctrine, which I believe to be the best, rather from the general opinion than my own. Those who best understand the enjoyments of the table, have never ceased to rely on me. Proud of their suffrages, I shall esteem myself happy still to contribute to their enjoy- ments, and to add to their pleasures. I here present the progress of the art, and my observations, matured by long experience. These are my last adieus.TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. I The Author of the following pages, in offering his work to the public, and especially to all concerned in the economical and elegant arrangement of the table, has not in particular addressed any one class, either masters or servants. To those who have lived long in foreign countries, this can have no appearance of neglect, as there is not on the face of the globe so extravagant a people as the Eng- lish. The author, while practising economy in the service of princes, and dedicating his life to the palate of kings, could not discern the necessity of inculcating economy to subjects, according to the usual practice in works of this kind in this country. It is still more astonishing, on a comparison of the respective means for procuring the necessaries and luxuries of life, that we should be so prodigal, and that there should be less waste in the kitchens of kings than in the middling and lower ranks with us. This question would admit of much investi- gation, into which we cannot now enter. Look to the following pages, and observe, that the claw of a chicken or the bone of a fish is not allowed to be lost; this is the management observed for the king’s table, and the care with which it is conducted is astonishing. If the good things of this life are lavished on us, we ought to use them without abusing them. We ateVU1 TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. not competent to judge why much is given or with- held ; but we shall undoubtedly be called to account for the use of what has been entrusted to us. It is much to be wished, that heads of families, in all situations of life, would adopt the resolution of looking into those details of expenditure which even a Buonaparte did not think beneath his attention and care. We hear a continual outcry against bad servants, but who makes them bad? Are not the masters alone to blame in most instances ? The best masters are those who keep their servants constantly employed, who look strictly after the morals of their household, excluding the fashionable vice of cards from their halls, and drunkenness from their stables. Let the labourer live, but let not idle, useless, high fed people, a pest to the community, and often a terror to their masters, bo left in indolence and luxury. Servants ought to he -well fed and well treated; they ought also to be made to attend to their duty; as it is evident, that those members of the community often occasion extensive mischief in society by the ex- travagance which they learnt in their masters’ houses. Put the question candidly to servants, if they were not happier, healthier, and freer from anxiety when they were strictly kept; cleaner, better clothed, and more modest in their deportment. Many servants have allowed this, and have owned, that their tempt- ations have arisen from idleness and full feeding. Having cited the example of Buonaparte, it may be contended, that the low state of French commerce rendered the exhibition of such an example extremely necessary ; but that was not the case, for a country producing not only the necessaries but the luxuriesTO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. IX of life may, without censure, use them more pro- fusely than countries depending upon foreign markets, whatever the state of the finances may be. Those who have duly considered this important subject, must have perceived the dreadful privations into which luxury plunges her votaries. To day a sumptuous dinner, and to-morrow a gaol, if not worse. A gentle- man, upon his return from India, met a friend in the streets of London, and after the congratulations were over, regretted that he could not ask him to dinner, as he was going to their friend B , and would be delighted if he would be of the party : this invitation was declined. A few days after they again met, when the friend exclaimed, “ Poor B is gone to the d ! all is spent! We knew he could not stand it.” — “ And were you not a pack of r Is,” ex- claimed the other, “ to go day after day to eat, drink, and make merry with him, and neither to warn him of his danger, nor now to visit him in his affliction. Go and pay for your dinners by relieving him.” Perhaps an amiable young person, carefully perusing every thing that comes in her way upon this very interesting subject, the price of which is comfort and peace of mind, may be able to appreciate the ex- perience of those that have gone before her; and to such a one it may be hardly necessary to say more than to place her in the right path. Let her be told, that from eight to ten shillings a week for each person throughout the family will procure abundance of the real necessaries of life in beer, bread, beef, butter, cheese, and the lesser items: this is a fair estimate for mere living, all beyond it is luxury, and ought to be retrenched as means and situation re-TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. X quire, for parsimony is as reprehensible as the bolder vice of prodigality. It is the bounden duty of those who have the management of the kitchen, to be faithful in the dis- charge of their trust with respect to every thing placed under their care. They ought, in the first place, to have a thorough knowledge of every thing necessary for the kitchen ; such as the qualities of the meat, the age, the healthy appearance, the best mode of keeping, the various ways of cooking, salting, pickling, and hanging; the preparing and melting of fat for kitchen uses; the making of stocks and gravies from parings, bones, and carcasses of poultry. The requisites for first and second courses, and all par- ticulars relative to poultry, fish, vegetables, sauces, sallads, pastry, creams, compotes, &c. &c. A per- son of good understanding, who knows a little of cookery, may by attention and care, with the assistance of the following receipts, soon become an excellent cook; but great accuracy ought to be observed, which, with a little experience, will soon overcome every difficulty. As it is not customary in English cookery to braise and poele as the French do, these operations ought to be thoroughly understood, as well as that of farcing, which is so superior to the preparation of English forced meats. If a cook has to turn over a receipt book continually, the labour is immense, and the time lost is incalculable. A cook ought to spend a part of every unhurried day in procuring instruction, from which he will learn to substitute one thing for another, and ascertain what can and what cannot be dispensed with. A person of this description would be invaluable in a family. When he has a day or an hour of leisure, he ought toXI TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. go and assist at entertainments when in town. There is something to be learned every where. The greatest source of complaint is the want of propriety in the conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, from the simple family dinner to the royal banquet; for instance, a family dinner; a family dinner to which guests are admitted ; a common party dinner ; an en- tertainment ; a bachelor’s dinner; a ministerial dinner, and a dress dinner; though these and similar enter- tainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not so strictly observed as those in other usages of society. At the plainest, as well as the most splendid of these entertainments, every thing presented ought to be as good, as well cooked, and as nice as possible; but the style of service ought to be varied, rising from the simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous ; for real taste does not indiscriminately present turtle and venison on every occasion; something more delicately palatable and less obtrusive is presented with the zest of a fine mangoe-wine, vinegars, well made sauces, nice sallads, and appropriate wines, and the charms of a well-supported conversation afford an uncloying feast throughout the year. This last is the master’s department. The plateau and dormants, which are now coming generally into use, give great elegance to the table; but the constant sameness exhibited in general ought to be carefully avoided by those who wish to attain perfection in the management of a table. To avoid this every elegant trifle ought to be introduced, ac- cording to the style of the entertainment, as nests of moss with plovers’ eggs, sugar plumbs, grapes, or any other delicate fruits, en chemise, small moss, baskets of roses, violets, and other sweet-smellingTO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. Xll delicate flowers ; many are not necessary, as the moss may be raised under them, intermixed with crystal vases, gold bowls, cups, &c. &c. The Romans used to have their live fish under the table in vessels, from which they were taken to be cooked in the sight of the guests. We have had an example of fish mean- dering on the royal table; in fine vases they would make a beautiful ornament for the plateau. This the French call dormant, because it remains all the time of dinner, as they never take off the cloth, nor drink as the English do after the dessert, it being their custom to leave the dining room with the ladies. Wherefore, if the plateau be changed, appropriate ornaments should be substituted ; but whoever has the management should be careful to avoid a same- ness either in dishes or decoration: herbaceous flowers done en chemise, flower and almond candies, pralinees, orange flowers, confected pine-apples, melons, citrons, lemons, and oranges; in short, every thing delicate, bright, and shining, constitutes the true ornament of the plateau. Having said so much with respect to the table, something must now be ob- served regarding the kitchen. Concluding that the cook is perfectly cleanly and careful of the utensils, attention must be paid to the washing of the kitchen napkins, which never ought to be touched with soap, as it alters the taste and destroys the colour of every thing in cookery ; they ought all to be lessived in wood ashes, or washed with American ashes: the wooden and marble pestles, spoons, spatulas and bowls, ought to be boiled in ash-lye, and all cream and meat searches ought to be cleaned with the same material. Sweet- meat and sugar searches must never be used for any other purpose. Let not a beginner be alarmed atXIII TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. the quantity of ingredients that is sometimes met with in the following receipts; a little time will convince him of their utility. Let him be only careful not to overcharge or alter the proportions, as none of the ingredients, but in given dishes, ought to predominate. The cook must become acquainted with the taste that every dish ought to have. In France, a dish once tasted is always known again, but in England that is not the case; a ragout, fricasee, curry, fyc. will vary in fla- vour at different tables: this is owing to the con- trariety of the receipts in the different cookery books, and to the liberty taken with them. Hence, and from the want of knowledge, bad cooks use much more meat than is necessary, making up in this way for their ignorance, which a steady attention to the fol- lowing pages will obviate. Whenever a sauce is men- tioned in any of the receipts, it will be found at its place of reference. aTO THE COOK. Every thing has been done to render the following articles intelligible to every capacity, but it cannot be too much recommended to the cook, if she wishes to become an adept in her profession, to peruse the fol- lowing pages with attention, till she acquires a thorough knowledge; and instead of being intimi- dated by French names, she ought to learn their sig- nification. She will always find what she wants under its own article, and one recipe will elucidate another. The first annoyance will arise from the frequent re- currence of poele, braise, godiveau, espagnole, pot age, consomme, veloute, marinade, fumet, roux, pate a frire, salpi^on, puree, Sfc. These terms once properly under- tood, practice and regular attention will do the rest; for without method there can be little attainment. Some words that cannot well be left out of the work are added : Barber, to cover with slices of lard. Blanchir, to blanch by giving some boils in water. Brider, to truss up a fowl, or any thing else with a needle and pack thread, or tape. Chevrettcr, to dish in a sort of garland one thing over another round a dish.XV TO THE COOK. Glace, or dcmi-glace, a sauce reduced till it becomes a strong or weak jelly. Marquer, is to dispose properly ingredients into a stewpan. Masquer, is to cover any thing over, as with a sauce, &c. Paillasse, a grill over hot cinders. Puit, a well, or the void left in the middle, when any thing is dished round as a crown. Sasser, to stir and work a sauce with a spoon. Singer, to dredge lightly with flour Vanner, to work a sauce well with a 9poon, by lifting it up and letting it fall. Entrees, first-course dishes drest. Entremets, second-course dishes ditto. Gril a tirage. A grill with close and narrow ribs, used for drying caramel and chemised fruits and flowersTHE ART OF FRENCH COOKERY. SOUPS. Potages. Grand Bouillon. To prepare a great dinner, it is necessary that a sufficient quantity of stock for soups and sauces should be ready, for which purpose put into a large pot a piece of the breast or rump of beef, with the dressings of any other sort of meat you may have in preparation at the time for the repast; veal, mut- ton, lamb, with the bones, neck, and feet of the poultry and game, that may be prepared for removes. Put the pot upon a moderate fire, not quite filled with water, and skim it carefully; throw in a little cold water every time you skim it, till it becomes per- fectly limpid, for upon this stock depends the beauty of your soups and sauces: season it with salt, two turnips, six carrots, six onions, one of which is to be stuck with three cloves and a bunch of leeks, and let the whole simmer slowly. When the piece of meat is cooked, or nearly so, if it is to be served, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a little of the top of the stock ; wet and wring a cloth, and run the stock through, which will then be in readiness to make soups, sauces, &c. Stock. Empotage Consomme. Take a proper tinned pot; heat it lightly and wipe it well ; put in a shank and a piece of a buttock of beef, h2 FRENCH COOKERY a knuckle of veal, a fowl, an old rabbit, or two old partridges, and about six pints of stock; reduce it upon a quick fire till it becomes a jelly, then add more stock, boil it on a quick fire and skim it : season it with three turnips, three carrots, three onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of leaks, and celery ; put it then on the side of the grate, and let it simmer till it is done enougli: when the different meats of which it is composed are suffi- ciently cooked, they ought to be taken out, as they may be dressed for successive tables; when ready take off the fat, put it through a gauze search or a linen cloth, first wet and wrung. Strong Stock for Soups and Sauces. Grand Consomme. Put into a pot two knuckles of veal, a piece of a leg of beef, a fowl, or an old cock, a rabbit, or tw'o old partridges; add a ladleful of soup, and stir it well : when it comes to a jelly, put in a sufficient quantity of stock, and see that it is clear : let it boil, skimming and refreshing it with water; season it as the above : you may add, if you like, a clove of gar- lic: let it then boil slowly or simmer four or five hours : put it through a towel, and use it for mixing in sauces, for clear soups and little sauces. White Soup. Blond de Veau. Butter the bottom of a saucepan and put into it some slices of ham, four or five pounds of a leg of veal, two or three carrots, and as many onions ; wet them with a ladleful of grand bouillon, make it sweat over a slow fire, and reduce it to jelly : when it is of a fine yellow tint, take it off the fire, prick the meat ■with the point of a knife to let the juice flow ; cover and let it sweat another quarter of an hour, and then put in a sufficient quantity of grand, bouillon, or the strong stock given in the first receipt : season it with parsley and small onions, a clove of garlic stuck with a clove ; boil and skim, and put it to simmer on the edge of the grate, and when enough, skim it, run itSOUPS. 3 through a cloth, and make use of it for empotage, or rice or vermicelli soup, and even sauces. Crust Soup. Mitonnage. Take a household loaf and rasp it lightly, cut out the crumb without breaking it, which will answer for frying to garnish spinage dishes or soups ; if for a charlotte or a panade, round the crusts handsomely, and let them simmer a few minutes : before serving, put any vegetables on them, and pour over an em- potage : serve it as hot as possible. Grilled Crusts, to be served up Xvith Soups. Potage, Croutes au Pot. Cut bread in slices, put them in a deep silver dish, wet them with good stock or soup, and let them sim- mer ; w'hen it is reduced, put red cinders into the furnace to make it gratiner* ; cut one or two house- hold loaves in two, take out the crumb, put the crusts upon a gridiron, and dry them upon hot cinders ; when they are sufficiently dried, wet the inside with the fat of the bouillon or soup, what is generally called top-pot, and shake a little fine salt over; drain them and put them on the gratin without covering them, that they may not soften, basting them from time to time wfith the top of the bouillon or soup, till they are perfectly done ; take off the fat, and send in separately a tureen of consomme or bouillon. Spring Soup. Potage Printanier. It is made as that of a la Julienne, except that peas and points of asparagus are added, small radishes and small boiled onions; in cooking the vegetables, put in a little sugar, to correct the bitter ; let the potage simmer ; cover it with the vegetables, and serve. Cressy Soup. Potage a la Creep. According to the season, have all sorts of vegetables j.icked and washed with care, such as carrots, turnips, celery, onions, &c., in small quantity; boil them a ♦ Gratiner is to crisp and obtain a little grilled taste.FRENCH COOKERY. 4' quarter of an hour; put them into a stewpan with a large piece of butter, and some slices of ham ; set them upon a slow fire till they are enough ; drain and pound them in a mortar, and add the liquor in which they were boiled; put them through a search to make a puree; let it boil, and leave it to cook two hours ; skim well; have ready a mittonage, as has been before directed, and serve the crecy upon it. Rice Soup. Potage au Riz. Take a quarter of a pound of good rice; wash it in different waters; boil, drain, and put it into a little pot or stewpan, wet it a little, and break it slowly under the furnace; when done add a sufficient quantity of consomme (or blond) of veal; let it be properly salted, and serve. Another ivay Autre Jagon. Truss a capon as a fowl; leave the pinions, truss them nicely; put it in a pot with a bunch of herbs well seasoned, and two onions, one stuck with two cloves; wet the whole with grand bouillon, and skim it. During the time it is cooking, prepare rice as in the last article; skim it, and let the rice swell: when ready to serve, put into the rice the bouillon in which the capon was cooked, first having put it through a gauze search, and adding a spoonful of beef stock to give it a fine colour; unskewer and dish the capon; lay it into a dish, strew a little-salt on the breast, with a spoonful of juice, or the bouillon in which it was dressed, and serve it as a re- move for the soup. Foivl or Capon in Rice. Chapon au Riz. Truss the capon as in the last article, and dress a pound of rice exactly as the preceding; put it with the capon in a pot large enough to contain them without being too full; put in but little boudlon, that it may not be too thin ; when the capon is done, which will be known by pinching the wing, unskewer it, and put it into a dish ; take the fat off the rice, addSOUPS. o some beef soup to colour it, pour it over the capon, and serve it for an entree or a remove. Clear Soup ivith Vermicelli. Pot age au Vermicelle Clair. Put into a stewpan as much blond de veau, bouillon, or consomme, as will make a potage for six or eight persons; make it boil; take six ounces of vermicelli, and put it by little and little into the soup, breaking it slowly in with the hand, that it may not run to- gether, or ball; let it boil six minutes, draw it to the front of the furnace, and skim it; let it simmer till enough, taking care that it does not dilate or melt too much. Italian Soup. Potage Italien. Take carrots, turnips, onions, celery, parsnips, lettuces, and sorrel, in equal quantities, boil them in salt and water, and then put them into fresh water; cut the roots in slices of an equal length, then cut them still finer; cut the sorrel, lettuce, and celery in the same manner; wash the whole in a quantity of water; drain them; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan with the vegetables; put them over a furnace till they have taken a slight colour; wet them with a ladlefull of bouillon; when they are half done put in the sorrel; let them simmer till enough; skim; have ready at the time of serving a mittonage, pour it over, mix it lightly, and serve. Brunoise Soup Potage a la Brunoise. Cut into small dice carrots, turnips, parsnips, and celery ; take the up of the pot, or clarified butter - heat it, and throw in the vegetables, let them brown, drain, and wet them with white soup, (or blond de veau, consomme, or bouillon,) that is, any soup ; cook it as directed for the Italien, skim, and cover the mitonnage. If it is served with rice, care must be taken that the dice of the vegetables are not larger than the rice when it is swelled, and mix all well to- gether. n 36 FRENCH COOKERY. Green Pease Soup. Potage & la Puree de Pois. Take a sufficient quantity of peas, put them into a pot with onions, carrots, a bunch of leeks, and celery, with a bone, or some slices of ham or bacon; if they are old, let them be steeped the night before ; if new, use them immediately; toss them in butter, with a handful of parsley and small onions ; wet them with good soup ; when they are soaked enough, drain, and beat them in a mortar, put them through a search, with the juice that was drained out of them ; put it into a saucepan, and let it simmer four or five hours ; stir it often, that it may not stick ; skim before stirring it; when it is done, serve it over rice, ver- micelli, or fried bread, which must be added at the moment of serving. Lentil Soup. Potage a la Puree de Lentilles a la Reine, oil autre Lentilles. Proceed in the same manner as is directed for the green-pease soup, and the same also for the potage; take care if they are the lentilles a la reine to leave it longer on the fire, that the puree may have as fine a red as possible, on which depends the beauty and goodness of the potage. Carrot Soup. Potage a la Purte de Carottes. Prepare fifteen or twenty carrots, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan, > with three-quarters of a pound of good butter, upon a quick fire, and stir them till they are browned, then add some good soup ; when enough, rub it through a search, and finish it as directed for green-pease soup and lentils; take off the fat, and let it simmer a long time, and serve it in the same manner as the pease soup. Turnip Soup. Potage a la Puree de Navets. It is done in the same manner as that of carrots, only that it is not browned, and takes less boiling; it is kept as white as possible. Lettuce Soup. Potage aux Laitues. Take twelve or fifteen lettuces, clean and pick them, keeping them entire, and wash them through severalSOUPS. b f . waters, taking care that no worms remain ; boil them and throw them into fresh water; take them out, press- ing the water from them, tie two or three together, cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, arrange them upon it, put in two or three slices of ham, a carrot, an onion, a bunch of parsley in which is a clove, and half a bay leaf; wet the lettuce with the top of the bouillon, or consonant; season with salt and pepper; when ready to serve, drain the lettuces and press them lightly, that the fat may come out, and according to their size they may be left whole or cut in two, and put into the soup. Chesnuts Soup. Potage cL la Puree de Marrons. Take boiled chesnuts, skin and pick out all the bad ones; put them in a fryingpan,with a little bit of butter, and toss them till the inner scurf comes easily off; when it is rubbed off, put them in a pot with a little stock or consomme, and let them cook; drain, and pound them in a mortar, put them through a search, wetting them with the stock in which they were cooked ; when they are thus prepared, put them in a stewpan with two spoonsful of stock ; mix it well with the puree; leave it to simmer three or four hours; take off' the fat and add a little sugar, season it properly, and serve it with bread fried in butter, or a mittonage. Mock Turtle. Potage en Tortue. Take four or five pounds of mutton, of the shoulder or leg, or six or seven of any of the other parts, put in the offals of fish, as head and fins of whitings, sal- mon, a carp or its offals, and so of others; put alto- gether into a pot, season it as the blond de veau; make it sweat in the same manner, wet it with water, and skim it well, let the bunch of parsley be stuffed with aromatics and two branches of sweet basil, and two of marjoram; let the mutton simmer till it comes off the bones; put the bouillon through a cloth, clarify it with the whites of two or three eggs, slightly beaten; give it a boil, and let it repose to clarify ; put it again through another cloth, and reduce it till it is strongFRENCH COOKERY. 8 enough to bear Madeira ; take half a calf’s head, pre- pare it the evening before, that it may be white, take out the bones, and leave it in water, which must be changed three or four times; blanch and refresh it, cook it in a blanc (see article Blanc); when enough, drain and cut in squares of an inch, and put it into the bouillon with three-quarters of a bottle of Madeira, a small teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and another of allspice ; dish ; have ready fifteen hard yolks of eggs, put them in whole, or when ready to serve ; if small eggs can be procured from the fowls in use, they will answer better, or some small ones may be made. Cabbage Soup. Potage au Chou. Take the cabbages that will be necessary, cut them in quarters, boil them in a great quantity of water, after wrhich throw them into fresh water, take out the stalks, tie them, and put them as directed for lettuce soup into a stewpan with a little bacon; nou- rish* and season them still more, and serve them in every way as directed for the lettuce soup. They require more boiling. Sago and Turnip Soup. Potage au Sagou et a la Puree de Navets. The sago is used in the same manner as rice, ex- cept that it is not boiled ; put it into strong boiling soup, and let it have two or three boils; draw it to the edge of the furnace, and when it becomes jelly put in the pitrde de navets ; stir all well; see that it is properly salted, and serve. Conde Soup. Potage H la Conde. Take the necessary quantity of red haricots, put them into a pot with water or grand bouillon (soup), and a bit of bacon, three carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, a bunch of leeks and celery; let all cook Avell together, take out the vege- tables, rub them through a search, adding the soup in which they were cooked, put it again on the fire * To nourish, is to put in more ham, bacon, butter, &c. &c.9 SOUPS. B 5 if it is for a potage maigre, use butter instead of bacon, and to finish it in either way a bit of butter must be added ; fry some bread cut in dice, and when ready to serve, put it in the purde Cratvfish Soup. — Potage a la Bisque d’Ecrevisse. Take half an hundred of crawfish, or more, ac- cording to their size, wash them through several waters, and take out those that are dead ; drain, and put them in a stewpan with bouillon, but not enough to allow them to swim, upon a good fire ; toss them, and when enough take them off the fire, and leave them covered for five or six minutes ; drain them; when they are half cold take off the tails and the shells, and put them all into a mortar with the bodies, and beat them till you hardly perceive the shells, to the consistence of a paste ; put the size of two eggs of crumbs of bread into the bouillon in which they were cooked, dry it upon a slow fire, put it into the mortar with the crawfish, and mix the whole with good bouillon, and put it through a search ; put it into a stewpan upon the fire without allowing it to boil ; stir it well, and observe that it is of a proper thickness, set it in a bain marie*, taste that it is properly salted, and serve it with rice or fried bread. Queen's Soup. Potage a la Reine. Take the breasts of three fowls, skewer them, put over them a thin slice of lard, cover them with paper, and put them upon the spit or into a stewpan, which must be covered with slices of ham, veal, and an onion with two or three pared carrots and a bunch of seasoned parsley, cover it lightly with thin slices of lard, and afterwards with two or three rounds of buttered paper, that they may not take any colour; put in two or three spoonfuls of consommd; make them boil upon the furnace, then put them under or upon a paillassef ; let them cook twenty minutes, take them * liain mane is a deep pan filled with water raised nearly to exiling heat. t A hot hearth, or grill over hot cinders.FRENCH COOKERY 10 up, and let them cool; strain the soup through a gauze search, make a panade with it, such as that which is directed for the potage d la bisque; hash the breasts very fine, put them in a mortar, and pound them with twenty sweet and two bitter almonds, as is directed (article Lait d'Amandes), pound all well together, aferwards take it out and mix it with the consomme made of the carcases of the three fowls from which the breasts were taken, run it through a search. Another way. Autre maniere. Put in the heads and debris of the fowls, wet them with consomme, and skim them ; put in vegetables, but take care that it is not too much coloured; let it boil slowly for an hour and half; run this soup through a cloth, and use it to mix -with puree de volaille, passing it through a search; let it be of a proper thickness; put it in a new tinned pan, that it may be very white, heat it without boiling in a bain-marie; you may serve it with bread cut and fried in butter, or with rice well broken, and pretty dry; taste if it is good, and serve. Macarone Soup. Potage an Macaroni. Have some good consommd boiling in a stewpan, put in some macaroni, boil and skim it as is directed for the vermicelli, and let it boil a quarter of an hour ; draw it to the side of the furnace and let it simmer; rasp some parmesan and the same quantity of Gruyeres cheese, put it in before serving, or serve them sepa- rately; let it be rather thick than clear. Genoa Soup. Potage d la Gcnois, ou aux Raviolis. Take the breast of a young cock that has been roasted, hash it well, and add as much of veal udder, the same quantity of spinage, boiled and pressed, and as much rasped parmesan, pound it altogether in a mortar; add, from time to time, five yolks of eggs; season it with salt, a small quantity of large pepper, and the quarter of a grated nutmeg; when the whole is well pounded and of a good taste, take somefeuille- tage or pate brisee, and roll it out as thin as possible; wet with the yolks of eggs this paste, and put aboutSOUPS. II half the size of a nut of this farce from distance to distance upon it, and fold the paste over it, and unite it well in forming your raviolis, and cut them with a paste cutter, taking care that the farce is in the middle, and that the raviolis have the form of a little star; boil them in a grand bouillon ; drain, and put them into an excellent consomme when ready to serve. Italian Paste Soup. Potage aux Pates d’Italic. Put upon the fire some excellent bouillon, and when it boils fast throw in some Italienne paste of any shape, stir it that it may not ball, skim in the same manner as is directed for the potage au macaroni; let it simmer a quarter of an hour, and serve Another Italian Paste Soup.—-Potage d la Semoule. The semoule is also an Italian paste, which resem- bles grits ; make this potage as the others, only stirring it a little more that the semoule may not stick or ball. Chicken Broth. Bouillon cle Poidet. Skin a fine fowl, dress the feet and truss it nicety; put it in a pot with ten pints of water, put in an ounce of the quaire semences (froid) after having broken it; put it in a linen bag, simmer it over a slow fire till it is reduced to eight pints, and use it as refreshing bouillon, or chicken broth. Pectoral Chicken Broth Bouillon de Poulet Pectoral. Take a fowl as above, two ounces of barley and as much rice, put them altogether into a pot, with two ounces of Narbonne honey; skim it, let it simmer three hours till it is reduced to two-thirds ; it is very good for softcning’irritation of the breast. Veal Broth. Bouillon de Veau refraichissant. Cut in dices half a pound of the fillet of veal, boil in three pints of water with two or three lettuces and a handful of endive; add a little wild endive ; pass it through a gauze search, and serve. Soup (f Calf" s Lights. Bouillon dc Mou de Veau. Take a piece of calf’s lights, clean it well, and cut it b 612 FRENCH COOKERY. into small dice, put it into a saucepan with twelve pints of water, six or eight turnips cut small, three heads of ehiccory, and a dozen of jububes*; make it boil, skim and reduce it to two-thirds, pass it through a gauze search ; this is another excellent broth for the breast. SAUCES. Beef Juice. Jus de Rceuf. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, put into it some thin slices of ham and lard or bacon, with slices of onions and carrots, covering the whole with thick slices of beef, wet it with two spoonfuls of grand bouillon, or good stock, make it boil upon a brisk fire ; when it begins to stick, give it a prick with a knife; put it upon a slow fire or furnace, and take care it does not burn; when it is firmly fixed, wet it as directed for the blond de veau, skim it and season it with a bunch of parsley, and some stalks of mush- rooms ; when the meat is sufficiently cooked take off the fat and run the juice through a napkin; make use of it to colour potages, sauces, or made-dishes, which either require juice or colouring. Grande Sauce. Butter a saucepan and cover it with slices of ham, cut veal in pieces and cover the ham with it, and put in one or two spoonfuls of bouillon, as much as will nearly cover the veal; put in two carrots, a large onion, which must be taken out when done ; when it has become jelly, leave very little fire under, sur- round it with hot cinders, let it colour by sticking, detach it by putting in a ladleful of cold bouillon, and as soon as it is detached fill the saucepan with bouillon \ when the veal is done enough, take it out and pass it through a napkin into a saucepan, and if too strong reduce it to the proper thickness for sauce, by adding roux; boil it and set it aside upon the fur- nace ; shake it from time to time, and if it is not of a good colour add some beef juice (jus de bceuf); if a * Jububes is a fruit not much known here but as a preserve.13 SAUCES. skin should form, do not take it nor the fat off till it is perfectly done and ready to pass it through a search, but do not force it through ; vannez * or stir and cool it by letting it fall from the spoon into the basin till quite cold to prevent its skinning anew, and make use of it for all brown sauces. Sauce Espagnole. Take two or three noix of vealt, cover a saucepan with slices of bacon and ham, let there be most of the last, and conduct it by wetting it with consommt, as is directed for the grande sauce; season it with five or six carrots and as many onions ; after it has boiled put it upon a slow fire that the juice may be made ; when the glaze is properly formed it will be a fine yellow; take it off the fire, prick it with the point of a knife that the juice may come out; wet it with con- somme in which has been cooked a sufficient quantity of partridges, rabbits, or fowls ; put in a bunch of parsley and young onions, seasoned with two cloves according to the quantity, half a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a little sweet basil and thyme ; boil the whole, and draw it to the edge of the grate, and skim it; at the end of two hours mix it with the roux as the coulis; let it rather be clear than thick; boil it from half to three quarters of an hour that the roux may incorporate ; skim and pass it through a search into another stewpan ; put it again upon the fire, and let it reduce a fourth part. This answers for all brown sauces; add Madeira, Champagne, or Burgundy, ac- cording to the sauce. Never put wine into Espagnole, as some sauces do not require it, and it spoils before next day ; it is therefore better to reduce the wine in a littleglaze according to the quantity wanted at the time. Espagnole Travailh'e. When Espagnole is used i'or sautts, or simple sauce, .ake two or three ladiesful and a third of consommt, • Striking a sauce up and down with a spoon is called by the french winner. f Xir de veau is the largest muscle in the leg or fillet.FRENCH COOKERY. 14 some parings of truffles and stalks of mushrooms, re- duce it on a strong fire, and skim it with great care ; if not enough coloured, put in a little blond de veau; bring it to the consistence of sauce, pass it through a search ; and put it afterwards into a bain marie, to be in readiness when required. Velout, ou Coulis Blanc. Take a piece of the fillet of veal, and put it into a buttered stewpan, with some slices of ham, a spoon- ful of strong consommd, three or four carrots, and as many onions; make it boil upon a strong fire ; when reduced and ready to stick, put in a sufficient quan- tity of consomme; let it boil, set it on the side of the stove, and add some shalots, some chips of mushrooms, (but take care to put no lemon); a bunch of sweet herbs, which must be taken out when they are done, pressing them between two spoons ; while it is on the fire get ready a roux blanc to mix in it, prepared in the following manner:— melt a pound of good butter and pour it from the sediment into another stewpan ; mix with it a sufficient quantity of Hour; put the stewpan upon a slow fire, and shake it constantly that it may not take any colour; mix it well by lifting it with a spoon and letting it fall till it is sufficiently done ; add a sufficient quantity to the veloutd, and keep stirring it that the flour may not fall to the bottom and stick ; skim, pass it through a search, put it again upon the fire, skim again and reduce it; take it off the fire, put it into a vessel, keep stirring and cooling it with a spoon to prevent it from forming a skin This is what is called vanner. Vclout d TravaiUe. It is done in the same manner as the Espngnole, only that care is taken to keep it perfectly white. Savory Jelly. Grand Aspic. Put into a pot a knuckle or two of veal, an old partridge, a fowl, some feet of fowls, if there are any, and two or three slices of ham, tie them together, and add two carrots, two onions, and a bunch of15 SAUCES. sweet herbs; moisten the whole with a little con- somme,, and let them sweat gently; when it becomes glaze, and has taken a yellow tint, moisten with bouillon, or water, reducing it more; skim, season with salt, and let it simmer three hours; then skim and pass it through a wet napkin ; let it cool; break two eggs, whites, yolks, and shells together; whip them, w*et them with bouillon, and add a spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and put it into the aspic; set it upon the tire, and stir it with a whisk; when it begins to boil, draw it to the side of the stove, that it may simmer; put fire over it; when it becomes clear, pass it through a wrung wet cloth, hung upon a frame ; put it upon the fire, and cover as before; pass it again through a napkin, when it will be ready for all sorts of aspics. White Butter Sauce. Sauce Blanche au Beurre. Put into a saucepan half a pound of butter, cut into pieces, and strew a little Hour over; pour water softly upon it, shake the saucepan till it is well mixed with the water, put in a little salt, and, if agreeable, a little rasped nutmeg; put it upon the fire, and stir it with a wrnoden spoon, until it is ready to boil; then take a skimming spoon, vannez* your sauce ; when enough, pass it through a search, and put it in a bain marie. Becliamelle Sauce. Sauce a la Bc'chamelle. Put such a quantity of veloute as may be wanted into a saucepan, with a little consomme ; if required four pints of veloute ; put it upon a quick fire ; stir it with care till it is reduced a third ; reduce four pints of good cream to two-thirds, and mix it in little by little, and stir it till the whole has reduced a half; this sauce ought to be rather thin ; pass it through a search; put it in a bain-marie to be ready for use. Another ivau. Cut some slices of ham, and twice as much veal, some carrots, five small onions, with a little shalot, * Vannez, or work the sauce.16 FRENCli COOKERY. two cloves, a bay-leaf, and nearly half a pound of butter; put all upon the fire; stir with a wooden spoon ; when the meat begins to give the juice, shake a little flour over it, take it off the fire, stir it, that the flour may be well mixed ; put it upon the fire, stirring it, that it may not burn; when sufficiently done, mix in some consomme, or good bouillon; put it on a quick fire, and finish as above with the cream or good milk, and put it into the bain-marie. Sauce Menehould. Sainte Menehould. Put into a stewpan a bit of butter, broken in pieces ; shake over it a little flour, and add a little milk or cream; season it with parsley, young onions, half a bay-leaf, mushrooms, and shalots; put it on the fire, keep stirring it, pass it through a search, put it again upon the fire, with some hashed parsley, and a little pepper Sauce a la Bonne Morue. It is made in the same way as the Sainte Mdnehould, only that it is not so thick, and hashed parsley is strewed over such meats as is served with it. Sauce a la Poulette. Put some reduced veloutd into a stewpan, let it boil; add a little bit of butter, with the juice of a lemon, and a little hashed parsley ; if there is no veloute, make a roux blanc, mix it with bouillon ; add parsley and small onions, simmer, and reduce ; skim, pass it through a tammy, and serve. Italian Brown Sauce. Sauce Italienne Rousse. Cut twelve dices of ham, and put it into a stew- pan, with a handful of mushrooms well minced, and a sliced lemon, from which the peel and seeds must be taken, add a spoonful of hashed shalot, washed and dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill of oil; put all upon the fire; when nearly ready, take out the lemon, and put in a spoonful of minced parsley, a spoonful of Espagnole, a glass of good white wine, without reducing it, and a little pepper;SAUCES. 17 redice, skim, take out the ham, and when it has ob- tained its point, take it off Italian White Sauce. Sauce Italienne Blanche. It is exactly the same, only velout6 is used instead of Esjxtgnole. Sauce a la Maitre cl'Hotel. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with some hashed parsley, some tarragon leaves, one or two leaves of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice ; mix the whole with a wooden spoon until they are well incorporated. Sauce a la Maitre cl'Hotel lite. Take two ladiesful of veloute and put it into a stewpan; put in the size of an egg of butter, with some very fine-minced parsley, and two or three leaves of minced tarragon; put it over the fire, and stir it, that it may be properly mixed; at the moment of serving it, pass and vannez the sauce ; add lemon or verjuice. Sauce au Supreme. Take two or three ladiesful of reduced veloutd, and put it into a stewpan, with the same quantity of the consomme of fowls ; reduce it a half; when ready to serve, put in the size of an egg of butter; put it upon a brisk fire; mix it well, and when sufficiently done, not too thick, take it off, and add lemon or ver- juice ; vannez it, and serve. Sauce a la Matelote. Put into a saucepan a ladleful of reduced Espag- ncjle; when done, put in small onions which have been fried in butter, with some dressed mushrooms and artichoke bottoms; when ready to serve, put in the size of a small walnut of butter; shake it well, in order to mix it without breaking the ingredients, and serve Sauce Poivrade. Cut twelve small dices of ham, and put them into a stewpan, with a little bit of hotter, five or sixFRENCH COOKERY 18 branches of parsley, two or three young onions cut in two, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a little sweet basil, thyme, and two cloves; put them together upon a quick fire; when they are well done, put in a little fine pepper, a large spoonful of vinegar, ard four spoonsful of Espagnole not reduced; shake and boil it, draw it to the edge of the stove, and let it simmer three quarters of an hour ; skim, and pass it through a tammy. Sauce Hackee. Put into a stewpan a spoonful of hashed blanched shalots, as many mushrooms, and a little minced parsley; pour over it two or three ladiesful of Espag- nole., as much bouillon, and two spoonfuls of vinegar, with a little pepper ; boil, and skim it, mince a spoon- ful or two of capers ; when ready to serve, add the but- ter of one or two anchovies ; pass it through a search, and vannez it well. The capers ought not to be boiled. Sauce piquante. Put into a stewpan two or three skimming spoonfuls of Espagnole or coulis, a spoonful of white vinegar, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a little thyme, a clove, a spoonful or two of bouillon, and a little salt; skim it, and when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, pass it through a search. Sauce a la Nonpareille, ou a VArliquine. Cut some dices of ham very equal, with the same quantity of truffles; put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, upon a slow fire, and let them simmer a quarter of an hour; if the sauce is to be white, put three skimming spoonfuls of veloute ; but if brown, let it be reduced as Espagnole ; add half a glass of good white wine, and a spoonful of consomme; let it re- duce ; put in the whites of hard eggs and mushrooms in the same quantity as the ham and truffles, and cut in the same manner; also lobsters’ tails, and spawn, if there is any; finish with a bit of butter the size of a walnut and half.19 SAUCES. Sauce a la Plttche. Take some very green parsley leaves, blanch and refresh them, and throw them into a search; put into a stewpan three skimming spoonsful of reduced veloute, and two of consomme; reduce the whole ; when ready to serve throw in the parsley; if too salt, put in a bit of butter; pass, vannez it, and serve. Sauce aux Truffes, ou a la Pcrigueux. Cut down truffles in rounds or dices; put them on a slow fire, with a bit of butter, and let them simmer; put in a sufficient quantity of reduced Espagnole, and add consomme or bouillon; white wine in equal pro- portion ; reduce, and skim it, and finish it with a bit of butter. Observe, that acid should never be put to this sauce, as it takes off its softness, and the wine is quite sufficient. Mushroom Sauce Sauce a la Puree de Champignons. Take two handfuls of mushrooms, wash them in several waters, rubbing them lightly: put them into a drainer ; mince them with their stalks; put them into a stewpan, with the size of an egg of butter; let them fall over a slow fire, and when nearly done, moisten them with two skimming spoonfuls of veloute ; let them simmer three quarters of an hour more ; rub them through a search, and finish it with cream as is di- rected for the onion puree, with this difference, how- ever, that this ought to be rather clearer. Sauce en Tortue. Put into a saucepan a ladleful of reduced Espagnole, a large glass of hard Madeira, a tea spoonful of curry powder, and half that quantity of Cayenne; reduce the whole; skim, put in some cocks’ combs and kid- neys, artichoke bottoms, a veal or Iamb’s sweetbread ; boil the whole, that the ingredients may taste and take the colour of the sauce; at the moment of serving put in six or eight hard yolks of eggs; take care not to break them in stirring the sauce, and serve.20 FRENCH COOKERY. Curry Sauce, ou a VIndienne. Put into a stewpan three spoonfuls of reduced veloute, as much consommd, a tea-spoonful of curry- powder; take a little saffron, boil it in a small pan; when it has given its colour rub it through a search into the sauce ; let it boil, and skim it; if it is not hot enough put in a little Cayenne pepper. Sauce Tomate. Take a dozen of tomates very ripe, and of a fine red; take off the stalks, open and take out the seeds, and press them in the hand to take out the water; put the expressed tomates into a stewpan, wfith the size of an egg of butter, a bay leaf, and a little thyme; put it upon a moderate fire; stir it till it becomes a •puree; while it is doing put in a spoonful of Espagnole, or the top of bouillon, called top-pot, which will be better ; when it is thus prepared, rub it through a search, and put it into a stewpan with two spoonfuls of Espagnole; reduce to the consistence of a light bouillie; put in a little salt, and a small quantity of Cayenne pepper. Sauce a I'lvoire. Take a common fowl, and open it at the back; draw it, put it into a small pot, with two carrots, two onions, a clove stuck in one of them, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add two ladiesful of consomme, or bouillon that has no colour; let it boil, skim, set it upon the side of the stove to simmer, leave it nearly an hour and a half; pass it through a napkin ; take two or three spoonsful of this consomme, put it in a stew- pan with the same quantity of veloute; reduce it to the consistence of sauce; when ready to serve put in the half of the size of an egg of butter ; pass it, and vannez it well; put in a spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve White Ravigote Sauce. Sauce Ravigote Blanche. Take cresses, burnet, chervil, tarragon, a few stalks of celery, and two balm leaves, prick and wash them, put them into a vessel, and pour over them a littleSAUCES. 21 boiling water; cover, and let them infuse three quar- ters of an hour ; strain, and put the juice in a stew- pan with three skimming spoonfuls of veloute, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and the half of the size of an egg of butter; pass, vannez, and serve. Cold Ravigote Sauce. Sauce Ravigotefroide et crue. Take the same ravigote, or small herb, as that di- rected above; mince it very fine ; add a spoonful of capers also finely minced, one or two anchovies, well bruised, a little fine pepper and salt; put all into a marble mortar, beat till all is completely mixed ; add a raw yolk ; while beating, wet it with a little oil, and from time to time with a little white vinegar to prevent its turning ; continue till it is of the con- sistence of sauce ; if wanted very strong, add mustard, and serve. Drest Ravigote Sauce. Sauce Ravigote cuite. Take the same ravigote or herbs already men- tioned, clean and blanch them; when cooked throw them into fresh water; drain, mid beat them well in a mortar ; rub them through a search ; moisten them with oil and vinegar ; season with pepper and salt, as a remoulade ; taste if well seasoned, and serve. Green Sauce Sauce Verte. Make this sauce as sauce au supreme, in adding a ravigote, as in the preceding article, and of the green of spinage, which makes thus:—express the juice by wringing the spinage in a cloth, put the juice into a stewpan upon the corner of the stove ; it rises like milk ; when it does, put it through a gauze search ; when ready to serve, add till the colour is obtained ; put in lemon juice or vinegar, pass, and serve it immediately, as it may become yellow. Sauce Robert. Cut in rounds or dice six large onions or more, if necessary ; put them into a stewpan with butter; set them on a good fire, dredge, and brown them; moisten22 FRENCH COOKERY, them with bouillon, and let them cook ; add pepper and salt; when finished, put in mustard, and serve. Cratvfisk Sauce Sauce au Beurre d'Ecrevisses. Wash in different waters half an hundred of small crawfish, put them into a stewpan, cover and boil them in grand bouillon, but let it be in small quan- tity ; as soon as they begin to boil, toss them, that those below may come up; when they are of a fine red, take them from the fire, leave them ten minutes covered ; drain, and let them cool; take out the flesh and the tails for garnishing; after taking out the feet, throw away the belly part, wash the shells well, drain them, and put them into a cool oven ; when dried, beat them in a mortar; when they are entirely pounded, put in about the size of an egg of butter; beat them again till shells become a paste; if the butter is not red enough, put in two or three small roots of orchanet; put it on a very slow fire for a quarter of an hour ; when it is very hot put a fine search over a basin of fresh water, and pour the butter through the search, which will shake in the water ; gather it up, and put it on a dish, and use it for sauce (au beurre d'ecrevisses); take three skimming spoonfuls of reduced veloute, mix it well with the butter ; vannez the sauce well, and serve it. Lobster Sauce. Sauce aux Homards. Take a middling sized lobster, take out the flesh and the spawn, cut the flesh in small dices; wash the spawn in such a manner as to leave no fibres; put the flesh and spawn into a stewpan without any moistening; cover them with a cover or paper that the flesh be not too dry ; wash the shells, take off the small claws ; the shells being well washed, let them be dried in a stove ; beat them, and make a butter as directed for the beurre d'ecrevisses ; and let them be finished in the same way ; when it is cooked, put it in a white sauce, vannez it upon the fire without al- lowing it to boil; add to it, if liked, a little Cayenne or large pepper; pour this sauce over the lobster,23 SAUCES. mix all well, and serve in a sauce-boat for turkot or any other fish. Sorrel Sauce.' Sauce a la Puree d’Oseille. Take two handsful of sorrel, pick, wash, and blanch it, mince it very small, put it in a stewpan with a bit of melted butter; when the sorrel is enough done, rub it through a search; put it again into a stewpan, with one or two spoonfuls of Es- pagnole; leave it to cook three quarters of an hour ; let it be often stirred; skim; season it with salt; when it has the consistence of bouillie it is ready to nerve. Onion Sauce. Sauce a la Puree d’Oignons Blancs. Mince twelve onions, put them in a stewpan with a bit of butter; put the stewpan on a slow fire, that they may not take any colour ; let them simmer ; stir them often with a wooden spoon; when they yield under it, put in two spoonfuls of veloute, and let them remain cooking; when they are well re- duced, rub them through a search, put them again upon the fire; boil two pints of cream, and put it into the puree; add nutmeg; when it has obtained the degree of a good bouillon, serve. Brown Onion Sauce. Sauce a la Puree d’Oignons rousse dite Bretonne. Take onions as above ; brown them upon a quick fire; when they are of a fine colour, moisten them with two spoonfuls of Espagnole ; cook it as the above, put it through a search, and again upon the fire; but instead of cream use Espagnole ; reduce it to the con- sistence of bouillie; season it properly, and serve. Puree Sauce. Sauce a la Puree de Pois. Prepare this puree in the same manner as for the potages; make what is necessary for the entrees, and reduce them with a sufficient quantity of veloute, and when it has attained its point, add the green of spin- age to give the green colour; finish it with a bit of butter and a little rasped sugar ; when it has the con- sistence of thick bouillie, serve.FRENCH COOKERY. 24 Sauce Pois verts pour Entrees et Entremets. Take the necessary quantity of peas, wash and drain them, put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a handful of parsley in branches, four or five young onions cut in two; toss the peas; when they wrinkle, put in two ladles full of bouillon ; put in one or two slices of ham ; let them boil, and drain aside, and leave them to simmer; drain, take out the ham, and break them with a spoon or bruise them in a mortar; rub them through a search, wetting them with the bouillon in which they were cooked; put the puree into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a spoonful or two of veloute, reduce it to the proper consistence of a puree; skim, season with salt, put in a little bit of sugar, and finish it with a pat of butter; if it is not green enough, add a little green of spinage, as is directed before. Pease Soup. Puree de Pois secs. Do it in the same manner as the other potages, and finish it as green pease. Lentile Sauce ou Puree. Sauce d la Puree de Lentilles a la Reine. It is made as the puree of pease, except that Es- pagnole must be used, and that they take more cook- ing than the peas ; it ought to be a fine red colour; finish it with a bit of butter, and let it have the same consistence as the puree of pease. Puree de Gibier. Take one or two roasted partridges and a leveret, either separate or mixed together, take off all the flesh, pick off the skin and nerves, hash it very fine, beat it well in the mortar, add reduced Espagnole and a little consomme; heat the whole on a slow fire without boiling; when it is very hot, rub it through a search; gather it carefully, put it into a stewpan, heat it and put it in a bain-fnarie, and when ready to serve, finish it with a bit of butter; if not strong enough, put in a bit of glaze, and serve it with poached eggs, fried bread, or croustades.SAUCE. 25 Poir Man's Sauce. Sauce au pauvre Homme. Take five or six shalots, hash them fine with a little parsley; put them into a stew-pan with a little bouillon juice or water, and a shimming-spoonful of good vinegar, a little salt, and a little large pepper; simmer till enough and serve. Veal Stock. Glace ou Consomme rdduite. Take one or two knuckles of veal, and any rem- nant or trimmings of veal; put them into a fresh tinned pot with four or five carrots, two or three onions, and a bunch of parsley and young onions; moisten it with good bouillon, or some good soup ; care- fully skim,and refresh it several times with freshwater; put it upon the side of the stove, and when the meat comes from the bone put the consomme through a wrung wet cloth ; let it cool; clarify it, as is directed at the article Culotte de bceuf a la gelce ; reduce it to the consistence of sauce ; take care to stir it often, as it is ready to stick and burn ; let the fire be mode- rate that it may not turn black. It ought to be a fine transparent yellow: put no salt, it does not re- quire any. This consomme serves to give strength of body to sauces and ragouts that may require it, and to glaze meats; make a pencil of the tail feathers of old fowls ; wash it in warm water, squeeze and boil ft in the glaze, that it may not separate, which would prevent it glazing properly. Boiled Pickle. Marinade cuile. Put the size of an egg of butter into a stew-pan, one or two carrots in slices, the same of onions, a bay leaf, the half of a clove of garlic, a little thyme and basil, branches of parsley, two or three young onions cut in halves; boil them upon a brisk fire; when it begins to brown, moisten it with a glass of white vinegai, and a little water ; put in salt and large pepper; let it be enough done; put it through a search, and use it. Poele Take four pounds of the kidney-fat of veal ; cut it c26 FRENCH COOKERY. in pieces; a pound and a half of ham; a pound and half of rasped bacon, or cut as the others ; five or six carrots cut also ; eight small whole onions, a large bunch of parsley, and young onions stuck with three cloves ; two bay leaves, some thyme, a little sweet basil, a little mace, and three sliced lemons without the peel or seeds ; put all into a new tinned pot, with a pound of good butter: set them upon a slow fire, moisten it with bouillon or consomme: boil and skim ; let them simmer five or six hours; pass the poele through a hair search, and keep it for use. Sauce a la Mirepoix. This sauce is made like the preceding; it only dif- fers in having for its moistening a quart of cham- pagne, or any other good white wine instead of bouillon. Blanc. Take a pound or a pound and half of fat of beef kid- ney, cut it in dices; put it into a pot with carrots cut in slices, a whole onion stuck with two cloves, one or two bay leaves, a bunch of parsley and young onions, clove of garlic, two sliced lemons, without the peel or seeds; put the whole upon the fire without allow- ing it to brown : when the fat is three fourths done; shake in a spoonful of flour; moisten it with water, put in what is necessary of (eau de sel), which is made thus; put into a stew-pan one or two handfuls of salt, let it boil in the water, skim it, leave it to settle, draw it off clear, and use it. Petite Sauce a VAspic. Put into a stew-pan a large glass of consomme ; in- fuse in it a quantity of fine herbs such as are used for ravigotes; put it on hot cinders for a quarter of an hour; it must not boil; pass it through a cloth ; do not press it too much; put in a>spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a little large pepper. Game Sauce. Sauce au Fumet de Gibier. Put into a stew-pan four skimming spoonfuls of consomme ; take two or three carcasses of partridges,27 SAUCE. c 2 the bones of which must be broken, a large glass of white wine, and let it simmer three quarters of an hour; put it through a gauze search ; let it come to a glaze; put then in two or three skimming spoon- fuls of Espagnole; let it boil; skim, and use it. Sauce aa Beurre d’Ail. Take two large heads of garlic ; beat them with the size of an egg of butter; when well beaten rub it through a double hair search with a wooden spoon ; gather it, and use, either with veloute or with re- duced Espagnole. Anchovy Butter Sauce. Sauce au Beurre d’Anchois. Take three or four anchovies; wash them well; rub them so that no scales may remain; take off the flesh, beat them with the size of an egg of butter, gather it together; have four skimming spoonfuls of Espagnole; warm the sauce without allowing it to boil; having put in the anchovy butter just at the moment of serving, add the juice of one or two lemons to freshen it; pass it through a search and iannex it well; if too thick add a little consomme and serve. Sauce au Beurre de Provence. Take five or six heads of garlic and beat them in butter as in the foregoing article ; rub it through a search, gathering it with care ; put it into a china dish; put some fine olive oil over it; mix it with the butter, and stirring it in by little and little, adding the oil and a little salt; it ought to become like but- ter, by the force of rubbing it round; when it is ready for use. Sauce a la Tartar. Mince one or two shalots very fine, with a little chervil and tarragon ; put it into an earthen vessel with mustard, a glass of vinegar, salt and pepper ; sprinkle it with oil, and stir it constantly ; if it gets too thick, put in a little vinegar; if too salt, put in a littie more mustard and oil.FRENCH COOKERY. 23 Fennel Sauce. Sauce au Fenouil. Take some branches of'green fennel; pick, blanch, and mince it very fine, refresh and drain it; put into a stew-pan a little veloute, the same quantity of butter sauce; heat it and let it be vanned the moment it is to be served ; put the fennel into the sauce; mix it well; add salt and nutmeg. If there is no veloute, put butter into a stew-pan, with flour as is directed for sauce blanche or au beurre; moisten with consomme or bouillon, and let it be more done. Tarragon Clear Sauce. Sauce Claire a VEstragon. Take some grand aspic: if there is none, take some other good stock, and clarify it as for the grand aspic; put in a glass of tarragon vinegar ; cut some leaves of tarragon in lozenges ; boil them, and, when ready to serve, put them into the aspic. Another way. Sauce a VEstragon lice. Put into a stew-pan two or three skimming spoon- fuls of reduced veloute; if the sauce is to be white, (reduced espagnole if brown,) put in a glass of tarragon vinegar, and tarragon prepared, as in the preceding; and finish the sauce with a pat of butter. Sauce Mayonnaise. Put into an earthen vessel three or four spoonfuls of fine oil, and two of tarragon vinegar; add tarragon, shalots, pimpernel, all minced very fine, salt, pep- per, and two or three spoonfuls of gelee or aspic; stir it well with a spoon ; the sauce will thicken and form a sort of butter; taste it, and if too salt or acid, add a little oil; if it is wanted clear, break the gelee with a knife, and mix it lightly with the seasoning. Fillets of fowl, game, fish, or any other meat, may be sent to table in a clear mayonnaise, garnished with jelly or any other garnishing. lloux. Put into a sauce-pan a pound of butter or more; melt it without letting it brown; pass through aSAUCE. 29 search some of the finest and whitest flour; put in as much as the butter will take; make only what will be required: this roux ought to have the consist- ence nearly of a firm paste ; put it first upon a quick fire; let it be constantly stirred; when it becomes very white, and begins to thicken, put it upon hot cinders under a lighted stove, in such a manner as the red cinders may fall upon the cover ; stir every seven minutes until it is a fine roux; by this manner of doing it, it will not have that acidity that roux generally has. Roux Blanc. Melt some of the finest butter over a slow fire, and put in sufficient quantity of flour as directed above, and let care be taken that it takes no colour ; stir it half an hour, and use it for veloute. Batter for Frying. Pate a Frire. Search half a pound of flour ; put it into a vessel with two spoonfuls of oil, salt, and two or three yolks of eggs ; moisten it with beer, in such quantity that the paste does not cord; work till it is of the consist- ence of bouillie ; whip one or two whites of eggs; work them lightly into the paste; make it two or three hours before it is wanted. Remember the lightness of the paste depends upon the whipping of the whites of the eggs ; the paste may be made with butter instead of oil, and with hot water instead of beer, in adding a glass of white wine. Fritters. Fritures. Experience has taught that the fat taken from the stock pot makes the best fritters : when there is not any of this, its place is supplied by the kidney fat of beef, hashed very fine or cut in dices, which must be melted with care; these fats are much better than the sain-doux or hogs’ lard, which softens the paste, and still more when they are heated to swell and froth, making it fly into the fire, which is dangerous. Oil has nearly the same effect, and of course not less at- tended with danger, but it does not soften. Melted fat has nearly the same fault, and is very expensive;FRENCH COOKERY. 30 it may be concluded that for appearance, goodness, and economy, the top of the pot is the best, and next to it is that which is made of beef suet. Beef Suet. Manner of preparing it. When there has been accumulated a sufficient quantity of that fat, render and clarify it; boil it in the same way as bouillon is done ; skim it; put in some slices of onions and some pieces of bread; let it sim- mer on the side of the stove or before the fire four or five hours ; take out the bread and onions and draw it off clear ; it ought to be very limpid. When it is to be used, let a sufficient quantity be put into the frying pan, and heat it: to know if it is sufficiently hot, let the finger be dipt into water and sprinkle it upon the friture; if it hisses and rejects the water, it is then sufficiently hot. If it is fish that is to be fried, dip in the tip of the tail, holding it by the head; if on pull- ing it out immediately it hardens, put in the fish, taking care to turn it. Sauces aux Hatelettes. Mince a little parsley, young onions and mushrooms; put them into a stew-pan with a bit of butter; put them upon the fire ; flour, and moisten them with a spoonful of consomme ; season with salt, pepper, nut- meg, and half a bay leaf; reduce it over a'brisk fire, taking care to stir it till it has acquired its proper de- gree,- which is when it is come to the consistence of clear bouillie; take out the bay leaf, and thicken it with two yolks of eggs, a little bouillon, and serve. This sauce may be served over almost every thing. Another Sauce aux Hatelettes. Put a ladleful of veloute into a saucepan, with a little parsley, a few young onions or shalots, and twice as many mushrooms finely minced ; stir the sauce and reduce it to a clear bouillon; thicken and season it as above ; if liked, nutmeg, and serve. Bread Sauce. Br'ede Sauce. Take the crumb of a stale roll; put it into milk;SAUCE, 31 c \ let it simmer three quarters of an hour, till it has the consistence of a thick bouillie; add twenty grains of black pepper and salt; finish it with the size of a walnut of good butter; serve it in a sauce boat along with woodcock or partridge. Truffle Sauce. Sauce aux Truffes Ilia Saint Cloud, ou en Petit Deuil. Cut a truffle in small dices; do them in butter, moisten them with four skimming spoonfuls of veloute, and two of consomme; reduce it; skim, and finish it with a pat of butter. Sauce a la Pluche Verte. Put into a stew-pan four spoonfuls of reduced veloute; let it boil; skim it at the moment of serving; put into it some blanched parsley, pepper, salt, and a pat of butter, with the juice of a lemon ; observe that it ought to taste of the acid. Court-Bouillon. Put into a stew-pan a bit of butter, sliced onions, and carrots, two bruised bay leaves, three cloves, two cloves of garlic, thyme, sweet basil, and a little ginger; do these ingredients over a quickish fire, to give them a little colour; let them stick a little to the bottom of the stew-pan, moisten with two or three bottles of wine; if the court-bouillon is gras put in some good stock ; let it boil and use it. Ketchujp. Take a dozen of handfuls of mushrooms, pick, wash, and mince them very fine; put them into a new- earthen dish, and make a layer of mushrooms of about half an inch, sprinkle fine salt over, continuing to do so till they are finished. Tie a cloth over, and lay on a cover; leave them five or six days to draw out the juice; draw it off, and wring the mushrooms in a cloth; put the juice in a stew-pan, and reduce it; put in two bay leaves; dress a pot as for making glaze (see article glaze); when it is ready, pass it through a search; skim it, and mix it with the mushroom juice; it may be made byFRENCH COOKERY. 32 adding glaze ; put in four or five pounded anchovies, and a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper; reduce the whole till half glaze ; take out the bay leaves, and let it cool; put it into a new bottle, well corked, to serve with fish. La Ducelle. Mince mushrooms, parsley, young onions or shalots, the same quantity of each ; put some butter into a stew-pan with as much rasped bacon ; put them upon the fire ; season with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, a little grated nutmeg, and a bay leaf; moisten with a spoonful of espagnole or veloutd; let it simmer, taking care to. stir it: when sufficiently done, finish it with a thickening of yolks of eggs well beaten, which must not boil; the juice of a lemon is not necessary, but may be added; put it into a dish, and use it for every thing that is put in papilottes. Sauce au Vert Pre. Put into a saucepan five spoonfuls of veloutd, and two of consomme; reduce them ; when ready to serve, add a little pat of butter, and about the size of a wal- nut of the green of spinage; put the sauce on the fire without working it, and serve. Orange Sauce. Sauce ci l' Orange. Take three oranges, cut them in two, and squeeze the juice through a search, into an earthen or china bason ; free the zests (the fine outer rind that contains the essential oil) of the oranges as much as possi- ble from the inner skin, and cut them in thin slices ; blanch them ; drain and put them into strong beef juice, with a little large pepper; put it upon the side of the stove, put the orange juice in, and when served let the zests be uppermost. Salt ivater. Eau de Sel. Fill a small kettle with water, and put in a sufficient quantity ot salt, with some whole young onions, branches of parsley, one or two heads of garlic, zests of carrots, thyme, bay leaves, sweet basil, and two cloves ; let it boil three quarters of an hour, skim and33 GARNISIIINGS. take it off the fire, cover it with a cloth, leave it half or three quarters of an hour to settle; pass it through a gauze search; it is then ready for cooking fish, or any thing that requires salt water. Thickened Butter. Beurre Liee. Put the yolks of two eggs into a stew-pan ; melt a quarter of a pound of butter without browning it; break the eggs with a wooden spoon ; put the butter by degrees to the eggs; set it upon a slow fire; add lemon juice, and use it for panures.* VERJUICE, and the making,of it that it may keep. Take verjuice grape before it is ripe, take out the seed and stalks, put them into a mortar, and beat them with a little salt; express the juice by a press or by wringing through a cloth ; have a fustian bag or two if the quantity require it; wet it and shake flour upon the shaggy side, hang it up in such a way as it will be open; pour the verjuice through several times, till perfectly limpid: it must be put in very clean or new bottles, which ought to be prepared, as announced in the article Wine, by sulphuring them ; cork it well and set it on its end in the cellar; when it is used, let the little pellicle be taken off that gathers upon the top of the bottle: this verjuice may be used, instead of lemon, for lemonade, punch, and otherwise, in add- ing a little spirit or zest of lemon. This verjuice is excellent against the consequences of falls, a glassful ought to be taken when the accident happens: if used for punch or drinking in any way, no salt should be put in in making, but for all culinary uses it is better. GARNISHING FOR DISHES. Garnitures. Bords de Plats. Take firm stale bread, cut the crumb in slices of the thickness of the blade of a knife; cut those slices into any form; heat some oil in a stew-pan, and put in the bread ; make both white and brown; when they are very dry, drain them, make white • Panures. Every thing that is rolled in or strewed with crumbs of bread.34 FRENCH COOKERY. paper cases, and put them up separately, according to their form and colour ; when they are wanted to garnish dishes, pierce the end of an egg, let a little of the white out, and beat it with the blade of a knife; mix a little flour; heat your dish a little; dip one side of the form into the beaten paste; in this manner continue till the border is finished: care must be taken not to heat the dish too much. Cocks' Combs. Crates de Coqs. Prepare the combs, and cut off the points, put them to blanch three-quarters of an hour in warm water, on the side of the stove, and shake them often; have some hotter water ready ; put in the combs in a new cloth, with a little great salt : hold the four corners of the cloth, and plunge them into almost boiling water, rub them with the hand, open the cloth to see if the skin comes off; if it does not, they must be plunged again into a water still hotter : this operation requires much attention: rub the skin off with the hands, then put them into fresh water to degorge ; cook them in a blanc ^see that article), and put them with the other garnishings to be ready when they are wanted. Cocks' Kidneys. Garnitures de Rognons de Coqs, Are done exactly as the foregoing article, and put aside like the others for use. Fat Livers. Foies Gras et Demi-gras pour Garni- tures. Take what number of fat livers is necessary, and take off the galls carefully, leave no part that has been touched by them, taking care not to break them ; steep and blanch them lightly ; cook them with slices of bacon; moisten them with good mirepoix• when enough, put them aside, for garnishing. Garnishing of Carrots. Carottespour Garnitures. Take what carrots may be necessary; choose them tender and of a fine colour; cut them into any shape, if in a hurry, with an apple-scoop ; take care not to use the hearts; blanch these carrots, and do them inGARNISIIINGS, 3 5 c 6 a little bouillon or consomme; put in a little bit of sugar, and let them fall into a glaze ; take care they do not stick : they are then ready to be put amongst the garnitures. Turnips. Navets pour Garnitures. Take firm sweet-tasted turnips; cut them into shapes ;s in the preceding article ; cook them in the same manner, if they are not to be browned; in that case, don’t blanch them, but brown them in butter or in sahz-£/twx(hogs’lard),and put them aside for garnishing. M ush rooms Champignons. See article cle Ragouts de Champignons, Morilles, et Mousserons. Small Onions for Garnishing. Petits Oignons pour Garnitures. Take small onions as many as are necessary ; cut the tops and tails off; blanch them, take off the skin, and make them of an equal size; cook them in consomme or bouillon ; put in a little bit of sugar, let them fall almost to a glaze; if they are to be brown, brown them in butter, instead of blanching them. Lettucefor Garnishing. Laituespour Garnitures. Take what lettuces are necessary; clean them, do not eut the roots too near; plunge them several times in water, one after another, that if there are any worms they may fall out; blanch and refresh them ; tie them three and three together; cover a stew-pan with slices of bacon; put them in; season them with salt, large pepper, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, an onion, and a slice of ham; moisten them with consommd, bouillon, or any good stock; cover them with slices of bacon, and a round of paper, cut to fit the stew-pan; let them boil,and put them to simmer, with fire above and below; when cooked, leave them in the seasoning, and set them aside for garnishing. Green of Spinage. Vert d’Epinards.* Take a sufficient quantity of spinage ; pick, wash, * This is the best for colouring entermets, anti that of parsley for entries.36 FRENCH COOKERY* and drain them ; put them into a mortar ; beat them ; wring out the juice through a coarse cloth; put the juice into a frying-pan or the cover of a pot; put it on hot cinders that it may only shake; and when it thickens put it through a gauze search; it is then ready for colouring soups, sauces, jellies, omelets, &c. Artichoke Bottoms. Cuts d' Artichauts Tour ms. Take a dozen of tender artichokes; be careful that they are not thready, which will be known by snapping a bit off the stalk: slip off the leaves in such a manner as to leave the bottom whole, with a few of the tenderest leaves on the top; then pare the arti- chokes nicely Avith a knife, cutting off the points of the leaves that remain; rub the artichokes with the half of a lemon, and throw them into fresh water, with the juice of one or two lemons ; put them into boiling water, and let a plate be put in to keep them down; let them boil; when the choke comes out easily, they are enough ; take it out, and throw them into fresh water; drain, and put them into a hlanc ; when they are enough, take them out; put them into a dish, and pour the hlanc over them through a gauze search ; let them be used for garnishing, either Avhole or in quarters. To make Cayenne Pepper. —— Poivre de Cayenne. Take half a pound of long pepper, let it be chosen thick-skinned, and of a fine red; dry it well in the shade ; separate and take off the stalks; put them into a mortar, and beat them with an iron pestle ; let care be taken that the mortar is covered well with a skin, as it is dangerous if it get into the eyes. Onions. Oignons Glacds. (See Bceuf, or Bouille Ordinaire.) Cucumbers. Concombres au Blanc. Let the points and ends of three cucumbers be taken off; if they are bitter, take others; peel them, and cut them in quarters; take out the seeds, and let them be cut in the form of oyster-shells, making them ecjual; blanch them in water with a little salt, and cook them in a blanc; when sufficiently done, drain them, and put them aside for use.RAGOUTS. 37 Browned Cucumbers. Concombres au Brun. Let them be prepared as before, and then be put into an earthen dish with water, salt, and white vine- gar ; let them steep an hour; wring them in a cloth, and fry them of a light fine brown, in rasped lard ; drain, and use them in brown ragouts. Brown and White Onions. Pluche d’Oignons, Blanche et Rousse. Let a dozen of large onions be taken; peel, and cut them in two, taking out the hearts; cut them in rounds ; put a bit of butter into a stew-pan; drain the onions, if they are to be cooked white ; do them upon hot cinders; shake them often ; when three- fourths done, dust them with a little flour; finish as (au roux blanc;) moisten them with consomme or bouillon; reduce to the consistence of a strong bouillie; season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; they are then ready for use. Another way. Pluche d'Oignons au Roux. Prepare onions as in the foregoing receipt, put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter; fry them of a fine colour; dredge, and shake them upon the fire, that the flour may be browned ; moisten with beef juice; put in salt and pepper, and make it into the consistence of sauce ; taste if good, and serve. RAGOUTS. Salpipons. Satpi^dns are made of all sorts of meats and veget- ables, such as truffles, artichoke bottoms, and mush- rooms ; but every thing must be put in in equal propor- tions ; it is necessary to have them all cooked apart, so that they may be properly done, as each requires. Salpic/on Ordinaire, Is made of veal sweetbreads, fat or half fat livers, ham, mushrooms, truffles, if in season ; cut the whole it small dices, of an equal size: when ready to serve, put them in espagnole much reduced ; put it on the fire ; shake it, without letting it boil, and serve. It may also be made with quenelles or godiveau, the white of roasted fowls, cocks’ combs, and arti-FRENCH COOKERY. 38 choke bottoms, whatever is in season, and the larder ought to regulate the cook. Ragout of Sweetbreads. — Ragout de Ris de Veau. Soak two sweetbreads in fresh water, to take out the blood ; blanch them ; put into a stew-pan one or two carrots, two onions, some parings of veal, with a bunch of seasoned parsley, and young onions; put in the sweetbreads; cover them with a thin slice of bacon; moisten with one or two spoonfuls of bouillon; do not let them swim; cover with buttered paper; let them boil; put them under the furnace, with fire over and under; let care be taken that the)’ may not be over done ; when they are enough, take them out of their seasoning ; if there is no sauce, let what they were cooked in be run through a search ; but should they be for a blanc, mix a pat of butter in a little flour, and put it with some mushrooms into the sauce; let them cook; skim, and add artichoke bottoms; the sweetbreads being cut in slices, put them in, but care must be taken that they do not boil: when ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of one or two eggs, some fine minced parsley, lemon, or verjuice, in the ordinary manner, adding a little butter to make it soft, and serve.* Ragout of Cocks' Combs and Kidneys. Ragout de Cretes et de Rognons de Coqs en Financiere. Let the combs be dressed and cooked in blanc; drain them, (see Cretes de Coqs, article des Garnitures), also the kidneys; Jet there be put a sufficient quantity of reduced veloutd, into a stew-pan, if the ragout is to be au blanc; but if roux, use reduced espagnole, adding a little consommd; if the sauce should be too thick, let the combs simmer a quarter of an hour; put them in with the kidneys an instant before serving, and some mushrooms that have been cooked, arti- choke bottoms, or truffles ; if the ragout is au blanc, * Observe, that lemon or any acid diminishes the richness of sauces, and should never be used profusedly in high-seasoned dishes.RAGOUTS. y>9 thicken as in the preceding article, and if au roux, follow the directions also in that article. Soft Roes of Carp. Ragout de Laitance de Carpes. Let two dozen of the roes of carps be taken; take out the alimentary canals, and put them into fresh water, to degorge for half an hour ; change the water, and let them be put on the side of a stove ; leave them till they become white ; let another stew-pan be ready with boiling water ; throw them in with a little salt; let them boil; take them off the.fire; have in a stew- pan four skimming-spoonfuls of [Italienne blanche, or rousse); put in the roes; let them boil once or twice; skim them, and finish with lemon juice; serve them as ragout de laitances, either in a silver stew-pan, a case, or in a vol-au-vent. A Ragout of Carp Tongues. Ragout de Langues de Carpes. Let a hundred tongues be taken; and proceed and finish as in the foregoing receipt. Truffles. Ragout mix Truffles. Take a pc and or two, as may be necessary; choose them if possible, round, heavy, and fine skinned; press them with the hand; they ought to resist, that they may neither be soft nor gluey ; if they smell of cheese they are not good; when thus picked, throw them into fresh water, and such as swim are not so good as those that remain at the bottom; brush them to take off al-1 the earth, and throw them again into fresh water, and not into hot, that they may not lose their flavour; brush them again and with a knife clear all the specks of the earth and the little wooden skewers by which they are often put together by the sellers to make them look better; wash them a third time, and more if the water still appears turbid; take them out and peel off the skin as thin as possible ; the finest are generally kept to serve in a napkin, or era croustade, the others are cut in slices or in dices, to make truffle sauce, which will be found in the follow- ing article.40 FRENCH COOKERY. Ragoui of Truffle. Ragout aux Tniffes et a HEs- pagnole. Take the truffles that may be necessary ; cut them in slices or dices; put them in a stew-pan on a slow fire with a bit of butter ; let them sweat; moisten with half a glass of wine and two spoonfuls of reduced espagnule; let them cook upon a slow fire; skim the sauce, and finish with a little bit of butter; let care be taken to mix it well whether on the fire or in shaking ; put no lemon juice, as it would take off the softness of the sauce. Another. Ragout aux Truffes a V Italienne. Prepare the truffles as in the above receipt; sweat them in butter; put in hashed shalots and parsley, salt and pepper; moisten with half a glass of white wine and two skimming-spoonfuls of espagnole; boil the sauce ; skim it, and finish with a little good oil of olives. Another may. Ragout aux Trujfes a laPiedmonlaise. Dress the truffles as directed before, but instead of butter, use olive oil, with a little bruised garlic; put them upon hot cinders that they may only shake ; after a quarter of an hour, season with fine salt and pepper; force them a little with lemon juice, and serve. Another tvay. Ragout « la Peregueux. Cut the truffles in small dices; do them in butter, put in two or three large spoonfuls of italienne rousse or espagnole, with a little white wine, and finish it with half a pat of butter : this sauce serves for par- tridges, fowls, chickens, and turkeys stuffed with truffles. Mushrooms. Observations sur les Champignons. The surest manner to discover bad ones, is to cut them with a piece of metal: when they have been so cut and the leafy substance extracted, let them lie an hour, and if they remain unchanged in their colour, being white, they may be used ; peel off the skin; lay them in oil or vinegar, making many incisions in them.41 RAGOUTS Ragout of Mushrooms. Ragout aux Champignons. Let two handfuls of mushrooms be picked and cleaned; take out the stalks; peel and pare them nicely with a knife, as also the stalks ; throw them as they are done into a stew-pan with a little water and lemon juice to whiten them ; toss them to prevent their getting red; put in a little salt, and a bit of butter; set them on a brisk fire and toss them ; then let them simmer slowly on the side of the stove till enough, which will be when they have given their juice. If to be a brown ragout, put in a slice of ham with parsley and young onions; moisten with three large spoonfuls of espagnole; take out the ham and sweet herbs when the ragout is ready to be reduced ; skim and finish with a little bit of butter; if there is no espagnole, let there be made upon a slow fire a brown roiLx of a fine colour; moisten with a ladleful of bouillon; put in a little more ham, some parings of veal, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, and an onion; cook the whole ; when enough pass it through a search, and use it in place of espagnole. White Ragout of Mushrooms. Ragout de Cham- pignons au Blanc. It is to be done as the foregoing, except that veloute is used instead of espagnole, and is thickened with yolks of eggs, moistened with milk or cream, and a bit of butter; if there is no veloutti, let the juice of the mushrooms be taken, and dredge in a little flour; run it through a search; afterwards mix it by little and little with the juice, in adding a ladleful of bouillon without colour, a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley and young onions ; simmer, skim, and reduce it to a proper degree ; thicken it as directed above, and let it be finished in the same manner. Ragout de Morilles. The morilles are of the same family, and are cooked in the same manner; prepare them as above, clearing them perfectly from the earth, and soak them in warmFRENCH COOKERY 42 water; take them out and blanch them; drain them and put them in a stew-pan with a bit of butter; pass them over the lire and add a roux sauce, if they are an roux, and white if they are au blare, and finish as above Ragout cle Mousserons. They are of the same family and grow under the moss ; they are cooked in the same manner as the morilles. Ragout of Endive. Ragout de Chicoree au Rrun. Let twelve heads of endive be taken ; wash them in several waters, plunging them often that no worms may remain ; drain them ; blanch them in a great quantity of salt and water; when they break easily with the finger they are enough ; take them out with a skimmer; put them into a pail of fresh water; drain and press them with the hands that no water may re- main ; take away the roots and the large ribs ; hash it; put it into a stew-pan with a bit of butter ; set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour to dry ; moisten it with two spoonfuls of espagnole, and one of consommd; let it cook at least an hour in stirring continually with a wooden spoon, that it may neither stick nor burn ; when sufficiently cooked, add a little salt, and serve. Another Way. Autre Manure. Proceed as in the foregoing receipt, only use a smaller quantity of veloute than of Espagnole; this ragout is finished with cream or good milk, which must be added by little and little, with nutmeg and salt. Another Way. To make it au blanc without veloute* pass it in but- ter: when dried enough, dress it lightly ; moisten it with bouillon, and put in a little salt; cook, and re- duce it; add cream or good milk and a little nutmeg. Way to have Endive when out of season. Maniere de remplacer la Chicoree dans la saison on elle manque. Take the heart of one or two cabbages; if they smell of musk take others; cut them in quarters; take * To fry it white or brown.RAGOUTS. 4.3 off all the coarse ribs ; mince them veiy fine; throw them into water; wash them well and drain them ; blanch them in the same manner as the endive, but let them have more time ; refresh them ; press out the water and hash them, and accommodate them as the endive Ragout of Spinage. Ragout d'Epinards. Pick off the stalks and the decayed leaves from the spinage ; wash them several times in a quantity of water ; blanch them on a quick boil, in a great deal of water and sufficient salt; stir and skim them; take care the water does not boil over, that the ashes may not rise over the spinage ; when they break easily under the fingers, they are enough done; take them off the fire and throw them into a drainer, and imme- diately into a great quantity of fresh water; leave them there a quarter of an hour ; put them again into the drainer ; gather them in a ball without press- ing them too much ; hash what is necessary; put them into a stew-pan with a sufficient quantity of butter to nourish them; set them upon a quick fire : stir them with a wooden spoon ; when they are dry enough and of a fine green, moisten with espagnole ; if for an entree, reduce them to the consistence of a strong bouillie; add a little nutmeg, and finish with a bit of butter ; dish and serve. Ragout of French Beans. Ragout de Haricots a la Bretonne. Pick and clean a pint of haricots dry or green, and put them into a pot with cold water, and a bit of butter without salt; while they are doing, throw in from time to time a little cold water, which will prevent them from boiling and soften them ; when cooked, drain them ; put them into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, and a spoonful or two of puree of onions au bruit and espagnole; season with large pepper and salt; toss them often and finish with butter. Ragout of French Beans in juice. Ragout dc Hari- cots au jus. Put into a stew-pan cooked haricots, with a bit ofFRENCH COOKERY. 44 butter, two spoonfuls of espagnole, one of beef-juice, salt and large pepper, and finish with butter. Garnishing of Celery. Garnitures de Celeri aux Entremets. Let twenty heads of celery be cleaned and dressed ; let their roots be nicely pared; wash them in several waters; blanch, refresh, drain, and tie them in five bunches; cover a stew-pan with slices of bacon ; put in the celery with an onion stuck with a clove, a car- rot cut in quarters, a bunch of parsley and young onions, a little salt; moisten with a little of the top pot; cover it with slices of bacon and a round of paper ; let it boil, and leave it to simmer with fire under and over; put it round what it is to be served with, such as veal-kidneys, fowls, or gigots, &c., and sauce it with espagnole or clear juice. White Ragout of Cucumbers. Ragout Blanc aux Concombres. Prepare cucumbers as is directed for garnishing; put into a stewpan three large spoonfuls of veloute, with cucumbers and a little salt; finish with a bit of butter, a little nutmeg, and serve. Brown Ragout of Cucumbers. Ragout Brun aux Concombres. Prepare the cucumbers as above; put into a stew- pan four spoonfuls of reduced espagnole, grasse or maigrc; put in the cucumbers ; skim and reduce ; add the size of a large nut of glaze or portable soup; finish with a little bit of butter, and serve. Ragout de Chipolata. Put into a stew-pan two ladlefuls of reduced es- pagnole, half a bottle of Madeira, mushrooms, small onions cooked au blanc, chesnuts prepared, small sausages a la chipolata, which must be cooked in bouillon with truffles cut in quarters ; salt and pepper : reduce and serve. Ragout of Peas and Bacon. Ragout de Pois au Lard. Take half a pound of lard or ham, or as much as may be necessary ; cut it in large dices and blanch it;U 4.GCUTS. 45 out some butter into a stew-pan, and put in the bacon or ham, and brown it of a fine colour; have some fine young pease ; put them into a vessel with the size of a walnut of butter, and let them be worked in the hands; pour fresh water over them ; leave them in it a few minutes to soften ; drain, and put them into a stew-pan to sweat ; when they become very green, moisten them with a ladleful of espagnole; add the prepared ham or lard, a bunch of parsley and young onions ; let them boil; set them on the side of the furnaces to simmer and reduce ; the ragout being sufficiently done, skim, and salt it: if it should be too salt, put in a little sugar and serve. Ragout of Olives. Ragout cTOlives. Take a quart of very green new olives ; take out the stones, put them in fresh water; when they are to be served blanch them, and put into another stew-pan three large spoonfuls of espagnole reduced; boil and skim it; when ready to serve, put the olives into the sauce; add half a pat of butter, shake and serve. Ragouts de Navets en Haricots Vierges o t o 'See article Ailerons de Poulardcs cn Haricots Vierge.) Ragout aux Points d'Aspcrges. (See Article Tendons d'Agncau.) Ragouts of small Roots. Rago uts depetites Racines Prepare small roots as is directed in the article for garnitures, &c.: let them reduce to glaze; moisten them with two or three spoonfuls of espagnole and one of consommt; let them cook ; skim, and let them reduce ; finish with about the size of a nut of butter, and a little sugar; toss, and if properly seasoned, serve. If there is no espagnole, make a little roux and moisten with bouillon or consomme; add a bunch of sweet herbs ; cook and strain the sauce ; add the roots ; let them simmer; reduce and finish as above. Ragout of small Onions. Ragout aux pctils Oignons. Follow exactly the same receipt.40 FRENCH COOKERY. Ragout a la Macedoine. (See Macedoine blanche ou rousse, at the article Entremets.) Ragout a la Godiveau. Put enough of espagnole into a stew-pan for the ragout, with a sufficient quantity of andouillettes de godiveau; add prepared mushrooms, as for garnish- ing, and artichoke bottoms cut in four or eight pieces; finish the cooking ; skim and reduce it; put in the juice of a lemon or a little verjuice, and serve, either to garnish a tart or a hot patd, or any other ragout; slices of sweetbread may be added, craw- fish, fowls’ livers, or pinions to augment it. BEEF. Rump of Beef. Bceuf Bouilli Ordinal) t. Take a rump or part of a rump of beef; bone n and bind it properly; put it into a pot as for the grand bouillon; when cooked, serve it with green ^parsley in branches, or sauce hachte or garnish with onions and roots or other vegetables : if it is served with glazed onions, take a sufficient quantity rather large ; after peeling and dressing them nicely, take off the first skin carefully, not to hurt the next; buttei very well the bottom of a saucepan; strew a little sugar over it; put in the onions with the heads down that they may be covered; moisten them with a little bouillon, that it may only cover half of the onions; put them upon a good fire ; when they boil, draw them to the side ; cook them and put fire over; attend to them, and when nearly done, put them on a brisk fire; take off the cover and reduce them, that they may fall to a glaze of a fine colour; before arranging them round the beef by means of a fork, roll them in the glaze ; put a little bouillon into the stewpan to detach the glaze, which must be poured over the beet after the skin has been taken off, and that the fat has been arranged upon such places where there is none ; serve47 BEEF. Beef and Cabbage. Bceuf garnie de Choux. Let "two or three cabbages be taken ; wash, blanch, and refresh them ; tie them and put them into a pot; if there is a braise or some good stock, use it; add carrots, two or three onions, one stuck with three cloves, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf and thyme ; and that the cabbage may be well nourished, put in u little of the top pot: let them simmer three quar- ters of an hour ; drain them upon a cloth; press them to take out the fat, in giving them the form of a roll of paste ; put them round the beef, and pour over the whole a reduced espagnole. Piece de Bceuf a\i Pain Perdue. If there is not a rump of beef take a loin; take off the under fillet, it will serve for an entree ;bone the loin; roll and tie it, and proceed as for beef a Vor- dinaire; when done, cut some crumbs of bread into shapes; beat three eggs as for an omelet; season with salt and a little cream; dip in the bread and fry it a fine brown carefully on both sides; drain it upon a cloth; drain and untie the beef; dress it upon the dish, and garnish it with the bread; and pour either an espagnole or a sauce hackee over it. Bceuf a I'Ecarlate. Take the v/hole or a part of a rump of beef; hang it for three or four days; bone and lard it with large lard; season the lard with hashed parsley and young onions, pepper, and fine spiceries; rub it with fine salt pounded and sifted, in which an ounce or two of purified saltpetre has been mixed; put the beef in an earthen vessel with a handful of juniper berries, thyme, basil, some young onions, two cloves of garlic, three or four cloves, and some slices of onion ; cover it; putting some folds of cloth be- tween to prevent the air from penetrating; leave it eight days; then turn and cover it with the same care, and leave it three or four days more ; take it out and drain it; put it in a pot with wrnter seasoned with carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it boil: and, when it boils strong, put in the beefI FRENCH COOKERY. 48 wrapt in a cloth, which must be bound with pack- thread ; let it cook four hours, constantly ; take it up and put it into a vessel of the same form ; pour over it the seasoning in which it was cooked; when cold serve it on a napkin as a ham garnished with parsley: if served hot, dish it in a strong beef stock. Rump of Beef in Jelly. Culotte de Bceuf a la Gelee oil a la Royale. Take a rump or part of its bone, and lard it with gre&t lard, as in the foregoing article; season it in the same manner; wrap and tie it in a cloth ; put it in a braising pot, after it has been dressed with the bones, five or six carrots, four onions, two cloves of garlic, a bunch of parsley and young onions, two bay-leaves, a knuckle of veal, a glass of white wine, the necessary salt, and two or three ladlcfuls of bouillon; make it boil upon a good fire; cover it with three covers of buttered white paper; let it boil upon a brisk fire ; cover it and let it cook slowly, with fire under and over it nearly four hours; when enough done, take it off; let it cool in the cloth ; run the juice through a cloth which must be previously wetted, that the fat may not go through; let it cool ; beat with a fork two whites of eggs with a little water ; put it into the juice still warm; shake it; put it upon the fire till it is near boiling; take it off, and lay over it some hot cinders; leave it a quarter of an hour ; when the sauce becomes limpid, run it through a wet cloth : let it cool, to know if too thick or too thin ; if it should happen to be too thick, put in a little bouillon; if too thin, put it again upon the fire, adding a knuckle of veal; and clarify as before. If not enough ambred, put in a little beef-juice; but if it is to be decorated with different colours, such as red and green, use a few drops of the infusion of cochineal for the former, and for the green the juice of spinage ; be equally careful to put it in by drops, as it is more beautiful when the colours are 1 .49 BEEF. light. Run the different jellies into dishes that they may be cut out the thickness of an inch at least, of different shapes, that it may be elegantly garnished ; unbind the beef and take off the outer skin nicely; pare, and dish it; garnish it with the jellies, and make a complete circle round the dish, disposing the dif- ferent colours with taste, and serve. Round of Beef. Rosbif Rond-bif ou Corne-bif. Take a round of beef, of such a size as is necessary, and as fat as possible; dry and pound-three or four pounds of salt, put it through a search, and mix fine spices and aromatics in powder; rub the beef ex- tremely well all over with it, and put it into an earth- en vessel as near as possible of the shape and'size, and strew over it all the seasoning that has been left; cover it closely over with some folds of cloth, and tie it round the vessel to exclude the air; put it in a cool place; leave it four days, then turn it, which must be continued for eight or ten days ; when it is to be used take it out, drain it, and tie it into a proper shape ; put upon the fire a round pot that will contain the beef easily; put in water, carrots, turnips, onions, four cloves, four bay leaves ; let them boil, and put in the beef; let it be put upon a turbot drainer, that it may be taken out without breaking or piercing it; let it boil three hours, dish it and garnish it with the vege- tables with which it has been cooked ; serve it with two sauces in boats; one of butter, and the other with beef-juice. Brocoli may be served also. (See Choux Brocoli, Article Entremets). It may again be served cold with English mustard and pickled cucumbers. Smoked or Hung Beef. Bccuf fume ou de Ham- bourg. Employ the same manner as above, adding salt- petre, juniper berries, and other aromatics; after twelve days skewer it, leave it to drain a whole day, and put it in the smoke for seven or eight days, taking care to turn it every four days, that it may be equally smoked; cook it exactly as the round; it maybe I)FRENCH COOKERY. 50 dished upon sour croute, and garnished with sausages, cervtlas, and petit lard, or simply with a sauce. Roasted Sirloin. Aloyau a la Broche. Take such a sized sirloin as is necessary; let the large bones be sawn off, lay it in a vessel, strew fine salt over it, and sprinkle it with olive oil, adding slices of onion and bay leaves ; leave it, if practicable, two or three days, turning it two or three times a day; when it is to be laid down, spit it nicely, rolling the flank part under to show the fat, which must be slightly pared, it makes the piece look better; cover it with strong paper, and put it down to a brisk fire, to concentrate the juice, taking care that it is neither over nor under done ; and serve with sauce hachte in a separate dish. Sirloin. Aloyau cl la Godart. Chop off part of the chine bones of -the sirloin ; lard it with large lard, season it as bceuf h I'ecarlate ; dress and tie it into a proper form ; put it into a braising pot with a bunch of sweet herbs, onions, and carrots sufficient, moisten with good bouillon, half a bottle of Madeira, half a bottle of Champagne, salt, and pep- per, let it cook upon a slow fire in such a manner that the stock may become glaze : take it out, and serve with the following ragout: — put four large spoonfuls of Espagnole into a stewpan, add to it the stock that the beef has been cooked in, when it has been skimmed and searched; cut some veal sweet- breads in slices, mushrooms, artichoke bottoms in quarters, combs and kidneys of cocks, and small eggs ; cook and skim this ragotit, and serve the beef with it; there may be added at pleasure larded and glazed sweetbreads, small pigeons a la gautier, whole truffles, quenelles, six or eight nice craw-fish, some whole artichoke bottoms, and serve. Braised Beef. Noix de Bceuf braisee. Take a noix of beef, covered with the skin, lard it with large lard, season it a I'ecarlate, arrange and tie it, put it into a stewpan with carrots, a bunch of51 BEEF. D 2 sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, two cloves, salt, a ladleful of bouillon, and a glass of white wine; when half done put in six or eight white onions ; put fire over and under ; when it is cooked take a little of the stock and reduce it, to glaze the beef and onions; dish it and garnish it with the carrots and onions ; glaze the whole, put the remainder of the stock into the glaze, and sauce the beef with it. Ribs of Beef with Roots. Cotes de Bceuf couverte de Racines. Take the covered ribs and lard them with large lard; do them in the same braise* as the foregoing article ; cut a sufficient quantity of carrots to cover the beef, blanch them, cook them in a stewpan with some of the stock of the beef; let them glaze; take a spoonful of flour and a little butter ; make a roux, moisten it; when it is very white put in the stock of the beef and cook it; skim and put it through a search over the carrots ; put the whole upon the fire with the size of a nut of sugar and a pat of butter ; toss all well together that the butter may be perfectly incorporated; pour it over the beef, and serve. The Ribs under the Shoulder.- Entre-c6te de Bceuf. The entre-cote lies under the shoulder blade; the best part is that which is nearest the covered ribs, they require to be kept to tender them, the fatter they are the more delicate. Take out the nerves, cut them the breadth of two fingers, flatten them, powder them lightly with salt, put them on a grid- iron over a brisk fire, turn them often till they are done, and serve them with a sauce (hachees), or put a . bit of butter on a dish, lay them over it, and turn them, adding a little lemon or verjuice. Fillet of Beef. Filet de Bceuf Pique a la Broche Take a nice fillet, from which must be taken the fibrous skin, and any other small nerves, without hurting the appearance of the beef; pare and cut * To braize, signifies to cook meats with vegetables and other ingredients, which, though always of that nature, vary according to the meats.52 FRENCH COOKERY out the points, and let it have only the thickness of two fingers; lard it equally all over. [A long de- scription is here given how to lard a thing which can hardly be done without practice, and what every tolerable cook is equal to.] Put it, after it is lard- ed, into a marinade or pickle, by pouring over it a little olive-oil, salt, pepper, sliced onions, and bay leaves; after it has been sufficiently marinaded, spit it, which may be done in various ways, in the form of a serpent, gimblet, or horse shoe; let i? be done be- fore a brisk fire, and serve it with a sauce (hackee or poivrade.) Fillet of Beef tvith Madeira. Filet de Bceuf au Vin de Madere. Take a nice fat fillet of beef, lard and prepare it as is directed for flet de bceuf a la broche; cover a stew- pan with carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and put slices of bacon round it; put the fillet upon the vegetables, after they have been strewed with a quarter of a pound of rasped lard; having made the fillet into the form of a gimblet, put in half a bottle of Madeira, as much stock, a little salt, and let it boil upon a good fire ; then cover with two or three rounds of buttered paper; cover it, and put hot coals over it, lessen the fire under that it may only simmer. When done, or nearly so, put the greatest part of its seasoning through a gauze search, returning what does not go through it into the wells of the fillet to nourish it, and keep it moist; put what has run through the search into a stewpan with a large spoon- ful of espagnole; let it reduce to the consistence of half glaze ; drain the fillet, glaze it, and dress it upon a dish. Finish with a bit of butter ; season it, and put it into the wells of the fillet, serve. Fillet of the Loin rvith Cucumbers. Filet d'Aloyau aux Concombres. Follow the above directions without using Madeira, put in its stead a glass of white wine and a little more soup or stock, and do in the same manner; mix a part of the stock and a spoonful of espagnole ; reduce,53 BEEF. o 3 skim, and put in the prepared cucumbers. (See Ragout de Concombres.) Fillet of Beef with Endive. Filet de Bceuf a la Chicoree. The same as the preceding article, except that there is put in the wells, or under, a good reduced endive sauce (au blanc or au roux.) Fillet of Beef with Love Apple Sauce. Filet de Boeufh’la Sauce Tomate. The same as the above, or roasted, with a tomate sauce, (see article Tomate Sauce). Fillets of Beef in their Juice. Filets de Bceuf Sautes dans leur Glace. Take off the large end and joint; cut the slices half an inch thick; if the fillet is large it may be cut into four or fewer slices; if not, flatten them, cut them with a paste cutter the size of the hollow of the hand; dip them in clarified butter; arrange them in aflat stew- pan ; put them upon a brisk fire, and turn them often that they may not lose their juice; when nearly done, drain off the butter, and replace it with a little re- duced stock; turn them often, pressing them down, that they may glaze and take the flavour ; when they are properly glazed, put them upon a dish in the form of a miroton; put into the sauce a spoonful of con- somme, to detach the glaze, finish with a bit of butter and pour it over the fillets. Potatoes turned whilst raw, the size of small onions, which may be done in butter till they have a fine colour, and put into the miroton; tomate sauce, chicoree, or turned small turnips may be used, but potatoes appear preferable. Beef Stakes. Bif Tech. Choose the middle of the fillet of beef, preserving the fat, and picking out the sinews ; cut it an inch and half thick ; flatten them, and reduce to half an inch; put them upon a gridiron over a brisk fire, turning them constantly to preserve the juice ; they require only three minutes to do if the fire is proper ;FRENCH COOKERY. 54- put a bit of butter in a dish, on >vhich lay the steaks, and turn them on it; garnish with potatoes cooked in butter or water, serve. Hotch-potch of Ox Tails. Queue de Dceuf en Hotche-pot. Cut an ox tail by the joints; degorge it well and blanch it; cover the bottom of a saucepan with paring of butcher’s meat, put in the tail; add onions, carrots, a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, thyme, basil, and two cloves ; moisten well, but do not cover the meat with soup ; cover with slices of bacon ; make it boil; cover it with a round of paper, and put it upon a moderate fire, with fire over it; let it simmer four or five hours ; when done enough it will come from the bone, drain and serve it with a ragout of roots, (see Article cotes de bceuf aux racines.) If there is no sauce, make a little roux with the size of an egg of butter, and what flour the butter will take; when melted, put it upon a slow fire ; stir it to prevent its burning; search the stock, and mix the roux with it; when enough run it again through a search ; observe that in this case roots must be pre- viously prepared, as directed for cotes de bceuf; put the roots into the sauce, that they may take a good taste ; let them boil, adding a bit of sugar, and finish with a bit of butter ; dress the tail as high as possible in the middle of the dish, and sauce it. Ox Tail with Pease. Queue a la puree de pois, Lentilles, S;c. Prepare the tail as in the foregoing article; and make the pur^e as those for potage ; finish with a bit of butter; if there is no sauce to thicken it, take some of the stock the tail has been done in, reduce it, skim, and put in a bit of sugar, salt it properly, and finish with a bit of butter ; drain and arrange it upon the dish, pour the puree over, and serve. Smoked Tongues Langue Fumee. Take the tongues, cut out the throats, and put them to degorge three hours in water ; scrape them ;BEEF. 55 D 4 let them drain ; rub them with fine salt and a sufficient quantity of salt-petre ; put the tongues in layers in an earthen dish, strewing between them bay leaves, sweet basil, thyme, juniper berries, parsley, young onions, some cloves of garlic, shalots, and cloves; cover the vessel in such a manner as to exclude the air ; leave them eight days; then tie them by the points to a long pole, and put them into the chimney till they are dry; when they are used let them be washed, scraped, and cooked in a good seasoning. (Petit salt) may be made in the same way or put into the same pickle. Hung Beef Tongues. ~Langue de Bceuf Fourree. Prepare the tongues, and clean some ox’s great puddings, which must be left some hours in water with aromatic herbs ; put the tongues into them, and tie them at the ends; have a brine made of salt, a little saltpetre, mace, cloves, ginger, long pepper, bay leaves, thyme, sweet basil, juniper berries, and coriander; boil this pickle half an hour upon a slow fire ; pass it through a search, and let it repose; pour it off clear; put the tongues well covered in it twelve days; take them out and dry them in the chimney ; aromatic herbs may be burned under them: these tongues are to be cooked in a braise. Braised Tongue. Langue de Bceuf a la Braise. Cut off -the throat from an ox’s tongue; let it degorge some hours at least; take it out, scrape and clean it perfectly ; blanch it in a boiler or pot; take it out upon a cloth, skin it, and lard it with great lard, that has been seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, parsley and young onions ; cook it in a pot with onions and carrots, moisten with good stock, and a glass of white wine ; put in the parings of butchers’ meat, fowl, or game, to give it a taste ; let it boil ; put it upon a moderate fire, cover it with paper and put fire over; let it simmer four hours and a half, dish and garnish it with the roots that have been cooked with it; pass the stock through a gauze search, add two spoonfuls of espagnole; sauce the tongue with it, and serve.56 FRENCH COOKERY. 1 ongue with Parmesan Langue deBceiif a I'ltalienne oil au Parmesan. Prepare and cook an ox’s tongue in a braise ; let it cool; cut it in very thin slices; put rasped Parmesan in a deep dish, and lay the slices of tongue over it; con- tinue doing so till three or four beds have been made, alternately of tongue and cheese ; sprinkle every layer with a little of the stock the tongue was braised in, and finish it with a covering of cheese, which must be basted with melted butter; put it into the oven, and when the cheese is of a fine colour, serve. Beef Palates. Palais de Bceuf au Gratin. Put two or three palates of beef upon the gridiron, on the skinny side, on a hot fire, let them grill till the skin will come easily off, with a knife ; scrape it well where the skin has come off, that nothing may be left; take off the point and what attaches to the throat, and file black that runs down the middle, without taking too much ; degorge and blanch them ; cook them in a blanc as is directed at the (article Tete de veau en Tortue,) three or four hours; drain them and let them cool a little ; cut them open as bacon is sliced ; cover them with cooked forced meat the same thickness ; roll them up, dress them nicely at both ends, making them equal; cover the bottom of the dish the thickness of a finger with forced meat ; range the little cannelons upon their ends round upon the forced meat, it must have the appearance of the base of a tower ; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and fill the well with a bit of crumb of bread, to keep the cannelons in their position; melt some butter and glaze them; sift crumbs of bread over; put them into the oven, apd give them a fine colour; take out the bread and the bacon; drain off the butter ; put a nice Italienne into the well, and serve. Another way. Palais de Bceuf a la Italienne. Prepare five or six ox palates; braise them as above, cut them in scollops, small squares, or in rounds, the size of half-a-crown ; put into a stew-57 BEEF. pan nve or six large spoonfuls of (Palienne rousse,) which must be reduced to two-thirds ; put in the palates, and let them simmer a little ; toss them ; put in a little lemon juice, and serve. Palates another ivay. Palais deBceuf a la Poulette. Prepare as above the same quantity of palates; cut them round or in slices; put them into a stew- pan with three large spoonfuls of veloute ; let them sim- mer ; make a thickening with two yolks of eggs, mix them with a little milk or cream ; take the palates from the fire, put in the thickening, and set them on the fire, shaking them continually; put in a little, bit of butter, lemon, or verjuice, and minced parsley. The dish may be garnished with fried corks of bread. Palaces another way. Palais de Bceuf a la Ravigote. When cut in shapes as above, toss them in a cold or hot ravigote sauce, (see that article), and serve. Palates another way. Croquettes de Palais de Bceiif. Cook three palates in a blanc, cut them as above, as also mushrooms and truffles ; reduce four spoonfuls of Espngnole or veloutd to half glaze, put in the in- gredients with minced parsley; take it off the fire; thicken w'ith two yolks of eggs and the size of a walnut of butter; put it into a dish, spread it with the blade of a knife, leaving it pretty thick ; when the salpiqon is cold, cut it in equal squares, give it my form, cutlets, cannelons, pears, or little balls; beat three eggs, put in a little fine salt, dip them all in one after another, roll them in crumbs of bread, in keeping the form that has been given them; put them on a dish ; put the crumbs of bread again through a search ; dip a second time the croquettes into the egg, pass them again; powder the dish with crumbs, put them upon it, and cover them with crumbs, that they may not dry ; when ready to serve, take them out of the crumbs, put them upon a cou-oercle, place it upon the fire, and turn the croquettes at one time, that they may have the same colour; take them off, drain and dish them upon fried parsley, d 5FRENCH COOKERY. 58 with which the croquettes are also to be covered, and serve. Palates another may. Palais de Dceiif en Cracovie. Prepare three palates as in the foregoing articles; cut each into four pieces, then slice or split each piece into two, which will give twenty-four pieces ; have a calf’s udder blanched in water, or cooked in the pot; cut it in thin slices like the palates, have also a salpiqon as is made for the croquettes ; spread the thickness of an inch of it upon the palates, roll them, and wrap each in a slice of udder ; fry them as the croquettes, or dip them into (pate a frire); fry, dish, and serve as the croquettes. Palates another may. Palais de Bceuf it la Lyon- naise. Let four or five palates be cooked in a blanc ; fry five or six onions in slices, let them have a fine colour; when cooked moisten them with a spoon- ful or two of espagjiole; if there is none, dust in a little flour, and add some broth ; cook altogether; cut the palates into squares or fillets, put them into the sauce with a little salt, pepper, and a little mustard. Tripe Gras-double. Take the thickest and fattest part of the tripe, put it into warm water, scrape it well, and take off the spungy part ; then throw it into a quantity of hot water, let it boil, and clean it enough ; rub it with a lemon, make it as white as possible; cook it in a blanc seven or eight hours; then cut it in lozenges, or fillets. If to be served h la poulette (see that article), and if a la Italienne (see that article). VEAL Ought rather to be of a greenish colour than red, very fat, the bones well covered, and the kidnies large and fat.VEAL. 59 Calf's Head. Tete de Veau au naturel, on a la Bourgeoise. Choose a very white head ; take out the bones of the under jaws, and those ot the nose as far as the eyes, without hurting the form of the head; take out the tongue without cutting it; put it to degorge in a great quantity of water ; blanch it, dress, singe, and rub it with lemon; cook it in a blanc, (see hlanc, p. 26.), wrap it in a cloth, boil, and leave it to simmer two or three hours; when ready to serve, drain it. After having skinned the tongue, prepare the brains; dress and serve with a sauce (aupauvre homme.) (See that article.) Stuffed Calf's Head. Tete de Veaufarcie. Take a nice calf’s head, and prepare it as above, only keep the eyes attached to the skin; put it to degorge; also the tongue, from which the throat must be taken; make a farce with a pound of veal, and a pound and a half of beef kidney suet; mince them separately; pound the veal; add the suet, and pound altogether ; add a sufficient quantity of crumb, which must have been steeped in cream, and after- wards dried ; fine herbs, minced and done in butter; such as mushrooms, parsley, and young onions, which must be cooled before they are mixed with the farce; season with salt, fine spices, and pepper; pound alto- gether; moisten this farce with a little water from time to time, and three or four eggs one after the other; if too firm a little water may be added; drain and wipe the head; if necessary singe it; spread the farce about two inches thick upon the head; then put on it a cold salpipon, of which the dices are larger than for croquettes ; skin, and put in the tongue in its place ; cover the salpipon with the farce; then form and sew up the head ; cover the throat with slices of bacon, or a bit of the skin of veal ; bind it close up in a cloth, take care of laying the ears properly to keep it in form; put into a pot some parings of butcher’s meat, salt, onions, carrots, two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, two cloves, a o 660 FRENCH COOKERY. bottle and half of good white wine, some braise or good soup; leave it to cook two or three hours, which must be constant; drain it, and serve it with the following ragolxt. Put into a saucepan two large spoonfuls of Espag- nole, and some white wine ; reduce it; put in six or eight quenelles of the same farce, which have been poached in soup, add some small mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms, slices of veal, and sweetbreads ; let the whole simmer, skim, dish, put the ragout round it, and garnish with craw-fish, glazed larded sweetbreads, or truffles, and serve. It may also be served with the ragout en tortue. Calf's Head another way. Tete de Veau en Tortue. Prepare a calf’s head as above, cut it in two; singe it; rub it with lemon, and cook it in a blanc ; when cooked cut it in twelve pieces ; dress these pieces on a dish, lay over it the tongue, which must be grilled; with crumbs of bread, of a fine colour (it la Anglaise;) add the brains after having divided them into five or six parts, cooked in marinade and fried in pate a frire, sauce it with ragout en tortue, garnish it with six poached eggs, twelve fine truffles, twelve craw-fish, and larded sweetbreads, and serve. Stuffed Calves Ears Orielles de Veau farcie. Clean, singe, and cook in a blanc the‘calves’ ears necessary, let them cool, and stuff them with farce cuite (see that article); unite the farce with the blade of the knife; beat some eggs;. dip the ears into them, then into crumbs of bread ; dip them into the eggs and crumbs a second time ; put them into a dish, and cover them with the remains of the crumbs ; when ready to serve, take them out and fry them; take care that the frying pan is not too hot, as the ears do not require much colour, and also that the farce may have time to cook; dish with the points up, with a little fried parsley over, and serve. Fried Calves' Ears. Orielles de Veauen Marinade. Cook five calves’ ears in a blanc ; cut them length-61 VEAL. ways in four pieces; put them into vinegar, large pepper, and salt, dip them into pate a frire, which ought to be very light (see the art.); fry them of an equal colour, turn them; let them be done upon a quick fire ; when they are of a fine colour take them off, and drain them ; dish them nicely with a crown of fried parsley, and serve. Calves' Ears another way. Orielles de Veau a la Italienne. Prepare seven or eight ears, and cook them as above; cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of lard; jput in the ears with a bunch of parsley and young onions, and some slices of lemon; moisten with stock, and half a glass of white wine ; cover the whole with slices of bacon; put over a round of buttered paper; let them cook an hour and half; drain, wipe, and cut off the points; serve them under an Italian sauce. (See that article.) Calves' Ears another way. Orielles de Veau a la Ravigote. Prepare the ears as directed above; they ought to be very white ; when ready to serve cut the points and slit the horny part; serve them upon a ravigote, cold or hot. Tongues. Calves’ tongues are served in the same manner as those of beef. Calves' Feet. Pieds de Veau. Calves’ feet are cooked in the same manner as the heads, and are eaten* (au naturel, en marinade, or a la ravigote)-, they are at enmity with fat sauces. Calves' Brains. Cervelles de Veau il la Allemande. Wash three calves’ brains, take off the skin and fibres without breaking them ; let them degorge in a sufficient quantity of water; change and pick out any fibres that may have escaped; have ready a « * Jlu naturel signifies plain boiled ; marinade is the French manner of pickling, which is excellent; and ravigote is a sauce.62 FRENCH COOKERY. stewpan with boiling water, a little salt, and a glass of white vinegar; put in the brains, and let them blanch a quarter of an hour ; cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, put in the brains, moisten with a glass of white wine and two of stock; add a bunch of parsley and young onions, well seasoned, some slices of lemon, taking off the peel and seeds ; cover with slices of bacon and a round of paper ; put them on a paillasse three-quarters of an hour ; dish, and cover with sauce a 1' Italienne. Calves' Brains. Cervelles de Veau en Matelote. Cook the quantity necessary, as above; dish and garnish with craw-fish and bread cut into peacocks’ tails, fried nicely; sauce them (ct la matelote,) and serve. Fried Calves' Brains. Cervelles en Marinade. Prepare the brains as above; divide them into five, pieces ; put them into a marinade that has been run through a search ; make a light pate a frire ; dip in it the pieces, and drain them ; fry them of a fine colour ; drain; dish with a little fried parsley on the top, and serve. Brains with Pease Sauce. Cervelles de Veau a la Purde de Pois Prepare as above ; when ready to serve, drain and masque* them with a purde de pois. Brains in Blac/c Butter. Cervelles de Veau an Beurre Noir. Prepare in the same manner as for the Allemande, when ready to serve drain, dish, and sauce with beurre noir prepared in the following manner : Put half a pound of butter into a devil f ; brown it without burning, which is avoided by shaking; when sufficiently black, skim it, pour it oft clear, wipe the pan, put into it a large spoonful of vinegar and a little salt; let it warm ; put in the black butter Masque is to cover. f A short-handed fryingpan.VEAL. 63 and shake it; sauce the brains with it; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Brains another Way. Cervelles de Veaux a la Ravigote. Prepare in the same manner as above; serve with any of the ravigote sauces; they may be garnished with small onions cooked in consomme. Calf's Liver. Foie de Veaux a la Poele. Take a very white, or otherwise a very fat calf’s liver, cut it into slices of the thickness of a crown- piece ; put into a frying pan a bit of butter, set it on a good fire, and shake it often; when the liver is firm, dust it with a little flour; shake it; and give the flour time to cook; strew over it hashed parsley and some young onions, or shalots; season with salt and large pepper; moisten it with half a bottle of red wine; shake it well over the fire, without letting it boil, as it would harden the liver: if the sauce is too thick put in a little stock, and finish it with some lemon or verjuice if agreeable, and serve. Larded Liver. Foie de Veau a la Bourgeoise, ou a lEtouffade. Lard the liver with large lard across*, that has been seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spices, basil, and thyme in powder, with parsley and young onions minced; cover a stewpan with slices of lard, onions, and carrots, two cloves, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, some parings of veal, half a bottle of white wine, and some stock; let it boil, skim it, cover with slices of bacon, and a round of paper put on a cover, and lute it; put it an hour and quarter upon a palliasse with fire over and under; when done, pass some of the seasoning through a gauze search, put it on the fire with a piece of butter rubbed in flour to thicken it; let it reduce ; if liked, a little butter of anchovies may be added ; masque, and serve. The lard ought to be well rolled in this seasoning.64 FRENCH COOKERY. Calf's, Liver with Italian Sauce. Foie de Veau a V Italienne. Take a nice white liver, cut it in slices an inch thick ; make them all of the same size, cutting them into the form of a fan ; dredge them with flour ; put some good oil into a frying pan, put in the liver, and shake over a little salt; set it on a good fire ; when cooked, which will be known by cutting it, dish it, sn cordon; sauce it with a good Italienne rousse to which the juice of a lemon has been added, and serve. Calf's Liver roasted. Foie de Veau a la Broche. Choose a fine white liver, lard with large lard the under side, which must be seasoned as that for etoujf- ade; put it on an earthen dish, with some .sprigs of parsley, young onions cut in pieces, two bay leaves, and a little thyme; strew over a little salt, sprinkle with salad oil, and leave’it to pickle ; when it is spit- ted, care must be taken to fix it properly by small skewers, that it may not turn ; then wrap it in buttered paper, which must be tied to the spit, baste and cook it an hour and quarter, but that depends upon the size apd the fire employed: when ready to serve, glaze, and put it upon a good poivrade. Calf's Lights. Mou de Veau il la Poulettc. Take a very white calf’s lights, cut it in large dices ; degorge it by changing the water often ; clear it en- tirely of the blood, put it to blanch in cold water, and give it a boil; refresh, drain, and put it in a stewpan with a bit of butter; let it come without browning ; dredge a little flour over it; turn and moisten it by little and little with stock, stirring it continually; season with salt, pepper, parsley, a bay leaf, a clove, and a clove of garlic ; let it boil upon a brisk fire, always shaking it, that the flour may keep suspended ; when three-fourths done, put in small onions and mushrooms; if the sauce is still too thin, put the greatest part into another stewpan and reduce it; then thicken with two yolks of eggs ; add a little minced parsley, and lemon or verjuice, and serve*VEAL. 65 Calf 's Lights in Brown Sauce- Mou de Veau au Roux. Prepare as above, but instead of putting it into but- ter put it into a roux, moisten and season as above ; when three quarters cooked, put in young onions and mushrooms; reduce it, and when it has attained a fine colour rousse, finish with lemon or verjuice, and serve. Veal Fraise.-~—Fraise de Veau. Take a very fat white paunch, clean, prepare, de- gorge, and blanch it well; refresh and cook it in a blanc ; when enough drain it, and serve it with a sauce (iau pauvre homme) in a sauce-boat. Veal Fraise. Fraise de Veau ci la Brisac. When cooked as above, cut it in equal pieces, put it in a highly seasoned and well reduced Italienne; it being insipid of itself, when ready to serve heighten it by lemon juice, a little oil, and rasped garlic. Veal Sweetbreads. Ris de Veau cl la Dauphine. Take five sweetbreads, cut off the throats, degorge them by changing the water often that they may be very white, give them a slight blanch to make them firm enough to lard, put one over another; dress them into a stewpan with some parings of veal, onions, and carrots, and line the sides with bacon; put in the sweetbreads ; moisten with consommd, and take care the bacon does not swim ; cover with buttered paper; let them boil, put them on & paillasse with fire over, let it be strong enough to give them a fine colour; let them cook about three quarters of an hour ; drain, glaze, and put them upon a good white endive sauce; four large crusts of fried bread may be added ; if there is no glaze, some of the stock of the sweetbreads may be reduced, and passed through a gauze search. Sweetbreads with Espagnole Sauce. Ris de Veau a I’Espagnole. Prepare, blanch, lard, and cook, as in the above article ; put their stock into a stewpan, and reduce it to glaze; put in the sweetbreads till it is complete,66 FRENCH COOKERY. glaze, turn them lightly upon the larded side, dish them, put into the stewpan a large spoonful of espag- nole, detach the glaze, sauce the sweetbreads, and serve Hatelets de ris de Veau. Prepare and cook the sweetbreads as above with- out larding ; let them cool, and cut them in slices half an inch thick; cut a veal’s tongue into slices of the same size, truffles done in butter, and boiled petit lard; have sauce aux hatelets very hot, and put in altogether ; mix them well and let them cool, then thread them, mixed upon small skewers ; pare them that they may be perfectly square ; fill up every void, cover them with the sauce, and dip them into crumbs of bread in holding them by the ends, then into an omelet, and again into the crumbs; keep them square; when ready to serve put them upon a grill over a slow fire to give them time without too njuch colour ; grill on all sides till a fine colour, and serve. Sweetbreads in Cases. Ris de Veau en Caisse. Prepare and cut the sweetbreads in slices, put them with a bit of butter, parsley, small onions, mush- rooms, salt, and large pepper, (the herbs must be minced very fine,) into a stewpan; let them simmer; have a paper case, the outside must be oiled, either round or square ; put into the bottoms an inch of farce cuite; put the case upon a grill or the cover of a tartpan that the farce may not burn ; the case ought to have a yellow tint; put in the sweetbreads or fine herbs ; sauce with a good espagnole reduced, some lemon juice, and serve. Sweetbreads in Jelly. Petit Aspic de Ris de Veau. Cook those sweetbreads more than for the hatelets, cut them in the same manner; and thread them upon small silver skewers; make them square; they may be mixed with truffles; have moulds of silver, or white iron, which will admit easily the hatelets gar- nished ; run into these moulds a warm aspic, about the thickness of two crowns, and let them cool; any67 VEAL. device may be made on these moulds, with truffles, sterchions, hard white of eggs, anchovies, or leaves of blanched tarragon; when that is done, put in the hatelets, put in the sweetbreads lightly above, but more firm in the middle, then pour in the aspic softly, till the moulds are filled; let them take, if necessary put them into ice; when ready to serve, dip the moulds in hot water; turn them, but do not take off the moulds till they are arranged upon the dish. If there is no aspic, put more veal into the sauce- pan, with the sweetbreads; clarify, and make an aspic of that stock. Sweetbreads another way. Ris de Veau a la Poulette. Cook sweetbreads as directed above; put the ne- cessary veloute into a stewpan; cut them in slices, do not do them too much; put them into the veloute, with mushrooms, already prepared (sauce de Cham- pignons) ; let it reduce, and thicken with two or three yolks of eggs; put in a little blanched minced parsley, a little butter, lemon juice may be added, and serve. Calves Tail with Peas. Queues de Veaux aux petit Pois. Take some calves’ tails, cut them through at the joints, and make a petit roux; when it is of a fine colour, put in the tails, turn them in it; the fire must be moderate, otherwise the roux may burn; when sufficiently come, moisten with stock; take care that the sauce is not too thick ; season with salt, a bunch of parsley, and young onions, a clove, and a bay leaf ; let them simmer till half done; take out the onions and cloves, put in a sufficient quantity of peas for the ragout; let them simmer, till the peas are enough ; take out the bunch of sweetherbs, shake the ragout, let it boil, skim and serve. Calves' Tails with Poulette Sauce. Queues de Veaux a la Poulettes. Prepare the tails as above, degorge them in warm water ; blanch, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit68 FRENCH COOKERY. of butter; season with parsley, and young onions, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and some onions ; put the whole upon the fire, hut do not let them brown ; dredge them with a little flour, shake, and moisten with soup, add salt and pepper; in cooking, stir or shake them often, that they may not stick; take out the sweetbreads and onions, thicken (see liaison), put in a little blanched minced parsley, with vinegar, or lemon juice, and serve. Loin of Veal. Longe de Veau. When a large entree is required, the flank part ought to be rolled under, and the large ends of the bones chopped off, to make it as square and well-shaped as possible, and when properly spitted, wrap it up in several folds of white paper, and butter the outer- most : the size of the piece, and the fire employed, must regulate the time it will take to cook. Fillet of Veal and its uses. Cuissot de Veau, et la manieres d’en tirer parti. Take a fillet of veal, and being accustomed to handle it, it will be perceived that it is formed of three distinct muscles, which the French name noix, because they are separated, and not in a general mass ; the one in the inside is called the noix, (and it is neces- sary to preserve its name, as there is no different term for it in English ;) this noix is the fattest and most tender part of the fillet; the cook once understand- ing what is pointed out, will find the means of sepa- rating it from the other: the second is the sous noix, that is what lays farther down, or under; the third noix is that called the noix patissier, which is close to the tail. The noix makes an entree, or a first course dish, the sous noix makes the farce cuite, that is to say, forced meats ; and the noix patissier, the godivcau, or veloute, which is also sauce tournde ; and all that re- mains when broken, and cut up, may be made into an Espagnole.VEAL. 69 Noix of Veal. Noix de Veau a la Bourgeoise. Take a noix of veal, with the whole udder attached to it; put it in a clean linen cloth, flatten it, and lard it lengthways, with seasoned lard, (see article noix de bceuf et culotte a Vecarlate ;) bed a stewpan with some parings of veal, and put in the noix; surround it with onions, carrots, parsley, and young onions, moisten with some good stock or soup, cover it with a strong buttered paper, and let it boil; cover, and put it upon a paillasse, with fire over and under; let it cook from an hour and a half to two hours; drain it, and search the stock to reduce it; glaze the noix, add two spoonfuls of espagnole to the glaze, to detach it: skim, and finish with a bit of butter. If there is no espagnole, a little roux may be made, and when the noix is glazed, mix it well with the re- mainder, and put a very little white wine, with some stock into it : reduce, skim, and finish with a bit of butter. The noix may be served upon endive, sorrel, spi- nage, a puree of onions, small turned roots, or the stalks of cardoons. Noix of Veal another ivay. Noix de Veau en Bedeau. Take a noix of veal as above, prepare it in the same manner ; cover the udder with a slice of bacon, to preserve it white ; cook it in the same way, with fire over and under; glaze it, and serve it upon chicory, cucumbers, or sorrel, either in juice or in bechamelle. Larded Veal Noix. Noix de Veau piquee• Beat a noix of veal, take off the udder ; pare, and glide a knife over, to unite it; lard it all over; marque * it in a stewpan as the above; put the onions under it. to give it a roundish form, moisten with good soup or stock, but do not wet the lard ; when done, glaze it, and serve upon an espagnole, or endive. Veal Grenadins. Grenadins de Veau.. Take a noix of veal, beat, and split it quite through ; * Marque is to put it in with the proper ingredients.70 FRENCH COOKERY. then beat both lightly, to flatten them a little; cut each into three or four pieces, taking care to cut them in long lozenges; make one piece perfectly round ; cut the lard very equal, and lard the whole ; marque a stewpan with the parings of the veal, two carrots, and onions cut in two; put a gradine upon the largest side of each onion, care must be taken in arranging them in the stewpan, that they do not touch each other; season with parsley, young onions, a bay leaf, and a clove; moisten with stock, but take care that it does not rise to the lard; cover it with buttered paper, let it boil over a brisk fire, then put it to simmer, with some very hot cinders over, to make it take a very fine gold colour; let it cook an hour, strain, and glaze it; put it upon a puree of any sort, either mushrooms, sorrel, endive, &c. dish it en rose, with the points towards the middle, where the round is placed. Manchons a la Gerard. Prepare a noix as above, and cut it lengthways in four or five pieces ; let them be rather more than half an inch thick; beat them with the blade of the hatchet, then with the back of a knife, and make the strokes very near each other both ways, so as to cut the fibres completely; take some quenelles, into which much white of eggs has not been put, and roll it up in three pieces of the noix, in the form of rolls, and then cover them with a thin layer of the same farce; cut the re- maining slices of the noix into pieces of two fingers’ breadth, lard them carefully, put them upon the ends of the manchons, stitch them on to keep their form, cut a small truffle very fine, and powder one with it, taking care not to touch the larded part; mince in the same manner pistachios to powder another, and for the third sweet almonds ; cover the manchons so as that the farce may not be perceptible ; marque them in a stewpan with slices of bacon as above, and do them in the same way, only taking care not to put so much fire over ; drain, and unstitch them ; glaze the larded ends, and serve upon a good Espagnole, or a sauce aux truffles.71 VEAL. Hatereaux. Prepare a noix as above, but cut it a little thinner; beat, and cut it in pieces of three inches long, and four broad ; lard them with care lengthways, and turn the larded side down upon a cloth, and cover them with the following farce. Take as much farce cuite as will make nine hatereaux, in mixing with it a third of fat livers, truffles, and mushrooms cut in small squares ; mix it with a wooden spoon, add two or three yolks of eggs, salt, and fine spiceries ; put this farce upon the hatereaux and roll them up in such a man- ner that the two ends meet; fix them with a skewer, and fasten them upon the spit, cover them with paper, and baste them with butter: dish them under a thick Italienne rousse or blanche; serve. Popiettes de Veau. Take part of a noix ; cut it in very thin slices ; beat it wrell every way, cover with farce cuite of fowl or veal, roll it up in the same manner as the hatereaux, and tie or stitch it to preserve the form ; cover the stewpan with slices of lard, put them in with a small ladleful of stock, a glass of good white wine, a bunch of parsley and young onions; season with a clove, a clove of garlic, and a little sweet basil; cook it three quarters of an hour ; pass the stock through a gauze search, put in two large spoonfuls of espagnole; re- duce, skim, and drain the popiettes; glaze, and serve. Filets Mignons de Vea . Take six fillets mignons, lard three, and decorate the other three with truffle or ham ; marque them as thefricandeau, cook them in the same manner; glaze and serve them upon a ragout of endive, sorrel, or any other. FORE QUARTER OF VEAL. Quartier du devant de Veau. This piece is divided into the shoulder, the breast, and the back ribs; the French call the breast the tendons, and the back ribs the quarrd or square. The72 FRENCH COOKERY. shoulder may be served roasted, and to make blan- quettes of it; may also be made into soups, but not with such advantage as the parts generally used ; this piece is of great use for the table, as many delicate dishes are formed from it; the noix, which is bedded in fat near the neck, is particularly esteemed by the gourmands. Blanquettes de Veau. When a shoulder has been served roasted, cut oft the meat in pieces, and flatten with the blade of the knife ; pare and take off the brown skin and mince it; reduce some veloute and put in the veal, but do not let it boil; thicken with as many yolks of eggs as are necessary; add verjuice or lemon, and a little bit of butter; there may be added parsley and young onions minced; and serve. Tendons of Veal. Tendons de Veau a la Poulette ou au Blanc. Take a breast of veal, cut out the tendons which lie round the front of the breast, from the red bones, over which they lay, and cut them into the form of oysters; degorge, blanch, and refresh them; cover a stewpan with slices of lard, and some parings of veal; put in the tendons, and season writh a bunch of sweet herbs, some slices of lemon, three or four carrots, with the same quantity of onions; moisten with stock, make it boil, let it simmer upon a paillasse, two or three hours : before taking them up, put in the point of the knife, if it enters easily they are enough ; drain and serve in every different way. Tendons of Veal in Pedcoclcs' Tails. Tendons de Veau en Queues de Paon. The same procedure as the above article, only that the form is to be different; after flattening the breast, it is to be cut in pieces of three or four inches, and narrowed at the upper end, to give them a long heart shape ; flatten with the blade of the hatchet; degorge, blanch, cook them as above, with the sole exception of leaving out the lemon. If there is no sauce to serve73 VEAL. them in, pass the stocx they have been cooked in through a gauze search, reduce it and glaze them, and put into what remains a little bit of roUx; melt or mix them over the fire, moisten with stock and a quarter of a glass of good white wine, put in ten chips of mushrooms or truffles, boil, skim, and search it; reduce it to the consistence of sauce ; and finish in putting a bit of butter into it by shaking and vanning ; sauce the tendons, adding small onions, asparagus tops, or a ragout of mushrooms. Caper ole de Biz. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain and put it into a stewpan ; moisten it with the top of the stock pot by degrees as it swells ; shake it often, to pre- vent its sticking, but in a manner not to break it; take care that it is well nourished, that it may be fat enough ; put in a little salt; when done take a piece of bread the size of the dish it is to be served upon, and mould the rice round as if it were paste, and fix it well upon the dish; cover the bread with a slice of bacon; put the rice into a mould that has been buttered to cover it; close it well, forming it nicely; mark the cover where it is to be opened when it is done ; put it in a very hot oven, let it take a fine colour; when ready to serve, take off the top with care, and empty it by taking out the bread, and fill it with any ragout that is suitable, put on the cover and send it to table. Tendons de Veau en Macedoine. Prepare these tendons as before, in any shape, and cook them in the same manner; dish them upon a macedoine, as indicated at that article. Tendons de Veau panes et grilles. Prepare the tendons as oysters or peacocks’ tails, do them in crumbs, either in the French or the English way, give them a good colour, and serve them over sauce (poivrade, pauvre homme, or an Ita- lienne.) Tendons de Veau a la Mayonnaise, When the tendons are cooked let them cool and EFRENCH COOKERY. 74 pare them ; again dress them en cordons around the dish, make a border of small onions that have been cooked in soup or stock, and cardoons intermixing with them, but do not garnish till sauced with a mayon- naise, and serve. Tendons de Veau a la Bavigote. Prepare the tendons in form of oysters; let them cool, and pare them; border the dish with but- ter; arrange the tendons en cordon, cover with a cold ravigote; but if served hot make the border of bread. Fried Tendons. Tendons de Veau a la Marinade. After the tendons are well cooked, put them into marinade, give them a boil, let them cool, drain them well, dip them into a light {pate a fire), put them carefully into the frying pan, keeping their form; do not let them run together; let them take a fine co- lour ; lay them on a cloth to drain; dish, and cover them with a little fried parsley. Tendons de Veau a la Villeroy. Prepare the tendons the same as for the poullette; put in rather more thickening, and some lemon ; let them cool, and cover them well with their sauce; strew them with crumbs, and dip them into an omelet; crumb them a second time, and fry them ; serve them either over or under fried parsley. Veal Cutlets. Cotelettes de Veau. Take some ribs of very white veal, cut them of an equal size, taking away the back bone; pare the fillets, take off the skin and nerves, and flatten them and round them at the broad end; take off a little of the flesh at the other end of the bone, and scrape it with a knife ; see that the bone will not appear too much when done, if so, cut it shorter; they may, thus prepared, be used plain, larded, or any other way. Another Way. Cotelettes Piquees. Prepare the cutlets as above, preserving the skin, which must be tied, that it may not shrink from the75 VEAL. lard ; lard the cutlet in two rows, cover a stewpan with the parings, two onions, some carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs, moisten with broth, stock, or water; if water is employed, put in a little salt; cover with a round of buttered paper, and cook them in the same manner as granadins; drain and reduce the stock, and use it to glaze the cutlets, and serve upon sorrel, endive, cucumbers, young pease, love apples, a. puree of mushrooms, or a good Espagnol. Another Way. Cotelettes a la Chingara. Cut six or seven cutlets thicker than directed in the last article ; lard them with finer lard, intermixed with ham * ; marque them as above, and cook them in the same manner ; after they are done let them cool, pare them, and cut off the points of the lard, &c. which project; reduce the stock to glaze, and put in the cutlets ; take a smoked or reddened neat’s tongue, cut it in thin slices, shaping them to the cutlets ; warm them in soup, and glaze them ; arrange them altogether on the dish en cordons, intermixing them ; put two large spoonfuls of Espagnol into the stewpan to detach the glaze; finish with a little bit of butter, and serve. The remainder of the neat’s tongue may be hashed and added to the sauce, which in that case ought not to be boiled; add a little more butter to render it smooth: put it into the well of the cutlets, and serve. Veal Cutlets. Cotelettes de Veau Sautees. Take seven cutlets# pare and flatten them ; melt a quarter of a pound of butter, dip in both sides of the tutlets, and arrange them in such a manner, that they may not lay over one another, put them over a slow fire and turn them often; when they are three fourths done pour off the butter, and add the size of two thumbs of glaze, and a large spoonful of stock ; put them over a brisk fire, turn them often and let them be laid flat * Put them in the stewpan with the seasoning, as in the fore- going article. i: 2FRENCH COOKERY. 76 in the pan, that the glaze may be able to penetrate; when they are enough and well glazed, dish them en cordon ; put a little stock into the sauteuse to detach the glaze, reduce and put in a bit of butter and lemon juice ; mix all well without boiling by shaking the pan ; masque, and serve. Veal Cutlets with Ham. Cotelettes de Veau au Jambon. Pare six cutlets as in the preceding article, and cook them in the same way ; when they are served, put between them slices of the noix of ham, as the tongue a I’ecarlate was arranged between the cutlets chingara or ham. Veal Cutlets. Cotelettes de Veau au Nature!. Prepare the necessary quantity of cutlets, and sprinkle a little salt over them, dip them in melted butter, and put them on the gridiron ; turn them often, and baste them with melted butter; let them be of a fine colour; when they are enough done they will remain firm when they are pressed with the finger, dish them and sauce with good beef juice or sauce au pauvre homme, and serve. • Crumbed Veal Cutlets. Cotelettes de Veau Panees. The only difference from the above article is, that after the cutlets have been dipt in butter, they must be rolled in crumbs and done upon a slower fire. Veal Cutlets in Paper. Cotelettes de Veau en Papillotes. Prepare the cutlets and put them with butter, as above, to come upon the fire : let fine minced parsley, mushrooms, and small onions be added in equal quan- tities, a little rasped bacon, with salt, pepper, and fine spices; let them simmer; when enough, take out the fine herbs and add to them a large spoonful or two of Espagnol, or veloute, and reduce ; taste if it is good, and thicken with a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs; let it cool: cut the paper covers in the form of kites, and oil the middles where the cutlets will be placed; put a very thin slice of bacon upon the77 VEAL. e 3 paper, then half a spoonful of fine herbs upon the bacon, and lay over it a cutlet, then more herbs, co- vering them with another slice of bacon ; wrap up the cutlet, tie the joint with a thread, oil the paper or papiUotes all over, grill them, taking care that the paper does not burn ; let the paper take a fine colour, untie, and serve. Breast of Veal larded. Carre de Vean Pique. Take a fine breast of veal, chop off the ends of the chine-bones, cut slightly the skin lengthways that covers the fillet, without spoiling it; take the nerve out, and the skin olf that covers it, by gliding the knife between the skin and the flesh of the fillet; pare it well and beat it lightly; then lard it (see Art. Ris de Veau) and marque it in a stewpan (in the same manner as the noix de veau); when it is done, glaze and serve it over any ragout. Petites Noix d'Epaules de Veau. Take fifteen of the small shoulder noix of veal; blanch, refresh, and pare them, leaving the fat which generally surrounds them entire ; marque a stewpan with onions, carrots, parings of veal, herbs, half a bay leaf, and two cloves; put in the noix, with a little stock or broth; cover with slices of bacon and a round of paper ; an hour before serving make them boil, let them then simmer with fire under and over; drain, glaze, and serve them upon apuree of mush- rooms, or any other. Noix de Veau a la Gendarme. Pare a noix of veal as for a hedeau; lard the under side with seasoned lard, and ham ; put it into a deep dish, and marinade it with onions cut in slices, parsley, young onions, bay, garlic, thyme and basil, adding salt, pepper, and oil ; leave it in this marinade twenty- four hours ; spit it with the seasoning; when it is enough done, let it take a colour, and serve it with a poivrade sauce.78 FRENCH COOKERY. MUTTON. The best mutton is that which has the deepest colour, and the finest white, the leg short and thick : the male is preferable: it is in season during ten months, as it is apt to taste of the wool for some weeks after it is shorn.* The hind part of Mutton roasted. Rot-de-Bif de Mouton a la Broche. Take a saddle of mutton, with the haunches ; break the bones, beat them several times with the blade of a hatchet; put one of the knuckles through the other, break the ribs, and roll the flank under, and skewer them into a good form ; take some of the kidney fat out; put a small skewer into the back marrow ; spit it, and secure the knuckles well together; put a skewer through the noix, or thick part of the legs, and another between, that it may be well secured, so that it may not turn upon the spit; cover the whole with buttered paper; it will take to cook from an hour and half to two hours, which depends upon the strength of the fire, and the size of the piece ; serve it with juice under or upon (haricots a la bretonne). Braised leg of Mutton. Gigot Braise, ou a la Braise. Take a good leg of mutton, take out all the bones but the shank, lard it with great lard, well seasoned with fine spices, salt, basil in powder, pepper, parsley, and small onions, minced ; tie it up in its own form; marque a pot with some parings of butchers’ meat, five or six onions, and as many carrots; put the mutton over it, moisten with good broth, and half a glass of brandy, two bay leaves, three cloves, two heads of garlic, and a little thyme ; let it boil, cover it with paper, and simmer with fire over and under : it will take from four to five hours, drain, glaze, and serve it, with its juice, or on a ragout of endive, or any other. * The French mutton is generally much smaller than the English, and this ought to be observed, as where two carris are sometimes ordered, one might do.79 MUTTON. Leg of Mutton a la Gasconne Gigot a la Gasconne. Take a leg as above, lard it with a dozen of heads of garlic, and a dozen of anchovies in fillets.; cook it on the spit, and serve it with a ragout of garlic, pre- pared as follows; pick a pint of garlic, blanch it by giving it several boils, when nearly done, throw it into fresh water ; drain and put into a stewpan four or five spoonfuls of reduced Espagnol, and two of beef juice ; put in the garlic, reduce, and serve it under the mutton. Boiled leg of Mutton. Gigot a I’eau. Put a leg of mutton into a pot of boiling water, season with carrots, onions, a bunch of parsley, and young onions, two cloves, bay, thyme, basil, and two cloves of garlic ; give it two hours to cook; drain, glaze it, and serve it over an Espagnol. Gigot en Chevreuil. Take a leg of mutton that has hung a sufficient time ; beat it well, and take off the outer skin; lard it as a veal noix; put it into an earthen dish, with a handful of juniper berries, and a little mdilot ; pour over it a strong marinade, into which a much greater quantity of red vinegar has been put than is generally used; lei the leg marinade five or six days, drain, and roast it; send it to table with a good poivrade. Roasted saddle of Mutton. Selle de Mouton a la Broche. Take a saddle of mutton, and break the ribs; roll the fillets, and skewer them ; spit it, and give it an hour and half, and serve it with a clear juice. Saddle of Mutton another wap. Selle de Mouton a la Sainte Menehould. Take a saddle of mutton, take out the large ribs, roll the fillets, take off the skin, spread over it a Sainte Menehould, and strew crumbs over, into which about an eighth part of rasped Parmesan has been put; baste the saddle with butter ; put it into the oven, give it a fine colour, and serve it upon a clear juice.FRENCH COOKERY. 80 Fillets of Mutton. Petites Selles de Mouton, ou de Carbonnades. Cut out three carres of mutton between the haunch and the ribs, what is called the fillet; cut each into two long hearts, or peacocks’ tails ; pare the skin and nerves off three of them, and lard, and marque them with the others, in the same manner as the saddle d lei Sainie Menehoulde; when they are done drain them upon a cover, take off the skin of those that were not larded, and that which remained of the others; dry them a little with a hot poker, glaze the whole, and serve them with a ragout of small roots, endive, ■puree of sorrel, or a love apple sauce. Fore-quarter of Mutton. Ronchis de Mouton. Take a fore-quarter of mutton ; begin by boning the breast and the ribs, then take the side ribs quite out, as well as the chine and the neck, that nothing may remain but the blade bone; fix it in its form by skewers, spit it like a shoulder, roll it, give it near an hour, and serve it upon [haricots d la breionne?) or upon a ragout of celery. Shoulder of Mutton in a ball. Epaule de Mouton en Ballon. Take a large shoulder of mutton without spoiling the carre; bone it entirely ; season great lard with salt, pepper, fine spices, parsley, and small onions hashed, and powdered aromatics put through a search; roll the lard well in this seasoning, lard the meat without piercing the skin, then with a needle and thread draw up the skin round the shoulder, and form it as a button into a ball; marque a stewpan with carrots, onions, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and the bones of the shoulder, which must be broken ; put in the ball upon the sewed side, moisten with bouillon, and cover it with some slices of bacon, and a round of paper; let it boil, and put it for two or three hours upon the paillasse, with fire under and over, or under a furnace; when ready to send to table glaze it, serve it on a purle of sorrel or tomate, (unc chicoree blancheMUTTON". 81 e 5 au jus,) a ragout of small roots, or an espagnole that has been mixed with the remainder of the glaze. Mutton Cutlets. Cotelettes de Mouton au Naturel. Take the ribs of mutton, which the French call carre ; cut the cutlets equally in two ribs, if it is large divide them, cut them from side to side, and separate them with the hatchet; take off the back bone, and from the fillet side, take off the skin, and the nerves that cover them, flatten them a little, and pare them anew ; scrape the inside with the back of the knife, cut the end of the bone, take off the flesh at the point of the bone, and clear it nearly half an inch ; melt some butter, dip in the cutlets, and put them upon the gridiron; turn them often, that the juice may not be lost; serve them over a clear juice. Cutlets with Crumbs. Cotelettes de Mouton pant'es. Prepare as above, dip them in butter, and strew crumbs over; grill with care, and serve without sauce. Cutlets in a Minute. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Minute. Prepare twelve cutlets as above ; put them into a sauteuse with melted butter; put them on the fur- nace, turn them often; when they are done drain them from the butter; put in a small piece of glaze and a large spoonful of stock; shake and turn them ; let them be well seasoned with their juice ; when they are well glazed dish them en cordon; put in another spoonful of stock to detach the glaze ; add a small bit of good butter; mix the whole by shaking; pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Cutlets of Mutton another way. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Jardiniere. Prepare these as above, and dress them in the same manner ; make a ragout of every kind of turned root, mushrooms, haricots, and green pease, all cooked in soup ; the haricots and pease must be very green ; put into a stewpan three or four large spoonsful of Espagnol; put in the vegetables ; let it simmer, and reduce ; skim and finish with a bit of butter and a littleFRENCH COOKERY. 82 grated sugar; put this ragodt in the middle, aqd over it a fine branch or small cauliflower. Cutlets with Endive. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Chicoree. Cook and dress these cutlets as the above, putting in the middle a reduced chicory roux, or blanc. Cutlets in Soubise. Cotelettes a la Soubise. Cut these cutlets from between the bones; pare and flatten them a little; lard them with small lard and ham equally; marque a stewpan with the parings of the cutlets, three or four onions, two carrots, and a bunch of parsley and small onions, well seasoned; put in the cutlets, with as much stock as will nearly cover them; cover with slices of bacon, and over all a strong buttered paper; let them boil, and put them on a paillasse, with fire under and over; when done drain, pare anew, as also the lard that projects ; put the stock through a gauze search ; reduce it nearly to a glaze; return the cutlets into it; turn and glaze them on both sides; dish en cordon, and put in the middle a nice puree of onions; border the dish with small onions, which have been cooked in stock ; if the onions are well fixed, a branch of raw parsley may be stuck in each, and serve. Breast of Mutton Carre de Mouton a la Servante. Take two breasts of mutton; take off the skin, and pare the fillets ; lard them as directed at (carbonnadcs), one of lard and the other branches of parsley; spit them, and give them from half to three-quarters of an hour, basting them often ; dish them with the fillets outward, and send them to table with a clear juice. Breast of Mutton in Ericandeau. Carre de Mouton en Ericandeau. Take a carrd and lard it with fine lard, and put into the stewpan the parings and any other remains of butchers’ meat; lay the carrd over them ; add two carrots, two onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; moisten the whole with a ladleful of bouillon, and cover with buttered paper; finish in the same manner as the granadins de veau : when done drain it, takeMUTTOX. £3 e 6 off the skin that covered the sides, and glaze the the fillet, or the whole of the carr'e ; send it to table upon a. puree of sorrel, or a ragout ot chicory. Small Fillets of Mutton. Filets mignons de Mouton. Take twelve small fillets of mutton ; pare and lard them ; marque them in the same manner as the car- bonnades; glaze, and serve them upon a ragout of cucumber, or any other. Minced Mutton with Cucumbers.——Emincd de Filets de Mouton aux Concombres. Take the noix front a cold roasted leg of mutton, free it from the skin and fat, cut it in fillets of an inch and half square; mince these fillets, and mix them into a boiling reduced mince of cucumbers, taking , care that it does not boil after the mutton is put in ; it may also be served with endive. Hashed Mutton. Hachis de Mouton a la Portugalse. Prepare as above, but hash the mutton more; have some Espagnol reduced to half glaze, put in the mince, shake it well over the fire. It must not boil; put in a bit of butter and large pepper: if the hash is not thick enough put in a bit of glaze ; have a dish bordered to serve it up in; sprinkle it with a little reduced Espagnol, and lay .over it eight or ten poached eggs. Haricot of Mutton. Haricot de Mouton a la Bour- geoise. Cut .a breast of mutton in pieces, put them into a saucepan with butter, and let them take a fine colour over a brisk fire ; when done drain them, and put carrots and turnips which have been prepared into the stewpan, and give them a good colour; drain them ; have ready a roux, put in the mutton, set it on the fire, and moisten it; season with pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, one clove, a bay-leaf; add the turnips and carrots ; when three- fourths done, let it simmer; skim it; if the sauce is too thin, take out some, and reduce it: dish the haricot, cover it with the vegetables, and serve.FRENCH COOKERY. 84- Breasts of Mutton. Poitrines de Mouton. Take two breasts of mutton, cut off the ends of the flanks and the red bones of the breast; nick the joints, and put it to cook with a good seasoning, in the stock pot, or in a braziere; it will be enough when the ribs come easily out; take off the upper skin, pare again, and round the flanks, strew crumbs over it, season with salt and pepper; grill, and serve with sauce (au pauvre homme). Necks of Mutton. Collets de Moutons a la Sainte Menehould. Take two necks of mutton, pare the ends care- fully, cut the points, and marque them in a braize ; if there is none, put into a stewpan parings of butchers' meat, some chips or slices of bacon, three carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with a clove, two bay-leaves, thyme, basil, two cloves of garlic, a bunch of parsley, young onions, and salt; moisten with soup or water ; cover with buttered paper ; let them boil and cook upon a paillasse two or three hours, with fire over and under ; when enough pare them, cover them with a Sainte Menehould; strew them with crumbs, mixed with a little rasped parmesan ; sprinkle it again, and put it into an oven to take a colour ; dish, and sauce it with a brown Italienne. Necks of Mutton Grilled Collets de Moutons Grilles. Take three half necks of mutton, cut off the bloody ends, blanch and cook them in the stock pot; when they are enough, strew crumbs of bread over; grill them nicely ; send them to table with sauce [au pauvre homme, or a poivrade). Mutton Tails with Endive. Queues de Moutons Glacees ii la Chicoree. Take five fat mutton tails and degorge them in warm water, blanch and cook them in a braise as the necks of mutton ; drain, wipe, and joint them, dry them with a hot poker, glaze and serve upon endive, spinage, a puree of sorrel, or any other ragodt. Notch Botch of Mutton Tails. Queues de Moutons en Hoche-pot. Take six mutton tails, blanch and braise them with85 MUTTON. nearly half a pound of bacon cut in large dice, on which the skin has been left; carrots and turnips, with some celery and small onions; blanch these, and cook them by themselves in soup ; it is necessary that each vegetable should be done to its point, and that their stock should be reduced to glaze ; put into a stew-pan a sufficient quantity of espagnole, with the vegetables, and the lard which has been taken from the braise; skim the vegetables, and let them reduce; dish and put the tails upon them; if the tails have not been glazed, then it will be necessary to dish them under the ragout. Mutton Tails. Queues de Moutons au Soleil. Cook six mutton tails in a braise, let them cool ; cover them wfith a cold sauce; (aux hatelettes); roll them in crumbs, and dip them into an omelet; roll them again in crumbs, and fry them of a fine colour ; serve them upon a bunch of fried parsley dressed to a point. Mutton Tails in Chesnut Soup. Terrine de Queues de Moutons. Braise six sheeps’ tails, add to them a pound of the breast of bacon ; prepare, bone, and poele six or eight turkeys’ pinions : take a hundred chesnuts, shell them, put them into a sauce-pan with about the size of an egg of butter; toss them upon the fire till the inner skin separates ; take them off, put them into a stew-pan with broth to cook : when they are done take the blemished ones and pound them; when the tails are done, run a part of the braise through a gauze search, and use it to moisten the puree of ches- nuts ; rub them through a search as any other pur(e ; then reduce in adding a large spoonful of espagnole ; skim it; drain the tails and pinions; dish in a tureen with the petit lard, cut in large dice, and the whole chesnuts ; finish the pun'e with a bit of butter ; taste if it is good, and put it over the meat in the tureen. Grilled Kidneys. Rognons de Moutons u la Bro- chette. Take twelve kidneys, give them a slight cut roundFRENCH COOKERY. 86 the middle, that the skin may be taken off; split them, but not entirely, and spit them with wooden skewers, cross ways, to keep them open; grill, turn- ing them properly ; when they are done, take out the skewers; dish, and put into each a little cold mattre- d’hdtel; warm the dish, and squeeze a little lemon juice over. Kidneys in Champagne. Rognons de Moutons an vin de Champagne ou a Vltalienne. Skin fifteen kidneys, and mince them; put them into a stew-pan with the size of an egg of butter; do them upon a brisk fire till they are hardened; drain them, and put them into an italienne sauce, with half a glass of Champagne, which has been reduced nearly to glaze ; finish by shaking them in this sauce without allowing them to boil Animelles de Moutons. Skin two pair of those ; cut them in slices, the size of the little finger, and about half the thickness. Marinade them in lemon juice, salt, pepper, branches of parsley, and onions; drain when ready to serve; dredge and fry till they are crisp, and serve with or without fried parsley. Spinal Marrow. Amourettes ou Moelle Alonge de Mouton. Proceed in the same manner as directed for veal. Mutton Brains. Cervelles de Moutons. These brains, though less delicate than those of veal, are dressed in the same manner, and often served instead of them. in Paper. Langues de Mouton en papillotes. Take a dozen of sheeps’ tongues, degorge and blanch them a quarter of an hour ; refresh and drain them; take off the skin; cover a stew-pan with slices of bacon, and marque it with onions, carrots, parsley, young onions, a clove of garlic, and a bay leaf, mois- ten with bouillon; make it boil and simmer three Mutton Tongues87 MUTTON. hours ; let the tongues cook in the braise; then pre- pare little paper bags, such as grocers turn and pinch at the bottom, which theFrench call cornets,from their resemblance to horns ; they must be oiled on the outsides; hash two handfuls of mushroom chips, with half as much parsley and young onions ; put all into a stew-pan, with half a pound of butter, salt, pepper, fine spices, and a quarter of a pound of rasped lard ; pass and let them cook slowly; shake them that they may not stick; when nearly done put in two large spoonfuls of veloute ; let them simmer, thicken with three yolks of eggs, and pour it over the tongues; put one into each cornet, and fill them them up with fine herbs; close them firmly, and put them on the grill over a slow fire ; turn them carefully that they may take a good colour. Mutton Tongues in Forced Meat. Langues de Mouton an Gratin. Cook in a braise, as in the foregoing article, a suf- ficient quantity of sheeps’ tongues ; let them cook in the same manner that they may taste of the season- ing ; take [ farce cuite) and cover the dish (see gra- tin) ; cut the tongues in two without separating them ; put them on the farce, and cover them with it in such a manner, that they shall keep their form, and garnish with the same ; unite all well together, and cover lightly with melted butter; put a border round the dish of bread that has been cut in the form of corks, to preserve their shape ; put it into the oven, or with fire over and under to gratiner ; take care that it has a fine colour, without burning ; when ready to serve, take out the bread, and substitute more that has been fried in butter, of a fine colour; sauce with a good italienne reduced. Mutton Tongues, another voay. Langues de Mou- tons a la Brctonne ou en Crepme. Cook eight tongues in a braise as they are done in the foregoing articles ; cut fifteen large onions in slices ; put into a stew-pan a quarter of a pound ofFRENCH COOKERY. 88 butter with the onions, and when they brow'n a little, dust in some flour, and let it brown with them ; mois- ten with espagnole ; put in a little more flour; season with salt, pepper, and fine spices; let them reduce to the consistence of strong stock, and let them cool : take some pig’s Jraise or cauls, soak them in water; cut the tongues in two and take off the points; cut the Jraise in pieces; lay on each a spoonful of bretonne, and over it half a tongue, wdiich is to be covered with bretonne; wrap it up so close that nothing may es- cape, and give them the form of large flat sausages; let them be grilled for a quarter of an hour; before serving, turn and give them a fine colour. Mutton Tongues with Parmesan. Langues de Mou- tons au Parmesan. Let the tongues be cooked in a braise with very little salt; cut them in two ; put a little espagnole or veloute in the dish, and cover it with about the thick- ness of a crown of rasped Parmesan ; arrange the tongues over the Parmesan ; wet them with espagnole or veloute, and strew crumbs of bread mixed with Parmesan, about the same quantity as wras put into the dish ; baste with butter and put it into the oven, or with fire under and over, till they are of a fine colour. Langues de Moutons a la Matelote. Braise and mask with a sauce a la matelote. Sheep's Trotters. Pieds de Mouton h la Poidette. Take the necessary quantity of sheeps’ trotters ; pre- pare and clean them with great care; cook them in a blanc; when they are enough done, drain and put them into a stew-pan with a sufficient quantity of ve- loute; seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little minced blanched parsley; let them stew, and when ready to serve, thicken with the yolks of three eggs, and a- little verjuice or lemon. If there is no veloute, make a little white roux; moist- en with broth, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, two cloves, a little garlic, a bay leaf, and some89 LAMB. mushroom chips: let this sauce cook at least three quarters of an hour, turning it carefully ; take out the onions; put the sauce through a tammy ; let it reduce, and throw in the trotters: finish as above, only in this case, it must be finished with a bit of butter. Trotters in Sauce. Pieds de Moutons a la Sauce Robert. Prepare the feet as above; put them into a sauce Robert; let them stew, season them, and finish with a little mustard. Trotters another Way. Pieds de Moutons a la Ravigote. Prepare the trotters as above, and masque them with a cold ravigote. LAMB. Lamb is in season from the latter end of December to the beginning of April, and none is reckoned deli- cate but such as have been entirely fed upon milk; it ought to be chosen white, fat, and thick. Lambs' Heads. Tetes d’Agneaux tl la Poulette. Take two lambs’heads, take out the jaw-bones, lift up the skin, and cut out the bone close to the eyes ; degorge, blanch, and singe them; rub them with lemon to make them white ; cook them for two hours in a blanc, take care that they are not over done; drain and take off the skull ; take out the brains ; pick off the skin and veins ; skin the tongues; cut them in two ; cut the ears ; dish and sauce them with a good poulette. They may be served with a green hollandaise ; the pluck or haslet may also be served with the head, cut in large scollops, and the feet for garnishing with the same sauce. Tdtes d Agneaux a l'Italienne. Do the heads as in the foregoing article, and serve with a good italienne.FRENCH COOKERY. 90 Stuffed Lambs Ears. Oreilles d' Agneaux, farcies et ffrites. Take fifteen lambs’ ears; singe, blanch and stew them in a blame; drain and let them cool; fill them with (farck cuiie); give them a good form ; roll them in crumbs of bread; dip them in an omelet; roll them again in crumbs, and lay them upon the cover of a stew-pan ; a few minutes before serving, fry them, taking care the pan is not too hot, so that the farce may be done ; but towards finishing, increase the heat to give them a good colour; drain them upon a cloth, and serve with fried parsley under and over them. Another Way. Oreilles d’Agneaux a la Ravigote. Take the same quantity of ears that have been prepared in the same manner; they must be very white; drain and serve them under a (ravigote), hot or cold. Oreilles d’Agneaux a Vltalienne. Lambs’ ears may be served in the same manner with an italienne. Lambs' Feet.' Pieds d'Agneaux a la Poulette. Lambs’ feet a la poulette the same as directed for sheeps’ trotters. Saddle of Roast Lamb. Rosbif d’Agneau. Take a saddle of lamb with the haunches; take the skin off the fillets; take also a little from the middle of each haunch, which with the fillets must be larded; it is then to be cooked as directed for the rosbf of mutton; when dished, the larded parts are to be glazed, send it to table, with gravy under it. Roasted Fore-quarter of Lamb Quartier de devant d'Agneau d la Broche. Take a quarter of lamb, cover it with thin slices of bacon, excepting the shoulder and breast; wrap it up in buttered paper; when done, lift the shoulder near the breast, and put in without its being perceptible, a cold maitre d'hotel, and send it to table upon a clear juice. Lamb. Epigrammes d Agnean Take a fore-quarter of lamb ; take off as small a91 LAMB. shoulder as possible ; cut the ribs as directed for mutton cutlets ; make five or six of the carr£, and as many tendons; cover a stew-pan with slices of bacon ; put in the parings of the cutlets, a carrot cut in four, an onion, a little parsley, and young onions, a clove, half a bay leaf, and a little salt; put in the tendons, cover them with a slice of bacon, moisten with soup or stock, and cover them with buttered paper; make them boil upon a quick fire, then upon a paillasse with fire over and under, and let them simmer three-quarters of an hour; cut the cutlets ; pare and dip them in melted butter; dress them into a saute- pan, and cover them with buttered paper: in the mean time, the shoulder ought to be either roasted, or stewed in a little butter with its own juice, and left to [ cool; take off the meat, and pick out the sinews; skin, mince, and put into a stew-pan, three large spoon- fuls of reduced veloute, and a dozen of minced mush- rooms ; toss the cutlets; drain the tendons, and give them the shape of a heart: having passed and repassed them in two yolks of eggs, which have been mixed with melted butter, and a little salt; grill them of a fine co- lour; glaze and dish them en couronne; in mixing them alternately with a tendon, put the mince into the sauce; thicken this blanquette without letting it boil; finish with a little bit of butter and lemon juice ; put it in the well, and send it to table. If there is no sauce to make the blanquette, stew the tendons before ; fry a dozen mushrooms in but- ter; dredge a little butter over; moisten with the gravy of the tendons, which must be put through a gauze search or a cloth ; let it reduce to the consistence of sauce ; skim and put it through a tammy ; put in the mince, and finish the blanquette as is directed above. Tendons of Lamb with Asparagus. Tendons d’Ag- neau au point d'Asperges. Take two breasts of lamb ; marque them in a stew- ' pan with parings of veal as the epigrammes; drain and i put them between two covers and let them cool; cutFRENCH COOKERY. 92 them in hearts ; pass the stock through a gauze search, and reduce it in a scmie-pan to half the consistence of glaze; put in the tendons and leave them to sim- mer, and glaze: have a bundle of small asparagus; use only what is tender; wash and blanch them in boiling water and salt; skim, blanch, and refresh ; throw them into a drainer; put into a stew'-pan five five or six spoonfuls of espagnole; reduce the sauce ; skim and put in the asparagus; reduce and finish; dress the tendons en couronne ; put a part of the ragout of asparagus into the saute-pan to detach the glaze ; mix all and finish with a little butter, and pour it into the well, and serve. Tendons d’Agneau a la Villeroy. Prepare the tendons as above, and make a sauce a la poidette, much reduced, and let it be more thick- ened than ordinary ; pour it over the tendons; let it co'dl, and cover them well with it; pannez them ; give them a good form ; dip them into an omelet; pannez them again ; fry and serve. Cutlets of Lamb. Cotelettes d,' Agneau au Naturel. (See article Cotelettes de Moutons au Naturel.) Crumbed Cutlets. Cotelettes c£Agneau pannes. Take a carre or ribs of lamb ; cut it in cutlets ; melt a little butter in a saute-pan ; put in the cutlets ; strew in a little salt; do them without browning the butter; drain and let the butter cool; then mix in two yolks of eggs; dip in the cutlets on both sides in this anglaise ; pannez * them ; put them upon the grill on a slow fire ; give them a nice colour ; serve them dry, or with gravy and lemon juice ; a little pepper may be added. Minute Cutlets. Cotelettes d'Agneau it la Minute. These cutlets are prepared as mutton cutlets a la minute. Ibnnex is to strew over or roll any thing in crumbs.93 l’ORK. Shoulders of Lamb Stuffed. Epaule d'Agneau en Musette. Take two shoulders of lamb as large as possible ; bone them entirely except the knuckles; spread them out; season the inside with salt, pepper, and fine spi- ces ; fill them with a good salpipon ; make them up round as a tailor does a button; lard en rosette * the outsides of the shoulders, or instead a small bit of farce cuite, which may be decorated with truffles or chardons, &c. Then marque a stew-pan with bones and parings of butcher’s meat, slices of ham, carrots, onions, and a bunch of parsley and young onions; season it; moisten the braise with soup or stock; cover with slices of bacon and buttered paper; let it boil; put it upon a paillasse with fire over and under ; give it an hour and half; drain and glaze what has been larded; if they have not been larded, glaze round where it should have been done ; serve them over an Italienne sauce or good espagnole. PORK. Choose pork young and fat, and take care it is not diseased, for in that case, it is very unhealthy. Pig's Head. Hure de Cochon. Cut the head down half the shoulders, that is, farther than they are generally done; singe very carefully, and clean the ears by introducing a poker nearly red to burn the hair; wash it well; clean it again ; scrape and bone it; be careful not to pierce the skin, parti- cularly that over the nose ; the pieces of meat that are cut off, must be laid on where there is none, that it may be equally thick; then put it in a large earthen vessel; make salt water; let it cool ; draw it off clear, and pour it over the hure ; let it be entirely covered; put in a handful of juniper berries, bay leaves, five or six cloves, two or three cloves of garlic (cut in two), half an ounce of powdered salt-petre, thyme, basil and sage; cover the vessel with a cloth, and put on the co- ver as close as possible: let it marinade eight or ten * En rosette is to do them in a rose or fanciful figure.FRENCH COOKERY. 94> days ; then drain and make a farce to put in it; skin, and take out the sinews of some pork, and nearly the the same quantity of bacon; season with salt and fine spices; hash it very fine, that the lard may not be distinguishable ; pound it well, and put in five or six eggs, one after the other ; try the farce by poaching a little, and remedy what may be amiss: spread the head upon a clean cloth; pick off all the seasonings; take large lard that has been very well seasoned with salt, pepper, four spices, aromatics in powder, parsley and young onions hashed; arrange again the head properly, lay these lardons along from distance to distance well mixed with die farce to the thickness of an inch; put in the tongue which has been pared and skinned ; make another bed of lard, and between them put in truffles cleaned and cut in stripes, inter- mixed with pistaches; continue in this manner till all the ingredients prepared have been put in, then sew the head together, in its natural form, wrapt in a new cloth; sew it up and tie the two ends with pack thread; make a good braise adding three bottles of red burgundy, and stock, as it must be covered; let it boil, and cover it with several buttered papers ; put on the cover and set it upon a. paillasse, with fire over and under; let it do five or six hours, that depends upon the size and age ; if a larder enters easily it is enough ; take off the braisiere, and leave the head till almost cold ; take it out and let it cool in the cloth; undo it and wipe off all the fat, take off the packthread, and pare the neck ; serve it upon a napkin. Pig's Head.- Hare de Cochon a la Manure de Troyes. The only difference is, that instead of filling it with forced meat it is filled with pork after having taken out the sinews: truffles and pistaches may be put in; the cooking is entirely the same. Ham Jambon au Naturel. Take a good Westphalia ham ; pare it, taking away what is spoilt; take out the great bone, and cut thePORK. 95 end off the knuckle; lay it to steep to take out the salt; by putting the larder into the noix, it will be known whether it is enough dessale, viz. Avhether the salt has been sufficiently taken out; if not, let it re- main a little longer; wrap it in a cloth, put into a pot with water, four or five carrots, the same quantity of onions, four cloves, three bay leaves, two or three cloves of garlic, one or two bunches of parsley, thyme and basil; let it boil, and then let it do on a slow fire ; sound it with a larder, if it enters easily, it is enough; take it off and tighten the cloth, leave it till half cold, take off the skin; pare and pannez it with crumbs passed through a search; send it to table upon a napkin. Braised Ham. Jambon Braisd. Take a ham and pare the under part; cut off the knuckle, and pare off the yellow lard; bone it without injuring the ham; dessallez it, that is to say, steep it to take out the salt; tie it up in a cloth, and put it into a braisiere of a size to fit it; after having put in the braising ingredients as above, moisten with water, and when about half done, put in a bottle of Madeira or a glass of brandy and a bottle of champagne; leave the cover of the braisiere off, that the seasoning may reduce; sound to know if it is enough ; drain and put it upon a cover; take off the skin; glaze with a reduction of veal. If there is none sift a little sugar over it, and glaze in the oven or with a hot poker ; give it a good colour; serve it upon spinage or any other vegetable. Roasted Ham. Jambon a la Broche. Pare the ham on the under side, and cut it quite round, so that it may have a good form; steep it to take out the salt; put it into an earthen vessel with slices of onions, carrots, and two bruised bay leaves; pour over it a bottle and a half of Malaga or any other Spanish wine or champagne; cover it with a cloth, and shut it as close as possible ; leave it to marinade twenty-four hours; spit it and let it cook,96 FRENCH COOKERY. basting it with the seasoning; when nearly done, take off the skin; glaze with an anglaise (see Anglnise); pannez it; let it take a fine colour; when the ham is taken up to take off the skin, pass the marinade through a gauze search; reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and serve it under the ham. Chine of Pork. Echim'e de Cochon. Take a chine of pork, pare it as a carrt of veal; chop off the back bones, and two hours before spitting it powder it all over with salt; see that it is well done, and serve under it a poivrade. Pork Cutlets. Cbtelettes de Cochon, sauce Robert. Cut the cutlets from fresh pork like those of veal; flatten, pare, and strew a little salt all over them ; grill them; let them be well done and serve with a sauce Robert. Pigs' Ears. Oreilles de Cochons cn Menu-de-Roi. Take three porks’ ears; singe them and put into them a poker nearly red to singe out all the hairs; scrape them well and wash them in several waters; blanch and cook them in a braise; when done let them cool; cut them in equal fillets ; divide six large onions ; take off the head, tail, and heart; cut them in fillets or half-rings; put them into a stew-pan with a bit of butter ; pass and let them cook ; don’t let them take the least colour; moisten with two or three large spoonfuls of espagnole, a spoonful of beef juice, or (blond de veau); let the onions simmer; skim, and at the moment of serving throw in the menu-de-roi; put in salt, if it requires it, with some mustard, and a little vinegar ; masque the ears and serve. Pigs' Ears Oreilles de Cochons a la puree. Prepare four or five pigs’ ears as directed above; stew them in a braise; drain and masque them with a purte of pease, lentiles, or any other. Pigs’ Tails Queues de Cochons a la puree. Pigs’ tails are cooked and sent to table with purees in the same manner as the ears.PORK. 97 Pigs' Fed. Pieds de Cochons ala Sainte Menehould. Prepare four pigs’ feet by cleaning, singing, and blanching them; cut them in two, and then bind them together with tapes, sewing them at each end, that they may not shrink or open ; let them be cooked in a braise ; when they are enough drain them, and when cold take off the tapes and separate them; dip them in butter scarcely melted; strew over crumbs, and grill them; send them to table without any sauce. Another ixay. Pieds de Cochons aux 'Fruffes. They are to be done as the above; when half cold take off the tapes; put each upon a bit of caul,, as large as will wrap over them; having boned and filled them with a salpipon of volaille and truffles, wrap them up in the form of a pied de sainte menehould, and grill them over a gentle fire. Maniere de faire ou prdparer le Lard. Take the lard off the pig as free of flesh as possible ; dry and pound fine salt and rub it with it; put two and two together; then lay them over each other upon a plank (in a cool cellar, which must not be damp); strew them over with salt, and lay another plank over them, on which lay a sufficient quantity of weights ; leave it in that state at least a month ; skewer it, and hang it in an airy place to dry, that it may get very firm, otherwise it will not be fit for lard. Salt Pork Petit Said. Take the breasts of pork and cut them in pieces; rub them with fine salt which has been mixed with a little saltpetre; pack them into an earthen vessel very closely to prevent any air from getting in; cover the vessel with a cloth between it and the cover ; it will be ready in eight or ten days. To melt Lard. Sain Doux. Skin a hog’s caul ; beat it well with a wooden spatula, the thicker it is the better ; put it into a stew pan with a little water, and let it boil long over a slow fire that it may be well done; when enough it is easily broken with the fingers; let it cool F98 FRENCH COOKERY. nearly, and rub it through a search ; if it is not for im- mediate use put it in a cool place or in bladders. To make Hams Maniere defaire le Jambon. According to the quantity of hams let a saumure* be made; put into it all sorts of odoriferous herbs, as sage, basil, thyme, bay, balm, juniper berries, salt, and saltpetre; to these add the good lees of wine, with the same quantity of water; leave them some days, and then draw off the marinade* clear from the other ingre- dients; put a little water over, and wring out the herbs; add it to the other; arrange the hams and shoulders into an earthen vessel, and pour over the saumure; leave them in it for three weeks or a month ; take them out; drain and wipe them; hang them in the smoke; when they are very dry and enough smoked preserve them by rubbing with half wine and half vinegar, that the flies may not spoil them. Smoked Tongues. Langues de Pores fumtes et fourrees. Take the quantity of pork tongues to be preserved; cut off a part of the throat and the skin; put them in a vessel very closely together as they are rubbed with salt and salt-petre ; put in basil, bay, thyme, juniper, and shalots if approved; press them well down, put a weight over them, and cover them very closely from the air; put them in a fresh place for eight days; after that time drain them, and put them into hog, beef, or veal puddings; tie them at each end and smoke them. They are cooked in water with a little wine, a bunch of parsley and young onions, onions thyme, bay, and basil. These tongues are served cold. To roast a Pig. Cochon de Lait. A pig ought to be young, short, and fat; nick the nape off the neck, and make four incisions upon the buttock to lace up the tail; pass three skewers to form it as a hare in gite.; put it into fresh water ; drain and leave it to dry ; singe it if any hairs remain; when it has warmed * Saumure and marinade, terms for different pickling liquors used much by the French.PUDDINGS. 99 F 2 on the spit baste it with oil with a feather brush, that the skin may be crisp; this must be done often ; when it is taken from the spit give the skin a nick round the throat to keep the skin crisp. Stuffed Pig. Cochon de Lait en Galatine. When the pig has been thoroughly prepared, bone it all excepting the feet, taking care to preserve the skin whole ; have ready a farce cuite; spread out the pig upon a cloth, and put the farce over it about the thickness of a finger, and strew large lard; intermix it with fillets of truffle, omelets, of yolks of eggs, pistaches, sweet almonds, and the noix or nice part of cooked ham; cover this with the same thickness offarce, and continue to fill till the skin is full without being too much distended; give it as much as possible the original form; sew it together; fix the feet as for the spit; rub it with lemon; cover with lard, and wrap it in a new towel, which must be sewed; tie the ends; marque* a braise wfith the refuse of the pig, some slices of ham, a knuckle of veal cut in two, two cloves of garlic, two bay leaves, carrots, onions, parsley, and young onions; put in the pig; moisten with a good bouillon, and a bottle of vin de grave; let it boil; draw it to the side of the stove, and let it cook slowly for three hours; put a part of the braise through a gauze search ; if it is not coloured enough, put in a little beef juice reduced; and clarify it as is directed for the aspic; when cold take off the cloth and dish the pig with the border of the aspic, cut in diamonds, and dressed round the dish en cordon. Blood Pudding. Boudin ordinaire. Cook twelve onions in bouillon or consomme with parsley, young onions, thyme, basil, and a bay-leaf; hash them very fine; take four pints of blood that has been properly taken from the throat of the animal; put in a little vinegar to prevent it from curdling ; cut a pound and a half of the caul in dices; put it into the * Marque, is to dress ingredients properly in a stewpan. Masque, is to cover over with sauce, &c.100 FRENCH COOKERY blood with four pints of rich cream, hashed fine herbs, fine spices, salt, and pepper, mix all well together; take the puddings of hogs or sheep, which must be well scraped and cleaned; fill them with a filler; but do not make them too full, otherwise they might break; tie them into proper lengths; put them into a pot of warm water, and do them over a slow fire to prevent their breaking; turn them carefully with a skimmer; if they are pricked, and the fat comes out, they are sufficiently done; take them up upon a cloth and let them cool; when they are to be sent to table cut and grill them. Puddings another way. Boudin, a la fayon de Nanterre. Take a sufficient quantity of onions, put them in a wboden bowl, and with a harness-maker’s knife mince them; then put them in a stewpan writh some of the cauls; put them upon the fire till the onions are well done, without being browned ; let them cool a little ; put in the blood; and mix seasoning with fine salt, fine herbs, and spices ; add cream, and finish as before. White Pudding. Boudin Blanc. Cook a dozen of onions as directed for boudin ordi- naire; make a very dry panada of cream; put the onions with it into a mortar, adding sweet almonds that have been put through a search ; mix altogether ; add some raw yolks of eggs, caul cut in dices, white of roasted fowls hashed very fine; pound altogether, and moisten with warm rich cream ; season with salt and fine spices; taste if it is good, and fill the skins. These puddings do not require so much cooking as the black ; instead of water use milk; let them cool and prick them, instead of cutting, before they are put upon the grill: the best manner of doing them is to put them into a white paper case. Craw-fish Pudding. Boudin d'Ecrivisses. Take half a hundred of craw-fish, and boil them in bouillon ; let them cool; take the shells off the claws and tails, and suppress that of the bodies ; dry the shells, pound and make a butter of them (see Beurre d'Ecre-PUDDINGS. 101 f 3 visses), cut the tails in dice ; put them into a stewpan with the spawn; take the white of a fowl minced fine, panada of cream very dry, some roasted onions, some fat livers cut in slices and also in dice; mix in the beurre d’ecrevisse some spoonfuls of consomme, fine spices and salt; mix all well together, and fill, tie them, and cook them as the white puddings. Rabbit Pudding Boudin de Lapereau. Roast a young rabbit; take off the flesh and pick out the sinews; hash it with the liver very fine ; break the bones, and put them into a stewpan; moisten with consomme, let it boil to draw the flavour, with which a panada is to be made ; pound the meat and panada to- gether ; add a third of butter, that is to say, put in an equal part of the three ingredients ; add fine minced onions that have been cooked in consomme, six raw yolks of eggs, reduced cold cream, as much as is neces- sary to make the whole to the consistence of pudding ; add fine spices, salt, and nutmeg, and finish as is di- rected above. , Pheasant Pudding. Boudin de Faisan. Roast a pheasant, and prepare it as directed in the above receipt; cook six onions in bouillon, seasoned with salt, pepper, two cloves, basil, a bunch of parsley, and small onions; when the onions are done to a per- fect reduction of their seasoning, mince them very fine; mix all together and pound them; put in rich cream, six yolks of eggs, and three quarters of a pound of white caul cut in dice, salt, and fine spices; fill the puddings, and cook them as above. Smoked Sausages Cervelasfumes. Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard, salt, and fine spices; fill the puddings and tie them; hang them in the smoke for three days; then cook them in bouillon for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions ; when cold serve upon a napkin. Sausages. Saucisses. lake the flesh of pork between the breast and102 FRENCH COOKERY. the lard, which lays over the tendons, as fat as possi- ble ; mince it very fine; add salt and fine spices; fill, tie, and grill them over a slow fire. Flat Sausages. Sausisses Plates. Prepare the pork as in the foregoing article ; wrap it up in pieces of caul of the size required, and grill them upon a slow fire. Andouilles de Cochon. Cut pork puddings of a proper size ; clean them care- fully, and lay them in white wine for five or six hours, with thyme, basil, and two cloves of garlic ; cut some fillets of fresh pork, caul, and fraise; mix all with salt, fine spices, and a little powder of anise seed ; fill the puddings, not too much as they might burst; tie and cook them in a vessel of the same length, with milk and water, parsley, young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, basil, bay-salt, pepper, and fraise ; let them cool in their seasoning ; wipe them well ; nick them a little ; grill, and serve. Andouilles de Couenne. Cut in fillets the skin of young pork, tripe, and caul and finish as above. Andouilles a la Bechaomelle. Put a bit of butter into a stewpan, with a slice of ham, three shalots, parsley, young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, basil, and bay; put them upon a slow fire; let them sweat a quarter of an hour; moisten with a quart of milk; let them boil and reduce to the half; pass it through a search; put in a large handful of the crumb of bread, and make it boil until the crumb has taken up all the milk; cut fillets of fresh pork, caul, petit lard, and veal fraise ; mix all with the bread and six yolks of eggs, fine spices, and salt; fill the puddings; tie, and cook them in half milk and half fat broth, salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley and young onions ; serve as directed for the Andouilles de Cochon. Andouilles de Veau. Take a veal’s fraise and udder; blanch them a full103 WILD BOAR. f 1 quarter of an hour, and cut them in fillets ; add a pound of petit lard, cut in the same manner ; mix the whole with salt, fine spices, some minced shalots, four large spoonfuls of rich cream, and four yolks of eggs ; em- ploy pigs’ puddings, and cook them in bouillon, a bottle of white wine, a clove of garlic, thyme, basil, bay, and a bunch of parsley and young onions ; let them cool in their seasoning ; nick and grill them. Andouilles de Fraise de Veau. Take a fraise and one udder or two (according to their size) of the veal, blanch and let them cool, mince them ; hash some mushrooms, shalots, parsley, and truffle ; put these fine herbs into a stewpan with a bit of butter; pass them, and moisten them with a glass of Malvoisie or Madeira ; when that is half reduced, put in four or five spoonfuls of espagnole, and reduce it; put in the other ingredients, six yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, and fine herbs; taste if good ; and fill the pud- dings, not too full, and tie them ; put them two mi- nutes in boiling water, to give them their form; let them cool; put into a stewpan slices of veal and ham, carrots, and onions; put in the andouilles ; cover them with slices of bacon; moisten with bouillon and white wine; let them simmer an hour; leave them to cool in their seasoning ; nick and grill them. WILD BOAR. Sanglier. The wild boar differs very little from the domestic hog, and consequently very little in the preparation; it is not eatable when old, from the state of nature it enjoys. Head of the Wihl Boar. Hure de Sanglier. Is prepared in the same manner as Hure de Cochon. Fillets of Wild Boar Filets de Sanglier. Cut out these fillets as those of beef or veal; cut onions in slices, some shalots, cloves of garlic, cloves, bay, sage, juniper, basil, thyme, and salt, half vinegar and half water; marinade the fillets, or any other part, four or five days; drain them, and put some oil in a stewpan, pass the fillets upon both sides over the fire ;FRENCH COOKERY. 104 put fire over and under, and let them simmer; the time must be according to the size of the pieces, and age of the animal; drain upon a cloth, and serve over sauce poivradc. These fillets may be cooked upon the spit, and served with the same sauce. Cutlets of Wild Boar. Coteleties de Sanglier. Pare and lard the cutlets, and do them as in the above article. Ham of Wild Boar Jambon de Sanglier. This ham is prepared the same as that of pork The may to give Pork the taste and appearance of Wild Boar Moyen de donner au Cochon le gout et Tap- parence du Sanglier. Cut the pork into cutlets or fillets, &c. &c.; put them into the marinade directed for the filets de san- glier ; add some melilot, balm or mint, and some green walnut shells*; let them marinade eight days, by that time it will have taken the colour and taste. To insure it, a young animal must be chosen, which is known by pulling the skin, which, if young, is easily torn. ROEBUCK Chevreuil. The roebuck is much less than the deer, but resem- bles it greatly ; his age is known by the branches of his horns, and if he has attained ten, he is past being useful in cookery. The best age is from eighteen months to three years. To skin a Roebuck. Maniere de depecer un Chevreuil. See Sheep. To roast a hind quarter. Quarticr de deriere a la Broche. Prepare it as a leg of lamb; put it into a raw mari- nade, as is directed for the sanglier, which is to be made weaker or stronger, according to the time it is to be * These ought to be prepared by salting when they are in season.105 ROEBUCK. f 5 kept; when sufficiently clone, drain and put it upon the spit; wrap it in buttered paper, and serve it with a sauce (au pauvre homme) or poivrade ; the roebuck may be kept six months, changing the marinade; in that case it requires to steep a day or two to take it out. Cutlets of Roebuck. Cotelettes de Chevreuil. Cut, pare, and flatten the cutlets a little ; they may either be larded or not, and put them in the same ma- rinade as is directed in the above article ; one day is sufficient. Put a little oil into a stewpan, and do the cutlets in it over a strong fire ; when enough done, and of a fine colour, serve them upon a poivrade or any other sauce, such as tomate, &c. Epaules de Chevreuil. Take off the flesh of the shoulders in small fillets ; skin, nerve; lard and marinade them as the cutlets; cook and serve them in the same manner. Civet de Chevreuil. Take the breast and neck of a roebuck ; cut them in pieces, as is directed for haricot of mutton ; put some fine lard in a stewpan with a little butter, and pass it over the fire; drain out the lard and make a light roux with the butter; put in the meat, and when it is well hardened, moisten with a bottle of good red wine and four pints of water; season it with a bunch of parsley and young onions, two cloves of garlic, thyme, bay, salt, and pepper; stir it often that it may not stick; put in small onions raw, or done in butter and mush- rooms ; let them cook, and skim ; if the sauce is too thin reduce it. Brains of Roebuck. Cervelles de Chevreuil en Ma- rinade. Prepare the brains as those of sheep ; cook them in a marinade ; drain, and fry them. Fallow Deer. Daim. The daim is less than the deer, and comes between106 FRENCH COOKERY. it and the roebuck ; it is not much esteemed in France; but were it cooked as in England, it would be equally esteemed there. I shall only give one receipt, which is the manner the English prepare the haunch. Haunch of Venison. Quartier de deriere du Haim. Take out the chump bone ; beat and powder the un- der part with fine salt; make a sufficient quantity of paste, which is to be made of flour, six eggs, salt, and a very little water, as the paste must be very firm; wrap it up in a wet cloth, and leave to repose for an hour ; afterwards roll it out equally of the thickness of a crown piece ; spit the venison, and wrap it entirely in the paste, which ought to be in one entire sheet; unite it well by wetting the edges, and laying them over ; then wrap it up in a buttered paper, which ought to be of one entire piece; let it cook at a very equal fire for three hours ; when done, take off' the paper* ; let the paste take a good colour, and send it to table with a sauce-boat of currant jelly. HARE. Lievre. Gateau de Lievre. Frepare a hare, preserving the liver and blood; take off all the flesh; pick out the skin and nervesf ; mince it and as much veal liver with the liver of the hare; take as much of the noix of ham, mince it well, and add to the other ingredients in the mortar, and pound them all together into the consistence of paste ; add one of third rasped lard ; pound it anew till it is a perfect paste ; season with salt, fine spices, cooked parsley, and young onions, nutmeg, half a glass of brandy, six or eight eggs, one after the other, the blood of the hare and the juice of a clove of garlic: the juice is got by bruising it * Although Mr. Bouvilliers is not very correct in his English receipts, yet as there is something always to be learnt from him, the best of them are given. + It appears unnecessary to be always repeating “ take off the skin and nerves,” when it is so obvious that they ought not to be left.HARE. 107 F 6 with a little water in a spoon; mix all well together; cover a stewpan with thick slices of lard; put in the farce, the thickness of two fingers; have ready- large lard cut in fillets, with pistaches and truffles, which are to be arranged alternately upon the farce ; they are then to be covered with the same thick- ness of farce, continue till the mould is full; cover them with slices of lard and paper ; put a cover over it, and place it in a baking-pan in an oven for three hours, but that according to its size; let it cool, heat the mould gently before it is taken out of the lard; make a mark to show where it is to be cut, that the lard may be cut across; serve on a napkin, either as a large or small piece in entremets. (Second course.) To Roast a Leveret. Levraut a la Broche. To choose a leveret, examine its fore-paws, if the protuberances are soft it is young; take oft' the fore-paws at the elbow; skin and draw it; put the blood in a vessel; cut the hind legs half through; put one of them through the knuckle of the other; break the thigh bones in the middle: stiffen it over the fire; wdpe and rub off the blood with the hand; lard or barb* it; put it on the spit and give it from a half to three quarters of an hour to do ; serve it with a poivrade, which must be thickened with the blood without letting it boil. Juice of Hare. Civet de Lievre. This civet is made as that of the chevreuil, or roe- buck, only that it is thickened with the blood. Scollops of Leveret in blood. Escalopes de Levraut, au Sang. Take one or two leverets, and after preparing them take off’ the fillets and the noixf of the legs; cut them the thickness and size of crown pieces; beat them with a handle of a knife dipt in water; arrange them • Barb, signifies cover it with slices of lard. f The muscles of the legs.FRENCH COOKERY. 108 with the kidneys in a saute pan, or a deep silver dish in which butter has been melted ; put in a little salt and large pepper ; baste them with melted butter ; lay over a round of white paper, and leave them till ready to serve; break the bones and the heads, and put them with the parings into a pot with some slices of ham, some kidney-fat of veal, two onions stuck each with a clove, two or three carrots, bunch of parsley and young onions, a bay leaf and half a clove of garlic; moisten with bouillon, and a glass of red burgundy ; let it stew an hour or more, skim it; pass it through a tammy, and set it again on the fire ; reduce it more than half; add three large spoonfuls of espagnole, and again reduce it to the consistence of half-glaze ; when ready to serve, put the scollops upon a brisk fire, and when firm on one side turn them upon the other ; drain them from the butter, retaining the juice of the fillets; put the whole into th& fumet ; thicken with the blood and a biiof butter, adding the juice of a lemon. If there is no espagnole make a little roux ; thicken the fumet with it before rubbing it through ; and to make it nearly the same as the above, reduce it again. Filets de Levrauts a la Provenpale. Take off’ the fillets, and after preparing them, lard them with anchovies (that have been refreshed) and lard; put wine into a stewpan with half a clove of garlic, some minced shalots, salt, and large pepper ; putin the fillets to cook ; drain them hot, and put into the stewpan two spoonfuls of coulis and as much con- somme, with half a spoonful of tarragon vinegar; reduce the sauce; pass it through a tammy; put it again upon the fire, and skim it anew; taste every thing ; dish with the fillets over. Filets de Levrauts en Serpent. Take the large fillets of three or four large leverets ; pare them; form the large end into the shape of the head of a serpent; lard the rest in two rows; cover a stew’pan with slices of lard ; put in the fillets, forming them into serpents ; season with a bunch of parsley, youngHARE. 109 onions, a carrot and an onion; half a glass of white wine, and moisten the whole with consomme; cover with a buttered paper, let them boil, and leave them to stew a quarter of an hour with fire over and under them; drain them upon a cover, glaze and serve upon a good fumet (see Scollops of Leverets). The legs and shoulders may be made into a civet, or in the following manner : Cvisses de Levraids en Papillotcs. Take the legs of six leverets, bone them to the knee, pass them in fine hashed sweet herbs; let them stew nearly half an hour, and finish them in the same manner as cutlets of veal inpapillotes. Take either a hare or the legs of leverets, pound the flesh and liver; and rub them through a quenelle search • gather them up and have the same quantity of dried panada, -which has been made of consomme or bouillon, as there is of the pounded meat; pound them together, and add as much butter as panada, that is to say, that an equal part of the three articles should be employed; then put in the blood, season with salt, fine spices, nutmeg, fine herbs minced small and done in butter; put in three or four yolks of eggs one after the other, and finish with two whipt whites, which must be added lightly; poach a little bit, to taste it; if properly made, shake a little flour upon the table, and roll it into the size of small bolonese sausages; form then the puddings; strew a little flour upon a cover, boil them in grand bouillon ; let them cool, dip them in melted butter, roll them in crumbs of bread, grill and serve them upon a good fumet as directed above. Cutlets of Leverets. - Cotelettes de Levraut. Take the fillets from three large leverets ; prepare and cut them into the size and shape of small mutton cutlets; flatten and pare them; boil the ribs of the leverets till the flesh come off easily; prepare these bones nicely to form the cutlets in putting one into each; then put into a stewpan butter, rasped lard,FRENCH COOKERY. no parsley, young onions, shalots and mushrooms, all minced very fine, seasoned with salt, pepper, and half a glass of white wine; put in the cutlets over these herbs, let them have five or six minutes, arrange them en cordon * in the dish; keep them warm, skim the herbs, and put in a spoonful of reduced consomme, with the juice of a large lemon; mix all well, and pour this sauce into the well of the cutlets. RABBITS. Saute, ou Escalopes de Lapereaux. Take the fillets of two rabbits with the legs, small fillets, and kidneys ; cut them in small pieces, of an equal size, dip the handle of a knife in water to flatten them with, and pare them; melt some butter in a saute-pan, put in the scollops carefully, strew in a little salt and pepper, and pour a little melted butter over them ; cover them with paper and leave them till ready to serve ; cut up the carcases of the rabbits and put them into a pot with a carrot, two onions, one stuck with a clove, a bunch of parsley and young onions, a bay leaf, a slice of bacon, and some parings or debris of veal ; moisten with con- somme and let it boil; skim and let it cook about an hour; skim and run it through a search ; let it reduce a third, add two large spoonsful of reduced espagnole; reduce it again, working it to the consistence of half glaze ; at the moment of serving, toss the scollops, stiffen them upon both sides, drain the butter but preserve the juice; put them into the sauce, toss them; put in a bit of butter, and dish with a border. (See article Bord. de Plat.) In the season, truffles or cucumbers may be cut, passed in butter, and added to the scollops. Fillets may also be larded with lard and truffle, done with fire over and under, glazed and served over a good fumet. Filets de Lapereaux a la Puree de Champignons. Take the fillets of six rabbits, prepare and lard * En cordon is in a wreath which leaves a well in the centre, into which the sauce or ragout is put.RABBITS. Ill them with middling-sized lard, cook them as above, and send them to table with a puree of mushrooms ; they may be also served upon cucumbers, pease, endive, &c. Cuisses de Lapereaux a la Dauphinc. Take out the thigh bones of eight legs of rabbits, lard and marque them in a stewpan as a fricandeaux ; cook them half an hour, glaze and serve under a reduced endive to the consistency of bechamelle. A Leveret Hash. Hachis de Lapereaux a la Por- tugaise. Take off the flesh of three roasted leverets, skin, nerve, hash, and put it in a dish; break the car- cases and put them into a stewpan, with five large spoonsful of espagnole, two of consomme, and a glass of white champagne ; when enough, put it through a tammy, reduce it to half glaze, put in the hash with pepper and a bit of butter; vannez* without al- lowing it to boil, and serve it in a dish with a border of fried bread ; lay over eight or nine poached eggs ; which ought to be laid between, with a little essence about them; likewise small fillets may be introduced, decorated with truffles or larded. Fillets of Leverets Filets de Lapereaux a la Vopalliere. Proceed as above with undressed hares, only cut the meat about the thickness of two inches; marinade them in good oil, fresh minced truffles, shalots, parsley, and young onions minced very fine; season with salt and large pepper, leave them in this pickle for two hours, thread them on skewers with this seasoning, wrap them in slices of bacon, cover them with paper and fix them on the spit; let them have a quarter of an hour; take off the paper, and lard and serve them over a good brown Italienne, heightened with lemon juice. Fricassee of Leverets. Lapereaux en Fricassee de Poulet. Take two very tender leverets, cut them in pieces, * banner is to lift and let fall from the spoon, to mix thoroughly together.112 FRENCH COOKERY. wipe off the blood, put them into a stew-pan, with slices of onions, a bay leaf, parsley in branches, young onions, and a little salt; give them a boil ; drain, wipe, and pare them anew; put them into another stew- pan with a bit of butter, smite or toss them; strew a little flour over, moisten with the water they were blanched in, taking care to shake them, that the flour may not get into knots ; let them boil; put in mush- rooms or truffles, or both ; let them reduce, and thicken with four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little milk or cream, or a little of the sauce cooled; and finish with a little lemon-juice; remember, when that is not to be had, to employ verjuice or even white-wine vinegar. Giblets of Leverets. Gibelottes de Lapereaux. Take half a pound of petit lard or nice bacon, cut it in large dice, which fry white in butter, drain and put a little flour in the butter to make a roux ; cut two leverets in pieces, and when the roux is of a fine white, put in the leverets; let them harden, and add the petit lard; moisten with half a bottle of white vine and some bouillon or water; add salt, pepper, a nunch of parsley and young onions, a clove, a bay leaf, and a clove of garlic; while cooking put in mushrooms, skim, and take out the sweet herbs; if the sauce is too thin, take out some and reduce it. Giblets with Eels. Gibelotte de Laperenu et d' Anguille. Proceed as above, adding an eel cut in junks, which must be cooked with the leverets, or separately, in the same seasoning. Rabbit with Pease. Lapereaux aux petits Pois. Make a little roux, cut the leverets in pieces ; when the roux is very white put them in and heat them in it; add some dices of ham, and moisten them very much with bouillon; put in a bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove, a bay leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; when it is near boiling, put in a quart of pease ; salt and reduce the whole ; take out the sweet herbs before sending it to table.113 RABBITS. Timbale de Lapereaux. Prepare two young rabbits as above ; pass them in a stew-pan with butter, salt, pepper, parsley, young onions, shalots, mushrooms, ancl truffles hashed with fine spices, and a bay leaf; moisten the whole with a glass of white wine, and two large spoonsful of espa- gnole; let them simmer, and when done take out the bay leaf and let them cool; then butter a mould of sufficient size, line the mould with rolled paste (see Pate it Pate); begin at the middle of the bottom in turning the paste till it arrives at the edge; take care that the paste lies firm over each other, then have ready a piece of paste for a dou- ble bottom; it ought to be at least an inch larger than the mould, and about the thickness of a crown; wet it, and after having rubbed the bands over with yolks, put it in, join it well by pressing it with the hand that no opening may be left; then make small quenelles of godiveau, dress them all round till they nearly reach the top, then put in the leverets and mushrooms, passed or fried in butter; make a cover for the timbale, wet the edges, put on the cover, join it, and dress it round; let it be in the oven an hour and a half: when it has taken a good colour and ready to serve, turn it upon a dish, cut it open in the best man- ner, and put in a good espagnole. If there is not time to make the bands, butter a mould and powder it with vermicelli, put in a bottom and finish as above. Mayonnaise de Lapereaux. Cut two leverets, that have been roasted, in pieces, pare and toss them in a mayonnaise. (See Sauce May- onnaise.) Lepereaux aux fines Herbes. Cut two leverets in pieces, pare and put them into a stewpan with butter, salt, pepper, parsley, young onions, shalots hashed, and mushrooms ; pass them over the fire for a quarter of an hour; when they are sufficiently done, add the juice of a large lemon.FRENCH COOKERY. 114 Lcrpereaux aux Papillotes. Prepare the leverets as above, put them in papillotes (See Cuisses de Levrauts en Papillotes.) Marinade de Lapereaux. Cut two roasted leverets in pieces, put them in a marinade (see article Marinade); when they are suf- ficiently done, drain and fry them in a pate afrire, or butter; give them a fine colour. Rabbits in Salad. Salade de Lapereaux. Cut in pieces one or two roasted leverets, pare and arrange them in a dish, garnish with fillets of ancho- vies, hard eggs cut in quarters, beet-root if in season, hearts of lettuces, capers, well cooked onions, and other minced ingredients generally served with salads ; send oil to table with it. Rabbits in Soup. Terrine de Lapereaux. Prepare and cut two young rabbits in pieces, put them into a small pot with two or three onions, one stuck with a clove, one or two carrots, a bay leaf, a bunch of parsley, and small onions, half a clove of gar- lic ; moisten with good broth; have ready half or three quarters of a pound of lard cut in dice with the skin on, blanched, which must be added to the leve- rets ; when sufficiently done, drain and put into a tureen, and masque or pour over a puree of lentilles or pease. (See Puree de Lentilles, or Puree de Pois.) Rabbits roasted. Accolade de Lapereaux a la. Broche. Prepare two young leverets, cut the fore-legs close to the body, and half from the hind ; put one leg through the knuckle of the other; dress and beat them upon the back with the handle of a knife, lard one, and barb or wrap in slices of bacon the other; spit and baste them while cooking; serve with a poi- vrade in a sauce-boat.PHEASANT. 115 PHEASANT Faisan. It’ the pheasant is young it will still retain the first quill in the point of the wing ; the cocks are known by their spurs, which are long and pointed when old ; they ought to be chosen fat and full of flesh. To roast a Pheasant. Faisan a la Broche. Pluck a pheasant, all except the head and tail, tak- ing care not to tear the skin ; having prepared it, barb or lard it, wrap up the head and tail in paper: spit it and lay the tail up over the back, and wrap the whole in paper: when done enough take oft’ the paper and dish it. If for an English table send up bread sauce with it. (See that article.) With Truffles. Faisan aux Truffles, ou a la Pen- gueux. Prepare a young pheasant as for the spit, empty it by the craw; it may be necessary to break the breast- bone, but be careful not to break the gall ; pick and singe it lightly ; clean a pound and a half of good truffles; pound three quarters of a pound of bacon, put it in a stewpan with the truffles, of which the smallest have been minced ; set it upon a slow fire, with salt, pepper, and fine spices; when enough let them be nearly cold, and stuff’ the pheasant, sew it up, lard it, leave it two or three days or more that it may be well perfumed; spit, wran it in paper, and let it cook an hour. Fillets off Pheasants. Filets de Faisan h la Vo- palliere. Take off the large and small fillets, beat them lightly with the handle of the knife, and pare them; melt butter in a saute pan, dip in the fil- lets and arrange them in such a manner that they will not touch one another ; strew a little fine salt, some large pepper over, and cover them with a round of paper; prepare the six small fillets by lard- ing three and decorating the other three with little116 FRENCH COOKERY. crests of truffle : put them upon a tart-pan with melted butter and a little salt; give them the form of a half circle, and cover them with a round of paper: hav- ing roasted the thighs of the pheasants or done them in a stewpan with a little butter without moistening, let them cool and be prepared, then mince them very small and put them into a covered stewrpan; a fumet having been made of the carcases in the same manner as the fumet de lapereau, run it through a cloth; add three large spoonfuls of worked espagnole ; reduce to the consistence of half glaze, reserve a little to glaze the entree ; toss the fillets, see that they are enough done, dish them, en couronne ; put the puree and truffles into the sauce with a bit of good butter; shake, but do not let it boil, pour it into the middle of the fillets or the well, the small fillets having been tossed at the same time ; glaze them, and make a second crown upon the mince. Scollops of Pheasants. Escalopes de Faisans. Take off the wings of three pheasants, cut them into fillets of an equal size, make them into scollops as is directed in Scollops of Leverets., in a preceding article, melt a little butter in a saute-\)?in and arrange the scollops; dust over a little salt and pepper, baste them with melted butter; make a fumet of the remains of the pheasants as is directed (see Lapereau); add three large spoonfuls of espagnole; reduce to half glaze ; toss the scollops, drain off the butter, pre- serving the juice; put them with the juice into the sauce ; toss and finish with a pat of butter, truffles may be added. Salmi of Pheasants. Salmi de Faisans. Roast one or two pheasants, cut them up and pare them properly, put them into a stewpan and mois- ten with a little consomme; heat them upon hot cin- ders; put into a stewpan a glass of good red or white wine, three or four minced shalots, a bit of bitter orange-peel, three large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole,PHEASANTS. 117 about the size of a nutmeg of glaze or reduction of veal; reduce the whole, pound the skins and parings of the pheasants, put them into the reduction, moisten without letting them boil ; pass or rub it through a tammy like a puree; put this puree or salmi into a stewpan, and put it into the bain-marie; when ready to serve, drain the pheasant, dish it nicely, putting the inferior parts undermost, consequently, the wings and thighs will be all round ; let them be intermingled with hearts of crust or crumb of bread fried in butter ; put into the salmi the juice of one or two bitter oranges. Soiffly of Pheasants. Souffle de Faisans. The same as Souffle de Perdreaux. Pheasant ivith Sour-croute Faisan a la Chou Croute. Take a large pheasant, prepare and lard it with large lard, seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spices, parsley, young onions, and pounded aromatics; wash and press out a sufficient quantity of sour-croute to make a large dish, cook it with a bit of petit lard and a Bolognese sausage, and add the top of a braise to nourish it; give it three or four hours upon a slow fire, then put in the pheasant and give it nearly an hour more; dish the pheasant, and with a pierced spoon drain the sour-croute and put it round the dish; cut the Bolognese in slices, take off the skin and border the dish with it, in intermixing the petit lard cut in slices and sausages. Pheasants another Way Croquettes de Faisans. If there is a pheasant (de desserte), that is to say, that has remained from a former day, or even a part of it, croquettes may be made in the same manner as those of lapereau, (art. Farce.) Pheasants another Way. Mayonnaise de Faisans. (See Mayonnaise de Lapereau.) Pheasant Pudding.—Boudin de Faisan a la Richelieu. Take the flesh off the pheasant, pound and rub it118 FRENCH COOKERY. through a quenelle search; roast two large potatoes, take off the skin, and pound them ; gather them up and make balls of them separately, that the quanti- ties may be equal; pound these two well together, add the butter, which must also be equal ; and pound them again ; season with salt, pepper, fine spices and nutmeg, and let nothing prevail ; moisten with five or six yolks one after another; when theyare well mixed with the farce, poach a little bit, to ascertain if it is at its proper degree and of a good taste; whip three whites, and mix them well in: strew some flour upon the table, and roll up this farce into the size of large pud- dings ; put them on a cover and poach them, as is directed for the Boudin de Lapereaux ; let them cool, pannez them (a l'Anglaisc); that is, to mix together a yolk, some melted butter, and a little salt to dip them in: when ready to serve, grill, and serve with a fumet, made of the remains of the pheasant. (See Fumet de Gebiire.) PARTRIDGES. Red Partridges. Perdrix Rouges. The male is known by a protuberance upon the feet, and the age by the sharp point of the feather at the end of the wing. Partridges. Perdreaux Rouges cl la Perigueux. Take three partridges, draw them by the crops, singe them singly without heating the skin, do not truss the legs, but cut the point of the claws ; rasp half a pound of lard, and prepare a pound of truffles ; if large, cut them in halves or quarters, shape them into small truffles and mince the parings, pass them in the rasped lard, as directed Pheasant (a, la Perigueux); stuff the partridges with them and sew up the crop ; truss their legs outside and form them handsomely, let the stomach look flattened ; cover a stewpan with lard that can con- tain the partridges easily, with a little ham and fat of veal kidneys, a carrot, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a glass of white wine, a spoonful of con- somme, and a little salt; lay the partridges over thisPARTRIDGES. 119 seasoning upon their breasts, with some slices of lemon, cover with slices of bacon, and let them boil; then put them upon a paillasse, with fire over and under, for three quarters of an hour; drain, dish, and serve with a sauce a la Perigueux. To roast Partridges. — Perdreaux, ou entree de Broche- Prepare three partridges, truss and skewer them* cover the breasts with slices of lemon, and over that with lard; wrap them in paper, fix the ends to the skewers with packthread tied to the spit; give them three quarters of an hour; when ready to serve take off the paper, dish, and serve with clear juice in which a little large pepper has been put; squeeze over the juice of a bitter orange. Perdreaux Grilles, Are done as chicken, only they may be stiffened in butter in a stewpan on both sides before they are laid upon the grille, and sent to table with a sauce (au pauvre Homme). Salmi of Partridges. Salmi de Perdreaux. Prepare three partridges, lard and roast them, let them be under-done; when cold cut them in pieces, take off the skin, pare and arrange them in a stewpan, with a little consomme; put them upon hot cinders; don’t let them boil immediately; add six shalots and a - little lemon peel, also four large spoonfuls of reduced Espagnole, let it reduce half; pass the sauce through a tammy, drain the partridges, dish them with crusts of fried bread between; sauce, and squeeze over them a little lemon juice. Salmi cliaud. ou froid. Prepare the salmi as is directed in the preceding article, finishing it a quarter of an hour before serving; take the partridges up; add to the sauce a large spoonful of jelly or aspic ; put the stewpan in ice or in cold water, shake it well till it takes, then dip in the pieces one after another, dish them, and pour over the remainder of the sauce ; garnish this entree with fried crusts, as also with jelly cut in diamonds or otherwise.FRENCH COOKERY. 120 Perdreaux. (See Pheasants a la Vopalliere.) Salmi de Chasseur. lloast three partridges as for the other salmis; put into a saucepan three spoonfuls of oil, half a glass of red wine, salt, pepper, the zest and juice of a lemon; toss the partridges in the sauce in which they are to be sent to table. Perdreaux a la Monglat, ou Salpipon en Curvette. Truss three partridges as-fowls, lard and roast them ; when cold cut out the stomach in such a manner as to leave it like a basin ; cut the flesh in small dice, heat the partridges in a little consomme, keeping them warm till ready to serve; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, cut six or eight fresh truffles with as many mushrooms, pass them in butter, with parsley, young onions, and shalots minced: moisten with a glass of champagne, and six large spoonfuls of consomme worked; reduce the sauce and skim it; cut two or three fat livers, put them into the sauce with the minced meat, salt, and large pepper, give them two or three boils; put in the partridges, heat the whole without boiling ; dish, and fill the breasts with the salpipon, serve with a sauce offumet. (See Fumet in the article Lapereaux.) Partridges with Cabbage. Perdrix aux Choux. Take three old partridges, prepare and truss them en poule *; lard with large lard,season with salt, pepper, and fine spices, pounded and sifted aromatics, parsley and small onions minced ; cover a stewpan with some parings of veal, two carrots, two onions, and half a clove of garlic; put in the partridges, cover with slices of lard,moisten with some good stock, let it boil, and cover it with a round of buttered paper and the cover of the stewpan ; put it on a paillasse with fire over and under, give it about an hour and a quarter; in the mean time prepare the cabbage in the same manner as beef (au choux), in which cook a Bolognese sausage and a bit of petit lard; cut thirty red carrots, as many turnips, En poule, as a fowl.PARTRIDGES. 121 make them the size of a shilling, their length must be that of the mould used ; blanch these roots ; drain and cook them in consomme with a little sugar to take off the acid; having allowed the Bolognese and the petit lard to cool, butter a mould, put a round of paper in the bottom and a band round the sides reaching the top; cut the sausage in thin slices and the lard in dices of the same thickness ; put in the centre of the mould a slice of sausage, then round it the dices of the petit lard, and continue to cover it in this manner; then dress the sides of the mould with the formed car- rots and turnips alternately very close together; press out the cabbage, cover the bottom of the mould and the sides strengthening the wall; leave sufficient room in the middle for the partridges; put the breasts down, and fill up the mould with cabbage; press it well in so that it may be firm, and leave nothing over the edge of the mould; put on a cover, and put it in the bain-marie; pass the seasoning through a gauze search; add three large spoonsful of reduced espagnole in the following manner : let it reduce, skim, bring it to half glaze; turn out the chartreuse ; take the paper care- fully off, and spunge it all over with the corner of a cloth with the glaze, and sauce with it. Another V/ay.——Autre Maniere de dresser les Perdrix aux Choux. Dish the partridges, squeeze the cabbage in a cloth, cut them nicely like sausages, en batons, so that they may stand round the partridges; garnish them with Bolognese petit lard cut in slices and sausages a la chipolata ; sauce as above. Another Way. Mayonnaise de Perdreaux. Roast three partridges, leave them to cool, cut them in pieces, put them in a vessel with four shalots, a lit- tle tarragon and burnet minced, four spoonsful of oil, three large ones of broken jelly, a little pepper, salt, and a large spoonful of tarragon vinegar; toss all well together, dish the partridges, putting the breasts and backs at the bottom, and the other pieces round ; G122 FRENCH COOKERY marque with a good mayonnaise; the dish may be garnished with jelly. Another Way. Saute de Filets de Perdreaux. Prepare four partridges, Faisans a la Vopalliere ; melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute pan, dip and arrange the filets one after the other, strew over a little salt and cover with a round of paper; make a fumet of the carcases (see Fumet, article Saute de Lapereaux); add to the reduced fumet four large spoonfuls of espagnole; reduce, skim, and when ready to serve, toss the fillets; they are done enough when they resist the touch ; drain them, dish them en cou- ronne, putting between each a fried heart of bread which has been glazed; finish with a pat of butter; baste the bread and sauce. This dish may be served with truffles. Puree de Perdreaux. (See Puree de Gibier.) Soujfly of Partridges. Souffle de Perdreaux. Roast two partridges, take off the flesh and pound them, adding the livers that have been blanched ; put it into a stewpan with four large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole, heat it without boiling and rub it through a search ; gather what remains on the outside together with a knife, and put the whole in a dish ; put in a stewpan four large spoonfuls of espagnole and two of consommd; break the carcases and put them in ; cook, skim, and put it through a search ; reduce, and put in the size of a small walnut of glaze or reduction of veal; take it off the fire and putin th e puree, mix altogether; put in the size of an egg of good butter, a little nut- meg, and the yolks of four fresh eggs, the white of which must be whipt apart as for biscuit; mix them by little and little into the puree though hot, mix all well, and pour it into a silver dish or paper mould, round or square; put it in the oven ; when the souffle is well risen touch it lightly, if it resist a little it is enough; it must be served immediately, as it is apt to fall.123 PARTRIDGES. Partridges. Perdrix cl la Puree, en Terrine ou Entree. Lard three partridges as directed for Perdrix au Choux; cook them in the same seasoning, serve them with any puree, such as lentilles, &c.; garnish with sausages, petit lard, and croutons or crusts cut in rounds and fried in butter. Partridge Hash. Hachis de Perdreaux. Roast two or three partridges, take off the flesh, suppress the skin and nerves, hash it very fine, break the bones, put it in a stewpan with four large spoon- fuls of espagnole and two of consomme ; cook this fumet, pass it through a search, reduce, skim, and bring it to half glaze; take it off the fire, and put aside a part of the sauce which will be required to glaze the hash when it is served ; put into the remainder the minced meat with a little common pepper, nutmeg, and two small pats of butter; mix the hash well, dish, glaze, and garnish with fried bread and poached eggs. It may also be garnished with small fillets en sautoir between the eggs, or crests of tongue a Yecarlate. Semelles de Perdreaux a la Chingara. Take the fillets of three partridges, pare them, and melt some butter in a stewpan; turn them in the butter and cover with a round of paper; cut a nice-reddened veal’s tongue into six pieces, making them the same size and shape of the fillets; warm them in a stewpan with a little consommd; take the parings of the tongue, leaving out the skin; cut them very fine, having made a sauce (see Fumet de Lapereaux); pass and reduce it, add three spoonsful of reduced espagnole, reduce to the consistence of half glaze ; toss the fillets, dish them en couronne with a bit of tongue between each; sauce with part of the sauce, put the hash in what remains, mix it well, taste if it is too salt, soften it with a bit of butter; serve the hash in the well of the fillets.FRENCH COOKERY. 124- Partridge Cutlets. Cotelettes de Perdreaux. fake the fillets of six partridges, beat them a little with the handle of a knife; take the smallest bones off the wings, scrape and put them into the fillets in such a manner that they shall retain their hold; melt some butter in a saute pan, put in the fillets, strew over a little fine salt, and let them stiffen ; drain, and let the butter cool a little; put in two yolks of eggs to thicken, dip in the cutlets, and grill them over red cinders; let them take a good colour, dish en couronne, serve with a clear or reduced fumet poured over them, which has been made of the carcases; put in some large pepper and the juice of one or two oranges. Pates fraids de Perdreaux. (See article Pate's.) Remark. — There has been no mention made of the Grey Partridge, as both kinds are cooked in the same way. WOODCOCKS, SNIPES, &c. Becasses, Becassines, Becasseaux. The woodcock as well as the snipe is a bird of pas- sage, so that it is only to be had during the winter months; it is much esteemed; these birds are all pre- pared in the same manner, and never opened. To roast Woodcocks and Snipes. Becasses, Be'cas- sine, SfC. a la Broche. Prepare three woodcocks without opening them, take off the skin of the head, truss up their feet and use their beaks for skewering them; choose the leanest and lard it; barb the other two; pass a skewer be- tween the thighs and fix the ends to the spit; half an hour will do them; baste them and lay three toasts in the dripping pan to receive their fat; when ready to serve take them up, dish the bread, and lay the wood- cocks over it. Another Way. Autre Maniere de les servir a la Broche. Draw or empty the woodcocks by the back, takeWOODCOCKS. 125 g 3 out the neck, mince, and add about half the quantity of rasped lard with the intestines, a little minced parsley, young onions and shalots, salt and pepper ; stuff the woodcocks, sew them up, cover them with slices of bacon, and finish as above. If they are to be served to the English, send to table with them a bread sauce. Salmi of Woodcocks and Snipes. Salmi de Becasses et de Becassines. Roast three woodcocks, and let them cool; cut them up and cook as directed for that a la Perdreaux, ex- cept that the intestines of the woodcocks are added to the carcases in making the salmi. Soufflp of ditto. Souffle de Becasses. (See also Souffle des Perdreaux.) Roast ditto. Becasses en Entree de Broche. Proceed in ,the same manner as for the Perdreaux a VEntree de Broche, with the difference that the in- testines are taken out and seasoned, as for the wood- cocks a la broche. Salmi de Becasses de Chasseur. (See Salmi de Per- dreaux de Chasseur.) Woodcock stuffed ivith Truffles and roasted. Becasse aux Truffles. Prepare the woodcocks and void them by the back; have ready a sufficient quantity of truffles cooked in rasped lard, with salt, pepper and fine spices, minced parsley, young onions and shalots; let them cool a lit- tle, mince the intestines well, mix them with the truffle ; stuff the woodcocks, sew up the backs and truss them: lard and put them on the spit, as directed for wood- cocks a la broche, or marque them in astewpan, and do them with fire under and over. Ditto hashed. Hachis de Becasses en Crustades. Roast three woodcocks; when cold take off the meat and hash it very fine; take out the gizzard, and pound the remainder with the intestines; put into a stewpan a large glass of champagne, with three or four sliced shalots; when this has had one or two126 FRENCH COOKERY. boils, add four large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole; let it then boil and put in the pounded debris from the mortar; mix it without boiling and rub it through a search ; in this state it is called a puree ; gather it to- gether, put it into a stewpan, and then into the bain- marie; make seven or nine large hearts or rounds of bread nearly three inches thick, fry them in butter, and hollow them out according to their shapes; put the hash into the sauce and mix it well; add a pat of butter, taste if it is good, fill the croustades if they are heart-shaped, dish them with the points inward, and lay a poached egg upon each. PLOVER. Bfcasse. The Golden Plover is usually roasted in the same manner as the woodcock, and is never opened; it is however made into different entries, such as the fol- Plover. Pluvier au Gratin. Prepare and open four plovers, make a farce of their intestines, as directed for woodcocks, (article Ano- ther Manner); stuff them with it; put in the bottom of a dish d'entree nearly an inch of gratin; (see Gratin, article Farce;) lay the plovers over it, fill up the spaces between, and bring the farce all round, but leave the stomachs out, which must be covered with slices of bacon ; put it in the oven, or if it is cooked, lay it on the hearth ; let the fire be hotter above than below ; wrhen ready to serve, drain and sauce them with a brown italienne. (See Sauce Italienne Rousse.) Another Way. Pluvier <5 la Perigueux. Take four plovers and prepare them, put into a stew- pan a dozen of truffles which have been pared, a bunch of parsley, young onions, half a bay leaf, a clove, a lit- tle basil, salt, and a little large pepper; pass them on the fire in butter, moisten with a glass of champagne and six large spoonfuls of espagnole ; cook the plovers in this sauce ; skim ; put them with the truffles into ano- ther stewpan; rub the sauce through a tammy; dish the plovers with a truffle between each, and arrange the127 THRUSHES. remainder en rocker, that is to say, pile them up over the plovers; the sauce being reduced, and lemon juice added, serve. Another Way Pluviers en Entree de Broche. Prepare four plovers, open them at the back and make a farce of the intestines, as directed for wood- cocks ; stuff them with this farce, sew up the back, skewei and wrap them in lard cover with paper and tie them to the spit: when they are done, dish them and masque with a ragout of truffles. To roast Thrushes. Grives a la Broche. (See Woodcocks & la Broche.) Another Way. Grives a la Flamande. Prepare and truss the thrushes without drawing ; put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter and a few juniper berries ; strew over a little salt, toss, and give them a good colour ; cover the stewpan and put a little fire under and over ; rather keep them under- done, and serve them with their seasoning. To roast Thrushes. Grives a V Anglaise. Prepare and truss the thrushes without opening ; skewer them and fix the skewers upon the spit, and wrap them in paper; when they are half done take off the paper and put a bit of bacon on the end of the skewers, let it broil and drop upon the thrushes ; pow- der them with a little salt and crumbs of bread, give them a good colour, and serve with sauce (au pauvre homme) in a sauce-boat. Quails roasted. Cailles a la Broche. Prepare and draw six or eight fat quails, wrap them in vine leaves and slices of bacon, leaving half of the claws out; skewer and spit them. Quails with Bay. Cailles au Laurier. Draw and prepare seven quails, make afarce of their livers, with the livers of fowls, and raspt lard, a bay leaf minced very fine, young onions hashed fine ; season with salt and large pepper ; stuff the quails and skewer them ; wrap in lard and cover with paper, fix them to G 4?FRENCH COOKERY. 128 the spit, and when sufficiently done, serve them with the following sauce : Cut some slices of ham, sweat it; when it begins to stick, moisten with a glass of good wine, two large spoonfuls of consomme, and as much reduced espagnole, add two bay leaves and half a clove of garlic ; let it boil and reduce to the consistence of sauce; pass it through a tammy; have ready seven large bay leaves blanched; when the quails are enough, take off the lard and dish them with a bay leaf between each ; add lemon juice to the sauce, pepper and a little butter; pass, vannez, and sauce the quails. Quails with Pease. Cattles au petit Pois. Draw and prepare seven or eight quails ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with barbs of ham and veal, a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; covdV the quails with slices of lard and a round of paper ; make them boil and put fire under and over; when done drain them, and masque with a ragout of pease. (See Ragout depetits Pois au lard.) Cattles au Gratin. Prepare and bone nine quails; cut a piece of the crumb of bread three inches and a half wide and twro and a half in height; let it be like a bung, put round it a slice of lard; put it into the middle of a dish, cover it with gratin, slope it to a high point, and see that it continues its sloping to the edge of the dish till it comes to the thickness of half an inch; stuff the quails with the same gratin (see article Gratin); dress the quails upon the gratin, the claws out, but not be- yond the bread ; fill up the intervals between the quails, that the stomachs and claws may only be seen; cover the breasts with slices of lard, put them in the oven upon a little grill, or on thehearth with a little more fire above than below ; let them take a good colour; when enough take off the lard, and cut out the bread ; drain and put in a good brown italienne ; glaze the breasts of the quails or not; add crests of fried bread between each quail.129, QUAILS. Quails and Lettuce. Cailles aux Laitues. Prepare and truss eight quails; cover a stewpan with slices of lard and one of ham; put in the quails, pour a poele over them; if there is none cut some kidney fat of veal in dice, an onion stuck with a clove, half a bay-leaf, a sliced carrot, a small bunch of parsley and young onions; moisten with consomme and half a glass of white wine; cover with slices of lard and a round of paper; half an hour before serving make them boil and cook; when enough, drain and dish with lettuces (see Garnitures); fried bread of a fine colour may be introduced between the quails after they have been sauced with a good reduced es- pagnole in which a bit of glaze has been dissolved. If there is no espagnole, let the quails be done a little earlier; moisten the seasoning of the quails with a little roux; reduce the sauce; pass it through a tammy; work it anew, and sauce the quails with it. Quails in Crusts. Cailles en Crustades. Prepare six or seven quails; bone and stuff them with a gratin made of their livers mixed with those of fowls (see Gratin, art. Farce); sew up the quails and marque them as in the foregoing receipt; make as many croustades as there are quails, (see Hachis des Becasses en Croustades); when they are done draw out the thread and put them into the croustades ; dish and sauce them with a good Italienne, in which there is minced truffles done in butter. Quails with Truffles. Cailles aux Truffes. Draw by the crop six quails; clean and turn nine fine truffles into small ones; mince the parings very fine with the quails’ livers; season with salt and a bit of butter; cook the whole lightly; let them cool, stuff the quails; then marque them in a stewpan, as directed for those done with let- tuce; when done drain and serve them with a sauce a la Ptrigueux; (see Art. Sauce aux Truff'es or a la Ptrigueux.)130 FRENCH COOKERY. To roast Larks. Alouettes a la Broche. Prepare twenty-four larks without opening them; wrap each in a slice of lard, and skewer them as they are done on a small skewer; pass a pack-thread from one side to the other lengthways to secure the lard; tie it to the spit; cook them at a brisk and clear fire; put toast in the dripping-pan to receive the fat, and serve them upon it. Larks another Way. Alouettes au Gratin. Prepare fifteen larks; cut them up the back ; bone them and fill them with gratin ; (see Gratin, art. Farce); cover a dish with about half an inch of the gratin; lay the larks over it en couronne, that there may be a well in the middle, as directed for quails au gratin; fill up with gratin, leaving nothing visible but the breast, which must be covered with slices of lard; put them into an oven; (these small dishes maybe cooked in a hearth-oven, or with fire under and over); let them take a fine colour; when enough take off the lard and bread ; sauce with a brown Italienne. Larks with Tniffle. Saute de Mauviettes aux Truffes. Prepare four dozen of larks and take off the fillets; melt some butter in a saut4-pan; put in the fillets like scollops, and put over them truffles cut like farthings; put into a stewpan four spoonfuls of espagnole and two of consommd, and add the carcases or debris of the larks from which the gizzards have been taken, with a glass of champagne ; let it stew half an hour; skim and rub it through a tammy; reduce it to half glaze; the fillets and truffles being cooked, drain off the hutter, preserving the juice; put the fillets, truffles, and juice into the fumet, without allowing it to boil; toss it well, and finish with half a pat of butter. Cold or hot Pate of Larks. Pat4 chaud et Pat4 froid de Mauviettes. (See article Patisserie).PIGEONS. 131 g 6 Rouges-gorges, Ortolans, Muriers, et Becfigues. Red-throats, Ortolans, Becpecker, Sfc. They are prepared in the same manner as larks, anil often roasted. (See Mauviettes.) OF PIGEONS IN GENERAL. Des Pigeons. The wood-pigeon differs from the others in colour and taste; the young are the best, which are known by their nails being shorter than the old. They are eaten for the most part roasted; the old are of no use but for the pot. Wood Pigeons in pickle. Ramereaux en Marinade. Prepare three young wood-pigeons, cut them in two or four, and cook them in a weak marinade (see Marinade); a little before serving them drain them on a cloth; dip them in pate a frire ; fry them of a good colour; drain and serve them as other marinades. Ramereaux Podlds. Prepare and singe lightly three or four young pigeons; truss them with their legs within; cover a stewpan with slices of lard, and a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley and young onions, a sprig of sweet basil, half a bay-leaf, two onions, one stuck with a clove, a carrot cut in four, a small glass of red or white wine; put in the pigeons; cover with slices of lard; let them boil and put them on a paillasse with a moderate fire under and over; give them three quarters of an hour; drain and serve them under a poivrade with a very little acid. Ramereaux a CRtouffade. Prepare the pigeons; prepare small lard; season with salt, pepper, parsley and young onions minced, fine spices, powder of aromatics; it is necessary the basil should prevail a little; lard the pigeons; marque them in a stewpan as directed in the foregoing article; let them be well done; dish them; pass their seasoning through a tammy; sauce.and serve.132 FRENCH COOKERY. TURTLE DOVES. Des Tburtereaux. The turtle dove is more esteemed than the wood- pigeon although drier; the wild are of a better flavour than the domestic; the male is distinguishable by a black ring about his neck; like the others they are ge- nerally eaten roasted. FOWLS. VOLAILL E. Poulets. There are four kinds: 1st. the common fowl; which is used for fricassees and farces: 2d. the half fat fowls, which are used in raw marinades, curries, and different entrees which do not require large fowls: 3d. the small fat fowl, which is more delicate, and serves either for an entree or roasting: 4th. the large fat fowl which is commonly used for the spit: it is about the end of April that the young fowls become in season; they are easily known by the whiteness of their skin, and the young points of their feathers are not easily picked out; their claws are more united than those of the old, softer to the touch, and of a light slate colour. Old poultry are fit for nothing but strength- ening broth and stock, the flesh being hard and dry. Fricassee of Fowls. Fricassee de Poulets. Prepare and truss two fowls; cut the nails; take out the craw (once for all); cut them up by taking off the legs; cut off the drumsticks; break the thigh- bones about the middle and take out half of the bone; cut the small end off the stump and take off the pinions from the wings; cut off the points; cut the wings at the joint; take care of the breast in sepa- rating it from the back; pare the ends of the sides; cut the back in two; pare the rump; cut off the little point and the tube ; pare the back and take out the intestines; put into a stewpan two pints of water, a sliced onion, four sprigs of parsley, a little salt, with7CWLS. 133 the fowls; blanch them;’let them have a boil in that water; take them out and drain them on a cloth; pare and wipe them; put the water through a gauze search; put into a stewpan more than a quarter of a pound of butter; put in the fowls ; let them come softly over a gentle fire; throw' a little flour over them; toss to mix the flour; moisten little byjittle with the water; add a bunch of parsley and young onions, half a bay-leaf, a clove, and some cut mushrooms (see art. Garniture); let it cook, and skim; if the sauce is too thin put a part or the whole into another stew- pan; redupe it, and pour it over the fowls; make a thickening with three yolks and a little cream or milk; boil the fricassee, take it from the fire and thicken it; put it oh the fire to finish the thickening, but do not let it boil; taste *, and finish with half a pat of butter, and the juice of a lemon or a little verjuice; dish, beginning with putting the legs first, then the backs and breasts, and intermix the thighs and wings over all, and sauce it. -—- - Fricassee of fowls may be made hot or cold, as is di- rected for Salmi de Perdreaux chauds oufroids ; when the fricassee is thickened, which ought to be a little cool, put jelly to the sauce, and make it take in the same manner as for the partridges, but do not use bread to garnish. Fricassee of Fowls. Fricassee de Poulets a la Chevaliere. Prepare two fine fat fowls, and cook them as above, putting aside the wings, which ought to be larded with small lard; take off the skin and uncover the ends of the bones, polishing them; if there is fresh truffle, gar- nish two wings with it; melt some butter in a tartpan, put in the four wings, strew a little salt over, cover with buttered paper, and put them into an oven: the fricassee being prepared as in the last article, dish and sauce it, putting the wings over in the form of a cross; after glazing them, between each lay a large craw-fish, and a large truffle upon the top to crown the entree. * Every sauce ought to be tasted.FRENCH COOKERY. 134? Poulets en Entree de Broche. Prepare two fat white fowls of an equal size; singe them carefully, open them by the craw and draw out the intestines with the hook of a skimming-spoon, taking care not to break the gall; put into a stewpan about three quarters of a pound of butter, salt, lemon- juice and nutmeg; mix all cold together with a wooden spoon; stuff the fowls equally with it, and truss them for an entree, that is, with the feet out; tie the wings with a pack-thread so that the skin of the breasts may cross the back; take the skin off a lemon quite close, cut it in two, and rub the stomach and front parts well to make them white, and squeeze the remaining part of the juice over them; cover a stewpan with slices of lard, put in the fowls, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley and young onions, half a bay-leaf, half a clove of garlic, a slice of ham, and some parings of veal; rub again with lemon, take out the seeds, cut it in slices, with which cover the breasts of the fowls, and over this lay slices of bacon ; moisten with a ladle- ful of bouillon, or poele ; if there is no poele, add a glass of white wine with the bouillon ; cover with paper and a cover ; let them boil, put them upon a paillasse, and let moderate fire be put under and over; when enough, drain and unlace them, let the butter run out ; dish and serve under them a truffle sauce, a high sea- soned Espagnole, love-apple, tarragon, aspic, mushroom, or a mixed ragout, &c. and serve. Poulets a I'lvoire. Prepare and poele two fowls as is directea above, except that the feet must be cut off, and polish the ends of the stumps ; when enough drain and sauce them with a sauce d I’ivoire (see that article). Fowls'with Oyster Sauce. Poulets Sauce aux Huitres. Prepare two fowls as for an entree de broche, or roast- ing ; cook them in the same manner, drain and dish; put six dozen of oysters into a stewpan with their own juice, let them stiffen ; put into another stewpan four large spoonfuls of reduced veloute, drain the oystersFOWLS. 135 and throw them into the veloute ; give them a boil, put in a little blanched minced parsley, a pat of butter, and a little large pepper ; when ready to serve, squeeze in a lit- tle lemon-juice, taste, and pour it over the fowls. Folds with Truffle. Poulets Sauce aux Truffles. As directed above with Truffle Sauce. Folds with Love Apple. Foidets aux Sauce Tomate. The same with love-apple sauce. Fords with Tarragon. Poulets a I’Estragon. The same with VEstragon Sauce. Fowls as Lizards. Poulets en Lezard. Prepare two fine fowls ; cut off the legs and pinions, keeping the skin entire, even that of the throat; open them by the back-bone entirely, spread them upon a clean cloth, farce them with a farce cuite de volaille ; strip them, giving them the form of a lizard; make the stuffed neck the tail, the thighs the hind legs, and the ends of the wings the fore legs, the breast the back, and for the head a truffle cut into the shape, or a tur- nip, which must be introduced into the body; soften some of the farce cuite with a little veloute, spread it thinly over the back of the lizard, decorate it with dif- ferent coloured omelets, white, green, red, and yellow ; imitate the rich colours of the animal (see petites ome- lettes) ; cover an oval stewpan with barbs of lard, put in the lizards, taking care to preserve their form; poele them as fowls a l'entree de broche ; cover with strong paper and a cover ; let them boil, and then sim- mer with very little fire over, as it would alter the co- lour ; when done drain them, and serve them upon a ravigote or Hollandaise verte. (See these articles.) Fowls with Pease. Poulets aux Pois. Take half a pound of the breast lard, cut it in large dice, take off the skin and blanch it; drain and put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; make a roux (see that article); pass the lard in it, letting it brown a little; when it is a fine white, put in two young fowls, cut up as for a fricassee; moisten with a ladle-full of bouillon, mix it well; season withFRENCH COOKERY. 136 parsley, young onions, half a bay leaf, and a clove; let it boil, put in a quart of young pease, cook it over a strong fire, without a cover ; skim it; when done, dish the fowls, and reduce the sauce if too thin ; taste, masque the fowls, and send to table. Another Way. Autre Faqon de fricasser des Poulets aux Pots et au Blanc. Prepare two young fowls as for the fricassee ; put a piece of butter in a stewpan with them, parsley, young onions, salt, two small onions, toss them and let them boil ; cover and cook them slowly, with fire under and over them ; when half done put in a quart of young pease which have been handled in water, and a small bit of butter ; drain them in a cullender, let them sweat and cook together, tossing them from time to time; when enough, take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and the onions ; thicken with a large spoonful of good re- duced veloute ; if there is no veloute, mix a little butter with Hour, and thicken with it; serve this fricassee as the foregoing. Fowls with Craw-Fish Sauce. Poidets au Beurre d Ecrivisse. Prepare and cook the fowls as is directed (Poidets d'entree de hroche); put into a stewpan four spoonfuls of reduced veloute, and about the size of an egg of beurre d'ecrivisse ; pass it over the fire, and work it; put it into the dish, and lay the fowls over it. To roast Fowls. Poidets a la Broche pour Rot. Take two large fine fat fowls or three small ones (a la reine *); lard one of the large; if they are small, one or two ; cover with barbs of lard f, wrap them in paper and roast them; when they are three-fourths done, take off the paper, and let them finish drying the lard ; let them take a nice brown, and if there is any glaze, do the lard gently with a brush ; dish them upon cresses seasoned with salt and vinegar. * The name given to fine small white fat fowls. •f Barbs of lard, is bacon cut over in large tliin slices, so that any thing may be wrapt in or covered with it.137 FOWLS. Fouls with Green Sauce. Foulets a la Hollandaise. Prepare and cook two fowls as for an entree de broche; drain and put them into a stewpan, take four large spoonfuls of reduced veloute, with a bit of glaze the size of a thumb, or veal Stockland as much green of spinnage ; toss and vannez the sauce; when ready to serve, add some lemon-juice ; put the sauce in the dish, and serve the fowls over it. It is necessary that they should be very white. Grilled Fowls. Poidets a la Tart are. Prepare two fowls, truss them en poule, that is, the legs as for boiling ; open them down the back, flatten, break the thigh-bones ; put a bit of butter into a stew- pan, with salt and large pepper; let them boil, and cook them with fire under and over ; a quarter of an hour before serving, pass them *, and put them upon the gridiron over a moderate fire, taking care to turn them two or three times to give them a fine colour, and serve under a sauce (a la Tartare). Fowls another Way. Poulets Sauce au pauvre Homme, et divers autres. Prepare the fowls as is directed above, taking off the necks and legs ; cut them down the backs and flatten them ; cook them half in butter with salt and pepper ; finish (without passing them) upon the gridiron, and serve under a sauce au pauvre homme, tarragon, love-apple, or any other. Fowls with Truffles. Poulets a la Perigueux. Prepare two fine white fat fowls, they must be drawn by the craw ; clean two pounds of truffle, make the small ones as equal as possible ; put a pound of rasped lard into a stewpan ; put in the truffles with their parings which have been minced, salt, large pepper, fine spices, nutmeg, and a bay-leaf, which must be taken out afterwards; let them simmer half an hour upon a slow fire, shaking them carefully; take them off the fire, and let them cool; put the fowls upon a cloth, and stuff them equally at the breast with the * Pass them, signifies to do them over the fire in a little butter to prepare them for grilling.138 FRENCH COOKERY truffles, truss them en poulets d'entree; skewer them; cover them with slices of lard and two or three sheets of paper; tie them upon the spit, and give them nearly * five quarters of an hour ; take off the paper, dish them, and serve upon a sauce a la Perigueux. Poulet a la Mayonnaise. Take a roasted fowl, and do it in the same manner as directed for the perdreaux a la mayonnaise. Salad of Folds. Salade de Poulets. Take two cold roasted fowls, (or dessert, that is to say, what has been left from a former day,) cut them up as for a mayonnaise; put them into an earthen dish, season them in the same manner as a salad, add whole capers, gherkins cut in fillets, and other minced materials of that kind ; mix altogether ; dish it as a fricassee de poulets ; garnish the border of he dish with fresh lettuce cut in quarters, hard eggs cut in the same manner ; strew over the pickles, anchovies, ca- pers and gherkins, which were kept out on purpose; sauce with the seasoning. Fowls in Cream. Poulets a la Creme. Take two cold roasted fowls, cut out the breasts with the bones close to the thighs, take out the intestines, make a mince of the breasts of the fowls in the follow- ing manner: take off the white, skinning it, mince it very fine ; pare and pound nicely a veal’s udder that has been cooked in the stock pot; if there is none, use rasped lard or butter; take the crumb of a penny roll, steep and dry it in rich cream ; put in an equal quantity of these three ingredients, pound altoge- ther ; add five yolks of eggs, salt, and nutmeg; try the farce; add three whites well whipt lightly with a spoon, and two shalots minced very fine, washed and wrung in a cloth ; minced parsley may also be added ; mix altogether ; put two slices of lard upon a tart-pan ; fill the fowls with the farce, unite it with a knife dipt in omelet; let the fowls have their original shape ; glaze them with yolk, and carve any design upon them; cover them with buttered paper, fix itFOWLS. 139 round with a thread ; put them upon the tart-pan, and three quarters of an hour before serving them, put them into the oven ; let them take a fine colour; dish, and serve under them a white Italienne, or a sauce au su- preme, or one d Vivoire. All these will be found at their articles. Poulets en Friteau. Cut up two fowls as for a fricassee, put them into an earthen dish with slices of onions, branches of parsley, salt, large pepper, and the juice of two or three le- mons ; leave them to marinade an hour; drain and put them into a cloth, with a handful of flour; shake them in it, and lay them upon a cover ; when the friture has come to its degree, put in first the legs, a little after the breasts, and then the wings, the back, and so on till it is all in ; when cooked of a fine colour, it may be served with six fresh fried eggs laid over, and a poiv- rade under it. Marinade de Poulets. Cut up two roasted fowls, marinade them half an hour, (see Marinade cuite) drain and dip them into ( pate a frire) batter, which has been made with whites only; fry the marinade as directed above ; when it is enough, and of a fine colour, drain upon a cloth; dish upon fried parsley, or only with a bouquet, or small bunch on the top. Ditto forced Meat in Paste. Rissoles de Volaille. Take some parings of puft paste, roll it out long, the thickness of a crown-piece, and thinner if possible ; wet the borders with a brush dipt in water ; lay upon the paste (farce cuite de volaille) in small balls from distance to distance ; turn over the paste upon them, and cut them with a paste cutter in crescents or rounds; unite the paste well; flour a cover, and arrange the rissoles upon it; when ready to serve fry them of a fine colour. Ditto. Poulet en Capilotade. Cut up a roasted fowl; put into a stewpan three large spoonfuls of Italienne ; if there is none employFRENCH COOKERY. HO a sauce liachee, and in default of that a pauvre homme ; let the fowl simmer in one of these sauces a quarter of an hour before serving ; dish and add to tne sauce gherkins cut in small rounds and fillets. Poulets a la Saint-Cloucl. Prepare two fowls as for an entree de broche ; take two or three very black truffles; make little nails of them ; decorate the fowls with them, which is done by putting one into each hole made in the breast with a small larder; it is necessary to make the holes at equal distances ; cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, an onion stuck with a clove, a turned carrot, a bunch of parsley and young onions ; strew over the breast a little fine salt and a squeeze of a lemon ; cover with lard and a round of paper; moisten with a poele, or a glass of consomme, or bouillon, with a glass of white wine, half a bay-leaf, and a slice of ham : three quarters of an hour before serving make them boil, put them on a paillasse, with fire under and over; when enough drain, dish and serve with a truffle sauce; if there is no veloute, pass the stock of the fowls ; put in a pat of butter, mixed with half a spoon- ful of flour ; let it boil, and skim it; reduce and pass it through a tammy; put in the small dice of truffle, (as for the sauce en petit-deuil) passed in butter; finish with half a pat of butter. Poulets a la Ravigote. Prepare two fowls as for an entree de broche, or roasting; serve them with a sauce a la ravigote. Ditto. Poulets a la Paysanne ou a la Demidaff. Cut up two fowls as for a fricassde; put about the size of an egg of butter into a stewpan, and four spoonfuls of olive-oil; pass it over a quick fire; give them a good colour; season with salt and large pep- per ; when half done, add two sliced carrots, four onions cut in rings, and a few branches of parsley; pass them altogether; and when the roots are coloured, moisten the paysanne with six large spoonfuls of Espa- gnole; shake it; let it simmer softly over cinders for a quarter of an hour ; take care it does not stick. __FOWLS. 141 Poulets ii la Reine, Sauce a la Pluche vert. Prepare andpoele three of these fowls, and masque them with a. pluche vert. Ditto. Poulets a la Proven^ale. Prepare two fowls as for africassee; take a dozen of white onions, and cut them in half fings with a little parsley; put the onions in a stew or saute-pan, laying in a bed of onions and parsley, and one of fowl, till all are in; add a glass of oil; one or two bay leaves, and salt; when they have boiled, leave them to simmer slowly; dish and glaze them, putting the onions in the middle; sauce them with a little Espagnole. Boiled Capon. Chapon au gros Sel. Prepare a capon; truss the legs within, barb and cook it in the stock-pot or bouillon ; try if enough done by pinching the pinion; drain, dish, and put a little large salt upon the breast, and sauce it with re- duced gravy of beef. Capon with Rice. Chapon au Riz. Prepare the capon as above; blanch three quarters of a pound of rice; drain, and put it into a pot that is capable of containing the capon also; lay it in upon the breast; moisten with two large spoonfuls of con- somme or bouillon; let it boil and simmer upon a paillasse; take care to stir the rice from time to time ; try if the capon is enough done; dish and skim the rice; finish with a bit of butter, salt, large pepper, and a little reduction, if there is any; masque the capon ; if the rice is too thick, put in a little bouillon. Capon stuffed withTruJJle. Chapon aux Truffes. Prepare a capon as above; empty it by the craw; use the hook of a skimming-spoon, and take care not to break the gall; prepare two pounds of nice truffle, hash the broken or unseemly ones, cut in dice, and pound nearly a pound of fat bacon; put it into a stew- pan with the truffle, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and fine spices; simmer upon a slow fire about half an hour; let them cool; stuff the capon; sew and truss the legsFRENCH COOKERY. 112 en long, that is to say, stretched out; hang it if pos- sible two or three days ; barb, that is to say, cover them with lard ; spit and cover them with paper; give it nearly an hour and half; if used for a remove, take off the lard, and serve it with pig’s skin over a truffle sauce. Fowl roasted. Poularde en Entree a la Broche. Pluck the wings and the head of a pullet; truss up the legs, taking care not to hurt the skin; pick it, take out the canal, draw it by the crop, taking care not to break the gall; mix a little butter with some lemon- juice and salt, with a wooden spoon, and stuff the pullet; truss the legs without; bind the wings; skewer, and rub the breast with lemon; strew on a little salt, and cover with slices of lemon; cover it with barbs of lard, and over the9e put several sheets of paper, tied to the skewers at both ends ; fix it on the spit; let it cook an hour ; take off the paper; drain and serve it -with any sauce. Poularde aux Truffes. See Capon aux Truffes.) Poularde a la Marechale. Pick and singe a fine pullet; empty it by the breast; fill it with butter worked with a little salt and lemon-juice; truss the legs out; take out the canal; lard the breast with small lard ; make it look as large as possible, and of a good form; marque it in a stew- pan as the poulets (en entree de broche), except that it is only to be covered with a round of buttered paper; let it boil, and then cook it with fire under and over; when enough, drain, and serve under it a ragout de financiere. Poularde a la Saint-Cloud. Only differs from the foregoing, by being stuck with cloves of truffle instead of being larded. Fowls. Poulardes a la Bigarrure. Take two small pullets, pick and singe them; take off the wings, the small fillets, and nervous skin off the143 FOWLS. wings and pinions; lard two of the wings with lard, and the other two with truffle half cooked ; marque these four wings in a stewpan covered with lard, a carrot, parsley, young onions, and two small onions stuck with two cloves; moisten with a little con- somme; take care that the consomme does not reach the lard of the wings; cover with a round of paper; a quarter of an hour before serving, make them boil, and finish with fire under and over; bone the thighs, and fill them with a salpiqon made of truffle and fat livers; sew them up, giving them the shape of a flat- tened fig; cut the leg in two, and stuff the lower half into the thigh, that only a little bit may appear as a stalk ; lard two with nails of truffle in form of roses, and leave the other two white, to that end rub them with lemon; marque them in a stewpan between slices of lard; season them in the same manner as the wings; let them cook on a slow fire about three quarters of an hour; when ready to serve, drain, take out the threads; drain also the wings, and take the nerves out of the small fillets; dish them without touch- ing one another from distance to distance, and put in crusts of truffles the size of the small fillets ; sauce this entree with a worked reduced espagnole, and the consomme that was made of the carcases of the fowls. Fowls, Love-apple Sauce Poularde Sauce Tomate. Prepare a pullet as is directed for Poulardes en entree de broche, and serve under it a love-apple sauce. Roasted ditto. Poularde a la Broche pour Rot. Prepare a fine pullet, leaving its legs en long; barb or lard and spit it; wrap it in paper ; and let it cook three quarters of an hour ; undo, and let it take a fine colour; cover the dish with cresses; season with salt and vinegar. Ditto. La meme avec une Hollandaise. The same as entree de broche, and sent to table upon a hot Hollandaise.144 FRENCH COOKERY. Poularde en Entree de Broche. Poelez or roast a pullet, and serve with sauce an beurre d'ecrevisses. Poidarde en Entree de Broche a la Ravigote. The same as pullets a la ravigote. Poularde a I'lvoire. The same as pullets a I'ivoire. Poularde aux Huitres. The same as pullets aux huitres. Poidarde Sauce a I'Estragon. Prepare the pullet either in a poele, or roasted, and serve it with a tarragon sauce, clear or thick. Poidarde au Beurre d'Ecrevisse. The same as pullets au beurre d'ecrevisses. Poularde a la Tartare. The same as pullets a la tartare. Poularde Sauce au pauvre Homme. The same as pullets sauce au pauvre homme. Poularde a la Perigueux. (See Pullets a la Perigueux.) Mayonnaise de Poularde. (See Mayonnaise de Poulets.) Poularde a la Creme. (See article Poulets a la Creme.) Marinade de Poulardes. (See article Marinade de Poulets.) Fillets of Fowls. Fillets de Poularde au Supreme. Take off the fillets of three small pullets, skin them as nicely as possible, beat and pare them lightly; melt in a saute-\>sm some butter, dip the fillets entirely in it, arrange them in the pan, strew over a little salt, and cover with a round of paper: take off the six legs to make an entree either for that or the following day; make a consomme of the carcases ; reduce it nearly to glaze, without giving it any colour: put in six large spoonfuls of reduced veloute, and rather a large pieceFOWLS. 145 of butter; salt vannez; toss the fillets and turn them; they must be kept very white; take care that they be well done; cut six pieces of crumb the size and shape of the fillets, and pass them in butter; dish the fillets en couronne, putting a toast between each ; work the sauce and masque the entree; if truffle is required, cut some in small rounds, like sixpences, and do them in a little butter and salt; put them into a part of the sauce, and pour them into the well of the entree. Minced Fowl with Cucumbers. Emincee de Filets de Poulardes aux Concombres. Take the breasts off one or two cold roasted fowls; mince them; make a ragout of cucumbers either white or brown; when it is reduced and ready to serve, put in the mince without letting it boil; if it is white, add two yolks to thicken it, with the size of a walnut of butter, and a little nutmeg. Wings of Fowls with Endive. A lies de Poulardes a la Marechale. Take three fine pullets, cut off the wings, and sup- press the pinions; take off the skin with a knife, in the same manner as a slice of bacon is taken off; take care not to hurt the flesh; lard them double and marque them in a stewpan, as is directed, Poulardes en bigar- rures; when enough, drain them upon a cover; glaze them of a fine white ; dish upon a nice reduced white endive; form a rose of the wings upon the centre of the dish, and put a fine truffle on the top. Fowl. Poularde a la Galantine. Open and bone a fine pullet by the back, lay it on a cloth, cover it with farce cuite a la volatile, about the thickness of a finger; cut large lard, season it with salt, pepper, fine spices, pounded and sifted aromatics, parsley and young onions minced; also lardons of some cooked ham, the same size as the other; if it is the season for fresh truffles, cut some also of the same size, and dispose these lardons upon the farce in such manner as to marble it; cover over with farce; marble again with the lardons, and con- H146 FRENCH COOKERY. tinue till it is finished ; then sew up the fowl and give it as much as possible its own form; cover it with slices of bacon, and sew it up in a new cloth, and tie the two ends with a thread; cover a stewpan with carrots, onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, two or three slices of ham, a knuckle of veal, and the carcase of the fowl cut in pieces; put in the fowl upon the back; press the breast with the hand to flatten it a little; cover the galantine with slices of lard; put in bouillon, which must cover it; cover with paper, and let it boil; put on the cover and set it upon a paillasse, with fire over and under ; give it an hour and a half, or two hours; when enough, take it from the fire, leave it in the seasoning half an hour, then take it off and press it lightly ; flatten again the stomach as much as pos- sible, that a jelly garnishing may lie better upon it; pass the seasoning of the galantine through a wet cloth; if the colour is not strong enough, reduce it; break two eggs, yolks, whites, and shells; put them into the jelly, whip it, and put it on the fire, keep stirring it; when it begins to boil, draw it to the corner of the stove and cover; lay over it some very hot cin- ders; leave it to clarify from a half to three quarters of an hour; run it through a cloth (see grand Aspic); let it cool; untie the galantine; take off the fat; dishit upon a napkin, garnish with the jelly in any manner that is most convenient. Fillets of Fowl. —— Filets de Poulardes a la Bech- amelle. Take the breasts of two roasted pullets ; mince them very equally ; put into a stewpan five large spoonfuls of bechamelle, two of consomme, and a little nutmeg; make it boil, and work the sauce well that it may not stick; when ready to serve, throw in the mince, and mix it carefully; put it into a bordered dish; if there is none ready, garnish with fried bread, or flowers, or leaves of pastry ; or send it to table in a vol-au-vent. Stiffly of Fowl. Souffle de Poularde. See Sotiffie de Pcrdreaux.FOWLS. 147 Hash of Fowl. Hachis de Poidarde a la Reine. Proceed as above, only make the mince much finer; put bechamelle and consomme into a stewpan; let it boil and work the sauce; when ready to serve, put in the mince; do not let it boil; finish with a little butter and nutmeg; it must neither be too thick nor too thin. This hash may be served either as a great or small vol-au-vent. Croquettes of Fowl. Croquettes de Poulardes. Take the white part of a roasted pullet; cut it in dice; also some fat livers, mushrooms, and truffles, all of the same size; put them into a saucepan with suffi- cient quantity of veloute, and reduce to half glaze; thicken with three yolks, and add a little nice butter; mix it well, and put it upon a well-tinned cover to cool; then divide it into the size of croquettes, and give them any form; strew crumbs of bread upon the table, roll them in it, then dip them in an omelet, and again roll them in the crumbs, completing their form; when ready to serve fry in a hot pan that they may not break; drain them on a cloth; serve hot upon fried parsley. Cutlets of Fowls. Cotelettes de Poulardes ou de Poulets. See Cutlets de Perdreaux. Blanquette of Fowl. [Blanquette de Poularde. Take the flesh of a cold roasted fowl, or remainder, and mince it; put into a stewpan some veloute, reduce and skim it; when ready to serve, put in the mince ; do not let it boil; cook it with a little cream or milk, and put in a bit of butter; it must neither be too thick nor too thin. Fillets of Fowl. Filets de Poularde a la Chingara. Take the fillets from three pullets as is directed (Filets de Poulardes); melt some butter in a saute-pan, and arrange them in it; strew over a little fine salt, and cover with a round of paper; cut six pieces from a redded tongue, the same size of the fillets; put them H 2FRENCH COOKERY. 148 into a stewpan with a little bouillon ; keep them warm without letting them boil; toss the fillets as directed au supreme; when done, drain them ; dish them with a slice of tongue between; if it is necessary that the entree should be larger, mix fried bread of the same shape and sauce, with a sauce au supreme. Legs of Fowls with small Onions, or as Swans Cuisses de Poulardes en Canetons, ou en petits Oignons. Take the fillets of three fine cold roasted pullets, taking care not to hurt the skin of the legs, which must be partly boned, leaving a part of the leg-bone which is next the claw; fill the legs with a salpipon made of fat livers, truffles, and mushrooms; give them the shape of a swan’s neck, the claw forming the beak; fix it with a thread to keep its form; make two in- cisions, one to form the height on the beak, the other upon the back of the claw, which represents the head; take six fine large craw-fish with equal claws; boil them in stock; take off the large claws; make of them the wings of a swan by sticking them into the sides; cover the bottom of a stewpan with barbs of lard; put in the cygnets as if they were swimming; lay upon each a slice of lemon, that they may be very white; moisten with a poele; cover with barbs of lard and paper; three quarters of an hour before serving make it boil, and put it on a. paillasse with a little fire over; when done drain and unlace them; serve them upon a green sauce (Hollandaise vert), or beurre d'ecrevisses. Legs of Fowls another Way. Cuisses de Poulardes en Ballon. Bone six or eight pullets’ legs, as in the foregoing article; put them upon a cloth and stuff them with a salpiqon; sew them up (poularde en bigarrure); marque them in a stewpan covered with barbs of lard; moisten with a poele; cook them about three quarters of an hour; when ready to dish, drain, and serve under them a good Italienne rousse.149 FOWLS. Levs of Fowls another Way. Cuisses de Poulardes a la Bayonnaise. Take the hinder parts of two fowls; keep the legs attached to the skin; bone them entirely but the bit. next the claw; put them into a marinade of lemon- juice, salt, large pepper, and a bruised bay-leaf; let them be two or three hours in it; when ready to serve drain, flour, and fry them in rasped lard; cut four onions in rings; take out the hearts; fry; take care they are all of a good colour; dish upon a poivrade sauce, and arrange the onions over. Legs of Fowls another Way. Cuisses de Poulardes a la Livournois. Take six pullets’legs, and bone as above; pare ; cover a stewpan with barbs * of carrots, two onions, parsley, and young onions seasoned with aromatics and a barb of ham; put in the legs; moisten with a ladleful of stock ; cover it with some of barbs of lard and a round of paper ; turn some carrots into shapes; blanch, drain, and do them in stock till they fall into glaze; tdd a little bit of sugar to take off the bitter; put into a saucepan five or six large spoonfuls of Espagnole ; add the carrots; boil, skim, and drain the legs; add a bit of butter to the ragout; toss it, and masque the entree. Legs of Fowls with Truffle. Cuisses de Poulardes aux Truffes. Bone six pullets’ legs as is directed, (see Cuisses en ballon ,-) stuff them with a salpipon made of truffles and fat livers; sew them up; marque them in a stewpan as is directed in the foregoing receipt; finish in the same manner; drain, unlace, and serve upon a ragout of truffles. (Ragout aux Truffes.) Quenelles de Poulardes. (See Quenelles de Volailles.) Winvs of Fowls with Haricots. Ailerons de Pou- lardes en Haricot Vicrges. Take twenty pullets’ wings, bone them to the half of * That i9, cut in thin slices.150 FRENCH COOKERY. the first joint; singe, pare, and wipe them with a cloth; marque a stewpan with barbs of lard; put in the wings; moisten with poele or white bouillon; if there is no ftoele put in some slices of lemon without peel or seeds, with a bunch of parsley and young onions, a cut carrot, two onions, one stuck with a clove, and half a bay-leaf; cover with barbs of lard and a round of paper; let it boil and cook upon a paillasse with fire under and over; turn some turnips in the form of small corks, cloves of shalots, or in mushrooms; blanch and put them in a stewpan with white bouillon and a little bit of sugar; let them be done on a slow fire; put into another stewpan four large spoonfuls of veloute; reduce it; let a quart of cream be boiled, and put it by degrees into the sauce, turning it con- stantly until it has acquired the consistence of a clear broth ; drain the turnips and put them into the sauce; add a little nutmeg and a bit of butter, and toss them; drain the wings; dish and masque them with the turnips, and garnish round with slices of ham. Another ' Way Ailerons de Poidardes en Haricots. Prepare the wings as directed in the last receipt; turn the turnips in the same way, and fry them a fine brown; drain and put them into a stewpan with a ladleful of Espagnole; let it boil, and throw in the turnips ; let them simmer and cook; dish the wings and masque them with the turnips; if there is no Espagnole, when the turnips have been fried, drain them, and put into the butter a spoonful of flour, and make a little roux; moisten it with the stock of the wings; boil this sauce; pass it through a tammy into a stewpan; , add the turnips; let them cook; skim, and put in a bit of sugar; taste, and masque the wings with it. Another Way. Ailerons de Poulardes a la Puree. Cook the wings as above, and marque them with any purees d entrees. Another Way. Ailerons de Poulardes au Soleil. Prepare these wings as above, and dip them into aFOWLS 151 H 4 light batter (pate a frire); fry them of a fine colour, and serve with a tuft of fried parsley over. Another Way. Terrine a”Ailerons de Poulardes. Prepare a sufficient quantity of wings as above; cook as much petit lard as is necessary for them, and finish in the manner directed in the article Mouton dit Terrine. Another Way Ailerons de Poulardespique et glacee. Take twelve or fifteen wings; after preparing and boning them, lard them double; put into the bottom of a stewpan a little veal-kidney fat, one or two slices of ham, an onion stuck with a clove, a cut carrot, a bunch of parsley and young onions; arrange the wings with the larded sides up, that they may not touch the seasoning; moisten with good broth, and cover with a round of paper ; let them boil, and cook upon apaillasse with a quick fire under and over, that they may take a fine colour; when enough, pass their stock through a gauze search ; let it fall almost to glaze in a saute-pan, which ought to be large enough to contain the wings without being placed one upon another; turn the larded sides under into the glaze, that they may be wet with it; put the pan upon hot cinders; when they are glazed dish them with a fork, the larded sides upward; put to the remainder of the glaze a large spoonful of Espagnole and one of consomme; let it boil; detach the glaze, and sauce the wings with it. Another Way Ailerons de Poulardes a la Cliicoree. Prepare these pullets’ wings as above; cook them in the same manner, and send them to table over a good cliicoree blanche. Another Way Ailerons de Poulardes a la pluche Verte. Prepare fifteen wing3 of pullets as above; cover a stewpan with slices of veal and ham, a dozen mush- room stalks, half a shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a little basil; put in the wings; cut two carrots and two onions in slices; cover the wings with them; moisten with152 FRENCH COOKERY. consomme or bouillon ; let them boil, and put them upon a paillasse with fire under and over; when enough, pass the stock through a silk search; add a little bit of butter worked in flour; thicken by turning and shaking; reduce it to the consistence of sauce ; add a few parsley leaves that have been blanched; a little lemon-juice and large pepper; dish the wings, and masque them with the sauce. Another Way. Ailerons de Poidardes a la Ville Roi. Prepare twelve or fifteen wings of pullets; bone them to the first joint, and stuff them with farce cuite de volailles; marque them in a stewpan as the wings larded and glazed, and do them in the same manner; when done, drain and put them on a tart-pan ; cover them with a sainte-menehould; strew them with crumbs of bread mixed with the same quantity of rasped parmesan; give them a good colour in the oven, and serve them dry. Cocks' Combs and Kidneys Cretes et Rognons du. veloute. Prepare and do them in a blanc; drain, and put them to a sufficient quantity of reduced veloute; let them ymmer some minutes; thicken; add a little butter and lemon-juice, and serve. Grand Aspic de Cretes et de Rognons. Take an aspic mould; if there is none of the size use a stewpan; put it within another vessel filled with broken ice; run into the mould the depth of an inch of aspic; decorate it fancifully with truffles, lard, yolks, gherkins, tails, spawn of craw-fish, cocks’ combs and kidneys; then run in more aspic, taking care not to derange the decorations; when it has again taken, fill up the mould with the combs and kidneys, leaving two inches all round clear, which must be filled with aspic, as well as the mould entirely, so that it may come out in one piece; when ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water; turn it over upon a cover, leaving the mould;when it is well placed, run it carefully on a dish, and take the mould oft; remove153 FOWLS. die jelly which has run with a straw ; wipe the dish, and serve. There may also be made in the same manner aspics of the white of fowls, fillets of hare or partridges ; if the mould is formed with a well, it may be filled with a mayonnaise, or a ravigote a la gelee. Kidneys and Combs in Jelly. Petits Aspics de Crctes et de Rognons. Proceed as the above, making what quantity may be sufficient for the dish. Fat Livers. Foies gras a la Perigueux. Take seven fat livers of pullets; lard them with truffle nails* : marque them in a stewpan over barbs of lard ; moisten with a good mirepois ; if there is no mi- repois put equal quantities of white wine and consomme, salt, a sliced carrot, a clove stuck in one or two small onions, a bunch of parsley and young onions, half a bay leaf, and half a clove of garlic; cover wuth slices of bacon and a round of paper; let them simmer rather more than twenty minutes, upon a paillasse, with fire under and over; when done, drain, dish, and sauce them with a Perigueux ; a crust of fried bread may be put between each, and a fine truffle in the middle. Another Way Foies gras au Gratin. Take a silver dish, or any other that will stand the oven, and can be presented at table ; cover the bottom with about an inch of gratin ; have ready, as in the foregoing article, six or seven nice fat white livers, ar- range them upon the gratin, leaving a well in the mid- dle; fill up all the intervals between the livers in such a manner that they form but one piece, having united it all nicely with the blade of a knife ; cover it with buttered paper, put it in the oven ; when done, take off the paper, open the well, and pour in a reduced Espagnole or brown Italienne. See Mauviettes au Gratin. Another Way Foies gras en Matelote. Prepare six fat pullets’ livers as directed above ; * Which arc cut from truffles.FRENCH COOKERY. IS* blanch and cook them as for a Perigueux; drain and dish them, and sauce with a matelote: the entree may be enlarged or enriched by the addition of fried bread and truffles, or either. Another Way. Foies gras en Caisse. Make a round or square case, two inches and a half high, and of a suitable size for the dish it is intended to serve it on ; oil it on the outside, cover the bottom with about an inch of gratin ; having six fat livers pre- pared, put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, minced parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, salt, pepper, and fine spices ; pass them over the fire ; put the case upon the grill, and put in the livers with the herbs ; let them do over a slow fire ; when done, put the case upon a dish ; sauce with a good reduced Es- pagnole and a little lemon-juice; if there appears any butter swimming, skim it off. Another Way. Hatelettes de Foies gras. See Hatelettes de Ris de Veau. Another Way. Coquilles de Foies gras. Prepare the necessary livers, cut them in slices, add minced mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and small onions, salt, pepper, fine spices, and a bit of butter; put the whole into a stewpan, and pass them over the fire; moisten with a little Espagnole and champagne ; reduce to a thick sauce, and fill the scollop shells ; strew over crumbs of bread, and give them a fine colour in the oven. TURKIES. Dindes. Turkey roasted with Truffle. Dinde aux Truffles ct a la Broche. Take a white fat turkey hen; prepare and open it at the craw; take care not to break the gall; if that should happen, it will be necessary to wash it, by putting se- veral waters through the body; take three or four pounds of truffle,clean it with care; take out any musty ones, and hash those that are defective; pound a pound of fat lard, put it into a stewpan with the minced truffles, as also the whole ones; season with salt, large155 TURKIES. H 6 pepper, fine spices, and a bay leaf; pass the whole upon a slow fire, and let them simmer from a half to three quarters of an hour, take them oft the fire and shake them well; let them be nearly cold when the tur- key is stuffed with them, which must be to the throat; sew it up; truss and cover it with slices of bacon ; leave it three or four days to take the perfume ; spit it; wrap it in strong paper ; give it two hours ; take the paper off, and let it take a good colour. Another Way. Dinde en Galantine. The same as Poidardes en Galantine. Another Way. Dinde en Daube. Take an old turkey; prepare and blanch the legs; truss it enpoule, that is, with the legs within ; cut large lard; season with salt, pepper, fine spices, aromatics pounded and sifted, parsley and young onions minced small; roll the lard well in this seasoning, then lard the turkey crossways all over; truss it and wrap it in a cloth*, sew and tie the two ends; cover a stewpan with sliced lard, and parings of veal, some slices of ham, and any remainders of the seasoned lard ; if con- venient, it would not be the worse if a knuckle of veal; lay the turkey over this bottom or fond, and add salt, a large bunch of parsley and onions, two cloves of garlic, two bay leaves, two or three carrots, and four or five onions, one of which must be stuck with three cloves; moisten with bouillon and a glass of good brandy ; the turkey must be covered in the liquor; cover with some slices of bacon and buttered paper ; let it boil, and put it upon a paillasse with fire under and over; surround it with red cinders ; let it simmer in this manner four hours; when half done, turn the turkey, and taste if properly salted; when enough, take it from the fire, let it nearly cool in the seasoning; drain ; pass the seasoning through a gauze search ; clarify in the same manner as the grand aspic, let it cool; unlace, dish, and garnish with the jelly. * Cloths for this purpose ought never to be washed with soap, but lessived with wood ashes.FRENCH COOKERY. 156 This turkey may also be served hot with part of the stock reduced. Turhies Wings done in the same manner as those of Fowls. Ailerons de Dindons accommodes de toutes famous. See Ailerons de Poulardes. PIGEONS. House Pigeons with Pease. Pigeo?is aux Petits Pois. Take three or four pigeons and prepare them, re- turning the livers into their bodies; truss them with legs within; pick, and singe, and put a bit of butter into a stewpan; let them stiffen, and take them out; cut some petit lard in large dice; put it to steep half an hour; pass it in the butter to give it a fine colour ; drain it, and put into the butter a spoonful of flour; make a little roux ; let it be very white; put in flie pigeons and lard; turn them in the roux; moisten by little and little with bouillon, and bring it to the consistence of sauce; turn it till it boils; season with parsley and young onions, half a bay leaf, half a clove of garlic, and a clove; draw the stewpan to the cor- ner of the stove to simmer; when they are half done, put in a quart of young pease; take care to shake them often ; when done, if the sauce is too thin, drain them, and reduce it; if required, add a little salt; skim, dish; dress the pigeons, and masque them with the ragout of pease and petit lard. Another Method. Take three pigeons, and prepare them as in the foregoing article; cover a stew-pan with barbs of lard, and put in the pigeons, wuth two sliced carrots, twm onions, one of them stuck with a clove, some parings or debris of butchers’ meat, a slice of ham, a little salt, and sweet herbs, as in the foregoing receipt: moisten with a ladleful of bouillon; cover with barbs of lard ; let them boil, and cover close with a round of paper, and the lid of the stewpan ; when sufficientlyPIGEONS. 157 done, drain them, and serve them masqued with a ragout of pease. (See Ragout de Pois.) A Compot of Pigeons Compote de Pigeons. Take three pigeons, and more if small ; prepare as above ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, as much petit lard cut in dice, which has been steeped; make a little roux\ let the pigeons come in it; moisten with a glass of wine and bouillon or water, also a bunch of sweet herbs, garnished with half a clove of garlic, a clove, two large handfuls of turned mushrooms, and twenty small onions of an equal size, which have been cooked in butter and very white ; season with salt and large pepper ; when done skim them, and if the sauce is thin, keep the pigeons hot and reduce it, sauce and serve. Another Way Pigeons au Blanc. Prepare the pigeons as above ; let them degorge half an hour; blanch, drain, wipe, and put them in a stewpan with a bit of butter; let them come upon a slow fire without browning; dredge them with a little flour, moisten with bouillon, and season as above with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; let them simmer a quarter of an hour; add also two handfuls of turned* mushrooms, with onions as above; when it is done skim it; keep the pigeons hot, and reduce the sauce; put in the pigeons, thicken with three yolks mixed in a little milk or cream, and a little nutmeg; thicken the sauce without allowing it to boil; if approved of, a little blanched minced parsley may be added; taste, and serve the pigeons masqued with the ragout. Pigeons in Batter. Marinade de Pigeons au Soleil. Take three cold roasted pigeons, cut them in two, and let them simmer twenty minutes in a marinade cuite; drain, and when ready to serve, dip them into a light batter (see Pate a Frire); when they have got a fine colour, dish them with a tuft of fried parsley on the top. * Turned means to cut any thing nicely round with a knife or cutter.158 FRENCH COOKERY. Another Way. Pigeons a la Crapandine. Take three pigeons, truss the legs within, cut the flesh off the breast by sliding in the knife at the side of the leg, and running it up to the joint of the wing; turn the breast over, and flatten the body with the handle of a knife; take a stewpan large enough to contain them in the flattened state; melt a bit of butter in it; add salt and large pepper; put in the pigeons with their breasts down; turn them, and when three-fourths done, drain them and put them on the grill over a slow fire; give them a fine colour, and serve them under sauce an pauvre homme. Small Pigeons. Pigeons a la Gautier. Take six or seven of these small pigeons, singe them very carefully; they ought only to be seven or eight days old; cut their nails ; warm three quarters of a pound of very nice butter, with the juice of two or three lemons and a little fine salt; put in the pi- geons; let them come lightlyx'; do not pass them over charcoal, as it would harden the skin; take them off the fire and cover another stewpan with barbs of lard ; put in the pigeons, that the feet may be in the middle of the stewpan ; baste them over with the whole of the butter, and moisten with a poele: if there is none, put in a glass of white wine, and a ladleful of consomme, a quarter of raspt lard, and a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs ; cover the pigeons with barbs of lard, and a round of paper; a quarter of an hour before serving, make them boil and put them upon a paillasse; dish them with a nice crawfish between each, and a fine truffle on the top ; sauce them either with a sauce vert beurre d'ecrevisses, or an aspic. Another Way. Pigeons au Basilic. If there are as many of these small pigeons left, or of dessert, (the French call any thing left dessert,) to make an entree, take a farce cuitede volaille, and put into it a small quantity of minced basil if it is green; if dry, pound and sift it: cut off the feet of the pigeons, * Let them come, that is, let them stiffen; let them come lightly, is to let them stiffen less.GEESE. 159 Sand cover them entirely with farce; dip them in a well beaten omelet, in which some crumbs of bread and salt have been mixed; roll them in crumbs of bread ; a quarter of an hour before serving them, put them into the future* not very hot, that they may take; let them have a fine colour; serve without sauce. Pigeon Cutlets. Cotelettes de Pigeons. Take the fillets of six pigeons; take olf the thin skin, and beat them very little; take the pinion bones, clean them, and run them into each of the fillets, giving it the form of a cutlet; dip them into an anglaise, that is, two yolks mixed with a little butter ; dip them in crumbs, and put them upon the grill; give them a good colour; when they are sufficiently done, dish them en couronne; sauce them with beef juice or a thick blond de veau ; add to the last a little large pep- per, and the juice of a lemon or two. These cutlets or fillets may be made an entree of, as a timbale, spate chaude, or en papilottes. (See these ar- ticles. If for the last, the cutlets must be cut in two.) To roast Pigeons. Pigeons d la Brocke. Take five pigeons; prepare and truss them with their legs en long, barb them with lard, if it is the season, put a vine leaf between the pigeons and the lard, by which they must be well covered; skewer, and tie them to the spit; they should not be too much done. Roasted Pigeons as Ortolans. Pigeons en Ortolans pour Rot. Take six pigeons, a la gautier; prepare and truss them as quails, not allowing much of the feet to be seen ; skewer them, and put them on the spit; have a very clear fire, and do .them very little. GEESE. Oies. Wild Geese. Oies Sauvage. The passage of wild geese continues about two * Frilure, frying-pan. A cook ought to accustom himself as much as possible to French terms, as many of them are more ap- propriate than ours.160 FRENCH COOKERY. months, unless the winter is very moderate ; the young are good, resembling much the domestic, which are of the same family, and are all served in the same manner; they are difficult of digestion, but very use- ful in domestic economy. Green Goose roasted. Oieon a la Broche. Take a fine, plump, fat, green goose, the fat of which must be very white ; if the upper part of the back breaks easily, the fowl is young; cut off the pinions, and prepare it; blanch the legs, and cut the nails; wipe it well with a cloth ; truss it, leaving its legs en long, that is to say, stretched out ; spit it, and take care that it is not over-done, which will be known by touching the fillet with a knife, the juice will flow. Goose with Chesnuts. Oie aux Marrons. Prepare a goose exactly as in the foregoing article; mince the liver; cut an onion in small pieces, and pass it in raspt lard ; prepare fifty chesnuts as is directed, (au Potage a la Puree de Marrons,) let them simmer in the sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and fine spices; when the chesnuts are ready, turn in the rump of the goose, and sew it up; stuff it by the craw, and sew it up ; spit it, and let it have an hour and a quarter. Another Way. Oie a la Chipolata. Prepare a fine young fat goose, with the legs trussed within ; cover it with slices of lard, and tie it up ; cover a braisiere with barbs, put over it some trimmings of butcher’s meat, two slices of bacon with the goose giblets, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, three turned carrots, two or three onions stuck with cloves, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, and salt; put in the goose, moisten with a glass of Madeira, or if any other white wine, more of it, and bouillon, as much as covers the goose ; let it boil; put over buttered paper; cover it, and put it on a paillasse, with fire under and over; leave it an hour and half; when enough drain it; dish and masque it with a Chipolata. Legs and Wi?igs of Geese. Cuisses et Ailes d'Oies ii la Faqon de Baionne. Take the quantity of geese that is required and cutGEESE. 161 off the wings and legs in such a manner as to take off all the flesh with them; bone the legs partly with the hand ; mix half an ounce of saltpetre with fine salt for five geese, and rub the legs and wings well with it; put them into an earthen pan; throw amongst them bay, thyme, and basil; cover them closely with a cloth, leave them twenty-four hours in the seasoning; when they are taken out they are to be passed quickly through fresh water, and left to drain; in the mean time all the fat having been collected from the bodies and intestines of the geese, and prepared as directed for the sain-doux (Sain-doux, article Cochon): put in the prepared geese, and let it be put upon a very moderate fire, that the sain-doux or goose fat may only shake, not boil: it is sufficiently done when the flesh can be pierced with a straw ; take them out, and when they are cold pack them nicely into jars, pressing them down: when the fat is three fourths cooled, pour it into the jars; let it cool and remain uncovered for twenty-four hours; then cover the pots, first with paper and then with parchment; keep it in a dry fresh cellar for use. The translator has witnessed the above preparation in Languedoc, where little else is used in the kitchen, as the ragouts and soups are generally made of it. It is almost surpassing belief, the high state to which these animals are fed, by cramming with Indian corn three times a day; and according to the situations of families, from two to thirty geese are often so fed: turkies and ducks are often mixed with them, and the economy of that careful people is very conspicuous in the preparation; they are not all killed at the same time, but from day to day, as the business and the wants of the family permit; preserving the blood, which they make a pudding of in the skin of the neck; cutting the goose up in the common manner of carving into ten, twelve, or fourteen pieces: the whole carcase is as fat as a pig, the thighs are like small pork hams; these pieces are all salted as directed in the foregoing receipt, and the fat, which is enormous in quantity, isFRENCH COOKERY. 162 prepared as is also directed: the jars into which they are put contain six or eight gallons, and upwards • and it will no doubt appear incredible to say, that four or five of these are filled for the use of one family, with the carcases and fat of these different fowls: they were distributed in such a manner that two should be opened at the same time, the best pieces in one and the worst in another, so that there should be no digging to expose a greater surface than is necessary to the air ; thus a leg or a wing, with a spoon- ful of the fat, made a ragout, a neck and pinion, or a back, with a spoonful of fat, made a soup; the relish of these meats is extremely high, and with sweet herbs and vegetables would be by some called beautiful, by others good, but by the French delicious ; it would be con- scientious in a book of this kind, not to recommend it highly, as there is so much waste of that sort of fat; the side bones and aprons are very nice, drained hot from it; the livers of the ducks fed in this way- are as large sometimes as those of lambs, and are of a bright shining gold colour; they are generally baked in high seasoned pies, and sent in presents, which pay a tax on entering Paris. When geese are scarce and dear, a pig is substituted, and after having been cut in small pieces, is accom- modated in the same manner. The introduction of these articles into English cookery would be both economical and healthy, as vegetables of all sorts would be more eagerly sought after as food, if they were made more palatable with little expense. Ducks in general. Des Canards en general. Ducks are of easier digestion than geese; there are different sorts of them ; the domestic is larger than the wild, and those of Barbary still larger, but less delicate, and are often musky; the breed between the Barbary and domestic are freed from the inconveniency of the one, are larger than the other, and are the canetons de Rouen, which are so much esteemed for their sizeDUCKS 163 and quality. The wild duck is generally roasted; there are, however, entrees made of them, which are as follows: To roast Wild Ducks. Canards Sauvage a la Broche. Choose a fat duck or two; look that the webbs of the feet are of a fine colour, and not dry; to know if they are stale, open the beak and smell them; feel that the belly and rump are firm, and the ducks heavy, which are signs that they are fat and fresh ; the hen is more delicate than the cock, though in general the cock brings a higher price ; prepare two of these ducks, pick off the down, cut off the pinions close to the body and the necks ; truss the feet up, which must be blanched and pared; rub them with their liver; spit them; let them be underdone, and send them to table with two uncut lemons. , : Fillets of Wild Ducks with Orange Sauce. Filets de Canards Sauvage a VOrange. Cut out the fillets of three ducks, give them a few slight cuts on the skin side; marinade them in oil, with young onions broken in two, branches of parsley, salt, large pepper, and the juice of mushrooms; leave them in tJie marinade for an hour; when ready to serve, put two spoonfuls of oil into a saute pan, put on the fillets, set them over a good fire, turn them two or three times, drain and dress them en couronne, and serve under them a sauce d'orange. Salmi of Wild Ducks. Salmi de Canards. Take two cold roasted ducks, cut them in pieces, pare them and pound the parings or debris; rub them through a tammy, and finish as directed (article Salmi de Perdreaux). Another Way. Salmi de Canards Sauvage au Chasseur. Cut the fillets off two cold roasted ducks in stripes, take off the legs and separate the carcases into pieces,164 FRENCH COOKERY. add salt and large pepper, and sprinkle with four spoonfuls of oil of olives, and half a glass of claret; cut two bitter oranges, and squeeze the juice over; shake all well together, and serve. Ducks "with. Orange Sauce. Caneton de Rouen, Sauce a V Orange. Take a good fat caneton; be particular that it is white ; prepare it carefully without hurting the skin; blanch the feet, cut the small points, and truss them without; turn in the rump ; cut the wings close to the body, and take off the neck; mix in a stewpan a sufficient quantity of butter, the juice of a lemon, and salt; fill the duck with this butter; truss it up into a good form; cover a stewpan with barbs of lard; put in the duck or ducks, cover with slices of lemon, over them barbs of lard ; season with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with a clove, a bunch of parsley and young onions; consomme, and half a glass of white wine; cover with a round of paper : three quarters of an hour before serving, boil, cover, and put them upon a paillasse with fire under and over ; when done, drain, unlace, and dish ; serve under them, a sauce a Vorange-, instead of using the juice of beef, take a little aspic or consomme reduced; if there are no oranges, use lemons. Ducks with Olive Sauce. Caneton, Sauce aux Olives. Prepare as above, and masque with a ragout d'olives. Ducks and Pease. Caneton au petits Pois. As the above, and masque with a ragoid de petits pois. Ducks and Haricots. Caneton en Haricots Vierges. Prepare as above, and masque with en haricot vierge. Ducks and Turnips Caneton aux Navets. Prepare as above, and masque with a ragout de navets. Ducks with Batter of Crawfish. Caneton, Sauce au Beurre d’Ecrevisses. As above, and masque with a sauce au beurre d'ecrcvisses.DUCKS. 165 Ducks with Green Sauce. Caneion, Sauce au vert pre. As above, masquing with the sauce au vert pre. Ducks with Roots. Caneton aux petites Racines. As above, masque with sauce au petites racines. Ducks with Cucumbers. Canetons aux Concombres. Proceed as above, and masque with a ragout aux concombres. Duck with Onions. Caneton aux petits Oignons. As above, masque with a ragout aux petits oignons. Ducks another Way. Canetons au Macedoine. As above, masque with a macedoine. Ducks with Verjuice. Canetons au Verjus. Prepare as above ; take some verjuice, if it is the season; take off the stalks, blanch and drain them; put three spoonfuls of reduced espagnole into a stew- pan with the verjuice; reduce it; thicken with butter and masque the ducks. Ducks with green Sauce. Canards a la Puree verte. Prepare and masque with puree verte. Ducks and Turnips. Canards a la Bourgeoise. Prepare the ducks as above, trussing the feet within, or en poule; put butter in a stewpan, and brown the ducks all over; drain them, and put into the pan sufficient quantity of turned turnips ; brown them nicely ; drain, and make a little roux of the butter ; moisten wdth bouillon, if there is none, with water; don’t let the sauce get into knots; add salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley and young onions, half a clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf; put in the ducks and stew them; when half done, add the tur- nips, and let them simmer; turn the ducks from time to time without breaking the turnips; when done, skim, dish and masque with the ragout. Roast Duck. Caneton de Rouen pour Rot. Take one or two and prepare them, trussing their166 FRENCH COOKERY. legs en long; spit and wrap them in paper ; give them three quarters of an hour; serve them as wild ducks with lemon au citron. Small River Wild Ducks. Oiseaux de Rivieres et Sacelles. These ducks may all be served in the manner di- rected above for the domestic ones. MAIGRE. Clear Pease Soup. Maigre Bouillon de Pois. Take a quart or two of pease that are without shoots, wash them, and if there is time let them steep some hours; put them into a stewpan, with two car- rots and two onions; let them boil, as it is of no con- sequence if they should fall into a puree; take it off and'run it through a search; leave it to repose; pour it off clear, when it is fit for use. Soup Maigre. Bouillon pour les Potages et les Sauces. Take twelve carrots, the same of turnips and onions, and a bunch of leeks, two parsnips, four heads of celery, and a cabbage cut in four, blanch the whole, refresh them in cold water; tie the cabbage; put thfe whole in a pot, and moisten with the bouillon of pease; add some parsley roots, a little mace, ginger, two cloves, and a clove of garlic, wrapt in a cloth; let all boil sufficiently; to give it a good colour, put into a stewpan a bit of butter with two or three carrots, the same quantity of turnips and onions cut in slices, and a head of celery; brown these roots well, and moisten with a little bouillon of pease, and let it fall into a glaze; when near sticking, moisten it anew, to detach it; pour it into the bouillon and let it simmer five or six hours constantly; pass it through a cloth and use it for potages and sauces. Fish Soup. Bouillon de Poisson. Put some butter into a stewpan, and into it onions cut in two; mince, but in less quantity, the vegetables that are directed in the above receipt, and lay themSOUPS. 167 over the onions; take two carp, and prepare them; cut open their heads, and take out the yellow stone called the gall of the head, and which is found behind the ears; cut the carps in pieces, and add any other kind of fish ; put them over the vegetables ; put in a spoonful of bouillon maigre, let them sweat, and when they fall into glaze, moisten them entirely; put in salt, pepper, the trimmings of mushrooms, sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a little mace, bay and two cloves; this bouillon answers instead of consomme and blond de veau, for potages, grand et petites sauces. Juice Maigre Jus Maigre. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with butter ; lay over onions cut in two, and roots in slices; sweat them over a moderate fire for three quarters of an hour, then put them on a stronger fire, and let them fall into glaze until they are of a deep colour; moisten with the bouillon of potages ; detach it carefully; add some stalks or trimmings of mushrooms, half a clove of garlic, sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, two cloves and salt; let it cook three quarters of an hour; pass it through a cloth when it is ready for sauce. Espagnole Maigre. Butter a stewpan; cover it with onions cut in two, turned carrots, a bay-leaf, one or two carp, or any other fish, even sturgeon if there is any; sweat it over a slow fire ; heighten the fire that it may fall into glaze ; then moisten with half juice and half bouillon, as is directed for potage; let it boil to detach the glaze; thicken with roux, as the espagnole grasse (see that article ; add half a bottle of white wine, either Cham- pagne or Burgundy ; a clove of garlic and mushrooms ; let it simmer an hour on a slow fire; skim and run it through a cloth, and make the same uses of it as for espagnole grasse for small sauces. Bread Soup. Potage au Pain. Rasp a loaf, and after taking out the crumb pare the crust nicely; put it into a stewpan with a ladleful of bouillon cl potage; let it simmer and put it into aFRENCH COOKERY. 168 deep dish, and serve it under any vegetable or puree maigre that is convenient; it would be useless to enter into a detail of these purees, as there is no difference in composing them, but by moistening them with bouillon maigre or gras. Maigre Queens Soup. Potage a la Reine en Maigre. Take two small pike that do not smell of the pond; prepare them; lay them upon a table and skin them ; cut the flesh in large dice; put them into a stew- pan with a bit of butter; cook without burning; let them cool ; pound twenty sweet almonds ; soak a roll in cream, and dry it as is directed at the article Panade; pound this panade; take it out of the mortar and pound the fish, then pound them altogether; spread some butter into a stewpan; put in onions cut in two, and slices of roots, such as carrots, turnips, half a clove of garlic, half a bay-leaf, a little mace, a bunch of parsley, young onions, a clove, two carp cut in pieces, and the refuse of the pike; moisten this with a little bouillon de pois; let it sweat over a slow fire; when done pass it through a towel, and use it to moisten the farce that has been already prepared, which must be rubbed through a tammy and have the consistence of a coulis; set it in the bain-marie till ready to serve ; put into the stock-pot some bread cut in dice, fry it in butter, and pour the puree over it. Almond Soup. Potage au Lait d'Amandes. Take a pound and half of sweet almonds and twelve bitter ones; skin them as usual, by putting them in water over the fire; pound them, putting in from time to time a drop of water to prevent their oiling; when they are quite smooth they are sufficiently done : put into a stewpan six pints of water; when it boils infuse half an ounce of coriander and half a lemon, keeping out the skin and seeds; moisten the almonds with this infusion; pass it several times through a napkin or tammy till it takes the appearance of milk; salt and sugar it properly; put it into the bain-marie.169 SOUP take very thin slices of bread, glaze them in the oven and throw them into the almond soup when it is going to table. Another Method. Autre Maniere. Take half a pound of sweet almonds and five or six bitter; pound as in the above article; take six pints of milk; make it boil and use a part of it to pass the almonds several times through a cloth, as in the fore- going article; steep in the other part of the milk half a roll of vanille, which must be taken out when they are mixed together; season with sugar and salt, and add about the size of half an egg of good butter; put it in the bain-marie till ready, serve with glazed bread as above. Another Method, quicker and more economical. Autre Maniere plus prompt et plus economique. Boil six pints of milk; put into a stewpan eight very fresh yolks, from which the whites and germs must be carefully separated ; bruise with the rolling- pin twenty-four masse-pains or macaroons, half sweet and half bitter, and sugar the milk sufficiently ; add a little salt and a table spoonful of orange flower water; moisten these ingredients with a little hot milk, but not boiling; in such a manner that the macaroons, eggs, and sugar may be well mixed ; reserve half of the milk to mix with the potage; cut some slices of bread; lay them upon a board; sift fine sugar over and glaze them in the oven; put them in a deep dish or tureen; when ready to serve put in the milk that was re- served, and stir it with a new wooden spoon; finish the thickening by putting it upon the fire; stir it with- out allowing it to boil; taste that it is properly seasoned; pour it over the glazed bread, and serve immediately. If there are no macaroons make use of pralines, which answer nearly the same. Maigre Soup. Potage a la Julienne maigrc. Prepare the roots in the same manner as for the potage a la .Jidienne grasse; when thus prepared, pass them with a bit of butter in a stewpan till they brown i170 FRENCH COOKERY. a little; moisten with bouillon maigre as would be done with the gras; if there is no bouillon maigre, use the soup of haricots or lentils; let the potage simmer, and salt it properly. Herb maigre Soup. Potage maigre aux Herbes. Take a large handful of sorrel, two lettuces, a little chervil and love-apples; wash them well in a great quantity of water; drain and mince the herbs very fine; put them in a pot with a bit of butter, and pass them; leave them upon a slow fire, moisten them sufficiently for the potage with grand bouillon maigre ; if there is none, with one of haricots or lentils ; taste if properly salted. Rice and Millc. Potage au Rix et au Lait. Take a quarter of a pound of rice ; pick and wash it several times; blanch it with a boil or two; drain and put it into a stawpan with two ounces of butter, a little lemon zest, and a peach or almond leaf; swell the rice with water; when nearly done moisten with good milk, and dont make' it too thick, also avoiding its being too thin ; put in sugar and salt in due pro- portion ; before serving, take out the leaf and lemon zest. Vermicelle and Milk. Vermicelle au Lait. Take a quarter of a pound of vermicelle; sift out the dust; boil six pints of milk; add the vermicelle by little and little, that it may not ball; put it on the edge of the stove until it is enough ; season with sugar and salt; there may be added macaroons and a little vanille, or either. FISH Poisson. Braise maigre for boiling Fish in. Take a kettle of a sufficient size; put into it a bit of butter with a little vegetable soup, a little thyme, sweet basil, garlic, parsley, and scallions, cloves, some slices of onions and carrots, salt, pepper, with white wine sufficient; tie the head of the fish up properly, or any other part, and put it into the kettle with these in-171 FISK. gredients; take care that it does not swim; put it upon a slow fire; cover it with a buttered paper, taking care to wet or baste it from time to time with its own sauce ; taste if it is properly seasoned ; when the fish is suf- ficiently done, take part of the sauce, run it through a gauze search, reduce it to a jelly to glaze the fish. Fish Jelly. Glace cle Poison. Rub lightly the bottom of a saucepan with butter; cover it with sliced onions and carrots; then add the remains and carcasses of fish, a little parsley and scal- lions, a bay-leaf, thyme, sweet basil, and a clove of garlic ; to these ingredients add a ladleful of fish soup; let it boil, put it upon a ho.t hearth or table ; let it sim- mer till it becomes a jelly; again add to it some fish soup, and pour it clear off into a clean saucepan, and let it simmer another hour; run it through a napkin ; reduce it to a jelly, and use it for glazing. CARP. Carp. De la Carpe en general. Carp of lakes and ponds are never good. It is ne- cessary to be able to distinguish this fish from the bream, which is much larger and flatter, the head smaller, the flesh less firm, and not so delicate. Carpe a la Chambor. Take a fine carp, scale it, and raise the skin, as is indicated for making Quenelles de Carpe (see article Farces); gut it without opening all the belly; take out the ears without spoiling the tongue, the skin being raised without touching the flesh; take out the strings or nerves of the tail, and lard it entirely with eel cut small, or half with truffles and carrots cut in the same manner; if it is not for maigre, lard it with lard truffles and carrots ; put it into a proper-sized fish kettle with a little braise-maigre (or vegetable soup, as indicated in the first recipe), and set it upon a moderate fire; put into a saucepan three basting spoonsful of espagnole-maigre, and half a bottle of white champagne; reduce and skim off all the fat; i 2FRENCH COOKERY. 172 put into it small mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, or truffles, the roes of carps, (Quenelles), eels cut in pieces, as indicated in Matelote d' Anguille et de Carpe ; let it simmer a quarter of an hour, and finish it with anchovy butter sauce; drain and dish ; dress round the ingredients, to which add crawfish; put the sauce into the dish; glaze it and send it to table; if not maigre, larded veal, sweetbreads, Pigeons a la Gautier. Quails, if in season, or combs and kidneys of cocks may be added. Stuffed Carp. Carpe farcie. Take a fine carp ; take off the skin and flesh, as is di- rected for Quenelles des Carpe, preserving the head and the tail, with three inches of the bone of the carp to each; take the flesh off the carp, and add to it the flesh of two smaller ones to make forced meat, the same as for Que- nelles des Carpe; take a dish of the necessai-y length, spread the forced meat in the bottom nearly an inch thick ; put the head and tail into their places; make a salpipon maigre or fat, with which fill the belly, or a ragout of the roes of carp, all cold; cover the salpipon or ragout with forced meat, and give the w'hole the appearance of a carp larger than that made use of; incorporate well the head and tail into the forced meat, and that the salpipon does not appear; unite the forced meat well with a knife dipped in egg; glaze it with two eggs well beaten ; and with a table spoon dipped in the egg, form the scales of the carp; wrap up the head and tail in buttered paper; an hour before it is to be served, put it into a moderate oven ; let it take a fine colour; take off the paper; wipe the dish ; the sauce may be a good espagnole either grasse or maigre, or a ragout of the roes, or mushrooms and artichokes ; pour the sauce into the dish, and serve. Carp au bleu, ou au Court-bouillon. Gut a carp without opening much of the belly, taking care not to break the gall, and without spoiling the scales; take out the ears without touching the tongue; put it into a fish kettle of a proper size; boil a173 FISH. i 3 little red vinegar; rub it boiling hot equally over it, to give a blue colour; put to it a little braise grasse or maigre ; cover it with a buttered paper, and set it upon a slow fire; when enough, drain and send it to table upon a napkin garnished with parsley. Fried Carp Carpfrite. Take off the scales and cut the fins, raise the skin, open it by the back; divide the head; take out the ears and the yellow stones that are found in the head; put it into a little milk; flour and fry it; when half donfe, flour the roes and put them in; fry the Carp firm and of a fine colour ; drain and serve it upon a napkin garnished with the roes. Grilled Carp. Carp grillee. Scale and wash the carp; cut the fins and the point of the tail; take out the ears ; gut it without opening the belly much ; taking care not to break the gall; raise the skin ; dip the roe into butter and fine herbs, such as parsley and scallions hashed, seasoned with salt and pepper; put it into the belly of the carp, and sew' it up ; put it upon a dish ; pour over it a little oil, hashed herbs, and fine salt; grill it; draw out the threads, and serve with a w'hite sauce and capers, or a Maitre d'hutel chaud. (See Maitre d'hutel liie, article Sauces.) Another Way. Matelote de Carpes et d'Anguilles. Take a male and female carp ; scale, clean, and gut them ; dress the roe and melt separate; cut the fins and the points of the tails; take the ears and the yel- low stones from their heads; cut them in equal junks ; skin an eel; pass it over the fire to stiffen it; take off the head and the end of the tail; gut and cut it in pieces; put into a saucepan sliced onions and carrots, branches of parsley, some scallions, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, a little fine spicery, salt, pepper, and two bottles of white cham- pagne; let the eel be half done, then add the pickerel, and when it is half done, put in the carp; let it boil upon a strong fire; cover the saucepan ; the carp takes174 FRENCH COOKERY. very little time ; brown about thirty small onions in butter; have prepared turned mushrooms and arti- choke bottoms (see article Garnishing); make a roux of the butter in which the onions were fried, mix it with the sauce of the fish, boil it sufficiently and put it through a search into another saucepan, and add to it the onions and mushrooms ; put all these ingredients upon the fire and reduce ; skim off the fat, keeping the fish hot; drain it well, and dish it with the heads in the middle, and the fish intermingled; garnish with bread cut in the shape of peacocks’ tails fried in but- ter ; lay over the roe and melt; put the artichoke bottoms into the sauce ; give them a boil; taste if it is properly salted; pour it over the Matelote; crawfish may be added, as it is often done ; a Matelote may be made larger by taking the hollow crust of a small fine loaf, and putting into it an omelet (au naturel), and placing it in the middle. Another Way. Matelote a la Mariniere. Take carps, small pike, barbel, and eels ; prepare them as in the foregoing article ; take care of the blood; parboil thirty small onions of an equal size; put a sufficient quantity of red wine into a proper stewpan that the fish may swim in it; a bit of butter, onions, a bunch of parsley, chives, a bay- leaf, some cloves, salt, pepper, fine spicery and sweet basil; put in the fish ; make it boil quickly over a flaming fire of wood ; when done, thicken with a little butter rubbed in flour and broken into little bits, and a little anchovy butter; shake with care (that they may not break), that the sauce may be equally thickened ; dish as in the foregoing article; boil the sauce, and if too thin, reduce it; when ready, add the blood of the fish, but don’t boil it after; garnish with fried bread and the roes or melts ; pour the sauce over and serve. Fricandeau de Carpes. Clean and skin the carp; take oft' the flesh, only leaving the middle bone; lard it with lard; cut itFISH. 175 i 4 into granadins, and dress it in the same manner as granadins de veau, if it is not for maigre; but if for 'maigre, lard it with eel, and instead of lard for laying in the bottom of the saucepan, use butter ; put in slices of onions and carrots, white wine, and soup maigre of fish; then put in the fish; cover it with buttered paper ; make it boil, and do it in the manner of a fricandeau with fire under and over ; when ready, drain, and draw out the thick ends of the sides of the carp, in such manner that none remain; glaze and serve them upon a sauce or puree of mushrooms, sorrel, or onions. If there is no glaze reduce the sauce and use it. ■ Fried Carp's Melts Laitances de Carpes frites. Take fifteen or eighteen soft roes of carps; their size will determine the quantity necessary; clean them well and lay them in fresh water, which must be changed several times; when perfectly clean and white, put some water into a saucepan with a small quantity of vinegar and a little salt; put it on the fire, and when it boils throw in the roes; give them a boil; drain, and when ready to serve, dip them in a light paste; fry them of a fine colour ; dish them nicely; garnish with fried parsley and serve them. Another Way. Cause de Lactances de Carpes. The same as is used in Caisse de Laitance de Ha- vengs. Ragout of Carp Roes. Ragout de Laitance de Carpes. (See article Ragout.) Roes in Jelly Aspic de Laitances de Carpes. Prepare an aspic as it is directed for that of combs of cocks, (art. Poultry), only using the roes, which have been cooked in a proper seasoning instead of the others. To choose Lobsters and Craw Fish. Ecrevisses, Homards, Creveltes et Chevrettes. The manner to choose lobsters and crawfish, and all the shell-fish of these kinds, is by their weight andFRENCH COOKERY. 176 fresh smell; likewise when they are taken by the head and tail and distended, if they immediately return into a curve, they are fresh. The Manner of cooking Craw-fish for small and large Dishes and Garnishing. Ecrevisses, et Maniere de la faire cuirc, soii pour gros, moyens, petits Enter- viets ou Garnitures. Take the quantity of crawfish you mean to cook; put them into a saucepan and throw water upon them ; toss them up several times, and put them into a cullender ; wipe the saucepan and return them into it; add about half the quantity of white wine there is of fish ; put in some slices of carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, one or two bay-leaves, sweet basil, cloves, salt, pepper, and a good bit of nice butter; put them on a good fire; cover them; toss, so that those undermost may come up; cover them after every tossing, and toss always when the seasoning boils up; take them off the fire and leave them covered to finish their cooking. If not for immediate use, leave them covered in their seasoning, and when used warm them in it; drain; serve them in a pyramid upon a napkin garnished with parsley. Another Way Ecrevisses a la Poulette. Boil the crawfish in a little salt and water; drain, take off’ the small legs and the shell of the tail; cut oft’ the ends of their noses and the points of their claws; put into a stewpan a little strong veal-stock, hashed parsley, and shallots; make it boil and throw them in; thicken it with two yolks of eggs; add a few small pieces of nice butter; toss it up and season with lemon- juice; dish them nicely; sauce and serve. Another Way. Ecrevisses en Matelote. Cook the crawfish in wine as directed in the first recipe, and dress their shells in the same manner as done for the poulette; put them in a sauce a la matelote; dish nicely, sauce, garnish with bread fried in butter, and serve.177 FISIJ. Lobster. Homards. Take a lobster and break the shells of the claws ; cut it clown the back from head to tail ; take out with a spoon all the body; put it into a china dish and add to it a table spoonful of made mustard, with some parsley and shallots minced; after being washed and pressed in a linen cloth, add salt, whole pepper, and the spawn, if there is any; also oil and vinegar sufficient; mix it well together; taste if it is properly seasoned, and send it to table in a sauce tureen. Praivns Crevettes. Take a pound and half of prawns; cover the dish with some herbage, or turn down a hollow dish so as to raise a napkin in the form of an octagon upon it; cover this wdth parsley, and dress the prawns upon it, forming a pyramid ; they require no sauce. Muscles. Mouls, au naturel ou a la Flamande. Take a sufficient quantity of muscles, and rub one after another till nothing remain on their shells ; put them into a large pan with water, where they can be well shaken about and washed, changing the water till they are perfectly clean ; drain and put them with minced parsley, covered on the fire ; toss them from time to time; when they open take them from the fire; take one shell off each, and of some both shells ; look carefully that there are no crabs in them; put them into their own liquor with a little pepper and the juice of a lemon; toss and serve. Muscles another Way. Mouls a la Poulette. Prepare muscles as above ; take off all the shells and be careful there are no crabs; preserve their liquor ; put a bit of butter in a saucepan with a little flour ; mix them with a wooden spoon; put in the liquor, shake round the sauce and let it simmer; put in the muscles, a little whole pepper, and minced parsley; thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; add the juice of a lemon or a little verjuice, and serve.178 FRENCH COOKERY. Oysters. Huitres. As fresh and pickled are both employed in the kitchen, they ought to be chosen large, and good. Oysters in Scollop Shells. Huitres en Coquilles. Take as many dozen of large oysters as there are shells, called pelerines; let them remain in their liquor; if the beard and the nut are taken off, a double quantity will be required ; put into a saucepan a bit of butter, mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, minced, and a little whole pepper; put them on the fire and brown them, dusting in a little flour; put in the liquor of the oysters and a little stock; cook all together till they come to the consistence of sauce; take it from the fire and put in the oysters; toss; add the juice of a lemon ; taste, and put them into the shells; strew grated bread over, on which stick small bits of butter; place the shells in a deep dish and put them into the oven, or under a small oven with fire under and over, till they are of a fine colour ; dish and serve. If there are no pelerines use their own shells, which will require to be well washed, and more of them, as they will not contain so many. Grilled Oysters. Huitres stir le Gril. Shell two or three dozen of oysters ; put them into a stewpan, and leave them to blanch in their juice; then pour it off, and add a little bit of butter, pepper, some minced parsley, and shallots; toss them; do not let them boil ; put them into their shells, and finish as in the foregoing receipt; put them on the gridiron; when they boil take them oft’ and serve. Ragout of Oysters. Ragout d’Huitres. See the article Sauce aux Huitres. PIKE. Rrocliet cl la chambor, to be done in the same way as Carpe a la chambor. Pike. Brochet au Bleu. See article Carpe au Bleu.179 PIKE. i G Another Way Brocket an Dauphin. Take a large pike; scale, gut it by the ears ; turn round its tail, which must be done by putting a skewer through the eyes and tying the tail to each side of it; place the fish upon its belly, and make it rest in that position; put it into a braise maigre, or into a good mircpois ; put it into the oven; take it out from time to time to baste it with its liquor ; when it is enough drain and serve it with an Italienne grasse, or maigre. (See article Sauce.) Pike another Way. Brocket a VArliquine. Take a large pike that has been kept a proper time; scale and gut it by the ears; raise the skin upon one side without spoiling the flesh ; lard one quarter of it with anchovies, another quarter with gherkins, the third quarter with carrots, and the fourth with truffles; stuff it for maigre with stuffing of fish; if gras, a cooked stuffing of fowl or veal; put it into a fish-ket- tle, and add a braise, taking care that the larded side does not touch it; put it on the fire, and baste it often with the braise; cover, and put fire over; drain and pour over it a sauce a Varliquine. (See article Sauce.) Another Way. Granaclins de Brocket. Do them as granadins de carpe; if for gras they must be larded with lard ; if maigre, with eels and an- chovies ; serve them over a sauce de tomate, mush- rooms, or any other vegetable sauce. Another Way. Cotelottes de Brocket. Clean and take off the flesh of a pike ; take off the skin and cut the flesh in cutlets; make it ready in fine herbs hashed, as veal cutlets are done in paper. (See article Cotelottes de Veau in Papilottes.) Another Way. Filets de Brocket a la Bcchamellc. Take a cold pike ; cut it in fillets ; put it into a bechamelle reduced ; arrange it upon a dish ; strew crumbs over, and wet it with butter; garnish with bread cut in form of corks steeped in omelette ; give it a fine colour in the oven.180 FRENCH COOKERY. Pike Salad. Salade de Brocket. See Salade de Poulet. BARBILLON Is of the same nature, but less esteemed than the carp, and is cooked exactly in the same way. EEL. Anguille it la Broche. A fine eel has its belly silvery and its back slate- coloured ; kill it, and turn it upon hot cinders till the skin is completely grilled ; wipe and scrape it; cut off the fins and skin it; take oft’ the head and the end of the tail ; to gut it open the top of the throat and a jittle at the naval; then with the large end of a lar- der push the entrails through the throat, so that no- thing may remain in the stomach; wash it and turn it round; fix it with small silver skewers, and tie it up : put it into a stewpan and pour over it a good mirepois (see Mirepois, article Sauce); let it be half done; drain, fix it to the spit, and cover it; when done unco- ver it; let it dry, glaze and dish ; take out the skewers, and serve under it an Italienne rousse or a ravigote. Another Wap. Anguille a la Sainte Menehould. Prepare an eel as above ; put it in a tartpan, co- vered entirely with a Sainte Menehoidd; take it out of that sauce when nearly done ; strew crumbs over, and put it into an oven till it takes a fine colour; un- lace and put into the well a thick, white, Italian sauce, or a white ravigote. (See article Sauce Italienne blanche, Ravigote blanche.) Another Way. Anguille ala Poulette. Take an eel and order it as in the foregoing re- ceipts ; cut it in equal junks, wash it and leave it to blanch ; scrape and clean the blood well out; put into a stewpan a bit of butter, the eel, and some mush- rooms ; set them for a moment upon the fire; dust with flour ; add a little stock, gras or maigre, and half a bottle of white wine, taking care to stir with a wotfden spoon till it boils; add a little parsley and shallots, half a bay leaf, one clove, salt and pepper, twenty or thirty small onions ; let it simmer and reduce; take off the fat, and take out the bunch of herbs; thicken itLAMPREY. 181 with two or three yolks of eggs, and the juice of a lemon; dish, sauce, and serve. Another Way. Anguille a la Tartare. Having cleaned, skinned, and arranged an eel as above, cut it in pieces of five or six inches ; take the blood from the back; put it into a stewpan, with slices of onions, carrots, parsley, two or three scal- lions cut in two, white wine, salt, a bay leaf, one or two cloves, and a little thyme; put it on the fire, and when done enough drain; roll them in crumbs of bread and steep them in an Anglaise (see Anglaise, article Cotelettes de Pigeons); roll them again in crumbs; grill of a fine colour; dish with a sauce a la Tartare, and serve. Another Way. Matelote a l'Anguille. See Matelote de Carp. ^ Lamprey. Lamproie. Is another kind of eel, called also seven eyes, having seven eyes or holes on each side, and is gene- rally larger than the eel; choose them fat, and of a paler colour. Lamprey. Lamproie en Matelote. Put one or two into nearly boiling water; gut them, and cut them into junks, taking care of the blood; cut off the head, and the end of the tail; put them into a stewpan with a little roux (see article Roux); and put it over the fire; add some red wine, and stock, or water, in equal quantities, some small onions, mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, scallions ; salt, pepper, a bay leaf, and a little fine spicery ; cook it, and take off the fat; when ready to serve, thicken with the blood of the lampreys; taste it; dish, and serve. Another Way. Lamproie a la Tartare. Is done in the same manner as the eel. Perch. Perche au Dcurrc, Must be chosen large and fat; gut and take out the ears; tie up the head, and put it into a stewpan, withFRENCH COOKERY. 182 slices of onions, carrots, a bay leaf, sprigs of pars- ley, salt, and a little water; cook, drain, and strain the liquor into a saucepan; take off the skin and fins, to stick over it for garnishing; when ready to serve, drain, and pour over a butter sauce [sauce blanche au beiirre). Perch ivith Green Sauce Perche a la Pinche vsrte. As the foregoing; and sauce it with a (pluche verte ). Perch another Way. Perche a la Hollanclaise. As above with a (sauce Hollandaise). Perch another Way. Perche en Matelote. Cut it in pieces, and do it as Matelote of Carp. Fried Perch. Perche frite. Scale and prepare a perch; take out the ears ; wash it, and nick it across upon both sides; let it lie some time in a little salt, oil, sprigs of parsley, some slices of onion, and the juice of a lemon ; drain, flour, and fry it till it is firm, and of a fine brown colour, and serve. Perch in Wine. Perches au Vin. Having perch prepared ; put it into a stewpan, with equal quantities of white wine and soup, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves and salt; cook them ; pass a little of the soup through a search; mix a little flour and butter, and put it into the sauce; put it upon the fire till thickened and cooked ; add some pepper and nutmeg, with a small quantity of anchovy butter ; drain, dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Perch another Way. Perche a la J assfche. Gut three perch by the ears, and take out the roes; wash them; bind their heads; put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and water, parsley roots cut in threads, a carrot cut in the same manner, a few sprigs of parsley, and a bay leaf; cook them; take off the skin, that the fish may be very white ; take out the fins, and stick them all over as garnishing ;183 TENCH. put them into another saucepan, and strain over them, through a gauze search, the liquor they were cooked in; put two spoonsful of stock (see veloute) in a saucepan, with sufficient butter, a lemon cut in slices without the skin and seeds, salt and pepper; to which add the carrots, and roots of the parsley with which the perch was cooked, and set it on the fire till sufficiently thickened; dish and pour over it this sauce; if there is no veloute, use a butter sauce (sauce blanche au beurre). Tench. Tenches en Matelote. Take three or four tench; throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water ; cover it instantly, that they may not escape; take them out immediately and scrape them, cut off the fins, take out the ears, gut them, and cut them in junks; season and cook them in the same manner as Matelote de Carpe et d'Anguille. (See article Matelote.) Tench another Way. Tenches a la Poulette. Prepare as above; and do them as l'anguille d la poulette. Another Way Tenches a VItalienne. Prepare two large tench; as in the foregoing re- cipes ; put them into a saucepan with cut onions, car- rots, a bunch of parsley and scallions, a bay leaf, a little thyme and sweet basil, a clove, a little bit of le- mon (no peel), salt, pepper, fine spicery, with a suffi- cient quantity of white wine to cover; cook them; when ready to serve, drain, dish, and pour over them a good Italienne rousse. Fried Tench. Tenches frites. Clean two tench; cut off the fins; raise the skin on both sides; open them by the back, from the head to the tail; gut arid arrange them; take out the ears, fry, dish upon a napkin, and serve. Lotte. The lotte, or eel pout, is a fresh water fish, (the liver184 FRENCH COOKERY. is esteemed for its delicacy :) it must be scraped, as it does not bear skimming. Salmon. Saumon au Bleu, ou a court Bouillon. It may be used whole or cut, according to the quan- tity required, or the manner of serving it. (See the article Carpe au bleu, ou au court Bouillon.) Grilled Salmon. Darde de Saumon grilUe. Take a cut of salmon; put it into a dish, and pour over it a little good oil, fine salt, a bay leaf, parsley, and scallions cut in two ; turn it, and let it soak for some time; put it on the gridiron ; turn and baste from time to time with the seasoning; lift with a knife a lit- tle of the flesh, at the thickest part of the back; if still red, let it continue cooking; turn it on a cover, and take off the skin; pour over butter sauce, and strew capers upon it. Salmo7i ivith Italian Sauce. Saumon a Vltalienne ■ au gras ou au maigre. Do it as above; giving it a saucegrasse or maigre d Vltalienne, maitre dhotel, or any other. Salmon another Way. Saumon d la Genevoise. Take the head, or any piece of salmon; arrange and tie it up; put it into a fish-kettle of a convenient size, with sliced onions, carrots, parsley, scallions, a bay leaf, one or two cloves, salt, and fine spicery; put to it a sufficient quantity of claret, or any other red wine; cook it in these ingredients; when done, take a portion of the liquor, and run it through a gauze search ; add to it as much espagnole grasse or maigre; reduce it to the consistence of sauce; add a little anchovy butter, and a bit of good fresh butter; set it again upon the fire to thicken; drain, dish, and serve. Another Way. Saumon d la Hollandaise. Cook a piece of salmon in salt and water; when done, drain; garnish it with potatoes boiled in water, and serve it with sauce in a sauce-tureen, d la Hollan- daise, or melted butter.185 SALMON. Another Way. Saunion a la Bechamelle, en gras ou en maigre. Boil what salmon may be necessary in salt and wa- ter ; or if any remains from a former day, skin and separate it into flakes ; draw out the small bones that are along the back; put some bdchamelle, maigre or grasse, in a stewpan, and put in the salmon; heat the whole without letting it boil; arrange it upon the dish; unite it together with the blade of a knife; surround it with bread cut into forms, upon which has been grated a little Parmasan cheese; melt some butter, and with a small brush of feathers, baste it half an hour before serving; put it in the oven till it takes a fine colour. Another Way. Saute de Saumon, ou Escalopes, u la Maitre d'Hotel, ou a I'Espagnole. Skin a piece of raw salmon, and cut it into scol- lops about the size of a crown-piece, and the thickness of two; flatten and round them, having butter ready in a frying-pan ; put them in; taking care not to lay one piece over another ; strew a little fine salt and pepper over ; put into another stewpan, if for gras, three large spoonfuls of veloute reduite ; if maigre, espagnole maigre, with three or four ounces of butter ; warm and thicken it; toss the scollops, and turn them ; when enough done, drain and pile them on a dish with a border; take a part of the butter in which they have been cooked with the stock it has given, and add it to the sauce with minced parsley*, nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon; toss it again, dish, sauce, and serve. Another Way. Saumon au court Bouillon, pour servir comme Plat de Rot. Prepare salmon as for bleu, but do not use vinegar; when cooked, drain, and serve it upon a napkin, gar- nished with parsley; serve with it a cruet of oil. Salad of Salmon. Salade de Saumon. Cook some salmon au court bouillon; or if there are • Minced parsley is always understood to have been blanched.186 FRENCH COOKERY. any remains, cut it in equal pieces, so that it may look nice; garnish it properly, and pour into the dish the same seasoning as for poulets en salade, garnish the borders with butter, if agreeable. SmoJced Salmon. Saumon fume. Take a smoked salmon, and cut it in pieces ; lay it in a little oil upon a silver plate; toss, drain, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and serve. Salted Salmon. Saumon sale. Steep the salmon sufficiently to take out the salt; put it upon the fire in fresh water, and let it come nearly to a boil; skim it and take it oft’ the fire ; put a cloth over, and leave it for five minutes in the water ; drain and serve it as a salade, or in any other way. Trout Truite. Trout resembles the salmon so much, (but more delicate,) that it is cooked in the same way. Shad. Alose. Shad is a flat river fish, and is known by its beautiful silvery scales; it is but six weeks in season. There are but few ways of cooking it. Shad with Sorrel. Alose h VOseille. Choose one fresh and fat; gut it by the ears ; scale and clean it; put it to steep in oil, fine salt, a bay leaf, parsley, and scallions cut in two; turn it, and let it lie some time in this seasoning ; according to its size, give it three quarters or an hour upon the gridiron; baste it with the seasoning, and turn it that it may be done on both sides; serve it upon a nice sorrel sauce. (Purde d'Oseille.) Shad grilled with Caper Sauce. Alose grillee Sauce aux Cdpres. To he done in the same manner as in the last recipe, and served with butter sauce and capers; or boiled in salt and water, and served with any sauce.187 STURGEON. Shad. Alose au court Bouillon. Prepare and cook it in a court bouillon ; take it up, and pass the court-bouillon through a gauze search; mix a quarter of a pound of butter with a little flour, put it into the sauce, thicken and make it ready by shaking it round over the fire ; add to it a little an- chovy' butter ; dish, garnish, and send the sauce to table in a sauce-boat. Alose. As above, sauce a la Hollandaise. Sturgeon Estu rgeon. Sturgeon has several kinds of flesh, particularly that which resembles veal, and some that is like beef; the Russians are particularly fond of the spawn; the Tartars sell it to them; being the famous dish which they call Kavia. Sturgeon. Esturgeon entrde au court Bouillon. Take a small sturgeon, and gut it by the throat and fundament; take out the ears, wash, drain, skin, and take off the flat bones ; put it into a fish-kettle with a good court bouillon, and a good deal of rasped lard, if it is au gras ; if maigre, butter: season it more than any other fish with aromatics and salt; cook it with a fire under and over; baste it often, and serve it with an Italienne sauce grasse oil maigre. To roast Sturgeon Esturgeon u la broclie. Prepare and clean any quantity of sturgeon as al- ready indicated ; skin and take off the bones; lard it as veal kernels, with lard, or eel and anchovies ; fix it upon the spit; make a seasoning [marinade), but in- stead of vinegar, use white wine and a great deal of butter : baste it often during its cooking with this seasoning after it has been passed through a hair search ; serve it with [a poivrude sauce). Cutlets of Sturgeon in Paper.—— Cblefettes (TEsturgeon en Papillotes. Cut it into cutlets about the thickness of a finger; put a bit of butter in a stewpan, and turn them when188 FRENCH COOKERY, they become white ; finish them in the same manner as if they were veal; if for gras, put thin slices of lard ; if maigre, none at all. Another Way. Esturgeon en Fricandeau. Take a piece of sturgeon and beat it lightly ; lard it with small lard ; cover the bottom of the stewpan with slices of veal and ham, carrots and onions; finish in the same way as (Grenadins de Veau). Sturgeon.— Esturgeon. Where sturgeon is plenty, it is the best fish for sauces, which may be made in the same manner as stock from veal. Employ it for all maigre sauces. Kavier. Kavia. Kavia, the spawn of the sturgeon, is held in great estimation, particularly by the Russians, who buy it from the Tartars at a great price. To prepare it, take the roes of several sturgeon, which ought to be full grown, which a little white point will indicate; put them in a pail of water; take away all the fibres, as is done from the brains of a calf; whisk the spawn in water, to separate the fibres from the grains, which must be taken off the whisk; put them into a search, and change the water; return the spawn, and continue to whisk it, taking out the fibres, and changing the water till there are no more, and the water remains pure; run the water from them through a search, and mix and season them well with fine salt and pepper; tie them up in a bit of canvass in the form of a ball, and let them drip ; next day, they may be used with toast and butter, with chopped onions or shalots strewed over them, all raw: if to be preserved for future use, they must be more salted. Cod. Cahillaud ou Morue fraiche a la Hollandaise. The best cod are those which have yellow spots upon a very white skin; cook it in a pretty strong salt water; it should not boil; five minutes before serving it, take it out, and leave it to drain upon its drainer; slip it from that upon a dish, and sendCOD. 189 melted butter to table with it, oyster sauce, white sauce with capers, or (sauce a la bonne morue). Another Way. Cabillaud en Dauphin. Done in the same way as Brocket en dauphin. Another Way. Cabillaud a la Saint Menehould. When it is properly prepared, stuff it with forced meat of fish or fowl; put it upon the dish it is to go to table in, which ought to be deep; wet it with a braise grasse or maigre ; put it into the oven; when done, pour off the braise, and put over it a (Menehould sauce); strew it over with crumbs of bread and grated Parmesan; baste it with melted butter; let it take again a fine colour; drain ; wipe the edges, and finish it with a sauce Italienne blanche. Another Way. Cabillaud augratin et a la Bechamelle. If there are any remains from a former day, take off the skin and small bones; dress, and put it into a bechamelle; make it hot in the sauce, without allow- ing it to boil; dish; spread it equally with the blade of a knife; strew crumbs of bread, and, if approved, a little grated Parmesan ; baste it with melted butter; garnish entirely with bread, cut in the form of corks ; put it in the oven to colour ; take away the bread, and replace it in the same manner with others fried in but- ter, and serve. Salted Cod another Way. — Morue a la Maitre d’ Hotel. If the fish is too salt, put it for some time into milk and water, which draws the salt quickly out; throw it then into hot water; scrape off the scales; put it into fresh water in a saucepan; when it boils, skim it; cover it for an instant; drain and dish it with a maitre d'hotel; a little lemon or verjuice maybe added; it may be skinned and drawn in flakes, and tossed in a maitre dihotel; with the juice of a lemon, or a little veijuice. Another Way. Morue H la Provent;ale. Prepare and cook the fish as in the last article; drain, take off the skin, and divide it into flakes;FRENCH COOKERY. 190 put some oil into a stewpan with it, and two cloves of garlic, bruised with a knife; turn it well round (a force de bras) with all your force; making the fish swim till it incorporates with the oil; add the juice of a lemon and large pepper ; dish in any form, and serve. Another Way. Morue au Beurre noir. Prepare the fish as for maitre d'hotel; drain it, and make a beurre noir; add vinegar, but no salt; dish, sauce, and serve. Cod in Cream. Morue a la Creme, ou bonne Morue. Prepare the fish as above; drain, dish, and sauce it with sauce (bonne morue). Salt Cod. Morue au Gratin. See Cabillaud au Gratin. Morue a la Hollandaise. See Cabillaud a la Hollandaise. Cod. Morue a la Bourguignote. Take five or six large onions; slice ; fry and brown them; brown a little butter ; draw off the clear, and add it to the onions, with salt, pepper, and vinegar; the fish being cooked as directed at the art. Morue a la Maitre d’Hotel; drain, dish, sauce, and serve. TURBOT. A Turbot for first or second Course. Turbot entier pour premier ou second Service. Choose a fine fat turbot; let it be as sound and fresh as possible; gut, wash, and be particular in cleaning the inside; open it to the middle of the back, nearer the head than the tail, from three to four inches, more or less, according to its size; raise up the flesh on both sides; cut the fins the length of the opening; arrange the head with a packing needle, passing the thread be- tween the edge and the bone of the first fin; rub it with lemon; put it upon a drainer into a turbot kettle of a proper size; put in two pints of saltwater191 TURBOT. and two pints of milk; add two or three lemons cut in pieces, without the skins and seeds ; make it boil upon a quick fire, if in summer, as it might spoil upon a slow one; when it begins to boil, cover the fire, and let it cook quietly, without letting it boil; cover it with buttered paper; when done leave it in the seasoning till ready to serve; take it up and drain it; arrange a napkin upon a dish, which may be raised by some herbs, that it may look handsome; slip it from the drainer upon the dish; cut off any fins that are deranged, and the end of the tail; garnish it with parsley, and if there are any cracks, cover them; serve with it a white sauce with capers, melted butter a la Hollandaise, or with lobster sauce (aux homards); if it is for the second course, send no sauce to table, but oil. Trixbot an Gratin. See art. Cabillaud. Turbot Salad. Filets de Turbot en Salade. Take turbot that has remained from a former day and skin it; cut it in any form, round, long, or fan shaped; dish it as a crown; garnish it with stripes of anchovies, capers, truffles, and beet root; fill up the interstices with lettuce, and every other sallad in their season; make a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve it. Small Turbots. Turbotins sur le Plat. Take one or two turbotins (or small turbot); gut, clean, and drain them ; cut them down the back ; put some butter in the bottom of a dish ; cover it with fine herbs minced and a little salt; put them into the dish, and strew crumbs of bread over them, with fine herbs, salt, and fine spiceries; baste them lightly with melted butter, and add a sufficient quantity of white wine ; let it boil; put it into the oven: when they do not resist the touch they are enough; serve them in their own sauce, or drain; and pour over an Italienne.FRENCH COOKERY. 192 Another Way. Turbotin, sauce Tornate. Arrange one as above, and cook it as turbot; drain dish on a napkin, and serve with a sauce tomate in a sauce-boat, or pour the sauce over it. Dab. Barbue. The dab is a fish that resembles the turbot, only it is longer and is covered with little scales; the flesh is whiter than the turbot and more delicate; it is cooked in general as the turbot; they fry, and cook it also (au court bouillon). Flotte ou Flotton. This is also of the turbot species, and is still longer in its form, with a much smaller head and thicker body ; when it is cut, it resembles the turbot so much, that it is often sold for it; the flesh is softer; it is eaten with onions, (el au beurre noir et a la bourguignote). SOLE. The most delicate are those which have their backs of a gilded yellow colour, their breasts very white, with a blush of rose; the smallest are the most delicate. Soles pour Rot. Take what soles are necessary; gut and skin them; cut them down the back; draw the blade of the knife along the fins to separate the flesh: when ready to serve dip them in milk; shake a little flour over, and fry them over a good fire; when done and of a fine colour drain them upon a clean cloth ; dish upon a napkin; send whole lemons to table with them. Soles a la Flamande. Cook them in a small fish kettle with salt and water . drain; dish upon a napkin, and serve with melted but. ter, (maitre d’hotel), or an oyster sauce (aux huitres). Soles sur le Plat ou au Four. Having arranged the soles as directed before, cut open their backs, and lift up the flesh upon both sides ; stuff the back with fine herbs minced; fry them in193 SOLES. butter and let them cool; put a little butter in a dish and lay in the fish upon their backs; baste with melted butter; strew over salt, fine spices, and crumbs of bread; add an equal quantity of stock and white wine; put them into the oven, and when of a fine co- lour serve them. Filets de Soles a la Horly. After cleaning the soles cut them entirely open by the back from head to tail; cut each into four nice fillets, and steep them in lemon juice, salt, parsley, and sliced onions ; shake them in this sea- soning, where they ought to remain nearly an hour ; when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry them ; they must be firm and of a good colour; dish, and serve under them an Italienne or tomate sauce. Saute de Filets de Soles a la Maitre d’Hotel. Take of the fillets as above; the skin having been previously taken off, have some melted butter in a saucepan, into which put the fillets ; shake a little fine salt over them; when done upon One side, turn them; drain, dish, and sauce, with a good maitre iVhotel, to which some veloutee reduite has been added and heightened with a little lemon sauce, and serve. / Soles au Gratin. Cut the fillets as above ; spread upon these fillets cooked forced meat, gras ou maigre, about the thick- ness of a crown piece; roll it equally on, all over; cover the bottom of a dish with forced meat about half an inch thick; form a crown of the fillets upon the dish, so that there will be a well in the middle; put a little of the forced meat into the intervals within, and without, that the fillets may form one mass; unite the whole with the blade of a knife dipt in hot water; strew crumbs of bread over; bastte it with butter, and send it to the oven ; when done, put into the hollow or well a provenpale, or an Italienne, KFRENCH COOKERY. 194 Filets de Soles a V Italienne. Take fried or cold soles ; take off the fillets nicely; put a little stock into a saucepan, and put them in; heat them upon hot cinders, taking care they do not boil; when ready to serve, drain them upon a cloth; dish one over the other like scales; and sauce them with an Italienne. Filets de Soles en Mayonnaise. Follow the same procedure as in the foregoing article, cutting the fillets two inches long, dishing in the form of a crown, and pouring over them a mayonnaise. Filets de Soles en Salade. Prepare the filets as above, and finish in the same manner as indicated for salade de volaille. Plaice, Flounder, and Bret. Limande, Carrelet, et Flaye. These are sea-fish; flat like the soles ; the bret- fish, which is the most delicate of the three, re- sembles the sole; the head is more pointed and not so long; the flounder more delicate than the. plaice, has small red spots upon the scales, which distinguish this fish from the bret-fish; the red spots of the plaice, the skin of which is darker and more slaty, are much smaller than those of the flounder; these fish are to be large of their kinds, with the flesh white and firm; they are all cooked as the soles. Fried Whitings. Merlansfrits. Scale, fin, gut, and wash the whitings ; put the livers back into their stomachs; nick them on both sides ; flour, and fry them till they are firm and of a fine colour ; drain, strew a little salt over, and serve them upon a napkin. Whiting may be done as soles a la Hollandaise, or d la Flamande, or sur le plat. Grilled Whitings. Merlans grilles. Having prepared whitings as above, nick them across, and lay them on the gridiron; do them on a slow fire; when ready to turn, lay softly over themk 2 WHITING. 19a the cover of a stewpan, and turn them over; and if any stick, disengage them with the back of a knife; then slide them again gently upon the gridiron, using the same precaution to take them up; masque with white sauce and capers. Another Way. Merlans auxjines Herbes. Prepare the whiting as for frying; put butter, parsley, and scallions finely hashed, salt and nutmeg, into a deep dish, and lay them in ; baste with melted butter, and put some stock and white wine to them ; turn them when half done; when they are cooked, put their seasoning into a stewpan, with- out taking them out of the dish; add a little butter rubbed in flour; cook, and thicken it; add lemon- juice, and a little pepper; sauce, and serve. Another Way. Filets de Merlans a la Horly. Take six or eight small whiting; prepare them ; take off' the fillets nicely ; steep them in lemon-juice, a little salt, sprigs of parsley, and slices of onion; when they are to be served, drain, and flour them, by putting them into a cloth with a little flour, take them out and fry them; drain, dish, and sauce with an Italiemne or a tomate, and serve. Another Way. Hatelettes de Filets de'Merlans. Take off' the fillets of twelve whitings, as indicated above ; melt some butter; put into it the yolk of an egg, and some salt; mix it well* and dip the fillets into it; roll them up, and skewer them; put five or six fillets on each skewer; heat again slightly the but- ter in which the fillets had been already passed: dip them into it; strew the table with crumbs, roll them lightly in them ; put them carefully upon the gridiron ; and three quarters of an hour before serving them, put them over red cinders; renew the cinders often ; turn them on all sides ; put over them a gravy gras or maigre well seasoned, adding the juice of a large lemon, and serve.FRENCH COOKERY. 196 Filets de Merlans en Turban. Take fifteen or eighteen whitings; cut the fillets from five or six of the largest, and prepare the remainder for forced meat (a la quenelles des merlans;) this done, make a large cork of bread, set it on the smallest end in the middle of a dish ; put round it very thin slices of lard, and also forced meat, as it were, in steps to form the turban ; surround it with fillets in form of muslin bands to make a turban ; if it is the season, garnish it with white truffles, cut in the form of large pearls, or any thing that may be turned to have that appearance; baste with melted butter, cover with thin slices of lard, and over them, buttered paper; cook it in the oven with a light braise under it; when enough done, take out the cork and all the lard ; drain it; put into the hollow or well a good Italienne, and serve ; or ragout may be used. Filet de Merlans au Gratin. Having the fillets ready, spread them upon a table; cover them entirely with a cooked forced meat; if for maigre, one of whitings, and roll it equally; spread upon the bottom of a dish, rather more than half an inch thick offarce; lay the fillets upon it in the form of a crown ; cover and fill it up entirely with farce, and unite it together with the blade of a knife dipt in hot water, giving it a regular form; strew grated crumbs of bread over it, and baste it with butter; put it into the oven till it takes a fine colour; sauce it with an Italienne rousse, or an Espagnole reduite; and serve. Smelts. Eperlans. Smelt is a small fish much esteemed ; but only a short time in season during the spring; has a beau- tiful green, silvery, shining colour; and a strong odour of violets, or cucumbers. To fry Smelts Eperlans frits. Scale, gut, and wipe a sufficient quantity; if very small, pass a skewer through the eyes; dip them in milk, and flour them ; fry, and serve upon a napkin.197 GRONDINS. k 3 Smelts. Eperlans cl V Anglaise. Put two spoonsful of oil into a stew-pan; salt, and pepper; the half of a lemon cut in pieces ; having taken off the skin, and seeds, with two glasses of white wine; let this seasoning boil a quarter of an hour; put in the smelts ; let them cook, drain, and pour over them the following sauce : put a small clove of gar- lic into boiling water to blanch; bruise it with the blade of a knife, and put it into a stewpan with pars- ley and small onions hashed, and two glasses of Cham- pagne ; let it boil five minutes; put in a pat of butter, rubbed in flour; and another pat without flour, salt, and pepper; thicken the sauce, and add the juice of a lemon. Grondin. Grondin, a sea-fish, has a red skin, very white flesh, and is much esteemed ; it is served in different forms, and with various sauces. Grondins a la Maitre d’Hotel. Take four or five grondins ; gut, clean, and tie up their heads ; cook them in salt and water seasoned, on a slow fire, that they may not crack; when enough, drain, dish, and serve them with a high seasoned maitre d'hotel; they may be served with any other sauce, either gras or maigre. Grondins in Paper. Grondins en Cornets et aux jines Herbes. Take seven or eight grondins ; gut, wash, drain, and roll them in fine herbs, as the cutlets in paper, only give them a little more butter; put them to sim- mer in this seasoning; when they are a little more than half done, let them nearly cool; make as many cornets, or turned bags of strong white paper, as there are fish ; put them into the bags, tail foremost; fill them with fine herbs; shut them up as close as possi- ble ; put them on the gridiron, and finish over a slow fire ; let the paper be of a fine colour, and serve.198 FRENCH COOKERY. Another Way. Grondins a la pluche verte. Put the quantity to be cooked into a stewpan, and pour over them, if gras, a mirepois ; if maigre, & court bouillon ; when done, drain and serve with a pluche verte. Bearded Roach. Rouget barbet. Steep them in oil; grill, and serve with plain but- ter or caper sauce. St. Peter. St. Pierre, ou Poule de Mer. This fish, which is very flat and delicate, is dressed in the same manner as the roach. Ling. Eglejin. This fish resembles the cod; its scales are finer, and of a light slate colour; it is cooked generally in the same manner as cod, and is much esteemed. Barbel. This fish also resembles the eglefin; it is still red- der in the body than the last, and has larger scales; there are some of them very large, and serve for grosses pieces, or in dardes (pour entrees); it is cooked au court bouillon when it is large ; and may be served with almost any sauce. Mons. Beauvilliers thinks those that are acidulated the best. The smell ones answer well grilled with white caper sauce. Grey and Red Mullet. Midet et Sur-mulet. These fish differ little ; they are not so large as the barbel, their bodies and heads are round ; they are very delicate, and are generally cooked in salt and water, or grilled. According to Monsieur B., the best manner, after the sauce blanche au beurre, is to put them into a raw ravigote. Sea Dragon, Vive, Is a round long fish, with yellow spots beautifully rayed; it has at each ear and upon the back dan- gerous prickles, and great care is necessary to avoid them ; if wounded, allow it to bleed a long time, and rub it with the bruised liver of the fish, or bruise an199 MACKEREL. K 4 Onion with salt, and wet it with spirits of wine, which must be applied to the wound till it is cured. Sea-Dragon with Caper-Sauce. Fives, Sauce aux Capres, Cut off the prickles from four or five, gut, wash, and slash them on both sides; put them to steep in oil, parsley, and salt; a quarter of an hour before serving, grill, and baste them with the seasoning; dish and serve them with a sauce blanche au beurre, to which capres may be added. Prepare the tjives as above, and serve them with a maitre d’hotel. Fives a V Italienne. Having prepared five or six sea-dragons, take off the heads and tails ; put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of white wine, some slices of onions and carrots, sprigs of parsley, half a bay leaf, and salt; cook, drain, dish ; sauce with an Italienne, and serve. Five a VAllemande. Prepare five or six as above; lard them with an- chovies and eels; put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, half a bottle of white wine, a little sweet basil, half a.bay leaf, a clove, some sprigs of parsley, slices of onions and carrots; cook them, and pass the greater part of their seasoning through a search into a saucepan ; add a pat of butter rubbed in flour ; put it on the fire and reduce it to sauce ; at the moment of serving, add the juice of a lemon; drain, dish, sauce, and serve. Mackerel.\ Maquereaux a la Maitre d'Hotel. Take three or four mackerel; see that they are very fresh and of an equal size*, that they may cook equally; gut them by one of the ears, and take out with a knife the puddings at the navel; wipe them ; open the back and head; cutoff the nose and tail; powder them with a little salt; marinade them with oil, parsley, and small onions cut in two; turn them in * This remark ought to be attended to in cooking of every tiring.FRENCH COOKERY. 200 this seasoning : if large they will take three quarters of an hour on the gridiron; if small, half an hour will suffice; take care their belly does not open, that they may not lose their juice; cook them upon red cinders; after they have been done sufficiently on both sides, put them on their back that they may be thoroughly done ; dish, and with a wooden spoon put a little cold maitre d'hotel into their backs, with the juice of lemon, or sauce with it thickened, and serve. Mackerel in the English Way. Maquereaux a V Anglaise. Take three or four fresh mackerel; gut them by the ears, draw out the stomach, tie up the head, and cut the ends of the tails; put a large handful of fennel, and salt and water with the fish into a kettle; set them on a slow fire; drain, dish, and serve with a fennel or gooseberry sauce. Another Way.- Maquereaux a la Flamande. Prepare mackerel as in the last recipe; mix a bit of butter with shalots, parsley, small minced onions, salt, and the juice of a lemon; and stuff them: roll each in a buttered sheet of strong white paper; tie them up tightly at the ends, and oil them; cook them upon a slow equal fire for three quarters of an hour; when ready, take them out of the paper; dish ; drip the oil out upon the fish, and serve. Mackerel. Maquereaux d Vltalienne. Cook the mackerel as indicated for sea-dragons a Vltalienne, and sauce with an Italienne mixed with a bit of butter. Mackerel. Filets de Maquereaux a la Maitre d’Hotel. Take off the fillets of three mackerels, cut them in two, melt some butter in a frying pan, put them in, the skin side downward; strew a little salt, and baste them lightly with butter; cover them with paper, and put them in a cool place, till ready to serve. Prepare the following sauce : put two spoonfuls ot veloute re-MACKEREL. 201 riuced in a saucepan; minced parsley and shalots; boil the sauce; put in a large bit of excellent butter, and the juice of a large lemon; clean the roes, and cook them in salt and water; when ready to serve, put the fillets upon the fire ; make them froth, and turn them; when done enough, drain ; dish them en couronne, and garnish with bread fried in butter or oil ; sauce, and serve. Maquereaux au Beurre noir. Prepare as the foregoing, and sauce with a beurre noir, adding salt, vinegar, and fried parsley. Skate. Raie. There are several sorts of this fish, the Ray bouclte is the best and most esteemed of all; the gentle ray, which is without prickles, and the grand ray, called tyr, and the long ray; there are also raytons, all of which will be spoken of in their order. Skate, with Caper Sauce Raie Bouclee, Sauce aux Capres. Take a middling sized one ; cut off the wings as near to the back as possible; put them into a bucket of fresh water; wash and rub them with a brush, to take away the slime; avoid the prickles, which are dangerous; drain and put it into a large kettle with a handful of salt, slices of onions, sprigs of parsley, two bay leaves, a clove of garlic, a sprig of sweet basil, and a little white wine vinegar; put it on the fire, make it boil, take it off, put in the liver, cover the kettle with a cloth, leave it ten minutes ; take out the liver and put it into a small saucepan, with part of the seasoning; take out a wing, put it upon the cover of the saucepan, take off the skin and prickles, and all the black flesh, and put it into a saucepan ; do the other wing in the same manner; rim a part of the seasoning through a search over the fish ; about half an hour before serving, warm the skate without letting it boil; drain it upon a clean cloth; dish it with the liver; garnish ; sauce with a sauce blanche au beurre; strew over it capers or cucumbers cut in squares.202 FRENCH COOKERY. Skate. ——~ Raie a VEspagnole. Prepare, clean, and cook the skate ; dish and garnish as the foregoing ; put into a stewpan three or four spoonfuls d’Espagnole ; boil it, and at the moment of serving, add two or three ounces of good butter ; shake it well; if too thick, add a little stock; strew capers or cucumbers cut round or square, and serve. Skate with Black Butter-Sauce. Raie Sauce au * Beurre noir. Prepare and cook the skate; cut the wings in square pieces rather long, dish them in a crown; sauce them with a beurre noir, seasoned with salt and vinegar; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. To fry Skate. Raie frite ou en Marinade. Prepare, cook, and dress, as for sauce aux capres, but cut them like those for beurre noir ; steep them in salt and vinegar; when ready to serve, drain, and dip them into a light butter ; fry them of a fine colour; drain, dish, and serve under them a sauce poivrade. If there is any skate remaining from a for- mer day, do it in this way, or what is not so fresh. Tofry Raw Skate. Raie frite a cru. Take several small wings, skin both sides, marinade them in salt, vinegar, onions, and branches of parsley; when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry them of a fine colour ; drain, and serve with any sauce. Herring. Hareng. The herring is a fish generally esteemed, which are used fresh, salted, and smoked ; the first when fresh have the ears red, the scales brilliant, milky, and fat, very thick in the back; there is also a distinct sort called the pilchard, which is more delicate. Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce. Harengs Sauce a la Moutarde. Take twelve or fifteen herrings, gut them by the gills, scale and wipe them with a cloth ; lay them on a203 HERRINGS. k 6 china or earthen dish ; strew over them some salt, oil, and parsley, and turn them, in this seasoning ; a quar- ter of an hour before serving put them to grill; dress them upon a dish, and sauce them with a sauce, (blanche au beurre,) mixed with a spoonful of mustard ; do not let it boil, or serve them with a saucegrasse ; or if cold, sauce them with a sauce d Vhuile, or any one convenient. Herring Roes in a Case. Caisse de Laitances de Harengs. Take thirty fine fat herrings, take out the roes; clean and drain them ; put a bit of butter into a saucepan with mushrooms, parsley, shalots, small on- ions hashed very fine, salt, pepper, and fine spices ; pass the fine herbs lightly over the fire, taking care they do not brown; put in the roes ; make them sim- mer a moment in this seasoning ; having made a round or square case, spread in it a gratin gras or maigre, about half an inch thick ; oil the outside of the case, put it on the gridiron over hot cinders to cook the gra- tin, before serving put the roes into the case, and put it into a slow oven : when done enough take off the fat, •arrange it on a dish, and sauce with an Espagnole re- duced ; squeeze the juice of a lemon into it, and serve. Pickled Herring. Harengs Pecs. They are generally used in hors d’ceicvres at good tables ; during Lent they are grilled and served on a purte de pois, a sauce blanche, or any other. Red Herring Harengs Saurets. Take five or six, wash them and take off their heads, and the ends of their tails ; divide them from head to tail; open them; put them on a china or an earthen dish ; baste them with oil; when ready to serve, turn them a moment on the gridiron, and send them im- mediately to table. Pickled Herring another Way. Harengs Pecs. Take five or six salt herrings; wash, take off’their heads and the tips of their tails ; skin and cut of!'their‘204* FRENCH COOKERY. fins ; put them to steep in milk and water ; drain, grill, and dish with slices of onions, and apples of the ren- net kind ; serve oil with them. FORCED MEATS. Farce en General. — Godiveau. Take a noix* of veal; skin and nerve it well ; mince it fine; beat it in the mortar till it be- comes a pastd; mince a double quantity of beef suet, which must be dry and grainy, for if it is greasy the godiveau will neither look well nor be good ; pick off all the skin, and beat the whole together in a mor- tar till they are perfectly mixed ; put in salt, pepper, and fine spicery ; mix and beat all well together ; take an entire egg, which must be perfectly fresh, and mix it well in ; then another, which must be also perfectly incorporated; after this" a third, which will be suffi- cient for two pounds of godiveau ; put in a spoonful of water; continue to add another every time the water is incorporated: let this operation have time that it may not be drowned ; when sufficiently wetted as for a paste, strew a table with flour, and make a little ball for trial, and throw it into boiling soup ; when done enough, it will yield under the finger ; cut and taste.if it be light and good ; if not firm enough, add another egg to give it more consistence; if too firm, a little water ; dust the table with flour, and roll the godiveau into any convenient size; poach, drain, and keep it in readiness for such ragouts as require it. Chairs a petits Pates et Pate a la Ciboulette. Take the quarter of a pound of a fillet of veal, and as much beef, and a pound of beef-kidney fat; mince the veal and beef together as small as possible; hash the suet; mix all well together, and continue hashing it with a hashing knife, seasoning with salt, pep- per, and fine spiceries : put in two eggs, one after the other, and continue to beat them; when com- pletely mixed add a little water, and continue to do * A noix is the large fine muscle found in the fillet, which can be taken out whole.GRATIN. 205 so by little and little, till it is brought to a proper con- sistence of forced meat; finish by adding parsley and scallions minced'very fine ; put it into a proper pot, so that it may be in readiness for petits pates or patds a la ciboulette. ■ GRATIN. Take half a pound of fillet of veal, cut it in small dice: put it into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a little fine herbs minced, such as mushrooms, parsley, scal- lions, with salt, fine spicery and pepper; put it upon the fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon; let it cook a quarter of an hour, drain off the butter, mince it fine, and put it into the mortar; take fifteen livers of fowls or game, wash and parboil them; throw them into cold water ; drain and put them into the mortar with the other ingredients; beat them all well together ; add as much panade as meat; have ready cooked and cold some veal’s udder; be careful to take off the skin, and put in as much of the udder as of each of the other ingredients, so that each may be a third; if there is no tetines, that is, veal’s udder, butter may be used ; season with salt, and put in three eggs, one after the other in beating, and also three yolks'; when all is sufficiently beaten, take it out of the mortar with a wooden spoon ; make a trial by poaching ; if not firm enough, add some yolks of eggs; when come to perfection, whip the whites of three eggs very well, and mix it in by degrees, breaking them as little aS possible; truffles maybe added well minced: put it by for use. N. B. This gratin may be made entirely of raw livers, either of poultry or game, without using any other sort of flesh meat, keeping in view always the proportion of thirds, that is to say, one third of pa- nada, one of liver, and one of butter. Panada. Panade. Take a sufficient quantity of crumb of bread, cut it in small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with reduced cream; let it soak, and when it has absorbed the cream, put it on the fire, and cook in such a man-206 FRENCH COOKERY. ner that it will have the consistence of a firm paste, (or it may be made of stock); incorporate into it two yolks of eggs. Bread Crumbs. Miede Pain. Take some crumbs of very white bread ; put it to dry in a very slow oven, and beat it in a mortar; put it through a search and use it; every thing looks better done with it. Cooked forced Meat.* Farces Cuites. Take the quantity of fowl necessary, or of veal; cut it in small dice, and do it with fine herbs, as is indi- cated for the gr at in ; take and cut the meat, skin and nerve it, hash and beat it; add as much panada as flesh, and the same of udder, that is to say, that these three materials consist of equal parts, and are all first beaten separately; put in as many eggs as is sufficient, taking care it is not too liquid ; season with salt, fine spiceries, and fine herbs, cooked in butter; try a bit of it, and when properly done, add the whites of some eggs well beaten with care as directed in the gratin. Forced Meat of Ford Quenelles de Volaille. Take off all the flesh of two fowls; skin and nerve it carefully; beat it in a mortar till it passes through a search [de quenelles) with the back of a w-ooden spoon; take as much panada as of fowl, and the same of butter, or udder of veal: having beaten them all se- parately, mix and beat them altogether, adding one after another till all is well incorporated; in the same manner put in three eggs and three yolks, one after another; season with salt and nutmeg ; beat them well in ; gather it together in the mortar, and throw a little bit into boiling water ; taste if good, and if not firm, put in one or two entire eggs; when it has ar- rived at its point, whip well the whites of three eggs, and add them by degrees. Observe the follow- ing directions: — If to garnish a large dish, take a * If the cook takes a little pains she will soon understand forced meats, as it is of the utmost professional consequence.GRATIS. 207 skimming spoon, and fill it with the quenelle; then, with a knife dipt in warm water, give it the same form as that in the spoon, which will be like an egg ; detach it from the spoon, and put it into a buttered saucepan, and in this manner make as many as is necessary; put over them some very hot soup when you poach them, taking care that they swim without touching one another: let them boil softly, and turn them; when sufficiently done drain upon a cloth, and dress them on their dish. If the quenelles are for a vol-au-vent, use two table-spoons to form them ; and if still for smaller dishes, use tea-spoons, or any other shape, to make them in. Forced Meat of Rabbits. Quenelles de Lapereaux. Take one or two young rabbits, and proceed in every way as in the above article. Ditto of Partridges. Quenelles de Perdreaux. The same manner as in the foregoing article. Ditto of Pheasants. Quenelles de Faisans. The same. Pudding of Rabbits. Boudin de Lapereaux a la Richelieu. Take the flesh of a rabbit, and cook it in the same manner as is indicated in quenelle de volaille, except that potatoes are used instead of panade; roast six or eight good potatoes in the ashes; peel them, and put. them into a mortar; beat them very well; take the proper quantity, and put into the farce instead of panada; spread upon the cover of a stewpan, the thickness of half an inch of farce, five inches long and three broad; put along the middle of it a salpipon with a knife, dipt in warm water, raise the sides and the end of the farce over the salpipon till it is formed into the appearance of a white pudding; butter the bottom of a saucepan large enough that the cover on which the pudding has been made can go into it; heat the cover slightly, and slip the pud- ding into the bottom of the stewpan; take the same precaution to poach it as is indicated for quenellesFRENCH COOKERY. 208 de volailles; when done, drain, and let them cool; they may be grilled, after wettings them with the yolks of eggs, and rolling them lightly in crumbs of bread; let them be done on hot cinders; when enough, dish, either upon a good Italienne blanche or rousse, or upon a Perigueux, and serve. Pudding of Craw-fish. Boudin d’Ecrevisse. Make a farce a quenelle of fowls; make use of it in the same manner as of the rabbits, or lapereaux de Richelieu ; make a salpiqon of the tails of craw-fish, mushrooms, and truffles; make it up into a pudding, as is directed in the foregoing article ; in the mean time, wash and dry the shells, and make a butter sauce of them ; when the puddings are poached, dip them into the butter; strew crumbs over them, and baste them with it; put them into the oven, and when they have taken a fine colour, send them to table covered with a good veloute, mixed with the craw-fish butter sauce, so that it may be of a find red colour. Pudding of Whitings. Boudin de Merlans. This pudding is made in the same manner as that of young rabbits, except that of the forced meat {farce a quenelles) which is made of whitings; if for maigre, the salpiqon is made of the livers of whitings, mushrooms, truffles, and Espagnole maigre ; it is dipped in egg, or rubbed with it; rolled in crumbs, and basted with butter ; put it into the oven, and serve it with an Espagnole, or an Italienne maigre. Boudins en general. They may be made of pheasants, partridges, fowls, salmon, &c. the manner of doing them is the same throughout. Rabbits. Croquettes de Lapereaux. Roast a rabbit, let it cool ; take off all the flesh, and separate it from the skin and nerves ; cut it in small dice, with mushrooms, truffles, and some fat livers; reduce a soup-ladle full of veloute to half glaze, to which add hashed parsley and scallions; put it on the fire five or six minutes; add the other ingredients,TASTRY. 209 but do not let it boil; thicken it with the yolks of eggs, having care to stir it with a wooden spoon; pour it out upon a slab ; spread it with a knife, and let it cool; divide it in equal parts about the size of half an egg; form them into any shape; roll them in crumbs of bread, dip them into an omelette, with a little salt; roll them again, in crumbs, preserving their form; fry in a hottish frying-pan, till of a fine' colour; drain, and serve with fried parsley. Whitings. Quenelle de Merlans. Take the flesh of five or six whitings; skin, and put it into a mortar; beat it, and force it through a cullender; beat some panada, and force it through also; take butter in proportion, that these three ingredients may be equal* ; beat them up well together; add to it salt, fine spiceries, a table-spoonful of fine herbs, minced and cooked in butter, and a sufficient quantity of eggs; finish in the same manner as indicated for all other farces; make trial if it is good, and finish with the white of eggs. Salmon. Quenelles de Saumon Is made in the same manner ; but rather less butter, particularly if the salmon is very rich. Pike. Quenelles de Brocket Is done as whiting, adding some anchovies. Carp. Quenelles de Carpes. Take two small carp ; scale, skin, and take out the nerves of the tail; hash them well with a little salt; beat them in a mortar ; add two anchovies and fine herbs cooked in butter, and put every thing in, in the game proportion as in other quenelles; season with fine herbs ; try a little bit of it, and finish with whites of eggs. PASTRY. Pale a dresser. Take a quart of flour, (called by the bakers gruau)y * If the three different ingredients arc made into balls, the quantities will be easily ascertained.210 FRENCH COOKERY. put it on a paste slab ; form a well in the middle of the flour to contain water; work a pound of butter, and put into it; add an ounce of fine salt*, and some water ; work the butter well in and beat the paste till it is very firm ; work it well together, and break it two or three times with the palm of the hand, and gather it into one mass, and put it to repose half an hour in a wet cloth before it is used. It may be made five or six pounds to a bushel; that of four pounds serves ge- nerally for large cold pdtes and cold timbales; those of five or six pounds, (and by adding an egg to the pound), serve for hot pates, timbales of maca- roni, and others. Observe, that half a pound of butter to the pound of flour for cold pates, and three quarters, with an egg, to the pound of flour for the hot pates, timbales, &c. Pate brisee. Take a quart of flour, more or less, as may be necessary ; pass it through a search, and put it on a paste table; add an ounce of salt, a pound and a half of butter, and as much water as will suffice to make a firm paste ; work it well, that it may be mixed without dividing the butter too much; put it firmly together, and if too dry, add a little water; make it into a mass ; strew the board with flour ; put the paste upon it, sprinkle a little water over it, and cover it with a wet cloth; let it repose half an hour, and use it for cakes de pate brisde for the foundation of many entremets; for that purpose give it three or four turns as long as the butter appears divided. Here Monsieur Beauvillier enters into the rolling and flouring the paste, and the manner of handling the rolling pin; but as it is not to be suspected that any one will think of following French cookery in this country, without being an adept in these things, they are left out, as rather confusing the work without being useful; wherever he seems to excel, all is particularly noticed; he desires that care should be taken not to strew too * As salt butter is never used in France, if used, care must be taken to wash it out rather than use more.PASTRY. 211 much flour over the paste when rolling it out, as it makes it heavy and dull-looking; and likewise if it should be done, to dust it oft' with a bunch of feathers, and pass it lightly over afterwards with a wet one; having finished it, put it under a wet cloth, that it may not dry till it is used; after it has lain half an hour, give it another turn, and make it into any form that is required. Paste Pate a Nouilles. Put a pound of flour upon the table, break into it three or four eggs; add a little salt, a little water, melt about the size of a walnut of butter, and make of these materials the paste; beat it with the palms of the hands ; gather it together, and let it repose some time ; give it a turn or two ; separate it in four, which make as thin as possible ; cut it in stripes of an inch and a half in breadth; dust them lightly with flour, and cut them the thickness of a large vermicelle, and as equal as possible; spread them on paper, and leave them an hour or two in the air, during which time, lift them lightly, that they may dry; poach them in boiling salt and water; let them boil a quarter of an hour; skim and drain them; serve them in potage, or clear soup; let them have two or three boils in it; skim and serve. Puft Paste. Feuilletage. Take a quart, or two pounds, of flour; pass it through a search upon the table; put in an ounce of salt, some water, and some yolks of eggs, if approved of; when the salt is melted, mix the water and flour, without allowing it to break through, till the paste has been gathered into a mass ; then beat it well till it is quite smooth, and bring it as near as possible to the consistence of the butter ; avoid, if possible, adding water at different times, as it prevents the paste from working easily, and spoils the look of it; let it repose; work two pounds of butter into a consis- tence, wash and press it in a napkin; roll out the paste, put the butter in a mass in the middle, and press it out upon the paste, folding it up over the but-FRENCH COOKERY. 212 ter upon all sides, and flatten the mass with the palm of the hand; let it rest a quarter of an hour; for eight pounds, which is the above proportion, give it five turns, or five and a half, but that depends upon the measure; to ten pounds of butter to the bushel of flour, (that is, a pound and quarter to the pound of flour), give six turns or six and a half. Use this paste for (vol au vent) tarts for entremets, petits pates au naturel; tartlets, all sorts of light pastry, and for sweetmeats. Petits Pates au Naturel. Roll out the paste for the bottom of the pates, and cut them the size necessary, either of a feuilletage, or of a. pate brisre ; put them upon an oven leaf, and put upon each, the size of a walnut, of the farce called ciboulette or godiveau; if for maigre, use the farce de carpes; make the covers three times the thick- ness of the bottoms, and of the same size; press them lightly down and glaze them ; a quarter of an hour is sufficient in the oven; they ought to be served im- mediately. Petits Pates au Jus. Roll out a piece of pate brisde, and cover little moulds with it; fill them with the farce ciboullette, or godiveau; if for maigre, fill them with & farce of carp, and a maigre sauce; cut the covers much thicker of puffed paste or feuilletage ; glaze and put them into the oven; when enough, take off their covers, cut the farce, and take them out of the moulds ; dish, and sauce them with a good espagnole reduite and serve. Petits Pates a la Bdchamelle. Roll out a piece of feuilletage (puff paste) pretty thick, and such as has had five* turns; cut the bottoms with a small paste cutter of an inch and half over ; put them upon a leaf; turn and glaze them; mark * Paste that has had a pound and a quarter of butter to the pound of flour. To give paste one turn is to roll it at first out as long as it will bear without the butter coming through; then fold in three, and roll it out as before. I'll is operation, therefore, must be continued as is necessary, four, five, or six times ; half a turn is made by folding it in two.213 PASTRY. them with a small paste cutter near the edge, to form a cover for them when they come out of the oven ; raise the covers and scoop out the soft paste; have fowl cut in small dice, or well minced; at the mo- ment of serving have a hechamelle reduced, and highly seasoned ; put the fowl into it: warm the whole without letting it boil; fill the pates and serve; or they may be filled with livers, salpipon, or carp-roes. Petits Pates Bouches a la Reine. Roll the paste thinner than in the last article; cut them very small, and mark them for the covers, glaze, and send them to the oven; when enough, take off their covers; take out the heart, and fill them with the ragout aftermentioned; mince very fine some white of fowls, and put it into a good boiling becha- melle; mix it well together, fill the pates, and serve., Petits Pates a la Mancelle. Make cases as for pates an jus ; take a roasted par- tridge ; cut the flesh in small dice, and beat the car- casses in a mortar, put into a stewpan half a glass of white wine, two shalots, and three spoonfuls of espagnole; reduce, skim, and take out the shalots ; put in the carcasses; mix it without letting it boil, by simmering ; force it through the cullender; keep it hot, and at the moment of serving, add the meat of the partridge, the juice of a bitter orange, and half a pat of butter ; fill the crustades or pates with this ragout, and serve. Petits Pates au Salpipon. Make cases for these pales, as is indicated for those aujus; when they are enough, take out the godiveau or ciboullette, cut it in small dice; add cooked mush- rooms, truffles, livers of fowl, bottoms of artichokes, all cut an equal size; put all these into an espagnole reduced; boil them once up, taste if it is good; skim, fill the pate, and serve. Tourte d’Enlree de Godiveau. Make a bottom the size of an entree, put it in a tart- pan, put a little godiveau in the middle of it, and strew over a good pinch of mushrooms which have been cooked in butter, and drained; add a few artichokeFRENCH COOKERY. 214 bottoms cut in five or six pieces ; take godiveau, roll it out in andouillettes, the size most convenient for the dish, dress them over and round these ingredients in such a manner that they form a flattened dome; make a cover a little larger than the bottom ; wet the bor- der of the first, put it over to form a cover, and fix it to the under one ; dress it properly round the edge; glaze it, and put it into the oven; when done, raise the cover, sauce it with a good espagnole, and serve it; or put the ragout into a stewpan, and give it a boil in the espagnole, which you must skim ; dish the tart, fill it with the ragout, and serve; all ragout tarts may be done in the same way. Pates a la Ciboulette. Take some pate a dresser; work and form it as di- rected au jlan de nouilles; fill it with a farce ri la ciboulette; cut out a cover of paste ; cover the farce with it, and unite it firmly to the bottom, which must be cut and pinched ; make another cover of puffed paste or feuilletage, and put upon it; check it across; glaze it, and put it into the oven; when enough, take off the cover, and the fat from the pate; cut the farce in pieces without taking it out; sauce it with a good espagnole reduite ; add, if it is liked, the juice of a lemon; cover, and send it to table. Pate chaud de Godiveau. Take some pate a dresser, and form a pate as in the last article; make it higher, (as the French cooks say,) to have more grace; spread upon the bottom a little godiveau; follow what is directed for the tourte de godiveau, and finish in the same manner. Pate a la Financiere. Make a pate, and fill it with meat to be cooked for other purposes; or in default of that, fill it with soup, meat, or flour; when the case is baked, and of a fine colour, take out the flour or meat, as well as the soft paste, and fill it with a bonnefnanciere. Pate chaud, Maigre de Carpe et d'Anguille. Make a case [depute), spread over the bottom a littlePASTllY. 215 quenelle tie carpc, mushrooms, artichokes, and junks of eel, which ought to be cooked in a good seasoning; finish by filling with quenelles fie carpc, rolled in flour, and formed into andouillettes; cover the pale and lay over another of feuilletage, put it in the oven, and when three-fourths done, cut the top ; when enough take it up and sauce it with a good Espagnole maigre reduced, and mixed with soft carpe roes. Vol-au- Vent. Make any quantity of feuilletage in the propor- tion of a pound and a quarter of butter to a pound of flour; give it five turns; cut to the size of the dish, and lay it upon an oven leaf; glaze it, and mark it with a smaller paste cutter, an inch and half from the edge, and make any design or figures with a knife upon the cover and border; put it into the oven, and when cooked take off the cover and scrape out the soft; serve the vol-aux-vents for en- trees and entremets ; if for entrees with ragouts either of fish or meat; if for entremets, vegetables, sweetmeats, or souffles. Pate froid de Veau. Take two veal noix”, beat them, take off the skin and nerves ; lard them with large lard, seasoned with pepper, fine spiceries, parsley, and some aromatics beaten and sifted; make a farce of the underf noix de veau with an equal quantity of lard minced very fine; season this farce with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, aromatics, and, if agreeable, a small clove of garlic; beat this farce in the mortar; add some entire eggs, one after the other, and a little water from time to time, but in such proportion that there shall be more water than eggs: cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of lard; put upon it a little of the farce; season the veal with salt, pepper, and fine spices; put it into the stewpan over the farce, fill it up to the top, and see that there are no voids ; then cover the stewpan, • The large fleshy muscles found in the fillets, f The smaller muscle.216 FRENCH COOKERY. and let it bake an hour: take it out and let it cool; in the meantime take some pate a dresser, wet and roll it to about an inch in thickness ; make it round, put it upon two sheets of paper pasted together and buttered; put a little farce upon it which has been kept for that purpose, spread that farce the size of the stewpan in which the meat has been baked ; warm the stewpan lightly to detach, turn it out upon a cover, from which slide it into the middle of the paste, work some butter, strew flour upon the board, and roll it out half an inch thick ; form a crown to the pcit6 of it, putting some pieces above with four or five half laurel leaves; then cut another cover of paste half an inch thick; it will be necessary that it is large enough to cover the meat, and fall down to the bottom; wet the paste at the edge of the meat, and unite the cover to the bottom; should there be too much paste, take it away; glaze it over, bring up the under paste to the top, and form the bottom of the pate: roll out some more paste to make another cover : wet the top of the pate and fix the edges nicely round ; clear off all the useless paste, and finish the pate handsomely : make another cover of feuilletage ; put it on, making a hole in the middle: glaze it, put it into a very hot oven, that has fallen a little, and give it a fine colour ; but should it appear to take too much, cover it with paper; let it bake three or four hours ; take it up and sound it with a wooden larder; if it enters easily, it is enough ; put in a glass of brandy; shake it, and add a little stock; when it is nearly cold, cork the chimney or hole on the top, and turn it up, that the brandy and stock may penetrate throughout: when served take off the paper; scrape the bottom, put a napkin upon a dish, and serve as a grosse or large piece. Pate en Timbale. Prepare the meat as indicated in the foregoing article: take a well-tinned stewpan; having.made a figure in it with the same paste that the pate is to be made of; roll some paste half an inch thick and put it into the stewpan in such a manner that it shall remain half217 PASTRY. an inch over the edge ; put into it some thin slices of bacon, and lay a little farce over it; put in the meat, nourish it with a little butter, and season it as for the patefroid; wet the paste which is over the edge; roll out another piece to make a cover, and put it over the meat; form and unite the edges; make a hole in the middle, put the mould upon an oven leaf to prevent it taking too fast, and put it into a quick oven that has fallen a little ; bake it three or four hours ; sound it with a wooden larder; if it yields readily it is done enough ; put into it brandy and stock; shake it well; let it stand in its mould till nearly cold; cork it and turn it up ; put the mould to heat slightly on a stove or hot table; turn it out, and serve. Pdtefroid a la Deforge. Take one of Deforge's moulds of white iron; put it on an oven leaf; roll out paste as above, and put it into the mould, taking care to put the paste well into the design of the mould; put into it some thin slices of bacon, also forced meat, &c,, finish it exactly as the timbales. Ham Pie. Pdte de Jambon. Take a good Westphalia or Bayonne ham; pare, bone, and trim it nicely; put it to steep for eight or ten hours; drain, wipe, wrap it in a cloth, and put it to cook in a pot nearly of the same size, with three pounds of sliced beef, a pound of sain-doux, of rasped lard, and a pound and half of good butter; season it with carrots, parsley, onions, stuck with two or three cloves, laurel, thyme, sweet basil, and a clove of garlic; cook it three fourths. Take it from the fire, skim it, let it cool, and trim it anew; take the ingredients it was cooked with, hash them very small with a pound of lard; beat the whole in a mortar, add two or three eggs one after the other and fine herbs hashed. Take some pate a dresser, wet it, roll it out till it is nearly an inch thick, put it upon two sheets of buttered paper; mark in the middle the place for the ham; diminish the thickness a half by pressing it with the fist, then LFRENCH COOKERY. 213 raise the paste to form the pate, in making the paste to re-enter into itself without folds; also forming the bottom nicely at the same time. Observe not to make this paste richer than four pounds to the bushel; half a pound of butter to the pound of flour. Spread a little of the farce over the bottom, and layover it the ham; fill it up with the farce; cover the pate, and solder it well; put on an upper cover of puft paste, feuilletage, or pate brisde ; make a hole or chimney in the middle, set it to bake in a hot oven; let it take a fine colour; when nearly done run the stock it was cooked in through a hair search; season without skimming ; fill the pate with it, taking care to shake it well; put it into the oven, and let it simmer half an hour; take it up, fill it again and let it cool; cork it, turn it upside down, and leave it all night in that position; take off the paper, scrape the bottom, and send it to table on a napkin. Partridge Pye. Pate de Perdreaux. Take three or four partridges, truss them as fowls for boiling, singe, wipe, and lard them with large lard; season them with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, and aro- matics, hashed parsley, and young onions; make a farce of their livers, adding those of fowls, a bit of veal and tetine* parboiled, if there is any; if not, a bit of lard; hash the whole and season it as the lard for larding; put it into a mortar and beat it; wet it with eggs, one after another, and a little water, as directed in other farces ; cut open the partridges at the back, and put in a little of the farce ; roll out the paste and raise it, as directed for pate de jambon; spread some farce on the bottom, and lay in the partridges; fill up the intervals with farce, cover it with slices of lard ; lay over worked butter, and finish as directed for (Pate de veau.) Partridge Pie. Pate de Perdreaux rouges a la Perigueux. Have five or six partridges, and two pounds and a • Veal’s udder.219 PASTRY. half of truffle; prepare the partridges as directed in the foregoing article; brush, wash, and skin the truffle; hash the small ones, make a farce of the livers and other ingredients, as is indicated above, with the addition of the truffles; stuff the partridges with the farce, and add some whole truffles ; do it in every respect as the pate de veau. It may be formed into any shape, round, oval, or en bastion. Fowl Pies. Pates de Poulardes et toute Volaille, commie Dindon, Poulet, §c. These pates are all made in the same manner; after preparing the fowls, cut them open at the back, take out the bones, lard and season them as directed in other pates ; if they are not entirely boned, take out the back bones and break the others; cook them in a stewpan either in the oven or on a furnace; let them cool, and make a farce as for the veal pates; finish as in the foregoing article, whether for a timbale or a pate. Lark Pie. Pate de Pithiviers. Take eight dozen of larks; and having prepared, open them at the back; take out all that is in the body, and after taking out the gizzards, hash the intestines; add rasped lard and fine herbs, beat the whole into a farce; fill the larks with it; roll out a paste, put a little farce upon it, and arrange the birds ; season them properly; they may be either wrapt or not in lard ; put over it a crown of butter, two or three half bay leaves, and fine spiceries; cover the whole with paste, forming the patd round, oval, or square; bake it two hours and a half; let it cool, and serve. All small birds are done in the same manner, and the quantity and quality of farce depends on those who make it. Paste. Pate a Brioche. Take a quarter of a bushel of flour, more or less, to make this pate ; take to a quarter of a bushel twelve or thirteen eggs, and two pounds of butter, which makes it eight pounds to the bushel, or half and half; an ounce of beer yeast, and an ounce of fine salt. To l 2220 FRENCH COOKERY make this pate, pass a quarter of flour through a search; separate a fourth*; make two holes in the flour, the least to put the yeast in ; heat some water more than milk warm, take care that it is not too hot; mix the yeast with the hot water, and when there are no more knots, mix the flour into it; work and gather the whole into a mass; shake a little flour on the board, and form the paste as a baker forms a loaf; slash the paste lightly across; dry the vessel in which die water was warmed, strew it with flour, and put in leaven; cover it with a cloth, and put it in a warm place ; while it is rising, put into the large fountain the salt melted in water; break the eggs in a dish, take care they are fresh, add and mix them well with the butter and a little sugar; mix all well with the flour, beat it with the hands; if the leaven is risen, which is easily known by the cross being enlarged, it will be like lace; pour it on the paste, and break it with the hands, always putting upon the paste what is broken; do it lightly again; let the leaven be well incorporated, gather it together, and put a cloth in a dish; strew it with flour, and put in the paste, folding it tight; leave it to rise four or five hours in summer, and seven or eight in winter; if the paste be spoilt, it will form eyes, and become tough, which may be known by pressing it with the hand; if it resists, then it is properly made; keep it in a cool place for use. Paste Pate d’echaudds. Take a quarter of a bushel of fine flour; put it through a search, make a hole in the middle, put in two ounces of salt with a little water ; break into a dish twenty or twenty-two eggs, put them to the salt and water, and add a pound of butter; the paste ought to have a good body, and it is not necessary that it should be very fine ; work the eggs into the flour by little and little, till it is gotten into a mass; cut it in pieces, and throw it with force upon the table; draw it near, turn it over with the points of the fingers, give * That is the fourth part that has been separated.221 PASTRY. it a turn by gathering it together, cut it again, and go through the same operation five or six times ; gathering it together, strew flour upon the board, and flatten it ; leave it all night; next day cut it in bands ; dust the table with flour, roll upon it these bands, and cut the echaudes any size; dust a board with flour, arrange them upon it; heat some water; let them simmer with- out boiling, or rather let the water be always ready to boil, which must be prevented by throwing from time to time cold water into it; when they are firm under the finger, take them out of the water and throw them into fresh water; change it, and take them out in two hours; lay them separate upon a leaf, and put them in the oven. Paste for common Biscuit. Pate a Biscuit ordinaire. Take twenty eggs, separate the whites from the yolks very carefully; put the last in a deep dish with a pound of sifted sugar, and two or three drops of the spirit of lemon or jessamine ; in default of both, rub a bit of sugar upon the skin of a lemon, from which it will extract the oil; rasp this sugar into the other ingredients, and beat them well: the more it is beaten the firmer it will be, which is indispensable to make fine biscuits; mix into it six ounces of flour ; the half of it may be that of potatoe; put the whites into a copper vessel not tinned; if there is no basin of this sort, take one of the copper or brass sweetmeat pans; see that it is perfectly clean; beat the whites in the beginning softly, increasing in quickness till they are so strong as to bear the weight of half-a-crown: mix them in with a wooden spoon, do it in a manner not to break the whites, and make use of this pate for savoy and com- mon biscuits. (Fine biscuits, article Biscuits d'Office) Paste Royal. Pate Royale. Put into a stewpan a wine glass of water, two ounces of butter, a little salt, and the skin of a green lemon, with some essence of orange-flower; put them upon the fire, and take it off when it begins to boil; put in as much flour as it will take, mix it well; put it again222 FRENCH COOKERY. upon the fire ; stir it round; dry it till it separates from the pan, and does not,stick to the fingers: change the pan, and leave it to cool a little; put in two eggs; afterwards add egg after egg until it sticks to the fingers; use it for des choux, despains a la duchesse, des •pains a la mecque, and with all small entremets. Queens Paste. Pate de Choux a la Reine. Put upon the fire a stewpan, with half a pint of milk or cream, and a little salt; when ready to boil, draw it to the side, and mix as much flour as it will take; finish as above; only adding with the eggs a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar : make these petits choux, which are in general no larger than a nut, any size or form; give them a slow oven. Pouplin. Make a pate royale, but with less butter, dry it, and give it as many eggs as it will take, without being liquid ;brush over a stewpan orpoupliniere with clarified butter, drain it, fill it only a third, and put it in an oven less heated than for puft. paste ; give it two hours, or more, according to its size: take off the top in the manner of a pate, cut out all the soft paste, and butter the inside lightly; put it into the oven to dry; dust fine sugar over, and glaze it with a hot poker; glaze it within, fill it with any sweetmeat; serve it upon a napkin as a large dish. Ramalcins. Pate a Ramecain. Put upon the fire the quantity of water necessary, and add in equal quantities Gruyere cheese and butter; when it boils, take it off the fire and mix in flour, and finish as in the above articles: dress these ramecains as the petits choux; give them a slow oven. Ramalcins another Way. Pate a Ramecain d’une autre Maniere. Make a pate royale, and when dried put in eggs to make it rather wet; add a large handful of Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, mixed in equal quantities, and as much Gruyere cut in small dice; mix them well to- gether ; make them of any size; glaze them, .and putPASTRY. 223 them into a slow oven a quarter of an hour before serving: if for a buisson* serve them upon a napkin. Ramakins without Cheese. Talmou.se sans Fromage. Make a. pate rot/ale ordinaire, wet it with eggs, but not too moist; roll out a puft paste of the thickness of half a crown, cut it in rounds of three inches and half, overdress the ingredients upon them, and turn up three sides like a cocked hat; glaze them lightly, and put them into a hot oven ; serve as hot as possible. Ramakins of Saint Denis Talmouses a la Saint Denis. Take a pound and a half of cheese a la pie, and a quarter of cheese de Brie, well cleaned, with a little salt; mix them well together; add a handful of flour passed through a search ; a quarter of a pound of melted butter; work altogether, and dress it upon paste, as in the above article ; put it in the oven, and serve it either for buisson or entremets. Ramakins. Fondas. Take raspt Gruyere and Parmesan cheese in equal quantities, wet them with yolks of eggs, add a little melted butter ; mix all well together ; beat the whites very well; add them by degrees, stirring them lightly with a wooden spoon ; have cases ready, and fill them only half; bake them in an oven heated as for biscuits, and serve hot. A Cheese Cake. Gateau au Fromage. Take the quarter of a fine fat cheese de Brie, beaten and sifted ; have a pound and a half of flour, make a hole, put in three quarters of a pound of butter which has been worked! ; add the cheese and five or six eggs; work the paste; beat it well with the hand, as done in pate d dresser; roll and work it as a baker makes bread; leave it to rest half an hour; roll it out, and make a cake of about three inches thick; nick it round, , glaze, and ray it; that is, to mark it with rays diverging * Bouisson, or husha, high standing remove, for a center. f Butter which has been washed and well worked in the liands. JL 4FRENCH COOKERY. 224- from the centre; bake it in an ordinary hot oven, and serve. Brioche Cheese. Brioche an Frontage. Make a quarter of pate a brioche, leave it to come (see that article); put m a pound, or a pound and a half of good Gruy'ere cut in dice; take off a quarter of the paste, work them separately, put the largest upon strong buttered paper, shaped like a loaf; flatten it in the middle with the palm of the hand; work the smaller part rounder, and dress it upon the large ; heat two eggs; glaze the brioche; cut some Gruyere cheese in leaves or hearts, and make a rose upon the top: put it into a hot oven, where it will take nearly three hours: take it from the paper, put it on a napkin, and serve it as a large dish. Lard Cake. Gateau au Lard. Take lard cut in thin slices; steep it a little in water; have ready a pate brisee, with little salt; form a cake; dress the edges, and put it on a leaf; glaze and cover with the lard, of which the skin has been taken off. Another Cake. Gateau de Campiegne. Sift a quarter of flour; make in it two holes, as in pate a brioche ; take a full quarter of the flour to make a leaven, which must be raised with a little yeast; make this leaven more liquid than for the paste ; put it to rise ; put into the flour for the paste an ounce of salt, a large glass of water, a handful of fine sugar, the zests of two lemons minced very fine, confected citron cut small; make the paste as directed at the article pate a brioche, only less firm; if neces- sary add a little water; butter a mould as for the pouplin, and put it in; let it rise five or six hours; let the oven be well heated; give it two hours; turn it out of the mould, and serve it cold as a centre dish. Pastry Cream. Creme Pdtissiere. Break two eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt and as much sifted flour as it will take ; mix in a pint ofBABA. 225 milk; put it on the fire ; stir this cream not to let it stick till you do not smell the flour; add the size of a large walnut of butter; put it into a dish, and rub a little butter over it that it may not gather a skin. Creme Frangipane. Take cream patissiere; season it with a little sugar, orange-flower water, with broken macaroons ; mix all well together till there are no knots ; add to it some eggs one after another, till it has the consist- ence of a thick soup ; make use of it for tarts or tourtes defrangipane, cream tartlets, fritters, &c. &c. BABA. Take a quarter of flour, prepare it as for pate d brioche, but add to it twenty entire eggs, a quarter of a pound of currants washed, a pound of case raisins, which must be stoned, washed, and drained ; put these raisins round the fountain; put in a suffi- cient quantity of saffron-water, two pounds of good butter, half a bottle of Malaga, and a handful of sifted sugar ; work the whole as pate a brioche ; when the leaven is ready, pour it over the paste ; cut it, beat it with the palms, give it two turns, gather it together, and put in a mould; let it rise five or six hours, and more in winter ; when risen, put it in an oven a little hotter than that for gateau de compiegne, and serve it in the same manner. Biscuits. Biscuits de Niaiiffes. Take half a pound of puft paste; give it a turn or two more than ordinary, and form two squares of it, of the thickness of half a crown ; cover a feuille doffice with one, and spread upon it the thickness of three crowns of creme patissiere, in which there ha6 been mixed a handful of beaten pistachios, two bitter almonds, and a handful of sweet; a little beaten spin- nage that has been passed in butter, and rubbed through a hair search; add a large handful of sifted sugar, a little orange-flower water, and one or two eggs, which must be mixed well with the cream; spread it over the paste; cover it; glaze it with milk ; prickFRENCH COOKERY. 22S and ray it in forming squares three inches long and two broad ; glaze it with milk a second time; sift su- gar over it, and sprinkle it with confected hashed orange flowers, and let the sugar melt a little; put the niauffes into an oven a little hotter than for bis- cuits, and where a fire has been lighted, to brown them ; when done enough take them out of the oven, cut them in squares, and serve them for entremets. Tart. Tourte de Frangipane. Take a tart-pan, the size wanted; cover it with paste lightly puffed ; put in frangipane an inch thick, and leave round it paste that will make a band of the thickness of an inch, to suit the size of the tart for a border; lay the band round; make the ends meet as nicely as possible; glaze it, and form any design upon it; give it rather a hot oven; when done, dust fine sugar over it, glaze, and serve it hot or cold. MarroivPasty. Tourte ala Moelle. Take about a quarter of a pound of beef marrow; pick it, and put it upon the fire; when it is a little hot, break it, and put it into frangipane; proceed as in the last article ; but this tart is only served hot. Kidney Pasty. Tourte au Rognons de Vcau. Take a veal kidney that has been roasted, with a part of the fat; hash part, or the whole, according to the size of the tart, and mix it in a frangipane, as above. Sweet Meat Pasty. Tourte de Confitures. Roll out some pate brisee of the size that you -would make your tart; put it in a tart-pan ; fill it wuth any kind of jam or confection, leaving an inch and a half of border; wet it; make small twisted bands, and cross the tart, or leave it open, and put a band entirely round the border as the frangipane ; bake and them in the same manner. glaze Peach Pasty. • Tourte de Pcches. Cover a tart-pan with paste ; wet the edges; put a227 BABA. . band round; glaze the band; bake it and glaze it again; put in a compote depeches; reduce the syrup, and at the moment of serving, pour it over. In all seasons, make all fruit tarts and tartlets in this manner. Rice Cake. Gateau au Riz. Pick, wash, and boil half a pound of rice; make it burst with a little milk, in which there has been boiled lemon peel; wet the rice little by little, till it is bro- ken thoroughly; let it cool; incorporate a dozen ma- caroons ; let the half be bitter ; a little salt, six ounces of sugar, four whole eggs, and four yolks; butter a stew- pan with clarified butter ; drain it, and powder it with crumbs of bread ; whip the whites ; mix them lightly with the rice; pour the whole into a stewpan, which must serve for a mould; put it into the oven, half or three quarters of an hour before serving ; turn it out, and serve. One may be made of vermicelli in the same man- ner. If to be served as a pudding, pour over it a sauce made in the following manner. Put into a pan half a spoonful of flour, and mix it with cream, a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, a little salt, a spoonful of sifted sugar, and the size of a walnut of butter; cook it, and pour it over the puddings. This sauce will serve for either of the above, when served as pudding. Carrot Cakes. Gateaux de Carottes. Take twelve large carrots, the reddest possible, boil them in water with a little salt; take out the hearts and drain them ; put them through the cullender into a stewp-an; dry them upon the fire, as pate royale; make a cream patissiere ; put in as much flour as it will take; add the carrots, with a little confected orange- flowers minced, three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, four eggs one after another, six yolks, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter; mix all well; whip the whites ; mix them in lightly ; prepare a stew- pan as for the gateau de riz, three quarters of an hour before serving put it into the oven. L 6FRENCH COOKERY. 228 Pistache Cake. Gateau aux Pislaches. Make a cream patissiere, prepare a quarter of a pound of pistachios and of sweet almonds ; beat them together; from time to time add a drop of water to pre- vent oiling; when smooth take them out of the mor- tar; have a spoonful of spinage, blanched and passed in butter ; beat them and put them through a cullen- der, and put all the ingredients into the cream ; finish as for the gateau de carottes, but instead of confected orange-flower, let it be orange-flower water; a tea- spoonful will be sufficient. Flanc de Nouilies meringuees. Take a bit of pate d dresser, turn and roll it to the thickness of three or four lines; make a flattened round in the middle of the paste with the palm of the hand, to form the bottom of the Jlanc; raise the sides of it, by making the paste go into itself without forming any folds ; form the bottom of the pate; fill it with flour till within half an inch of the top; make a top for it of pate moulee ; roll it out, and make it round of the size of the jlanc ; cover and solder it well; take away the superfluous paste, dress it tastefully, and bake it as a pate ; when enough, take out the flour and scrape the crust well; have nouilies sufficient; poach them in milk, drain them, put in some yolks of eggs, sugar, orange-flowers, or green citron, minced maca- roons, and massepains bruised; add salt and some good melted butter; mix altogether; whip the half of the whites of the eggs, and incorporate them lightly; put the nouilies thus prepared into the jlanc; put it into a slow oven, give it three quarters of an hour; when it has risen well, beat the rest of the whites, sea- son them as for meringues ; cover the jlanc with it; glaze with sugar, sifted through a hair search ; bake it of a fine colour, and serve. Flanc de Vermicelle. Poach the vermicelle, drain it, and proceed in the same manner as jlanc de nouilies.PASTRY. 229 Flanc Suisse. Make a flanc as directed in the preceding articles ; while it is baking boil a chopin of cream with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, of which make a fine pate royale; Hour of wheat or potatoes may be used ; put into a dish grated gruyere, with some cheesed la pie, and cheese c/e brie, which have been beaten fine, and mixed with melted butter, all of equal quantities; add pepper, and wet it with the yolks of eggs; mix it with a wooden spoon, and give it more body than for biscuit; take half of the whites, beat them well till they are firm, and mix them lightly with the paste ; pour it into the flanc; only fill it half, or a little more; put it in a moderate oven, when baked serve immediately. Croque-en-Bouche. Make a pate royale ; into which put very little but- ter, and rather more flour; wet it with eggs ; make it rather firm; separate it equally in little bits no larger than the point of the little finger, having a sufficient quantity to fill the mould; glaze them and put them into the oven till they are of a fine colour ; oil the mould; clarify and boil some sugar to that called boulet (see Sucre au Boulet); take a twig or wire and lift every chon separately; dip them into the sugar one by one, putting them into the mould, beginning at the middle, and continuing all round till brought to the top, placing them to support one another ; turn it out, but if it sticks heat it a little and it will come out; dress it upon a napkin, and serve. Cake of a hundred Leaves. Gateau de Mille- Feuilles. Make a quarter of fleuilletage, when finished cut it in five pieces, one of them must be double the size of the others; roll out the four smaller ones thin; put each on a leaf or paper ; take the fifth, which ought to be much thicker, to form the uppermost; glaze and bake them ; let them cool; put the bottom upon a dish, and cover it lightly with currant jelly; then lay on an- other, upon which put apricot marmalade; on the230 FRENCH COOKERY. third, confection of verjuice, and the fourth garnish with cherries ; put on the cover; cut it upon the model of an octagon or figure of eight side's; serve it upon a napkin, as grosse piece d'entremets. Almond Paste. Pate d’Amandes. Take a pound of sweet almonds and a quarter of a pound of butter; blanch and beat them in a mortar, putting in from time to time a drop of water, and alternately a drop of white of egg, which can be done by making a small hole in the end, from which it will come drop by drop : to whiten them put in a little lemon juice: when it is properly reduced into a very smooth pate, put in three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar* royal; take the pate out of the mortar and put it into a sweetmeat-pan; put it upon a slow fire ; dry it, taking great care to stir it, till it does not stick to the fingers; strew the table with sifted sugar, and roll the pate upon it; when cold, wrap it in white paper, and so keep it for use. Pate cl'Office. Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, butter the size of a walnut, a little salt, a tea- spoonful of orange-flower water, and two whole eggs; knead the whole well; as it must be very firm, gather it in a mass, and beat it well with the rolling-pin ; if too firm put in a little white of egg and turn it; use this paste to make the foundation of rocks, small houses, huts, &c. &c., and open croquants; take care to butter lightly the mould for croquants, and bake them at the mouth of a slow oven. Genoese Paste. Pate a I'Genoise. Take a pound of flour, three quarters of sugar, and half a pound of butter; rub lemon on the sugar to get the zest, and bruise it with the rolling-pin ; two eggs, two yolks, and salt; mix all together; work it well; gather it together and leave it to repose; give it one or two turns; cut it in thin bands about the breadth of an inch, and of an equal length; turn them into the * Double or triple refined.PASTRY. 231 form of an S or horse-shoe, leaves, &c. &c.; arrange them upon an oven leaf; glaze, and bake them in a hotter oven than for biscuit; serve them as little entremets. Cake Madeleine. Gateau a la Madeleine. Break ten eggs; keep the whites and yolks separate; add to the yolks three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar; a little minced citron and salt: beat the whole together as for biscuit; put in half a pound of flour, and mix ; add half a pound of clarified butter ; whip six whites of eggs, till they are firm; mix them lightly in; butter small moulds a la madeleine or any other; fill them with the paste; bake them in a slow oven; they take more baking than biscuit: in default of small moulds make it a cake in a paper case; cut it down, and serve. Tartlets. Tartelettes a la Chantilly. Take almond paste ; strew the table with fine sifted sugar, and roll it out, using sugar instead of flour; the paste for the bottoms of the tartlets must be as thin as a thick sheet of paper; cut them the ordinary size of petits pates; make the bands of the same paste, which must be three quarters of an inch broad and high ; wet the edges of the tartlets with the white of egg a little beaten, and fix on the bands to give them the form of goblets; take care that the bands are so nicely put on as not to show the joining; put them upon white paper, and let them dry in the' air; afterwards put them into the mouth of an oven that they may dry without taking any colour, or very little; fill them with whipt cream a la chantilly: season with sugar and orange-flower water; in summer they may be served with strawberries; serve them for little entremets. Little Genoeses. Petites Genoises. Make with almond paste, as indicated above, little tartlets the size of half a crown; let them be a little thicker than the chantilly; make a bottom of this paste nearly the size of the dish they are to be served on ; give this bottom any shape, or one conforming to the232 FRENCH COOKERY. design of the tartlets or shape of the dish: add a border the same height; put them to dry, and bake as the above: when ready to serve, fill them with different coloured sweetmeats. Ladies Lips. Bouchies de Dames. Take six eggs; put them into a dish with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and three ounces of potatoe flour; beat them as for biscuit; then butter a leaf, upon which spread it lightly; bake it for a quarter of' an hour in a slow oven; when enough cut it with a round paste cutter the size of half a crown, and glaze them either white or chocolate: for this purpose, put into a dish some sugar sifted through a gauze search, with the white of an egg; beat this with a wooden spoon, adding by little and little the juice of a lemon, till it is very white; if the glazing is to be chocolate, instead of lemon put a sufficiency of chocolate in powder; with either of these cover the bouchi'es; dry them at the mouth of the oven; dress and serve. Pistache Cakes. —Gaujfres de Pistaches. Take half a pound of pate de brioche; wet it with half a glass of Madeira; add three ounces of sifted sugar and two ounces of currants ; spread this upon a buttered oven leaf, about the thickness of half an inch; bake it a quarter of an hour in a quick oven; cut it into two inches square; glaze them with sucre au cafe, strew them with pistaches cut small; or serve them without any glazing, which the French call au naturel. Glazed Biscuits. Genoises glacees a VItalienne. Put into a sweetmeat-pan five ounces of sugar and five eggs; mix as for biscuit; add a quarter of a pound of flour, and as many sweet almonds beaten; butter a leaf, and roll the paste the thickness of a crown piece; bake it in a quick oven; let it have a fine colour; when done cut it into any form; clarify a pound of sugar (au sojtfflc); put the pan into cold water, and gather the sugar, having whipt five whites of eggs, mix them gradually into it; cover the genoises with this glazing; put them to dry a quarter of an hour in a stove, and serve.PALTRY. 233 Mirlitons de Rouen. a Take half a pound of puft paste; roll it out as thin as a shilling; cut it into forms, and put them into little pans ; put into a bason a quarter of a pound of tine sugar, and an egg; work them; add a sufficient quantity of melted butter; work the whole in putting in another egg; add a little orange flower, and fill the moulds with this paste; sift sugar over them, and bake them in a slow oven; dress and serve them. Queens Cake. Gateau a la Reine. Beat a pound of sweet almonds; add a pound of sifted sugar, and four whites of eggs by degrees; when well prepared it may be made into different shapes, and decorated according to fancy ; put it in a slow oven; as glaze it as the genoises. Mirlitons a la Parisienne. Put into a bason twro eggs and a quarter of a pound of sugar sifted; whip it and add a little flour and orange flowers ; have moulds prepared as for the mirlitons of Rouen ; fill them and finish in the same manner. Almond Cake. Gateau d’Amandes. Beat a pound of almonds ; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little confected orange flowers, and half a glass of cream ; have puft paste sufficient for a cake; give it a half turn more; roll it to the thickness of a crown; cut it round of the proper size; put the paste on it, and cover it with another round of puft paste; nick it across; finish the edge of the cover, put it into a quick oven ; when baked; sift sugar over and serve. Another Almond Cake. Gateau Pithiviers. Prepare the almonds as in the foregoing recipe ; add a pound of sifted sugar, a little lemon peel minced, half a pound of butter; put in by degrees six eggs; have puft paste as in the above article ; proceed and finish in the same manner. — It may be made into small ones. Orange Cake. Gateau a la Portugaise. Take half a pound of beaten almonds; put inFRENCH COOKERY. 234- tlie juice of three oranges with their skins hashed ; add half a pound of sugar, two ounces of potatoe flour, and six yolks; beat the whites and mix them also; make a long paper case; butter, fill, and bake it in a slow oven; when done, cover it with a glace royale about the thickness of a shilling; serve this cake whole, or cut it. Biscuit manque. Put into a basin half a pound of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and a few orange flowers ; beat them well; add a handful of almonds properly beaten, six ounces of butter, and four ounces of flour which has been dried and sifted; whip six whites and add them lightly; make a paper case, put in the ingredients, and bake it in an oven heated as for biscuit: while it is in the oven cut almonds in little dice ; put to them about a third of sugar; wet them with water or the-white of an egg beaten ; when the manque is three-fourths baked, glaze and cover it with the almonds; finish its baking by making it take, a fine colour ; cut it in any form, and serve it. Aggyzinas. Fanchonnettes. Put in a stewpan two ounces of flour, three of sugar, some green citron, two yolks of eggs, a whole egg, and two ounces of beaten almonds; add a pint of milk; put these ingredients upon the fire, and make it come to a cream; have puft paste; roll it out thin; cut it with a pastecutter the size of crown pieces; put them into moulds of the same size ; put in the cream ; and put it into a brisk oven: when three fourths baked, take them out, meringue them, dust them with sugar, and put them again into the oven to take a fine co- lour. Small Cakes. Petits Gateaux Polonais. Have puft paste sufficient for the quantity wanted, give it another turn or a turn and half more; roll it thin, cut it in squares of three inches; wet them slightly, take up the four corners to the centre; dress them on a leaf; glaze, and put them in the oven: when ready to serve, put into each a cherry or a little verjuice; they may be served in gros buisson, or as little entremets.PASTRY. 235 Cannelons. Roll out some puft paste ; give it another turn; cut it in ribbons the breadth of half an inch ; have turned moulds, upon which you can roll them along, leaving them a little open at the ends, where they can be fixed; put them on a leaf; glaze, and put them into the oven; when nearly done, draw out the moulds; put them together; powder them wfith sugar; glaze them in the oven; fill them with confections ; dress and serve. Puits d' Amour. Take puft paste, and roll it out as above ; cut it with figured paste-cutters of different sizes; cut them equal in number, the large and small; put the large upon a leaf; wet them with water, and put on the small ones; glaze them ; and with the point of a knife, cut them in the middle, the size of a thimble ; put them into the oven ; and when nearly done, pow- der them with sugar; glaze them, take out the heart, replace it with sweetmeats, and serve. Banded Tarts. Petites Tartelettes bandtes. Take tart-pans, and cover them with pate brisde very thin; put into them cream patissiere or any confection ; roll little bands of paste, and band them cross, or any other design; cut little bands of paste wet the edges of the tartlets, and put them round them ; put them in the oven, and when nearly ready, sift sugar over, glaze, dress, and serve. Small Lozenge Calces. Gateaux en Lozange. Roll out puft paste, cut it in strips, and then into lozenges ; glaze, and put them into the oven: when they are baked, glaze them, if convenient, and serve; or au naturel.* Darioles. Make a bottom of a pate brisee very thin; cut it with a paste-cutter, large enough that the paste fall over the edges of the moulds; give them the form they ought to have upon the point of a knife ; and put them in that manner into their moulds, which have * Wit)lout gla:dng.236 FRENCH COOKERY. been buttered ; finish forming them by putting in a bit of paste, which must be floured; take away the paste from the edge of the moulds. For a dozen of darioles, take a spoonful of flour, six or eight bitter macaroons or massepains bruised, a little salt, orange flowers, and six yolks of eggs ; liquify with three quar- ters of a pint of milk; three quarters of an hour be- fore serving them, shake or stir these ingredients well together, and fill the moulds, putting a little nice but- ter over them ; put them again into the oven; take them out of their moulds, and serve as hot as possi- ble, having dusted them with fine sugar. Omelet Omelette Soujflee. Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs, take care the speck is not in the yolks ; put to them two spoons- ful of sugar, a little orange-flower water, or spirit of lemons; work these well together, as for biscuit; whip the whites till they are very firm ; mix them with the others ; put into the frying-pan a small bit of butter; let it melt, that the pan may be buttered throughout; put in the omelet, set it upon a slow fire, and take care that it does not burn; turn it out upon the dish it is to be served in; glaze it, by throwing su- gar over it; put it into the oven;when it has risen,glaze and serve. Omelette SovJJlee et Aloulee. Break six eggs ; separate them, and put them in dif- ferent basons; add to the yolks two spoonfuls of sugar sifted, four massepains in powder, a spoonful of flour, a little salt, a little lemon-peel cut fine, and some drops of orange-flower water; stir the whole well; butter and crumb a saucepan as for gateau au riz; when ready to serve the entrees, whip the whites, and when they have taken, mix them with the other ingredients; put them into the mould, but do not fill it full; put the omelet into a slow oven; if there is none empty, a fur- nace, and set it on the gridiron with a hot poker held over it; when it is well risen, and baked; turn it out upon the dish, and serve: it ought to be of a fine co-PASTRY. 237 lour, and not trembling; it is a beautiful and good entremet. Souffle de Ftcule de Pommes-de-terre. Put into a saucepan a spoonful of the flour of po- tatoes with a little water, two spoonfuls and a half of sugar, and a little salt; work and dry them as pate rou- ale, only a little thinner; let it work, and add six yolks of eggs, and two more, some drops of orange-flower water, rose, or any other perfume ; mix all well toge- ther ; whip the whites till they are firm, and mix them in carefully; dress the omelet as a pyramid upon the dish it is to be served on, and put it in the oven ; when it begins to brown, glaze it with sugar; this omelet may be made d la vanille, au chocolat, or a la rose; the last in adding a tint of cochineal. Riz Souffle. Prepare an ounce or two of rice ; let it break in milk with a little fresh lemon peel; salt the size of a nut of butter; wet it by little and little, that it may be kept firm ; add two spoonsful of sugar: when the rice is broken and reduced, put in the yolks one after another ; put them a little upon the fire, but not to do too much ; whip the whites ; put them in gra- dually ; dress the soiffle upon a dish, and follow the directions given for soiffle defiecide. Charlotte ofi Apples.—— Charlotte de Pommes au Con- fitures ou sans Confitures. Take fifteen fine rennets ; cut them in quarters; pare them; take out the hearts ; mince them as fine as possible; put them into a sweetmeat-pan with sifted sugar in sufficient quantity, cinnamon, some lemon peel, and a little water; set it over a quick fire ; stir them without breaking, and when done let them stick a little to give them a grilled taste, and put in about the size of an egg of nice butter: take out the cinna- mon and lemon peel; take a mould the size proper for the charlotte; cut some slices of bread, about the size of two fingers, and long enough to reach fromFRENCH COOKERY. 238 the centre to the edge of the mould; steep them in melted butter; put them into the mould like a fan brought round ; fill up the mould with the apple mar- malade : marmalade d'abricots may be added, or any other confection; finish the charlotte by covering it with strips of bread buttered as at the bottom ; put it upon a furnace ; take care it does not burn, and af- terwards into the oven; when it is well coloured turn it out upon a dish, and serve. Buttered Apples. Pommes au Beurre. Core twenty apples; pare nine or ten., and make them nearly ready in a light sugar ; drain them; make a marmalade of the remainder, as for the charlotte; cover a dish with a little of this marmalade, to which any other may be added ; arrange the apples, and fill their hearts with butter, and put the remains of the marmalade to fill up the intervals of the apples; glaze them with sifted sugar, and put them into the oven; give them a fine colour. Cherries or any other preserved fruit may be stuck on the apples, and serve. Apples. Chartreuse de Pommes (Entremets.) Take a score of rennets; peel them, and with a very small corer take off all the pulp about the heart; when there is enough of those to fill the chartreuse mould, mince the rest of the apples to make a mar- malade ; equalise all the little apples, or pieces that have been cut out with the apple-corer; make a little saffron water ; put a little sugar to it; throw in a third of the small apples; give them a slight boil, take them off, and drain; do another third in cochineal, and the last in a syrup of white sugar, with an equal quantity of angelica as of each of the apples; cover the mould with white paper ; make any design in the bot- tom with red, green, yellow, and white; mix them taste- fully all round the mould to the top, and fill it up with marmalade, which ought to be firm and without any void. When ready to serve, turn up the mould239 PASTRY. upon the dish, and take off the paper. It the char- treuse is to be white, throw the apples into water, as they are formed with lemon juice. Apples in Rice. Pommes au Riz. Take nine or ten fine apples; pare ; take out the hearts, and cook them in a light syrup; scald a quar- ter of a pound of rice, and break it in milk; in wet- ting it, little by little, add a small bit of citron, a little salt, and sufficient sugar ; the rice ought to be firm ; take out the lemon peel, spread the rice upon a dish, put in the apples, and fill up the intervals with rice ; bake it in the oven till it is of a fine colour, and serve. Apples in Apricot-jam. Pommes a la Polonaise. Take a score of small rennets ; core without break- ing them ; do not force the apple-scoop but half way down, and then by the other end: pare and cut them in slices like halfpennies; cover a dish with apricot marmalade; then with the apples, and lay on more marmalade, and so on till it rises into a dome; glaze it with sifted sugar; put it into an oven; when done, wipe the edge of the dish, and serve. - Cotelettes en Surprise. Take some puft paste ; roll it out thin ; cut it in the form of hearts, as for cutlets of mutton in papillotes; put into that paste marmalade of apricots: solder the edges; give them the form of cutlets ; put them on a leaf, and bake them ; take a little pate d’office, cut it in little bands, as bones of mutton; bake them with- out their taking any colour, which can be done in the mouth of the oven; when these cutlets are cooked, glaze them with the white of an egg, beaten; bruise some macaroons, and roll them in it; heat a skewer, and press it across the cutlets, to make them look as if they had been grilled; fix into them the bones of the pate d office: dress these cutlets in a crown on a dish, and serve; having first melted some red-currant jelly, which put to the cutlets as if it were gravy.FRENCH COOKERY. 240 ENTREMETS. Apple Fritters. Beignets de Pommes. Take eight rennets; cut them in quarters; take out the hearts ; put them to steep in a little brandy, with the peel of a green lemon, and a bit of whole cinna- mon : when ready to serve, drain and dip them into a light paste (pate a frire); put them into the frying- pan; when they are of a fine colour, drain them upon a cloth, put them upon a leaf, and dust sifted sugar over them; glaze them either in the oven or with a hot poker; dish, and serve. Fritters. Beignets Souffles. Put into a saucepan a little wrater, about the size of a walnut of butter, salt, and a bit of lemon peel; put it on the fire, and when ready to boil, take it off, and add half a quarter of sifted flour ; work it well; put it on the fire, and let it dry till it will no longer stick to the fingers : change it into another pan; add three eggs, one after the other; turn the paste upon the cover; powder it with flour, and make it of an equal thickness ; heat a frying-pan, and form the frit- ters with the crooked end of a skimming-spoon ; when they are all formed, put the pan again on the fire, and let them take a good colour; drain them in a colan- der ; sift sugar over them, toss, and serve. Blanc-mange Fritters. Beignets de Blanc-manger. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a little salt, a zest of lemon, minced very fine, two quarts of cream ; let it simmer two hours and a half or three hours, taking care to stir it often ; when it is nearly done, add sufficient sugar, massepains in powder, and a little orange-flower water; when per- fectly done it ought to be firm; add three eggs, one after another ; work them into the paste; flour a cover, and put it upon it, of an equal thickness; flour it, and let it cool; cut it in little squares, and form them into balls not larger than those used in small arms; when ready to serve, put them into a colander; heat the the frying-pan, and put the colander into it, with the241 ENTREMETS. fritters, having care to shake it; take it off when the fritters have a blackish taint; drain, dress, and sift sugar over them, and serve. — The white of roasted fowls, minced very fine, may be introduced. Surprised Fritters. Beignets de Surprise. Take eight or ten small rennets, leave their stalks, and cut them over about a quarter from the stalk, in the form of atop, and take out the heart with a round- pointed knife, that they may be kept whole ; pare, and put them to steep in a little brandy, with some lemon peel and whole cinnamon; drain, and fill them very full with apricot marmalade, or cream pattis- siere; mix the yolk of an egg with a little flour; fix the tops of the apples well on ; dip these apples in pate a frire, and fry them; glaze and send them to table. Apricot Fritters Beignets d’Abricots. Take twelve or fifteen fine apricots, that are not too ripe ; cut them in two : take out the stone; pare, and put them into brandy for an hour with a little water, sugar, and lemon peel; a little before serving drain them and dip them into pate a frire ; finish and serve as the foregoing, Peach Fritters Beignets de Peekes. These fritters are made in the same manner as those of apricots, only being larger they are cut in quarters. Orange Fritters. Beignets d’ Oranges. Take off the thin yellow skin that contains the spirit of the orange, what is called the zest, but leave the white of as many oranges as will fill the dish; cut them in quarters, put them in water for half an hour; drain and take out the seeds: put them into a weak syrup; make them simmer and reduce them to a sort of lozenge; take them off the fire, and let them cool; fill them with the syrup, and dip them into pate d frire; wet with white wane; finish as the others and serve. Cherry Fritters. Beignets de Cerises. Take wafer paper, and cut it to such a size that a cherry may be wrapt up in it (a confected one), M242 FRENCH COOKERY. drain the cherries well, wet the paper slightly, and wrap up every one separately; put on another envelop reversed, and solder them well on all sides ; put them into a search without allowing them to touch one another, and leave them to dry ; have ready alight pate afrire into which put brandy, Spanish wine, and melted butter; dip the cherries in this pate, drain them with care ; fry them in a pan not very hot; finish and serve. Rice Fritters. — Beignets ou Croquettes de Riz. Pick, wash, and blanch a quarter of a pound of rice, break it with milk by little and little ; season it with the zest of lemon, hashed fine, five or six massepains bruised, salt, some orange flower water, and about the size of a walnut of butter: the rice being broken, thicken it with the yolks of eggs without allowing it to boil, pour it upon a leaf, and give it an equal thick- ness ; let it cool; divide into little equal parts; roll them into balls, dip them into an omelet, roll them in crumbs, put them on a cover, and just before serving fry them in a hot pan. Cream Fritters. Creme Frite. Take half a pint of milk, boil it with a little zest of lemon, and put two eggs into as much flour as they will take ; add four eggs one after the other, and then the warm milk ; take out the lemon peel and stir all well till it is smooth; put it on the fire, turn and cook it as a bouillie. After a quarter of an hour’s cooking add salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, about an ounce of butter, and orange flower water: put it for seven or eight minutes on the fire ; then put in four yolks of eggs, put it on aboard you have buttered or floured; spread it equally about the thickness of the finger, cut it in lozenges, or with a paste cutter as petits pates ; flour or crumb, and fry them ; drain, glaze with sugar either in the oven or with a hot poker, and serve. This cream may be made au chocolat in changing the macaroons.ENTREMETS. 243 Celery Fritters. Beignets de Ctleri. Take a dozen of fine heads of celery; clean and cut off the tops, six inches from the roots ; dress them without taking them asunder; wash them well and scald them for about a quarter of an hour; take them out of the hot water and put them in cold, drain them and tie them up in four parcels; cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon cut thin; put in the celery; season it with parsley, scallions, salt, and wet with soup or top pot: cover with slices of bacon and a round of buttered paper; make them boil, and leave to simmer till done; drain them and fry them in butter, as in the foregoing article. Fritters of Salsify or Scorzonera. Beignets de Sal- sifi et de Scorsonere. Take of one of these a sufficient quantity, and cut them about three inches long; put in a stew-pan a little water and vinegar; throw them in as they are scraped; wash and cut them; put upon the fire a pot with water, salt, vinegar, and a bit of butter rubbed in flour; wtien they are done enough drain and marinade them in salt, pepper, and vinegar; when ready to serve, follow the directions given for other fritters. White Coffee Cream Creme au Cafe' Blanc. r Take a pint and a half of cream; add to it the zest of a lemon and some sugar; roast two ounces oft’ coffee; throw it into your boiling cream i cover, and let it infuse for half an hour; take out the coffee; put into a search three inner skins of gizzards; dry and bruised; when half cold put the cream three times through the search, bruising at the same time with the back of a wooden spoon the gizzards ; that done, fill the cream quickly into pots, having care to stir it; put them into hot water; leave them to take in the bain-marie without allowing it to boil; put a cover on the pot and lay fire upon it; when it has taken, take out the pots, and put them into cold water without covering them: when ready wipe, and serve. m2FRENCH COOKERY. 214 Chocolate Cream. Creme, au Chocolat. Take two or three squares of chocolate ; boil a pint and a half of cream ; put in nearly two ounces of su- gar, reduce it to two-thirds ; melt the chocolate over the fire in a little water; mix it with the cream ; pass it through a search a little colder than that au caff blanc, and in every respect follow the same proceed- ing. Orange-Jlower Cream. Creme a la Fleurs d'O- range. Reduce a pint and half of cream; put in some con- fected orange-flowers, and a sufficient quantity of su- gar ; put it through a search with the gizzards, as indicated above; finish in the same manner and serve. Instead of orange-flower, it may be made of vanille by boiling it in the cream. Almond Cream. Crdme Vierge. Take two ounces of sweet almonds, and one or two bitter; beat them as for almond paste, only using water; reduce a pint and a half of cream one-third; put the almonds into a search, and the cream over them ; pass it twice through, keeping back the almonds; sugar it, and pass it over the gizzards, as directed in the three foregoing articles, and finish in the same manner. \ Coffee Cream ‘without Gizzards. Creme au Caff sans Gesier. Proceed for this cream as for caff blame, except thickening it with six yolks of eggs instead of giz- zards, and make it take with boiling water, and fire over, whether it is put in a dish or little pots; and pro- ceed in the same manner with all the creams with- out gizzards. Eggs in White Coffee. CEuff au Caff Blanc. Reduce a chopine of cream; toast two ounces of coffee; throw it in, and leave it to infuse for half an hour; run the cream through a search, to take outENTREMETS. 245 M 3 the coffee; sweeten it; add three yolks of eggs, and two whole; mix all well together; pass it through a search, and stir it; butter some small moulds, such as those a la Madeleine or Darioles; let them drain and cool; boil some water in a stewpan; take it off the fire, and put it in the moulds after it has been stir- red ; when they have properly taken, turn them with care out upon a dish. Have ready hot a dish of good cafe a I'^au ; sweeten it, put it in the dish for sauce, and serve. Eggs in Tea. CEifs au Thd. Infuse in a little boiling water some good tea; re- duce a quart of cream to half; put in the tea, three yolks of very fresh eggs, and two whole, with suffi- cient sugar; shake, stir, and wring them through a tammy ; stir them again, and fill the moulds, as in the preceding article: when enough, turn them out of the moulds, sauce them with thickened cream; take for that purpose two or three spoonfuls of cream; sweeten and thicken it with the yolk of an egg, without letting it boil, and sauce them. Eggs in Gravy CEufs au Bouillon. Put into a stewpan four yolks of fresh eggs, and two whole ones, with six spoonsful of good stock ; mix all well together, and pass it through a search; butter the moulds as indicated before, make them take in the hot water, turn them out, and sauce them with gravy; or serve the eggs in little pots, as the cream. Eggs en Fumet. CEufs au Fumet de Gibier. Follow the directions given in the last article, ex- cept that instead of bouillon, you use fumet de gibier. (See art. Fumet de Gibier.) Surprised Eggs. CEufs en Surprise. Take twelve eggs, make a small hole at both ends of each; put into one of these holes a straw to break the yolks ; empty the eggs by blowing in at one end; put the shells into water, rince and clean them; put Coffee without cream or milk.246 FRENCH COOKERY. them to dry into the air, work a little flour with yolk to All up one of the holes in each shell; when filled up, let them dry, and fill six with chocolate cream, into which, instead of gizzards, put yolks of eggs: for this purpose use a very small funnel; fill the other six shells with any other cream of a different colour; au cafe blanc, a la feure d'orange, ou de vierge, all of which thickened with yolks of eggs : seal up the holes; cook them in hot water without letting them boil; take off the paste from both ends of these eggs, wipe them, and serve them in a folded napkin for entre- mets. Take a pint and half of c , reduce it; put in a little salt, three ounces of sugar, and the zest of a lemon, with a little orange-flower water; take six whites of eggs, and whip them well; put in a little salt, an ounce of sugar, and some drops of orange- flower-water ; mix them well together with a whisk; take a spoonful of these whites in a ragout spoon; poach them in the cream ; turn them that they may be equally done; when enough, take them out and put them upon a search ; arrange them as if they were poached eggs; dilute four yolks with a little cream which has cooled; thicken it over the fire without letting it boil, stirring it constantly; pass it through a search kept for creams; sauce, and send up. Eggs in Sunshine. CEufs a I’Aurore. Boil a dozen of eggs hard, and let them cool; shell them and cut them in two ; take out the yolks, and put them in the mortar, add a quarter of a pound of nice butter, salt, nutmeg, fine spices, and three raw yolks; beat the whole well, as if it was a farce; mince the whites, and put them in a hot becha- melle reduced, whether grasse or maigre; toss them without letting them boil; let them have a consistence : dress them upon the dish they are to be served on; take the yolks out of the mortar, put them upon the bottom of a large search; put this search over the Eggs i n Snow.247 ENTREMETS. m 4 dish, and pass them through equally upon it: do it with a wooden spoon; when that is done, garnish it with corks of bread dipt in omelet; put it into the oven ; make it take an aurora colour: wipe the dish, and serve. Eggs. CEufs a la Polonaise. Prepare the eggs as in the Foregoing article, and when the farce is made, put in a little parsle}^ hashed line; mix in two or three whites of eggs whipt; take the dish that they are to be served on, and spread a little of the /arceupon it; then fill the whites with the force, and give them the form of an entire egg; dress them handsomely upon the dish, glaze, put them in the oven, and when they are of a fine colour, wipe the dish, and serve. Eggs. CEufs a la Tripe. Take six large onions; skin, wash, and take out the hearts ; cut them in rounds; put them into a stewpan, with a little bit of very nice butter, on a slow fire, do not brown them, let them simmer: when done enough flour them ; put in a little milk or cream, let them cook and reduce; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; when ready to serve, cut a dozen of hard eggs in rounds, put them into the pluche d’oignons, mix all well together without breaking them, or letting them boil; put in a little more butter, and, if liked, a little fine hashed parsley ; arrange it, and send it to table. Eggs. CEufs a la Bechamelle. Put into a saucepan four or five spoonsful of becha- melle, grasse or maigre, and fifteen hard eggs, as is di- rected in the before-mentioned article; let the becha- melle be very hot, without letting it boil; finish with a bit of butter and nutmeg; taste if properly sea- soned ; arrange, and garnish it with corks of bread fried in butter. Eggs. CEufs a la Sauce Robert. Arrange six large onions, as is directed for eggs a laFRENCH COOKERY. 248 tripe, but instead of frying them white in butter, they are to be browned upon a quick fire; flour them, and put in a little soup or water ; season them with salt and pepper, and let it thicken; when ready to serve cut in rounds a dozen of hard eggs; put them into the sauce; mix them well; add a table spoonful of mustard, dish and send them to table. Poached Eggs in Gravy. CEufs Poches au Jus. Put into a stewpan a pint of water, a glass of white vinegar, and a little salt; boil it, and put it aside; take twelve fresh eggs, break six, one after the other, on the side of the pan, and let them fall as whole as possible into the water; leave them a mo- ment without touching them, to give them time to take ; when they have taken give them a light boil; take out the first one that was put in, and if enough done, put it into cold water, and continue till you have put in the whole ; when they are cooled a little, pare them and return them into the water, and when you wish to serve them, heat them with care; take them out with a pierced spoon ; drain them on a cloth ; sauce them with a nice (bon blond de veau reduit); put upon each egg a little mignonnette, and serve. Poached Eggs for all sorts of Ragouts, such as Sorrel, Spinnage, Chicoroy, Cucumbers, Puree of Peas, Lentils, Love-apple Sauce, and Ravigotes. Prepare eggs as in the above article, to be served in these different ragotlts and sauces, which will be found in their proper places.. (See articles Sauces, Ragouts, and Garnitures.) Eggs in Black Butter. CEufs en Beurre Noire. Break twelve eggs into a dish without breaking the yolks, and season them with salt ; put into a frying- pan with a short handle, commonly called the devil, a large quarter of a pound of butter; brown it with- out letting it burn; skim it, and pour it off clear into another vessel ; wipe the pan and return the butter into it; heat it, and baste the eggs; slip them care-ENTREMETS. 249 M 5 fully into the pan, and set them over red cinders, holding a red hot poker over them; when enough, slide them upon a dish; put a little vinegar into the pan, let it boil, pour it over, and serve. Eggs in a Mirror. CEufssur le Plat, dit an Miroir. Spread a little butter upon the dish, and strew over a little salt; break the eggs into it without breaking the yolks; baste them with milk or cream, and put a few bits of butter over them ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; set it upon hot cinders ; hold a hot poker over, but let the yolks remain soft; wipe the dish and serve. Eggs in Moon-shine, six different Ways. (Euffs Brouilles, en six Manieres. Break twelve fresh eggs, and keep back six of the whites; beat the eggs; put a search over a sauce- pan, and pass them through; season them with salt, nutmeg, a little stock or soup, and a bit of butter, the size of an egg; with pepper, or not; put them upon a slow fire, and stir them with a wooden spoon or a whisk. When they begin to take, remove them from the furnace, and work them well; put them again on the fire till they are done, but do not do them too much ; put in about the size of a walnut of butter ; dress them on a cold plate ; garnish them with fried bread : first, employ the same manner to make eggs brouilles aux truffles, by putting in minced truffles that have been cooked in butter, and a little espagnole instead of soup: second, for mushrooms also they must be hashed and cooked in butter : third, the points of asparagus cooked: fourth, grated cheese, Gruyere or Parmesan to be strewed in when the eggs are put a second time on the fire : fifth, with ham, which must be also cooked and hashed very small: sixth, cardoons ought to be simmered and cut in small dice. Plain Omelet. Omelette au Naturel. Break twelve eggs into a basin ; add salt, and a lit-'2.50 FRENCH COOKERY. tie water; beat the eggs with a whisk or two forks; they must be well beaten; put into a frying-pan, the size of an egg of butter ; melt it without browning ; pour in the omelet, continuing to beat it; put it on a clear quick fire; beat principally the side next the handle; shake the omelet well, and do not let it burn; when it is nearly done, slip under it a bit of butter the size of a walnut; when melted, roll it over, to see if it is of a good colour; turn it out on a dish, and serve. • If it is to be seasoned with herbs; put in parsley and small onions hashed fine, and a little pepper. Omelet h In Aggyzina. Omelette a la Celestine. Make four omelets each of three eggs, the thinnest possible ; slide them upon a table, and cover two of them with confections, and the other two with frangi- pain: roll them up, dress them upon a dish, dust them with sugar; glaze them with a hot poker and serve. Omelet with Preserves. Omelette au Confitures. Make an omelette au naturel of nine fresh eggs; when it is done, cover it with some preserve and roll it up; put it upon a dish, strew sugar over; heat a skewer, mark it in squares and serve. Omelet of Veal Kidney. Omelette au Rognon de Veau. Take a veal kidney that has been roasted, have a little fat with it, cut it in small dice, or slices; put it in a stewpan with a little fine herbs hashed with salt and pepper; set it over the fire, put into it two spoons- ful of Espagnole reduite; boil the ragout: make an omelette au naturel of a dozen eggs: before taking the omelet out of the fryingpan, put the ragout upon it; roll it round, dress it upon a dish, and serve. It may be sauced with a reduced espagnole. Omelet of Mushrooms. Omelette aux Champignons. This omelet is made as the former one, except that mushrooms are used instead of kidneys; mince and do them in butter, and finish them exactly as the kidney.ENTREMETSv 251 M 6 Omelet ivith Sorrel. Omelette cl I'Oseille. Make an omelette au naturel, and put into it a puree of sorrel. Omelet ivith Bacon. Omelette au Lard. Take half a pound of thin lard, cut off the skin and cut it in dice, put it into hot water : to infresh it a little, put a bit of butter into the pan with the lard, and let it brown; beat a dozen of fresh eggs, add some pepper, and very little salt; pour it in upon the bacon, mix it well, and take care it does not burn; when ready 11 it; give it a fine colour, and serve. Omelet ivith Truffle. Omelette aux Truffles. Make an omelette au naturel, and put in a ragout of truffles very nicely done. Pancakes. Panequets. Put into a dish two spoonsful of flour, three yolks, and two entire eggs, a little salt, and some orange flower-water; add as much milk as will make it clear; take a small round fryingpan, heat and wipe it, put a bit of butter in several folds of paper, like a little bag, and rub it with it: put a large spoonful of paste, and turn it round in the pan so that it may cover it en- tirely of the same thickness ; when it is done turn it out upon a dish, sift sugar over it, and so continue in the same manner till the paste is finished. Orange Jelly. Jelee d'Orange. Take the proper quantity of isinglass, beat it in a cloth and pull it in pieces; take a very small sauce- pan, well tinned, put into it on the fire a gill of water; let it boil, then cover it, and leave it on the side of the stove till it is reduced one-half: clarify half a pound of sugar, bring it au petit perle; take nine ot ten middling sized oranges; if in the beginning of the season they will be acid enough, but if in the end, add the juice of two lemons; take off the zest as thin as possible of three oranges, put it to infuse in the sugar, cover it up, cut the oranges, put a double tammy over a bason, squeeze the fruit over it, and express the juice, mix it with the sugar: if the isinglass is ready,252 FRENCH COOKERY. it will suck between the fingers strongly: mix it with the oranges, and shake it all well together: pass it a little warm through a tammy which has been well washed, and wrung in a cloth; beat three pounds of’ ice, and put it into a convenient cover that will hold seven or nine small pots in it, having first powdered it writh great salt; fill them with the jelly, taking care to stir them; cover them with a sheet of paper and leave them to take; when ready, take them up, wipe and dish them : the jelly should not be too firm ; it ought to be delicate and shaking : if it is wanted to turn out of the mould, as an aspic, more isinglass must be put in: you may also use the skins of the oranges instead of cups or pots for the jelly, after they have been properly prepared. In that case care must be taken to have no salt in the ice. Lemon Jelly. Gelee de Citron. The same procedure as above, only a little more sugar. Jelly of Red Fruits. Gelee de Fruits Rouges. Take a pound of red currants, and a handful of raspberries; pick them, set them to fall in a sweet- meat-pan, with a little water ; when done, throw them into a search to pass the juice ; clarify the juice, by passing it through a bag till it clears, as directed above; put isinglass sufficient, and reduce the jelly in the same manner as for the orange ; mix all together, and finish it as the orange jelly. Jelly of Orange-flowers and Champagne. Gelee de Fleurs d'Orange au Vin de Champagne. Take a handful of orange flowers; take out the hearts, and put the leaves in fresh water; put water upon the fire ; throw in the flowers, and give them one boil; drain them, and put them into syrup (au petitperle); when done enough, and nearly cold, add five or six small pots or glasses of Champagne, and as much isin- glass as is prescribed for the orange jelly, and the juice of two lemons; mix all together, and pass it through a253 ENTREMETS. double tammy; shake it well; arrange little pots or cups as before directed, make them take and serve. Jelly of Pine Apples. Gelee d'Ananas. Take one or two small pine apples; pare, cut them in thin slices; put them in a vessel; pour over them a little boiling water; leave them to infuse an hour; put the juice through a new gauze search, or what has been used only for sugar ; have isinglass ready, and sugar (aupetit perle)-, add the juice of two lemons ; pass the whole through a double tammy, and finish as in the foregoing articles for jellies. Pine Jelly in the Pine Apple Gelee d' Ananas dans 1' Ananas meme. Take a beautiful pine apple; cut off the crown an inch below, and leave the stalk an inch and half long ; take out the pulp by the top, taking care neither to cut nor hurt the skin, nor its appearance; use a silver knife and spoon; take out the whole apple, prepare it exactly as in the above article : fill the pine-apple with the jelly, and make it take in the ice without salt, as it would spoil its appearance; make a cake u. la Ma- deleine, of the thickness of two or three inches, or any other cakes the size of the dish d'entremets ; let it cool; when ready to serve, cut out a piece from the mid- dle, and place the pine-apple in it; cover it with its crown, and serve. Jelly of Marasquin. Gelee de Marasquin. Prepare every thing as before directed; it requires, instead of half a pound of sugar, a quarter and a half au perle, five little pots of marasquin, and one of irch- tuaser; pass them all through a tammy, fill and make the little pots take, and serve. Jelly of Rum, and others. — Gelee de Rum et aux Vins. Prepare the materials with half a pound of sugar, and five little pots of rum, the juice of two lemons, and finish as before. Follow the same procedure with jellies; Madeira, Malaga, Muscat, and all other sorts of wines and liquors that are made into jelly; the254 FRENCH COOKERY. only difference is, that there is more or less sugar necessary, and to add the juice of a lemon when it is requisite. In this manner, make any jelly, whe- ther of fruit or flowers; by infusing them as is an- nounced in the receipts given for jellies in general. Mons. Beauvilliers says, it has always answered very well with him. Blanc- Manger. Take two calves feet, cleave them in two; take out the large bones; steep and blanch; put them in a pot with three quarts of water; make them boil; skim them; leave them to cook two or three hours; take off the fat, and pass the stock th-rough a wet cloth ; take a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and two bitter, well beaten; put in a pan six ounces of sugar, a little water, half a zest of lemon, and a good pinch of coriander seed: leave all to infuse half an hour; take out the coriander and lemon, mix the sugar with the almonds, put them several times through a cloth ; add as much as is necessary of the stock, which ought to be as delicate as possible. This can be ascertained by trying a little: when it is sufficiently firm and of a good taste, pour it into little pots, a mould, or skins of lemons or oranges, putting no salt into the ice for the two last. Blancmanger, and all other jellies, may be made with fish stock, hartshorn shavings, the feet of poultry, and other skins. Peasefor the Second Course. Pois d'Entremets a la Francaise. Take a pint of very fine peas; put them in a vessel with the size of a walnut of butter ; rub and mix them well with the hands, pour water over them, leave them a few minutes to become tender; drain and put them into a stewpan, sweat them, shaking them often ; when they are very green, add parsley and scallions at will; cover them, and put them upon a very slow fire, or upon the grate of a furnace ; toss them from time to time ; when enough, mix a pat of butter withENTREMETS. 255 half a spoonful of flour and a spoonful of rasped cheese; add these with a knob of sugar to the peas, set them again on the furnace., and let the flour be enough done; dress them high upon the dish ; if they are too thick put in a little water, and serve. If any of the ingredients are disliked, they can be kept out. Peas with Ham or Bacon. Pois au Lard ou au Jambon. See article Ragodts, and follow that direction./ French Beans. Haricots verts a la Poulette. Take the haricots necessary to make a dish d'entre- mets, choose them small and tender ; clean them, and take out the fibres or threads, and throw them into fresh water ; if any are larger cut them to the general size of the whole ; put them upon a strong fire, in a pot or stewpan, with a quantity of water, and a hand- ful of salt; let them be well done and very green*; re- fresh, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter; cut onions in little dice, do them white in butter, dust in a little flower, let them cook a little without browning; add a spoonful of soup; mix it well with hashed parsley and scallions; salt and pep- per; when done enough put in the haricots; give them a boil; thicken the sauce with two or three yolks of eggs; finish with the juice of a lemon and a pat of butter. French Beans another V/ay. Haricots verts a la Bretonne. Cut in small dice one or two onions ; put them in a stewpan with a little butter; set them upon a furnace ; let them cook, and when they begin to brown put in a little espagnole ; flour them ; give them and the flour a fine brown colour : if espagnole is not used, put in a spoonful of soup, season it with salt and pepper; re- duce this sauce; put in the haricots which have been already cooked; let them simmer till all is done enough ; dish, and serve. * Is to throw them into cold water.2 56 FRENCH COOKERY. Kidney Beans another Way Haricots verts a la Lyonnaise. Cut cue or two onions in half rings, and put them into a fryingpan with oil; when they begin to brown, put in the haricots which have been cooked ; let them fry with the onions; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt and pepper ; give a turn or two more, and dish : boil a little vinegar in the pan, and pour over them. Kidney Beans in Salad. Haricots verts en Salade. Take haricots already cooked, put them in a sallad dish; garnish them with strips of anchovy, onions, roasted in the ashes, beet root, or any thing properly hashed; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. Cauliflower with Butter Sauc* Chouxjleurs, Sauce au Beuue. Take two heads of cauliflowers; arrange them ; leave not the smallest leaf; throw them into fresh water; wash them well; take care there are no small worms; put them into a pot with a little salt, worked butter, and juice of lemon ; put a round of buttered paper, and set them to simmer upon the corner of the furnace, stove or grate; take cq.re not to do them too much; drain, and dish them; pour over them a sauce au beurre, and serve them, with a sauce-boat of the same sauce. Cauliflower in Gravy. Choufleur au Jus. Having cauliflowers ready prepared, put into a saucepan a half sauce blanche, and a half espagnole, with a bit of portable soup or reduction, and some nut- meg ; shake and finish the sauce ; dish and sauce it as above; to heighten the taste, when they are three- fourths cooked, they might be put into the sauce to simmer : dress and serve in the same manner. Cauliflowers with Parmesan. Chouxjleurs au Par- mesan. Having your cauliflowers ready, put into a stewpan a sauce au beurre, and a handful or two of rasped Par- mesan; mix it well with the sauce; put some into the257 ENTREMETS. dish ; arrange the cauliflowers, and before the last bits are put on, pour some of the sauce in amongst them; continue to arrange the remainder, and pour over the rest of the sauce: powder with Parviesan ; put it in the oven, and let it take a fine colour: when done, drain and wipe the edge of the dish, and serve. Cauliflowers fried in Batter. Chouxfeurs Frites. Put the cauliflower into a deep dish, with vinegar, salt, and pepper ; leave them in it half an hour; drain and dip them in a light paste ; fry them of a fine co- lour, and serve. Artichokes in White Sauce. Artichauts a la Sauce Blanche. Take three or four artichokes’; pare the bottoms, and take off the points of the leaves ; put a pot with a great deal of water on the fire, and a handful of salt; when it boils put in the artichokes; let them be enough done, and very green ; throw them into fresh water; take away the small leaves with care, and the choke; replace the leaves; put them again into hot water; drain and serve them with a sauce au beurre, or butter sauce. Artichokes with Forced Meat. Artichauts au Ba- rigoule. Prepare artichokes as above, and make the follow- ing forced meat: put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of rasped lard, and as much butter, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shalots hashed, salt, pepper, and fine spiceries; mix all well with a spoon ; fill the artichokes with this farce, and tie them up ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon ; put them in, and a little soup, with a bay leaf and some thyme; make them boil upon a good fire, cover them, and set them on a range or hot cinders, with fire over them; let the fire be strong; surround them with it: when half done put a little white wine into each : when they are enough done, and their leaves of a fine colour, dish and untie them ; put into each a spoonful of es- pagnole reduced, with lemon juice, and serve.258 FRENCH COOKERY. Artichokes another Way. Autre Maniere d’Arii- chauts a la Bariguole. Take three artichokes, prepare them and blanch them enough to be able to take out the choke, which may be done with a spoon; put some oil into a frying pan; heat it; put them in upon the leaves, not the bottom; let them take a fine colour; drain them and put them into a stewpan; season them as the fore- going, and finish them in the same way Artichokes another Way AHichauts a I'ltalienne. Take three raw artichokes ; cut them in four or six equal parts; take out the choke with a knife, dress and cut the points, wash them; spread a little butter in a stewpan, arrange them in it; putin the juice of a lemon, a glass of white wine, and a little soup ; make them boil, and let them simmer; drain, dress, and sauce them with an Italienne blanche, and serve. Artichokes Fried. Artichauts Frits. Take three young artichokes, dress them as the foregoing, only leave fewer leaves, and cut them in little bits, wash them in water and vinegar; put them in a deep dish with salt, pepper, two or three eggs, a small quantity of vinegar, a handful of flour, and a spoonful of fine oil; mix them that they may be well incorporated with the paste ; heat a fryingpan, take it off the fire, put in the artichokes, the one after the other; take care they do not mix; turn them, and put them upon the fire; let them cook, shaking them often; when done and of a fine colour, drain; have parsley ready, put it in a colander, into the frying pan, turn it with the point of a skewer; as soon as it dries take it out, drain it upon a cloth; dress the artichokes with parsley under and over, and serve. Artichokes braised. Artichauts braises. Take three or four artichokes; dress, wash, and and blanch them; take out the chokes; cover a stew- pan with slices of bacon, veal, ham, and sweet herbs, put in the artichokes, with a little stock ; put a round259 ENTREMETS. of paper over them, let them boil, and leave them to finish over a slow fire: when, enough, drain, dish; sauce with an espagnole reduced, a bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, and serve. Artichoke Bottoms with Ravigote Sauce. Culsd’Ar- tichauts a la Ravigote. Prepare the bottoms as in article Garnitures, that they may be very white; put a cold ravigote into a dish ; dress the bottoms, and serve. Bottoms of ar- tichokes may be used in all sauces, such as the Italienne, espagnole, sauce au beurre, Sfc. fyc. Aitichokes in White Italienne. Artichauts a la Bre- tonne. Take four artichokes, cut them in six, and prepare them as the others ; boil some water, and throw them in for two minutes ; refresh them in cold water, drain upon a cloth, put them into a saucepan with clarified butter; make it boil and let it simmer; when enough, drain, dress, and glaze them; sauce with a light Italienne blanche. Asparagus in Butter. Asperges au Beurre. Take some nice asparagus; clean them and cut off the points; scrape them and throw them into water; make them into little parcels; cut them equal, and throw them into boiling water and salt, a quarter of an hour is sufficient; drain and dress, when ready to serve, send them to table with butter sauce in a boat. Asparagus in Gravy; Asperges au Jus. Prepare and cook your asparagus, as in the fore- going article ; dress them the same within, across one another, or in bunches, and serve them in a dish full of sauce half espagnole and half au beurre, properly prepared. Asparagus as small Peas. Asperges au petits Pois. Take a bundle of asparagus, dites au petits pois; cut off the points, which may be employed for soups or garnishings; cut them then together the size of little peas, take care to cut none but such as are tender;FRENCH COOKERY. 260 throw them into water; when all cut, set them on the fire to blanch in a great deal of water, Avith a small handful of salt; drain them; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, put them in with a bunch of parsley and small onions; flour, a little water, salt, pepper, and half a spoonful of sugar; let them simmer and reduce; when done, draw them to the side of the furnace; thicken with yolks of eggs; put them an instant on the fire, and toss them; taste if they are properly seasoned, and serve. The sauce ought to be thick, and they may be dressed en rocher or high upon the dish. Asparagus as small Peas Asperges aux petits Pois aa roux. Prepare asparagus as above, put them in a steAvpan with a bit of butter, the size of an egg, with some parsley and scallions; toss them; when they are com- pletely tossed and heated, add three or four spoonsful of espagnoles; let it reduce and take off the fat; press out the sweet herbs; finish with a small pat of butter, dress, and serve. Small Beans. Feves de Marais. Take a sufficient quantity of small beans neAvly shelled, and put them upon the fire with a great deal of salt and water ; drain them ; put them into a steAv- pan with a little butter; toss, flour, and add a little water; or, instead of it, put in three or four spoonsful of sauce tournee. Should they not be used immediately, put them into fresh water, season with salt, pepper, a little savory hashed, and half a spoonful of rasped sugar; let them simmer and reduce, thicken Avith three yolks of eggs, and a little cream or milk; dress them as a rock and serve. Small Beans in Gravy. Feves de Marais au Jus. Blanch and cook the beans as in the foregoing arti- cle ; put a bit of butter in a stewpan, with parsley and scallions; toss them Avell in the butter; add three spoonsful of espagnole; let them simmer; take off the fat; reduce them; dish, and serve.ENTREMETS. 261 White Kidney Beans. Haricots hlancs a la Maitre- d'Hotel. Take as many ripe white kidney beans as is neces- sary, newly shelled; pick, clean, and put them in a stewpan with fresh water, and a bit of butter the size of half an egg; let them boil; skim, and put them upon the side of the furnace to simmer; when half done, add a little fresh water; let them cook, and when enough, put into a stewpan three quarters of a pound of butter, with hashed parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; drain; put them into the sauce; toss them; if they do not thicken, put in a little water; finish with some verjuice or juice of lemon, and serve. If in season, put the verjuice in whole, which must be blanched. White French Beans in Gravy. Haricots au Jus. See article Ragouts. French Beans, or Haricots a la Bretonne. See article Ragouts. Stuffed Cucumbers. Concombres Farcis. Take three or four cucumbers; pare or trim them with care; take off the end at the stalk, take out the seeds and heart with a large larding pin, put them into water, with a gill of vinegar; rince them well, and blanch them two or three minutes in quick boiling water; refresh and drain them ; stuff them with farce cuite of fowl; take a stewpan, from which they can be taken without breaking; cover it with slices of bacon; put in the cucumbers; season them with salt, parsley, scallions, a glass of white wine, half a bay leaf, and two cloves; add a spoonful of top-pot; cover them with a round of paper; let them boil, and set them to simmer upon hot cinders; when done, drain, dish, glaze, sauce with an espagnole reduced, and serve. Cucumbers in Gravy. Concombres au Jus. See the article Concombers au Brun.FRENCH COOKERY. 262 Drest Cucumbers. Concotnbres a la Poulette. Prepare these cucumbers as cucumbers au blanc. Article Ragouts. When well blanched put them in a stewpan with a bit of butter ; flour; toss, and put in a little water, salt, and pepper ; reduce, and let them simmer: at the moment they are to be served, put in a little hashed parsley and rasped nutmeg; thicken them with the yolks of eggs and cream : cook these ingredients without allowing them to boil; dish, and serve. Cucumbers another Way. Concombrcs a la Be- chamelle. Having the cucumbers prepared put them into a stewpan with a bechamelle grasse or maigre; simmer and reduce ; when ready to serve put in a bit of fresh butter and a little nutmeg; toss, and serve. Spanish Cardoons. Cardons d’Espagne, a la Moelle et a V Espagnole. Take two or three heads, cut them near the bot- toms ; only use the solid part; cut those that are full and entire equally about five or six inches long; pare the edges and blanch them till they are in a state to be peeled; refresh, peel, and throw them again into fresh water; put them in a blanc with two lemons in slices, from which the peel and seeds have been taken : see Blanc in the article Sauce: make them boil; cover them with a round of buttered paper; put them to simmer upon a paillasse three or four hours; when done, drain and put them into a stewpan with a little stock; make them simmer, and nearly fall into jelly; dress and sauce them with a good reduced espagnole, to which has been added a pat of butter and a small bit of portable soup; garnish with small sippets fried in butter, covered with marrow, and serve. With respect to the tops of the cardoons, take off the skin, “and pare them as a great carrot; blanch and cook them with the cardoons, and use them with them ; or to garnish entrees, as well as in eggs broudlees.ENTREMETS. 263 Cardoons with Parmesan. Cardons au Parmesan. When cardoons are left from a former day strew cheese in a dish and dress them on it, sifting grated cheese over; baste the whole with melted butter; I put them into the oven till they take a good colour ; i drain; wipe the dish, and serve. Cardoons in Butter. Cardons Sauce au Beurre. When cardoons have been dressed in a blanc, such as has been directed before, put them to simmer in •stock; let them reduce and fall into jelly ; when ready to serve, dress with a sauce au beurre. Cardoons another Way. Gardes Poirees. Cut them any length; clean and take out the threads; blanch them; dress and put them into a pot of water with a bit of worked butter and salt; boil them well; drain; put them in a butter sauce; let them simmer; adding some nutmeg, a little vinegar, jand serve. Cardoons another Way. Cardons a la Bechamelle. Prepare two cardoons as is directed above; when they are reduced and fallen into jelly, dish and sauce them with a good bechamelle, grasse, or maigre, that is not too thick, and serve. Turnips with Sugar. Navets au Sucre. Choose twelve or fifteen turnips of an equal size, proper to form into pears; blanch, drain, and butter the bottom of a stewpan that will hold them separat- ed ; arrange them; add a little good soup, a little ■sugar, salt, and a bit of cinnamon; let them boil; cover them with buttered paper ; put them upon the vaillasse of the furnace, with fire under and over; when enough, uncover them and let them come to a jelly; dress them upon a dish with a fork, and put in little twigs for stalks; a little good soup into a stew- pan to detach the jelly; take out the cinnamon; sauce them as if it were a compote. Turnips may be cut into any form, such as apples, peaches, plumbs, squares, and rounds, &c. &c.FRENCH COOKERY. 264 Turnips another Way. Navets a I’Espagnole. Take long turnips of five or six inches; cut off the ends, cut them in two; turn each half to give it the appearance of a cardoon ; blanch, and put them in a stewpan as above; proceeding in the same manner, only withholding the cinnamon; when enough done, put them into a stewpan with a little espagnole, to detach the jelly; add a little butter, sauce, and serve. Turnips in White Sauce. Navets a la Sauce Blanche. Turn them into any form; put them into a pot with water, salt, and a little butter; let them cook, drain; make a good white sauce a little thickened; put them in, let them simmer a little; put in some nutmeg and a little pepper; dress and serve: mustard may be added. Stock-Calbage. Choux Raves et Choux Navets. It is a particular kind of cabbage, of which the stalks only are eaten, which grow to a prodigious size ; after being stript of the leaves and skin, they may be cut into cardoons, or any other shape; blanch them in a good deal of salt and water; when cooked, put them into a stewpan, with a good bit of butter, salt, and pepper; shake them well, and put in as much veloute rcduit as will thicken the sauce: recipes only can lay down the proper articles for a dish; but it belongs to the good sense, as well as the good taste of the cook to substitute one thing for another, to arrange in such a manner as not to change the nature of the dish. Brussels Cabbage. Chou de Bruxelles. These small cabbages, which are no larger than wal- nuts, are prepared exactly as the foregoing, arranged upon the dish as asparagus; a sauce blanche is served with them, and a cruet of oil; small off-sets are served in the same way. Red Cabbages. Choux a la Flamande. Take one or two of thsee cabbages, cut each in four, take out all the large stalks and threads; mince it small; (see article Chou-croute;) blanch, refreshENTREMETS. 2G5 put it into a stewpan with sufficient butter, a bay leaf, an onion, two cloves stuck in it, salt and pep- per; make them boil; turn them that they mix with the butter; p«t them upon the paillasse with a slow tire over and under; let them simmer three or four hours; turn them from time to time, and take care that they do not burn: when they are done, take out the bay leaf and onion; finish them with a little bit of butter, and serve. Carrots. Carottes a la Flamande. Turn these carrots as in the article Garniture; blanch, drain, cook them in water, with a little butter and salt; when enough, drain and set them again upon the fire, with a good piece of butter, parsley, hashed scal- lions, salt, and pepper; toss them as you do haricots, a la maitre d'hotel: do not let them boil; dress and serve. Carrots another Way. Carottes a VOrleans. Take six or eight fine carrots; scrape, wash, and cut them the length of two or three inches; take out the heart; cut the top in sprigs of equal thickness; blanch, refresh, drain, and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little sugar, salt, and pepper, with as much stock as will make them swim; lot it come to a jelly, and finish it with a spoonful of veloute, a little butter, and some parsley, blanched and hashed. Small Roots. Petites Racines. See every thing concerning them at their articles, Garnitures or Ragouts. Mushrooms in Crust. Croutes aux Champignons. Turn and prepare the mushrooms as is indicated at article Garnitures; put them in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, and a bunch of parsley and scallions, and put them on a furnace; toss, flour, and add a little good soup; make them boil, and let them simmer; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; take the top crusts of rasped rolls; butter them inside and out; put them on a gridiron, over red cinders, and let them dry N266 FRENCH COOKERY. and brown : when ready to serve, take out the herbs, thicken with yolks of eggs, mixed with a little cream ; put a little of the sauce into the crusts; put them on a dish; put in the ragout, and serve : the crusts may be any size. Mushrooms another Way. Champignons a la Bor- delaise. Take large mushrooms, let them be thick and firm; take off the skin lightly, and cut them in lozenges slightly on the under side; put them in an earthen dish ; baste them with fine oil; strew salt and pepper over them, and let them marinade* an hour or two ; grill them on both sides; when they are flexible, they are enough ; dress them on a dish, and send them to table with the following sauces: Put into a stewpan sufficient quantity of oil to sauce them, with parsley and scallions hashed very fine, and a clove of garlic ; heat the whole ; pour it over with the juice of one or two lemons, or a little verjuice, which is better; and serve. Mushrooms another Way. Champignons a la Bor- delaise sur la Tourtiere. Prepare them as above, only add a little garlic with the oil, salt, and pepper they are marinaded in; mince the stalks and parings ; press them in a cloth to take out the water; put them in a stewpan with salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, and garlic, hashed ; pass these fine herbs for a moment over the fire, lay the mushrooms upon a tart-pan, putting into each a little fine herbs; put them into the oven ; when enough, dress ; sauce with their own sauce ; squeeze over them the juice of one or two lemons, or a little verjuice, and serve. Mushrooms another Way. Champignons a la Tourtiere. Prepare them as for the Bordelaise ; put them in a tartpan; season them with salt and pepper; do the * Marinade is to pickle.ENTREMETS. 267 n 2 sweet herbs in butter, not in oil; put them with the mushrooms into the oven; dress them upon the dish, and pour over them the seasoning in which they were cooked; the juice of a lemon may be added, and serve. Croutes aux Morilles. Clean and cut in two the morilles, wash them in se- veral waters and blanch them; drain and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, and a bunch of parsley; pass them over the fire, toss, flour, and add a little good soup to them ; boil, simmer, and reduce : when enough, take out the herbs; thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs and a little cream; add a little sugar, and serve them in a crust, as is directed at Mushrooms. Mousserons. Mousserons being of the same species as morilles and mushrooms, they are cooked in the same manner. Truffes au Vin de Champagne, a la Serviette. Take ten or twelve fine truffles, put them in water a little warm; brush them clean, and throw them into fresh water; brush them again so that they may be perfectly clean, and still wash them in another water; drain, cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon, and put in your truffles; season with salt, bay- leaf, parsley, scallions, garlic, thyme, rasped lard, and a little good stock; if you have none, put in some soup, one or two slices of ham, and half a bottle of Champagne; make them boil; cover them with paper, and put them upon a paillasse, with fire under and over: leave them to cook an hour; that done, (which you will know by pressing them,) drain them in a cloth, and serve in a folded napkin. Truffes en Croustade. Line a tartpan with pate brisee, cover it with slices of bacon ; put the truffles upon it, after having been very well cleaned ; season with salt, pepper, a bay- leaf, butter, and rasped lard; cover it with slices ofFRENCH COOKERY. 268 bacon; make a second layer of paste;,cover it in such a manner as to leave an open space under; make another cover of puffed paste, and lay it upon the second; after it has been wet, glaze, and put it in the oven ; it will take an hour or an hour and quarter: let it have a fine colour, and serve it without opening. Truffes a la Cendre. Prepare the truffles, in the manner directed au vin de Champagne; take as many slices of bacon as truf- fles ; wrap each truffle in one; cover it with white paper, after having seasoned them with salt, and pep- per ; wrapt up each in four papers in such a man- ner as shall prevent them from losing their sea- soning: an hour before serving, dip each lightly in fresh water, and put them under red cinders, as are done chesnuts ; when they are done, take off the two outer papers, and cut the ends of those that remain, that may have been touched by the cinders or ashes, and serve. Attention ought to be paid to the fire, &s the French cook with wood. For Truffe a I'Espagnole, a la Piemontaise, a la Pe- rigueux, see article Ragouts. Potatoes Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’ Hotel. Wash and very carefully put them into a pot of boiling water; when they are enough put them into a drainer; peel and cut them in small rounds like farthings; put into a stewpan butter, hashed parsley, scallions, pepper, and salt; add the pota- toes, and put it upon the fire; toss them, to melt the butter, and if not properly thickened, put in a lit- tle soup or water: when ready to serve, put the juice of a lemon, or a little verjuice over, and send them to table. Potatoes. Pommes de Terre au Jus de Bretonne. Prepare them as the Haricots a la Bretonne. Potatoes. Pomme de Terre a la Ljonnaise. Wash and turn them; cut them all into small rounds, as indicated above, and of the thickness of aENTREMETS. 269 halfpenny; flour them; heat some oil in a fryingpan ; put them in; take care they do not stick ; fry them of a fine colour, that they may be crisp; drain, shake a little salt over, and serve. Potates aux Beurre. Take that kind of potatoes if they are to be found ; wash, and cook them in steam; take off their skins, and cut them in form and size of farthings, only a little thicker ; put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter and salt; toss, and serve. Potates en Beignets. Take these potatoes, wash and scrape them; cut them in pieces in the manner of salsify; marinade them half an hour in brandy, with a bit of lemon peel; when ready to serve, drain, and dip them into a light paste; fry them of a fine colour; drain, dress, dust sugar over them, and serve. Frangipane de Potates. Cook them in steam ; take off the skin ; beat them well in a mortar; put them into a basin; add some eggs, a little butter, salt, rasped citron, some bitter ma- caroons, sugar or not, and use it as a frangipane for all sorts of entremets of pastry. Aubergines. The Aubergine is from the south and east, and has made little progress in this country; but they are an excellent herb, and must, as soon as known, be held in great estimation : they are of different sizes and co- lours ; and are in appearance between the small gourd and cucumber. Aubergines sur la Grille. Cut them in halves lengthways; do not take off the skin, but take off the stalk ; put them in a dish ; pow- der them with salt and pepper; baste them with a lit- tle oil; leave them to steep or marinade haif an hour; put them on the grill; take care to baste them with their seasoning: when enough, serve. Aubergines a la Tourtiere. Cut them in two; take out the hearts as they do n 3270 FRENCH COOKERY. cucumbers ; hash these hearts very fine ; add parsley and shalots hashed ; put all into a saucepan with a bit of butter: let it cook; put the Aubergines upon a tart- pan ; fill them with the ragout; put them into the oven, and when done, serve. Potatoes. Topinambours, Are of the same species with the potatoe, and are cooked in steam ; peeled, cut in slices, and put into butter, sauce a little high-seasoned, with mustard, if agreeable, and serve. Hops. Houblon, Are used in the spring instead of asparagus, and are cooked in the same manner, and eaten either with a white sauce, or oil. Pumpkin. Giromon. Take a giromon, cut it in several pieces, pare it, and take out the seed; cut it equally in small squares about the size of an inch; blanch and cook it in salt and water; drain ; put into a stewpan a bit of butter, parsley, and scallions hashed, salt and pepper; toss and serve. Another Way. Une autre Maniere. Work a piece of butter as for a white sauce; wet it with a little milk, or cream ; season it with salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions, hashed; cook the sauce, turning it like a bechamelle : when enough, put in the giromon, which has been cooked and drained; let it simmer; add a little nutmeg, and serve. Turk's Cap. Bonnet de Turk et Artichaut de Bar- barie. It is cooked in the same manner with the other pumpkins, being of the same species. STORE-ROOM. Office. To clarify Sugars. Clarification du Sucre. Put the whites of two eggs into four pints of water ; froth the water by whipping it with a whisk; put into a proper pan a loaf of sugar of twelve or fourteen pounds, broken in pieces; wet it, and make it fall bySTORE-ROOM. 271 adding two-thirds of the blanched water *; set it upon the fire ; take care when it rises; throw in a little cold water, and take it off, to let it fall and throw up the scum; in five or six minutes put it again on the fire, and continue to skim it as it rises, throwing in a little water sufficient to keep it from flying over: when it is very pure, it will rise no more; take it off, and pass it through a wet rag, or napkin. The first degree is the petit lisse f ; for which it must again be put upon the fire ; let it boil, till dipping the finger into it, and pressing it against the thumb, which on opening forms a thread and breaks, and runs back into a drop upon the finger. Grand Lisse. J It is known in the same way, with this difference, that with a boil more, it extends further in the thread between the fingers, and does not break so easily. For thejoetzf§ or the. grand perle, continue boiling, and make the same trial with the fingers ; if it threads upon the fingers without breaking, that is the little perle ; and when the fingers are opened at full length without the thread breaking, or that it forms round perles, that is the grand perle. || Between the grand perle and the souffle is the grande queue de cochonwhich is known by lifting the skim- mer; if the sugar falls in little bottles, which form a kind of pig s tail, more boiling brings it to the souffle: ** continue to give it a few more boils, and you will know by drawing the skimmer from the pan, which must be held over the sugar; blowing first the one side and then the other, through the holes there will fly off little flakes of sugar. To bring it a la petite plume ff, continue to boil a lit- tle longer, make the same trial as above, when it * The blanched or white waters that the egg has been mixed in. f Petit ILisd, short thread. J Grand UssS, long thread. § Petit perle, small pearl. || Grand perli, large pearl. ^ Queue de chocon, pig’s tail. ** Souffle, flakes. •ff Small feather. H 4FRENCH COOKERY. 272 ought to fly off in larger flakes; continue to boil it a little longer, it will become la grande plume*, which you will know by reversing the skimmer upon the sugar; if there rise in the air large balls and long flakes, which hold together, it is between la grande plume and le petit boulet. Petit et gros Boulet. f You will know the interval between them when they form, in dipping the second finger first into fresh water, and then quickly into the sugar, and put it again into the fresh water to prevent being burnt by the sugar ; then roll the sugar between the finger and thumb, to make a little ball; when the sugar gathers easily, and can be rolled, it has gained the point; the only difference between the petit and gros boidet is, that the petit is soft, and the gros is hard, when cold. Sucre au Casse. Continue to reduce the sugar, and make the same trial for it as for the boulet, except that after it has been put in cold water, it breaks between the fingers, and in breaking it with the teeth, it bruises without sticking. The difference between le sucre casse and the cara- mel is not known. These are the principal degrees of boiling sugar; as it continues to boil, it acquires ano- ther degree, which must be attended to in the use that is to be made of it. To clarify Honey. Clarification du Miel. To clarify twenty-five pounds of honey, put three quarts of water into a sweetmeat-pan that will hold fifty pounds ; put in the honey, and set it on the fire; when it is melted, add five pounds of Spanish whiting, beaten very fine ; add the zest of three lemons; stir all well together with a skimmer, that the whiting may not stick to the bottom; when they are well mixed, put two pounds of charcoal and a half to clarify, and con- tinue to stir; beat six eggs well, and add six quarts of water to them; when the honey is ready to boil, sprinkle it with this water, till it become like a spunge; * The great feather. f Small and large bullet.STORE-ROOM. 27a afterwards put it through a bag ; return and pass it till clear and limpid. Great care ought to be taken, a day or two before cla- rifying more, to clean the bag very well, by the means of two or three eggs and some water heated to the tenth degree; use may be made of that sweet water to clarify more honey: there will only be required in addition six eggs in a little water to clarify the above quantity. Compotes of Fruit Compotes et Fruits Conjits. Green Apricots. Abricots verts. Take half a pound of the grit of wood-ashes; put it in four pints of water upon the fire; throw in the fruit, stirring them constantly, until the down comes easily off; take them out, and throw them into fresh water; half a pound of wood-ashes ought to les- sive three pints of apricots; after being well washed, prick them with a pin, and put them again two hours upon the fire, in five or six pints of water, until they are blanched and returned to their green: they are enough when a pin pierches them easily : take them from the fire, and throw them qgain into fresh water; take a pound and a half of sugar, which must be cla- rified in a pint of water; put in the fruit upon the fire; leave them an hour nearly, but do not let them boil: leave them in the sugar till next day; drain, and give the sugar a few boils; pour it over the fruit, and serve. Preserved early Cherries. Compote de Cerises precoses. Take a pound of cherries, and cut off half the stalks ; clarify half a pound of sugar; put in the cherries, cover them, and give them a boil; skim them well and serve. Preserved Cherries without Stones. Compote de Cerises sans Noyaux. Take two pound of cherries to make one or two com- potes ; take out the stones and stalks; clarify a pound of sugar in a pint of water, with the quarter of the white of an egg; skim it, and run it through a cloth or gauze search; put the cherries in the sugar; cover and give them a boil; skim and serve.FRENCH COOKERY 274* Red Currant Jelly. Gelee de Groseilles. Take four pounds of sugar; break it, and put it into a sweetmeat-pan; take six pounds of red cur- rants, of which two ought to be white, to make the jelly more beautiful; after they have been rubbed to- gether, put them into a pan, with half a pint of water, upon the fire; stir them from time to time, that they may not stick; add a Tew rasps: when all is well boiled, throw it into a search ; take the juice and put it to the sugar; put all upon the fire; let it take a dozen of boils, which will be enough ; but to assure it, put out a spoonful upon a plate; if it jellies, pot it; if it does not, it requires a boil or two more. Take raspberries and prick them; take out their hearts; put a little gooseberry jelly upon the bottom of a compote dish and dress them upon it; put some of the same jelly carefully over them, and serve. Raspberry Jam. Confitures de Framboises. Take five pounds of raspberries, prick and take out the hearts ; clarify four pounds ef sugar in a sweetmeat- pan ; let it come to the first soiiffle (which you will know by blowing through the holes of the skimmer, if it flies off in feathers); put in the fruit; cover it and give it a boil; skim, and pot it. Apricots in Sugar. Compote d'Abricots. Take apricots nearly ripe ; take out the stones with- out breaking them ; put them on the fire to blanch, but do not let them boil, let the water only move; then put them in clarified sugar on a very slow fire, so that the sugar may incorporate: for twenty-five apricots a pound of sugar is necessary. If they are to be pre- served for future use, drain them next day, and give the syrup a dozen of boils, adding every day a little sugar, as it is necessary that the fruit should be always covered; continue for five days to boil the syrup, and pour it when cold over the fruit; on the last day you put the fruit into the boiling sugar ; give it a very little boil; skim it well, and pot it.STORE-ROOM. White Apricots. Abricots a Oreilles. Take white apricots from an espalier which are not quite ripe; cut them in two: take out the stones; peel them very thin; throw them into boiling water, but take care they do not boil; take them out of the water and drain; give them a good boil in clarified sugar ; leave them in a dish till next day; drain them again and boil the syrup ; when cold pour it over the fruit, and the third day it may be finished as the apricots for provision. Pot and cover them for future use. Apricot Marmalade Marmalade d' Abricots. Take some fine apricots from standards ; take out the stones and the spots of the skin; cut them in pieces: for six pounds of apricots take four pounds and half of sugar ; if it is loaf you must break it in a mortar, and you may put it on the fire with the apricots; take a wooden spatula; do not quit the marmalade till it is finished, or it will burn; and to know when it is done, dip the finger into it, and if it forms a thread in being pressed 'against the thumb, it has arrived at the proper point; take it off’ and pot it. To make it half sugar, it is necessary to observe, as it requires more boiling, that there is less confection. Apricot Paste. Pate d’Abricots. Take what quantity of ripe apricots you intend to make, and take out the stones; put them upon the fire to break ; rub them through a search; dry and weigh the paste; take as much clarified sugar (to the height of petit boulet) as fruit; mix all well together; put it again upon the fire; it must be much more done than the marmalade; put it into moulds; dry them in the stove or oven, and paper them for use. Apricots in Brandy. Abricots a l'Eau-de-vie. Choose the quantity wanted of the finest fruit with- out blemish from espaliers; prick each of them several times with the point of a knife; throw them into water ; blanch them, stirring them from time to time; when the fruit begins to soften, take them off quickly and N 6FRENCH COOKERY. 276 put them into fresh water; drain and make the syrup. For an hundred apricots clarify four pounds of sugar in two pints of water; put in the apricots; give them a boil, and leave them in the syrup till next day; then drain them, and reduce the syrup to one- half, and let it fall for a moment, so that the fruit may be put in to get a little movement, as it must not boil; when cold fill the bottles; reduce the syrup, and distribute it in sufficient quantity into them, and fill them up with brandy; shake them well to mix, or mix it before it is added to the fruit. Pears in Sugar. Compote de Poires d'Ete. Take some fine pears; put a small clove into the eye of each; throw them into water to blanch them; when they are soft under the finger take them out and pare them, and throw them again into fresh water with the juice of a lemon to retain their white colour. For an ordinary compote take half a pound of sugar, in which give them a good boil, adding the juice of half a lemon, and sufficient water that they may swim. In this manner they may be finished for keeping, by boiling and adding sugar for five days, and boiling them on the last: pot, and preserve them for keeping. Pears another Way. Compote de Poires de Martin sec. The compote of Martin sec is generally made with the skin; loosen the skin about the stalk, and a little further, without hurting either; take out a little at the eye; blanch and drain them, and put them into a weak syrup that they may do more easily. They may be done also without boiling, by cutting them into the form of an orange, putting them imme- diately into the sugar, without blanching them; leave them in it till they are enough done, or soaked, which makes an excellent compote. Bon-chretien Pears in Sugar. — Compote de Bon- chretien Blanch. Take four fine pears, cut them in two and take outSTORE-ROOM. 277 the hearts; blanch them; add half the juice of a lemon to preserve their colour; pare, and throw them into fresh water; drain, and put them into a a light syrup ; give them a dozen of boils; dress* and serve. Grilled Pears. Bon-ckretiens grilles. Have a strong fire of charcoal, and grill them equally; when they are enough throw them into fresh water; the skin ought to fall off; wash them in three or four waters, until they are perfectly free from every speck; take out the eye, and put them in a light syrup with a little cinnamon ; let them boil until they are perfectly done; and their syrup has acquired a consistence. Compotes may be made of every kind of pear, in summer or winter, by following the above directions. Apples in Sugar. Compote de Pommss blanches. Take some fine rennets that are not blemished; pare them, (do them whole, or in halves;) put them as they are dressed into fresh water ; drain ; and to four large rennets give six ounces of clarified sugar, and half the juice of a lemon ; turn them with a fork that they may be equally done ; put them into a compote dish; reduce the syrup into jelly, and pour over it; or if more jelly is wanted, apples cut in pieces may be done with it; pass the syrup through a gauze search; reduce it to jelly, and pour it gently over the fruit. Apples another Way. Compote de Pommes a la Portugaise. This compote is made generally of the white, or large rennet; the fruit is not pared, but is cored by an apple corer; prick it with a knife and boil in a light syrup; when half done take it out of the syrup, place it upon a leaf or earthen dish, and put it under a small oven to take a fine colour; baste it from time to time with the syrup that it was boiled in.278 FRENCH COOKERY. Apple Jelly. Jelee de Pommes. Take any quantity of fine rennets; pare and cut them in pieces; wash and rub them with the hands in hot water, to make them thoroughly clean; drain and put them in a pan with as much water as they will swim in, but no more ; give them a boil so that they may be enough without being broken; put them into a search to drain ; have sugar ready at the first lisse ; and for every two spoonsful of sugar put three of juice, if it is strong, and four if it is weak; the sugar may be done to the first souffle; put in the juice, and do it over a strong fire, until it falls in bits ; add the juice of a lemon, and put it in pots or shapes. Plumbs in Sugar. Prunes de Reine Claude. Take a hundred fine plumbs, not ripe, but come to their full size; prick them with a nail, put them into fresh water, and blanch them; stir from time to time; when they begin to rise in the water take them off the fire, and put in the juice of two or three lemons, to assist them in regaining their colour ; leave them in it at night; put them again on the fire, without allowing them to boil; clarify five pounds of sugar; take out the half and put in the plumbs; give them five or six boils ; take them out, and put them into a basin till next day ; drain them out, and boil up the sugar, adding a little of that in reserve ; put them again into a basin, and go on boiling and adding the sugar till the fifth day, and finish them, observing the directions before given on this head. Plumbs in Brandy. Prunes a VEau- de- Vie. Plumbs in brandy are done in the same manner; give them two or three boils in sugar, they are then drained, and the sugar boiled up and mixed with the brandy, and poured over them; or put the clarified sugar to the brandy; bottle the fruit, and add the syrup. Blanching Plumbs. — La Blanchissage de Prunes. There are none but green plumbs that can beat double blanching, as the Reine-Claude and the lie verte ; all the yellow plumbs blanch immediately, andSTORE-ROOM 279 are done in the same manner, beginning always with a light syrup, and go on till the fruit has taken a suf- ficient quantity of sugar to make it keep throughout the year. Small Yelloxv Plumbs in Sugar. Primes de Mira- belle. These are small yellow plumbs that resemble the mirabelle; the mirabelle is known by the stone being quite detached from the fruit; they must neither be too green or too ripe, their stalk must hold; when the water is ready, prick them with a pin and put them in ; when they rise take them out and throw them into cold water; drain them immediately, and put them into a light syrup; give them a little boil, and finish as the foregoing. They may also be put into brandy. Peaches in Sugar. Compotes de Peches Mignonnes- Take the quantity of peaches necessary for a com- pote ; put them into boiling water to take off the skin, and then into a light sugar; give them a boil; skim and put them in a compote dish and serve. Peaches another Way. Peches grosses Mignonnes. Divide the peaches, take out the stones ; pare and put them in sugar, give them a boil, dress, and serve. In making these compotes, it is necessary that the fruit be ripe, without being too much so. Peach Marmalade. Marmalade de Peches. Take ripe peaches, pare them, and cut them in pieces ; for six pounds of fruit, put four pounds and a half of sugar, which must be clarified and brought to the fort perle ; put the fruit into the sugar, and while it is doing do not quit it: stir it always with a wooden spatula till it is enough, that is, when it has arrived at the same point as directed for the apricot marmalade. Peaches in Brandy. Peches a l'Eau-de- Vie. If the peaches to be put into brandy are not quite ripe they must be blanched; but otherwise only pricked; put them into clarified sugar, making them boil slowly; turn them from time to time; take them280 FRENCH COOKERY. out; when they have cooled, return them into the syrup upon a very slow fire, that they may only trem- ble, not boil; then let them cool in the pan; after- wards they may be well drained; boil up the sugar to mix with the brandy; put the peaches into bottles, and fill them up Grilled Peaches in Sugar. Compote de Peclies grillees. Take peaches that are not ripe, otherwise they would burst over the fire, and follow the same direc- tions that are given for the pears, (tons chretiens); after having washed them in several waters, put them in the sugar. Quinces in Sugar. Compote de Coins. Take very ripe quinces; divide them in three or four pieces, pare them, and take out the heart; blanch them; put them into a light sugar; cover them, and give them a good boil: next day give them another, when they are ready for use. If they are to be pre- served for the year, finish them like the others upon the fifth day. And if to be of a red colour, when they are blanching leave them in the same water, and add the sugar to it; do it upon a very slow fire that they may boil softly; keep them covered, and they will be- come very red: they are finished when their syrup comes to jelly : five hours are sufficient to do them in this way. Quince Jelly. Gelee de Coins. Cut in pieces a sufficient quantity of quinces ; draw off’the juice by boiling them in water, in which they ought only to swim, no more. When fully done, drain and have ready clarified sugar, to, which put one spoonful to two of the juice; bring the sugar to the souffle; add the juice, and finish. When it drops from the skimmer it is enough; take it off, and pot it. Syrup of Barberries Sir op d’Epine-vinette. Squeese a pound of very ripe fine red barberries, put into a sweetmeat-pan a pint of water; when it boils, throw in the fruit and give it a dozen boils; take it offSTORE-ROOM. 281 iRe fire and put it into a basin till next day; clarify two pounds and half of sugar, for the fort perle ; put the barberries upon the fire, and give them a boil; press the juice through a search, and add it to the sugar; give it some boils; to know if it is enough, put a little upon a plate, and if it has sufficient consistence, skim it and put it in bottles; this syrup is not subject to ferment, and keeps long, Confitures de Ver-jus. Take verjuice, neither too green nor too ripe, that is to say, if, by opening, the seeds can be taken out with a pin, throw them as they are done into fresh water; afterwards put them into a pan and blanch them; take care not to give them too strong a boil, because they would melt immediately; they must be taken off the moment they come to the surface of the water; let them cool in that water; when they are cold, they are again to be put upon a very slow fire to recover their colour, after which, put them in fresh water; take the quantity of sugar necessary; cla- rify and let it be brought to the petit lisse ; drain and put in the verjuice. Next day drain it again and boil up the sugar; then put in the verjuice; in this manner continue till the fifth day, when it ought to be brought to the fort perle; give the verjuice a boil; skim, and put it in pots. Ver-jus Skinned. Ver-jus Perle. Take some verjuice, riper than those used for the last article, but very green; take off the skin and the seeds with a little pointed skewer; for two pounds of verjuice prepared in this manner, boil two pounds of sugar au boulet; put in the verjuice, and give them a dozen of boils; afterwards take them off the fire; skim, and put them in pots. Paste of Ver-juice Pate de Ver-jus. Take verjuice almost ripe, and let it break upon the fire, stirring it with a spatula; add some pared apples cut in pieces; the whole being mashed, put it through a close hair search in such a manner that there282 FRENCH COOKERY. remains nothing but the skin and seeds ; put it upon the fire to dry until it has a consistence; weigh it, and take as much sugar as fruit; bring the sugar to the souffle, and put in the fruit, stirring it constantly with a spatula, without quitting it; when the pate rises easily from the bottom, it is enough; put it into moulds or cases of paper; put it in the stove, strewing it with sifted sugar. Oranges in Sugar. Compote d' Oranges. Take four or six fine oranges ; take off the skin, and with the point of a knife take off all the threads; have half a pound of sugar hot in a basin ; cut them into slices, and put them in the sugar; dress them in a compote dish, and serve with the syrup poured over. Chesnuts in Sugar.- Compote de Matrons. Take a hundred beautiful chesnuts; take off the outer skin; put them into a pan with water, a lemon cut in bits, and three handfuls of bran: give them enough of water to cover them; let them blanch with- out much fire; when they are enough, a needle will penetrate easily; take them out of the water with a skimmer, peel and throw them into fresh water and lemon juice ; clarify a pound and half of sugar, and bring it to the petit lisse; drain the chesnuts and put them in the sugar, with the juice of a lemon, and a quarter of a glass of orange flower-water; put all upon the fire without allowing it to boil; take it off, and next day drain and boil the syrup ; at the fourth boil- ing augment the sugar, and bring it to the souffle; put in the chesnuts; an instant after the sugar whitens, which must be done with a fork or spoon against the pan, take out, and put them to drain upon a grille d tirage; as soon as they are cold they are dry, and that is w'hat is called chesnuts glazed. There is no other manner to make them. Chesnuts another Way. Compote de Marrons a V Italienne. Take fifty fine chesnuts, grill, skin, and flatten them ; lay them upon a silver dish, or a tart-pan ; add four283 STORE-ROOM. ounces of very light clarified sugar; boil them a little; heat a poker; when they are taken off, strew sugar over, and glaze them; arrange them in a compote dish, and make the syrup with the juice of a Seville orange, and half the juice of a lemon in a little cla- rified sugar. Marmalade of Quinces. Marmalade de Coins. Take them very ripe and blanch them whole: when they are soft, take them out; peel and cut them in little bits; beat them in a mortar, and pass them through a search; take the same quantity of clarified sugar brought to the souffle, as there is of fruit, and finish as the others. Cherry Marmalade. Marmalade de Cerises. Take some very ripe cherries ; take off the stalks and stone them ; break them, and give them a strong boil; then put them into a search, and force them through with a spatula or a wooden spoon, till no- thing remains but the skin; put it again upon the fire to dry it; when it has reduced a half, weigh it, and put the same quantity of sugar; bring it to its point; try if it threads between the fingers; if it does, then it is finished. Gooseberry or currant marmalade is made in the same manner. Grape Marmalade. Marmalade de Ver-jus. Take them nearly ripe ; break them, and put them on the fire; give them several boils, and pass them through a search, till nothing is left but the seeds and skins; reduce them upon the fire; weigh, and give the same quantity of sugar; bring it to the souffle, and finish as the marmalade of cherries. Orange Marmalade. Marmalade d’Orange. Take fifteen or twenty fine oranges of a thick skin ; take off the skin, as nothing else is used; blanch, re- fresh, drain, and beat them strongly in a mortar, and pass them through a hair search with a spatula-; weigh, and give a pound and a half of sugar to every pound of fruit; clarify it to fort perle; put in the fruit, and give it several boils, stirring it always with the spa-FRENCH COOKERY. 284- tula. When it threads, it is at the point; pot it. All marmalades of yellow fruits are done in the same manner. Orange Flower Marmalade Marmalade de Fleurs d'Oranges. Take two pounds of orange flowers, fresh gathered ; and very white; pick and throw them into fresh water; two pounds, when well picked, will not give more than one pound; drain, and put them into boil- ing water; give them one boil only; take them imme- diately off the fire; drain and throw them into fresh boiling water, with the juice of two or three lemons over a very brisk fire: when the flowers break easily with the fingers, take them out; put them into cold water, with the juice of a lemon; drain, and press them in a new cloth to take out the water; beat them very well in a marble mortar, wetting it with lemon juice : when it is enough beaten, put it in a small pan, and clarify two pounds and a half of the finest sugar; bring it to the perle, and put it by degrees to the flowers, and mix it with a spatula: when the half of the sugar has been put in, put the other half upon the fire to bring it to the petit souffle, and add it to the mar- malade, stirring it always with a spatula; put it again upon the fire; heat it well without letting it boil, and pot it. Orange Chips in Sugar Compote de Tailladins d'Oranges. After grating the oranges, cut them in small chips; boil them in water till they are enough; put them in fresh water, drain and put them in a light sugar; give them several boils ; next day give them another, and serve. Confected Oranges. Oranges Confits au Sucre. Grate a dozen fine oranges, cut them in quarters and tie them together; boil them in a great quantity of water, for at least three or four hours, on a continued boil: when enough done, a pin will easily pierce the skin; put them into fresh water; cut them into smaller pieces, leaving always the orange attached to the285 STORE-ROOM. skin; clarify three pounds of sugar, of which keep back the half; drain, and put in the fruit; every day boil the syrup, adding some of that in reserve : some do only the skin, or the orange whole. Conserve of Violets. Conserve Mo'etteuse a la Violette. Take some violets and pick them, taking nothing but the leaves of the flower; a handful will make three quarters of a pound of conserve: beat them well in a marble mortar, to obtain the juice; clarify three quarters or a pound of sugar, which must be brought to the first souffle; take it off the fire, and let it cool; add the juice with a few drops of lemon, that the colour may be as bright as possible ; work it well to- gether with a silver spoon till it begins to whiten and dry; put it immediately into cases of any size, but the conserve must be only the sixth part of an inch thick: when cold, mark it lightly with a knife the size it is to be of; handle it tenderly in the moulds. Conserve of Lemons Conserve de Citrons. Take the zest of a lemon and squeese the juice over it; leave it some time to infuse; boil half a pound of sugar to the firstperle ; run the lemon juice through a cloth or gauze search to take out the zest; put the juice to the sugar, and work it with a spoon till it is very white, and put it into moulds. Conserve of Strawberries. Conserve de Fraises. Put a handful of fresh ripe strawberries through a gauze search, with the back of a spoon; to every spoonful of expressed juice put six ounces of sugar au fort perle; take it off the fire and put in the juice; whiten your sugar as directed for the lemon; if the conserve is too white, you may put a little carmine into a drop of clarified sugar, and mix it very well; work it into the conserve, which will give it a fine co- lour; put it in moulds. Conserve of Citron. Conserve de Cedrat. Take a nice high-flavoured citron, rub it with a piece of sugar to obtain the zest and the perfume; scrapeFRENCH COOKERY. 286 the zest of the sugar with a knife, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over to melt it: one done in this manner will require a pound of sugar to thefort perle; put in the juice, and work it as directed for the others: as citron is not always to be had fresh, the confected citron may be used, which can be had at all times; a half or a quarter is well beaten in a mortar, and put through a search, and mixed in proportion with sugar brought to the firstperle ; the juice of lemon must not be forgotten. Conserve of Roses Conserve de Roses. Boil half a pound of sugar to the first souffle, take the best double rose water and put in as much as will bring the sugar back to the fort perle: to give it a fine colour add a few drops of cochineal; mix it perfectly, and put it in moulds. Conserve of Chocolate Conserve de Chocolat. Boil down two ounces of chocolate de sante or of vanille, in a quarter of a glass of water; have ready half a pound of sugar au perle; mix it with the sugar, and work as the other: for all sorts of wet conserves, follow the directions given for cherries, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, oranges, lemons, &c. &c. Conserve of Coffee. Conserve de Cafe. Make some very clear strong coffee, have ready a pound of sugar clarified, and brought au boulet or an petit casse; take it off the fire, and put in a cup of coffee to bring it to its point; work it as in the fore- going article, and mould it. Saffron. Conserve souff.ee au Safran. This conserve is made exactly as that of the rose: the sugar is prepared in the same manner; to give it the taste and colour, a small pinch is sufficient; put it into a quarter of a glass of water, let it boil an instant and infuse; pass it through a cloth; put it into the sugar without taking it off the fire: work it, and mould it as the other. Orange-flovoer Calces. Gateaux de Fleur d’Oranges. Take half a pound of fresh orange-flowers, and pickSTORE-ROOM. 287 them ; clarify three pounds of sugar, and boil it au petit casse; 'put in the flowers, and give them some ooiis; prepare icing in the following manner: Take half of the white of an egg, and two ounces of sugar; put through a gauze search, imxed well together with a silver spoon, until the icing is perfectly white; a few drops of lemon juice may be added to finish it; it ought to have a certain consistence, neither too thick nor too thin; put the sugar again upon the fire, and let it come au casse; take it off, and add a large spoonful of icing; stir it quickly into the sugar with a spatula, until it rises ; it must be poured quickly into the moulds. Rose souffly Calces. Gateau souffle a la Rose. Take a handful or two of rose-leaves, according to the quantity you intend to make ; a handful of picked leaves is sufficient for a pound of sugar ; boil the sugar (au boulet, or petit casse); put the rose-leaves into the sugar, and follow the same directions as for the orange flowers ; adding cochineal in the icing, that it may be of a fine colour. Orange-Jlovoer Sugar Candy. Sucre Candi en Terrine a la Fleur d'Orange, ou gros Candi. Prepare half a pound of very white orange-flowers ; boil three pounds of sugar au soiffle ; put in the orange flowers, and give them a dozen of boils ; run it through a hair search to take out the flowers; return the sugar into the pan, and bring it to the souffle; skim, and take it off the fire; add a quarter of a glass of the spirit of roses : pour it into a basin; cover it, and put it into the stove for eight days, taking care to keep it of an equal heat; drain off the syrup, as the candy remains fixed ; heat the basin; it will fall off. Not to lose the flower, rub them well in sifted sugar, till they are dry with the hands; sift, and put them to dry in the stove. Large Rose Candy. Gros Candi a la Rose, Is made in the same manner, in adding the proper colours; and the spirit of roses is preferable to rose288 FRENCH COOKERY. water; above all, the flowers ought to be very odori- ferous1; for it will be observed, if the odours were put in with the sugar, they would fly off in boiling, and ought not to be put in till after the sugar has been brought to its point: in giving the colour for the rose, the cochineal is prepared, or the carmine is put into a little clarified sugar; and care must be had not to put too much, that the colour may be fine. Large yellow Candy Gros Candijaune. The same preparation as the foregoing, coloured with the tincture of saffron. Candy of Violets. Candi de Violettes. Take half a pound of picked violets; have a pound of sugar at the fort perils when it is half cold, putin the flowers, and set the pan upon hot cinders for two hours, that the flower may give all its colour; put it through a search ; rub the flowers in sifted sugar to dry them ; put them into the stove till next day; then search them to take out the superfluous sugar; put the candy into moulds, and cover th§ surface with flowers, without making them too thick in pressing them in with a fork, that the flowers may attach to the sugar, and that they should be well covered; put the moulds into the stove for five hours without heating it too much ; drain them to take off the syrup : w hen cold, take them out of the moulds, put a sheet of paper upon the table, and turn them quickly over as wfith a stroke, to make the candy fall. Candy of .Jessamine Petit Candi de Jasmin. Pick two handsful of jessamin; put it in sugar as directed in the foregoing receipt; rub it in sifted sugar, and dry it in the stove; after moulding the sugar, finish as above. Candy of Jonquille Petit Candi de Jonquille. Follow the directions given above. Candied Jonquille Flowers. Jonquille entiere. Take the double jonquille; cut the stalk within a quarter of an inch of the flower; boil them in prepared289 STORE-ROOM. sugar : take them off the fire, and leave them a quarter of an hour in it; throw them into sifted sugar; in mix- ing them lightly, care must be taken that the leaves are kept in their places, that the flower retains its form, and that it is equally covered with sugar; put paper into a search, and sift sugar over it, and lay in the flowers; put them into a stove to dry, and keep them in a box in a dry place. Flowers done in this way could be put into candy in having little grills made for the moulds, upon which they might be put; and one above with a weight suffi- cient to keep them in the sugar. This might be done with all the flowers that are preserved, whether in leaves or entire; and the candies could be had at all seasons. Confected Orange Flowers Fleurs d’Orange pra- linees. Choose the orange-flowers fresh and white; pick them, and throw them into water: for one pound of the flowers, take two pounds of clarified sugar, brought to the souffle ; after having worked the flowers well in the water, drain and put them to the sugar ; stir it well till it comes again to the same height it was be- fore ; then take off the sugar from the fire, and work it with a spatula, until the sugar separates and be- comes a powder; put the flowers and sugar to dry in the stove, and afterwards sift out the superfluous sugar ; box or bottle the flowers. The flowers might be done in sifted sugar, as indi- cated for the gros candi defieur d’orange, in observing always to wash them well in water, that the form may be preserved, before they are put into the sugar. With the orange-flower pralinee in either manner; the petits candis are made as in the articles violette and jonquille. Conserve of Orange Flowers. Conserve de Fleurs d Orange. Take a little orange-flower ; pick and hash it upon white paper, putting in some drops of lemon juice; o290 FRENCH COOKERY. have ready four ounces of sugar au souffle; add the flowers, and give them a little boil, to work it; mould it in paper cases. Almond Candy. Petit Candi d’Amandes. Take a pound of sweet almonds; skin them; cut them in narrow long chips ; have a pound of clarified sugar ; put them in to praliner ; work them upon the fire with a wooden spatula, till the sugar begins to grain ; take it off and work it till it grains ; sift out the sugar, and divide the almonds into four parts, to give them separate colours ; one white, one red, with carmine, another yellow in saffron, and spinnage for the green : dry them in the stove, mix them toge- ther : aftei'wards boil as much sugar as your mould will hold, au souffle ; strew the top lightly with these almonds; make them sink into the sugar a little writh a fork, put them into aquickish stove ; five hours is suf- ficient ; drain well, and two hours after they may be taken out of the mould. Small Rose Candy Petit Candi a la Rose. Pralinez two handsful of rose leaves in clarified sugar, boiling them to the souffle, then take them off the fire, and work them till the sugar grains; search them in an open hair search to get out the su- perfluous sugar; rub the flowers with the hands, and put them into the stove to dry ; prepare sugar as for the other candies, and put it into a mould; the su- gar for the mould ought to be coloured a little with cochineal: cover as directed above with the rose leaves. Confected Almonds. Amandes pralinees. Take a pound of fresh new almonds, which must be well rubbed with a cloth ; put a pound of sugar, with a little water, into a proper sized pan, and add a little more water when the sugar is melted; put them in, work them well with the spatula till they sparkle; take them off the fire, and wrork them well till the sugar grains and falls oft the almonds ; take out a part of the sugar, and put the almonds again291 STORE-ROOM. o 2 upon the fire till they take the sugar, which will be done by stirring; take care the fire is not too strong ; when they have taken the sugar, put in what was taken out, and continue the work till the almonds have taken the whole sugar; put them upon a search, and separate such as are stuck together. Confected Filberts. Adelines Pralinees. Take of the finest and best filberts a pound, when shelled they will only give six ounces; clarify six ounces of sugar, and put them to praliner: follow exactly the directions given in the preceding article. Do also pistackes in the same manner. Grilled Almonds. Gnllage d'Amandes. Blanch half a pounc of almonds, and cut them length ways, in five or six pieces; pralinez them in three-quarters of a pound of sugar; granulate them when they begin to move quick, and put them again upon the fire, stirring them constantly until the al- monds are well mixed together in a mass; oil a leaf and put it upon it; flatten, and strew over it cin- namon or white nonpareil coiifits; cut it quickly in pieces. Cherries en Chemise. Cerises blanchies, ou en Chemise. Take large fine ripe cherries and cut off half the stalks ; beat the white of an egg with a fork to froth ; dip the cherries into it, and roll them entirely in sifted sugar : if any are overcharged,' blow it off; put a sheet of paper in a search and dress them in it; put them in a stove, leave them till ready to serve. Bunches of Currants en Chemise. Grosseilles en Grappe, en Chemise, ou blanchies. Take some fine currants ; dip them them into the white of an egg ; roll them in sifted sugar, and finish them as directed for the cherries. Strawberries are done in the same manner, taking off the small leaves from the stalk. Grapes also, or any small fruit.FRENCH COOKERY. 292 Cherries. Cerises au Caramel. Take cherries with their stalks; put into a pan nearly the clarified sugar that the cherries would re- quire, or any other fruit; when at the height of casse, take it off the fire, and dip in the fruit, one by one, holding them by the stalk, and put them on a copper leaf that has been slightly oiled; cut off half the stalk, dish and serve. All sorts of fruit in their season are done au cara- mel; and in winter those that have been preserved, such as the reine-claude, mirabelle, and apricots in brandy, and all small preserved fruits, only precau- tion must be had to wash them in warm water ; wipe and dry them in the stove, which makes the caramel remain longer dry. A grille a tirage, slightly oiled, is better than the copper leaf, as it allows the super- fluous sugar to drop off; they may be dried in a hot sun. Different Fruits in Caramel. Caramel d’Oranges, de Marrons, 8f<c. Take off the skin nicely from three or four oranges; clean them of all the threads, and open them carefully without breaking them into their divisions; take a small pointed bodkin of wood and prick them, having brought the sugar au caramel; dip in the divisions one after another; drain them on a. grille d tirage, and fix them that they may dry in the open air. Chesnuts au caramel are first grilled, as they are done to serve in a cloth; they are afterwards skinned and pricked with a bodkin, and dipt into the caramel one after another ; put to drain upon a grille a tirage and dried in the air. Grapes in Caramel. Raisins au Caramel. Take a bunch of grapes which are not very closely set; cut them into small bunches of seven or eight grapes together; have a copper leaf slightly oiled, and dip them into the caramel which has been previously prepared; drain them a little and put them upon the293 STORE-ROOM. o 3 oiled leaf; leave the stalks that they may be tied together into large bunches if wanted. Pomegranates in Caramel. Caramel de Grenades. Take off the skin, leaving nothing but the grains; prick them with a bodkin; dip them in the caramel, and finish as the others. To prepare Cochineal. Cochenille preparee. Take an ounce of cochineal, and beat it in a marble mortar into a fine powder ; beat an ounce of cream ot tartar and two grains of alum ; put half a pint of water into a small pan, when it boils put in the cochineal to boil ten minutes, then add the cream of tartar and alum; give it a few more boils; take it from the fire, leave it to clear and bottle it. Yellow Colour. Couleur Jaune. Take gambouge, and rub it down in hot water; use it for all shades of yellow; saffron is preferable for confitures and liqueurs. A small bit is to be boiled. Green Colour. Coideur verte. Take two or three large handsful of spinnage, pick and wash it well, beat it in a marble mortar; then express the juice through a cloth ; put it upon the fire and keep stirring it; when it is enough put it into a gauze search, that the water may run off; take it out of the search and rub it again in the mortar with a little clarified sugar; put it through a gauze search and use it. For green, mix saffron or gumbouche with indigo. Voilet Colour. Coideur Violette. Mix some of the mixture of cochineal with indigo in equal parts, which will give a fine violet colour. All of these colours may be mixed in different shades. Spoon Biscuit. Biscuit a la Curlier. Weigh eight eggs with as much sugar; put it into a bason ; break the eggs over it, keeping out the whites; beat them well together; add lemon zest; beat the whites to a froth and mix with the other ingredients; add the weight of five eggs of searched flour, stirringFRENCH COOKERY. 294 it lightly in till it is well mixed; drop the biscuits with a spoon of a long form upon white paper; and sift sugar over to glaze them ; put them into a mode- rate oven. To make them lighter, keep out one-fifth of the flour. Light Lemon Biscuits Biscuits Legers en Caisse au Citron. For eight eggs put eight spoonsful of sugar in a basin, and a little rasped lemon; put six yolks into the sugar, and beat them well; then beat the whites to snow, and add them; mix in well and lightly three spoonsful of flour; drop these biscuits into paper cases, and sift sugar over: let the oven be still slower than that directed for the spoon biscuit. Pistaches Biscuits. Biscuits de Pistaches. Take a quarter of a pound of pistaches, which must be put into boiling water to take off the skins; let them be new and fresh; rub them in a cloth ; beat them-well in a mortar with the white of an egg, and the quarter of a confected citron or lemon; add a little prepared spinnage, that the biscuit may be of a fine green; take eight eggs, break them, keeping back two yolks, and beat the six yolks with eight spoonsful of sugar; when they are well beaten, add the pistaches; then whip the eight whites very well, and mix altogether ; mix three spoonsful of flour lightly with a spatula; put them into paper cases; sift sugar over, and put them into a slow oven. Chocolate Biscuits, Biscuits au Chocolat, Are made exactly as those of pistaches, putting in three ounces of chocolate or vanille rasped, instead of the pistaches, and finish them in the same manner. Light Hazel Nut Biscuit Biscuits legers auxAvelines. Take two small handsful of shelled filberts, roast them as you do coffee, turning them continually till the skin comes easily off; rub them in a cloth, and rasp them take six yolks and eight spoonsful of sugar, and prepare a paste; put in two-thirds of the rasped nuts, with eight whites beaten to snow, adding three spoons205 STORE-ROOM. o 4 ful of flour, as directed above; put them in cases; strew over them the remainder of the nuts; sift sugar over, and put them into a slow oven. Cream Biscuits. Biscuits h la Creme. For ten eggs take ten spoonsful of sugar, and six spoonsful of flour; beat the yolks with the sugar, and the others separately; then unite them; take some good cream, which must be whipt as for the Fromage de Chantilly; mix it with the -pate, add the flour, and finish as above. Orange fower Biscuits.—Biscuits a la Fleur d'Orange. Take six eggs, put the yolks in a basin with the weight of four eggs of sugar; bruise an ounce of orange flowers pralintes ; add them to the yolks, and beat them well together with a spatula ; whip the whites to mix with the pate-, add the weight of three eggs of flour ; put them into paper cases ; sift sugar over; let the oven be slow; give them only half the time of other biscuits that they may be soft; serve immediately. Biscuits souffles of Orange Flowers. Biscuits souffles a la Fleur d'Orange. Take the white of a fresh egg, mix it with sifted sugar, to make an icing, that shall neither be too wet nor too dry; when it is ready, put in two pinches of orange flowerspralinees; put these biscuits in.very small paper cases, only a fourth part of the size of ordinary biscuits ; the cases must only be half filled, because they rise a great deal in the oven and fall over the case?: the oven ought to be slow, though hot enough to give them colour; leave them in till there is no chance of their falling; this will be known by touching them lightly; if they remain firm, it is time to take them out. Biscuits souffly of Chocolate. Biscuits souffles au Chocolat. Make the icing of one or two whites of eggs, as before directed ; rasp two ounces of chocolate, mix it in the icing of a proper consistence ; half fill the cases:FRENCH COOKERY. 296 they take the same time to bake a3 those of the orange flowers. Small souffly Biscuits Petits Biscuits souffles. With the royal icing all sorts of small biscuits of every colour and odour can be made in cases, such as lemon and orange, by the raspings, with saffron in powder or strong tincture; rose with carmine or co- chineal, and adding the spirit of rose for the odour. Of this icing may be made small buttons about the size of a filbert, which may be formed upon the point of one knife by another ; put them on sheets of paper, and then on an oven leaf, into a very slow oven, that they may retain their colour; these buttons may be made white, saffron, lemon, chocolate, and rose, and are a beautiful garnish for small dishes where maca- roons cannot be put. Bitter Macaroons Macarons d’Amandes ameres. Take a pound of bitter almonds, which must be skinned, and put into the stove; when they are dry, beat them in a mortar with three whites of eggs ; beat them very fine; if the three whites are not enough, add a fourth that they may not oil: when they are finely beaten, mix them in a basin with two pounds and a half of sifted sugar; if it should be too dry add another white, for it must be neither too wet nor too dry ; drop it from the point of a knife by the assistance of another, of the size of nuts upon paper ; put them into a very slow oven. Sweet Macaroons. Macarons d'Amandes clouces. Take a pound of blanched sweet almonds, and dried in the oven; beat them and follow exactly the same directions as are given for the macaroons of bitter al- monds ; drop them in the same manner, and put them in a slow oven. Massepains. Massepains Royaux. Take a pound of sweet almonds, and throw them into fresh water; drain and beat them in a marble mortar, wetting them with water, and also a little orange flower water: take care not to wet them too297 STORE-ROOM. O 5 much in the beginning; put it in by little and little ; when they are enough put them into a pan with half a pound of sifted sugar upon a furnace, with very lit- tle fire to dry it: to know when it is enough, apply the back of the hand over it; if it does not stick, it may be taken out and put upon a leaf, dusted with fine sugar, and leave it to cool; cut several pieces upon a table, which ought to be rolled out as equally as possible to the size of a little finger; cut and form it into rings, and arrange them upon a grill of brass wire, which put upon a basin. This paste may be rolled out and covered slightly with apricot marma- lade, or any other, and put on a cover of the same paste ; cut it into lozenges or any other form; put it on the grill, and ice it with ice made of whites of eggs and sugar ; they must be iced with a spoon: let them drain ; arrange them upon paper, and put them into a quick oven. Almond Tours. Tourons d’Amandes. Skin one or two handsful of almonds, some pistaches or filberts, which will require to be roasted as coffee, to make them part with their skin; pralinez the whole together in half a pound of sugar ; let them cool; beat two whites of eggs, and mix them well with a spatula, until they form a paste that can be handled; work into it a good pinch of pralinee * of orange-flowers ^ there ought to be more sugar and more white of egg if necessary: dress them the size of a nut upon white paper, rounding them with the hand; place them not to touch one another; do them in a slow oven. Biscuit of Orange Floivers. Biscuits Manques a la Fleur d'Orange. Take two whites of eggs, and beat them ; put four spoonsful of sifted sugar, two of flour, and an ounce * Praliner is to boil in sugar till it sticks rough upon whatever is done in it.FRENCH COOKERY 298 of orange flower pralinee, which must be dried and reduced to powder; mix all together; the paste should be rather liquid; take a teaspoonful of paste, and put it upon a sheet of white paper; dress them round to the size of a crown-piece, taking care that they do not touch one another; put them into the oven; when they have taken a fine colour, take them out; when cold take them off the paper; wet the underside with a sponge, and put them upon searches to dry in a stove: these will serve immediately, or keep for provision. Fan Biscuit. Petits Biscuits en Evantail ou Dents de Loup. Take two sheets of paper, cut it lengthways, and fold it like a fan ; when the folds are well made, dou- ble it round, so as to lay firm upon an oven leaf; at the same time the folds must be wide enough to hold the biscuit; take two eggs, four spoonsful of sugar, two of flour,-and a few lemon raspings; mix the whole with about two pats of butter, which must be melted, but not boiled; dress the biscuit into the pa- per mould; lift the paste with a spoon, and conduct it along the folds, take care they do not touch; put them into an oven a little hot, without being too much so; take them out when they have obtained a fine colour ; take the paper by the ends, and open it, and the biscuits will separate; but take care in lifting not to break them. Small Turin Biscuit Petits Pains de Turin. Put into a basin twelve spoonsful of flour, and six of sifted sugar, two eggs, a little grated lemon, and a quarter of a pound of fine fresh butter ; with a spatula mix the whole into a firm paste; if another egg is ne- cessary, add it; on the other hand, if too soft, add flour; but always remember to make the sugar the half of the quantity of the flour; put the paste upon a table, and work it till it rolls easily under the hands, of which all sorts of little biscuits of any design may be formed, long as the little finger, but much thinner ;299 STORE-ROOM. butter sheets of paper; put them upon leaves; take the yolks of two eggs to glaze them ; put them into an oven, rather hotter than for ordinary biscuits. Chesnut Cakes. Pain de Marrons. Take a hundred chesnuts; grill them till they are done enough without burning; when they are shelled, beat them in a marble mortar, with two pats of butter, and some good double cream.; put them through a hair search; take care they are not too wet; what does not go through must be put into the mortar, and re-beaten with a little cream; weigh the paste, and put half of its weight of sifted sugar to it, with a little vanille, mixed well together; take the size of a large chesnut of paste, and form it with a knife; give it a slight gash, and go on forming till the paste is worked up, putting them upon a buttered paper ; glaze them with yolk of egg ; put them into a very hot oven, that they may have a fine colour; take them off with a knife when taken from the oven. Syringed Massepains. Massepains Seringues. Take a pound of sweet almonds; skin and dry them well; beat them in a marble mortar with the whites of eggs, always remembering to add more whites should it be too dry; being well beaten, add a little grated lemon, with a pound and a half of sifted sugar; beat it together into a paste ; put it into a star syringe, and squirt it upon paper which has been cut into convenient lengths to form rings, which must be ar- ranged on the paper and put into a slow oven. Pistaches Massepains. Massepains de Pistaches. Shell half a pound of pistaches, and beat them well in a mortar, wetting them with orange-flower water, that they may not oil ; when they are beaten very fine, put them into a pan with four ounces of sifted sugar, to dry them over a slow fire: they are enough, if in touching them with the finger they do not run ; strew a leaf with sifted sugar, and lay the paste on it to cool; when cold, beat them with a roller upon a tableFRENCH COOKERY. 300 covered with sugar the thickness of a crown piece, that the paste may not stick ; cut them into any form, round, long, &c.; and put them into a very slow oven, that they may hardly take any colour ; glaze them with'a sugar icing, into which there has been put some lemon juice; dry them in the stove. The Twins. Meringues Jumeaux. Take six whites of eggs, and whip them to snow; put in six spoonsful of sugar with a little grated lemon; mix all well lightly together; put sheets of paper upon a board or two, according to the quantity you are making, and the size of the oven; form the meringales with a spoon, lifting no more paste at a time than is necessary to make one, and form it like the half of an egg cut lengthways as equally as pos- sible ; glaze them immediately with sifted sugars, and put them into a slow oven ; when they have taken a fine colour, take them out; put two together with a confected cherry or currant jelly between them, or any other confection; put them into searches till ready to dress them upon the dishes ; they are baked upon boards, that the underpart may be colourless, and soft that they may stick together. Italian Meringues. To six whites of eggs, whipt, take half a pound of sugar au souffle: when the eggs have been well beaten, put them into the sugar, mixing it quickly with a spatula. Any taste or flavour may be given to them if it is marasquvn; mix half a glass well in ; dress them as directed in the preceding article, ex- cept that they are made much smaller; put them in the oven as before directed, and double them in the same manner. Italian Meringales with Orange Flowers. Meringues a VItalienne, a la Fleur d'Orange. Take eight whites of eggs and whip them to snow; have ready ten ounces of sugar au soujfl6, mix them quickly together; add an ounce of orange flower pra- linee which had been dried and ready in powder; mixSTORE-ROOM. 301 it with the other ingredients; dress the meringues as the former, doubling them when they have taken a fine colour. Dry Orange Flower Meringals. Meringues, sec H la Fleur d'Orange. To ten whites of eggs well beaten, put ten ounces or spoonsful of sugar, and two ounces of orange flowers pralinees well minced or bruised; mix all well together; whisk them; dress them upon white paper ; this kind are not drest like the others; take a spoonful of paste and make it round by turning the spoon, tower it like a rock: they are glazed by sifting sugar through a gauze search over them ; put them into a very slow oven upon copper leaves: when they have taken a fine colour, enough baked and dry, take them out and put them upon a stove on a search. Large Cutting Biscuits Gros Biscuits a cowper. For ten eggs put a pound of sifted sugar into a bason, with the yolks, and a little lemon grated ; beat them ; whip the whites to a snow and put it to the yolks ; put twelve ounces of flour into a hair search, pass it over the paste, stirring it lightly in; put the biscuits in large paper cases, of half a sheet; glaze and put them into- a slow oven; they will take at least a full hour to bake; draw them to the mouth of the oven and if they are firm they are enough: these biscuits are to be cut and served in different ways, with different tastes and colours: if you would have biscuits de bi- farade, take a fresh Seville orange, and rub it with a it of sugar; grate that sugar with the zest upon a dish, and squeeze the juice over it, adding the juice of a lemon with some sifted sugar; make a proper icing, take out the biscuits from their cases ; cut a biscuit across in seven or eight pieces, and ice both sides, spreading it equally with a spoon; put them upon a grille de tirage, over a search or bason, and set into the stove. Make them also with strawberries, rasp- berries, currants, &c. by expressing the juice; in icing, colour them with any of the colours di-FRENCH COOKERY. 302 rected above: they may also be iced with sugar am soriffle, and whiten them as the conserves moelleuses; dip the cut biscuits into the conserve, and put them to drain upon a grille de tirage. Manheim Bread. Pain de Manheim. Take six ounces of flour, and put two eggs into the middle of it upon a table with three spoonsful of sifted sugar; mix all together to make a firm paste ; add half an ounce in fine powder of fresh anise; if the paste is too wet, put in more flour, but in doing so add a due proportion of sugar: make this paste into three or four rolls, about a foot long, and a little thicker than the thumb; put it upon a buttered copper leaf, and glaze it with the yolk of an egg: give them a small cut with a knife lengthways, and put them into a hot oven : when they are baked, cut them into the size of the third of an inch, to be ready for use. Sea Biscuit. Biscuit de Mer. Take half a pound of sugar and half a pound of flour, mix it in a bason with a little lemon grate and four eggs; mix them with a spatula to make rather a liquid paste, but if too much so add flour and sugar, or if too firm, add an egg; the cases must be the size of half a sheet of paper folded in, with the sides lower than those made for the gros biscuit a couper: put the pdte into these cases, and set them in a hotter oven than for ordinary biscuit; when enough, take them out, and cut them in pieces the length and thickness of the little finger, and put them upon a copper leaf, on the side that has been cut, that all sides may be equally coloured. Vanille Rolls. Batons de Vanitle. Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, re- member the directions on that head ; add two ounces of sifted sugar ; put them upon a slow fire to dry; they are nearly ready when they do not run, which will be known by touching them; sift sugar upon a dish pr paper, and put the paste upon it; rasp two ounces of chocolate and mix it with a little vanille, that itSTORE-ROOM. 303 should be well incorporated, give it a few beats in the mortar; make them up in the size of rolls of vanille, and put them upon paper into a very slow oven to dry. Butter Wafers. Gauffres an Beurre. Put into a bason three spoonsful of sugar and three of flour, a little orange-flower water and a little lemon grate; melt two ounces of fine butter in half a pint of water and wet the paste with it; mix the flour well and let the paste be thin; that is to say, neither too clear nor too firm; heat the irons equally on both sides; butter them all over but slightly; put in a spoonful of paste, and fire by turning it on both sides; take out the gaujfre when it is of a fine gilded colour, and roll it upon a roll, and hold it till it takes the form; then put in another, and as they are finished put them in a search into the stove to dry till ready to serve. Cream Wafers GaufFres a la Creme. Take three spoonsful of sugar, three of flour, two eggs, a little orange-flower water, and liquify it with sweet cream; let the paste be thin and very smooth ; heat the irons on both sides and butter them, and do the wafers as in the article above: to give them an- other form, take a bit of very smooth wood about a foot long and the thickness of a small cane : when the wafer is ready lay the wood upon the iron and roll it up: throw it off and put it into the stove. Spanish Wine Wafers Gaujfre au Vin dEspagne. Put into a bason four ounces of sugar and four ounces of flour, with two fresh eggs, and liquify the whole with good Malaga: make the paste about the consistency of other wafers. To ice all Sorts of Fruits Pour glacer toutes Sortes de Fruits. Take a sufficient quantity of ice and beat it to snow: mix along with it some salt and saltpetre; put it into a bucket made on purpose; put in moulds filled with the prepared fruits; shake the bucket without ceasing, in the hand, for seven or eight minutes; open andFRENCH COOKERY. 301 detach from the sides of the moulds the flakes that have taken, which must be done from time to time, shaking the bucket; when they have taken, dress them quickly into their goblets; as it must not be taken out of the ice till quite ready to serve; con- tinue to turn and work it till taken out. All ices that are intended to be firm ought to have a great deal of sugar and fruit, as the icing diminishes the strength ; those intended to drink may have less. Cherry Ice. Glace de C&ises. Take two pounds of very ripe cherries ; take out the stones and stalks ; put them upon the fire with a quarter'of a pound of sugar, and give them a covered boil; throw them into a hair search and press all through but the skin; break a handful of the cherry- stones ; infuse them for an hour in a little water, with the juice of a lemon; add to it three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, au petit lisse, and put in the infusion of the stones; mix all well together with a spatula, and do not put it into the icing pails or moulds till ready to put them into the ice. Strawberry Ice Glace de Fraises. Take fresh ripe strawberries of a fine perfume; pick and put them through a close hair search: to a pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar au petit lisse; mix all well together, and leave them till ready to put them into the ice. Raspberry Ice. Glace de Framboises. Pick some fine rasps ; break and put them through a fine hair search, and accommodate the quantity of' sugar to the fruit, to be enough without being over sweetened, and put it into the ice as directed above, working it in the same manner : if the fruit and sugar are too thick add a little water, which must be well mixed, and more sugar if necessary. Currant Ice. Glace de Groseilles. Take two pounds of red currants and one of rasps ; put them upon the fire with half a pint of water to break, and pass them through a hair search- as theSTORE-ROOM. 305 others ; melt a pound of sugar and mix in the fruit; if too acid, put in more sugar; if too thick, a little water, and finish as before. When there is no fresh fruit, currant jelly may he used : liquify it with hot water: if two pots are em- ployed, put in a chopine of water, and use sugar, if ne- cessary ; rub them through a search with a spatula ; put it then into the icing pails as above. Iced Orange-jloxcer Water. Glace de Fleur d'Orange d I’Eau. Put two handfuls of orange flowers picked, into an icing pail with a pound of sugar and four pints of boiling water ; cover it for two hours ; pass it through a gauze search, fill it into the icing pails, and put it into the ice. Apricot Ice. Glace d’Abricots. Take thirty very ripe apricots from a standard; take out the stones ; put them on the fire in four pints of water, that they may fall in a marmalade ; put them through a fine hait search, with a spatula, and put in clarified sugar sufficient; as the ice reduces the force, add a dozen of apricot kernels well beaten, infused in the third of a glass of water with the juice of a lemon; put this decoction through a gauze search, and mix it well with the apricots. Peach Ice. Glace de Peches. Take a sufficient quantity of ripe peaches; break them through a fine hair search with a spatula, or wooden spoon ; if they are not ripe enough to go through a search, cut them in pieces and give them a boil with a little water and sugar; pass them through a search, and sweeten with clarified sugar; it is then i ready for icing. Barberry Ice. Glace d’Epine-vinette. Take half a pound of barberries, pick them and boil them in four pints of water, and half a pound of sugar, for a quarter of an hour, and pass them through a fine hair search until nothing remains but the skin; sweeten it with clarified sugar; put them to ice.306 FRENCH COOKERY. Ice of Pears. Glace de Poires. Ice may be made of all sorts of pears; there are, however, some better than others, such as the but- ter pear, the St. Germain, the creusanne, and the rousselet; take as many of any of these pears as is necessary; peel and cut them in pieces; put them upon the fire, with as much water as is sufficient to make them fall; add the requisite quantity of sugar; rub it through a search with a spatula; add the juice of two lemons; put it to ice. Lemon Ice. Glace de Citron. For fifteen lemons, clarify a pound and half of sugar; put two thirds of it into a basin; put in two or three zests; cut the lemons in bits, press the juice through a search into the sugar; let them infuse an hour, and put in the remainder of the sugar; taste that it is not too strong of the lemon, and take care for all ices that the sugar has only obtained the height of the lisse ; finish it as the other ices. Orange Ice. Glace d’ Oranges de Portugal. For twelve oranges, have a pound of clarified sugar, into which throw the zests of three or four of them, and take care that the sugar is more boiled than for the lemon: as the oranges give more juice, the ice will be too liquid; which will be avoided by boiling the sugar to a higher degree; pass it through a gauze search, and add oranges or sugar, as may be necessary; and wrhen finished, put it to ice. Seville Orange Ice. Glace de Begarades. Take a pound and quarter of sugar; clarify it in four pints of water with the white of an egg; take eight juicy Seville oranges, put in the zests of two, and pass the whole through a search, with the juice of tour lemons; leave them to infuse a full hour; then put them through a gauze search, fill the ice moulds, and put them to ice. Ice Cream of Roses. Glace de Creme a la Rose. Take two handsful of fresh picked roses; boil a pint of rich cream ; then put in the roses and cover307 STORE-ROOM. them ; leave them two hours to infuse: when the cream is cold pass it through a search ; take the yolks of eight eggs; beat and mix them with the cream; put in half a pound of sifted sugar; set the cream upon a very slow fire; stir it without leaving it until it thickens, but beware of its boiling; pass it again through a gauze search, and when cold put it into an icing pail, and ice it. Ice Cream of Orange Flotvers. Glace de Creme a la Fleur d’Orange. To four pints of good cream, put the yolks of eight eggs, and half a pound of sugar, sifted or in lumps, with a small handful of orange flower pralinee, which has been well minced: do it over a slow fire, stirring it till it is enough, as is directed above: ice it. Grilled Flowers of Orange Cream. —— Creme grillee a la Fleur d' Orange. Follow exactly the same directions as in the pre- ceding articles, in diminishing only the quantity of sugar; reserving a part of the half pound of sugar to bring it to the caramel, to give the cream the colour and taste of the grille. Pistache Ice Cream. Glace de Creme aux Pistaches. To six pints of good cream, take a pound of pis- taches ; shell and put them into fresh water; dry them in a cloth, and beat them as fine as is possible in a mortar with a little cream, and some lemon grate; add the yolks of six fresh eggs, and three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, which must be well mixed ; mix by little and little into the cream; put it on a slow fire: when it is finished, put in a little green of spinage to give it a fine colour; pass it through a search ; when cold ice it. Ice Cream of Chocolate Glace de Chocolat h la Creme. Take four pints of rich cream to the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with half a pound of sugar, in lumps or sifted; and put it upon a slow fire, taking care notFRENCH COOKERY. 308 to let it boil; dissolve half a pound of good chocolate de sante or of vanille, and mix it with the cream : pass it through a gauze search, and ice it. White Coffee Cream. Creme blanche au Cafe, a I'ltalienne. Boil four pints of rich cream, and keep it hot on the side of the furnace ; add two small handsful of good burnt coffee ; cover, and let it infuse two hours; take the whites of eight eggs, and half beat them; search out the coffee, and mix it well with the eggs; put in half a pound of sugar, and thicken it on a very slow fire ; pass it again through a search, and ice it. Citron Cream. Glace de Cedrats. Take two very fresh citrons, put the zests into a pound of sugar brought to the lisse ; the sugar must be hot when the zests are put in, and if there is any juice, squeeze it also into the sugar; if necessary put in the juice of six lemons, and let them infuse two hours before passing them through the search, and ice it. All ices require a time to liquify them properly. Hazel Nut Ice. Glace cFAvelines. Take a pound of filberts, shell them, and pralinez them with half a pound of sugar; grill and put them on a leaf to cool; break them in a mortar, and put them into eight yolks of eggs, and four pints of rich cream; thicken them as the other cream ices; if they are not pralint'e, toast them to take off the skin; rasp them and put them into the cream; let them cook together with the eggs; rub them through a search, and ice them. Pine-apple Cream. Glace d’Ananas. Put into a basin a pound of clarified sugar au petit lisse; take a fresh pine-apple, which rasp and put into the sugar to infuse for three or four hours, that the taste and perfume may have been well impreg- nated ; pass it through the search, rubbing it well with the back of a wooden spoon; if it is not acid309 STORE-ROOM. enough, put in the juice of one or two lemons with a glass of water ; mix it well, and send it to ice. Iced Cheese. Fromage glace. All that has been said upon the different compo- sitions of ice, whether of flowers, fruit, or cream, it is always the same preparation for them in moulds, cannelons, and cheese; in observing that fruit in moulds, as apricots, peaches, pears, oranges, lemons, cedrats, &c., it is not necessary that they should be as thick as for ices, which is served as snow in goblets, that they may be able when taken out of their moulds to retain their form : dip the cases quickly into warm water; wipe them and turn a knife round the mouth of the mould ; they will come out easily. Iced Water Coffee. Glace au Cafe a IEaa. Take two pints of well made clear coffee, mix two yolks with four pints of good cream; put in the coffee with a little more than half a pound of sugar to weaken the strength of it; taste it; when it is ready, it may re- quire more: let it cool, put it to ice. Whipt Cream. Mousse ci la Creme. Put four pints of rich cream into a basin, with half a pound of sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and three drops of the essence of citron : when the sugar is melted, beat three or four pounds of ice and put into a large basin; put the cream into it, which will make it froth up sooner ; beat it with a whisk, and as it rises take off' the froth with a pierced spoon or skimmer, and put it into a search over a dish : if it does not rise put in some whites of eggs to assist it; if there is not enough take the cream that has run through the search, whip it, and add to the other. Mousses are generally served in large silver goblets, made on purpose to contain them ; ice beaten with salt, or saltpetre, is put under and over, upon the top of the cases: in this way they may remain two or three hours before serving them. Whipt Coffee Cream. Mousse de Cafe. Make four ounces of coffee, the strongest possible,FRENCH COOKERV. 310 and clarify it; mix six yolks of eggs with four pints of rich cream and three quarters of a pound of sugar ; put in the coffee, but do not weaken the cream too much; the coffee must not surpass three cups, but it must be very strong : finish it as the foregoing. Whipt Chocolate Cream. Mousse au Chocolat. Beat half a pound of chocolate down in two pints of water, upon a slow of fire ; stir it with a spatula ; when it is well dissolved and reduced, take it off the fire, and put in six yolks of fresh eggs, four pints of rich cream, and three quarters of a pound of sugar ; put the whole in a basin, and when cold finish it, as the others. Whipt Marasquin Cream. Mousse au Marasquin. Put into a pint of rich cream half a pound of sifted sugar, mix it, and put in glass of marasquin ; all be- ing well mixed whip the mousse, and finish it as the foregoing. SYRUPS. Syrup of Violets Simp de Violettes. Take half a pound of field violet flowers ; put them into such a vessel as can be corked ; boil three quarts of water; let it stand ten minutes before it is put over the violets, otherwise the infusion will be green, which ought to be of a fine violet ; put the infu- sion into the stove, that it may remain hot till the next day ; squeeze it then well through a towel that it may give all the colour ; put it into another vessel with three pounds of sifted sugar, which must be dis- solved in it, and put it into the stove for twenty-four hours ; stir it from time to time ; let the stove be kept hot as for candy: this will make two bottles of syrup ; and attention must be paid to putting it into bottles that will endure the Jort lisse, that it may not fer- ment. This is the only syrup that is made without being put upon the fire. Capillaire Sirop de Capillaire. Take a good handful of Canadian capillaire, which311 SYRUPS. is to be had at the druggists; boil it in four pints of river water for a quarter of an hour ; drain oft' all the decoction, and pour it over four pounds of cassonade to dissolve it ; have ready an entire egg, beaten in a little water, to clarify the sugar ; skim it, and throw in from time to time a little white water *, till there rises no more scum; when it is enough, which is the lisse, add as it comes off the fire a little orange-flower water, and put it through a bag or napkin : bottle it when nearly cold. Syrup of Lemon. Sirop de Lemon. Take twenty-four fine juicy lemons, and zest three of them into a basin, over which place a search ; cut the lemons, and express the juice upon the zests: if the juice is very thick it may be filtered through paper ; clarify four pounds of sugar, and boil it to the fort boulet; grain it and put it in a basin; mix the lemon juice with a little water to bring it to the de- gree it ought to have ; fill a large flat pan half full of water ; put it upon a furnace, and put the syrup au bain marie f, and stir it from time to time to dissolve the sugar: when all is dissolved and the sugar hot and clear, take it off the fire, and put it, when cold, into bottles. As every one knows the effect of acid upon brass or copper, they will see the propriety of finishing this syrup au bain marie in an earthen vessel, being sure by this method of avoiding the evil. Orgeat. Sirop cT Orgeat. Take a pound and half of sweet almonds and half a pound of bitter; beat them together in a mortar as fine as possible ; heat about ten pints of water, which mix by little and little into the pate; rub the almonds through a napkin, and wring it well to take out all the milk ; clarify four pounds and a half of sugar ; bring * White water is made by wliisking a little white of egg, and mixing it in water. f The bain mane is water kept constantly at the same degree of heat, where saucepans, or any vessel, may be put to cook or keep warm.FRENCH COOKERY. 312 it to the fort boulet, and when it has arrived at that point, put in the milk of almonds; leave it on the fire, stir and skim it until it rises ; take it off, and put in half a glass of orange-flower water, and pour it info a basin; when cold put it into bottles: two ounces of the quatre scmences, or four seeds, may be pounded with the almonds; it makes the syrup more refreshing. Syrup of Mallows. Sirop de Guimauve. Take half a pound of the root of mallows; scrape, wash, and cut it in small pieces ; put it on the fire with three chopines of water : when the water is gummy, pass it through a search; put the decoction into four pounds of sugar, or white cassonade, and finish with the white water, skimming it till clear; then boil it to the fort lisse, or the petit perle ; pass it through a strainer, and when cold bottle it. Syrup of Verjuice. Sirop de Verjus. Take three pounds of verjuice, very green, which must be peeled, and passed to obtain the juice ; pass it two or three times through a bag, till it is very clear ; clarify four pounds of sugar, and boil it to the fort souffle, or au petit boulet ; put in four pints of ver- juice, and give it a boil: the height of the sugar is the same for all syrups, from thefort lisse, to thepetitperle. Syrup of Mulberries. Sirop de Mures. Take six pints of mulberry juice; put it upon the fire with the same quantity of water, and give it several boils, until it is altogether reduced into four pints; clarify three pounds of sugar, and bring it to the boulet; then put in the juice, give it a boil, and skim it; bring it to its height, which is the petit perle ; but should it be more, put in a little water to bring it back to its degree ; cool it in a basin, and bottle it. Rasp Syrup of Vinegar. Sirop de Vinaigrc framboise'. Take three or four pounds of ripe rasps ; pick and put them in a basin ; pour over them twelve pints of313 SYRUPS. fine red vinegar, otherwise use white; add two pounds of currants; let the whole infuse eight days, in shaking and stirring it every day with a spatula ; pass it through a search ; when it is well drained clarify nine pounds of sugar and bring it to the fort souffle, or to the petit boulet: when at that point put in the vinegar which has been passed through a bag, and at the first boil be careful to take it from the fire; skim it and put it immediately into a vessel, that it may not remain in the pan: when cold bottle it. Currant Syrup. Sir op de Groseillcs. Break in a search five or six pounds of red currants and two pounds of cherries ; put this juice into the cellar to ferment for eight days; at the end of that time pass it through a bag ; put it into four pounds of sugar au petit perle, and at the first boil take it off the fire and skim it The fruit is fermented to prevent its becoming jelly in the bottles. Orange Flower Syrup. Sirop de Fleur d'Orange. For three quarters of a pound of orange flowers fresh picked, take four pounds of clarified sugar au perle, throw in the flowers, and give them a strong boil; take them off the fire, and leave them to infuse two hours ; put the syrup again on the fire, and give it a dozen of boils; have a search put over a dish, and pour it in to take out the flowers ; put it again on the fire to finish, and bring it to its proper degree ; let it cool in a basin ; bottle it. Not to lose the orange flowers put them in sifted sugar, rub them well, and dry them in a stove. Syrup of Pomegranates. Sirop de Grenades. Take a sufficient quantity of fine ripe pomegranates, of which the grains are very red ; five fine ones ought to give four pints of syrup ; break the grains ; put them on the fire with two pints of water, and let them boil seven or eight minutes; put it then through a cloth, wringing it well to express all the juice; have a pound and a half of sugar au souffle, and put in the juice; boil it till it arrives at its proper point; finish it as the other. pFRENCH COOKERY. 314 Muscated Syrup of Vinegar. Sir op de Vinaigre au Muscat. Take four pints of fine sugar vinegar, and have ready four pounds of sugar au fort souffle ; put it in, and bring it to its point: at the first boil take it off; skim when cold, and bottle it. LIQUEURS BY INFUSION. Liqueurs par Infu- sion. Ratifa de Fleur d'Orange. With twelve quarts of brandy of twenty-two degrees, put twelve ounces of orange-flowers into a stone bot- tle ; cork it well, and leave it to infuse for two days ; take three pounds and a half of sugar, dissolve it in two pints and a half of water ; drain the orange- flowers from the brandy, and mix the infusion with the sugar ; pass it through a bag, or filter it through paper, and bottle it. Ratifa de Noyaux. Take three quarters of a pound of kernels of apri- cots, cut them in pieces, and infuse them in twelve quarts of brandy for three weeks, shaking the jar from time to time ; dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in five quarts of water; mix, and filter as directed above. Ratifa d'Oranges de Portugal. Zest twelve fine oranges; choose them thick skin- ned ; put them with eight quarts of brandy into a jar; dissolve two pounds of sugar in the juice of the oranges; put all together; cork the jar well, and leave it to infuse for a month; then strain it properly and bottle. Citronnelle. To the zest of twelve lemons put eight quarts of brandy in the manner above-mentioned; add two pieces of cinnamon broken, and an ounce of coriander, with two pounds of sugar, which must be dissolved in three quarts of water during a month; clarify by a bag, and, if necessary, the paper filter, and bottle.315 LIQUEURS BY INFUSION. p 2 Ratifa des quaire Fruits. Take five pounds of merisses, five of griottes, both cherries, five of currants, and five of rasps; all ripe, particularly the merisses and griottes, as it is these that give the fine colour; take the stalks off the cher- ries, pick the currants and raspberries; break them all separately, and mix them in an earthen pan for five hours ; after that, wring them out through a new cloth, or press them ; allow half a pint of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, broken in pieces, to half a pint of juice; being mixed well, put it into a stone bottle, or a small barrel, for a month ; let it clear, and draw it off gently while it runs clear; let the remainder be passed through a bag, till it become clear also ; put all together, and bottle it. Observations. — To aromatize it, put in the following spiceries : i. e. half an ounce of fine cinnamon, two drachms of mace, twenty cloves; break and tie them in a bit of linen, and fix them by a thread to the stone S bottle, or the bung of the cask, that it may be taken out at will. This ratijia retains the flavour of the fruit so well, that it is often preferred without the spiceries. Ratijia de Framboises. Take six pounds of rasps ; pick them ; put them into ajar with twelve quarts of brandy, two drachms of cinnamon, and one of mace bruised ; dissolve three pounds of sugar in three quarts of water, which must be added to the other ingredients; mix it, and leave it for fifteen days to infuse, shaking it from time to time pass it through a bag, and bottle it. Ratijia of Quinces. Raljia de Coins. Thirty large quinces will be necessary to make eight quarts of juice; choose the smoothest, ripest, and yellowest; wipe them to take off the down, and rasp them to the heart; keep out the seeds; leave them in a vessel three days; at that time express the juice through a new cloth, wringing it strongly ; measure it; if eight quarts, more or less, put in as much water; dissolve in the juice twelve ouncesFRENCH COOKERY. 316 of sugar to every four pints of fruit; then put in the brandy; break some cinnamon, six cloves, and some mace ; tie it up in a bit of linen, and suspend it in the vessel; this liqueur must not be used too new; it re- quires two months in the jar well corked, before it can be bottled. Angelica. Ratifia d'Angelique. Take a handful of the angelica stems ; take off the leaves, and pick out the threads; cut them in little bits; to a pound, give twenty-four pints of brandy, two drachms of cinnamon, and one of mace, with twelve cloves; dissolve four pounds of sugar in eight pints of water, and mix the whole in a jar that must be well corked; leave them to infuse six weeks; after- wards filter it, or put it through a bag, and bottle it. Fan d'Anis par hifusion. For sixteen pints of brandy, take six ounces of Spanish or Verdun anise, which must be rubbed in a search to take the dust from it; put it in the brandy with two drachms of cinnamon, and the zests of two large lemons, or three small ones ; cork it well, and leave it to infuse fifteen days; dissolve two pounds of sugar in eight pints of water ; put the sugar to the infusion; pass it through a bag, or filter, and bottle it. Ratifia de Raisin Muscat. Take these grapes very ripe, and pick them from their stalks; put them through a search to obtain the juice; put equal quantities of juice and of brandy into a jar, with two ounces of sugar to each pint, and two drachms of broken cinnamon: these are all infused together with the brandy for fifteen days; pass it through a bag, and bottle it. This liqueur may be made of the black muscat: let them be very ripe. Gillifioiver. Ratifia d'(Fillets. For twenty-four pints of brandy, take a pound of carnation flowers, called ratifia pinks; take nothing but the red of the flowers, which is put into the brandy, with a drachm of bruised cloves; observe that it is aLIQUEURS BY INFUSION. 317 pound of the red leaves of the flowers ; leave them a month in infusion; drain, and press the flowers well; dissolve two pounds of sugar in eight pints ot water; mix it well with it; strain and bottle. Orange Flower Water. Eau de Fleur d Orange. Put into an alembic, two pounds of fresh orange flowers that have not been heated, with twentv-four pints of river water; cover the alembic, and lute it well (that it may not evaporate) with strips of paper and paste ; put it upon the side of a furnace with a slow fire, that it may not run but in a small thread or quick drop ; refresh it often, or at least when the water in the cooler gets w*arm, change it, as the qua- lity of the water depends much upon that; draw off twelve pints, which will be excellent orange-flower water. Continue to draw off four pints more, and keep it to put into another distillation of the same kind, in- stead of as much water. Double Orange Flower Water. Eau de Fleur d'Orange double. Repeat the same distillation, from which is drawn off sixteen pints, and put them upon a pound of fresh flowers, and draw off twelve pints, or if to be very (good, only ten pints; continue and take off four pints, which may be added to the simple orange-flower water, taking care not to have too much fire, particu- larly towards the end; as the flowers being then (nearly dry, they may burn and spoil all the rest: changing the receivers often may prevent disap- pointment. Rose Water. Eau de Rose Simple. The single rose is that which is employed whether for liqueurs or rose water; they have much more per- fume than those of the cent-feuilles ; the roses must be gathered in dry weather, and picked, nothing but the leaves being used: take four pounds of flowers to four pints of water; put them into a vessel that can be stopt, with some handsful of common salt; mix them well and leave them three days; stir them often’ FRENCH COOKERY. 318 with a spatula, then distil them upon an open fire; put into the bottom of the alembic, a little new straw to prevent the roses from burning, as the distillation is lost if this happen ; take care not to fill the alem- bic more than two-thirds, that in boiling the flowers may not rise too high, as that spoils the quality of the water; for twelve pounds of prepared roses, take twenty.-four pints of water; when six have been drawn oft', stop ; four more may be drawn off separately, which will assist in another distillation of roses. Double Rose Water. Eau dc Rose Double. To make double rose water, put into the alembic the same quantity of roses, prepared in the same man- ner, having always care to change the refreshing wa- ter often : instead of river water for drawing it off, use simple rose water ; but should there not be enough, add a sufficient quantity of simple water, or more, that there may be enough in the bottom to prevent the leaves from sticking. If there is a bain marie then the distillation can be carried on with a quick fire, with- out any fear of accident; if the alembic is well luted, there may be drawn off as much at first as the quan- tity of rose water used in the distillation, that is to say, the quantity put in; by this means it will be very strong of the roses. If the bain marie is used, there will be no necessity to put in the straw; after the quantity of any distillation is drawn off, still four pints of a weaker quality may be procured, which is not worth the trouble where the flowers are plenty. Very strong Rose Water. Eau ardente de Rose. Take thirty pounds of picked roses; beat them in a marble mortar, and put them in an earthen vessel; beat four pounds of common salt, and lay in the roses in layers, upon which strew the salt, press them well down, and stop them quite close ; leave them for ten or twelve days, and distil them in the bain marie as the others, with a very quick fire; do not be anxious for a great quantity, but that it should be strong and have a fine perfume, and six drops in half a glassLIQUEURS DISTILLEES. 319 of water will be as strong as the same quantity of sim- ple rose water. LIQUEURS DISTILLEES. Citron Cream. Creme de Cedrats distilles. For twenty-four pints of brandy at twenty-two de- grees, take four fine large, or six smaller citrons, very fresh, and of a fine perfume, zest and put into the brandy with four pints of water in a jar well corked; let them infuse several days, and then distil in the bain marie; it ought to give eighteen pints; dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in fourteen pints of water ; put it in the spirit, pass it through a bag, or filter it. It would be advisable, that those who distil would attend to the first drops that come over the alembic, which are nothing but phlegm, and ought not to be mixed with the spirit; therefore take off a small quantity before the receiving bottle is placed. Oil of Citron. Huile de Cedrats. There is no difference between this and the cream of citrons but in the sugar, which instead of three pounds and a half must be five: thus thickening, and making it more oily. Pa fait Amour. Citron is the base of this liqueur; there are only some other ingredients added, and the red colour that makes it, differ from the white; half an ounce of fine cinnamon, four ounces of coriander, bruised and in- fused with the citrons, and distilled as for the cream: the colour is made by two drachms of cochineal, two drachms of cream of tartar, one drachm of alum, all in fine powder, boiled in a small quantity of water; put it through a linen cloth, and add; filter the liqueur and bottle it. Liqueurs des quatre Fruits Jaunes. To twenty-four pints of brandy take two citrons, four lemons, one fine bergamot, or two small ones, two large Portugal oranges; zest all these fruits as p 4FRENCH COOKERY. 320 fine as possible; put them to infuse for several days in the brandy; put in four pints of water into this in- fusion, and four pints into the distillation, and dissolve three pounds and half of sugar in fourteen pints of water; mix it with the spirit, and pass it through a bag, or filter it. * Citronelle de Venise. For sixteen pints of brandy zest twelve fine lemons, which put to infuse as has been directed often, and distil in the same manner: never forget in distilling for twenty-four pints of brandy to add four pints of water, and for twelve pints, two pints of water, and ten pints of water for the syrup, with two pounds of sugar; the whole is conducted as directed above. Fine Orange. For twenty-four pints of brandy zest twelve fine Portugal oranges, and leave them to infuse some days; then distil them ; attend to what has been said of the syrup ; for twenty-four pints of brandy, three pounds of sugar for the hard liqueurs, three and half for the more smooth, and from four to five for the oily; fol- low the directions for the quantity of water as already often given, and filter or put through a bag as may be requisite. Fine Cinnamon. Cannelle Jine. To sixteen pints of brandy add two pints of water; break two ounces of cinnamon, and put to infuse in the spirits, also the zests of two lemons, and an ounce of liquorice root; leave them to infuse some days, and distil them ; make the syrup with two pounds of sugar and eight pints of water; finish as indicated before. , Cinnamon. Cannelle. For twenty-four pints of brandy take four ounces of cinnamon, two drams of mace, an ounce of li- quorice root beaten; put them with two zests of le- mon to infuse in the brandy for some days before dis- tilling; make the syrup of four pounds of sugar with fourteen pints of water, finished as the precedingLIQUEURS t’ISTir.LEES. 321 ones ; this is an excellent liqueur, and which might be called oil of cinnamon. Oil of Cloves. Huile de Girofle. For twenty-four pints of brandy pound in a mortar an ounce of cloves, and infuse it in the spirits; distil it as the foregoing; if for the liqueur, make the syrup of three pounds of sugar, and fourteen pints and half of water, and for oil, four pounds of sugar-with the same quantity of water, and finish the same. Anise Water. Eau d'Anis, on Anisette de Bor- deaux. For twenty-four pints of brandy take eight ounces of new anise-seed of Verdun, if possible ; when old it is yellow and light, when new green and heavy : it is by having every thing the best of their kind that these compounds can obtain that excellence which every professional person would wish to arrive at in his com- positions : rub them in a search to take out the dust; put them with the spirits to infuse in a jar with three zests of oranges, and half an ounce of bruised cinna- mon ; let it infuse for some days, and distil it with a moderate fire, never forgetting four pints o'f water, and drawing off the phlegm as is before directed, which is contained in the first half glassful that comes over the alembic: make some syrup upon the fire ; but as the anise contains a bitter salt, which often makes the liquor milky, and consequently difficult to clear, put in the spirits to the hot syrup, which ought to be made with a quart less water that can blanche may be made of it with three or four whites of eggs: when the sugar is dissolved and hot, put in the spirits and white water; stir it upon the fire till it is hot without boiling; put it into the jar, and leave it till the next day well stopped ; filter or pass it through a bag. The oil requires only another pound of sugar to be added to the syrup. Badiane. Anis etoilc, ou Anis des hides. Tliis liquor is called Badiane des hales. F’or forty- v 5FRENCH COOKERY. 322 eight pints of brandy take a pound of anis eloile ; bruise and put it into the brandy, and leave it eight days ; distil it, putting into the alembic with it six pints of water; dissolve seven pounds and half of su- gar in twenty-eight pints of water; mix it; this li- quor is often made red, and it is called Huile de Ba- diane, and in white Creme de Badiane: the red is made by adding the cochineal, prepared as in one of the foregoing articles: when it is coloured, filter or pass it through a bag, and bottle it. Cordial Waters. Eau Cordiale. To twenty-four pints of brandy add four of water, and the zests of fifteen lemons fresh and of a fine perfume; half an ounce of fine cinnamon, four ounces of coriander bruised ; put all to infuse eight days; then distil; dissolve three pounds and half of sugar in twelve pints of water; mix, filter, and bottle it. Barbadoes Cream. Creme de Barbade. For twenty-four pints of brandy and one of water take two fine citrons, the zests of six lemons and four oranges, a dram of mace, two of cinnamon, and twelve cloves; break all these ingredients and put the in- fusion in spirits for eight days ; then distil and finish as the above. Creme de Noyaux. To twenty-four pints of brandy add four of water, half a pound of sliced kernels of apricots infused in'the spirits for some days ; distil it; add two pints of orange-flower water, three pounds of sugar, and twelve pints of water; filter or pass through a bag. Oil of Roses Huile de Roses. For twenty-four pints of brandy take six pounds of rose leaves, the single rose, if possible, put them to infuse for somp time in a jar, adding four pints of water, and distil it an bain-marie; put four pounds of sugar and twelve pints of water for the syrup; colour it with the cochineal infusion, and pass it through a bag.LIQUEURS DISTILLERS. 323 p 6 Creme de Moca. Fop twenty-four pints of brandy take six ounces of burnt mocha coffee, grind it as usual, take care not to do it too much ; infuse it some days in the brandy, and distil it an bain-marie over a slow fire, because the coffee rises, and should it do so it is lost; take off die phlegm ; for the syrup take three pounds and half of sugar and fourteen pints of water; mix the spirits and filter. Liqueur cTAngelique. For twenty-four pints of brandy and one of water, take twelve ounces of fresh Angelica cut small; if there is none fresh, get six ounces from a druggist of Bohemian Angelica; cut it in pieces and infuse it eight days in the spirits, with a dram of mace, two of cinnamon, and twelve cloves, three pounds of sugar, fourteen pints of water; and proceed as above. Scubae. For twenty-four pints of brandy and four pints of water, infuse an ounce of saffron in a pint and half of the brandy to obtain the colour; put the remainder into a jar and add the zest of four lemons, two ounces of coriander, two drams of cinnamon, one dram of mace, twelve cloves, and an ounce of hitter almonds; bruise all these and put them into the brandy for eight days; distil it; pour off the brandy from the saffron, and keep it to mix afterwards, and put in the grounds to be distilled along with the other; distil it as usual; this liquor being more unctious than the other liquors, put four pounds of sugar and fourteen pints of water for the syrup ; mix in the saffroned and the distilled spirits; mix all well and pass them through a bag. Observe that all these receipts require the brandy to be at the twenty second degree. Huile de Venus. For twenty-four pints of brandy and four pints of water, take half an ounce of cinnamon, one drachm of mace, the zest of four citrons, half an ounce of cannin, half an ounce of anise, one ounce of coriander,FRENCH COOKERY. 324 lialf’ an ounce of benzoin, half an ounce of florax, and a little pinch of walnut leaves ; bruise all these ingre- dients, and leave them to infuse for some days; before distilling, take for the syrup four pounds and half of sugar, and fourteen pints of water: to give an oily colour boil a pinch of saffron in a gill of water, with which colour the liqueur; strain or filter, and bottle it. Creme de Cocoa. Take a pound of cocoa, ready for use ; put it into twenty-four pints of brandy, with half an ounce of vanilla ; let it infuse for some days and then distil it; dissolve three pounds and half of sugar in fourteen pints of water, mix ; filter or strain, and bottle. Creme d’Absinthe. For twenty-four pints of brandy, and four of water, take a small handful of fresh wormwood, but if dry an ounce is sufficient, with half an ounce of cinnamon and two drachms of mace; infuse and distil; mix with the common syrup, which is three pounds and half of sugar with fourteen pints of water. Creme de Framboiscs. For twenty-four pints of brandy and four pints of water, put in four pounds of rasps, and let them in- fuse twenty-four hours ; distil ; make the mixtures as before directed, and filter, or strain. Cur agon, que Von nomine le plus ordinairement Cuirasseau. Cuirasseau, or bigarade, is nearly allied to the bit- ter orange, the dry skin of which is only used, it may be bought at the druggists; take a pound, wash it well in warm water; drain, and put it in a jar with thirty-two pints of brandy and twro of water ; let it in- fuse fifteen days, shaking it from time to tirhe; strain it, and make a syrup of five pounds and half of sugar and twelve pints of water ; if the brandy is lower than twenty-two degrees, it will be necessary to keep some of the water out of the syrup, otherwise the325 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. liqueur will be too weak; and all the foregoing re- ceipts are given for spirits of that gauge Liqueur de Menthe distillee For twenty-four pints of brandy and four of water, take two small handsful of fresh garden mint; infuse it some days in the brandy, then distil; put it into a syrup of three pounds and half of sugar and fourteen pints of water, and filter or strain, as usual. Eau des sept Graines. For twenty-four pints of brandy take an ounce of green anise, an ounce of fennel, an ounce of carrot, an ounce of carraway, half an ounce of angelica, an ounce and half of coriander, and a drachm of mace; bruise and put them all to infuse in the spirits, with a pint of water, for some days ; distil; make the syrup as above; mix, and filter. DOMESTIC ECONOMY. Cucumbers. Maniere de faire les Cornichons. Take gherkins, very green, and rub them well to take off the down, either with a brush or the hand, in fresh water, until they are perfectly clean; put them then into an earthen pot with a little garlic, a small handful of sea fennel, as much of tarragon, and a little long pepper: these different seasonings must be in proportion to the quantity and strength re- quired ; heat the vinegar without letting it boil, and put it over the gherkins ; cover them well up ; leave them well stopped two or three days ; after that time pour it off; boil and skim it well, and pour it again over them; three days after repeat the same oper- ation ; the third time, when the vinegar is boiled and well skimmed, throw in the gherkins, and leave them upon the fire till they begin to tremble, but not to boil ; take them off quickly, and put them into pots. Bitter Oranges Pickled. Bigaradcs au Vinaigre. Take the quantity of ripe bigaradcs, or bitter326 FRENCH COOKERY. oranges, that is to be pickled; take off the ends of the stalk and put them into ajar; pour good vine- gar over them ; add to them a small handful of cori- ander and a little cinnamon, beaten together, and tied in a cloth, eight days ; after pour off the vinegar and give it a few boils; put it to cool in a basin, and then pour it over the oranges: it is necessary to bung the jar well. Turkey Wheat. Ble de Turquie au Vinaigre, que Von sert pour Hors-d’ CEuvre. Take the quantity of Turkey corn that is to be pre- served, when it is well formed; i. e. when it is about the size of a small cucumber; strip off the leaves that are wrapt round it, take off the beard, wipe it well, and put it into a bottle, with a little salt, and some cloves, and fill it with fine white vinegar; leave it for some days; then drain it, and give the vinegar a dozen of boils; let it cool, and pour it over the corn; in a few days after, repeat the same operation; it must be well corked. Canapds pour Hors-d’CEuvre. Take the crumb of a large loaf, cut it in slices the thickness of three quarters of an inch ; afterwards cut them into any form, and fry them of a nice colour in oil or butter; mince separately the hard yolks of eggs, whites; cucumbers, capers, anchovies in strips, differ- ent fine sweet herbs, small salad, &c., and put them in a little oil; season the canapes (fried bread) with salt, pepper, and vinegar; dress it handsomely, and garnish it tastefully with hard eggs, ham, beetroot, small herbs, anchovies, capers, &c. &c., and serve upon dishes for hors-d’oeuvre. Dressed Cucumbers. Concombres Marines. Skin some cucumbers and cut them very small, put them in a dish, and season them with salt, pepper, and vinegar; leave them in it for some hours; when ready to serve, put them into a cloth and express all the vine- gar from them; dish, and put over them a little oil and pepper, and serve for salad or hors-d'ceuvre.327 WINES. To make Coffee. Cafe d I'Eau. Take the best coffee, the Mocha is always preferred, and burn it a fine equal deep brown, which should be done in a coffee roaster, and used immediately. The method to make it: For six cups of coffee, measure six cups of water into a coffee pot, and let it boil; put then in a little isinglass and six table spoonsful of cof- fee ; stir it well to allay the boiling; put it upon the fire, give it two or three boils, stirring it constantly with a spoon; take it off, put in a cup of cold water, and leave it to clear half an hour ; after which it may be poured off clear. Cream Coffee Cafe ala Creme. It is made in the same manner as coffee a I'eau, in adding half a spoonful of coffee to every cup of water: while the coffee is clearing, boil the cream and add the coffee as taste directs. Drinking Chocolate. Chocolat en Boisson. Take good chocolate de sante, or vanilla; the proper chocolate cups are marked for the quantity to be used, which is generally twelve and sixteen cups to the pound; if it is for chocolat a Veau, that is to be used with water, make twelve cups; if it is cream, sixteen; put into a chocolate pot as many cups of water as is necessary; and when it is nearly boiling, put in the proportion of chocolate in pieces, and mill it well; give it some boils, and put it to simmer upon hot cinders ; when ready to serve, mill it again till it froths ; serve it then in chocolate cups. WINES. Vins. Choice of Wines. Choix de Vins. Examine it well in the glass; it ought to be beauti- fully clear and of a ruby colour, of a fine flavour, free from particular taste, not clammy, strong without being pungent, a good body without harshness; these qualities constitute good wine, and are the only cha- racteristic signs that can be given ; all the rest depends on delicacy of taste.orio \J X* sj FRENCH COOKERY. Wine is not good till it has acquired its maturity, and till it loses its phlegm: when new, it ferments upon the stomach and goes to the head ; and when too old, by the loss of its qualities, it attacks the nerves ; yet we are not able to give a decided judgment on this point, as so much depends upon the seasons; some seasons giving wine that may be drunk in two or three years ; and others which cannot be drunk till four or tire, which depends upon the vintage ; it is not possible for those who depend alone upon taste to determine. The French wines merit the reputation they hold, particularly among strangers. The amateurs prefer those of Burgundy, because they have the advantage of being high flavoured and light. Every vintage has its particular mark, in what is called high Burgundy. The wines of Auxerre and Tonnerre are in highest estimation; but as the limits of such a publication as this will not permit of a very extensive description, those wines will only be men- tioned which are used at grand entertainments. The wines of Beaune in good years rival the best vintages ; this wine is of a fine red colour, and possesses the best qualities; it bears water, and keeps a long time with- out any alteration; it is always better to drink it in its fourth or fifth year. After it come the wines of Ponard, Volnay, Nuit, Chassagne, St. Georges, de Vonne, du Chambertin, Clos de Vougeot, and Ro- mance. The Romannee-Conty is the best of all the Burgundy wines. White wines. Those of Chablis are very agreea- ble ; those of Meursalt are better, but the Morachet surpasses them in general; there are few but white wines made in that district. Champagne. After the Burgundy comes the Champagnes; their chief quality is that of raising the spirits; they are almost all white, although they cultivate nothing but black grapes, but from the manner of manufacturing them, they give them the partridge eye which distin-329 WINES. guishes them ; the red is not much esteemed, except those of Bouzy, Verzai, and Vergenai ; they are warm in the mouth, although light and of an agreeable flavour. This wine is aperient, does not bear water, and intoxicates easily. Those that are most esteemed, grow near Reims, as Ay, Sillary, and Espernay; 'those wines keep better since they have been made of black grapes ; they seldom came formerly sound till three years; few wines are as susceptible as these are ; they become thick, and afterwards depose a sediment in the bottle, and threads in it that render it nauseous; much should not be bought at a time, unless it is of an un- common fine vintage, and low price. Bourdeaux Wines. These wipes are as highly esteemed as Burgundy. In the first class, the most renowned vineyards for red wines are Lafitte-du-Chateau, Tours, Chateau-Mar- gau ; Aubrion-du-Chateau; Premier Grave, and Segur- Medoc. Second class : Mouton-Canon, Medoc-Canon, Saint Emilion, Rosans, Margau, la Rose-Medoc, Pichon- Longueville, Medoc-Potelet, Saint Julien-les-ville, and Saint Julien; vin de Pape (Grave rouge), vin de la Mission, (Grave rouge), and all the haut Pesac ; as to the rest, there are little distinctions. Third class: these wines are generally served at the second course. The numerous wanes of Pouillac are of an excellent quality : the most appreciated are those of deGescourt, Saint Esteve-Catanac, and a great many others; it is only meant to be remarked here, tlvat all who possess those wines, must let them be five or six months in bottle before they drink them, as they always sicken during the first two or three months, and taste worse than from the wood. White Wines. Vins Blancs. The Haut-Baisac, and the Haut-Preignac, which is called M. Duroy, is of the first quality ; the Sauterne the second, and the Barsac, Langon, Carbonieux, and Podecilac. After the wines of Bourdeaux, come thosefrench cookery. 330 of Languedoc, l’Hermitage, de la Cote Rotie, du Dauphine, and of Provence. The most known are the hermitage of a fine red and high flavour; they must be kept some years, as otherwise they are harsh, but de- licious when of a proper age. The white wines are more heady, and verge to the yellow. Those of Rou- sillon are stronger and thicker ; it is necessary to keep them a long time, and not to bottle them till they are fine, which happens in consequence of proper treat- ment, sooner or later; this wine keeps thirty years, and often much longer; at that age, it acquires the taste of Alicante; it ought always to be decanted with care, as it deposes a sediment in bottle; the white is not subject to this inconvenience. The wines of Languedoc are all very good, and favourites of the fair sex : the most esteemed are those of Frontignac, of which there are both red and white. This wine unfortunately grows thick and is heady. Then comes the Lunel, red and white: there are years in which it is as good as the Frontignac. The Juran^on in Bearn, Basses Pyrennees, is an ex- cellent white wine ; it is principally distinguished by a flavour of truffle, and has the advantage of keeping long The wines of Provence are good, but the red are rather thick; the white for the most part are mus- ky ; those in chief repute are the gemenos, which are called the wines of Toulon ; the marque of Barbau- tan, and many others which are drunk at desserts or collations. — The wines of Tavelle are heady, but ex- cellent ; those of Cote-Rotie, Saint Peyret, and Con- drieux are most esteemed : formerly they were served at the best tables with entremets; they are now replaced by those of Bourdeaux.— Those of Barre, Moselle, and the Rhine, are highly esteemed. — The wines of Barre are agreeable and light, but do not bear transportation. The Moselle are white, light, aperient, and very good. The most esteemed of the Rhine are white : of the Hungarian wines the St. George’s is that which is sold at a high rate for tokai: it resembles it very much, but the great difference is known to tbe331 WINES. connoisseurs and gourmands; at St. George two kinds are made; those "that are destined to carry the name of Wermoute are made by adding a thimble-full ot the extract of wormwood to a half bottle, corking it well, which gives it that bitter taste, and excellent quality of fortifying the stomach and facilitating the digestion. There is no vineyard of that name, nor any grape that has the taste. The tokai is well known by name, but few know the quality from drinking it. It is an excel- lent wine, but cannot be bought, as the Emperor of Germany is the sole possessor of the territory in which it is cultivated. The Emperor of Russia possesses a small portion of this territory as a gift from the Em- peror of Austria, so that these two sovereigns are at present the possessors of this invaluable wine, of which they make presents to the ambassadors of different courts, &c.&c. and sometimes, though rarely, finds its way from sales into the market. This wine, excellent as it is, does not easily bear fermentation or clearing: should a bottle not completely filled be left, in a few days it will be hardly recognizable. It is said that the wines grown on the higher vineyards are not sub- ject to this inconvenience. The wines of Greece most esteemed are those of Cyprus; they keep fifty years, and even more, and have always been in great repute. They are very pleasant and agreeable; but extremely dear, and very often adulterated: they are nourishing and balsamic, smell a little of the skin or outre in which they are kept; and although disagreeable to some, it is perhaps the surest mark of their genuineness. After this wine comes that of Stam^on ; it is thicker than that of Cyprus, which has a very agreeable fla- vour. There is another of the same isle, which passes for nectar; it is called Chio. The ancients sought this wine for libations and sacred purposes : little of it comes to Europe. There is also the Malvoisie of Cy- prus ; it is a muscated wine, that is much esteemed : it is often sold for that of Syracuse. Madeira is well known. This wine to be good ought332 FRENCH COOKERY. to be hard with a little bitter, an agreeable and resin- ous flavour, which it acquires from the cask. The Malvoisie of the same vineyard is also excellent, and is much sought after by gourmands ; it is soft, pleasant, and healthy. Of the Spanish wines the best and the most known are those of Malaga; they are of different qualities : they ought to be chosen oily, without being thick, of a fine taste and nearly of a golden colour ; there are some red, which are excellent; they keep very well, and preserve their fine flavour. They are drunk in France at desserts, and given as restoratives; but if taken to excess become dangerous. As to port wine, suffice it to say, that its good qualities are known. It ought to be kept three or four years. The British isles consume a great quantity of it: there are both white and red; but the white is not very common. Among the Spanish wines that of Alicant is distin- guished, which possesses the same virtues, though less agreeable to drink, which conies from its being thick ; it is of a deep red colour, bordering upon the black when new. It is necessary to keep it a long time, that it may depose, and to change it often in the wood; when it is bottled, though drawn off perfectly clear, it still deposes a sediment; it must therefore be de- canted. When it is old, it acquires more quality, and its colour is then that of the skin of an onion ; then it is truly good and beneficial; it repairs the debility of the human frame from whatever cause, and gives a tone to the stomach ; but it must be used in moderation, as it is very heating. Those of Rota have the same qualities and colour, but a more agreeable flavour. That of Xeres is white, hard, and bitterish : it is one of the best of the Spanish wines, and is drunk at desserts. That of the Canaries is preferred to all the wines of the Malvoisie by real connoisseurs, because it is light and keeps long. It is a made wine, of muscatel raisins ; it has excellent qualities for the stomach, but must be avoided by the bilious. The Packarets are hard and very pleasant. ThoseWINES. 333 of Benicaltos are sweet. There are also throughout Italy very fine wines, the most esteemed are those of Falerno, so vaunted by Horace. That of Albano, or primitive Rome, was the first wine made by the Ro- mans, and drunk at their solemn festivals; it is still in estimation ; this wine is light., pleasant, and seldom goes to the head; there are both white and red ; it is given to the sick. There are also Tuscan wines, that do not cede to any of the above, which are those of Mont Fiascone, which the Tuscans esteem above all others, but that is perhaps an error, as it is in no way superior to the others; but in that of intoxicating sooner. That of the territory of Venice is excellent and piquant. The Neapolitan wines the most known are those of Lacry- ma-Christi and Gaete; they, are red, light, and of a pleasant flavour. Management of Wines. The first racking or change of the wines ought to take place the middle of March, after the first vintage; for this purpose casks ought to be taken that have been lately emptied; rince them with the greatest care, and scrape out all the tartar that may be attached to them, as it is hurtful to the quality, delicacy, and perfume of the wine; they should be equally cleaned on the outsides, and the bottoms must be freed from the moss and mushrooms that may have grown on them: no- thing must be left dirty to the hoops; all must be cleaned with the greatest care: after these precautions the casks must be sulphured by a long match, narrower at one end than the other; it ought to be done when the weather is clear and dry; when ready to fill rince it with half a bottle of Cogniac brandy, drain it out well, and draw off the wines from the lees, with a bellows or pump ; then cork the wine with a new bung, wrapt round with lessived linen, that is, washed with the lees of wood ashes, not soap; as the casks are filled, arrange them upon their stands; great care must be taken to keep them full; every month they ought to be filled up, as they are continually losing: attentionFRENCH COOKERY. 334- must also be given to have some of the same wine in reserve for that purpose, for if an inferior wine is put in, it will spoil it. In the September following, or in six months from the first drawing off, it must be racked again in the same manner. It is in the repetition of this operation several times, that the wine acquires that quality and fineness that brings it to maturity, which prepares it for fining. For all sorts of red wine whisk five whites of eggs, and mix them with four pints of river water; draw off from the cask, to be fined, three bottles of wine: take a stick the size of a sweep- ing-broom-handle, and cut it at one end in four, so that it will distend like a claw-foot; these being held together can be introduced into the bunghole; after the whites of the eggs have been put in, with this stick agitate the wine so that it may be entirely mixed with it; but do not descend so low as the bottom of the cask ; when it is well mixed the ends of the cask are beaten to shake the wine, and giving a tremendous stroke to the top, bung the cask : this operation ought to take place in fine calm weather, and it ought to be left eight or ten days. All these directions and remarks are equally applicable to red and white wines; the only difference is that of the materials used for fining. Therefore, when there is white wine to be fined, employ isinglass, a piece of which, beaten and incorporated in twelve pints of water, is sufficient to fine three pieces of wine; take the necessary quan- tity, and prepare it, as for fining jellies, with river or spring water, which ought to measure about four pints when put into the cask, that it may be the more easily spread throughout the mass; when it has been all well worked with the stick as before indicated, beat and stop it: it ought to be pierced to give it air, as it facilitates the fining. If however, after every care, the wine is still thick, boil four English pints of milk or cream, and when cold, take off the cream ; put it into the cask : it will then not be long in clearing : on the contrary, if it is red wine that is thick, take grey paper, without smell,335 WINES. and roll it up sheet by sheet, introducing them at the bunghole, and allowing each as it goes in to dis- tend before another is introduced: let them fall to the bottom, and do not draw off the wine till it is clear. There are many other ways of fining wine; but as these are simple, both in application and effect, Monsieur Beauvilliers does not reveal his knowledge on that head. The thickness of wines arises from known and un- known causes; the known are the want of attention to the proper times of racking, the not filling up of the casks, their being put into hot cellars in summer, and drawing from them for use; these causes depend entirely upon proper management; but there are others which cannot be so well accounted for, such !as the consequences which follow hot and dry sum- mers, or cold and wet ones; when the natural com- binations are obstructed, and the active powers lan- guish ; but care and judicious treatment will in the end I succeed: the malady once fixed there may be dan- ger of a relapse ; and all wines that have given much trouble in fining, ought to be used as soon as possible. If in piercing the wine does not spring out clear, as it ought to do, but comes sickly, drop by drop, then, besides what has been indicated above, beat an ounce of cream of tartar, put it into a bottle nearly filled with wine that has been racked, shake it well till it dissolves; put in two pints of brandy, and (twelve bottles, less or more, of wine of the same year : this operation ought to be successful in clearing the wine. Observations upon the Manner of bottling Wines. When a piece has been fined, it ought to be raised a little behind, so that it may incline to the fosset; this inclination should not be more than two inches ; this precaution is necessary to prevent the necessity of troubling the wine when it becomes clear. It is not necessary to give a detail of piercing casks, as no {one unaccustomed to such work would attempt to re- fine and bottle wines.FRENCH COOKERY. 336 Remark.—Shot lead is often used in cleaning bot- tles, is very dangerous, and as it has happened that some of the grains have remained, the custom ought to be entirely given up, as it is a certain poisorn Manner of preparing Wax for Bottles. Maniere de preparer le Goudron pour goudronner les Bouteilles. Take a pound of rosin, and an equal quantity of arcanson, half or three-quarters of a pound of tallow ; mix them in a small varnished earthen pot; let these ingredients melt over a moderate fire; stir till they are perfectly mixed; watch it well, and take it off the fire before it boils, to prevent the consequences of its flying over into the fire, which may endanger the house. Mix this preparation with red or yellow ocre, Spa- nish whitening, or soot; if soot is used it is recom- mended to put in rather more tallow, which for eco- nomy is to be such as is considered in families useless, as the ends of candles, or the scrapings from candle- sticks. This is by no means nasty, because nothing is so easily purified as tallow and all unctious matters, but such economy is little understood in England. Note The wax ought to be made of different co- lours, as where there are great varieties of wine used, it is an easy way of preventing mistakes. SUPPLEMENT. Different Ways of making Vinegar. Differentes Manieres defaire la Vinaigre; le premiere Maniere est d'Orleans. Take such a cask of wine, white or red, as is ne- cessary ; fine it as directed in the article that treats of wines ; when it is clear put in a w'ooden fosset, as a brass cock is dangerous ; draw off a third of it, bot- tle and cork it well ; then fill up the vinegar with good wrine of the same colour; stop it lightly with # a cork, wrapt round with paper or linen, and set it in a temperate place, rather cold than hot, and let337 VINEGARS. it be a foot and a half from the ground ; at the end of another month take off another third, and again fill it up, and go on doing so. This method may serve for twenty-five or thirty years, if the cask is bound with iron, and that no thick or musty wine is put into it. Second Way. Deuxieme Maniere. According to the quantity of vinegar, procure some yew timber, reduce it into shavings ; put it into a cask of wine that can be lifted in the hands : this will give good vinegar. Third Way. Troisiehne Maniere. For very strong vinegar put into a cask of wine thirty pods of ripe long pepper, which ought to be of a fine red, and a quarter of a pound of ginger; leave it fifteen days, then draw out the pepper, which has been suspended by a thread in the cask on purpose, and the bag of ginger; dry them that they may be in readiness to be used again for the same purpose. —Note this attention. Fourth Way. Quatrieme Maniere. To make vinegar in a very short time, and make it return again to wine, (used by vinegar merchants when vinegar paid less duty than wine.) A day or two before they sent their wine into Paris, they put into each piece a handful of beet-roots, by which they were soured in a very short time ; when housed they drew these out, and replaced them by a handful or the same quantity of cabbage-roots. Fifth Way. Cinquieme Maniere (Excellent.) To a barrel of wine, put in an ounce of cinna- mon, two ounces of long pepper, one ounce of ginger, two ounces of black pepper in grains, and three or four nutmegs grated to powder; when all these spices are prepared, put them into a hair bag, boil them two or three times in about twelve pints of good vinegar, then boil the same quantity of good wine ; put it into a barrel half filled, which may be filled up QFRENCH COOKERY. 338 with wine a little turned, if there is any; stop it, and leave the wine to make. Another simple Manner to make Vinegar in the Country. — Simple Maniere de fairedu Vinaigre ala Campagne. Take brambles, or wild blackberries, gather them before they are ripe, but when they have attained a fine red colour; put them into a pot with red wine; give them a boil; put the whole into a cask and fill it up with wine; add a handful of salt, and some whole long or black pepper; stop the cask, and in a month it will be good vinegar. Another Manner. Autre Maniere. Take a pint of rye flour, and mix it in good vinegar of any kind : work it into a firm paste, as if for bread, and put it into the oven after the bread is drawn ; let it dry well so that it may be reduced again into flour; mix it again in the same manner, and dry and reduce it; and again a third time, when it may be put into the barrel; which, in a very short time, will produce an excellent vinegar. Rose Vinegar. Take a quarter of a pound of the leaves of wild roses, and brambles, that are not fully ripe, with an ounce of very ripe barberries, dry them all in the shade; when they are sufficiently dry, reduce them to very fine powder; put half an ounce of this powder into half a pint of good red or white wine; shake it and leave it to repose; put it through a linen cloth. This is Rosat Vinegar. It is said, the same result may be obtained by put- ting a drachm of the marrow of a hare into two pints of wine. Vinaigre du Connetahle. Put into a well varnished earthen jar, capable of containing twelve pints, eight pints of rosat vinegar, with a pound of new Alexandrian raisins, stoned ; put the jar upon red cinders for ten hours, after which give it some little boils ; when half cold, pass it through a linen cloth, bottle and cork it well.VINEGARS. 339 Vinegar of Lavender for the Toilette. Prepare a jar of a proper size, and to every pint of vinegar add half an ounce of fresh lavender flowers,and some zests of lemon; leave them to infuse twenty-four hours: put the jar, well luted, upon hot.cinders for eight or ten hours without boiling ; pass it through a bag, or filter ; bottle, and keep it closely waxed. Thieves Vinegar. Vinaigre des quatre Voleurs. Take an ounce of the tops of wormwood; rosemary, sage, mint, and rue, of each half an ounce; flowers of lavender, two ounces; aromatic gum, cinnamon, cloves, nutmegs, and fresh garlic, two drams of each; half an ounce of camphor, and eight pounds of red vinegar; beat all these ingredients well, and put them into a proper earthen jar, and pour the vinegar upon them ; the garlic ought to be sliced ; and after stopping the jar, put it in the sun or in a hot place, such as a sand bath, for three or four weeks ; wring out the ingre- dients, and filter it through grey paper ; the camphor must be dissolved in a little spirits of wine. This vine- gar ought to be kept closely corked. Tarragon Vinegar. Put into a proper jar twenty-four pints of good white vinegar; take a pound and half of fresh tarragon leaves, which must have been dried in the shade; take care that they do not heat; when it is ready, put it into the vinegar, adding a small bunch of cloves, and the zests of two lemons ; then stop the jar well, and set it in the sun fifteen days, or it may be put fwo or three times in a cool oven, when it will be ready for use. It has been usual to put in salt, but that is not neces- sary; pour off the vinegar, express the leaves, and filter it through grey paper, a fustian bag, or take a large hair search, cover it completely with double filtering paper, put in the vinegar softly by degrees; and when it runs clear, bottle and cork it well. Vinaigre Surard Is made as in the last receipt, in putting in a third less of the elder flowers than of the tarragon. Q 2340 FRENCH COOKERY. Rose Vinegar for the Toilet or Salads. Vinaigre a la Rose pour la Toilette ou les Salades Is made by putting in the same quantity, that is to say, a pound and a half of dried rose leaves, into twenty-four pints of vinegar, and instead of cloves and lemon-zest, a bunch of the roots of Florence lilies, well dried; when the vinegar is made,..preserve the iris roots * by draining them for the same purpose, as they will do several times. Ravigote Vinegar. Vinaigre d la Ravigote. Take tarragon leaves prepared as above ; pimpernel leaves, chives, and shalots, of each two ounces ; fresh garlic and flowers of elder, an ounce and half, the zest of two lemons, and a dozen of cloves bruised; put all into a jar, and pour over them twenty-four pints of good white vinegar, it must be very strong, as the other in- gredients tend, from their viscous nature, to reduce the strength; when it is finished put in two ounces and a half of spirits of wine, which will give an ex- cellent vinegar, that may be preserved a long time. It ought to have a full month to make. Note.— In proportioning the ingredients, smaller quantities may be made. Cider Vinegar. Vinaigre de Cidre. To a barrel of cider prepare a pound and a half of leaven of rye, flour, and if vinegar is not employed in making, it may he allowed to sour of itself, and when it has sufficiently taken, mix it with warm water and put it into the cider; shake it well and mix it with a stick as is recommended in the fining of wines; put the cask in a warm place, which retains almost always the same temperature, and in ten or twelve days the vinegar will be fit for use; when it is made, put it in bottles. If the vinegar is made of Perry it will be much better, and have a finer appearance. Beer Vinegar Is made in the same manner as that of Cider. * Note this.341 PRESERVES. Mustards. No receipts are given, as it is no less expensive to purchase than make them; the best flour of mustard may be bought, and on the evening before, or the day it is to be used, mix it either with warm water, soup, or vinegar, and a little salt. A Way to give to Veal the Taste and Appearance of Pickled Tongue. Maniere de donner au Veaic VApparence et la Gout de Langue Marine. Take afreshnoia:; it must be rich and white; if in winter, let it hang three or four days; if in summer, only one; take off the skin and cut it in four, taking out the nerves with the fat; have a quar- ter of a pound of dry salt well beaten, and rub it com- pletely with it; put it into a vessel with some slices of onion, parsley branches, a little thyme, a bay leaf, some ginger, a clove of garlic, a dozen of juniper ber- ries, some bruised black pepper, and three anchovies beaten ; mix all well in the vessel; cover it with a les- sived cloth tied tightly over; after four days, turn it, and leave it again four days; then take away two- thirds of the juice that has come from the veal, and put the remainder with the veal and other ingredients into a stewpan ; add a bottle of good white wine, and give it a boil; then cover the fire and let it simmer ; when ready, put it into the vessel where it was sea- soned, and let it cool in the liquor; next day, drain it well, and put it into a pot or glass bottle, covering it with fresh olive oil, then with parchment, and serve it as Tunny. Chou-Croute. Wash and prepare the quantity of cabbage to be preserved, and take out the stock with a piercer made on purpose; put them in a heap to sweat for a day or two; have a cask or casks well cleaned, choosing those that have been used for white •vine in preference to any other; and take care always to cover the sides of the cask, as the crouteis packed, with the large outer leaves ;FRENCH COOKERY. 342 when it has undergone a fermentation, it is one of the most healthy viands, easy of digestion, and an excel- lent antiscorbutic. It is cut in thin slices to appear like narrow ribbons; some lay them to sweat upon cloths in the shade before they pack ; others cut them over the cask and pack them immediately; they must be spread equally with the hand in layers of three or four inches, the cask being first covered with common salt; upon every layer, a sufficient quantity of salt is strewed, with a few juniper berries or carraway seeds to aromatize it; it must be well arranged, either by the hand, a wooden pestle, or a man booted to tread it down; the work is continued from layer to layer, till the cask is filled, when another layer of salt covers the whole ; the proper quantity of salt to be used is a pound to fifty or sixty of cabbage; over the last salt- ing is spread the outer leaves of the cabbage, and over them a wet cloth; the head of the cask is then put in, and a considerable weight is laid upon it to prevent the cabbage from rising during the fermentation. Four or five inches ought to remain empty above the head of the cask, into which a wooden spicket should be introduced, by which to allow the cabbage water to run off, which is extremely fcetid and thick. This water must be replaced by introducing or filling it with salt water or pickle, and this must be done every three or four days, till it runs off clear, and has no bad smell; this takes place generally in about fifteen days, when the cask is in a cool place. The cask ought to be filled up every month with pickle, and the cloth changed every two: it is necessary that the pickle should al- ways be an inch or two above the croute, and care must be taken that there is no space left between the croute and the cask, so that it is necessary to pack it well. Prepared in this manner, and kept in a cool place, the croute keeps throughout the winter. It tastes acid, and most people come to like it, but those who do not, have only to steep it longer in hot water before it is cooked.PRESERVES. 34-3 Added to the facility of digestion, which is of great importance for flatulent stomachs, its antiscorbutic qualities, which Captain Cock was so well aware of, that he preserved his men three years in health at sea, by the use of it two or three times a week. Preserved Sorrel. Oseille pour Conserve. Clean and pick the quantity of sorrel to be pre- served ; let it be well washed and drained; throw it into boiling water, and let it be three-fourths done ; put it into a drainer, leave it there twenty-four hours, then hash it; put it into a brass pan, and set it on the fire with a little salt, and reduce it, turning it con- stantly with a wooded spatula, that it may not stick or burn, till it is of a proper consistence, such as that of sain-doux froid.* Let it cool a little, and fill the pots ; put it in a cool place; two days after, cover it with clarified butter; some days after this, cover it with strong paper, and over it parchment or leather.; keep it :o a cool dry place. Preserved Endive. Chicoree pour Creserve. Take the quantity of endive necessary ; pick away all the green and coarse leaves; cut off the points, and dress the roots in such a manner that they continue whole; wash them in several waters ; throw them into boiling water; give them two boils; take them up, and put them into fresh cold water; put a cloth into a drainer, and put them in to drain ; leave them all night, press out all the water by squeezing them ; ar- range them into pots, pressing them well down; make a strong pickle of salt and water (article Salt Water), let it cool; fill the pots with it till within an inch and a half of the top ; two days after put in an inch of good oil, and cover them as directed in the foregoing receipt. When they are to be used, steep them for six or eight hours in fresh water ; from that throw them into boiling water, and proceed to cook them as if they were in their season. * Cooled hogs-lard, a 4rFRENCH COOKERY. 344 To preserve Kidney Beans. Haricots verts pour Conserve. Prepare the beans, which ought to be young and tender, by taking off the two ends, throwing aside all that are hard or blemished ; put them into fresh water; have water with a handful of salt boiling on a quick fire ; put them in, give them two boils, and put them into cold water ; drain well, and arrange them in proper lessived jars; fill them up with a strong pickle; cover them with good oil, and stop them with corks; tie paper and parchment over, and put them in a cool dry place; serve them as new beans ; freshen, blanch, and cook them in a brass pan. To preserve Cucumbers. Concombres pour Con- serve. Take them well grown, but not quite ripe; cut off the ends as is done for garnishing (article Garnishing); pare them and cut them in four; take out the seeds; take new earthen jars and wash them, for on that de- pends their preservation. ^Strew the jars with salt, and pack in the cucumbers, strewing salt upon every layer till they are full, covering the whole with it; cover them as above, without however putting either butter or oil, or any other fat substance; put them in fresh water the evening before using them; dress them as if fresh. To preserve Beans. Feves de Marais pour Con- serve. Choose the smallest, tender, and freshly, shelled; put them into very nicely cleaned bottles ; do( not press them together, but rather leave a little space; stop them with good new corks ; fix them down with wire before you put them into the water; put them into a boiler of fresh cold water; put to it a moderate fire, and let them remain till the water boils; leave them then an hour to cook ; take the boiler oft' the fire, and let them cool in the water ; take them out, and rosin them as directed for wine ; turn the bottles down in a bottle-rack, or stick their necks down in the ground,PRESERVES. 345 and cover them with earth. When used, blanch and cook them as new beans, adding a little savory, which ought to be prepared in the following manner in its season. Preserved Savory. Clean and hash it; mix it in a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar, and reduce to a consistence of a pre- serve ; cover the pots with paper wet with spirits, and cover the whole carefully. When the beans are ready to serve, mix in a little of this preserve. To preserve Pease. Take the smallest and best; do them in bottles ex- actly as is directed for the beans de marais, and put them up and keep them in the same manner; when used, cook them as fresh pease. To preserve Asparagus. Take the finest to be had in the height of the sea- son, scrape and clean them, wash and tie them in bun- ches, cut them of an equal length ; put a pot upon the fire filled three parts with water, with a little salt, vinegar, pepper, and a few cloves ; when it boils, blanch them; take them out, arrange them in stone jars, and fill them up with a strong pickle of salt and water ; in some days pour off that pickle ; boil and skim it, and pour it again into the jars; in two or three days cover them two inches with oil, and then with paper and parchment; put them in a dry cool place ; three months after, make a new pickle; clarify it and let it cool; drain and put them anew in the fresh pickle, and also fresh oil; cover the pots as before, and use them as new when there is occasion. To preserve Artichokes. Artichautspour Conserve. Prepare them as if intended to cook them whole ; give them a quick boil; take them off, and take out the choke with a spoon ; let them drain, and arrange them in pots; have a very strong salt pickle, pour it over, and let them be well covered; then put melted butter over ; cover them as in the preceding articles. Q 5FRENCH COOKERY. S4.6 To preserve Artichokes. Artichauts a VItalienne. Take artichokes and cut them in four or six pieces, according to their size; take out the choke ; put them into boiling water, and let them boil five minutes ; put them into a salt pickle, and preserve them as the others. To preserve Artichoke Bottoms. Culs d Artichauts. Boil the artichokes till the choke comes easily out, but take care that they do not become too soft, as that would prevent them from preserving ; when they are prepared, rub them with a lemon, put them in jars, and follow the same process as for artichokes. To preserve Tomats. Tomates pour Conserve. Take the quantity to be preserved, let them be ripe, and of a fine colour; cut them in two; express the juice, and take out the seeds; then put them into a sweet-meat-pan that is untinned; put in a good mirepoix (article Sauce) highly seasoned without any other liquid, and a sufficient quantity of salt: reduce them to the thickness of a puree, stirring it constantly with a spatula; rub it through a search; return it into an untinned or brass pan, and reduce it to the consistence of apple marmalade; put it in pots, and in two days cover it with clarified butter and oil-paper; parchment it, and keep as other preserves. To preserve Verjuice. Choose the quantity of verjuice that will be neces- sary to fill the bottles; let it be green and hard ; rub off the raffles and stalks ; put them into a mortar with a little salt (or without it, if you intend to make lemonade with it, or to drink in any way); take it out of the mortar; wring the juice out well over a search ; beat them anew, or put them in a press, if not, wring them in a new cloth ; take a fustian bag, wet it, and flour it in the inside where it is woolly; hang it up ; pour in the juice; put under it an earthen vessel, and return it into jdie bag, till it becomes clear as rock- water, and for that, two vessels are required; when347 PRESERVES. that is done, have bottles either new or very nicely cleaned, into which put lighted matches, to insure the preservation of the juice; this may be done by fitting a cork (by having it much pointed), to all the bottles, and passing a wire through it which, may be hooked at the end, to which the lighted match is fixed; put it into one of the bottles, and when filled with the gas, or smoke of the match, take it out, and put it into another, but first* cork the one that is filled with the gas, with the cork that had before been fitted to it; in this way proceed till the whole are filled ; then fill the bottles, beginning with that which was at first sulphured, and stopping them very closely, set them upright upon a shelf, and when they are to be used, take off the little scurf that forms upon the top. Use this verjuice in all made-dishes, instead of lemon ; there is no difference; it may also be used to make le- monade and punch with adding a little spirit of lemon. It has been kept three years without alteration. Note Some receipts for the preservation of truf- flle, making potatoe and chesnut flour, &c. have been withheld, either from our having better methods our- selves, or that the materials are not indigenous with us. — It is recommended to such as would reallv be- nefit from this work, to read it over with attention, as knowledge is not to be attained by flying from receipt to receipt; arrangement is as necessary to a cook as to any other profession; besides one receipt throws light upon another, as it is only by searching that knowledge is attained. ' It is generally to minutia that a cook owes superiority.■ • ■ ‘1 '• ‘ . ' • )TWO SERVICES FROM SIX TO EIGHT COVERS. FIRST COURSE. Crawfish Soup. Potage d la Bisque (VEcrevisses. Remove Salmon. Saumon. Lobster Sauce Howards. Beef Palates with Cucumbers. Hattelets de Palais de Bceuf aux Concombres. Lamb Kidneys. Rognons de TJgneaux. Soup. Potage d la Reine. Remove Poulardes d la Turque. Roasted Fowls with Rice. oweeiureaus. Bis de Veau a la Dauphine. Mutton Cutlets. Cotelettes a la Soubise. SECOND COURSE. Woodcock. Remove Rice Souffle. Small Biscuits. Pains a la Duchesse. Verjuice Jelly. Gelie de Ter-jus. Calves’ Feet Jelly. Gelee de Pieds de Vcau. Meringals. Meringues. Apple or Gooseberry Sauce. Green Goose. Oison d la Broche. Apple-tart. Tourte des Pi/mmes. A cook should never think of implicitly following any bill of fare it * ould be quite impossible; they only serve to shew the proper arrangement or the table, and the relative situation of dishes, which, after the knowledge of rooking, is of greatest importance, thousands of different combinations mav lie made from the following pages. 3TWO SERVICES FROM SIX TO EIGHT COVERS. FIRST COURSE. Soup. Potage au Fermicelle. Remove Carp. Carpe au Bleu Fillets of Beef glazed. Filets de Bceuf mute dans leur Glace. Mutton Tails. Queues de Mcmtons glacecs d la Chicoree. Capres Sauce. Calves’ Brains Cervclles de Veau en Marinade. Pork Cutlets. Cotelettcs de Cochon, Sauce Robert. Pickles. Roast Beef. Rosbif u. la Broche. SECOND COURSE. Snipes. Becasses a la Broche. Remove Nouilles soujffUs et Meringuis. Apple Fritters. Beignets dePommes. Truffles in Wine. Truffes au Pin de Champagne. Bread Sauce. Spinage in Cream. Epinards a la Creme. Small Pastry. Darioles. Bread Sauce. Pheasant. Faisan d la Broche.A DINNER FROM EIGHT TO TEN COVERS. FIRST COURSE. Cabbage Soup. Potage aux Choux d la Paysannc. Remove boiled Turkey. Relevd Dindon bouilli. Salmon. Dalle de Saumon bouiUi, Sauce aux Capres, Puree de Navets. Two Rabbits. Deux Lapereaux, Sauce aux Oignons, Choufleurs sans Sauce. Veal Scollops. Qua/re Escalopes de Veau. Sauce aux Hultres ou au Celeri. C) sS Sauce au Beurre. Melted Butter. Partridges. Perdreaux brode Sauce. Two Fowls. Deux Poute/s, Sauce au Persil, Puree de Potnmes de Terre. Mackerel Maqucreaux bouil/is. Sauce aux Fenouils, Epinards bouillis d TAnglaise. Roast Beef with Potatoes. Ros-bif aux Pommes de Terre. Releve d’un Jambon glace. SECOND COURSE. Roasted Venison. Quartier de Derritre de Daim d la Broc/ie. Sauce. Gelee de Groseilles. Red Currant Jelly. Made ra Jellv. Gelte de Fin de Madere. Lemons. Citrons. Welch Rabbits. Wokhes Rabettes. Plumb Pudding. "g Boudins aux Raisins, 5 Sauce au Vin dc Malaga. jS Rice Pudding. Boudin de Bis. Tart. Tourte de Confiture. Saladc d'llerbcs. Roman Jelly. Galic de Rome. Roasted Chickens. Poulardcs Rbties.A DINNER FROM EIGHT TO TEN COVERS. FIRST COURSE. Mock Turtle. '* Potage en Tortue. Remove Trout. Troutes d la geiwise. Cutlets. Hot Cotelettes dc Pate chaud d la Pigeons. u Financiere. Chicken. Poulardc 1 5 2 § O Chicken. Supreme de Poularde d la Sainte-Cloud. - u “SS 3 o C3 c ~ d la Chingara. | | R r Rabbits. * s Lamb with Mushrooms. Sauti de H Cotelettes d'Agneau Papereaux aux a la Puree Concombres. % de Champignons. Rice Soup with Peas. Potage de Iliz d la Puree de Pois. Remove redded Beef. Releve Piece de Bti'iij a I'Ecarlate. SECOND COURSE. Roasted Pigeons. Rut de Tourtereaux. Lemon Jelly. Gelee de Citrons. SS P o . Peas. Petits Pois. Cake. 'r\ 0"3 Fritters. Gateau d « fl Eeignets de Blanc- Vitalienne. t O oj P3 *ie 5>o i- [manger. Spin age. Evinards au Consomme. § * Asparagus. Asperges au Beurre. Two Fowls, one larded. Deux Poulets, un Pique.Sweetbread larded upon Sorrel. Risde i'eau pique ala Puree d'Oseille. DINNER. OF TWELVE COVERS. FIRST COURSE. Onion Soup. Potage aux petits Ognions. Remove Turbot. 2d. Curry of Chickens. Kart de Poulets. Oyster Sauce. Butter Sauce. Palates. Palais de Bceuf. Fillets of Sole Filets de Soles d la Ho rip. Is — S-a r k =: so £ a o » Cutlets of Mutton. Cotelettes d la Soubise. Sauce aux Huitrcs. Sauce de bon Beurre. Rice. Biz. Veal. Noix de Veau en Bedaine. I 9 b 3 s no s c s o 5 fo rets 5: oj n <o K Concombres en Marinade. Rabbits and Eels. Ognions en Gibelotte de Lapereaux el Fillets of Beef. Filets de Bceuf en Serpent. Marinade. Sago and Turnip Soup. Potage de Sagot it la Purie de Navets. Roast of Welsh Mutton. Rosbif de Mouton des Ardennes.* * Small Mountain Mutton. d’Anguilles. Pigeons a la Herisson. Young Peas. Petits Pois a la- Francaise, Biscuit de Nioffe. = v a '-■is SECOND COURSE. Capon in the English Manner. Cbapon pane it CAnglaise. Remove hundred-leaf Cake. Stewed Lettuce. Laitues a I’Espagnole. Apricot Fritters. Beignets d’Abricots. Anchovies et Capres Sauces. Pistache Creme in Moulds. Cake. Gdteau de Vcrmicclle. Cauliflowers in Butter. Chcmjlcur au Beurre. Young Carp. Carpcau au bleu. Remove larded roasted Lamb. Artichokes. Artichauts d TItalicnne. Relcvd ros.hif d'Agncau pique.SERVICE OF EIGHTEEN COVERS TO TWENTY. FIRST COURSE. Soup, Potage de Ravioles. Remove Turkey stuffed with Truffles. Dinde aux Truffes. Petils Pates d'une Bouchee au Hashis a la Reine. Veal with Mushrooms. Petites Noix tl' Kvaulc de Veau (i la Puree de Champignons. .Wild Ducks with Orange Sauce. Canardes sauvages, Sauce Bigarade. ■nu'2 *> to K hglf* W •*5r CJ Q 2 ^ 8 | Sj 8<3| •e: '■S ^ <5^ Two Squares of Mutton, one larded with Parsley, the other with Bacon. Deux Carres de Mouton, un pique de Persti, l’autre de Lard. Sauce. Croquettes aux Truffes en Cotclettes. Beef Scollops with Potatoes. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf aux Pommes deTerre. Two Fowls. Deux Poulets, Sauce d I'lvoire. j?S 2~a to <5 1*5. R a » O to CO re 2,3 n Chartreuse of Tendons of Veal with Oysters. Chartreuse de Tendons de Veau aux Huitres. Leverets in their Blood. Sauti dc Levrauts au Sang. Pickles. Mango en Marinade. Calves Ears. Oreilles de Veau a la Ravigote. Sweetbreads. Hatelets dc ris de Veau. Crust Soup. Potage CrofUcs au Pot. Mock Turtle. Tete de Veau en Tortue. Pudding. Boudin ti la Richelieu, VltcUienne blanche. Sauce. The English name of every dish that has got one is placed above the French, to give cooks as little trouble as possible: as further assistance, a page of black lines is subjoined, on which they may find it useful to lay the paper in making out their bills. To the above course, two fishes may be introduced lietween the soups and the removes, and foiulux of game or fowl, ramildns, small birds cooked in different ways, and what are in general called platx fle rdf, are all proper for removes. Professed cooks will excuse these remarks, which are now offered to them.SERVICE OF EIGHTEEN COVERS TO TWENTY. SECOND COURSE. Roasted Partridges. Perdreaux. Apples in Rice. Pommesau Riz. Remove a Rock. Relevi Rocker. Jelly. Gelee de Marasquin. Fruit Tart. Tourteau Confitures. Sauce. Eggs in Tea. IEtjfsau The. Salad. Lemon. Citron. Cardoons in Marrow. Cardes d la Moelle. . M •= 3 £ a “ <s s jc~ Fried .Salsify. Satsifis Frits. Blanc-manger in small pots. au petits pots. Truffle in a Napkin. Truffes d la Serviette. If O C5 tti jo Si Cauliflower in Butter. Choufleurs au Beurre. Burnt Cream, Creme bruUe. Olives. Salades. Chocolate Fritters. Beignets de Chocolat. Small Tarts. Turtlettes d la Chantilly. Sauce, Roasted Fowl.' Poularde de Rot. Remove small Pig. Cochcm de Lait en galanterie.FIRST COURSE, FROM TWEN'TY-FIVF. TO THIRTY COVERS. Fowl with Sauce Poulards d la Ravigote. Salt. of Ducks. Filets de Canetons d la Provenqale. Melon. Mutton. Deux carres de Mouton d la Servant. Salt. Legs of a Goose. Lemon Cuissesd'Oie Pickle. d la Puree de Citron Pois. c. a to S o *4 O 6 3 •a I 3-g 4^ 3 -S % I. >->§ Vs s CJ S3 Pigeons d la He. risson. Salt. Mixed Ragout Ragout me/e. <*5 Mango en Marinade. Spring Soup Priiuenier. Remove. Calf’s Head. Releve TetedeVeau en Tortue. Sauce. Sauce. cn Marinade. Fillets of Mackerel. Maquereaux Salade. d la Maitre d’HOtel. Hot vegetable Pye. Pate chaud de Legumes Salt. Stuffed Lamb’s Feet. Pieds d’Aeneau farcis d la Villdroi. Salade. Petits gates au Salpiqon. Salt. Bitter Hatereaux Oranges. de Bourgin. Bigarades note, en Marinade. 0^ P gg-2 S'■ „ ^ 2.“ S’™ £ = a p a . Cauliflower. Choiffleur en Marinade. Chickens. De Queni/les de Volailleau Velouti. Salt. Beef Palates. Palais de Bocvf au Gratia. Melon. Salt Veal. Noix de Venn d la Dauphin. Sauce. Lobster Sauce aux Capres. aux Homards. Cabbage Soup. Potage aux Choux Nouvcaux. Remove Turbot. Game. Souffle de Gibicr. Salt Fricasie. Chickens and Peas. De Poulets aux petits Pois.SECOND COURSE OF FROM TWENTY-FIVE TO THIRTY COVERS. Roasted Wild Ducks. Plongeons d la Broche. Beleve Soujjle de Fleur d’Orange. Cardoons in Essence of Marrow. Cardes d 1’Essence et d Ja Hoelle. Orange Sauce. Sauce au Bigarreaux. Salsify in Butter. Salsifis au Bcurre. Small Pigeons as Ortolans. Petits Pigeons en Ortolans. Herbes. Olives. Fried Soles. Soles frites. Darioles au ilasscpatn. Cauliflower with Parmesan. Choufteur ou Parmesan.', Truffles. Truffes d ritalienne. Rice Fritters. Beignets de Biz. Truffles in a Napkin. Truffessous la Serviette au Vin de Champagne. Sr « I I a < 2.Y5 ^3 if ~ o •-t -* «r. 7) Mushrooms. Oroides aux Champignons. Apple Fritters. Beignets de Pommes en quartier. Fried Smelts. Eperlans. Stewed Cucumbers. Ccmcorribrcs cn Cardes. Olives. Herbes. Butter and Bread. Sauces. Small Omelets. Pelites Omelettes d la Celestine. r_ Roast Quails. Caillcs. Asparagus. Asperge cn Billons. Partridges. Perdreaux. Beleve Talmouscs.FIRST COURSE, FROM THIRTY-FIVE TO FORTY COVERS. Were this extended to double the number, the dishes are to be extended in the same manner, and large Joints introduced accordingly; and the centres marked by the stars may have another remove according to circumstances, and different sauces may be added. This ought to be at- tended to throughout the courses. Rice Soup. Potage de Riz relevH * d’une Turbot. Hot pye. Pate chaud & la Financiere. Sweetbreads. Hatelettes de Ris de Veau. Vegetal)) e pye. * Pate de Legumes. Beef palates. Paropiettes de Palais de Boeuf cn gratin. Fillets of Chicken. Escalopes de Filets de Poulardes aux Truffes. Veal. Carre de Veau d la Servante. Vd .'Si ts £ -g-3 Sauce d I'Ecri- visse. Cold ham pye. PaUfroid de Jambon. 5 ci*l 25 a a K t, I I o > o S 0 ill sIq £3 Filets de Soles Saute d la ravigote. Filets de Pigeons. Mutton. Cotelettes d la Subise. Fowl. * De supreme de Volatile aux Truffes. P4t<5 of Oysters. Pale aux Hultres. Partridge Cutlets. Cotelettes de Filets de Perdreaux au Jus. FowL Chartreuse d'un * Salpiqon de VolaiUe. Truffles. Croquettes aux Truffes en Cotelettes. Chicken. Blanqiiette de Poulardc aux Concombres garnis de Filets tnignons. Fillets of Mackerel. Filets de Maquereaux d la Maitre d'Hotel B/S-SI ^,2 to ?<* Q. a^a 3 taj sn * Fillets of Partridges. Filets de Perdreaux d la Portugaise. Cold Chicken Pye. Pate de petits Poulets. Capre and Currant Jelly Sauces. Cabbage Soup. Potage de Chou. Mutton. Carre de Mouton d le Ste. Menahouid. Duck. Filets de Caneton d la Harloquinc. Pork Cutlets. Cotelettes de Pore d Tespagnole. Mixed. Ragodt Mele.* Puddings. Boudins de Richelieu au Veloute. Petits Pates en Croustades. Rclcve de Saumon ; rcleve d'une Hanehe de Venaison. Removes Salmon and Venison. Larks. Vol au Vent de Mauvietles. In arranging thirteen dishes upon one side, attention must lie had to centres, which may be formed by larger or different shaped dishes, as well as with regard to then: contents. _. Potage d la Contt.SECOND COURSE, FROM THIRTY-FIVE TO FORTY COVERS. Spinage in Crust. Epinards en Crvuiade. Partridge Pye. iW de Perdreaux. Removed by a Cate. Releiu* (Tun Gateau. Jelly of Oranges. Gelde d'Oranges dans rEcorce. Chickens Scorsonere with Queen’s Sauce. Beurre. Poulds d la Reine. Smoked Tongue. Langue de Batuf fumde. Cherry fritters. Beignets de Chrises. Olives. Banded Tarts. Tart tidies Banda. Rabbits. Levreaux. Steered Lettuce. Laitues a fEspagnole. Small Beans. Fives de Marais a la Paulette. Smelts. hrodid tTEperlans. Small Biscuit. Chtrux de Reines. Herbs. Jalousies. Rabbit. Accolade de Lapereaiuc. Herbs. Poached Eggs in Gravy. (Eufs pochds au Jus. Fried Soles.' Soles frites. Small Peas. Petits Pois d la Paytanne. to s Haricots d la Lyunaise. Small Pigeons. en Ortolan f Olives. Rami kin. Fonda en Caisse. StufTed Cucumbers. Concombrts JUrcis. Cauliflower with Butter. Chats Jleur au Beurre. Blamange. Blanc-manger en Petit* Pots. Asparagus with Butter. Aspergu au Beurre. Glazed Ham. Jambon glued. Relevd. Remove. Relevd (Tun SouJJld. Rice Fritters. Bcigncts de Riz. Cuts d’Artichauts • en Canapes, Mullet In Jelly. Aspic.R INDEX A. Absinthe, ermine d’, 324 Aggysinas, fanchonettes, 234 Almond paste, 230 cake, 230 gdteau pithiviers,233 soup, potage au lait d’amandes, 168 Tours, 297 candy, 290 confected, 290 grilled, 291 Andoutiles de cochon, 102 de Couenne, 102 a la Bechamelle,102 de veau, 102 de fraise de veau, 103 Angelique, liqueur de, 323 Anise water, 321 Apples, Charlotte de pommes aux confitures ou sans confi- tures, 237 buttered, pommes au beurre, 238 , chartreuse de pommes, 238 in rice, pommes au riz, 239 in apricot jam, pommes a la polonaise, 239. fritters, beignets de pommes, 240 compotes of, 277 jelly, 278 Apricot fritters, 241 Apricots green, compote of, 273 in sugar, 274 white, various ways, 275 Artichokes, in white sauce, 257 with forced meat, 257 a l’ltalienne, 258 fried, 258 Artichokes braised, 258 bottoms with ravigote sauce, 259 d la Br&onne, 259 to preserve, 345, 346 Asparagus, in butter, 259 in gravy, 259 as small peas, 259 to preserve, 345 Aubergines, 269 sur la grille, 269 , a la tourtiere, 269 B. -Baba, 225 JBadiane, 321 Banded tarts, petites tartelettes bandies, 235 Barbadoes cream, 322 Barbel, 198 Barberries, syrup of, 280 Barbillon, 180 Beans, in various ways, 260 to preserve, 344 Beef, Bceuf : bouilli ordinaire, 46 and cabbage, bceuf garni de choux, 47 ...... piece, au pain perdu, 47 a l’^carlate, 45 , rump of, in jelly ; culotte, a la gelbe, ou a la royale, 48 round, rosbif, rond-bif ou come-bif, 49 smoked or hung, bceuf fum£, ou de Hambourg, 49 , roasted sirloin, aloyau a la broche, 50 sirloin, aloyau d la Go- dart, 50 braised, noix de bceuf braisf'C, 50352 INDEX. Beef, ribs, with roots, cotes, cou- vertes de racines, 51 ribs under the shoulder, entrec&te, 51 , fillet, filet piqu£ a la broche 51 fillet with Madeira, au vin de Madere, 52 of the loin with cu- cumbers, filet d’aloyau aux concombres, 52 with endive, a la chi- cor£e 53 with love-applesauce, a la sauce tomate, 53 in their juice, sautes dans leur glace,' 53 steaks, bif teck, 53 tongues, (see Tongues). palates, k l’ltalienne, 56 k la poulette, 57 k la ravigote, 57 croquettes de pa- lais, 57 en Cracovie, 58 a laLyonnaise, 58 suet, manner of preparing, 30 Beer, vinegar, 340 Biscuits, paste for, 221 de niauffes, 225 glazed, g('■noises, glacees a l’ltalienne, 232 manqu£, 234 spoon biscuit, 293 light lemon, 294 pistaehes, 294 chocolate, 294 , light hazel nut, 294 cream, 295 , orange flower, 295 , souffle, of orange flow- ers, 291 of chocolate, 295 , small souffle, 296 .. manqu^s a la fleur d’orange, 297 , fan, 298 Biscuits, small Turin, 298 , large cutting, 301 sea biscuit, 302 Blanc-manger, 254 fritters, 240 Bread, of Manheim, 302 soup, potage au pain, 167 Bret, flaye, 194 Brioche, pate a la, 219 cheese, brioche au fro- ntage, 224 Butter wafers, 303 for frying, pkte a frire, 29 thickened, 33 C. Cabbage, stock cabbage, 26-1 , Brussels, 264 red, 264 Cakes, of various kinds, el seq. Candy, orange flower, 287 large rose, 287 , large yellow, 288 , violets, 288 ’ jessamine, 288 jonquil, 288 almond, 290 small rose, 290 Calf's ears stuffed, oreilles de veau farcies, 60 fried, en marinade, 60 a l’ltalienne, 61 k la ravigote, 61 Calf’s tongues, 61 feet, pieds de veau, 61 brains, cervelles de veau a l’allemande, 61 en mate- lotte, 62 with peas sauce, a la purf'e de pois, 62 in black butter, au beurre noir, 62 a la ravigote, 63 liver, foie de veau a la pocle, 63363 INDEX. Calf’s liver larded, a la bour- geoise ou a l’£touffade, 63 with Italian sauce, a l’ltalienne, 64 roasted, it la broche, Calf's lights, mou de veau a la poulette, 64 , in brown sauce, au roux, 65 Calf's tail, with peas, queues de veau aux petits pois, 67 with poulette sauce, a la poulette, 67 Calf’s head, t£te de veau au na- turel, 59 stuffed, farcie, 59 mock turtle, en tor- tue, 60 Cannelons, 235 Caperole de Biz, 72 Capons boiled, chapon au gros sel, 141 , with rice, au riz, 141 with truffles, aux truffes, 141 Caramel, how distinguished from sucre cass£, 272 different fruit, 292 Cardoons, Spanish, 262 with Parmesan, 263 in butter, 263 poir£es, 263 a la bechamelle, 263 Carp, 171 , a la chambor, 171 stuffed, farcie, 172 au bleu, ou au court bouillon, 172 fried, frite, 173 grilled, grille, 173 matelote de carpe et d’an- guilles, 173 , a la mariniere, 174 fricandeau, 174 1 melts, fried, laitances frites, 175 , roes in jelly, aspic de lai- tances, 175 Carrot cakes, gateau de carottes, 227 a la Flamande, 265 a 1’Orleans, 265 Cauliflower,with butter sauce, 256 in gravy, 256 , with Parmesan, 256 fried in butter, 256 Caviare, or Kaviar, 188 Cayenne pepper, to make, 36 Celery fritters, 243 Charlotte of apples, charlotte de pommes aux confitures ou sans confitures, 237 Cheese cakes, gateau au fromage, 223 Cherries, compete of, 273 marmalade of, 283 en chemise, 291 au caramel, 292 fritters, 241 Chesnuts in sugar, 282 cakes, 299 Chocolate, conserve of, 286 for drinking, 327 Chou-croute, 341 Cider vinegar, 340 Cloves, oil of, 321 Cinnamon, liqueur, 320 Citron, conserve of, 285 cream, 319 oil of, 319 Citrunelle de Venise, 320 Cochineal, to prepare, 293 Cocoa, creme de, 324 Cockscombs and kidneys, au ve- loute, 152 ; > grand aspic, 152 in jel- ly, petits aspics, 153 Cod, cabillaud oumorue, fraiche k la Hollandaise, 188 , en dauphin, 189 au gratin et a la Becha- melle, 189 morue k la mattre d’hfltel, 189 II 2INDEX. 364 Cod, morue a laprovengale, 189 various other recipes, 190 Coffee, to make, 327 conserve of, 286 Colours in confectionery, 293 Compiegne, gkteau de, 224 Cordial water, 322 Cotelettes en surprise, 239. (See Cutlets.) Crawfish, 4crevisses, how to choose, 175 how to cook for large and small dishes, and garnish - ings, 176 pudding of, 208 Cream, (see lead Cream.) , whipt cream, 209 coffee, 309 chocolate, 310 marasquin, 310 fritters, 242 Creams: white coffee cream, 243 chocolate, 244 ' orange flower, 244 almond, 244 coffee cream without gizzards, 244, (see Liqueurs.) Creme patissifere, 224 frangipane, 225 Croque-enLouche, 229 Cucumbers, Concombres au blanc, 36 browned, au brun, 37 stuffed, 261 in gravy, 261 k la poulette, 262 a la Bechamelle, 262 pickled, 325 dressed, 326 to preserve, 244 Curaqon, liqueur, 324 Currant jelly, red, 274 Currants, bunches of, en che- mise, 291 Cutlets, cotelettes de veau, 74. (See Veal.) , cotelettes de mouton, 81. (See Mutton.) d’agneau, 92. (See Lamb.) roe-buck, cotelettes de chevreuil, 105 leveret, de levraut, 109 of partridge, de per- dreaux, 124 of fowls, de poulardes, 147 of pigeons, de pigeons, 159 of sturgeon, d’e6turgeon, 187 D. Dab, barbue, 192 Darioles, 235 Ducelle, 32 Ducks, canards, 162. (See also Wild Ducks.) canetons de Rouen, sauce a l’orange, 164 with olive sauce, sauce aux olives, 164 in various other ways, 165. E. Eau cles sept graines, 325 Eels, anguilles a la broche, a la St. Menehould, a la poulette, 180 .... a la tartare, 181,matelote, 181 Eggs in white coffee, 244 in tea, 245 in gravy, 245 au fumet de gibier, 245 en surprise, 245 in snow, 246 in sunshine, 246 a la polonaise, 247 a la tripe, 247 a la Bechamelle, 247 a la sauce Robert, 247365 INDEX. Eggs poaclied in gravy, ‘248 for all sorts of ra- gouts, 24S in black butter, 248 in a mirror, 249 in moonshine, 249. (See Omelets.) Endive, to have when out of season, 42 Entremets, 240. See Fritters. creams of various kinds, 243. See Cream. , eggs in various ways, 244. See Eggs. omelettes, 249 , jellies, 251 blanc manger, 254 . , peas for the second course. Pois d’entremets a la Frangaise, 254 , French beans. Hari- cots verts, 255 , cauliflowers with but- ter sauce, , choux fleurs. Sauce au beurre, 256 , cauliflowers in gravy, au jus, 256 with Par- mesan, 256 fried in bat- ter, 257 artichokes in various ways, 257 asparagus in various ways, 259 small beans, 261 , kidney and French beans, 261 , cucumbers in various ways, 262 cardoons in various ways, 262 , turnips, 263 cabbages, 264 carrots, 264 mushrooms, 265 , truffles, 267 Entremets, potatoes, 268 aubergines, 269 hops, 270 pumpkin, 270 Turk’s cap, 270 Fallow Deer, Daim, 105 haunch of venison. quartier de derriere du daim, 106 Filberts, confected, 291 Fish, braise maigre for boiling fish in,. 170 . . ., fish jelly, glace de pois- son, 171 (See the different kinds, as Carp, Lampreys, &c.) Flanc denouilles meringues, 228 . . . ., de vermicelle, 228 . . . ., suisse, 228 Flotte, ou Flotton, 192 Flounder, carrelet, 194 Forced meats, farce en general, 204 godiveau, 204 chairs a petits pat£s, et pate a la ciboulette, 204 , gratin, 205 , panada, 205 bread crumbs, mie de pain, 206 cooked ; farces cuites, 206 , of fowl; quenelles de volaille, 206 of rabbits ; par- tridges and pheasants, 207 , pudding of rab- bits, 207 Fowls, volaille, 132 . . . ., Fricassee de poulets, 132 . . . a la chevaliere,. 153 .... poulets en entree de broche, 134 a I’ivoire, 134 .... with oyster sauce, *sauce aux hultres, 134 R 3366 INDEX. Fowls, with truffles, aux truffles, 134 as lizards, en lizard, 135 . . . with peas, aux pois, 135, 136 . . . with crawfish sauce, au beurre d’^crevisse, 136 . . . roast, a la broche pour rot, 136 . . . with green sauce, it la Hollandaise, 137 . . . grilled, poulets a la Tar- tare, 137 . . . sauce au pauvre homme et divers autres, 137 . . . ., a la Perigueux, 137 . . . a la Mayonnaise, 138 . . . salade de poulets, 138 . . . ., in cream, a la creme, 138 . . . en friteau, 139, . . . marinade, 139 . . ., forced meat in paste, rissole de volaille, 139 . . . en capilotade, 139 . . . ., a la Saint Cloud, 140 . . . a la ravigote, 140 .. . ., a la paysanne, 140 . . . a la reine, sauce a la pluche vert, 141 . . . a la provengale, 141 . » . boiled capon, 141 (See Capon.) . . . roasted, en entrde h la broche, 142 . . . ., a la mardchale, 142 . . . ., a. la St. Cloud, 142 . . . .,with loveapple sauce, sauce tomate, 143 ...'., roast, i la broche pour r6t, 143 . . . ., en diverses manieres, 144 fillets, filets au supreme, 144 . . . .,fillets minced with cucum- bers, eminc4es aux eon- combres, 145 wings of, with endives, ailes de poulardes il la mard- chale, 145 Fowls, a la galantine, 145 . . . ., filets rt la Bechamelle, 146 . . . ., souffle, 146 . . . hash, hachi, 147 . . . ., croquettes,cotelettes,blan- quettes, 147 . . . ., legs with small onions, or as swans, cuisses aux petits oignons ou en canetons, 148 . . . ., legs en ballon, 148 . . . ., a la Bayonnaise, & la Li- vournois, 149 . . . ., quenelles, 149 .. . ., wings, ailerons, en haricots vierges, 149 . . . ., wings, ailerons in various . .other ways, 150, 151 . . . cockscombs and kidneys, 152 . . . ., fat livers, foies gras 2i la Perigueux, 153 in various other ways, 154 Fowl pies, 219 FramJboises, creme de, 324 French beans, a la poulette, 255 • k la Br4tonne, 255 Fritters, apple, beignets de pommes, 240 beignets souffles, 240 blanc mange, de blanc manger, 240 surprised, de surprise, 241 apricot, d’abricots, 241 peach, de peehes, 241 . . ., orange, d’orange, 241 , cherry, de cerises, 241 rice, au riz, 242 cream, crfime frite, 242 celery beignets de celeri, 243 salsify or scorsonera,243 Fruits, compotes of, 273 G. Garnishings for dishes, garni- tures bords de plats, 33INDEX. 367 R Garniskings, cockscombs, crates de coqs, 34 , cocks’ kidneys, rogn- ons de coqs, 34 , fat livers, foies gras et demi-gras, 34 , carrots, carottes, 34 , turnips, navets, 35 , mushrooms, cham- pignons, 35 , small onions, petits oignons, 35 lettuce, laitues, 35 , green of spinage, vert d'epinards, 35 , artichoke bottoms, culs d’artichaux toumes, 36 , of celery, de celeri aux entremets, 44 Geese, oies, 159. See also Wild Geese. . . . roast, a la brocbe, 160 . . . with chesnuts, aux mar- rons. 160 . . . a la chipolata, 160 . . . legs and wings of, cuisses et ailes a la Bayonne, 160 Genoese paste, 230 . . . . tartlets, 231 Grape marmalade, 283 Grapes, en chemise, 291 , au caramel, 292 Gralin, 205 Green colour, in confectionery, 293 Grondins, 197 H. Ham, plain, jambon au naturel, 94 . . . braised, brais£, 95 . . . ., roasted, a la broche, 95 . . . to make, manure de faire le jambon, 98 . . . of wild boar, jambon de sanglier, 104 • • . pye> 217 Hare, lievre, 106, gkteau de lievre, 217 . .... juice of, civet de lievre, 107 Hatelets de ris de veau, 66 Hatereaux, 71 Herb soup maigre, 170 Herring, hareng, various ways, 202, 203 Honey, to clarify, 271 Hops, 270 I. Iced Cream, of roses, 306 of orang< flowers, 307 . ....... grilled flowers of orange, 307 , pistache, 307 chocolate, 307 white coffee, 308 , citron, 308 , pine apple, 308 cheese, 309 Ices: general directions, 303 . . ., cherry ice, 304 . . ., strawberry, 304 . . •, raspberry, 304 . . ., currant, 304 . . ., iced orange-flower water, 305 . . ., apricot, 305 . . ., peach, 305 . . ., barberry, 305 . . ., pears, 306 . . ., lemon, 306 . . ., orange, 306 . . ., Seville orange, 306 . . ., hazel nut, 308 . . ., iced water coffee, 309 Jelly, orange, 251 . . ., lemon, 252 . . ., red fruits, 252 . . ., orange flowers and cham- pagne, 253 . . ., pine apples, 253 . . ., marasquin, 253 . . ., rum, and various wines, 253368 INDEX. Kaviar, or caviare, 188 Ketchup, 31 Kidney Beans, it la Lyonnaise, 256 in salad, 256 to preserve, 344 Kidney Pasty, tourte aux rogn- ons de veau, 226 Kidneys, mutton, 85. See Mut- ton. L. Ladies' Lips, bouch4es de dames, 232 Lamb, when in season, 89 Lamb's Heads, tetes d’agn- eaux it la poulette, 89 it l’Italienne,89. Ears, oreilles farcies et frites, 90 it la ra- vigote, 90 ' , it l’lta- lienne, 90 .... Feet, pieds it la pou- lette, 90 . . . ., saddle of roast lamb. Rosbif d’agneau, 90 . . . ., forequarter roast. Quai- tier de devant, it la broche, 90 . . . ., epigrammes d’agneau, 90 . . . ., tendons with asparagus, aux points d’asperges, 91 . . . ., tendon it la Villeroy, 92 . . . ., cutlets, crumbed, — pa- nnes, 92 at a minute, it la minute, 92 . . . ., shoulders stuffed, en musette, 93 Lamprey, lamproie, en ma- telote k la Tartare, 181 Lard, to prepare, 97 . . . ., to melt, (sain doux), 97. Lard cake, gateau au lard, 224 Lark pies, patd de pithiviers, 209 Larks, alouettes, roast, k la broche, 130 witn truffles, aux’truffles, 130 . . . ., pkt(%, cold or hot, froid ou cliaud, 130. Lavender, vinegar of, for the toilette, 339 Lemons, conserve of, 285 Leveret, roast, levraut it la broche, 107 , scollops, in blood, es- calopes au sang, 107 filets it la provencale, 108 en serpent, 108 legs, cuisses, en papil- lottes, 109 , cutlets, cotelettes, 109 fricassde, en fricassee de poulet, 111 Ling, englefin, 198 Liqueurs by infusion, 314. (See Ratijia). , eau d’anis, 316 , orange flower water, 317 rose water, 318 , very strong rose water, 318 by distillation. citron cream, 319 oil of citron, 319 des quatre fruits jaunes, 319 , citronelle de Venise, 320 , fine orange, 320 fine cinnamon, 3C0 oil of clove, 321 anise water, 321 badiane, 321 cordial water, 322 Barbadoes cream, 322 , crfime de noyaux, 322 oil of roses, 322 cr6me de Moca, 323 liqueur d’Angelique, 3233 69 INDEX. 5 R Liqueurs, Scabac, 323 Meringals, Italian, with orange flowers, 300 301 Mirlitons de Rouen, 233 324 Morilles, crcfttes au, 267 Mousserons, 267 Mullet, grey and red. Mulet et 325 sur-mulet, 198 Mxiscated syrup of vinegar, 314 325 Muscles, mouls, au nature!, et a Livers, fat, foies gras, k la pe- la poulette, 177 rigueux, 153 Mushrooms, observations on, -10 tin, 153 lote, 153 ti&re, 266 154 Mustard, 341 Mutton, directions for the choice tes, coquilles, 154 of, 78 Lobsters, (homards), how to choose, 175 de bif de mouton, k la broche, Lotte, or eel pout, 183 78 Lozenge cakes, small, g&teaux en lozenge, 235 braistl, 78 M. ccnne, 79 Macaroons, bitter, 296 1’eau, 79 Mackerel, maquereaux, a la mai- tre d’hotel, 199 reuil, 79 a 1’ Anglaise, 200 80 200, 201 Madeleine cake, 231 80 Manheim bread, 302 Marrow pastry,tourte it lamoelle, 6paule en ballon, 80 226 Massepains, 296 turel, 81 Menthe distillee, liqueur de, 325 n4es, 81 Meringals, the twins, 300 minute, 81 l • .3T0 INDEX. Mutton cutlets, with endive, k la chicor^e, 82 in soubise, a la soubise, -82 , breast of, carr£, k la servante, 82 en fricandeau, 82 small fillets of, filets mig- nons, 83 minced, with cucum- bers, 88 hashed, hachis a la Por- tugaise, 83 haricot, ala Bourgeoise, 83 breasts of, poitrines, 84 necks of, collets, a la Sainte M<5nehould, 84 necks grilled, collets grilles, 84 tails, with endive, queues de mouton glacis a la chicor^e, 84 hotchpotch, queues en hochepot, 84 au soleil, 85 in chesnut soup, terrine de queues de mouton, 85 kidneys grilled, rognons a la brochette, 85 kidneys in Champagne, rognons au vin de Cham- pagne, ou a l’ltalienne, 86 animelles de moutons, 86 spinal marrow, amou- rettes, ou moelle along4 de mouton, 86 brains, cervellse, 86 tongues, langues en pa- pillotte, 86 in forced meat, au gratin, 87 a la Br&onne, 87 Mutton tongues, with Parmesan, 88 a la matelotte, 88 trotters. ( See Sheep's Trot- ters). N. Noix de veau, 77 cr6me de, 322 O. Omelets, plain 249 a la celestine, 250 aux confitures, 250 of veal kidney, 250 of mushrooms, 250 with sorrel, 251 with bacon, 251 , with truffles, 251 souffl6e, 236 souffl^e et moul^e, 236 Onions, brown and white, pluche d’oignons, blanche et rousse, 37 Orange cake, gateau k. la Portu- gaise, 233 chips in sugar, 284 confected, 284 flower cakes, 287 sugar candy, 287 flower-water, 317 double,317 fritters, 241 flowers confected, 289 conserve of, 289 in sugar, 282 marmalade of, 283 flower marmalade, 284 bitter, pickled, 325 Orgeat, 311 Or-palates. (See Beef Palates.) .... tails,.hotch-potch of, 54 with peas, 54 Oysters, huitres, scolloped, en coquilles, 178 grilled, huitres sur le gril, 178 ragout, 178371 INDEX. P. Palates, 56. (See Beef.) Panada, 205. Pancakes, panequets, 251 Parfait amour, 319 Partridges, red, perdrix rouges, 118 ' a la perigueux, 118 roast, perdreaux, ou entree de broche, 119 grilled, grillt-es, 119 salmi, 119 de chasseur, 120 a la monglat, 120 with cabbage, aux choux, 120 mayonnaise, 121 , saute de filets de per- dreaux, 122 souffly, souffle, 122 , a la puree, en terrine ou entree, 123 hash, hachis, 123 semelles de perdreaux a la chingara, 123 cutlets, cbtelettes, 124 , pates froids de per- dreaux, 124 Pasties, various, 226, 227 Pastry, pAte it dresser, 209 brisee, 210 a nouilles, 211 puffed paste, feuilletage, 211 petits pAtes au naturel, 212 au jus, 212 a la bechamelle, 212 bouch^s a la reine, 213 A la mancelle, 213 au salpigon, 213 tourte d’entr^e de godi- veau, 213 , pates a la ciboulette, 214 pat*'- chaud de godi- veau, 214 a la financiere, 214 Pastry, chaud, maigre, de carpe et d’anguille, 214 vol-au-vent, 215 pAte froid de veau, 215 en timbale, 216 froid a la deforge, 217 de jambon, 217 de perdrix, 218 de perdrix rouges, a la perigueux, 218 fowl pyes, pAtes de poularde, &c. 219 larkpyes,de pithiviers,219 paste, pAte a la broche, 219 , d’4chaud£s, 220 for common bis- cuit, 221 royal, pate royal, 221. queen’s paste, pAte de choux A la reine, 222 ..., ramakins, pAte A rame- cain, 222 talmouses, 223 , cheese cake, gAteau au fromage, 223 lard, cake, gateau au lard, 224 , pastry cream, creme pa- tissiere, 224 , creme frangipane, 225 , baba, 225 , biscuit, 225. (See Bis- cuits. ) tart, tourte de frangi- pane, 226 pasties, various,226, 227 cakes, various, 227, 228 flanc de nouilles me- ringues, 228 , flanc de vermicelle, 228 flanc suisse, 229 croque-en-bouche, 229 cake of 100 leaves ; gA- teau de mille feuilles, 229 almond paste, 230372 INDEX. Pastry, pate d’office, 230 Genoese paste, 230 , cake madeleine, 231 tartlets, la chantilly, 231 little Genoese, petites Gdnoises, 231 ladies’ lips, bouchees de dames, 232 , pistache cakes, gauffres de pistaches, 232 glazed biscuits, G^noises glacis it l’ltalienne, 232 mirletons de Rouen,233 queen’s cake, g&teau a la Reine, 233 almond cake, gftteau d’amandes, 233 , g&teau pithiviers, 233 orange cake, gateau la Portugaise, 233 biscuit manqu£, 234 aggyzinas, fanchonettes, 234 small cakes, petits ga- teaux polonais, 234 cannelons, 235 puits d’armour, 235 , banded tarts, petites tartelcttes bandies, 235 small lozenge cake, gft- teau en lozenge, 235 darioles, 235 , omelette, soufflde, 236 , soufflde et moulde, 236 souffle^ de fdcule de pommes de terre, 237 , riz souffle, 237 Charlotte of apples, Charlotte de pommes aux confitures ou sans confitures, 237 .., apples in various ways, 238, 239 cotelettes en surprise, Peach fritters, 241 pasty, tourte de p^ches, 226 Peaches, in sugar, 279 marmalade of, 279 in brandy, 279 grilled in sugar, 280 Pears, in sugar, compote of, 280 de martin sec, 276 de bon-chretien, 276 bon-chretiens grilles, 277 Peas for second course, a la Fran^aise, 254 , with ham or bacon, 255 to preserve, 345 Perch, perche, in various ways, 181, 182 Pheasant, faisan, 115 roast, k iabroche, 115 with truffles, aux truffles ou a la pffi-egueux, 115 fillets, filets a la Vo- palliere, 115 scollops, escalopes, 116 salmi, 116 souffly, souffle, 117 with sour crout, ft la chou croute, 117 croquettes, J17 mayonnaise, 117 pudding, boudin, 117 Pickling, directions for, 325, et seq. Pig’s head, hure de cochon, 93 a la maniifi-e.de Troyes, 94 ears, oreilles de cochon, en menu de roi, 96 t la puree, 96 Pig roast, cochon de lait, 98 .... stuffed, en ga- latnine, 99 Pig’s tails, queues de cochon, a la purde, 96 239INDEX. 373 Pig's feet, pieds a la Sainte Menehould, 97 tongues, smoked, langues de pore fumdes et fourries, 98 Pigeons, 131. , wood-pigeons in pickle, ramereaux en marinade, 131 poelds, 131 k l’etouffade, 131 house-pigeons with peas, l 156 , compot of, compete de pigeons, 157 , au blanc, 157 , in batter, marinade au soleil, 157 , k la crapaudine, 158 small, k la gautier, 158 - , au basilic, 158 , cutlets, cotelettes, 159 , roast, a la broche, 15 , as ortolans, en ortolans pour rot, 159 Pike, brochet, in various ways, 178 Pistache cake, gateau aux pis- taches, 228 gau tires de pistaches, 232 Plaice, limande, 194 Plover, 126 pluvier au gratin, 126 , a la perigueux, 126 en entree de broche, 127 Plumbs, in sugar, 278 in brandy, 278 , blanching of plumbs, 278 small yellow, in sugar, 279 Pomegranates in caramel, 293 Pork, how to choose, 93. (See Pig's Head, Ham, fyc-) chine, echine de cochon, 90 Pork cutlets, cotelettes, sauce Robert, 96 ....., salt pork, petit sale, 97 blood pudding, boudiu ordinaire, 99 whife, boudin blanc, 100 sausages, 101 andouilles, 102 to dress as wild boar, com- me sanglier, 104 Potatoes, a la maitre d’hfitel, 268 au jus de Bretonne, 268 a la Lyonnaise, 268 , au beurre, 269 en beignets, 269 frangipane de, 269 topinambours, 270 Pouplln, 222 Prawns, crevettes, 177 Preserves, artichokes, 346 artichoke bottoms, 346 tomates, 346 verjuice, 346 chou croute, 341 sorrel, 343 , endive, 343 , kidney beans, 344 , cucumbers, 344 , beans, 344 , savory, 345 peas, 345 , asparagus, 345 , artichokes, 345, 346 Pudding, blood, boudin ordi- naire, 99 , it la fa^on de Nanterre, 100 crawfish, boudin d’f- crevisse, 100 rabbit, de lapereau, 101 pheasant, de faisan, 101 a la Riche- lieu, 117indi;x. 374 Pudding, of rabbits, bond in do lapereaux a la Richelieu, 207 l\iiu d’amour, 235 Pumpkin, 270 Q. Quails, caillcs, roasted, a la bro- che, 127 with bay, au laurier, 127 with peas, aux petits pois, 128 au gratin, 128 with lettuce, aux laitues, 129 in crusts, en croustades, 129 with truffles, aux truffles, 129 Queen's cake, gftteau a la reine, 233 paste, 222 Quenelles de volaille, forced meat of fowls, 206 de lapereaux, per- dreaux et faisans, 207 de nicrlan, de sau- mon, &c., 209 Quince jelly, 280 Quinces, marmalade of, 283 R. Rabbits, lapereaux, 110 , sautt; ou escalopes de, 110 fillets, filets, 110 legs, cuisscs a la dau- phine, 111 hash, hachis a la Portu- gaise, 111 fillets, filets a la vo- palliere, 111 giblets, gibelottes, 112 giblets with eels, gibc- lottes de lapereau et d’an- guilles, 112 rabbit with peas, aux petits pois, 112 Rabbits, timbale de lapereaux, 113 mayonnaise, 113 lapereaux aux fines herbes, 113 , aux papillotes, 114 marinade, 114 in sal lad, salade de lapereaux, 114 in soup, terrine de la- pereaux, 114 roasted, accolade, a la broche, 114 pudding of, 207 Ragouls: salpigon ordinaire, 37 of sweet breads, de ris de veau, 38 of cockscombs and kid- neys, de crf'tes et rognons de coq en financitire, 38 soft roes of carp, lai- tances de carpes, 39 carps’ tongues, lan- gues de carpes, 39 truffles, aux truffles, 39 aux truffles a l’espag- nole, 40 a la Pied- montaise, 40 a. la Peri- gueux, 40 of mushrooms, aux champignons, 41 white, au blanc, 41 de morilles, 41 de inousserons, 42 of endive, de chicor£e au brun, 42 of spinach, d’epi- nards, 43 of French beans, de haricots a la Br&onne, 43 of French beans in juice, de haricots au jus, 43 white, of cucumbers, blanc aux concombres, 44375 INDEX. Ragouts, de chipolata, 44 , of peas and bacon; de pois au lard, 44 , of olives, 45 , de navets en haricots vierges, 45 de petites racines, 45 , aux petits oignons, 45 , a la Macedoine, 46 , a la Godiveau, 46 Ramakins, pate a ramecain, 222 other ways, 223 Ras])berry jam, 274 RatiJia, de fleur d’orange, 314 de novaux, 416 d’orange de Portugal, 314 citronelle, 314 des quatre fruits, 315 , de framboises, 315 de coins, 315 d’Angelique, 316 eau d’anis par infusion, 316 , de raisin muscat, 316 , gilly-flower, 316 Ravigote vinegar, 340 Rice and milk, 170 cake, gateau au riz, 227 fritters, 242 Riz souffle, 237 Roach, bearded, rouget barbet, 198 Roebuck, chevreuil, 104 to skin, maniere de d£p«cer, 104 hind quarter roast, quar- tier de derriere k la broche, 104 cutlets, cdtelettes, 105 shoulders, £paules, 105 civet de chevreuil, 135 brains, cervelles en ma- rinade, 105 Rase- water, 317 vinegar, 338 Rose vinegar, for the toilet or salads, 340 oil of, 322 conserve of, 286 souffle cakes, 287 large rose candy, 287 S. Saffron, conserve of, 286 St. Peter, St. Pierre, ou poule de mer, 198 Salmon, saumon a court bouil- lon, 184 , grilled, dard de sau- mon grille, 184 , in various other ways, 184—186 Salsify, or scorzonera fritters, 243 Salt water, eau de sel, 32 Savory, to preserve, 345 Sauces, 12 beef juice, jus de bceuf, 12 grande sauce, 12 espagnole, 13 , espagnole travaillf-e, 13 velout6 ou coulis blanc, 14 v^loutd travaill^, 14 savoury jelly, grand as- pic white butter, blanche au beurre, 15 , a la bechamelle, 15 k la Sainte Menehould, 16 a la bonne morue, 16 k la poulette, 16 Italienne rousse, 16 Italienne blanche, 17 a la maitre d’hOtel, 17 k la maitre d’h’Otel lice, 17 , au supreme, 17 k la matelote, 17INDEX. 376 Sauces, poivTade, 17 l)ach6e, 18 piquante, 18 , it la nonpareil, ou a l’Arliquine, 13 a la pluche, 19 , aux truffes, ou it la Perigueux, 19 en tortue, 19 , curry, ou a l’lndienne, 20 , tomate, 20 , ivoire, 20 ..... ravigote blanche, 20 cold ravigote, froide et Crue, 21 , drest ravigote, cuite, 21 green, verte, 21 , Robert, 21 crawfish, beurre d’£cre- visses, 22 ...., lobster, aux homards, 22 sorrel, a la puree d’o- seille, 23 onion,a la pur^e d’oignons blancs, 23 brown onions, a la pur^e d'oignons rousses, dite Br£- tonne, 23 a la pur£e de pois, 23 pois verts, pour entries et entremets, 24 peas, pois secs, 24 lentil, it la pur6e de len- tilles, it la reine, 24 pur£e de gibier, 24 poor man’s, au pauvre homme, 25 veal stock, consomm^ reduit, 25 boiled pickle, marinade cuite, 25 , po61e, 25 it la mirepoix, 26 blanc, 26 petite, a l’aspic, 25 Sauces, game, au fumet de gi- bier, 26 au beUrre d’ail, 27 anchovy butter, au beurre d’anchois, 27 au beurre de provence, 27 a la Tartare, 27 fennel, au fenou;!, 28 tarragon, clear, claire a l’Estragon, 28 mayonnaise, 28 roux, 28 roux blanc, 29 aux hatelettes, 30 bread, 30 truffles, aux truffes i la St. Cloud, 31 a la pluche verte, 31 court bouillon, 31 ketchup, 31 La Ducelle, 32 au vert prd, 32 orange, it l’orange, 32 salt-water, eau da sel, 32 , thickened butter, beurre li4, 33 Sausages, saucisses, 101 smoked, fumi-s, 101 flat, 101 Scubac, liqueur, 323 Sea-dragon, vive, 198' citper sauce, vive* aux cipres, 199 it ritalienne,it l’al- lemande, 199 Shad, alose, in various ways, 186 Sheep'«tails, 84. (See Mutton.) tongues, 86. (See Mut~ ton.) trotters, pieds, 88—89 Skate, raie, 201 with caper sauce, 201 various other ways, 202. Small cakes, petits gateaux polo- nais, 234377 INDEX. Small roots, 265 Smelts, cperlans, in various ways, 196 Soles, in various ways, 192—• 194 Souffle do fecules de pommes de terre, 237 Sours, &c. 1 to 12 and 166 to • 170 potages, grand bouillon, 1 stock, empotage consom- me, 1 , strong stock, grand con- somme, 2 white soup, blond de veau, 2 crust soup, mitonnage, 3 ., spring sjup, potage pri- tanier, 3 cressy soup, 3 green peas, a la pur<?e de pois, 6 lentils, it la puree de len- tilles, 6 carrots, a la pur6e de carottes, 6 turnips, a la puree de navets, 6 , lettuce, aux laitues, 6 chesnuts, k la puree de marrons, 7 mock turtle, en tortue, 7 , cabbage, aux choux, 8 sago and turnip, au sagon et a la puree de navets, 8 cond£, a la condt:, 8 crawfish, a la bisque d’<5- crevisse, 9 queens, k la reine, 9, 10 macaroni, 10 Genoa, ala Genoise, aux raviolis, 10 Italian paste, aux pktes d’Italic, 11. k la se- rnoule, 11 chicken broth, bouillon de poulet, 11 Sours, &c. chicken broth, pecto- ral, 11 , veal, de veau, 11 calf’s lights, inou de veau, 11 . . . ., maigre, bouillon do pois, 166. . . . ., bouillon pour les potages et les sauces, 166. . . . ., bouillon de poisson, 166 . . . ., jus maigre, 167 . . . ., espagnole maigre, 167 . . . ., bread soup, 167 . . . ., maigre queen’s soup, i68 . . . ., almond, 168, 169 . . . ., a la Julienne maigre, 169 . . . ., maigre aux herbes, 170 . . . ., rice and milk, 170 . . . ., vermicelli and milk, 170 Sour-ki'out, 341 Store-room. Directions for cla- rifying sugar, 270, and pre- serving fruits, 273, with other details of confectionery; for which see the various articles ; as Apricots, Cherries, Candy, &c. Strawberries, conserve of, 285 Sturgeon, in various ways, 187 kaviar, 188 Sugar, to clarify, 271 Surard, vinaigre, 339 Sweetbreads, ris de veau, 65, See Veal. Sweetmeat pasty, tourtc de con- fitures, 226 Syrups: violet, 310 capillaire, 310 , lemon, 311 orgeat, 311 mallows (guimauve', 312 verjuice, 312 mulberries, 312 vinegar, 312 , currants, 313 orange flower, 313 pomegranates, 313378 INDEX. Syrups, muscated syrup of vi- negar, 314 T. Tarragon, vinegar, 339 Tart, tourte de frangipane, 226 Tartlets, a la Chantilly, 231 petites Genoises, 231 Tench, tenche, in various ways, 183 Tendons de veau, 73. See Veal. Tendons d’agneau, 91. See Lamb. Thickened butter, beurre li<5, S3 Thieves' vinegar, 339 Thrushes, roast, 127 Tomates, to preserve, 346 Tongues, smoked, langue funuie, 54 . . . hung beef, langue de boeuf fourr£, 55 braised, it la braise, 55 with Parmesan, au Parmesan, 55 Tripe, gras, double, 58 Trout, truite, 186. 1Truffles, truffes, au vin de champagne, 267 en croustade, 267 , it la cendre, 267. See Ragouts. Turbot, for first or second course ; turbot entier pour premier et second service, 190 au gratin, 191, en sa- lade, 190 , small, turbotins sur le plat, 1 91 sauce tomate, 192 Turk's cap, 270 Turkey wheat, au vinaigre, 326 Turkies, dindes, 154 roast with truffles, aux truffes, it la broche, 154 , en galantine ; en daube, 155 Turnips, with sugar, 263 Turnips, it l’espagnole, 264 in white sauce, 264 Turtle doves, tourtereaux, 132. See Pigeons. V. Vanille rolls, 302 Veal, directions for choosing, 58 . ., see calf’s head, &c. . ., fraise, 65 , a la brisac, 65 . ., sweetbreads, ris de veau, it la dauphin, 65 , with espagnole sauce, it l’espagnole, 65 , hatelets de ris de veau, 66 , in cases, en caisse, 66 , in jelly, petit aspic de ris de veau, 66 , risde veau a la pou- lette, 67 . ., loin, and its uses, cuis ot, et la manure d’en tirer parti, 68 . ., noix de veau a la bour- geoise, 69 . ., en bedeau, 69. . ., noix de veau piqutie (lard- ed), 69 . ., grenadins, 69 . ., manchons k la Gferard, 70 . ., hfttereaux, 71 . ., popiettes de veau, 71 . ., filets mignons, 71 . ., forequarter, quartier de devant, 71 . ., blanquettes, 72 . ., tendons a la poulette, ou au blanc, 7? . ., tendons in peacock’s tails, en queues de paon, 72 . ., casserole de riz, 72 . ., tendons de veau en Mace- doine, 73 . . ., pan£s et grilles, 73INDEX. 379 Veal, tendons de veau a la May- onnaise, 73 a la ravi- gote, 74 a la ma- rinade, 74 a la Vil- leroy, 74 . . ., cutlets, cdtelettes de veau, 74 , piquees, 74 , A la chingara, 75 sautles, 75 , with ham, aujam- bon, 76- plain, au naturel, 76 , crumbed, panees, 76 , in paper, en pa- pillotes, 76 . . ., breast, larded, carrd de veau piqud, 77 . . petites noix d’epaules de veau, 77 . . ., noix a la Gendarme, 77 . . ., how to give to veal the taste and appearance of pickled tongue, 341 Venison, haunch of, quartier de derriere du daim, 106 Venus, huile de, 323 Verjuice, made to keep, 33 confitures de verjus, 281 skinned, 281 paste of, 281 to preserve, 346 Vermicelli and milk, soup, 170 Vinegar, different ways of mak- ing, 836 vinaigre alacampagne, 338 rose vinegar, 338 vinaigre au connetable, _ 338 of lavender, for the toilette, 339 Vinegar, tarragon, 339 ravigote, 340 cider, 340 beer, 3'0 Violets, conserve of, £85 Violet colour, in confectionery, 293 Vol au-vent, 215 W. Wafers, gauffres, au beurre, 303 . . . A la crdme, 303 . . . ., with Spanish wine, 303 Whitings, merlans, in various ways, 195, 196 pudding of, 208 Wild boar, sanglier, 103 ......... head, hure de sanglier, 103 fillets, filets, 103 cutlets, cdtelettes, 103 ham, jambon de sanglier, 104 Wild ducks, canards sauvages, 163 roast, a la broche, 164 fillets, with orange sauce, a l’orange, 163 salmi, 163. Wild geese, 159 Wines, on the choice of, 327 . . . champagne, 328 . . . Bourdeaux, 329 . . . white, 329 . . . ., of Greece, 331 . . . ., of Spain, 332 . . . ., of Tuscany, 333 . . . management of wines, 333 . . . manner of bottling, 335 . . . wax for bottles, 336 Woodcocks and snipes, 124 roast, A la broche, 124 salmi, 125380 INDEX. Woodcocks, souffle, 125 roast with truffles, aux truffes, 125 Yellow colour, , hashed, 125 293. Wood pigeons, 131. See rigeons. THE END. JjONDOff : Printed by A. & R. Spottiswoode, New Street-Square. Y. in confectionery