22900151182STATESMEN’S DISHES; AND HOW TO COOK THEM. PRACTICAL AUTOGRAPHIC RECIPES BY Mrs. benjamin HARRISON, Mrs. William Windom, Mrs. D. J. Brewer, Mrs. John Wanamaker, Mrs. John J. Ingalls, Mrs. William H. H. Miller, Mrs. John Sherman, Mrs. John W. Noble, Mrs. John H. Reagan, Mrs. Jere. M. Rusk, Mrs. M. S. Quay, Mrs. Melville W. Fuller, Mrs. M. C. Butler, Mrs. Samuel F. Miller, Mrs. T. K Reed, Mrs. Stephen J. Field, Mrs. John G. Carlisle, AND Mrs. Morrison R. Waite, Mrs. John A. Logan, Mrs. Philip H. Sheridan, and more than two hundred other women prominent IN OFFICIAL AND SOCIAL LIFE AT THE NATIONAL CAPITAL. WASHINGTON, D. C. THE NATIONAL TRIBUNE. MDCCCXC. BRENTANO’S, NEW YORK, CHICAGO, WASHINGTON, PARIS, LONDON.2 T COPYRIGHT. THE NATIONAL TRIBUNE, WASHINGTON, D. C., 1B90.PREFACE. aASHINGTON, our beautiful National Cap- ital, is famous for many things, but in nothing has it so pleasing a reputation as for refined hospitality. In this charming respect no other city in the world surpasses it—indeed, it is believed that few, if any, equal it. Natural causes produce this. It is the political capital of many more millions of enlightened, progressive and wealthy people than are found in compact territory under any other fiag in the world. Public business, the fluctuations of politics, ease of communication, and other reasons combine to bring, at one time or another, representatives at the best o(f all of these together in Washington. They meet under circum- stances well calculated to promote the development of pleasant social intercourse. With them meet representatives of the most refined and cultivated society of the old world. The result is that the art of entertaining is carefully cultivated, and all that is pleasant and graceful in the science of the table—which must always play so im- portant a part in hospitality—receives its highest development. This collection of practical recipes is of unprece- dented interest and value. Nothing approaching it (6)6 PREFACE. has ever before been offered the public. All the ladies Tvho have kindly contributed are noted in Washington circles, and far beyond those confines, as hostesses and housekeepers. They are universally recognized as leaders, and the excellence of their en- tertainments hjis done very much toward building up the reputation of the Capital for refined hospitality. The recipes given are for dishes which have re- ceived the enthusiastic commendation of the most critical dinera-out. Most of them are specialties upon which the ladies pride themselves, and not a few ai e the inventions—the “creations” a French chef de cuisine would say—of the fair conti ibutors. We are tempted to expatiate at length upon many of these—to relate of some that they are cherished heirlooms, which have been in the families for gener- ations, and handed down from mother to daughter; of others that they were conceived and elaborated years ago by young wives, anxious to excel in attract- ive tables, and retained by them because they accom- plished their design. But to give these their proper history would make this book many times its present size; so we must refrain. Trial will demonstrate more fully than any words can state the unusual value of these recipes. Washington, D. C., May, 1890.(7) CONTENTS SOUPS. Clear Sonp . Mis. Benjamin Harrison . . . PAOB. . 16 Gumbo . Mrs. John G. Carlisle .... . 16 Com Sonp . Mrs. Roswell P. Flower . . . . 17 Tomato Sonp . Mrs. Julius C. Burrows . . . . 18 Amber Sonp . Mrs. John H. Rogers . 19 Mock Turtle . Mrs. H. C. McCormick . 20 A Quickly Made Sonp . . Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton . . 21 FISH, OYBTEES, Exa j Fish Chowder Mrs. BKNJAMm Habeison . ... 22 Codfish Balls . . ... Mrs. Melville W. Fuller ... 23 Fidi a la Lucullus ... Mrs. John \V. Noble Fish Chowder Mrs. John Sherman Deviled Crabs Mrs. M. S. Quay Broiled Oysters on Toast. Mrs. C. K. Davis Baked Fish Mrs. James E. Campbell .... Stewed Oysters Mrs. Rosweij;. P. Flower .... Baked Shad Mrs. R. M. La Follette .... Scalloped Oysters .... Mrs. J. R. McKee Codfish Fake Col. Gilbert A. Pierce Terrapin Hon. Thomas F. Bayard .... Fish Chowder Capt. G. E. Thornton8 CONTENTS. BOASTS. PAQB. Christmas Tnrkey . . . . Mrs. Stephen J. Field . . . . 36 Baked Chicken .... . Mrs. Thomas B. Reed . . . . 36 Young Roast Pig . . . . Mrs. J. N. Clarkson .... . 37 Saddle of Mutton . . . . Mrs. .T. Loweie Bell. .... . 39 Barbecued Mutton . . . . Mrs. Roger Q. Mili^s .... . . 40 Roast Tui'key . Mrs. Thomas J. Henderson . . . 41 Roast Beef . Mrs. W. D. Bynum . . 42 Roast Veal . Mrs. A. C. Haemer . . 43 Baked Ham . Mrs. George T. Barnes . . . . . 44 Roast Tnrkey . Mrs. George W. Smith . . . . . 45 Stuffed Ham . Mrs. Thomas C. Catcuings . . . 46 GAME. Roast Duck . Mrs. John J. Ingalls .... . . 47 Ortolans . Mrs. James E. Campbell . . . . 48 BREAD, Etc. Canned Com Patties . Mrs. William Windom . . . . . 49 Steam Brown Bread . . . Mrs. W. H. H. Miller . . . . . 60 Graham Gems .... . Mrs. W. H. H. Miller . . . . . 51 Bread . Mrs. James F. Wilson . . . . . 62 Com Pone . Mrs. James K. Jones .... . . 63 Com Muffins . Mrs. Charles F. Mandeeson . . 54 Egg Bread . Mrs. William B. Bate . . . . . 56 Swedish Timbales . . . Mrs. J. S. C. Blackburn . . . . 56 Breakfast Cakes . . . . Mrs. John C. Spooner .... . . 57 Milk Bread . Mrs. Nelson Dingley, Jr . . . . 58 Beaten Biscuit .... . Mrs. James H. Blount .... . . 59 Salt-Rising Bread . . . . Mrs. Thomas R. Stockdale . . . 609 CONTENTS. Johnny Cakes . . Mrs. W. 0. Abnold PAOB. . . 61 Sweet Com Bread . • . . Mrs. Albert C. Thompson . . . . 62 Common Bismit . • • • Mrs. Asheb G. Cakuth . . . . . 63 Green Com tYitters . • Mrs. William J. Connell . . . . 64 Fried Cakes . . . Mis. George H. Briokneb . . . 65 Waffles Mrs. Albert C. Thompson . . . . 66 Loaf Bread .... Mrs. Daniel M. Ransdell . . . 67 Cream Toast . . . Miss L. S. Swan . . 68 ENTREES, OMELETS, ENTREMETS, Etc. Sansage Rolls . . . Mrs. Benjamin Harrison . . . . 69 Lemon Omelet . . . . • Mrs. M. S. Quay . . 71 Mississippi Baked Hash . Mrs. James Z. George . . . . . 72 Beef Collar .... Mis. James Z. George . . . . . 73 Relish for Lunch . • • • Mrs. Thomas B. Reed .... . . 74 Sweetbreads and Mush - rooms .... • « « Mrs. J. N. Huston . . 75 Chicken Croquets . . . . Mrs. A. W. GREELYt . . 76 Pressed Chicken * • . Mrs. Thomas J. Henderson . . . 77 Veal Loaf .... • . . Mrs. J. G. Sawyer . . 78 Curried Mutton Chops . . Mrs. Joseph E. Washington . . 79 Veal Fricandeau . « . . Mrs. A. T. Bliss ...... . . 80 Cream Chicken . . Mrs. Mark S. Brewer .... . . 81 Plain Omelet. . . Mrs. William E. Mason . . . . 82 Meat Souffl6 . . . Mrs. Orben C. Moore .... . . 83 Veal Loaf .... Mrs. John A. Pickleb . . . . . 84 Baked Omelet . . Mrs. George H. Bbickneb . . . 85 Puff Omelet . . . . • . Mrs. W. E. SmoNDS . . 86 Boiling Eggs . . . • • . Mrs. E. V. Brookshire . . . . . 87 Chicken Croquets . . . . Mrs. H. C. McCormick . . . . . 88 Boned Chicken . . Mias Julia Darling Strong . . 89 Chipped Beef . . . Miss L. S. Swan . . 90 Deviled F^ga . . . Miss L. 8, Swan . . 91C0N2ENTS. lO VEGETABLES. PAQR. Broiled Tomatoes .... Mrs. N. P. Banks 92 Mashed Potatoes .... Mrs. R. P. Bland 93 Minced Cabbage .... Mrs. RoswKLL P. Flowke .... 94 Cauliflower Mrs. W. 0. Arnold 95 Spinach Mrs. John M. Faequhae .... 96 Lima Beans Mrs. Moses D. Stivees 97 Scalloped Sweet Potatoes . Mrs. William J. Connell .... 98 Baked Potatoes JIrs. Joseph McKenna 99 Asparagus Mrs. Benjamin F. Shively ... 100 Green Peas Mrs. J. R. Williams 101 Macaroni Mrs. E. C. Venable 102 Egg Plant Mrs. Lewis F. Watson 103 Green Vegetables .... Mrs. S. A. Ceaig 104 Stewed Com Mias Phcebe W. Codzins 105 SALADS. Chicken Salad Mrs. Stanley Matthews .... 106 Ijobster Salad Mrs. John Wanamakee 107 Tomato Salad Mrs. E. H. Congee 108 Potato Salatl Mrs. S. A. Craig 109 Cold SL'iw Mrs. Jason B. Brown 110 Crab Salad Mrs. J. R. McKee Ill SAUCES, RELISHES, Etc. Chicken Saute Mrs. John W. Noble 112 Chow Chow Mrs. John Sherman 216 Relish for Cold Meats . . Mrs. M. S. Quay 113 Chestnut Stuffing .... Mrs. F. M. Cockrell 114 Chicken Filling .... Mrs. J. S. C. BLACKBURN . , . . 116CONTENTS. 11 Catsup Mrs. John H. Eeaoan PicoUi Mrs. Henry W. Blair 117 Mushroom Sauce .... Mrs. C. A. Bergen 118 Strawberry Sauce .... Mrs. W. D. Owen 119 Peach Sauce Mrs. Charles C. Townsend . . .120 Chicken Salad Dressing . Mrs. H. C. McCoRJnCK 121 Central American Sirup . Mrs. R. M. La Foijlette 122 Ibidding Sauce Mrs. John B. Henderson ... . 165 PUNCH, EGG-NOGO, Etc. Maryland Egg-Nogg . . . Mrs. Stephen J. Field 123 Regent Punch Mrs. John E. Kenna 124 Milk Punch Mrs. Roswell P. Flowed .... 125 Apple Toddy Mrs. Jos. E. Washington . . . . 126 Cider Nogg Mrs. F. W. Wheeler 127 UnfermentedGrapeJuice.Mrs. Zerelda C. Wallace . . . 128 Cabinet Punch Mra Jas. B. Ricketts 129 PUDDINGS, PIES, JELLIES, Eth Fig Pudding Mrs. Benjamin Harrison .... 130 Mince Pie Mrs. Samuel F. Miller 131 Graham Pudding .... Mrs. W. H. H. Miller 132 Jelly Mrs. Jere M. Rdsk 133 Temperance Punch. . . . Mrs. W. H. H. Miller 134 Russian Cream Mrs. Jere M. Rusk 136 Fruit Pudding Mrs. Philip H. Sheridan . . . .136 Citron Pudding Mrs. John A. Logan 138 Meringue Pudding. . . . Mrs. M. C. Butler 139 New England Indian Pud- ding Mrs. Henry W. Blair 140 Snow Pudding Mrs. James L. Pugh 141CONTENTS. 12 Lottie’s Pudding Mts. William P. Hkpbubn 142 Russian Cream Mrs. William S. Holman .... 143 Cream Pies Mrs. C. A. Boutellb 144 Boiled Custard Mrs. Byhon M. Ctttcheon . . . ..145 Plum Pudding Mrs. Elliott B. Coues 146 Charlotte Russe Mrs. Isaac S. Struble 147 Canlinal Richelieu Pud- ding Mrs. Chakijes H. Gibson 148 Wolf Pudding Mrs. R. H. Norton 149 Tapioca Custanl Pudding..Mrs. A. M. Dockery 150 Charlotte Russo Mrs. Charles S. Baker 151 Sponge Podding Mrs. William E. Mason 152 Baked Custards Mrs. A. C. Harmer 153 Charlotte Russe Mrs. Alonzo Note 154 Pudding Sauce Mrs. John B. Henderson .... 155 Apple Pan Dowdy Mrs. Marcxjs A. Smith 156 Boiled Pears Mrs. William H. Morrow 157 Apple Tapioca Mrs. J. H. Bankhead 158 Plum Pudding Mrs. Joseph E. McDonald 159 Cider Jelly Mrs. D. J. Brewer 160 Dixie Pudding Mrs. W. H. F. Lee 161 Bread Tot4 Mrs. John Lind 162 Ihimpkiu Pie Mrs. J. W. Van Schaick 163 Pie Crust Mrs. J. W. Van Schaick 164 Spanish Cream Mrs. C. W. Spofford 165 CAKES. Old-tashioued Sponge Cake. Mrs. Morrison R. Waite 166 German Almond Rings.. . Mrs. William Windom 167 Khakspere Cake Mrs. William Windom 168 Augel Food Mrs. Jere M. Rusk 169 Harrison Fruit Cake.. . . Mrs. John J. Ingalls 170 Delicate Cake Mrs. John Sherman 17113 CONTENTS. 'PAOK. Berwick Sponge Cake . . Mrs. William P. Fbye. 172 Gingerbread Mrs. William P. Fete 173 Sponge Cake Mis. JoHK H. Reagan 174 Sponge Cako Mrs. Gilbeet A. Pieece 176 Sunshine Cake Mrs. GIDEON C. Moody 176 Mrs. Carlisle’s Cake . . . Mrs. John G. Caelisle 177 What-is-Lefb-Over Cake. . Mrs. John H. Geae 178 Breakfast Cake Mrs. Nei.son Dingi.ey, Je . . . . 179 Spice Cake Mrs. C. A. Boutelle 180 Strawberry Shortcake . . Mrs. John M. Faequhae 181 Caramel Cake Mrs. W. D. Bynum 182 Sponge Cake Mrs. Lewis E. Payson 183 Minnehaha Cake Mrs. William P. Hepbuen.. ... 184 Gold and Silver Cakes . . Mrs. S. R. Petees 185 English Walnut Cake. . . Mrs. W. H. Gest 186 Sponge Cake Mrs. Joseph McKenna 187 Grandmother’s Cake. . . . Mrs. Chaeles A. Russell 188 Snow Cake Mrs. M. H. McCoED 189 Fruit Cake Mrs. R. A. Pieece 190 Chocolate Caramel Cake. . Mrs. J. W. Fostee 191 Cocoanut Cake Mrs. R. H. Noeton 192 Delicate Cake Mrs. H. C. McCoemick 193 Ice Cream Cake Mrs. R. F. Peitigeew 194 Drop Cake Mrs. Alonzo Nute 195 Saudssons de Chocolat. . Miss Bessie Snidee 196 PecMi Cake Mrs. J. R. McKee 197 Pound Cake Miss Maey E. Tuepie 198 Sponge Cake Mrs. Isabella Beechee Hookee . 199 Fruit Cake Miss Maey E. Tuepie 200 Angel Food Miss Maey E. Tuepie 201 Boiled Frosting Mias Maey E. Tuepie 202 Chocolate Cream Cake . . Miss Lillah Beicenee 203 Wedding Cake Mrs. Gen. F. W. Landee 218CONTENTS 14 ICE CREAM, BONBONS, Etc. PAGB. Bonbons Mrs. Shelby M. Cullom 204 Cliocolate Creams .... Mrs. Shelby M. Cullom 205 Candied Sweet Potatoes. . Mrs. M. C. Butlee 206 Frozen Apricots Mrs. ^I. R. Quay 207 Oranges Filled with Jelly..Mrs. J. N. HusTOiir 208 Crystallized Fruit .... Mrs. Charles E. Hookee 209 Ice Cream Without Eggs . Mrs. William Vandevee 210 Caramel Ice Cream. . . . Mrs. H. C. Hansbeough 211 Orange Preserves Mrs. Charles Tracey 212 Deviled Almonds .... Mrs. W. D. OWEX 213 Salted Almonds Mrs. John F. Lacey 214 Orange Fool Mrs. Daniel M. Ransdell 215 MISCELLANEOUS. President Harrison’s Christ- mas Dinner .... Mrs. Benjamin Harrison .... 217 A Pink Dinner in Apart- ments Mrs. Wm. M. Stewart 219 A Gootl Baking Powder . Mrs. Mary A. Denison 220 Healing Plaster Mrs. Roswell P. Flower .... 221 To Clean Kid Gloves . . . Mrs. C. K. Davis 222(15) STATESMEN’S DISHES. CLEAR SOUP. BT MBB. BENJAMIN HABBIBON. (Wife of the President.) EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON. / /# a C ^ (I A C. Ac2„^ c:A. cl£c <a^ ^u^AAA^ A f- iXrcAji^t 10 STATESMEN’S DISHES; GUMBO. BV MRS. JOHN O. CARLISLE. (Wife of Representative from Kentucky and ez-Speaker.) large chicken, cnt in pieces and fried; put on in a gallon of water; fry three onions, two slices of breakfast bacon, and add with the chicken. Let boil two and a half hours; cut small one quart okra; stew one quart of tomatoes, season and add. Let boil one hour, add a little sugar and thicken with browned flour.17 AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. CORN SOUP. BT MBS. B08WB1.L P. FLOWEB. fWlfc of Ueprpsentativo from New York.) 'JE pint of grated green corn, one quart of milk, one pint of hot water, one heaping table- spoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one sliced onion, salt and pepper to taste. Cook the corn in the water thirtj' minutes. Let the milk and onion come to a boil, have the flour and butter mixed together, then add a few tablespoonfuls of boiling milk. When perfectly smooth, stir into the milk and cook eight minutes; take out the onion and the corn; season to taste.18 BTATESMEN'8 DISSESi TOMATO SOUP. BT XRS J. a BCKBOWB. (Wife of Representative from Miobigan.) quart of stock, one quart of canned toma- 3, one onion, three sprigs of parsley, two vres, one teaspoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Boil half an hour; strain through a sieve; dissolve four tablespoonfuls of flour or corn- starch in cold water; stir in soup ; boil five minutes. Serve with croutons.19 AND NOW TO COOK THEM. AMBER SOUP. BY MBS. JOHN H. BOOEB8. (Wife of Representative from Arkansas.) large soup-bone, one chicken, a small slice of ham, a soup bunch, one onion, two sprigs of parsley, one-half carrot, one-half parsnip, celery, three cloves, pepper, salt, one gallon of cold water, whites and shells of two eggs, and caramel for coloring. Boil beef, chicken and ham for five hours. The last hour add vegetables and cloves. Strain in an earthen bowl and let it remain over night. Next day remove the cake of fat on top, pour off the liquor, avoiding the settling. Mix into it the beaten whites of the eggs and shells. Boil quickly half a minute, and pass through a jelly-bag. Add a spoonful or two (enough to color) of caramel and two of pearl tapioca. This is especially nice for receptions, teas, etc., if served very hot. TO MAKE THE OAKAMEL. Put in a saucepan a small quantity of brown sugar with a little water. Stir it constantly over the fire until it is a dark color. Be careful not to burn.20 STATESMEN'S DISHES; MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. BY MBS. H. O. M’CORMICK. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) jAKE a scalded calf’s head; boil it in hot water for twenty minutes; drain and put in cold water. Then place in a saucepan with three quarts of water, a carrot, an onion, four cloves, three cloves of garlic, a few branches of parsley, a tablespoonful of vinegar and a little salt. Mix well three tablespoonfuls of flour in a little water, which add to the other ingredients and boil gently for half an hour; drain, and when cold cut the calf’s head into small pieces; then add about a quart of heavy stock, boil gently twenty minutes, and just before serving also add a good glass of sherry, a little red pepper and two hard-boiled eggs chopped up, the yolks and whites separately, and the peel of a lemon cut in small pieces.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 21 A QUICKLY-MADE SOUP. ' BT KRS. HARBIET TATLOB UPTON. (DBUghter of Hon. £. B. Taylor, of Ohio, and author of “The Children c the White House.’’) ^|®^OTHING perhaps is of more help to a house Slpffe keeper than to be able to concoct at short notice a good soup. A meager lunch, or a light dinner is often turned into an attractive meal by the addition of a soup. Below is given one of the most simple of quickly-made soups: Place one tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan till it boils but does not brown. Add two tablespoonftils of flour; when all is thoroughly mixed add one tea- spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of celery salt, one saltspoonful of white pepper. Boil one quart of milk, and add the hot thickening. Eemove the bone and skin from one small can of salmon; mince or chip it; add the flsh to the milk, which, when once boiled, serve immediately.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 22 FISH CHOWDER BT KB8. BBNJJLMIN HABRI80K. (Wife of the Preeident.) !UT a medium-sized shad or white-fish, three or I four potatoes, one onion and a quarter of a pound of bacon into small pieces. Fry the bacon and onions a light brown. Put a layer of potatoes in the saucepan, over that a layer of the fish, then a sprinkling of onions and bacon, then a layer of tomatoes; sprinkle with pepper and salt, alter- nating the layers until all is in. Add enough water to cover, place over a moderate fire and let simmer twenty-five minutes. Boil one pint of milk, thick- ening it with cracker crumbs; let it stand a moment and then add to the chowder. Now stir for the first time, let boil an instant, season if not strong to taste, and serve hot.28 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CODFISH BALLS. BT KBS. KBLVILUB W. rCIXXB. (Wilis of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.) |w^j^QUAL parts codfish and mashed potatoes thoroughly mixed with cooked red beets chopped fine. Mold into balls, brown in the £at of salt pork, and garnish with the crisp bits of fried pork.24 STATESMEN’S DISHES; FISH A LUCULLUS BY KBS. JOHN W. NOBI.X. (Wife of the Secretary of the Interior.) o^^LICE one middling-sized onion and fry it with one ounce of butter until it turns yellow; add three or four pounds of fish (bass, pike, trout, or any fish having a firm and compact flesh); add, also, two carrots, two onions and one leek (all sliced), four stalks of parsley, one of thyme, one clove of garlic if to the taste, a bay-leaf, one clove, six pep- percorns and salt; cover the whole with cold water; set on a good but not brisk fire, and boil gently for about two hours. If the water is boiling away, add some, then strain and use.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 26 FISH CHOWDER BY KBti. JOHN SHERMAN. (Wife of Senator from Ohio.) a codfish (any fish will answer) weighing iibout five pounds; take out all the bones, and season lightly with pepper and salt; take a quart of milk, put in five small onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- spoonful of white pepper, and one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; simmer all together for fifteen min- utes, and then strain. Then return to the fire, and add one-quarter pound flour, one-quarter pound butter, and yolks of two eggs. Stir until it thickens, but do not let it get too thick. Then in your baking- dish put alternate layers of sauce and fish, having the sauce on top and bottom. Grate bread crumbs and Parmessan cheese over the top; place in a moderate oven, and bake half an hour.BTATEBMEN'8 DISHES; 26 DEVILED CRABS. BT MBS. X. S. QDAT. (Wife of Senator from Pennsylvania.) ^OIL one dozen crabs twenty minutes; when cold, pick. Three eggs, well beaten, two tablespoonfuls Vienna bread crumbs, four of melted butter, one of olive oil, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper. Mix all together, using cream to moisten, and put back in the shells, which should be clean and dry. Dip in beaten eggs and Vienna bread crumbs and fry in hot lard to cover.27 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. BROILED OYSTERS ON TOAST. BT MRS. a K. DAVIS. (Wile of Senator from Minnesota.) ■AKE the largest oysters obtainable. Brush the wire oyster-broiler with softened butter, lay in the oysters and broil over a hot fire two or three minutes, basting once on each side with butter-brush. Dish side by side on a long slice of buttered toast in a dish. Garnish with lemon and parsley.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 28 BAKED FISH. BY MBS. J. K. CAMPBEIOm (Wife of the Governor of Ohio.) g^LEAN, riuse and wipe dry a white fish, or any K fish, Aveighing three or four pounds; rub the i fish inside and out with salt and pepper, fill with a stufBng made like that for poultry, but drier; tie the fish up and put in a hot pan Avith some drip- pings and a lump of butter, dredge with flour and lay over the fish a few slices of thin salt pork or bits of butter, and bake an hour and a half, basting occa- sionally.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 29 STEWED OYSTERS, ETC. BT MBS. BOSWBLI4 P. FLOWKB. (Wife of Bepresentative from New York.) ^LANCH a dozen oysters in their own liquor f/ salt and remove the oysters; add a table- spoonfnl of butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream and a tablespoonful of flour. Beat up the yolk of one egg while the sauce is simmering; add the egg, and simmer the whole until it thickens. Place the oysters in a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top, and send to table. To blanch an oyster is to cook it till it pufife up. DEESSING FOR ONE FISH. Half a pound of butter, half can tomatoes; stew for one-half hour; one tablespoonful of walnut catsup, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, or two tablespoonfuls of chow-chow; add sliced lemon, very thin.STATESMEN’S DISHES; so BAKED SHAD. BT MRS. R. M. LA FOLLKTT1E. (Wife of Representative from Wisconsin.) 'ELECT a fresh roe shad, clean and prepare the back. Fillit with any good dressing, oyster filling preferred, first salting lightly inside and ont; sew up the slit and lay the fish in a dripping-pan; butter it generously and add a little water. Let it bake about half an hour in a moderate oven, or till it is thoroughly browned. Lift it out on a dish, draw ont the stitches, and serve hot with any kind of fish sance preferred. carefully, splitting it at the breast rather thanAND HOW TO COOK THEM. 81 SCALLOPED OYSTERS. BY MRS. J. R. M’KKK. (Daughter of the President.) the macaroni soft, put a layer into a baking-dish, cover with oysters, pepper, salt and butter, then another layer of macaroni, then a layer of oysters until the dish is filled. Bake.32 STATESMEN'S DISHES; CODFISH FAKE. BY OOL. OH.BEBT K. PIKBCE. (Senator from North Dakota.) SkS^AKE some codfish—old salt fish, the saltiest you can buy, and take all you can get. Then g boil it well, just as long as you want to; boil all the salt out of it,' or as much as you can get out. Of course you boil this in water. The gravy is the most important part. You boil some plain water and put in butter—^lots of butter—and flour; but be care- ful about flour, not to get too much. The gravy wants to be of a consistency between Washington milk and real cream. Have a big pot of boiled potatoes, boiled with their jackets on. For one person take four of these big mealy potatoes, take jackets off and mash very flne all over a big dinner-plate. Spread this area of potato with the fine codfish, leaving no part uncovered. Next, pour gravy over the entire surface of fish. Pour copiously, after which black pepper must be used, very black pepper, which lights up the gravy and gives expression to the entire dish. The codfish is now ready for eating, and if made with strict regard to recipe will not fail of a result.ds AND SOW TO COOK TEEM. TERRAPIN. BT BOK. THOMAS P. BATABD. (Late Secretary of State.) lKE two “counts” and boil in the shell; after allowing them to cool, remove the shell, take out the gall-bladder, and cut the ter- rapin in good-sized pieces; put in a chafing-dish, and to this add small cupful of rich cream, half a pound of butter, and a couple wineglassfuls of sherry or madeira. Most epicures prefer madeira because of its richer flavor. No one has ever tasted terrapin prepared after this recipe who is not a convert to its excellence.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 34 FISH CHOWDER. BT CAPT. O. E. THORNTON. (Pfty Director, D. 3. Navy.) ^AKE one-lialf pound fat salt pork, cut into slices and fry out well. Slice four lai'ge onions and fry in the pork-fat until they are a light brown. Stir constantly to prevent burning, and thus making the chowder bitter. Put this into a pot with three quarts of boiling water, and let it boil twenty minutes. Skim out the pieces of pork and onion and add ten potatoes, sliced, not too thin, and boil twenty minutes; then add two pounds of solid fish-shred and boil ten minutes, if the fish is not cooked; add salt and pepper to taste. When cooked stir in slowly a thickening made of two table.spoon- fuls of farina mixed in cold milk, and let it boil up once only. Put the pot back on the fire, and, after letting it stand a few moments, skim off the scum which will rise to the top, and serve. Eecipe suffi- cient for eight persons.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 38 TO PREPARE A TURKEY FOR CHRISTMAS DINNER. BY MRS. STEPHEN J. FIELD. (Wife of Associiite Justice of the Supreme Court.) KE turkey should be cooped up and fed well ome time before Christmas. Three days >efore it is slaughtered it should have an English walnut forced down its throat three times a day, and a glass of sherry once a day. The meat will be deliciously tender, and have a fine nutty flavor.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 36 BAKED CHICKEN. BY MRS. THOMAS B. KEED. (Wife of the Speaker of the House of Representatives.) ^^^ELECT a tender fowl, if possible—to have it fresh is imperative; dress it carefully; fill with any desired dressing; thrust the legs through the hole made in drawing it at the back; pinion the wings close to the sides; dredge with salt and a little pepper, and place in a dripping-pan with about one-half teacup of water. Put it in a moderate oven and do not disturb it for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then begin to baste it, repeating the pro- cess frequently till testing with a fork shows that it is done. If it browns too rapidly, turn another pan over it at the last. Serve with gravy. If the chicken is tough, parboil slowly till partly done, and put to bake with the broth.37 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. YOUNG ROAST PIG FOR CHRISTMAS. BT MBS. JAMES a CLABK80B. (Wife of the First Assistant Poslmoster-Oeneral.) 5ROCURE a fine young pig not over six or eight weeks old. See that the fiesh is firm and pink and the eyes healthy a,nd clear. Have it neatly dressed, leaving the head intact and the feet and tail au naturelle. Prepare a dressing of breadcrumbs, three eggs well beaten (yolks and whites together), half a teacupful of butter, onions to taste, a slight pinch of powdered sage, a handful of large raisins, and salt and pepper to suit the palate; rub the inside of the pig with salt and pepper, and lay along the backbone slices of salt pork, as the young meat needs the relish of the smoked bacon. Fill with the dressing, which is well mixed with water and a few spoonfuls of rich cream, and sew firmly together with cord. Put it in a large baking- pan, with the knees turned under and a small cob in the mouth to keep it open. Put a little water in the pan and leave it to the mercies of a moderate oven for twenty minutes, when the basting must begin and be continued at regular intervals until it is brown and tender. When ready to a turn place on the platter on its knees; put on his back a little Chinese doll on a saddle of blue satin, with reins of smilax, and for aSTATESMEN'S DISHES} 38 bit an ear of popcorn; wire the cue of the doll so it will stand out straight, and you will be astonished at the rate of speed which his pigship is making across the table. Garnish the dish with holly and mistletoe, and if you have a lot of merry children about you will be well paid for your trouble in watching the pleasure which this jaunty little race-horse will give them.80 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. A SADDLE OF MUTTON. BY UBS. J. L.OWKTE BBLI.. (Wife of SuperliileiKleiil of Kiiilway Mail Servioe.) for your butcher about November 1, and ’ him to take a week in selecting your itmas mutton. If you take the shoulder too, you can get the whole for 18 cents per pound. Wash the saddle, wrap it in heavy muslin and hang it where the temperature can be kept below freezing. Every few days the cloth should be wet with vinegar. Alter six weeks’ care it is just ready for the Christ- mas dinner, and should be washed in salt and water, placed in a large pan and basted frequently. A safe rule for roasting is twenty minutes to the pound. Currant jelly should be served with it. The delicious flavor depends in part on the carver. He should cut the slices very thin, and parallel with the backbone.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 40 BARBACUED MUTTON. BY MBS. BOGBB (}. MIUUB. (Wife of Kepreaentative from TezM.) a nice, tender forequarter or only the ribs of lamb or mutton. Cut it across three or four times to break the bones, so as to carve easily. Put it in a flat stove pan, or, better, on a broiler in front of the Are. Let it broil slowly. Take a pint of vinegar, add to it two tablespoonfuls of red pepper (pods cut up flne much the best), tea- spoonful black pepper, salt to taste and two table- spoonfuls of butter. Keep this hot. Make a sponge of a piece of soft cloth, and all the time the meat is cooking mop it with dressing. When ready pour on the rest of the dressing and serve hot.AND now TO COOK THEM. 41 ROAST TURKEY. BY MRS. THOS. J. HENDERSON. <Wife of Itepresentative from Illinois.) ■AKE one loaf of bread, scald it with boiling water; take the liver of the turkey, one pint of oysters, two stalks of celery, one raw egg, two-thirds of a cui> of butter; mix and chop together very fine. Season Avith salt, pepper and a little nut- meg ; dredge the turkey with flour, and put small bits of butter on the breast, with pepper and salt. Eoast from two and a half to three hours; baste frequently while roasting it.STATESifEN’S DISHES; 42 ROAST BEEF. BY MBS W. D. BYNUM. (Wife of Representalive from Indiana.) E best pieces for roasting are the tenderloin, eighth ribs are best. If you get a rib-piece, have the butcher take out the bone, and roll and skewer the meat in shape. If there is much fat on the surface, cover the roast with a paste of flour and water. This should be removed half an hour before the meat is done. Have the oven rather hot, if you like beef rare, and allow twelve minutes to the pound. If preferred well done, have the oven moderate and cook a longer time. Serve with gravy.43 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. ROAST VEAL. BY MB8. ALFRED C. UARMEB. (Wife of Repreaeiitulivu from Pennxylvnnia.) a leg of veal and remove the bone, making several incisions in the thick part beside. Make a stuffing of crackers, eggs, chopped fat pork, sage, pepper and salt, enough to fill the holes. Bind and skewer carefully together. Theu take very thick and fat pickled pork, cut it into slices as thin as you can with a very sharp knife, and cover the veal entirely over with it, binding it se- curely with strips of muslin (cords would cut the meat as it cooked); put it in a deep dish and set it in a steamer; let it steam three hours. Kemove it, and put it in the oven in a dripping-pan with the gravy in the dish, and bake it an hour and a half or two hours more—according to size, basting it constantly. Peel off the fat and serve hot.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 44 BAKED HAM. BT MBS. GEO T. BARNES. (Wife of Representntive from Georgia.) Sm^AKE a ham weighing eight or ten pounds. I*repare as for boiling, washing and scraping it well. Then take one pint of flour and make a thick, stiff batter, and cover the ham all over with it. Place it in a baking-pan raised on three muffin- rings, and bake fifteen minutes for every pound, in an oven heated as for turkey. When it is done, peel off all the crust, including the skin of the ham, and when it is cold slice it in thin slices.46 AifD HOW TO COOK THEM. ROAST TURKEY. BY Mas. GBO. yt, SMITH. (Wife of Representative from Illinois.) Sj^ylEST stew the fowl slowly for half an hour; then fill with any desired dressing. Secure the legs; run a skewer through the wings, fastening them to the body; skewer the neck fast to the body underneath, and tie all securely with twine. Place it in a covered roasting-pan that will retain all the steam, and therefore all the flavor; pour the liquor over it and baste it once in a while, but not so frequently as if in an open pan. By the time the turkey is nicely browned it will be done through, as the covered pan prevents it from coloring prema- turely. Serve with giblet gravy and cranberry sauce. GIBLET GRAVY. Boil the giblets for two hours; then take them out, chop the gizzard and heart, braid the liver, and put them back again. Thicken with one tablespoon- ful of flour wet with cold water, season with salt and pepper. Let this simmer one hour longer, and when you dish the turkey turn the drippings into the gravy, boil up once, and send to the table. Make all the gravy for poultry this way, omitting the chopped gizzard in chicken gravy.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 40 STUFFED HAM. BT MRS. T. C. OATCniNOB. (Wife of RepresentAtive from Mississippi.) *ELECT a very fine quality of ham, a newly- cured ham if possible. Boil it slowly until it d is so well done that the bone can be removed. (It can be taken out or not, as you please.) For the dressing take one pint toasted bread or crackers, two tablespoons of celery seed, one-half tablespoon of black pepper, one-half tablespoon of spice, one-half tablespoon of cloves, one tablespoon of mustard, three tablespoons of sugar, six yolks of eggs, some good pickle and two or three onions chopped fine, a little vinegar; mix all well. Make incisions to the bone all over the ham and press the dressing into the in- cisions, forcing it through the lean part of the ham; then spread the remainder of the dressing over the top of the ham and glaze with white of egg. Bake slowly for about an hour. •AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 47 ROAST DUOK. BY MRS. JOUN J. INGALLS. (Wife of the Prenldent pro tern, of the Senale.) sOAST two wild ducks. When cold carve nicely, rejecting the wings. Put into a stew- pan one pint of water, one pint of tomatoes, strained; one tablespoonful of onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. As soon as this boils up throw in the sliced duck and boil 15 minutes. At the last moment thicken with a little cornstarch and throAV in two dozen olives. When all is well heated through serve at once. This is delicious when well prepared.48 STATESMEN'S DISHES; HOW TO COOK ORTOLANS. BT MRB. J. B. CAMPBELL. (Wife of the Governor of Ohio.) |OLL an oyster in melted butter, then in bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and put into each bird before roasting. Baste with butter and water three times during the twelve minutes of cooking, and after putting them on crisp slices of toast, baste again freely with butter.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 49 CANNED-CORN PATTIES. BY MBS. WM. WINDOM. (Wife of the Secretary of the Treasury.) gAKE one can of best sweet corn and chop fine in a chopping-tray. Add two beaten eggs, to which has been added two tablespoonfuls of milk, a tablespoonful of salt, a half-tablespoonful of pepper, and two even tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat well and fry on a griddle in a tablespoonful of mixed lard and butter, dropping one spoonful for each patty. Fry brown on both sides and serve hot.80 STATESMEN'S DISHES; STEAM BROWN BREAD. BY MBS. W. H. B. MU.LKB. (Wife of the Attorney-General of the United States.) gWO cups of corn meal, one cup of wheat flour, one cup of either rye or graham, one-half cup of New Orleans molasses, one pint of sour milk, two scant teaspoons of soda; salt. Boil in mold three hours. Serve hot.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 81 GRAHAM GEMS. BT MRS. VI. U. U. MILtiKR. (Wife of tho Altorney-Oeneriil of the United Slates.) quart of flour; rub into this lard about the size of an ordinary egg; two heaping ta- blespoons of brown sugar, two heaping tea- spoonfuls of baking powder; wet up with water till it cleans from the spoon. Bake in a dripping-pan well greased, dropping them in a spoonful at a time a little way apart. Bake in a moderate oven about fifteen or twenty minutes. The same batter in a gem- pan is not nearly so good. ■s4.82 STATESMEN'S DISHES^ BREAD. BY MBB. JA8. F. WILSON. (Wife of Senator from Iowa.) lKE one gallon of sour milk; scald until whey separates from curd; then strain through colander and set away to cool; when cool enough stir in flour until stiff; then put in one- half cup yeast and let rise over night. In the morn- ing stir in one small teaspoonful soda dissolved in water; then stir in one tablespoonful of lard and two of sugar. Mix very stiff; then let it rise one-half hour and knead down in pan. When it rises again make into six loaves. (rviA^/uAND HOW TO LOOK THEM S3 CORN PONE BY MBS. J. K. JONBS. (Wife of Senator from Arkaneoe.) one quart of meal put one teaspoonful soda ^1© well. Break into this two eggs and salt to taste. Mix all with clabbered milk, beating it well. Pour into a hot pan greased with good, sweet hog’s lard. Bake in a hot oven, much hotter than needed for flour bread. Serve when browned. Baking powder and sweet milk can be substituted for clabber and soda.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 64 CORN MUFFINS. BT MBS. CHAS. F. HANDE&80N. (Wife of Seimtor from Nebraska.) ^NE-HALF cup (small measure) Indian meal, one-half cup (large measure) flour, one cup milk, pinch of sugar, pinch of salt, heaping teaspoon baking powder, two eggs, butter size of walnut. First beat well together yolks of eggs, butter, sugar and salt; then add milk, little at a time, beat- ing well; then corn meal; then flour with baking powder sifted in; last stir into mixture whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Put into gem-pans smoking hot and bake in rather a hot oven. /f, ^ Pu,AND HOW TO COOK THEM. BB EGG BREAD. BY MBS. WM. B. BATE. (Wife of Senntor from Tennessee.) cups of corn meal, three cups of butter- milk, one tablespoon of lard, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of salt, one egg. Eat hot with fresh buttermilk.60 STATESMEN’S DISHES; SWEDISH TIMBALES. BY MBS. J. C. 8. BLACKBUBK. (Wife of Senator from Kentncky.) 0NE pint of flour, one half-pint of sweet milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, scant teaspoonful of salt. Stir the flour and milk to a perfectly smooth batter, add oil and salt; then the eggs, whipped very light. If too thick, add more milk until right consistency.07 AND DOW TO COOK THEM. s BREAKFAST CAKES. BT MBS. JOHN C. 8POONXB. (Wife of Senator from Wisconsin.) jlSTE teacup of milk, one coffeecup of flour, one egg, all beaten together; tablespoon of butter; salt. To be baked in iron pans. The secret of success in these cakes is the moderate oven.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 88 MILK BREAD. BT MRS. NELSON DINGLBY, JB« (Wife of Representative from Maine.) NE quart of cold boiled milk, one large spoon- ™ ful of lard, one even tablespoon of sugar, one tablespoon of salt, one yeast coke dissolved in warm water. Raise over night.80 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. BEATEN BISCUIT. BT KBS. JA8. U. ULODMT. (Wife of Bepre.sentntive from Oeorgia.) a quart of flour take a large tablespoonful f lard aud a teaspoonful of salt. Mix with 3ld sweet milk and water—half and half— into a stiff dough; lay it on a marble or wooden board, and beat it with a club of hickory or poplar wood till the dough becomes blistered and nearly as soft as yeast-powder dough. Eoll it half an inch thick, cut out with a biscuit-cutter, prick with a kitchen fork three rows of holes clear through to the bottom. Bake in a moderate oven, and when done, allow them to remain a few moments longer, to brown a little more thoroughly. Break open and butter.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 60 SALT-RISING BREAD, BT KBS. T. B. 8TOCKOA.LB. (Wife of Represeutatlve from Missiasippl.) gAKE a quart of milk and water, equal por- tions. Stir in flour to make a stiff batter, that will not run from the spoon, but drops like drop-cake batter. Add a teaspoonful of salt; put it in a warm place; let it stand three or four hours, and then, if water rises on the top, stir in a little more flour. After it rises make up your dough just as you would ordinary bread, using the rising instead of yeast, adding about a gill of milk or water and a little more salt, and lard about the size of an egg; knead it well and put it into well-greased pans and let it rise. Be careful not to jar it while rising. Bake the same as yeast bread.I AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 61 JOHNNY CAKES. BT KBS. W. O. ABNOU>. (Wife of Bepreeentatlve from Bhode Island.) fNE cup of Indian meal, a pinch of salt, butter the size of a walnut; pour over this enough boiling water to make a stiff batter, after being well stirred. Set for three or four minutes in a dish of boiling water; then thin with sweet milk until the batter drops easily from the spoon. Put on a hot, buttered griddle in spoonfuls, and when brown, turn them over and brown the other side. This will make six good-sized cakes. Water may be used in place of the milk, but the cakes will not brown so nicely in that case.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 62 SWEET CORN BREAD. BT KBS. ALBBBT Q. THOMPSON. (Wife of Itepreeentativo from Ohio.) ■WO cups Indian m(3al, two cups “loppered” or buttermilk, one cup flour, one-half cup New Orleans molasses, one tablespoonful lard, one teaspoonfnl salt, one teaspoonful soda. Stir meal, flour, milk and salt together well. Dissolve soda in a little warm water and melt lard. Add both to mo- lasses ; beat quickly and turn both into the batter at once, stirring hard. Turn all into a well-buttered farina-kettle or pudding-mold. Boil one and a half hours. Eemove cover and place in oven to brown. When done rub the top with a little butter, replace • cover and let stand about flve minutes on table. Turn out and serve warm, using sharp, thin knife to slice.AND now TO COOK THEM 63 COMMON BISCUIT, BT MBB. A. a. CAKUTU. (Wife of Repreeentntive from Kentucky.) well about a quart of flour into a bowl; stir into the middle of it two heaping tea- spoonfuls of Eoyal baking powder, an even teaspoon of salt, and a heaping tablespoon of lard, in the order directed. Have a pint of cold sweet milk, make a hole in the center of the flour, pour in the milk and mix quickly with enough flour to make a soft dough. Eoll on a biscuit-board with the rest of the flour till you have a sheet about one-inch thick; cut out and place in a dry pan, setting closely to- gether, so that they will rise upward without spread- ing, Put into a quick oven on the bottom and bake to a light brown. Serve immediately.64 STATESMEN'S DISHES; GREEN-CORN FRITTERS. BT MB8. WM. J. CX>NNKIX. (Wife of Representative from Nebraska.) through each row of kernels of sweet com with the point of a sharp knife, then with the back of the knife press out the pulp. To one pint of corn-pulp add two well-beaten eggs, a little salt and pepper, and enough flour to keep the corn and eggs together. Fry in small cakes on a buttered griddle, browning well on each side. 6AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 68 0 FRIED CAKES. BT MRS. GEO. B. BRICENER. (Wife of Represenlative from Wisconsin.) ^EA-SUEE one cup each of milk and gi’anu- lated sugar into a mixing-bowl; stir till dissolved; beat three eggs well and stir in; take two quarts of flour and three heaping teaspoons of baking powder, sifted together; mix the whole into a soft dongli, using as little flour in manipulating it as possible. Cut into rings and fry in very hot lard. Mixing the sugar and milk together first keeps the dough from soaking grease, and avoiding the use of a great deal of flour in working with the dough makes the cakes puffy and delicate.06 STATESMEN'S DISHES; WAFFLES. BT MB8. ALBERT O. TH0MF80B. {*Vtfe of Representative from Ohio.) fNE pint sour milk, one heaping pint flour, one tableapoonful melted butter, one level teaspoonful soda, three eggs. Stir milk into flour; add melted butter and yolks of eggs. Beat well and add soda dissolved in a little warm water. Stir rapidly and then add the whites of eggs beaten to a froth.AND BOW TO COOK THEM. 07 LOAF BREAD. BY MBfi. DANTRL M. RAN8DKLL. (Wife of Uiiit6<l BtAiea Marshal for Diatrlot of Colambia.) HEEE quarts of fine white flour well sifted; one-half pint of good fresh yeast, one table- water enough to make a dough. Dissolve the lard and salt in warm water; then add the yeast, then the fiour, gradually, stirring it with a spoon; set it to rise in a warm place over night. In the morning take part of the dough and mold it into rolls for breakfast. Then knead the rest thoroughly on a pie-board, di- viding it into three parts, and kneading them sepa- rately. Lay them in buttered tins, either separately or all in one long one, set in a warm place, and let it rise almost to the top of the pans. Bake for about half an hour, keeping the oven closed for ten or fif- teen minutes before venturing to open the door. spoon of lard, one tablespoon of salt, warmSTATESMEN’S DISHES; 68 CREAM TOAST, BY MISS U 8. SWAN. (Slster-in-law of Senator Morrill, of Vermont.) SLWAYS bake one loaf to be used especially for toasting; have it shapely, and bake it so thoroughly that it will be neither soggy nor full of holes. Stale or dried bread should never be used. Cut into slices of medium thickness, brown the bread until it matches the crust in color, butter and cover with a hot cream dressing, which has just been allowed to come to a boil. Toast made with care is the daintiest breakfast dish conc,eivable.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 69 SAUSAGE ROLLS. BT MBB. BXMJABDI HABBISON. (Wife of tbe President.) JI KXCeUTIVE MAttSiON; WASHINOTOH. J:C- /£y iu^^f ct-- </ Q-r^70 STATESMEN'S DISHES; Ar^ yAc<^ o-^-^Ae ^ ^ ««U A- ^ <y^r'^ J^Q/ynny^'*^AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 71 LEMON OMELET. BT MRS. M. 8. QUAY. (Wife of Senator from PenneylTaniA.) MSITES of six eggs, yolks of three, juice of half a lemon, three tablespoonfuls powdered Is? sugar. Grease a quart baking-dish with butter. Now beat the whites to a very stiff froth, beat the yolks, add them carefully to the whites, then the sugar and juice of lemon, stir carefully and quickly heap into baking-dish; powder over with sugar and put into the oven. Bake fifteen minutes, or until a golden brown, and serve hot.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 72 MISSISSIPPI BAKED HASH. BY MBS. JA8. Z. OKOROK. (Wife of Senator from Mississippi.) ^ASH the cold beef fine; take stale wheaten bread, biscuit or any other kind, and crum- ble a quantity equal to the hashed meat; add one egg well beaten, half a cup of SAveet milk, a little salt and pepper, thyme or other flavoring; mix well; then melt an even tablespoon of butter and stir it into the mixture. Stir it up thoroughly and then pour it into the buttered pan and bake in a hot oven.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 78 BEEF COLLAR. BT HRS. JA8. Z. GBORGB. (Wife of Senator from Mississippi.) JAKE a piece of flank, lay it in salt a day or two, according to the weather. Then wash and cut off all the loose fat and gristle; score it on the inside; season with a little pepper, allspice and nutmeg; roll it up tightly in a cloth, with ends well secured, and boil from six to eight hours, accord- ing to weight, not letting it boil violently. Set it away to cool; slice thin and serve cold. Excellent for lupchcon.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 74 RELISH FOR LUNCH. BY MRS. TH08. B. BBED. (Wife of the Speaker of tlie House of RepresentatiTes.) some Boston crackers in the oven to heat. Then split them and butter lightly while hot; over this sprinkle grated cheese, having the cheese rather dry, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Set them on the grate of the oven, and let them brown. Serve hot. This is a dish much esteemed in our family. t7B AND now TO COOK THEM.. SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS. BT MRS. J. N. HUSTOir. (Wife of the Treasurer of the Uulted States.) gAKE a nice, large pair of sweetbreads, trim off the ears and soak in salt water for an hour; wash in cold water, and boil until done. When cold, cut into small pieces; take half a jar of French button mushrooms, slice and put them in half pint water and boil five minutes; add the sweet- breads and boil ten minutes. Eub a tablespoon of fiour in a large piece of fresh, sweet butter, size of an egg, until smooth, and stir into it a half cup of cream; pour into mushrooms and sweetbreads, having first seasoned them with salt and pepper, and let it boil five minutes. Serve immediately in a hot dish.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 76 CHICKEN CROQUETS. BY MBS. A. W. GRKELY. (Wife of the Chief of the Signal Sorvloe.) SNE large chicken, roasted, one pair small sweetbreads, and a little of the soft bread dressing with which the chicken has been stuffed, chopped fine together; Make a drawn butter of one pint of cream, in which an onion has stood until the cream is ready to boil; one-half cup of but- ter aud sufficient flour to make a thick sauce. Season the chicken mixture highly with chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, salt and red pepper— chili Colorado, not cayenne. Mix with the drawn butter and heat thoroughly, stirring constantly. When cool form the croquets with cracker dust, roll in beaten egg, then in cracker dust, and fry. £77 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. PRESSED CHICKEN. UY MRS. TUOS. J. IIBNDBIISON. (Wife of RapreHeiilulivo from Illiiioix.) the cliicken nntil very teudci ; remove the meat from the bone.s and pick it in small pieces with a fork; put a layer of hard-boiled eggs and a layer of chicken into a mold; boil the broth to a jelly and pour it over the chicken; season with salt and pepper. Set it on the ice to cool. To be cut in slices; garnish with parsley.STATESMEN'S DISBES; 78 VEAL LOAF. BY MBS. J. O. 8AWYBB. (Wife of Representative from Now York.l pNE and a half pints cold veal well minced, one pint powdered crackers, one teacup milk, one-half teacup butter, two eggs. Stir veal and cracker dust together, seasoning with salt and pepper; beat eggs in milk and add one-half pound of butter, melted; mix all together and pour in buttered baking-dish; press down until smooth and put rest of butter on top; cover and bake one- half hour; remove cover and brown. Serve hot in dish, or sliced when cold.79 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CURRIED MUTTON CHOPS. BT ME8. JOS. E. WASHINGTOK. (Wife of Representative from Tennessee.) ST the best rib chops, and have them cut about an inch thick. Put them in melted butter several hours before cooking. Half an hour before they are to be eaten slip the pan in which they are with the butter into the stove and melt the butter a second time. Then dip them into the following preparation: A loaf of stale bread rolled and sifted until it is like meal, the yellows of six hard-boiled eggs, three teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, two tea- spoonfuls of grated onion, one teaspoonful of thyme, one teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, salt, pepper (black and red), etc., and two tablespoonfuls of curry powder. Mix this thoroughly together. When the chops have been rolled in this put them in a deep pan and add the melted butter and Port or Madeira wine enough to keep them from burning. Cook twenty minutes, basting frequently; cut heart-shaped papers, butter them well and wrap a chop in each, folding the edges carefully. Slip in the stove for two minutes, and serve very hot. 6STATESMEN'S DISHES; 80 VEAL FRICANDEAU BT MBS. A. T. BLISS. fWlfe of Representative from Mloblgan.) Sk||||HE>EE and a half pounds chopped veal, one pound chopped salt pork, three slices of bread and butter, two eggs, pepper, a little thyme or sage Pack in a dish; bake for three hours. To be eaten cold. P. S. The bread is to be crumbled up fine, and mixed thoroughly with the rest, the same as any other loaf.81 AND now TO COOK THEM. CREAM CHICKEN. BT MBS. MABK a BBBWBR. (Wife of Representative from iMiohiean.) gOUR chickens, four sweetbreads, three cans l„ll- mushrooms. Boil chicken until tender, and cut as for salad (removing all the skin) ; boil sweetbread and chop very fine; chop mushroom rather coarsely; mix all together and bake in a dish, with alternate layers of the above and the cream dressing given below, putting bread crumbs, pieces of butter and a little cream over the top before baking. Bake twenty minutes. CEEAM DEESSING FOE ABOVE. One and a half pint sweet cream, three tablespoon- fuls flour, four tablespoonfuls butter, one-fourth of a grated nutmeg, one very small onion, grated, a little cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Scald cream, rub butter and flour together; cook all together until the consistency of custard. (For 26 people.)82 STATESMEN'S DISHES; PLAIN OMELET, BY MRS W. E. MASON. (Wife of XtepreseutHiive from Illinois.) eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; four tablespoons milk, scant teaspoonful salt; cut the yolks into whites with a fork, lightly. Pan very hot; one tablespoon butter; pour omelet in, shake leisui’ely over hottest part of the fire five minutes, then put in the oven a moment to set it; run knife round the side of the pan, fold over; turn out on a hot dish.83 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. MEAT SOUFFl£ BT MBS. OBRKN C. MOOEK. (Wife of RepreaeiitntU'e from Now Hatapslilre.) ^AKE a smooth, white sauce with two table- ^ spoonfuls of butter, one heaping tablespoon- Season with chopped parsley and onion juice. WhiU*, hot add the beaten yolks of two eggs and one ciij) of chopped meat (chicken, veal, fresh tongue, boiled ham or lamb) and boil one minute. When cool stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a buttered dish twenty minutes, and serve immediately. If for lunch, serve with mushroom sauce. ful of flour, and two-thirds cup of milk.84 STATESMEN'S DISHES; VEAL LOAF. BT KBS. J. A. PICKJLBB. (Wife of Representalive from South Dakota.) pounds veal chopped very fine at butch- er’s, one small slice fresh pork, one dozen soda crackers powdered, four eggs. Mix all together and add pepper and salt to taste. Bake in shallow pan two hours. Slice when cold.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 8B ) BAKED OMELET. BY MBa OEO. H. BRICKNEK. (Wife of RepreHenlative from Wisoonain.) ^u^kOUE eggs beaten separately, one cup of sweet milk, one tablespoon of flour, a little salt; stir the whites in last of all; turn it into a well-buttered shallow pan and set in the oven about fifteen minutes. Serve immediately. /infW ill L (nj)/Iyf/h/in lA 180 STATESMEN’S DISHES; PUFF OMELET. BT HS8. W. B. smoiriM. (Wife of Repreoentative from Conneotiout.) ^u^uigEAT one cupful of sweet milk, to which add a tablespoonful of corn starch, wet with a little cold milk; stir well together. When cool add four eggs, whites and yolks beaten sep- arately; the yolks to be added first. Beat well together; salt and pepper to taste. Pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven. This is a delicious as well as ornamental breakfast dish.87 AND HOW IX) COOK THEM. BOILING EGGS. BY MRS. E. V. BROOKSHIRE. (Wife of KeprcBcnlntlvo from Indians.) the eggs in the saucepan and cover with cold water; set it on the stove, and when the water boils the eggs are done. QviAA' t)\ Oj •88 STATESMEN'S DISHES; CHICKEN CROQUET. BT KBS. H. C. M'CORHICK. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) ^I^I^ALF a pound of cold chicken chopped very fine. Fry a quarter of a grated onion with a tablespoonful of butter; stir the onion until it begins to get a little yellow; add one tablespoonful flour, stir a few minutes longer, then add a large cof- feecup of broth in which the chicken has been boiled; then stir in the chopped chicken, with salt to taste; cook ten minutes, stirring all the time; a little grated nutmeg and cayenne pepper stirred in with the yolks of two eggs; give it one hard boil, and put on a dish to cool. When cold form with cracker dust and the white of an egg. Great care must be taken to have plenty of lard and boiling hot; drop them in care- fully, three or four at a time. Cook them a light brown; take out with a perforated ladle and put them on a thick towel, that they may be perfectly dry and free from grease. ,89 AND UOW TO COOK TEEM. BONED CHICKEN. BT MIS3 JULIA DABLINO STBOKO. (Daughter ot ex-Assooiate Justice Strong, of the Supreme Court.) up a chicken into quite small pieces; skin it and pour over three pints of cold water. Boil it until the bones slip out of the meat easily; then take out all the meat; throw back the bones to boil in the liquor longer. Chop the meat with the rind of one lemon, having squeezed the juice into the boiling liquor. Put the meat, well-seasoned, into a jelly-mold, and when the liquor is boiled down fully one-half, strain it over the meat in the mold. Next morning turn out and servo with salad.90 STATESMEN'S DISHES; CHIPPED BEEF. BY MISS L. 8. SWAN. (Sister-in-law of Senator Morrill, of Vermont.) |AKE fine chipped beef and after picking it to enough to cover. The water should be hot when the beef is put in. Drain thoroughly, and cover with a dressing made of two cups of half cream and half milk. Stir in butter the size of a walnut, and when about to boil thicken with a tablespoonful of corn starch which has been made to a thin paste. Stir in slowly, so that it will not curdle. This makes a good dish for luncheon. shreds allow it to come to a boil in waterQ1 AND now TO COOK TEEM. DEVILED EGGS BT MISS L. 8. SWAN. (Sister>ln-law of Senator Morrill, of Vermont.) one dozen eggs hard, remove the shells halves lengthwise. Take out the yolks, mix them to a smooth paste with half a teaspoonful of mustard, salt and cayenne pepper to taste, and a generous teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Fill the whites with this mixture and serve on a bed of lettuce leaves, which should be carefully selected.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 92 BROILED TOMATOES. BY MRS. N. F. BANKS. (Wife of KepresentAtive from MasRAchusetts.) ^UT them in half flatwise; put them skin down on a hot iron for a few minutes; season with a very little pepper, salt and sugar. Have slices of bread toasted a nice brown, and buttered; lay on them the broiled tomatoes, put half a teacup of cream into the dish around the toast, and set in the oven a few minutes before serving. "70S AND EOW TO COOK THEM. MASHED POTATOES. BT MRS. B. r. BLAND. (Wife of KepreseiitHlive from Missouri.) ^AKE the potatoes, cut into pieces and place immediately in cold water. Peachblow best. Take them out when prepared and turn on boiling water. Cook quickly just as the meal is ready. Empty water off, and let stand on the stove till perfectly dry; salt to taste, butter and cream as much as needed to make the right consistency. Serve immediately.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 94 MINCED CABBAGE. BV MBB. R08WBLI. P. FLOWBR. (Wife of Reprexentative from New York.) ^EAIN boiled cabbage in the colander; put it in the chopping-tray and chop fine. For each quart of chopped cabbage put two teaspoon- fuls of butter and one of flour in the fryingpan. As soon as smooth and hot put in the cabbage, which season well with salt and pepper, and, if you like it, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Stir constantly for five to eight minutes. When done heap on a di.sh, make smooth with a knife, and garnish with hard- boiled eggs.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 9S CAULIFLOWER. BY MRS. W. O. ABNOLD. (Wife of Represeutivlive from Rhode leland,) IT a cauliflower in a disk of cold salted water, with the flower down, and let it soak for two hours. Tie in a cloth and put into boiling water with a little salt, and boil until a fork will pen- eti’jvtc the stem easily. If the cauliflower is fresh, it will boil in twenty minutes. When boiled, take it up carefully and put into a dish with the flower up. Have ready a sauce made of one-half pint of milk, a small pinch of salt, and one-half tablespoonful of butter. Let this come to a boil. Take a table- spoonful of flour mixed with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk, and let it boil up once. .Pour a little over the cauliflower when ready to serve, and serve the remainder in a gravy-boat. A table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce may be added to the sauce if liked. 0STATESMEN'S DISHES; 96 SPINACH. BY MBS. JOHN M. FAEQUHAB. (Wife of Eepresentatlve from New York.) ■ASH the spinach in several waters, and keep in cold water until time to cook it. Then put it into boiling water enough to cover it, and add a little salt. Cover the pan and boil briskly till tender; it will sink when done. Take it from the water immediately, season it with butter, and cover with hard-boiled eggs in slices.97 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. LIMA BEANS. BT MRS. MOSES D. STIVKBS. fWife of RepresentatiVO from New York.) beans should be fresh and tender, but if they are not a pinch of soda in the fii*st water will take away much of the strong taste. Parboil in water till they are half done, then turn off the water and renew from the teakettle, with just enough to finish cooking them. When they are thor- oughly cooked season with butter first, letting it brown slightly, with a pinch of salt (unless the butter is quite salt), and a little sugar. After this has cooked into them thoroughly, pour in enough cream to make a little gravy; let it boil up once, and serve.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 98 SCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES. BY UBS. WM. J. CONNKIX, (Wife of Representative from Nebraska.) |UT cold boiled sweet potatoes into quarter-inch ^ slices and put them in a baking-dish. Sprinkle ^ each layer slightly with sugar and dot with bits of butter. Bake until hot and slightly browned.99 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. BAKED POTATOES. BT MBS. JOS. M’KBNNA. (Wife of RopresentHtive from CnHfomia.) 5X0WING how to bake and serve potatoes is a high art. Have a hot oven. Select potatoes of uniform size; wash well, and put moist into a clean oven. Do not open the oven, if you can avoid it, for half an hour. Try if they are done, in a towel. Serve immediately.STATESMEN'S DISHES; loo ASPARAGUS. BY MRS. BENJAMIN F. SHIVELY. (Wife of Kepresentaiive from Indiana.) ELECT green asparagus; it is always sweeter and more tender than the white variety. After breaking off the hard part, take a sharp knife and strip off the outside skin, beginning at the cut end and drawing it upward as far as it will peel off. Put the stalks into a saucepan, sprinkle over them a little salt, and cover them with boiling water.. Cook till tender, about twenty minutes. Season with cream, and thicken with a little flour rubbed into an equal quantity of butter. Serve hot.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. lOl GREEN PEAS. BT MRS. J. B. WII-LIAMS. (Wife of Representative from Illinois.) ASH before shelling, not after. When the peas are all shelled, take the tender pods and boil them ten or fifteen minutes in water enough to cover them; then skim out the pods and pour in the peas; boil them slowly about twenty minutes, then season with sweet cream and a little salt. Take care that there is not too much water; there should be about half a teacupful around them when they are thoroughly cooked, which must be seasoned and dished with the peas. When the peas are a trifle old, or not a very sweet variety, a spoon- ful of sugar will improve them.102 STATESMEN’S DISHES; MACARONI. BT MU8. K. C. VBKABLE. (Wife of RepreecDlative from Virginia.) fEEAK into short pieces and boil in salted water till soft. Pour off the water and turn the macaroni into a dish with milk enough to keep it soft, a pinch of red pepper, a teaspoonful of mustard, and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Grate cheese over the top. Set it in the oven and let it brown. Serve hot. t.AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. 103 EGG-PLANT. BY MBS. LBW18 F. WAT80K. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) the egg-plant and cut it into slices half ich thick; put it to soak in cold water for hours. This removes the black, bitter, disagreeable juice that is said to be unhealthy. Then press the slices between two plates, wipe them dry and boil them till soft; mash them smooth, season with salt, a little chopped parsley and a pinch of red pepper; iidd a few bread crumbs soaked in sweet cream; mix all thoroughly, pour into a buttered baking-dish, cover the top with some of the bread crumbs and bake half an hour. Serve hot.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 104 GREEN VEGETABLES. BY MR8. S. A. OBAIQ. (Wife of Representative from Penneylvauio.) greeu vegetables must be washed thor- WAmi oughly in cold water, and then be dropped into water which h:is been solted and is just beginning to boil. There should be a tablespoonful of salt for every two quarts of water. If the wa.ter boils a long time before the vegetables are put in, it has lost all its gases, and the mineral ingredients are deposited on the bottom and sides of the kettle, so that the water is flat and tasteless, the vegetables will not look green and have a flne flavor. The time of boiling green vegetables depends very much on the age and how long they have been gathered. The younger and more freshly they are gathered, the more quickly they are cooked.lOB AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. STEWED CORN. BY iU8S PH(SBE W. OODZINS, LluB. (Ez-Unlted States Marshal, Eastern District of Missouri.) SPLIT the kernels of corn before removing from the cob, and in cutting off cut them several times through, leaving a large part on the cob to be scraped off, so as to make a fine mass of the whole. Take a pint of milk or cream, bring it to a boil, and put the corn in and boil slowly in a closed porcelain kettle for fifteen or twenty minutes, with a very little salt and sugar. It is better still when steamed.106 STATESMEN'S DISHES; CHICKEN SALAD. BY HBS. arrAITLXT KATTHKW8. (Wldovr of Associate Justice of Supreme Court.) AKE the meat, free from skin and fat, of two large boiled chickens, cut in dice; with this mix thoroughly an equal quantity of good white crisp celery, cut in small pieces; three olives, chopped; two teaspoonfuls of capers; make a dressing of six spoonfuls of best imported olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and a dash of red pepper; pour over the salad, and let it stand for several hours in the ice-box. Pre- pare a mayonnaise in the following manner: Break two eggs very carefully, and put the yolks into a soup-plate; then add, drop by drop, a pint bottle of best olive oil, stirring steadily one way with a silver fork. As the dressing thickens, thin with lemon juice, keeping it of the consistency of rich cream; add salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Make a mound of the chicken salad on a platter, pour over the mayonnaise and garnish with lettuce, olives, beets and carrots cut in fancy forms.107 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. LOBSTER SALAD. BY MBS. JOHN WANAMAKKR. (Wife of the Posliimaler-General.) gPLIT two good-sized, fine, freshly-boiled lob- sters. Pick all the meat from out the shells, then cut it into one-inch lengths, equal pieces. Place it in a saucepan on the hot range, with one ounce of very good fresh butter. Season with one pinch of salt and half a saltspoonful of red pepper, adding two medium-sized sound truffles cut into small disk-shaped pieces. Cook for five minutes, then add a wineglassful of good Madeira wine. Eeduce to one-half, which will take three minutes. Have three egg yolks in a bowl with half a pint of sweet cream; beat well together and add to it the lobster. Gently shuffle for two minutes longer, or until it thickens weU. Pour it into a hot tureen and serve hot.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 108 TOMATO SALAD. BT MRS. EDWIN H. CX>NQEB. (Wife of Representative from Iowb.) ^HREE heads of lettuce (medium sized), one can tomatoes without juice, or six fresh toma- toes; two cold boiled potatoes, one egg boiled hard; cut fine, mix together and season with salt. DRESSING. Two dessertspoonfuls of Durkee’s salad dressing and three of sugar in teacup; fill cup with weak vin- egar and pour over salad.109 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. POTATO SALAD. BY MRS. S. A. CRAIG. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) SAKE ten medium-sized cold potatoes and one small onion, chopped fine—the onion very- fine; half dozen hard-boiled eggs, the white chopped fine; mash the yolks and add to them one teaspoon each of ground mustard and sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter, some salt and pepper. Eub all together well and put into the potatoes, with about four tablespoonfuls of Durkee’s salad dressing and half a cup of vinegar. Then chop up stalks of celery to about the same quantity of the chopped potatoes and mix in. Slice a few more boiled eggs and lay on top, and garnish the edge of the dish with the celery-tops.STATESMEN'S DISHES; no COLD SLAW. BT MBB. JASON B. BBOWN. (Wife of Representative from Indiana.) SHOP the cabbage fine with chopping-knife; season with pepper, salt, mustard, sugar, (and celery seed if liked); boil some vinegar with a small lump of butter; beat the yolk of an egg and stir in quickly; then pour over the cabbage. furvuryIll IND HOW TO COOK THEM. CRAB SALAD. BY MRS. J. B. M’KKE. (Dnug)iter of the President.) ^OIL one dozen crabs thirty minutes, adding a little salt to the water. When cold pick out the meat. Make a mayonnaise dressing as follows: Beat the yolks of two eggs, add pepper, salt and mustard and mix well together. Then slowly add half a pint of olive oil, or enough to thicken the dressing. If too thick, add a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. Great care should be exercised in pouring the oil, as it will curdle if poured too fast. Now mix the crab meat and the mayonnaise together. Garnish a dish with crisp lettuce leaves or water- cresses, place the crabs in the center, and serve.112 STATESMEN’S DISHES; CHICKEN SAUCE. (Serves equally well for Pheasants, Quail, eta) BY MK8. J. W. NOBLB. (Wife of the Secretary of the Interior.) EAPING tablespoonful butter, tablespoonful sifted flour; rub well together; one-half pint broth, two teaspoonfuls mushroom, two tea- spoonfnls catsup, two tablespoonfuls cream, two teaspoonfuls lemon juice; put in to boil, stirring well; then add yolks of two eggs, beaten light, con- stantly stirring and never allowing to boil or it will curdle. When thickened by the eggs, serve, or place in hot water until wanted.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 113 RELISH FOR COLD MEATS. B7 MBS. M. 8. QUAT. (Wife of Senator from Pennsylvania.) ?OTJE large onions sliced and covered with iro vinegar. Let stand for two days. Mustard enough to thicken. One teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt and one of cayenne pepper. Put all together and pour vinegar over. Mix and boil five minutes.114 STATESMEN'S DISHES; CHESTNUT STUFFING. BT MRS. F. M. COCKBELI.. (Wife of Senator from Missouri.) ^KY bread crumbs, sweet herbs, chopped celery, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Put ^ a small quantity of butter in a stewpan; when hot stir in a small minced onion, brown slightly and add the other ingredients, all thoroughly mixed, with two eggs and a little melted butter or stock. Cook through without browning. The chestnuts are put on the fire to burst their skin, boiled in salted water, and added to the dressing.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. IIB CHICKEN FILLING FOR PATTIES. BY MBS. J, O. 8. BLACKBTJBN. (Wife of Senator from Kentucky.) pint of cream, one tablespoonful of flour, s pint cooked chicken cut in small bits, r tablespoonfuls of chopped mushroom, salt and pepper; put one-half of the cream on to boil; mix the other half with the flour, stir into the boiling cream; when this has boiled up once add chicken, mushrooms and seasoning.110 STATESMEN’S DISHES; CATSUP. BT MBS. JOHN H. EKAGAN. (Wife of Senator from Texas.) SNE peck of ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced. Add six good-sized onions, sliced fine. Lay in a jar first a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of onions; add a little salt with each layer; let stand over night, then boil well, stirring almost constantly. When done add one pint of vinegar and two garlics chopped fine; add also red pepper, cinnamon, cloves, spice and ginger, all ground fine. Bottle for use. Note.—This is especially appetizing for baked whiteflsh.AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. 117 PICOLLI BT MBS. HBNBY VT. BLAIB. (Wife of Senator from New Hampshire.) NE-HALF bushel tomatoes, one quart onions, three small peppers, three pounds sugar, one ounce mustard seed, two tablespoons each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Slice the tomatoes the night before, and put a layer of tomato an inch thick, then a good handful of fine salt, and continue until the whole are sliced. In the morning squeeze the fruit out and add the onions, cover with vinegar, and let it come to boil. Then drain off the vinegar, add a gallon of fresh vinegar and the rest of the ingredients. The pickle is much nicer if the spices are tied in thin muslin bags, and it is more delicate if the cinnamon is twice the amount of the cloves and allspice. Cook till tender.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 118 MUSHROOM SAUCE. BT MBS. C. A. BEBOSN. (Wife of Representative from New Jersey.) »AKE one tablespoonful of butter, melt it and stir into it while hot two tablespoonfuls of flour, sifting it gradually, and stirring con- stantly till smooth. Pour in a glass of milk or milk and cream, and stir continually till it boils; then drain off the liquor from ajar of French mushrooms, and taking the mixture from the fire put in the mush- rooms, pepper and salt and steam it. Served with steak or chops.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 119 STRAWBERRY SAUCE BY STBS. W. D. OWKN. (Wife of Bepreaentative from Indiana.) EAT to a cream one-half cup of sweet butter and two cups of powdered sugar; add a heaped half pint of strawberries. Mash the fruit thoroughly and beat it into the sauce. (For any pudding.) 0^120 STATESMEN'S DISHES; PEACH SAUCE. BY MBS. CHAS. C. TOWNSEND. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) ripe, yellow peaches (clings preferred), and halve them. Throw in the kettle b two dozen of the peach seeds, and add one pint of boiling water to ten or twelve pounds of the fruit, and let it stew. After it has stewed down put in one-half pound of white sugar to every pound of fruit, and let stew down till it thickens. Seal up hot in jars. ake pare abou121 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CHICKEN SALAD DRESSING. BY MRS. H. O. M'COBMICK. (Wife of Representntive from Pennsylvania.) 10 the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs put (rtrfSvo four raw eggs, a half teaspoonful of salt, and one-quarter teaspoon of cayenne pepper. Mix thor- oughly in a wooden bowl, with a wooden spoon, add- ing gradually the clear juice of a lemon. When the mixture is as smooth as possible, add slowly, stirring constantly, one pint and a half of the best olive oil. If mustard is liked it is best to scald some, and add of that to suit the taste. through a very fine sieve, add the yolks ofSTATESMEN’S DISHES; 122 CENTRAL AMERICAN SIRUP. BY MBS. K. U. LA FOLLETTB. (Wife of Representative from Wisconsin.) pounds of sugar, almost white; one and a half pints of water; one teaspoon of pulver- ized alum. Put in a kettle and boil three minutes; strain while hot. For flavoring, three drops of essence of lemon to one-half gill of alcohol; add one teaspoonful of this to the above. This is a good substitute for honey.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 123 MARYLAND EGG-NOGG. BY MBS. STEPHEN J. FIELD. (Wife of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.) gallon of milk, one dozen eggs. Divide tlie yolks from the whites and beat them. Add fifteen tablespoonfuls of sugar, one grated nutmeg, one pint of brandy, one pint of Jamaica rum. Beat the yolks and sugar until light, add the brandy and rum, stirring constantly. Last of all put in one gallon of milk or cream and cover with the beaten whites of eggs.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 124 REGENT PUNCH. BY MRS. JOHN E. KENNA. (Wife of Heiiator from West Virgiiiin.) pound loaf sugar or rock candy, one large cup strong black tea (made), three wine- glosses of brandy; three wineglasses of rum, one bottle imported champagne, two oranges (juice only), three lemons, one large lump of ice.12B AND HOW TO COOK THEM. MILK PUNCH. BT HKS. BOSWELL P. FLOWEK. (Wife of Representative from New York.) ?EEP the thinly-pared rinds of eighteen lem- ons in one quart of proof whisky or rum (better) for three days in a closely-covered vegetable-dish. Then add five quarts of whisky, three quarts of boiling water, and pour it on the sugar and dissolve it; lemon juice (which has been squeezed and bottled when the lemons were peeled), white sugar three and a half pounds, grated nutmegs two; mix all in a large crock, and then pour in boil- ing milk two quarts. Let it stand till cool, stirring it well, tlien strain through a flannel bag as for jelly, the curds on no account to be removed until the liquor has been strained quite clear. Eeturn the first quart to the bag, as it may not be quite clear, when strain through a flannel with filtering-paper. Bottle and cork well. It improves by age, and if properly pre- pared will keep all Winter.126 STATESMEN’S DISHES,- APPLE TODDY. BY MRS. JOS. B. WASHINGTON. (Wife of Represeiitativo from Tennessee.) ^AKE twelve large apples till thoroughly done; put into a jar while hot and mash them well; pour on them three quarts boiling water; cover the jar and let stand till cool; then add three pints brandy, one pint Jamaica spirits, one-half pint of peach brandy, one-half pint curacoa; sweeten to your taste. Let it stand a day or so, occasionally mashing the particles of apple; then strain for use. If apples are small use sixteen or eighteen. If you wish to keep the toddy add one pint brandy and more sugar.127 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. .CIDER NOGG. BT KBS. F. W. WBSBI.SR. (Wife of Representative from Miohlitaii.) |EAT to a foam the yolks of four eggs, with two tablespoons of pulverized sugar; add slowly two quarts of good cider. A little ginger may be added if desired.128 STATESMEN'S DISHES; UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE. BT MRS. ZBRBLDA Q. WALLACE. (Mother of Gen. Wftllnce.) thoroughly ripe, fresh grapes, wash and from the stem; put into preserving ket- 3 you would any other fruit, adding water enough to keep from burning. When thoroughly done, strain and boil; sweeten to suit taste; seal in bottles air tight. This is a refreshing drink for any one. Keep in dark, cool place of even temperature.129 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CABINET PUNCH. BT UB8. JA8. B. BIOKBTTS. (Widow of MsJ.'Oon. Jas. B. Rioketta. jOUB three quarts of boiling-water over three pounds of sugar. Add one pint of lemon juice, one pint of fine brandy or a quart of Jamaica rum. Mix well, aud before using stir in one- half pint of peach brandy or cordial. This will make you a gallon and three-quarters of very nicje punch. 9STATESMEN'S DISHES; 130 FIG PUDDING. BY MBS. BENJAMIN HAEBI80JI. (Wife of the President of the United States.) sNE cup of black molasses, one cup of chopped suet, one cup of milk, three and a quarter cups of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one pint of flgs. Mix together the molasses, suet, spice and the figs, cut fine; dissolve the soda with a tablespoonful of hot water and mix with the milk; add to the other ingredients; beat the eggs light, and stir into the mixture; add the flour and beat thor- oughly. Butter two small or one large brown-bread mold; turn the mixture into the mold and steam five hours. Serve with cream sauce.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 131 MINCE PIES. BT MBS. 8AMUKL F. MllJ^KB. (Wife of Assooiate Juatioe of (be United States.) WO pounds raw beef, chopped fine; two tart apples, two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, two pounds citron, two pounds brown sugar, one quart good New Orleans molasses, four ounces of salt, one and one-half ounces mixed spices—cinna- mon, cloves and allspice, with preponderance of cinnamon; one-half ounce white pepper, two nut- megs, juice of choice lemons, one quart brandy, one quart cider. Mix dry parts with salt—that is, meat, suet and spices. Then put in apples, then fruit, then liquors, then sugar. Make two, and if possible six, weeks be- fore using. pounds suet, chopped fine; four pounds goodSTATESMEN'S DISHES; 132 GRAHAM PUDDING. BT MBS. W. H. H. MILLlEB, (Wife of the Attorney-General of the United States.) [WO and a half cups of graham flour, one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one-half cup of melted butter, one egg, one cup of raisins, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one- half teaspoon of cloves, nutmeg to taste. Steam in mold three hours. Serve with pudding sauce of butter, sugar, etc. This is something like other plum pudding, with this difference—it is healthy.133 AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. JELLY. BT KBS. JERK. K. BU8K. (Wife of the Secretary of AKriculture.) one package of Cox’s gelatine add one pint ^1^ of cold water. When dissolved, add one pint B of hot water, two cups of sugar, juice of six lemons. Stir slowly until well dissolved, then strain into molds.8TATESMEIT8 DI8HE8; 134 TEMPERANCE PUNCH. BT MBS. -W. H. H. MIU.BB. (Wife of the Attorney-General of the United States.) SNE dozen lemons, one-half dozen oranges, prepared in the usual way; one pint of cranberries heated till the juice can all be easily extracted, and after cooling poured in with the lemon and oranges; water and sugar to taste.13B AND HOW TO COOK THEM. RUSSIAN CREAM. BT MBS. JERE. M. RCBK. (Wife of the Seoretury of Agriculture.) ^^jjfiOVEE one package of gelatine with cold water. When dissolved, add one cup of new milk, one cup of sugar; heat to boiling point, stirring frequently, then set away to cool. Whip one quart of thick cream until light, beat the whites of six eggs, and add both to the mixture; when cool, flavor with vanilla. Place the jelly in the bottom of the molds, and when stiff and cold add the cream; turn out of mold and serve in slices.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 186 FRUIT PUDDING. BT MBS. PHILIP B. SHERIDAN. (Widow of the Ctoueral of the Armies of the United States.) ^AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. 137 ^ l^zz’ ot>t^ ^ a/"STATESlfEN^S DISHES; 138 CITRON PUDDING BT MBS. JOHB A. LOGAB. (Widow of the late Senator from Illinois.) quart of fresh milk, one pint of stale bread B crumbs (grated), four eggs, cofifeecup of pow- dered sugar, less than one-half pound of citron (cut fine), juice and rind of one lemon, butter. Beat the yolks and sugar together; add by degrees the bread crumbs, milk and the rind of the lemon. Pour in a buttered dish; then drop in the citron and a piece of butter over all. Bake half an hour. When cold cover with the meringue made of the four whites, a cup of powdered sugar, the juice of the lemon; brown slightly and serve.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 130 MERINGUE PUDDING. BT MBS. M. O. BDTLEB. (Wl/e of Senator from South Carolina.) level tablespoonfuls of corn starch, four tablespoons of sugar, one and a half pints of milk. Make a custard of the eggs, sugar and milk; dissolve the com starch in a portion of the milk and stir into the boiling mixture, stirring constantly to keep it smooth. Eeserve the whites of two of the eggs; beat into a stiff froth, and after turning the pudding into a pudding-dish, spread the beaten whites, after sweetening, on the top, and set in the oven to brown. Flavor to suit the taste. Serve with cream.STA TESHfEN'S DISHES; 140 NEW ENGLAND INDIAN PUDDING. BY MB8. HENRY Vf. BliilTB. (Wife of Senator from New Hampsliire.) gWO quarts of milk, one cup of meal, one cup of molasses, half cup sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cinnamon or ginger, two eggs. Heat one quart of the milk “milk warm,” then slowly stir in the meal and keep stirring gently until it thickens but does not quite boil. Eemove from the stove aud add the molasses, sugar, salt and spice. Then beat the eggs well and stir them in. Pour into the pudding-dish, remove the mixing- spoon, and turn the second quart of milk in. Send immediately to the oven without mixing, and cook steadily five hours. 4V\_141 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SNOW PUDDING. BT MBS. JAB. I.. PUGH. (Wife of Senator from Alabama.) ^^WOVEE one-half box of gelatine with cold water and let soak a half hour. Pour over it one pint of boiling water; add two cups of sugar, and stir until dissolved; add the juice of three lemons and strain the whole into a tin basin. Place this in a pan of ice-water and let it stand until cold. Then beat with an egg-beater until white as snow. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the pudding. Turn the pudding into a mold that has been dipt into cold water, and set it away to harden. Make a sauce with the yolks of the eggs, one quart of milk, and a half-cup of sugar. Scald the milk; beat yolks and sugar together, until light, add them to the milk and cook two minutes. Take from the fire, add one teaspoonful vanilla, and turn out to cool.142 8TATE8ME2irS DI8HESt LOTTIE’S PUDDING. BY MBS. WM. P. HBPBUBN. (Wife of the Solicitor of the Treasury.) jWO and a half tablespoons of sugar, two table- spoons butter, three eggs, one tablespoon baking powder, three-fourths cup sweet milk, one cup chopped raisins, flour to make it the consist- ency of cake. Steam 46 minutes. SAUCE. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup rich cream, stirred together for half an hour, or until thor- oughly mixed. Serve all cold. a.143 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. I RUSSIAN CREAM. BT XR8. WM. 8. HOL.MAB. (Wife of Kepreflentative from Indiana.) iITE quart milk boiled, one-third of a box of milk, six eggs beaten separately, the yolks beaten with a cup of sugar; then stir in gelatine and eggs into the rest of the milk, boil two minutes; pour over the beaten whites; pour into molds. Place on ice to cool. gelatine dissolved in a small portion of the144 STATES3IEI^S DISBFJS; I CREAM PIES. BY MRS. C. A. BOUTELLB. (Wife of Representative from Maine.) ^AKE the crust the same as for spouge cake, and bake in four deep tin pans. When cool split in two with a sharp knife and fill with the cream filling. THE FILLING. One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of flour, two eggs, Put the basin of milk into another of hot water. Beat the sugar, flour and eggs together until very light and smooth, and when the milk boils stir in with one teaspoonful of salt. Cook twenty minutes, stirring often. Flavor with lemon, unless some other is preferred. This will fill the four pies. The pint of milk must be generous, and the half-cup of flour scant.146 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. BOILED CUSTARD. BT MBJS. BYBON M. CUTCBEON. CWlfe of Representative from Michigan.) gAKE one quart of new milk and bring it to a boiling heat in a double boiler. Add one tea- spoonful of salt. Beat up four fresh eggs very light, and just before adding them to the milk beat in four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. Then take the milk off the fire and stir in the eggs and sugar slowly. Eeturn to the fire and stir constantly until the custard begins to thicken. Then remove and strain through a fine wire strainer. Add vanilla or lemon or almond almond fiavoring to taste. When the custard is cold beat in one cup of good rich milk.146 STATESMEN'S DISHES; PLUM PUDDING. BT MBJB. KBLIOTT B. OOT7B8. (Wife of the dletlnKuishod Solentiat and Tlieoeopli.) [REE-QUARTEES of a pound of picked and finely-chopped suet; three-quarters of a pound of stoned raisins; three-quarters of a pound of well-washed and picked cnrrants; one- quarter of a pound of candied orange peel and citron, cut in small slices; three-qnarters’of a pound of powdered sugar; three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs; two peeled russet apples, cut in small slices; the grated peel of a lemon. Mix the whole thoroughly in a basin, with three pounded cloves, a pinch of salt, six eggs (one at a time), one-half gill of rum. Butter a pudding mold, fill it with the mixt- ure, and tie a cloth over the top. Reverse a small baking sheet at the bottom of a stock-pot three parts full of boiling water. Pnt the pudding in it and boil for four hours, keeping the pot replenished with boiling water. Turn the pudding out of the mold on to a hot dish; sprinkle the dish with pounded sugar; pour in one-half pint of warm rum, and light it when putting the pudding on the table.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 147 CHARLOTTE RUSSE. BT KBS. ISAAC 8. BTBCBLK. (Wife of Representative from lows.) a sheet of very thin sponge cake and t in shape of a breakfast coffeecup; set aside. Take a quart of double cream and whip it as though you whipped the white of eggs, as though you were making meringue; then add pul- verized sugar, one leaf melted gelatine; flavor with vanilla; then pour into these cups while soft, and set it where it will stiffen. 0^ ^ <j, ^Ir-iA.Ayh'^148 STATESMEN’S DISHES; CARDINAL RICHELIEU PUDDING. BT MBS. CHA8. H. GIBSON. (Wife of Bepresontstivo from Mnryland.) SurS^AKE eight eggs; beat whites and yolks sepa- rately; first balance the eight eggs with pul- verized sugar and four eggs in flour, after it has been sifted twice; beat sugar and yolks together, then add the whites and the juice and rind of a large lemon; the rind must be grated fine. Last of all add flour, which must be cut in with a knife. Don’t stir at all after adding flour. Grease a pretty mold (a Turk’s head is the best) and pour the batter in. Bake quickly. Then make three pints of rich custard, the yolks of five eggs to a pint; sweeten and season with vanilla. When the cake is perfectly cold—it should always be made a day or so beforehand—cut it carefully across twice, and spread currant or pine apple jelly, or the preserved grated pine apple, be- tween the layers of cake; put it together carefully so it will not be seen it has been cut; then have onc-half pound of almonds blanched and stick them thick all over the cake with small, thin pieces of citron, and then pour one-pint of good sherry wine over the cake; let it stand all night; keep the custard on the ice, and just before dinner put the cake in a handsome dish and pour the custard all over it. This is a dish fit for the gods.149 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. WOLF PUDDING. BY HB8. K. H. NOBTOB. (Wife of Bepresentativo from MlMoori.) jNE cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, ^ one cup of flour, one cup of blackberry jam, three tablespoonfuls of sour cream, one tea- spoonful of soda, three eggs. This is to be mixed into batter. Serve with sauce.180 STATESMEN'S DISHES; TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING. BY MBS. A. M. DOCKERY. (Wife of Represeiitalivo from Missouri.) two tablespoons tapioca over night in cold water; when ready to make custard, boil one quart of milk; while boiling add beaten yolks of three eggs, three-fourths cup sugar, and the tapioca; turn it into the dish you wish to serve it in; have the beaten whites of the eggs ready, sweetened a little, and spread over the top; put it into the oven till a light brown. Eat cold.181 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. BT M1I8. CHA8. S. BAKBB. (Wife of Representative from NewTork.) pNE quart cream, one-half box Cox’s gelatine thoroughly dissolved. Whip the cream to a froth, then sift in powdered sugar; strain the gelatine before adding; flavor and sweeten to taste. Line two molds or glass dishes; pour in the cream; set in the refrigerator to form.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 162 SPONGE PUDDING, BT KBS. W. K. KASOH. (Wife of Bepteaentatlve from Illinois.) pint milk, six eggs, two ounces flour, two ounces butter, two ounces sugar. Boil the milk, add the flour and then the sugar. When nearly cold add the butter. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, and add the whites just before baking. Set pudding-dish into water to bake. Eat with sauce.103 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. BAKED CUSTARDS. mbs. ALFRED C. HARMEB. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) pint of cream, four eggs, cinnamon, almond WMW flavor, and three ounces of sugar. Boil the cream with a piece of cinnamon; pour it into a bowl, and when cold add the eggs well beaten and strained, the sugar powdered, and a few drops of almond flavor. Bake in small cups in slow oven.184 STATESMEN’S DISHES; CHARLOTTE RUSSE. BY USB. ALONZO NUTK. (Wife of Representative from New Hampshire.) a sponge cake in the proportion of eggs and two-thirds of a cup of sugar, it in a brick-shaped cakepan about four inches deep. Take one and a half pints of new cream; set it on ice till perfectly ice-cold; put one- fourth box of gelatine (more if the weather is warm) to soak in one-half cup ot cold milk; whip the cream to a solid froth; fill up the cup of melted gelatine with boiling milk; let it get cold; put to the cream two cups of sugar, a tablespoonful of vanilla and a pinch of salt. Stir together the whipped cream, the gelatine and sugar, stirring constantly from the bottom, so that it will combine thoroughly without clotting before it is set. When the cake is done turn out on a sieve to cool. When cold place it bottom up in a clean pan the same size and shape of the first. Slice it cross- ways, taking out every alternate slice, without leaving a single crumb; then fill the spaces thus left with the mixture, filling in with a spoon carefully, a little in the bottom of each, holding the slices straight, till there is enough to keep them from tilting sideways. Fill up to the top and set on ice about six hours if the weather is hot. Serve in slices. Another pan may be filled with the odd slices.106 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. A PUDDING SAUCE. BY MBS. JOHN B. HENDERBON. (WUb of ex-Senator from Missouri 5EING a pint of milk to the boiling-point, and then stir in a generous teaspoonful of corn starch, previously rubbed smooth with a little of the cold milk; add also a tablespoonful of sugar. Let it cook for two or three minutes to thoroughly cook the starch, and then let the mixture get entirely cold. Flavor it with sherry or any of the flavorings, and just before serving stir in smoothly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. As the egg froth is not cooked, the sauce will not keep very long at its best, perhaps half an hour.1B6 STATESMEN'S DISHES; APPLE PAN DOWDY. BY MBS. MARCUS A. SMITH. (Wife of the Delegate from Arlsona.) ■OE a family of six, use two-quart pan. Pare and slice some good pie apples; place a layer of apples about au inch thick; season with sugar and a speck of salt. Put a layer of cracker crumbs half an inch thick; alternate apples and criicker till the pan is full. Bake one hour, and serve w'ith cream or rich milk. Ehode Island greenings are best. 7AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. 187 BOILED PEARS. BY MBS. WM. H. MORROW. (Wife of Hepresentative from OiHfornin.) California, where fruits abound, nothing is more delicious than the pears. Take hard peai'S, remove rind and specks; be sure they are sound at the core; put into a fruit-kettle and cover with water; boil slowly one hour, then add a sufScient (luantity of sugar to make a lively sirup; boil half or three-quarters of an hour longer. Serve cold.188 STATESMEN’S DISHES; APPLE TAPIOCA. BY MRS. JOHN H. BANKHBAD. (Wife of Representative from Alabama.) 0NE-HALF pound tapioca soaked over night in cold water. Make a quarter of a peck of apples into nice, rich, sweet sauce. Put the soaked tapioca in the sauce and let cook slowly until the tapioca is dissolved. Flavor with lemon or orange peel; sweeten to taste. Serve with cream sauce.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 189 PLUM PUDDING. BT MBS. JOS. B. H’BONALO. (Wife of ex-Senator from Tndi.aiia.) [IS pudding is best when prepared, all but milk and eggs, the day before using. Seed and cut in half one pound of the best bloom raisins; pick, wash and dry before the fire one pound of Zante currants, commonly called plums; dredge the fruit well with flour, to prevent its sinking or clog- ging ; take one pound of fresh beef suet, freed firom the skin and string, and chop very fine; one pint of grated bread crumb® and a half pint of sifted flour; a large quarter of a pound of best sugar, a large table- spoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed, and two powdered nutmegs; all the spice to be steeped in a half pint of mixed wine and brandy; put away these ingredients separately, closely covered, and let them stand all night. Next morning finish the pud- ding, which requires at least six hours’ boiling. Beat wine and eggs together until very thick and smooth; then add one pint of rich milk, then the bread crumbs and flour; mix with the sugar the grated yellow rind and juice of two lemons, and add to the mixture gradually all the prepared ingredients, stir- ring hard. If too thick add more milk; if too thin add more bread crumbs; take care not to have too much bread or flour, or the pudding will be heavy; add two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one quarter of a pound of citron; boil in tin molds; serve with lemon sauce, or with butter and sugar beaten to a cream and flavored with nutmeg and rose.160 STATESMEN'S DISHES; CIDER JELLY BT MRS. D. J. BREWER. (Wife of Associate Justice of Supreme Court.) »AKE one package of Cox’s gelatine; dissolve it in one pint of cold water. When it is thoroughly dissolved add one pint of cider and one quart of boiling water, (the cider must be sweet, and the very best;) to this add, also, two pounds of best granulated sugar, a pinch of ground cinnamon, the juice of two lemons, and the grated peel of one. Let it come to the boiling-point, strain and turn into molds. It must be kept in a cool place of course. This is not only an excellent dish in a general way, being as good as wine jelly and clear as amber, but it is unequaled in sickness where stimulants are prohibited. In warm weather it takes a little more gelatine to the same amount of fluid, than in cold weather.161 AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. DIXIE PUDDING. BT KBS. W. H. F. I.KE. (Wife of BepresentaUve from Virsrinia.) flsTE pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, yolks of four eggs, rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar. Bake in pudding-dish. When done spread over with some kind of jams; beat the whites of the eggs light, season with the juice of lemon; one cup of sugar; put on top of pudding; set in oven for a minute to brown.162 STATESMEN’S DISHES; BREAD TOt£ BT UBB. JOHN LI277>. (Wife of Representative from Minnesota.) wo cups bread crumbs, sifted and evenly browned or roasted, eight eggs (yolks), one and a half cups of granulated sugar, one- half pound chocolate (grated), three-fourths pound almonds, one-half pound citron, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half cloves, one-fourth teaspoon carda- mon, one-fourth cup brandy, juice and grated rind of one lemon. Mix sugar and yolks until very light; then add all ingredients except bread crumbs and whites of eggs, and stir well; then wet or dampen the crumbs with white wine and add to the rest last wliites of the eggs well beaten. For icing, chocolate or a white frosting. Bake one and a half hours slowly.163 AND now TO COOK THEM. PUMPKIN PIE. BY MRS. 3. W. VAN 80HAICK. (Wife of Representative from Wisconsin.) lEE tablepoons of butter, two cups of sugar beaten together, three eggs, three cups of stewed pumpkin,’ one cup of cream, one wine- glass of sherry; also of brandy, nutmeg, cinnamon, and a little mace and salt to taste. Bake in a puff- paste.164 STATESMEN'S DISHES; PIE CRUST. BT HB8. J. W. YAK SOHAIOK. (Wife of Kepresentatlve from Wisoonaln.) ^WO cups of flour, three-fourths cup of lard, one-half cup of butter, a pinch of salt; mix with ice-cold water—using a knife instead of the hand—into a firm dough. Roll it in a napkin and lay it on ice till the filling is ready; roll very thin, spread with butter and dredge with flour, repeating the process three times. Prepare the pie, and bake in quick oven.163 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SPANISH CREAM. BY MBS. O. W. SPOFTOBO. (Wife of Proprietor of Riggs House, Washington, D. O.) fNE quart of milk, four eggs, one-half box gel- atine, one-half onp sugar; flavor with vanilla. Add gelatine to milk; boil slowly until dis- solved; then add the yolks of the eggs and sugar beaten together. Cook like soft custard in a double boiler. Beat the whites of the eggs very lightly, and stir in lightly after taking from the stove; then set in molds. To be eaten with cream.100 STATESMEN’S DISHES; OLD-FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE. BY UBS. M. B. WAITB. (Widow of Chief .Tustioe of the United States.) Weigh the sugar and put it iu the mixing-bo vd; break the eggs, putting the yolks with the sugar and the whites in another dish. Beat the whites of the eggs until they will not drop from the rods; beat the yolks and sugar to a cream and until the sxigar dissolves; strain the lemon juice and add it with the grated; put to the eggs and sugar. When the yolks and sugar are very light add the whites, beating all very hard until well mixed; sift the flour two or three times with the salt in it. If “New Process flour,” take out one table- spoonful of it, as it takes less than the other kind. Add the flour a little at a time, stirring it in lightly. If the flour is beaten in, the cake will be tough. Put the mixture about one and a half inches thick into flat pans; sift fine sugar thinly over the top, and bake in an oven that is hottest at the bottom; try with a straw in about a half hour. If done it will not stick to the straw. Do not be alarmed if it falls a little when taken from the oven, but do not jar it or turn, it out until it is partially cool.167 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. GERMAN ALMOND RINGS. BT MRS. WM. WINDOM. (Wife of Secretary of the Treasury.) jNE-HALF pound blanched almonds, one-half pound pulverized sugar, one-half pound puff- paste, whites of six eggs. Roll the paste very thin and cut out with a tumbler or tin biscuit-cutter. From each cut a smaller one from the center so that the ring will be three-fourths of an inch wide. Beat the whites to a stiff froth; then add the sugar and stir with the dish in boiling water until the me- ringue is quite thick. Into this stir the almonds, which have been previously sliced very thin. Cool. Then with a small silver knife place this mixture on the rings. Bake in an oven at the temperature proper for cake. Can be kept for two or three weeks.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 108 SHAKSPERE CAKE. BY MBS. ■WM. 'WINDOM, (Wife of Secretary of (he Treasury.) coflfeecup of sugar creamed with one-half ) of butter; add three beaten eggs and -t thoroughly; add two cups of flour, into which one teaspoonful of cream tartar has been mixed, and at the same time, without stirring in the flour, three-fourths cup of milk into which one-half tea- spoon of soda has been dissolved. Mix well. Lastly, add one-half pound English walnuts which have been cut fine. Bake in sheets a cake which shall be an inch thick when done. When partly cool frost with an icing made with the white of one egg and one cup of pulverized sugar, beaten ten minutes, and adding the juice of half a small lemon. When the icing has begun to harden a little, mark it in squares with the back of a silver knife, and lay in each square half of an English walnut.169 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. ANGELS’-FOOD CAKE. BT MRS. JERB. M. RCSK. (Wife of the Secretary of Airrioulturo.) S^I^AKE whites of twelve eggs, one and a half cups pulverized sugar sifted three times, one cup flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar. Sift flour and cream tartar together three times. Mix weU with the sugar and stir into the beaten whites. One teaspoonful of flavoring.STATESMEX'S DISHES; 170 HARRISON FRUIT CAKE. BY MBS. JOHN J. INOALLS. (Wife of Senator from Kansas, and President pro tern, of tlie Senate.) pound of butter, one pound of flour, one- quarter of a pound of sugar (flne granulated), one dozen eggs, two pounds of citron, two small cocoanuts (grated), two pounds blanched almonds, one wineglassful of wine, one wiueglassful of brandy, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of ground mace, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, cream, butter and sugar and eggs, thoroughly beaten, but not separated. Mix baking powder with flour; then add, and lastly throw in fruit thoroughly chopped and floured. Bake in a slow oven. When done the cake will leave the sides of the pan.171 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. DELICATE CAKE. BT MBS. JOnK SHERMAN. (Wife of SeDHtor from Ohio.) pNE pound of sugar (light weight), one pound of flour (light weight), a little more than half a pound of butter, whites of sixteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth; beat butter and sugar to a cream and add the flour and eggs alternately until all are used; flavor with peach or lemon. Bake in a moderately quick oven. No baking powder.172 STATESMEN'S DISHES; BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. BY MBS. WM. P. FBYE. (Wife of Senator from Maine.) ■IX eggs, beat two minutes; three cups of sugar, beat five minutes; two cups of flour, beat one minute; one cup of cold water, beat one min- ute; two more cups flour, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar in the flour, beat one minute; one teaspoonful of soda put in the water, one teaspoonful of lemon and salt. Make in ten minutes, if everything is in readiness.AND mw TO COOK TSEM. 173 GINGERBREAD, BT MBS. WM. P. KHYE. (Wife of Senator from Maine.) gHKEE eggs, one cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, one cup of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of soda (heaping), two cups of flour, spice to taste.174 STATESMEN'S DISHES; SPONGE CAKE. BY MBS. JOHN H. REAGAN. (Wife of Senator from Texas.) |AKE the whites of twenty eggs, two gobletfnls of flour, three of pulverized sugar, two tea- spoonfuls of extract of lemon essence, and one of cream of tartar. Sift the flour carefully, mix the sugar, eggs and lemon thoroughly and stir in the flour gradually, taking care not to toughen it by too much beating. The great test is in the baking. The oven should be very hot, and it should be baked but a few minutes, until it is a light brown.178 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SPONGE CAKE. BT KBB. GILBERT A.. PIERCE. (Wife of Senator from North Dakota.) jNE pound of sugar, one of flour, ten eggs. Stir yolks of eggs and sugar till perfectly light. Beat whites of eggs, and add them with flour after beating togething lightly. Flavor with lemon. Three teaspoonfuls of baking powder will add to its lightness. Bake in a moderate oven.176 STATESMEN’S DISHES; SUNSHINE CAKE. BY MBS. OIDSON a MOODY. (Wife of Senator from South Dakota.) ^AKE the same as angel cake, using one teaspoonful of orange extract instead of vanilla, and adding the well-beaten yolks of six eggs to the beaten whites and sugar before adding the flour. 0177 AND SOW TO COOK THEM. MRS. CARLISLE’S CAKE. BT ItBS. JOHN G. OARI.ISLB. (Wife of Representative from Kentncky, and ex-8p«aker.) lEE-FOUETHS pound of butter washed and creamed; add one pound of sugar, nine eggs beaten separately; add the yellows to butter and sugar, then one pound of flour and whites well frothed, added alternately; beat well and add two tablespoonfuls of baking powder just before baking.178 STATESMEN'S DISHES; WHAT-IS-LEFT-OVER CAKE, MBS. JOHN H. OEAB. (Wife of Representatiye from Iowa.) IN making the cakes above, there may be small portions of the batter from each left. In such a case I have used it as follows, making a new cake, for which the above title is as good as any. Bake in layers and put together as follows: First a layer of fruit cake, then a layer of silver cake, an- other layer of fruit cake, then a layer of gold cake, a third layer of fruit cake, and last of all a layer of the snow cake. Spread jeUy between; quince pre- ferred. Cover with icing.^79 AND HOW TO COOK THEM BREAKFAST CAKE. BT HBO. NEUBON DINOLST, JB. (Wife of Representative from Maine.) fNE egg, one and one-half cups of milk, three cups of flour, one-half cup sugar, one tea- spoon of soda, two of cream of tartar, a little salt and a tablespoonful of butter.180 STATESMEN'S DISHES; SPICE CAKE. BY MRS. C. A. BOUTIELLB. (Wife of Representative from Maine.) HALF cupful each of molasses, milk, jar, butter, raisins or currants, two and a f cups of sifted flour, one egg, one-half teaspoon of cloves, one of cinnamon, one-half a tea- spoon of soda. Beat the egg, sugar and butter to- gether; add the molasses and the milk, in whicli should bo dissolved the soda; then add the flour and spices and finally the fruit. Bake half an hour in shallow pans in a moderate oven. This is a good cake without fruit. Two sheets can be made with the quantities named.181 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. BY KBS. JOHB K. FABC^TTHAB. (Wife of Eopresontative from Now York.) fNE quart of flour, three heaping teaspoons of baking powder; sift together thoroughly and rub in one ounce of butter; mix with a pint of sweet milk, using a spoon. The mixture will be softer than common piecrust. Do not try to mold or roll out the dough, but spread it on tins by patting with the hand till it is about an inch in thickness. Bake slowly till the cakes have had time to rise, then increase the heat. Split the cakes hot from the oven, spread the halves liberally with good butter, and cover them with fruit previously sweetened; place one on the other, the upper half reversed of course. Serve at once. When strawberries are gone, red raspberries or white currants are good in their place, and also peaches of a fine flavor. All these fruits should be sweetened an hour or two beforehand.STATESMEiPS DISHES; 182 CARAMEL CAKE. BT MBS. W. D. BTBXrK. (Wife of Representative from Indiana.) ^HEEE cups of sugar (sifted), one and one-half cups of butter, one cup of milk, four and a half cups of flour, flve eggs well beaten, one small teaspoon of soda, two small teaspoons of cream tartar; mix and bake as jelly cake. For the filling, take three cups of burned sugar, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon of butter, one tablespoon of browned flour, two tablespoons of cold water. Boil this mix- ture five minutes, <-hen add three tablespoons of sweet almonds, roasted and ground to a powder; boil until it is the consistency of rich custard; add a pinch of soda, stir well, and remove from the fire. When cold spread between the layers of cake. Ice with almond icing.188 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SPONGE CAKE. BY KBS. LEWIS K. PAYBON. (Wife of Representative from Illinois.) eggs, one-half pound sugar, one-fourth pound flour, juice aud grated peel of half a lemon; rub the yolks of eggs and sugar to a cream; add lemon, then add the whites, well beaten; stir ten minutes; add flour the last thing and stir lightly. Bake in quick oven.184 STATESMEN'S DISHES; MINNEHAHA CAKE. BT MRS. VM. P. HBPB17BN. (Wife of the Solicitor of the Treasury.) and a half cups of granulated sugar, half cup butter, stirred to a cream j whites of six eggs, two cups flour, one teaspoon and a half baking powder, half cup sweet milk. Bake in layers. FILLING. One cup of sugar, three tablespoons water, boiled candy high, poured over a cup of finely-chopped raisins (or hickory nuts), mixed with the well-beaten whites of two eggs; put between the layers of cake.188 STATESMEN’S DISHES; GOLD AND SILVER CAKES BT MBS. B. B. PBTBBS. (WUia of BepresentatlTe from Kansas.) GOLD CAKE. |WO cups of flour, three-fourths of a cup of yolks of eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Make and bake in the usual way. E'lavor to suit. The whites of the eight eggs can be used in Silver Cake. Two and a half cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, three-fourths cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder. Mixed and baked in the usual way, with any preferred flavoring. sugar, one egg and the SILVER CAKE.180 STATESMEN'S DISHES; ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. BY MRS. W. H. GEBT. (Wife of Representative from IlHuois.) IWO cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one and one-half cup of milk, three cups of flour, four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. ICING. Beat whites of two eggs, two cups powdered sugar, two teaspoons of chocolate. Spread between layers. Take one-half pound English walnut meats and arrange on top layer. ~U: ^ .187 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SPONGE CAKE. BT UBS. JOSEPH m’KENHA. (Wife of Sepresentative from California.) pNE pound granulated sugar, ten eggs. Beat eggs and sugar until very light; then stir in three-fourths pound of flour. Flavor with lemon. Bake one hour.188 STATESMEira DI8SES; GRANDMOTHER’S CAKE. BY MUB. OHAS. A. BUSSBI^. (Wife of Keprcscritative from MassuchusettH.) SNB cup each of milk and butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, two even teaspoon- fuls of baking powder, vanilla flavor ;• cream butter and sugar together; stir in the yolks of the eggs, add milk, sift flour and powder together and stir it into the mixture; add whites of eggs well beaten, and flavoring.189 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SNOW CAKE. BY MBS. M. H. M’CORD. (Wife of Reproseiilatiye from Wisconsin.) IITES of eight eggs, two cups of white sugax, one cup of butter, well washed; one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon of soda and two of cream tartar sifted into two cups of flour, and one of corn starch. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the flour; beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and beat the sugar into that; into this stir the milk, then add the two mixtures together. This can be baked in a loaf, but is better baked in layers, between which is spread a layer of boiled frosting, with almonds pounded to a paste, mixed into it; or with a spread of whipped cream between the layers.190 8TATESMEHT8 DI8HE8; FRUIT CAKE. BT MBS. B. A. PIBBCB. (■Wife of Kepresentative from Tennessee.) ^WELVE eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- rately j one pound of white sugar and a cup of the best molasses; one pound of flour, browned; one pound of butter; one cup of sweet milk or cream, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder; one wineglass of brandy; one pound of citron, sliced very thin; one pound of raisins, stoned; two pounds of currants, well washed and dried; one teaspoon each of ground cloves, allspice and mace. Eoll the raisins in the flour; mix all together, except the citron; put in a layer of the batter, then of the citron alternately till the pan is full. Bake in a moderate oven four hours. je J191 AND HOW TO COOK TEE3L CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE. BY MBS. J. ■W. FOSTBE. (Wife of eX'Minister to Mexico, Kussin nnd Spsin.) Hour eggs, two cups of sugar, oue-half cup of butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder in cup of flour, one-half cup of milk and two more cups of flour. OUSTAED TO PUT BETWEEN LAYEES. Two-thirds pint of sweet milk or cream; raise to a boil, after which mix together four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of corn starch dissolved iu milk, the yolk of one egg well-beaten, and when done add the well-beaten white. Flavor with vanilla, and when cold spread between layers. This makes four layers, in two of which should be put grated choco- late to make them brown. FEOSTINQ. One (joffeecup of brown sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, butter size of an egg, one tablespoonful of vanilla, one cake of Baker’s chocolate. Mix together and boil slowly until it thickens; try like taffy, but do not make it too hard. Spread on the cake while hot. (TL^t192 STATESMEN’S DISHES; COCOANUT CAKE. BV MBS. K. H. SOETOK. (Wifo of Representative from Missouri.) lKE two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three cups flour, one cup sweet milk, whites of five eggs, four teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in five layers. ICING. Whites of three eggs, one-half a cup of sugar. Spread on the layers, and sprinkle thickly with ground cocoanut. 4 7k193 AND HOW TO COOK THEM DELICATE CAKE. BY MBS. H. C. M’CORMICK. (Wife of Representative from Pennsylvania.) KEEE-FOTJETHS cup of butter, two cups fine jranulated sugar, beaten well together; one !up of sweet milk, three cups flour, two tea- spoonfuls of baking powder and the whites of eight eggs. Flavor with almond. Beat well tep minutes after putting in all the ingredients. For loaf bake one hour.194 STATESMEN’S DISMES} ICE-CREAM CAKE. BY MBS. B. F. PKTTIQBKW. (Wife of Representative from South Dakota.) iNE cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup corn starch, one-half cup milk, one tea- spoon baking powder, whites of four eggs. FILLING. Two cups sugar, one-fourth cup water, or two table- spoons of water; boil until it hairs or will harden in cold water. Pour this mixture into the whites of four eggs well beaten. Chopped nuts improve the filling.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 198 DROP CAKE. BY KBS. ALONZO ITUTK. (Wife of Representative from New Hampshire.) SHEEE eggs, two teacups of sugar, one coflee- cup of rich sour cream, (if not possible to get it rich, put two tablespoons of butter to it,) one-fourth a teaspoon of soda, one-half a teaspoon of salt, one-half a medium-sized nutmeg. Stir in slowly sufficient flour to make a thick batter, but not stiff—about the consistency of pound cake. Bake in muffin-pans, heated and well-buttered, dropping a tablespoonful of the batter in each ring. Baked in a oven that is well-heated at first, and grows cooler as they bake. One-third of a teacup of currants mixed in is an improvement.BTATESMEN'a DISHES; 190 SAUCISSONS DE CHOCOLAT. BT BOBS. BESSIE SNIDEB. (Daughter of Representative from Minnesota.) ■AKE two cakes of “ German’s sweet choco- late,” put in a pan, and the pan in another larger one of hot water; leave on the stove until thoroughly melted, taking care that nothing whatever is put in the chocolate; then keeping it in the pan of hot water, take to the table and pour in honey until the chocolate is easily molded; mix in a cupful of blanched sweet almonds cut into pieces about the size of a pea, a pinch each of powdered cloves and cinnamon. Then mold with the hands into rolls about five inches long and an inch thick; wrap in tin foil cut previously into sheets of the right size. Put in the refrigerator to cool. The little sausages will keep for months, and in fact grow better with age, to my mind. To serve them, slice into thin slices, and put in a dainty little bonbon dish.197 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. PECAN CAKE. • BT MK8. J. B. M’KEB. (DaugUter of the President.) 8NE cup of butter, two and a balf cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat together butter and sugar, add a little of the beaten egg; then put in a cup of flour, then some milk, then again flour and milk; put all the milk in with the second cup of flour, then add the rest of the egg. ICING TO FILL. AND PUT OVER TOP. Whites of six eggs beaten stiff with powdered sugar, one small can of grated pineapple, and two cups of pecans, chopped fine. The nuts should soak awhile in the pineapple before mixing them into the egg and sugar. Put whole pecan kernels over the top of the cake while the icing is still soft. ^-/duL,198 STATESMEN'S DISHES; POUND CAKE. BY MISS MARY E. TURPIK. (Daiigliter of Senator from Indiana.) pound flour, one of butter, one of sugar, e eggs. Wash the butter and beat it and flour together. Beat the egg yolks and sugar together. When well-beaten mix all together, add the whites of the eggs well-beaten, and one-half teaspoonful baking powder. Bake one hour and fifteen minutes.199 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. SPONGE CAKE BT HB8. ISABELUL BEECHBB HOOKBB.. (The noted Advocate of Women’s Rights.) pound sugar, one-half pound flour, ten eggs, one lemon, salt. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately and till very light; then mix the sugar with the yolks thoroughly; then add the grated lemon peel and the juice, and a little salt j then add the flour, cutting it with a large knife, moving the mass as lightly as possible and avoid beating entirely.200 STATESMEN’S DISHES; FRUIT CAKE. BY Miaa MABT B. TTTBPIE. (Daughter of Senator from Indiana.) fNE pound each of sugar, butter, flour, seeded raisins, currants and citron; one cup of mo- lasses, one-half cup whisky, one cup sour cream, one-half teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, grated nutmeg and mace; nine eggs. Brown the flour, and bake four hours.201 AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. ANGEL FOOD. BT Mias MABY B. TCBPIE. (Daughter of Senator from Indiana.) the whites of seventeen eggs; one pound pulverized sugar, one-half pound flour, three- quarters of an ounce cream of tartar. Sift the flour, sugar and cream of tartar together seven times. Beat whites of eggs stiff; then sift the flour slowly into the whites. Bake in new pan that has never been used. Do not butter the pan.STATESMEN’S DISHES; 202 BOILED FROSTING. BY MtSS MARY K. TCBPIR. (Dnughlcr of Senator from Inillann.) bNE cup of granulated sugar, one tablespoonful cold water. Boil until it ropes. Then pour in the white of one egg beaten stiff. Stir con- stantly until it is perfectly smooth.203 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CHOCOLATE-CREAM CAKE. BY KBS. laUiAH BKICKITEB. (Daughter of Representative from Wlsoonsin.) NE cup of sugar and half a cup of butter and a half teaspoons of baking powder sifted together; stir into the butter and sugar one-half cup of milk; stir in the flour and flavor with vanilla; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir into the mixture, and bake in a well-buttered mold. For the icing, boil together one cup of powdered sugar and one-half cup of milk till it thickens when stirred, when it must be taken from the stove and stirred till white, and thick enough to spread nicely, being careful to spread before it becomes too thick. Flavor with vanilla, and spread all over the cake, and then cover it with a thick layer of melted chocolate. creamed together; two cups of flour and oneSTATESMEN’S DISHES; 204 BONBONS. BY MBS. SHELBY M. CCLLOM. (Wife of Senator from Illinois.) ®IX together with the whites of two eggs an equal quantity of cold water and enough confectioner’s sugar to make a stiff dough. It will require about two pounds. To prepare fruits and nuts, take seeds out of dates and fill with the cream; blanch almonds and cover with cream. Candied cherries are very nice; take little balls of the cream, and put a cherry on each. English wal- nuts are used in the same way as cherries.And to cook tejem. ^os CHOCOLATE CREAMS. BY MRS. SHELBY H. CULLOM. (Wife of Senator from Illinois.) SRATE a package of sweetened chocolate, add two tablespoonfuls of water, and set the bowl in a tin of water on the stove to melt. While melting, roll some of the cream (see page 204) into balls; dip these one at a time in the chocolate, lifting out with a fork. Put on a buttered dish to harden. Use any kind of flavoring desired in cream.206 STATESMEN’S DISHES; CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. BY UBS. U. O. BUTLEB. (Wife of Senator from South Carolina.) |0IL, skin and slice enough sweet potatoes to fill a pudding-dish. Put a layer of potatoes in the bottom, then sprinkle a light layer of sugar over them, with some bits of butter, and a very little sirup; then another layer of potatoes, and so on till the dish is full. Place it in the oven and bake a rich brown.207 AND BOW TO COOK TBEM. FROZEN APRICOTS. BT MBS. H. 8. QUAY. (Wife of Senator from Pennsylvania.) pNE can of apricots, a generous pint of sugar, a quart of water, a pint of whipped cream measured after being whipped. Cut the apricots in small pieces, add the sugar and water, and freeze. When nearly frozen add the cream. /STATESMEN’S DISHES; ^08 ORANGES FILLED WITH JELLY. BY MBS. J. N. HUSTON. (Wife of the Treasurer of the ITnited States.) lE half a dozen oranges that are perfect; make a hole at the stem end about half an ra inch In diameter; take a teaspoon and remove the pulp, and then soak the oranges in cold water for an hour; then scrape with the spoon until they are smooth inside; rinse with cold water, and drain on a cloth and put them in ice-box. Prepare pink and clear orange jelly, with the juice of two lemons added. Fill half of them with the pink, the other half with clear jelly, and when they are set wipe clean and cut each orange in four quarters. Heap them in a pretty glass dish for the table. 4209 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CRYSTALLIZED FRUIT. BY MBS. CHAB. E. HOOKBB. (Wife of Kepresentative from Mlssiaslppi.) *AKE a wine jelly according to the recipe found in a box of Cox’s gelatine, always using sherry wine, on account of its color. Have ready a mold of any shape, according to fancy, in which to crystallize the fruit in layers, of which use any delicious variety. The first layer could be of a banana cut in thin slices, placed at the bottom of the mold. Then pour over it some of the jelly; then of oranges, sweet and juicy, about two, with the seeds extracted, and cut in small pieces; then pour more jelly over this, and so on until you may have five or six varieties of fruit. For this recipe candied figs and limes are delicious. Mix through the fruit about two dozen English walnuts, well-minced up. As the layers of fruit are placed in the mold sprinkle a little sugar over each. When the mold is full of jelly and fruit put its top on securely, and keep it surrounded and covered with ice. When the contents of the mold are hard enough to slice, slip them out carefully and place on fancy dish, serving with whipt cream, the same as for Charlotte Eusse. 14210 STATESMEN’S DISHES} ICE CREAM WITHOUT EGGS, BT UB8. WV. VANDEyXB. (Wife of Bepreeentative from California.) (ITE quart new milk; set in a vessel of hot add two large tablespoonfnls of arrowroot smoothly mixed with cold milk and two teacups of sugar; stir till smooth and thick. When cold add one pint of rich cream and flavoring to suit taste; put in freezer and turn rapidly. when it comes to the boiling-point211 AND HOW TO COOK THEM. CARAMEL ICE-CREAM. BT XB8. H. O. HAJIBBBOnGH. (Wife of Representative from North Dakota.) fNE pint of millc, one quart of cream, three eggs, two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of pulverized sugar, one-fourth cup of corn starch. Beat the eggs, corn starch, and one cup of the granulated sugar together; stir in the milk while boiling; let it boil fifteen minutes; then stir the other cup of granulated sugar in a smoking-hot spider; stir quickly till brown ; add to the boiling custard, stir- ring quickly. Set away to cool; when cool add the cream, whipped, and the cup of pulverized sugar. Flavor to suit. Freeze.212 STATESMEN’S DISHES; ORANGE PRESERVES. BY MRS. OHAS. TBAOBT. (Wife of Hepresontative from New York.) KE five dozen moderately tart oranges—^be sure they are not bitter, and cover them with cold water over night. Next morning turn the cold water off, and cover them with water as hot as can be borne by the hand 5 then take off the rind and as much of the white inter lining as possible. Quarter half of them, and slice the other half, taking out all the seeds. Take the rind of three or four of them, remove the white, and cut in small pieces, and put them in with your fruit. Then for eight pounds of the fruit take'seven of white sugar, aud let the whole simmer on a slow fire, skimming frequently, till it comes to a boil, then boil twenty minutes. yi218 AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. DEVILED ALMONDS. BT MBS. W. D. OWBir. (Wife of RepresentstlTe from Indiana.) JLANCH one-half pound of sweet almonds and wipe them dry; then put into a frying-pan two ounces of butter; make it hot; add the almonds; fry them gently till of a good brown color; drain them on a hair sieve; strew cayenne pepper and salt over them and serve hot.214 STATESMEN'S DISHES; SALTED ALMONDS. BY MBS. JOHN F. LACBY. (Wife of Representative from Iowa.) jO a cupful of blanched almonds add one table- spoonful of melted butter. Stir well. Let them stand an hour; then sprinkle with salt, allowing a tablespoonful for each cupful of nuts. Put the almonds into a moderate heated oven, stirring occasionally while they are turning to a delicate brown. In about fifteen minutes they should be crisp. y)^cAAf2^a,21B AND HOW TO COOK TEEM. ORANGE FOOL. BT XB8. DABXBZ. X. BABBDBIX. (Wife of Uolted Stntes Marshal of the District of Oolomhia.) JIX the juice of three Seville oranges with three whole eggs well beaten; one-half pint of cream, and cinnamon, nutmeg and finely sifted sugar to taste. Set this over a slow fire and stir, one way, until it becomes of the consistency of melted butter. Serve ice-cold.STATESMEN'S DISHES; 216 CHOW-CHOW. BT MB8. JOHN BHBRMAN. {Wife of Senator from Ohio.) SNE-HALF peck of onions, one-half peck me- dium-sized cucumbers, one-half peck cauli- flower (or cabba,ge will do), one-half peck green tomatoes, one-half dozen red peppers. Chop all—not too fine—salt, mix, and scald in three pints of vinegar and three of water. When well scalded drain from the vinegar, and pour over the following mixture: Six pints of vinegar, two and a-half cups of brown sugar, three-quarters of a pound ground mustard, one ounce turmeric, one-half pint olive oil, three-quarters of a cup flour. Mix the mustard, flour, oil and turmeric together with one pint of cold vin- egar, and stir into the six pints of vinegar while boiling, having previously added the sugar and all kinds of spices. Celery or celery seed is an improve- ment.AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 217 PRESIDENT HARRISON’S CHRISTMAS DINNER. BT MBB. BEBJAMIN HABBISOH (Wife of the Preaident.) m£nu. Blue Point oysters, half shell. SOUP, Consomme Royal. EKTBSS. Bonches a la Reine. BOAST. Turkey, cranberry jelly. Potatoes Ducheese. Stewed celery. Terrapin a la Maryland. Lettuce salad, plain dressing. SWEKTS. Mince pie. American plum pudding. DESSEBT. Ice-cream. Tutti-frutti. Lady-fingers. Maccaroons. Carlsbad wafers. Apples. Florida oranges. Bananas. FBUITS. Grapes. Pears. Black coffee.218 STATESMEN'S DISHES; WEDDING CAKE. BY MBS. F. W. LANDEB. (Widow of Gen. F. W. Lander.) excellent wedding cake or so-called fruit cake: One pound citron, cut in thin slices, one pound flour; one pound sugar, one pound butter, beaten together well; one dozen eggs broken into, and well-beaten with, sugar and butter; two pounds raisins carefully stoned, two pounds best dried currants well cleaned, one pound blanched almonds cut flne, one wineglass of brandy, one-half teaspoon each of mace, cinnamon, allspice and cloves (powdered ). Bake in a confectioner’s oven, and let him frost it elaborately or plainly. (All ingredients to be of the best.)AND HOW TO COOK THEM. 210 A PINK DINNER IN APARTMENTS. BT MBS. WM. M. STEWART. (Wlfo of Senator from Nevada.) IHEEE is no reason why one occupying apart- there; and I, for one, try to have mine so. Our dinners are made attractive, the same as when we kept house, and entertained on a larger scale. To illustrate, I will give a description of a pink dinner. The table was set as usual when company is invited, only that pink was the prevailing color. First a scarf of pink satin, under lace, was laid across the middle of the ta,ble, and on this was placed the central ornaments. In the very center was a pot of ferns, with broad pink satin ribbon twined in and out of the open-work edge, and some la France roses arranged among the green. At each end of the central scarf were baskets of pink bonbons. The menu cards were tied with knots of the pink satin ribbon, with the name of the hostess on one end and date of the dinner on the other, painted in gold letters. The cards of the guests were pink flower petals; the gentlemen’s a long lily leaf, and the ladies’ a rose leaf. At the end of the dinner each couple exchanged cards as souvenirs. ments in a hotel should not make a home220 BTATMMElirB DIBHEB; A GOOD BAKING POWDER. BY MR8. MARY A. DENISON. (Author of **That Husband of Mine.'*) ^ETTER than all the yeast powders is this one, which has been in use for twenty-five years, in a family that knows what good things are: One-half pound tartaric acid, one-half pound best baking soda, one quart of flour. Sift thoroughly six or seven times through a fine sieve. This is stronger than ordinary baking powder.AND BOW TO COOK TSEM. 221 HEALING PLASTER. vr MBS. Boewxix p. flowkk. (Wife of Representative from New York.) I«^KE one pound of rosin, one ounce of mutton- lyre tallow, one ounce of camphor gum, one ounce of beeswax, one-half ounce of gum myrrh, one-half ounce of British oil, one-half ouncie of (jedar oil, one-half ounce of linseed oil.STA2ESMEJSPS DISHES; 222 TO CLEAN KID GLOVES. BY MBS. O. K. DAVIS. (Wife of Senator from Minnesota. rub them thoroughly with flour or cracker crumbs, and then wash in refined gasoline as you would wash a pocket-hand- kerchief.I i \V ... ■tM- W. k-., VIA:'.' V *• *• ^illB, ■00«8«tLtB. * PAI.AOC ITBIct »UO«,NOHAM q*T,, S.W. - *OOKn aoUQHT.