EEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY pecial Collections ookery Bateman 3010602398394211 GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING MEAT could not be made tender by other means. Shin of beef or ox cheek would be comparatively flavour- less if roasted, fried, or baked ; they would, in consequence of the gelatine they contain, become tough and horny. Stewed with vegetables they can be made deliciously tender. Take care .to stew meat until tender, but no longer. Guard against letting it go to rags. There is no reason why it should do this, for when tender the stew can be removed from the fire and re-heated when required, and it will be even better than when just prepared. Tough pieces of meat more quickly become tender if dipped in vinegar before they are stewed ; the acid causes the fibre of the meat to soften more readily. A brown jar, which can stand by the side of the fire or in the oven, is ex- cellent for stewing in. JOINTS OF MEAT PLAINLY D-RESSED BEEF—Sirloin and Ribs are always roasted or baked. Serve Yorkshire pudding with them, or suet dumplings, also pota- toes, or any green vegetable. Rump of Beef This can be roasted or baked. Serve York- shire pudding or dumplings. ^ Buttock and Mouse-Buttock These can also be roasted or baked, and served with Yorkshire pudding and suet dumplings ; or BCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 12 these joints may be salted and boiled, and be served with yeast, suet, or baking-powder dump- lings, and carrots, turnips, and parsnips cooked with the meat. Brisket, Shin Clod, and Shoulder These are best stewed, or may be used in the pot-au-feu. Aitch-bone, Thick and Thin Flank These are generally salted and boiled. Serve with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and suet, yeast, or baking-powder dumplings. Haricot beans are very good with roasted or boiled meat. When used with boiled meat, cook them with the meat, putting them on before the meat, as they take longer. MUTTON—Shoulder, Haunch, Loin, Chine, and Best End of Neck All these are roasted and baked. Any green vegetables and potatoes may be used with them. Haricot beans are very good ; so, also, are rice and macaroni. Leg of Mutton This may be roasted or boiled. When boiled, cook, if possible, carrots, turnips, and parsnips with it, or haricot beans. Scrag End of the Neck This is boiled, and requires long and gentle cooking to make it tender. Serve with vegetables mentioned for leg of mutton. Caper or gherkin sauce is used with boiled mutton.JOINTS OF MEAT PLAINLY DRESSED 13 Bacon and Hams Put bacon into cold or lukewarm water, and simmer until cooked ; allow about twenty-five minutes to the pound. A ham should also be put into cold or lukewarm water, and simmered, allow- ing twenty-five minutes to the pound, as a general rule. Let it get cold in the liquid. The skin of bacon and hams should be removed when they are cooked. They should be covered with raspings. Spare Rib, Fore Loin, Hind Loin, and Leg of Pork These must be roasted or baked ; score the skin with a knife, and cook them according to the directions given for roasting and baking meat. Pork takes longer to cook than ordinary meats, and it must be well cooked. The leg may be stuffed with sage and onion stuffing. Serve apple sauce with roast pork. Hand of Pork This should be salted and boiled. (See direc- tions for cooking bacon and hams.) Cook carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and a peas pudding with it. Spring of Pork Roll it, and tie it securely with tape or string, or fasten it with skewers, and cook according to the directions given for bacon and hams. Boil carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and a peas pudding with it.14 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES POULTRY, RABBITS, ETC. To Boil a Fowl Draw and truss it, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook according to the direc- tions given for boiling meat. A jmung chicken will take about half an hour ; a large fowl from an hour to an hour and a half. If two or three sliced onions are boiled with it, and a cupful of rice, the liquor will make a nice tasty broth. Put the fowl on a hot dish, and serve it with parsley sauce. Some boiled bacon is generally served with boiled fowl. Roast Fowl Roast the fowl before a clear fire, according to the directions for roasting meat ; it will take from half an hour to an hour, according to its age and size. Fried bacon is generally served wdth it, and bread sauce. If more convenient, it can be baked. Roast Turkey Draw it, and stuff it with veal stuffing, and truss it nicely into shape. Roast it before a clear fire, according to the directions for roasting meat. Make some gravy for it (see gravies). Serve boiled bacon, ham, pickled pork, or sausages with it. If more convenient, it may be baked. Roast Goose Draw the goose, and stuff with sage and onion stuffing. Truss it into shape and roast it, fromPOULTRY, RABBITS, ETC. 15 one and a half to two hours. Make some nice gravy for it (see gravies). Serve apple sauce with it. If more convenient, it may be baked. In cider counties boiled cider is often used for gravy. Roast Duck Stuff it with sage and onion stuffing, and roast it nicely from three-quarters of an hour to an hour according to its size. Make a nice gravy for it (see gravies), and serve apple sauce with it. If more convenient, it may be baked. In cider counties boiled cider is often used as gravy. It is used in this way : the duck is cut up and laid on a dish, and then the cider, made boiling, is poured over it. Roast Rabbit Draw the rabbit, and truss it neatly into shape, fasten some pieces of bacon over the back, and roast it before a clear fire. It will take from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Half an hour before it is cooked, remove the bacon and let the rabbit brown. Serve a nice gravy with it (see gravies). If more convenient, it may be baked. Roast Hare Cook according to preceding directions, but it will require longer time. If more convenient, it may be baked. Stewed Rabbit Required.—1 rabbit, 3 or 4 onions, flour, pepper and salt, 1 lb. of pickled pork, if possible.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 16 Method.—Cut the rabbit into joints and well wash it. Cut the pork into slices, put them and the rabbit into a saucepan with the onions sliced from the top to the bottom, add pepper and salt, and cover with water. Simmer gently from half an hour to an hour and a half, according to the size or the rabbit. Thicken the gravy with flour, using one table-spoonful of flour to every pint of gravy. Stewed Rabbit and Potatoes Cook the rabbit as in foregoing recipe, adding 3 lbs. or more of sliced potatoes. No flour is required when potatoes are used. Rabbits and Rice Cook according to directions in foregoing recipes adding a cupful of rice instead of potatoes. Boiled Rabbit, Smothered in Onions Boil the rabbit according to the directions given for boiling meat, cooking a piece of pickled pork with it. It will take from half an hour to an hour and a half, according to its age, but old rabbits are better stewed. Serve it smothered in onion sauce (see sauces). Jugged Hare The foreign hares which can be bought in London and large towns at a low price make a nice and economical dish jugged. Required.—1 hare, some veal forcemeat, an onion stuck with 5 cloves, 1 bay leaf, 1 lb. of shin of beef, flour, dripping, pepper and salt.17 POULTRY, RABBITS, ETC. Method.—Cut up the hare, well flour it, and fry it in a frying-pan with the dripping. Fry also the shin of beef cut into slices. Put the beef and the hare into a stewing jar with the cloves, onions, and bay leaf ; add pepper and salt, and cover with water. Cook in a slow oven for four hours. Make some balls of veal forcemeat, first adding the liver of the hare, finely chopped, to it. Fry or bake these, and add to the hare half an hour before it is dished up. CHEAP MEAT DISHES Breast of Mutton Ingredients.—^Breast of mutton, carrots, tur- nips, onions, parsnips (if liked), pepper and salt to taste. Method.—^Allow a quart of water to every pound of meat and one pint over ; put it in a saucepan on the fire to boil. Cut the meat into large pieces ; prepare and slice the vegetables. When the water boils, put in the meat and vege- tables, and then simmer for about two hours. Add pepper and salt to taste. The quantity of vege- tables must be regulated by the price ; when they are plentiful, it is economy to use plenty ; when dear, use sufficient to flavour the broth, and cook haricot beans or rice with the mutton. Rice should be put in one hour before the meat is cooked. Haricot beans should be cooked before the meat is put in. The fat from the broth can be used on bread in place of butter. Dumplings may be usedCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 18 with breast of mutton. Barley may be used instead of rice. Ccok it for one hour before the meat is put in. Sheep’s Head Required.—1 sheep’s head, carrots, turnips, onions, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut away the nostrils if the butcher has not already done so, and soak the head in salt and water to remove the blood. Cut out the tongue and remove the brains, wash the head thoroughly, and tie it into shape with string. Put it and the tongue into a large saucepan, and well cover it with warm water. Simmer gently for an hour, then put in the vegetables, prepared and sliced ; continue cooking for about three hours longer. A quarter of an hour before the head is cooked, put in the brains tied in muslin ; when cooked, remove them and make them into brain sauce. Place the head on a hot dish, place the vegetables round it, and pour the sauce over the head. To make a more economical dish, suet, baking-powder, or yeast dumplings may be served with it, or a cupful of rice may be put in one hour before the meat is tender. Use more or less fresh vegetables according as they are plentiful. Pot-au-feu Required.—4, 5, or more lbs. of shoulder, sticking, or any cheap piece of beef, 1 quart or rather more of water to every pound of beef, 3 or 4 carrots, 3 onions, 2 turnips, some celery, a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, tied together19 CHEAP MEAT DISHES with string, 2 ozs. of sago, 3 cloves, 1 cabbage, parsnips (if liked), pepper and salt. Method.—Make the meat into a nice shape and tie it securely with string. Put it into a large saucepan and add the water cold. Bring to the boil gradually ; skim it. Tie the celery, turnips, and carrots together. When the meat has sim- mered for two hours, put them in, add pepper and salt, and continue simmering for two hours longer ; then put in the cabbage, cleaned and trimmed ; it should be cut in two and tied together with string. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish with the carrots and other vegetables (the herbs removed) round it. Serve the cabbage in a separate dish. The liquor may be made into soup by boiling the sago mentioned in the ingredients in it for twenty minutes. When it is possible, use leeks instead of onions. Irish Stew Required.—4 lbs. of potatoes, 1 lb. of any pieces of mutton or beef, 7 onions, pepper and salt. Method.—Peel and slice the onions and cut the meat into small pieces. Put a layer of meat in the bottom of the saucepan, then a layer of potatoes, and then a layer of onions ; season well with pepper and salt, and continue placing the ingre- dients in alternate layers. Pour in one pint of water and cook gently, stirring occasionally until the meat is tender, probably about an hour and a half ; but if the meat is very tough, it will require longer cooking.20 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Stewed Pig’s Fry Required.—1 pig’s fry, a few sage leaves, 2 large apples, 2 large onions, 4 lbs. of potatoes, pepper and salt to taste, dripping. Method.—Well wash the fry and cut it up, dry and powder the sage leaves, and chop up the onion and apple finely. Put the dripping into a frying-pan, make it hot, put in the sliced fry, sprinkle under and over it the onion, sage, and apple. Fry, stirring now and again until lightlv browned, then put the whole contents of the frjdng pan into a saucepan, add the potatoes sliced, pour in a cupful of water, and simmer gently until the potatoes are cooked, stirring occasionally. If necessary, add more water, taking care not to make the stew too wet. Pig’s Fry (another way) Required.—^The ingredients mentioned in pre- ceding recipe. Method.—Parboil the potatoes and cut them into slices, dry and powder the sage leaves, and chop up the onion and apple. Place a layer of potatoes in a pie dish, lay on it some pieces of fry, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over it the onion, apple, and sage, and cover with sliced potatoes. Fill the pie dish in this way with alter- nate layers of potatoes and fry, letting the last be potatoes, pour in a small cupful of water, cover with a piece of caul, or greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. When nearly cooked, remove the caul or paper and let the potatoes brown.21 CHEAP MEAT DISHES Bacon and Apple Required.—Bacon, apples. Method.—Cut slices of bacon, and fry in a frying-pan ; when cooked, fry in the same fat slices of apples which are cored, but not pared. Place the bacon in the centre of the dish with the apple round it. Pork Stew Required.—1 lb. of salt pork, 3 lbs. of potatoes, 1 large onion, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Chop up the pork and mince the onion, peel and slice the potatoes. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, season with pepper, pour in a cupful of water. Simmer gently until the pork is tender, about an hour. Stir in the parsley just before serving. Stewed Shin of Beef and Haricot Beans Required.—1 lb. of beef, 1 pint of haricot beans, 2 ozs. of dripping, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, flour. Method.—Cut the meat into neat pieces and flour them. Make the dripping hot in a frying- pan, and fry the meat a rich brown, then fry the onion sliced. Put the meat and onion in a sauce- pan with two quarts of water and the haricot beans, pepper and salt, and cook gently for four hours, adding more water if necessary. Mutton and Peas Required.—1 lb. of mutton, 2 ozs. of dripping, 1 onion, a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 22 tied together with string, 1 quart of water, 1 pint of green peas, flour. Method.—Cut the mutton into pieces, and flour them, make the dripping hot in a frying-pan and fry the meat in it ; then put it in a saucepan with the herbs, the onion sliced, and the water, and simmer gentl}^ until tender. Take out the meat, and put in a pint of green peas, boil gently until cooked, and then re-heat the meat. Remove the bunch of herbs and serve. If peas are too expensive, put in a cupful of rice one hour before the meat is cooked. This dish will probably take two hours and a half to prepare. Stewed Shin of Beef Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 pints of water, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf, tied together, a little celery (if possible), or a teaspoon- ful of celery seed tied in muslin, pepper and salt to taste, flour. Method.—Put the beef, whole or cut in pieces, into a saucepan or stewing jar with the vegetables cleansed and sliced, and the water, and stew from three to four hours (see rules for stewing). When cooked, thicken the gravy with flour, using rather more than two table-spoonfuls. Put the beef on to a hot dish, with the vegetables round it, and pour the gravy over it. This stew is richer and browner if the meat is floured and fried in dripping before it is stew^ed, and the vegetables also fried.CHEAP MEAT DISHES 23 A Brown Stew of Beef Ingredients.—1 lb. of shin or other cheap part of beef, I lb. of bullock’s kidney, 3 lbs. of potatoes,. 4 onions, dripping, pepper and salt, flour. Method.—Cut the beef and kidney into pieces, dip them in flour, and fry them in dripping in a frying-pan. When a rich brown, remove them, and fry the onions ; these should be peeled and sliced from top to bottom. Put the fried meat and onion into a saucepan, well cover with water, and simmer gently for two hours, then add the potatoes, sliced, and simmer half an hour longer,, or until the meat is cooked. Pork Pudding Ingredients.—Suet crust, pork, 8 sage leaves,. 2 small onions. Method.—Make like beef-steak pudding. Mix the sage and onions, finely chopped, with the meat. A little sausage meat is an improvement. A more economical pudding may be made by using an equal quantity of potatoes with the meat. Pork Stewed with Cabbage Ingredients.—1 lb. of lean pork, 1 cabbage, 6 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, 6 potatoes, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the pork into small pieces, put them in a saucepan or stewing-j ar, with the onions sliced from top to bottom, and the carrots, turnips, and potatoes cut into quarters. Well cover with water, and cook gently for an hour and a half, then add the cabbage shredded, and cook for aCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 24 quarter of an hour longer, adding more water if necessary. Season nicely with pepper and salt. Bacon and Haricot Beans Cook the haricot beans as directed in the chapter on vegetables. Fry some rashers of bacon in a frying-pan. Heap the beans in the middle of a hot dish, place the bacon round them, and pour the fat from the pan over the beans. Sausages and Apples Put the sausages into a cold frying-pan with a little dripping, and heat slowly, as they are apt to burst if put into a hot pan. If they have bread in them, prick them with a fork. Fry with them some slices of apple which have been cored but not peeled. Sausages and Potatoes Proceed as in foregoing recipe, frying potatoes sliced instead of apples. Cold potatoes sliced may be used for this purpose. Macaroni and Pork Pie Ingredients.—i lb. macaroni, 1 lb. pork, 6 sage leaves, 1 onion, parsley. Method.—Break the macaroni and throw it into boiling water, boil for twenty minutes, then put into a pie dish with the pork cut small, the onion chopped, and the sage leaves powdered. Pour in a little of the water the macaroni was cooked in, or any stock, and season well with pepper and salt, cover with a pie crust, and bake for an hour.25 CHEAP MEAT DISHES Riee and Pork Pie Proceed as directed in foregoing recipe, using a cupful of rice instead of macaroni ; boil it for ten minutes before using. Cow-heel If the cow-heel has not been boiled, scald it as directed in recipe for working man’s turtle soup. Well wash it, cut into four parts and put it into a saucepan and cover with cold water, and boil gently from five to six hours. Thicken the liquor with flour, and add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt to taste. Pour the gravy over. A more savoury dish will be made if some carrots, turnips, and onion, with a little thyme and marjoram, are cooked with the heel. Cow-heel from a tripe dresser will not take more than two hours to cook. Ox Cheek Buy this without the bone. It is sometimes possible to get it at the tripe shops at 5d. the pound. Cook it as directed for stewed shin of beef. A cow-heel and ox cheek stewed together make a delicious dish. Sheep’s Trotters Cook them like cow-heel for about four hours, or until the bones will come out, and dish in the same manner. They are very good plain, with a little vinegar and mustard.26 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Sheep’s Hearts Stuff them with veal forcemeat or sage and onion stuffing, and roast or bake them as directed for bullock’s heart. They will take about two hours ; or they may be stewed in a saucepan or jar, or they may be roasted or baked for an hour, and then cooked in batter as toad in the hole. I Stewed Ox Kidney Ingredients.—An ox kidney, 3 lbs. of pota- toes, 2 large onions, pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the core from the ox kidney and slice the kidney. Put it into a saucepan and w’ell cover it with water, add the onions sliced, and cook gently for two hours, then add the potatoes sliced, pepper and salt, and more water if necessary. Continue cooking until the potatoes and kidney are quite tender. Ox Kidney Pie Proceed as directed in foregoing recipe, putting the kidneys and onion to cook for two hours. Then place them in a pie dish with the sliced potatoes. Cover with a crust, and bake for an hour. Ox Kidney Pudding Ingredients.—^Those mentioned for stewed o.x kidney. Suet crust. Method.—Line a pudding dish as for beef steak pudding. Fill with the sliced kidney, and potatoes and onions in layers, season with pepper and salt. Pour in a cup of water, cover with the paste, and tie a scalded cloth over. Boil four hours. Serve in the pudding basin.CHEAP MEAT DISHES 27 Sheep’s Tails Stewed Stew the tails with vegetables as directed for stewed shin of beef. Ox kidney and sheep’s tails stewed together make an excellent dish. They will take about four hours to cook. Bullock’s Heart Thoroughly cleanse it, and cut off the lobes. Stuff it with veal forcemeat or sage and onion stuffing. Tie a piece of greased paper over the top. Roast or bake it. It must be basted con- stantly with dripping or it will be hard. It will take about two hours to cook. To make the gravy slice an onion and fry it brown in a little dripping, add the trimmings from the heart and any meat scraps. Simmer all together while the heart is cooking. Thicken with a little flour. Season with pepper and salt, and strain. Liver and Bacon Required.—1 sheep’s or lb. of bullock’s liver. Flour, salt, and pepper, | lb. bacon. Method.—Wash and dry the liver and cut it into neat slices Cut the bacon into rashers, and remove the rind. Fry the bacon in a frying-pan. When cooked, remove it, put it on a hot dish and fry the liver. Each piece of liver should be drawn through flour before it is fried. When the liver is cooked, dredge the frying-pan with flour and fr}^ it brown. Pour in one pint and a quarter of boiling water, and stir and boil well ; add pepper and salt. Place the liver and bacon on a hot dish, and pour the gravy over. c28 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Stewed Liver Sheep’s, calf’s, or bullock’s liver may be cooked as mock goose or stewed pig’s fry, and makes a nice savoury dish. A little pickled pork cooked with it gives a nice flavour. Sea Pie Required.—1 lb. of any scraps of beef, mutton, or pork, 4 onions, 3 lbs. of potatoes, a little celery (if possible), a little powdered thyme (if tomatoes are cheap, two or three of those will give a nice flavour), 1 lb. or more of suet crust (see Pastry), pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat up small and slice up the vegetables. Put them into a saucepan and cover with water ; add a little salt and pepper. Simmer for half an hour or longer if the meat is very tough, and then cover with a suet crust, which has b(,en rolled to the size of the saucepan ; cook for an hour and a half longer. To dish up, cut the suet crust into quarters ; remove them with a slice. Put the stew on a hot dish and place the suet crust round it. Other potatoes can be steamed on the top of the suet crust. They should be put on three-quarters of an hour before the stew is finished. Tripe and Onions Required.—2 lbs. of tripe, 4 or 5 onions. Method.—Well wash the tripe, and peel and slice the onions from the top to the bottom. Cut the tripe into pieces and put it in a stewpan with the onions ; add pepper and salt and cover withCHEAP MEAT DISHES 29 water, simmer for an hour, then add a thickening of flour, using a table-spoonful of flour to every pint of liquor. Cook the flour well, then place the tripe on a hot dish and pour the sauce over. If preferred, the tripe can be stewed in new or skim milk. A Brown Stew of Tripe Required.—2 lbs. of tripe, 4 or 5 onions, 1 quart of stock or pot liquor, flour, dripping. Method.—Peel and slice the onions from the top to the bottom. Fry them in a saucepan in the dripping until they are brown, but not at all burned. Pour in the stock or pot liquor, well wash the tripe, cut it into slices, and add it to the onions ; simmer for an hour. Thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour. A little lean bacon tried, and stewed with the tripe, makes a more savoury dish. Fried Bacon with Cabbage Ingredients.—Bacon, cabbage. Method.—Cut the bacon into rashers, boil the cabbage and drain it. Fry the bacon in a fry- ing pan ; when cooked put it on a hot dish. Chop up the cabbage and put it into the frying-pan, and fry it in the bacon fat, and then put it round the bacon. Put a table-spoonful of vinegar into the pan, give it a boil up, and pour over the bacon. Pork or Bacon Roll Ingredients.—1 lb. of pork or bacon, 2 lbs. of suet or other crust for boiling, a little pepper, chopped or powdered sage, 3 onions, 1 or 2 apples.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 30 Method.—Chop the pork or bacon and also the onions and apples. Roll out the suet crust, put the pork, &c., into it, season with pepper and a little salt. Wet the edges and roll up the paste. Tie or sew it securely in a scalded and floured cloth, and boil for about two hours. Faggots Ingredients.—Pig’s fry, a little thyme, sage, shallots or onions, pepper and salt. Method.—Put the caul to soak in salt and water. Chop up the fry, chop also the shallots or onions, and prepare the sage and th3^me. Mix the fry well with the onions and herbs, and season with pepper and salt. Make the mixture into balls the size of a small orange, wrap them in the pig’s caul, and secure this round them with tiny wooden skewers. Place them on a greased baking- tin and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Dish them on boiled cabbage or potatoes, and pour the fat from the baking-tin over them. Beef Steak Pudding Ingredients.—Suet crust, made with 1 lb. of flour (see recipe), 2 lbs. of beef steak. If liked, a httle finely chopped onion or shallot, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Grease a quart basin and line it with suet crust, reserving a piece for the cover. Put a table-spoonful of flour on a plate with some pepper and salt. Cut the steak into thin strips, drawCHEAP MEAT DISHES 31 them through the flour and seasoning, and roll each round a small piece of fat. Put these rolls lightly in the basin and pour in a teacupful of water. Lay the cover over and trim it round neatly. Tie over a scalded and floured cloth, and boil the pudding for four hours. A little ox kidney in the pudding is a great improvement. Beef puddings can be made with inferior parts of beef, but will require five hours’ boiling. STOCKS AND SOUPS Stock Any meat liquor, when net too salt, can be used for plain stock, or be made the basis of a better stock. All scraps of meat and vegetables should be saved to make stock. Stock No. 1 Ingredients.—2 pennyworth of bones, 3 large onions, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, any scraps of meat (bacon rind or a ham bone will give a nice flavour), a bunch of herbs, consisting of a sprig of thyme, parsley, and marjoram, and a bay leaf, tied to- gether, 2 ozs. of dripping, 2 quarts of water, a teaspoonful of celery seed tied in muslin. Method.—Fry tht bones in a large iron sauce- pan in the dripping. Clean and slice the vegetables and fry them a nice brown, but do not let them burn. Add the herbs and celery seed and two quarts of water or meat liquor ; boil gently for four32 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES and a half hours. Then strain and remove the vegetables. The bones may be broken up and put on again with more vegetable and meat scraps. The vegetables can be served in the soup. It is a mistake to let stock boil for more than five hours ; after that time the vegetables, having parted with their flavour, absorb the meat flavour, and make the stock poor in taste. The vegetables should not be thrown away, but used in the soup. Note.—^^'hen stock is made with fresh meat, SIMMER, but do not BOIL it. Simmering e.xtracts the juices from the meat, but boiling is necessary to extract the gelatine from bones. Stock No. 2 Ingredients.—2 large oinons, 2 carrots, 1 tur- nip, a bunch of herbs, a teaspoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, 3 quarts of meat liquor, a little dripping. Method.—^Clean and slice the vegetables and fry them in dripping ; put them in a saucepan with the meat liquor, and cook gently for four or five hours. Remove the herbs and celery seed. Do not throw the vegetables away, but use them in the soup. Fish Stock Ingredients.—3 lbs. of fish trimmings (these can be obtained at a fishmonger’s at a trifling cost, and are excellent for making fish soup), 3 quarts of water, 4 onions, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a small bunch of herbs—parsley, thyme, and marjoram—33 STOCKS AND SOUPS a little celery, or a teaspoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, 2 ozs. dripping. Method.—Wash the trimmings and put them into a saucepan. Clean and slice the vegetables, fry them in the dripping in a frying-pan. Put them into a saucepan with the trimmings, and add the herbs, celery, and water. Boil gently from four to five hours, then strain. The vegetables may be used in the soup. Note.—Any nice vegetables may be used in making stock. Tomatoes, when they are cheap, or mushrooms give a delicious flavour. Fish Soup Ingredients.—2 quarts of fish stock (see recipe), 5 ozs. of flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Put the stock into a saucepan and make it boil, and then add the flour made into a thickening. Boil, stirring all the time, for three minutes. A boiled fish broken into flakes, or a tin of oysters or lobster, may be put into the soup. Sprinkle in the parsley just before serving. A dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce will improve the flavour of the soup. Semolina Soup Ingredients.—2 quarts of stock or meat liquor, 3 ozs. of semolina. Method.—Put the stock on to boil; when boil- ing, sprinkle in the semolina. Boil; stirring occasionally, for fifteen minutes.34 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Rice or Tapioca Soup Ingredients.—2 quarts of stock or meat liquor, 2 ozs. of rice or tapioca. Method.—Put the stock to boil. Wash the rice or tapioca and throw it in. Boil gently for an hour, stirring occasionally. Sago Soup Make like Rice or Tapioca Soup. Macaroni Soup Ingredients.—2 quarts of stock, J lb. of maca- roni. Method.—Put the stock on to boil ; when boiling, throw in the macaroni broken into small pieces. Boil for half an hour. Crowdie Ingredients.—2 quarts of liquor from meat, 2 ozs. of oatmeal, 2 onions. Method.—Peel and chop the onions, put the liquor and the onions into a saucepan on the fire. Mix the oatmeal to a paste with cold water ; when the liquor boils, stir it in. Cook for an hour, stir- ring it occasionally. Onion Soup Ingredients.—5 Spanish onions, 3 ordinary onions, 2 ozs. of dripping, 5 pints of water, 5 ozs. of flour, 4 pint of milk, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel the onions, cut them in slices from top to the bottom and then into dice ; fry35 STOCKS AND SOUPS them in a saucepan in the dripping, but without burning them, for ten minutes if possible ; pour in the water, add pepper and salt, and boil gently for an hour and a half ; then add a thickening of the flour ; boil it, stirring all the time, for three minutes ; add the milk, boil up the soup once more, and it is ready. Lentil Soup Ingredients - -1 pint of lentils, 2 quarts of water, 3 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, a teaspoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, or a little thyme and marjoram, pepper and salt. Method.—^Well wash the lentils ; put them in a saucepan with the vegetables cut small, and the water, and boil for about an hour and a half, stirring occasionally. Pea Soup Make like lentil soup. Serve powdered mint sprinkled in it. Potato Soup Ingredients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 1 lb. of onions, 5 pints of water, J head of celery, if possible, or a teaspoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel the onions and slice them from the top to the bottom, and cut them into dice. Cut the potatoes also into dice, put them into a saucepan with the water, add pepper and salt, and boil gently for an hour and a half.36 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Parsnip Soup, Turnip Soup, and Artichoke Soup Make these by the method mentioned for potato soup, using plain stock or meat liquor instead of water. Scots Broth Ingredients.—3 lbs. of shin ot beef or scrag end of mutton, 3 ozs. of pearl barley, a cabbage, 3 onious or leeks (leeks are better), 2 turnips, 2 carrots, J peck of peas. Method.—Well wash the barley and put it with the meat into a saucepan wth three quarts of water. Simmer for three hours, then put in the carrots, turnips, leeks or onions, cut into dice, cook for half an hour longer, then add the peas and the cabbage shredded. When these are cooked the dish will be ready. Place the meat on a hot dish with some of the vegetables round it, and serve the rest in the broth. Plainer Scots Broth Ingredients.—The boilings from mutton, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 or 3 leeks or onions, celery (if possible, a cabbage, a cu]:>ful of rice. Method.—Cut the vegetables into dice, put them into the broth with the rice and boil for three-quarters of an hour, then add the cabbage shredded, and boil for a quarter of an hour. The Working Man’s Turtle Soup Ingredients.—1 cow-heel, 3 quarts of water, 3 onions, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 sprig of parsley,37 STOCKS AND SOUPS thyme, and marjoram, a little celery, or a teaspoon- ful of celery seed tied in muslin, 3 blades of mace,. 1 doz. pepper-corns, 2 slices of ham or lean bacon, 2 or 3 ozs. of dripping. Method.—If the heel is not cooked cut it in two and let the fat run out. Then put it into a saucepan,cover with water, and boil for half an hour. Then pour the water away. Wash the heel and cut it into pieces. Put the dripping into a large iron saucepan, add to it the vegetables cleaned and sliced, and fry a rich brown, taking care the vege- tables do not burn. Then put in the cow-heel and the water, pepper-corns, celery seed, mace, &c., and boil gently for four to five hours. Then strain the stock, and when cold remove the fat. Remove the bones from the cow-heel and cut it up in small pieces, put these into the soup and make it hot before serving. Note.—In making this soup use meat liquor if you have any, but it is very good without if care- fully made. Fish stock may be used if liked. The bones should be kept for stock, and the vegetables can be used in thick soups or in pies. Barley Soup Ingredients.^—4 ozs. of pearl barley, 3 slices of stale bread, 2 ozs. of dripping, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 4 onions, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Wash the barley and soak the stale bread in cold water. Slice the onions from the top to the bottom, and put them and the barley into a saucepan with three quarts of water. Boil gently for three hours, then add the dripping andCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 38 the bread squeezed dry and broken into crumbs. Cook for two hours or longer and the soup is ready. Sprinkle in the parsley just before serving.. Curry Soup Ingredients.—2 quarts of plain stock, 3 apples, 3 onions, 2 ozs. of dripping, a tablespoonful of curry powder, 3 ozs. of flour. Method.—Peel the apples and onions and slice them. The onions must be sliced from the top to the bottom. Put them into a saucepan with the dripping and curry powder, and fry gently without discolouring for half an hour. Stir occasionally. Pour in the stock and cook for half an hour, add a thickening of the flour and boil it in the soup for three minutes ; add pepper and salt to taste. FISH Fish, when fresh, is known by the firmness of the flesh and the brightness of the eyes. When stale it is flabby and dull-looking, and has a strong un- pleasant smell and taste. It must be well cleaned and washed before cooking. To remove the muddy taste from fresh-water fish, soak it in cold water, rubbing salt down the back-bone. It will be easier to scale if boiling water is poured over it, then wash in cold, scraping the scales off with a blunt knife. To Boil Fish Put fish that is to be boiled into boiling water with salt in it, and simmer until cooked. If you have no fish-kettle, put it on a plate and tie a39 FISH cloth over it. When cooked, it will come readily from the bone. No hard-and-fast rule as to time can be given, because that depends on the thick- ness of the fish rather than its weight. To Bake Fish This is the best way of cooking it. Put it on a greased baking tin, cover it with greased paper, and cook in a very moderate oven. If carefully done, it will be as delicate as if boiled, and with much more flavour. Be careful not to dry it up. Fish Cooked in a Dutch Oven This method is recommended by an eminent London doctor. It makes the flesh very savoury, and is convenient for those who have no ovens. Baste it with dripping or fasten pieces of bacon on it. Parboiled potatoes may be placed round the fish and browned while the fish is cooking. To Fry Fish (English way) Small flat fish, such as soles, plaice, flounders, &c., may be fried whole ; larger fish in cutlets or fillets. Put a little dripping or other suitable fat into a frying-pan. When hot put in the fish and fry, first on one side and then on the other, re- moving the pan to a little distance from the fire after the first three minutes, if the fish is thick, that it may cook through to the middle without drying up. To PREPARE FISH FOR FRYING.—Well dry it after it is washed, flouring it a little. It may be fried without further preparations, or covered withCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 40 beaten egg and bread crumbs. The use of egg and bread crumbs improves the appearance but adds to the expense of the dish. Cod, Ling, Hake, and Halibut These are all good, whether boiled or baked, but best baked. They may be stuffed with veal stuffing and cooked without paper, but with slices of bacon over them and potatoes round them. Cutlets of all these fish are good fried. Conger Eel This fish is very good, either boiled or baked. It is very good cooked as directed for cod, hake, &c., with bacon and potatoes, or tomatoes. Conger Eel Pie Ingredients.—Conger eel, flour, pepper and salt, a little powdered thyme, a little chopped parsley, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Method.—Cut the conger eel into neat pieces, flour them and fry them brown in a frying-pan (they may be used without frying, but the pie will not be so savoury), put them into a pie dish with a little dried and powdered thyme and some chopped parsley ; pour in some water and add the vinegar, pepper and salt ; cover with a pie crust and bake for an hour and a half. A few bits of fried bacon in the pie improve the flavour. Conger Eel Stewed Ingredients.—Conger eel, onions, flour, drip- ping, 2 or 3 cloves.41 FISH Method.—Cut the eel into pieces, flour them, and fry them in a frying-pan ; put them into a saucepan or stewing-jar with the onions sliced and two or three cloves, cover with water and simmer gently for an hour and a half. A little ketchup will improve the gravy. A little lean ham or bacon cooked with the eel is a great improvement to the flavour of this dish. Skate Skate may be boiled, baked, or it may be stewed according to directions in the preceding recipe. Boiled, it is particularly nice with caper sauce. Skate makes excellent soup (see direc- tions for fish soup). Herrings These are a very nutritious fish and may be boiled, baked, broiled, or fried. Serve them with parsley, or any suitable fish sauce. When broiled or fried use mustard sauce. Potted Herrings Required.—24 herrings, 6 bay leaves, 14 cloves, vinegar, pepper and salt Method.—Well wash the herrings and dry them, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, lay them in a pie dish, with the bay leaves and cloves in between them, cover them with vinegar and bake in a slow oven for two hours. Use when cold. Fried Herrings and Onions Clean and dry the herrings, removing theCOOKERY FOR SMALL IN’COMES 42 roes. Fry them in a frying-pan in a little fat ; the roes are also fried. When cooked, place them on a hot dish, and fry in the same fat the onions cut into rings ; fry these a dark brown, almost black, but avoid burning tht m. Dish the herrings neatly with the onions and roes in heaps round them. Sprats These are best fried or baked, but they may be boiled. Fresh Haddock These may be boiled, baked, or roasted in a Dutch oven. They are excellent stuffed and cooked with bacon and potatoes, as directed for cod, hake, &c. Dried Haddock If very dry, soak in water for twenty minutes. If not so dry, for three minutes. Broil over a clear fire, or if the fire is not clear, in an ordinary oven, or cook in a frying-pan. Serve quite hot. Mackerel Mackerel may be boiled, baked, fried, broiled, or cooked in a Dutch oven. Boiled, caper, an- chovy, or any fish sauce is nice with it. Broiled or fried, mustard sauce is very good. When mackerel are broiled or fried they must be split open. Potted Mackerel Prepare these according to directions for potted herrings.FISH 43 Fried Sprats Sprats contain a great deal of oil, and therefore do not require any fat to fry them in. Sprinkle them with a little salt when they are in the frying- pan and follow directions for frying fish. Potted Sprats These are potted like herrings (see directions). To prepare Sprats as Anchovies Required.—For every peck of sprats, 2 lbs. of common salt, | lb. of bay salt, 4 ozs. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of sal prunel. Method.—^The sprats must be perfectly fresh from the sea, but not washed or otherwise pre- pared. Pound the salts and other ingredients together, then put the sprats and salts in layers in stone jars, press them hard down and cover for six months. Bloaters These may be broiled over a clear fire, fried, or baked in the oven. They are best broiled. Home-made Bloaters In some seaside places herrings may be bought at very low prices, such as 100 for 6d. when the catches are large. It is then wise to make them into bloaters for future use. Scrape them, and draw them at the gills,* when all that is necessary will come away. Lay them in pans and completely cover them with salt. When wanted, soak them in * They must not be washed. DCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 44 cold water and hang them in a dry place for twenty-four hours. If liked, they may be smoked. Kippers Broil these over a clear fire ; or, if the fire is not clear, bake or fry them ; but broiling is best. Crabs and Lobsters These should be put into boiling water, that life may be destroyed instantly, and boiled for twenty minutes or longer according to their size. To Dress Crab Pick the meat from the crab, clear away the apron and gills, shred the meat and mix it with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, two table-spoonfuls oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and pepper of and salt to taste. Wash and dry the large shell, and put the meat in it. Garnish with parsley. Mussels Wash and brush them well, then put them into a saucepan with a little salt. When they open, remove them from the shell and take care- fully away a small piece of weed from under the black tongue, as this is poisonous. Strain the liquor and pour over them. Stewed Mussels Prepare the mussels as in foregoing recipe, put them into a saucepan with sufficient of their own liquor to cover them, add a blade of mace.FISH 45 and stir gently for ten minutes, then stir in a thickening of flour and a little dripping. When the flour is well cooked put the mussels on a hot dish with toast or rice round them. Scallops Open the scallops, trim off the black part, remove them from the shells, wash and dry them, scrub the deep shells, dry them well, grease them with a little butter or dripping, lay in the scallops— three scallops in a shell—cover with bread crumbs, put little bits of butter or dripping about them, and heat them through in an ordinary oven or a Dutch oven, browning them slightly. Vinegar should be .served with them. FRESH-WATER FISH—Eels Eels are best fried or stewed. For stewing eels follow the directions for stewed conger eel. When mushrooms are plentiful they make a nice addition. Carp Take the gall-stone out of the skull, or it will give a bitter taste to the fish. It may be stuffed and baked (see cod), or it may be stewed as directed for conger eel. Tench, Pike, Barbel, Roach, Dace, Perch, and Trout Cook these in any way suitable for other fish. Fish Pudding Ingredients.—Fish and potatoes—double theCOOKERY FOR SMALL IN'COMES 46 quantity of potatoes that there is fish—dripping, pepper and salt. Method.—The fish must be boiled. It is best to use up cold cooked fish in this manner. Break it into flakes and take away the bone. Mash up the potatoes, add the fish with some dripping, and if you have it, a little milk, and pepper and salt. Take a dish that will stand the heat of the oven. Put the potato and fish on it, and heap up roughly, and mould into the shape of a fish. Put in the oven to heat through. If more convenient, put the mixture in a pie dish and smooth it over. VEGETABLES General Directions for Cooking Green Vegetables Put all vegetables into boiling water, to which salt is added in the proportion of one tablespoon- ful to every two quarts of water. If the water is hard, add a small piece of soda, but not too much, or the colour will be ])reserved at the expense of the flavour of the vegetables. Boil the vege- tables with the lid off the saucepan, the steam will discolour them if kept in, and remove all scum from the surface of the water. Remove them from the water directly they are cooked, and drain well. To Boil Potatoes Choose those of the same size, so far as it is possible, scrub them, and peel them thinly, putVEGETABLES 47 them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them, add salt, and boil gently until the potatoes are nearly tender, but not quite. Pour the water away and cover the potatoes with a cloth, and place them by the side of the fire to finish cooking in their own steam. If these directions are carefully followed, and the potatoes are good, they will be perfectly dry and floury. Potatoes are better cooked in their skins. Cook them in the same way, draining away the water when nearly tender. Then peel them and finish as directed above. Steamed Potatoes Place the potatoes with or without their skins in a steamer ; sprinkle them with salt. Keep the water under the steamer quickly boiling or the potatoes will get sodden. When nearly, but not quite cooked, remove the steamer from the sauce- pan and put it on a plate, peel the potatoes, if cooked in their skins, replace them in the steamer, and sprinkle with salt, cover with a cloth, and let them remain near the fire or inside the oven to finish cooking in their own steam. New Potatoes Scrape or rub the skins off according to their age, and cook like old potatoes. A sprig or two of mint gives a nice flavour to the potatoes. Mashed Potatoes When the potatoes are cooked, add dripping to them in the saucepan, with, if possible, a littleCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 48 milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Beat them up quickly with a fork. Pile in a vegetable dish and serve hot. Baked Potatoes Scrub and dry the potatoes and bake them for about an hour in a quick oven ; when soft, prick them with a fork to let the steam escape, or they will burst. Carrots These must be thoroughly but lightly scraped. Put them in boiling water to which salt has been added, in the proportion of one tablespoonful to every two quarts of water. Boil for an hour or more, according to their age and size ; if large, split them in halves or quarters. When served with boiled meat, cook them with it. Very young carrots will not take more than twent}'^ minutes to cook. Turnips Pare them rather thickly to get below the wood fibre. Cook like carrots, from half an hour to an hour, according to the age and kind of turnip. The turnip parings can be used to flavour soups. Parnips Cook like carrots. Cabbage Trim away the outer leaves, well wash the cabbage, and cut it in two, or in quarters, if very large. Put it in boiling water with salt, in the proportion of one table-spoonful to every two49 VEGETABLES quarts, and boil for half an hour or longer, until tender. Drain in a colander and press out the water. Turnip Greens Cook according to the general directions for cooking green vegetables. Drain well. Leeks Skin and well wash them, tie them in bundles and cook according to the general directions for green vegetables. Vegetable Marrow If small, cook whole ; if large, cut in halves or quarters, according to the directions for cooking green vegetables. The marrow will have more flavour if the skin is left on. Nettles Young green nettles only should be used. Wash them and boil like other green vegetables. Green Peas Put them in boiling water with a little sugar and one or two sprigs of mint. Boil gently with the lid off the saucepan for about twenty minutes, according to their age. Drain well. French Beans Remove the strings and slice the beans, or cut them into diamond shapes. Boil according to general directions for cooking green vegetables for about twenty minutes or longer. Then drain well.50 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES A Cauliflower Boil according to general directions for cooking green vegetables, putting it in the water with the flower downwards. Cook for twenty minutes or more according to its age. Brussels Sprouts Trim them neatly, well wash them, and cook according to general directions for cooking green vegetables. They will take fifteen minutes or longer, according to their age. Spinach Pull off the stalks, wash in several waters, and cook according to general directions for cooking green vegetables. Drain well. If liked, it may be chopped. Spanish Onions Peel them and put them into a saucepan, cover them with water and add some salt, boil them gently for two or three hours according to their age. Then put them on a hot dish, thicken the liquor with a little flour and add a small piece of dripping, and pepper and salt to taste, boil well and pour over the onions. The onions will be more digestible if blanched first. Broad Beans Cook according to the general directions for green vegetables. They will take from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to their age.VEGETABLES 51 Mushrooms Peel them and cut off the ends of the stalks, ])ut them into a stewpan and cover with water, add a little pepper and salt, boil gently for half an hour, or until tender, thicken the gravy with a little flour, and put in a very little dripping before serving. Mushrooms are quite as nutritious as meat ; when plentiful, they may be used instead of it, with potatoes or other vegetables. Baked Mushrooms Peel and rinse the mushrooms and place them on a greased baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Lentils Well wash a pint of lentils, put them in a sauce- pan with double the quantity of water and a little salt, boil them, stirring occasionally for about three- quarters of an hour ; add more water, if necessary. They will be more savoury if a sliced onion is cooked with them. Haricot Beans Well wash the beans and soak them, if possible, over night. Put them on next day, allowing twice as much water as beans ; add a sliced onion and a little salt, and if' they are wanted quickly, a small piece of soda. Boil gently, until the beans are quite soft ; this will probably take from three to four hours. Try to let the beans absorb all the liquor before they are dished up, but in any case do not throw any of the liquor away, as it can be used for broth or soup. When the beans52 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES are used with boiled meat, cook them with it. It is generally necessary to put them on first. Macaroni Throw it into boiling water with salt in it, and boil quickly from twenty minutes to half an hour or longer, according to the kind and size. It should have a slight firmness when cooked. If put in cold water and simmered, it will get soft and stick together. Rice, to use as a Vegetable with meat, or with jam or stewed fruit. Well wash the rice ; put it in a saucepan with about three cups of water to a cupful of rice, boil it until soft and the water absorbed. A little salt should be added. VEGETABLE DISHES WITHOUT MEAT These dishes will be found very useful to people who live in country districts, and have vegetables in abundance. Haricot beans, peas, lentils, and macaroni contain quite as much nourishment as meat. Haricot Bean Stew Ingredients.—1 lb. of haricot beans, 4 pota- toes, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 large onions, 1 quart of water, a little sage. Method.—Soak the haricot beans for twelve hours if possible, and put them into a saucepan with the water and the onions sliced from top toVEGETABLE DISHES WITHOUT MEAT 53 bottom, and the carrot cut into dice Cook gently for two hours, then add the potatoes and turnip also cut into dice, and continue to cook until tender ; season with pepper and salt. A little celery is an improvement to this dish. Add more water, if necessary', while the beans are cooking. Baked Haricot Beans Ingredients.—2 pints of haricot beans, 4 table- spoonfuls of tapioca, 3 large onions, a few sage leaves, pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the beans over night and the tapioca for an hour, then put them into a jar, add two quarts of water, the onions sliced and fried, the sage leaves dried and powdered, and pepper and salt. Cover the jar and put in a slow oven for four hours, or until the beans are tender. Then turn them into a pie dish, cover thickly with raspings, and bake in a quick oven. Lentil Stew Ingredients.—3 large onions, a few leeks, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, half a head of celery 2 IPs. of potatoes, IJ pint of water, ^ pint of lentils, a little powdered thyme, pepper and salt. Method.—Prepare and slice the vegetables and well wash the lentils, put them all into a stewing- jar or saucepan with the water, pepper and salt, and stew gently for one hour and a half ; then add the potatoes, and continue cooking until they are tender. Add more water, if ■ ecessary. A little celery greatly improves the flavour of this dish. Peas can be cooked in the same way.COOKERY FOR SMALL IKXOMES 54 Potato Pie Ingredients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 3 onions, 2 ozs. of dripping, 1 oz. of tapioca, pepper and salt, pastry. Method.—Peel and slice the onions from top to bottom, chop them and cut up the potatoes. Place the onions, potatoes, and tapioca in a pie dish, mix them well together, put in the dripping and season with pepper and salt. A few sage leaves or celery, tomatoes or mushrooms, may be added if liked. Pour in one pint and a half of water and cover with a pie crust. Bake in a moderately quick oven for about one hour and a half. A little pork, bacon, or other meat may be put in this pie, but it is very good without. Potato Omelet Ingredients.—6 boiled potatoes, 1 oz. of butter or dripping, pepper and salt to taste, a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley, a little milk. Method.—Mash the potatoes with the other ingredients but do not use too much milk (if the potatoes are cold, the butter or dripping and milk should be made hot before they are added to them). Melt a little dripping in a well-seasoned frying-pan. Spread the potato over, and when brown and hot double it. Stewed Macaroni Ingredients.—^ lb. of macaroni, 3 large onions, 2 ozs. of dripping, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Break the macaroni in small pieces, put them into a stewing-jar or saucepan with the onions peeled and sliced from the top to the bottom, add the dripping, cover well with waterVEGETABLE DISHES WITHOUT MEAT 55 season with pepper and salt, and cook for an hour,, adding more water if necessary. Vegetable Marrow Stew Ingredients.—1 large marrow, 2 lbs. of pota- toes, 3 onions, a little sage, pepper and salt. Method.—Peel and slice the marrow, potatoes, and onions, put them into a stewing-jar with the sage, pepper and salt, pour in a cup of water and cook in a slow oven for two hours, or until the vegetables are cooked. If no jar is at hand, use a saucepan. Mushroom Pie Ingredients.—Mushrooms, potatoes, pepper and salt, a little dripping, or butter, a little pastry. Method.—Peel and rinse the mushrooms and peel the potatoes, put them in alternate layers in a pie dish, seasoning each layer with pepper and salt, and putting little pieces of dripping or butter about it. Pour in a little water, cover with a pie crust, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Cauliflower with Cheese Ingredients.—A large cauliflower, 1 oz. of flour, J pint of water or milk, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, pepper and salt, 1 oz. of dripping. Method.—Boil the cauliflower and put it in a pie dish, pressing it into a round shape. Mix the flour smoothly with the water, add the dripping and boil, stirring all the time until it thickens. Add half the cheese, and pepper and salt ; a little cayenne is an improvement. Pour over the cauli-56 COOKERY FOR SMALL IKXOMES flower, cover with the remainder of the cheese, and brown in a quick oven or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Some raspings sprinkled over are a great improvement to the dish. Macaroni and Cheese Ingredients.—| Ib. of macaroni, 1 pint of water, 3 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, oz. of flour, 1 oz. of dripping, pepper and salt. Method.—Break up the macaroni and throw it into boiling water with salt in it, and boil for twenty minutes. Mix the flour smoothly with the water, stir and boil until well thickened, then stir in the dripping and half the cheese, and season well with pepper and salt. Add the macaroni, pour into a pie dish, and cover with the remainder of the cheese. Brown in a slow oven or before the fire. Note.—Milk may be used instead of water, and butter instead of dripping. Potato and Cheese Ingredients.—8 large cooked potatoes (cold ones will do), 4 large table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, 1 oz. of dripping, a little milk if possible, some brown raspings, pepper and salt, and a little cayenne. Method.—Mash the potatoes, add the drip- ping, milk, and cheese, season with salt and rather highly pepper ; add a little cayenne, if liked. Put into a pie dish, smooth over the top, and cover with the raspings. Bake for half an hour and serve very hot.VEGETABLE DISHES WITHOUT MEAT 57 Porridge and Cheese Make the porridge as directed for oatmeal porridge, and stir in two or three table-spoonfuls of cheese. Herb Pie Ingredients.—4 slices of bread or some stale pieces, 1 onion, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, a tea- spoonful of dried marjoram and thyme, 1 oz. of dripping or butter, or a little bacon chopped small, pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze it dry and beat it to crumbs with a fork. Chop the onion finely, and then mix all the ingre- dients together. Bake the pie in a shallow pie dish or saucer. Potato Stew Ingredients.—4 large onions, 3 lbs. of pota- toes, 2 ozs. of tapioca, 2 ozs. of butter or dripping or chopped bacon fat, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the onions and potatoes into slices, cover well with water, season with pepper and salt, and boil gently for half an hour ; then stir in 2 ozs. of tapioca which has been soaked in cold water, the dripping or other fat. Cook for an hour longer, and stir in the parsley just before serving. Rice and Lentils Ingredients.—A cupful of rice, 2 cupfuls of lentils, 3 onions, a little powdered thyme, pepper and salt.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 58 Method.—Well wash the rice and lentils, put them into a saucepan with the thyme, the onions sliced from the top to the bottom, pepper and salt, and cover them with water; cook gently until tender, adding more water if necessary. Stir oc- casionally, and take care the mixture does not burn. Slice and fry some onions and spread on the top when ready to serve. Vegetable Hot Pot Ingredients.—4 lbs. of potatoes, 6 onions, 1 doz. mushrooms or tomatoes, 2 ozs. of dripping, pepper and salt. Method.—Peel and slice the potatoes and onions, and peel and rinse the mushrooms, put them in layers in a baking-jar, seasoning well with pepper and salt, and placing little pieces of dripping between them. Pour in a pint of water and bake for two hours. Egyptian Stew Ingredients.—1 pint of Egyptian lentils, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, 4 onions, 3 sticks of celery, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup. Method.—Wash and soak the lentils, put them into a baking-jar with the carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, cut into small dice. Pour in one quart of water, add pepper and salt, and the ketchup, and cook for two hours until the lentils are tender. If no stewing-jar is at hand, use a saucepan. Haricot beans may be cooked in the same manner.PUDDINGS 59 PUDDINGS Puddings that are to be boiled must be put into boiling water, the pudding must be under water, and the water kept boiling the whole time. The pudding basin or mould must be quite filled. Neglect of these rules will cause the water to soak into the pudding and spoil it. If puddings are boiled in basins, they must be well greased, and a scalded and floured cloth tied over the top. They are lighter if boiled in a cloth. It must be scalded and floured. Put a plate at the bottom of the saucepan to prevent the pudding sticking and burning. Plain puddings are good and wholesome foods for children. Suet Pudding Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 3, 4, or 6 ozs. of suet, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a little salt. Method.—Shred and chop the suet, and mix tvith the flour and baking powder, and add a little salt. Mix rather stiffly with water, and boil in a scalded and floured cloth for four hours. A richer pudding may be made by using more suet. Another Way Take the ingredients mentioned in the fore- going recipe and some scraps of stale bread, soak these in cold water and then squeeze as dry as possible, beat to crumbs with a fork ; add the bread to the flour and finish as directed for suet pudding. Yeast Dumplings Drop small dumplings made of bread dough, E60 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES which is ready for baking, into quickly boiling water or broth, and boil with the lid on the sauce- pan from twenty minutes to half an hour, according to their size. Baking-powder Dumplings Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Method.—Mix together with a little cold water into a soft dough, and cook like yeast dumplings. Plain Currant Pudding Follow the directions for suet pudding, adding to the ingredients three table-spoonfuls of- currants and three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Baked Plum Pudding Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 3 ozs. of suet, 3 ozs. of currants, 3 ozs. of moist sugar, 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, a little salt, a little milk (skim will do). Method.—Chop the suet, add it to the flour and other ingredients, mix all rather stiffly with a little milk. Well grease a baking tin, spread the pudding over it and bake for about an hour. Cut it into squares before removing from the tin. Yorkshire Pudding Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 1 quart of milk (skim milk will do), 3 good teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a little salt. Method.—Put the flour into a basin and add the salt, make a well in the middle and mix smoothly with the milk ; keep the batter very75 SAUCES AND GRAVIES SAUCES AND GRAVIES Plain Sauce Ingredients.—2 ozs. of flour, IJ pint of water. 1 oz. of butter or dripping, or even less, pepper and salt. Method.—Put a pint of water in a saucepan on the fire to boil, and mix the flour quite smoothly with the quarter pint. Pour it into the boiling water and boil for three minutes ; add pepper and salt, and stir in the butter or dripping off the fire. A better sauce may be made by adding more butter or dripping, and using new or skim-milk instead of water. Caper Sauce Add a table-spoonful of chopped capers to the plain sauce, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. If capers cannot be obtained, chopped gherkin may be substituted. If this sauce is to be used with boiled mutton, make it with the meat liquor.* Anchovy Sauce Add a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce to the plain sauce. Ketchup Sauce Mix a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchuD with the plain sauce. * When capers cannot be afforded add a table-spoonful of vinegar to the plain sauce, and use it with boiled mutton. F76 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Egg Sauce Chop one or two hard-boiled eggs and add them to the plain sauce. If for fish, use half a teaspoonful of vinegar. Brain Sauce for Sheep’s or Lamb’s Head The brains and six sage leaves should be cooked, tied in muslin, for ten minutes with the head. Chop them and mix them with plain sauce, using half the quantity mentioned in the recipe. Make it with the liquor in which the head was boiled instead of water. Apple Sauce Ingredients.—6 apples, 1 oz. or less of butter or dripping, 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Method.—Peel and core the apples, put them into a saucepan or stewing-jar (the latter is best) with the sugar, and simmer until the apples are soft. Beat them to a pulp with a fork and stir in the dripping. Mint Sauce Ingredients. — 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped mint, a teacupful of vinegar, a table- spoonful of moist sugar. Method.—Mi.x all the ingredients together. Mustard Sauce Stir a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard into a pint of plain sauce, and add a little vinegar.SAUCES AND GRAVIES 77 Bread Sauce Ingredients.—4 table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, a teacupful and a half of milk, a slice of onion, 5 peppercorns if possible, salt to taste. Method.—Steep the onion in the milk for half an hour with the peppercorns, then strain the milk and add the crumbs. Set it by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour. Stir in a piece of butter or dripping about the size of a walnut. Horse-radish Sauce Ingredients.—1 horse-radish, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a table-spoonful of vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls of milk, a little salt. Method.—Scrape the horse-radish very finely, and then mix all the ingredients together. Curry Sauce Ingredients.—2 apples, 2 onions, 2 dessert- spoonfuls of curry powder, salt to taste, 2 breakfast cups of stock or meat liquor, 2 ozs. of dripping. Method.—Slice the onions from the top to the bottom that they may go to a pulp in cooking, slice the apples, put them in a saucepan with the dripping and curry powder, and set them over a slow fire to cook for half an hour, without dis- colouring them. Dredge in about a'table-spoonful of flour, and add the stock or meat liquor, and cook for half an hour longer, if possible. Onion Sauce Boil four onions until tender. Now chop them and mix them with plain sauce.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 78 Parsley Sauce Mix two table-spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley with plain sauce. Mushroom Sauce Ingredients.—8 nice-sized mushrooms, 1 pint of water, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 onion, 1 oz. of dripping. Method.—Slice the onion from the top to the bottom, and fry it in the dripping a golden brown colour. Peel and wash the mushrooms and cut them into small pieces, put them into the sauce- pan with the water, and simmer until they are cooked. Add the flour and boil it in the sauce for three minutes ; season with pepper and salt. This sauce is very nice with roast meat. Gravy Ingredients.—i lb. of shin or other cheap pieces of meat, 1 pint of water, 1 onion and a carrot, turnip, a little dripping. Method.—Peel and slice the vegetables ; cut the meat into small pieces, flour these and fry them in a saucepan in the dripping until a rich brown ; then fry the vegetables, add the water ; and simmer gently for three or four hours ; strain before using. If for turkeys, geese, ducks, or fowls, use the giblets for making the gravy, and less beef. Do not throw away the vegetables, but use them for some other purpose.SAUCES AND GRAVIES 79 A Cheaper Gravy Make it according to directions in foregoing recipe, using two pennyworth of bones instead of meat. Gravy without Meat Ingredients.—1 onion, a sprig of thyme, a piece of dripping, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, ^ pint of water, salt and pepper. Method.—Chop up the onion and fry it in the dripping with the thyme, add the sugar and let all get a rich brown. Pour in the water, add pepper and salt. Boil for fifteen minutes and strain. COOKERY OF COLD MEAT Hash of Cold Meat Ingredients.—Cold meat, stock or gravy, flour, pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat into neat pieces, thicken the stock or gravy with flour, using one dessert-spoonful of flour to every half pint of gravy ; boil this, stirring all the time, for two minutes ; add pepper and salt to taste. Then put in the pieces of meat and let them warm through without boiling, or, if you can spare the time, let them gently simmer in the gravy from half an hour to an hour, as the longer cooking is a great im- provement. A little ketchup or other sauce may be added, but cautiously, not to spoil the flavour of the gravy. Serve with toasted bread placed round it. If there is no stock or gravy, make80 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES some in this way. Slice an onion and fry it brown in a little dripping, put it into a saucepan with a piece of carrot and turnip, if there are any at hand, and a sprig of thyme and parsley (these will im- prove the flavour of the gravy), but if not at hand the onions will do alone. Put in any bones or trimmings, cover with water and simmer from one to three hours, the longer the better, as the stock will be stronger and better flavoured. Shepherd’s Pie Ingredients.—Slices of cold meat, some boiled potatoes, dripping, pepper and salt. Method.—Season some slices of cold meat with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish. If tomatoes are cheap, put in some of them, also cut in slices. Mash the potatoes with dripping, pour in some stock or gravy, or, if neither are available, a little water, cover with the potatoes, smoothing them over with a knife dipped in hot water. Bake in a moderately quick oven for about half an hour. Curry of Cold Meat (see curries) Irish Stew with Cold Meat Make a potato stew (see vegetable dishes), and, half an hour before it is ready, put in the cold meat cut in slices. Cold Meat Pie Cold meat and cold potatoes, or potatoes par- boiled, make a nice pie. Make like any other81 COOKERY OF COLD MEAT pie, using some stock or gravy, if possible, instead of water. As the meat is already cooked, a gravy is necessary to make the pie savoury. Season the meat nicely, cover with a pie crust, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Tomatoes or mush- rooms are nice in the pie. Fry them a little before using. CURRIES Curried Mutton or Beef Ingredients.—1 lb. of beef or mutton, 1 large onion, 1 apple, 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder, 1 pint of water, salt to taste, 2 ozs. of dripping, flour. Method.—Cut the mutton or beef into small pieces and flour them ; fry them a nice brown. Remove them, slice the onion and apple from the top to the bottom, and put them into the dripping with the curry powder, and gently cook for half an hour ; then add the meat and water, and simmer gently until the meat is tender ; season with salt. The length of time will depend on the kind of meat used. Any meat suitable for the purpose can be used according to the directions given in this recipe. Use boiled rice or macaroni with the curry. Curry of Cold Meat Make a curry sauce (see sauces). Cut the cold meat into neat pieces, put them in the curry sauce and simmer from half an hour to an hour. Do not let the sauce boil. Serve with rice or macaroni.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 82 Curried Haricot Beans Boil the beans according to the directions given in the chapter on vegetables, and make hot in curry sauce. Serve boiled rice or macaroni with them. Note.—Boiled rice or macaroni are very good in curry sauce. Curried Fish Make like curry of cold meat. Be careful to cook the fish until tender. Cooked fish may be used, and will then only require to be made hot in the sauce. A tin of lobster makes a nice curry. Curried Eggs Boil the eggs hard. Cut them in pieces, and make hot in curry sauce. PASTRY Rules for Pastry Making The pastry must be kept cold during the making and handled as little as possible. Handling presses out the air, and it is the expansion of the cold air in the pastry when it is put into a hot oven that throws the paste up and makes it light. The oven must be verv hot when the paste is put in, that the starch cells in the flour may burst and absorb the fat. If the oven is warm but not hot, the fat melts and runs out of the pastry, which is in consequence heavy. Pastry which is greasy while83 PASTRY baking is always heavy and tough. Roll pastry lightly ; heavy rolling presses out the air. To put a Cover on a Pie or Tart Roll out the pastry to an oval shape. Then reverse the pie dish, lay the paste over the under side and cut it round the edge. This will give a sufficiently large piece of paste to cover the pie when the ingredients are raised (as they should be) in the middle. Lay the cover in a cool place, roll out the remaining scraps, and cut them into strips of about an inch in width ; wet the edge of the pie dish, lay these round, then put in the dish whatever ingredients the pie or tart is composed of, heaping them well in the middle. Wet the edge of the pastry round the dish and lay the paste cover over. Trim round the edges of the pastry, holding the pie in your left hand and cutting from you. Make a hole in the centre of the paste over a meat pie, to let the gases from the meat escape. Make a small hole in either side of a tart, to let the steam escape. Meat pies may be decorated with paste leaves, but for a fruit tart the cover is left plain. Baking of Pastry The oven must be very hot when the pastry is put in, but when the pastry has risen well and is set, the oven should be kept at a moderate heat. Great heat during the whole time of baking would make the pies or tarts dry. They can finish cooking on the top of the stove if more convenient.84 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Short Crust Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 3, 4, or 6 ozs. of lard or dripping, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, or 2 if very little fat is used, salt. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, add to it some salt, and rub the fat into it lightly with the tips of the lingers, add the baking powder and mix the paste with the blade of a knife, using as little water as possible. Avoid handling the paste more than necessary. Roll lightly to the required size. Flaky Crust Ingredients.—1 lb. of bread dough, ready for baking, 2 or 3 ozs. of lard or dripping. Method.—Roll the bread dough thinly and spread it with lard or dripping, fold in two and spread again. Fold and spread again ; do this four times. Let the paste stand for an hour and then roll it out. Flaky Crust (another way) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 3, 4, or 6 ozs. of lard or dripping, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, or two if very little fat is used, salt. Method.—Rub half the fat into the flour, mix with cold water and roll out very thinly ; put the fat about it in small pieces, dredge it with flour, and then fold it in three, and then in three again. Roll out and use. Suet Crust for Boiled Puddings Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 3, 4, or 6 ozs. of suet, 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, cold water, salt.PASTRY 85 Method.—Shred the suet and chop it very finely, put it into a bowl with the flour, add the baking powder and salt ; mix stiffly with cold water. Note.—When much suet is used, baking pow- der is not required. Baking powder is used to lighten the crust instead of fat. Another Crust for Boiled Puddings If suet is not available, use dripping, fat ren- dered down, or lard ; rubbing it into the flour until like fine bread crumbs. In other respects follow directions in foregoing recipe. Ten to One—A Cornish Pie Ingredients.—^Beef, mutton, pork, or any other suitable meat, potatoes, a little chopped parsley or powdered thyme, 2 or 3 onions, pepper and salt. Method.—Peel and slice the onions from the top to the bottom, peel and slice the potatoes. Cut the meat into neat pieces, well season them with pepper and salt, mix them with the onions and potatoes and parsley or thyme. The potatoes should be in the proportion of ten slices to one of meat. Fill a pie dish with the mixture and pour in a cupful of water, cover with a plain crust, and bake gently for two hours. When mushrooms are plentiful, they can be used instead of meat. Kidney and Potato Pie Make like ten to one, using ox-kidney instead of other meat.86 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Sausage Pie Make like ten to one, using sausage instead of meat. Macaroni and Pork Pie Rice and Pork Pie (tor these see cheap meat dishes) Cornish Pasties Ingredients.—Equal quantities of meat and potatoes, or half the quantity of meat to potatoes, a quarter the quantity of onions that there are potatoes, pepper and salt, plain pastry. Method.—Peel the onions and potatoes, cut the potatoes into small dice and chop the onion. Cut the meat into small neat pieces. Mix (the ingre- dients together and season with pepper and salt. Roll out the pastry, lay a large basin on it and cut it into rounds with a sharp knife. Wet the edges of these rounds with water, lay on each a heap of the potatoes and meat, draw the edges together at the top and goffer them with the fingers. Place them on a greased baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. A little thyme or parsley is an improvement to the pasties. These pasties may be made with pork or bacon instead of fresh meat ; when these are used, put in a little sage. Star-gazing Pie—A Cornish and Devonshire Dish Ingredients.—Mackerel or herrings, slices of fat bacon, stale bread, a little parsley, pepper and salt.87 PASTRY Method.—Open the fish and clean them, and remove the backbone ; season with pepper and salt and roll each one up. Crumble up the bread and put some at the bottom of a pie dish, cover with rolls of fish, sprinkle with parsley and cover with slices of bacon. Put the bread crumbs, fish, and bacon in alternate layers until the dish is full, pour in some stock, which can be made from the fish bones, or a little water, cover with a pie crust, and bake for about one hour and a half. Two or three herrings’ heads are put in the middle of the pie crust before it is baked, hence the name of the dish. In Devonshire clotted cream is often put into the pie. Herring Pie Ingredients.—Herrings, apples, onions, a little bacon, pepper and salt, pastry. Method.—^Prepare the herrings as directed for star-gazing pie ; fill a pie dish in the same manner, sprinkling between the herrings chopped apples and onions ; pour in a cupful of water, and cover with a paste crust. Bake for about two hours in moderate oven. Rabbit Pie Ingredients.—1 rabbit, | lb. of bacon, pork, or sausage meat, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, pastry, flour. Method.—Cut the rabbit into neat joints. Put some flour on a flat plate with pepper and salt. Cover well each piece of rabbit with it, place them lightly in a pie dish, with the bacon cut in pieces88 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES and the onion chopped ; pour in a cupful of water, cover with the crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Beef Steak Pie Ingredients.—Beef steak, pepper and salt, pastry, flour. Method.—Cut the steak into thin strips, the way of the grain, roll each round a piece of fat, dip them in flour, which is mixed on a plate with pepper and salt, lay them lightly in a pie dish, pour in a cupful of water, cover with a crust, and bake for about two hours. A little ox-kidney in the pie is a great improve- ment, and a few potatoes sliced make it a more economical dish. Potato and Bacon Pie Ingredients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 1 lb., or less of bacon, 4 onions, a little sage, plain pastry. Method.—Peel and slice the potatoes thinly and chop the onions. Put a layer of potatoes in a pie dish, sprinkle over some chopped onion and a little sage, and season with pepper and salt ; lay on some slices of bacon cut in pieces, cover with sliced potatoes and chopped onions and sage ; place on these more bacon, and continue in this way until the dish is full ; pour in some water, cover with a crust, and bake from an hour and a half to two hours. Giblet Pie Ingredients.—2 or 3 sets of giblets, 1 or 2 onions, a little thyme, a little ham or lean bacon, pepper and salt.PASTRY 89 Method.—^Thoroughly clean and prepare the giblets, then put them into a stewing-jar with the onions sliced, the thyme, bacon, and pepper and salt to taste, cover with water and simmer gently for an hour ; then put the giblets into a pie dish, and when cool cover with a plain crust, and bake for an hour. Sausage Rolls Ingredients.—Sausages, flaky or other crust. Method.—Roll out the pastry and divide it into pieces of equal size, wet round the edge with water, lay a sausage on each piece of pastry and roll it round it. Put them on a slightly greased baking-tin, and bake for about half an hour. , Apple Tart Ingredients.—Apples, cloves, moist sugar, pastry. Method.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples, pile them in a pie dish with sugar to sweeten them, and two or three cloves. If the apples are not very juicy, add a little water. Cover with pastry, and bake for half an hour or longer, according to the kind of apple used and the size of the tart. Fruit Tart Any fruit tart may be made according to the foregoing recipe, substituting other fruit for apples, and leaving out the cloves. Jam Tarts Make like mince pies, using jam instead of mincemeat.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 90 Treacle Tart Ingredients.—Pastry, treacle, bread crumbs, or coarse oatmeal. Method.—Line a tart or baking-tin with pastry, trimming it round the sides ; pour treacle over and sprinkle with bread crumbs or coarse oatmeal. Bake until the pastry is cooked. Paste Sandwiches Ingredients.—Pastry, apples, currants, sugar. Method.—Divide some paste into two parts ; roll them out thinly. With the one cover the bottom of a greased baking-tin, and cover it with apples peeled and finely sliced, and strew over these currants, which have been washed and dried, and moist sugar ; cover with the other piece of pastry, and bake in a moderately quick oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes ; then cut into squares. Mince Pies Ingredients.—Mincemeat, flaky crust. Method.—Roll out the pastry, reverse a large breakfast cup on it, or a small basin, and with a sharp knife cut into rounds. Keep the first rollings for the top of the pies, as the second will not be so light. Lay half the rounds on greased patty-pans, wet round the edges with water, lay a heap of mincemeat in the centre, put on the covers, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. If wished glazed, wet with a little water and sprinkle with crushed lump sugar a little time before the pastry is cooked.91 PASTRY If no patty-pans are at hand, they can be made without, but the shape will not be so good. Mincemeat Ingredients.—| lb. of suet, 1 lb. of apples, 1 lb. of currants, | lb. of sugar, a little treacle. Method.—Chop the suet finely and chop the apples ; wash and dry the currants ; then mix all the ingredients together. A little beer will im- prove the flavour of the mincemeat. Note.—If a better mincemeat is liked, use with the above ingredients quarter pound of candied peel and the grated rind of two lemons. Apple Dumplings Ingredients.—Apples, pastry, sugar. Method.—Peel the apples, cut out the cores and fill with sugar. Do not roll out the pastry, but take pieces large enough to cover the apples and spread it smoothly over them, pressing it round with the fingers; wet the edges that they may join, put the dumplings on a greased baking-tin, and bake for about half an hour. SICK-ROOM COOKERY Beef Tea Ingredients.—\ lb. of meat to every pint of water. It is economy to buy beef, rump, or buttock steak, as tea made from these will be richer than from shin, which is more glutinous than juicy. G92 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES Method.—Cut the meat into very small pieces, put them in the water to soak for an hour, then simmer for three hours. Stir the beef tea well before pouring the tea away. Do not strain it, but keep back the pieces of beef with the sauce- pan lid. The tea must only simmer, never boil. Boiling hardens the albumen and fibrine—the nutritious properties of the tea—and makes them less digestible. The tea can be made in a stewing- jar in the oven, or the jar can be placed in a sauce- pan of boiling water. When the tea is cold, care- fully remove the fat before reheating. A stronger tea can be made by using three-quarters of a pound of meat to every pint of water. The meat from which the tea is made can be used in vegetable and meat pies, hashes, stews, and other dishes. Mutton Broth Ingredients.—1 lb. of mutton, 1 quart of water, 1 onion, half a teacupful of rice, pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the mutton in pieces, put them into cold water, add the onion, sliced, and simmer gently for three hours. When the broth has been cooking two hours, put in the rice, and season nicely with pepper and salt. Pearl barley is sometimes liked in mutton broth. Put it on with the mutton, as it requires longer cooking than rice. Barley Soup This is a most excellent and nutritious soup for invalids. The recipe will be found in chapter on soups.SICK-ROOM COOKERY 93 Gruel Ingredients.—1 dessert-spoonful of fine oat- meal, 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Method.—Put the water in a saucepan on the fire to boil. Mix the oatmeal very smoothly with cold water, stir it into boiling water, and stir and cook for ten minutes—longer, if time can be spared. The longer oatmeal is cooked, the more digestible it is. The gruel may be made with milk, if preferred, or milk and water. Sometimes a little salt is added, and sometimes sugar. Posset A posset for a cold is made by boiling a break- fast-cupful of milk. When boiling, pour in two table-spoonfuls of treacle. Boil up. The treacle curdles the milk. Strain the whey through muslin into a cup. As this posset is to promote perspira- tion, give it to the patient when in bed. A Cup of Arrowroot Ingredients.—A breakfast-cupful of milk, two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot. Method.—Put the milk in a saucepan on the fire to boil. Mix the arrowroot very smoothly in a basin with a little cold water ; stir it into the milk when boiling. When it thickens it is ready. It may be sweetened with a little sugar, and a little brandy may be added. Arrowroot alone is not nutritious, but with milk it makes an agreeable food.COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 94 Light Pudding Ingredients.—A dessert-spoonful of corn-flour. h pint of milk, 1 egg, 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar. Method.—Put the milk on to boil. Mix the corn-flour smoothly with a little cold milk, stir it into the boiling milk ; continue stirring smoothly until it well thickens, add the sugar, and stir in the yolk of egg. Whip up the white to a stiff froth, either with a knife on a plate, or in a basin with a fork. Stir this in lightly, and pour the mixture into a greased pie dish. Bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour, until the pudding is thrown up and nicely browned. Semolina Pudding Make like corn-flour. It is very nutritious. Semolina is made from hard wheats. Sago Pudding Make like corn-flour. Milk Pudding For other milk puddings see chapter on puddings. Jelly (uncleared) Ingredients.—1 oz. packet of gelatine or isinglass, 3 large lemons, 4 ozs. of lump sugar, 1 quart of water, 4 cloves. Method.—Soak the gelatine in the water for half an hour, add to it the thin rind (the yellow part only) of two lemons. If any of the pith is taken, the jelly will be bitter. Strain the juiceSICK-ROOM COOKERY 95 of three lemons and remove the pips. Put the gelatine and water into a saucepan, add the lemon juice, cloves, and sugar. Stir over the fire, and bring slowly to the boil that the gelatine may get quite dissolved. Strain through muslin into a mould or basin. Port Wine Jelly Make the jelly as directed in foregoing recipe, using pint of water. When strained and cool, stir in J pint of port. If boiled in the jelly the wine loses its strength. Jelly (cleared) Ingredients.—Those mentioned for jelly un- cleared, and the whites and shells of 2 large eggs. Method.—Prepare the ingredients, and put them into a saucepan as directed for jelly un- cleared ; add the whites of the eggs slightly beaten, and the shells crushed up ; stir over the fire until the jelly begins to simmer, then leave off stirring and let it boil up. Remove from the fire, and let it stand for two or three minutes for a crust to form. Take a chair and turn it upside down, and put it to rest on another chair close to the fire. Tie securely to the four legs a cloth ; a clean kitchen cloth will do. It should not be too closely woven, but it should have no holes. Put a basin under it and pour some boiling water through it. This is to make the cloth quite hot. Take the basin away, empty and dry it, and replace it under the cloth. Then pour the whole contents of the sauce- pan on to the cloth. When the jelly runs slowly and looks clear, put another basin under the clothCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 96 and put the first runnings gently through a second time. The secret of success in making this jelly depends on first boiling the jelly with white of egg ; the white of egg rises to the surface, bringing with it all that would cloud the jelly. Second, on careful straining. If the jelly in the cloth is scraped or stirred about while running through, the jelly will not be clear. When the jelly is cool, pour it into moulds or cups. Toast Water Toast a piece of crust of bread, taking care not to burn it, then plunge it into a jug of cold water. Barley Drink Put two ounces of pearl barley into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, boil it for five minutes, and then pour the water away and wash the barley well. This is to blanch it. If this is not done, the barley water looks dark and unappetising. Put the barley into a saucepan with three pints of water and boil for two hours, then strain and sweeten to taste if the barley-water is liked sweet. This is a very nutritious drink. Rice Drink Make like barley-water, but the rice does not want blanching. It is useful in cases of diarrhoea. Lemonade Ingredients.—2 lemons, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, 3 lumps of sugar.97 SICK-ROOM COOKERY Method.—Remove half the yellow peel from the lemons, taking care not to get any pith ; the peel must be yellow on both sides. Put it into a jug and add the lump sugar ; now remove all the peel from the lemons and slice them thinly, taking away the pips. Put the lemon into a jug, pour over the boiling water, and cover close until cold. Then strain. A cooling drink useful in fevers, but not nutritious. Apple Water Ingredients.—4 apples, 1 quart of boiling water, 4 lumps of sugar. Method.—Chop up the apples and put them with the sugar into a jug, and pour over a quart of boiling water ; cover, and let it stand till cold. Then strain. A little thin lemon peel steeped with the apples improves the flavour. A cooling drink useful in fevers, but not nutritious. Linseed Tea Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of linseed, 1 lemon, 1 quart of water, sugar to taste. Method.—Put the linseed into a jug, add half the thin rind of the lemon, and the juice, strained, and the sugar; fill the jar with boiling water, and cover. When cold, stir up and strain. To make a thicker tea, boil the linseed in water. This is an excellent remedy for a cough, or for a cold in the chest.COOKERY FOR SMALL INXOMES 98 JAMS Gather the fruit on a bright clear day, and use it as soon as possible. It must be quite sound. If gathered in wet or damp weather, the jam will become mouldy. As a general rule, allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. The length of time jam takes to boil will vary according to the kind of fruit, and whether it is boiled quickly or slowly ; the more quickly it is boiled, the better it will be in colour and flavour. When a little will set on a plate, it will do. Use white or brown sugar, and when economy has to be considered, do not remove the scum ; it will boil down, and the jam be just as good, if not quite so clear as if removed. If the jam is for immediate use, half a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit may be used. Boil the fruit for half an hour alone, before adding the sugar. Stir always with a wooden spoon. Stir strawberries very carefully. Mash down raspberries. All jams are made in the same waj^ so recipes in detail are unnecessary' for ordinary fruits. Blackberry and Apple Jam Blackberries and apples make a nicer jam than blackberries alone. Peel the apples, core and slice them thinly, put them into a jmn with the black- berries and sugar (see preceding directions), and boil until the jam will set. It usually takes about three-quarters of an hour.99 JAMS Apple Jam This is another cheap and wholesome jam. Prepare the apples as directed in the preceding recipe, and make into jam in the usual manner ; a few cloves are liked by some people. Vegetable Marrow Jam Peel some marrows and remove the seeds. Cut them into small pieces. Boil them with an equal weight of sugar until the marrow is trans- parent. Ginger or lemon may be used to flavour. Marmalade For 1 doz. Seville oranges allow 6 lb. of loaf sugar. Slice the oranges very thin and remove the pips. Put the oranges into a pan with 6 pints of cold water, and boil gently for four hours, when they will be quite soft and tender. Then add the sugar, and boil about three-quarters of an hour longer, always stirring one way. Less water can be used if the oranges are small. THE PREPARATION OF CHEESES, TINNED MEATS, FORCEMEATS, ETC. Cheese made with Potato Boil the potatoes in large quantities, drain and peel them, then pound them to a pulp. To every seven pounds of potatoes add one pint of sour milk, and salt to taste. Knead the whole together, cover, and let it remain for four days ; then kneadCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 100 it again. Form into cheeses and put into small baskets or punnets to drain. These cheeses are better when they have been kept some time. Nicer cheeses may be made by using double the quantity of milk. Milk Cheese This is a good way of using up sour milk. When the milk is sour and solid, pour it into a small basket lined with muslin (a strawberry punnet will do nicely), and put it where it will drain for twenty-four hours ; it will then be a solid milk cheese. Sage and Onion Stufling Ingredients.—3 large onions, 6 table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of powdered sage leaves or chopped sage, 1 oz. of dripping (this can be omitted), pepper and salt. Method.—Chop the onions, and mi.x all the ingredients together. Note.—If a strong taste of onions is objected to, boil them twenty minutes. For bread crumbs may be substituted two slices of stale bread, soaked in water, and squeezed dry and beaten up with a fork. Veal Stuffing Ingredients.—5 table-spoonfuls of grated bread or stale bread soaked in water, squeezed dry and beaten up with a fork, 3 table-spoonfuls of finely chopped suet, or, if suet is not at hand, a littleTHE PREPARATION OF TINNED MEATS, ETC. 101 dripping, or any other suitable fat, 1 dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of powdered thyme and marjoram. A little milk, pepper and salt. Method.—Mix all the dry ingredients together with the milk. Boiled Flour Tie some good seconds flour in a cloth like a pudding, and boil it for four hours. When cooked, it will be like a ball ; grate it down and use it to thicken milk as required. Flour thus prepared is much more digestible than ordinary flour. Oatmeal Drink Boil 4 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal in 2 quarts of water. A good and wholesome drink. If liked, it can be sweetened. How to Prepare Tinned Meats These meats must not be cooked, only warmed through, or they will go to rags. They can be used as directed for cooked meat in cottage pie or curry of cold meat. They may be warmed and served with a wall of rice or potatoes round them, A nice way of cooking them is to make a potato stew, and, when ready, put in the meat and heat through before serving. * To Melt Fat Down Never throw away pieces of fat, as they will melt down, and can be used for frying, for cakesCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 102 and pastry, or spread on bread instead of dripping for children. For those who cannot afford joints, and therefore have no dripping, it is a wise plan to buy scraps of fat from the butcher’s and melt down ; it is cheaper and better than lard. Melt down the fat with water in this way :— Cut up any fat into pieces half the size of a filbert nut, put them into a strong iron saucepan and cover with water. Boil very slowly until the fat is melted out of the pieces, and take great care that it does not get overheated and burn. Stir it every now and again from the bottom of the sauce- pan. When the fat is melted out, and looks clear, let it cool, and strain it through a strainer or cloth, and press the pieces of fat ; these do not quite melt away, but look brown and shrivelled. They are very nice eaten with bread and salt. When the fat is cold, it should be white and solid. Colouring for Gravies Ingredients. — 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, a quarter of a pint of hot water. Method.—Put the sugar into an old iron sauce- pan, and stir over the fire until a very dark brown colour, almost black, but be careful it does not burn. Then add, off the fire, the water gradually. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and then strain and put into a bottle. Use very little, or it will give a taste to the gravies. Peas Pudding Required.—1 quart of split peas, pepper and salt.INDEX AIT Aitchbone of beef, 12 Anchovy sauce, 75 Apple and blackberry jam, 98 — dumplings, 91 — jam, 99 — pudding, 63 — tart, 89 — water, 97 C Apples and bacon, 21 — sausages and, 24 Arrowroot, a cup of, 93 Bacon and apples, 21 eggs, 72 hams, 13 haricot beans, 24 pork roll, 29 — fried, 72 with cabbage, 29 Bake, how to, without an oven, 2 Baked haricot beans, 53 — meat, 9 — mushrooms, 51 — plum pudding, 60 — potatoes, 48 — suet pudding, 64 Baking of pastry, 83 Baking-powder dumplings,60 Barbel, 45 BLA Barley drink, 96 — soup, 39 Beans, broad, 50 — French, 49 — haricot, 51 and bacon, 24 baked, 53 curried, 82 stewed shin of beef and, 21 Beef, aitchbone of, 12 — brisket of, 12 — brown stew of, 23 — buttock of, 11 — clod of, 12 — curried, 81 — mouse-buttock of, 11 — ribs of, 11 — rump of, 11 — shin of, 12 stewed and haricot beans, 21 — shoulder of, 12 — sirloin of, 11 — steak pie, 88 pudding, 30 — tea, 91 — thick and thin flank of, 12 Blackberry and apple jam, 98 Blancmange, cornflour, 66103 COOKERY FOR SMALL INXOMES BLO Bloaters, 43 — home-made, 43 Boiled flour, 101 — potatoes, 46 — rabbit, with onions, 16 Boiling meat, rules for, 7 Brain sauce, 70 Bread, 67 — plum pudding, 61 — stale, pudding, 61 — wholemeal, 68 Breakfast, 70 Breast of mutton, 17 Brisket of beef, 12 Broad beans, 50 Broiling, 9 Broken rice, 3 Broth, mutton, 92 — Scots, 36 a plainer, 36 Brussels sprouts, 50 Bullock’s heart, 27 Buns, dough, 69 Buttock of beef, 11 Cabbage, 48 — bacon fried with, 29 — pork stewed with, 23 Cake, currant (plain), 68 — dough, 68 — plum (good), 69 — seed (good), 69 (plain), 68 Cakes, rough, 69 Caper sauce, 75 Carp, 45 Carrots, 48 Cauliflower, 50 — with cheese, 55 Cheese and macaroni, 56 — cauliflower with, 55 — made with potato, 99 — milk, 100 — potatoes and, 56 Children, foods for, 6 DIS Chine of mutton, 12 Christmas pudding, a cheap, 66 Clod of beef, 12 Cocoa, 74 — from nibs or husks, 74 Cod, 40 Coffee, 73 Cold meat, cookery of, 79 hash of, 79 pie, 80 Colouring for gravy, 102 Conger eel, 40 pie, 40 stewed, 40 Cornflour blancmange, 66 Cornish pasties, 86 Cow-heel, 25 Crab, 44 — to dress, 44 Crowdie, 34 Crust, flakey, 84 another way, 84 — for boiled puddings, 85 — short, 84 — suet for boiled puddings, 84 Currant cake, plain, 68 — loaf, 68 Curried beef or mutton, 81 — eggs, 82 — fish, 82 — haricot beans, 82 Curries, 81 Curry of cold meat, 81 — sauce, 77 j — soup, 38 I 1 Dinner, how to cook an en- j tire, in one pot, 1 Directions for cooking green vegetables, 46 Dishes, cheap meat, 17 — vegetable,without meat,52107 INDEX DOU Dough buns, 69 ■— cake, 68 — plum pudding, 65 Drink, barley, 96 — oatmeal, 101 — rice, 96 Duck roast, 15 Dumplings, 59 — apple, 91 — baking powder, 6 — yeast, 59 Dutch oven, 5 fish cooked in a, 39 Eel, conger, 40 pie, 40 stewed, 40 Eels, 45 Eggs, 70 — and bacon, 72 — curried, 82 — poached, 71 Egyptian stew, 58 Faggots, 30 Fat, to melt down, 101 Fish, 38 — cooked in a Dutch oven,39 — curried, 82 — fresh-water, 45 — pudding, 45 — soup, 33 — stock, 32 — to bake, 38 — to boil, 39 •— to fry, 39 Flank of beef, thick and thin, 12 Food for children, 6 — hints about, 3 Fool, raspberry, 63 Fore loin of pork, 13 Fowl, to boil, 14 HER Fowl, to roast, 14 French beans, 49 Fresh-water fish, 45 Fried bacon, 72 Fruit pudding, 64 — stewed, 66 — tart, 89 Fry, pig's, 20 stewed, 20 Frying, rules for, 10 Giblet pie, 88 Ginger & treacle pudding, 61 Gingerbread, 70 — nuts, 70 Goose, roast, 14 Gravy, 78 — a cheaper, 79 — colouring for, 102 — without meat, 79 Green peas, 49 Greens, turnip, 49 Gruel, 93 Haddock, dried, 42 — fresh, 42 Hake, 40 Halibut, 40 Hams and bacon, 13 Hand of pork, 13 Hare, jugged, 16 — roast, 15 Haricot beans, 51 — — and bacon, 24 baked, 53 curried, 82 Hash of cold meat, 79 Haunch of mutton, 12 Head, sheep’s, 18 Heart, bullock’s, 27 — sheep’s, 26 Herb pie, 57 Herring pie, 87 HCOOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 108 HER Herrings, 41 — fried, and onions, 41 — potted, 41 Hind loin of pork, 13 Hints about food, 3 Hominy porridge, 71 Horse-radish sauce, 77 Hot pot, vegetables, 58 Irish stew, 19 made with cooked meat, 80 Jam, apple, 99 and blackberry, 98 — tart, 89 — vegetable marrow, 99 Jar, a stewing, 5 Jelly, cleared, 95 — port wine, 95 — uncleared, 94 Jugged hare, 16 Ketchup sauce, 75 Kidney and potato pie, 85 — pie, 26 — pudding. 26 ' — stewed ox. 26 Leeks, 49 Leg of mutton, 12 pork, 13 Lemonade, 96 Lentil soup, 35 — stew, 53 Lentils, 51 — and rice, 57 Ling, 40 Linseed tea, 97 Liver, stewed, 28 Loaf, currant, 68 Loin of mutton, 12 pork, fore, 13 hind, 13 MUT Macaroni, 52 — and cheese, 56 pork pie, 24 — soup, 34 — stewed, 54 Mackerel, 42 — potted, 42 Marmalade, 99 Marrow, vegetable, 49 jam, 99 stew, 55 Mashed potatoes, 47 Meat, baked. 9 — boiling, rules for, 7 — broiling, 9 — cold, cookery of, 79 curry of, 81 hash of, 79 — dishes, cheap, 17 — frying, 10 —joints of, plainly dressed, 11 — mince, 91 j — roasting, 8 — rules for cooking, 6 — stewing, 10 — vegetables dishes without, 52 Meats, how to prepare tinned, 1 101 Milk cheese, 100 Mince meat, 91 — pies, 91 Mint sauce, 76 Mouse-buttock of beef. 11 Mushrooms, 51 — baked, 51 — pie, 55 — sauce, 78 Mussels, 44 — stewed, 44 Mustard sauce. 76 Mutton and peas. 21 — breast of. 17 — broth, 92 — chine of, 12109 INDEX MUT Mutton, curried, 81 ■—■ haunch of, 12 — leg of, 12 — loin of, 12 — neck of, 12 — scrag end of, 12 — shoulder of, 12 Neck of mutton, 12 Nettles, 49 Nuts, gingerbread, 70 Oatmeal drink, 101 — porridge, 71 Omelet, 72 — potato, 54 Onion sauce, 11 — soup, 34 ^ Onions, boiled rabbit with, 16 — fried herrings and, 41 — Spanish, 50 — tripe and, 28 Oven, Dutch, 5 fish cooked in a, 39 — how to bake without an, 2 Ox cheek, 25 — kidney pie, 26 pudding, 26 stewed, 26 Pancakes, 65 Parsley sauce, 78 Parsnip soup, 36 Parsnips, 48 Paste sandwiches, 90 Pasties, Cornish, 86 Pastry, 82 — baking of, 83 — rules for making, 82 Peas, green, 49 — mutton and, 21 — pudding, 103 Pie, a Cornish (ten to one), 85 — beef steak, 88 POT Pie, cold meat, 80 — conger eel, 40 —• giblet, 88 — herb, 57 — herring, 87 — kidney and potato, 85 — macaroni and pork, 24 — mushroom, 55 — ox kidney, 26 — potato, 54 — rabbit, 87 —■ rice and pork, 25 — sausage, 86 — sea, 28 — shepherd’s, 88 — star-gazing, 86 Pies, mince, 91 Pig’s fry, 20 stewed, 20 Plum cake, good, 69 — pudding, baked, 60 dough, 65 Poached eggs, 71 Pork and bacon roll, 29 rice pie, 25 —■ hand of, 13 — leg cfi, 13 — loin of, fore, 13 hind, 13 — macaroni and, pie, 24 — pudding, 23 — spare rib of, 13 — spring of, 13 — stew, 21 — stewed with cabbage, 23 Porridge, oatmeal, 71 — hominy, 71 Port wine jelly, 95 Posset, 93 Pot-au-feu, 18 Potato and kidney pie, 85 — cheese made with, 99 — omelet, 54 — pie, 54 ' ■ -COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES 110 POT Potato soup, 35 — stew, 57 Potatoes and cheese, 56 — baked, 48 — boiled, 46 — mashed, 47 — new, 47 — sausages and, 24 — steamed, 47 — stewed rabbit with, 16 Potted herrings, 41 — mackerel, 42 — sprats, 43 Pudding, apple, 63 — baked plum, 60 suet, 64 — beef steak, 30 — bread, 61 plum, 61 — Christmas, a cheap, 66 — dough plum, 65 — fish, 45 —• fruit, 64 — ginger and treacle, 61 — ox kidney, 26 — peas, 103 - — pork, 23 » — rice, 62 — sago, 62 — semolina, 94 — stale bread, 61 — suet, 59 baked, 64 — treacle, 63 — Yorkshire, 60 Puddings, a crust for, 85 — suet crust for boiled, 84 Rabbit and rice, 16 — boiled, with onions, 16 — pie, 87 — roast, 15 — stewed, 15 with potatoes, 16 SCA Radish sauce, 77 Raspberry fool, 63 Ribs of beef, 11 Rice and lentils, 57 pork pie, 25 — broken, 3 — drink, 96 — or tapioca soup, 34 — pudding, 62 — rabbit and, 16 ' — sweetened, 62 — to use as a vegetable, 52 Roast duck, 15 — fowl, 14 — goose, 14 — hare, 15 — meat, 8 — rabbit, 15 — turkey, 14 Roasting meat, 8 Rolls, sausage, 89 Rough cakes, 69 Rump of beef, 11 Sage and onion stuffing, 100 Sago pudding, 62 — soup, 34 Sandwiches, paste, 90 Sauce, anchovy, 75 — brain, 70 — caper, 75 — curry, 77 — horse-radish, 77 — ketchup, 75 — mint, 76 — mushroom, 78 — mustard, 76 — onion, 77 — parsley, 78 Sausage pie, 86 — rolls, 89 Sausages and apples, 24 potatoes, 24 Scallops, 45111 INDEX SCO Scots broth, 36 a plainer, 36 Scrag end of mutton, 12 Sea pie, 28 Seed cake, good, 69 plain, 68 Semolina pudding, 94 — soup, 33 Sheep’s head, 18 — heart, 26 — tails, 27 — trotters, 25 Shepherd’s pie, 88 Shin of beef, 12 stewed with haricot beans, 21 Short crust, 84 Shoulder of beef, 12 \ mutton, 12 Sirloin of beef, 11 Skate, 41 Soup, barley, 39 — curry, 38 — fish, 33 — lentil, 35 — macaroni, 34 — onion, 34 — parsnip, 36 — potato, 35 — rice or tapioca, 34 — sago, 34 — semolina, 33 — turtle, the working man’s, 36 Spare rib of pork, 13 Sprats, 42 — potted, 43 Spring of pork, 13 Spanish onions, 50 Spinach, 50 Sprouts, Brussels, 50 Stale bread pudding, 61 Star-gazing pie, 86 Steamed potatoes, 43 TEA Steamer, a, 5 Stew, brown, of beef, 23 of tripe, 29 — Egyptian, 58 — Irish, 19 made with cold meat, 8 — lentil, 53 — pork, 21 — potato, 57 — vegetable marrow, 55 Stewed conger eel, 40 — fruit, 66 — liver, 28 — macaroni, 54 — mussels, 44 — ox kidney, 26 — pig’s fry, 20 — pork with cabbage, 23 — rabbit, 15 with potatoes, 16 — shin of beef and haricot beans, 21 Stewing jar, a, 5 — meat, 10 Stock, 31 — No. E 31 — No. •{, 32 — fish, '32 Stoves. 5 Stuffing, sage and onion, 100 — veal, 100 Suet crust for boiled pud- dings, 84 — pudding, 59 baked, 64 Sweetened rice, 62 Tails, sheep’s, 27 Tapioca or rice soup, 34 Tart, apple, 89 — fruit, 89 — jam, 89 — treacle, 90 Tea, beef, 91112 COOKERY FOR SMALL INCOMES TEA Tea, linseed, 97 — to make, 90 Ten to one (a Cornish pie), 85 i Tinned meats, how to pre- pare, 101 Toast water, 96 Treacle & ginger pudding, 61 — pudding, 63 — tart, 90 Tripe and onions, 28 — brown stew of, 29 Trotters, sheep’s, 25 Trout, 45 Turkey, roast, 14 Turnip greens, 49 Turnips, 48 Turtle soup, man’s, 36 YOR Veal stuffing, 100 Vegetable dishes without meat, 52 — hot pot, 58 j — marrow, 49 ! jam, 99 stew, 55 — to use rice as a, 52 Vegetables, 46 — green, directions for cook- ing, 46 Water, apple, 93 — toast, 96 Wholemeal bread, 68 Yeast, dumplings, 59 the working - ■ Yorkshire pudding, 60 m rf^ 0^^ l\9 Soot is vei'y light, and a brisk disturbance of it, ■with all the covers off, ■will smother the whole of the kitchen. Firstly.—Draw out the roaster damper G\ then remove the soot door H\ thoroughly sweep up and down the flue and witli the long wire-handled flue brush. The soot will rest at the bottom A^. Then replace the soot door and close the damper. The soot to be removed later on as described in Fifthly. Secondly.—Draw out the oven damper and remove the soot door H® and sweep as described for roaster and replace the soot door and close the damper. Thirdly.—Draw out boiler damper G®, remove the soot door H®, and sweep up %,nd down the flue, then replace soot door and close the damper. Fourthly.—Take off the hot-plate covers that are over the fire, and, with the rake, clear out the soot from the back of and under the arch of the boiler, so that it will fall, with the ashes, into' the ash-pan. Take care of the cinders for re-use. Cover the ash- pan with an old newspaper, to prevent soot and dust being blown about, and carry it to, and empty it into the dusi>bin. Fifthly.—^Take off the covers in the hot plate that are above the roaster and the flue cover L, then carefully brush the soot from the underside of the covers on to the top of the oven and lay them on one side. Thoroughly brush the soot from the oven-top and the undersides of the fixed pieces of the hot plate down the side flue A\ then scrape the flue A\ particularly the side of the oven, with the rake, and brush it with the flue brush, and after this replace the hot plate and flue covers. Then take off the small soot door in the front marked T, and with10 the rake scrape the bottom of the roaster and rake out the soot from the flues A' and A''*, and from both sides of the midfeather. A large dust-pan with a covered back is the best thing to collect the soot in. Place it in front of P and tilt it, with the front edge resting on the moulded skirting of the range, and then scrape the soot quietly into it to prevent it flying about; then cover the dust-pan all over with an old news- paper and take it so covered to the dust-bin and empty it. Replace the soot door P. Sixthly.—Take off the covers in the hot plate that are over the oven and the flue cover over and sweep and scrape the flue B' and under the oven, and do everything and proceed in the same way as described for the roaster. In cleaning the flues gi'eat care must be taken to remove all soot and dirt from every corner; failure to do this thnrouyhiy and properly is likely to spoil the cooking of a meal, and certainly to delay it beyond the appointed time. Be sure to replace all the movable parts and soot doors, and see that they are all closed tightly, other- wise the range will not work properly or it will smoke. N.B.—Be very careful when moving these pai'ts that they arc not allowed to fall, because being made of ra‘<t iron they might break, and a broken part will put the I’ange out of use until a new part can be obtained, which will not be for several days. Seventhly.—Open the doors of the roaster and the oven and draw out the shelves and carefully clean out and scrape off from the insides, sides, bottoms, and tops, and shelves all sugar, jam, gravy, or grease that may have boiled over, or become baked on, and any dust or soot that may have got in must be brushed out. Note.—For this scraping use only an old knife, to be kept for the purpose.11 Under no circumstances whatever use one of the table knives. Wash off any grease or dirt from inside the oven and shelves with hot water and strong soda. It is most essential that this should be done after every cooking, or the next batch of food will be spoiled by the burnt flavour from the grease, etc. It is impossible to keep the roaster and oven too clean. When all this has been done black the stove with moist black lead and brush it, when dry, until it shines. Any bright steel parts of the range, the fender, and fire-irons should be kept bright with rotten- stone, which will not scratch, but when a spot, or rust, or marks which the l otten stone will not move emery cloth may be then used, but it must be of the very finest, otherwise the polish will give way to a series of scratches. To Clean Kitchen Utensils. Hair and Wire Sieves.—Wash these well with soda water, scrub them clean with a sieve brush, dry very well, and keep in a dry place. Paste Boards and Rolling Pins.—These must be scrubbed with hot water and soap; if stained rub with sand or salt. Do not use soda, it makes the wood yellow. Baking Tins.—Wash in hot soda water, rub them with sand till bright; rinse well and dry. Knives.-—Wash the steel, but never put the handles in water, it loosens them. When dry rub them till bright on a knife board with brickdust. Before putting away dust them well. Iron Saucepans.—Wash in hot water with soda in- side and out; be careful nothing is left sticking to the bottom. If anything has been burnt in the pan boil some strong soda and water in it, and when washing rub the inside with sand until clean, rinse and dry. The lids should be rinsed, dried, and then cleaned with whiting and polish.12 INTEODUCTOEY EBMAEKS. Foods are of two kinds: strength formers and warmth and energy producers. Different foods possess these properties in different degrees ; some kinds of foods contain a great deal of strength- forming matter and little warmth and energy producer. Another kind may be nearly all warmth and energy producer, and have hardly any strength former. Another kind of food may be rich in both, and yet another kind of food may contain scarcely any, either strength former or warmth or energy producer. So you see how important it is that we should know something about the proportion of the warmth and strength producers contained in the different foods. If you get this knowledge you will be able to choose your foods wisely. But when the right food is chosen wisely, it must be cooked properly. To cook properly is to so prepare the food for eating that while it is made pleasant to the taste none of its good qualities may be lost, so that it may be easy to digest and there may be no waste. God has given us an infinite variety of animals and vegetables for our use, and He has given us reason to enable us to make the best use of those gifts, and you must use your reason in the choice and preparation of food when that important concern is by - and - by entrusted to you; and that is why all the Managers of the13 School are anxious that each one of you should have the opportunity of learning how to select the most suitable foods, and how to cook them. The first, you will be able to do by studying the table farther on, and the rest of this little book; and the second by paying careful attention to your cookery teacher— And that you may the better understand what she tells and shows you, and so that her instruc- tion may be of the greatest use to you through life, you should impress her teaching on your mind by frequent reference to, and study of this and other good cookery books. (^otes on the Composition and Relative Value of different kinds of Food. “ The human body is always undergoing some change; every thought and act causes waste. Every movement of the muscles, every beat of the heart, every breath we draw wears away ” some of the materials of which the body is composed, and it is therefore evident that if life is to be maintained some means must be adopted to meet this wear and tear. For this purpose we take food which supplies the materials required to meet this daily wear and tear of all kinds, and provides also for the growth and development of the body. Food is also necessary for maintaining the heat of the body, and supplying it with the force neces- sary to enable it to perform its various duties. It is thus both a constructing and repairing material, and also a source of heat and force, and we must have in our food substances which are capable14 of performing those duties. Our food must there- fore consist of varied materials, as no one substance contains all that is required for proper nourish- ment. We therefore obtain our supplies from both the animal and vegetable kingdom, as neither alone would be sufficient for our purpose. From the animal kingdom we obtain : Beef, mutton, pork, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, &c. From the vegetable kingdom : Wheat, flour, rice, peas, beans, lentils, potatoes, fruits, vegetable, &c. These foods for convenience are divided into four classes, viz.: 1st.—Strength-forming (nitrogenous) substances. 2nd.—^ Heat and energy producing (carbonaceous) substances. 3rd.—Salts. 4tb.—Water. 1st.—Slrength-furmiiKj (Niiroyenons) Substances. —These are called nitrogenous, because they always contain a considerable amount of nitrogen, and serve for the formation of a number of nitrogenous substances which are found in most parts of the body; and “ strength-forming,” because they are essential for the building up and repair of the body and supplying it with strength. They are also “heat and energy producers,” and so are most important foods. They are abundant in the lean of meat—wheat, bread, oatmeal, cheese, white of egg, peas, beans, &c.15 2nd.—Heat and Energy producing (Ca7-honaceous) Substances are so called because they supply the necessary warmth to the body, and provide the force or energy required for the performance of the bodily duties. They are supplied both by animals and vegetables, and consist of fats, oils, starches and sugars. The fats and oils from animals are, fat of meat, butter, cream, suet, lard, dripping, &c., and from vegetables, olive oil, nut oil, &c. Starch foods are such as arrowroot, rice, sago, tapioca, potatoes, &c. Sugar is obtained from the sugar cane, beetroot, honey, fruits, &c. 3rd.—Salts. The most important of these are phosphate of lime, potash, common salt, and iron. They are necessary for the formation of bone, teeth, nails, &c., and the iron especially is needful to give rich- ness to the blood. Common salt, of course, is added to our food ; the others are supplied by the vegetables and fruit we consume. 4th.— Water. This is a very essential part of our dietary: without it our food could not be digested at all. It is also required for the formation of the blood, and as a carrier of waste materials from the system. Water is contained not only in the liquids we drink, but in all kinds of solid food. For instance, such vegetables as turnips and cabbages contain about fifteen ounces of water in each pound, and even bread contains more than one-third of its weight of water. See list. jMiges 18-19, column 4. ■16 It has been found by careful experiments that a man engaged in moderate work requii'es each day 4j ozs. “ Strength Producers ” and 15^ ozs. Heat and Energy Producers ” in order to maintain his strength and energy, and it is necessary that he should be supplied with food containing these substances in their proper proportion ; and in order that the fullest value may be obtained from them it is necessary that they should be supplied in a palatable and easily digestible form, as the flavour and taste help to stimulate the production of saliva and the juices of the stomach by means of which the food is digested. The best means of so preparing food you are now being taught by your teacher in your lessons in cookery. It is also advisable that the diet should be as varied as possible, that is, that the “ strength and heat and energy ” giving substances should be obtained from different sources. The table at pages 18-19 will give you the pro- portions in which these substances are contained in various foods. In it, for example, you will find that in such foods as beans, peas, lentils, cheese and oatmeal we have more strength-forming and heat and energy producing material than in meat, and that, at a much less cost, consequently they may with advantage be frequently substituted for meat. In fact If lbs. of oatmeal and a quart of milk contain all the nutriment required for one day by a man engaged in laborious work.* (Skim milk with a little sugar, or dripping or other kind of fat, could be substituted for new milk at a still lower cost.) It is well, however, that a little meat should be ■ Newsliolme and Scott.17 taken, as it contains its nutriment in an easily digestible form. * A good mixed diet containing the necessary foods in proper proportions for a man in hard work, for one day, would be as under; Bread, 18 ozs. Butter or dripping, 1 oz. Milk, 4 ozs. Bacon, 2 ozs. Potatoes, 8 ozs. Cabbage, 6 ozs. Cbeese, ozs. Sugar, 1 oz. Salt, I oz. Water (alone, or in tea, coffee or other beverage), pts. t A woman would require about two-thirds as much as a man ; a child about fourteen years about the same as a woman ; one about seven years, half as much as a man, and about four years a little less than that. The diet should vary with the season and climate; we require less meat and fat during hot weather and in hot climates. It will also vary with occupation. Persons engaged in hard work not only require more food than those not so •engaged, but also the “ heat and energy producers ’’ must be in rather greater proportion. Growing persons require more food in proportion, as not only the daily waste has to be made up, but the growth of all parts of the body has to be provided for. * See Church on Food, fol. 52. "t See Newsholme and Scott’s "Domestic Economy,” fol. 37. /18 Composition of Foods. 1. 2. 3. 4. Proportion of Proportion of strength-form- heat & energy Proportion Proportion Name of Food. ing (nitro- (carbonace- of salts,«&c., genous) sub- ous)producing contained each lb. stances in substance in in each lb. each lb. each lb. ozs. ozs. OZS. 1 OZS. Bacon... H 104 s 34 Pork 2i G4 7 Fat beef 24 44 4 Beef 3 14 4 114 Mutton 3 14 4 114 Lean pork Calves’ liver ... 34 1 4 114 3 4 4r 124 Tripe ... 14 44 — 13 Poultry 3 1. 4 124 Pigeon 34 4 4 124 Salt liemngs... 3 24 24 8 Eels 2 44 4 y.T 104 Salmon 34 2 Mackerel 0 2 4 104 Fresh herrings I5 1 1 a 13 Flounders 21 4 * 13 Milk 4 14 4 14 Cream.. 4 7A — n 144 Skim milk ... 4 1 4 Cheese 44 4 5 s 5f Butter 14 \ , 14 Eggs Wheat n li IS 114 4 4 : US 24 Flour ... Wholemeal 14 12 X n 7 bread 14 1 " 1 4 Oatmeal 24 1 11s 4 I s Pearl barley ... 1 12.4 2> Rice ... H ! 124 — Maize ... 14 lU 4 i 2| Peas 84 4 Beans... 3} 8| 4 24 Lentils 4 94 1 ;f 2 Potatoes 4 34 i 12 Turnips 4 4 1519 Name of Food. 1. Propor t on 0 .■strength-form- ing (nitro- genous) sub- stances in each lb. 2. Proportion of heat & energy {carbonace- ous)producing substance in each lb. 8. Proportion of salts,&c., contained in each lb. 4 Proportion of water in each lb. ozs. ozs. OZS. ozs. Carrots — 1 i 144 Parsnips f 2 :i 13 Onions i s — 14A Cabbage i 1 1 14i Seakale i i — 15 Marrow i — 15 Tomatoes 1 1 i 14i Celery . A X 15 Watercress ... 1 1 15 Cucumbers ... 15 Apples — 1 — 14 Pears — 2 — 13 Gooseberries ... .— li r — 14 Grapes i 3 ( — 13 Plums IS s A 13^ Rhubarb i A- — 15 Figs (dried) ... Dates (without 1 11 3 stones) 1 lOi i 3J Bananas i 4 X 114 Walnuts 2 1 7 Nuts ... H Ci i 74 Cocoanuts 1 7 X 74 It must not be understood that in every case the above quantities are absolutely exact; but they are sufficiently near for all practical purposes, and are given from Church’s “ Food, its Sources, Con- stituents, and Uses.” It must also be understood that the full amount of those food substances is not alvsrays converted into strength, energy, or warmth. Many circumstances prevent such a happy state of things being arrived at; for it may be, first, that the digestive powers are weak, or there may be disease; second, the food is not in proper proper tion, or it may have been eaten too quickly, and not20 sufficiently masticated; third, it may not have been nicely cooked—possibly a stew or other dish may have been boiled too hard, instead of being gently simmered; a joint may have been over-roasted, the pie-crust may be heavy and under-baked, possibly over-baked; it may be a piece of meat was baked that should not have been, and which, if stewed, would have formed a more digestible food. Whether it is meat, poultry, fish, puddings, pies, cakes, bread, vegetables, or what not, each requires careful doing and the best of attention. THIS APPENDIX of QUESTIONS is designed to serve as a sort of Self-Examiner and Self-Help to those who use this Book. The numbers in the Margin refer to the Pages where the Information may be Found. •Page. 1 How and what could you cook for dinner in und one pot, and how serve ? 2. Who usually adopt this system ? 2. What and how can you bake without an oven ? 3. How would you select foods? What are the signs of good meat and diseased meat ? What are the advantages of frozen meat? What are the chief points to consider when you buy meat ? What are the chief points to consider in buying groceries ?21 Page. 3 What foods are good substitutes for meat for and children and others ? 4. Can vegetables be largely used in place of meat, and if so, why ? 5. Name the chief points requiring attention in the use of a cooking stove. How, and in what, are stews, &c., best made? Give reasons. What is a steamer ? and state its use. 6. State what you can about food for children. Give general rules for cooking meat, and state reasons. Give general rules for boiling meat, and state reasons. 8. Give the chief points of attention required in roasting meat. 9. How would you make gravy ? What have you to note about heat in baking ? Name other points to be observed about baking. What sort of fire do you want for broiling ? Name other points of attention that are needful. 10. Describe the process of frying. Describe the process of stewing. What are the advantages of stewing meat, &c. ? How can tough meat be made more tender and digestible ? 11 Name the usual joints of beef, and state how each should be cooked, and what and vegetables are usually served with them. 12. Name the various joints of mutton, and how they are cooked, and what vegetables, &c., should be served with them. 13. How would you cook a ham ? State time and other particulars required.Page. 22 Name the various joints of pork and say how prepared and cooked, and with what served. 14. Name some of the chief kinds of poultry, and state how they are prepared, cooked, and served. 15 Give the various methods of cooking rabbits und and hares. 16. How and with what may they be served to table ? How would you jug a hare, and what would you use with it ? 17 Name as many cheap dishes as you can to remember. 30. "What would you add in cooking a sheep’s head to make it an even more economical dish ? Give the meaning and use of pot-au-feu. What ingredients do you require for an Irish stew, and how is it cooked ? Give some particulars of as many cheap dishes as you can, and any advantage that each may possess, either as regards nutri- ment or economy. 31 & Of what do you make plain stock ? 32. Describe No. 1 and No. 2 stocks. Of what may fish stock be made, and how ? 33 to What are the uses of stock. 38. Why should turnips not be used in making stock ? Should the vegetables be allowed to remain in the stock all the time it is cooking? Give reasons for the answer. "What are the ingredients of fish soup ? Name the various kinds of soup, what they contain, and how made.23 Page. Which are the most nutritious foods, and which of the ingredients supply most of the strength and heat producers ? 38 How would you distinguish between fresh 46. How would you clean and prepare fish for cooking ? Name the various kinds of fish in general use. State how each may be cooked and served to table. What kind of water should be used to boil fish in ? Can it be cooked in any other way and be better ? 46 Should vegetables be put into hot or cold water to cook ? What is added to the water in cooking green vegetables ? Why is the lid of the saucepan removed when cooking green vegetables 1 to How should a potato be peeled and cooked to be perfect 1 How would you prepare and cook new potatoes % 52. Ho o you know of cooking Name as many vegetables as you can. 51 <fe How would you cook mushrooms 1 Are they How is rice cooked to be used as a vegetable 1 52. Name some vegetables which are as nutritious as meat. 58. Name as many nourishing vegetable dishes as you remember which can be made without meat. Name the ingredients for each and method of preparing. 59. AVhat are the chief points of care in making boiled puddings ? to and stale fish? 55. nutritious 124 Page. 59 Why is a pudding cloth damped and floured before tying it over a pudding ready for boiling ? What part of the hand should be used for to rubbing fat into flour, and why ? Give reasons and state what would happen if these rules were not properly attended to.^ C6. Name as many kinds of puddings as you can, and the chief ingredients for each. Also name such as are most suitable for children and invalids. What other methods are there for cooking puddings ? Name a few cooked each way. 67 What are the materials required for making to bread ? 70. Give a method for bread-making: What are the essential points of care to be noted in bread-making. What is meant by wholemeal bread ? Name as many kinds of cake as you can. Name the chief ingredients of each and the method of making ? 70. Give the names of some dishes for breakfast. How and what eggs are usually poached 1 71. What is porridge and how is it made? Is oatmeal porridge strengthening ? 72. What liquids are taken for breakfast? How are they prepared ? 75 Name the sauces in general use, the chief ingredients of each, and the method of to preparing, and what they are served with. 78. What are gravies, and how are they prepared. 79. What are the best methods of using up cold meat? Name the dishes which may be prepared, the ingredients and method of preparing.