•By LIZZIE HERITAGE First-class Diplomdc and Medallist in Cookery and Domestic Economy LONDON: JOHN HOGG n PATERNOSTER ROW J/ Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20392916ANOTHER NEW DEPARTURE III HUGON & CO.S BULLOCK WAGGONS. HUOON'S "Atora" Refined BEEF SUET. Indispensable In every Household all the year round* Specially recommended for Summer Use and for Hot Climates. It supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Cooking Butter for Puddings, Cakes, Mince Meat, Pie Crust, Frying- and Cooking. Prepared from best English Beef Suet only I Saves trouble of chopping ! Always ready for use ! One pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet I It is always sweet! It is particularly Digestible and I It Is absolutely pure, wholesome.—Dr. G. Bowman. P. A. Estcourt, Analyst. It is put up in one pound boxes and sold by most Grocers and Dealers at 8d. per pound. If your dealer does not keep it, send 8d. in stamps to the Sole Manufacturers— HUGON & Co., Ltd., PENDLETON, MANCHESTER, for a sample I lb. box. Be sure also to give the name of your dealer.BEST FOOD FOR HWTS Also for BARLEY WATER. And for Babies after Eight Months Old Rotatoria KEEN, ROBINSON & CO., Ltd., London, Makers of KEEN'S MUSTARD.COOKERY 0! HOUSEHOLD MANUALS. PRICE ONE SHILLING EACH. What shall we have for Breakfast? or, Everybody's Breakfast Book. Containing over 175 Recipes. By Agnes C. Maitland. Dedicated{0 H.R.H. ihe Duchess ofAlbany. The Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sandwiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C. Maitland. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By Agnes C. Maitland. Dainty Dishes. Recipes collected by Lady Harriet St. Clair (late Countess Miinster). Note.— The larger edition, with some additional matter of special value, still on sale, price js. 6d. Toothsome Dishes: Fish, Flesh, and Fowl; Soups, Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. The Housewife's Handy=book. Three Hundred and Fifty Useful Every-day Recipes. By C. J. S. Thompson. Drinks of all Kinds, Hot and Cold, for all Seasons {including- Temperance and Restorative Drinks). By Frederick .__and.SEXUOUR,JiAv-uv*- Li-COi London { JOHN HqfGG, 13, Paternostbr Row, E.C. ft Ify. "T>ec s 1 gjg;COOKERY FOR INVALIDS AND OTHERS BY LIZZIE HERITAGE FIRST-CLASS DIPLOMEE (AND MEDALLIST) IN COOKERY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY LONDON ]OHN HOGG, 13, PATERNOSTER ROW [All rights reserved.]The Epicure says :—" Florador fills a place ot acknowledged useful- ness in most families ; it is good as a food in its simplest forms of preparation, and it admits of so many possible variations in cooking that there are few articles of the kind so useful on emergencies to cook or housewife." To be had at Grocers and Stores, in £ lb. and 1 lb. Packets; and Chemists, in Is. Tins. RECIPES ON PACKETS. FLORADOR FOOD CO., 90, WASHINGTON STREET, GLASGOW. London Depot: COWAN & CO., 28 & 29, London Wall, E.C./ PREFACE. In writing this little work for the use of those who have to cater for the sick and convalescent, I have aimed at giving something for all, so far as the limits of the book allow. Digestibility, coupled with variety, may be said to give the keynote to the whole ; and a very special effort has been made to avoid the slightest violation of the principles laid down. Most medical men are agreed that "kitchen physic" plays no mean part in the treatment of the patient; one goes so far as to say that " in the past the doctor has had a strong ally in the cook for producing patients as well as curing them." This at least is certain—that the efforts and medicine of the most skilful physician are nullified, practically, if the cooking be at fault. The doctor and the cook must work together if good results are to follow any treatment.iv Preface. Those who have had any experience of this sort will at once see that many of these little savoury dishes are suited only for the convales- cent, and would be quite out of place in serious illness; although nothing that could be called " indigestible " is to be found anywhere in the book. The simplest dishes have received due attention, for it is a notorious fact that there are many people who have yet to learn how to pre- pare them in a palatable fashion. Care has been taken to make every recipe as suggestive as possible of others of the same order; in some instances this is only a matter of variation in flavour or some equally simple change. Several dishes are given that are not to be found in the ordinary everyday cookery-book; hence it is hoped that they will be found speci- ally helpful to those who have to cater for the delicate and fastidious. An earnest hope may be expressed that all will read the general hints and directions before working out one of the dishes; otherwise many hints will be missed that should assist the novice. To embody them in the recipes would mean waste of space and much wearying repetition. Any ingenious cookPreface. v will be able to make many little additions to some of the dishes without destroying the cha- racter of the whole. The very simplest language has been em- ployed, in order that the book may be as helpful to the " masses" as the " classes" ; small quantities have been expressly detailed, and it should be found as easy to reduce them as to add to them as may be required. That the best will be found the cheapest is true of everything, and nothing short of the best is safe. It is assumed that those who are anxious to promote the recovery of those near and dear to them will not take "trouble" into account in carrying out the recipes. It may be, too, that here and there some trifling addi- tion to the batterie-de-cuisine will be wanted, and if so it should be looked upon in the light of a good investment, for the fact that it is impossible (metaphorically) to "make bricks without straw," applies with peculiar force to sick-room cookery. The expert housekeeper, who forgets the time when she was ignorant of the ways and methods that are now at her finger-ends, may smile asvi Preface. she reads some of my minute directions for the concoction of a glass of toast-water, a cup of gruel, or a morsel of jelly. On the contrary, others may be grateful for them. Of necessity this little book does not exhaust the subject of sick-room fare, the aim being to produce a work—simple, concise, reliable, and cheap—which should meet all ordinary wants. The majority of these recipes have been written expressly for this work; but, in the case of a few, viz., Beef Tea, Rice Pudding, Gruels, and Barley Water (as well as some of the hints on pre-digested foods and the prepara- tion of cereals, also " General Rules for Invalid Cookery"), I am indebted to Messrs. Cassell & Co., Ltd., for permission to reproduce them from " Cassell's New Universal Cookery" (L. Heritage). Not that the recipes named are taken in their entirety from that book; but the embodiment of the leading principles, and the similarity in the quantities of materials used, warrants this acknowledgment, which is grate- fully tendered. Lizzie Heritage. October, 1897.CONTENTS. PAGB Preface iii INTRODUCTION. General Rules for Invalid Cookery—Concentrated Foods— Convalescence—Diabetes—Pre-digested Foods—Vegetable Juices—Remarks concerning Fruit, Water, Wines and Spirits, and several kinds of Sweeteners, &c ... 9 CHAPTER I. Wrinkles for the Kitchen concerning Food and Methods, with Remarks on Saccharin and its Uses . 21 CHAPTER II. Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, Beef Teas, &c, with Directions for adding Milk and preparing Stock 35 CHAPTER III. Fish Dishes, with Hints for the Selection, Stuffing, and Cook- ing of Fish, and for the Preparation of Fish Sauces . 57viii Contents. chapter rv. PAGE Savoury Dishes—Meat, Poultry, Vegetables, &c, with Hints on Drawing and Trussing Fowls . . .73 CHAPTER V. Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs, with General Hints on Cereals, Porridge, and Eggs . . . 101 CHAPTER VI. Sweet Puddings; for " Savoury Puddings" see Chapter V. 119 CHAPTER VII. Creams and Jellies, Bread and Cakes, with General Remarks on Gelatine, Isinglass, and Bread . . . 143 CHAPTER VIII. Beverages : Hot and Cold, including Cocoa, Coffee, and Tea, with Directions how to keep Drinks Cool, and to test Milk . . . 161 Index 181INTRODUCTION, GENERAL RULES FOR INVALID COOKERY—CON- CENTRATED FOODS—CON VALESCENCE -DIABETES —PRE-DIGESTED FOODS—VEGETABLE JUICES. Remarks concerning Fruit, Water, Wines, Spirits, and several kinds of sweeteners, etc.SWINBORNE'S PATENT REFINED ISINGLASS, EXTRA QUALITY, In 1/- Packets—and Patent Isinglass in 8d. Packets—is specially recommended for INVALIDS and INFANTS. A little should be taken in Tea, Milk, or Broth. SWINBORNE'S PATENT CALVES' FEET GELATINE, In 6d. and 1/- Packets, is the cheapest and best for making Jellies, Blanc Manges, &c.INTRODUCTION. Almost every ailment, particularly those of the more serious kind, involves some special rule concerning diet. At the same time, certain general rules will be of value to the inexperi- enced, by putting them on their guard against some of the errors common to the sick room. Except in serious cases, it is too much to expect one's medical attendant to go into minute details about the many little things that every woman is expected to know, from the baking of a rice pudding up to the clarification of jelly. A special request is made that the following rules will be read by all who purpose carrying out the recipes in this book. Some of the direc- tions are to an extent repeated under different headings; they are summarised here for the sake of easy reference:— 1. Serve all food in small quantities, dainty in appearance, and scrupulously clean. 2. Separate vessels should be kept for the patient's use ; fire-proof china or earthen, being12 General Rtdes for Invalid Cookery. non-absorbent and readily washed, is strongly recommended. In infectious diseases, where the patient's diet is prepared apart from that of the family, special vessels are a necessity. 3. Animal food should be fresh and of the best; keep it out of the rays of the sun and away from open drains. 4. Whatever the kind of food ordered, notice its effect upon the patient, i.e., whether it causes pain, sickness, or other discomfort. If so, let the doctor know. 5. A measuring glass should be in every house ; spoons vary so much in size that they cannot be depended upon where accuracy is demanded. "Letter" scales are handy for weighing small quantities of dry materials. 6. Bulk does not of necessity imply nutri- ment ; at the same time, concentrated food is not always the right thing; the doctor's orders in this respect should be faithfully carried out. 7. Little surprises should be planned, and monotony guarded against; indeed, the patient should not be consulted about his diet. 8. Great caution must be observed with sea- sonings, even of the mildest kinds; even salt and pepper are sometimes forbidden; the former in skin diseases, and the latter in throat irritation, &c. Deviation from orders may retard the patient's recovery, and the nurse should be faithful in the smallest things. 9. Everything, both liquid and solid, hot andGeneral Rules for Invalid Cookery. 13 cold, should be carried covered to the patient; there are several reasons for this simple rule. 10. Solid food is sometimes absolutely for- bidden for some time ; violation of the rule may- mean death: it is unnecessary to say more. 11. Food that has been in the room of any- body suffering from an infectious ailment should be burnt; nothing else can safely be done with it. 12. Keep any drinks covered that have to stand by the patient's side. 13. There are many things out of place in the sick room ; prominent amongst them are new- bread or cakes, pastry, cheese, or anything else hard of digestion. Twice cooked, or to be correct re-heated food, is not as nourishing as fresh, and in serious illness is quite unsuitable. 14. Mixed meals upset some, especially in the convalescent stage, though in this matter much depends upon the proper cooking of the courses. Concentrated Foods.—All that comes under this head requires intelligent use in the sick room. It is quite possible to do the invalid harm by giving such foods too strong ; while when given a little weaker than in the directions they may be enjoyed. Certain of these foods are not to be diluted at all; some are given cold or tepid, according to their composition or the doctor's orders, and it should be noted that the food must on no account be heated to anything approach- ing the boil. Of those most generally useful Bovril is a well-known type ; it can be taken at B14 General Rules for Invalid Cookery. almost any degree of heat, it will bear dilution according to requirement, and is declared by the makers to contain the albumen and fibrine of the meat, so that it is a food in the true sense of the word. In a cool place, well corked, it keeps perfectly. It is handy for giving colour and flavour, will convert a weak foundation, such as the stock from boiled meat, into a nourishing food, and a small quantity may be added with advantage to home-made beef-tea. It can be thickened with various substances where body is wanted. See Thickenings. Bovril Beef Jelly may be recommended for the many uses to which it can be applied. It is delicious for sandwiches, as an adjunct to plain biscuits and bread-and-butter, or for administer- ing a little at a time in cases of weakness. Convalescence.—This is a trying time. The appetite of the sufferer may be capricious or voracious, or both, and many a relapse is brought about by a too ready yielding to his requests. No fixed rules can be given, but it should be remembered that after a long course of slop diet the stomach must be led by degrees to solid food, and here " semi-solids " meet a real want; hence in this little work there are as many recipes for them as space could be found for, for they are too often ignored or treated very slightly. Nourishment has to be combined with dainty ser- vice, and the modes should be varied as far as possible, and however few the sorts of foodGeneral Rules for Invalid Cookery. 15 allowed, a great deal can be done by forethought. For the thickening of soup, &c, for instance, one may use French tapioca or other cereal one day, lentil flour another, barley or rice a third, baked flour or potato flour the next. In these ways, not only is the flavour varied, but the appearance ; the same with eggs and other foods that could be named ; changes very real and interesting to the patient are of but little account to those in health. The duty of the nurse is, in short, to exercise her inventive faculties to the fullest extent. A doctor may say " Give farinaceous food freely." How many persons narrow down such an order to the limits of a rice pudding or a basin of gruel ? It is hoped that the recipes, both for sweets and savouries, will be helpful in this direction, for there is no end to the variety that even the most simple cereals may impart. Panadas and some of the fish dishes come under the head of " semi-solids," and will serve to pave the way for the mutton chop or beefsteak, for which, may be, the patient craves before he is able to digest it. A last word. It must not be supposed that as soon as a patient is up and dressed he is ready for "whatever is going," and that there is no need for further effort on his behalf; but this is, unfortunately, a rock on which many split. Diabetics, Food for—Space does not per- mit of the inclusion of any of the breads, &c., suited to the special needs of those suffering from16 General Rules for Invalid Cookery. diabetes. The medical attendant will advise a reliable house, and with the list of foods recipes are usually included. A reference to Saccharin and its Uses herein will be found of service. Fruit as Medicine.—The remarks of an authority are worth quoting. The day is near at hand when raw, ripe fruit, combined with suitable vegetables, selected with reference to the individual case, will be the leading remedy in the treatment of many ailments. Grapes and strawberries are amongst the most useful; apples and oranges are valuable in hosts of disorders ; while in certain diseases of which rheumatism is a type, the lemon is invaluable. All efforts to increase the consumption of fruit should be supported, for it acts as a preventive as well as a cure; but it must form part of a meal, and not be taken after the stomach has had a full meal put into it. The old truism that fruit is "gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night" should not be lost sight of. Honey as a Sweetener.—In the opinion of some of our leading medical men honey is not made half enough of as a sweetener. But it must be pure. In tea and milk it often agrees where sugar does not; it is also delicious in plain milk puddings, such as rice, &c.; it may be used too in various beverages, such as gruel, barley water, apple water, and others. Malt as a Sweetener.—Extract of malt isGeneral Rules for Invalid Cookery. 17 advised in special cases to take the place of sugar in the sweetening of gruels and other cereal dishes. It does not set up flatulence as sugar does, while it is useful in wasting diseases; these are the main reasons for its adoption. Small bottles should be in use, and kept well corked, and a reliable chemist applied to, that pure extract may be ensured. Pre-digested Foods.—These are very useful as a means of tiding a patient over a critical period, when unable to digest any food without assistance. Milk, beef tea, gruels, &c, may be made quite digestible by the aid of the materials which any chemist will supply, and of which there are several varieties. The foods can either be peptonised by the aid of " peptonising powders," or pancreatised by means of "pan- creaticus," in liquid form. These are sold with complete directions for use, so that the most inexperienced can prepare the food if the directions be minutely followed ; and on this all depends, for the least deviation is fatal to success. The doctor, as a rule, prescribes the particular peptonising agent which he favours. But it may be usefully pointed out that the articles sold under the head of pancreaticus are considered the most powerful, as they not only digest the casein of milk and the albumen of meat (thus taking the place of the natural gastric juice), but also the starches ; therefore all sorts of cereal foods are rendered availablei8 General Rules for Invalid Cookery. for the most delicate stomach. It should be added that artificial digestion is a poor substitute for the real thing. Dr. Bridger puts it pithily in his work on " Dyspepsia." He says, " We must regard our pancreatic and other preparations as crutches — bad things for a man whose locomotive powers are but slightly impaired; indispensable where all power of locomotion is temporarily or permanently lost." Vegetable Juices.—There are many ill- nesses in which the solid vegetable substance is forbidden, but the juices are ordered. In such cases the vegetables must be cleaned with great nicety and cut up, then, after simmering for the required time in the liquor, whatever the kind, they should be well pressed, in order to extract the moisture; it is generally necessary to cook them longer than if for table in the usual way. They may be tied up very loosely in a muslin bag with any herbs or spices, the bag being pressed or twisted on removal. Concentrated liquid of this sort may be added to broth or beef tea, or served in other ways as directed ; some- times a mixture of vegetable juices and milk is found useful. One rule : the vegetables must be fresh, and of the best. Water.—Many of our authorities consider that water is much neglected in the sick room; and the employment of occasional drinks of it is recommended by a host of writers. One, Sir Dyce Duckworth, says : " Patients are plied withGeneral Rules for Invalid Cookery. 19 strong essence of beef, and milk with stimulants: all this is ad nauseam ; but a cooling drink of water is withheld. Water is, however, generally relished, and is of real service. It promotes appetite for the next food, and cleanses the mouth." The remark quoted refers to fever cases; there are others in which it might be remembered with advantage. When it is necessary to boil and filter water, it should be freshened by pouring it from jug to jug from a good height. Otherwise, being flat, it will not be relished. Exposed water rapidly becomes tainted, and the precaution of covering any set by the patient's side must never be omitted, even in the most trifling cases. Wines and Spirits.—Money is well spent in getting the right thing in serious illness, and if no special brand has been specified by the doctor, a reliable wine merchant should be applied to. The medicinal uses of the various kinds may be thus summarised:—Red wines are generally indicated in conditions of poorness of the blood; port being given after a long and trying illness. When Burgundy replaces it a " sound" wine should be selected. Sherry.—Should not be given unless specially ordered, or it may work much harm. It is one of the most difficult of wines to get pure, even when sure of its being the right thing to give; Mad eira is frequently ordered now where sherry was formerly.20 General Rules for Invalid Cookery. Brandy.—Whether for use in a critical illness or for convalescence it should be good, old, pale. One medical man goes so far as to say that it ought to cost at least six or seven shillings a bottle, and that it may be true economy to pay even ten shillings. It should be looked upon in the light of a medicine and not a beverage. Whisky needs proper selection, and it agrees with many better than any other spirit; at the same time it should not be substituted for any other unless the doctor agrees; some of the stuff sold as whisky is hurtful in the highest degree; age is the thing to aim at. Port is often both fortified and plastered. " Unfortified," and specially light for invalids, can be got, if one goes to the right people. It is a common error that only dark wine is good; on the contrary, some of the choicest brands are pale and clear comparatively. Champagne.—This is often ordered where sickness prevails. Any special brand recom- mended should be got; it must be of good quality and drawn off by means of a champagne tap; this allows small quantities to be taken from the bottle without deterioration of the remainder. Cream is sometimes ordered to be mixed with the wine, in which case the cream should be put in the glass first, and the wine added and taken while effervescing.CHAPTER I. WRINKLES FOR THE KITCHEN. CONCERNING FOOD AND METHODS. With Remarks on Saccharin and its Uses.A TRILOGY OF BOOKS ABOUT WALES: Its History, Legends, Folk-Lore, &c. By MARIE TREVELYAN. —Glimpses of Welsh Life and Character. —From Snowdon to the Sea: Stirring Stories of North and South Wales. —The Land of Arthur: Its Heroes and Heroines. Price 6s. each; Gilt Edges, 6s. 6d. London: JOHN HOGG, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C.CHAPTER I. Blanching.—This operation is necessary to whiten and assist the cleansing of some articles of food. Whatever the article, put it in cold water, bring gradually to the boil, throw the water away, and rinse again in fresh cold water. Butter.—Use the freshest and best always. Nothing is more unpleasant than bad butter, and in illness the palate is hyper-sensitive. Keep in a cool place, away from articles with a strong odour; like milk, butter absorbs other flavours quickly. Cooking Odours.—Strong odours are calcu- lated to destroy the patient's appetite if allowed to reach the sick room. Every effort should be made to prevent this. Much can be done by free ventilation in the kitchen. Food can some- times be prepared in the open air, or near the fire; e.g., the peeling of onions or the cleaning of fish. A little vinegar set on the stove, and allowed to boil up, will partially destroy the odour of onions, &c. A bit of stale bread tied in linen may be put in the water with cabbage, and thrown out of doors when done with. Even the scent of roast mutton is trying in some cases,Wrinkles for the Kitchen. 24 and as it is from the skin that this as well as the strong flavour arises, its removal is now and then well remembered. Corn Flour is an admirable substitute for arrowroot for savoury as well as sweet dishes. It is particularly useful for the thickening of sauces of various kinds owing to its smoothness and pure flavour. Cream.—This is considered of great value in many forms of wasting diseases, and medical men order it freely. And in rickets and other disorders of childhood cream is of special benefit. Sometimes it is the only form of fat that can be tolerated by the stomach. But it happens some- times that the patient tires of it; then it is the duty of the nurse to vary the method of serving it as far as practicable ; various ways are given herein, both for sweet and savoury dishes. "Double" cream is the richest and most expen- sive, but single cream is usually rich enough. Fat, How to Remove from Stock, Soups, &C.—Take all that can be removed off with a spoon when the fat is quite cold ; then finish by dipping the end of a clean cloth into boiling water and wiping the stock over; if the stock is liquid, soft kitchen paper can be used in place of the cloth. Jellied stock is more troublesome. The spoons used should be iron, and heated in boiling water before being used. Fat differs much in kind and according to the weather; when very cold, a cake of mutton fat is quite25 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. easily removed from the surface of anything it floats upon. Fat that is held in solution is the kind that wants care. It should be remembered that it is not well to take all the fat from stock until one wants to use it, as it assists the keeping by excluding the air. Whatever is used as a receptacle (and there is nothing better than an earthen basin) must be clean and dry, and it should be kept in a dry cold place, sun and damp being bad for it. Never use stock that has become the least sour; make quantities as small as may be consistent with the recipe and the patient's appetite ; in cold weather, enough for a few days may be made. Ice, To Keep.—Take a deep pudding basin with a rim ; lay over it a piece of flannel, letting it hang half-way down the basin to form a sort of bag, then tie it round the rim ; put the ice in, and cover with a second piece of flannel; as the water drains from the ice into the basin it must be poured away. If the first piece of flannel is large enough, the corners may be brought over to meet, and so cover the ice. The thing is to exclude the air. When ice has to be left at the patient's side, chip off a few pieces the size of a coffee berry, or rather larger, and put them in a tumbler with flannel as above. It is useless to give a person a large piece of ice, for by the time it is finished it becomes quite warm ; small bits, as required, alone do any good. Another way is to keep the ice under a tea cosy, or small down26 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. cushion, but even then provision must be made for drainage; the ice could be put in a little gravy strainer, placed in a jug, for instance. When buying ice, always explain if it is wanted for internal use for an invalid. Mace.—Reference is made to mace in many recipes herein, but a note of warning is necessary concerning it, as, while very nice in extreme moderation, it is most unpleasant in excess. It is useful for both savouries and sweets; a blade may be infused in the liquid used for the dish, or a little ground mace added; it is a good addition to white soups, and other dishes where it is desirable to give flavour without detriment to the colour. It should be bought, if ground, in small quantities, as it should be used while fresh. Re-heating Food.—The principles on which this should be conducted must be clearly under- stood, and they are the prevention of dryness, with retention of flavour and digestibility. But even with minute care many dishes suffer much. The temperature too must be adapted to the class of food, and the extent as well as the mode of cooking in the first instance must not be lost sight of. Amongst the best ways of heating, commonly termed "hotting up," are either a double saucepan kept for the purpose, a jar set in water, a gourmet boiler, or by placing the food in a pudding basin, setting that in a saucepan of hot water (or boiling as required), so that the rim of the basin rests on the saucepan, the basin ofWrinkles for the Kitchen. 27 course being covered. A potato steamer can be used in the ordinary way, the food being put between two saucers or plates, or in a covered vessel of some sort, before being set in the basin ; the covering, often omitted, is essential, or the food will become watery from the drippings of the saucepan lid. Then, again, there is the simple mode of setting the food between two plates (soup plates are best) over a saucepan of boiling water. There is no difficulty, given common sense and forethought. A reference to Steaming will be helpful. The main point is :— As soon as the food has reached the desired tem- perature, serve it, for nothing is gained, though often much is lost, by prolonging the time. Beef teas and other similar foods suffer a good deal if put in a saucepan over direct heat, for re-heating. Why ? Perhaps the boil is reached before one is aware of it; or, when dealing with small quantities, much is wasted by pouring from one vessel to another. It is a simple matter to put it in a soup plate, or cup or basin, and pro- ceed as directed above. As to fish, our recipes provide for the re-heating in many dainty ways, but needless to add, a fillet, or a few flakes of fish, can be heated nicely in a little sauce or gravy, or even a spoonful or two of hot milk, in either of the ways detailed above. Saccharin and its Uses.—The fact that many inquiries have come to hand from time to time as to the ways of using saccharin in culi-28 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. nary processes suggested the following hints, in the hope that they will be of service to those readers who already are familiar with it in tea, coffee, &c, and would like to substitute it for sugar in some of the dishes of daily life. First: the kind. " Soluble saccharin " has been used in our own experiments, but so long as the approxi- mate amount be borne in mind, there is no reason why the " tabloids," commonly employed for beverages, should not replace it. The Saccharin Corporation, Ld., issue a pam- phlet relating to the bottling of fruit, and it seems certain that there is no fear of fruit so treated with saccharin, instead of sugar, ferment- ing, after even a long period. One drawback : the syrup does not become thick, as with sugar. Those who desire to impart a little body can, however, use a small quantity of arrowroot, and boil it with the syrup, after the latter has been poured from the fruit. Supposing a pound, or thereabouts, of any fresh fruit, there are two ways of adding the saccharin, either at first, or at the end. In the first case it must be dissolved in a little water, according to the juiciness of the fruit, and poured over; during the cooking the fruit becomes impregnated with the saccharin matter, and so rather less suffices than when added at the end ; but the latter mode produces a nicer flavour in the opinion of many. Here the thing is to cook the fruit in a jar set in water, or it can be baked in a slow oven, and any addition of water29 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. is quite optional; for very juicy fruit it is prefer- ably omitted. Towards the end pour off the juice, and dissolve as much saccharin in as is wanted ; pour it over the fruit, and leave for a short time, then serve hot or cold. As to quantity, it will be found that forty grains will equal a pound of loaf sugar. For the sweetening of rice and other puddings of a starchy nature, simply dissolve the saccharin in the milk in the ordinary way. It can, of course, be used for gruels and porridges, milk, and all sorts of food. It is very necessary to see that it is properly distributed, or one portion of the food will be unpleasantly sweet; and too liberal a use of it must be guarded against, because the intense sweetness, if too much be used, will create thirst. Sieving.—This is an important item in the making of an endless number of dishes : two spoons should be used, the one for the rubbing of the mixture through the sieve, and the second for the scraping of all that clings to the under side of the sieve; a basin of hot water at one's side, in which to dip the spoons now and then, facilitates the process greatly. Equally impor- tant is the washing of the sieves, particularly round the rims; use a brush (a saucepan brush is best) and plenty of hot water, and dry well in a warm place, but not close to the fire. Unless thoroughly washed, everything sieved will have a stale flavour. A wire potato masher CWrinkles for the Kitchen. 30 answers admirably as a substitute in sieving soft mixtures, such as vegetable purees and the like. Steaming.—This most excellent mode of cookery is sadly neglected in this country by the majority, for it is quite common to meet with people who have not a steamer in the kitchen, though the supply of utensils may be both varied and excellent in other respects. There is no time when it is so valuable as in cooking for the sick, whether one uses just a common potato steamer, or one or other of the many improved steamers brought into the market of late. But first let us grasp the principles. 1. Steamed food is light and digestible, and its flavour is well preserved. 2. It requires less attention than boiled food of any class. 3. Should it be left a little too long, there is not the unsightly appearance that boiled food presents ; this is particularly true of fish. A vessel that will fit into a saucepan or stew- pan known as the " Gourmet Boila " is handy, as it is to be bought in various sizes, and being of earthenware, anything may be cooked in it, from fruit to soup. Another known as the "Duplex Boilerette" may be strongly recommended, as the water in the outer vessel (it is an improved form of double pan) can be kept either at a rapid boil, or a steady simmer; hence all one's requirements, whatever the contents of the inner vessel, mayWrinkles for the Kitchen. 31 be met. But, where only the usual porridge- making double pan exists, a good deal can be done by management and forethought, as it will serve not only for cooking but for re-heating, or keeping warm odds and ends of all sorts. By the " water bath," referred to many times in this work, is meant cooking in a jar, placed in a saucepan of boiling water, as a rule over the fire, but, if more convenient, can be done in the oven. Other forms will suggest themselves; and it may be said that those who would excel in the art of cooking for the sick should master the leading principles of steaming. See Re- heating of Food. Suet.—Hugon's refined beef suet should be used for coating cake tins and pudding moulds, to ensure freedom from sticking, being water free and salt free it can be recommended, as anything containing salt will not do for coating purposes; it is a great mistake to use salt butter unless clarified. The suet dispenses with this trouble, while its pure flavour makes it agreeable to the most delicate palate. For puddings it can be chopped to the finest degree, and this is most important with suet puddings for the deli- cate ; with ordinary care it is easy to chop it so small as to be lost to sight; it keeps well in a cool, dry place, and will be found most useful for various purposes, even as a substitute for cod liver oil. The makers issue a handy little book with every packet.32 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. Thickenings (Liaisons) for Soups, &c— In invalid cookery these of necessity are of a simple kind, as it frequently happens that the roux (i.e., a mixture of flour and butter used in ordinary cookery) is unsuitable. The main use of all thickenings is to give suitable consistency and to bind the materials together. Whatever is added should be properly cooked afterwards, that there may be no taste of rawness. The finer the substance the shorter the time required for cooking. For soups and sauces of the white class, good corn flour may take the place of arrowroot. For brown dishes, flour that has been baked in the oven to a light brown can be used ; it must be sieved and bottled when quite cold, and should be stored in a dry place. Articles that add to the nutriment, as well as to the con- sistency, are Prepared Barley and Groats, Frame Food Diet, and fine Florador, all referred to else- where in this work. TOAST.—There are right and wrong ways of preparing so simple a thing as a bit of toast. The bread should be a few days old, two at least, cut evenly, and about a third of an inch thick, or rather thinner. When cut thickly the middle does not get done, and is very indigestible. The thing is to get rid of the moisture. It should toast slowly, and so become dry and a nice brown all over, but not the least burnt. If no toast rack, set it upright and serve at once, for if kept it toughens, and this happens if it be put33 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. on a plate, except when it is to be buttered ; then butter lightly, not with a scraping motion, or the crispness will be lost; and do not put it to the fire again to heat. If to carry upstairs, set it over a basin of hot water or a hot-water plate; the latter is a most useful thing in illness. Washing of Meat.—A great deal of nutri- ment is drawn out of meat by those who wash it, without regard to its composition and the action of water upon it. Many will take a slice from a leg of mutton, for example, and immerse it in cold water for some time. This is a grave error, for in such a case the kitchen sink reaps a good deal of the benefit of the meat. Always wipe meat with a damp, clean cloth, and dry it quickly; immerse only such parts as need it; e.g., heads of the lamb, calf, or sheep ; neck, near the head; in short, any part that is stained; the same remark applies to poultry. A little salt rubbed on the part will assist in drawing out the offensive matter; allow plenty of clean, cold water; dry the meat before use, however it is to be cooked. It is really preferable to cut away a small portion that may be much stained than to subject a large piece to the soaking process. Watercress and other Salad.—Careful washing is at all times called for, but particularly for the sick. Plenty of cold water, with a pinch of pure borax to the pint, will remove any impuri- ties that resist ordinary treatment, borax being a powerful solvent. Then follow with salt and34 Wrinkles for the Kitchen. water, and rinse finally with clean cold water alone. The trouble and cost are not worth con- sidering compared with the safety of this method over the hasty rinse, all too common, and quite insufficient. Watercress may be freed from the stem with advantage in some cases, and the leaves served alone. It is useful as a garnish for cold and hot dishes, and may replace parsley when that is scarce or objected to. Never serve cress in a dripping condition ; shake it in a clean cloth to free it from moisture. Valuable medi- cinal properties are attributed to watercress; a few leaves will give zest to a sandwich for a con- valescent, and it is useful in many other ways. Watercress Boiled and in Soups.—A small quantity of cress can be added to any other green vegetable, such as spinach or sorrel, and served as a pur6e; or the leaves can be thrown whole into soups, or chopped and sprinkled in like parsley, tarragon, &c. It cooks very quickly, and, where vegetables are allowed, may gene- rally be given with safety.CHAPTER II. BROTHS, SOUPS, MEAT ESSENCES AND JELLIES, BEEF TEAS, Etc. WITH DIRECTIONS FOR ADDING MILK AND PREPARING STOCKINVALIDS want the nourishment which is necessary to bring them back to health, in a particularly acceptable form. The appetite is natu- rally capricious, but BOVfilL is always relished and retained when other foods arc rejected. It soothes and satis- fies, and leads the way to speedy convalescence and rapid recovery. BOVRIL LIMITED, Food Specialists, LONDON. CHAIRMAN : The Right Hon. LORD PLAYFAIR, G.C.B., LL D. 'CONSULTING CHEMISTS: Professor SIR EDWARD FRANKLAND, K.C.B., M.D., Corr. Mem. French Institute. WILLIAM HARKNESS, F.I.C., F.C.S., F.R.M.S., 40 Hears Food Analyst to H.M, Qpvcrumont.CHAPTER II, Milk added to Soups.—It is an improvement, as a rule, to boil separately any milk that may be added to white soups, in small quantities, for the sake of increasing the nourishment, as the flavour is decidedly better, though it is often more convenient to put the cold milk to the con- tents of the soup pot, and bring to the boil. Great care is needed that the milk be fresh and pure ; stale milk, or a mixture of " milkings," may bring about curdling. Stock, Flavourless.—Attention is called to this, as, being made without any flavouring medium, it is very useful as a foundation for many dishes. Take a pound of gravy beef, the same of leg of veal, and a calf's foot. The meat should be cut small, and the foot properly pre- pared, all fat being removed and the bones chopped well. Pour over three and a half pints of cold water, cover, and leave to stand an hour or two ; then put in a saucepan and bring very slowly to the boil; add a pinch of salt and skim well, then cover and simmer for five or six hours; do not boil fast. Strain through a fine38 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. hair sieve or gravy strainer, and when cold take any fat from the top, and remove the sediment from the bottom. This is done with little waste by pouring a spoonful or two of boiling water over, and wiping away any impurities, though there should be but little, with care all through the process. Note.—Where economy is an object, the best parts of the foot may be removed as soon as sufficiently cooked, and served with sauce for a separate meal; but this reduces the strength of the stock. It can be made more gelatinous by adding a pound or so of chopped veal bonas, and any poultry trimmings can be put in for variety. Many delicious soups can be made from this by boiling a little of it with vegetables, &c, to extract the flavour, and adding more of the plain stock, with such thickening or other adjuncts as may be desired. For ordinary soups it will bear considerable dilution ; while for very strong ones a little meat extract can be added. It is admirably adapted for those soups that are thickened with cream and eggs. In capable hands this should be a most useful recipe. Mutton can replace the beef, or half of each used. Austrian Soup.—This is suited to the con- sumption of the most delicate if thickened soup is allowed. The soup should be thin but not clear ; or broth answers just as well. Make a light batter by beating a dessert-spoonful of siftedBroths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 39 Hungarian flour with a fresh egg and a scant half ounce of fresh butter ; this should be oiled, and dropped into the flour with the yolk of egg, and well beaten; then put the white in at the end, beaten first a little ; salt, a dash of pepper, and grated nutmeg are common seasonings. Let the soup boil, then pour the batter through a pointed strainer held high j stir with a whisk as it runs into the soup ; a couple of minutes will cook it. The amount to add to a cup of soup depends upon taste. Beef Juice or Essence.—Take fresh lean beef and shred it as small as possible right through the grain, then put it in a jar that will take it nicely, with a pinch of salt; set it in a saucepan with cold water half way up the jar, then let the water simmer round it for not less than five hours. The jar must be covered with a screw lid, or with a few folds of paper greased on the outside. Renew the water in the pan if required. During the cooking break up the meat twice or thrice with a fork, as it is apt to clot, and the nutriment is then not fully ex- tracted. A pound of prime meat will produce nearly or quite a quarter of a pint of essence. Strain it, pressing well that nothing may be lost. Best made in small quantities. Often ordered cold, or heated to about ninety degrees. Suitable only where a very little concentrated nourishment is required at a time. Although expensive, costing about a shilling, it will be40 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. found cheaper, and far more nutritious as well as palatable, than many patent preparations costing a couple of shillings for the same quantity. Note.—Mutton may be used similarly; a cut from the lean part of the leg, or the under-meat of the loin can be used; mutton and beef mixed are sometimes liked. Beef Tea.—Those best able to judge declare that many doctors have ceased to attach any importance to the value of beef tea, and that this is greatly due to the difficulty of getting it made as it should be. The rules for attaining success are few and simple, but they must be followed, for the principles that underlie the operation have almost all to do with the excellence or otherwise of the tea. That is, however much the proportions of meat and water may vary to suit particular cases, one should be quite clear as to the best ways of drawing out the nutritive properties of the meat. 1. Juicy meat is needed; it may be cut high up the leg, or the hip bone or rump or shoulder will furnish good meat. Shin of beef, or other parts that yield a good deal of gelatine, so that the tea forms a jelly when cold, is not the part to select. 2. All skin, fat, and gristle must be taken away, and the meat must be shredded, or cut very small, either by hand or passed through a mincing machine.Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 41 3. Freshly killed meat, particularly in warm weather, is required; meat that has hung has lost much of its juice. Avoid beef with yellow fat; it will be strong in flavour and coarse. 4. Always soak the meat in the water for a time when convenient. 5. All sorts, especially raw beef tea, are better fresh, therefore make enough only for twelve hours or less. 6. Beef tea should not boil. Note recipes in which directions as to seasoning and straining and other points are given. These directions are general. Beef Tea.—This is commonly called the slow method. Take a pound of beef and a pint of water with a pinch of salt (unless forbidden); cut the meat as small as possible, put it in the water, and let it stand for an hour or longer; then cover the jar or basin, and set it in a sauce- pan, with cold water to reach half way up ; put the saucepan lid on, and place over very gentle heat, that the water may come to the boil slowly. After this it should simmer for a couple of hours at least. The tea can then be strained for use through a coarse sieve or gravy strainer. If a fine one, a good deal of the nutriment is left behind ; whereas all should go through but the meat itself. Another way.—Useful in a hurry, but not so good, so only a little as a makeshift should be made this way. Use meat and water in the42 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. same proportions, but put them at once in a little saucepan; place over a slow heat and bring to the boiling point, but it should not actually boil; then strain for use. The meat will not have parted with all its juices in so short a time, so can be put in the stock pot, or used in some other way. If the water and meat can stand, even for a quarter of an hour, before this treatment, the tea will be improved, for it is while in the cold state that a good deal of the juices are drawn out. Note.—In following the first mode, do not omit to stir the meat now and then with a fork to prevent its forming a hard clot. Particularly avoid uncovering over a smoky fire, and cover again as soon as possible. Beef Tea Gruel.—About a gill of beef tea and the same measure of gruel should be mixed together and served hot; whether oatmeal gruel or any other kind is a matter of taste : it should be made with water and well cooked, and if cold beef tea be put to it, simply stir till boiling point is barely reached. Never thicken beef tea with oatmeal and then boil it until cooked; to be nutritious, the mode given must be followed. Thus made it is a very palatable combination, and useful for those on the way from " slops to solids," as the gruel may be made as thick as is desired. Beef Tea, Raw.—The average amount of meat is a pound to the pint of water, thoughBroths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jetties, etc. 43 sometimes half a pound to the pint is considered strong enough. As it is only required in special cases, the doctor usually gives directions as to the strength. Make small quantities only, enough for a few hours. Prepare the meat in the usual way, and let it stand in the water, covered, for an hour; add salt if allowed. Strain and press the meat; the tea should be a bright colour. Sometimes it may stand two hours with advantage. It looks more inviting if served in a red glass. Beef Tea, Savoury.—This is suitable for convalescents only, not in cases of acute illness. Take half a pound of beef, half a pint of cold water, and a pinch of salt; prepare the meat (see above), add the water and salt, and cover for half an hour. Stir occasionally. Have a tablespoonful of cleaned vegetables in thin slices, such as carrot, turnip, celery, and onion, or leek or shallot; add them with a clove, half a dozen peppercorns, a couple of allspice berries, a bay leaf, or sprig of parsley and thyme, or the whole as preferred. Cook in either of the ways given for beef tea above. Strain, leaving the meat and vegetables behind, and add salt to taste at the time of serving. A little wine may be ad,ded. Celery Soup.—See Celery, To Stew, Second Mode (Chapter IV.) Cook some celery as de- tailed, and have ready some boiling milk and stock mixed, about half a pint. Cook a little44 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. rizine, or fine sago, or crushed tapioca in this, till it is as thick as ordinary gruel, then add to the pulped celery with flavouring to taste. It is easy to thin down to the consistence liked; some prefer a porridge like soup of the vegetable class; others prefer it thin. Reference to other recipes will suggest many ways of varying this. Corn Flour (Brown & Poison's or Kingsford's Oswego) is an admirable thickener and soon cooked. Chicken Broth.—The amount of water to use must depend upon the age and size of the bird. From two to three pints if full grown, but a pint and a half for a small one. The bird should be cleaned, and the breast put by for another dish, as it is not required here, and so many dainties can be made from it that it is wasteful to use it where economy has to be studied. The joints should be subdivided, and some of the meat cut off, and the bones chopped and washed, if needful, a second time. All fat that would thicken the broth should be kept out. The internals are to be prepared as usual. The neck may want soaking in water. The feet are to be scalded and well scraped. Put all into a very clean pan with the cold water, and a little salt, and bring to the boil as carefully as pos- sible, removing every trace of scum as it rises ; add a pinch of salt now and then to throw it up. When the broth looks clear cover, and simmer for five hours or more. Strain through a hair sieve or fine gravy strainer, and when coldBroths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 45 remove the fat. This, as will be seen, is a simple broth, on which many changes can be rung. But there are times when it has to be given without any addition that would thicken or make it more tasty. Corn flour is nice to thicken it— a teaspoonful to a quarter pint of broth ; or rice can be boiled in it. French tapioca is very suit- able ; the broth should be brought to the boil, and the tapioca sprinkled in and cooked until clear. A morsel of mutton is sometimes added, and unless a patient is taking a fair amount, only half the bird should be used at once. Vegetables will make it more tasty. If any chicken is to be served in it, remove some as soon as tender, cut up small, and add at the time of serving. Chicken Essence.—The meat and bones are to be prepared as directed for Chicke?i Broth. The finer the division the better. All should be put in a jar and cooked like Beef Essence. Allow six hours. Rapid cooking is of no use for such food as this, the object being to draw out all possible nutriment. Strain, and give cold or warm as the case requires. Note.—Add no water, and only a little salt. The bones must be quite clean. Chicken Jelly.—Cut a chicken into joints, and subdivide them ; all fat and skin are to be taken away: remove all discoloured parts and wash and dry thoroughly. Crack the bones. Cover with cold water, from one to two pints—a pint and a half for a moderate-sized bird ; cover, D46 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc and cook in a saucepan of water for six hours at least; strain through a fine hair sieve, remove any fat that may rise to the top when cold, then melt, and pour into moulds for use. Chicken Tea.—This is very cheap. Get a pound of fresh cuttings from a poulterer, wash well, scald the feet, and put on with a quart of water and a little salt, and skim as needed. A morsel of meat of any sort (veal or beef is good) will improve it, or a few bones from neck of veal. For flavourers, see other recipes for broths and soups. But quite plain, with a little thicken- ing, as vermicelli, &c, it will meet many cases. Egg Broth.—Use a quarter of a pound of beef to half a pint of water, and proceed as if for beef tea. Having strained the liquid after cooking, beat up a raw egg, removing the speck; add to it a few tablespoonfuls of thick barley water or rice water, hot, then add the beef liquor, and beat over the fire for a minute or less, taking care it does not boil; season and serve; other meat can be so used. Suited to cases requiring nourishment, but where only weak meat dishes are allowed. Haricot Tea.—This is very nourishing; it is a vegetarian substitute for beef tea, and will be found useful to non-vegetarians, who are temporarily off meat dishes, even in the form of slops. Wash half a pint of haricot beans, and pour over a quart of cold water; slice an onion or a bit of celery, or any other vegetable allowed,Broths, Soup, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 47 add it, and then set the jar in a slow oven, and cook for several hours until the liquid is reduced to about a pint and a quarter, but the beans should not break up; have ready, about a quarter of an hour before removing from the oven, a tablespoonful of onions, sliced and fried a rich brown, and well drained from the fat; add these for the sake of the flavour and colour. A clove or two, and a little salt, are the only ingredients required for seasoning. Strain, and serve hot with toast in the usual way. Will keep in a cool place, and can be re-heated as required. - Hominy Soup.—From the nature of the grain this soup cannot be made in a hurry. Wash half a cup of hominy and soak for a time, say an hour, in cold water to cover, then drain, and cook it in enough light stock, or the water from boiled meat, to cover, until it is soft, and will absorb no more ; then thin down to the required consistence with any nice stock that may be handy. A very good milk soup may be made by using milk and flavourings; vegetables, or the juices of the same, must be regulated by the case. Lentil Milk Soup.—Wash a quarter of a pound of split, Egyptian lentils, until the water runs off clean ; remove any that float; soak in cold water for twelve hours, then pour the water off, and cover the lentils with a pint of cold white stock, and bake in a jar in a slow oven to a pulp. Nothing but a morsel of white sugar48 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. should be added, and a slice of onion or other vegetable for flavouring; now add a pint of milk and finish the cooking ; pass through a sieve and season with a little salt and pepper, and add a spoonful of cream to each half pint of soup. Half the quantity should be made in warm weather. Note.—Where milk disagrees, a good soup can be made by using all stock, and after sieving, the soup may be thickened with a little arrow- root or rice flour, and reboiled for a sufficient time. Meat Jelly.—This is very strong, and in- tended for patients who require small and frequent doses of nourishment; for instance, a teaspoonful will contain the nutriment of a small cup of ordinary beef tea. The meat must be of the freshest and best. Take half a pound each of beef and veal, and cut very small on a plate, so that no juice is lost. The best part of the neck of the veal is very suitable. Put in a clean jar with a tablespoonful or two of stock from veal bones or water, and a tiny pinch of salt unless forbidden. Cover with a lid, then tie a cloth over ; set the jar in hot water three parts of the way up, and let the water boil steadily and unceasingly for six or seven hours. A rapid boil one minute and cessation the next is useless. Strain the liquid and serve hot, tepid, or cold as required. Keep in a cold place. Press the meat thoroughly when straining. Prepare in a jarBroths, Soup, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 49 that just holds the meat. All these items con- tribute to the success of the jelly. For other hints, see Beef Essence. Meat and Arrowroot Jelly.—Sometimes relished when beef tea and similar fare has become nauseous. Make a cup of water arrow- root, thicker than usual, then flavour with Bovril, first dissolved in a little boiling water; may be taken hot or cold. A beaten egg improves it. See Arrowroot. Meat Tea, Very Good.—Take half a pound each of fresh lean veal and beef; mince, and add a pinch of salt, half a pound of chopped veal bones, a slice or two of onion with a clove; half a dozen allspice berries, a few peppercorns, and a quart of cold water; cover the jar, and cook in a moderate oven for four to five hours. Strain, and remove any fat when cold, then re- heat as required. This is very good with a little wine, and any thickening can be added to taste. Mutton Bone Jelly.—Take four shank bones of mutton, and crack them, after thorough clean- ing ; add a little seasoning and put them on with a quart of cold water; let them simmer for eight to ten hours, then strain, and flavour with a little meat extract, or wine, or whatever suits the case. May be served warm as a soup, or cold as a jelly. A little brown colouring im- proves the appearance—a hint that may be borne in mind at all times, in the case of colourless dishes. Lemon juice is a good flavourer.50 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. Mutton Broth.—A simple mode. Take a pound of the scrag end of mutton, not the part that just joins the head, but the next cut; wash it well, and cut in small pieces; put it in a saucepan with a quart of cold water, or, for a stronger broth, a pint and a half only; and a good pinch of salt, and bring to the boil as slowly as possible. Skim very well. A dessert- spoonful to a tablespoonful of pearl barley can be put with the meat. As soon as scum ceases to rise cover the pan, and let the contents simmer for three hours at least, and a little longer is better, then strain, and add more salt to taste; take off the fat when cold, and re-heat as re- quired. It may be served at once if wanted, so long as every particle of fat be taken off at first. A dessertspoonful, or half the quantity, of finely chopped parsley may be put in a few minutes before serving if allowed ; and a tablespoonful each of finely minced carrot, onion, and turnip, added for the sake of the flavour, will improve it greatly; celery may be used in the same way, and leeks are often much liked. All must be cleaned with care ; leeks are very gritty. Mutton Broth.—This is to be served with the meat in. Having washed a scrag of mutton, and cut it up, the bones being chopped through, put it to boil with a pint of water to the pound ; bring to the boil and skim ; when it has simmered a couple of hours take out the meat and bone, and cut up the best and leanest of the meat intoBroths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 51 small pieces ; set them aside covered ; then put back the bones to the liquor, with a sliced onion or white part of a leek, a little salt and pepper, or some peppercorns, a sprig of parsley, a little celery if liked, and some well-washed rice—two ounces to the quart, or even less, is generally enough; simmer for two hours more, and a few minutes before serving add the meat; remove the bones. Chopped parsley may be added, if liked, about a teaspoonful. The rice is prefer- ably soaked for a few hours in a little cold water first. A mixture of mutton and veal makes a nice broth of the kind. If made in summer and fresh vegetables are allowed, some green peas added will much improve it, the rice being reduced. A convalescent's dish. Onion and Oatmeal Soup.—Peel and slice an onion of medium size, scald and drain it, then cut in thin slices, and cook in an ounce of butter for half an hour, shaking the pan often ; it should not be allowed to take colour. Add a pint of stock from the bones of any sort of poultry, or calf s foot, or anything of a gelatinous sort; let it boil, and add a tablespoonful of coarse oatmeal by degrees ; simmer for an hour and a half at least, then add a pleasant seasoning of salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful, heaped, of corn flour, mixed to a paste with milk; boil again for ten minutes, and thin the soup if too thick, with more stock or hot milk as preferred. This is tasty and nourishing, and much approved52 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. by a physician in a case where the patient could not take ordinary porridge, but where it was de- sirable to give oatmeal in some form. Other vege- tables may be added—a little celery, for instance. The Queen's Soup.—Simmer two ounces of scalded pearl barley in a quart of light stock for two to three hours; put a third aside, the remainder is to be passed through a sieve ; finally mix the two preparations and thin down as required, with hot milk or cream, or mix them, adding a little salt. This is a modified form of a soup said to be a great favourite with the Queen. Here the cooking is prolonged, and more liquid added at starting. Note.—A soup something like the above is made by adding a slice or two of bread after an hour, and some button onions, or Spanish if pre- ferred ; the whole must be sieved after three to four hours' cooking: it is palatable and nutri- tious, and it is easy to obtain a soup of any desired consistence. Celery in small proportion much improves the flavour, and a blade of mace with a little white pepper are suitable seasonings. Sago Soup.—This is very delicious and nourishing, and from its soothing nature (being so smooth on the palate) it is particularly acceptable to sufferers from coughs and kindred ailments. Take a pint of mutton or beef tea, or chicken or mutton broth for a change, and add to it an ounce of fine sago that has been simmered separately in half a pint of water. The twoBroths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 53 should be blended while warm, and brought to simmering point again. The yolks of two eggs are then to be beaten up well, with about a wine glass full of cream, and the hot soup added gradually, beating well; add salt and a little pepper to taste, and return to the saucepan to heat, but not boil, or it will curdle. If allowed, a few drops of lemon juice will improve the flavour. In re-heating this, it is best to set the cup or basin in a vessel of boiling water until the desired temperature is reached. Where eggs disagree they must be omitted, then a little more sago and cream may be used with advantage. Mace gives a good flavour. See Mace. Sorrel Soup, Simple.—Take a large hand- ful of picked and washed sorrel, and put it in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, and a good pinch of salt and castor sugar; cover, and allow it to cook, shaking often, for a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes; add nearly a pint of rabbit or chicken or veal broth, or stock, and finish the cooking ; allow nearly forty minutes. Season pleasantly, then pour the boiling soup over the yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of cream beaten together in the tureen; stir well and briskly before serving. Serve with toast. It is an improvement to sieve the soup, and reboil, before pouring over the egg and cream. Those who dislike the adjuncts named may thicken the soup with a little rice or corn flour.54 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellits, etc. Tomato and Carrot Soup.—Take two ripe good-sized tomatoes and the outer part of a medium-sized carrot—the former to be cut in dice, and the latter grated. Heat half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, and put the vegetables in ; cook gently for ten minutes ; mix half an ounce of flour with a pint of white stock, add half a teaspoonful of salt, half a dozen pepper- corns, and two cloves stuck into a slice of onion, a pinch of sugar, and a sprig of thyme, or pinch of mixed herbs tied in muslin ; simmer for half an hour or rather more, then rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. A little more stock may be added to dilute it if too thick, or about a gill of boiling milk adds to the nourishment. The liquor from calf's feet, or head, or stock, from veal or mutton or poultry bones, can be used here. If only the flavour of the carrot is desired, cut it in strips, and remove before rubbing the rest through the sieve. Veal Broth.—Follow the recipes for Mutton Broth, using neck or leg of veal instead. A very good broth is got from a mixture of the two meats. Another nice broth is made by using veal and mutton, with a few scraps of poultry. When a patient has to be kept on broth for some time, it is a wise thing to vary the kind ; veal broth, long continued, is found relaxing generally. A little Bovril improves it. Vegetable and Bread Soup.—The flavour of this is delicious if fresh vegetables arc used,Broths, So2ips, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. 55 and the cooking be done in a scrupulously clean pan. Take a small carrot, a slice of turnip, the white part of a leek, and a small cauliflower, just the flower, no leaves; prepare, and boil these with a little salt until thoroughly done in a pint of water ; the leek must be separately semi-cooked first; pass through a coarse sieve, then add a slice of toasted bread and simmer the whole until it can be sieved, adding more water or milk to make it the required consistence, about that of ordinary gruel. Milk is recommended as the more nourishing; salt and pepper for seasoning, and a little butter added at first, together with a tiny lump of sugar, should not be forgotten. A sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, or a strip of celery, adds to the savour. This is an example of a maigre soup, that has in it rather more body than some other varieties, while it comes as a change from those thickened with cereals, or enriched with eggs and cream. But many little changes can be made; a spoonful of green peas, and carrot or something else reduced ; or the outer part of carrot only, and that grated, is satisfactory. Vegetable and Bread Soup with Bovril. —Follow the above recipe, using water or weak stock in place of milk, and add enough Bovril to make it a sherry colour or paler, not enough to destroy the vegetable flavour. This will suit those whose diet must consist largely of vegetables, but who incline to a little meat or a meaty flavour in combination.56 Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, etc. Vermicelli Jelly or Soup.—Very strongly recommended. This is taken hot as soup, or cold or tepid as a jelly; it differs from meat jellies in taste and appearance, and the vermicelli is easily digested. First the meat: take a pound, either beef and mutton, or these two meats with veal; or veal and mutton : the meat should be lean and some of it gelatinous. The neck of veal is very good; an ounce each of isinglass (Swinborne's) and vermicelli, three pints of cold water, and a little seasoning make up the total. The meat should be cut small and soaked in the water in advance, then add the rest and bring to the boil; simmer for four to five hours, water bath, or double-pan method. Pass through a strainer or coarse sieve; let all go through but the meat. Skim if needed when it begins to simmer, and during the cooking break up the meat, &c, now and then with a wooden spoon, as there is a tendency to clot in a lump, which prevents the full amount of the meat juices being extracted. It should be simmered down to less than a quart. Wine or brandy may be added after straining. If to be served cold, pour into shallow vessels (earthen) and set in a cold place. For hot service, pour into a basin, and remove any fat there may be at the time of re-heating. In most cases, half these quantities will be enough to prepare at one time.CHAPTER IIT. FISH DISHES. With Hints for the Selection, Stuffing, and Cooking of Fish, and for the Preparation of Fish Sauces.*Y £2 ' S PATENT SMALL MINCER OR " MASTICATOR" For preparing Food for Invalids and Children. Similar in principle to our well-known sausage machines, but smaller and specially designed for mincing meat, vegetables, &c, for those who from loss of teeth or other causes, are unable to masti- cate properly ; and for preparing food for children. The food, whether cooked or uncooked, hot or cold, is rapidly and thoroughly minced ; and when re- quired, may be kept hot during the process by previously immersing the Machine in warm water. Highly recommended by Dr. Heron Watson and other eminent Physicians, PRICE :—Enamelled, £\ lOs. ; or tinned with pure ") Carriage tin, £2 2s. ; Silver plated, £10 lOs. j paid. CAUTION.—As spurious imitations with LEAD fittings, highly injurious to health, rcquently substituted for NYE'S, be sure to see that the name is on the machine • .iien not purchased direct from the Makers. The larger sizes are used in Hospitals, Unions, fn., all over the Kingdom. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of other patterns of Mincers from 8s. 6d. ; Coffee Wheat. 4c, Mills, Knife Cleaners, and other useful inventions, post free on application to S. NYE, 139, OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W. Nearly opposite Berners Street. Crown 8vo, 128 pages, price Is. THE SPAS OF WALES: their Medicinal and Cura- tive Properties, with Information as to Scenery, Golf, Fishing, Shooting, Lawn Tennis, Cycling, and Grneral Attractions at each of the Spas. By T. R. Roubkts. Introduction. CONTENTS. Builth Wells—The Glanr.e "Wells and the Tark "Wells (Saline, Sulphureous, and Chalybeate). King- Arthur's Well, Carnarvon {Chalybeate). Lilandrindod Wells (Saline, Sulphureous, and Chalybeate). Iilangrammarch Wells (Barium and Calcium Chlorides). Lilanwrtyd Wells (Sulphureous and Chalybeate). Trefriw Wells (Sulphate Chalybeate). Miscellaneous Springs. " No climate, no waters, no baths, no air can be obtained or enjoyed on the Continent for the ' cure' of any disease whatsoever—we say this advisedly—which cannot he obtained in as great, or even greater, effi- ciency within the limits of our own island."—Lancet. " I hose who have neither time nor money for adventures abroad in search of health . . . would be well advised to try . . . the spas ot Wales."—Speaker. " It is altogether a usi ful and convenient handbook, and gives practically all the information that intending visitors would need."—Dundee Courier. "Tbo handbook, without doubt, is a very valuable one, and will be widely read." Carnarvon and Denbigh Herald, LONDON: JOHN HOGG, 13, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.CHAPTER III. Fish, Hints on.—Much care in the selection and cooking of fish is required, partly because fish is often allowed after an illness, before other solid foods, as meat and poultry, and because, too, un- less fresh it is most injurious, while careless cooking results in loss of flavour; again, badly cooked and dished it may bemade most unsightly. Good, firm flesh, with bright eyes and red gills, are encouraging signs, and what odour there is should not be the least unpleasant. The white varieties are the most suitable, and the best of these are soles, whitings, fresh haddock, then come plaice, and for convalescents some of the other sorts of flat white fish of the larger kind. Whiting has been termed the " sea chicken," from its digestibility. No fish wants cooking more quickly; never use it when dull looking and broken : brightness and stiffness must be looked for. Fresh haddock should be selected when small, and cooked the same as whitings. Soles are often too dear to be used, but the lemon sole is very nice, and no bad substitute for the sole proper. The dark skins must beFish Dishes. 6o removed from either, and as a rule the white skin is taken away, though this can sometimes be digested. Oily fish and shell fish are not, strictly speaking, invalid food, with the excep- tion of the oyster, and eels in the form of broth. The reason for this is that the two sorts, oily and shell, are much harder to digest; the latter not unfrequently set up skin disturbances. With fish, as with other foods, the instructions of the doctor should be followed. Boiled fish recipes are not included herein ; steaming, the next thing to boiling, is agreed to be a much better way, especially for the sick. There are many recipes for fish dishes that will afford nourishing and toothsome variety. When- ever boiled fish is given it may be added that it should be cooked in a small quantity of water to a turn, not a moment too long, and drained and served as soon as done. See Vinegar. Cream Stuffing for Fish.—Mix two large tablespoonfuls of fine white bread crumbs with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a small salt- spoonful of powdered thyme or mixed sweet herbs, about as much salt, a dust of pepper and nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of grated lemon-rind. When blended thoroughly, add a large table- spoonful of cream, then add more, little by little, until a moist paste is formed; use for a good- sized whiting or a small fresh haddock. Another way. —Ovaxt the thyme or mixed herbs, and add instead a few drops of anchovyFish Dishes. 61 essence ; other ingredients as before, except that the salt should be reduced a little. Another way, suitable for delicate cases is to use nothing but the parsley, bread, and cream, with a minute amount of seasoning ; this, though very plain, is a pleasant change from the class of fish dishes usually given in acute illness. Fish, Baked in Milk.—Take a small flat fish or a fillet or two, or a slice from fish with bone in, such as brill, halibut, plaice, &c, or a whiting or small fresh haddock may be cooked in the same way. Clean and dry the fish, then lay it in a baking tin or shallow dish, and pour over as much milk as will moisten it. The tin should be buttered a little, and a sheet of white buttered paper must be put on the top and tucked in at the sides. Seasoning to taste may be added. Bake the fish in a moderate oven until quite done but not broken ; more milk may be wanted should it dry too quickly, and if sauce is wanted, use enough milk to ensure some being left with which to make a little sauce. Fish so cooked is very nice cold. It bears re-heating well, being moist. If a brown appearance is likely to be more appreciated, some warm raspings can be shaken over the fish before serving. Fish,Broiled or Grilled. - Whether cooked over thefire (grilling) or before the fire (broiling), if properly done it will be more digestible than fried fish, while it is savoury enough to satisfy \he cravings of the invalid for " something tasty." EFish Dishes. 62 Indeed, it is considered to have the savour of fried fish without any of its indigestibility. The first thing is to have the fish dry and fresh ; if a whiting or small fresh haddock, gash it in a few places each side in a slanting direction, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. The gridiron should be dry and clean, well heated, and rubbed with a morsel of butter without salt or pure salad oil. The fish must cook carefully so as not to scorch, and should be turned once or twice, and care against smoking must be taken. It should be crisp when done and a delicate brown, and served very hot. A little cold butter is a good addition, or maitre d'hotel butter. If broiled, a hanging broiler must be used, or a Dutch oven, according to one's resources ; the principles are the same. A flat fish or a slice can be cooked in these ways. From the first-named fish the skin is generally removed. They may be split right open instead of being gashed, if preferred; and in the case of haddock the entire fish may be brushed over with oil or warm butter as a further precaution against dryness. Note.—The cooking from start to finish should be quicker for a thin than for thick fish. A gas grill enables one to cook fish very nicely, if it is allowed to become quite hot before the fish is put under—a very important point. Eel Broth.—Allow half a pound of the fish, after cleaning and skining, to two to three pints63 Fish Dishes. of water; but regard these proportions as approximate, for in some cases the broth is required stronger, say a pint and a half of water to the half pound. Cut the fish up, add a few white peppercorns, a little salt, a slice or two of onion, and a clove with a sprig of parsley : thyme is added sometimes. Bring to the boil very slowly, and take the scum off as it rises ; a pinch of salt and a little cold water should be added after the first boil up; when no more scum rises, cover and simmer gently until reduced to half, then strain through a hair sieve and set by till cold. Remove the fat from the top (unless otherwise ordered); warm as much as is required at a time, and serve with toast. Wine is often added. Fish, Filleted, Steamed.—Take a fillet or two of any flat fish, such as plaice or sole—the latter is the better, and lemon sole is a very good substitute for the ordinary sole and much cheaper. The black skin of either used should be removed, and the white skin if the digestive powers are weak. At the same time, by leaving it on, the flavour of the fish is better, and it may, if liked, be taken away before serving. The fish should be washed and dried well. Butter a plate a little, lay the fish on, and season with a morsel of salt and pepper, add a few drops of lemon juice to whiten and flavour, then put a second plate over, and place over a saucepan of boiling water adapted to the size of the plates ; keep the water boiling for a quarter of an hour to twenty64 Fish Dishes. minutes according to thickness of fish; when done it will look white throughout. It should be turned once during the cooking by reversing the plates. If the white skin be left, put that side down at starting. If sauce be served, drain the liquor from the plate and add to it, as it will much improve it. In cases where butter is un- suitable, carry out the recipe by using a little milk to moisten the fish ; the lemon juice is an optional item. Fish cooked thus is very different from boiled fish ; it looks nice and is tasty and nutritious. Note.—A whiting can be so cooked, or a slice of fish with the bone, so long as time in propor- tion to thickness be allowed; there must be no trace of redness near the bone in properly cooked fish. Attention is called to this mode, for, simple as it is, experience in teaching has proved that it is but little known. It is admirably adapted for the re-heating of fish and other articles of food. The saucepan should not be more than half filled with water. Another way is to cover the fish with a bit of white paper, greased a little, then to put the saucepan lid over. If cooked on the dish or plate on which it will be sent to table, always wipe the edges and underneath. Cold butter is often allowed as an accompaniment where hot sauce is not suited. Or bread and butter can be eaten with it. Fish Sauce, Tasty.—This is delicious with65 Fish Dishes. all sorts of white fish ? as given it is thick enough for masking any fish, but for serving in a boat or round the fish it may be made thinner by reducing the flour to three-fourths or two- thirds the quantity. Melt an ounce of fresh butter, and stir in half an ounce of corn flour; put in a quarter of a pint of cold water and stir to the boil. Cook for a minute, then off the fire; beat in the yolk of a raw egg and half a tea- spoonful each of chopped capers, parsley, first scalded, and lemon juice; the mixture should thicken well, but not boil after the egg goes in, and the other ingredients must be added little by little. A pinch of salt and pepper complete the seasoning. Where the flavour of onion is liked, a thin slice may be stirred in and removed at the end, or a few drops of onion juice will serve the same purpose; for a " twang" of onion, just rub the pan with a slice of it, before melting the butter. Fish Souffle.—A bit of sole or whiting, or even fresh haddock if small, may be used for this, which is a dainty dish, depending more on care in making than cost for its excellence; a watery fish such as plaice is not suitable. Take a quarter of a pound of raw fish, free from bone or skin, scrape it finely, and put in a mortar; then cook half an ounce of butter, an ounce of flour, and a gill of milk and cream mixed, one- third of the latter to two-thirds of the former; it should leave the sides of the saucepan clean,Fish Dishes. 66 and be well stirred; put this panada into the mortar with a beaten egg, and then pound the whole together and rub through a coarse sieve. A better way is to cook the milk only with the flour and butter, and whip the cream, which is to be stirred in after sieving; or the white of an egg can be left out and whipped and put in at the last moment. Butter little cup-moulds or any small ones—darioles, for instance—three parts fill, and steam for about a quarter of an hour; let them stand a minute before turning out, and serve with or without sauce. A small palette-knife is useful in turning out all such dishes, as it can be passed easily round between the mould and its contents. These may be re- heated easily. Fish Stewed in Milk.—Take a stewpan and put in some milk to get hot but not to boil. About half a pint is the average ; it should just cover the fish, which may be a whiting, sole, or any other suited to invalid consumption; first wash and dry the fish, then lay it in the milk and simmer for ten to twenty minutes, according to size. When done, take it up with a slice, place on the dish for serving, and put a few drops of lemon-juice over with a little season- ing ; a few pepper-corns can be boiled in the milk; then add a good teaspoonful of corn flour mixed with cold milk to that in the stewpan, and boil all up ; pour over or round the fish. Kedgeree.—Place in a saucepan an equalFish Dishes. 67 weight of cold cooked fish, minus skin and bone, and flaked and cut small, and nicely boiled rice, which can be warm or cold ; add, supposing a couple of ounces of each, either a dessertspoonful of cream or a morsel of fresh butter and season- ing, such as pepper and salt and a dust of nut- meg, lemon, or mace, or chopped parsley; stir until hot, then beat in the yolk of an egg, and as soon as hot through, serve in a dainty little pile. If liked softer, add more cream or some milk, then half the yolk of an egg will suffice for this quantity. Some little garnish, such as parsley or a slice or two of lemon, should be added. This differs from ordinary " kedgeree " in being more nourishing, less seasoned, and containing no hard-boiled eggs. If allowed, a few drops of anchovy essence will improve it. Lemon Stew.—Take a moderate-sized whit- ing, clean and bone it, then cut it in three or four parts, and put in a stewpan with a mixture of milk and water to barely cover it. Add a little seasoning of salt and pepper; lay on the top of the fish three or four thin slices cut from middle of a good sound lemon ; stew as slowly as possible, as the fish must be well done but not the least raggy. Take it up and remove the lemon; serve with the liquor, or part of it, poured round. This is a tasty and digestible snack. Where milk disagrees, a mild fish stock can replace it, and the dish still be a very good imitation of the real thing.Fish Dishes, 68 Oysters.—These are in prime condition when the letter r appears in the month. They cannot be too fresh for invalids. Sometimes the hard part, i.e., "the eye," is removed. Oysters are easy of digestion, and the only shell-fish that should ever (unless by doctor's orders) be given to the sick. They are best eaten raw, or as near that condition as possible, so much care is needed in cooking them. They ought never to be boiled in their liquor, as is sometimes directed. They may be put in the strained liquor and brought almost to the boil; or they can be drained from the liquor and placed in a gravy strainer and held over a saucepan of boiling water for a few seconds. In these ways they may be heated enough without hardening. If the liquor is not all wanted at once it should be used in some other way; various hints are given in recipes herein. Alcohol in any form should not be taken with oysters, as it hardens them and so retards digestion. Bread and butter is the best accompaniment; lemon-juice, if an acid is liked, should replace vinegar. Oysters, Stewed. — Beard half a' dozen oysters and then make a sauce. Melt half an ounce of fresh butter in a little pan, add a quarter of an ounce of flour, and stir; then put in three quarters of a gill, or thereabouts, of milk and oyster liquor mixed, with or without a spoonful of cream ; bring to the boil and season with a little salt and pepper and a pinch of groundFish Dishes. 69 mace ; this should simmer for a minute or two ; then cut the oysters through and add them ; cover and let them heat through, but do not boil. The cream may be omitted, and the yolk of an egg beaten well, put in just before the oysters. Serve with toast or plain biscuits or rusks. A few drops of lemon-juice, off the fire, will improve if acids are allowed. Oyster and Chicken Rolled Sand- wiches.—These are dainty and delicious, though more trouble than the ordinary sandwich. Pound a little cooked chicken, first minced, with a spoonful of white sauce or a little cream to a moist paste; add an equal bulk of chopped oysters; season with pepper, mace, a drop of anchovy essence, and a little lemon-juice; then put in enough fine bread crumbs or plain biscuit crumbs to give such solidity to the mass that it can be shaped on a board into natty little rolls. Place each one on a thin slice of brown bread and butter, crustless; roll up, and dish in a little pile; garnish with cress. Below is an easier way. Oyster and Chicken Sandwiches.—The mixture is prepared as above, but a trifle softer —all the better in some cases ; put it on a plate and smooth the top with a palette-knife; cut into any shape with a cutter and finish as before, stamping out the bread and butter with the same cutter. Slips, Baked.—These little fish are often to7o Fish Dishes. be bought veiy cheaply, and a few are some- times included as "makeweights" in the weekly- parcels sent direct from the sea. They should be washed and scraped, and brushed on the white side with oil or butter, and covered with bread crumbs. Bake in a brisk oven until brown and well cooked; no sauce is wanted, but they should be garnished with lemon and parsley. Sole au Gratin.—Butter a fiat dish and sprinkle with fine white bread crumbs ; then lay on the fillets ; season with salt and pepper; proceed as for Whiting au gratin; cover with more crumbs and bake for twenty minutes, or until the fish is quite tender. Sole in Gravy.—Some invalids who have tired of fish with its natural flavour will relish it if a " meaty " taste be given. A small sole may be cooked whole for a minute in water, then drained and put into a little gravy, got by boil- ing down the trimmings for a short time and straining, then adding enough extract of meat to give a pale brown colour and the desired flavour; flavouring ingredients, such as parsley, lemon- rind, or a suspicion of onion with a pinch of nutmeg, may be added, and if a thin gravy be objected to a teaspoonful of arrowroot or corn flour can be added to half a pint. Fillets from a large fish can be similarly served, and any left over may be re-heated in the gravy. Note.—Cook in the gravy gently until the fish is done.7* Fish Dishes. Vinegar for Boiled Fish, &c.—There is little scope for vinegar in sick room cookery; the greater the need for its purity. When vine- gar can be used the Victoria Date Vinegar may be recommended, as much by reason of its deli- cious flavour as its freedom from any adulterant. In many cases it may with safety replace lemon juice, and is much cheaper. A little added to the water for boiling fish adds to its firmness, and as acids throw up the scum the colour of the fish is improved. In many dishes of game and poultry, as well as meat of various kinds, besides gravies and sauces, a little acidity often improves the appetite ; at the same time, it must be added, that acids are sometimes quite inadmissible. For everyday cookery the Victoria Date Vine- gar is excellent. Whiting or Fresh Haddock au gratin.— Take a small whiting, fillet it, and put the fillets on a mixture of bread crumbs, with a little chopped parsley and a morsel of minced and scalded onion, with pepper and salt and a grate of nutmeg; the dish should be buttered first and the mixture put over it evenly. The fish should be in one layer. Put more of the crumbs, &c, on the top, and here and there a morsel of fresh butter. Pour round the fish nearly a gill of stock from the bones, or a little water and sherry or stock and sherry or other light wine commonly used for cooking purposes. Bake in a good oven until the fish is tender, about twenty72 Fish Dishes. minutes. If haddock, select a small one, and cook half, making two fillets of it. These little dishes are inexpensive and easily prepared, and afford a welcome variety for convalescents. Onion-juice can replace the chopped onion, or it may be omitted and a few drops of anchovy essence added. Again, a spoonful of lemon- juice can replace either. Baste now and then. Whiting Toast.—Take the remains of a cooked whiting and pound it with a little grated lemond-rind and juice and a sprinkling of salt and pepper, then add a little boiling milk, gradually; it should be a moist paste—half cream is better ; thicken it over the fire after the yolk of an egg has been beaten in ; it should not quite boil. Spread over buttered toast and serve hot. Another Way.—Omit the egg; spread the fish mixture on the toast and serve a lightly poached egg on the top. A soupcon of anchovy essence improves. Other white fish can be used in this way. A mixture of oyster liquor and cream is good for moistening, and the savour may be increased in many ways.CHAPTER IV. SAVOURY DISHES. MEAT, POULTRY, VEGETABLES, Etc. With Hints on Drawing and Trussing Fowls.Used EXCLUSIVELY in the HOTEL CECIL, a number of the Gordon Hotels, and $JJ other principal Hotels and Restaurants. Universal Cookery and'Food SOLD EVERYWHERE. Exhibition, 1896. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR DELICIOUS in Flavour and Aroma and pronounced by- experts in culinary matters SUPERIOR to Wine and Malt Vinegars. for TABLE use. UNRIVALLED FOR SALADS. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR is also used exclusively in the preparation of Pickles by several of the most celebrated Manufacturers. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR is a Fragrant and Pure Table Vinegar, delicate and soft in flavour, yet sufficiently strong for all Household purposes. A Tasting Sample of the Vinegar will be sent Post Free on receipt of application to The Victoria Date Co., Ltd., 112, Belvedere Road, LAMBETH, LONDON, S.E.CHAPTER IV. Fowls, Drawing and Trussing.—Direc- tions are not given herein for these operations, as any good cookery-book will supply the in- formation. The fact that washing is required may be enforced, for indifferently cleansed poul- try will prove anything but appetising, and the common habit of buying birds that have been kept for some days after killing, undrawn, should not be entertained. Use a trussing needle and string in preference to skewers; and do not break the breastbone; it spoils the bird for neat carving. Tasty Sauce for Game.—Take a teaspoon- ful of chopped shallot, and fry it a pale brown in a little butter or olive oil; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of salt, pepper, and nut- meg, a teaspoonful of dissolved red or black currant jelly and the pulp of a small tomato ; put in a small teacupful or so of stock, or soup (clear), or gravy from game or poultry bones, and simmer a little, then sieve and serve hot. May be thickened if liked. A very good sauce in which to re-heat game, or a bit of fowl, may acquire fresh flavour so treated.Savoury Dishes. 76 Asparagus, Steamed.—Trim and prepare in the usual way, but remove the hard white part; in fact, leave only that which is tender enough to be eaten. Set it, points up, in a little jar or tin mould that will take it comfortably, and see that the heads of the asparagus are not hanging over the sides of the jar, otherwise they may break off. Set it into a saucepan, with enough fast boiling water to come halfway up the jar, over which a sheet of buttered paper should be laid ; cover, and keep the water boil- ing until the asparagus is done, which will be from forty to fifty minutes according to size. Any liquid from the jar should be put in the sauce served with it; but it is excellent with nothing more than a squeeze of lemon juice and a little hot cream. In this way there will be loss of colour, but gain in flavour and nutriment. Bacon, Crumbed.—Take some fat bacon, boiled and cold; it is better if rather thick; slice it thinly and evenly, and cover the slices with fine bread crumbs, pressing them on firmly. Toast before the fire, or grill as most convenient, very gently, until the bacon is hot through and the crumbs delicately browned. The crispness is increased by using crumbs that have been dried in the oven and bottled ; or raspings, if only pale to start with can be used, but care has to be taken to prevent too brown a tint in cook- ing the bacon. So cooked, bacon, whether to serve alone or with fowl, &c, is often relishedSavoury Dishes. 11 and found more digestible by a convalescent than when prepared in any of the usual ways. Trim the bacon on both sides. Beef Balls, Raw.—Take a beef steak, fresh, and of prime quality, and scrape the pulp from it, leaving the fibrous part behind ; there must be no fat or skin with the pulp; moisten it with a very little cream, and form into balls the size of nutmegs or a trifle larger; have ready a hot baking tin, or a stout frying-pan, well heated; roll the meat over the hot surface of either for a minute, until the outside is browned. It must be done quickly, for the object is to present the meat in a form akin to rawness, but appetising in appearance. Various additions are made by some authorities, with a view to disguise the taste and appearance of the meat, such as brandy, spices, &c.; but as it is usually in cases of acute illness that such food is demanded, it is well to avoid highly flavoured adjuncts. Should cream be objected to (though it is a very great improvement), sprinkle the meat with a drop or two of cold water during the shaping process. Brain Patties.—Cut rounds of bread, with- out crust, nearly three quarters of an inch thick; stamp half through with a smaller cutter, and scoop out the bread; then fry the cases pale and crisp, and drain. The filling is thus made. Take the brains of a calf, boiled and chopped, flavour with a morsel of cooked ham, chopped to the finest degree, parsley or lemon rind, very little, FSavoury Dishes. 73 a drop of anchovy essence, salt and pepper, and a suspicion of mace or nutmeg. Reduce to a soft consistence with a spoonful of white sauce or cream, heat very carefully, and fill the cases ; a dessertspoonful of the mixture is enough for each. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley. Note.—A little cold chicken makes the mix- ture more substantial. A convalescent's dish, and a very good one. Brains, Scalloped.—Take some cooked brains, cut them up, and put with a little white or brown sauce ; the mixture should be so thick as to just drop from the spoon ; butter some scallop shells and strew with browned crumbs, put in some of the mixture, and coat the top with more crumbs, moistened with a little clari fied butter, then heat in the oven, or for more delicate patients serve at once, using dry crumbs ; set under the grill of a gas stove for a minute if not quite brown enough. Note.—Cooked rice, or macaroni, cut up, may replace the crumbs. If allowed, a morsel of cooked ham or bacon, minced, will make the dish more tasty. Brains, to Imitate Sweetbread.—Take the brains from a sheep's head, wash and blanch them, and then put them on to boil in a little nicely seasoned broth or stock; they should cook rather fast, and when quite firm take them up and leave to get cold ; then split lengthwise, and brush over with beaten egg; cover withSavoury Dishes. 79 bread crumbs or plain biscuit crumbs, and fry a pale brown in deep fat; drain and serve hot. Note.—Ii a little bacon be allowed, after frying, it can be kept warm, while the sweetbread is fried in the fat that has run from it; a little more will have to be added, and it must be quite hot before the brains are put in ; then cook one side, turn and cook the other. In this way- allow a little less time for the boiling, and about five minutes for the frying. Lamb's sweetbreads are nice in the same way. Brain Toast, French.—Toast a slice of bread without crust, on one side only, and on the untoasted side spread the following mix- ture : Chop up the brains from a boiled sheep's or lamb's head—they must be cleaned with nicety and well cooked ; add a little salt and pepper, a pinch of mace or nutmeg, a few drops of lemon juice, and enough cream or gravy to make the mixture soft; heat before spreading, and serve at once. Another way.—In place of gravy or cream use the yolk of an egg, beat it well, and beat again after adding to the brains ; heat in a jar set in boiling water ; parsley can be added or a few drops of onion juice. Calf's brains may be used in either of these ways. Brains on TOAST.—Use the brains of a calf or sheep. Wash them in warm water, then in cold until clean ; then soak in cold water for an hour; skin, and tie the brains loosely in a bit8o Savoury Dishes. of muslin; put in cold water and bring to the boil; remove, and put into a little hot stock or water, with a spoonful of lemon juice, a bit of parsley, and a strip or two of carrot and onion. A clove and a few white peppercorns and a pinch of salt must be added. Simmer until done, about twenty minutes. Serve on toast with a little white sauce over; use some of the boiling liquor to make it; or milk is better, being whiter, then the liquor will come in for another dish. This is tasty and digestible. Calf's Foot Fritters.—Take a cooked foot while still warm, and remove the bones; put it on a dish, and season with lemon juice, cover with a plate, and put weights or irons on to flatten the foot. Then, when cold, stamp in neat shapes with a cutter, or cut in slices or little blocks. Coat with flour, then with beaten egg, and finally with fine bread or plain biscuit crumbs, seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and lemon rind or chopped parsley. Fry a nice brown in deep fat; drain, and serve with rice or macaroni, or nicely cooked vegetables. Note.—The remains of calf's head may be served similarly. Calf's Foot in Milk.—Take a blanched foot, cut it up, and cover with milk, about a quart; set it in the oven, or cook in a water bath until the flesh falls from the bones. Strain while hot, and give as a soothing drink, or pour into little moulds and serve cold. The seasoningSavoury Dishes. 81 must be regulated by the case : a little salt and pepper will suffice in many cases; but for con- valescents, any of the flavourings common to soups, i.e. vegetables, herbs, &c, may be added. A mixture of milk and water will be better borne by many, and any thickening can be added. See recipes under Milk. An ox foot can be used, half for a quart of milk, but the flavour and colour are not so delicate; one " cooked" (so called) from the tripe shop will do, as there is a lot of gelatine in them. Celery.—This is well known as one of the best of vegetables, but its good properties are minimised by the mode of cooking, too often. The thing is to use the liquor in which it is cooked, as well as the celery itself. Take the inner part, well cleaned, brush well and wash in plenty of cold water. A vegetable brush is a very useful article, but any parts that do not yield to the brush must be scraped with a knife. Celery, to Stew.—Tie the stalks up with tape, and put them in a mixture of milk and water, at simmering point, to cover, no more; add a little salt and cook till tender; may take an hour, or nearly, or may be done in half the time. Drain and keep hot, then add a little flour or corn flour mixed with cold water to the liquor, and boil up, and pour over the celery; butter en- riches, but does not always agree. All milk can be used for the cooking. A slice or two of82 Savoury Dishes. onion is liked with it in some cases just for the flavour ; also a little white pepper and mace. Another way,—This is delicious. Take the white part of a small head, and slice it up thinly into a stewpan with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg or mace. Add half an ounce of butter, cover, and cook gently until the celery is soft: it takes some time; mind it does not burn—it should not even brown. Then stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour with half a gill of milk and cream mixed, and boil all for a quarter of an hour or so. This should be pulpy and thick. ' Better if put through a sieve before the final treatment. By adding more milk or stock to thin it to the right consistence, a nice sauce is got; and by thinning still more one gets soup, which should be served with crisp toast. Chicken Dishes.—The amount of space given to these may appear disproportionate, but they are given with a definite object. The first solid nutriment allowed is often a bit of fowl, and these dishes should be regarded as typical of others, because the same treatment will answer for rabbit, or a mixture of white meat, as veal and poultry. Again, the "roast and boiled," above which some never rise, are apt to pall; hence the other modes given should supply a want. A very perfectly cleaned bird is essential, and when the flesh is to be eaten it cannot be too tender. Chicken and Rice.—Take a chicken, quiteSavoury Dishes. 83 young (scarcely larger than a good pigeon), trussed for boiling, and place in baking dish with a cover. Wash two ounces of rice, and put it with half a pint of cold water and a pinch of salt in a saucepan, and bring to the boil; pour all over the bird j add a few white peppercorns, a bit of bacon, just a strip or two to flavour, and a little ground mace. Cover, and cook in a tin of water in a slow oven until the bird is done; then dish it, and add a spoonful or two of cream to the rice, or a bit of fresh butter, and a little chopped parsley; serve it round the bird, quite hot. The bacon may be removed or not, and various additions in the form of seasoning may be made; it may be necessary to add a little more water or any light stock during the cooking, as the rice should not get dry. A nice dish for convalescents. Note.—Any rice left over can be thinned down with stock for soup. Chicken, Broiled or Grilled.—Only a very young bird is suited to these modes. Half at a time can be cooked : split it right down the back and breast. Or, for a tiny bird, cut through the back only, and cook the whole. Brush with warm butter, season a little, then cook gently. The gridiron should be heated, greased, and very clean. Keep one for meat and one for fish. Turn often, and do not cook too quickly; use a palette-knife or spoon handle for the turning. About half an hour is the time, more or less,Savoury Dishes. 84 according to age and size. Put the cut side of the bird to the fire first, to close the pores, and keep in the nutriment. It should be well done, but not over done and dry. A little lemon juice gives piquancy; or pure tomato pulp, sieved and seasoned a little; a morsel of butter im- proves it. Bacon maybe served with it in some cases. Note.—A pigeon may be prepared in the same way, but will take a trifle less time. A little watercress is a suitable garnish. Chicken Croquettes.—A dish for conva- lescents. Chop three ounces of the white meat of a cooked chicken without skin, with nearly an ounce of cooked ham or bacon, rather fat. Make a sauce with half an ounce of butter, rather more than half as much of flour, and half a gill of light stock and milk mixed; it should boil up well or will taste raw. Salt, pepper, and mace, or lemon rind may be used to season. A morsel of chopped parsley is an improvement. Add the meat, &c, to the hot sauce, and mix, then turn on a flat dish to cool; then make into little balls or cakes, and egg, crumb, and fry in hot, deep fat; serve daintily. Chicken, Minced.—A slice or two of the breast, from a roast or boiled chicken, is very nice, cut in tiny dice, and re-heated in a little bread sauce. It must be made rather thinner than usual, and as soon as hot through serve. See Re-heating of Food. The sauce should be85 Savoury Dishes. made as tasty as the case permits. A bit of wing of chicken can be similarly served. The yolk of an egg can be beaten in to increase the nutriment, and in this way quite a small amount of chicken will serve for a meal. Note.—If any green vegetable be allowed, pour the mince into the centre, and so make the dish attractive to the eye. Chicken or Pigeon Steamed.—Truss as for boiling, rub over with lemon juice, and put in a jar, with a little butter and salt and pepper; cover and set in a potato steamer, or cook by the " water-bath" plan ; either way, cover the jar well, and see that the saucepan lid fits. Let the water boil till the bird is done. All the liquor from it must be saved (the fat removed) and added to any gravy that is served with it; or it is nice as it is, if flavoured a little ; and the bird should be very tender and full of moisture; very much nicer than one boiled, however care- fully. The butter can be omitted, then the gravy is ready for immediate use. Chicken or Rabbit, to Cook Economic- ally.—A wing or breast of chicken, or a shoulder or cut from the back of a rabbit, can be nicely cooked in a jar, in a mixture of milk and light stock, with such flavourings as suit the case. Cover and steam as long as is required. It may take an hour, to two. In this way the inferior parts can be used for broth, &c.; or say half a chicken grilled; a joint cooked thus, and theSavoury Dishes. 86 rest used for broth or soup. With management one gets several dishes at small cost. Chop, Minced.—Take a mutton chop, and mince the lean part only, with a tablespoonful of bread crumbs, and a little salt and pepper, and just moisten with gravy from the bone, or any light stock; form it into an oval cake or shape like a chop. Put it in a saucer with enough gravy to prevent dryness, cover, and cook over boiling water for half an hour, or according to thickness. Turn it once while cooking. A little meat ex- tract may be added to the gravy to make it more savoury. For convalescents, change is effected by adding a morsel of ham (chopped) or herbs to vary the flavour. Very useful where power of mastication is feeble. Chop, Steamed.—Take a small chop, or cutlet of mutton, and remove all skin and super- fluous fat, and place between two buttered plates over a pan of boiling water. Turn once or twice, and let the water simmer for thirty minutes or more, according to the thickness and condition of the meat; it must be done, but when that point is reached there is loss, rather than gain, by further cooking. A little stock or gravy from a joint may be used to moisten, or it can be served as it is, with a little more butter, and seasoning if allowed. Dutch Sweetbreads.—Take half a pound of lean veal from the leg, scrape it to a pulp, then add it to two ounces of bread crumbs, soaked inSavoury Dishes. 87 a little milk and squeezed dry; chop two ounces of suet to the finest degree, mix, and add an egg and a little seasoning of salt, pepper, ground mace and grated lemon rind ; a good pinch of the latter. Make up into two or three oval cakes, dredge with flour, coat with beaten egg, and fine bread or plain biscuit crumbs. Fry a light brown, drain, and leave to cool, Now make half a pint of thin white sauce; lay the cakes in, and cook for about half an hour, very gently. The sauce- pan should be set in a tin of water, so that burning is impossible. Add a little lemon juice and serve hot. A good dish for convalescents. Half the quantity of suet will be found more acceptable to many. Fowl a la Casserole.—Take a small fire- proof china saucepan and put in it either a joint or two of chicken, or some slices from breast and legs; add enough sliced, skinned tomatoes and onions to cover the bottom and top, the fowl being sandwiched in between the seasoning; the proportions may be left to taste; the onions should be skinned. Cook in the oven very gently until the fowl is done, then serve in the casserole with a serviette pinned round. A china baking dish with a lid serves just as well. A little stock may be added if extra gravy is liked, and tomato pulp used instead of the slices. For a more savoury dish add mixed herbs. Gravy Panada.—This is simple and excellent if rightly made. The main point is to use gravySavoury Dishes. 88 free from a trace of fat, and to take time in the beating, so that the bread becomes a pulp. Allow about a gill of gravy from a joint, beef or mutton, and half the measure of fine bread crumbs; mix both in a saucepan and stir to the boil, then beat well, and let it stand a few minutes covered; season nicely and serve in a hot cup. Beef gravy is generally appreciated; in the case of mutton, if not as good as it should be, add a morsel of extract of meat to improve taste and appearance. Lamb's Head with Rice.—Cleanse and soak a head in cold water for some hours ; then put it on to boil in warm water to cover, with a sprig of thyme and parsley, and a few slices of onion, scalded. Add a few white peppercorns and a clove or two, and a pinch of salt; remove the scum, putting in a little cold water now and then, until no more rises, then cook until the head is done, and the meat drops from the bones. The best parts of the head are to be served on a hot dish and the rice placed round. It is to be boiled in a separate saucepan; some of the liquor from the head may be poured over the meat just to moisten it, and if it agrees, a pat of butter may be mixed amongst the rice. The liquor, and bones and trimmings of the head, may be con- verted into delicious soup. See Rice. Mutton Boudins.—Take a quarter of a pound of lean meat, from the loin, fillet, or underneath the shoulder, or middle of the leg; mince andSavoury Dishes. 89 pound it, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs and a little seasoning, with enough stock or gravy to moisten, no more; cover for a short time, then beat in the yolk of an egg for a minute or two, and at last the stiffly whisked white; three parts fill little cup moulds, greased ; cover with buttered paper, and steam for twenty minutes or thereabouts. Let them stand a minute before turning out. A spoonful of oyster liquor can replace the stock, and will be found very agreeable; can be much varied so far as flavour- ing is concerned. Mutton, Browned.—A bit of neck of mutton may be made into a tasty snack by steaming it until tender (the skin should be removed), then brushing it while hot with a little beaten egg and dredging with bread crumbs ; it only wants browning up before the fire with an occasional basting. It is savoury and digestible, and a change from roast and boiled, of which many tire. Mutton Cutlets, Stewed.—The secret of success here is to cook slowly. Take a couple of trimmed cutlets from the neck, and flour them a little with dry, fine flour; do this a little while before cooking; the meat should be tender from hanging. Lay them in a saucepan in a single layer, with two or three tablespoonfuls of warm stock from bones, or for a more tasty dish, use water and extract of meat to flavour nicely. If allowed, a tablespoonful of any nice fresh vege-go Savoury Dishes. table may be added for the sake of the flavour. Simmer for an hour to an hour and a half, turn- ing a few times, and adding a few drops more stock if wanted. Serve on a hot dish with the gravy, pressing the vegetables if used. Season lightly when nearly done, not at first. Mutton Kebobs.—There are many kinds of dishes served under this name. This is a simple one. Take some thick bits of meat, all lean, from small mutton, either leg or loin, and season them with a mixture of salt and pepper and ground cinnamon, a saltspoonful of each, or rather less of the latter; cover, and in an hour thread the meat on a skewer, with a little space between, and grill it very carefully, that it may be done without hardening. It should be basted the moment it changes colour; for this, take some fresh tomato pulp, and thin it with a little stock; baste slowly, and serve the meat as soon as it is crisp, brown, and tender. This will be appre- ciated after a course of plainly-cooked chops. Where an onion does not disagree, pound one, and use the juice to season the raw meat, or an onion or shallot can be scalded and chopped and used similarly. Mutton and Vegetables, Tasty Stew of.— Take half a pound of lean neck of mutton, put it in a stew-jar with the grated outer part of a small carrot, a teaspoonful each of minced onion and celery, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; add a dust of salt and pepper and a.Savoury Dishes. 9i clove, and enough tepid stock to cover; cover the jar and cook in a water bath for two hours. If thickening is liked, add a teaspoonful of rice or sasro, as soon as the contents of the jar have reached simmering point. Serve with the strained liquor, or press the vegetables through a sieve, and add, if preferred. Or serve as it is, removing the clove. Variety of flavour is gained by adding chopped capers instead of parsley, and to add strength to the gravy, a little glaze or meat extract may be instanced. Onion and Egg Toast.—This is nutritious and delicious. Boil a good-sized onion in milk and water and drain, then slice, and lay it on toast buttered, or spread with a spoonful oi white sauce, as most convenient. Have the yolk of a boiled egg ready; it must be very soft, spread it over the onion, then season and serve hot. Another zvay.—Butter the toast and spread lightly with any meat preparation such as "extract" or " peptonised beef," &c.; follow with the onion, then the egg as a top dressing. Onion Milk.—A good supper dish. Peel and slice very thinly a couple or three onions of a moderate size, scald them a few minutes, then chop very small after draining, and just cover with water and a pinch of salt, boil up and simmer a few minutes, then pour over from half to three quarters of a pint of cold milk mixed with a teaspoonful of flour; stir to the boil and92 Savoury Dishes. simmer until the vegetables are cooked; season with white pepper and salt to taste, and a pinch of mace if liked. Spanish onion need not be scalded. Fine oatmeal instead of flour makes the dish more nourishing ; a dessert spoonful to three gills of milk should be used, and it must be cooked half an hour. Pheasant Creams. — Take three to four ounces of raw pheasant, the breast, and mince it small as possible ; pound it in a mortar with a raw egg and very little seasoning; work in gradually nearly an ounce of butter and the eighth of a pint of good cream ; last of all add the whipped white of a very small egg, or half a large one. The meat and butter and egg yolk are preferably sieved before the cream and white are added. Steam in little buttered moulds, three parts filled only, for a quarter of an hour, or more if deep. They may be served plain or with a little gravy or sauce: bread sauce is very suitable. Any underdone portion of a cooked bird can be cooked thus, very slowly, and only as long as may be needed to set the mixture. If put in little china moulds the creams can go to table in them. Potatoes, Browned.—Take potatoes that have been baked in the skins, which remove, and pass the pulp through a masher into a dish ; the pile should be high and light, then brown in the oven or before a sharp fire, or under a gas grill; steamed potatoes can be treated thus. ASavoury Dtshcs. 93 border may be made for the service of a little mince, &c, and the dish will look appetising, though it will have none of the indigestible features of some other "brown" dishes of this vegetable. Potatoes, Moulded.—Take some steamed or boiled potatoes and mash them lightly, then season a little; have a little basin or cup, but- tered lightly, and sprinkled with raspings; press the potatoes in, then pass a palette-knife round, and turn out neatly on to- the plate. No. 2. Moisten a small cup of mashed pota- toes with a tablespoonful of cream ; flavour with a little chopped parsley, or a dust of nutmeg; proceed as above, and after a few minutes in the oven or the steamer, turn out as before. Poultry Cream Sandwiches.—Take some cooked rabbit or fowl, mince and pound it in a mortar, with enough cream, added by degrees, to make a moist, smooth paste, that can be spread upon bread and butter easily. Only a few spoon- fuls should be mixed at a time. Where it agrees the yolk of a lightly boiled egg can be added in place of some of the cream. Season delicately; a grate of lemon rind or nutmeg improves it. The same mixture may be spread on thin, crisp toast. Brown or white bread and butter can be used for the sandwiches. Poultry Minced with Raspings.—This recipe serves for poultry or veal, or a mixture ; it is a nice way to re-heat rabbit, as it ensures G91 Savoury Dishes. freedom from dryness. In all cases the meat must be free from skin, bone, and gristle. Mince it, and to a couple of tablespoonfuls, or there- abouts, add a fourth as much cooked bacon, or prime ham, rather fat, and some thick, white sauce, equal in measure to the poultry; season a little with salt and pepper and lemon rind, or herbs if preferred, and let all heat together. The sauce should be warm when the meat goes in; leave for ten minutes at simmering point, then turn into a warm, fancy-shaped little dish, such as a "shell;" coat the top with raspings, warmed, and serve at once. This is as appetising in appearance as many dishes of the croquette and rissole order ; while it is much more digestible. Serve as it is, or with a little boiled macaroni or vegetable to taste. Raw Beef Sandwiches.—Take a bit of fresh lean beef steak and, after wiping, lay it flat, and scrape the pulp, leaving nothing but the skin, or shred it very finely right through the grain; season, and place between dainty shapes of thin bread and butter. Raw beef is given in special cases by doctors', orders, and this is one of the most palatable ways of taking it. Rice Gravy.—This one recipe should serve as a suggestion for many similar dishes. Take a tablespoonful of washed Carolina rice, boil it for a couple of hours in half a pint, or rather more, of any nice, plain stock from poultry bones, or from boiled meat or poultry liquor,95 Savoury Dishes. well reduced; pass through a sieve. Now take some gravy from a joint, or good meat tea, and use it to dilute the rice to the required consis- tence, about that of thin cream; season, and serve hot with toast or biscuits. When time presses, some ground rice or rice flour may be boiled with the first stock for twenty to thirty minutes, and finished as above. Spinach and Egg.—Pick the spinach leaf by leaf, and wash in several waters ; dry in a cloth ; put half a pound in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and the juice of half a lemon, add a few drops of water, put the lid on, and cook on a close range until quite tender. When done, press and chop the spinach, and put in a dish; make a hollow in the centre (a teacup dipped in hot water is useful), and drop in a lightly poached egg ; any spinach left over can be re-heated and served with a second egg; in this way the flavour is retained : it is nutritious and little trouble. Sweetbreads.—These are the only "inter- nals " allowed in illness, and are much liked as a rule ; they are easily digested. They cannot be used too soon after the animal is killed, or be too carefully cleaned. When the least stale or discoloured (after lying about, exposed to sun, for instance), they are not the same thing at all, and should not be used. The same remarks as to freshness and cleaning apply to brains, which also make delicate dishes for the sick. To Blanch, soak the sweetbreads in cold water96 Savoury Dishes. for an hour or two, then put in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and bring to the boil slowly; after five minutes, or more for a large one, put it in a basin of cold water; all fat and skin should be removed carefully with the fingers. After this, the cooking can be done in any way pre- ferred. A very simple one is to simmer in any light stock, then put in sauce or gravy, and serve. Sweetbread Stewed in Milk.—Trim and prepare a sweetbread by blanching. See Sweet- breads. Put in a small stewpan a few strips of carrot and celery, with a slice of onion, a morsel of salt, and a few peppercorns or allspice berries; lay a buttered paper over the sweetbread, after placing it on the bed of vegetables ; simmer, with frequent basting with the liquor, which should be half milk and half white stock, or two-thirds milk, as liked. It will take nearly an hour; small ones less in proportion. When done, take up the sweetbread and keep it hot over water or in the oven, then strain the liquid, and use it for making the sauce. Where bacon is allowed, a little may be cooked and served with this, the sauce round, and the bacon, and a slice or two of lemon by way of garnish. Toast Sandwiches.—Prepare two slices of French toast—the bread should be cut thinly, and toasted on one side only; then spread the prepara- tion on the two untoasted sides of the bread, press together, cut daintily and serve while warm.Savoury Dishes. 97 Any nice potted meat or fish can be used for the spreading; raw beef can be so served. See recipes herein. Tomatoes, Buttered.—These are delicious ; ripe ones of an equal size are essential. Scald some tomatoes, the size, say, of an egg; remove the skins with a bone or silver knife, and put them in an earthen jar with half an ounce of fresh butter to half a pound of fruit; bake in a moderate oven until quite soft but unbroken, then serve alone, or as an adjunct to rice, maca- roni, &c. Any seasoning should be added near the end. A pinch of sugar improves some vari- eties even when fully ripe. They may be treated as above and steamed, by setting the jar in boil- ing water over the fire, but they are less savoury. Tomatoes, Grilled. — Choose small ripe tomatoes and wipe them with a clean cloth, then dip them in salad oil and place on a gridiron. Cook gently over a clear fire or under a gas grill; watch, as they are apt to break ; serve hot with rice or macaroni as a.maigre dish ; or with meat, fish, &c.: the flavour is very nice, and seasoning to taste can be added on the plate. Tripe in Milk.—Tripe is very digestible, but the amount of fat is often too great. If bought from the tripe-shop in the semi-cooked state, just cover with water and bring to the boil, then scrape away the fat and put half a .pound of the tripe in a stewpan with milk to cover, or a mixture of milk and water or very98 Savoury Dishes. light stock; add an onion or white part of a leek, scalded and chopped, and a little season- ing, and simmer until tender but not raggy, about an hour and a half. A quarter of an hour before serving remove the onion (or leave it as liked) and add a teaspoonful of corn flour mixed with cold milk; boil up and stir often. Celery- may replace the onion, and a larger amount be used ; a little parsley is sometimes liked. Veal Cream Quenelles. — Take half a pound of lean veal of the best and freshest, the fillet for choice; free it from skin and fat, and pass twice through a mincing machine; then cook together half an ounce each of flour and butter, and half a gill of stock and cream mixed, until thick. Let this cool. Then put the meat in a mortar and pound it first alone, then with an egg, and the panada added a little at a time. It is improved by sieving. To cook, shape with two dessert spoons dipped in hot water, and slip the quenelles into boiling veal stock from bones; the pan should be shallow, and the stock only just cover the quenelles; reduce to simmering point at once, and cook at that temperature for twenty minutes. A buttered paper should be laid over the quenelles. Coat with white sauce. Serve on a border of potatoes or on toast, or with macaroni, or as the case requires. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg are generally approved seasonings, but a grate of lemon peel or morsel of parsley may be added.Savoury Dishes. 99 Veal Cutlets, Baked.—A delicious dish, but requires care, or the meat will be hard and dry. The details must be observed. Take a slice of veal from the leg, bat it out and cut in nice pieces, rounds or oblongs, for serving. No skin or fat must be left on. Dip the meat in stock, any plain white kind, to moisten it. Butter a shallow baking dish, and put the meat in in a single layer; sprinkle with a little mace and white pepper mixed together, no salt; pour enough warm milk over to quite cover the meat, then lay a thick white paper over, buttered on the outside, and cover with an old dish or plate. Set the dish in a tin with a little warm water in it, and bake in a slow oven until the meat is tender. Allow nearly two hours. The milk and water in the tin may want adding to. Thicken the milk with a little arrowroot or corn flour, boil up and pour over the meat and serve hot. A little salt should be added near the end of the cooking, and if the patient may take it, lemon rind or parsley may be used for the sake of flavouring, or a morsel of onion gives savour. Prepare a small quantity at a time only, espe- cially in warm weather. See Re-heating of Food. Vienna Steak.—Pass a quarter of a pound of raw veal and the same of beef twice through a mincer; the veal should follow the beef, so that it absorbs any gravy left behind; add a pinch each of salt and sugar, and of dried herbs at discretion, then about half an ounce of bread100 Savoury Dishes. soaked in gravy and squeezed dry, and the yolk of a small egg; make into an oval cake and bake carefully, basting with a little warm butter from time to time; it will take from half an hour upwards according to thickness. Make a nice gravy from any inferior parts of the two meats and thicken it or not; it should be a nice brown, and serve it round the meat, which, in this form, goes to table as a little joint. This should cut firm but eat moist inside; a little bacon with the veal is a very great improvement. Another way is to coat the mixture with beaten egg after making it in little round cakes, and braise in a pan with a spoonful or two of nice stock or gravy, which should be boiling when the cakes are dropped in, and the heat reduced for the actual cooking. To an ingenious cook this recipe should prove very suggestive. Note.—When a mincer is necessary, Nye's Patent Small Mincer or Masticator will be found useful, for meat, vegetables, &c. It is well re- commended, and the maker claims that the food, whether cooked or uncooked, hot or cold, is rapidly and thoroughly minced, and when re- quired may be kept hot during the process by previously immersing the machine in warm water. Also, that all gristle and sinew is pre- vented from mixing with the minced meat.CHAPTER V. CEREAL COOKERY, SAVOURY PUDDINGS, AND EGGS. Wit General Hints on Cereals, Porridge, and Eggs.Two Articles that should be in Every Family. BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. —" Patent" brand is the best quality —for milk diet generally, and for many dainty dishes for dinner and supper. Has nearly forty years' world-wide re- putation. ROWN & POLSON'S PAISLEY FLOUR. —a new preparation for home-baking to be used with ordinary flour in the proportion of one to six or eight. Requires no yeast or baking powder. Makes Home-Baking el pleasure.CHAPTER V. Cereals, Hints on.—The first thing is care in the washing; the water should be renewed, and any grain that floats be thrown away, as it proves that grubs have attacked the food. Rice, sago, tapioca, semolina, and the like come under the same head. Cook thoroughly; allow time for swelling, and plenty of moisture. A preliminary soaking in the liquid is often of great benefit. Paper-bag storage is useless ; use tins or bottles with good corks. Packet cereals, of many kinds, are clean, and require less cooking as a rule. Arrowroot.—This is pure starch, and in itself, as a food, of but little value. But from its astringent nature it is very useful in special forms of illness, and is regarded as a good medium for conveying other articles of nutri- tion, such as eggs, wine, brandy, milk, &c.; moreover, it is said to prepare the stomach for more solid nourishment later on, and is generally found soothing in irritable conditions of the stomach and intestines. For this reason it should be borne in mind as a thickener for soups, &c.; although corn flour (Kingsford's Oswego or104 Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. Brown and Poison's) makes an excellent sub- stitute. Store it in a dry place, and see that it is free from lumps before beginning to mix it. Egg Arrowroot.—Prepare a teacupful of arrow- root as below, and when it is off the boil beat in a fresh egg, which has first been whisked well; give as it is, or set in a steamer for a minute or two. It may be taken hot, tepid, or cold. Milk Arrozvooot.—Make as water arrowroot below; boil for five minutes at least: cream is sometimes put in to increase the nourishment. Water Arrowroot.—Allow half an ounce of arrowroot to half a pint of water; mix to a smooth paste with cold water, boil the rest, and add it, stirring well; then boil for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, but sometimes none is allowed. A morsel of cinna- mon may be boiled with it and removed ; where disliked, ginger can replace it. Wine or brandy is frequently ordered ; either should be added after boiling. This is the least nourishing of all, except when such additions are made, then it is found to agree better than milk arrowroot in most cases. These are average proportions ; often liked thinner or thicker. Barley, Pearl.—This is very useful in the sick room, but unless prepared with care it is unsightly and unwholesome. Barley is often so dirty that repeated washings are not enough, and it must be scalded or blanched. To scald, pour boiling water over, and let it stand coveredCereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 105 for a few minutes, then rinse in cold water. To blanch (the better way) put it on in cold water to cover, and bring to the boil gently, then rinse in cold water. In the cooking plenty of time is required whatever the nature of the dish, and care is wanted to avoid burning. "Patent" or prepared barley, being finely ground and sold in packets ready for use, meets a want where time is limited ; it is very diges- tible, and an ingenious cook will find many uses for it: several reliable recipes go with the packets. This barley (Robinson's) is much recommended by the medical profession. Bread Pudding, Savoury.—Take a quarter of a pint of light stock from chicken or veal bones, or any similar; pour it while quite hot over the same measure of bread crumbs, brown or white; soak for twenty minutes, then add a little seasoning; beat up a large fresh egg; then beat it with the bread mixture for several minutes; the white is preferably added at the last. Pour into small cup moulds, and steam or bake until set and firm enough to turn out; if for puddings, allow about a quarter of an hour to steam. They can be served plain, or with a little beef tea, or gravy from a joint poured round. Such a dish as this comes in usefully where a patient has tired of sweet puddings, and is not allowed meat in solid form. Lentil Cream, Savoury.—The foundation of this can be made from bones of any sort, and106 Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. only a weak stock is wanted, as the lentil flour is so nutritious. A weak broth answers very- well. To a quart of the liquor allow two ounces of lentil flour; mix it with some of the cold liquor, and add the rest boiling, then boil all for half an hour. At the time of serving add a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream to a tea- cupful, and send toast or plain biscuits with it. A pleasant change for those who have tired of gruels of the sweet class. Macaroni, Boiled.—No set time can be given, for there are many varieties, and some take longer than others. "Pipe" takes from thirty to forty-five minutes on an average, but the " curly " longer still. Always drop either kind into plenty of boiling water, and let it cook gently until swollen, but not broken up; a little salt must be added, and a morsel of butter assists the cooking. If to serve with meat or fish, drain it, and send to table hot. White sauce is sometimes served with it. Care must be taken that the water does not go off the boil, or the macaroni will sink to the bottom of the pan and stick. By parboiling in water, and then adding stock (which it should absorb) to finish the cooking, the dish is more nutritious. Never soak or cook in cold water, as some advise. Macaroni, Brown.—Boil two ounces of macaroni for ten minutes, or until about half done, the time varying with the sort. Drain and put it in another saucepan ; add half a pint ■Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 107 of the water it was boiled in to a little beef tea or Bovril, with, if possible, a spoonful or two of the clear gravy from a joint of meat. Simmer all in a double pan until the macaroni is thoroughly done; most of the liquid will be absorbed. Serve hot with toast. A very nou- rishing and easily digested meal. Macaroni and Chicken Pudding.—Take a good tablespoonful of cooked and minced macaroni, with the same measure of cooked and chopped chicken ; season with salt and pepper, a little grated lemon rind and chopped parsley, if suitable, then beat an egg with three table- spoonfuls of light stock or half milk, add, and mix well. Steam in a little mould until just set, no more, then serve; if a china mould (preferable), send it to table. White sauce or gravy may be served, or it is very nice plain. The yolk of the egg only makes a softer pudding. Note.—A similar pudding can be made from game; any part that is a little underdone is excellent reserved thus ; brown gravy or bread sauce goes well with it. Macaroni Custard Pudding.—Take about a heaped tablespoonful of boiled macaroni, cut up into very small pieces; beat a fresh egg with a quarter of a pint of good mutton broth, free from fat, or weak mutton tea, according to circumstances; lay the macaroni at the bottom of a slightly buttered, shallow dish, pour the egg, &c, over; bake in a moderate oven for108 Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. twenty minutes, or till nicely set (not hardened). A teaspoonful of fine bread crumbs may be mixed with the macaroni with advantage. PORRIDGE.—This is likely to do more harm than good unless care be observed in selecting the materials, as well as in the cooking. Robin- son's Patent Barley and Groats enable the most fastidious to enjoy porridge, and few are the cases in which it will disagree, at any rate in change with other grains. The following direc- tions by the manufacturers will be found reliable, though in some cases longer cooking would be beneficial:—"Mix gradually three tablespoon- fuls of the Patent Groats into a smooth paste with part of a pint of water ; boil the remainder of the water, and pour therein the mixed groats ; add a little salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Turn out into a breakfast cup or mould, which reverse upon a plate, and serve. New milk, cold, to be added at discretion." Author's Note.—Two ounces to two and a-half tablespoonfuls suffice for a pint, unless liked very thick. Hot milk can replace the cold, or an excel- lent plan is to use half milk in the cooking. Cream and honey, Frame Food Jelly, stewed fruit, sugar, or salt can all be used as accompaniments. Frame Food Diet makes delicious porridge or gruel, and is very sustaining and digestible. FLORADOR is another good material, and, being supplied in three grades, may be prepared coarse or fine. Note - -A point in favour of these articles isCereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 109 the short time required for cooking and the simplicity of the methods. Rice, Boiled.—There are many ways of boil- ing rice. This retains all the nutriment, and it is a noteworthy fact that many persons can digest rice so prepared, who experience discom- fort after eating it in any form from which the water has been drained, as commonly cooked for curry. Take a teacupful of best Carolina rice, and wash it in several waters, drain, and put it to boil with four times its measure of cold water; cook in a double saucepan, gently, until the moisture is all absorbed. Then serve hot, tepid, or cold, as the case requires. With salt and pepper it answers as a vegetable; or may be sweetened and flavoured. Milk can be used in place of water, but it is a good plan to cover the rice first jvith water, and let it come to the boil, as it bursts more readily; do not throw this water away, but add the requi- site quantity of milk, and finish as above ; time depends much on the quality; from two hours upwards as a rule. The best rice is the cheapest in the end, and much cleaner. By cooking in stock or light gravy, in this way, all sorts of variations can be made in the one dish. Rice Milk.—Take some washed Carolina rice of the best quality, and put in a double pan or jar, set in water, and cover with rich milk ; simmer slowly till boiling point is reached, and cook gently, adding more milk, a little at a Hi io Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. time, until the rice is thoroughly swollen and will absorb no more moisture; it is then ready- to be thinned down to the required consistence with new milk. Sweeten and flavour with a morsel of nutmeg or ginger, or serve it plain. If plenty of time be given, an ounce of rice will take up half a pint of milk, exclusive of that used for thinning. It is delicious, tepid or cold, as well as hot. Rizine, USES OF.—This food, of modern intro- duction, has much to recommend it, being light and easily cooked. It serves for thickening soups, &c, and makes good porridge ; a few minutes will cook it. Then, by sprinkling some into about half a pint of boiling milk until thick, and adding an egg, &c, as in similar puddings of the same class, and baking, one gets a nice little pudding. A small quantity boiled in light stock makes a palatable adjunct to meat. Savoury Custard, Steamed.—Take a quar- ter of a pint of beef tea, cold, and beat it with the yolks of two eggs and the white of one ; it will be salt enough sometimes without further seasoning, but often a pinch of celery salt will be liked ; pour into buttered cups and cover with buttered paper, then steam for twenty minutes or as required. If turned out it must stand a minute first. Nice hot or cold. Another way.—Use one whole egg only to the tea, which may be other than beef. Make as above. Another way.—Take a quarter of a pint of anyCereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 111 light stock and beat up with two whites of eggs, where yolks do not suit, then finish as before. Note.—The above quantities will make two little puddings. Tapioca, Digestible Way of Cooking.— Wash an ounce of tapioca, place it in a pint of light broth or soup, cold (free from fat), cover, and leave for an hour. Cook in a double sauce- pan, adding more liquid from time to time to re- duce it to the desired consistence. May be fla- voured with herbs or vegetables for convalescents. Note.—For a sweet dish use milk and add flavouring to taste with a little sugar near the end. It may be made thick like a pudding by using more grain, say an ounce and a half to a pint of milk, and will often suit where a baked pudding would not. Vermicelli Cake.—Boil half a pint of milk, then sprinkle in two ounces of vermicelli, crushed in the hand quite small; add half an ounce of sugar, and simmer for five to ten minutes ; take from the fire and beat in an egg with any flavouring ; a few minutes' beating is required. Butter a plain clean cake tin and sprinkle all over with fine dry bread crumbs, put in the mix- ture, dredge more crumbs over the top, and bake in a moderate oven to a pale brown. Time about twenty to twenty-five minutes; cover the first part of the time; turn out and dredge with sugar ; serve with sweet sauce or melted jelly or jam. Note.—This is really served as a pudding. Vermicelli Cream, Savoury.—Boil two112 Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. ounces of vermicelli in plenty of boiling water, salted a little, until it is done. Drain it well and put it in a clean saucepan with enough hot cream and white stock mixed to cover it. Season delicately with salt and pepper and a hint of ground mace or nutmeg. This is the simple foundation on which many changes can be rung. For example: a spoonful of cooked and chopped chicken and ham may be stirred in, or a little cold fish ; a small spoonful of extract of meat gives another relish. It is nice as it is, or on toast, and any daintily cooked vegetable goes well with it. The yolk of a beaten egg and a little white sauce made with half cream and half milk may be thickened together and added to the vermicelli, with any approved flavouring for a very nourishing dish. Another way.—Turn out the mixture for serv- ing, and spread over it the yolk of a very lightly boiled or poached egg. This improves the appearance and adds to the nutriment. Vermicelli Pudding, Savoury.—Dissolve a small teaspoonful of Bovril (" invalid brand " if seasoning is forbidden) in half a pint of boiling water, drop in some vermicelli until the mixture is as thick as good cream, about a dessert spoon- ful, then simmer for ten minutes. When cool, beat in the yolk of an egg and brown in a shallow dish in a slow oven, allowing ten minutes.Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 113 EGG COOKERY. Eggs, General Remarks on.—So far as the invalid is concerned, there are special ways in which an egg may be of great service or most injurious. The main thing is, in most cases, to serve it as nearly raw as possible ; a hard-boiled egg would be productive of suffering, where a properly cooked one might be most beneficial* The yolk of an egg contains oil and a substance known as casein; the latter, when hard, becomes difficult to digest, and it is owing to the presence of the oil that an egg in any form has to be shunned by some people, both in sickness and in health. There is, too, much nourishment in a concentrated form. The white of an egg contains albumen in its purest form, but this is altered in character and digestibility when cooked too much. It happens now and then that the white of the egg is left out of some dish or other by order of the doctor; but the erroneous notion that white of egg is injurious to the sick should be got rid of; for, on the contrary, when very lightly cooked it is of great service, particularly in irritable conditions of the stomach and intes- tines. Eggs must be fresh, and for puddings, &c, the precaution of removing the speck (to be done by straining, if beaten up with other liquids) should never be omitted. When the white and yolk have to be parted, and the white beaten up to a froth, care must be taken114 Cereal Cookery', Savoury Ptiddz'ngs, and Eggs. that no yolk gets mixed with it or it will not stiffen, and one should stand where there is a good current of air. When eggs are added to broth, gruel, &c, not only is further boiling to be avoided on the ground of digestibility, but in some instances the whole mass would curdle. Dutch Omelet, Savoury.—Two eggs are as small a number as can be used with success. Beat the yolks, and add a little salt and pepper, and a morsel of chopped parsley or onion juice if preferred; put in a quarter of an ounce or rather more of fresh butter, in tiny morsels ; add the whites of eggs whisked stiffly, then lose no time in getting the mixture into the pan—a stout enamelled one—in which nearly half an ounce of butter has been melted, not browned ; spread the mixture evenly over and set the pan in the oven, of moderate heat, for three minutes or so; depending upon the heat of the oven and depth of the pan. The omelet should be a golden brown on both sides and soft in the middle. Dutch Omelet, Sweet.—Substitute a very little sugar, and a few drops of flavouring for the savoury materials; or cook, minus sugar, and serve with syrup or dissolved jam or jelly; or fold a little thick jam, heated, in the omelet when serving. Egg, Creamed.—This resembles buttered egg, but many will prefer it, and it is highly nutritious and suited to most cases where creamCereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 115 is given. Break an egg into a little basin, and add a dessert spoonful of milk, beat together well; a pinch of salt and pepper may be added, or salt only. Now beat in a tablespoonful of cream; set the basin in a vessel of boiling water over gentle heat, and stir or rather beat with a fork, until the mixture thickens, then serve on toast, spread with a morsel of extract of meat in some cases. Let it cook without hardening. Egg Panada.—This is very strongly recom- mended. It is simple to make, very nourishing, and a famous semi-solid. Take two level table- spoonfuls of sieved bread crumbs, a few days old, brown or white. Add salt and pepper, or omit; beat a small egg well with three table-spoonfuls of good beef tea or gravy (clear) from a joint. Pour while cold over the bread, using a cup or small basin, then cover, and steam in a steamer, or over boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Another way.—Better still, but more trouble. Pour the beef tea or gravy while hot over the bread, cover till cool, then beat it up well; add the egg, beaten, then mix the whole ; finish as before, but give six or seven minutes only. Egg Scrambled, Sweet.—An impromptu pudding. Melt half an ounce of butter in a little saucepan, add a tablespoonful of milk if a large egg, less if small, and half a teaspoonful of white sugar with any flavouring to taste. Add a beaten egg, and stir until it just begins to set, working from the bottom of the pan. Serve on116 Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. a slice of sponge or suitable cake, moistened with hot milk or wine, according to the case. Another way is to omit the sugar and flavouring in the egg, and serve on cake or thin bread, with a little stewed fruit or jam on it; either should be warmed. Egg Snow.—Divide a new laid egg, white from yolk; put the latter in a basin with half a teaspoonful of castor sugar and beat it up well; beat the white to a stiff froth, and add it little by little to the yolk, blending lightly but thoroughly. Serve at once in a tumbler, as it soon falls and loses its snowy appearance. A teaspoonful of lemon juice is often liked; a tablespoonful of milk, or less cream, increases the bulk. Properly made, it is light, and free from the oiliness of the raw egg as often served. Many an invalid could take it and not suspect its composition. Eggs, Buttered.—Take a new laid egg, and beat it up with a pinch of salt and pepper ; melt a bit of butter in a little basin set in hot water, then add the beaten egg to it; set the basin back in the water when it boils, and keep stirring the mixture until it is thick and hot through; serve at once on hot toast, buttered or not as liked. If allowed to boil and harden, it is spoilt. EGGS IN a Nest.—This is a pretty dish, and may be made in many ways ; with ordinary care it is a decided appetite tempter. Take some small, nicely cooked asparagus, the green part only, and place it on a round warm dish to imi-Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. 117 tate a nest. To do this place a row of heads slanting close together; go round with a second supply, this time bringing the heads in the oppo- site direction; i.e., the stem part should cross in the alternate layers; place something in the middle while arranging, and keep the dish over hot water; as soon as sufficient is put on (a thick nest on a small dish looks the best) fill the middle with a couple of boiled eggs, coated with thick white sauce; sprinkle with chopped parsley or small cress, fennel, or anything suit- able, or mix either in the sauce. Plovers' eggs are excellent so treated. Eggs Poached in Gravy.—Put a quarter of a pint of gravy, or good broth, or clear soup, in a little china or enamelled frying-pan, and when it simmers put in a fresh egg; let the liquid simmer until the egg is set, take up with a slice and trim the edges if raggy; lay on toast, and pour the gravy over. Or put the egg on a little bed of vegetables, rice, or macaroni, &c, and pour the gravy round or over. It is well to vary the modes of serving eggs when they have to replace meat and form the main meal of the day. Eggs, Steamed.—This is a most digestible way of cooking an egg, as there is no fear of hardening, with proper care. Grease a cup, or rinse it with cold water, break afresh egg in and set in a little saucepan with boiling water half way up; cover, and remove to a place where the water will be just under the boil; as soon as the118 Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings, and Eggs. white looks opaque all through, serve on toast or as liked. A palette-knife passed round will enable it to be turned out neatly. Or it can be cooked in a little fireproof cup, with a handle, and so sent to the patient. Another Way.—Place an egg in the shell, in a little saucepan, with boiling water to cover, put the lid on, and remove the pan from the fire, on to the fender or where the water will be below the boil, but keep quite hot. In six or seven minutes if a very small egg, or eight to ten if large and fresh, the egg will be done; it should be soft, the white just set. A way advised by medical men is this: Heat a basin, put in the egg, pour boiling water to cover, place a saucer over, and set it on the table, where it maybe left for six to eight minutes, as it will not harden. Omelets, both Savoury and Sweet, are very well suited for invalids. Recipes are to be found in any good cookery book, but it is essen- tial that the manipulation of the ingredients be well understood, for unless properly made the dish may become very indigestible. The main points are fresh eggs, and only enough cooking to set, not to toughen the mass.CHAPTER VI. SWEET PUDDINGS. For Savoury Puddings, see Chapter V.INDIA AND AUSTRALIA. SECOND EDITION, REVISED TO DATE. The Makers of British India. Historical and Biographical. From 1600 to the Present Time. By W. H. Davenport Adams. With a Map and 12 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 482 pages, cloth, price 4s. 6d.; gilt edges, 5s. " It is useful, to say the least of it, to be able to gain so easily a bird's-eye view of the growth of British rule in our largest dependency." Bradford Observer. " With its map 'and illustrations, chronological table, bibliography, and copious indices, it is in itself a small reference library on the subject." Star. Under the Naga Banner. By Charles J. Mansford, Author of " Shafts from an Eastern Quiver," etc. With Eight Illustrations by J. Ayton Symington. Crown 8vo, 352 pages; cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. " The art of teaching something worth knowing in a story which you can't help reading has been brought to perfection by a little knot of prize book authors, amongst whom Mr, Charles J. Mansford deserves a place of honour, Such a story is that . . • • entitled ' Under the Naga Banner.' " School Board Chronicle. Matthew Flinders: or, How we have Australia. Being the True Story of Captain Flinders' Adventures and Explorations. By Robert Thynne, Author of " The Story of Australian Exploration." With Nine Illustrations and a Chart. Crown 8vo, 352 pages; cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. "To growing youth it can be heartily recommended, and such literature should do much to oust out the trash that too many of our boys indulge in." Aberdeen Daily Free Prrss. London: JOHN HOGG, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C.CHAPTER VI. Apple and Crumb Puddings.—This is a modification of a very old-fashioned dish. To be a success great care is needed in the baking. Put a teacupful of apple pulp in a little dish (baked or steamed apples may be used), go over with a mixture of sugar and bread or white cake crumbs, an ounce and a half of the latter to an ounce of the former, mixing them well; they should form a compact coating ; put a little fresh butter here and there, and cook in a moderate oven to a pale brown. Good hot or cold. Cream will improve it in some cases. Serve it separately. Apple Pudding (Favourite).—Take enough pulp from some baked apples to measure half a pint; sweeten to taste and flavour with a pinch of ground ginger, nutmeg, or cinnamon. The pulp should be sieved. Then beat in while the pulp is warm about two ounces of fine bread crumbs, which may be brown or white. When cool, add a well-beaten egg. Bake in a mode- rate oven for about half an hour or less, if a very shallow dish. May be served hot or cold. Where butter agrees, half an ounce or more can• 122 Sweet Puddings. be added to the pulp, and other flavourings, as lemon or orange or vanilla, will give variety. Another way.—Omit the sugar and serve a little melted apple jelly with the pudding : this makes a pleasant change. Apples Baked.—Wipe some thin-skinned apples of equal size and stamp out the cores without paring them; put them on an earthen dish with moist or white sugar to fill the cavi- ties left by coring; to half a dozen apples add the strained juice of a lemon or orange; bake in a steady oven till quite soft, then serve with the syrup. The skins are not to be eaten, but cooked thus the fruit retains its flavour. Water can replace the lemon juice if more agreeable, and a little spice of any sort put in with the sugar. Arrowroot Souffle.—A level tablespoonful of sifted arrowroot is first to be mixed with a little cold milk to a smooth paste ; if lumpy it is very objectionable, hence the reason for sieving; boil half a pint of rich milk (a tablespoonful of cream improves) and add to the paste, then boil the whole for a couple of minutes, stirring all the time; beat in the yolks of two eggs singly, off the fire, with a little sugar and flavouring, but the less sugar used the better the souffle rises. Beat the whites of the eggs stiffly, and add to the mixture. Pour into a buttered dish and bake ten to fifteen minutes moderately; the top should be a dainty brown. Serve at once, as it soon falls. See remarks under Arrowroot.Sweet Puddings. 123 Barley Custard Pudding (from "Directions for Using Robinson's Patent Barley ").—To two ounces of the barley add an ounce of sifted sugar, half an ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and nearly a pint of milk; mix thoroughly, and stir over the fire till it boils ; then add two yolks of eggs and bake in a buttered pie-dish. Author s Recipe.—Allow the above weight of barley to a pint of milk; blend the barley with a little of the cold milk, boil the rest and add it carefully, then stir all to the boil; add a pinch of salt and sugar to taste ; when cool, beat in the yolks of two eggs, and any flavouring to taste ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and fold them in lightly, and bake in a moderate oven in a buttered pie-dish, for about a quarter of an hour. The sugar may be omitted, and when the pudding is cooked a little warm jam or jelly served with it, or some stewed fruit. Reference to other puddings will suggest different methods of serving; barley is so nourishing and easy to digest that dishes from it ought to be made much more attractive than they usually are to prevent the patient tiring of them quickly. Battersea Queen Pudding.—Put a small teacupful of fine crumbs from a stale sponge cake into the same measure of boiling milk and cream mixed ; one-fourth cream makes a very good pudding; cover until cool, add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, with a teaspoonful of ground almonds; bake in a deep dish in a124 Sweet Puddings. moderate oven ; turn out, and put the white of the second egg on the top, having whisked it stiffly, and mixed in a few drops of brandy and a tea- spoonful of fine sugar. Return it to the oven to brown and set, and spread a little Frame Food Jelly round. This is delicious and nourishing, and nice cold or hot. If too sweet, equal parts of bread and cake crumbs can be used. Bird's Custard Sauce.—Bird's Custard Powder is by this time a household word, and is especially useful in those cases where eggs dis- agree. It may not be generally known that a most delicious pudding sauce can be made from it, though by some it will be preferred thinner than if the directions on the packets are fol- lowed for custard of the ordinary kind. A pint and a-half of milk, or milk and cream mixed, can be used in place of the pint; it is easy to adhere to these proportions in making a small quantity, say half a packet of powder to half a pint of milk, or a fourth cream, if it suits the cases. Wine or brandy can be added. With care, this sauce will be as smooth as velvet. A light pudding of the batter or suet class, spread lightly with jam or stewed fruit, then covered with the sauce, makes a dainty dish for a convalescent. Light Batter Puddings.—Beat a quarter of a pint of milk with the yolk of an egg ; sift an ounce and a half of fine flour into a basin, hollow the centre, add a pinch of salt, then the egg and milk, a little at a time, beating with the back of a wooden spoon from the centre, so that it beSweet Puddings. smooth. Add the whipped white of egg at the end; it must not be beaten after this. Three parts fill plain moulds size of a tea-cup (grease them thoroughly), then steam for half an hour. Another way.—Drop the whole egg into the flour, then put the milk in gradually, beating as before ; when half in beat well, and again at the end. Serve with sugar or fruit syrup or stewed fruit, or any plain sweet sauce if allowed. The following is nice with puddings of this class :— Melt an ounce of butter, add half an ounce of fine flour, sieved, then stir for a minute; add a gill and a half of water, a little at a time, boil up, then add two table-spoonfuls of raspberry vine- gar and a morsel of melted red currant jelly. Half these quantities would be sufficient. Bread Meringue Pudding.—This is light and delicate. Pour a quarter of a pint of hot milk over the same measure of bread crumbs, an ounce of butter, and a lump of sugar that has been rasped on the rind of half a lemon; beat in the yolk of an egg when cool, and bake in a shallow butterdish till set and a pale brown ; do not overcook it; then spread a little fruit jelly on the top: black currant is very nice. Beat the white of the egg, add a teaspoonful of sugar, a few drops of lemon juice, spread it over the pudding and return to the oven for a few minutes to become firm and very lightly browned. A tablespoonful of cream may replace the butter. Chocolate Custard Pudding, Baked.— This is very nice and nourishing. Boil a pint I126 Sweet Puddings. of milk and mix a fourth of it with two ounces of grated chocolate, unsweetened; when cool add the rest of the milk and boil up for a minute; add about two ounces of sugar and a little cin- namon or vanilla flavouring. Have ready three fresh eggs, beaten; pour the milk, &c, to them, then bake in a buttered dish in a very slow oven. Pass a knife round the sides before serving; good hot or cold. If sweetened chocolate be used (it is not always easy to get unsweetened), use an ounce and a half of sugar only. Chocolate Souffle.—Beat in a basin the yolks of two eggs with half an ounce of castor sugar until quite thick and creamy. Mix half an ounce of grated chocolate with a table- spoonful or two of hot milk and stir over the fire; add to the egg mixture when a little cool; then stir in with a metal spoon lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Bake in a buttered dish for a quarter of an hour in a steady oven. Cinnamon or any flavouring to taste may be added; the finest chocolate is required or the souffle will be gritty. Corn Flour Baked Pudding.—Brown & Poison's Recipe is to mix gradually two pints milk with three and a-half ounces of their Patent Corn Flour. Put it into a goblet and bring to the boil, stirring. Add a pinch of salt and two ounces sugar. If desired, add one or two drops essence of lemon, or other flavouring. Boil eight minutes, stirring, and allow it to cool. Beat upSweet Puddings. 127 two eggs with three ounces or less of sugar. Stir this well into the Corn Flour. Bake for half an hour in an oven, or brown before the fire. Cream Pudding Sauce.—This is very de- licious. Those on cream diet will be allowed to take such a sauce, although a thickened one of the flour and butter variety might be denied. Take a teacup, put in a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a tablespoonful or two of milk, and nearly fill it with cream ; beat together, then set in boiling water over the fire, and stir till it thickens, when it is ready. Just before serving add a tablespoonful, or less, of brandy, or any good wine ; or flavour with spice, or orange or lemon, by infusing the rind in the milk for some time; a bay leaf or other fiavourer common to custards is suitable. By omitting sugar, and adding any approved savoury flavouring, the sauce is excel- lent with white fish, or sweetbread or poultry. Cup Custard, Steamed.—Take a gill and a half of new milk and two eggs, first beaten ; beat all for a few minutes, then strain. Pour into two little buttered cups or moulds, and steam with boiling water about a third the way up the moulds. After the first boil up the water should just simmer, or the custards will be spongy instead of smooth. Buttered paper should be twisted round; a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes will cook them. Any flavouring can be added. Serve hot or cold, with sugar or fruit syrup, &c. Very delicate when properly cooked.128 Sweet Puddings. Custard Pudding, Baked.—Take some rich new milk, not quite half a pint for two eggs, unless they are very large ones; if very small use a gill and a half of milk only ; boil the milk and let it get cool, then add it to the eggs, which should first be beaten up; beat very thoroughly with a teaspoonful or more of castor sugar. Have a dish rinsed out with cold water, strain the mixture in, and bake in a very slow oven for half an hour or more. Should the oven be too fierce, set the dish in a tin with a little cold water, for if quickly cooked this is spoiled, by being full of holes and watery, instead of firm and smooth. Note.—Two yolks of eggs to a gill of milk must be used in cases where the whites are excluded from the diet. See hints under Eggs. Dainty Pudding.—This is a decided appetite tempter. Take the pulp of a large baked apple, or two small ones, sieve it, and add a little white sugar, and any flavouring, such as ginger or lemon rind. Put it at the bottom of a half pint pie-dish, in a smooth layer. Beat the yolk of a large egg with half a gill of hot milk, a table- spoonful of cream, and a teaspoonful of sugar, and pour over the apple, which must first be covered with a thin layer of rice cake or sponge cake in slices; set it in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes; then beat the white of the egg to a froth, pile it on the top, dredge with sugar, and brown slightly in the oven (a cool part), allowing a few minutes. A little pink129 Sweet Puddings. sugar dredged over adds to the appearance. Finger biscuits can be used in making the pudding; they should be split; reserve the ends, and stick them upright, round the meringue por- tion, after baking : this makes another change. Florador Souffle Pudding.—Boil half a pint of milk, then shake in an ounce of " medium" florador, and cook for five minutes. Add a little white sugar and flavouring, or leave it plain; let it cool a little, then put in the yolk of an egg, beat very thoroughly; whisk the white to a stiff froth, and add it very lightly, little by little. Bake in a moderate oven, dredge with sugar, and serve at once. Florador can be had of grocers, " fine," " medium," and " coarse." The latter is suitable for porridge, and the " fine " is satisfac- tory as a thickening medium for soups, &c. It is a digestible and nutritious article of food. Frame Food Jelly.—This preparation has been held in high favour for delicate persons for a long period, and good as it was at first, it has been much improved. The flavour is delicate, and the jelly is dainty to the palate and nourishing. It is now hermetically sealed, so keeps inde- finitely in any climate. After opening (a simple process, as the cover merely needs to be punc- tured), the jelly should not be kept long. It is an excellent addition to bread-and-butter or bis- cuits, and a famous adjunct to all sorts of pud- dings, adding both to the appearance and flavour, besides being a decided change from ordinary13° Sweet Puddings. jams and jellies. With a light batter or plain pudding of the cereal class it is to be recom- mended. See Batter sea Queen Pudding. French Plums, Stewed. — Wash half a pound of plums quickly, and then put them in a basin with half a pint of cold water, and let them soak for a few hours. Put them on to boil with loaf sugar, about two ounces; more can be added later as required, and simmer very gently for about half an hour, more or less, according to quality, as they differ much; the thin rind of half a lemon can be added, or instead the strained juice, and a little less water. Remove the stones and strain, putting the plums in a dish, then boil up the syrup with more sugar, and when it is a little cool pour over the fruit. Wine may be used in some cases, port or claret, and a clove or two or other spice for flavouring. The plums can be cooked without soaking, but will take longer, and are not so soft. A morsel of red currant jelly adds " body " to the syrup. French Roll Pudding.—Butter a deep dish, and coat it bottom and sides with thin slices of French roll a day or two old, and free from crust, buttered a little; the slices should overlap. Boil half a pint of milk, and flavour with vanilla when cool, and pour it over the yolks of two eggs and the white of one; add an ounce of sugar; moisten the roll gradually with this; pour the rest of the custard in the dish after the second white of egg has been beaten to a stiff froth and incorporatedSweet Puddings. 131 lightly, but well; lay a few more slices of but- tered roll on the top. Then bake (in a tin of water) in a steady oven. This is light and de- licious if carefully baked, and as nice cold as hot. For a change, the sugar can be omitted, and warm jam or fruit jelly spread over the top. Fruit Custard Sauce.—This is delicious with cereal pudding, &c.; see remarks under Prune Sauce. Stew raspberries, currants, straw- berries, or other kinds of fresh fruit, until the juice runs freely; strain and sweeten to taste; while quite hot beat up a quarter pint of it with a fresh egg, first beaten a little; set the sauce boat in a vessel of boiling water, and stir for a minute, but not boil. A little red currant juice is usefully mixed with any other fruit by reason of its good colour. Where eggs disagree, a nice sauce is obtainable by adding a teaspoonful of arrowroot or good corn flour to a gill of the sweet- ened syrup ; it must be boiled up and strained. Lemon Pudding.—This is suitable for those who cannot take milk puddings, or who may have tired of them. Pour half a pint of hot water over a quarter of a pint of bread crumbs, brown or white, or a mixture; cover till cold, add an ounce of sugar, the yolk of an egg, and the grated rind and strained juice of half a good lemon; beat up and bake in a shallow dish slowly for about fifteen minutes. Beat the white, add a teaspoonful more sugar, pile on the top, and return to the oven to set. Half the white can132 Sweet Puddings. be put in the pudding and the rest used for the garnish ; or for a plainer pudding it may all be incorporated. Orange rind and juice can be used, but rather less sugar is required, and a few drops of lemon juice improve the orange flavour. Light Cup Puddings.—Sift an ounce of fine flour. Put half a gill of milk (or milk and water will make lighter though less nourishing) to boil with an ounce of butter; when it boils up well put the flour in and stir over the fire, reducing the heat by moving the saucepan until the flour is cooked, and leaves the sides of the pan. Take from the fire and add an egg, beat it in thoroughly for several minutes. Half fill some cup moulds buttered, and bake in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes according to size and heat of the oven. Serve at once, as they soon fall, with sugar or a simple sauce, or fruit syrup warmed and sweetened is delicious. Note.—These are a nice change from milk puddings. They depend for their excellence on the cooking of the panada and the baking. Macaroni Pudding.—A pint of milk should be brought to simmering point, and a couple of ounces of macaroni, broken small, dropped in and boiled softly until nearly done, about thirty to forty minutes; some kinds may take an hour. Sweeten to taste; about an ounce of sugar is enough as a rule, and when cool beat in the yolk of an egg ; pour into a dish, dust over with a little ground nutmeg or cinnamon, and bake in a very slow oven for twenty minutes.133 Sweet Puddings. A plainer pudding.—Mix a teaspoonful of corn flour with a little cold milk, and add to the boil- ing milk with the macaroni; bake as before, omitting the egg. Useful where eggs disagree. Another nice pudding is made by using a mix- ture of macaroni and sago, an ounce each to the pint of milk, cooking for an hour, then baking; the egg is optional. These puddings are delicious if sweetened with honey; while another change is made by omitting any sweetening agent, and serving stewed fruit and sugar with them. Madeira or Brandy Pudding.—Crush to powder two ounces of ratafias and an ounce of finger biscuits, and soak them in a good table- spoonful of wine or brandy; beat an egg and half an ounce of castor sugar with a gill and a half of hot milk, and when a little cool add to the soaked biscuits ; put in a small pie-dish and drop into the centre of the mixture a dessert spoonful of any stoneless jam; bake gently for nearly twenty minutes. Delicious, hot or cold. Another way, plainer.—Use an ounce each of bread and biscuit crumbs and ratafias, or an ounce and a half each of bread and biscuits, with a little flavouring to replace the ratafias. Mock Omelet or Puffed Pudding.—Butter a saucer and set it over a saucepan of boiling water to heat; beat the yolk of an egg, a table- spoonful of milk, half a teaspoonful of flour, mixed carefully with the milk, a few drops of flavour- ing, and a little sugar. Beat these hard, then add the stiff white of the egg carefully; put inSweet Puddings. 134 the saucer and cover with a second, also heated; cook over the water until puffed and firm. A savoury dish is made by adding a little salt and pepper and nutmeg if liked, with or without a morsel of extract of meat or Bovril. Cook in the same way. A teaspoonful of fine bread crumbs may replace the flour. Or, for a lighter dish, neither need be added. A fresh egg is essential. Note. — Do not uncover for the first five minutes ; time varies with the size of the egg. Oatmeal Pudding.—This is very good in flavour and highly nutritious. Put a teacupful of coarse oatmeal to soak in a pint of boiling milk until the mixture is quite cold ; keep it covered, add a pinch of salt, a beaten egg, and a table- spoonful or more of sugar or honey ; bake in a very slow oven for an hour and a half at least. A little nutmeg can be grated over the top, or other variations common to milk puddings made. Another way is to cook the oatmeal and milk, after soaking, in a double pan for a couple of hours, adding the egg ten minutes before re- moval, and serve it with stewed fruit, baked apples, &c. Honey is a particularly good sweet- ener for oatmeal, having such a softening effect. A small portion of sago or tapioca is liked with oatmeal, by reason of its softening property. Omelette Souffle.—This is very light and delicate. Beat the yolks of a couple of eggs very thoroughly with half an ounce of castor sugar; take quite ten minutes for this beating,135 Sweet Puddings. for on it the success mainly depends. It should be creamy; then add a good dessertspoonful of sifted and warmed potato flour, or the finest rice flour—the former is better; beat again for a minute or two; the whites of eggs should be whipped to a firm froth, and stirred in with a folding motion ; any flavouring to taste can be added—a few drops of rose or orange-flower water being excellent. Turn on to a lightly buttered china dish, and bake in a good oven to a delicate brown. Serve on the dish. A very shallow pie-dish can be substituted. Pendleton Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, half an ounce of flour, two ounces of sugar, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, a tablespoonful of sherry, one egg, an ounce and a-half of Hugon's Refined Suet, two tablespoonfuls of milk, and a saltspoonful of Cerebos baking powder. The suet having been shredded and chopped, and mixed with the dry materials thoroughly, add the lemon rind, and the egg well beaten up with the milk and sherry; mix well, and steam for two hours and a-half. It will make two small puddings, taking two hours each. Brandy or rum can be used instead of the sherry. Very light when properly made and cooked. Prune Sauce.—Take a quarter of a pound of French plums and rinse quickly in tepid water; the better the quality the less washing they need, but it is not safe to use them without a136 Sweet Puddings. rinse; put them in a stewpan or jar with cold water to cover them, and cook gently for half an hour, with a strip or two of lemon rind and a teaspoonful or more of the strained juice; when the fruit begins to soften add a dessertspoonful or to taste of loaf sugar. A clove or morsel of cinnamon can be added for additional flavour. When very soft, rub the whole through a sieve or lined strainer, re-heat, and serve hot, with light puddings of the batter class, rice, &c.; very nice too with an omelet or a souffle. Note.—Where wine is allowed, a little port improves both flavour and colour; a morsel of red currant jelly is useful for the same purpose Raisin Cup Puddings.—These are light and excellent, but require careful baking. The oven should be brisk, but not hot enough to scorch. Put an ounce of butter in the mixing bowl, and melt it by gentle heat; add an ounce of sugar and the yolk of an egg, and work for a few minutes briskly ; then stir in an ounce of flour with a pinch of baking powder and a tablespoon- ful of sultana raisins, and last the beaten white of the egg. Any spice for flavouring can be used, or grated lemon peel, or a teaspoonful of rum or brandy; three parts or less fill some cup moulds, greased well, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve with or without sauce. Red Sago.—A dish of German origin. All sorts of fruit juices are used for this, but the best for invalids are red currants with or without strawberries or raspberries; or either of the lastSweet Puddings. 137 named alone. Draw off the juice as if for making jelly, then, to half a pint add an ounce of well- washed fine sago, and cook the two together in an earthen vessel, until the sago is lost to sight; add sugar to taste, and pour into a china mould; turn out when set. It can be made softer by using three quarters of a pint of fruit juice to the ounce of sago, and poured into a dish to set. Very refreshing. Cream can be eaten with it, though it is nice plain. Arrowroot, corn flour, rice-flour, and other articles will serve as the thickening medium, and cook quickly. Rice Pudding.—Wash two ounces of the best Carolina rice in several waters, put it in a pie-dish, either buttered a little or rinsed out with cold water, and add a pint of rich milk and a pinch of salt, with an ounce of powdered loaf sugar, or brown sugar if it agrees, or honey. Bake in a very slow oven for two and a half to three hours. Or use an ounce and a half only of rice, and allow four hours. The addition of grated nutmeg must be left to taste. Ground cinnamon is a suitable flavouring in bowel com- plaint, and in many cases no sugar is allowed. In cold weather the rice may soak in the milk a few hours before baking, and is much improved. A pudding of this sort cannot be baked too slowly. A spoonful or two of cream can be added for a better pudding; and for variety the sweetening may be omitted and serve with a little stewed fruit, or warm jam or fruit jelly.138 Sweet Puddings. Note.—Coarse oatmeal, crushed wheat, tapioca, sago, and other cereals can be used in this way. Whenever the oven seems a trifle too hot (and it is important that it be slow at the first stage of the cooking) open the door a little, or set the pudding dish in a vessel of water. The dish should never be filled, plenty of room being required for the swelling of the grain. See Tapioca Pudding. Rusk Pudding.—Take some plain rusks called " tops and bottoms," or the finger rusks, but if the latter, be careful to add less sugar to the mixture. Break them up, and to a teacupful add a tablespoonful of sherry or brandy, and let them soak a while; beat an egg up with a little sugar and flavouring, such as nutmeg, or grated lemon or orange rind ; heat a gill of milk to nearly boiling point and add to the egg, beating hard; then pour the mixture over the rusks, and mix thoroughly. Pour into a slightly buttered dish and drop into the centre a dessertspoonful or so of any stoneless jam, then bake in a very moderate oven for about half an hour, depend- ing on the depth of the dish. Nice hot or cold. Note.—The wine and jam will make it sweet enough for many without sugar. It affords a very pleasant variety for convalescents. Another way.—Omit the jam, and serve with a little warm fruit or any fruit jelly. Where fruit is allowed some stoned sultana raisins can be mixed with the rusks and jam omitted. Rice Pudding, Steamed.—Cook an ounce ofSweet Puddings. 139 washed rice in a third of a pint of milk (double pan) for an hour and a half; when cool, add an ounce of chopped suet, the same of white sugar, a dessert-spoonful of brandy or rum, and a beaten egg. Beat well; then steam the pud- ding for an hour; or make one double the size and cook longer, as it can be re-heated. Cinna- mon is a suitable flavouring. Sago or Tapioca. Pudding, Simple.—See Rice Pudding without eggs, and make in the same way. These grains are especially liable to " catch," so the oven must be slow and the pud- ding stirred often; tapioca will boil over and burn unless lots of room be left in the dish. The best must be bought and well washed, as from the sticky nature these foods are often very dirty. If the pudding can stand an hour before baking all the better. It is a help to set the dish in a tin of water in the oven. See Tapioca Pudding, Saucer Puddings.—Cream together an ounce of butter and the same of white sugar; add an egg and beat again for a few minutes. Then sift and stir in an ounce of fine flour; do not beat again ; add two tablespoonsful of milk and mix, then bake in a quick oven, using tin saucers buttered a little. Serve with more sugar to taste. Another way.—Use half an ounce of sugar, only, then serve the puddings, two together, with a little warm jam between. Various flavour- ings to taste may be added. The same mixture can be baked in deep tin plates. The measureSweet Puddings. 140 a of milk must be regulated by the flour; sometimes a little more will be required. Savoy Pudding.—Crumble a stale Savoy- biscuit ; add it to a gill and a half of milk, and stir over the fire until hot; let it stand a few minutes, covered, while the crumbs swell. Add a teaspoonful of sugar, if liked, but it will be sweet enough for many, and a little simple flavouring, nutmeg, ginger, or lemon rind; add when cool the yolk of an egg, then the white, beaten to a froth. Bake very gently till firm and brown. This is nice without sugar, and served with warm stewed fruit or syrup. A teaspoonful of flour mixed with the milk and brought to the boil, then poured over the crumbs, gives a more substantial pudding. Finish as before. Two biscuits to half a pint of milk can be used for a stiffer pudding, and one large egg will do. Semolina Pudding, Steamed.—Wash an' ounce of yellow semolina in cold water, and put it to boil with half a pint of milk; cook gently for twenty minutes; add half an ounce each of white sugar and butter, and when it has cooled a little beat in a large fresh egg and a little nutmeg or other flavouring to taste. Butter a plain tin mould and put the mixture in, then cover with greased white paper, and steam gently for about forty minutes. Very slow cooking is wanted; turn out and serve. Another way.—Allow an extra half ounce of semolina, and put it on with the milk ; removeSweet Puddings. 141 as soon as the boil is reached; finish as before; steam until firm enough to turn out. Souffle, Steamed.—Take half an ounce of fresh butter, full weight; melt it in a small sauce- pan, then add half an ounce of fine flour sifted, scant weight, and stir together; when smooth put in a quarter of a pint of milk, or half milk and half water, and stir to the boil; go on stirring till thick, but over a steady heat, or so small a quantity wastes. It will leave the sides of the pan and cling to the spoon when done enough. Take from the fire, and beat in a very little sugar, about half a teaspoonful. Then add a saltspoonful of grated orange or lemon rind, or a few drops of essence of nutmeg or vanilla, or as liked. Then beat in the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, very thoroughly; small ones will do. Now beat the whites, with a pinch of salt, as stiffly as possible, and fold in lightly. The basin, or plain mould, should be greased ready and half filled with the mixture; tie a piece of white paper round and set in a stewpan of boiling water half way up the mould; cover, and keep it just on the simmer for about twenty to thirty minutes; let it stand a minute, then turn out carefully on a warm dish; dredge with sugar and serve at once. The sugar is omitted in the souffle sometimes, also the flavouring, then sauce, jam, fruit, or sugar goes to table with it. Any left over can be re-heated, though it will not have the lightness of the original. A delicious sauce K142 Sweet Puddings. is made by melting a spoonful of apple jelly, to which wine can be added. Tapioca Pudding.—This is simple and good. Wash an ounce of tapioca and soak it in three quarters of a pint of milk for an hour or two if convenient. Cook in a double pan till quite tender and the milk absorbed, then add a little castor sugar and flavouring to taste, beat in the yolk of an egg, and then the white beaten to a froth; bake in a shallow dish, not quite filled, in a gentle oven till firm and a pale brown. This is excellent if the sugar be omitted and some fruit jelly melted and served with it, or a little stewed fruit. Sago pudding can be made in the same way. For rice pudding, use a pint of milk. Vermicelli Pudding.—A pint of milk and an ounce of vermicelli should be put into a saucepan and brought to the boil, then simmered for an hour and sweetened to taste; any ap- proved flavouring can be added. Beat in an egg, or the yolk only, with half an ounce of butter, or a little cream, and serve hot. This is a nice "hasty" pudding. The sugar can be omitted and honey added, or warmed jam served with it. Turn on to a hot plate. A hollow can be made in the centre, and a lump of butter and some white sugar put in. Many can digest butter in this form, who cannot eat a pudding in which it has been baked. The pudding can be baked until brown (after cooling as above), the butter being added or omitted as preferred.CHAPTER VII. CREAMS AND JELLIES, BREAD AND CAKES. With Remarks on Gelatine, Isinglass, and Bread.* Qustcixb without (Sggs! * IRD? S A GB,EAT DELICACY. CUSTARD powder, For Making the Richest Custard without Eggs, at one-half the Cost and Trouble. ALSO DELICIOUS CUSTARD ICE. Price 6d. and Is. per Box. ALFRED BIRD, F.C.S., was the original maker of Bird j ip HLrncu oinu, r.i/.o., was ine original maxer oj N Baking Powder, he having discovered the pro- cess in 1843. All others are counterfeit. BAKING powder, For Making Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Plum Puddings, Scones, Buns, etc., Beautifully Light. Sold in 6d., Is., 23. 6d. and 5s. Tins, and in Id. and 2d. Packets, and 3d. Boxes. BIRD'S JB®» CHOICE—DELICIOUS, -"©a BLANC-MANGE powder, For making the most delicit-ut Blanc-Mange in a few minutes, with littlt trouble and at trifling cost. MADE IN THE FOLLOWING FLAVOURS. Vanilla, Almond, Strawberry, Kaspberry, Chocolate, Lemon, Coffee, Apricot, Noyeau, Pine Apple, Cherry, Jargonelle Pear, Orange, Nectarine, Peach, Apple, Black Currant, Bed Currant & Banana. All of these may be made into Exquisite Ices. Price 6d. and 18. per Box. BIRD'S *®* WH0LES0ME—BICH- Concentrated EGG powder. A Complete Substitute for Eggs, in the making of Puddings, Pancakes, Cakes, Buns, Batter for Fish, &<c., to which it imparls the Richness, Ap- Pecrance, Lightness, and Flavour of New-laid Eggs, and whilst attaining these excellent results, the greatest economy is effected in the cost. Sold In 6d. and Is. Tins, and id. and 2d. Packets. LADIES ARE STRONGLY ADVISED TO CONSULT " PASTRY AND SWEETS," A Little Work containing PRACTICAL HINTS and ORIGINAL RECIPES for Tasty Dishes for the Dinner and Supper Table. It will be sent POST FREE on Receipt of Address, or moj be obtained from any Grocer. ALFRED BIRD & SONS, BIRMINGHAM,CHAPTER VII. Gelatine.—In these recipes the gelatine re- ferred to is the " French sheet," which dissolves quickly. When the " opaque" packet gelatine is used, the quantity is usually stated on the packets, and directions must be followed, as gelatine varies greatly in strength. Swinborne's Gelatine (which requires soaking) will befound satisfactory. Isinglass.—This also varies in strength, and trial should be made of any reliable kind bearing the maker's name, and that brand kept to, otherwise a dish is very apt to turn out differently from what is intended. A very low- priced article will not be satisfactory. The goods of leading English makers are reliable. Isin- glass dissolves quickly, and in addition to its uses in the concoction of jellies and creams, it is often added to tea or coffee, to give a little body. In the recipes, the best brands have been kept in mind, i.e. " an ounce for a quart of liquid ;" but it may happen that an ounce and a half will have to be used for this quantity. For the recipes in this work Swinborne's isinglass was used ; and it is but fair to say that it can be relied upon for strength and purity;146 Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. and as it is strong, it is economical in use. Dishes prepared from it have no sticky or un- pleasant taste, but, given care, turn out right. Blancmange.—This is simple. Take half a pint of rich milk, half an ounce or more of loaf sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon or small orange, and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass. Put all except the sugar in a little saucepan, rinsed out with cold water, and leave in a warm place for a time until the milk is flavoured nicely; stir now and then to the boil, and when the isinglass is melted add the sugar; let it dissolve, and strain into a basin. When it is quite cool, but still liquid, pour into a little mould that has been rinsed with cold water; turn out when set. When time permits, these can be made more inviting if the top of the mould be filled with a little jelly of a contrasting colour; or a portion of the blancmange may be coloured with cochi- neal. If a spoonful of cream be added after the boiling, it much improves it. A bay leaf or a little nutmeg may be used as a flavourer. If gelatine is substituted for isinglass, half an ounce of "French sheet" will be wanted. Brandy Cream, Moulded.—Required: three quarters of a pint of new milk, half a quartern of pale brandy, the same measure of cream, half an ounce of isinglass and an ounce of lump sugar. The milk, isinglass, and sugar are to be set in a warm place in a lined or china saucepan, and the whole heated; it need not boil. When the isin»Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. 147 glass is quite dissolved, strain the mixture into a basin, in which the cream and brandy have been thoroughly whisked up together ; beat for a few minutes, then mould in the usual way, or pour into a deep glass dish to set. Or fill some custard cups; it wiil keep a day or two in cold weather. Madeira and other wines can be used in the same way. Calf's Feet Jelly.—Take a couple of cleaned feet, cut up, and the hoof split, and put them on with four and a half pints of cold water; five pints, if large feet. They should be blanched first. Cook very gently quite six hours; the liquid should not reduce more than half the original amount. Strain twice; first through a coarse hair sieve, then through a clean scalded cloth. Use a basin and leave until next day. The top of the jelly should be freed from fat and any impurities removed from the bottom. See Fat, How to Remove from Stock, &c. To make the jelly, put a pint of the stock in a clean saucepan (first scald and then rinse it in cold water); add a quarter of a pint of strained lemon juice (or half orange), then the thin rinds of the fruit, two lemons of average size, or a lemon and an orange, two cloves or half an inch of stick cin- namon, five or six ounces of loaf sugar, and the crushed shells (well washed first) of three fresh eggs, also the whites. Take a clean whisk, and whisk over steady heat until the froth forms and the jelly begins to boil; mind it does not boil over; to obviate this, leave room in the pan, half148 Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. fill it only, as it should really boil up. Now draw it back for ten minutes ; it should barely simmer, but be kept quite hot. Put the lid half on. Then strain through a cloth that has been scalded with hot water, tied to the four legs of a chair turned -upside down and placed on the table; have a basin in readiness and pass the first running through again, taking the basin away and slip- ping a second in its place. If not clear, pass through again; use no pressure and keep in a warm place. Should it set before all is through, put a jug of hot water in the middle of the jelly. It is well to make up small quantities of the stock at a time, as that keeps better than the jelly. Note.—The stock may not be stiff enough in hot weather, then add a little isinglass. The amount of wine or lemon juice can be altered to suit taste, also the sugar. Brandy or good Madeira, if ordered to replace the sherry, can be put in after straining. Some like little or no sugar, especially if orange juice be used. If any of the rind of the fruit be thick, the jelly will be bitter and spoilt. The stock must be melted first for the sake of measuring, then let it get cool before making the jelly ; indeed, it is better quite cold. When a very strong jelly is wanted, equal parts of the stock and wine are sometimes ordered ; then to make up, isinglass or sheet gelatine must be added. If the latter, cut it very small, and soak in a little of the wine to facili- tate the melting over the fire. A piece of flannelCreams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. 149 can be used instead of a cloth; either is more easily kept clean than a flannel bag, but some prefer the latter to anything else- Coffee Custard, Moulded.—Mix two ounces of corn flour, best quality, with a little cold milk to a paste ; boil the remainder of a pint of milk, add it, then return to the saucepan with two ounces of sugar, and cook for five minutes; add from a dessertspoonful to a tablespoonful of pure coffee extract, and the yolks of two eggs beaten up well; these should be added off the fire; now stir over a gentle heat for a minute, and pour into a wet mould to set; turn out and serve. Half the above will be enough in most cases; arrowroot, or fine rice flour, may be used instead of corn flour. It is nicer made softer, i.e., with an ounce and a half of corn flour to the pint of milk, then it should be poured into a glass dish to set. A little cream improves it. Corn Flour Blancmange (i).—An ounce and a-half of Kingsford's Oswego Prepared Corn will make a pint of blancmange. The directions given on the packets may be followed, but a very superior dish is got by beating in a tablespoonful or two of cream just before re- moval from the fire ; or, if a third cream be used, it may be whipped, and added as directed for ordinary creams; this adds to the bulk as well as to the excellence of the dish; flavourings to suit the taste should be added. Another way is to cook the corn and milk, and then to beat in150 Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. the whole, or the yolk only, of an egg, a minute before removal from the fire, taking care that the mixture does not actually boil again. By making the mixture thinner it can be poured into a pie dish and browned in a gentle oven, and served hot or cold; or it may be poured upon hot plates and served as " hasty pudding " ; in all forms it is agreeable and easy of digestion. Corn Flour Blancmange (2).—Mix gradu- ally two pints milk with three and a half-ounces Brown & Poison's Patent Corn Flour. Put into a goblet and bring to the boil, stirring. Add a pinch of salt and two ounces of sugar. If de- sired, add one or two drops of essence of lemon, or other flavouring. Boil eight minutes, stirring. Pour into a shape, rinsed with water, to cool; then turn out, and serve with milk and sugar, or jam. This may also be taken warm for breakfast or supper, and by children and invalids. Jelly.—There is generally little nutrition in jelly, the kinds consisting mostly of good wines excepted. When "no acids" are ordered, all in that form, as lemon and orange juice, must be excluded; jelly is a favourite with most, and if not given in excess, and the nurse is aware that it does not represent true nourishment, there is little harm in giving it. Sometimes a patient craves for it, and it seems difficult to replace it satisfactorily. It should be cool and soft; better err on the side of over softness, for even should it fail to turn out when moulded, it can be cut in dice and servedCreams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. 151 in a glass, or may be chopped ; again, it may be melted, and when nearly cold, be whisked with an egg whisk to a snowy consistence. It is messy looking when it begins to melt, so should be served in small quantities. A little ice is a help in keeping it cool, or to facilitate the setting. Never leave it standing in the sick chamber, for it has been proved that disease germs develop rapidly in all gelatinous bodies. A lump of jelly added to barley-water makes it very pleasant. Lemon Jelly, Simple.—Three quarters of a pint of cold water, a quarter of a pint of strained lemon juice, the thin rind of one large lemon, a clove, and three ounces, or more if liked, of lump sugar, are to be put in a saucepan, with a gene- rous half ounce of isinglass, and the white and crushed shell of one large fresh egg; whisk over very gentle heat, then finish as directed for Calf's Feet Jelly. If clearness is not an object, the egg can be dispensed with, and the mode given for Orange Jelly followed. By using half lemon juice and half sherry or Madeira, a simple wine jelly is obtained. If sherry, strain with the rest; Madeira can be put in after. A paler jelly is made by using all juice and no rind of the lemon, but the flavour is occasionally better liked. Sheep's Feet Jelly.—This is worth atten- tion, as with care it is but little inferior to jelly from calves' feet. It is of course much cheaper. A set of feet should be used for two to three152 Creams and Jellies—Bread a?id Cakes. pints of water; they must be cleaned and then blanched, see Blanching; after this, cook for five to six hours, then proceed as for other jellies. See Calf's Feet Jelly for the finishing off. In cold weather a little isinglass or gelatine may be needed. The feet can also be stewed down for a savoury, the liquid being poured off and seasoned, milk being added if liked; taken warm it is very soothing, or it can be poured through muslin and taken cold as a jelly. Orange Cream.—To make half a pint, take the strained juice of oranges enough to two- thirds fill the measure; add an ounce of sugar and a quarter of an ounce of sheet gelatine, melted in a couple of teaspoonfuls of boiling water; then whip enough cream to make up the measure. Add it to the juice, &c, when cool, but not cold, and mix very thoroughly, or the ingredients will separate in setting. Pour into small cups or dishes, and set by to cool. For a fuller flavour of the fruit, rasp the loaf sugar on the rinds of two oranges, and add a table- spoonful of lemon juice or a morsel of the rind. Orange Jelly.—Allow half a pint of orange juice, the juice of one large or two small lemons, water to make up the liquid to a pint in all, three ounces, more or less to taste, of lump sugar, half an ounce of good isinglass, or twice as much French sheet gelatine, and the rinds of some of the oranges ; if very large, one to two ; if quite small ones, three may be used. The water and thin rinds of the oranges should beCreams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. 153 put into a lined saucepan with the sugar and isinglass, and brought to the boil slowly, then simmered for ten minutes, removing any scum as it rises. Use a wooden or silver spoon, strain through scalded muslin or tammy cloth or a clean kitchen cloth; add the juice of both fruits, strained to ensure freedom from a pip or particle of pith ; stir from time to time during the cooling, and when nearly cold mould as usual. See Jelly. Note.—A. more delicate flavour is got by rasp- ing the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the fruit. Wipe the fruit first with a damp cloth, and finish with a second dry one. If brandy be added, from a tablespooful upwards may be used, last thing before moulding. Many will like this with an ounce of sugar only. For a fuller fruit flavour reduce the water to a quarter of a pint, and increase the orange juice. Orleans Cream.—Make a custard with the yolks of four eggs, the white of one, half a pint of milk, and an ounce and a half of sugar ; melt half an ounce of isinglass in a gill of milk and add to the rest, together with an ounce and a half of fine sponge cake crumbs; any suitable flavouring may be added; when cool mix in lightly a gill of whipped cream, and mould as usual. Turn out when set, and garnish with chopped jelly or fruit syrup. Note.— This custard is to be prepared in the usual way, i.e., thickened carefully, but not boiled. Port Wine Jelly.—Rinse out a little sauce- pan with cold water and put in the following :154 Creams and Jellies—Bread and CakeS. two ounces of lump sugar, the thin rind of a small lemon with the strained juice, half an ounce of isinglass, or twice the weight of sheet gelatine, and half a pint of cold water; cover, set in a warm place for a time, then bring to the boil, stirring, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. See that the isinglass is quite dissolved; scald a clean cloth or coarse muslin, and pour the liquid through into a basin ; add half a pint of good port, and mould when it begins to cool; or make it softer, using two-thirds the amount of isinglass, and pour into a shallow glass dish. Note.—Some wines take more sugar than others. A clove or two or morsel of stick cinna- mon is much liked by some; a teaspoonful of red currant jelly improves colour and flavour. If a stronger jelly is wanted, alter the proportions of wine and water. A common, thick, dark wine is not suitable. It may be made without any acid should the case require it; and a little pale brandy would, for some, be an improvement. Tapioca Fruit Jelly, with Cream.—Wash two ounces of the best tapioca, and then pour over a pint of cold water; cook after an hour's soaking, in a double pan, for nearly or quite two hours ; it should be thick and clear; when three parts done add a tablespoonful of black or red currant jelly; other kinds may be used in the same way. Turn into a damp earthen mould or pie-dish, and turn out when set. Pour a little cream over or round, or hand it with the jelly;Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. 155 or spread a morsel more of the fruit jelly over the top, and place little heaps of whipped or clotted cream here and there about the dish. BREAD AND CAKES. Bread, General Remarks on. — Miss Nightingale and others of long experience in nursing the sick, under varying and trying circumstances, assert that change of bread is often of great service, while a bit of genuine home-made is often earnestly craved for by the patient. This is an age of specialities, and there are breads to meet all cases, but to many, espe- cially convalescents, a bit of plain household, whether brown or white, is relished above all others. A recipe is given that can be relied on, if the directions are carefully followed, even by those who have hitherto had no practical expe- rience in bread-making. See Bread, Invalids', below. When bread is bought, get the best, and never give it new; see that it is well baked—un- derdone bread is good for nobody, and is particu- larly bad where the digestive powers are weak- ened by illness. In some disorders unfermented bread is found of service, and others may relish it if only on account of variety : hence the formula. Bread, Invalids'.—Take three and a half pounds of flour, wholemeal and white mixed, or all of either, but the mixture is much to be156 Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. recommended ; put it in a large vessel and hollow the centre. Now mix in a second vessel the following in the order named. Half an ounce of dried yeast, the same of moist sugar (blend these), then a couple of ounces of cooked pota- toes well mashed while warm, then two ounces of ground rice; when smooth, add a mixture of milk and water at the tepid degree: there should be half of each, mix one-third boiling with two-thirds cold to get the right temperature. About half a pint to each pound of flour, but more should be in readiness if wanted, as flours vary in power of absorbing moisture. Add this mixture to the flour, with salt (half an ounce minimum, an ounce maximum), mix all to a dough, soft but not sticky, cover with flannel, and set by for eight or nine hours in a rather warm place but not near a fire; the temperature must be even, so keep out of draughts and avoid peeping. Turn out and knead, then bake in tins, or other forms ; it must be well baked and left to cool on a sieve before taken to a colder atmosphere. Note.—There is but little yeast in this, hence the reason for the long rising; the rice and potatoes give the yeast something to " feed on," and so the flour is left in a more digestible condition. Sugar also assists the rising. Those who will carry out this in its entirety will get a bread of good flavour and very digestible. Cerebos Milk Bread.—This is light and well adapted for toasting. Take six ounces ofCreams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. 157 fine white flour, the same weight of brown flour, the finest, half a teaspoonful of Cerebos baking powder, half as much Cerebos salt, two ounces of butter, an egg, and some milk and water. The flours are to be sifted with the salt, and the butter rubbed in until fine as sand; beat the eggs with a gill of milk and water mixed in equal parts, and proceed to mix all to a soft paste, adding a little more water as required. Skim milk can be used instead of the mixture named. The baking powder should be mixed in before the liquids. Mould very quickly into twelve to sixteen egg-shaped rolls, and gash across with a knife twice, then bake well in a good oven, about twenty minutes. If for toast- ing, bake in a tin or tins. To gloss the bread, leave out a little of the egg and mix with milk, and brush over before baking; a richer gloss is given by using egg alone a few minutes before the rolls are taken from the oven. The same recipe, minus the butter, will make a bread acceptable to many, and if wanted sweet, add an ounce or more fine white sugar, reducing the salt to a pinch. This baking powder being strong, less than the usual amount suffices. All white flour can be used in the same manner. Egg Bread, Unfermented.—Beat a new laid egg and add to it a gill and a half of milk and water mixed; beat well for some minutes, for this is very important; then sift in gradually some finely ground wholemeal; flour varies so158 Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cakes. much that proportions cannot be given, but about nine or ten to eleven ounces is the approx- imate ; the drier the flour the more moisture it will require, and the dough should be quite soft, too soft to handle. Have some small tins, heated and greased, and a hot oven ready; in filling the tins leave room for rising, and bake well; give the greatest heat for the first part of the time, and transfer to a Cooler part to finish. Salt is a matter of taste—in some cases none is required; wholemeal bread is Salter to the taste than white naturally ; if added, use about half a teaspoonful to the pound of flour. A mixture of brown and white flour can be used in the same way. The egg adds to the nutriment, and a good deal of air can be incorporated in the beating of it with the milk. Probably the first baking will not be a success, but after a few trials no trouble should be experienced. If preferred, the dough can be made stiff enough to mould on the board, and baked in the form of rolls ; the tops should be freely pricked with a fork. Cool on a sieve. Oswego Ginger Cakes.—These are light and digestible. Take an ounce and a-half of good butter and beat it to a cream, then add the sugar, about three ounces, and beat again for a few minutes; add two eggs singly, work it again for a short time; two ounces each of fine flour and Oswego corn are then to be sifted together, and added lightly, with a tablespoonful of milk. The ginger should be freshly and finely grated,Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cake. 15.9 and a large saltspoonful to half a teaspoonful, according to taste, be added with the flours. In suitable cases, a good pinch of Cerebos baking powder can be added with advantage. Bake in small greased patty-pans in a moderate oven. Note. — Ground caraway seeds, instead of ginger, make good cakes, the ground spice being more agreeable than the Whole seeds.. - Rusks, Unsweetened, Ways of Serving. —Soak the rusks in some beef tea or gravy from a joint, then spread with a little mince of meat or poultry. Again, take hot milk, made savoury with salt and pepper for the soaking, and spread with pounded fish or poultry moist- ened with milk or cream, or a little white sauce. Or, by moistening with the milk, and spreading with the yolk of a lightly boiled egg, a little change is effected. A nice little dish of vege- tables, as spinach, or peas, or cauliflower, in sprigs, may be decorated with the rusks coated with a moist mince of meat, game, poultry, or fish. This is a way of making much of the meat in cases where it is desirable to serve it in smaller quantities than the invalid likes. By putting them in the oven to warm and crisp, rusks can take the place of toast, as a garnish or accompani- ment to any number of little snacks, including soups, beef and other tea, &c. Sponge Cakes.—These are very light and less sweet than usually made, which to many will be an advantage. Break two eggs, and put160 Creams and Jellies—Bread and Cake. the yolks in a basin, with two ounces of sugar, finest castor, and beat together until the mixture is thick; a whisk is the thing to use, but a spoon will do ; unless it is thick the cakes will not stand. Now take two ounces of fine flour, Hungarian, and sift it twice ; beat the two whites of eggs to a very stiff froth with a pinch of salt; add these, the flour and the whites, by degrees, alternately, to the yolks and sugar. The incor- poration is best effected by a folding motion, from bottom of the bowl to the top, not by stir- ring round and round. Have ready some small sponge cake tins, buttered, with clarified butter, then dredged with flour and sugar in equal parts, all that does not adhere being shaken out; they must be but little more than half filled; bake in a moderate oven fifteen minutes; they should be firm to the touch and light brown. Any flavour- ing maybe added; grated lemon rind or a pinch of grated ginger. If one large cake, line the tin with buttered paper after treating as above. For a more substantial and sweeter cake, use three ounces each of flour and sugar to two eggs. Potato Flour Sponge Cake.—This is made in the same way as the ordinary sponge cake (see recipe), but an ounce each of flour and potato flour are used ; it should be light with a crisp crust, and may be made quite plain, or flavoured as preferred. It is useful to serve with stewed fruit, to take the place of a pudding.CHAPTER VIII. BEVERAGES: HOT AND COLD. INCLUDING COCOA, COFFEE, AND TEA. With Directions How to Keep Drinks Cool, and to Test Milk.eoeoa Closely resembles Milk in the large proportion of Flesh-forming and Strength-sustaining elements it contains. It is very easily digested, imparts new life and vigour to those of delicate constitution, and is exceedingly beneficial to Growing Children. As a Refreshing, Stimulating Drink, and a Nutritious Food, CADBURY'S COCOA maintains its great superiority. Absolutely Pure, Delicious in Taste, and most Economical withal. CADBURY'S is COCOA, and Cocoa only, not a combination of Drugs, or a high-sounding alkalied article. '' Without question the favourite Cocoa of the day; we are glad to give it the highest f raise. For Nourishment there is nothing superior to befound."—MEDICAL MAGAZINE " The standard of highest -purity."—Tun LANCET.« CHAPTER VIII. Drinks, to keep Cool.—Wrap a cloth round the jug containing the drink, and keep the cloth wet by wringing it out of cold water from time to time. Another way is to use a shallow vessel for the reception of the beverage, say a basin; cover this and set it in a vessel containing cold water, with a handful of common salt to the quart or thereabouts. The water is made colder if a little saltpetre be added. When wanted very cold, put a small quantity of the drink in a vessel, such as a teacup, and set that in a mixture of broken ice (quite small) and pounded salt, two parts of the former to one part of the latter; cover to exclude the air, and keep in a cold place; it will soon be ready for use. This is a good mode when something very cold is wanted in a hurry. Milk, Simple Test for.—Take a steel knife and dip the blade into cold water, then dry it and dip it in the milk, holding it upright; if the milk be pure and rich there will be a film, thick and creamy, on the knife as it is withdrawn; on the contrary, watered milk will run off the knife.164 Beverages: Hot and Cold. It is necessary that the knife be free from grease, so it is best to wash it in boiling water, then proceed as above. Apple Water.—Take a couple of sharp juicy- apples of moderate size, wash and dry but do not pare them ; slice them thinly and put them in a jug with a few lumps of sugar and the thin rind of half a lemon and the juice, or the latter only; the apples must be a guide to the amount of acid added; pour over a pint to a pint and a half of boiling water, cover with a clean cloth (stuff it in the neck), strain when cold. Another way.—Allow a couple of large apples to a quart of water, with sugar, &c., to taste; boil the whole for half an hour, then strain through a hair sieve for use. This is a whole- some and refreshing drink. Barley Water, Nourishing.—This is made by mixing a small teacupful of scalded pearl barley with three pints of water and a teacupful of good raisins, stoned, and simmering for three hours. Then strain, and serve hot or cold, with an equal measure of milk, which, even if cold, should have been boiled or sterilised. To con- vert this into a still more nutritious drink, reduce the barley by a third, and add half a cup of coarse oatmeal and wheatmeal mixed. A nice cooling drink is got by omitting the milk and adding a little lemon or lime juice, and thinning down with more water. See Barley. Barley Water, Thick.—Allow a couple ofBeverages: Hot and Cold. 165 ounces of pearl barley to three pints of water; wash the barley and scald it, then put it to boil with the cold water, and the thin rind of half a lemon; simmer very slowly for two hours, then strain and add the strained juice of the lemon, with a little sugar to taste. Those who like it quite thick may use only two pints of water, but three pints will suit the majority; indeed, many think an ounce to the quart thick enough. A very good and nutritious drink can be made by using half the amount of water, then after straining from the barley make up the quantity with boiled milk; no acid to be used. A nutritious mixture is thus composed :—Beat up a raw egg, then add a very small teacupful of hot milk, beating gradually; it should be just off the boil; then put in about the same measure of thick barley water, also hot; sweeten and flavour to taste, or if preferred as a savoury add a little salt only. This is a change from the ordinary modes of serving eggs, and while one gets the digestibility of an egg served in the raw state, there is a more pleasant flavour, as the hot liquids reduce the rich sickly taste that clings to the commonplace raw egg dishes. Barley Water, from Robinson's Patent Barley.—Take of the Patent Barley one ounce, mix with a wineglass of cold water into a smooth paste free from lumps; pour this into a stewpan containing one quart of boiling water, stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes, then166 Beverages: Hot and Cold. flavour with a small bit of lemon peel or cinnamon and sweeten according to taste. When the Patent Barley is used to make a summer beverage, only half an ounce must be taken. Bran Tea.—Take two heaped tablespoonfuls of medium bran and a quart of cold water; boil for a quarter of an hour gently; leave room in the pan for rising, as if full it will boil over. Sweeten with a little clear honey and strain for use. Butter is sometimes added. A very old remedy for hoarseness and common colds. Another way is to use three tablespoonfuls of bran to a quart of boiling water; make the tea in a teapot, letting it stand for twenty minutes in a warm place, then strain for use. A strip of lemon peel is added by many. There are great differences in the ways of making, both as to time required and amount of bran. The above are good recipes ; the first is recommended. Brandy Milk.—A very old-fashioned and nourishing beverage. Whisky can replace the brandy. Heat half a pint of new milk slowly, put in a pinch of salt unless forbidden, a tea- spoonful of white sugar, or a lump or two, and the yolk of a fresh egg beaten up with two table- spoonfuls of good brandy; stir over the fire until as hot as possible without boiling and quite smooth, then serve with rusks or toast or bis- cuits. This can be made stronger by reducing the milk, and is then useful for cases that require " little and often" of a nutritious sort. «Beverages: Hot and Cold. 167 Biscuit Milk.—Take a tablespoonful of grated arrowroot biscuits and pour over half a pint of milk, nearly boiling; cover for a few minutes if to be taken hot; if tepid, or cold, leave covered until the required degree is reached. Sugar is better omitted if for sufferers from bowel com- plaints, and cinnamon is a suitable flavouring. But it is suited also to ordinary patients by way of a change, and many ways of flavouring will suggest themselves. Cream or other adjuncts may be put in. Rusks and various other sorts of biscuits can be so used. For Hints on the Preparation of Cereals, see Chapter V. COCOA.—There are now many kinds, but among English cocoas Messrs. Cadbury's can be recom- mended for purity and suitability for those of weak and impaired digestion ; the directions on the packets may be relied on. The " soluble cocoas" (thin) are more suited to invalids, being so much lighter than the thickened sorts; but all are improved by a minute's boiling: it brings out the flavour and prevents deposit. In using malted or peptonised cocoas, the instructions must be rigidly followed. Cocoa from the nibs makes a thin drink of a peculiar flavour, the taste for which is acquired; it agrees with many better than any other sort. A couple of ounces to the quart of cold water will be about right as a rule, though some may like it stronger than this. The nibs should be crushed and soaked a few hours in the water;168 Beverages: Hot and Cold. boil very gently for five or six hours, do not let it waste : the fat is to be taken from the surface when cold, except the contrary has been ordered, for now and then it is of service. It should be re-heated and served with hot milk. A special vessel must be kept for this, and there is nothing better than fireproof earthenware. When more convenient use a jar, and cook in a tin of water in a slow oven. Note.—It takes some time to get the full strength from the nibs, and some of the liquid can be drawn off after two hours, then more water added and the cooking continued ; this is thought a better plan by some. Others make it very strong at first, and use half milk at the time of serving ; many keep the cocoa-pan going, and draw off and add to as required, until the nibs have lost the strength. The first mode may be tried, and the proportions altered as desired. A pint to half an ounce will be strong enough for some, as a trial. Coffee. — Many elaborate devices are in use for the making of coffee, and those who possess them are in no need of advice. But for the majority a little brown jug is all-sufficient, so that it be kept clean and dry and heated for use. The coffee should be pure, and used in generous proportions ; if not home ground get it freshly ground, and heat between two saucers or little plates before using; after the boiling water is added cover well, and set where it can- not reach the boil again. To clear it, if the jugBeverages: Hot and Cold. 169 has a strainer spout, simply pour it from the jug into a cup, and back again a time or two; or pour into a cup through a little strainer that can be bought for a few pence. Then there is the muslin bag mode, well known to most people. A few drops of cold water thrown on the surface of the hot coffee assists the clearness. With a strainer spout it is sometimes necessary to use the little fine strainer in addition. Avoid grounds; they are not only disagreeable but sometimes dangerous. Some of the coffee essences are of guaranteed purity, and are useful when a very small quantity is required. But many have but little coffee in them. Buy none that does not bear the maker's name, and is not stated to be " pure coffee." Egg Flip.—Beat the yolk of an egg and about a teaspoonful of castor sugar till quite creamy; this takes several minutes, and if hastily done the result is very different from what it should be ; next add a wineglassful of sherry, or other wine, to which a teaspoonful of brandy or whisky is sometimes added with advantage; beat well, then stir the white of the egg in with a light hand, having first beaten it to a stiff froth; serve at once, as it soon falls. Half these quantities are generally enough for one, or the yolk can be divided and made to serve twice, the whole of the white being added each time, as the white of an egg is not easily divided until beaten, and it is very nutritious when given in this manner, being readily digested. Sometimes orange or170 Beverages: Hot and Cold. lemon juice is put in and the wine reduced a little. Egg Wine.—Madeira or sherry may be used ; an egg is first beaten up, and a glass of the wine added with a lump or two of sugar; a gill or rather more boiling water is next in order, the mixture being beaten during its gradual addi- tion ; it may be put in a saucepan and heated together, but great care is- needed to avoid curd- ling ; serve very hot. Groat Gruel.—Take a good teacupful of groats (whole oats) and put them in a jar with eight times the measure of cold water. Cover and cook in a gentle oven until the mixture is creamy; it may take nearly three hours, then strain care- fully, getting all that will pass through the sieve or strainer, leaving the groats behind. Strain while hot. This will keep in a cold place for a few days in cool weather. Sugar or salt can be added as liked. When used, take about equal parts of the gruel and new milk, and stir together over the fire until the boil is reached, then let it simmer, stirring well for ten minutes. More milk will be liked by some, and in certain cases cream may be added; anyhow, with proper care, a very smooth, palatable, and highly nutritious gruel is the result, and it is a great advantage to be able to prepare enough for several days' consump- tion. Another way is to cook in a double boiler instead of the oven; where whole groats are not to be had, " pin-head" oatmeal can be used.Beverages: Hot and Cold. i71 Apply to a dealer, who will supply the article in a fresh and clean condition. Honey and Lemon.—This is an old remedy for a cough. Take a couple of large sound lemons, and rasp the yellow part of the rind of one on a couple of ounces of lump sugar ; then crush it; remove the yellow rind of the other and put by for future use ; now bake the lemons in a slow oven until very soft, turning them often ; scoop out all the pulp and juice into a vessel con- taining the sugar ; be sure that no pips or white skin get in. Dissolve the sugar and mix all up with a spoonful or two of honey to taste, but the acid should be pronounced. When cold, cover, and take a teaspoonful when the cough is trouble- some. Good for hoarseness, common in some illnesses. Note.—By using less honey, and adding a little pure glycerine, a mixture more agreeable to many is obtained. Lemonade.—Two lemons, a pint of boiling water, and from one to two ounces of lump sugar will make a good lemonade. The fruit should be juicy and rolled on a board, that the juice will yield better; wipe and dry it with a clean cloth, then peel very thinly. The rind should be yellow on both sides, and anything short of this will make the drink bitter. Put the rind in a jug with the sugar and strain the juice over it; pour the water over, stir with a wooden spoon, then cover with a clean cloth, stuffing it well into the neck of the jug ; set by to get cold.172 Beverages: Hot and Cold. The common causes of bitterness are thick rind and pips; not one of the latter should find its way in. This is sometimes iced, and minus sugar it is often more acceptable. The acidity- can be increased by adding a little citric acid. The rind of one lemon to the juice of two is liked by some ; and a very nice drink is got by using a couple of lemons and one orange to about a pint and a half of water; the rinds will not all be wanted—it is a matter of taste. A little jelly gives the beverage body, and lemonade and barley water mixed makes a pleasant drink. Lemonade Syrup. — Suited only to cases where acids are freely given ; useful where fresh lemons are scarce and dear. Pour half a pint of boiling water over half a pound of lump sugar and an ounce of citric acid in a jug; stir with a clean wooden spoon, cover, and bottle for use when cold. About a tablespoonful to a half tumbler of plain water or soda-water. The acid can be reduced if found too strong; or less sugar may suit some. Not intended for long keeping. Lemon Juice, To Preserve. — Squeeze the juice from some thoroughly sound and ripe lemons into an enamelled saucepan; it must be perfectly free from grease or the juice will not keep. Boil very gently over a gas stove or clear fire for forty minutes if a good quantity; thirty minutes will do for a pint to a quart. Pour into a jug, put a clean cloth over and leave to get cold. Then pour off into another jug carefully,Beverages: Hot and Cold. 173 so that any sediment may be left behind. When this has stood for a time put it into little bottles, so as to leave a space of half an inch or there- abouts between the juice and the bottom of the cork. This space is to be filled up with the purest salad oil; use new corks and let them touch the oil. Seal well with bottle wax. When opened for use it is easy to remove the oil by rolling a bit of cotton wool round a clean skewer or bone crochet hook ; every spot of oil can be removed by renewing the wool as required. Small bottles are essential, as once opened the juice does not keep long. Should be taken advantage of when lemons are cheap by those who find lemon juice useful. Linseed Tea.—Linseed is both mucilaginous and oily. The infusion of linseed in boiling water yields a drink that is much used in cases of cough and cold. The boiling of the seed extracts the oil as well as the mucilage, and this often nauseates. The addition of liquorice, though general, is not essential; some prefer a little sugar to sweeten it. Others find lemon or orange juice a pleasant addition. But when the best liquorice (Solazzi) is added, it is said not to create thirst or upset the stomach, as sugar is apt to do. There are many ways of making the tea, and the strength varies. The following is a good recipe:— Allow a couple of ounces of linseed to a quart of boiling water; cut up from half an ounce to an ounce of liquorice, and add, cover, and let the M174 Beverages: Hot and Cold. jug stand on the hob or hot plate, and the place must be warm, for half an hour, then strain into a clean jug. Another way, producing a thinner drink, is to pour the boiling water over, cover, and set by to get cold, when it is ready for use. More soothing when taken warm. Those who like it thick can boil the whole for a quarter of an hour; the seeds should not be bruised. Chopped raisins are added sometimes, and honey as a sweetener and for its soothing properties. Lemon juice is best added after straining. Lin- seed tea usually acts as a mild purgative. Milk.—The first essential is purity, and the next cleanliness. Take milk for the sick in separate vessels, and see that they are scalded and dried; no jug should be used into which the hand cannot be got. The rims want great care. Buy no more at a time than is necessary. Keep it in a cool place, out of the rays of the sun, and away from any food with a strong odour, as milk so readily takes up other impurities. When pure milk does not agree it should be tried diluted, or with barley water; again, it often depends on the manner of consuming it; hastily swallowed, it may give pain or be rejected ; while if sipped it may give no trouble. Then there are ways of pre-digesting it, such as peptonising; in all cases when ordered it should not be given up as a bad job until the different modes have been tried. Sometimes skim milk and cream will agree where new milk will not; or wheyBeverages: Hot and Cold. 175 is welcome as a rule; taken hot, milk is a restorative, and one of the best " nightcaps " in many cases; whisky is often ordered by the medical profession as an adjunct. Baked milk agrees with many better than boiled or scalded, and, as with many foods, it acquires a different flavour from long, slow cooking, in a cool oven. It must be ever remembered that milk is a food and not a thirst quencher; to give a thirsty, feverish patient a drink of milk as a refresher is a mistake, as milk may be set down as " a perfect food in a liquid form." Oatmeal Gruel.—Use fine or medium oat- meal ; the former is the more generally used, and allow an ounce or so to the pint of water. Mix the meal to a smooth paste with cold water, boil the rest of a pint, and add it, return to the sauce- pan, and cook for thirty to forty minutes. An hour is still better. Stir often unless a double pan be used. Add a little sugar towards the end, as there is then less tendency to "catch." A pinch of salt should be added. Strain if the least lumpy, but with care, and in a clean pan it should not happen. Avoid smoke and burn- ing ; the least trace of either will produce loath- ing for food of the same class; besides, burnt food often brings on vomiting, and should never be given. Lemon juice is a nice flavourer, also nutmeg, unless there is throat irritation ; wine or spirit, if added by doctor's order, should be put in after boiling. Serve very hot. Water176 Beverages: Hot and Cold. gruel agrees sometimes when milk gruel does not, but cream is added occasionally—a table- spoonful to a teacupful, or a bit of butter. No. 2. Make it with milk in the same manner, but be still more careful in the matter of stirring. When "medium" oatmeal is used, the gruel wants longer cooking. No. 3. The yolk of an egg added to half a pint of gruel makes it more nourishing; and some can digest water gruel with an egg who cannot take milk in any form. The egg should be beaten, and the hot gruel added, the beating being kept up for a minute or two ; the whole is then to be re-heated, but not boiled again. Serve with a little dry toast or a plain biscuit. The main points are thorough cooking, and care in the mixing ; use a wooden spoon (the back), and work from the centre, in adding the liquid. Patent Groats Gruel.—Take of Robinson's Patent Groats one tablespoonful, mix with a wineglassful of cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stewpan con- taining nearly a pint of boiling water, or milk, stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for ten minutes; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter, or if more agreeable, some sugar, and a small quantity of spirits. Note.—When gruel is made for an invalid, butter had better be omitted. Orangeade, Cold Process.—Take equal measures of orange juice and cold water, withBeverages: Hot and Cold. 177 or without sugar as liked. The addition of soda water to orange juice or lemon juice makes a very refreshing drink. Orange Syrup.—Take three quarters of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, half a pint of strained orange juice, and a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and bring slowly to the boil, then simmer gently, removing the scum as it rises ; when clear, strain, and when cold bottle in small bottles, cork and seal. This is useful for flavour- ing purposes, and may be added to soda water and other beverages, or is very nice with plain water. Recipes for many fruit syrups will be found in any good cookery book ; they are use- ful in the sick room. A7^.—Orange marmalade, a good tablespoon- ful to the pint of boiling water, strained when cold, gives a nice flavour, and is useful if nothing better be handy, for consumption as it is. Again, a little marmalade can be put into barley or toast water; strain before using. Possets.—These are old-fashioned drinks, highly esteemed in some parts of the country for colds in the head. Whey is now used to a great extent in place of these. The following is very popular :—Bring half a pint of milk to the boil, then add a tablespoonful or more of treacle, and boil up again; just enough treacle to curdle the milk is wanted; strain and serve very hot. Rice Water. — Allow an ounce of washed Carolina rice to a quart of cold water, soak it for178 Beverages: Hot and Cold. an hour in the water, then put all in a clean saucepan and simmer for an hour and a half to two hours very gently; half an inch^-of stick cinnamon is the usual flavouring, but where it is much disliked, a little root ginger can replace it. Sugar is not always allowed—if it is, very little should be added; to be taken tepid or cold; if the latter, stir it often while cooling. If wine is ordered (port is usual) add it after straining; brandy is occasionally ordered with or without the wine. Many patients will like it thinner than this. For rice jelly use an ounce to the pint, and simmer to half the quantity; pour in a vessel after straining, and do not stir while cooling. Tea for an invalid should be bought as free from tannin as possible, and by applying to a first- rate house this can be easily obtained. The pot should be kept very dry and clean, heated, and the tea allowed to infuse a few minutes only; with special kinds of tea directions are generally given. A tea infuser made of china is very handy for making single cups, either for nurse or patient. Never give common tea that has been standing on the leaves; it is a fruitful source of indigestion. It is well to make in one pot and pour off into a second one, heated, if more than one cup is required. Toast Water.—The crust of the loaf is the best, and the top preferred as a rule; it should be from bread a few days old; toast it very179 Beverages: Hot and Cold. slowly, so that it is dry all through, and a good brown without being burnt. Break it up and put it in a jug of cold water, cover, and leave until it is the colour of brown sherry, then strain for use. Lemon juice, orange juice, or a little fresh fruit juice in season may be added, but quite plain it is a very refreshing drink. Make it fresh daily. Whey.—This is often recommended to persons suffering from dyspepsia and other ailments. There are various ways of preparing. Essence of rennet, to be had of any good chemist, is generally accompanied by directions, which should be noted, as the strength varies ; rennet, bearing the name of one of the leading English makers, should be chosen. No. 1. Warm a pint of milk to blood heat or thereabouts in an earthen vessel, stir in a tea- spoonful of rennet, and if left in a warm place it will be ready for straining in about fifteen to twenty minutes. The whey ought to look clear and the curds be well formed. It is best to let it cool before breaking the curd and straining the whey. A little cream is sometimes added before serving, as many can digest cream who cannot digest the casein of the milk which is left behind in the curd. No. 2. This is called Irish or "two-milk" whey, and many prefer it. A mixture of new milk and buttermilk, two-thirds of the former and one-third of the latter, is brought totiie boil,180 Beverages: Hot and Cold. then left to settle after pouring from the saucepan into a basin ; the whey is then strained off. No. 3. Lemon whey, very generally liked. Put from a quarter to half a pint of milk on to boil with a lump or two of sugar, and then add lemon juice, a little at a time, until the milk curdles; about a tablespoonful to a generous half pint of milk; it should boil up a second time and be strained through muslin. Wine whey is prepared in the same manner; a glass of sherry may be allowed to a gill of milk, or it may serve for a larger quantity. Equal parts of water and milk often form the foundation for this; taken warm it promotes perspiration; taken cold the effect is different, and when prescribed one should make sure of the temperature intended. Note.—As much as possible of the fluid should be squeezed from the curd, and it is well to break it up with the fingers, as then a good deal of the fat will pass into the whey and make it more nourishing.INDEX. APPLE and Crumb Puddings, 121 Apples, Baked, 122 Apple Pudding (Favourite), 121 Apple Waters, 164 Arrowroot and its uses, 103 Arrowroot Recipes, 104 Arrowroot Souffle, 122 Asparagus, Steamed, 76 Austrian Soups, 38 BACON, Crumbed, 76 Baked Apples, 122 Baked Slips, 6g Balls (Beef), Raw, 77 Barley and Groats, Prepared, 32 Barley Custard Pudding, 123 Barley, Patent or Prepared, 105 Barley, Pearl, 104 Barley Waters, 164, 165 Batter Puddings, Light, 125 Battersea Queen Pudding, 123 Beef Balls, Raw, 77 Beef Juice or Essence, 39 Beef Teas, Various, 40-43 Bird's Custard Sauce, 124 Biscuit Milk, 167 Blanching, 23 Blancmange, Corn Flour, 140, 150 Blancmange, how to make it, 146 Boudins, Mutton, 88 Brain Patties, 77 Brains, Scalloped, 78 Braim to imitate Sweetbread, 78 Brain Toast, 78 Brandy Cream, Moulded, 146 Brandy in illness and convalescence, 20 Brandy Milk, 166 Bran Tea, 166 Bread and Cakes, 155 Bread and Vegetable Soups, 54, 55 Bread, Cerebos Milk, 156 Bread (Egg), Unfermented, 157 Bread, General Remarks on, 155 Bread, Invalids', 155 Bread Meringue Pudding, 125 Bread Pudding, Savoury, 105 Broiled Chicken, 83 Broiled Fish, 61 Broths—Chicken, 44 ; Eel, 62; Egg, 46 ; Mutton, 50 ; Veal, 54 Browned Mutton, 89 Buttered Eggs, 116 Butter, Remarks on, 23 CAKES and Bread, 155 Cakes, Oswego and Ginger, 158 Cakes, Sponge, 159 *Cake (Sponge), Potato Flour, 160 Calf s Feet Telly, 147 Calf s Foot Fritters, 80 Calf s Foot in Milk, 80 Carrot and Tomato Soup, 54 Celery, how to cook, 81 Celery Soup, 43 Cejery, to stew, 81 Cereals, hints on, 103 Cerebos Milk Bread, 156 Champagne in illness and convales- cence, 20 Chicken and Macaroni Pudding, 107 Chicken and Oyster Sandwiches, 69 Chicken and Rice, 82 Chicken, Broiled or Grilled, 83 Chicken Broth, 44 Chicken Croquettes, 84 Chicken Dishes, Remarks on, 82 Chicken Essence, 45 Chicken Jelly, 45 Chicken, Minced, 84 Chicken Steamed, 85 Chicken Tea, 46 Chicken, to cook economically, 85 Chocolate Custard Pudding, Baked, 125 Chocolate Souffle, 126 Chop, Minced or Steamed, 86 Cocoa, Varieties of, and methods] of cooking, 167 Coffee Custard, Moulded, 149 Coffee, the making of, 168 Concentrated Foods, 13 Convalescence, Diet in, 14 Cooking of Eggs, 113 Com Flour and its Uses, 24, 103 Corn Flour Baked Pudding, 126 Corn Flour Blancmange, 149, 150 Craam (Brandy), Moulded, 146 Cream (Lentil), Savoury, 105 Cream, Orange, 152 Cream, Orleans, 153 Cream Pudding Sauce, 127 Cream Stuffings for Fish, 60 Cream, the value of, 24 Cream (Vermicelli), Savoury, in Croquettes of Chicken, 84 Cup Custard, Steamed, 127 Custard (Barley) Pudding, 123 Custard (Chocolate) Pudding.Baked, 125182 Index. Custard (Coffee), Moulded, 149 Custard (Cup), Steamed, 127 Custard (Fruit) Sauce, 131 Custard Powder, Bird's, 124 Custard Pudding, Baked, 128 Custard Pudding, Macaroni, 107 Custard (Savoury), Steamed, 110 Cutlets (Mutton), Stewed, 89 Cutlets (Veal), Baked, 99 DAINTY Pudding, 128 Delicate and Fastidious, how to cater for the, 4 Diabetics, Remarks on Food for, 15 Digestibility with Variety, 3 Drawing and Trussing Fowls, 75 Drinks, to keep cool, 163 Dutch Omelet, Savoury and Sweet, 114 Dutch Sweetbreads, 86 EEL Broth, 62 Egg and Onion Toast, 91 Egg and Spinach, 95 Egg Arrowroot, 104 Egg Bread, Unfermented, 157 Egg Broth, 46 Egg Cookery, 113 Egg, Creamed, 114 Egg Flip, 169 Egg Panadas, 115 Egg, Scrambled, Sweet, 115 Egg Snow, 116 Egg Wine, 170 Eggs, Buttered, 116 Eggs, General Remarks on, 113 Eggs in a nest, 133 Eggs poached in Gravy, 117 Eggs, Steamed, 117 Essence of Beef, 39 Essence of Chicken, 45 FAT, how to remove, from Stock, Soups, &c., 24 Filleted Fish, Steamed, 63 Fish baked in Milk, 61 Fish (boiled), Vinegar for, 71 Fish Broiled or Grilled, 61 Fish, Cream Stuffings for, 60 Fish, filleted, Steamed, 63 Fish, hints on the Selection and Cook ing of, 59 Fish Sauce, Tasty, 64 Eish Souffle, 65 Fish stewed in Milk, 66 Flip, Egg, 169 Florador, 32, 108 Florador Souffle Pudding, 129 Frame Food Diet, 32, 108 Frame Food Jelly, 129 French Plums, Stewed, 130 French Roll Pudding, 130 Fried Fiih, 61 Fritters, Calf's Foot, 80 Fruit as medicine, 16 Fruit Custard Sauce, 131 Fowl a la Casserole, 87 Fowls, Drawing and Trussing, 75 GAME, Tasty Sauce for, 75 Gelatine, varieties of, 145 Ginger Cakes, Oswego, 158 Gravy Panada, 87 Gravy with Rice, 8tc, 94 Grilled Chicken, 83 Grilled Fish, 61 Groat Gruel, 170 Groats and Barley, Prepared, 32 Groats, Patent, 108 Groats (patent) Gruel, 176 Gruel, Groat, 170 Gruels, Oatmeal, 175, 176 Gruel, Patent Groats, 176 HADDOCK (fresh), au'graiin, 71 Haricot Tea, 46 Hominy Soup, 47 Honey and Lemon, 171 Honey as a sweetener, 16 " Hotting up," 26 How to"keep drinks cool, 163 ICE, how to keep, 25 Invalid Cookery, General Rules for, 11 Invalids' Bread, 155 Isinglass, various kinds and uses of, 145 JELLY, Remarks on, 150 Jellies, Calf's Feet, 147 ; Chicken, 45 ; Frame Food, 108, 129; Lemon, 151; Meat, 48 ; Meat and Arrowroot, 49; Mutton Bone, 49; Orange, 152; Port Wine, 153; Sheep's Feet, 151 ; Tapioca Fruit, IJ4 ; Vermicelli, 56 Juice of Lemon, to preserve, 172 KEBOBS, Mutton, 90 Kedgeree, 66 "KitchenPhysic," 3 LAMB'S Head with Rice, 88 Lemonade, 171 Lemon and Honey, 171 Lemonade Syrup, 172 Lemon Jelly, 151 Lemon Juice, to preserve, 172 Lemon Pudding, 131 Lemon Stew, 67^ Lentil Cream, Savoury, 105 Lentil Milk Soup, 47 Light Cup Pudding, 132 Linseed Tea, 173Index. 183 |^/J ACARONI and Chicken Pudding, Macaroni,^Boiled and Brown, 106 Macaroni Custard Pudding, 107 Macaroni, 132 Mace, on the use of, 26 Madeira or Brandy Pudding, 133 Malt as a sweetener, 16 Meat and Arrowroot Jelly, 49 Meat Telly, 48 Meat Tea, 49 Meringue (Bread) Pudding, 125 Milk Arrowroot, 104 Milk Biscuit, 167 Milk Brandy, 166 Milk Essentials, 174 Milk in Soups, 37 Milk, Simple Test for, 163 Milk, the Uses of, 174, 175 Minced Chicken, 84 Minced Chop, 86 Mincer or Masticator, 100 Mock Omelet or Puff Pudding, 133 Mutton and Vegetables, tasty stew of, 90 Mutton Bone Jelly, 49 Mutton Broths, 50 Mutton Boudins, 88 Mutton, Browned, 89 Mutton Cutlets, Stewed, 89 Mutton Kebobs, 90 OATMEAL and Onion Soup, 51 Oatmeal Gruels, 175, 176 Oatmeal Pudding, 134 Odours of Cooking, how to prevent, 23 Omelet (Dutch), Savoury and Sweet, 114 Omelets, Remarks on, 118 Omelette Souffle, 134 Onion and Egg Toast, 91 Onion and Oatmeal Soup, 51 Onion Milk, 91 Orangeade, Cold, 176 Orange Cream, 152 Orange Jelly, 152 Orange Syrup, 177 Orleans Cream, 153 Oswego Ginger Cakes, 158.* Oyster and Chicken Sandwiches, 69 Oysters, Remarks on, 68, Oysters, Stewed, 68 PANADA Gravy, 87 Panadas, Egg, 115 Pancreatic preparations, 17 Patent Barley, 105 Patties, Brain, 77 Pearl Barley, 104 Pendleton Pudding, 135 Pheasant Creams, 92 Pigeon, Steamed, 85 Plums (French), Stewed, 130 Poached Eggs in Gravy, 117 Porridge, how to make, 108 Port Wine Jelly, 153 Possets, 177 Potatoes, Browned, 94 Potatoes, Moulded, 93 Potato Flour Sponge Cake, 160 Poultry Cream Sandwiches, 93 Poultry mixed with Raspings, 93 Pre-digested Foods, 17 Prepared Barley and Groats, 32 Prune Sauce, 135 Puddings, Apple and Crumb, 121; Apple (Favourite), 121; Barley Custard, 123 ; Battersea Queen, 123 ; Batter (Light), 125 ; Bread, Savoury, 105 ; Bread Meringue,i2s; Chocolate Cus- tard, 125 ; Corn Flour, 126 ; Cream Sauce for, 127 ; Custard, Baked, 128 ; Dainty, 128 ; Florador Souffle, 129; French Roll, 130; Lemon, 131; Light Cup, 132 ; Macaroni, 132; Macaroni and Chicken, 107 ; Maca- roni Custard, 107; Madeira or Brandy, 133 ; Mock Omelet or Puff, 133 ; Oatmeal, 134; Pendleton, 135 ; Puff, 133; Raisin Cup, 136; Rice, 137, i38 ; Rusk, 133 ; feago or Tapi- oca, 139 ; Saucer, 139 ; Savoy, 140 ; Semolina, Steamed, 140 ; Tapioca, 142; Vermicelli, in, 112, 142 QUANTITIES may be reduced or added to,5 Queen's (the) Soup, 52 , Quenelles, Veal Cream, 98 RABBIT, to cook economically, 85 Raisin Cup Puddings, 136 Raw Beef Sandwiches, 94 Recipes suggestive of others, 4 Red Sago, 136 Re-heating of Food, 26 Rice, Boiled, 109 Rice, Gravy, 94 Rice Milk, 109 Rice Pudding, 1^7 Rice Pudding, Steamed, 138 Rice Water, 177 Rizine, Uses of, no Rules (General) for Invalid Cookery, 11 Rusk Pudding, 138 Rusks (Unsweetened), how to serve, 159 SACCHARIN and its Uses, 27 Sago, Red, 136 Sago or Tapioca Pudding, 139 Sago Soup, 52 Salad, on the washing of, 33 Sandwiches, Oyster and Chicken, 69 Sandwiches, Poultry Cream, 93 Sandwiches, Raw Beef, 94Index. Sandwiches with Toast, 96 Sauce, Cream Pudding, 127 Sauce, Prune, 135 Saucer Puddings, 139 Sauce (tasty) for Fisb, 64 Sauce (tasty) for Game, 75 Savoury Custard, Steamed, no Savoy Pudding, 140 Scalloped Brains, 78 Scrambled Egg, Sweet, 115 Semolina Pudding, Steamed, 140 Sheep's Feet Jelly, 151 Sherry and Madeira, 19 Sieving, Importance of, 29 Slips, Baked, 69 Spinach and Egg, 95 Sponge Cake, Potato Flour, 160 Sponge Cakes, 159 Sole au gratin, 70 Sole in Gravy, 70 Sorrel Soup, 53 Souffle of Arrowroot, 122 Souffle of Chocolate, 126 Souffle of Fish, 65 Souffle, Steamed, 141 Soups, Austrian, 38 ; Celery, 43 ; Hom- iny, 47 ; Lentil Milk, 47 ; Oatmeal and Onion, 51; Queen's, the, 52; Sago, 52; Sorrel, 53 ; Tomato and Carrot, 54; Vegetable and Bread, 54 ; Vermicelli, 56 Steak, Vienna, 99 Steamed Chicken or Pigeon, 85 Steamed Chop, 86 Steamed Eggs, 117 Steamed Filleted Fish, 63 Steamed Souffle, 141 Steaming, Principles of, 30 Stew (tasty) of Mutton and Vegetables, Stock (flavourless), how to make, 37 Stuffings (cream) for Fish, 60 Suet, Refined Beef, 31 Sweetbreads, Dutch, 86 Sweetbreads, how to treat, 95 Sweetbread stewed in Milk, 96 Sweeteners, Various, 16, 27 Syrup, Lemonade, 172 Syrup, Orange, 177 TAPIOCA, Digestible Way of Cook- ing, in Tapioca Fruit Jelly with Cream, 154 Tapioca or Sago Pudding, 139 Tapioca Pudding, 142 Tea, how to make, 178 Teas, Bran, 166 ; Chicken, 46 ; Haricot, 46; Linseed, 173 ; Meat, 49 Test (simple) for Milk, 163 Thickening for Soups, 8tc, 32 Tomato and Carrot Soup, 54 Tomatoes, Buttered, 97 Tomatoes, Grilled, 97 Toast, how to prepare, 32 Toast Sandwiches, 96 Toast Water, 178 Toast with Brains, 79 Toast with Onion and Egg, 91 Toast with Whiting, 72 Tripe in Milk, 97 Trussing Fowls, 73 UNFERMENTED Egg Bread, 157 Unsweetened Rusks, how to serve, 159 VEAL Broth, 54 Veal Cream Quenelles, 98 Veal Cutlets, Baked, 99 Vegetable and Bread Soups, 54, 55 Vegetable Juices, 18 Vermicelli Cake or Pudding, in Vermicelli Cream, Savoury, 111 Vermicelli Jelly, 56 Vermicelli Pudding, 142 Vermicelli Pudding, Savoury, 112 Vermicelli Soup, 56 Vienna Steak, 99 Vinegar (Victoria Date) for Boiled Fish, &c, 71 WASHING of Meat, 33 Water as a Cooling Drink, 18 Waters, Apple, 164 ; Arrowroot, 104 ; Barley, 164, 165; Rice, 177 ; Toast, 178 Watercress'and other Salad, 33 Watercress boiled in soups, 34 Whey, ways of preparing, 179,180 Whisky in illness and convalescence, 20 Whiting au gratin, 71 Whiting Toast, 72 Wines and Spirits in illness, 19 Wine, Egg, 170Strengthens the Food. Enriches the Flavour. CEREBOS TABLE SALT. Dainty and Delicate. Never gets Lumpy. CEREBOS Baking Powder, Makes the most delicious cakes. Adds strength to the food. Makes the lightest bread and scones.FOR Prescribed and highly recommended by Doctors. Price, Weig-ht, and Value of other Foods. It contains all the nutriment necessary for the child, and supplies the (wheat) Phosphates required for the development of the bones and muscles. It is very easily digested, and its nourishing effect is quickly apparent, even in the most extreme cases. To expectant and nursing mothers it is invaluable, as it helps to replace the loss in the maternal system, and adds largely to the value of the milk as food It acts as a preservative, as the (wheat) Phosphates, which the aged so greatly need, invigorate and vitalise all the functions of the body. " FRAME FOOD" DIET is so easily assimilated that it throws little or no strain on weak digestions. Mr. ALF. W. STOKES, F.C.S., F.I.C., Public Analyst, in his analytic Report on "FRAME FOOD" DIET, says: "Its richness in Albuminoids and Phosphates, and its readiness of easy assimilation, re?ider it a valuable addition to our scanty stock of foods especially fittedfor the use of children and invalids, and of infants of delicate digestion." Sold in Tins, ilb. tg> i/-; 4I0S. @ 3/9; Jib. Sample free on receipt of 3d. to pay postage. INFANTS INVALIDS MOTHERS THE AGED "Frame Food" Jelly. NOURISHING as MALT EXTRACT; DELICIOUSas JAM. " FRAME FOOD "JELLY contains the Organic Phosphates and Albu- minoids (extracted fr»m Wheat Bran) which are so vitally neaessary for Devel- oping the Human Frame, and 10 in- vigorating and strengthening at every period of life. It possesses the nutri- tive and digestive properties of Malt Extract, and is much cheaper and more palatable. Children eat it readily on bread and butter or in puddings, and grow stout and strong when using it. It builds up the strength of the Invalid wasted by disease ; it keeps the athlete , in perfect condition; and adults find it invigorating and vitalizing to all the functions of the body. Sold in Air-tight Covered Jars of about Dr. NANSEN Sample 5-oz. Jar sent free on receipt of 3d. to pay postage. took with him on the " FRA/1" a supply of " Frame Food " Jelly. FRAME FOOD Co., Ltd., Lombard Road, Battersea, London, S.W.POPULAR 1/- NET COOKERY BOOKS What shall we have for Breakfast? Containing over 175 Recipe*. By Agnes C. Maitland. Dainty Dishes, By Lady Harriet St. Clair. Edited by Helen Edden, MCA. Includ- ing Casserole and Paper Bag Cookery, Savouries, &c. The Afternoon Tea Book* How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Roll*, Sand* wiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C.MaitlAND, Edited by Helen Edden, M.C.A, "With a Chapter oa Sweet Making, The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By AGNES C. MA1TLAHD. Toothsome Dishes: Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and ©th«r Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. Cookery for Invalids and others. By Lizzie Heritage, First-class Diptemf* and Msdallist. The Housewife's Handy-book : a Still-Room Book. Useful Evsryday Rscipes. By C. J. S. Thompson. Drinks of all Kinds, Hot and Cold, for all Seasons. By Frederick and Seymour Davies, Postage p(r 4effr. LONDON: JOHN HOGG 13 PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.