THE NEW PRACTICAL COOKERY GUIDE. A COMPLETE MODERN CULINARY DICTIONARY. Containing oven 5,600 Up-to-Date and Selected Dishes, including many Foreign and Indian Recipes, and High-class Entremets (Sweets), by Eminent Chefs, COMPILED BY E. SEURRE, MX, A,, Gold Medallist Chef de Cuisine. LONDON HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE BREAM’S BUILDINGS. E.C*v\'luC/r luW'/'W - THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS. 14 BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS OF COOKERY, 1. SOUPS. 2. ICES. 3. PICKLES and PRESERVES. 4. ENTREES. 5. MEAT and GAME. 6 & 7. SWEETS. Parts 1 and 2. 8. BREAKFAST and LUNCH DISHES. 9. SALADS, SANDWICHES, and SAVOURIES. 10. VEGETABLES. 11. BRE^D, CAKES, and BISCUITS. 12. FISH. Part 1. 13. FISH. Part 2 (Cold Fish). 14. HOUSEHOLD HINTS. By Mrs. Beaty-Pownall. Price Is. each, or 15s. Complete in Cabinet. ngs, London, E.C. 22101720679Med K10585 Tfcu, 7 ■ %'j' THE NEW PRACTICAL COOKERY GUIDE.THE NEW PRACTICAL COOKERY GUIDE. A COMPLETE MODERN CULINARY DICTIONARY. Second Edition of Multum in Parvo (Enlarged). Containing over 5,600 Up-to-Date and Selected Dishes, including many Foreign and Indian Recipes, and High-class Entremets (Sweets), by Eminent Chefs. All the Principles of the Art of Cookery, Modern Developments and Improvement in every branch of High-class Cuisine. Description and Instruction given in English. The Art of Menu Making made Easy, also Instruction in Carving. Compiled by E. SEURRE, M.C.A., Gold Medallist Chef de Cuisine. c£on5on; HORACE COX, Windsor House, Bream’s Buildings, E.C. 1913.FEINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM S BUILDINGS LONDON, E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. QC]PREFACE. Cookery in all its art has kept pace with the continual modern progress to gratify all the require- ments of the epicure. It has been my aim to include in this book all the latest and most recherche recipes, with kind colleagues’ assistance. No pains have been spared to ensure accuracy and variety with the largest bulk of dishes and ensemble of the different branches in the art of cookery, and the book will be found a thoroughly reliable guide to the catering world generally, confreres, and all those interested in or connected with good cuisine. The directions are in the simplest form and plainest language, sufficiently explicit to assure an easy and uniform understanding. The principles of cookery are fully described, as well as an entire definition and instruction. How to prepare fundamental stock, sauces, soups, essences, etc., and other preparations which are indispensable for high-class cuisine—most valuable to beginners, etc.VI Preface. To the hotel managers, restaurants, club stewards, caterers, etc., it will enable them at a glance to comply with everyday orders and requirements of modern times. To the chef, as an aide memoire and register, it renders the art of menu-making most easy; in the kitchen as well as in the dining-room it will be found a practical and reliable guide. Paper-bag cookery, not being considered of any practical use for large and important establishments, has been omitted.PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. Unless one has a thorough knowledge of cooking, with all the principles on which cooking is based, it will be practically impossible to produce a perfectly cooked meal. The fact of being able to produce a dish knowing what the result will be enables the trained cook to make an endless variety of dishes. */ ^ The two great objects in the principles of cooking are, first, to keep the flavour in ; and, secondly, to extract the flavour out of the different elements of food. In boiling or roasting meat, for instance, intended for the table, the full flavour of the joint should be retained, whereas in making broth, soups, sauces, etc., all the flavour possible should be ex- tracted from the meat. Most cooks pay little attention to these two technical facts, and prepare both almost the same way. The principal or chemical fact, that albumen coagu- lates and becomes hard at boiling point, is one that should always be studied and practised, as meat largely consists of albumen. It should be placed in boiling water or stock in the first stage, and thenviii Principles of Cookery. allowed to simmer till cooked; thus, the rim round the edge is hardened by contact with the boiling liquid or fierce fire when roasting, coagulating the albumen forming a coating round the meat, which keeps the flavour and gravy in. The same applies to roasting, as stated; the joint should always be placed in front of a brisk fire or fierce oven, well basted with hot dripping or butter, and finished cooking at a slower fire. In making stock, etc., the object being to extract all the flavour from the meat, the contrary process should be adopted by placing the meat in cold water or stock, slowly heated to boiling point, then allowed to simmer till cooked. Thus all the juice is extracted from the meat. A full description and instruction on fundamental stock, soup, and sauce-making will be found in another part of this book under their respective headings. Grilling or broiling requires all possible attention in its simplicity. A steak, chop, cutlet, fillet, noisette, etc., to be grilled, should first be judiciously seasoned with fine salt and fresli-grounded pepper, with a little oiled butter or good olive oil, and allowed to stay thus for ten to fifteen minutes. The grill should be sufficiently hot, and the fire brisk and clear, before the meat is placed on it; thus the contact of the fierce heat causes a coating to be formed round the meat which retains the juice. TheIX Principles of Cookery. same principles apply to sauteed fillets, tournedos, noisettes, etc. A fork should never be used in turning steaks, chops, etc., which pierces the coating and allows the juice to escape. In preparing fish for frying it should be perfectly cleaned, seasoned, floured and egged and bread- crumbed ; or, as in some cases, floured only, or, again, dipped in batter (pate a frire), as occasion requires. In all cases placed in very hot fat, or dripping, or oil, or clarified butter, to entirely cover the fish, carefully drained and served. For grilling fish it is first seasoned as above, floured, dipped in or moistened with oiled butter or oil, and placed on the not too hot grill. Dressed fish, either filleted or otherwise, is either poches (poached), or aufour (baked), or sauteed, or meuniere style. Large fish for boiling are preferably placed in cold water, stock, or court-bouillon ; there are, however, some cooks who prefer cooking salmon when whole by placing it in boiling liquid. One of the most complicated branches of cookery is entree-making and made-up dishes, with its endless variety, and it is still on the increase. Thus the standard principle of such is often altered or disregarded, as occasion may arise. Full details of hundreds of high-class modern and light entrees are dealt with under their headings.X Principles of Cookery. Venturing a remark on the two main constituents of entrees and sauces—good wine and good butter— it is often assumed that, for cooking purposes, wine of an inferior quality may be used; and one cannot protest too strongly against this mistaken idea— the wine used should be of good aroma and body, without which successful cooking is impossible. The same remarks apply to good butter; with bad butter it is impossible to make anything good. The objec- tion frequently brought against sauces and entrees being indigestible arises principally from their being prepared with inferior butter, a practice which should entirely be condemned. The greatest and cleverest chef in the world cannot produce palatable food without the best of provisions and materials.CONTENTS. PART I. Hors d’CEuvres PAGE 1 Savouries .... . . • • • • 17 Sandwiches ... 27 PART II. Potage (Soups), Clear and Thick, with Instructions on Bouillon ... 31 Consommes ... ... ... 35 Yeloute • • • . . , 68 Puree ... • • • ■ • • 69 Cremes ... 70 Bisque, etc. ... ... 73 PART III. (Eufs (Eggs) sur le Plat 101 Brouilles (Scrambled) ... 107 Poches (Poached) 111 en Cocotte (in Cocotte) 121 Moules (in Moulds) 123 Frits (Fried) 126 Farcis (Farced) Hot 127 5 5 5 5 Cold ... ... ... 129 Omelettes 132 (Eufs de Pluviers (Plovers’ Eggs) ... 139 de Yanneaux (Lapwings’ Eggs) 139 PART IY. Poissons (Fish)— Soles et Filets ... • • • • • • 142 Matelotte 164 Timbales de Soles • • • 165 Saumon (Salmon) • • • • • f 166 Truite (Trout) ... 168Xll Contents. Poissons (FiBh)—continued. Turbot ... Barbue (Brill) ... Merlan (Whiting) Anguille (Eels) .. Carpe (Carp) Plie (Plaice) Esturgeon (Sturgeon) ... Carrelets (Flounders) ... Brochets (Pike) Cabillaud (Cod) Blanchaille (Whitebait) Rouget (Red Mullet) ... Maquereau (Mackerel)... Eperlan (Smelts and SparkliDgs) Grenouille (Frogs) Homard (Lobster) Langouste (Crawfish) ... Ecrevisses (Crayfish) ... Huitres (Oysters) Bluefish Clam King Fish ... Red Snapper Shad Stripped Bass PART V. American Garniture (Garnishes) Sauces (Instructions on) Espagnole, Jus lie, Demiglace Essences Fumets Coulis Veloute Sauces (Hot and Cold) Beurres Composes (Savoury Butte Gniocchi Nouilles Polenta Macaroni Lazagnes Raviole Spaghetti Rice ... •) PAGE 170 171 171 174 174 174 174 174 175 176 177 177 179 180 180 184 187 187 188 181 190 204 206 208 210 210 211 214 232 233 234 234 234 235 235 236 236xm Contents. PART YI. PAGB Entrees (various)— Entree Yolantes (Light Entrees) ... ... ... 238 Bouches ... ... ... ... ••• 238 Cassolette ... ... ... ... ... 240 Yol-au-Yent ... ... ... ••• ... ••• 240 Croquettes ... ... ... ... ... ... 241 Crepinettes ... .. ... ... ... ... 242 Kromeskies ... ... ... ... ... ... 243 Croiistades ... ... ... ... -•• ... 243 Timbales .. ... ... ... ... ... 243 Medaillons ... ... ... ... ... ... 246 Mousseline et Mousse ... ... ... ... ... 246 Quenelles or Boudins ... ... ... ... ... 247 Desire de Mascotte ... ... ... ... ... 248 Dolmas Turque... ... ... ... ... ... 248- Usurline de Nancy ... ... ... ... ... 248 Rognons (Kidneys) ... ... ... ... ... 248 Foie de Veau (Calf’s Liver) ... ... ... ... 250 Coeur de Veau (Calf’s Heart) ... ... ... ... 251 Tete de Yeau (Calf’s Head) 251 Blanquette de Veau ... ... ... ... ... 252 Yeau Saute ... ... ... ... ... ... 252 Pieds de Veau (Calf’s Feet) ... ... ... ... 253 Fricandeau ... ... ... ... ... ... 253 Osso Bucco ... ... ... ... ... ... 253 Kari de Veau ... ... ... ... ... ... 254 Emince de Yenaison ... ... ... ... ... 254 Ragout Boston ... ... ... ... ... ... 254 Ragout Irlandais ... ... ... ... ... 254 Chicken Pot-pie ... ... ... ... ... 255 Don Pedro Pot-pie ... ... ... ... ... 255- Hot-pot (Lancashire) ... ... ... ... ... 255 Hot-pot (London) ... ... ... ... ... 255 Hot-pot (Manchester) ... ... ... ... ... 256 Boeuf (Beef) 256 Boeuf Saute a l’Orsini ... ... ... ... ... 256 Boeuf Saute Doopiaga ... ... ... ... 256 Boeuf Saute Proven9ale ... ... ... ... 256 Bitoke Moscovite ... ... ... ... ... 256 Carbonade Flainande ... ... ... ... ... 256 Estouffade (Bourguignonne) ... ... ... ... 256Contents. XIV Entrees (various)—continued. page Fricadelles de Boeuf ... ... ... ... ... 256 Goulash (Gulyas) ... ... ... ... ... 256 Medaillon Clubman ... ... ... ... ... 257 Medaillon Russe ... ... ... ... ... 257 Roulade ou Paupiette de Boeuf ... ... ... 257 Berlin Steak ... ... ... ... ... ... 257 Hamburg Steak ... ... ... ... ... 257 Salisbury Steak .;v ... ... ... ... 257 Vienna Steak ... ... ... ... ... ... 257 Langue de Boeuf (Ox Tongue) .... ... ... 258 Indian Dishes— Bhoona Khitchree ... ... ... ... ... 259 Chitchkee ... ... ... ... ... ... 259 Dumpoke ... ... ... ... ... ... 259 Beef Kabobs ... ... ... ... ... ... 260 Burdwan ... ... ... ... ... ... 260 Ghee ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 260 Hash Pooloot ... ... ... ... ... ... 260 Celery Fritters ... ... ... ... ... 261 Fagadu ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 261 Pooloot ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 261 Rice for Curries ... ... ... ... ... 261 Salad ... ... ... ...• ... ... ... 261 Kalleah Gekhuney ... ... ... ... ... 262 Pepper-pot ... ... ... ... ... ... 262 Sweets— Chaffee Khan 259 Hullnah... ... ... ... ... ... ... 260 Plats Etrangers (Foreign Dishes)— Almondigas ... ... ... ... ... ... 258 Bami Honglcongoise ... ... ... ... ... 258 American Hash... ... ... ... ... ... 262 Bigos ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 262 Carapulka ... ... ... ... ... ... 262 Coratella D’Agnollo ... ... ... ... ... 263 Esterhazy Rostbraten ... ... ... ... 263 Ganseschwarz Sauer ... ... ... ... ... 263 Giinseweliss Sauer ... ... ... ... ... 263 Hamburger Rauchfleisch ... ... ... ... 263 Hirn-Mit Ei 263 Kasseler Rippenspeer ... ... ... ... ... 263 Kifteles en Stargon ... ... ... ... ... 263 Lieder olme Worte ... ... ... ... ... 263Contents. xv Plats Etrangers (Foreign Dishes)—continued. page Mebemehalon ... ... ... ... ... ... 264 Menestra ... ... ... ... ... .. 264 Moussaka ... ... ... ... ... 264 Poeckelkatmn ... ... ... ... ... 264 Poerkoell ... ... ... ... ... ... 264 Stucchi ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 264 Tocatua de Mielul ... ... ... ... ... 264 Wareniskis ... ... ... ... ... ... 264 Entrees — PART VII. Cotelettes d’Agneau (Lamb Cutlet) ... Cotelettes de Monton (Mutton Cutlet) Noisettes de Mouton et d’Agneau Cotelette de Chevreuil (Venison Cutlet) Tournedos et Filet de Boeuf ... Cotelette de Veau (Veal Cutlet) Entrecote et Chateaubriand ... Porterhouse Steak Ris de Veau (Sweetbread) Poulet Saute (Chicken Saute) Ris d’Agneau (Lamb’s Bread)... Fricassee de Poulet Supreme de Volaille Pigeon ... Philadelphia Squabs ... Caneton (Duckling) Oison (Gosling) Paon (Peacock)... Dindonneau (Turkey) ... Poussin ... Poulardes 264 264 264 270 271 279 279 279 280 283 283 286 288 292 292 294 295 296 297 298 300 Releve (Remove)— PART VIII. Aloyau de Boeuf (Sirloin of Beefj Boeuf a la Mode C6tes de Boeuf (Ribs of Beef)... Filet de Bceof ... Gigot de Mouton Sells de Mouton (Saddle of Mutton) ... Epaule de Mouton ou d’Agneau (Shoulder of Mutton or Lamb) ... ... ... ... "... Selle d’Agneau (Saddle of Lamb) 309 310 3L0 310 315 315 316 316Contents. XVI Releve (Remove)—continued. Carre d’Agneau (Neck of Lamb) Carre de Mouton (Neck of Mutton) ... Longe et Filet de Yeau (Loin and Fillet of Yeal) Agneau Pascal ... Selle de Yeau (Saddle of Veal) Selle de Ckevreuil (Roebuck Saddle) Roebuck or Yenison Hanche de Venaison (Haunch of Venison) ... Jarnbon (Ham) ... Jambon Braise (Braised Ham) Jarnbon a la Broclie (Roasted Ham) ... Gibier (Game)— Lievre (Hare) ... Cailles (Quails)... Perdreaux (Partridges) Grouse (Coq de Bruyere) Faisan (Pheasant) Canard Sauvage (Wild Duck) Sarcelle (Teal) ... Becasse (Woodcock) ... Becassine (Snipe) Mauviettes ou Ortolan (Larks or Ortolans)... Pluvier (Plover) PART IX. Le Froid (Cold Dishes)— Aspic de Homard Mousse d’Ecrevisse Cbarteruse Filets de Soles ... Medaillons Truite (Trout) ... Saumon (Salmon) Mayonnaise Yolaille (Chicken)— Mousse ... Chaudfroid Poulardes Galantine Caneton (Duckling)— Aiguillette Pigeon ... PAGE 317 317 317 319 320 321 321 321 321 322 323 324 326 323 329 332 332 333 334 334 334 337 337 339 339 339 341 342 342 343 343 345 347 347 349xvii Contents. Gibier (Game)— Faisan (Pheasant) Cailles (Quails)... Mousse ... Perdreanx (Partridge) Mauviettes (Larks) Cotelettes d’Agneau (Lamb Cutlets) Aspic ... Mousse de Foie Gras Timbale Brawn Filet de Boeuf Filet de Veau Hure de Sanglier (Boar’s Head) ... Jambon (Ham) Langue de Bceuf (Tongue) ... Rond de Boeuf (Derby Round) Spiced Beef ... PAGB 349 350 350 350 351 351 352 352 352 353 353 353 353 354 354 354 354 Instructions on Carving 355 PART X. Salades Varies et Garnies ... Pommes de Terre (Potatoes) Legumes (Vegetables)— Asperges (Asparagus) ... Aubergines (Egg Plant) Artichaud (Green or Globe Artichoke Topinambour (Jerusalem Artichoke) Cardons ... Cepes Celeri (Celery) ... Concombres (Cucumbers) Endive Beiges (Chicory) F&ve de Marais (Broad Beans) Flageolets Chicoree (Endive) Garbanzos (Spanish Dried Peas) Courge (Vegetable Marrow) ... Chou de Mer (Seakale) Choux de Bruxelles (Sprouts)... Chouxfleurs (Cauliflowers) Choucroute (Sauerkraut) b 366 376 384 385 386 389 389 390 390 391 392 392 392 393 393 393 394 394 394 395XVU1 Contents. PAGE limes (Vegetables) (continued)— Choux Rouge (Red Cabbage) ... . . . ... 395 Choux Vert (Cabbage)... • • • ... 396 Choux Rave (Celeriac)... . . • ... 396 Epinards (Spinach) ... 397 Maize (Indian Corn) ... ... 398 Okras ... 398 Petits Pois (Peas) ... 399 Haricots Verts (French Beans) . . * ... 400 Puree de Legumes (Puree of Vegetables) . . . ... 400 Haricot Blanc (Haricot Beans) ... 401 Haricot Rouge (Red Haricots) ... 401 Champignons (Mushrooms) . . . ... 402 Laitue (Lettuce) ... 403 Navets (Turnips) ... 403 Oignons (Onions) ... 403 Carottes (Carrots) ... 404 Pe-Tzai (Chinese Cabbage) ... 404 Poireau (Leeks) ... 404 Salsifi (Salsify) ... ... 405 Tomates (Tomatoes) • • • ... 405 Truffes ... ... ... 406 Kari de Legumes ... ... 407 PART XI. remets (Sweets)— Poudings (Puddings) ... . . • ... 409 Charlotte (Hot and Cold) ... ... 415 Timbale (Hot and Cold) . . . ... 418 Crimes (Creams or Bavarios)... * • • ... 419 Croutes (Hot and Cold) ... 421 Riz (Rice Sweets) Gelee (Jelly) ... 422 ... 423 SuMoise ... 424 Poires (Pears) '... ... 425 Pommes (Apples) • • • ... 428 Abricots (Apricots) ... 431 Peches (Peaches) • • • ... 432 Ananas (Pineapple) • • • ... 434 Banane ... ... ... • ... • • • ... 435 Fraises (Strawberries)... • • • ... 435 Framboises (Raspberries) ... ... 437 Melon * • • ... 437xix Contents. Entremets (Sweets)—continued. page Cerises (Cherries) ... ... ... ... ... 438 Kaltschalle ... ... ... ... ... ... 439 Beignets (Fritters) ... ... ... ... ... 441 Beignets Souffle ... ... ... ... ... 441 Flan ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 438 Crepes (Pancakes) ... ... ... ... ... 442 Omelettes ... ... ... ... ... ... 442 Souffles... ... ... ... ... ... ... 445 Entremets Etrangers (Foreign Sweets) ... ... 447 Mince Pies ... ... ... ... ... ... 448 Plum Pudding ... ... ... ... ... ... 448 Gateaux (Cakes) ... ... ... ... ... 449 Glaces (Ices)— Bombe ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 457 Biscuits Glaces... ... ... ... ... ... 469 Souffle Glace (Iced Souffle) ... ... ... ... 470 Fancy Ices .. ... ... ... ... ... 470 Sorbets ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 471 Spooms ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 471 Coupes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 472 Petits Fours, Secs et Glaces ... ... ... ... 474 <x)^Kcx>THE New Practical Cookery Guide. PART I. HORS D’CEUVRES. Hors d’ceuvres in their ^reat variety are served V— %/ in special dishes for the purposes of either glass, china, or silver, and are more frequently served for luncheon than dinners. The numerous varieties here- with represent the most recherche and up-to-date hors d’oeu^res. The more substantial ones are some- times served as side dishes or cold savouries, and form an effective display on buffet tables for recep- tions, tea parties, etc. HORS D’GEUVRES GENERAL (Zakouskies). Acjoursis—Salted Russian cucumbers, thinly sliced. Amandes salees—Salted almonds. Anchois—Anchovies. Anchois aux cdpres—Ready preserved. Ancliois de Norvege or Kilkis—Norwegian anchovies. Anchois en medallions—Fillets of anchovies, dressed in circles on rounds of sliced beetroot, decorated with cut hard eggs and caviar, to imitate medallion. B2 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Anchois en paupiettes —Anchovy fillets, rolled, and the centre filled with a puree of smoked fish, blended with mayonnaise sauce. Anchois en paupiettes d la Nigoise—Anchovy fillets, rolled, and the centre filled with a mixture of chopped gherkins, capers, hard eggs, fines herbes, blended with green sauce. Anchois en salade—Filleted anchovies, cut in strips, dressed lattice-work fashion, with chopped hard eggs and parsley, Anchois en surprise—Dices of anchovy fillets, mixed with a puree of hard eggs, capers, tarragon, and chervil, and served in small scooped rolls. Anchois sauce piquante—Ready preserved. Anguille d la nage—Sliced eels, cooked in white wine, courtbouillon, served in own jelly. Anguille fumee —Smoked eels, sliced, garnished, and served. Anguille marinee—Served in their own liquor. Appetissant suedois—A mixture made of pounded anchovies, sardines, fresh butter, capers, and hard eggs, spread on brown bread croutes, a farced olive in centre, and julienne of gherkin and beetroot round. Archards—A fancy cut macedoine of various vege- tables, pickled with vinegar and mustard. Artichaud d la Grecque — The fond of very small green chokes, blanched, and finished cooking in a marinade of water, a little oil, lemon juice, salt, peppercorns, coriander seeds, fennel, thyme, and bavleaf, and served in liquor, very cold.6 Hors D'CEuvres General. Artichauds garnis—Small artichoke fonds, cooked and filled with any kind of puree or salpicon, blended with cream or mayonnaise sauce. Barquettes—Are boat-shaped paste eroustades, and are filled with any puree, fish, poultry, or game, blended with cold sharp sauce or cream. Barquettes de concombres d la Thevenot—Boat-shaped cut and blanched cucumber, seasoned, and filled with puree of green peas blended with cream. Barquettes de concombres danoise—Are boat-shaped cut cucumbers, lightly blanched, and macerated on ice, with lemon juice, oil, salt and pepper, filled with a mixture of pounded smoked salmon, smoked herring, hard eggs, mustard, and thin grated horseradish over. Beurre frise ou paille—Curls of fresh butter paille are worked fresh butter pressed through a perfor- ated press, to imitate straw; served with hors d’oeuvres. Betterave—Beetroot. Betterave en salade—Cooked beetroot, cut in large dice or julienne fashion, seasoned, and a little blanched chopped onion added. Betterave farcie—Cooked beetroot, cut cassolette shape, filled with mixture of chopped anchovies, hard eggs, capers, gherkins, and fines herbesi blended with oil, vinegar, and mustard. Betterave marinee—Cooked beetroot, cut fancy shape, marinated in aromatic vinegar; served very cold Boeuf fume—Smoked beef, thinly sliced, rolled, and served. b 24 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bonne houche d la Russe—Small cooked artichoke fond filled with puree of sturgeon, a little caviar on top, served very cold. Bonne houche avondale—Small cucumber cassolettes filled with shrimp salad, garnished with pink aspic. Bonne houche de sardines—Fancy, thinly cut brown bread sandwiches made with sardine paste, and chopped hard eggs. Brissolettes de caviar—Small scooped rolls filled with caviar, blended with mayonnaise, aspiced over, and a rolled anchovy fillet on top. Moscovites on Canapes Are small croutes of fancy cut bread dipped in milk and fried golden colour in a little butter, when cold masked with different purees, tastefully arranged ; also made of light paste or savoury biscuits. Canapes Admiral—Savoury shrimp butter spread on oval croutes, seasoned dice of pickled shrimp round the edge, and seasoned lobster spawn in centre. Canapes Alberta—A cross of lax on anchovy but- tered croutes, decorated at each space; one with finely chopped beetroot, one with green savoury butter, the third with anchovy butter, and the fourth with pink aspic, finely chopped. Canapes Arlequin—Chopped hard eggs, lax, tongue t.ruffes, and fines lierbes; seasoned, mixed, and spread on anchovy croutes.Hors D'(E uvres General. 5 Canapes Capucine—Brown bread croutes, masked with a layer of mayonnaise, decorated with chopped hard yolks, and a pickled prawn in centre. Canapes Chanteclair—Montpelier (green) butter, spread on oval croutes, a firm creamed puree of chicken and pheasant, piped over to imitate a cock. Canapes danois—Horseradish savoury butter spread on croutes, decorated with fillets of pickled herrings, lax, and caviar. Canapes de caviar moderne—Fresh caviar spread on buttered croutes, a farced olive placed in centre. Canapes de Jiarengs russes—Finely cut fillets of Russian herrings placed on caviar croutes, decorated with chopped hard eggs and sliced lemon. Canapes Lucille—Savoury mustard butter spread on croutes, with alternate rows of seasoned minced tongue and chicken. Canapes Prince de Galles—Light paste (feuilletage), cut oval shape, baked crisp; when cold have some curried cream cheese piped over to imitate the Prince of Wales’s feathers. Canapes printanier—Round croutes, masked with green savoury butter (Montpelier), and decorated with chopped hard eggs and cress. Canapes Rochelais—Oblong croutes, masked with savoury lobster butter, and decorated round with puree of soft roe, an oyster in centre. Canapes Souvarojf—Fresh caviar on croutes, chopped hard eggs and truffes round, and6 The New Practical Cookery Guide. rolled anchovy fillets in centre, farced with foie gras. Canapes Turbigo—Shrimp butter, spread on square croutes, masked with a fine salpicon of prawn, celery, mixed pickles, and truffles, blended with tomato mayonnaise, aspiced over. Canapes Turque—Ham paste spread on fancy cut croutes, decorated with strips of piped savoury green, yellow, and pink butters, lattice-work fashion. Carolines—Are small unsweetened savoury eclairs filled with various purees, such as chicken, tongue, foie gras, game or fish, etc., and masked with a chaudfroid sauce of the same nature as puree used. Carrelets fume—Are smoked flounders. Caviare—Should be served in glass dishes, iced, or in special jars surrounded with pounded ice, and served with lemon, dry toast, or brown bread and butter. Celeri a la Grecque—Or celeriac cut in neat squares or with vegetable scoop, blanched, and marinated. Celeri bonne femme—Cut in thin strips julienne fashion, and highly seasoned with salt, fresh ground pepper, English mustard, tarragon vinegar, and. cream. Celerirave on salade—Celeriac cut in thin strips, highly seasoned. Clam americaine—Pickled and served in glass dishes. Coeur cle poireaux a la Basse—The white part cut about one inch and a half long, a cavity scooped one end, blanched, and macerated in oil,Hors B'CEuvres General. 7 aromatic vinegar, salt, pepper, placed on ice, and the cavity filled with caviar, chopped hard egg, and grated horseradish, blended with mayonnaise. Concombres a la Danoise—Cucumber cut croustade shape, scooped one end, blanched, seasoned, placed on ice, and filled with a puree of smoked salmon, smoked herring, and hard eggs. Cornet cVYork—Thinly sliced cold ham, rolled horn fashion, and served with chopped aspic and sharp sauce. Cornichons—Gherkins. Crabe—Crab, tastefully dressed. Creme de fromage (cheese cream)—Very finely grated parmesan, minced with whipped aspic jelly and cream, highly seasoned, and served in small fancy cases. Crevette d la Dorisa—Shrimp salad blended with mayonnaise, and served in halves of tomatoes, decorated with cucumber, and served with thinly cut rolled brown bread and butter round. Crevette en aspic—Picked prawns done in aspic jellJ- Crevettes grise—Shrimps. Crevette rose—Prawns. Croutes—Are similar to canapes; fancy cut slices of fried or toasted bread, or brioche paste, masked with savoury butter or puree or creams. Croutes d VEspagnole—Round croutes masked with anchovy butter, a stoned olive filled with tartare sauce in centre.8 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Croutes Burlington—Croutes masked with Mont- pelier (green) butter, a slice of tomato over, . creamed puree of chicken over, and a stoned olive in centre. Croutes de sardines—Long finger-shape croutes masked with sardine butter, a boned and skinned sardine on each, and a little anchovv butter piped over. Croutes Epicurienne—Fancy cut croutes masked with anchovy butter, a puree of pounded fines herbes, hard eggs, and anchovies over. Croutes Indienne—A round croute masked with fines herbes butter, a mixture of chopped chutney, shrimps, hard eggs, and curry paste over. Croutes Jeanne—Oval-shaped croutes masked with foie gras cream, puree of tunny fish over, a pickled prawn at each end, and little caviar in centre. Croutes Marie—Fancy cut croutes masked with a creamed puree of chicked and foie gras, a cherry on top. Croutes norvegienne—Fancy cut croutes with smoked salmon butter, a slice of lax on top, decorated round the edge with chopped truffe, hard egg, and parsley. Croutes Rosamonde—Star-shape croutes with anchovy butter, cut anchovy fillets over to form a star, sieved hard yolk in centre. Denise d la Danoise—Fancy cut brown bread sand- wiches made with chopped cucumber and hard eggs, blended with mayonnaise, and masked with light brown chaudfroid sauce; decorated.9 Hors D'CEuvres General. Denise a la Heine—Fancy cut sandwiches made with creamed puree of chicken, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, and decorated with truffes. Duchesse—Are small unsweetened petits choux filled with various purees, and masked with corre- sponding chaudfroid sauce, according to filling. Duchesse a la Nantua—Savoury petits choux filled with creamed puree of lobster or crayfish, masked with pink fish chaudfroid sauce. Duchesse a la Heine—Savoury petits choux filled with creamed puree of chicken, masked with white chaudfroid sauce. Duchesse a la Husse—Savoury petits choux filled with creamed puree of sturgeon and caviar, masked with pink and white chaudfroid sauce. Duchesse Sultan e—Savoury petits choux filled with creamed puree of chicken and pistachios, masked with white and green chaudfroid sauce. Eclair Karoly—Are small savoury eclairs as Carolines filled with puree of woodcock, cognac, highly seasoned, and masked with game chaud- froid sauce. Eperlans marines—Marinated smelts, served in liquor. Escargots farcis—French vinefield snails, specially prepared with savoury butter, etc., and baked. Esprots fume—Are smoked sprats. Filet cle harengs fume a, la Bordelaise—Filleted smoked herrings or kippers, cut in strips, and served with celery, salad, hard eggs, and aspic . •iellT- Frivolites—A name adopted for a mixed variety of fancy hors d’oeuvres.10 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Gallis—Are scorcencre or salsify tops, trimmedr blanched, and macerated with oil, aromatic vinegar, salt and pepper. Gourillos—Are the roots of endives, or escaroles, trimmed, blanched, macerated in oil, vinegar, spice, salt and pepper. Grenouille a VAurore—Frog’s legs, poached with white wine, seasoned, and served with pink chauclfroid sauce over. Harengs—Herrings prepared in various ways for hors d’oeuvres. Harengs d la Busse—Fillets of smoked herrings, blended with vinaigrette sauce, served with potato salad. Harengs cle Bismark—Bismark herrings are soused in cold acidulated courtbouillon, with sliced onion and coriander seeds, cut to desired size pieces, and served. Harengs dieppoise—Poached with wine and a little aromatic vinegar, paysanne of onions and carrots, served cold. Harengs fume—Are smoked or kippered herrings. Harengs Livonien—Dice of smoked herring, dice of cooked potatoes, sour apples, capers, chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, and chive, blended with tartare sauce, and served in the shape of a herring. Harengs Lucas—Strips of smoked herrings, seasoned with Cambridge sauce, served on glass dishes. Harengs marines—Are soused herrings. Harengs remoulade—Fillets of smoked herrings, cut in diamond shape, mixed with remoulade sauce.11 Hors H'CEuvres General. Harengs sales fume—Bloaters. Harengs saurs—Are fillets of salted and smoked herrings preserved in oil with pimento. Huitres—Oysters, served in own shell on pounded ice, with lemon or lime, and bread and butter. Huitres en cocktail—Served with cocktail sauce (American). Huitres marinees—Marinated oysters (preserved). Jarnbon—Ham for hors d'oeuvres is thinly cut, rolled, and garnished with chopped aspic. Jarnbon de Brahenham— Jarnbon d'Espagne—Smoked Spanish ham. Jarnbon de Strasbourg—Strasburg ham. Jarnbon de Westphalie—Smoked Westphalian ham. Jarnbon fume—Smoked ham. Karoli Ouida—Small Carolines, filled with caviar and aspiced over. Lamproie a VJiuile—Preserved lamprey, as tunny fish. Langue de renne fumee—Smoked cooked reindeer tongue. Langue fumee—Smoked cooked tongue. Langue Busse—Smoked cooked Russian tongue. Lax d la Doria—Lax, served with cucumber salad. Lax fume a Vhuile—Smoked lax (salmon) preserved in oil. Maquereaux a Vhuile—Smoked filleted mackerel in oil. Maquereaux au vin blanc—Marinated fillets of mackerel, with white wine and spice. Maquereaux fume—Kippered mackerel, sliced and served. Maquereaux marines—Marinated fillets of mackerel.12 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Melon—Iced, sliced, and served with powdered ginger. Nids de Chartres—A nest cut out of bread, fried; when cold masked with sieved foie gras to imitate straw, a few foie gras egg-shape pieces in centre. (Eufs de pluviers—Plover’s eggs, served hard-boiled. CEufs de pluviers a la Christiana—Served in smal], light paste tartlets lined with creamed puree of foie gras and truffe, aspiced over. (Eufs de pluviers Belle Vue—Shelled, dressed in small croustades of blanched and seasoned cucumber, aspiced over and decorated. (Eufs de pluviers en aspic—Placed in decorated aspiced moulds, filled ; when cold served on rice stands, or socle. (Eufs de pluviers moderne—Done in aspic in charlotte moulds, decorated with fancy cut carrots, turnips, peas, etc., Chartreuse fashion, and served with vegetable salad. (Eufs de vanneaux—Lapwing’s eggs; are prepared and served same as plover’s eggs. (Eufs farcis—Are hard-boiled eggs cut in halves and farced with various mixtures or puree, served on small croutes. (Eufs far cis a V 01 ea—Are farced with a creamed puree of cooked ham, olives, and fresh butter, highly seasoned, and served on anchovy croutes. CEufs farcis Baroda—Farced with a paste of an- chovies, hard eggs, and curry, served in croustades.Hors B'CEuvres General. 13 CEufs farcis Billon—Farced with a fine salpicon of mushrooms, truffles, pickled walnut, blended with port wine and ketchup, sieved hard eggs over. Olives—Spanish and French ; they are moistened with a little sherry or madeira over them, in glass dishes. Olives a V Alsacienne—Stoned and farced with highly seasoned puree of foie gras and cooked ham. Olives a la Madras—Mixed with curried chutney. Olives farcies—Stoned and farced with anchovy paste. Olives farcies iartare—Farced with tartare sauce. Pain a la Frangaise—Are small finger-shaped rolls, filled with various purees, and served as sandwiches. Pain Varsovienne—Filled with Russian salad. Paupiettes d VAllemande—Blanched red cabbage leaves, masked with a mixture of chopped gherkins, capers, smoked herrings, grated horse- radish blended with mayonnaise, rolled firmly, and cut about one inch and a half long, macerated, and served. Paupiettes d'anchois nigoise—Anchovy fillets, rolled as paupiettes and farced with a mixture of chopped capers, gherkins, hard eggs, and fines herbes, blended with Vincent sauce, served on small round anchovy croutes. Paupiettes de ckoux verts—Blanched cabbage leaves, masked with a mixture of chopped cooked onions, gherkins, capers, anchovies, blended14 The New Practical Cookery Guide. 9 with tartare sauce, rolled, cut one inch and a half long, macerated, and served. Pates de foie gras—Are on some occasions served as hors d’oeuvres. Petites caisses Cazanova—Small cases of paste or cucumber, filled with a salad of strips of celeriac and truffles, blended with mayonnaise. Poireaux a la Grecque—The white part of leeks, cut an inch long, blanched, and macerated with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Poireaux farcis—The white part of leeks, cut one inch and a half long, scooped one end, blanched, seasoned, and farced with a creamed puree of chicken, tunny fish, and shrimp butter, Poitrine d’oie fumee—Smoked goose breast, thinly sliced. Quartier cle tomate d VEcossaise—Skinned, halved, and scooped tomatoes, filled with puree of cooked salmon, blended with mayonnaise and Worcester sauce, cut in quarters, and served. Padis—Radishes, white and red. Padis noir—Black radishes, thinly sliced, and served as salad. Posette d'anchois—Anchovy fillets, cut in lozenges, arranged on round anchovy croutes to form a rosette, a button mushroom in centre, and sieved hard eggs over. Rouget au safran—Small red mullets, cooked with white wine, fines herbes, spices, and saffron. Poyan—Preserved in oil as sardines, and served same. ,, Bordelaise15 Hors D'CEuvres General. Roy an—Provenqale „ Vatel Salades — A great variety of fancy salads are served as hors d’oeuvres, consisting of fish, vegetables, etc. Salade bagration — Anchovy fillets, tunny fish, lobster, beetroot, are neatly cut and blended with mayonnaise, garnished with sliced stoned olives and shredded lettuce. Salade grande duchesse—A salad of cooked vege- tables, cut julienne fashion, mixed with anchovy fillets, gherkins, and cooked fillets of soles; also cut in strips, blended with mayonnaise, garnished with tarragon leaves and sieved hard eggs. Salade russe—I. Cooked and fancy cut potatoes, carrots, c-eleriacs, turnips, beetroot, flageolets, French beans, Russian cucumber, cepes, capers, gherkins, tongue, bam, anchovy fillets, lobster, blended with rich mayonnaise, decorated with caviar, hard yolks and whites of eggs, and chopped fines herbes. II. Russian salad is also served in shape, done in an aspiced and decorated mould, liquid aspic, with mayonnaise to bind it, poured into the decorated mould, and when set turned out and garnished. Salade suedoise — Swedish salad is made with shredded fillets of salted herrings, beetroot, and cooked potatoes, highly seasoned with tartare, and garnished with hard eggs. Sa/rdin’es a la tomate aux fines herbes 9916 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Sardines bordelaise ,, diablees „ fames—Smoked sardines. ,, norvegienne—Norwegian sardines. ,, Rcwigotte ,, russe—Russian sardines. Saucisson—Variety of savoury and smoked sausages, are thinly sliced and tastefully arranged. Saucisson de Bolocjne Saucisson de Lyon „ de Brunswick ,, de Milan ,, de foie ,, de Mortadelle „ de foie gras ,, cle Perigorcl ,, de Frankfort „ de Salami „ de Gutto „ de Strasbourg ,, d’ltalie „ fume „ de jambon „ Parisien Syljphite viennoise—Are savoury semolina quenelles, done in aspic jelly with fancy cut vegetables. Tho?i a Vhuile—Tunny fish, preserved in oil. „ aux fines herbes „ bordelaise ,, marines „ a la tomate Tomates antiboise ou monecjasque — Small skinned and scooped tomatoes, well seasoned and filled with creamed puree of tunny fish, hard eggs, and fines herbes, aspiced over, decorated. Truite marinee Malakojf-—Small trout, cooked^with white wine, fines herbes, coriander seeds; when cold served in liquor with sliced lemon and tomatoes.17 Savouries. Zakouskies—Are various Russian liors d’oeuvres con- sisting of brown and white bread croutes, masked with different purees, chopped savoury vegetables, tongue, hard eggs, truffes, caviar; vodka, the national Russian drink, is generally handed with them. SAVOURIES. The hundred following savouries are the most selected amongst numerous varieties :— Aigrettes au parmesan — Are small balls of ramequin paste, fried as beignet souffle, sprinkled with cheese. Allumettes — Are cheese straws, size of wooden matches. Angels on horseback—Are bearded and seasoned oysters, rolled in slices of streaky bacon, skewered, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and cayenne pepper, and grilled ; served on buttered toast. Barquettes—Are small boat-shaped cheese straw paste tartlets, filled with various purees, cheese fondu, etc. Barquettes chevreuse—Are made with fine semolina paste and filled with soft roes, masked with a light mornay sauce and gratines. Beignets Malakoff—Are squares of Gruyere cheese, dipped in batter (pate a frire), fried, sprinkled with grated Gruyere cheese and cayenne. Beignet ^suisse—A mixture of chopped hard eggs, grated cheese, and fresh breadcrumbs, blended with beaten eggs to form a thick paste, flavoured c18 The New Practical Cookery Guide. with curry, formed into balls size of a walnut, and fried. Beurreck turque—Dice of G-ruyere cheese, blended with thick bechamel sauce, cayenne to taste, made into croquettes wrapped in thin nouille paste, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried. Blinis—Russian pancakes, made with rye flour diluted with milk, cream, and yeast, and allowed to rise, then yolks and whisked whites of eggs are added, and cooked as pancakes. Brochettes de foie de volailles—Chicken’s liver, seasoned and slightly sauteed, then wrapped in slices of streaky bacon, skewered and grilled ; served on buttered toast. Camembert frits—Oblong pieces of Camembert cheese, cayenned, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried. Canapes—Are, as before said, rounds of bread, cut fancy shape, fried or grilled, and garnished, and served hot. Canapes creme de laitances—Puree of soft roe, spread on anchovy toast. Canapes des princes — Are brochettes de foie de volailles. Canapes Diane—Fresh mushrooms, slightly sauteed, rolled in slices of bacon, grilled, and served on toast. Canapes Due de Norfolk—Soft roe bloaters, filleted and boned, the fillet sauteed with butter and placed on buttered toast, the roe rolled in thin slices of bacon and grilled, a roe served on top of each fillet, sprinkled with chopped tarragon and chervil.19 Savouries. Canapes gentilhomme—Welsh rarebit, served with a poached egg on top. Canapes Gordon—Scrambled eggs, mixed with tomato puree, served on round croutes, a button mushroom on top. Canapes hollandais—Scrambled eggs, mixed with flaked, cooked smoked haddock, paprika, on toast, grated cheese over, and gratines. Canapes Imperial—Welsh rarebit, served on anchovy toast, sprinkled with powdered Bombay duck. Canapes Ivanhois—Puree of Finnan haddock, blended with cream, served on toast, and a grilled mush- room on top, or pickled walnut. Canapes Julie—Cream cheese, mixed with cayenne, spread on oval croutes, a skinned, boned sardine on top. Canapes Juliette—Whipped cream, cream cheese, and cayenne, spread on strips of well-browned puff paste (feuilletage), two layers of each, masked over and round with the mixture, cut dartois size, and. served. Canapes Lorenzo—Bound croutes, masked with creamed crab meat, highly seasoned, grated cheese over, and gratines. Canapes Prince de Galles—Welsh rarebit, mixed with yolks of eggs, curry flavour, served on toast. Canapes Victoria I.—A mixture of pounded cooked ham, mixed with puree of foie gras, on toast, with strips of anchovy fillets as Victoria cross. Canapes Victoria II.—Sliced lobster, on buttered toast, American sauce over, a slice of truffe on each. c 220 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Creme frite au fro mage—Ramequin paste mixture with extra cheese, spread half an inch thick to get cold, cut in squares or lozenge shape, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried. Croutes Albert—Scrambled eggs, mixed with finely chopped cooked ham, on oval toast, grated cheese over, and gratines. Croutes aux champignons—Grilled mushrooms, on buttered toast. Croutes Baron—Grilled mushrooms, on buttered toast, with a devilled soft roe on top. Croutes Clarisse—Grated ham and dice of anchovy- fillets, blended with eggs and cheese, formed into medallions, dipped in batter, fried, served in croutes. Croutes Colonel — A skinned sardine, rolled in streaky bacon, devilled, grilled, served on toast. Croutes de fromage—Welsh rarebit. Croutes de merluches Mornay—Thinly sliced smoked haddock, on buttered toast, thin Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Croutes d' York—Grated ham, on toast, cheese over, and gratine. Croutes Garrick—As Croutes Baron. Croutes T.H.C.—As Baron, with a slice of bacon between. Diablotins—Are gniocchis, blanched, moistened with oiled butter, grated cheese over, cayenne, and gratines. Eclair Palmerston—Small, unsweetened savoury eclair, filled with a cheese fondu.21 Savouries. Fonclant au Chester—Are cheese biscuits, made with equal quantity of flour, grated cheese, half quantity of butter, cayenne, moistened with water to form thick paste, rolled, cut biscuit shape, and baked ; when cold made into sand- wiches with a filling of grated cheese, cream, and cayenne. * Laitance de cabillaudfum.ee—Smoked cod roe. Laitance de maquereau fumee—Smoked mackerel roe. Laitance diablee—Devilled soft roe, on toast, or the roes are egged and breadcrumbed, and fried. (Devilled.) Laitance en surprise—Seasoned roe, rolled in thin puff paste, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried. Laitance Florentine—Sauteed soft roe, placed in cocottes, seasoned with cheese souffle mixture over, and baked. Laitance Jeannette—Paste barquette, lined with a creamed puree of chicken, foie gras, and cheese, a sauteed soft roe on top. Laitance meuniere—Floured soft roe, sauteed with butter, and served with juice of lemon and chopped parsley. Laitance Sefton—Seasoned soft roe, egged and bread- crumbed, paupiette shape, fried, served on buttered croutes. Laitance T Zarine—Sauteed soft roe, well seasoned, little white wine, fines herbes, served in cocottes with>a dot of caviar on top. Laitances ecossaises—Paste barquette, lined with scrambled eggs, a sauteed soft roe.22 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mousse de camembert—Creamed Camembert, mixed with whipped cream, cayenne, served in small ramequin cups, savoury biscuit round. Os d moelle—Marrow bones, cut and trimmed size required, covered with a round of plain paste, steamed about an hour, according to size, served with serviettes round, the paste removed. Pailettes a, Vanchois—Cheese straw paste, with a layer of anchovy paste between, cut straw-like, and baked. Pallies au parmesan—Cheese straws. Pommes Dietrich—Baked potatoes in skin, halved length-wise, scooped, and filled with gniocclii a la cream and Parmesan cheese, chopped truffe on top. Pommes Georgette—Baked even size potatoes in skin (small), scooped, and filled with a salpicon of crayfish or lobster blended with Nantua sauce. Ponding au fromage—Place, in a buttered piedish or cocotte, layers of sliced bread and sliced Gruyere cheese, have a savoury custard with a little bicarbonate of potash in it, pour over, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake. Pouding au fromage d la Suisse—A piedish or flan ring or gratin dish, lined with feuilletage (puff paste), filled with thinly sliced Gruyere cheese, pour a savoury custard over, and bake. B,amequins—Are made of unsweetened ehoux paste thus- A pint of water in stewpan, with four . ounces of fresh butter, salt, grated nutmeg, andSavouries. 23 a pinch of cayenne ; when boiling add half a ponnd of sieved flour, stir quickly over fire a few minutes, then mix in half a pound of grated, cheese, take off the fire and add gradually five to six eggs ; place on baking sheets as petits choux with a dice of G-ruyere on top, and bake. Ilamequin de Geneve—The ramequin mixture is baked in thinly lined tartlet tins. Ramequin Pignatelli — Made as above, with the addition of dice of cooked ham in the mixture. Ramequin suisse—The ordinary ramequin, filled with creamed cheese mixture when baked. Sardines—Skinned, boned sardines, devilled, served on toast. Sardines a la Colonel—Are like Croutes Colonel. Sardines d Vlndienne—Skinned sardines, served with curry sauce and plain rice bordure. Sardines en surprise—Skinned, boned sardines, rolled in thin paste, egged and breadcrumbed, fried. Saumon fume sur canapes—Sliced smoked salmon, served on anchovy buttered toast and a little paprika. Scotch ivoodcock—Scrambled eggs, cayenned, served on anchovy buttered toast, anchovy fillets placed across the top. Souffles—To make souffle to perfection requires practice. Once a novice asked me, “ Why did the souffle rise ?” The reason is that the whites are beaten to stiff froth, and create a number of tiny**air bubbles ; these air bubbles expand enormously by action of the heat, hence the lightness of the souffle.24 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Souffle d la Suisse—Mixture as for Parmesan, baked in puff paste croustades ; a few minutes before ready, masked with little cream and grated . Gruyere cheese over, finish browning, and serve. Souffle aujambon—Ham souffle is made with puree of ham, little paprika, and thick sauce, little essence of ham, yolks and beaten whites of eggs, as before stated. Souffle au parmesan—Half a pint of thick bechamel, two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, four yolks of eggs, a little cayenne, mixed on the fire till thickened and smooth (not to boil), remove, and when cooled add the five whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mix, and bake in a buttered souffle case. Souffle d'huitres—The reduced liquor of twelve blanched oysters, two tablespoonfuls of thick bechamel, salt, mignonette pepper, and juice of lemon, four yolks, and the oysters cut in dice; stir over fire till smooth, then add four whites of eggs beaten to froth, mix, and bake in a buttered souffle case. Souffle de poisso7i—Fish souffle is made with puree of fish, little thick bechamel, seasoned, yolks and beaten whites added, as above. Souffle Florentine—Spinach souffle, creamed spinach blended with thick bechamel, seasoned, and finished with eggs, as above. Souffle Helder—Parmesan souffle, with the addition of dice of tongue and truffe. Souffle Pignatelli—Parmesan souffle, with the addition of dice of ham.Savouries. 25 Souffle Polonais—Tartlet tin lined with blinis (Russian pancakes), then filled with blinis mixture, bake, and serve. Notice.—When cheese used in savouries, etc., dis- agrees with sufferers from indigestion, to over- come this difficulty a pinch of bicarbonate of soda should be added, as stated in the pouding au fro mage. Talmouse—Are made in two ways : 1. —Puff paste tartlets, filled with cheese souffle mixture, cheese over, and baked. 2. —Ramecjuin mixture in small heaps on round of puff paste, egged, and pinched to form three-cornered shape, grated cheese over, and baked, farced with creamed cheese at wish. Tartelettes—Tartlet cases made of short or puff paste or nouille paste, and filled with various elements. Tartelette Agnes—Light cheese souffle mixture, baked in puff paste tartlets, served with a slice of blanched beef marrow on top, and fines herbes. Tartelettes chasseur—Short paste tartlets, filled with a salpicon of chicken liver and mushrooms blended with game sauce, sprinkled with cheese, and browned. Tartelettes ecossaises—Short paste tartlets, filled with creamed Finnan haddock blended with bechamel cayenne. Tartelettes Florentine—Cheese souffle mixture, mixed with dice of truffe and lobster, baked in tartlet cases.26 The New Practiced Cookery Guide. Tartelettes hongroises—Puree of onions and paprika, mixed with cream, yolks, and grated cheese, baked in tartlet cases. Tartelettes Marquise—G-niocclii mixture, mixed with dice of Gruyere cheese, cayenne, baked in puff paste tartlets. Tartelettes jpiementaise—Savoury custard, made of half cream and half consomme, grated Parmesan, nutmeg, and yolks of eggs, baked in puff paste tartlets. Tartelettes 'polonaise—A mixture of chopped hard eggs and cooked sauerkraut, fines herbes, blended with paprika sauce, baked in tartlet cases lined with blinis, brown crumbs over. Tartelettes Raglan—A fish souffle mixture of smoked haddock and bloater roes, baked in short paste tartlets. Tartelettes Sefton — A cheese savoury custard, baked in tartlet cases, lined with cheese straw paste. Tartelettes suisse — Dice of Gruyere cheese in puff paste tartlets, beaten egg, salt, and cayenne, with a little cream poured over, and baked. Tartelettes Tosca—Prawns a rAmericaine, placed in short paste tartlets, masked with cheese souffle mixture, and baked. Tartelettes Vendome—A salpicon of cepes sauteed with echalotes, beef marrow, hard eggs, and fresh breadcrumbs, blended with dissolved meat glaze, baked in brioche paste tartlets, a slice of beef marrow on top.Sandwiches. 27 Vatrenshis—Grated cheese, yolks, cream, cayenne, heated, rolled into small balls, placed in rounds of unsweetened brioche paste, finished as rissoles, egged, and baked. VisnisJcis—Creamed fish, fennel flavour, fish veloute, paprika finished as rissoles, with unsweetened brioche paste. SANDWICHES. Fancy sandwiches are made in great varieties, and add a pleasing display to the reception or buffet tables and suppers. The ingredients that constitute them should be finely pounded and creamed, judiciously seasoned; the bread white? brown, or standard, thinly sliced, and mustarded butter spread on it; the sandwiches cut in various fancy ways, and tastefully arranged with a profusion of greens, mustard and cress, etc. Aberdeen—Made with a puree of chicken, ham, and tongue, curried, the bread fried or toasted, served hot or cold. Adelaide—Same as Aberdeen, with addition of grated cheese, served hot. A mericaine—Made with a puree of ham and tongue and mixed pickles, Andalouse—Made with puree of chicken and pi- mentoes. Berlinoise—German rye bread and a paste of Gruyere cheese, French mustard, minced prawns, watercress, cucumber, and little mayonnaise; roll the sandwiches, and cut as Swiss roll.23 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bookmaker—This substantial sandwich is made with an underdone grilled rump steak, well seasoned, mustard and grated horseradish over; placed then between two crusty thick slices of bread and wrapped tightly in a few sheets of blotting paper, and pressed for an hour; unwrapped, and serve. Carolines—Special small finger-shape rolls, filled with puree of chicken, etc. Chasseur—A well-seasoned puree of game and chicken liver, the bread toasted on one side. Cheshire—Thinly sliced meat and Cheshire cheese sandwich. Chicago—Thinly sliced cucumber and mustard and cress. Couvent — Thinly sliced cucumber, fines herbes butter. Delhi—Pounded chicken, mixed with little olive oil, chutney, and curry powder, one side brown bread, other white. Diane—Made with puree of partridge, flavoured with port wine, brown bread. Ecossaise—Made with puree of salmon, hard eggs, and anchovies, anchovy butter, cut finger shape. Grand Due—A puree of chicken and asparagus. Grand Ville—Puree of ham, tongue, and chicken, with capers, one side brown bread, other white. Hollandaise—Puree of smoked salmon and tunny fish, seasoned with paprika. Indienne—Puree of lobster, chutney, and curry powder, brown bread.29 Sandwiches. Infanta—Puree of fresh tomatoes and puree of sardines mixed, sandwiches cut diamond shape. Irlandaise—Thin slices of cold game, shredded celery mixed with tartare sauce ; use home-made bread. Isabelle—Puree of chicken, tongue, and foie gras, sandwiches cut triangle shape. Italienne—Sweet sandwiches, made with genoise and jam. Jockey Club—Puree of cooked veal and foie gras, horseradish butter used, and white bread. Mancelle—Puree of cooked chestnut and foie gras, brown bread. Mirctbeau—Pounded stoned olives and anchovies, anchovy butter, brown bread. Mogador—Puree of chicken, ham, tongue, and foie gras, sandwiches cut oval shape. Monegasque—Puree of tunny fish, hard eggs, tarra- gon, and chervil, and thinly sliced tomatoes. Monseigneur—Creamed soft roe, anchovy butter, sandwiches cut mitre shape. Moscovite—Caviar, seasoned and mixed with juice of lemon and chopped parsley, brown bread. Normande—Shrimp and anchovy paste. Nuton—Cream cheese, mixed with pounded walnuts or cobnuts, brown bread. Orientate—Curried puree of chicken and anchovy paste, shredded mustard and cress, white bread. Petit Due—Puree of fresh mushrooms, blended with horseradish butter, sandwiches cut oblong shape.30 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Petite Princesse—Creamed puree of chicken and foie gras. Pompadour—Half puree of chicken, half puree of pheasant, one side brown bread, the other white. Punjab—Cream cheese, mixed with Indian chutney, watercress, and capers, in small long rolls. Rachel—Puree of chicken and finely shredded parsley. Piquet—Creamed cooked calf’s brains, mixed with fines herbes. Rothomago — Puree of cooked ham and fresh tomatoes, tarragon, and chervil. Russe—Caviar, blended with Russian mayonnaise, brown bread. Sanita—Sweet rolled sandwich, finely minced figs, dates, almonds, blended with whipped cream, spread on thin slices of milk bread (crust off), rolled in damp cloth and pressed; when ready to use, cut in slices Swiss roll fashion. Sicilienne—Pounded sardines and hard eggs, fines herbes. Suedoise—Cream cheese, mixed with finely chopped gherkins, capers, and olives, paprika. Turque—Puree of chicken’s liver, sheep’s brain, pimento, horseradish butter. Tzarina — Thinly sliced cucumber, horseradish butter. Victoria—Creamed lobster, anchovy butter.PART II. CONSOMME (Clear Soup).—How to Make It. The description of consomme, given by many as a strong clear soup, is a mistaken idea, for if such was the case it would only necessitate to reduce meat stock by ebullition. The consomme, as the name applies, requires careful preparation and cultivated judgment. For the fundamental stock which con- stitutes the consomme the best fresh meat of good quality only should be used, the proportion of which should be about a pound of meat, including bone, to every quart of water. This is called grand bouillon, or general stock. The most suitable meat is the top of leg of beef, the buttock piece, the aitchbone, and tops of ribs, which should be boned, the meat tied, and the bones cracked and placed in a suitable sized stockpot with the right quantity of cold water. Nearing boiling point, all the scum that rises to the surface should be carefully removed. When boiling add a little salt, carrot, turnip, parsnip, leeks, celery, an onion studded with a few cloves, and a bouquet garni; then allowed to simmer about five hours, the stock is strained and ready for clarification—a process which in some cases is omitted; but to obtain the32 The New Practical Cookery Guide. rich, double consomme proper the clarification is necessary—about two pounds of lean raw beef, finely minced, to five quarts of stock, two whites of eggs, minced carrots, leeks, and chervil, a few pepjDercorns, and half a roasted onion, a few carcases and bones of roast chicken or an old hen previously browned. When mixed, allow to simmer from one to two hours; strained, it is ready to serve with the desired garnish. Other ways of preparing general stock and consommes by eminent chefs :— Bouillon {Stock)—Five quarts of water to every two pounds of meat (with bone), viz. : top leg of beef, knuckle of veal, and an old fowl, carrots, onions, leeks, celery, parsnips, allowed to simmer four hours. To every four quarts of water two pounds of fresh beef, two hens (with breasts removed), carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, a few cloves, to simmer five hours. Eight pounds of beef from the loin or rump or top side to ten quarts of water, carrots, turnips, parsnips, leeks, celery, a few cloves, a bud of garlic, allowed to simmer six hours. To fourteen quarts of water fourteen pounds of leg of beef—that is, eight pounds of meat and six pounds of bones—carrots, turnip, parsnip, celery, leeks, onions, cloves, garlic, allowed to simmer five hours. Consommes—Six pounds of lean beef, four pounds of lean veal cut in squares, two old hens (fillets removed, the rest roasted), ten quarts of33 Consomme. bouillon (stock), carrots, leeks, celery; simmer three hours, then the fillets of fowl pounded and carefully mixed with the soup to clarify it, simmer twenty minutes more, and strain. Ten pounds of lean beef, six pounds of lean veal, four old hens, in a suitable stockpot, add sufficient bouillon (stock) to cover, carrots, turnip, parsnips, leeks, celery, cloves; simmer till the meat is cooked, and strain. To six quarts of stock three pounds of choice lean beef, two pounds of lean veal (previously blanched), one old fowl with the breast removed, the carcase slightly roasted, carrots, parsnip, turnip, leek, celery; simmer four hours. Three pounds of lean beef, chopped, to five quarts of stock, minced carrot, leeks, two whites of eggs, mixed; simmer one hour and a half. Two pounds of lean shin of beef, cut in small squares, two pounds of fresh beef bones, a fowl roasted slightly, a carrot, a turnip, onion, leek, a piece of celery, a bud of garlic, a little chervil, a little salt, a few peppercorns, thyme, and bayleaf. Place in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, allow to stand thus for one hour, place on fire to boil, stirring occasionally for five minutes, add a quart of boiling water, simmer for one hour and a half, and strain. Consomme de votaille—The chicken stock is prepared with one fowl slightly roasted, one pound of blanched knuckle of veal, three sets of blanched chicken’s giblets, the carcases of two roasted chicken, to about four quarts of light general D34 The New Practical Cookery Guide. stock or water (if water is used, a little salt is added), a large carrot, two leeks, half a head of celery, a head of French lettuce, a few sprigs of chervil, allowed to simmer one to two hours. Strained and clarified with about two pounds of chopped lean beef and fillets of chicken for the above quantity of chicken stock, and two whites of eggs. Simmer about forty-five minutes, and strain, served either en tasse, plain or garnished. Consomme de gibier—G-ame consomme : The propor- tion for game stock is about seven pounds of fresh game, such as the forepart of hare, wild rabbit, old pheasant, and old partridge to five quarts of water and a pint of sherry or marsala, onions, carrots, leeks, celery, parsley, thyme, bayleaf, peppercorns, a few fresh mushrooms, and a little salt (a few juniper berries add a good flavour) ; simmer four or five hours. To clarify use about two pounds of pounded fresh game meat and two whites of eggs for the above quantity of game stock, minced parsley roots, and a few sage leaves, allowed to simmer half an hour, and strain. Consomme de jpoisson—Fish consomme : Fish stock for consomme is prepared with about four pounds of fresh white fish, as whiting, grey mullet, turbot, soles, pike, etc., to three quarts of water and a pint of white wine, a bouquet of parsley, leek, celery, and bayleaf, pinch of salt; simmer forty-five to sixty minutes, and strain. To clarify use about two pounds of fresh35 Consommes. white fish pounded with two whites of eggs, half a pint of white wine, sliced leek and celery, and juice of lemon ; simmer half an hour, and strain. Bouillon de saute — Place in a fireproof china marmite three pounds of rump steak cut in squares, two pounds of lean veal, also cut up, an old fowl, three quarts of cold water, a carrot, a leek, a clove, a piece of celery, a French lettuce, and a few sprigs of chervil; carefully simmer till the meat is done, and strain. This produces a most excellent clear and strengthening soup. Bouillon de legumes—Vegetable stock : Two carrots, one head of celery, one parsnip, half a cabbage, one lettuce, three leeks, a cupful of haricot beans (soaked), two bay leaves, a few pepper- corns, and two onions sliced and browned in a little nut lard, a few sprigs of parsley and chervil, and about five quarts of water; cook slowly for two or three hours, strain, and use for vegetarian cookery and maigre soups and sauces. The following, some four hundred of named consomme, indicate the great progress made of late years in the various ways of serving and garnishing clear soups. CONSOMMES. Africaine—Slightly curried chicken consomme, gar- nished with boiled rice, curried chicken quenelles, and julienne of aubergines (egg plant). Agnoletti—Ordinary consomme, garnished with small raviole made of minced lamb. d 236 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Aigo Saou.—Fish consomme, aromatic and garlic flavour, garnished with dice of white fish and fried croutons. Ailerons—Chicken consomme, garnished with cooked farced ailerons (wing ends of chicken) and boiled rice. Albion I. — Chicken consomme, garnished with shredded lettuce, asparagus pointes, chicken, and foie gras quenelles. Albion II.—Chicken consomme, lie with little French tapioca, garnished with foie gras quenelles, julienne of truifes, and cock’s comb, asparagus pointes. Albion III. — Fish consomme, lie with French tapioca, garnished with lobster and trufle quenelles. Alexandra—Chicken consomme, slightly lie with French tapioca, garnished with shredded lettuce, small quenelles of chicken, julienne of white chicken meat, and chervil. Algerien—Strong consomme, garnished with dice of cooked aubergine (egg plant). AUemande—Strong consomme, flavoured with juniper berries, slightly lie with French tapioca, gar- nished with cooked shredded red cabbage, skinned cooked Frankfort sausages, grated horseradish separate. Alsacienne I.—Strong consomme, garnished with julienne of cooked sauerkraut and small foie gras ravioles. Alsacienne II. — Strong consomme, ham flavour, garnished with paysanue of leeks, cabbage, and37 Consommes. potatoes cooked in consomme; toasted French bread croutes separate. Ambassadeur—Chicken consomme, garnished with pointes, puree of truffe royal cut into fancy rings, and dice of mushroom and chicken. Ambassadrice—Chicken consomme, garnished with neatly cut julienne of black truffe royal, red tomato royal, green peas royal, and shredded chicken and chervil. Amelia—Rich consomme, garnished with fancy cut royal, small round quenelles, dice of chicken, French beans, and perles. Americaine—Strong consomme, with stars cut from cooked carrots, turnips, truffes, pimentoes, and whites of eggs, a few green peas, and a glass of sherry lastly Ancienne I.—Strong consomme, as for Petite Mar- mite, garnished with neatly cut slices of the chicken cooked in it, and a few croutes coated with the vegetables from the marmite finely minced, and gratines. Ancienne II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles, gratines, cheese, croutes. Andalouse I.—Chicken consomme, garnished with tomato royal ct*t in cubes, julienne of ham, rice, threaded eggs (oeufs files). Andalouse II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken quenelles, tomato royal, and cucumber cut in cubes. Andalouse III.—Chicken consomme, garnished with dice of tomatoes and vermicelli.38 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Argenteuil — Chicken consomme, garnished with asparagus pointes. Arlequin—Chicken consomme, garnished with fancy cut yellow, green, and pink quenelles. Aulanier — Ordinary consomme, garnished wdth julienne of cabbage, green peas, and chervil. Aurore—Chicken consomme, flavoured with tomato juice, lie with French tapioca, garnished with julienne of chicken. Australienne—Rabbit consomme, garnished with dice of carrots and rabbit. Ayo bianco—Light consomme, garlic flavour, gar- nished with shredded almonds, fried croutons. Bagration—Fish consomme, garnished with strips of fillets of soles. Baron brisse—Ordinary consomme, garnished with fancy cut carrots, turnips, royal, asparagus pointes, and chervil. Baronia—Mutton consomme, mint flavour, garnished with peas, Indian corn, and semolina quenelles. Baviere — Rich consomme, garnished with small semolina dumplings. Beigneuse—Rich consomme, garnished with farced lettuce cut in cubes. Belle fermiere—Strong consomme, garnished with julienne of cabbages, dice of French beans, Italian paste or nouille. Belle Gabrielle—Chicken consomme, garnished wdt.h small round chicken quenelles, dice of crayfish. Belle ville—Ordinary consomme, garnished with large brunoise roots, small sprouts, rice, and quenelles.Consommes. 39 Berchoux I.—Game consomme, served with julienne of game and tongue. Berchoux II.—Game consomme, served with game and chestnut quenelles, julienne of truffes, mushrooms. Bergere—Ordinary consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with asparagus pointes, sliced cepes, tarragon, and chervil. Berlinoise—Beef consomme, garnished with a savoury pancake mixture, poured in the boiling con- somme through a colander, simmered two minutes. Berny—Ordinary consomme, served with dauphine potatoes, mixed with chopped almonds and truffles, made into small balls, and fried. Bizet—Ordinary consomme garnished with jardiniere roots, perles du nizam, cubes of truffes, and chervil. Bohemien—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with foie gras royal and profiterolles. Boildieu—Chicken consomme, garnished with small foie gras quenelles, chicken quenelles, truffe quenelles, and shredded chicken. Bonne femme—Ordinary consomme, with a paysanne of onions, leeks, and potatoes cooked in it, toast. Bonvalet—Strong con&omme, garnished with dice of tongue, peas, and beef marrow on toast. Borscht—Rich beef and duck consomme, flavoured with aromatic herbs, and coloured with fresh beetroot juice, garnished with j ulienne of beetroot, leeks, onions, parsley roots, cabbage, sauteed in butter and cooked with consomme, dice of theThe New Practical Cookery Guide. 40 beef and blanched streaky bacon, and slices of smoked sausages, chopped fennel and parsley, sour cream served with it, and a plate of small croutes made of puff paste and puree of duck. Borschtock—Rich consomme, highly flavoured with duck, beetroot juice, and cayenne. Bouchere—Strong consomme, marmite, served with small balls of braised cabbage and beef marrow on toast. Bouquetiere—Chicken consomme, garnished with peas, pointes, French beans, carrots, turnip, chervil. Bourbon—Rich consomme, garnished with slices of round chicken quenelles, decorated with truffes to imitate a fleur de lys, a few perles du nizam, and chervil. Bourdaloue—Chicken consomme, garnished with four different kinds of royal: (1) With puree of haricot beans and tomatoes. (2) With chicken and cream. (3) With spinach and asparagus. (4) Carrots. Bourcjeoise—Rich consomme, garnished with fancy cut carrot, turnips, and French beans, chervil. Braganza — Chicken consomme, garnished with perles, cubes of cucumber, and three-coloured royal. Bresilien—Beef consomme, garnished with julienne roots and boiled rice. Bretonne—Ordinary consomme, garnished with julienne of leeks, celery, mushrooms, and chervil. Bi 'ieux—Chicken consomme, garnished with green royal, julienne of chicken and truffe, perles.41 Consommes. Brillat Savarin—G-ame consomme, woodcock flavour predominating, garnished with woodcock and truffle quenelles and julienne of celery. Brisse—Rich consomme, garnished with green vegetable royal, boiled rice, and chervil. Britannia I.—Fish consomme, lie with tapioca, garnished with lobster royal and julienne of truffle. Britannia II.—Chicken consomme', garnished with foie gras quenelles, asparagus pointes, julienne of truffles, tomato royal cut in triangles. Brown—Chicken consomme, garnished with truffled chicken quenelles, julienne of leeks, chervil. Brunoise—Rich consomme, garnished with braised vegetables cut in small dice, carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, cabbage, onions, French beans, and chervil. Busega—Beef consomme, garnished with julienne of cooked tripe and dice of tomatoes. Californie—Chicken consomme, garnished with rounds of royal, julienne of carrots, leeks, and chervil. Camelia—Chicken consomme, lie, tapioca, garnished with julienne of chicken, leeks, and green peas. * Cancalais—Fish consomme, slightly lie with arrow- root, garnished with julienne of fillets of soles, poached bearded oysters, and fish quenelles. Capucine—Consomme, garnished with green spinach royal, shredded chicken, and profiterolles. Cardinal—Fish consomme, with tomato juice, garnished with lobster quenelles.42 The New Practiced CooJcery Guide. Careme—Bich chicken consomme, garnished with asparagus pointes, shredded lettuce, tarragon, and chervil. Carlton—Chicken consomme, lie with tapioca, garnished with chicken and truffe quenelles, royal, and profiterolles. Carmelite—Fish consomme, thickened slightly with arrowroot, garnished with fish quenelles, rice. Carmen—Light consomme, with tomato juice, gar- nished with dice of tomatoes, rice, pimentoes, and chervil. Carnegie—Chicken consomme, garnished with veal ravioles, julienne of truffes, tarragon, and chervil. Caroline—Chicken consomme, garnished with cream of almond and rice royal, julienne of chicken, boiled Carolina rice. Castelane—Game consomme, with essence of wood- cock, creamed lentils and woodcock royal, julienne of woodcock. Celestine I.—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of thin cooked unsweetened pancakes. Celestine II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with boiled rice and farced profiterolles. Celestine III.—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken and truffe farced, unsweetened pancakes cut in rounds. Chanceliere I.—Consomme*, garnished with green pea royal, julienne of truffe, chicken, and mush- rooms. Clianceliire II. —Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of French beans, truffes, chicken, beet- root, and mushrooms.Consommes. 43 Chantilly — Chicken consomme, garnished with cream royal cut in cubes, dice of chicken, shredded lettuce, and chervil. Charley—Consomme, served with small poached eggs, asparagus pointes, and chervil. Charolais—A clear oxtail soup, garnished with small braised onions, cubes of carrots, turnips, and farced cabbage leaves cut in cubes. Chartreuse I.—Beef consomme, lie tapioca, served with dice of tomatoes, spinach ravioles, foie gras ravioles, and puree of mushroom ravioles, dice of tomatoes. Chartreuse II.—Beef consomme, with tomato juice, served with a spinach royal, a foie gras royal, and a mushroom royal, cut fancy shape. Chatelaine I.—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with soubise royal, chestnut quenelles cut in cubes. Chatelaine II.—Beef consomme, garnished with soubise royal, peas, and dice of French beans. Chesterfield—Strong beef consomme, turtle herb flavour, sherry, garnished with cubes of chicken royal. Chevreuse—Chicken consomme, lie semolina, and garnished with chicken quenelle, dice of trufle and chicken. Chiffonade I.—Chicken consomme, garnished with shredded lettuce, sorrel, and chervil. Chiffonade II.—Beef consomme, garnished with shredded lettuce, spinach, sorrel, dice of French beans, peas, asparagus pointes, and chervil.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 44 Choiseul—Strong consomme, garnished with fancy cut royal and asparagus pointes. Choron—G-ame consomme, garnished with julienne of game, perles du nizam, pearls of carrots. Chowder—Fish consomme, garnished with dice of fried lean bacon, dice of potatoes, tomatoes, neat pieces of codfish, croutes soaked in milk and fried. Christiana—Rich consomme, garnished with chestnut royal, profiterolles, blanched cherries. Christophe Colornb—Rich consomme, lie arrowroot, highly seasoned, garnished with rings of tomato royal, peas. Clam—Fish consomme, made with clams, garnished with julienne of celery and dice of tomatoes. Clothilde—Beef consomme, garnished with fancy cut soubise royal. Cock-a-leekie—Special chicken consomme, served with shredded leeks cooked in the soup, rice, cooked prunes separate. Colbert—Strong consomme, served with printanier roots and poached eggs. Colombine — Chicken consomme, pigeon flavour, garnished with pearls of carrots, turnips, dice of French beans, julienne of pigeons, and poached pigeon’s eggs. Colombo—Chicken consomme, garnished with cream royal, tomato royal, cut fancy shape, chervil. Comina—Chicken consomme, served with threaded eggs (ceufs files). Comtesse I.—Chicken consomme, garnished with quenelles of chicken, royal, and shredded lettuce.Consommes. 45 Comtesse II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with asparagus pointes, chicken quenelles (sliced), and decorated with truffe to imitate a countess crown, braised shredded lettuce lastly. Courbet—Rich consomme, garnished with cubes of royal, spaghetti, profiterolle, and chervil. Cowley—Mutton consomme, served with brunoise roots, pearl barley, and chervil. Crecy—Chicken consomme, garnished with puree of carrot royal, julienne of carrots, chervil. Cronies au pot—Rich marmite consomme, garnished with neatly cut vegetables cooked in the soup, chervil, and French bread croutons. Cucido—Beef and chicken consomme mixed, garnished with shredded cabbage cooked in the soup, G-arbunzos peas, sliced smoked Spanish sausage, rice. Cultitateur—Beef consomme, with large cut brunoise roots and fried croutons. Cussy—Game consomme, garnished with game quenelles, chestnut royal, and julienne of truffe. Cyrano — Duck consomme, garnished with duck quenelles, cheese royal. Dame blanche—Chicken consomme, lie arrowroot, garnished with almond milk royal, julienne of chicken, and white of hard eggs. Danois—Strong beef consomme, duck flavour, garnished with duck quenelles, puree of arti- choke royal, mushrooms. Dante—Beef consomme, pigeon flavour, garnished with small ravioles made with chicken puree, julienne of truffe and pigeon.46 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. Darenberg— Chicken consomme, garnished with pearls of quenelles, carrots, turnips, peas, perles, chervil. Daumont—Strong consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with julienne of tongue and mushrooms. Daujphine—Consomme garnished with printanier roots, royal, and farced profiterolle. De faisan—Pheasant consomme, sherry, julienne of pheasant, and royal. Demidoff—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with pearls of quenelles, carrots, turnips, truffes, peas, chervil. Deslignac—Chicken consomme, garnished with fines herbes, royal, shredded lettuce, chervil. Des quatres saisons—Consomme garnished with dice of curried quenelles, cucumber, tomatoes, celery, chervil. Diablotin—Consomme served with devilled cheese croutes. Diane—Game consomme, Xeres wine, game quenelles, and truffes. Dietrich—Chicken consomme, garnished with veal and spinach ravioles, julienne roots. Diplomate—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with chicken and crayfish, sliced quenelles, julienne of truffes. Divette—Chicken consomme, garnished with small round crayfish and smelt quenelles and truffes. Doctoresse—Chicken consomme, garnished with light royal and shredded leeks. Don Carlos I.—Beef consomme, served with dice of tomatoes, rice, royal, and chervil.Consommes. 47 Don Carlos II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with cubes of royal, pearls of carrots, turnips, and shredded piinentoes. Don Miguel—Grame consomme, garnished with game quenelles and royal. Doria I.—Chicken consomme, garnished with olive- shaped pieces of cucumber, perles, chervil, and profiterolles. Doria II.—Strong consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with chicken quenelles, royal, asparagus pointes. D’Orleans—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with chicken quenelles, tomato royal, peas, and chervil. Douglas—Rich beef consomme, garnished with dice of braised sweetbreads, artichoke fonds, jDointes, and chervil. Dubarry I.—Strong consomme, garnished with cauli- flower royal and small pieces of cooked cauliflower. Dubarry II.—Strong consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with boiled rice and small pieces of cauliflower. Dubourg—Chicken consomme, garnished with royal cut fancy shape, peas, and chervil. Due de York—G-ame consomme, marsala flavour, garnished with game and truffe quenelles, royal, and julienne of game. Duferin—Fish consomme, slightly curried, garnished with curried fish quenelles, rice, and julienne of fillets of soles. Dumont—Rich consomme, garnished with shredded braised cabbage, julienne of mushrooms and tongue.48 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Durham—Chicken consomme, garnished with green fines herbes royal, red carrot royal, julienne of chicken. Duse—Chicken consomme, garnished with small round tomato and chicken quenelles, pates de genes. Ecossais—Mutton consomme, served with blanched pearl barley and dice of French beans. Elizabeth—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of artichoke fond, leeks, vermicelli; grated cheese separate. En tasse — Consomme served in special consomme cups, with or without garnish as desired. Ephemeres—Chicken consomme, garnished with cubes of carrots, asparagus pointes, peas, small cheese eclairs. Epicurien—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with fresh cooked shredded almonds and chervil. Epicurienne—Chicken consomme, garnished with three-coloured quenelles, poached yolks of eggs, chervil. Fanchonnette—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with cubes of farced unsweetened pancakes. Fausse tortue—Clear mock turtle, rich calf head consomme, turtle herb flavour, sherry and cayenne, served with pieces of calf’s head. Favorite—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with julienne of fonds, mushrooms, and celeriac. Fermiere I—Consomme served with julienne roots and vermicelli. Fermiere II.—Consomme served with paysanne roots slices of new potatoes, and chervil.Consommes. 49 Filateur—Consomme with special fine vermicelli. Flamande—Beef consomme, garnished with sprouts, royal, peas, chervil. Flementine—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken quenelle and shredded spinach. Fleuri—Consomme garnished with fancy cut vege- tables, rice, and chervil. Florador—Rich consomme, served with florador royal. Floreal—Chicken consomme, garnished with stars of carrots and turnips, peas, asparagus pointes, green pistachio quenelles cut in imitation of leaves, chervil. Florentine I.—Consomme garnished with spinach royal, julienne of tongue and chicken. Florentine II.—Consomme garnished with spinach royal, threaded eggs (oeufs files), rice ; grated cheese separate. Fran$aise—Chicken consomme, garnished with fancy chicken quenelles, shredded lettuce, and chervil. Frcincillon—Rich consomme, garnished with large round quenelles, poached yolks of eggs, chervil. Franhfortoise-—Beef consomme, juniper berry flavour, garnished with julienne of red cabbage, Frank- fort sausages. Gallois—Chicken consomme, served with shredded leeks. Garbure—Beef consomme, with pay sanne roots, braised •cabbage cut in small squares, and cheese croutes. Garibaldi—Consomme served with pink and green royal. E50 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Gaulois—Chicken consomme, lie arrowroot, garnished with julienne of cock’s kidneys and cock’s comb, shredded chicken. George Sand—Fish consomme, garnished with cray- fish or lobster quenelles, soft roe royal. Germaine—Consomme garnished with green pea royal, cubes of chicken quenelles, and chervil. Germinal—Beef consomme, tarragon flavour, gar- nished with quenelles containing tarragon and chervil, pointes, peas, and cut French beans. Girondine—Beef consomme, garnished with ham royal, julienne of carrots, salsify, toasted beef marrow croutes. Grande Duchesse—Chicken consomme, garnished with fancy chicken and truffe quenelles, rounds of chicken and tongue. Grenade—Beef consomme, garnished with tomato royal cut grenade shape, dice of tomatoes, and chervil. Grenouille—Fish consomme, garnished with frog’s leg quenelles and royal. Grimaldi—Beef consomme, garnished with julienne of celeriac, tomato royal, and chervil. Henry IV — Rich chicken consomme, garnished with croute-au-pot roots, large julienne of chicken, rice, chervil. Herculeen—Rich beef consomme, lie tapioca, gar- nished with brain royal, shredded chicken, chervil. Hongroise—Beef consomme, paprika, garnished with calf’s liver quenelles, dice of tomato.Consommes. 51 Huitres—Fish consomme, oyster flavour, lie arrow- root, served with shredded sorrel and bearded oysters. Imperatrice—Chicken consomme, garnished with pointes royal, rice, chervil. Imperial I.—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, gar- nished with rice, peas, julienne of cock’s comb and kidnevs, chervil. Imperial II.—Chicken consomme', garnished with sliced quenelles, sliced cock’s comb and kidneys, julienne of truffe and fonds. Indienne—Curried chicken consomme, served with cocoanut milk royal, rice. Infanta—Chicken consomme, garnished with tomato royal, peas, julienne of pimento, croutes of pain perdu. Infante I.—Consomme, lie arrowroot, served with farced profiterolles and chervil. Infante II.—Rich consomme, served with croutes, masked with puree of chicken, foie gras, and gratines. Irma—Chicken consomme, garnished with pointes, curried quenelles, julienne of mushrooms. Italienne—Consomme garnished with macaroni, tomato royal, spinach royal; cheese separate. Jacqueline — Chicken consomme, garnished with fancy cut royal, pearls of peas, pointes, rice, chervil. Jardiniere—Rich consomme, served with cubes of vegetables. Jenny Lind—Grame consomme, garnished with julienne of mushroom and game. e 252 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Jockey Club—Beef consomme, garnished with large rounds of pink, yellow, and green royal. Johore—Carried chicken consomme, served with curried royal, shredded chicken, and rice. Joinville—Chicken consomme, garnished with carrots royal, cream royal, and peas royal in cubes. Jouvencale—Beef consomme, garnished with farced lettuce rolled and cut in even pieces, crecy and cheese croutes, gratines, Juanita—Chicken consomme, garnished with cream of rice, royal dice of tomatoes, sieved hard yolks of eggs. Judic—Rich chicken consomme, served with braised lettuce cut to neat pieces, quenelles, truffe, chervil. Jidienne — Rich consomme, garnished with all vegetables in season cut in fine strips an inch long, braised, chervil. Juliette—Chicken consomme, garnished with small round chicken quenelles, green royal, julienne of hard white of egg. Kale brosse—Beef soup, made with ox cheek, cabbage, and oatmeal. Kalia—Chicken consomme, flavoured with agoursis (Russian cucumber), garnished with julienne of celery, parsley roots, and chicken. Kapriva—Consomme served with shredded garden nettles, sorrel, Russian pancakes, smoked sausages ; sour cream separate. Kapustinak—Beef consomme, served with braised cabbage, dice of pickled pork; sour cream separate.Consommes. 53 Kisseleff-—Chicken and veal consomme, garnished with julienne of carrots, cabbage, leeks, celery, chicken, and shredded lettuce. Kouscous—Rich, highly seasoned consomme, served with paysanne roots and Italian ravioles. Krupnick—Chicken consomme, served with pearl barley, large brunoise roots, dice of chicken. Kursall—Beef consomme, served with printanier roots and lettuce. Lady Morgan — Fish consomme, oyster flavour, garnished with fish and crayfish quenelles (pink), julienne of sole, truffe, mushrooms, bearded oysters, and crayfish cut in dice. Laffite—Chicken consomme garnished with financiere garnish neatly cut, madeira. Leberknodl—Beef consomme, served with calf’s liver quenelles. Leon XIII.—Beef consomme, lie arrowroot, garnished with small crosses made of royal, form of papal tiara. Leopold—Beef consomme, lie semolina, garnished with shredded lettuce, sorrel, and chervil. Londonderry—Pheasant consomme, garnished with fancy pheasant quenelles, peas, and julienne of pheasant. Lord Maire—Chicken consomme, lie arrowroot, garnished with giblets, barley, chervil. Lord Marcus—Strong chieken and veal consomme, lie yolks and cream, garnished with dice of cucumber, shredded lettuce, chervil. Lorette — Chicken consomme, pimento flavour, garnished with julienne of celery, tiny Loretto potatoes.54 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Lyonnaise—Beef consomme, garnished with glazed button onions, dice of fonds, chervil. Macdonald—Beef consomme, garnished with brain royal, dice of cucumber, spinach ravioles. Magenta—Chicken consomme, lie arrowroot and champagne, garnished with truffed chicken quenelles, julienne of mushrooms, truffe, foie gras. Maintenon—Beef consomme, garnished with julienne of leeks, dice of tomatoes, and cheese croutes. Maison doree—Rich consomme, served as croute-au- pot, with dice of tomatoes and profiterolles. Maleshurg—Fish consomme, garnished with shredded fillets of soles, lobster, cream added lastly. Maltaise — Consomme with three-coloured royal, farced profiterolles. Mancelle—G-ame consomme, with chestnut and game royal. Marguerite—Chicken consomme, garnished with thin rounds of chicken farce to imitate marguerite, pieces of yolk in centre, and asparagus pointes Maria—Chicken consomme, lightly thickened with tapioca, garnished with puree of haricot beans royal, and cubes of carrot, turnip, and parsnips, peas, and lozenges of French beans. Marigny—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken quenelle, peas, and julienne of cucumber. Marly—Chicken consomme, with julienne of leeks, celery, chicken, lettuce, cheese croutes. Mar guise—Beef consomme, highly celery flavoured, garnished with quenelles, mixed with truffes, shredded lettuce.55 Consommes. Martiniere—Rich consomme, garnished with braised lettuce sliced, peas, and cheese croiites, gratine. Massena—Rich consomme, sherry flavour, garnished with chestnut royal. Medicis—Beef consomme, lightly thickened with tapioca, garnished with puree of carrot royal and green pea royal, cubes of macaroni, and shredded sorrel and chervil. Megere—Beef consomme, garnished with fines herbes, gniocchi, vermicelli, and chervil. Mercedes—Beef consomme, Xeres flavour, garnished with fine julienne of pimentoes and stars of cock’s comb. Messaline—Chicken consomme, tomato flavour, garnished with dice of pimentoes, rice, and sliced cock’s kidneys. Metternich—Pheasant consomme, garnished with puree of pheasant royal, julienne of artichoke fond and pheasant. Meuniere—Fish consomme, lightly thickened with arrowroot, and garnished with dice of fillets of soles and croutons. Mignon—Fish consomme, garnished with prawn quenelles, dice of truffe, and prawns. Mikado—Chicken consomme, tomato flavour, gar- nished with puree of crosne royal, dice of chicken, and tomatoes. Milanais—Chicken consomme, garnished with cubes of macaroni, cheese separate, and fine j ulienne of truffe. Mimosa.—Chicken consomme, served with pink, green, white, and yellow coloured royal.56 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Minestrone—Beef consomme, garlic and basil flavour, garnished with paysanne roots, rice, dice of lean bacon. Mireille—Chicken consomme, garnished with stars of white and pink quenelles, asparagus pointes. Mirette—Beef consomme, garnished with cubes of quenelles, shredded lettuce, chervil, small cheese straws, Mogador—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with rings of chicken and foie gras farce, tongue, truffe. Moliere—Rich beef consomme, served with sliced blanched beef marrow on toast. Monaco—Chicken consomme, garnished with black quenelles (truffe), green royal and cream royal, chervil. Moncelet—Beef consomme, served with perles du nizam, asparagus pointes, chervil. Monte Carlo—Chicken consomme, garnished with slices of square quenelles, decorated with truffe and tongue to imitate playing cards, chervil, and profiterolle. Monte Christo—Beef consomme, served with brunoise roots, truffed quenelles, dice of fonds. Montglas—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken’s liver quenelles, julienne of chicken. Montmorency I.—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with round quenelles, pointes, rice, chervil. Montmorency II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of celery, chicken, macaroni, chervil.57 Consommes. Mosaique—Beef consomme, garnished with slices of large quenelles, decorated mosaic style, and different-coloured royal cut mosaic shape. Moscovite—Sterlet or sturgeon consomme, madeira, and cucumber flavour, garnished with dice of vesiga and cucumber. Mutton broth—Mutton stock or broth, pearl barley cooked in the broth, brunoise roots, chopped parsley, small trimmed mutton cutlets (cooked in the broth) served in it. Nantais—Consomme served with pearl barley, peas, chervil. Nantua—Fish consomme, served with fish quenelles, dice of lobster, and truffe. Napoleon — Beef consomme, served with small ravioles, chervil; grated cheese separate. Napolitaine—Rich consomme, garnished with cubes of macaroni, julienne of celery, lean ham, grated cheese. National—Rich consomme, served with croute-au-pot roots, quenelles, chervil. Navarin—Beef consomme, served with peas royal, crayfish tails, chervil. Nelson I.—Fish consomme, lie arrowroot, garnished with lobster quenelles, rice, profiterolles. Nelson II.—Rich consomme, turtle herb flavour, served with red, white, and green quenelles. Nemours—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with carrots royal, mixed with fine brunoise roots, perles du nizam, fine julienne of truffe.58 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. Nesselrode—G-arae consomme hazel hen flavour, served with chestnut royal, julienne of hazel hens (gelinotte). Niqoise—Consomme garnished with tomato royal, dice of French beans, potatoes, chervil. Niels d'hirondelles—Chicken consomme, aromatic herb flavour, served with cooked salaganes (Chinese bird’s nest). Nillson J.—Chicken consomme, garnished with stars- of chicken and truffe farce, stars of ham and spinach farce. Nillson II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with cubes of chicken quenelles, truffe quenelles, fines herbes quenelles, peas, chervil. Nina—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with pink and white royal, cut diamond shape. Ninon—Consomme garnished with stars of royal, pearls of carrots, turnips, peas, and chervil. Nivernaise—Beef consomme, garnished with onion royal, pearls of carrots and turnips, chervil. Nouveau roi—-Rich chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with crown-shape chicken and truffe quenelles. Olya I.—Rich consomme, with marsala, served with julienne of truffe and carrots. Olga II.—Rich consomme, with Oporto wine, served with julienne of celeriac, cucumber, leeks, carrots. Olla podrida—Spanish soup, rich consomme, served with fresh lean brisket of beef cooked in the soup, lean streaky salt pork, sheep’s tails, partridge, duck, chicken, savoy cabbage, lettuce59 Consommes. garbanzos, peas, Chorizo sausages, and rice ; all cooked in tlie soup and cut to regular size. Ollis—Rich consomme, made with beef, veal, calf’s feet, game, and mutton, highly flavoured with celery, parsley, aromatic herbs, sherry, served with rice. Orientate—Mutton consomme, tomato and saffron flavour, garnished with brain royal and sieved hard yolks, rice. Orleanais—Beef consomme, garnished with chicory royal, dice of French beans, flageolets, chervil. Orleans (d’)—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, gar- nished with tomato and chicken quenelles, pistachios and chicken quenelles cut in cubes, peas, and chervil. Orsay (cV) — Chicken and pigeon consomme, lie tapioca, served with asparagus pointes, pigeon quenelles, julienne of pigeon. Ostenda.is—Fish consomme, oyster flavour, served with bearded oyster. Oukha—Fish consomme, served with julienne of vegetables, cepes, and shredded sorrel. Oxtail—Beef consomme, with oxtail, herb flavour, herry, and printanier roots. Parisienne—Chicken consomme, garnished with royal, mixed with puree of braised vegetables, brunoise roots, chervil. Parmesane—Beef consomme, served with Parmesan cheese paste cut fancy shape. Pauvre homme—Beef consomme, with a paysanne of leeks and potatoes, toasted croutes.60 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Paysanne—Beef consomme, garnished with braised sliced vegetables size of a sixpence. Perles (aux)—Consomme, served with perles du nizam. Petit due—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with julienne of chicken, truffe, chervil. Petite mariee—Chicken consomme, garnished with puree of chicken royal, almond milk, and chervil. Petite marmite—Rich consomme, served with croute- au-pot roots, pieces of chicken, and lean beef. Picardie—Rich consomme, served with cubes of leeks sauteed in butter, fried croutons. Piemontaise—Consomme, saffron flavour, garnished with rice, dice of ham, Piemont truffe, and tomatoes ; cheese served separate. Pierre le grand — Rich consomme, served with julienne of celery, turnips, shredded lettuce, and tarragon. Pluche—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with shredded sorrel, lettuce, and chevril. Pojarsky—Chicken consomme, hazel hen flavour, served with small croquettes of hazel hen <\ la Pojarsky. Polonaise—Chicken consomme, garnished with un- sweetened pancakes masked with chicken farce, rolled and poached and cut in slices, julienne of celery, and beetroot. Poljpetti — Chicken consomme, served with fried parmesan quenelles. Portugais—Chicken consomme, tomato flavour and colour, served with tomato royal, julienne of leeks, rice ; unsweetened stewed prunes separate.61 Consommes. Pot-au-feu—As Croute-au-pot, pieces of lean beef. Potemkin—Fish stock, clarified with pounded caviar and white wine, served with julienne of carrots, celery, parsley, and pointes. Potroka—Beef consomme, served with large dice of braised vegetables, geese giblets in dice, fennel and parsley lastly; sour cream separate. Prince cle Galles—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken and truffe quenelles, royal, asparagus pointes. Princesse—Chicken consomme, garnished with green pea royal, pearl barley, julienne of chicken. Princesse Alice—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of artichoke fond, vermicelli, shredded lettuce. Princesse Ena—Chicken consomme, served with julienne of leeks, chicken, rice, and chervil. Printanier—Consomme, served with cubes of braised carrots and turnips, peas, dice of French beans, asparagus pointes, shredded lettuce, chervil. Printanier Colbert—Small poached eggs added to printanier. Printanier royal — Cubes of royal added to printanier. Printemps—Chicken consomme, garnished with asparagus pointes, peas, beans, lettuce, and chervil. Projiterolle—Rich consomme, served with crisp profiterolles. Putchero—As Pot-au-feu, with the addition of ham, garbanzos, peas, and sliced Chorizo sausages.62 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Pyreneennes—Mutton consomme, garnished with dice of tomatoes, brunoise roots, Italian paste. Pabelais—Game consomme, with white wine, served with game quenelles and julienne of celery. Rachel—Consomme, lie tapioca, served with julienne of artichoke fond and beef marrow on toast. Rachelle—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken and cheese quenelles, julienne of celery, lettuce, and chervil. Ramayanda—Curried chicken consomme, served with royal cut crown shape. Ranee—Rich consomme, served with small pearl quenelles, flageolets, tarragon, and chervil. Rassalmick—Chicken consomme, garnished with dice of celery, cucumbers, chervil; sour cream separate. Raviole—Beef consomme, served with Italian ravioles. Reforme—Beef consomme, served with julienne of chicken, carrots, truffe, tongue. Regence—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with sliced cock’s kidneys. Reine I.—Chicken consomme, served with chicken royal, julienne of chicken. Reine II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of chicken, chicken farced profiterolles, almond milk royal. Rejane I.—Chicken consomme, garnished with sliced carrot royal, filbert royal, threaded eggs, and chervil. Rejane II.—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne of chicken, celery, potatoes, chervil.63 Consommes. Renaissance I.—Consomme served with julienne of mushrooms, j>eas, profiterolles, chervil. Renaissance II.—Consomme garnished with cubes of spring vegetables, fines herbes, royal, chervil. Riche—Double chicken consomme, served with chicken quenelles, decorated with truffe. Richelieu—Rich consomme, garnished with cubes of carrots, turnips, farced chicken quenelles, braised farce lettuce cut in cubes. Rivoli—Chicken consomme, served with cheese pancake mixture, poured into the boiling consomme through a cornet or funnel, resembling macaroni, simmer two minutes ; cheese separate. Rosol—Rich beef marmite consomme, served with squares of lean beef, veal, pickled pork, chicken, all cooked in the soup, fennel and parsley lastly. Rossini—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with foie gras and chicken, farced profiterolles. Rothschild—Game consomme, pheasant flavour, wine, garnished with pheasant and chestnut royal, julienne of truffe, and ortolan. Rouennaise—Consomme, duck flavour, served with julienne of duck, small olive shape carrots, button onions. Roycde—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, cubes of royal. Roy an—Consomme, garnished with partridge quenelles, poached plover’s eggs, shredded lettuce. Rubens—Chicken consomme, tomato flavour and colour, served with young hop shoots.64 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Russe—Rich consomme, madeira, served with julienne of celeriac, beetroot, parsley, fennel. St. George's—Hare consomme, red wine, garnished with hare quenelles and julienne of hare, mush- rooms, and truffe. St. Germain—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, served with pearls of chicken and pea quenelles, peas, lettuce, and chervil. St. Hubert—Grame consomme, white wine, garnished with venison and lentils royal cut shape of a cross, julienne of hare. Salvador—Light consomme served with dice of tomatoes and chervil. Santos Dumont—Consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with cone-shaped carrot, turnip, and truffe, French beans. Sarah Bernhardt—Rich consomme, lie tapioca, gar- nished with fancy chicken and crayfish quenelles, julienne of truffe, pointes, beef marrow on toast. Savarin—Beef consomme, garnished with chicken and onion quenelles, dice of sweetbread. Saxon—Beef consomme, served with julienne of ham, tongue, sauerkraut, croutons. Saxonne—Consomme served with pink and green quenelles. Selianka—Beef consomme, served with julienne of ham, sauerkraut, fennel, and chervil. Sevigne I.—Chicken consomme, lie tapioca, garnished with shredded lettuce, chicken quenelles, and pointes. Sevigne II.—Chicken consomme, served with chicken quenelles, braised farced lettuce, peas, chervil.65 Consommes. Solferino—Light consomme, garnished with pearls of carrots, turnips, and potatoes. Soubrette—Chicken consomme, tomato flavour, lie tapioca, garnished with rings of chicken and truffe farce, crayfish tails. Souveraine—Consomme garnished with pearls of chicken quenelles, brunoise roots, peas, chervil, Stschy—Beef and duck consomme, beetroot flavour and colour, served with dice of beef, duck, button onions, sauerkraut; sour cream separate. Suedois—Beef consomme, served with croutes masked with braised brunoise roots blended with yolks, cheese over, and gratines. Talma—Chicken consomme, served with almond milk royal, rice. Tassamana—Curried consomme, served with Indian corn royal cut fancy shape. Teheran—Curried chicken consomme, served with curried chicken quenelles, royal, rice. Theodora—Chicken consomme, served with cubes of chicken, truffe, royal, asparagus pointes. Tivoli—Beef consomme, lie semolina, served with Italian raviole; gratines separate. Tortue clair—Clear turtle soup, made with beef, veal, calf’s feet, turtle, and aromatic herbs, wine, lie arrowroot, sherry, cayenne, served with trimmed turtle meat. Tosca—Consomme, lie tapioca, served with dice of chicken quenelles, truffe, carrots, and profiterolles. Toscana—Beef consomme, served with dice of tomatoes, julienne of mushrooms, aubergine, macaroni. F66 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Trevise—Consomme, lie tapioca, served with a julienne of truffe and tongue. Trianon—Consomme garnished with cubes of cucum- ber, tomatoes, and chicken, chervil. Troisfilets—Consomme with long strips of chicken, tongue, and truffe. Tzarina—Chicken consomme, coriander seed and fennel flavour, served with dice of vesiga and fennel. Valdis—Beef consomme, served with dice of tomatoes and cheese croutes. Palencienne I.—Consomme, lie semolina, lettuce, sorrel, chervil, Valencienne II.—Consomme with quenelles, rice, lettuce, and chervil. Valetta—Chicken consomme, served with tine julienne of tangerine rind, blanched ; skinned quarters of tangerine separate. Vatel I.—Back consomme, lie tapioca, served with chicken and truffe quenelles, olive shape, tarra- gon, and chervil. Vatel II.—Fish consomme, served with crayfish, croutes royal, dice of fillets of sole. Veneur—Consomme served with shredded lettuce, tarragon, and chervil. Venitienne—Rich consomme, tarragon, chervil, and basil flavour, served with small round gniocchis, rice. Veron—Beef consomme, marsala flavour, served with green royal, cubes of truffe, and pimentoes. Vert pre — Consomme, lie tapioca, served with asparagus pointes, sorrel, tarragon, and chervil.Consommes. 67 Vesiga—Rich consomme, served with dice of vesiga (which should be well soaked and simmered till cooked). Victor Emmanuel—Consomme served with dice of tomatoes, macaroni, royal cut crown shape; cheese separate. Victoria—Consomme, lie tapioca, served with peas, julienne of chicken, truffe, chervil. Viennoise—Beef consomme, paprika, served with strips of cheese pancakes and gniocchi. Villageois—Consomme served with julienne of leeks, Italian paste. Villageoise—Consomme served with croute-au-pot roots and macaroni. Villeneuve—Chicken consomme, served with squares of royal, squares of farced lettuce, and farced pancakes in cubes. Viveurs—Chicken consomme, beetroot flavour and colour, julienne of celery, and cheese croutons. Vivianne—Chicken consomme, served with perles du nizam, cubes of chicken. Westmoreland—Rich consomme, sherry flavour, lie arrowroot, served with dice of calf’s head, truffe, chicken quenelles, and gherkins. White House—Rich consomme, sherry flavour lie tapioca, served with peas and rice. Windsor—Rich consomme, turtle herbs flavour, and sherry, julienne of calf’s feet, and quenelles. Xavier I.—Consomme, lie arrowroot, marsala, served with threaded cheese pancake mixture. Xavier II.—Chicken consomme, served with chicken and rice royal, peas, chervil.Nie New Practical Cookery Guide. 68 CONSOMME FROID (or Glace), COLD CONSOMME. Cold consomme is served, with little or no garnish, in a liquid form, in special cups or glasses. A Vessence de caille—Quail flavoured, and fine julienne of quails. A Vessence de celeri—Celery flavoured, fine julienne of celery. An vin—Consomme wine flavoured. En cjelee—Consomme in liquid jelly form. Madrilenne—Tomato flavour and colour, finely shredded pimentoes. Nansen — Russian vodka flavour; caviar croutes separate. Portucjaise—Tomato coloured, chervil. Theresa—Pimento and chervil flavoured, in special glasses, with pearls of quenelles. Togo—Chicken consomme, lightly curried, tarragon flavour, served with dice of crosnes royal. Tortue a la Sir James—Light turtle soup, cognac and sherry flavour, in special glasses. VELOUTE, PUREE, CREAMS. Veloute forms one of the principal foundations in the great variety of thick soups. It is composed of rich white stock of chicken, veal, or fish, thickened with a roux made of equal quantities of fresh butter and flour. The thickening may also be done with arrowroot, creme de riz, or creme d’orge. In making a chicken veloute (par excellence) the whole69 Veloute, Puree, Creams. chickens are cooked in it. When done, boned, the meat pounded with a little cream, and added to the veloute before the final straining, and chicken stock is added to obtain the necessary consistency, if required, finished with about two yolks of eggs and a gill of cream to every quart of soup, and served with garnish according to name. For fish veloute a well- flavoured fish stock is used, and finished as chicken veloute ; for shell-fish veloute, or bisque, the shell- fish is' cracked and braised, or sauteed with a mirpoix, flavouring herbs, and vegetables, cognac and white wine ; when done, pounded and reheated in the veloute, and finished in the usual way. For vegetable veloute half milk and half stock is advisable. The vegetables used should first be partly blanched or braised, according to the nature of them, then added to the simmering veloute till done, strained, and finished with the usual liaison or fresh butter. Purees.—The principal foundations of purees are •vegetables, chicken, game, etc. Vegetable purees are thickened by their own farinaceous elements, blended with either milk or stock, and finished with fresh butter ; cream is added in special cases. In cases of non-farinaceous vegetables, potatoes are used, in proportionate quantity, as thickening agent to pro- duce the necessary consistency. For puree of chicken, or other such white soups, rice is cooked with it, the chicken, or what is used, pounded together, reheated, and strained, and more stock added, if necessary; finished lastly with fresh butter and cream. In making puree of game, lentils or haricots are70 The New Practical Cookery Guide. cooked in the game stock, the game used having been previously partly roasted or braised. The whole, when done, is pounded, reheated, and strained ; wine should be added, sherry or marsala, claret or port. For fish soups or purees the old process of thicken- ing (panade), which is French bread broken in pieces and simmered in milk to a smooth paste, is now often substituted by a roux or fish veloute. In either case a proportionate quantity of the fillet of fish should be reserved in the raw state first, pounded with a little cream, and added to the soup a few minutes before the final straining, finished with cream lastly. Creams.—Creams differ from the veloute by the V fact that stock is substituted for milk, or partly so, according to the constituents of the soup prepared, and thickened bv the addition of bechamel sauce, finished with cream. A great number of auxiliaries, soups, or potages, are made by the combination of the different elements mentioned, and with careful blending of two or more purees, or creams, etc., an endless variety of delicious soups are obtained. In all cases the point is to follow the technical nature of each element used, and to combine them accordingly with care and clehcacy of taste. Herewith are over four hundred varieties of selected thick soups. The garnish is described on a standard scale, and should be added sparingly, as thick soups require less than consomme ; croutons (sippets), in most cases, are served separate.71 Veloute, Puree, Creams. Africaine—Cream of rice and chicken, served witli small dice of artichoke fonds and aubergine. Agnes sorrel—Chicken veloute, with puree of mush- room, served with julienne of mushrooms, calf’s tongue, and chicken. Albion—Thick giblet soup, served with pearls of carrots, turnip, peas. Algerienne I.—Cream of Jerusalem artichokes and artichoke fonds, served with dice of fonds. Algerienne II.—Puree of sweet potatoes, filbert flavour, lie with filbert butter. Alsacienne—Puree of potatoes, leeks, cabbage, and turnips, served with croutons. Amazone—Cream of alligator pears and veloute of celerv mixed, croutons. Ambassadeur—Puree of green peas, sorrel, and lettuce, served with rice and shredded lettuce. Americaine—Puree of tomatoes and lobster bisque mixed, lie tapicoa, served with dice of lobster. Andalouse I.—Tomato soup, with vermicelli. Andalouse II.—Cream of rice, with tomato soup, tapioca. Andalouse III.—Tomato soup and soubise mixed, served with rice, dice of tomatoes, and pimentoes. Ardenais—Puree of game and lentils, juniper berry flavour, cream added lastly, fine julienne of game. Argentes—Parmentier mixed with tapioca, cooked in consomme. Agenteuil—Veloute of asparagus, served with asparagus pointes.72 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Argentine—Veloute of veal, cocoanut flavour, lie tapioca. Armenouville—Puree of green peas, lie tapioca, served with brunoise roots. Artois—Saint Germain, served with rice. Aurore—Puree of tomatoes and chicken veloute, julienne of chicken. Auvergnate—Puree of lentils, potatoes, leeks, onions, and herbes, garlic flavour, a piece of pickled pork cooked in the soup, finish with butter, served with croutons. Bagratim—Veloute of veal, finished with yolks and cream, served with cubes of macaroni, sometimes farced; cheese apart. Bagration (maigre)—Fish veloute, mushroom flavour, served with fish and lobster quenelles, julienne of soles. Balmoral—Calf’s feet veloute, turtle herb flavour, served with julienne of calf’s feet. Balsac—Creme d’orge and puree of celeri, served with julienne of celery and leeks. Balvais—Puree of green peas and sorrel, served with paysanne roots. Bar on Korsch—Veloute, with puree of quails, served with dice of celery. Baufort—Light game soup, served with julienne of game and sliced small sausages, finished with cream. Bavi'ere—Puree of lentils, served with sliced smoked sausages. Beauharnais—Cream of barley, blended with crayfish butter, served with quenelles.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 73 Beige—Puree of sprouts, finished with yolks and cream. Berci—Cream of turnips, served with croutons. Biersuppe—German beer, thickened with a white roux, lightly sweetened, cinnamon flavour, finished with yolks and cream, toasted croutons. Bisque de Homard—Chopped raw lobsters, sauteed with a fine mirpoix for ten or fifteen minutes, add salt, fresh ground pepper, cognac, and white wine, cover and simmer five minutes, moisten with sufficient stock, add blanched rice to thicken; when done, it is pounded and tammied, then reheated, diluted if too thick, and finished with lemon, cream, served with dice of lobster. Bisque normande—Made with prawns or pink shrimps finished as above, and served with blanched oysters. Bisque russe—A lobster bisque, with addition of sturgeon and red mullets. Bloum—Puree of white vegetables, finished with volks and cream, served with chervil and croutons. Boieldieu—Chicken veloute, served with pearls of chicken, foie gras, truffes, and quenelles. Bonne femme—Cream of lettuce, potatoes, cucumbers, leeks, served with shredded sorrel and croutons. Bonvalet—Puree of potatoes, turnips, leeks, and haricot beans, served with dice of French beans, peas, royal, Borely—Cream of whiting and fish veloute, served with fish quenelles and small mussels.74 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Boronia—Puree of tomatoes, aubergines, pumpkins, served with fine strips of pimentoes. Botzaris—Puree of peas and mutton stock, garnished with brunoise roots and dice of lean mutton, rice. Bourdalone—Veloute of chicken and cream of rice, served with cubes of four different-coloured royal; grated cheese apart. Brabanqon—Cream of chicory (endive beige) and vegetable veloute, served with croutons. Bresilienne I.—Veloute of chicken and pounded Brazil nuts and celery, finished with cream and yolks. Bresilienne II.—Puree of yams (sweet potato) and milk, finished with cream, served with perles du nizam. Bresilienne III.—Puree of red haricots, served with fine paysanne roots and rice. Bressane—Puree of pumpkin, with Italian jmste. Bretonne I.—Puree of haricot beans (white), served with julienne of celery and leeks. Bretonne II.—Cream of leeks, onions, white haricots, and tomatoes, veloute, julienne of leeks and mushrooms. Bruxellois—Puree of brussels sprouts, served with croutons. Cabrillan — Puree of tomatoes, garnished with vermicelli and small chicken quenelles. Calabrais—Puree of haricot beans and sorrel, rice garnish. Cambaceres—Ecrevisses (crayfish veloute) and pigeon veloute, garnished with pigeon quenelles and crayfish quenelles.75 Veloute, Puree, Oreams. Camelia—Puree of green peas and tapioca cooked in equal quantity of chicken consomme, garnished with fine julienne of chicken and leeks. Campbell—Sole veloute, lightly curried, garnished with julienne of fillets of soles. Cancalais—Veloute of fish, garnished with fish quenelles and oysters. Capri—Game soup, quail flavour, garnished with julienne of quails. Capucine—Cream of spinach and chicken veloute, served with profiterolles farced with chicken farce. Cardinal—Veloute of fish, finished with lobster butter, and garnished with lobster royal cut cross shape. Carmelite—Veloute of fish (sole and whiting), garnished with smelts quenelles. Carmen—Veloute of chicken and cream of rice and tomato puree mixed, garnished with rice and dice of tomatoes. Catherine—Veloute of fish, mixed with puree of shrimps, finished with cream, garnished with green peas. Ceres—Cream of green wheat, finished with cream and chervil. Champenin—Parmentier, served with chervil and croutons. Champenois — Parmentier and puree of celeriac, garnished with dice of carrots and celery. Chanoinesse—Veloute of fish, finished with lobster or crayfish butter, garnished with sliced soft roe.76 The New Practical Cookery Guide. croutons. Chantilly I.—Puree of green peas and cream o lettuce, finished with cream, garnished with rice and croutons. Chantilly II.—Puree of lentils, finished with double cream, croutons. Charlotte—Puree of leeks, watercress, and potatoes, croutons. Chartreuse I.—Veloute of chicken, served with ravioles. Chartreuse II.—Cream of cauliflower and tapioca. Chatelaine I.—Veloute with onions and potatoes, served with peas and chicken quenelles. Chatelaine II.—Puree of peas, and veloute with onions, chervil. Chdtillon Plessis—Cream of chicken and semolina, served with dice of French beans, peas, and chervil. Chdtrillon—Puree of tomatoes and veloute, served with vermicelli. Chesterfield—Veloute of calf’s tail, pieces of tail as garnish. Chevreuse—Veloute of chicken, chervil flavour, semolina, garnished with fine strips of chicken and truffe. Chevriere—Parmentier with leeks, sorrel, lettuce, and chervil, served with slices of new potatoes sauteed in butter. Chicago—Bisque of lobster and tomato puree, served with dice of tomatoes and perles du nizam. Chicoree- -Cream of endives and rice, served withVeloute, Puree, Creams. 77 Choiseul—Puree of lentils and game, shredded lettuce and rice. Choisy—Cream of lettuce and potatoes, served with croutons. Claire fontaine—Cream of watercress and veloute, croutons. Clamart—Puree of green peas, served with peas and croutons. Clementine—Veloute of chicken, served with royal. Clermont—Puree of white haricots, croutons. Clothilde—Puree of chestnuts, finished with cream, served with cubes of parsnips; cheese apart. Colombine—Cream of pigeon and veloute, garnished with pigeon quenelles and julienne of pigeon fillets. Compiegne—Puree of white haricots, served with shredded lettuce and chervil. Comtesse I.—Cream of asparagus and chicken veloute, served with asparagus pointes and shredded lettuce. Comtesse II.—Puree of green peas and asparagus, served with asparagus pointes. Conde—Puree of red haricots, claret, butter, and croutons. Conti — Puree of lentils, finished with butter, croutons. Coquelin—Veloute of calf’s head, finished with cream, garnished with pearls of carrots and julienne of calf’s head. Cormeille—Puree of French beans and potatoes, finished with milk, garnished with lozenges of French beans.78 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Corneille—Cream of lettuce, mixed with light tapioca, cooked in chicken consonmw / Cote d'azur.—Tomato soup, made with chicken stock, finished with cream, and served with croutons. Coulis—Rich bisque of crayfish, treated and finishep as such. Crecy—Puree of carrots, thickened with rice or creme de riz, finished with fresh butter, croutons. Cressonniere—Cream of watercress and potatoes, finished with yolks and cream, garnished with shredded watercress. Cretois—Cream of vegetable marrow and cucumbers, finished with little tomato puree, served with croutees gratinees. Cumberland—Light oxtail soup, garnished with printanier roots and royal. Cussy—Puree of game, garnished with chestnut royal and fine julienne of truffle and partridges. Czar—Puree of gelinotte and chestnut, garnished with foie gras and chestnut quenelles. Dame blanche—Veloute of chicken, almond milk flavour, garnished with chicken quenelles and dice of chicken. Danoise I.—Puree of duck, mixed with puree of artichokes, marsala wine, garnished with julienne of mushroom and duck quenelles. Danoise II.—Veloute of chicken and cucumber puree, garnished with dice of chicken and cucumber. Darblay—Parmentier, with julienne.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 79 Partois—Puree of white haricots, veloute, and julienne. Dauphme—Puree of peas and tomatoes, julienne of ham. D'avoine—Cream of oatmeal and veloute, croutons. Demidoff—Puree of plovers, port, finished with cream, served with cubes of foie gras royal. P'eperlans.—Cream of smelts and fish veloute, croutons. P'eperlans a la Joinville—Finished with crayfish butter. P'eperlans d la Lucullus—With smelts, truffed quenelles. P'eperlans d la Princesse—With fish quenelles and pointes. Peril/—Chicken and rice veloute, curried, onion flavour, served with pearls of chicken, foie gras, and truffe, rice. Plane — Puree of game, served with partridge quenelles. Pieppoise—Fish veloute, mussel flavour, mussel quenelles. Pivette—Smelt veloute, and lobster or crayfish butter, served with fish quenelles and dice of lobster. Dodds—Veloute of chicken and tomato puree, served with pearls of carrots, turnips, rice. Polgoruki—Puree of chicken and soubise, ham flavour, diluted with chicken stock, finished Douglas—Light calf’s head veloute, turtle herbs flavour, game quenelles. Doyen—Puree of peas and chicken veloute, served with pearls of chicken quenelles, and green peas.80 The New Practical Coolcery Guide. with yolks and ci'eam, served with dice of ham and chicken. Dubarry I.—Puree of cauliflower, and potatoes to thicken, finished with cream, served with croutons. Dubarry II.—Cream of cauliflower and bechamel, diluted, croutons. Dubarry III.—Veloute of chicken, with puree of cauliflower, etc., and small pieces of cauliflower as garnish. Dubelley —Cream of lettuce, lie tapioca, cream. Duchesse I.—Veal and chicken veloute, served with asparagus, pointes, and strips of truffe. Duchesse II.—Cream parmentier, lie yolks, and cream. Dunkerque—Puree of cauliflowers, potatoes, and leeks, lie fine sago, finished with cream, served with croutons. Ecossais I.—Cream of chicken, served with pearl barley and brunoise roots. Ecossais II.—Puree of grouse, served with julienne of grouse. Ecrevisse—Bisque or veloute of crayfish. Egyptienne I.—Puree of Egyptian lentils, cream, and croutons. Egyptienne II.—Cream of rice, onions, and leeks, diluted with light consomme and cream. Eliza—Veloute of chicken, shredded sorrel, and chervil. Erbssuppe—Puree of yellow split peas and pig’s head, served with julienne pig’s ears and croutons.81 Veloute, Puree, Creams. Esaii—Puree of grey lentils, served with a few lentils. Ester el—Puree of white haricots and pumpkin, vermicelli. Excelsior—Veloute of asparagus and creme d’orge, served with pearl barley. Faisan—Puree of pheasant, or veloute of pheasant. Fanchette—Cream of asparagus and chicken veloute, served with rounds of fines herbes quenelles and shredded lettuce. Faubonne I.—Puree of white haricots and brunoise roots, chervil. Faubonne II.—Green pea soup, with cream of julienne roots. Favorite—Cream of asparagus and lettuce, and chicken veloute, served with asparagus pointes and shredded lettuce. Fischbeuschisuppe—Pish veloute, carp flavour, hock served with julienne roots, carp’s roe, and croutons. Flamande—Puree of potatoes and sprouts, served with small sprouts and croutons. Florentine—Cream of spinach, cream, croutons. Fontange—Cream of green peas, yolks and cream, sorrel. Freneuse —Puree of turnips, cream, pearl of turnips. Friar Tuck—Cock-a-leekie soup, with shredded chicken. Ganslsuppe—Is a light goose giblet soup, thickened with white roux, garnished with pieces of giblet and quenelles. Garbure—Puree of vegetables, served with cheese croutons; other potage garbure are prepared G82 The New Practical Cookery Guide. with one or more vegetables, according to name given. Gascogne—Puree of potatoes, with cheese, lie yolks and cream, and garnished with ravioles con- taining puree of cabbage and cheese Gasconne—Puree of onions and tomatoes, garlic flavour, made with goose grease, finished with consomme, and garnished with dice of goose. Genin—Puree of carrots, leeks, flageolets, celery, onions, flavoured with mushrooms and little tomato puree, finished with fresh butter, and garnished with shredded sorrel and chervil. Gentilhomme—Puree of partridge or pheasant, with German lentils, garnished with small truffled game quenelles. George V.—Puree of mushrooms and chicken veloute, finished with cravfish croutes, served with chicken and truffe royal cut crown shape. Georgette—Puree of carrots and tomatoes and artichoke foncls, garnished with perles du nizam. Germnal—Veloute, tarragon flavour, and fines herbes, lie cream, garnished with asparagus pointes. Germiny—Cream of sorrel, lie with yolks, cream, and butter, garnished with shredded sorrel and chervil. Gervaise—Puree of green peas and asparagus, finished with cream, garnished with peas. Gosford—Cream of asparagus and tapioca. Grand manoir—Parmentier with cream, garnished with potato quenelles, peas, and shredded watercress.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 83 Grecque—Puree of peas made with mutton stock, highly seasoned, garnished with j)eas and dice of carrots and parsnips and lean mutton. Gulgas suppe—Dice of onions and lean beef saute, seasoned with paprika, cumin, and marjoram, blended with flour, diluted with consomme, dice of potatoes, soupcon of kiimmel and garlic, served with croutons. Hare soup—Puree de lievre. Hoteliere—Puree of red haricots, lentils, and potatoes, finished with cream and chervil. Hugo—Palestine soup with tapioca. Huitres—Oyster soup. Imperatore—Puree of pheasant, served with foie gras and pheasant quenelles, royal. Imperiale—Cream of rice and tapioca, julienne of truffe Indienne—Curried veloute of chicken, cocoanut milk and cream, served with dice of chicken and rice. Irlandais—Chicken veloute, with puree of vegetables and cream. Irmas—Veloute of chicken, lie cream and yolks, served with curried chicken quenelles and asparagus pointes. Isoline—Chicken veloute and crayfish butter, perles. Istrienne—Puree of chestnut, tomatoes, and pome- granate, served with tomato royal. Jackson I.—Puree of potatoes and flageolets, lie tapioca, served with julienne of leeks. Jackson II.—Cream parmentier and light consomme, lie cream and yolks, served with julienne of leeks.84 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Jacquelin—Rich fish veloute, lie cream and yolks, served with dice of carrots, peas, rice. Jainbalaya—Cream of rice and tomatoes, Spanish onions, served with julienne of chicken. Japonnaise—Puree of Japanese chokes, crosnes, and okras, and chicken veloute, finished with cream and perles du Japon. Jeanin—Puree of white haricots, carrots, and leeks, croutons. Jeannette—Cream of salsify and veloute; cream, sorrel, and chervil. Jenny Lind—Veloute of chicken with tapioca and cream. Juanita—Cream of rice, tomatoes, and morilles, cream, served with julienne of morilles sauteed. Jubilee—Puree of green peas and julienne mixed. Judic—Cream of lettuce and veloute, served with farced lettuce, sliced, and julienne of truffe. Jussienne—Puree of chicken and veloute, peas, creamed, julienne of chicken garnish. Kalamazoo—Cream of rice and veloute, with puree of carrots, beetroot, celery, and herbes, creamed, rice. Klidki—Puree of grey lentils, creamed, croutons. Krapiwa—Cream of sorrel and garden nettles, creamed, and served with croutons. Krupnick—Cream of barley, fennel flavour, and chicken veloute, served with dice of chicken, fennel, and parsley. Lamballe—Puree of green peas and large sago. Languedocien—St Germain and julienne mixed, sorrel.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 85 L'aurore—Puree of tomatoes and chicken veloute. Lavalliere—Puree of celery and chicken veloute, served with celery royal, profiterolles. Ledoyen—Puree of flageolets and veloute, tapioca chervil. Legume—Puree of vegetables. Lejeune—Cream of chicken, salsify, and sago. Leopold—Cream of sorrel and semolina, creamed, served with shredded lettuce and chervil. Liegeois—Puree of plovers, brown bread panade, and rice, julienne of plovers, brown bread croutons. Lisette—Cream of celery, served with julienne of t ruffe. Lison — Cream of rice and puree of celery, perles du nizam. Lithunien—Parmentier, with shredded celeriac and sorrel, lean dice of fried bacon, and fried yolks of eggs separate. Livonien I.—Cream of spinach and sorrel, with onions, chervil Livonien II.—Cream of green vegetables, creamed, rice. Long champ—Puree of peas, served with vermicelli and shredded sorrel. Longueville—Puree of peas and sorrel, served with macaroni. Lord Marcus—Rich veal veloute, creamed, served with dice of cucumber, peas, and chervil. Lorette—Parmentier, with cream of celery, corn salad, served with julienne of celery and truffe.86 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Lucullus—Cream of chicken, lie yolks and cream, served with chicken and truffe quenelles, cock’s comb, and kidneys. Macdonald—Puree of chicken, calf’s sweetbread, and soubise, slightly curried, served with dice of cucumber. Madeleine I.—Puree of white haricots and tomatoes, served with julienne of leeks and carrots. Madeleine II.—Puree of artichokes and white haricots and soubise, served with sago. Madrilenne—Puree of Garbanzos peas, creamed, and served with shredded pimentoes and sliced Chorizo sausage. Malakoff—Puree of potato and tomato, shredded spinach. Mancelle—Puree of chestnut and game, fillets of game garnish. Maraichere—Puree of peas, soubise, and veloute, strips of nouille. Marccilly—Chicken veloute and pure'e of peas, served with small quenelles and perles du nizam. Marechale—Cream of chicken, creamed, served with asparagus pointes, dice of chicken, and truffe. Maria—Puree of white haricots, creamed, and served with cubes of carrots and turnips, chervil. Marianne—Cream of pumpkin, sorrel, and par- mentier, served with cheese croutons. Marie Louise I.—Veloute of chicken and cream of barlev, served with cubes of macaroni. Marie Louise II.—Cream of chicken and tapioca, served with asparagus pointes.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 87 Marie Stuart I.—Veloute of chicken and creme d’orge, served with pearl barley and brunoise roots. Marie Stuart II.—Cream of chicken, served with peas, pearls of carrots. Marigny—Puree of green peas, served with peas dice of French beans, and chervil. Marquise—Cream of chicken, shredded lettuce and peas. Martha—Puree of onions and veloute of chicken, creamed, served with quenelles, peas, and chervil. Massena I.— Puree of pheasant, served with chestnut royal. Massena JJ.—Veloute of chicken and sorrel, served with quenelles and chervil. Mathilda—Cream of cucumber and veloute, served with rice and dice of cucumber. Mathurin—Fish veloute and puree of soles, served with sole quenelles. Medicis I.—Puree of peas and puree of carrots, shredded sorrel. Medicis II. — Bisque and veloute, served with quenelles. Medicis III.—Game soup and tomato soup, served with quenelles and macaroni. Mehl suppe—Milk onion soup, cumin flavour. Mercedes—Puree of artichokes and chicken veloute, served with artichoke and chicken roval, cock’s comb. Messonier—Puree of onions and mutton stock, dice of mutton. Meuse—Bisque of crayfish (ecrevisses de la Meuse).88 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mikado—Puree of crosnes (Japanese chokes), perles of Japan. Milanaise—Veloute of chicken ‘and tomato soup, served with macaroni, julienne of tongue, truffle, and chicken. Mille fanti — White breadcrumbs, sauteed with butter, moistened and cooked with chicken con- somme, finished with cream, yolks, and cheese. Miss Betsy—Curried veloute and tomato puree, served with asparagus pointes and peas. Mitonnee—French white bread, cooked in light stock, finished with cream. Modena—Cream of spinach, creamed, served with croutons. Mogador—Puree of chicken and foie gras, served with julienne of chicken and truffe. Monaco—Milk soup, lie with cream and yolks, croutons. Monte Cristo—Chicken and veal veloute and puree of artichokes, served with cubes of quenelles and capsicum. Montesyan—Cream of asparagus and tapioca, peas. Montesquieux—Cream of cucumber and mushroom veloute, served with dice of cucumber. Montglas—Cream of chicken, julienne of mushroom, and truffle. Montmorency—Cream of chicken and Parmesan, served with vermicelli and shredded lettuce. Montorgeuil—Chicken veloute and printanier roots, chervil. Montpensier—Puree of cauliflower and cream of rice, croutons.89 Veloute, Puree, Creams. Morgan—Veloute of chicken and cream of rice, served with chicken royal and cock’s comb. Mozart — Puree of French beans, served with croutons. Mulligatawny—Curried cream of chicken, served with dice of chicken, rice. Mulligatawny a la Dehnonico—As above, served with dice of aubergine and bearded oysters. Murillo—Tomato soup, made with fish stock, fish quenelles. Mussart—Puree of flageolets, served with flageolets and chervil. Nantua — Cream bisque of lobster or crayfish, served with dice of truffe and lobster or cray- fish. Navarin—Puree of green peas and cream of lettuce, served with peas and parsley. Nelusko—Cream of chicken, filbert flavour, served with chicken and filbert quenelles. Nemours—Parmentier and tapioca, lie yolks and cream. Nemrod—Light game soup, served with farced profiterolles. Nesselrode—Puree of woodcock and chestnut, served with chestnut and woodcock quenelles. Nimoise—Crea,m of haricot beans, with fine sago. Nissarde—Cream of vegetable marrow, lie tapioca. Nivernais — Cream of carrots, with julienne of carrots. Normande—Puree of potatoes, leeks, turnips, white haricots made with milk, creamed, served with chervil.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 90 Norvegienne—Cream of celeriac, creamed, served with fine julienne of beetroot. O'Connor—Cream of chicken, with julienne of leeks and chicken. Okra—Puree of tomatoes and gombos. Or eye—Cream of barley soup, creme cl’orge. Originate—Cream of pumpkin and rice, leeks, fines herbes, creamed, and served with croutons. Orleans—Veloute of chicken, creamed, and served with imitation of fleur de lys quenelles, white, pink, and green. Orties—Cream of garden nettles and potatoes, lie cream and yolks, served with croutons. Ostendais—Cream of oyster and fish veloute, served with oysters. Oukrop—Puree of onions and milk, lie croutons. Palestine—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes, creamed, croutons. Paquita—Puree of peas, served with dice of tomatoes and perles du nizam. Parisien—Veloute of veal, lie yolks and cream, served with paysanne of leeks and potatoes sauteed. Parmentier—Puree of potatoes and leeks, creamed, croutons. Patti—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes, creamed, rice. Pavilion—Puree of watercress and crosnes and chicken veloute, lie yolks and cream, dice of celery, and carrots. Paysanne—Puree of vegetables, served with croutons. Petit Due—Puree of woodcock, ham flavour, cognac, and puree of foie gras, served with woodcock quenelles.91 Veloute, Puree, Creams. Pierre le Grand I.—Puree of celery and carrots, creamed, croutons. Pierre le Grand II.—Puree of hazel hen and mushrooms, served with julienne of celery and carrots. Pisto—Brunoise roots, with addition of potatoes, cooked in light consomme, basil flavour, blanched dice of streaky bacon, dice of tomatoes, French beans, peas, thickened with pounded fat bacon, a little garlic, and grated cheese, served with fine vermicelli. Pois vert—Puree of green peas. Polonais—Puree of green split peas, leeks, and onions, pickled pork flavour, served with shredded celery and beetroot. Pomeranien—Puree of butter beans creamed, croutons. Pommerische suppe—Puree of potatoes, goose flavour, served with julienne of ham, carrots, rice. Pompadour—Puree of lentils and tapioca. Porto Pico—Puree of tomatoes, okras, banana, and cocoanut, served with croutons. Portugais—Puree of tomatoes and rice, highly seasoned, served with rice. Potage vierge—White cooked chicken meat, pounded with a few sweet almonds, diluted with chicken consomme, strained, and finished with cream, served with croutons. Potiron—Puree of pumpkin, lie yolks and cream, croutons. Poupard—Bisque and veloute of chicken, creamed, served with quenelles and truffe.92 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Pourpier—Cream of pourpier (purslain) and chicken veloute, lie cream and yolks. Prince cle Galles—Veloute of calf’s head and veal, veal quenelles. Princesse—Cream of chicken, served with pointes. Puree de tomate d Vltalienne — Tomato soup, served with cubes of spaghetti, tongue, and truffe. Quebec—Puree of white haricots, finished with milk and cream, served with fine julienne of vegetables. Queue de boeuf—Thick oxtail soup (brown). Queue de veau—Calf’s tail soup (white). See Chesterfield. Rabelais—G-ame soup with chablis, served with game quenelles and julienne of celery. Rachel—Veloute of calf’s head, garnished with strips of calf’s head. Raphael—Veloute of chicken and celery, served with dice of celery. Regence—Creme d’orge and chicken veloute, creamed, served with chicken and crayfish quenelles, pearl barley, and sliced cock’s kidneys. Reine — Puree of chicken and rice, creamed, served with chicken quenelles and julienne of chicken. Reine Hortense—Cream of lettuce and artichokes and veloute of chicken, served with shredded lettuce and dice of fonds. Reine Margot—Cream of chicken and almond, milk flavour, served with chicken and pistachios, quenelles.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 93 Peine Wilhelvi—Creme cle riz and chicken veloute, creamed, and served with pink and white royal cut star shape, and small watercress leaves. Rejane—Chicken veloute and filberts, served with small poached yolks of eggs. Reunion—Fish veloute, lie lobster butter, oyster garnish. Rigolette—Puree of green peas, with braised shredded spinach and croutons. Romeo—Puree of potatoes, onions, and chervil, served with shredded lettuce, chervil, and tarragon. o Rossahiick—Puree of cucumber and chicken veloute, fennel, celery, lie yolk and cream, served with dice of celery, cucumber, and parsley roots. Rouennaise—Puree of Rouen duck and lentils, lie claret, and pounded duck’s liver, served with julienne of duck. Royan—Puree of plovers, served with game croutes and poached plover’s eggs. Russe I.—Bisque of lobster and tomatoes, lobster quenelle garnish. R usse II.—Puree of chicken and bisque of lobster mixed. Sagamita—Puree of Indian corn, creamed, croutons. St. Cloud—Puree of French beans and chicken veloute, served with shredded lettuce. St. Germain—Puree of green peas, creamed, served with peas. St. Hubert—Game soup, with venison, chestnut, and lentils, red wine, creamed, julienne of truffe.94 The New Practical Cookery Guide. St. Louis—Puree of white vegetables and mais (sweet corn), creamed, and served with julienne of carrots. St. Margeau—Puree of peas and leeks, julienne of leeks. St. Martin—Parmentier and puree of lentils mixed, creamed, and served with croutons. Savte—Cream of sorrel and parmentier, creamed, served with shredded sorrel and chervil. Sardaigne—Tomato soup, highly flavoured, served with strips of nouille, chervil, and parsley. Savoyarde—Puree of celery, leeks, turnips, served with croutons. Schweinsohrensuppe—Puree of yellow split peas, served with julienne of pig’s ears. Sevigne I.—Cream of chicken, lie yolks and cream, served with shredded lettuce. Sevigne II.—As above, served with julienne of chicken, mushrooms, and pointes. Sicilienne—Fish veloute with cream of frog’s legs, creamed, and finished with pistachios butter. Sidney—Brown kidney soup, sherry and cayenne, served with dice of stewed kidneys. Sigurd—Puree of potatoes and tomato soup mixed, lie cream and butter. Soissonnaise — Puree of Soisson beans, creamed, chervil. Solferino — Puree of tomatoes, leeks, potatoes, creamed, served with y>earls of potatoes, carrots, and peas. Spa—Puree of yellow split jDeas and tomato soup mixed, served with peas and rice.Veloute, Puree, Creams. 95 Sport I.—Cream of sorrel and creme de riz mixed, lie yolks and cream. Sport II.—As Sante, add vermicelli. Stamboul—Cream of rice and puree of tomatoes, croutons. Steward—Puree of partridge and lentils, partridge quenelles. Stslii—Dice of onions, cabbage and leeks sauteed, cooked in consomme with dice of beef and duck, lie with roux ; sour cream separate. Sultane—Cream of chicken, lie cream and pistachios butter, served with quenelles and truffles. Suzon—Creamed green pea soup, served with poached eggs. Tassamena—Puree of sweet Indian corn. Thourino—Soupe a l’oignon (onion soup), made with milk and lie yolks and cream, croutons. Tortue—Thick turtle soup. Tourangelle—Puree of French beans and flageolets, with veloute, served with dice of French beans and flageolets. Trazonere—Cream of salsify, creamed, croutons. Tschi—As Stshi. Turque—Creme de riz and tomatoes, saffron flavour, rice. Tyrolienne—Creme d’orge and veloute, pearl of carrots. Tzarina — Puree of gelinotte (hazel hen) and cream of celery, served with julienne of Valery—Puree of partridge, served with partridge quenelles and peas.96 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Valencienne—Cream of lettuce and sorrel, lie semo- lina, chervil. Valois—Puree of pheasant, served with peas and quenelles. Van-duzer—Puree of tomatoes and creme d’orge, served with pearl barley. Velds-leves—Veloute, with mushroom essence, puree of calf’s brain and parsley, served with small squares of thin toast. Velour—Cream of carrots and tapioca. Veloute de homard—Eich fish veloute, mixed with puree of lobster, finished with cream and lobster butter. Veloute rafraichit—Light chicken veloute, finished with cream, served cold. Venitienne—Puree of spinach and chicken veloute, croutons. Verneuil—St. Germain and creme d’orge mixed, garnished with dice of royal, julienne of carrots, and mushrooms. Vert pre — Cream of spinach, watercress, and chicken veloute, garnished with asparagus pointes. Vichy—Puree of carrots and light consomme, finished with cream, Yichy salt, garnished with peas of carrots. Victor Hugo—Cream of artichoke (Palestine), with light tapioca. Victoria—Equal quantity of Parmentier and Dubarrv, garnished with shredded lettuce and chervil. Villars—Puree of flageolets, onions, artichokes, and veloute, croutons.97 Veloute, Puree, Creams. Villemot—Puree of haricot beans (white), sorrel, finished with cream, garnished with chervil. Vintimille—Bisque of lobster, lie tapioca. Virginie—Puree of broad beans, finished with cream and yolks, croutons. Vivianne—Cream of chicken, lie with volks and cream, garnished with dice of fonds, carrots, and truffes. Voisin—Chicken veloute, lie cream, and printanier roots. Waldeze.—Tomato puree and chicken veloute, served with grated cheese separate. Washington—Lobster bisque, tomato soup, and tapioca soup in equal proportion. Westmorland—Tomato soup, flavoured with pickled pork and madeira, served with julienne of calf’s head, gherkins, truffes, and small quenelles. Wilhelmine—As Eeine Wilhelm. Windham—Puree of ma'is, rice, lie tapioca. Windsor—Light mock turtle soup, made with calf's feet, served with quenelles. Woronzow—Cream of foie gras and veloute, madeira, served with julienne of carrot and celery, and ravioles. Xavier—Puree of broad beans and creme de riz, served with dice of chicken. Zavir—Puree of watercress and veloute, served with small watercress leaves. Zingara—Cream of chicken, lie, three-coloured quenelles. H98 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Potages, or soupes, are a combination of clear and thick soups and vegetable soups, served under such name only; they are most wholesome. Soupe alienoise—Dilute a quantity of fresh mashed potatoes with boiling milk till consistency of thin sauce, salt, and nutmeg, and top leaves of mustard and cress (cresson alienois) ; simmer a few minutes, add pieces of fresh butter, mix, and serve. Soupe a Voignon—Thinly sliced onion, sauteed with butter till golden colour, flour added to thicken, cook a little longer, and add sufficient vegetable stock or water, seasoned, simmer fifteen minutes, and served with thin toasted French bread and grated cheese in tureen. Souye d Voseille—Shredded sorrel, sauteed with butter, and moistened with sufficient water, seasoned, simmer five minutes, mixed in tureen with a few yolks, and cream. Soupe alsacienne—Blanched and chopped sauer- kraut, sauteed with a little chopped onion, flour to thicken, and sufficient stock, seasoned, simmer till done, served with dice of potatoes (sauteed). Sougie ardenaise—Thinly sliced leeks, chicory, and potatoes, sauteed, and moistened with sufficient milk, seasoned, simmer till done, served with fresh butter, mixed, and croutons. Soupe auvergnate—Paysanne of carrot, turnip, leek, potato, and cabbage, cooked in pig’s head broth, and a few lentils, served with country bread 7 V croutons.Potages, etc. 99 Soupe beaucaire—Julienne of leeks, celery, white cabbage, sauteed, and moistened with sufficient light stock, seasoned, and served with julienne of blanched chicken’s liver and grated cheese. Soupe bonne femme—Thinly sliced leeks and pota- toes, sauteed, and moistened with sufficient milk, seasoned, finished with fresh butter, and served with croutons. Soupe dauphinoise—Sliced turnips, poratoes, and , vegetable marrow, sauteed, moistened with vegetable stock, seasoned, and simmer till done ; add vermicelli and chervil. Soupe de noce—Two pounds of rump steak, one pound of lean mutton, one pound of lean veal, and small fowl, simmered in four quarts of water, a handful of fresh paysanne roots, and a little blanched rice ; when nearly done add a pinch of saffron, remove the meat, and serve skimmed. Soupe fermiere—A paysanne of carrot, turnip, leek, onion, and little cabbage, sauteed with butter; add sufficient light stock or consomme, and simmer till done, serve with cream and a few haricot beans. Soupe flamande—Very small blanched sprouts and sliced potatoes, sauteed, moistened with light stock, simmer, and served with croutons. Soupe grandmere—Dice of onions, leeks, celery, white cabbage, potatoes, cooked in vegetable stock or water; five minutes before done add shredded lettuce, spinach, and sorrel, finish with cream, and serve with Italian paste. h 2100 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Soupe maicjre parisienne—Shredded French lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, sauteed in butter for five minutes, moistened with sufficient boiling water, salt, and nutmeg, simmered ten minutes. Have ready in tureen a few yolks and cream, and piece of fresh butter; pour boiling soup over, stirring till mixed. Soupe maicjre tyrolienne—Dice of cucumber, shredded lettuce, and sorrel, sauteed with butter five minutes, moistened with sufficient boiling water, salt, nutmeg; simmer fifteen minutes. Have ready in tureen a few yolks and cream, j:>our boiling soup over, stirring till mixed, and serve with peas and chervil. Soupe normande—Shredded lettuce, celery, and leeks, sauteed in butter; add sufficient light consomme, and simmer till done, add cream, and serve. Soupe paysanne—Paysanne roots, sauteed with butter, and moistened with sufficient milk, seasoned, and simmer till done, lie cream and volks, and serve. Soupe villageoise—Julienne of leeks and white cabbage, sauteed, seasoned, and moistened with light consomme, simmer till done, add cream and vermicelli, and serve. Clam chowder—Paysanne of leeks, onions, celery, potatoes, and dice of tomato and lean bacon, sauteed, moistened with half stock and half clam broth, seasoned highly, and serve with trimmed blanched clam and chopped parsley.PART III. (E0FS (Eggs). Eggs are prepared in many ways, and form a welcome change in high-class luncheon menus. (Eufs sur le plat are lightly cooked in special fire- proof china dishes and served with various garnishes, as follows : Abessynienne—Served with Perigueux sauce over, and small chicken croquettes round. Americaine I.—Americaine sauce over the eggs, a grilled mushroom, and tomato round. Amercaine II.—Served with sliced lobster, Americaine round. Anvernoise—Served with young hop shoots and cream. Ardenaise—The whites are beaten with cream and seasoned, then poured into the buttered egg dish, and the unbroken yolks placed on top, and baked. Bercy—Served with small French sausages round and tomato sauce. Beurre noir—Served with beurre noir, butter allowed to become brown, a few drops of vinegar. Bibesco—Served with julienne of tongue and Perigueux sauce round.102 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bragance—Served with julienne of chicken, truffe, and mushroom, and tomato sauce round. Bretonne—Served with creamed soubise over, cheese, and gratines. Britain—A slice of truffe on each, anchovy fillets round, and demiglace. Bruxelloise— Served with sliced braised chicorv, browned crumbs over. Camerani—Garnished with grilled ham and sauer- kraut. Chdlonnaise—Served with cock’s combs and kidneys and veloute. Chasseur—Served with sauteed chicken’s liver in dice. Clamart—Served with peas a la Fram^aise round. Cleveland—Served with sauteed lamb’s kidneys and mushrooms, demiglace round. Cluny—Served with small medal]ions of chicken and tomato sauce. Conde—Served on puree of white haricots, and strips of bacon round. Conti—Served on puree of lentils, and strips of bacon round. Crecy—Served on puree of carrots a la Vichy. Diahle—As Beurre noir, and devilled. Doria I.—Served on tomato sauce, anchovv fillets and chopped truffes over, salamandered. Doria II.—Served with creamed pearls of blanched cucumber. Duchesse—Served in small bordure of duchesse potatoes, double cream over, salamandered, a slice of truffe on each.(E yfs (Eggs). 103 Egyptienne—Served in creamed puree of leeks and onions, salamandered. jEspagnole I.—Served with grilled tomatoes and fried Spanish onions. Espagnole II,—Served on half grilled tomatoes, fried onions round. Estrcigon—Served with veal jus lie and tarragon round. Florentine—Served on a layer of plain buttered spinach, light Mornay sauce and cheese over, and gratine. Forestiere—Served on a layer of stewed morels. Gambetta—One fried egg with a slice of truffe and Choron sauce over, and one poached egg with soubise over. Gamier—Served on a layer of creamed pointes and sliced truffe. Grandmere—Gfarnished with fancy cut and fried croutons and fines herbes. Hongroise—Served on a layer of stewed sliced onions and paprika, sour cream and chopped chives over, salamandered. Hubert—Served on puree of lentils and game mixed, game sauce round. Isoline—G-armshed with tomatoes, sauteed provencale, and chicken’s liver saute. Jessicai—Garnished with sauteed cepes, jDointes, and Chateaubriand sauce round. Jockey Club - Served on foie gras toast, with stewed veal kidney round. Kliedivial—-Served on paste croutes masked with puree of chicken and spinach, supreme sauce over.104 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Lilloise—Served on puree of sprouts, thin bechamel round. Lipton—Served in nests of duchesse potatoes, salaniandered, and chopped truffle over. Lorraine—Served with strips of smoked bacon, cheese over, and gratines. Lully—Served on grilled ham, garnished with macaroni portugaise. Lyonnaise—Garnished with fried rings of onions, jus lie round. Maraichere—Served on a creamed chiffonade of sorrel, lettuce, and chervil, lean strip of bacon round, salaniandered. Matelotte—Served on croutes, with matelotte sauce over. Maximilien—Served on half a tomato, with bread- crumbs, chopped parsley, and grated cheese over, salaniandered. Metternich—Served on sauteed sliced mushrooms, masked with bechamel sauce, cheese, and salaniandered. Meyerbeer—Garnished with grilled kidneys, and Perigueux sauce. Mirabeau—With anchovy butter in dish, anchovy fillets, farced olive, and tarragon over the eggs. Miroir—Little cream over the eggs, and sala- mandered. Moderne—Garnished with little bouquets of sauteed chicken’s liver, creamed pointes and truffle, jus lie round. Moncelet—Garnished with dice of fonds and truffle, veal jus lie round.105 (Eufs (Eggs). Monegasgue—Served on puree of tomato, anchovy fillets, and tarragon over, salamandered. Montargis—Prepared tartlets filled with a j ulienne of chicken, tongue, mushroom lie with glaze, Mornay sauce over and gratines, serve an egg on each. Montmorency—Served on puree of asparagus, green pointes round. Nanceenne—Served on puree of onions and paprika, slices of sausages, jus lie round. Nantua—Served on a salpicon nantua, Nantua sauce round. Negus — Garnished with medaillons of game, Perigueux sauce round. Normande—Served with creamed oysters, and Normande sauce round. Omer Pasha—Served on a puree of onions, grated cheese over the eggs, and gratines. Opera—Garnished with stewed chicken’s liver, pointes, jus lie. Orleannaise—Served on creamed sorrel, cream sauce round. Parmesane — Served with cream and grated parmesan, gratines. Patti—Served with a ragout of truffles, and veal jus lie. Perigourdine—Served with bouquet of truffles, demiglace with truffe essence. Petit due - Garnished with grilled mushrooms filled with grated horseradish, Chateaubriand sauce round. Piemontaise—Served with Italian truffles, Parmesan cheese over, gratines.106 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Portugaise—Served with stewed tomatoes and fines lierbes on the sides, tomato sauce round. Provengale—Served on dice of tomatoes, parsley, garlic flavour, sauteed with oil, cream over, and salamandered. Rachel—Served on foie gras croutes, beef marrow and truffe over, and jus lie. Richemond—Garnished with a salpicon of cepes and truffes, supreme sauce round. Romaine—Dish lined with blanched spinach leaves, anchovy fillets over, eggs on top, grated cheese, and salamandered. Rossini—Served on puree of foie gras and truffes, Perigueux sauce round. Rothomago—Served on grilled ham, small sausages round, and tomato sauce. Sagan—Garnished with sauteed calf’s brains, parmesan over, and salamandered, supreme sauce round. Savoyarde—Served on a layer of potato savovarde, cream and grated cheese over, and gratines. Soubise—Served on soubise, veal jus lie round. Suisse— Cream and grated parmesan over, and baked. Tartare—Served on minced beef, sour cream and cheese over, and gratines. Turbigo—Garnished with stewed sliced tomatoes, small French sausages, and kidney sautes. Turque—Served with sauteed chicken’s liver, blended with puree of onions, and tomato sauce round. Valancienne—Garnished with sauteed tomatoes, pimentoes, and mushrooms.(Eufs Brouilles (Scrambled Eggs). 107 Vcincourt—Served in ducliesse bordure, garnished with asparagus pointes, slice of truffe on each, salamandered. Victoria—Served with salpicon of lobster and truffe, Victoria sauce round. Villars—Served on artichoke fonds, strips of bacon and demiglace round. Waldimir—Served with creamed julienne of truffe and pointes, grated cheese over, salamandered. (EUFS BROUILLES (Scrambled Eggs). Little cream should be used in scrambling eggs, and if a few yolks are added, about two to four whole eggs, delicious scrambled eggs are obtained ; they are served on either toast, croutons, farce fonds, artichoke fonds, half tomatoes, and in cocottes or croustades the garnish is either mixed with the eggs or served round with fancy cut croutons. Allemancle — Mixed with flaked, smoked, cooked herrings. Archiduchesse—Mixed with finely minced ham and mushrooms, paprika. Argenteuil—Mixed with asparagus pointes, small bunch of pointes on top. Aumale—Served in cocottes, stewed veal kidneys over, and little tomato sauce round. Batsac—Mixed with fine salpicon of truffe and tongue, served in cocottes, with soubise and cheese croutons round.108 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bateliere—Mixed with fines herbes, served in crou- stade, with a puree of fish over. Benares — Mixed with pimento, cocoanut milk, curried. Bohemienne—Mixed with dice of foie gras and truffe and served in brioche paste croustade. Bourguignonne—Mixed with chopped escargots, sauteed with fines herbes, served in cocotte. Bresilienne—Mixed with puree of tomatoes, paprika, served in croustades, anchovy fillets on top. Careme—Mixed with dice of foie gras, truffe, and chicken, served in croustades, a slice of foie gras on top, jus lie. Carnot—Mixed with minced mushrooms and cock’s comb, served in cocottes, cock’s kidneys over, and demiglace. Chcdonnaise—Mixed with cock’s comb and kidneys, served with veloute round. Chasseur—Served with sauteed chicken’s liver over, and chasseur sauce round. Chdtillon—Served with sliced mushroom sautes over, jus lie. Doria—Served in cocottes, with dice of cucumber a la creme on top, chive. En surprise—Lightly cooked, served in own shells ; carefully remove the top of raw eggs without cracking the rest of shell, the contents scrambled, and fill empty shells. Espagnole—Mixed with finely minced pimentoes, and served on halves of cooked tomatoes, fried onions round. Estragon—Mixed with chopped tarragon.CEufs Brouilles (Scrambled Eggs). 109 Forestiere—Mixed with dice of fried lean bacon and cepes, croutons round. Georgette—Large potatoes, baked, cut in halves, scooped and filled with scrambled eggs, flavoured with lobster butter. Gordon—Mixed with tomato puree, served with a slice of beef marrow on top, Chateaubriand sauce round. Grandjpere—Mixed with dice of fried onions, lean bacon, and croutons. Jeannette—Mixed with asparagus pointes. Joinville—Mixed with dice of shrimp, mushroom, served in croustades, Joinville sauce round, and slice of truffe on top. Longanese—Mixed with parmesan, sauteed green peppers, and served with fried crumbs and fines herbes over. Malga—Mixed with fines herbes, French mustard, fancy cut croutons round. Marivaux — Mixed with fine dice of truffes, and sauteed sliced mushrooms served on top, jus lie round. Monaco — Served in croustades with ragout of langouste. Montberri—Mixed with grated cheese, served on large round savoury rice croquettes, sliced truffe on top, and demiglace tomatee round. Offenbach—Mixed with dice of tunny fish, anchovies, and lobster, croutons round. Orientate—Mixed with tomato puree and dice of pimento, soubise over, thread of glaze round. Orloff—Mixed with crayfish tails and coulis, served in cocottes, a slice of truffe on top.110 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Parmentier — Mixed with dice of sauteed new potatoes. Piemontaise—Mixed with grated cheese and finely chopped Piemond truffe, a slice of Piemond truffe over, croutons round. Portugaise—Served in croustades or cocottes, with stewed dice of tomatoes and chopped parsley on top. Pi 'incesse—Mixed with puree of asparagus, and served with a few pointes on top. Princesse Marie—Mixed with cheese and fine julienne of truffes, served with cocottes, supreme sauce round. Provengale—Mixed with sauteed sliced cepes and echalotes. Rachel—Mixed with fine julienne of truffe and pointes, served in cocottes, with a slice of truffe on top, jus lie. Reine Margot—Mixed with puree of chicken, served in croustades, with a small round chicken croquette on top, veloute round. Romaine—Served on nouille paste croustade, anchovy fillets over, jus lie round. Rothschild—Mixed with coulis of crayfish, served in timbales, garnished with pointes, truffe, and crayfish. Salamande—Served in artichoke fonds, Mornay sauce over, cheese, and salamandered. Sultane—Mixed with pistachio butter, served in brioche paste fancy croustade. Sylvette—Mixed with a fine julienne of carrots and truffes, served with a button mushroom and glaze on top.(Eufs Poches (Poached Eggs). Ill Turque — Saffron flavour, served in aubergine croustades, little tomato pulp on top. Tzarine—Well creamed, mixed with fennel, and served in cocottes, with a little caviar on top. Yancourt—Mixed with julienne of mushrooms and truffe, served in duchesse croustades, glazed over. Yiennoise—Mixed with finely chopped ham and paprika. Waleslca—Mixed with dice of mushroom and lobster, served in croustades, with a slice of truffe on top, and lobster sauce round. Yvette—Mixed with crayfish and pomtes, truffe on top. (EUFS POCHES (Poached Eggs). Fresh eggs only should be used for poaching, lightly done, and served on toast, croutes, farce fonds, etc., sauced and garnished as required. Abessynienne—Served on round chicken croquettes, truffe sauce over. Alsacienne—Served in croustades filled with sauer- kraut and minced ham, rich demiglace over. Americaine I.—Served on croustades filled with scalloped oysters, Genevoise sauce over. Americaine II.—Served in cocottes with Americaine sauce over. Andalouse—Served on halves of tomatoes, tomato sauce and pimento over. Archiduc—Served in croustades, with sauteed chicken’s liver, Hongroise sauce over, and a slice of tongue.112 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Argenteuil—Served on creamed asparagus pointes, cream sauce over. Armenonville—Served on croutes, garnished with carrots a la creme, and mashed with supreme sauce, asparagus pointes round. Aurore—Served on croutes, with aurore sauce over. Balfour—Served on croustades, lined with puree of foie gras, Bearnaise sauce over, a slice of truffe on top. Barcelona—Served on grilled tomatoes, green peppers and demiglace over. Bayonnaise—Served on slices of tomatoes, madeira sauce, with finely chopped ham over. Bearnaise—Served on croutes with Bearnaise sauce over. Belle Helene — Served on asparagus pointes, croquettes, or fonds, supreme sauce over. Benedictine — Served on croustade lined with brandade of cod, cream sauce over. Berceau (en)—Served on a cradle shape potato duchesse, layer of puree of chicken, and aurore sauce over. Bergere—Served on fond of minced lamb, veloute over. Bignon—Served on farce fond, veloute and tarragon over. Bohemienne I.—Served on croustades lined with minced truffe and foie gras, Hongroise sauce over. Bohemienne II.—Served on foie gras croutes, veloute and julienne of ham over.CEufs Poches (Poached Eggs). 113 Bo'ildieu—Served on croustades, with salpicon of chicken, truffe, and foie gras, veloute over. Bonvalet—Served on croutes, veloute over and a thread of Choron sauce round, a slice of truffe on each. Bourguignonne—Poached in claret, served on croutes, Bourguignonne sauce with mushroom, and button onions over. Breban—Served on croutes and masked with puree of game and foie gras, game sauce over, and a slice of truffe on each. Bretonne—Served on puree of white haricots, cream sauce over. Bruxelloise—Served on puree of sprouts and chicory, cream sauce over, and gratines. Cardinal—Served on lobster croustades, Cardinal sauce over. Celestine—Served on anchovy croutes, Hollandaise lice lobster butter over. Chdlonnaise—Served in croustades filled with salpicon of mushroom, truffes, cockscomb, and kidnevs, veloute over. Chantilly—Served in croustades, lined with puree of peas, mousseline sauce over. Chartres—Served on cucumber croustades, jus lie- and tarragon over. Chasseur—Served in cocotte, masked with puree of chicken’s liver, Cbasseur sauce over. Chatelaine—Served on puree of chestnuts, Mornay sauce, with puree of onions over, cheese, and gratines. Chimay—Served on nouille a la creme, supreme sauce over, and asparagus pointes round. i114 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Chivry—Served in croustades lined with puree of fines herbes, chivry sauce over. Christoph Colornb—Served on foie gras croutes, Chateaubriand sauce tomatee over. Clamart—Served on croustades filled with peas a la Fran9aise, cream sauce over. Comtesse—Served on croustades lined with puree of asparagus, Allemande sauce over, and chopped truffe. Continentale—Served on foie gras croutes, demiglace tomatee over. Crecy I.—Served on brioche croustade, lined with puree of carrots, cream sauce over, and a star of carrot. Crecy II.—Served on carrots a la creme, veloute over. Daumont I.—Served in croustade filled with lobster Nantua, ISTantua sauce, over, and aslice of truffe. Daumont II.—Served on minced chicken, veloute with puree of asparagus over. Dijonnaise — Served on duchesse bordure, Burgundy sauce over, and a button mushroom on top. Dino—Served in croustades lined with puree of chicken and sauteed cepes, Indienne sauce over. Divorgons—Served on croutes, one egg masked with cream sauce and chopped truffe over, the other egg masked with tomato sauce, and sieved hard whites of eggs. D'Orsay—Served on croutes masked with puree of chicken, Chateaubriand sauce over. Ducale—Served on farce bordure, supreme sauce over, and a star of truffe on top.CEufs Poches (Poached Eggs). 115 Duchesse— Served on Duchesse potato bordure, veloute sauce over the eggs, jus lie round. Dufferin—Served on creamed sliced mushrooms, horseradish sauce over, and a thread of glaze round. Ecossaise— Served on salmon croquettes, lobster sauce over. Elizabeth—Served in artichoke fond, a slice of truffe on top, Mornay sauce over, cheese, and gratines. En soleil—Poached eggs dipped in batter (pate a frire), and fried, tomato sauce round. Eugenie—Served on large mushrooms, Hollandaise sauce over. Fedora—Served on croutes, masked with puree of foie gras and truffe, supreme sauce over. Flora—Served on croutes, half of the eggs masked with veloute and chopped truffe, the other half with tomato sauce and chopped parsley. Floreale—Served on croutes masked with Venitienne sauce, garnished pearls of carrots, turnips, and peas round. Florentine—On bordure of spinach, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Forestiere — Served on croustades of Duchesse potatoes, lined with dice of lean bacon and sliced morels sautes, jus lie round. Franqaise—Served on croustades lined with tomato saute, veal jus lie over. Gauloise—Served on grated ham on toast, tomato sauce round, garnished with cock’s comb and kidnevs. i 2116 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Grand due—On croutes, Mornaj sauce, and gratines, garnished with asparagus pointes and truffe. Haveley—On croutes, veloute over half the egg and tomato sauce on the other. Helo'ise—On croutes, masked with veloute in which a fine julienne of tongue and truffe is added, tomato sauce round. Henri IV.—Served on a grilled mushroom, Bearnaise sauce over. Hollandaise—Served on salmon croutes, Hollandaise sauce over. Hussarde—Served on duxelle, Hussarde sauce over. Imjperiale—On toast, madeira sauce, with puree of truffe over. Indienne — Served on curried rice, curry sauce over. Infante—Served on croustades with puree of mush- rooms, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Italienne—Served on rissotto Italienne, Italienne sauce over. Jessica—On croutes, Chateaubriand sauce over asparagus pointes and morels round. Jockey Club—On foie gras croutes, garnished with kidney and mushroom saute, a slice of truffe on each egg. Khedive—Served on croustades lined with puree of chickeo, filled with spinach a la creme, cream sauce over. Lithanienne—Served on croutes of mushrooms, Perigueux sauce over. Lorette—Served on Lorette potato fonds, jus lie over, truffe and asparagus pointes round.(Eufs Poches (Poached, Eggs). 117 Louisette—Served on Dauphine potato fond, Hollan- daise sauce over, and fine dice of ham. Magenta — Served on croustades with creamed lobster, lobster sauce over, asparagus pointes round. Maintenon—Served on croustades with soubise, Mornav sauce over, and gratines, glaze round. Malmaison—Served on croutes, eggs masked with Beauharuais sauce, creamed French beans, pointes and peas round. Massena—Served on fonds with Bearnaise sauce in it, tomato sauce over, and a slice of beef marrow. Mattel—Served on creamed spaghetti, cream sauce and cheese over, gratines. Medicis—Served on croustades filled with carrots, vichy, and sorrel, masked with bechamel mixed with puree of peas. Mignon I. —Served on croustades with creamed peas, veloute and crayfish coulis over. Mignon II—Served on bed of creamed pointes, supreme sauce over. Mttanaise—Served on bed of macaroni milanaise, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Mirabeau—Served on anchovy toast, farced olive on top, anchovy fillets round, demiglace over. Mireille—Served on rissotto, veloute over, tomato sauce round. Mogador—Served on rounds of Marquise potatoes, cream sauce, with puree of foie gras over, gratines, truffe and tongue on top. Monaco—Served on salpicon of lobster, lie lobster sauce over.118 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Monselet—Served on artichoke fonds, sliced truffe on each egg, and veal jus lie over. Montglas—Served on croustades Montglas, madeira sauce over. Montonnaise-- Served on croutes with puree of leeks, bechamel and cheese over, and gratines. Nantua — Served on croustades nantua, nantua sauce over. Nigoise—Served on half-grilled tomatoes, garnished with French beans au beurre, jus lie. Ninon—Served on croutes, bechamel with puree of asparagus over, and a slice of truffe on each egg- Normande—Served on Normande croustades, Nor- mande sauce over. Orleans—Served in cocottes with salpicon of crayfish or lobster, shrimp sauce over. Or say—Served on croutes, with Chateaubriand sauce over. Otero—Served in halves of scooped baked potatoes, bechamel sauce over. Perigourdine—Served on croutes with puree of truffe, truffe sauce over. Petit clue—Served on grilled mushrooms, with Chateaubriand sauce and grated horseradish on top. Phoceenne—Served on croustades of creamed puree of cod, cream sauce over, truffe on top. Piemontaise—Served on rissotto piemontaise, derni- glace over. Polonaise—Served on minced mutton, poivrade sauce, with cepes over.CEufs Poches (Poached Eggs). 119 Princesse—Served on croustades of creamed aspar- agus pointes, cream sauce over, and a slice of truffe. Ravigotte—On croutes, ravigotte sauce over. Regina—Served on croustades with salpicon of shrimps, soles, mushroom lie nantua sauce, veloute over, and truffle. Reine—Served on croutes masked with puree of chicken, supreme sauce over the eggs. Richemont—Served on croustades of sauteed morels, madeira sauce, with julienne truffe over. Riga—Served on caviar croutes. Roland—As a la Reine, chopped truffle over, and gratines. Romaine—Served on spinach, jus lie with anchovy essence over. Rougemont—Served on croustades of rice milanaise, tomato sauce over. Sans gene—Served on artichoke fond, Bordelaise sauce over, and a slice of beef marrow. Savoyarde—Served on fonds of Savoyarde potatoes, veloute, with puree of leeks and cheese over, and gratines. Sevigne—Served on croutes with creamed lettuce, veloute over, and a slice of truffle. Seville—Served on croutes, demiglace tomatee with julienne of green peppers, carrots and mush- rooms over. Shouvaloff—Served on artichoke fond with puree of foie gras, truffle, and tongue, soubise over. Soubise—Served on croustades with soubise, jus lie over.120 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Souveraine—Served on mousse of ham, madeira sauce over. Stanley—Served on rice pilaff, mixed with soubise and curry, supreme sauce lightly curried over. Tampa—Served on puree of bananas devilled, and devilled cream over. Tartare—Served on minced beef and paprika, cream sauce with chive over. Toupinel—Served on halves of roast potatoes, cream sauce with cheese over, and gratines. Tourangelle—Served on puree of flageolets, creamed claret sauce over. Trubetz hoy—Served on fonds with puree of game, truffe sauce over. Vediloff—On toast, creamed shrimp sauce over. Verdi—On croutes, Venitienne sauce over. Victoria—Served on croustade filled with salpicon nantua, Diplomate sauce over, gratines. Villeroy—Masked with Villeroy sauce, when cold egged and breadcrumbed and fried, tomato sauce round. Volnay—Served in croustades with salpicon of truffe and foie gras, supreme sauce over, aud a star of tongue on top. Xavier—Served on croiistades with puree of lobster, truffe, and mushroom, coulis of lobster over. Zingara—Served on slices of grilled ham, madeira sauce tomatee over. Zurlo—Served on potato croquettes, cream sauce over. (Eufs mollets, or soft-boiled eggs, so that the yolk is quite liquid, can be served and garnished same as poached.(Eufs en Cocottes (Eggs Done in Cocottes). 121 (EUFS EN COCOTTES (Eggs Done in Cocottes). Special fireproof china cocottes containing one egg each are used in prejoaring eggs in this way, and battered before placing the egg in, placed in a shallow saute pan containing boiling water, and slowly cooked till the white only is set, salamandered or gratine as the case requires, according to garnish. A la creme—A teaspoonful of cream in each cocotte, cooked, then seasoned and served. Belford—The cocottes lined with creamed puree of calf's liver, egg in centre, chopped truffe and tongue over. Bergere—Cocottes lined with fine creamed minced lamb, egg in centre, thread of jus lie round when done. Carnagie—Cocottes lined with fine creamed minced turkey, tomato sauce over. Colbert—Cocottes lined with puree of chicken and fines herbes, Colbert sauce over. Chanoison—Eggs cocotte served with puree of prawns over, and a slice of truffe. Diane—Cocottes lined with minced game, game sauce over, and a horseshoe of truffe on top. Ecossaise—Cocottes lined with a salpicon of tongue, truffe, and mushroom, tomato sauce over. Florentine—Cocottes lined with creamed spinach, cream and cheese over, and gratines. Forestiere—Slice of lean fried bacon in base, sides lined with minced morels lie, egg in centre, and chopped fines herbes.122 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Frou-frou—Cocottes lined with puree of chicken, cream and grated cheese over, and gratines. Gouffe—Cooked with sour cream, paimesan over, and salamandered. Gourmet—Cocottes lined with puree of brain, ham, and fines herbes, tomato sauce over. Jeannette—Cocottes lined with creamed puree of chicken, served with a few pointes and veloute over. Leonard—Cocottes lined with a puree of lobster, whiting, and truffle, lobster sauce over. Lorraine—Done with dice of fried bacon, cream and cheese over. Madeleine—Chicken farce in the cocotte, Allemande sauce over the egg. Marcaichere—Creamed spinach, sorrel, and lettuce in cocotte, chervil over. Orleans—Minced shrimps in cocotte, shrimp sauce and truffle over. Parisienne—Cocotte lined with puree of chicken, mixed with salpicon of truffle and mushrooms, veal jus lie over. Pavilion—Salpicon of cepes, truffles in cocottes, Chateaubriand sauce over. Pe rig our dine—Cocottes lined with puree of foie gras and truffle, Perigueux sauce over. Portugaise—With puree of tomatoes in cocotte. Princesse—Done with cream and pointes over. Beine—Cocottes lined with fine creamed minced chicken, supreme sauce over. Benaldt — Done with sliced sausages, tomato sauce, cheese over, and gratines.CEufs Monies (Moulded Eggs). 123 Rouenaise—Cocottes lined with puree of duck’s liver, Rouenaise sauce over. Saga7i—Puree of calf’s brains ill the cocottes, veloutc and cheese over, salamander. St. Hubert—Cocottes lined with creamed puree of game, Poivrade sauce over, slice of truffe. Zingara—Cocottes lined with puree of ham, jus lie over, and a little fine julienne of ham. CEUFS MOULES (Moulded Eggs) are cooked in well-buttered dariole, or other fancy moulds, holding one egg each (the moulds are decorated, if required), and cooked or baked, placing the moulds containing the egg in a shallow pan, with an inch or more of boiling water in it; when done, turned out on toast, croutes, etc., and served with sauce and garnish as required. Albufera—Lightly done scrambled eggs mixed with a few raw well-beaten eggs, poured into the well-buttered mould and baked, served on puree of mushrooms, with Albufera sauce round. Archiduc—Chopped fines herbes sprinkled in the buttered mould before breaking the egg in it; when cooked, serve on duchesse potato croutes, jus lie round. Bo'ildieu—Fancy mould decorated with foie gras, and a star of truffe at the base ; served on croutes, jus lie round. Boitelle—Oval moulds decorated with fancy-cut pieces of mushrooms, served on croutes, rich buttered jus lie round.124 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bressane—Moulds decorated with truffes and whites of hard eggs, served on artichaud fonds, with veloute round. Carignan—Mould lined thinly with chicken farce, serve on croutes, Chateaubriand sauce over. Chartres—Moulds sprinkled with chopped tarragon, serve on paste croustades, tarragon sauce over. Daumont—Mould decorated with sliced truffe and prawns, served on large mushrooms, Nantua sauce over. Duchesse—A slice of truffe in base of mould, serve on duchesse potato fonds, light veloute over, and glaze round. Forestiere—Chopped parsley in moulds, serve on croutes, with sauteed sliced morels and jus lie. Imperiale—A slice of truffe in moulds, serve madeira sauce mixed with essence of truffe over. Lilli—Mould decorated with lobster, beaten eggs mixed with dice of truffe and shrimps, served on croutes, shrimp sauce over. Montrouge—Chopped mushroom in moulds, served on grilled mushrooms, jus lie round. Napolitaine—Scrambled eggs mixed with grated cheese and a few beaten raw eggs cooked m moulds, served on croutes, demiglace, tomatee round. Palermite—Chopped tongue in mould, served on croustades filled with macaroni a la creme. Perigourdine—Chopped truffe in mould, serve on foie gras croutes, truffe sauce over.CEufs Monies (Moulded Eggs'). 125 Petite mariee—Eggs cooked in plain buttered moulds, serve on rice a la grecque, cream sauce over, and gratines. Polignac—Slice of truffle in base of mould, serve on croute, Chateaubriand sauce over. Portugaise—Chopped parsley in moulds, serve on halved tomatoes, tomato sauce over. Princesse I.—Dice of asparagus pointes in moulds, served on croustades with puree of asparagus, supreme sauce over. Princesse II.—Slice of truffe in base of mould, lined with farce filled with scrambled eggs mixed with asparagus pointes, and a few beaten raw eggs, and bake, veloute round. Printaniere—Mould decorated with spring vegetables, serve on croutes, veloute over. Peine—Mould lined with creamed chicken farce, served on farce fond, veloute and truffe over. Royal—Chopped truffe in moulds, served on farced croutes, Perigueux sauce over. Tourangelle—Mould decorated with flageolets and French beans, served on croutes, Hollandaise sauce over. Verdi—Chopped truffe in moulds, scrambled eggs, cooked in, demiglace round. Viennoise—As Polignac, served with cream and paprika sauce over. Virojlay—Mould lined with blanched spinach leaves serve on toast, supreme sauce over.126 The New Practical Cookery Guide. (EUFS FRITS (Fried Eggs a la Francaise). These are not the ordinary fried eggs (oeufs a la poele). To cook them to perfection have sufficient oil in a pan to entirely cover the egg. When smoking hot, break the egg in, and with the slice quickly gather the sides of it (bubble shape) over the yolk to form a ball; turn it over, in two minutes lift it out, and drain carefully. The yolk should be perfectly soft, and the white enrolling it of golden colour. It is then served with sauce or garnish. A la Benaiton—Served on kedgerie of cod with a bordure of cooked slices of potatoes, cheese over and gratines before placing the eggs over. Berg ere—Served on fine minced lamb, mixed with morrel. Chopped mint over. Bucheron tie—Served on gratines, mashed potatoes mixed with fines herbes. Clubland—Served with grilled mushrooms, grilled tomato, grilled bacon, and Chipolata sausage. Colbert—Served with liquid maitre d’hotel over, in fonds. Moissonneuse—Served on grilled bacon, garnished with peas a la paysanne. Pastourelle—Served on grilled bacon, grilled mush- room, and a grilled kidnev round. Portugaise—Served on riz au tomates, tomato sauce round. Bomaine—Served on blanched and sauteed spinach, with tomato sauce round.(Eufs Farcis, Chaud (Stuffed Fggs, Hot). 127 Sauce tomate—With tomato sauce over. York —Served on toast, grilled York ham round, tomato sauce round. (EtTFS FARCIS, CHAUD (Stuffed Eggs, Hot). Aurore—Hard eggs, halved lengthwise, the yolk creamed with bechamel and fines lierbes; refill empty whites of the eggs, Mornay sauce over and gratines, Aurore sauce round. Boulanger—Halved lengthwise, fiilled with dice of hard eggs, puree of onions and bechamel, cheese over and gratines, served on croutes. Bretonne—Farced with dice of onions, leeks, and mushrooms stewed, and lie with bechamel, served on croutes. Careme—Farced with salpicon nantua, served on artichoke fonds. Cecilia—Yolk creamed with puree of mushroom and bechamel, refilled, replace the two halves to form the egg, place on a large mushroom, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Chimay—Farced with creamed yolks and duxelles, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Elizabeth—Hard eggs cut at ends to stand upright, remove and cream yolks with puree of fonds and chopped truffes, refill, dress on fonds, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. En Cotelettes—Minced eggs made into croquette mixture, when cold form cutlets, egged and breadcrumbed and fried, served with tomato sauce.128 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Gasconne—Poached eggs dressed on farced aubergine croustades, masked with aurore sauce, cheese over, and gratines Gourmet—Farced with salpicon of lobster, salmon, and truffe, served on croutes, Morn ay sauce over, and gratines. Grand Due—Farced with creamed yolks and puree of asparagus, minced with chopped truffe, Mornay sauce over, and gratines, slice of truffe on each. Granville—Halved, served on croutes, Bordelaise sauce over. Grimot de Regniere—Poached eggs served on crou- stades, filled with salpicon of crayfish or prawns, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Hongroise—Sliced hard eggs, served in timbales, with slices of cooked tomatoes, bechamel sauce and paprika over, gratines. Italienne—Farced with the creamed yolks mixed with duxelle, refilled, tomato sauce and cheese over, and gratines. Nissarde—Poached eggs or oeufs mollet, dressed on farced slices of vegetable marrow, tomato sauce mixed with veloute over, and gratines. Perclieronne—Sliced hard eggs dressed in timbales or cocottes, with layers of sliced cooked potatoes and bechamel, cheese over, and gratines. Portugaise—Farced with the creamed yolks, fines herbes, tomato pulp, dressed on halved grilled tomatoes, Portugaise sauce over. Sarah Bernhardt—Poached yolks of eggs dressed on mushrooms, masked with veloute and puree ofCEufs Farcis, Froid (Stuffed Eggs, Cold). 129 tarragon, cheese over, and gratines, garnished with a ragout of cock’s comb and kidneys and truffe. Waldimir—Poached eggs dressed in croustades, with puree of foie gras and truffe, Mornay sauce over and gratines, slice of truffe on each. Washington—Hard eggs cut at one end to stand upright, scooped, and creamed yolks with finely chopped ham and chive; refill, Mornay sauce over and gratines, served on croutes. (EtJFS FARCIS, FROID (Stuffed Eggs, Cold). Alexander—Cold poached eggs masked with white chaudfroid sauce, dressed on croutes, a star of truffe on each, bordure of caviar round the egg, aspic garnish. Andalouse—Cold poached eggs masked with tomato’ chaudfroid sauce, decorated with pimentoes, aspic garnish. Argenteuil—Cold poached eggs masked with white chaudfroid sauce, mixed with puree of asparagus, pointes salad round. Arlequin—Cold eggs masked with different colour chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffe, pis- tachios, and hard white of eggs, garnished with vegetable salad. Brian—Halved hard eggs, creamed yolk with remou- lade sauce and masked oval croutes, farce eggs with the creamed yolk mixed with dice of lobster, anchovies, and caviar; place half-egg on each croute. K130 The New Practical Coolcery Guide. Cajpucine—Cold poached eggs, mask half with white chaudfroid sauce and half with puree of truffes chaudfroid, served round a pyramid of biandade of salt cod. Careme—Masked with chaudfroid sauce, served on croustades of creamed salmon, decorated with truffe and caviar. Chartres — Done in aspic with tarragon leaves, garnished. Colbert—Done in aspic, decorated with squares ol vegetables, vegetable salad round, aspic garnish. Colinette—Eggs done in aspic, Rachel sa’ad garnish. Crecy—Poached eggs masked with chaudfroid sauce, mixed with puree of carrots, dressed on lettuce, aspic garnish. Czarina—Masked with pink chaudfroid sauce, served on Russian salad, decorated caviar and smoked salmon, anchovv fillets. Danoise—Halved hard eggs, lobster salad over, and masked with mayonnaise. Di 'eux—White chaudfroid sauce served on asparagus pointe salad, decorated, aspic garnish. En Chaudfroid—Poached eggs masked with chaud- froid sauce as desired, decorated, and served on croutes or salad, etc., and garnished as required. Eulolie—Half hard eggs filled with caviar, cream the yolk with butter and paprika, and decorated lattice fashion over the caviar, and garnish. Floria—Masked with white cliaufroid sauce, taste- fully decorated, served with green salads.CEufs Farris, Froid {Stuffed Fg,js, Cold). 131 Frou-frou—Maskpd with white and yellow chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffes, peas and beans salad round. Gentilhomme—Halved hard eggs, the yolk creamed with puree of pheasant, and refill, brown chaud- fi’oid sauce, decorated. Loubet—Aspiced over, served on artichaud fonds, filled with cream of chicken, slice of truffe on each. Lucas—Poached, half mayonnaise and half white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with tarragon. Maupassant — Matelotte chaudfroid sauce over poached eggs on croutes, pink aspic garnish. Monstrueux—A huge egg, made with several yolks, cooked into a ball to form the centre, and a quantity of whites with the ball of yolk in centre, placed in an egg mould and cooked, thus forming a monstrous egg. Mosa'ique—Done in aspic, mould decorated with squares of truffe tongue, French beans, white of hard eggs mosaic style, Russian salad round. Moscovite—Mayonnaise sauce over hard halved eggs, on cucumber croustades with caviar, decorated, aspic round. Nantua—Hard eggs stuffed with crayfish or prawns, creamed with the yolk and mayonnaise, masked with pink mayonnaise, served on fonds, decorate with truffe and prawns. Ni$oise—Masked with tomato chaudfroid sauce and tarragon, served on fonds of vegetable salad. Polignac—Eggs moules polignac done in aspic, garnish. k 2132 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bavigotte—Poached eggs masked with Ravigotte sauce, served with beetroot and celery salad. Peine—White chaudfroid sauce over poached eggs, served on mousse of chicken fonds, decorated truffe and aspic. Possita—Masked with lobster chaudfroid sauce, served on puree of fish fonds, garnished with tomato antiboise. Bubens—Poached eggs masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated, garnished with salad of young hop-shoots and tomatoes. Russe—Masked with Russian mayonnaise on fond of agoursis (Russian cucumber), decorated with fennel, served with Russian salad round. Viveurs—Eggs mollet, masked with pink mayon- naise, served with potato and lobster salad. Volga—Farced with the creamed yolk mixed with dice of anchovies, crayfish, or prawns, and remoulade, dressed on round croutes. Waldimir—Masked with mayonnaise sauce, served on croustades of creamed asparagus, decorated. OMELETTES. To make a perfect omelette requires practice, a good omelette pan, and a good fire. The eggs should not be overbeaten, sparingly seasoned. The garnish is added either in the beaten eggs as for Aux fines lierbes, or folded in the omelette previous to turning it out on the dish, or else placed in the centre of the ready omelette by an incision cut on top a few inches lengthwise, as occasion requires. In some cases a little cream is added to the beaten eggs.133 Omelettes. Agnes Sorel—Sliced mushrooms sauteed and lie inside the omelette, jus lie round, slices of tongue on top. Algerienne—Served with sauteed aubergine, tomatoes and fonds in centre. Americaine—With chopped ham, eschalots, tomatoes, and parsley, a little cream mixed with eggs. Andalouse—Served with sauteed onions, tomatoes and mushrooms in centre. Archiduc—Centre filled with sauteed chicken’s liver, slice of truffes on top of omelette, jus lie round. Argenteuil—Served with asparagus pointes, lie butter in centre, and veloute round. Arlequin—Four small omelettes—one tomato mixed, one spinach, one truffe, and one cream, tomato sauce round. Benedicts—Served with puree of salt cod and cream with chopped truffe inside, cream sauce round. Bohemienne—Mixed with dice of ham and truffe, jus lie. Bonne femme—Mixed with dice of fried bacon, onions ; and croutes, and little cream. Boulonnaise—Mixed with dice of mackerel, maitre d’hotel round. Bourguignonne—Mixed with fines herbes, and served with stewed escargots inside. Braconniere—Mixed with dice of fried bacon and morels. Bretonne—Mixed with chopped onion, leek, and mushroom.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 134 Brillat Savarin I.—Served with salpicon of woodcock and truffe, lie glaze in centre, sliced truffe on top, game essence round. Brillat Savarin II.—Served with ragout of carp, roe and tunny fish in centre. Bruxelloise—Served with braised chicory inside, cream sauce round. Chamberry—Minced with dice of bacon, onions, potatoes, and cheese. Charcutiere—Mixed with dice of lean bacon and sliced sausages, charcutiere sauce round. Chartres—Mixed with chopped tarragon, tarragon leaves on top. Chasseur—Served with chicken’s liver, sautes chasseur, jus lie. Chatelaine—Mixed with dice of fond, crushed cooked chesnuts in centre, Chateaubriand sauce round. Cherbourg—Mixed with shrimps, a few on top. Chevreuse—Mixed with chopped chervil. Choisy—Served with braised creamed lettuce inside, cream sauce round. Clamart—Peas a la Franchise placed in the incision made along top of omelette. Crecy—Served with carrots a la creme inside, cream sauce round. Creole—Served with a d’Uxelles mixed with fines herbes and tomato inside. Czarine—Served with cucumber a la creme inside, veloute round. Danoise—Little anchovy essence mixed with the eggs, and a cream sauce mixed with capers, and dice of smoked salmon over.Omelettes. 135 Diocletien—Served with puree of creamed lettuce folded inside, cream sauce round. Drotshena—Russian omelette, little flour and cream beaten with the eggs, salt and pepper, cooked both sides half-moon shape, beurre noisette (browned butter) over. Durand—Mixed with pointes, julienne of fonds, mushrooms, and truffe, jus lie round. Espagnole—Mixed with slices of potatoes fried in oil, a few pimentoes, tomato sauce round. Fermiere—Mixed with chopped ham and fines herbes. Fines herbes—Mixed with chopped parsley, chive, tarragon, and chervil. Florentine—Served with sauteed spinach folded inside, and cream sauce round. Forestiere—Mixed with dice of bacon and morels, jus lie round. Foulard—The whites beaten to a froth mixed with double quantity of yolks and some fines herbes baked. Frangaise—Mixed with chopped eschalots and dice of mushroom and ham, jus lie round. Friar—Mixed with dice of apples covered with butter. Ghiselle—Mixed with paysanne of morels and fonds, jus lie. Gibbons—Thin creamed pure'e of cauliflower poured over ordinary omelette, cheese and gratines. Gordon—Served with sliced beef marrow folded in, and a few slices of same on top, madeira sauce round.136 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Grandmere—Mixed with fried croutons and fines herbes. Grimaldi—A small omelette with puree of crayfish or lobster inside, and a larger one mixed with cream and cheese; then the small one is folded in and forms one large omelette. Hollandaise—Mixed with flaked salmon, Hollandaise sauce round. Hongroise—Mixed with dice of onions and tomato saute, paprika and Hongroise sauce round. Indienne—Mixed with curry powder. Italienne—Served with d’TJxelle folded in, tomato sauce round. Ivica—Mixed with fried chopped onions and pi- mentoes. Japonnaise—Served with puree of crosnes and chopped parsley folded in, cream sauce round. Jardiniere—Savoury omelette with jardiniere folded inside. Jessica—Mixed with cepes and pointes, Chateaubriand sauce round. Joinville — Served with salpicon Joinville folded inside, sliced truffe on top. Jurassienne—Mixed with dice of fried bacon, sorrel, chive, and chervil. La Frita—Cheese omelette mixed with onions. Lorraine—Mixed with dice of fried bacon, cheese, chive, and cream. Lyonnaise—Mixed with sliced fried onions and parsley. Madras—Mixed with curry powder and chive, cooked rice inside.137 Omelettes. Marcelle I.—Served with puree of chestnut and julienne of game folded in, game sauce round. Marcelle II.—Mixed with dice of fond and potatoes. Marseillaise—Served with puree of onions and fish, garlic flavour, vin blanc sauce round. Massena—Mixed with dice of fond, slices of beef marrow on top, Bearnaise sauce round. Mexicaine—Mixed with dice of mushrooms, sauteed tomatoes and onions folded inside. Mireille—Served with rissoto aux tomates inside. Moncelet—Mixed with dice of fonds and truffes, sliced foie gras on top, and pointes each end, jus lie round. Montenegro—Mixed with chopped ham, dice of cooked cucumber, and parsley. Mornay—Mornay sauce over ordinary omelette, gratines. Mousseline—The whites beaten to froth, mixed with yolks, and cream. Mantua—Served with salpicon Nantua inside, Nantua sauce round. Navarainne—Mixed with dice of liver, tarragon, chervil, cepes. Normancle—Served with creamed oysters inside, Normande sauce round, Paloise—Bearnaise made with mint, poured over ordinary omelette. Panachees—Variety of omelettes, made by adding different puree or salpicon in them, and folded in a large one as omelette Grimaldi; they are made more delicate by using extra yolks and a little cream.138 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Parisienne—Mixed with dice of fried potatoes and truffe. Parmentier—Mixed with par men tier, potatoes, and parsley Paysanne—Mixed with sorrel and chervil. Petit due—Mixed with julienne of truffe and cepes, jus lie Piora—Mixed with dice of bacon, Swiss cheese, and French mustard. Pivia—Cheese omelette with benrre noisette and chopped parsley over. Pointes d’asjoerges—Made with asparagus pointes. Pomaine—Served with sauteed spinach inside, anchovy fillets over, jus lie round. Portugaise—Served with tomatoes saute Portugaise in the incision made on top of omelette, tomato sauce round. Prelats—Served with salpicon of truffe, prawns, soft roe and lobster folded inside, Normande sauce round. Princesse—Served with puree of asparagus inside, garnished with quenelles over, and pointes at ends, supreme sauce round. Provengale—Mixed with tomatoes and parsley, made with oil. Peine—Served with creamed puree of chicken inside, veloute round. Bichemond—Mixed with julienne of truffe, morels, and carrots, madeira sauce round. Rossini — Mixed with dice of truffe and foie gras, sliced truffe on top, madeira sauce round.CEufs de Pluviers et Vanneaux. 139 Bouennaise—Served witli duck’s liver, puree inside, and Rouennaise sauce round. Sardanaise—A small truffe omelette inclosed in a large one containing cream, jus lie round. Savoyarde—Mixed with dice of fried potatoes, leeks and cheese, little cream. Sigurd.—Mixed with dice of truffe, cepes, and potatoes. Suedoise—Served with creamed white nettles inside, jus lie. Suisse—Gfruyere cheese and cream omelette. Tanitschef—Served with ragout financicre, lie Allemande sauce round. Tijiis—Mixed caviar, with ordinary omelette. Trafalgar—Served with whitebait on the omelette Turque—Served with stewed chicken’s liver inside, curry sauce round. Vertpre—Served with puree of lettuce inside, Venitienne sauce round. Victoria—Served with slices of lobster and truffe on top, lobster sauce round. Walewska—Served with salpicon and lobster, and truffe inside, lobster sauce round. Zingara—Mixed with julienne of truffe, ham, mush- rooms, and tomatoes, jus lie with ham round. CEUFS DE PLUVIERS ET VANNEAUX (Plovers’ and Lapwings’ Eggs). Brouilles—Scrambled, with cream the usual wav. Danoise—Poached, served on salmon croustades, anchovy sauce over.140 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Petit due—Poached, served on even-size mushrooms Perigueux sauce over. Royale—Poached, served on puree of chicken fonds, supreme sauce over, decorated with a slice of truffe. Cold. Belle Gabrielle —Done in aspic, decorated, served on fancy fonds, garnished. Christiana—Served on foie gras croustades, aspiced over, decorated, and garnished. Moderne—Done in aspic with vegetable chartreuse, garnished with vegetable salad. Moscovite—Dressed on caviar croustades, aspiced over and garnished. Nids (en)—Dressed in nests of Montpelier butter, aspiced and decorated. Petite Reine—Done in aspic, decorated with truffe and hard white of egg, served with asparagus pointe salad.PART IV. POISSONS (Pish). For cooking large fish, three courtbouillon or fish stock are used: (1) The ordinary, consisting of water and vinegar; (2) Water and white wine in equal quantity ; (3) Water and red wine or claret in equal quantity. In each case the stock is seasoned and flavoured with sliced onion and carrot, herbs and spices, and simmered before cooking the fish in it. When the fish is intended for cold it should be allowed to remain in the stock till cold. In cooking small fish or fillets, supreme, etc., the term sauteed is used, poached, or au four ; the first meaning that the fish is floured and sauteed, or fried, in a little butter and oil, meuniere style, and turned over to complete the cook- ing. The term poached is more general in use, the fish is placed in a fireproof fish-dish with sliced onion, parsley, white wine or fish stock, pats of butter and seasoned, covered with buttered paper, and slowly cooked in the oven with occasional basting; for the term au four (or baked) the fish is placed on a well- buttered dish, covered with greased paper, and cooked slowly as the case requires, and basted.142 The New Practical Cookery Guide. The dressing of fish, in whichever style it has been cooked, should be done with decorative taste. The garnish should consist of articles in accordance with the fish, and in all cases should be eatable. Artificial socle or fonds should only be used for dressing cold fish. In the following formulas, the sauces and garnishes given are of the most popular character. Soles, Alicante—Sole baked, in china fish-dish with butter, finely chopped onion, and fish essence and white wine; when done, reduce stock, finish with fresh butter, garnish the sole with a few bearded oysters, pour sauce over, and serve. Americaine—Poached, served with the Amcricaine sauce. Bonne femme—Baked with eschalots, mushroom and fines herbes, liquor reduced, mixed with fish, veloute sauce poured over and gratines. Bourgeoise—Baked with white wine, served with the liquor, well buttered over. Co Ihert—An incision is made on the thick side of the sole, detaching sides of fillets without separating them; egged and breadcrumbed, fried, the bone removed through the incision, and maitre d’hotel placed in. Cubat—Poached, served on puree of mushrooms, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. JDaumont—Bone removed, farced with fish farce and puree of mushroom, re-form the sole to shape, poached; garnish with Daumont garnish and Normande sauce over.Poissons (Fish). 143 Dieppoise—Poached; served with vin blanc sauce, mussels, mushrooms, shrimps, and parsley garnish. Diplomate—Poached ; served with Diplomate sauce and sliced truffe. Doi mee—Dipped in milk, floured and fried, Medicis sauce a part. Duglere—Baked with onions, dice of tomatoes, parsley and white wine lie, fish veloute served over. Fermiere — Baked, liquor lie with fish veloute, cream ; fresh butter served over, a border of sliced potatoes salamandered. Florentine—Poached, served on spinach, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Grenobloise—Done as Meuniere; garnished with sliced lemon, cucumber, beetroot, and capers. Marguery I.—Poached, served in salpicon of mush- room and shrimps, vin blanc sauce over and gratines. Marguery II.—Poached, Hollandaise sauce over and gratines. Mariniere—Poached, served with vin blanc sauce, mussels, and parsley. Miromesnil—Prepare sole as for Colbert, floured only, fry very lightly, remove bone; when cold, place maitre d’hotel in incision, give the sole its normal shape, egged and breadcrumbed and fried in usual way, lemon round. Mo'ina—Baked, Chambord sauce, garnish with fonds, mushrooms, and morels.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 144 Montgolfier—Poached, serve vin blanc sauce over, slices of lobster on top, and julienne of truffes and mushrooms, fleurons round. Montreuil—Poached, shrimp sauce over, Parisian potatoes with vin blanc sauce round. Nantua—Poached, served with Nantua garnish and sauce. Normande—Poached, served with Normande garnish and sauce. Parisienne—Poached, served with three sauces in strips over the sole, vin blanc, shrimp, and cray- fish coulis. Portugais—Poached, vin blanc, sauce over and stewed tomatoes, Portugaise garnish, chopped parsley. Regence—Poached, served with Normande sauce over and Regence garnish. Richelieu—Breadcrumbed, sauteed in butter, Bear- naise sauce round, and Ravigote and tomato sauce mixed round again, thread of glaze over. Bitz—Poached, liquor reduced, and lie, with double cream served over, fried soft roe round. Boy ale—Poached, Normande sauce over, quenelles and truffes round, and crest fleurons. Sarah—Poached, masked with Yenitienne sauce, julienne of celery, carrots, and truffe. Soles et Filets. Allemande—Poached, with julienne of vegetable and sage fish veloutc lie over. Ambassade—Done as Mornay, sauteed, tomato garnish.Poissons (Fish). 145 Ambassadrice—Poached, served with rich creamed oyster sauce over, and Parisian potatoes round. Amelie—Poached, Aurore sauce over, sliced truffe on top, Parisian potatoes round. Amiral—Poached, served with vin blanc sauce lie lobster butter, garnished with fried oysters, fried mussels, truffe on top of sole. Amphytrion—Paupiettes, farced with oysters and anchovy farce, breadcrumbed and fried. Ancienne—As Bercy. Andalouse— Poached, served with fish veloute mixed with dice of tomato and strips of pimento, gratines, potato croquettes round. Anglaise—Breadcrumbed a 1’Anglaise, grilled or au four, served with noisette butter over. Antiboise—Fillets cut in strips as small smelts, breadcrumbed, and fried in oil, tomato dice, saute round. Archiduc—Poached, Normande sauce with paprika over and served on a salpicon of fish quenelles, lobster, mushrooms, and oysters in a shallow paste timbale. Argenteuil—Poached, vin blanc sauce over, creamed asparagus pointes round. Astronome—Baked, served with Italian sauce over, and rings of farced aubergine round. Au Champagne — Poached with champagne, liquor reduced and lie, veloute and fresh butter over the sole; thread of glaze round and gar- nish with mignonette of sole. Baron Brisse—Lobster farced paupiettes, poached with claret, lie with cornflour and butter, L146 The New Practical Cookery Guide. add dice of truffe, crayfish and mushroom sauce over, grated cheese and gratines. Bateliere—Poached, Normande sauce with mush- rooms and mussels over the fillets, dressed in boat-shaped croustades. Belle Helene—Paupiettes poached and served in nouille fonds, bechamel and cheese over and gratines. Bercy—Poached with eschalots, white wine and essence of fish, liquor reduced lie, poured over, thread of glaze round. Bignon—Poached, half vin blanc sauce and half Portugaise sauce. Bonvalet—Lobster farced fillets, lobster sauce over. Bourguignonne—Poached with Burgundy, Bour- guignonne sauce, mushrooms and croutons round. Brandelle—Poached with chablis, served with rich prawn or crayfish sauce, a picked prawn on each. Breteuil—As Meuniere, oyster Meuniere round. Bretonne—Poached, Bretonne sauce. Brillat Savarin—Poached, vin blanc sauce, button mushrooms, and button onions, gratines, crou- tons round. Cabaret—Poached in claret, liquor reduced, lie with kneaded butter and cornflour, served with mush- room glaze round. Calainaise—Prepare sole as for Colbert, farce with d’Uxelle and maitre d’hotel mixed, done en papillotte, and babe.Poissons (Fish). 147 Calcuta—Farced fillets, poached, curry sauce with mushrooms over. Cancalaise—Poached, Normande sauce, with oysters, shrimps, mussels, and mushrooms. Cantalaine—Farced fillets, vin blanc sauce, with quenelles and julienne of eeleriac. Caprice—Dipped in oiled butter and ‘breadcrumbs, grilled, Robert sauce round. Cardinal—Farced fillets (lobster farce), Cardinal sauce over, slices of lobster and corals. Careme—Farced, poached, Hollandaise over, gar- nish with soft roe and oysters. Castilliane—Poached, vin blanc sauce, sliced lobster, mushrooms over, sliced potatoes round, and gratines. Catalane—Poached fillets, dressed on half-grilled tomatoes filled with Soubise, Mornay over, and gratines. Cazanova—Poached, vin blanc sauce, with julienne of celery over, mussels and oysters round. Cecilia—As Meuniere, garnished with asparagus pointes. Champeau—Poached, Normande sauce, with shrimps, gratines. Chauchat—Poached, sliced potatoes round, vin blanc sauce over and gratines. Cherbourg—Farced fillets, poached, garnished with salpicon of oysters, mussels, and shrimps, shrimp sauce over and gratines. Chevaliere—Farced paupiettes, Normande sauce over, salpicon of oysters, crayfish, and truffe lie, Nantua sauce in centre of fillets, fieurons round. l 2148 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Choisy—Poached, vin blanc sauce, with julienne of truffle and mushrooms. Clara Ward—Baked with fines herbes, julienne of celery and mushrooms, lie, dice of fonds round. Claremont—As Duglere, with addition of julienne of truffe and tarragon. Clarence—Poached, served with Americaine sauce, slightly curried. Cleopatra—Baked and served with vin blanc sauce, julienne of truffle, soft roe, Meuuiere garnish. Colinette—Farced fillets, fried, tomato sauce apart. Conde—Poached, vin blanc sauce over, lines of tomato in dice and fines herbes saute, thread of tomato sauce round. Cornelius—As vin blanc, lobster spawns and chopped truffles over. Courtisane—Farced with d’Uxelles, Venitienne sauce over, small potato croquettes round. Crecy—Farced paupiettes, with puree of carrots in the farce, poached, veloute sauce with puree of carrots over, pearl of carrots garnish. Creole—Farced paupiettes with d’ Uxelle, dressed in cocottes, Mornay sauce over and gratines. Czarowitz—Seasoned with salt and paprika, sauteed as Meuniere, serve on Ducliesse potato bordure, containing fines herbes and chive, masked with veloute and tomato sauce mixed, cheese and gratine. Daumont—Farced paupiette, poached, served on large mushroom with salpicon Nantua, Normande sauce over.Poissons (Fish). 149 Dauphine—Paupiettes farced with puree of spinach, vin blanc sauce. Dezaret—Fillets dipped in milk, floured, done as Meuniere, tarragon and lemon garnish. Dieppoise—Poached, Dieppoise sauce and garnish. JDieudonne—Poached, white wine, liquor reduced, lie cream, garnish with tomatoes sautes, fines herbes, and mushroom saute with chervil. Dominique—Fillets poached lightly, masked with salpicon of oysters lie anchovy sauce, place in papillotte, bake and serve. Doria—Poached with white wine, fines herbes sauce over, and cucumber a la creme garnish. Dragoniroff — Baked, Mariniere sauce, gratines, scolloped mussels round. Duglere—As sole Duglere. Duse—Fillets poached, served on fonds of rice pilaff, Mornay sauce over and gratines, chopped truffe over. Egyptienne—Paupiettes served in cases, G-ourmet sauce over. Elizabeth—Farced paupiettes, served on fonds, cream sauce with cheese, gratines, sliced truffe on top. En Cocotte — Folded fillets, poached, served in cocottes with vin blanc sauce over, truffe and prawn on top. Epecurienne—Farced, poached with white wine and fish essence, liquor reduced, and lie with anchovy butter, and cream. Etrelas—Poached, Normande sauce with oysters, truffe, shrimps, and mushroom garnish.150 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Fecampoise—Poaclied, served with shrimp sauce and mussels. Fedorowna—Farced fillets with pike farce, poached, crayfish sauce over with truffe, shrimps, and mushrooms, mussels Villerov garnish. Feodora—Poached with claret, Gi-cnevoise sauce over, potatoes. Fermiere—Poached fillets, fish veloute and liquor, cream and butter, julienne of carrots, leeks, mushrooms, and fonds. Flora—Poached, Normande sauce, and Parisian potatoes with pink lobster sauce round. Florentine — Paupiettes farced with spinach served in croustades, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Gastronome—Farced fillets, sauce Eiche, and Eiche garnish. Georgette—Folded fillets poached, served in scooped baked potatoes, Nantua sauce over cheese, and salamandered. Gounod—Poached, Eiche sauce with ovsters and shrimps, lines of glaze across. Gourmet—Poached, served with rich cream sauce and crayfish. Grand Due I.—Poached fillets, asparagus pointes garnish, Normande sauce over, and gratines, sliced truffe on top. Grand Due II.—Poached, liquor reduced, mixed with fish veloute, gratines, garnished with mushrooms filled with salpicon of truffe, crayfish, and mushrooms, sliced truffe over.Poissons (Fish). 151 Grillee Arnericaine—Grilled sole with little chopped parsley and crumbs, oysters blanched, with little Worcester sauce round. Halery—Poached, served in bordure of Duchesse potatoes, fillets masked alternately with vin blanc sauce and chopped truffe, pink sauce with chopped white of eggs. Hambourgeoise — Poached, served with vin blanc sauce, julienne of celeriac, turnips, and fines herbes. Hdvraise—Farced fillets, Bercy sauce, fried mussels round. Helene—Farced paupiettes, served on croustades, filled with nouille a la creme, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Heloise—Sauteed as Meuniere, served with stewed dice of tomatoes and fines herbes, lemon round. Hongroise—Poached, row of sliced potatoes round, Hollandaise with paprika over, and gratines. Hotelier—Sauteed as Meuniere, maitre d’hotel and d’Uxelles mixed over, lemon round. Imjperiale—Poached, cream sauce with shrimps and julienne of truffe over, fried soft roe round. Inclienne—Poached, curry sauce over rice bordure. Infante—Poached, Mornay sauce with puree of mushrooms over, and gratines. Italienne—Poached, served with Italienne sauce. Jackson—Poached, masked with Soubise and fines herbes sauce, fleurons round. Janin—Poached with Rhine wine, liquor reduced, mixed with brown fish sauce, served on truffed d’Uxelles, crayfish and mussel garnish.152 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Jean Bart—Poached, Normande sauce with julienne of mushrooms, thread of glaze and lemon. Jeanne D’Arc—Folded fillets, baked, served on rice croustades filled with salpicon of oysters, mush- rooms, crayfish, and quenelles, beurre noisette over. Jeannette—Fines herbes, farced fillets, cream sauce over, decorated with tarragon and slices of foie gras. Jeannin—D’TJxelle farced fillets, poached, white wine lie, tomato sautes, and fines herbes and butter. Joinville I.—Poached, served on fish farce bordure, masked with Normande sauce, salpicon of truffe, shrimp and mushroom lie, shrimp sauce in centre, truffe on top. Joinville II.—Poached, served in couronne masked with shrimp sauce, salpicon of truffes, shrimps, quenelles, and mushroom in centre. Judic—Poached, served with braised lettuce in centre, Mornay sauce over, and gratines, sliced truffe on top. Jules—Farced fillets with puree of mushrooms and fines herbes, poached, served on fish farce bordure, Italian sauce over, and gratines. Lahowaska—Poached, and served with half truffe sauce and half shrimp sauce, in rows. Lacharme—Poached, served with Normande sauce and mussels. Lady JEgmont—Folded fillets poached, dressed in casserole or timbales with mushrooms, oointes, and reduced liquor, lie, cheese-crumbs and gratines.Poissons (Fish). 153 Lavalliere—Farced fillets studded with truffes, poached, served on fish farce bordure, with creamed veloute over, salpicon of quenelles, truffes, oysters, soft roe in centre. Leopold—Poached, served with half G-enevoise sauce and half Riche sauce, chopped truffes over. Lezat—Poached, masked with cream sauce and tarragon, lie anchovy butter, crayfish croquettes round. Loie Fuller—Poached, masked with three sauces in strips, vin blanc sauce, shrimp sauce, and Veni- tienne sauce. Londonderry—Farced fillets, poached, button mush- room on each, masked with Rormande sauce, lie crayfish coulis, mussels, and oysters, villeroy round. Loomis—Long fillets masked with fish farce and d’Uxelle mixed, breadcrumbs over and baked, Tartare sauce apart. Lorgnette—Rolled, done en brochette, and grilled, tomato sauce apart. Louis X V.—Lobster farced fillets, poached, vin blanc sauce over, sliced lobster and truffe on top. Lyonnaise—Baked with fines herbes, onions, white wine vinegar, lie butter, and sauced over. Mdconnaise—Poached with Macon wine and escha- lots, liquor reduced and lie with brown fish sauce and fresh butter, small button mushroom garnish. Magny—Baked with butter and lemon juice. Malesherbes—Poached, sliced lobster and truffe on fillets, shrimp sauce over and salamandered.154 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Manchester—As vin blanc, mixed with. Soubise. Manon—Farced paupiettes poached, served on Duchesse croustades, vin blanc sauce over, pointes garnish. Mantina—Poached fillets, liquor reduced, mixed with Italienne sauce and fines herbes, on fillets. Marcelle—Poached, vin blanc sauce over, garnished with coquilles of oyster, gratines. Marchand de Vin—Poached with claret and escha- lots, liquor reduced, lie with fresh butter, fines herbes over fish. Marechale—Flat fillets farced, truffles over, vin blanc sauce, soft roe and pointes garnish. Marguery I.—Poached, vin blanc sauce with shrimps and mushrooms and mussels, gratines. Marguery II.—Poached, Hollandaise sauce over and salamandered. Marie—Salpicon of fillets of soles and cream, sauce served in cucumber croustades and gratines. Marinette—Poached, vin blanc sauce mixed with puree of aubergine, served on aubergine fonds. Mariniere—Poached, vin blanc sauce, mussels and fines herbes. Marquise—Poached, served on bordure of marquise potatoes, shrimps over, salmon quenelles, truffle, and shrimp garnish. Mascotte—Farced paupiettes served in cocottes or timbales, quenelles and truft'es, Normande sauce over. Mathilda—Poached, vin blanc sauce mixed with puree of onions; cucumber a la creme garnish.155 Poissons (Fish). Menagere I.—Poached with claret and fines herbes in china fish dish, liquor, reduced and lie with butter kneaded with cornflour, served over. Menagere II.—Poached white wine sauce with julienne of carrots and truffe and fines herbes, fleurons round. Meuniere—Scored, seasoned, floured, sauteed with butter and little oil, served with beurre noisette and juice of lemon, chopped parsley, lemon round. Mexicaine—Flat fillets farced with puree of mush- rooms and fish farce, Aurore sauce over with pimentoes. Mignon—Poached with white wine, fines herbes and dice of tomatoes, lie fish veloute, fleurons round. Mignonnette—Cut into strips, floured, and fried as whitebait. Mimi—Poached, served on spaghetti, sliced lobster, chablis sauce. Minerve—Baked with fines herbs and dice of toma- toes, lie butter, served with anchovy fillets over, Parisian potatoes. Minute (a la)—As Meuniere. Mirabeau—Poached, G-enevoise and anchovy butter, anchovy fillets and tarragon over. Miramar—Fillets Meuniere served on rice pilaff, sliced aubergines saute round, beurre noisette over. Mogador—Farced, crumbed and grilled, supreme sauce with oysters and shrimps round. Moina—Poached with claret, Chambord sauce over, sauteed mushrooms and morels round.156 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Monaco—Poached, Aurore sauce and fines herbes with oysters over, croutons round. Moncey—Poached, Normande sauce with mussels over, tomato sautes round. Montahanais—Poached, bTormande sauce with puree of salsify, served on puree of artichoke. Montebello—Poached, with white wine and aromatic herbs, shrimp sauce over, fried oysters round. Monte Carlo—Poached, vin blanc sauce with puree of oysters, chopped trutfes over. Montespan—Poached, with fines herbes and white wine, lie vin blanc sauce, asparagus pointes at ends. Montmorency—Poached, Normande sauce over, thread of Bearnaise round, Parisian potatoes. Montpellier—Poached, vin blanc sauce with Mont- pellier butter over, fines herbes and croutons. Montreuil—Poached, bechamel and fish essence, bordure of sliced potatoes, cheese, and gratines. Montrouge—Poached, G-enevoise sauce with puree of mushroom over, Parisian potatoes round. Mornay—Poached, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Marat—Cut in strips, floured, and sauteed as Meuniere, julienne of potatoes and mushrooms sauteed round. Navarin—Pines herbes farced fillets, poached with champagne, lie, veloute and cream, scalloped lobster garnish. Nelson—Poached, served on puree soubise and bordure of potatoes, Mornay sauce over and gratines, fried soft roe round.Poissons (Fish). 157 Nemours—Farced, shrimp sauce over fillets, soft roe and quenelles with Normande sauce round. Newburg—Baked, served with sliced lobster New- burg in cocottes. Nissarde—Farced paupiettes served in vegetable marrow croustades, Aurore sauce over and gratines. Normande—Poached, served with Normande sauce and Normande garnish. Offemont—Poached, with eschalots and morels, vin blanc sauce over and chopped truffe. Olga I.—Poached, served in halves of scooped baked potatoes with shrimps, shrimp sauce over. Olga II.—As Bercy, with julienne of truffes. Orientale—As Newburg, slightly curried, plain rice bordure. Orleans I.—Paupiettes served in cocotte with sal- picon of mushrooms, shrimps, truffes, sauce riche over and sliced truffes. Orleans II.—Poached, served with three sauces and three coloured quenelles. Orly—Marinated fillets, fried in batter (pate a frire), tomato sauce separate. Pagani—Poached, button mushrooms on each, Nor- mande sauce and cheese over gratines, tomato, dice saute garnish and fleurons. Parisienne — Poached, three sauces, vin blanc, anchovy, and crayfish. Paula—As Meuniere, add a soup9on of anchovy essence and Worcester sauce in beurre noisette, capers and parsley over.158 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Per sane—As Newburg, with paprika, served in bordure of rice a la Grecque. Picarde — Poached, vin blanc sauce with puree of mushrooms and mussels, truffe and shrimps over, croutons and glaze. Pocharde—Poached, half vin blanc sauce and half Matelotte sauce. Polignac—Poached, vin blanc sauce, with julienne of truffe, mushrooms, celery, and tarragon. Pompadour—Fillets dipped in oil, butter, and crumbs, grilled, a line of Choron sauce over, Chateau potatoes round, thread of glaze on fillets. Prince de Galles—Poached with champagne, liquor reduced and lie, with veloute and crayfish coulis, oysters and small Duchesse potatoes garnish. Princesse I.—Poached, served on Duchesse fonds, Mornay sauce over and gratines, cassolettes of asparagus pointes garnish. Princesse II.—Baked in sauterne with mirpoix, served in china fish casserole, sliced truffe and prawns over, masked with Bearnaise sauce con- taining fish essence. Quirinal—Poached in red wine, masked with Bor- delaise sauce, mushroom and crayfish garnish. Rabelais—Folded, poached, anchovy sauce over, corals on top. Rachel—Farced, poached, Normande sauce and sliced truffe, asparagus pointes a la creme in centre. Rejane—Poached, veloute and puree of watercress over, salpicon of shrimps, oysters, mushrooms, and truffe, creamed, in centre.159 Poissons (Fish). Religieuse—Poached, masked with Hollandaise sauce and tarragon, a cross of truffe on each fillet, half hard eggs round with a cross of tarragon. Renaissance—As Bercy, garnished with fond filled with Nantua salpicon, gratines. Rhodesia—Poached, sliced lobster on each fillet, creamed Americaine sauce over. Riche—Poached, riche sauce over, sliced lobster, quenelles and truffe. Richelieu I.—Poached, half Normande sauce and half Pcrigueux sauce, a cross of tomato sautes over. Richelieu II.—Crumbed a l’Anglaise, done au four with butter, Bearnaise sauce in centre, tomato sauce round. Rigobert—Sauteed with butter, julienne of celery on top masked with liquid maitre d’hotel, rissolee potato round. Rochelais—Poached in claret, madeira sauce over, soft roe, oysters, and mushroom garnish. Rose Caron—Poached, masked with half veloute and puree of pistaclios and half shrimp sauce, julienne of truffe over. Rosina—Poached, vin blanc sauce with tomato pulp over, fish farced tomato round. Rothschild—Fillets soaked in cream for two hours, floured and sauteed with butter, golden colour, mousseline sauce with chopped truffe round. Rouennaise—Poached in claret, liquor reduced and lie butter and glaze, mushroom garnish. Rougemont—Poached, Aurore siuce with shrimp and truffe, noisette potato round.160 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Boyale—Poached, served with quenelles, mushrooms and prawns, mashed Normande sauce, Parisian potatoes. Russe—Poached with white wine, julienne of celery, carrots, cucumber, and parsley roots, lie Hollandaise, beetroot garnish. St. Cloud—Poached, vin blanc sauce over, tomato sauce round, and fried mussels at ends. St. Germain—Crumbed a l’Anglaise and fried, garnished with fried noisette potato, Bearnaise apart. St. Jean—Poached, masked with Bearnaise and fines herbes sauce mixed, laitance Meuniere round. St. Mdlo—Poached with cider, reduced and lie, butter and fines herbes, masked fillets, strip of tomato puree. St. Valery—Paupiettes served on large mushrooms, Mornay sauce over and gratines. Salisbury—Farced fillets served on bordure of*farce with julienne of truffe and prawns, rice a la Turque round, sauce Riche over and salamandered. Sarah—Poached, masked with Venitienne sauce, julienne of celery, truffe, and carrots. Savoy—Poached, dice of tomatoes sautes round, and pointes, Hollandaise sauce over, and sliced truffe. Sicilienne—Long fillets masked with mixture of anchovy butter, chopped hard eggs and fines herbes, egged and breadcrumbed, fried, beurre noisette over, potatoes and tomatoes round. Solocjnate—Marinated, slightly poached, wrapped in paste and oiled paper, cooked a la Cendre.161 Poissons (Fish). Souchard—Poached, vin blanc sauce and button mushrooms, cheese, and gratines, sliced truffe on fillets and potatoes Parisienne au beurre round. Spiers—Poached, Aurore sauce and fines herbes, potatoes round. Sullivan—Farced fillets, finished as Mornay, pointes round. Sully—Fillets rolled and crumbed a l’Anglaise, Bearnaise with lobster sauce mixed in centre, straw potatoes round. Sultane—Farced paupiettes served on Duchesse croustades, vin blanc sauce with puree of pis- tachos over, decorated with pimento and truffe. Sylvette—Poached with Spanish wine, reduced, lie with yolks and cream, served on tomatoes farced with puree of fish. Tabalion—Poached, fines herbes sauce, strip of pimento on top, noisette potatoes round. Teodore—Poached, vin blanc sauce over, Grenevoise sauce round. Tetrazzini—Farced paupiettes, poached with cham- pagne, reduce liquor and lie cream and cray- fish butter, dressed on fonds, decorate with strip of truffes as music lines. Theodora—Poached, Yenitienne sauce over, Nor- mande sauce round, Nantua salpicon in centre. Tolstoi—Cut in strips, crumbed and fried, vin blanc sauce apart. Toulousaine—Farced fillets, mussel sauce over, and mussel garnish. Tout Paris—Poached, vin blanc sauce over and strip of Nantua sauce. M162 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Traviata—Poached as Bercy, served on farced tomatoes with Nantua sauce. Trazonere—Poached, served on farce bordure with puree of salsify, sliced salsify a la creme in centre, creamed veloute over. Troisfreres—Poached, mashed half with vin blanc sauce and half with Aurore sauce, line of tomato sauce all round, and small duchesse potatoes. Trouville—Farced fillets, poached with oyster stock and white wine, reduced and lie yolks and cream, mask fillets, and garnish with fried oysters and pink quenelles. Trovatore—Poached in Malaga wine, liquor reduced and mixed with fish tomato sauce, mask fillets, and decorate with strips of pimento. TJrbain Dubois—Poached, dressed in timbales or fish dish with Aurore sauce, truffe and crayfish tails, light fish souffle mixture over, and baked. Valentine—Poached, served on Duchesse croustades with rissotto, Mornay sauce over and gratines. Valewska—Poached, crayfish tails and truffe over, masked Mornay sauce and gratines. Valois—Poached, masked with vin blanc sauce and Bearnaise. Van-der-Berghe—Poached, masked with vin blanc sauce, julienne of truffe, mushrooms, tomatoes, and fines herbes. Vanderbilt—Poached with madeira and mushroom liquor reduced, lie cream and veloute, and fines herbes, garnished. Vatel—Poached, Chambord sauce, farced cucumber and mignonette of sole garnish.Poissons (Fish). 163 Vendome—Farced, served on spaghetti, Nantua sauce over. Venitienne—Poached, Venitienne sauce over, potatoes round. Verdi—Poached, served on macaroni a l’ltalienne, cream sauce and cheese over, gratines. Vernet—Poached, Yernet sauce and Parisienne potatoes. Vernon—Breadcrumbed and grilled, Eavigotte sauce apart. Veronique—Baked in casserole, masked with reduced fish liquor, lie butter and lemon juice, skinned muscat grapes in centre. Victoria—Poached, masked with Victoria sauce, salpicon of lobster and truffe in centre. Vierge—Poached, masked with cream sauce, tarragon and chervil. Villeroi—Poached, when cold masked with Villeroi sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Vin Blanc—Poached, vin blanc sauce with button mushroom, glaze. Vin Rouge—Poached with claret, claret sauce and mushroom, glaze. Virginie—Paupiette served on scooped baked potatoes, filled with salpicon of shrimps, Mornay sauce, and gratines. Voisin — Farced fillets, poached, fines herbes sauce, with mushroom over, croquette potato round. Wilhelmine—Poached fillets, served on scooped baked potatoes, filled with cucumber a la creme, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. m 2164 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Windsor—Poached, masked with creamed oyster sauce and Parisienne potatoes round. Yvette—Poached, masked fines herbes sauce, tomatoes farced with fish salpicon and mushroom, round. Matelotte. One of the oldest preparations in French cuisine that is seldom seen in England, with exception of the traditional stewed eels. On the Continent many catering establishments make it one of their special dishes, undoubtedly the fresh water eels and carp are the two most suitable fish to use in matelotte, but an excellent substitute is found, as in matelotte Normande, in whiting, soles, and gurnet, etc. The fish is sliced, placed in convenient sized pan, and covered with either red or white Avine, sliced onion, a bouquet garni, a soupcon of garlic, salt and fresh ground pepper; when boiling, a glass or two of brandy is added and allowed to simmer till done, the piece of fish carefully removed and dressed in timbales, the liquor strained and reduced, and lie with either kneaded butter and flour or veloute or Espagnole, as the case requires, and garnished with mushrooms, button onions, crayfish tail, etc., and poured over the fish in timbales with croutons round. Matelotte Mariniere—Cooked with white wine and brandy thickened with fish veloute and cream, garnished with mushroom, button onions, and fried croutons. Matelotte Canotiere—Cooked with white wine and cognac, thickened with kneaded butter and flour,165 Poissons (Fish). garnished with mushrooms, button onion glaces, small fried smelts, and croutons round. Matelotte Meuniere—Cooked with red wine (claret) and brandy, thickened with kneaded butter and flour, garnished with crayfish tails, and croutons. Matelotte Meurette—Cooked with claret and cognac, thickened with kneaded butter and flour, served on fried large croutons, slightly garlic flavour. Matelotte Normande—Cooked with cider and cognac, thickened with veloute and cream, garnished with oysters, mussels, and mushrooms. Matelotte Poachhouse—Cooked in claret and brandy, thickened with kneaded butter and flour, gar- nished with dice of pickled pork, mushrooms, and croutons. Timbales de Soles. Timbales de Sole a la Grimaldi—Farced paupiette served) in short paste timbale, with layer of macaroni a la creme, sliced trufle, and fish veloute, lie with lobster butter over. Timbales de Sole Carmelite—As Cardinal, Normande sauce over. Timbales de Sole Marquise—Poached fillets served in timbales, with salmon quenelles, oysters and truffes, vin blanc sauce and paprika over. Timbales de Soles Cardinal—Farced paupiettes, poached and served in timbales with sliced mush- rooms, crayfish, and trufle Cardinal sauce over. Turban de Filet de Sole Villarey—Fillets arranged in well-buttered bordure mould with sliced trufle on each, filled with rich fish farce, baked, served166 The New Practical Cookery Guide. with salpicon of truffe, mushroom and soft roe in centre, lobster sauce over. Turban de Filets de Sole Careme—Fillets arranged in moulds lined with fish farce, salpicon of oysters, mussels, prawns, mushrooms, and truffe, lie veloute, layer of farce over and baked. Sattmon (Salmon). A V Americaiue—Supremes prepared as lobster Americaine. Amirale — Cooked in No. 3 courtbouillon, served with G-enevoise sauce, fried ovsters and fried mussel garnish. Balmoral (Darnes)—Poached, Chambord sauce with quenelles, truffe and lobster, Parisian potatoes round. Chambord—Cooked with burgundy, Chambord sauce and garnish. Champere—Baked with white wine, served with caper sauce, Parisian potato garnish. Danoise (Darne)—Poached, served with Hollandaise sauce and anchovy essence, jfiain noisette pota- toes round. D’Artois—Farced supreme, chopped truffe over, served with oyster sauce. Daumont—Nantua sauce with quenelles, mushroom lobster, decorated with truffes. Dieppoise—Poached, Dieppoise sauce, Parisienne potatoes round. Ecossaise (Darne)—Poached, served with Holland- aise sauce, mixed with brunoise roots and anchovy essence.167 Poissons (Fish). Epicurienne—Baked with white wine, served with Chambord garnish. Genevoise—Baked, served with Genevoise sauce, potatoes round. Hollandaise—Poached, Hollandaise sauce, Parisian potatoes round. Madras—Breadcrumbed supremes, fried, Madras sauce. Marianne—Escaloppe, poached, served on spinach, Mariniere sauce over. Metternich—Farced, baked, served with Chambord sauce, truffe, crayfish, and mushroom garnish. Monte Carlo—Supreme, poached, and served with Nantua sauce over, garnished with cassolettes of pointes, Genevoise sauce round fish. Montmorency—Farced supreme, served with vin blanc sauce and mushroom and stoned olives round. Montreuil—Supreme, poached, served with cream sauce and shrimps, Parisian potatoes round. Moscovite—Supreme, poached, Hollandaise sauce over, and cucumber garnish. Orientate—Farced supreme, poached, served with veloute and sauteed tomatoes, olives and tomato sauce round. Parisienne (Darne)—Baked with claret, served with Genevoise sauce, mussels, oysters, and mushroom garnish. Phileas Gilbert—Farced and baked, garnished with truffe mushroom, Yilleroi oyster, barquette Nantua, and Normande sauce. Begence I.—Baked, served with Begence sauce, Begence garnish, and marquise potatoes.168 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Regence II. — Poached, served with Normande sauce, quenelles, soft roe, mushroom and oysters. Richelieu—Poached, garnished with fried soft roe, oysters and shrimps, Nantua sauce. Rothschild (Whole)—Cooked in courtbouillon with champagne, decorated with truffes, quenelles, crayfish, oysters, creamed veloute with crayfish coulis. Rottomago—Supreme, Percy sauce over and gratines, Nantua sauce round. Royal—Baked with sauterne, garnished with mush- room, truffe, and quenelles, Parisian potatoes round, Normande sauce. Valois—Baked and masked with lobster butter, Valois sauce, coquille of oyster and potato round. Verdoyant—Supreme, poached, green Hollandaise sauce over, potatoes. Truite (Trout). Au Bleu—Live trout cooked in courtbouillon, served hot with Hollandaise or oiled butter, and cold with mayonnaise. Cambaceres I.—Larded and baked with sauterne, julienne of celery and morels, lie veloute and fresh butter, garnished with crayfish, croquettes, and fried mussels. Cambaceres II.—Farced and baked with Bordeaux wine, lie Genevoise sauce, garnished with mush- rooms, olive, and truffe.Poissons (Fish). 169 Chambord—Farced, baked with claret, Chambord sauce, and garnish. Cleopatra—Poached, supreme sauce, with crayfish, cucumber, and soft roe garnish. Garnavie—Poached, done in papillotte with maitre d’hotel. Grenobloise—Sauteed as Meuniere, sliced lemon over, garnished cucumber, capers, and beetroot, beurre noisette. Hbteliere—Split, boned, crumbed, and baked, served with maitre d’hotel and d’Uxelle, mixed, lemon round. Hussarde—Sauteed Meuniere, masked with Hussarde sauce without the ham. Ivanhoe—Baked with butter, sliced lemon and apples, and fines herbes. Mdconnaise—Farced, studded with anchovies, baked with Macon wine, served with mushrooms, soft roe, and Genevoise sauce, mussel Villeroi round. Mantone—Filleted, baked with sauterne, lie Italian sauce. Montgolfier—Boned and farced, baked, garnished with sliced truffe and lobster, vin blance sauce, with lobster butter. Piemontaise—Farced, poached, served with white wine sauce and Piemont truffe. Romano—Poached, mousseline sauce over, with quenelles and crayfish. Royal—Poached, served with Normande sauce, mushroom truffes, crayfish, quenelles.170 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Turbot. A VArlesienne-—Poached, half Bercy sauce and half tomato sauce. Amiral—Poached with white wine and mushroom liquor, served with vin blanc sauce, lie crayfish butter, garnished with truffes, crayfish tails, fried oysters, and mussels. Boitel—Poached, Normande sauce and mushrooms, gratines. Bonne femme—Poached with fines herbes, onions, and diced mushroom, liquor reduced, lie butter, masked and gratines. Cambeceres—Farced, supreme, baked’ with sauterne, lie vin blanc sauce, mushrooms, mussels, and crayfish croquettes. Commodore—Poached, garnished with lobster cro- quettes and oyster Yilleroy, Normande sauce, and anchovy butter. Daumont—As soles Daumont. Duchesse — Poached, served in duchesse potato bordure, cream sauce and truffe over. Fermiere—Poached with claret, liquor reduced, lie butter, garnished with morels. Hongroise—Supreme, with Hongroise sauce, noisette potatoes round, and gratines. Laguipierre — Baked, Joinville sauce, potato cro- quettes round. Nelson—Farced and finished as Mornay. Parisienne — Poached, garnished with quenelles, mushrooms, and crayfish, crayfish sauce and vin blanc sauce over.Poissons (Fish). 171 Rachel—Poached, Nantua sauce, with julienne of truffes. Regence—Farced, poached, garnished with quenelles, oysters, mushrooms, olives, soft roe, rich fish veloute over and sliced truffe. Reyniere—Farced, baked, garnished with mushrooms, soft roe, and anchovy fillets, Stanley sauce over. Richement—Poached, Normande sauce with julienne of truffe, carrots, Parisienne potato round. Royal — Farced, supreme, mousseline sauce, with oysters. Salvador—Farced, supreme, done as Duglere. Sarah—Poached, Yenitienne sauce, and julienne of truffe. Turbotin—Chicken turbot. Valentine—Poached, Normande sauce with mush- room, finished as Mornay. Vatel I.—Small grilled chicken turbot, garnished with crayfish, vin blanc sauce. Vatel II.—Supreme, poached, Chambord sauce, cucumber and mignonnette of sole garnish. Barbue (Brill). All ways of cooking and garnishing brill are the same as turbot. Fletan (halibut), prepared as turbot. Merlans (Whiting). A VAmbassadrice.—Paupiette, poached, an oyster on each, rich cream sauce over.172 The New Practical Cookery Guide. * Andalouse—Farced paupiettes served on half grilled tomato filled with risotto, Aurore sauce over, aubergine garnish. Anglaise—Split, dipped in oiled butter and fresh crumbs, baked, beurre noisette and lemon. Belle Helene—Paupiettes served on nouilles, masked with bechamel, and cheese and gratines. Bercy—As sole Bercy. Bonne Femme—Baked with fines herbes and mush- rooms, and white wine, lie, masked and salamandered, Boulangere—Done asMeuniere, breadcrumbs, maitre d’hotel over and salamandered, noisette potatoes round. Bretonne—Baked with julienne of onions and leeks lie, cream and fines herbes. Cecilia—Prepared as Meuniere, asparagus pointes garnish. Cherbourg—Baked with sliced mushrooms, oysters, white wine, lie butter, and serve. Chevaliere—Farced paupiettes, poached, masked with Nantua sauce, salpicon of truffe, oysters, crayfish lie, Normande sauce served in centre. Colbert—Split and boned, and finished as sole Colbert. Dieppoise—As Sole Dieppoise. Don Carlos.—Poached served with half vin blanc sauce and half tomato sauce, chopped truffe over. Doria—Poached, served with vin blanc sauce and cucumber, a la creme garnish. Fecampoise—Poached, garnished with mushrooms and shrimp sauce over.Poissons (Fish). 173 Frangaise—Dipped in milk, floured and fried, Tartare sauce apart. Grand Mere—Paupiette, done in cocotte, M or nay and gratines. Grenobloise—Split and finished as sole Grenobloise. Heloise—Baked with fines herbes, dice of tomatoes and fines herbes lie cream, and serve. Hoteliere—Boned, done as Meuniere maitre d’hotel and d’Uxelle over. Jackson—Poached, fines herbes sauce over, button onions and croutons round. Juive—Filleted and fried in batter with oil, Tartare sauce. Marchand de Yin—Baked with claret, eschalots and fines herbes, lie butter, and masked. Mascotte—Farced paupiettes in cocottes, shrimp sauce over. Medicis—Fried a 1’Anglais, Medicis sauce apart. Nigoise—Split and grilled, Nicoise garnish round. Orly—Filleted, marinated, fried in batter, tomato sauce apart. Rachel—Poached, Nantua sauce over, and julienne of truffe. Rejane—Paupiettes, poached, served with vin blanc sauce, mushrooms, oysters, and truffe. Richelieu—Done as a l’Anglaise, with chopped truffe over. Tabaillon—Paupiettes, poached, Normande sauce and truffe. Verdi—Poached, white wine, liquor reduced, and mixed with Bcarnaise, masked, tomato sauce round.174 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Carrelets (Flounders) Are mostly fried or grilled or en soucliet, can also be served as soles. Souchet—Poached with julienne of carrots, onions, celery, and cucumbers, white wine and fish stock, and served thus with chopped parsley. Plie (Plaice). Small plaice are grilled or fried, or Meuniere, large ones are generally filletted, and done a la Orly or fried. Carpe (Carp). Fried a la Francaise as whitings, or Meuniere; mostly used in making matelotte or a la Chambord. Esturgeon (Sturgeon). Braised in darnes or fricandeau style, or poached in courtbouillon, and served with suitable garnish. Anguille (Eels). Eels are rarely used in modern cuisine, though as an occasional change or in fish cookery (for amateur d’anguille), a few recipes are given. Bordelaise—Cut into supremes, poached with wine and fines herbes, reduce liquor and mix with Bordelaise sauce, serve over, garnish with glazed button onions and mushrooms. «rPoissons (Fish). 175 Farcie—Honed and farced, braise with mirpoix and white wine, cut into convenient size, reduce liquor and lie with fish veloute, served with a garnish of quenelles and fleurons round. Frites—Boned, cut about three inches long pieces, blanched when cold, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried. Grandmere—Cut convenient size, poached with claret, fresh mushrooms, and eschalots, lie with kneaded butter and flour, served on croutons. They are also done a la Orly, Meuniere, au vin blanc, eel pie, etc., and Matelotte, which they are most suitable for. Brochet (Pike or Jack). Pike, like many fresh-water fish, is scarce, and rarely served in England. The large ones are more suitable for making farce and quenelles. Smaller fish are prepared in many ways, A few recipes only are given here. Au Bleu—Trussed S fashion, cooked in court- bouillon, and served with oiled butter or Hollandaise. Bateliere—Cut in neat fillets, marinated, and fried in batter (pate a frire). Chambord — Skinned, studded with truffe, and braised with mirpoix and red wine. Reduce liquor, lie with Espagnole maigre, finish the usual way, and garnish with quenelles, crayfish, soft roe, and mushrooms and truffe. Grilles—Grilled, and served with mayonnaise sauce en matelotte, is one of the best ways of cooking176 The New Practical Cookery Guide. pike. The inatelotte par excellence is prepared with pike, carp, and eels, cooked with Burgundy wine, and a few glasses of Burgundy eau de vie. Normande—Skinned, farced, and braised with white wine, etc. Reduce liquor and lie veloute, butter, and cream, garnish with oysters, mussels, mush- rooms, and truffe. Cabillaud (Codfish). A VAnglaise—Cooked whole in salted water, and served with oyster sauce and plain Parisian potatoes. Andalouse —Supreme, poached, served with vin blanc sauce over and tomato sauce round, pimentoes over. Dieppoise—Sliced and baked, served with Dieppoise sauce and garnish. Dimitri—Supreme, poached, vin blanc sauce over, with anchovy fillets lattice fashion, potatoes round. Don Carlos—Supreme, done as whiting Don Carlos. Flamande—Darnes baked with white Bordeaux and fines herbes, lie. Nantaise—Supreme, farced, served with Normande sauce and parsley. Niverne—Supreme, as Dimitri, chopped truffe on top. Portugaise—Supreme, poached with fines herbes, eschalots, tomatoes, liquor reduced and lie, chopped parsley over. Provengale—Supreme or slices, baked with eschalots, oil, garlic flavour, tomatoes and mushrooms, juice of lemon.177 Poissons (Fish). Peine—Darnes, poached, served with cream sauce and quenelles. Vierge—Supreme, poached, served with cream sauce, tarragon, and chervil over. Whitney—Slices, poached, served with Normande sauce, garnished with potato, croutons, and grilled bacon. Mortte (Salt Cod). Brandade—Boiled, pounded to a puree with the addition of olive oil and hot milk, garlic flavour, served in timbales with croutons. Creole—Boiled, flaked, served in timbales with fried sliced onion, tomato, and pimento, beurre noisette over. Kedgeree is made with cod, turbot, salmon, soles, etc., or smoked haddock, boiled, flaked, and mixed with cream sauce and boiled rice, gar- nished with quarters of hard eggs. Kedgeree d VIndienne—As above, curried. BlanchaiLle (Whitebait). This delicate fish should be washed in iced water in which a little flour has been mixed, drained, well floured, fried in boiling hot fat, and seasoned with salt (plain), cayenne pepper (devilled), curry powder (Madras), Nepaul pepper (a la Nepaul). Rouget (Red Mullet). Baron Brisse—Grilled, masked with maitre d’hotel, noisette potatoes round. N178 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bordelaise—Cooked a la Meuniere, and served with Bordelaise sauce. Chesterfield—Poached, served in cases, lobster sauce over, with sliced lobster and truffe. Don Carlos—Prepared as whiting Don Carlos. En Caisses—Baked, served in cases with Genevoise sauce. En Papillotte—Poached, masked with d’Uxelles, wrapped in oiled paper and grilled. Frangillon—Grilled, served on long anchovy croutes, garnished with straw potatoes and fried parsley round, tomato sauce mixed with anchovy butter apart. Fenouil—Marinated with chopped fennel,'oil, and juice of lemon, salt and fresh-ground pepper, wrapped in oiled paper and grilled. Grenobloise—As sole Grenobloise. Juive—Cooked in batter (pate a frire), tomato sauce apart. Jules Janin—Farced, baked, and served in cases with Genevoise sauce, and truffe over. Marechale—Filleted, breadcrumbed a l’Anglaise and sauteed, garnished with pointes and truffe on top. Marseillaise—Baked with oil, chopped onion, toma- toes, fines herbes, flavour of saffron and garlic, lemon juice, reduce liquor, and serve over fish. Maryadel—Filleted, floured and sauteed in oil, served with vin blanc sauce over, Genevoise sauce round, garnished with croutons and cepes sautes. Nantaise—Grilled, served with Chateaubriand sauce over, garnished with lemon. Nigoise—Grilled, served with Ni<;oise garnish.179 Poissons (Fish). Olga—As Bercy, with a julienne of truffe on top. Orientale—Baked with fines herbes, dice of tomatoes, saffron flavour, lie and garnished. Polonaise—Baked, with fish liquor, lie cream and yolk masked, Polonaise crumbs on top. Portugaise—Baked, with white wine, fines herbes, and tomatoes, lie and masked, garnished. Provengale—Baked with fines herbes, tomato sauce, garlic flavour, cucumber garnish. Theodora—Farced, baked, masked with vin blanc sauce. Trouville—Baked with white wine, served with Col- bert sauce. Venitienne—Baked, masked with Venitienne sauce, olive and mushroom round. Maquereau (Mackerel). A VAnglaise—Boiled, and served with fennel sauce. Berte—Baked, and served with Choron sauce. Boulonaise—Baked, garnished with mussels, oysters, and soft roe, vin blanc sauce, with fines herbes over. Caen—Farced, baked, served with fines herbes sauce. Calaisienne—Cooked in papillotte with maitre d’hotel. Chanoise—Farced fillets, poached, vin blanc sauce, with shrimps over. Flamande—Baked, and served with mustard sauce and potatoes. Orientale—Done as rougets Orientale. St. Jean—Baked, and served with Ravigotte sauce. Venitienne—Poached fillets, masked with Venitienne n 2 sauce.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 180 Eperlan (Smelt). Africaine—Baked, with tomato juice, dice of sweet red pepper, and little mustard mixed, lie with butter. A VAnqlaise—Split, boned, and done as whiting a 1’Anglais e. Au Vin Blanc—As sole Yin Blanc. Baron Brisse—Grilled, masked with maitre d’hotel butter, noisette potatoes round. Boitel—Poached with chablis, fines herbes, and chopped mushroom, lie butter and cream. Brochette—Skewered, dipped in milk, floured, and fried. Juive—Fried in batter with oil, Tar tare sauce apart. Meuniere—As sole Meuniere. Mousse d’—Pounded, made into farce, well seasoned, finished with cream, poached in moulds, and served with cream fish veloute. Polonaise—Farced, baked, Polonaise butter and crumbs over. Richelieu—As Meuniere, chopped truffle over. Grenouilles (Frogs). This Continental dish is served in places abroad and in America, and for the benefit of amateurs a few recipes are given to show how they are prepared. Fi dcassee—When soaked, poached with white wine, onions, and seasoned, the liquor reduced, lie with veloute and cream, and served in timbales with a few sliced mushrooms and parsley.181 Poissons (Fish). Frites—The legs only are used, skinned, soaked in acidulated salt water for a few hours, then marinated with little oil, juice of lemon, salt, fresh-ground pepper, and chopped fines herbes, dipped in light batter, and fried. Gratines—Prepared as fricassee dressed in bordure of potatoes, cheese and crumbs over, and gratines. Meuniere—Floured, sauteed with butter, seasoned, beurre noisette, juice of lemon, and chopped parsley. / Poisson Americain (American Fish). Blue Fish. A la Bombay—Scored and marinated with little anchovy essence. Throw grated cocoanut over clear fire and grill fish on top, and serve with anchovy butter and sliced lemon. . Creole—Filleted, and seasoned with paprika, baked, and served with Italienne sauce, containing chopped green peppers and tomatoes, garlic flavour. Diaz—Filleted, scored, and masked with a puree of pounded red peppers, anchovy essence, juice of lemon, and paprika, marinated for an hour, then bake with white wine, butter, and sliced fresh mushrooms over, basted, and serve thus. Paysanne—Macerated, and baked with a paysanne of onion, carrots, celery, and fines herbes, lie with kneaded butter and flour, and masked.182 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Clam. Opened, well cleaned, and blanched. Bourguignonne—Served in shells with savoury butter made with pounded chive, chervil, tarragon, eschalots, soup9on of garlic, parsley, and butter, masked and baked. Diahlees—Cut in dice, lie with rich veloute made with clam liquor, chopped green peppers, cayenne, the shells refilled, cheese and crumbs over, and gratines. Newhurg—Blanched and sauteed with a piece of butter, sherry, and seasoned, lie yolk and cream, and served in cocottes. Vaudeville—Blanched, served in gratin dish with fish veloute, flavoured with sherry and clam liquor over, breadcrumbs and gratines. King Fish. Jl la Bercy—Scaled, split, and boned, baked with eschalots and white wine and fish stock, reduce liquor, and lie with veloute, chopped parsley and glaze. Comtesse—Cut in neat pieces about one inch square, poached with sherry and cayenne and fresh butter, reduced liquor, and lie' with cream and yolks, served in cases or cocottes, with a mush- room on top, and sauce. Danois—King fish, about half a pound each, split and boned, dipped in milk, floured and sauteed as Meunicre, served with rings of anchovies over,183 Poissons (Fish). and beurre noisette mixed with anchovy essence on top, cucumber garnish. Newyoka ise—Poached in acidulated courtbouillon, served with sauce made from it, lie cream and yolks, and garnish with clams, Mornay round. Red Snapper. A VAncienne—Marinated, then cooked in white wine courtbouillon, served in gratin dish with veloute mixed with chopped gherkins, capers, and mush- rooms, cheese over, and gratines. Demideuil—Filleted, and poached with fine chopped onion, sherry, paprika, etc., reduce liquor and lie with fish sauce and fresh butter, and masked julienne of truffe, mushroom, and pimento, sliced potatoes round. Indienne—Filleted, and poached with white wine, chopped onion and apples, curry powder ; when cooked, serve fish in bordure of boiled rice, lie sauce with veloute, creamed, and mask fish, powdered bombay duck on top. Mobile—Boned, and poached with chopped eschalots, chive, green peppers, mushroom, and parsley, tomato sauce, and cream, served with sauce over and croutons round. Shad. A la Madrid—Filleted, baked with oil, salt and pepper, sliced tomatoes, and red peppers on top, little Spanish saffron, and eschalots, and served. Planked—Well seasoned with salt and fresh-ground pepper, and placed on an oiled oak plank, baste184 The New Practical Cookery Guide. the shad with butter, and bake ; when done, have a bordure of duchesse potatoes piped round the plank, garnish round fish with rolled grilled bacon, blanched oysters, mushrooms, tomatoes, etc., and serve with maitre d’hotel butter over fish. Planked d la Finoise—Cooked as above with sliced tomatoes, paprika, and sliced green peppers over and the bordure of duchesse potatoes. Ravigotte — Grilled as above, and served with Ravigotte sauce. Vert Pre—Filleted, well seasoned, and grilled, served with green butter over, watercress, and lemon garnish. Stripped Bass. Bostonienne—Cut into supreme, egged and bread- crumbed and fried, served with a slice of grilled bacon on each. Conti—Scored and baked, served on a puree of butter beans, Genevoise sauce over. Montebello — Filleted, seasoned with paprika, and baked, served with Choron sauce over, and fried sweet potatoes round. Providence—Filleted and baked, served with mush- rooms, olives, oysters, and truffe round, fish veloute over. Homard (Lobster). Americaine—Live lobster is used, the tail cut in inch pieces, claws cracked, the body split and cleaned, the fleshy parts kept for sauce, then sauteed185 Poissons (Fish). with oil and butter for ten minutes, drained, finely chopped onion added, and white wine, salt, freshly ground pepper, a soup9on of garlic and chopped parsley, dice of skinned tomatoes, and a little cognac, cover and cook till done; serve the pieces of tail in a timbale, the shelled claws on top, add the inside of body to sauce, and reduce with a piece of butter; just before serving, lie with fresh butter, juice of lemon, and pour over lobster, chopped parsley and tarragon on top. American style—Lobster cut as above, sauteed with butter for ten minutes, the chopped eschalots and green peppers, salt and paprika, thyme, and bay leaf, chopped tomatoes, and some sherry; cook till done, and serve with sauce lie with butter and juice of lemon. Bordelaise—Cut up and sauteed as for Americaine, chopped eschalots, white wine, and cognac, lie with tomato sauce veloute, shelled, served in timbale, the sauce reduced and buttered, pour over, chopped parsley on top. Broche (a la)—Split, basted with butter and champagne, seasoned, grilled on open fire, and served with Eavigotte sauce. Cardinal—Split, scalloped in own shell, Nantua sauce over, and gratines. Cettoise — Sliced lobster served in timbale with curried rice and Americaine sauce over. Clarence—Split, sliced, rice Indienne in shell, lobster on top, masked, curried, cream sauce, sliced truffe.186 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Danoise—Cut in squares, sauteed with green peppers and oil, dice of tomatoes, and fines herbes, highly seasoned with paprika, served in tiihbales. En Brochette—Slices of lobster and thin bacon skewered alternately, rolled in devilled butter and fresh crumbs, grilled, served on toast, with little oiled butter over. Grilles—Split, seasoned, basted with butter, and grilled, devilled sauce over. Hongroise—Scalloped in own shell with cream and paprika, with sliced mushrooms, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Infante—As Americaine, lie with puree of mush- rooms. Laguipierre—Scalloped with Americaine sauce, served in duchesse bordure. Lord Randolph Churchill—Split, seasoned, mustard butter over, breadcrumbs, and gratines. Moderne—Split, sliced, fill shell with mousse of lobster slices on top, masked veloute, and baked.. Newburg—Cut in squares, sauteed with butter five minutes, add sherry, paprika, lie yolks, and cream, and served in shell, cassolettes or crous- tades ; sliced truft'e on top. Page—As Newburg, slightly curried. Palestine—Cut raw in inch pieces sauteed with oil, finish cooking with white wine and brandy, inside of body pounded, mixed with liquor and veloute, shelled, and served on rice pilaff, sauce over.187 Poissons (Fish). Romanoff—Split cooked lobster, the meat cut in dice and lie with cream sauce, refill shell, crumbs over and gratines. Turgue—Sliced, sauteed with oil, mirpoix, and cognac, saffron flavour, served with curried rice. Vanderbilt—Split, minced with dice of truffe and mushrooms mixed with Nantua sauce, 'masked Nantua sauce and gratines. Victoria—Scalloped lobster with quenelles and mushrooms, lie Victoria sauce, served in timbales. Waldimir—Split, shell filled with puree of lobster and truffes, sliced lobster on top, paprika sauce, and gratines. Langouste (Crawfish) are prepared as lobsters. Require longer cooking. Ecrevisses (Crayfish). A la Nage—Cooked with white wine, courtbouillon, and fines herbes, served in liquor. Bordelaise—Cooked with white wine, cognac, chopped eschalots, tomato sauce, and pulverised herbs, lie fresh butter. Leroy—Cooked with fresh sorrel leaves, butter, well seasoned. Liegeoise—Cooked with white wine, eschalots, and fines herbes, liquor reduced, lie butter, and served over. Magenta — Cooked with sauterne, fine mirpoix, dice of tomatoes, lie butter, and served in timbales.188 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mariniere—Sauteed in butter five or six minutes, add chopped eschalots, seasoned, white wrine, fines herbes. When done, lie with veloute, and serve with chopped parsley over. Mousse—Shelled and pounded, made into farce, creamed and seasoned, poached in moulds, and served with rich crayfish sauce. Ho tres (Oysters). Americaine—Lightly blanched, served in shells with Americaine sauce. Anglaise—Scalloped in shell, cream sauce, cheese, crumbs, and gratines. Baked Oysters—Baked in deep shell with cayenne, cheese, Worcestershire sauce, and lemon. Favorite—Scalloped as Anglaise, sliced truft'e on top. Indienne—Curried, served in rice bordure. Jacques—Floured and sauteed with butter, served on anchovy toast with a slice of thin bacon, beurre noisette over. Marechale—Fried in batter (pate a frire), lemon and parsley round. Mornay—Poached, served in bordure of duchesse potatoes, Mornay sauce over, and gratincs. Polonaise—Done in shells with Polonaise butter and crumbs, gratines. Pompadour—Poached, masked with Hollandaise sauce and truffle. Roast Oysters—Roasted in hot oven a few minutes, just loosen shells. Russe—Raw oysters served on caviare on toast, lemon round.189 Poissons (Fish). Vaudeville—Stewed with sherry, fines herbes, and veloute in cocotte. Villeroy—Poached, masked with Villeroy sauce,. when cold, egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Waldimir—Scalloped in shell, sliced truffe on each, supreme sauce over, cheese, crumbs, and gratine. % Escargots. As an entirely Continental dish, recipe has been omitted. They are found in some West-end foreign restaurants.PART V. # GARNITURES (Garnishes). The names of Garnitures in modern cookery have grown to such great numbers that it would be impossible to describe them all. The following are some of the general standard and best known. Both the fish and meat garnishes are together in alphabetical order. Alexandra—Artichoke quarters, pointes, and truffes. Algerienne—Tomatoes sauteed in oil, fonds, yam croquettes, tomato sauce with pimentoes. Alsacienne J.—Braised cabbage, fondante potatoes, demiglace. Alsacienne II.—Tartlets with sauerkraut, slices of ham. Americaine—Sliced lobster Americaine, Americaine sauce. Amiral—Consist of mussels Villeroy, crayfish tail, or sliced lobster, Genevoise or Matelotte sauce. Andalouse I.—Braised pimentoes filled with rice a la Grecque, small sausages, sliced fried aubergines with tomato sautee, jus lie. Andalouse II.—Braised lettuce, braised cabbage, and Chorizo sausages.Garnitures (Garnishes). 191 Anver noise—-Tartlets filled with hop shoots a la creme, noisette potatoes, and tomato sauce. Argenteuil — Asparagus pointes a la creme, Hol- landaise sauce. Arlequin—Olive-shaped carrots and turnips, cauli- flower, small fondante potatoes, jus lie. Arlesienne—Sauteed aubergines, tomatoes, and fried onions, demiglace. Athenienne—Farced aubergines, Madeira sauce. Banquiere—Farced braised larks, quenelles, truffe, Perigueux sauce. Bayard—Fonds with foie gras, mushrooms with truffe, Madeira sauce. Beatrice—Fancy cut carrots, sauteed morels, quarters of fonds, new potatoes. Beaufort—Sliced lobster, oysters, lobster sauce. Beaugency—Fonds with beef marrow, brown Bear- naise sauce. Beige—Braised Belgium chicory, jus lie. Belle Helene—Croquettes of pointes, truffe, jus lie. Berny—Berny potato croquettes, tartlets of puree of chestnuts and lentils, Poivrade sauce. Berrichonne—Braised cabbage, glazed button onions and chestnuts, pieces of lean bacon, jus lie. Berthier—Artichoke fond with jardiniere. Bizontine—Duchesse croustades filled with puree of cauliflowers, farced braised lettuce, jus lie. Bohemienne I.—Stoned olives, mushrooms, onions, potatoes, Poivrade sauce. Bohemienne II.—For game, foie gras and truffe, farce and garnish, truffe sauce. Boitelle—Rich fish veloute with sliced mushrooms.192 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bontoux—Macaroni Napolitame, Madeira sauce. Boulangrre—Sliced or oval-sliaped potatoes baked with onions, jus lie. Bouquetiere — Fonds garnished with peas, beans, carrots, turnips, pointes, demiglace. Bourgeoise—Olive-shaped carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, jus lie. Bourguignonne—Braised button onions, mushrooms, bacon, claret sauce. Brabangonne—Tartlets with puree of sprouts, Mornaj sauce over, and gratines, croquettes of potatoes, jus lie. Breban —Tartlets garnished with puree of broad beans, small cauliflower au gratin, potatoes Persillee. Bretonne I.—Julienne of celery, leeks, mushrooms, vin blanc sauce. Bretonne II. - White haricots with fines herbes and demiglace tomatee. Brillat Savarin I.—Small duchesse croustades filled with rich tomato pulp and dice of fonds, truffe on top, demiglace au Madere. Brillat Savarin II.—Croustades filled with mousse of woodcock, sliced truffe on top, game sauce with essence of truffe. Bristol — Rice croquettes, flageolets a la creme, Parisian potatoes, jus lie. Bruxelloise—Braised chicory, sprouts, chateau pota- toes, Madeira sauce. Cambaceres — Button mushrooms, stoned olives, truffes, demiglace. Camerani—Sauerkraut, Madeira sauce with truffes.193 Garnitures (Garnishes). Cancale—Oysters, shrimps, Normande sauce. Cardinal I.—Shrimps, Cardinal sauce. Cardinal II. —Sliced lobster, truffle, Cardinale sauce. Catalane—Small Chipolata sausages, glazed chestnuts, glazed button onions, tomatoes farcis, mush- rooms, jus lie. Cavour—Lazagne au fromage, jus lie tomate. Chartres I.—Grlazed turnips, jus lie. Chartres II. — Chicken and tarragon quenelle, tar- ragon decoration. Chatelaine I.—Fonds with puree of chestnut, braised onions, lettuce, jus lie. Chatelaine II.—Fonds with Soubise, glazed chestnuts, noisette potatoes, jus lie. Chauchat—Thick slices of potatoes as bordure round fish, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Chipolata—Braised button onions, chestnuts, mush- rooms, Chipolata sausages, truffes, with Madeira sauce. Chivry — Small oyster bouches, mussel Villeroy, duchesse croquettes cork shape, Chivry sauce. Choisy—Braised lettuce, chateau potatoes, demiglace. Choron—Fonds with peas a la Franchise, noisette potatoes, Choron sauce. Clamart—Fonds with green peas, rissolee potatoes, and jus lie. Clermont I.—Farced braised onions, fried artichokes, demiglace. Clermont II.—Puree of chestnut and onions, fried onions. Comodore—Lobster croquettes, fish quenelles, mussels Villerov, Normande sauce. o194 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Conti—Puree of lentils in croustades, dice of lean bacon, jus lie. Cumberland—Tartlets filled with puree of apples, Cumberland sauce. Cussy—Mushrooms filled with puree of chestnut, truffes, cock’s comb, Madeira sauce. JDartois—Duchesse croustade with peas, Madeira sauce. Daumont—Mushrooms garnished with salpicon Nantua, decorated quenelles, Nantua sauce. Dauphine—Small Dauphine potatoes in straw potato nests. Delphine—Macaroni au jus mixed with julienne of truffe and game. Dieppoise—Shrimps, mussels, mushrooms, yin blanc sauce. Don Juan—Oval bouches, with salpicon of truffe, mushrooms and chicken, glaze over. Doha Sol—Glazed button onions and Parisienne potatoes, jus lie. Doria—Olive-shaped cut cucumber au beurre, noisette potatoes. Du Barry — Fonds with puree of cauliflower, heaps of cauliflower with Hollandaise sauce over. Duchesse—Duchesse potatoes, jus lie. Fspagnole—Tomatoes farced with rice a l’Espagnole, glazed onions. Favorite I.—Sliced foie gras, asparagus pointes, truffe, jus lie. Favorite II—Braised lettuce, artichoke fonds with ragout of mushrooms, pommes Anna.G arnitures ( Garnishes). 195 Fermiire—Fancy shaped cut carrots, turnips, celeriac, potatoes, jus lie. Financiere — Quenelles, mushrooms, olives, truffe, cretes et rognons de coq, rich Madeira sauce. Flamande I.—Braised cabbage, carrots, turnips, sausages, demiglace. Flamande II. — Sauteed sprouts, button onions, carrots, and turnips. Florentine I.—Fish served over spinach, masked with Mornav sauce and gratines. Florentine II.—Semolina and cheese croquettes, small timbale of spinach, demiglace, and tomato sauce. Florian—Braised lettuce, button onions, carrots cut olive shape, fondante potatoes, and jus lie. Forestiere—Morels sautes, dice of lean bacon, noisette potatoes, d’Uxelles sauce. Franqaise I.—Croustades with macedoine, pointes, braised lettuce, jus lie. Frangaise II.—Souffle potatoes, maitre d’hotel, water- cress. Frascati—Mushrooms, pointes, truffes, foie gras, duchesse potatoes, demiglace. Gabrielle—Duchesse potatoes containing dice of truffe and chicken, beef marrow, and jus lie. Gastronome I.—Glazed chestnut, truffes cooked in champagne, cock’s comb and kidneys, jus lie with truffe essence. Gastronome II.—Truffes, morels, lamb’s breads, chestnut, demiglace. Gauloise — Truffe, mushrooms, cock’s comb and kidneys, demiglace. Gloria—Braised celery, rissoto, demiglace tomatee. o 2196 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Godard—Quenelles, cock’s comb and kidneys, mush- rooms, truffes, lamb’s breads, Madeira sauce. Gourmet — Fonds, truffes, mushrooms, Madeira sauce. Grand Due—Cassolettes with pointes a la creme, truffe, jus lie. Grecque I.—Fish quenelles, sliced lemon, Parisienne potatoes, fish veloute, saffron flavour. Grecque II.—Rice a la Grecque, tomato sauce. Henri IV.—Artichoke fonds, noisette potatoes, Bear- naise sauce. Hongroise—Cauliflower with Hongroise sauce gra- tines, paprika sauce, and fondante potatoes. Hussarde—Tomatoes farced with Soubise and grated horseradish, duchesse potatoes, Hussarde sauce. Imperiale—Quenelles, truffes, mushrooms, cock’s comb and kidneys, veloute. Italienne—Macaroni croquettes, Italian fonds, Italian sauce. Ivoire—Cock’s comb and kidneys, sliced chicken, Ivoire sauce. Japonnaise—Tartlets filled with crosnes a la creme, croquettes, jus lie. Joinville—Salpicon of truffe, mushroom, and shrimps, Joinville sauce. Judic—Braised farced lettuce, truffes, jus lie. Jules Verne—Farced potatoes and turnips, jus lie. Jussien—Braised lettuce, glazed button onions, jus lie. Langtry—Small tomatoes in fonds, olives, jus lie. Languedocienne—Sauteed cepes, farced aubergines, chateau potatoes.Garnitures (Garnishes). 197 Limousine—Glazed chestnuts, button onions, and jus lie. Livonienne—Julienne of carrots, leeks, celery, onions, and parsley, vin blanc sauce. Lorette—Chicken croquettes, asparagus pointes, truffe, jus lie. Lorraine—Braised red cabbage, fondante potatoes, Albert sauce. Louisiane—Sweet corn fritters, sauteed yams, and fonds. Louvalliere—Fonds with puree of asparagus, Borde- laise sauce, and beef marrow. Lucullus—Truffes oie gras, champignons, supreme sauce, and glaze. Lyonnaise I. — Braised farced onions, fondante potatoes. Lyonnaise II.—Glazed chestnuts, braised farced onions, mushrooms, and fonds. Madeleine—Fonds with Soubise, tartlets of puree of white beans, demiglace. Maillot—Carrots and turnips, olive shape, button onions, peas, bacon, braised lettuce, jus lie. Maraichere — Salsify, lie veloute, sprouts sautes, chateau potatoes. Marechale I.—Quenelles, truffes, cock’s comb, supreme sauce. Marechale II.—Asparagus points and truffes, jus lie. This garnish is for supremes or fillets, which should be crumbed, mixed with chopped truffe. Marie Louise—Croustades filled with macedoine of peas, carrots, turnips, jus lie.198 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Marigny—Croustades filled with peas and French beans, fondante potatoes. Mariniere—Mussels, shrimps, oysters, and mariniere sauce. Marquise—Tartlets filled with pointes, slice of truffe on top and beef marrow, marquise potatoes. Marseillaise—Sauteed tomatoes, garlic flavour, colorette potatoes, Provencale sauce. Mascotte—Fonds with button onions, noisette pota- toes, jus lie. Massena—Fonds with Bearnaise sauce, slice of truffe on top, tomato sauce. Medicis—Croustades with carrots Vichy and peas, duchess cassolettes with puree of sorrel, jus lie. Melba—Tomatoes filled with puree of chicken, mushroom, braised lettuce, truffe, and jus lie. Mentonnaise—Farced small vegetable marrow, arti- chokes, new potatoes. Metternich—Glazed chestnuts, braised red cabbage, Madeira sauce. Mexicaine—Grilled mushroom filled with tomato sautee, sauteed green peppers, tomato sauce. Mignon—Fonds with peas Frant^aise, large quenelles decorated with truffe, jus lie. Milanaise—Cubes of macaroni, mixed with julienne of tongue and truffe, mushrooms, tomato sauce. Mireille—Croustades with rice a la Turque, tomato cassolette with sauteed tomatoes, tomato sauce. Moderne I.—Farced tomatoes, braised lettuce, potato croquettes, jus lie.199 Garnitures ( Garnishes). Moderne II. — Vegetable chartreuse in dariole moulds, braised farced lettuce, noisette potatoes, jus lie. Moi ssonneu.se—Peas a la Francaise, maitre d’hotel i 7 potatoes, large dice of lean bacon, jus lie. Monegasque—Small tomatoes, artichoke fonds, new potatoes, stewed olive, tarragon, jus lie tomate. Montbrazon—Lamb’s bread studded with truffes, large decorated quenelles, mushrooms, Madeira sauce. Montebello—Fonds with Bearnaise sauce mixed with tomato pulp and chopped truffes. Montglas—Salpicon of foie gras, truffe, tongue, quenelles, Madeira sauce. Monti—Braised celery, duchesse potatoes, demiglace tomatee. Montmorency—Fonds with fancy cut macedoine, pointes, Madeira sauce. Montpensier I.—Fonds with pointes, sliced truffe, beef marrow, Perigueux sauce. Montpensier II— Bouquet of pointes, tomato sautee in fonds, demiglace. Montreuil—Plain Parisienne potatoes masked with rich pink sauce, fish with vin blanc sauce. Nantua—Bouches of salpicon of truffe, crayfish, or lobster, Nantua sauce. Napolitaine—Spaghetti, lie tomato sauce and cheese. Nemours—Stewed mushrooms, olive shaped potatoes. Nigoise I.—Tomatoes filled with French beans, chateau potatoes, tarragon sauce. Nigoise II.—Tomatoes saute and tarragon, olives, capers, sliced lemon, anchovy fillets.200 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Nicolais II.—Whole truffes cooked in champagne, large mushrooms, Madeira sauce. Nina—Braised lettuce, quarters of oranges, Bigarrade sauce. Nivernaise—Small new carrots and glazed button onions in fonds, demiglace. Normande—Mussels, oysters, mushrooms, shrimps, small curled fried smelts, croutons, Normande sauce. Opera—Croustades with pointes, and tartlets with sauteed chicken’s liver, jus lie. Orientate — Tartlets with rice a la Grecque, tomatoes, tomato sauce. Orleanaise—Braised endives, maitre d’hotel potatoes in croustades, jus lie. Palermo—Lazagne, lie cream and cheese, demi- glace tomatee. Parmentier—Parmentier potatoes, jus lie. Petit Due—Grilled mushrooms, pomine Anna, Chateaubriand sauce. Portemaillot—Braised lettuce, olive shaped carrots, button onions, peas, and French beans, jus lie. Portugaise—Farced tomatoes, chateau potatoes, tomato sauce. Provengale I.—Tomatoes, farced mushrooms, and aubergines, new potatoes, Proven^ale sauce. ProveiiQale II.—Fish prepared Meuniere style, Proven9ale sauce over, stoned olive garnish. Providence—Mushrooms, truffe, quenelles, foie gras, stoned olive and Madeira sauce. Rachel—Fond with beef marrow and Bordelaise sauce.201 Garnitures (Garnishes). Radziwyl—Soft roe, pink quenelles, mushrooms, gherkins, truife, Genevoise sauce. Reforme—Julienne of tongue, truffes, gherkins, mushrooms, beetroot, white of hard egg, lie red currant and Poivrade sauce. Regence I.—Fish quenelles, soft roe, oysters, mush- rooms, truft'e, Normande sauce. Regence II.—Chicken quenelles, foie gras, truife, mushrooms, cock’s comb, Allemande sauce. Renaissance—Fonds with macedoine, small heaps of cauliflower masked Hollandaise sauce. Riche I.—Truife, crayfish or prawns, sauce Riche. Riche II.—Fonds with peas Francaise, Ohoron sauce, and sliced truife. Richelieu—Farced mushrooms, farced tomatoes, fonds with puree of chicken, braised lettuce, chateau potatoes, jus lie. Robinson—Sauteed chicken’s liver and duchesse potatoes, Chasseur sauce. Rohan—Fonds with foie gras and truife, cassolettes with cock’s combs and kidneys, Allemande sauce. Romaine I.—Croustades with gniocchi Romaine, timbale of spinach, Romaine sauce. Romaine II.—Small heaps of plain spinach mixed with chopped anchovies, dariole moulds of pomrae Anna. Romanoff—Farced cucumber cassolettes, duchesse croustades filled with salpicon of celeriac and mushroom, jus lie tomate. Rossini—Croutes, slices of foie gras and truffes, Perigueux sauce, Rossini potatoes. Royal—As Financicre, lie veloute.202 The New Practical Cookery Guide. St. Florentin—Duchesse potatoes mixed with chopped tongue, crumbed with vermicelli (crushed fine), cepes Bordelaise, Bonnefoy sauce. St. Germain—Small timbales of puree of peas, or duchesse croustades filled with puree of peas, olive shaped carrots, fondante potatoes, Bear- naise sauce. St. Hubert—Braised cabbage, braised lettuce, button onions, demiglace. St. Maude—Duchesse cassolettes filled with pointes and peas, jus lie. Sarde—Bice croquettes with cheese, saffron flavour, farced cucumber and mushrooms, tomato sauce. Sarrasine—Small rye croquettes, rice cassolettes filled with tomatoes and pimentoes sautes, jus lie tomate. Savoisienne—Fonds with cucumbers a la creme, noisette potatoes, demiglace. Savoy—Duchesse potatoes, croquette shaped, and sauteed with butter, braised celery, Madeira sauce. Saxonne—Farced cucumbers and tomatoes, jus lie. Semillante—Fish quenelles, carp’s roe Meuniere, cray- fish or prawns, mateiotte sauce. Sevigne—Farced lettuce, decorated quenelles, jus lie. Sicilienne—Lazagnes (ribbon macaroni), lie cheese and puree of foie gras and veloute, jus lie. Souheyran—Croustades filled with soubise mixed with dice of truffes, Madeira sauce. Strasbourgeoise—Sauerkraut, Frankfort sausages, foie gras, Madeira sauce. Suzette—Puree of peas timbale, puree of celery tim- bales, and potato timbale, demiglace tomatee.Garnitures (Garnishes). 203 Talleyrand—Macaroni with julienne of truffe, and foie gras, lie veloute, Perigueux sauce. Tivoli—Cock’s combs and kidneys, lamb’s breads, mushrooms, pointes, Ivoire sauce. Toulouse—Chicken quenelles, braised lamb’s breads, cock’s comb, and kidneys, mushrooms, truffe, Allemande sauce. Tourangelle—French beans and flageolet mixed lie veloute. Trianon—Puree of carrots, puree of green peas, puree of potatoes in timbales, jus lie. Trouvillaise—Shrimps, mussels, mushrooms, shrimp sauce. Tzarina—Cucumber with cream and little fennel, supreme sauce, with paprika. Vert Pre /.—Watercress, straw potatoes, maitre d’hotel butter. Vert Pre II.—French beans, peas, pointes, watercress, jus lie. Victoria—Sliced truffe and lobster, Victoria sauce. Viennoise—Nouille croustade with spinach, braised celery, potatoes. Viroday—Fonds with spinach, chateau potatoes, jus lie. Walaska—Sliced crawfish (langouste), truffe, Mornay sauce, with crawfish butter. Washington- —Timbale of Indian corn a la creme, and timbale of Indian corn done as rice a la Grecque, demiglace tomatee. Zingara—Julienne of ham, tongue, mushrooms, truffe, demiglace, tarragon flavour.204 The New Practical Cookery Guide. SAUCES. Fond Brun (Brown Stock). The making of sauces to perfection is the greatest art in cookery. It requires a thorough knowledge of all elements used, a practical and trained expe- rience, and great delicacy of the palate. Good stock should be prepared with care, of which there are several methods bv eminent chefs, as follows: 1. Place in a convenient size stewpan about 81b. of beef, 81b. of leg of veal, and one old hen, all cut in large squares (the breast of the fowl reserved for other use), two quarts of general stock as indicated in Part II., and boil on a brisk fire to reduce to glaze, stirring occasionally to allow the meat to get thoroughly browned. Great care must be taken not to let it burn. At this stage a sufficient quantity of general stock is added to completely cover the meat. Garnish with carrots, onions, and a bouquet. Allow to simmer about three hours, and strain. 2. Cover the bottom of a braising-pan with large squares of raw beef, veal, and ham, and a piece of clarified butter, sliced carrots, onions, thyme, bay- leaves, nutmeg, and fresh-ground pepper. Fry till golden brown over a sharp fire, stirring constantly, and then add sufficient general stock to entirely cover the meat. Carefully remove the fat as it rises to the surface. Allow about four hours’ simmering, and strain. 3. Place in a stewpan about 31b. of leg of veal and 21b. of raw ham, cut in large squares, two old part- ridges, two large carrots, two large onions, and 4oz.Sauces. 205 of butter. Stir over a brisk tire so that every part of the ingredients is equally browned ; drain the fat off and add about a quart of general stock, and allow to cook until reduced to light brown glaze. This is the decisive moment of success. Add about six quarts of general stock, and simmer three hours. Strain ready for use. 4. To about 101b. of leg of veal, cut in squares, add 41b. of lean ham, a pheasant, two partridges, a few sliced carrots, onions, and celery. Place in a stewpan, with a bottle of dry sherry and a pint of meat jelly or aspic, and boil quickly till reduced to glaze, stirring occasionally. Remove the pan from fire and cover it, thus allowing the glaze adhering to the pan to dissolve. Then add sufficient general stock to cover the meat, and simmer for a few hours, with a few cloves, peppercorns, bayleaves, thyme, mushroom trimmings, a few eschalots, and chive. Remove all fat and scum, and strain for use. Fond Blanc (White Stock). 5. Have an old fowl and about lib. of knuckle of veal, with three quarts of water, a pinch of salt, a bouquet of chervil and lettuce, a little celery and parsley, and simmer three hours. Remove scum and fat, and strain. 6. Place about 81b. of leg of veal, cut in squares, in a stewpan, with a few sliced onions and carrots, and three pints of stoc Boil over brisk fire till reduced to golden colour glaze. Then add sufficient light stock to cover the meat. Simmer two hours, and strain.206 The New Practical Cookery Guide. 7. Place a few sliced onions in a stewpan, 41b. of cut-up leg of veal and a few cracked veal bones, lib. of cut-up gravy beef, two old hens with the fillets removed, and a quart of general stock. Boil quickly to reduce to very light glaze ; then about six quarts of light stock, a pinch of salt, leek, celery, and carrots, and simmer three hours, Skim care- fully ; have the fillets pounded and mixed with a little of the stock, mix all together and simmer fifteen minutes longer, and strain. Fond de Poisson (Fish Stock). 8. A sliced onion, carrot, and parsnip, saute with a piece of butter for a few minutes. Add a dessert- spoonful of flour, mixed thoroughly over the fire ; then add about 21b. of cut-up white raw fish, two quarts of water, and half a pint of white wine, salt, white peppercorns, a bouquet, and simmer two hours and strain. 9. To about 81b. of fresh fish bones, such as brill, whitings, soles, turbot, etc., add eight quarts of water, one bottle of sauterne, salt, two or three sliced onions, a handful of parsley roots, trimmings of wrhite mush- rooms, a few white peppercorns, and two peeled lemons ; simmer about three-quarters of an hour and strain. Espagnole (Fundamental Brown Sauce). 1. This principal stock sauce is made with a brown roux consisting of equal quantity of clarified butter and flour slowly baked till light brown, and diluted with sufficient No. 1, 2, 3, or 4 brown stock to formSavces. 207 a rather thin sauce, flavoured with a mirpoix, sherry, mushroom trimmings, and allowed to simmer and reduce for several hours; carefully skim oft' all fat rising to the surface, and strain. 2. Flour baked till golden brown is also used to prepare espagnole instead of brown roux; in this case the stock is poured over the flour gradually, stirring constantly till the necessary thickness is attained, flavoured with a mirpoix, sherry, etc., and finished as above. The advantage in using this second method of thickening is that little, it: any, fat floats on the sauce, and greater brilliancy is obtained. 3. In either case the same should be reboiled the following day with more brown stock added, and a small quantity of fresh crushed tomatoes or tomato puree, and simmered an hour or more, which depends on the quality of the stock used, The richer the stock the less cooking required. Demiglace. 4. Is espagnole reduced by ebullition with addi- tional stock added until a perfect consistency is obtained; and lastly, a small quantity of marsala or sherry is added after straining, and is then ready for use. Espagnole Maigre. , . ■ • I . ... 5. To make this brown fish sauce the proceedings are the same as for espagnole, using fish stock instead of brown meat stock, and white wine instead of sherry.The New Practical Coolcery Guide. 208 Jus Lie. 1. Rich meat stock reduced by ebullition, and lie or thickened with arrowroot or cornflour, dissolved with sherry, and should be of a perfectly clear dark colour and brilliancy. Jus de Veau Lie. 2. Rich veal stock reduced and finished as above, and should be of a light brown colour. Jus Lie (Extra). 3. Place in a stewpan about 61b. of leg of veal, in- cluding bone, the meat cut in squares, and the bone cracked, sliced carrot, onion, and a bouquet, and a quart of brown stock. Reduce over a brisk fire (stirring occasionally) to light brown glaze, then add about six quarts of brown stock, simmer two hours and strain, reheat and lie with arrowroot or corn- flour, dissolved with a little sherry, simmer a few minutes more and strain, ready for use. Essence Aromatique. 1. Simmer with a bottle of white wine a few crushed peppercorns, whole spice, coriander seeds, sliced carrot, onion, eschalot, tarragon, chervil, parsley, thyme, bayleaves, cloves, nutmeg, and a little salt for about two hours with a tight-fitting lid, then keep in warm place for a few hours, strain, and, when cold, bottle for use.209 Sauces. Essence de Champignon I. (Mushroom Essence). 2. Allow a quantity of fresh crushed mushrooms to macerate with salt for twenty-four hours, then press the juice out and simmer it for fifteen minutes with spices ; strain, and, when cold, bottle for use. Essence de Champignon II. 3. About 31b. of fresh crushed mushrooms, the juice of two lemons, and a little salt. Simmer ten minutes in a tightly covered pan, add about one quart of chicken stock, simmer fifteen minutes more, strain. Essence de Yolaille (Chicken Essence). 4. The carcases of five or six raw chickens, roughly chopped; 21b. of veal, cut in large dice; sliced onion, carrot, and a bouquet, and about four quarts of chicken stock. Simmer for two or three hours, remove all scum and fat, and strain. Essence de Gibier (Game Essence). 5. Cut up a wild rabbit, the fore part of a hare, two old partridges, a few carrots, onions, celery, thyme, bay leaves, cloves, and a bottle of white wine. Place in a stewpan over a brisk fire, stirring occa- sionally. Reduce to glaze, and moisten with sufficient general stock to entirely cover the game. Simmer two or three hours, and strain for use. p210 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Essence de Truffe. 6. Place in a stewpan with tight-fitting cover 31b. of fresh truffe, one bottle of sherry, one quart of rich stock, a little nutmeg and pepper, and a pinch of salt, cover, and boil for about thirty minutes. Strain for use. (The truffes can be used for garnishes, etc.) Essence ott Fumet de Poisson (Fish Essence). 7. Fish stock reduced by ebullition to about one- third of its normal quantity, strained ready for use. Essence de Jambon (Ham Essence). 8. To about 21b. of cut-up lean ham, a sliced carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bayleaf, add a pint of chablis or sauterne, boil till reduced to glaze, moisten with about three pints of veal stock, simmer one hour, and strain for use. Glace de Veatt (Yeal Glaze). Place about 101b. of lean veal, cut in squares, in a stewpan with two old hens, some flavouring vegetables, and sufficient general stock to entirely cover the meat, and simmer till quite done. Remove scum and fat and strain. Reduce this stock on a brisk fire till a light coloured glaze is obtained, and strain ready for use. Coulis d’Ecrevisse. This essence or coulis is the most delicious flavour- ing element imaginable, and imparts a perfect flavour211 Sauces. to all sorts of recherche dishes. A renowned gastro- nome once said that the coulis is to sauces and ragouts what physiognomy is to men—it gives brilliancy and life. To prepare this costly article, about three dozen live crayfish are cooked in suffi- cient best fresh white wine courtbouillon to cover them. When cold the tails are shelled. The entire shells and about a dozen blanched almonds are pounded to a paste. The tails are then added, and all is again pounded to a fine puree, and about a quart of the hot courtbouillon is gradually poured in, stirring constantly to obtain a thorough homo- geneous mixture. About a pint of rich jus de veau is added lastly. Reheat (must not boil) and pass through a tammy cloth. It is then ready for use. Veloute (Ordinaire). Prepare a roux with equal quantity of butter and flour, cook a few minutes, and mix sufficient white stock (No. 5, 6, or 7) into it. To produce the proper thickness simmer about an hour, flavour with a bouquet and white mushroom trimming if necessarv, and strain. The thickening is also made with cornflour, or creme de riz, which has to be diluted with cold stock first and added to the remainder. Veloute (Extra). Place 41b. or 51b. of cut-up lean veal in a stewpan with an old fowl (fillets removed), sliced onion, celery and parsley, and a quart of white stock; boil on a brisk p 2212 The New Practical Cookery Guide. fire till reduced to light glaze, add sufficient dry flour, and moisten with five or six quarts of white stock, flavour with mushroom trimmings, and simmer till the meat is done, which is then removed, and the sauce strained. Allemande. Veloute in which a little essence of chicken and mushroom is added, and reduced by ebullition to the degree of perfection, and lie with yolks of eggs, mixed with cream and fresh butter, reheated and strained. Veloute de Poisson (Fish Veloute). Proceedings are the same as for veloute ordinaire, using fish stock in place of chicken or veal stock. Supreme (Supreme Sauce). As the word implies, this is the supreme of all white sauces. Sufficient veloute with additional essence of chicken and mushrooms is reduced, and cream added gradually till a perfect delicate brilliancy is attained, and finished with pieces of fresh butter when strained. Bechamel I. White roux made with equal quantity of fresh butter and dry flour, cooked a few minutes, and moistened with sufficient boiling milk flavoured with onion, bayleaf, and mignonette pepper to produce a rather thick sauce; salt, simmer about twenty minutes, and strain.Sauces. 213 Bechamel II. Place a piece of butter in a saucepan with sliced onion, carrot, bay leaf, and mignonette pepper, stir over fire till slightly coloured, add dry Hour to make a roux, cook a few minutes longer, and moisten with sufficient white stock to produce a thick sauce, add salt, and simmer one hour, strain and add about half a pint of cream to every quart of sauce. Sauce au Beurre (Melted Butter Sauce). Melt equal quantity of fresh butter and best flour in a saucepan, stir, and moisten with sufficient boiling- water to produce a sauce of medium thickness, add a pinch of salt and finely ground pepper, allow to simmer a few minutes, and strain, and stir into it a piece of fresh butter, about Jib. to each pint of sauce and a little juice of lemon (sometimes lie with yolk). Sauce Tomate I. Place dice of lean ham in a saucepan, with sliced carrot, onion, thyme, bay leaf, white pteppercorns, and fry with a piece of butter till lightly coloured, add flour to make a roux, cook a few minutes longer, and moisten with sufficient tomato puree or fresh crushed tomatoes and white stock to produce the proper consistency, salt, soupcon of garlic (optional), cook slowly for an hour or so, and strain. •/ * Sauce Tomate II. Place about 61b. of crushed tomatoes in a saucepan with a pint of white wine, sliced carrot, onion, celery, bouquet, pinch of salt and mignonnette, pepper;214 The New Practical Cookery Guide. simmer fifteen to twenty minutes and add about half a pint of espagnole, half a pint of veloute, and a pint of good stock, cook half an hour longer and strain. Sauce Chaude. Africaine—Demiglace, onion flavour, madeira heated with chopped truffe and cayenne,-and mixed. Albert—Hot horseradish sauce. Albufera—Supreme sauce mixed with veal glaze, pimento, cayenne. Ambassadrice—Pounded chicken mixed with cream, and added to supreme sauce. Americaine—Mirpoix of carrots, eschalots sauteed with butter, and pounded lobster and spawn, chervil, white wine and cayenne simmered, a little cognac added and tomato puree, seasoned to taste, finish with a little espagnole, simmer again and strain. Amirale—Fish veloute, lie anchovy butter, truffe and capers. Aurore—Bechamel or veloute mixed with tomato sauce and glaze. Ayoli—Pounded garlic, yolks of eggs, oil, juice of lemon, and seasoned. Banquiere—Veloute mixed with veal glaze, tomato sauce, madeira, lie cream and fresh butter. Batarde—Melted butter sauce, lie yolks, juice of lemon. Bavaroise—Hollandaise sauce, horseradish flavour, finished with crayfish or lobster butter. Bearnaise—White wine reduced with eschalots, tarragon, yolks of eggs added and sufficientSauces. 215 butter gradually whisked in, juice of lemon, glaze, and chopped tarragon. Beauharnaise—Bearnaise sauce mixed with puree of tarragon (pale green). Belle Vue—Apple sauce and horseradish sauce mixed, and tabasco. Belmont—Demiglace with sliced truife and mush- rooms. Bennet—Rich demiglace, finished with cayenne and chopped olives. Bercy—Eschalots, white wine, and mignonette pepper, simmered, blended with fish veloute, fish essence, juice of lemon, and parsley. Bigarrade—Blanched julienne of orange rind and. lemon, blended with madeira sauce, game essence, juice of orange, curac^ao. Bonne femme—Fish veloute, eschalot flavour, lie yolks and cream. Bonnefoy—Bordelaise sauce mixed with maitre d’hotel sauce and tarragon, beef marrow. Bordelaise—Bordeaux red wine and eschalots simmered with little powdered thyme, blended with espagnole, reduced and finished with meat glaze and juice of lemon. Boston—Robert sauce with French mustard and fresh butter. Bourgnignonne—Red Burgundy wine simmered with eschalots, powdered thyme, and bayleaf, lie with kneaded butter and flour, finished with fresh butter and cayenne, and glaze. Bressoise—Demiglace and juice of orange, puree of chicken’s liver lastlv.216 The Nev) Practical Coolcery Guide. Bretonne—Yin blanc sauce with julienne of celery, leeks, and mushrooms. Britannia—Apple sauce with finely grated horse- radish, orange juice, and little marmalade. Burdwan—Demiglace with soy, ketchup, glaze, and cucumber. Byron—Italienne sauce with claret and chopped t ruffe. Canoti'ere—White matelotte sauce. Cajoecienne—Vin blanc sauce, tomato sauce, and Bearnaise mixed. Cardinal—Half Hollandaise and half fish veloute finished with lobster or crayfish butter. Carignan—Madeira sauce with truffe and duck essence. Castillane—Demiglace with paprika, glaze, and chopped ham. Catalane—Demiglace, cayenne, mustard mixed with sherry lastly, parsley. Cavalier—Demiglace with tomato pulp, chopped chutney, capers, pickles, and French mustard mixed with tarragon vinegar. Chamhord—Fish essence, claret, espagnole maigre, and lierbes, simmered till a rather thick sauce is produced, finished with butter and salmon glaze. Chantilly—Bechamel, mixed with whipped cream. Charcutiere—Robert sauce with chopped or sliced gherkins. Chasseur—Eschalots and sliced fresh mushrooms sauteed, white wine, simmered, blended with demiglace and tomato, reduced and finished with fines lierbes and parsley.Sauces. 217 Chateaubriand—Maitre d’hotel butter mixed with meat glaze and demiglace. Cherbourg—Bechamel, blended with crayfish butter, and coulis. Chevreuil—Poivrade sauce, red currant jelly, claret, cayenne. Chivry—Veloute mixed with green fines herbes butter. Choron—Bearnaise and tomato pulp mixed. Comtesse—Veloute mixed with puree of foie gras and truffe. Cordelier—Madeira sauce with puree of foie gras and truffe. Crapaudine—White wine and eschalots simmered, blended with demiglace, cayenne, finished with fresh butter. Creole—Tomato sauce with eschalots, green pepper, tarragon and chervil, white wine, strained, julienne of pimentoes lastly. Cumberland—Demiglace, paprika, red currant jelly dissolved with port, lemon and orange juice, mixed mustard and glaze last. Cussy—Madeira sauce with pigeon essence. Czarine—Demiglace, with raisins, cepes,and gherkins. Danoise—Viil blanc sauce with anchovy essence, lobster butter and fish glaze, creamed. Demideuil—Veloute with chopped truffe. Demidojf—Madeira sauce with chopped truffe. Diable—French vinegar reduced with eschalots, blended with little espagnole and mixed with mustard, a dash of Worcester sauce and tabasco, cavenne to taste, finished with butter.218 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Diane—Poivrade sauce, game essence, finished with cream and butter. Digestive—Apple sauce mixed with tomato sauce, curry paste, and French mustard. Diplomats—Normande sauce blended with lobster butter, essence of mushroom, well buttered, dice of truffe and lobster. Divine—Hollandaise sauce with whipped cream. Duchesse—Bechamel finished with cream and butter, dice of ham. Duglere—Essence of fish simmered with chopped eschalots, dice of tomatoes, chopped parsley, and white wine, seasoned, and blended with fish veloute. Ecossaise—Bechamel with brunoise of carrots, celery, and French beans. Epicurienne (Sauce au beurre)—Melted butter sauce, flavoured with mushroom ketchup, French vinegar, and cayenne. Estragon—Hollandaise sauce, flavoured tarragon vinegar, and chopped tarragon leaves. Etretat—Allemande sauce and tomato sauce mixed, and fish essence, bearded oysters, and sliced mushrooms. Fermiere I.—Melted butter sauce, mixed with Soubise and fines lierbes. Fermiere II.—Demiglace and tomato sauce mixed, chopped eschalots, capers, and fines lierbes. Figaro—Bearnaise mixed with chopped capers. Financiere—Demiglace with essence of mushroom, essence of truffe and madeira, truffe, mushroom, quenelle, and cock’s comb and kidneys.219 Sauces. Fines Herbes—Vin blanc sauce with chopped fines herbes. Finoise—Tomato sauce with green peppers, well buttered. Flamande—Melted butter sauce, finished with French mustard, juice of lemon, and chopped parsley. Fleurette—Fish veloute, lie yolks and butter, chopped chive, chervil and parsley, juice of lemon. Foyot—Bearnaise with veal glaze. Franqaise I.—Sauce Estragon mixed with tomato puree. Frangaise II.—Bearnaise mixed with tomato puree, cravfish butter, and coulis. Francois lev.—Vin blanc sauce mixed with dice of tomatoes and mushrooms. Gastronome—Veal jus lie and demiglace, mixed with champagne and simmered, well buttered. Genevoise—Mirpoix sauteed with salmon trimmings or head, simmered with claret, blended with demiglace, seasoned, strain, finish with anchovy butter and essence, glaze. Godard—Demiglace with mushroom essence, cham- pagne or white wine, reduced. Gourmet—Genevoise sauce finished with lobster butter and crayfish essence or coulis, fish quenelles, truffes, and prawns. Grand Veneur—Poivrade sauce, lie with marinade, glaze (sang de gibier). Granville—Vin blanc sauce with shrimps, mush- rooms, and truffes. Hackees—Chopped onion and eschalots, simmered with little vinegar, blended with espagnole220 The New Practical Cookery Guide. and tomato sauce, chopped capers, gherkins, mushrooms, and ham, anchovy and butter lastly. Havraise—Yin blanc sauce with mussels, shrimps, and truffes. Henri IV.—Bearnaise with meat glaze. Hollandaise—Little boiling water and a pinch of salt, pepper, yolks of raw eggs whisked over slow fire or bain-marie till it attains consistency of thick cream, add juice of lemon, cayenne, and oiled butter, and whisked to produce a thick sauce. Homard—Fish veloute, lie, fish essence, finished with lobster butter. Hongroise—Fish veloute and paprika, well buttered. Hussarcle—Eschalots and garlic, simmered with little white wine, blended, demiglace and tomato sauce, strained, finished with finely grated horseradish, chopped ham, and parsley. Imperatrice—Allemande sauce with essence of truffe and chicken, finished with double cream. Ivoire—Supreme sauce with a little veal glaze. Joinville—Normande sauce, lie crayfish butter and coulis. Jubilaire—Game sauce with mushroom essence, glaze, and minced olives. Juliette I.—Supreme sauce with tarragon. Juliette II.—Chicken veloute with puree of chicken’s liver, tarragon, and chervil. Laguipierre—Yin blanc sauce with fish essence and glaze. Lavalliere—Madeira sauce with game essence, julienne of truffe and tarragon, lie sour cream.Sauces. 221 Livonienne—Veal glaze dissolved with little jus lie and fresh butter, mixed briskly, cream, and chopped fennel. Lyonnaise—Demiglace with onions and white wine. Madere—Madeira sauce or demiglace, simmered with madeira. Maltaise—Hollandaise sauce, orange flavour and orange juice. Maillot—Madeira sauce with pounded hard eggs and cayenne. Maintenon—Thick Soubise with cream sauce, cayenne, and parmesan. Marchand de Vin—Chopped eschalots and claret, simmered and blended with glaze and a little demiglace, well buttered. Marechale — Allemande sauce with mushroom essence. Marguery—Hollandaise sauce with puree of oysters and fish essence. Murigny—Demiglace and tomato sauce, mushroom essence, olives, and mushrooms. Mariniere—Bercy sauce with essence of mussels, lie. Marseillaise—Hollandaise sauce and tomato puree, highly seasoned. Maryland—Chicken veloutc with veal glaze, pimento, and paprika. Matelotte—Made with the fish liquor used, red or white wine blended with espagnole or fish veloute, mushoom essence, lie. Medicis—Bearnaise with reduced burgundy and tomato puree.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 222 Mon Beve—Three parts of rich bechamel to one part of Tartare sauce. Montebello—Bearnaise and tomato pulp. Mornay—Bechamel lie cream and parmesan; when used for fish, flavour with essence of fish. Moscovite—Poivrade sauce and venison sauce, Malaga wine. Mousseline—Hollandaise sauce and whijDped cream Mousseuse—Kneaded fresh butter with salt and little warmed water, whisked till frothy, add whipped cream, served nearly cold. Nantua—Fish veloute with crayfish or lobster butter, truffe and lobster dice. Napolitaine—Venison sauce and tomato, horseradish flavour. Niqoise—Tomato sauce and veal glaze. Nivernaise—Allemande sauce with small olive-shaped carrots. Noisette — Hollandaise sauce with hazel-nut butter added lastly. Nor ah—Robert sauce with soy, Worcester sauce, ketchup, glaze, and juice of lemon. Normande—Fish veloute, lie yolks and butter, mussel liquor, mushroom essence. Orientate—Americaine sauce, curried, and finished with cream. Orleans—Fish veloute, mushroom essence, lie yolks and cream, finished with eravfish butter and V coulis, cayenne. Paloise—Bearnaise made with mint instead of tarragon. Paprika—Rich veloute, lie cream, and paprika.Sauces. 223 Pauvre homme—Devilled piquante sauce with chive. Perigueux—Chopped truffes, simmered with madeira, blended with demiglace. Picard—Poivrade sauce, tarragon flavour, finish with butter. Piquante — Chopped eschalots, French vinegar, simmered ten to fifteen minutes, add white wine and espagnole, allow to simmer fifteen minutes longer, and mix in chopped gherkins, tarragon, and fines herbes. Poivrade — Mirpoix, simmered with butter, herbs, and crushed peppercorn, moisten with French vinegar and boil down to half original quantity, add espagnole, cook half an hour and strain, finish with butter. Polonaise—Veloute with cream, horseradish flavour, fennel, and cream. Portugaise—Tomato sauce with veal glaze, garlic flavour, and rings of fried onions. Poulette — Allemande sauce, mushroom essence, chopped parsley. Princesse — Bechamel with chicken essence and cream. Princiere—Fish veloute with fish glaze, crayfish or lobster butter, crayfish coulis, julienne of truffe, and lobster. Provengale—Dice of tomatoes and chopped eschalots, garlic flavour, simmered with olive oil, moisten with white wine and espagnole, finish with glaze. Ravigotte (Chaude)—White wine, simmered with chopped eschalots, tarragon, chervil, and chive, blended with Allemande sauce.224 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Reforme—Red currant jelly and sherry, simmered till dissolved, blended with demiglace, cayenne, julienne of truffe, tongue, gherkins, beetroot, mushroom, and hard whites of eggs. Recjence I. — Allemande sauce with mushroom essence, truffle essence, veal glaze ; if required for fish, use Normande sauce, mushroom essence, and fish glaze. Recjence II.—-Rich demiglace, reduced with Rhine wine, truffe essence. Reine Ena—Rice cooked with milk, lemon rind, mace, salt; when done, sieved, diluted with cream. Reine Marie—Demiglace and anchovy essence. Rerni—Bearnaise with chopped mint and sliced olives. Ricardo—Demiglace and game sauce, marsala, glaze. Riche—Normande sauce, blended with lobster butter, dice of truffe, and lobster. Richelieu—Game sauce with truffe and madeira. Robert—Chopped onions, sauteed with butter, then moisten with white wine, and reduced, mix with demiglace, veal glaze, add mixed mustard lastly. Romaine — Poivrade sauce, piquante sauce, and sultanas. Roosevelt—Tomato and apple sauce, lemon flavour. Rouennaise—Bordelaise sauce with puree of duck’s liver. Rubens—Fish veloute and anchovy essence, anchovy fillets, hard eggs, and fines herbes. Russe—Meat glaze and little jus lie, stirred with lobster butter, anchovy essence, and sour cream.225 Sauces. St. Malo—Vin blanc sauce, eschalot flavour, mustard, and anchovy butter. St. Menehould—Bechamel with veal glaze, chopped parsley, and sliced mushrooms. Saxonne—Fish veloute with fish glaze, mustard, and lemon rind. Sicilienne—Demiglace, marsala, paprika, cayenne, rings of fried onions. Smitcuie—Puree of onions, blended with white wine and sour cream. Solferino—Demiglace and Chateaubriand sauce mixed, tarragon and cayenne. Soubise—Puree of onion diluted with bechamel or veloute, cream. Souchet I.—Julienne of carrots, celery and onions, parsley, cooked with fish essence and white wine, buttered. Souchet II.—As Souchet I., blended with fish veloute, lie. Soyer—Rich vin blanc sauce, highly flavoured with fines herbes and lie crayfish coulis. Stray otto—Tomato sauce and piquante sauce. Sultane—Demiglace and game essence, port wine and sultanas. Texienne—Curry sauce, saffron flavour, and fines herbes. Tortue—Rich demiglace, turtle herb flavour, madeira, and cayenne. Toulouse—Allemande sauce with mush room and truffe essence. Tyrolienne—Prepared as Bearnaise, using oil instead of butter, finished with tomato pulp. Q226 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Valois—Bearnaise and veal glaze. Venaison—Game Poivrade sauce, red currant jelly, and cream. Venitienne—Vin blanc sauce, lie green fines herbes butter. Vernet—Venitienne sauce with julienne of gher- kins, truffe, mushrooms, and hard white of egg- Veron—Bearnaise with tomato puree, Normande sauce, and anchovy butter. Vertjore—Veloute with pounded herbes, tarragon, and chervil. Victoria—Lobster sauce with dice of mushroom, truffe, and lobster. Viennoise—Poivrade sauce with juice and rind of oranges and lemon, cut julienne style, lie sour cream. Villageoise—Veal veloute, mixed with veal glaze and Soubise. Villeroi—Thick Allemande sauce with truffe and mushroom essence. Vin Blanc—Eschalots and white wine simmered, blended with fish essence and liquor, fish veloute, lie yolks and fresh butter, lemon. York d’—Demiglace, cinnamon flavour, red currant jelly, juice of orange, and julienne of orange rind. Zingara—Demiglace and tomato sauce, glaze, julienne of truffe, and tongue. Zouave — Demiglace and tomato sauce, flavour of chilli, garlic, tarragon, glaze, and mustard.227 Sauces. Sauce Froide (Cold Sauces). Alphonso—One part of walnut ketchup, two parts of Spanish port and French vinegar to taste (for game). Andalouse — Mayonnaise sauce with tomato pulp, julienne of pimentoes. Bdtarde—Mayonnaise sauce with eschalot juice, tomato pulp, anchovy essence, and tarragon. Benton—A tablespoonful of finely grated horseradish, one teaspoonful of mixed English mustard, one of caster sugar, four of vinegar, four tablespoon- fuls bf cream, and mixed (for cold round of beef). Bohemienne — Mayonnaise sauce with additional tarragon vinegar, mustard, and mignonette pepper, cream lastly. Cabaret — Pounded eschalots, garlic, parsley, and tarragon, dissolved glaze and juice of lemon added slowly, seasoned. Cambridge—Puree of hard yolks of eggs, anchovies, tarragon, chervil, chive, salt, cayenne, tabasco, oil, and vinegar; all mixed as mayonnaise. Cazanova—Mayonnaise sauce with julienne of hard whites of eggs and truffe. Chantilly—Mayonnaise with juice of lemon and whipped cream. Christopher—Harvey sauce, mushroom ketchup, port wine, juice of lemon, mixed with little sugar, salt, cayenne, tabasco. Cocktail (American, for oysters)—Tomato catsup, tomato sauce, Worcester sauce, juice of lemon, Q 2228 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. finely grated horseradish, cayenne, tabasco, chilli vinegar, allowed to macerate two hours, strain, and served well iced. Cramberge—Puree of American cranberries, flavoured with lemon juice, sugar, and cinnamon. Cumberland—Red currant jelly dissolved with port wine, orange and lemon juice, eschalot and ginger flavour, blanched rind of orange and lemon cut as julienne, little mustard added when cold. Dumas—Pounded tunny fish and anchovies with hard yolks of eggs mixed with French mustard, salt, mignonette pepper, oil, and vinegar; chopped hard eggs and gherkins lastly. jEjpicurienne—Puree of cucumber, gherkins, capers, chutney, mixed with anchovy essence, cream, and mayonnaise sauce. Francis—A. spoonful of caster sugar dissolved with Orleans vinegar, a dash of tabasco, and mustard, mixed with half cream and half mayonnaise sauce (for brawn). Ft •iar—Red currant jelly dissolved with juice of orange mixed with grated horseradish, French mustard, salt, dash of tabasco, shredded orange rind. Garrick—A dessertspoonful of made mustard mixed with one of white wine vinegar, one of Worcester sauce, salt, and a dash of tabasco, mixed with a gill of cream. Genoise—Pounded pistachio nuts and almonds and puree of fines herbes blended with cold bechamel, sieved, and mixed with mayonnaise.229 Sauces. Gloucester—Mayonnaise mixed with Worcester sauce, chive, cayenne, juice of lemon, and sour cream. Gothic—Pounded chillies and hard eggs, saffron flavour, blended with salt,- cayenne, oil, and vinegar. Gribiche—Vinaigrette sauce, lie with pounded hard yolks of eggs, chopped tarragon and hard white of eggs added lastly. Irlandaise—Mayonuaise with pounded fines herbes (light green), julienne of vegetables,and tarragon. Italienne—Mayonnaise mixed with puree of cooked calves’ brains and chopped tines herbes. Livonienne—Dissolved glaze blended with sour cream, chive, fennel, and juice of lemon. Livournaise—Pounded anchovies slowly blended with oil and vinegar and mignonette pepper to form a smooth, thick sauce. Mauretania—Vinaigrette sauce mixed with finely chopped mustard pickles (piccalilli). Maximilien—Mayonnaise mixed with tomato pulp and tarragon. Mayonnaise — The fundamental cold sauce. Four raw yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, fresh ground pepper, and a teaspoonful of dry mustard and the juice of half a lemon, briskly stirred till amalgamated; then gradually mix a bottle of the best table oil, stirring quickly with an addi- tional supply of juice of lemon occasionally. The whole process should be executed under the five minutes to obtain a thick creamy sauce. If. a tablespoonful of boiling water or milk is added lastly, the sauce will keep creamy longer.230 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mayonnaise Russe—Mayonnaise as above, mixed with tarragon vinegar, finely grated horseradish, and a small quantity of dissolved aspic, and whipped till frothv. %} Moreno—Mayonnaise sauce with puree of pimento and tabasco. Mousquetaire—Mayonnaise sauce with eschalot juice, chive, cayenne, and dissolved veal glaze. Mousseline—Mayonnaise with whipped cream. New Yorkaise—Apple sauce and cranberry sauce mixed. Norvegienne—Mayonnaise sauce, made with pounded hard volb of eggs and French mustard. Oxford—Same as Cumberland, using orange juice and rind, the latter grated, no lemon. Prince de Galles—Vincent sauce and Gothic sauce mixed. Raifort—Finely grated horseradish mixed with salt, cayenne, mustard, and vinegar, blended with whipped cream. Ravigotte — Vinaigrette sauce with fines lierbes, chopped capers, gherkins, and a soupcon of eschalots. Remoulade—Tartare sauce mixed with French mustard and anchovy essence. Roosevelt—Puree of raw tomatoes mixed with puree of apples, juice of lemon, slightly sweetened, ginger flavour. Russe—Mayonnaise mixed with puree of lobster and puree of caviar and Worcestershire sauce. Siberienne—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with anchovy essence and finely grated horseradish.Sauces. 231 Suedoise—Mayonnaise with French mustard, cream, and finely grated horseradish. Tartare—Mayonnaise sauce with flavour of eschalots, chopped chive, tarragon, gherkins, capers, and parsley. Tyrolienne—Mayonnaise sauce with tomato puree. TJdaipur (Indian paste)—Pounded anchovies, capers, hard eggs, mustard and curry paste, sieved. Universelle—Eschalot vinegar, ketchup, port wine, cayenne, powdered sjDice, blended with anchovy essence. Valentine—As Suedoise with the addition of tarragon and chervil. Verte—Mayonnaise mixed with puree of tarragon, chervil, chive, parsley, and watercress, sieved. Vincent—Pounded hard eggs with tarragon, chervil, chive, watercress and parsley, blanched sorrel and spinach also pounded, sieved and mixed with mayonnaise sauce and a little Worcester sauce. Chaud-froid Sauces. Blanche (white)—Allemande sauce with chicken jelly or dissolved aspic ; for fish, use fish veloute. Brune (brown)—Demiglace with veal or meat jelly or dissolved aspic or gelatine. Mayonnaise—Mayonnaise sauce with dissolved aspic. Mayonnaise containing gelatine or aspic, when set, is apt to produce beads of oil on the surface. To counteract this effect, a little, warm veloute should be mixed with it. Rouge (pink)—Veloute with tomato pulp and dissolved aspic; in some cases tomato sauce only is used.232 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Rouge (pink)—Mayonnaise sauce with tomato pulp and dissolved aspic or gelatine. Verte (green) —Veloute and puree of tarragon, chervil and spinach, with chicken jelly or aspic, or Venitienne sauce. Verte (green)—Mayonnaise with puree of tarragon, chervil and spinach, and aspic. BEURRE COMPOSES (Savoury Butters). These savoury butters are used to finish compound sauces, and to give them the necessary and fluent delicate flavours. Beurre d’Anchois—About a dozen filleted and cleaned anchovies pounded to a puree with about 6oz. to 8oz. of fresh butter, sieved. Beurre cle Caviar—A tablespoonful of caviar pounded with -^lb. of butter, seasoned and sieved. Beurre de Crevettes (Prawn)—About 6oz. of picked prawn pounded with Jib. of butter, seasoned with salt and fresh ground pepper, sieved. Beurre d’Ec-revisses (Crayfish)—Equal quantity of picked crayfish and fresh butter, sieved. Beurre d’Echallotte—Equal quantity of chopped, blanched, and pounded eschalot and fresh butter, seasoned and sieved. Beurre d'Estragon (Tarragon)—About 6oz. of fresh tarragon pounded with 8oz. of fresh butter, seasoned and sieved. Beurre de Homard (Lobster)—About Jib. of lobster, Jib. of spawn, and Jib. of fresh butter, sieved. Beurre Maitre d'Hotel—Kneaded butter with salt, fresh ground pepper, chopped parsley, and juice of lemon.Plats Farineux (Farinaceous Dishes). 233 Beurre Manie—Equal quantity of fresh butter and flour kneaded, used for thickening purposes. Beurre Montpellier {Green savoury butter)—Blanched and picked watercress, parsley, tarragon, chervil, sorrel, spinach, and chopped eschalots, pounded and mixed with pounded gherkin, capers, a few anchovy fillets, a soupcon of garlic, hard yolks of eggs, and equal quantity of bulk of fresh butter, seasoned and sieved. Beurre de Moutarde (Mustard)—A tablespoonful of mustard to Jib. butter, seasoned. Beurre de Raifort (Horseradish)—A tablespoonful of finely grated horseradish kneaded with Jib. of butter. PLATS FARINEUX (Farinaceous Dishes). Gniocclii—Made similar to pate a choux with about half a pint of milk, salt, nutmeg, 4oz. of butter ; when boiling, remove from fire, and mix Jib. of sieved flour, stir over fire again a few minutes to form a thick paste, and add gradually, off the fire, five or six eggs, 4oz. of grated parmesan, rolled on floured board into size of Spanish olives, or pressed through a plain piping bag and tube, and blanched and served with cream sauce and cheese. Gniocchi Parmentier—To about lib. of fresh dry mashed potatoes add 2oz. of butter, 6oz. of sieved flour, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, mixed and rolled into size of walnuts. Blanched and served with grated cheese and butter and gratines.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 234 Gniocchi Romaine—About jib. of semolina cooked in a pint of milk, salt and nutmeg; when cooked, lie with two or three yolks of eggs and spread on a dish to cool, then cut in rings with an inch paste cutter, and served on gratin dish with grated parmesan and gratine or Mornay sauce and gratine. Nouille—One pound of flour, three eggs and five yolks, salt and nutmeg, loz. of butter kneaded to a stiff paste, allowed to stand several hours, then rolled very thin and cut into shreds. Blanched, and served as macaroni. Polenta—About Mb. of ground Italian corn (mais flour) cooked in a quart of water, salt, and nut- meg, fifteen to twenty minutes ; take off fire and add 3oz. of butter and 4oz. of grated cheese, mix thoroughly and spread on a dish to cool, cut in fancy shape, heated in butter when required, and served with grated cheese, or tomato sauce and cheese over. Macaroni. A VAllemande—Blanched, mixed with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, served in timbale with brown crumbs and beurre noisette. Bourgeoise—Blanched, blended with cream, grated gruyere and parmesan, salt, nutmeg, served in cocottes. Calabaise—Blanched, mixed with tomato sauce, seasoned, chopped fried onion, garlic flavour, cheese, and butter.Plats Farineux (Farinaceous Dishes). 235 Garibaldi—Blanched, blended with veloute, seasoned, grated cheese, and strips of pimentoes. Gratin—Blanched, blended with bechamel, seasoned, grated cheese in gratin dish, Avith cheese and crumbs and gratines. Italienne 1.—Blanched, mixed Avitli tomato sauce, butter, cheese. Italienne II.—Blanched, lightly finished cooking in milk or stock, served with cheese and butter. Italienne III.—Blanched, served Avith julienne of mushrooms, good veal gravy, seasoned. Lazagnes—Ribbon macaroni, prepared as macaroni. Milanaise I.—Blanched, served with julienne of ham, truffe, and mushroom, tomato sauce, and cheese. Milanaise II.—Blanched, served with julienne of tongue, chicken, truffe, Allemande sauce, and cheese. Nantua—Blanched, blended with Nantua sauce and truffe. Napolitaine—Blanched, served with rich demiglace and tomato sauce, and parmesan. Polonaise—Blanched, and served with Polonaise butter. Ravioles—Ravioles are made similar to rissoles, Avith nouille paste rolled very thin. The farce or mixture used is made of spinach, pounded, or salpicon of veal, chicken, etc., as the case requires. They are then blanched and served in timbales with tomato sauce, cheese, and butter, also with strong jus lie and au gratin with cheese over, butter, and gratines.236 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Rossini—The very large macaroni, blanched and cut in cubes, which are farced with truffed chicken farce, and served with rich tomato sauce and parmesan. Sauveteur—Blanched, mixed with cheese, cream, and gratines. Sicilienne—Blanched, blended with puree of chicken’s liver and veloute, seasoned, parmesan. Spaghetti — Very fine macaroni, prepared same as macaroni. Riz (Rice). Pilaw ou Pilaff—Sauteed or fried with little oil and butter till lightly browned, with chopped onion, moistened with stock, seasoned, and allow to cook in oven; when done, mixed with fresh butter. Risi-Bisi—Blanched rice mixed with cooked green peas, butter, and seasoned. Riz au Gras—Lightly blanched and finished cooking with butter, and moistened with consomme or stock. Riz Creole—As Pilaw, with dice of red peppers and tomatoes. Riz Grecque—As Pilaw, mixed with shredded lettuce, peas, and pimentoes, and small Chipolata sausages. RizMenagere—Lightly blanched, drained, and sauteed with butter, dice of lean bacon, and moistened with stock, seasoned; when done, mixed with little tomato sauce, and garnished with fried sausages.Plats Farineux (Farinaceous Dishes). 237 Rizotto—Prepared as above, finished with fresh butter and grated cheese. Milanaise, with Milanaise garnish ; Portugaise, with tomatoes ; Piemontaise, with Piemont truffes, etc. Riz Suisse—As Pilaw, with a pinch of saffron, cream, and grated Gfruyere cheese. Riz Turque—As Pilaw, mixed with a pinch of saffron, and dice of tomatoes. Riz Valencienne—As Riz Turque, with the addition of dice of green peppers mixed with the chopped onion, tomato sauce, and cooked green peas lastly.PART VI. ENTREES VOLANTE ET MIXTE (Light Entrees). Bouches. Boliemienne—Filled with salpicon of foie gras and truffe, Madeira sauce. Bouquetiere—Filled with macedoine of vegetables, lie with veloute. Cardinale—Filled with shrimps and mushrooms, Riche sauce. Careme—Dice of fish and fish cream sauce. Chasseur—Salpicon of game, mushroom, and Chasseur sauce. Dauphine—Cock’s comb and kidneys, truffe, Alle- mande sauce. Diane—Salpicon of game and truffe, game sauce. Don Juan—Salpicon of chicken, mushroom, truffe, and de mi solace. cr Duchesse—Pointes and puree of chicken, truffe, supreme sauce. Elysienne—Salpicon of chicken and mushrooms, veloute, and crayfish butter. Fmanciere—Salpicon Financiere, Madeira sauce. Gracieuse—Puree of quails, salpicon of tongue and truffe, lie cream.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 239 Grand Due—Pointes, truffe, bechamel sauce. Hollandaise—Flaked salmon, Hollandaise sauce. Imperiale—Shrimps, oysters, truffe, shrimp sauce. Indienne—Chopped hard eggs, rice, curry sauce. Isabelle—Salpicon of tongue, truffe, supreme sauce, with puree of chicken. Joinville—Salpicon of shrimps,mushrooms, and truffe, Joinville sauce. Mirabeau—-Salpicon of sole, anchovy fillets, anchovy sauce with tarragon, farced olive on top. Mogador—Salpicon of chicken, tongue, foie gras, truffe, and bechamel. Monseigneur—Puree of soft roe and truffe, riche sauce. Montglas—Salpicon of truffe, mushrooms, foie gras, tongue, and Madeira sauce. Nantua—Salpicon of prawn or lobster and truffes, Nantua sauce. Perigourdme—Puree of truffe. Petite Princesse—Salpicon of truffe and mushroom, puree of chicken, Princesse sauce. Regence—Salpicon of truffe, chicken, quenelles, cock’s comb and kidneys, Regence sauce. Peine—Salpicon of chicken, mushrooms, and truffe, Allemande sauce. Richelieu—Salpicon of tongue and truffe, Perigueux sauce. Royal—Salpicon of oysters, truffe on top. St. Hubert—Puree of game, truffe on top. Stuart—Salpicon of chicken and mushrooms, veloute, with lobster butter. Victoria—Salpicon of lobster and truffe, lobster sauce.240 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Cassolettes are small cases of china or paper, or made of paste, Duchesse potatoes, semolina, etc., and filled with various salpicon of fish, fowl, vegetable, etc. Vol-au-Vent. A VAncienne—Filled with neatly cut, small pieces of sweetbreads, mushrooms, quenelles, and truffe, Madeira sauce. Benedictine—Filled with brandade of cod and truffe, cream sauce. Cardinale — Fish quenelles, lobster, mushrooms, truffe, Cardinale sauce. Financiers—Mushrooms, quenelles, truffe s, olive, cock’s comb and kidneys, Financiere sauce. Frascati—Chicken, truffe, pointes, mushroom, and veloute. Galloise—Blanched leeks, cut in neat pieces, and bechamel sauce. Godard—Quenelles,truffe, tongue, mushrooms, lamb’s breads, Gfodard sauce. Mariniere—Fillets of soles, oysters, mussels, shrimps, quenelles, and mariniere sauce. Mogador — Quenelles, chicken, truffe, mushrooms, Madeira sauce. Nesles—Quenelles, sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffe, veloute. Normande—Mussels, oysters, fillets of sole, mush- rooms, Normande sauce. Parisienne—Cook’s comb and kidneys, mushrooms, truffes, crayfish tails, Allemande sauce.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 241 Regence—Chicken, sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffes, cock’s comb and kidneys, quenelles, Allemande sauce. Senonaise—Quenelles, mushrooms, demiglace. Talleyrand—Chicken, tongue, truffe, foie gras, maca- roni, supreme sauce. Toulousaine—Quenelles, sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffes, cock’s comb and kidneys, chicken, supreme sauce. Croquettes are made of a fine salpicon of various kinds, chicken, mushrooms, tongue, truffe, etc., lie with a rich sauce, and allowed to cool, rolled cork or flat croquette shape, egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Sauce corresponding with the elements used is served separate. Americaine—Fish cakes, made of flaked fish and a small quantity of mashed potatoes and bechamel, yolks of eggs, cake shape, tomato sauce sepa- rately. Bergere—Salpicon of lamb, mushrooms, lie bechamel, demiglace round. Bohemienne—Salpicon of foie gras and truffe, lie Allemande sauce, pear shape, truffe sauce. Cardinale—Salpicon of lobster, mushrooms, truffe, lie riche sauce, Cardinal sauce separately. Chasseur—Salpicon of game, mushroom, and truffe, lie game sauce, Chasseur sauce separately. Dominique—Salpicon of mushroom and oysters, lie bechamel and soubise, apricot shape, fish veloute apart. R242 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Gastronome—Salpicon of game, truffe, and chestnut, lie jus de veau and puree of chestnut. Hongroise—Salpicon of veal, mushrooms, lie paprika sauce. Indienne—Salpicon of chicken, hard eggs, and boiled rice, lie curried Allemande sauce, curry sauce apart. Italienne — Salpicon of tongue, sweetbread, lie Italienne sauce. Jean Bart—Salpicon of lobster, oysters, and mush- rooms, lie bechamel, lobster sauce apart. Marquise—Salpicon of chicken, foie gras, mushrooms, lie demiglace, Madeira sauce apart. Milanaise—Salpicon of macaroni, chicken, tongue, truffe, and mushrooms, lie bechamel tomatee, and grated Parmesan cheese, tomato sauce apart. Nantaise—Flaked fish and dice of mushrooms, lie fish veloute. Savigne—Salpicon of cepes, fonds, ham, lie soubise. Sultane—Salpicon of chicken, puree of mushrooms and pistachios, lie veloute. Thilda—Salpicon of foie gras, truffes, sweetbread, lie veloute, aurore sauce apart. /Angara—Salpicon of ham, mushrooms, and truffe, lie demiglace, tomato sauce apart. Crepinettes are composed of a rich mince or salpicon in the raw state, croquette shape, and wrapped in pig’s caul, braised or grilled as required, and served with j as lie or poivrade sauceEntrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 243 Cendrillon—Minced blanched pig’s feet mixed with sausage meat and truffe, breadcrumbed and grilled. Chasseur—Minced game, with mushroom and truffe, breadcrumbed and grilled, Chasseur sauce. Kromeskies ou Cromesquis — Croquette mixture, wrapped in thin slices of fat bacon, dipped in batter (pate a frire), and fried, sauce apart. St. Germain—Minced poultry, with puree of peas. Croustades. Made either of paste, semolina, Ducliesse potato, nouille paste, etc., and filled with various salpicon. Amiral—Filled with salpicon of lobster, shrimp sauce. Carmen—Foie gras, truffe, and Hollandaise sauce. Chasseur—Game, Chasseur sauce. Duchesse—Ducliesse croustade, pointe, and chicken, supreme sauce. Lajjitte—Financiere garnish. Nantua—Nantua garnish. Begence—Regence garnish. St. Cloud—Puree of mushrooms, chicken, and truffe, veloute. Talleyrand—Chicken, tongue, truffe, macaroni, Allemande sauce. Victoria—Lobster and truffe, Victoria sauce. Timbales. Alsacienne—A paste timbale, lined with foie gras and gratin farce, poached, and filled with neatly cut salpicon of foie gras, mushrooms, r 2244 The New Practical Cookery Guide. sliced, truffes and tongue, lie Madeira sauce, decorated; reheat. Ambassadrice—Mould, decorated with tongue and truffe and lined with chicken paste, filled with salpicon of chicken, mushrooms, lamb’s breads, and truffes, and alternate layers of nouilles, masked with rich demiglace. Cover with layer of farce and bake or poach, turn out and serve, demiglace tomatee round. Badoise—Paste timbale, filled with nouille, sweet- bread, and financiere. Bontoux—Paste timbale, filled with salpicon of quenelles, cock’s comb and kidneys, truffe and layers of macaroni, masked with demiglace tomatee. Bourbonnaise—Plain mould, lined with trailed farce, filled with salpicon of truffe, mushrooms, chicken, cock’s comb and kidneys and veloute, poached, turn out. Cardinale—Paste timbale, lined with lobster farce, filled with lobster and mushrooms and Cardinal sauce. Conde—Paste timbale, with layers of trailed farce and sliced sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffe, and Madeira sauce. Cussy—Paste timbale, lined with farce and filled with salpicon of foie gras, truffe, tongue, mush- rooms, olives, and Madeira sauce, decorated. Diane—Plain mould, lined with truffed game farce, poached, and filled with game quenelles, mush- room, truffe, lie Madeira sauce, fillets of par- tridge over, and Diane sauce round.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 245 D'Orsay—Paste timbales, filled with fricassee of chicken, quarters of fonds, truffe and mush- room, Allemande sauce, with paprika over. Ecossaise—Mould, lined with farce and filled with salpicon of chicken and tongue, lie Allemande sauce. Gauloise—Mould, lined with farce, filled with sal- picon of cock’s comb and kidneys, mushrooms and truffe, Madeira sauce. Haag—Mould, lined with macaroni and a layer of farce, salpicon of chicken and mushroom lie veloute, layer of farce over and poached, turn out, and Madeira sauce round. Imperatrice—Mould, decorated with truffes, filled with mousse of foie gras, poached, Imperatrice sauce round. Metternich — Paste timbale, filled with fillets of woodcock, foie gras, and truffe, lie puree of woodcock and essence of truffe and cognac. Milanaise—Nouille paste timbale, lined with farce, filled with macaroni Milanaise, tomato sauce round. Mirabeau—Dome-shaped mould, decorated with sliced farced olives and a layer of farce over, filled with fillets of duck and mushrooms, Rouen- naise sauce. Napolitaine—Mould, lined with macaroni, a layer of farce over, and filled with spaghetti Napolitaine, salpicon of mushroom, chicken, and tongue, layer of farce over, and baked; served with tomato sauce round.246 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Parisienne—Paste timbales, lined with farce and filled with layers of macaroni, lie cream and crayfish coulis, and salpicon of truffes, mush- room, and crayfish tails blended with supreme sauce and crayfish butter. Regina—Plain mould, lined with fish farce, filled with slice of soft roe, lie puree of mushroom and crayfish butter, farce over, served with fish veloute lie crayfish butter. «/ Rejane—Paste timbale, filled with julienne of carrot, mushrooms, and pointes, Madeira sauce. Reyniere—Mould, decorated with truffe and tongue, filled with game farce mixed with truffe and foie gras, game sauce round. Medaillons de Ris de Veau. Salpicon of sweetbread, mushroom, lie as croquette mixed made into medaillon, breadcrumbed and fried. Any mixture or salpicon can be made the same way and garnished according to composition of salpicon. Mousseline and Mousse. Rich farce of chicken, veal, or game, etc., cooked or poached in small moulds for mousseline and larger ones for mousse. Agnes Sorel—Chicken mousse with julienne of truffe and tongue in the veloute, sauce served round, and veal glaze. Alexandra—Chicken garnished with pointes and peas, supreme sauce. Belle Irma—Chicken served on JDauphine potato fonds, truffe over and pointes round, jus lie.Entrees Volcinte et Mixte (Light Entrees). 247 Dreux—Chicken garnished with cock’s comb and kidneys and Allemande sauce. Mo'ina—Game served on fonds, nouille and jus lie round. Patti—Chicken garnished with truffes, pointes, supreme sauce, and veal glaze. Polignac—Mould decorated with truffe, chicken mousse veloute, with julienne of truffe and mushrooms. Princesse—Chicken garnished with fonds filled with pointes, supreme sauce. Sicillienne—Fish mousse, fish veloute, and crayfish butter. Tzarina—Chicken served on farced fonds garnished with cucumber a la creme, veloute. Mousse de Jambon (Ham Mousse). Carmen—Served on fonds with jus lie and pimentoes. Daupliine—Served with small timbales of spinach and Xeres sauce. Florentine—On spinach fonds, Madeira sauce. Hongroise—On rice fonds, cassolettes with puree of cauliflower, Hongroise sauce. Perigourdine—Star of truffe in mould, Perigueux sauce round. Quenelles or Boudins. Light farce or mousse of chicken, poached in quenelles moulds, served on bordure or fonds, garnished and sauced accordingly. Boudins are quenelles stuffed with a very fine248 The New Practical Cookery Guide. salpicon and poached, and in some cases bread- crumbed and sauteed with clarified butter. Desire de Mascotte—Rognons de coq—cock’s kidneys —sauteed with fresh butter seasoned, served in special cocottes with veal glaze over. Dolmas Turque—Salpicon of mutton or lamb, boiled rice, hard eggs, suet, and breadcrumbs, rolled as paupiettes in blanched vine leaves, braised and served with jus lie. Ursuline de Nancy—Barquette filled with puree of foie gras, and veal glaze over, then a nice chicken quenelle on top decorated with truffe pointes garnish and well buttered, veal glaze over. Rognons de Mouton (Kidneys). Au Champagne—Split, sauteed with butter, and seasoned, drained, champagne and glaze, juice of lemon in pan, add kidneys, and serve in tim- bales. Amhassadeur—Grilled, served on toast, grilled tomato and fried eggs Francaise round, Pengueux sauce. Bordelaise—Sliced, sauteed, blended with Bordelaise sauce, cepes, fines herbes, served in timbales. Carvallo—Halved, sauteed, served on croutes with mushroom and truffes, and Madeira sauce. Chateaubriand—Grilled, Chfiteaubriand sauce, water- cress and straw potatoes round. Hussarde—Sliced, sauteed, white wine and glaze, horseradish flavour and julienne of ham, seasoned, served in bordure of Ducliesse potatoes gratines.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 249 Mexicaine—Sauteed with eschalots, red pepper and mushrooms, white wine, seasoned, lie glaze, in bordure of rice. Michel—Halved, sauteed and served on sauerkraut, truffle, and Madeira sauce. Parisienne—Grilled, with crumbs, served on toast with Parisian potatoes and pointes, maitre d’hotel butter. St. Lazare—Halved, sauteed, served wTith Bordelaise sauce. Tnrbigo—Split, sauteed, served in timbales with French sausages and mushrooms, demiglace tomatee. Vert pre—G-rilied with crumbs, maitre d’hotel butter, 'watercress, and straw potatoes. Vieville—Sauteed, served on croutcs with Madeira sauce, mushroom, sausages and button onions round. Rognons de Yeau (Veal Kidneys). Percy — Sliced and sauteed with eschalots, white wine, glaze, and fines herbes. Berrichonne—Sauteed with eschalots, red wine, fines herbes, mushrooms, dice of bacon and demiglace. Carvallo — Sliced, sauteed with mushrooms and Madeira, cock's comb and kidneys. Hongroise—Sauteed with onions, paprika, finished with cream and veal glaze served in timbales. Liegeoise—Cooked in casserole with bacon, white wine and hollands gin flavour, jus lie. Montpensier—Sauteed, served with pointes and truffe garnish.250 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Petit Due—Grilled, served on anna potatoes, with grilled mushrooms, filled with horseradish, Chateaubriand sauce. Turbigo—As Rognons de Mouton. Turque—Sauteed and served in bordure of rice a la Turque. Foie de Yeau (Calf’s Liver). A VAnglaise—Sliced, floured and sauteed, served with ba.con and jus lie. Percy—Sliced, crumbed a 1’Anglaise, grilled, served on Bercy butter. Bourgeoise — Studded with strips of fat bacon, braised, and served with Bourgeoise garnish. En Brochette—Cut in two-incli squares half an inch thick, slightly sauteed, and skewered with slices of lean bacon and mushrooms, masked with d’Uxelles, crumbed and grilled, served with sauce as desired, or maitre d’hotel. Esjpagnole—Sliced and sauteed as a 1'Anglaise, served with tomatoes and fried onions, tomato sauce. Fines Herbes—Sauteed as a 1’Anglaise, served with white wine, fines herbes sauce. Italienne—Sauteed as a 1’Anglaise, served with Italian sauce. Lyonnaise—Sauteed as it l’Anglaise, served with fried onions, reduced vinegar, and demiglace. Moissonneuse—Cut in squares, sauteed with onions, moistened with claret, served with sautes potatoes, and fines herbes.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 251 Parisienne—Studded with fat bacon, masked with fine cooked mirpoix and caul, braised, and serve with demiglace. Provengale— Sauteed with eschalots, soupcon of garlic, Provencale sauce. Talleyrand—Sliced, farced with d’Uxelle, braised, and served with Perigueux sauce and macaroni. Turino—Cut in squares, stewed, and served in bor- dure or rizotto. C(EUR DE VeaU FaRCI (LOVE IN DlSGUISE). Blanched calf’s heart, split and stuffed, crumbed and grilled, served with piquante sauce. Tete de Veau (Calf’s Head). Calf’s head should be boned and blanched, cut in large squares, and cooked in salted water, mixed with little flour and vinegar, to retain its whiteness; it is then served with various garnishes and sauce. A l’Anglaise the head is simply split, blanched, and cooked as above, and served with boiled bacon and brain sauce. Americaine—Squares, served in timbales "with sau- teed tomatoes, fennel, and fines herbes. Financiere—Squares, served in timbales with Finan- cier garnish. Froide—(Cold),boned, cut in halves, blanched, rolled, with the tongue and ears inside, tightly in a cloth and cooked ; when cold, sliced as a galan- tine and served with Tartare, Remoulade, etc. Godard—Squares, served in casserole with Godard garnish.252 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Gribiche—Served with. Gfribiche sauce. Medicis—Served in timbales with quenelles, mush- room truffes and veloute, cock’s comb on top. Poulette—Served with poulette sauce and parsley over. Bavigotte—Served with hot Ravigotte sauce. Rachel—Served with mushroom, quenelles, tongue, and Allemande sauce. Tortilliere—Served in timbale, with Madeira sauce and julienne of truffe and mushroom, quarters of hard eggs round. Tortue—Served with tortue sauce, quenelles, mush- rooms, olives, gherkins, and truffe. Vinaigrette—Served with vinaigrette sauce. Blanquette de Veau (Blanquette of Yeal). The shoulder, breast, or neck are most suitable for blanquette, cut in inch squares, blanched and cooked in water with dry white wine, seasoned, and vegetable garnish ; veloute is made with the liquor, lie yolks and cream, and garnished with button onions and mushrooms. Veau Saute (Yeal Saute). Cut in neat pieces, and sauteed with oil and butter, chopped onion, and soupcon of garlic, moistened with white wine and tomato sauce, seasoned, add a bouquet and simmer till done, served in timbales with strained sauce, and garnished with button onions and mushrooms and croutons. Prepared also in various wavs with suitable garnish.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 253 Pieds de Veau (Calf’s Feet). Boned, blanched, and cooked as calf’s head, and served in various ways. Bourgeoise—Braised, and served with Bourgeoise garnish. En Poulette—Served with poulette sauce. Farcis—Braised and farced with d’Uxelles or sausage meat, wrapped in caul, crumbed and grilled. Grilles—Well seasoned, crumbed and grilled, served with tomatoes, devilled sauce. Vinaigrette—Served with vinaigrette sauce. POITRINE DE YeATJ (BREAST OF VEAL). Boned, farced, and braised, served with suitable garnishes. Fricandelles de Veau (of Veal). Finely minced veal as Vienna steaks, sauteed, and served with jus lie, or other suitable sauces, and garnished. Grenadins de Veau—Small slices of leg of veal, larded, sauteed or braised, and served with suitable garnishes. Fricandeau—Large thick slice of leg of veal, larded and braised, served with suitable garnishes. Osso Bucco—Knuckle of veal cut four inches long, split and well braised, served with rizotto and jus lie. Roulades de Veau—Are veal olives.254 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Kari de Veatj (Curried Veal). Cut in neat squares, and sauteed with chopped onions and garlic. When lightly coloured add sufficient curry powder; cook a few minutes longer, and moisten with veal veloute, seasoned; add a bou- quet and simmer till done ; finish with juice of lemon, cocoanut milk, and a little cream ; served in a bordure of dry boiled rice, strained sauce. Emince de Venaison (Hashed Venison). Cold haunch of venison, cut in thin, neat slices, heated in venison sauce, and served in duchesse bordure or croutons. Ragout a la Boston (Vegetable Stew). Necks of mutton are used, the cutlets neatlv trimmed, blanched, and placed in a stewpan with layers of button onions, carrots, turnips, celery, and potatoes cut olive shape, salt, fresh-ground pepper, and a bouquet and sufficient white stock or water to cover, simmer till done, and served. RagoOt Irlandais (Irish Stew). This very popular dish, although not included in high-class cuisine, is served in West End clubs, and is prepared as follows : Neatly trimmed cutlets and pieces of shortbones are used, placed in a stewpan with layers of chopped onions, salt, fresh-ground pejiper, and a few sliced raw potatoes, and sufficient water to cover whenEntrees Volante et Mixte {Light Entrees). 255 boiling, carefully skimmed, and allowed to simmer one hour. Then small button onions, previously blanched, are added, and sufficient trimmed potatoes, and allowed to cook for another hour or until done, all the fat removed from the surface, and served in easserole with chopped parsley over. Hot Pot. Chicken Pot Pie—Neatly jointed chicken poached with dice of lean bacon, button onions, and chervil, with sufficient white stock to cover; simmer till nearly done, thickened with arrow- root and turned into a piedisli, a few cooked mushrooms on top, and cover with duchesse potatoes and bake, or ordinary pie paste cover. Don Peclro Pot Pie—Chops or cutlets, well seasoned and sauteed a few minutes with onion and fines herbes, place in a casserole with demiglace, cover with duchesse potatoes, and bake, served thus. Lancashire Hot Pot—Neatly cut necks of mutton placed in a special hot pot basin with layers of chopped onions, salt, fresh-ground pepper, a few bearded oysters, sliced potatoes and kidneys, a little dry flour sprinkled over, and a little Worcester sauce, the top layer of whole potatoes ; place a well-greased paper on top and bake, standing the basin in a shallow pan containing boiling water ; time, about four hours. London Hot Pot—Equal quantity of neatly jointed chickens and lamb cutlets, chopped onions, potatoes, cooked and finished as Lancashire, in casserole.256 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Manchester Hot Pot—Equal quantity of neck of mutton (cutlets) and cut rump steak, a few sliced kidneys and onions, and finished as above. Bceuf (Beef). Bitohes Moscovites—Minced beef, mixed with chopped onions and crumbs, seasoned with salt and paprika, made into medaillons or croquette shape, sauteed and served with poivrade sauce mixed with sour cream. Bceuf Saute d V Orsini—Stewed beef, highly flavoured, served with rice croquettes containing chopped tongue. Boeuf Saute Boopiaga is a dry, curried beef. Bceuf Saute Provengale—Stewed beef, with Proven- cale sauce and garnish. Carbonate Flamande—Beef cut in small pieces, sauteed, and dressed in casserole, with layers of fried onions, seasoned and moistened with beer and demiglace, baked and served. Estouffade Bourguignonne—Beef cut in large dice and sauteed with button onions and a soup9on of garlic, well seasoned, and blended with claret and demiglace a bouquet, sliced mushrooms, simmer till done. Fricadelles de Bceuf—Minced beef, mixed with chopped onions, soaked crumbs, blended with eggs, well seasoned, made into medaillons or flat croquette shape, floured and sauteed, served with rich sharp sauce and garnish. Goulash ou Gulyas—Squares of tender beef, stewed with onions, paprika, pimento, cumin, ginger;Entries Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 257 moisten with tomato sauce ; served with Parisian potatoes. Medallions a la. Russe—Small Vienna steaks, highly seasoned, breadcrumbed, and fried, served with demiglace and horseradish on top. Medallions Clubman ou Tartar—Finely minced fillet of beef, highly seasoned, served with yolk of egg- in centre, chopped capers, gherkins, onion, tarra- gon and fines herbes round. Medaillons St. Hilaire—Finely minced beef, mixed with fines herbes and cream, breadcrumbed and sauteed, green pepper farcis, garnish. Paujpiette Fontange—Served with vegetable puree and Dauphine potatoes, jus lie. Paujpiette Milton—Served with peas, beans, pointes, and Poivrade sauce. Paujpiette Napoli—Served with spaghetti Italienne and tomato sauce. Paujpiette ou Roulade de Bceuf (Beef olives)—Slices of beef, stuffed with rich d’Uxelle, rolled and braised. Paujpiette Savoie—On Duchesse bordure, celery and jus lie. Berlin Steak—As Vienna steaks, with chopped suet in mixture, floured and fried. Hamburgh Steak—As Vienna steaks, served with onions. Salisbury Steak—Small Vienna steaks, no onions, and plainly grilled, jus lie. Vienna Steaks—Finely minced raw steak or fillet, s258 The New Practical Cookery Guide. mixed with sauteed chopped onion, little escha- lots, salt, fresh ground pepper, blended with eggs, little cold demiglace, and made into round steaks about an inch thick, floured and sauteed, served with jus lie. Almondigas—Finely minced beef and equal quantity of pork, mixed with fines herbes and highly seasoned, made into croquettes, floured and fried, garnish with peas and tomato sauce, saffron flavour, and pimento. Bami Hongkongoise—Half-inch dice of equal quantity of fillet of beef or steak and lean pork, seasoned with salt and curry powder, placed in piedish or casserole, with layer of macaroni, chopped onion, fines herbes and tomatoes, last layer of nouilles, grated cheese, and baked for one hour. Chop Soly—A stew composed of chicken, cut in joints, pork chops, lean bacon, blanched haricot beans, onions, carrots, and mushrooms, flavoured with cumin, served in casserole. Langue de Bceuf (Pickled Tongue). To cook a tongue to perfection it should first be soaked for three or four hours, then placed in fresh cold water to boil, simmer about three hours or till tender, and allowed to cool in liquor. Alsacienne—Served with Alsacienne garnish, Madeira sauce. Bourgeoise—Served with Bourgeoise garnish.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 259 Christiana—Served with grilled mushrooms, beef marrow on top, blanched cherries and Poivrade sauce. Gendarmes—Served with cucumber, mushrooms, and quenelles, Madeira sauce. Julien—Served with piquante sauce and tomatoes. Leopold,—Served with braised Belgium chicory, jus lie. St. Flour—Served with nouille au fromage and croquettes of chestnut, Madeira sauce. So-ubeyran— Served with Soubise with chopped truffes, tomato sauce. Plats Indiens (Indian Dishes). Banana Chaffee Khan—Skinned bananas cut in halves lengthwise, fried with butter till browned, sugar and white wine over and served. Bhoona Khitchree—Cook a sliced onion with a piece of ghee till lightly browned, remove from the pan and add equal quantity of raw rice and clhal (lentils) in the pan; fry over fire a few min- utes, then add a little salt, green ginger, cloves, cardamom, and peppercorns, and sufficient water to cover, simmer till quite cooked, stir, and serve with fried onion rings and quarters of hard boiled eggs. Chitchkee—Is a curry of mixed cooked vegetables served in bordure of rice. Bumpoke—Is a chicken stuffed with cooked rice and veal farce mixed and curried, and then roasted the usual way. s 2260 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Ghee—The Indian term for clarified butter—is prepared as follows: Place 21b. of butter in a saucepan and allow to boil or clarify by slow simmering, that is, until all impurities, such as water or butter milk, etc., have evaporated, and the butter boils silently and appears quite clear, with little' or no froth on the surface, strain carefully and store for use, as it will keep good a long time. Hash Pooloot—Prepare a sauce with ghee, chopped onions, and apples till lightly browned, add flour to thicken, salt powdered mace, curry powder, cook a few minutes longer and moisten with sufficient chicken stock and juice of lemon, then cold chicken cut in dice, served very hot in bordure of rice. Hvllnah—Is a pudding made of puree of fresh straw- berries, sultanas, pounded almonds, and cinna- mon, blended with eggs, and baked. Indian Beef Nabobs—Slices of beef about two inches wide by four or five long, seasoned and masked with a mixture of pounded onion, curry powder, a bud of garlic, salt, and clove powder, rolled, skewered, and sauteed till done. Serve with jus lie or demiglace, and plain boiled rice. Indian Bur divan—Finely chopped onion and eschalots, lightly browned in little butter, add brown sauce and little anchovy essence, chopped Indian pickles and sherry, a few drops of chilli vinegar, simmer ten minutes, and add a cut-up parboiled chicken, simmer till tender, and serve with plain boiled rice.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 261 Indian 'Celery Fritters—Blanched celery cut about three inches long, masked with curry sauce ; when cold, dipped in batter (pate a frire) and fried, sprinkled with salt and curry powder. Indian Fagadu—A sliced onion and a little garlic, lightly browned with little butter, a few raw spinach leaves, salt and cayenne, simmer a few minutes and add the picked meat of a lobster cut in dice and about a cupful of picked shrimps, juice of lemon, mixed over fire till thoroughly heated. Add little cream and serve. Indian Pooloot—Boil a fowl in water with salt, onion juice and ginger, and some Patna rice ; when done, drain the rice, arrange it on a dish, cut up the fowl and dress it on top of rice, garnish with fried rings of onions, cardamom and fried curled bacon, quarters of hard eggs, serve with liquor. Indian Salad—Lobster and crab meat shredded, mixed with sliced chilli, cucumber and apples, a soupcon of chopped onion, salt, fresh ground pepper, oil and vinegar, neatly dressed. Indian Veal Cutlets—Curry powder mixed with fresh crumbs, with which veal cutlets are egged and crumbed, fried in the usual wav and served with curry sauce. Indian Way of Cooking Rice for Curries—Have a sufficiently large saucepan of boiling water in which the juice of a lemon is added, and salt to taste ; the rice to be washed thoroughly and placed in the boiling water, fifteen to twenty minutes average time of cooking, drain, allow262 The New Practical Cookery Guide. cold water to run. over it for a minute; drain, and dry in oven with a cloth over. Kalleah Yekhuree—Large dice of lean mutton, sauteed with ghee, chopped onions, salt, pepper, ginger, and curry powder, the juice of lemon . and a pinch of sugar, simmered till done, and served. Pepper Pot—A stew made with sliced onions and ghee sauteed tilljbrowned, then squares of heef, mutton, pork, and chicken added, seasoned with salt well cayenned, covered and allowed to simmer fifteen minutes, add small new potatoes, carrots, and turnips, and some well washed rice and sufficient stock to cover, cook till done and served in the pot. Plats Strangers (Foreign Dishes). American Dry Hash — Cold corn beef and cold potatoes, cat in dice, mixed with mashed potatoes, highly seasoned, made up as Vienna steaks, and fried. American Hash—Corn beef stewed with,onions, green pepper, dice of potato and tomato, and cayenne. Bicjos Polonais—Large dice of pork, ham, and smoked sausages braised with bacon, onion, and potato, served with sauerkraut. Carapulha (Spanish)—Minced pork and ham mixed with chopped hard-boiled eggs and sliced Chorizo sausages, sprinkled with ground almonds and gratincs.Entrees Volante et Mixte (Light Entrees). 263 Coratella d'agnello (Italian)—Lamb’s fry, blanched, cut in fine strips, and sauteed with onions, fines herbes, mushrooms, and white wine. Esterhazy Rostbraten—Braised beef, with button onions and neatly cut vegetables, when done, reduce liquor, lie and finish with sour cream ; serve beef with vegetables round. Gcinseschwarz-Saner (German) — A goose lightly browned and braised, with knuckle of veal and vegetables, when done, serve with liquor re- duced and lie au sang d’oie. Giinseweiss-Saur (German)—A goose cooked as above, sliced, placed in casserole, with liquor strained over and served cold. Hamburger Rauchjieisch (German) — Hamburg smoked beef, boiled, and served with sauer- kraut, onions, chestnuts, horseradish sauce. Hii •n-Mit-Ei (Austrian)—Calf’s brain sauteed with butter, chopped onion, and fines herbes, masked with lightly cooked scrambled eggs and a yolk in centre. Kasseler Rippenspeer (German) — Pork cutlets farced with salpicon of apples, prunes, crumbs, lemon juice, and powdered cloves and sauteed. Kifteles (Roumania)—Minced veal and pork with crumbs and blended with eggs, as steaks and sauteed, served with tomato sauce, fried onions, and tarragon. Liederlione Worte (German)—Veal escallops, floured and sauteed, then masked with demigiace with a fried egg in centre, garnished with anchovy fillets, pickles, and Bearnaise sauce.264 The New Practical Cookery Guide Mehemehalon (Persian)—Marinated mutton, braised with mutton stock, prunes, shredded almonds and raisins, liquor lie and poured over. Menestra (Spanish)—A stew of ham, onions, lettuce, pointes, pimentoes, French beans, peas; when done, served with chopped white truffes and croutons round. Moussaka—Braised boned loin of mutton, dressed with aubergine and tomatoes round, crumbs and cheese over and gratines. Poeckelkamm (German)—Boiled smoked salt beef, served with sauerkraut, puree of peas and pommes de terre (potatoes). Poerkoell (Austrian)—Neat squares of pork, lamb, and veal sauteed with lard, onions, and garlic, seasoned with salt and paprika, flour to thicken, add stock, cook till done and serve with gniocchi garnish. Stucchi (Italian) —Skewered, lightly sauteed chick- en’s liver with lamb’s breads, slices of ham and truffe, masked with d’Uxelle, crumbed and grilled. Tocartua de Mielul (Roumania)—Croquette mixture made of blanched lamb’s fry, seasoned and flavoured with onions and fennel, wrapped with caul, crumbed and sauteed, served with mashed potatoes. Wareniskis (Russian)—Finely minced raw steak mixed with chopped suet, fines lierbes and onions, well seasoned, made into rissoles with nouille paste, blanched fifteen minutes and served with noisette butter.PART VII. ENTREES. Mutton or Lamb. Noisette Cotelette ou Filet Mignon. The following garnishes are suitable for either noisette cutlets or filet mignon. A VAmbassadrice — Button mushrooms, sauteed chicken’s liver, cock’s combs and kidneys, and jus lie. Alexandra—Quarters of fonds, truffes, pointes, jus lie. Alsacienne—Served on oval tartlets filled with sauer- kraut and slice of ham, jus lie. Algerienne—Sweet potatoe croquettes (yams) and tomato sauce. Arlesienne—Tomatoes, aubergines, onions, jus lie. Belle Alliance—Served with foie gras and truffes, Madeira sauce. Buloz—Cooked one side, which is masked with thick mornay, crumbed and sauteed, rizotto with chicken’s liver round, jus lie. Careme—Lightly braised one side, which is farced with salpicon of truffe and mushroom lie veloute.266 The New Practical Cookery Guide. crumbs and cheese over and gratines, jus lie round. Cendrillon—Soubise in fonds, cheese over and gra- tines, truffle, jus lie. Chatelaine—Fonds with soubise, braised chestnuts, Duchesse potatoes, jus lie. Chavette—Served on Anna potato, artichoke gar- nish and jus lie. Chevreuse—Toulouse and cucumber garnish, jus lie. Cova—Garnished with peas Francaise and bigarade sauce. Cyrano—Served on croutes, garnished with fonds filled with puree of foie gras, Chateaubriand sauce with truffe. Denard—Lightlv grilled, masked with chicken cro- quette mixture, crumbed and sauteed, Chateau- briand sauce. Dixon—Served on croutes, garnished, truffle and olives, demiglace. Double—A double cutlet—two bones—grilled and served with watercress and veal glaze. Duberley—Grilled, garnished with croustades filled with puree of mushrooms, demiglace. Duglere—Braised lettuce, grilled tomatoes, demi- glace. Durand—Braised endives, quenelles, olives, truffe, jus lie. Epicurienne—Lightly cooked, masked with fines herbes, chaudfroid sauce, when cold, crumbed, sauteed, and garnished with lamb’s breads and truffe, Madeira sauce.267 Entrees. Forest cere—Sauteed cepes or morels, noisette pota- toes, jus lie. Grand Veneur -(Marinated) sauteed, garnished with French beans, noisette potatoes, and poivrade sauce. Henriot—Lightly cooked, masked with Yilleroi sauce, crumbed and sauteed, mushroom garnish. Heurelect—Breadcrumbed, * sauteed, served with salsify a la creme and jus lie. Imperials—Sauteed one side, farced with chicken and truffe farce, braised pointes, truffle and mushroom garnish, jus lie. Laura—Lightly cooked, masked with d’Uxelle, wrapped in caul, crumbed and grilled, macaroni and tomato garnish, jus lie. La Vallieri—Fonds with puree of asparagus, jus lie. Maintenon—Lightly cooked and masked one side with soubise, lie thick bechamel and puree of mushrooms, cheese over and gratines, jus lie. Malmaison—(Panne) puree of joeas, puree of lentils, farced tomatoes, jus lie. Marie Louise—Croustade filled with peas, carrots, and turnips. Morland—Crumbed, mixed with chopped truffes, sauteed, and served with puree of mushroom and jus lie. Morly—Lightly cooked and masked with puree of foie gras, crumbed, braised, and served with button onions, and chestnuts, jus lie. Murillo—Cooked one side, which is farced with puree of mushroom and soubise, cheese over268 The New Practical Cookery Guide. and gratines, sauteed tomatoes and pimentos in centre, tomato sauce round. Nantaise — Sauteed one side and masked with d’Uxelle mixed with chopped truffle and tongue, braised, jardiniere round, and jus lie. Nelson—Sauteed one side and masked with thick soubise lie, braised, and served on croutes, jus lie. Nevers—Garnished with' cucumbers a la creme, button onions, and noisette potatoes, and demiglace tomatee. Parisienne—Garnished with pointes, noisette pota- toes, Bearnaise sauce, and jus lie round. Parmesane—Dipped in oiled butter, and fresh crumbs mixed with grated parmesan, grilled, and served with tomato sauce. Persanne—Grilled, served with straw potatoes and tarragon sauce. Pompadour—Sauteed, garnished with fonds filled with puree of lentils, round croquette potatoes, Perigueux sauce. Rcforme — (Cutlets) egged and bread crumbed, finely chopped ham and parsley mixed with crumbs, sauteed and served with Reform garnish (julienne of gherkins, tongue, mush- rooms, truffv, hard boiled white of eggs, and beetroot), blended with red currant and demi- glace. Peine—Sauteed one side, masked with puree of chicken and truft'e, braised, pointes garnish and jus lie. Poumaine—Garnished with half tomatoes filledEntrees. 269 with flageolet aux fines herbes, tomato sance round. St. James—Breadcrunibed, served on croutes with fancy cut carrots, turnips and peas, jus lie. Sandringham—(Breadcrunibed) served with pointes, French beans, fondante potatoes, jus lie. Savary—Garnished puree of artichokes, poivrade sauce. Savoy—Served on Duchesse fonds, braised celery, jus lie. Suedoise—Marinated, crumbed a 1’Anglaise, sauteed, and served with stewed apples cooked with white wine, grated horseradish on top. Suzanne—Served on fonds, green bearnaise over, Dauphine potatoes, and jus lie round. Toulouse—Sliced foie gras on each, bechamel and cheese over, and gratines, jus lie. Tyrolienne — Tomatoes farced with ham, glazed onions, and jus lie. Valois—Sauteed one side, masked with d’Uxelle, and chopped truffe, braised, Valois sauce over, demiglaee round. Verdi—A slice of foie gras on each, soubise over cheese and crumbs, and gratines, jus lie. Vert pre I.—Straw potatoes and watercress, maitre d’hotel. Vert pre II.—Peas, French beans, pointes, jus lie. Vicomtesse—Masked with d’Uxelle, braised, jardi- niere round, and jus lie. Villageoise — Soubise over, cheese, crumbs, and gratines, jus lie.270 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Villeroi—Sauteed, masked with. Villeroi sauce, crumbed and braised, vegetable garnish, and jus lie tomate. Volnay—Served on croutes, puree of mushroom garnish, demiglace with Volnay wine. CoTELETTES DE ChEVREUIL (ROEBUCK OR Venison Cutlets). A la Diane—Sauteed and then farced with game mousse, served on croutes, poivrade sauce with chopped truffle and white of hard-boiled egg, puree of chestnut garnish. Conti—Sauteed, served with sliced tongue, puree of lentils, and poivrade sauce. Grand Veneur—Marinated, sauteed and served with venison sauce and French beans garnish, croutes with red currant jelly. Majordomo—Braised, masked with puree of chestnut and soubise, poivrade sauce. Romanoff—Garnished with cucumber croustades filled with puree of mushrooms, sauteed cepes, and poivrade sauce. Valencia — Sauteed, served on croutes, bigarade sauce, and orange salad. Villeneuve—Finely chopped and mixed with sour cream and soaked crumbs, made into medall- ions, wrapped in caul and sauteed, puree of celerv round, Chasseur sauce. Walkyrie—Sauteed, served with potato croquettes and grilled mushrooms filled with soubise, venison sauce.Entrees. 271 Boeuf (Beef). Filet de B(euf ou Tournedos (Small Fillets of Beef). A VAlexandra—Garnished with quarters of fonds and trutfes, jus lie. Algerienne—Garnished with sweet potato (yams),, croquettes, demiglace tomatee. Alsacienne—Dressed on croustades filled with sauer- kraut, ham, and jus lie. Ambassadrice—Garnished with brochette of chicken’s liver, cock’s comb and kidneys, mushrooms, jus lie. Americaine—Served with a fried egg on top, tomato sauce round. Andalouse—Garnished with farced aubergines and pimentoes, tomato sauce. Armenonville—Served on Anna potatoes, garnished with sauteed morels, Madeira sauce, decorated with cock’s comb and kidneys. Baltimore—Served on half tomatoes garnished with green peppers, Chateaubriand sauce. Beatrice—Garnished with new carrots, new potatoes, morels, artichoke fond, jus lie Xeres. Beaugencij—Garnished with beef marrow on top, and fonds filled with Bearnaise sauce garnish, tomato sauce round. Belle Helene—Served with pointes croquettes, sliced truffes, jus lie. Benjamin — Garnished with mushroom farced, Madeira sauce tomatee, Lorette potatoes.272 The Neiu Practical Cookery Guide. Bernadi—Served on croustades filled with macedoine of vegetables, Madeira sauce round, and quenelle on top. Berriclionne — Garnished with braised cabbage, glazed onions, and chestnuts, jus lie. Bizontine—Served with rizotto croquettes, braised lettuce, jus lie. Bouquetiere—Served on croutes, garnished with small heaps or bouquets of vegetables, light jus lie. Brabangon — Served with croustades filled with sprouts mornay, fondante potatoes, jus lie. Cantalane—Served on fonds, grilled tomatoes, jus lie. Carignan—Served on Duchesse croquettes, cassolettes filled with pointes, demiglace round. Cendrillon—Garnished with fonds filled with soubise and truffe, jus lie. Chartres—Served on croutes, tomatoes farced with puree of chicken round, tarragon over, and tarragon sauce. Chatelaine—Garnished with fonds filled with puree of chestnut and soubise, noisette potatoes and jus lie. Chevreuse—Served on semolina quenelles, mushroom and truffes, Bordelaise sauce. Choron—Served on croutes, fonds with peas round, Choron sauce, jus lie. Clamart—Garnished with fonds filled with peas a la paysanne, jus lie. Clermont—Served on fonds, farced onions, demi- glace.273 Entrees. Cussy—Served on fonds filled with puree of mushrooms, garnished with rognon de coq a Tltalienne, noisette potatoes, and Madeira sauce. Dauphine—Served on Dauphine potato fonds, demi- glace. Deslignac—Served on fines herbes farce, Choron sauce, Chateau potatoes, and glaze. Duchesse—Served on Duchesse fonds, Chateaubriand sauce. Duroc — Served with Chasseur sauce, noisette potatoes. Favorite—Served with a slice of foie gras and truffe, pointes and noisette potatoes round, veal glaze. Forestiere — G-arnished with sauteed morels and dice of bacon, parmentier potatoes, jus lie. Florentine—Served on fonds of plain spinach, semo- lina croquettes round, tomato sauce. Frascati—Sauteed, sliced foie gras and truffe on each, fonds with pointes garnish, veal jus lie. Gabrielle—Served on Duchesse fonds, garnished with pear shape chicken croquettes, beef marrow and truffe on each tournedos, demiglace round. Givry—Served on fonds, garnished with parmentier potatoes and devilled sauce. Gourmet—Farced with foie gras, crumbed, sauteed, Chateau potatoes, and glaze mushrooms. Grand Veneur—(Marinated) French beans and Moscovite sauce. T274 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Granville—Served with Bearnaise sauce, tomatoes Portugaise, and demiglace tomatee. Grisconne — Served on croutes, farced tomatoes and mushrooms round, small timbales of spinach, demiglace. Helder — Served with Bearnaise sauce, noisette potatoes, and tomatoes. Henri IV.—Served on fonds, Bearnaise over, glaze, noisette potatoes and watercress round. Hongroise — A fried egg on each, cassolettes of carrots, and Perigueux sauce. Imperiale—Masked half with green Bearnaise and half with red Bearnaise, ribbon potato garnish, veal glaze. Irma—Served on fried aubergines, grilled tomatoes, with Portugaise sauce, glaze. Jajoonnaise—Served on rice croquettes, croustade filled with stachys and cream garnish, jus lie. Judic—Garnished with braised lettuce, t.ruffe on each, jus lie. Jussienne— Served on j>otato fonds, button onions, and braised lettuce, jus lie. Karolaka—Served on rice a la Turque, tomato pulp on each, Perigueux sauce round. Lackme—Served on fonds, broad beans, and grilled mushrooms, jus lie. Lesdiguiere—Served on half Spanish onions, farced with spinach a la creme, jus lie tomate. Lili—Served on pomme Anna, foie gras on top, Perigueux sauce. Lorette — Garnished with cassolettes of pointes, small chicken croquettes, truffe, demiglace.275 Entrees. Madeleine — Garnished with timbales of puree Bretonne, soubise sauce, glaze. Marie-Jeanne—Served on fonds filled with puree of mushrooms and soubise, jus lie, Robert potatoes. Marigny—Garnished with fonds filled with puree of peas, jus lie. Marion-Delorme—Garnished with fonds filled with puree of mushrooms, fondante potatoes, jus lie. Marleigh—Served on croutes, fonds with puree of mushrooms and Perigueux sauce round. Mascotte—Served in cocottes with quarters of fonds, noisette potatoes, and truffle. Massena—Served on fonds, beef marrow on each, Perigueux sauce round. Massei—Served on pomme Anna, beef marrow on top, fonds, with French bean lie, demiglace. Matignon—Served with fine julienne of carrots, celery, mushroom, and truife blended with veal glaze, straw potatoes round. Melba—Garnished with small tomatoes filled with puree of chicken and mushroom, truft'e on top, braised lettuce, jus lie. Menagere—Served in casserole on a garnish of haricot beans, button onions, carrots, and peas, glaze over. Mikado—Served on half tomatoes filled with rice aux tomatoes, crosnes round, jus lie tomate. Mireille—Served on croutes, Prove^ale garnish and sauce. Montgolfier—Grilled, served with maitre d’hotel butter and souffle potatoes. t 2276 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Montgomery—Dressed on spinach tartlets, a star of Soubise on each tournedos, and a slice of truffes, jns lie. Montmorency—Garnished with fonds filled with macedoine of vegetables, pointes. and jus lie round. Montpensier—Garnished with pointes and truffes, jus lie. Nanton — Served on Duchesse fonds, macaroni Italienne, jus lie. Nichette—Garnished with grilled mushrooms filled with grated horseradish, cock’s comb and kidneys, demiglace and marrow. Niqoise—Served on half tomatoes, Nmoise garnish. Nicolas II.—Garnished with whole truffes, croustaded of puree of foie gras, Madeira sauce. Ninon—Served on Anna potatoes, croustades filled with pointes and julienne of truffes, Madeira sauce. Orientate—Garnished with timbale of rice and tomatoes a la Turque, yams, croquettes, jus lie to mate. Paloise—Served with Bearnaise made with green mint instead of tarragon, noisette potatoes, jus lie. Parisienne I.—Served with Bearnaise sauce, Parisi- enne potatoes, pointes, and jus lie. Parisienne II.—Served with braised lettuce, fonds, and Parisienne potatoes. Persane—Served on grilled tomatoes garnished with pimentoes filled with rice Espagnole, fried bananas, tomato sauce.2 77 Entrees. Piemontaise—Garnished with croustades filled with rizotto and tomatoes, Piemont truffe and mushrooms, demiglace. Pompadour—Served in fonds, Choron sauce, noisette potatoes, jus lie, Portugaise—Garnished with farced tomatoes and Chateau potatoes, Portugaise sauce. Primeur—Garnished with bouquet of vegetables in season, jus lie. Princesse—Served on fonds, garnished with pointes, jus lie. Provengale—Garnished with farced tomatoes and mushrooms, Provencale sauce. 7 j Rachel—Served on fonds, slice of beef marrow on top, Bordelaise sauce. Riche—Garnished with fonds filled with puree of peas, French beans, noisette potatoes, and Choron sauce with truffe on the fillet. Richelieu—Garnished with farced tomato and mush- room, braised lettuce, demiglace. Richemont — Served with julienne of morels and truffe, Madeira sauce. Rivoli - Served on Anna potato fonds, Perigueux sauce over. Romaville—Grilled, and served on grilled tomatoes, thick Mornay sauce mixed with tomato over and gratincs, garnished with sliced aubergines fried in oil, farced olive on each tournedos. Rossini—Served with a slice of foie gras and truffe on each, Perigueux sauce over, and Rossini potatoes round.278 The New Practical Coolcery Guide. St. Germain—Served on fonds filled with puree of chestnut, fonds with puree of peas round, carrots, jus lie. St. Jean—Served on grilled tomatoes, small fonds with Bearnaise round, jus lie. St. Mande—Served on Anna potatoes, j>eas Fran- chise and noisette potatoes round, jus lie. Sarah Bernhardt—Gcrilled, slice of beef marrow on each, small grilled tomatoes round, Chateau- briand sauce. Sarde—Served on rice croquettes, farced cucumbers and tomatoes round, tomato sauce. Seymour—Served on fonds, green Bearnaise on top, a farced olive in centre, jus lie, straw potatoes round. Strasbourgeoise—Served on fonds and foie gras over, chipolata round, Madeira sauce. Sully—Garnished with farced braised lettuce, cock’s comb and kidneys, veal jus lie. Tivoli—Served on croutes, grilled mushroom and pointes round, jus lie. Trevise—Garnished with farced tomatoes, ribbon potatoes, jus lie. Valencienne—Dressed on fonds of rice a l’Espagnole and pimento, jus lie tomate. Valois—Served in cocottes on sauteed dice of pota- toes and fonds, Valois sauce over, jus lie round. Vert gore—Served on croutes, maitre d’hotel butter on each, straw potatoes and watercress. Victoria—Served on fonds and garnished with tomatoes farced with puree of mushroom, Perigueux sauce.279 Entrees. Chateaubriand. A verv thick fillet of beef, ©-rilled and served with Chateaubriand sauce over and Chateau potatoes round, other garnishes as for tournedos. Entrecote. A sirloin stake, garnished as fillet of beef. Porterhouse Steak. A slice from centre part of sirloin of beef, from two to four inches thick, grilled, served with horseradish. Planked Sirloin Steak. Grilled on a special oiled plank, and served on same with a bordure of Duchesse potatoes round, Parisienne potatoes and vegetables as desired. Veau (Veal). CoTELETTE ET ESCALOPE DE VeAU. Bisontine—Garnished with braised lettuce, potato croquettes and jus lie. Clamart—Choisy, Chatres, Forrestier, Judic, Lyon- naise, Milanaise, Maraichcre, etc., are served with the garnish named. Di 'eux—Studded with truffe and tongue, braised, and served with Financiere garnish. Fleuri — Served on bordure of Duchesse potato mixed with truffe, veal kidney saute, with mushroom round.280 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Guizot—Sauteed with fines herbes and moistened with little white wine; when cold, breadcrumbed and fried, Perigueux sauce round. Marechale—Breadcrumbed, sauteed, served with pointes and truffes, jus lie. Orloff—Cooked one side and masked with Mornay sauce and gratines, jus lie round. Papillotte (en)—Sauteed with fines herbes, masked with d’Uxelles, wrapped in oiled paper, and grilled or baked. Parisienne—Floured and sauteed, served with brown fines herbes sauce, Parisienne potatoes. Perigourdine—Sauteed and masked with pork and foie gras farce, mixed with truffes, wrapped in pig’s caul and grilled, Perigueux sauce round. Pogarski—Finely minced raw, blended with fresh butter, seasoned, form cutlets, breadcrumbed and sauteed, vegetable garnish, jus lie. Russe—Braised, moistened with sour cream and cepes sautes. Schnitzels—Large veal escalopes, breadcrumbed and sauteed, served with sliced scalloped lemons, stoned olives, anchovy fillets, capers and parsley, and chopped hard egg. Talleyrand—Sauteed and farced, egged and masked with chopped truffes, grilled, and served with demiglace. Viennoise—As Schnitzels. Pis de Yeau (Calf Sweetbread). Should be well soaked and blanched, properly trimmed and larded (as the case requires) and281 Entrees. braised; they are then served with various garnishes, .as supreme or medaillon; they are sliced after being blanched, sauteed or bread crumbed as required. A la Brighton—Studded with tongue and truffe, braised, and served with jardiniere and jus lie. Berengere—Sliced, farced, and baked, served with Soubise and jus lie. Careme—Supreme, masked with puree of mushroom and truffe, Allemande sauce over, cheese and crumbs, and gratines, jus lie. 'Car mage—-Cut in thick slices and grilled, and served on large croustades filled with peas Francaise and carrots Vichy. 'Chambellane—Studded with truffe, braised, and served with cassolette of puree of mushroom and truffe, Perigueux sauce. Chevriotte—Braised, and served with grilled tomatoes filled with puree of ham, demiglace round. Comtesse — Braised, served with braised lettuce, quenelles, and supreme sauce. Demidof—Braised, served in timbale with Demidoff garnish. Doria—Sliced, crumbed a l’Anglaise and grilled, served on cucumber a la creme, glaze round. Favorite—Supreme, sliced foie gras and truffe on each, pointes round, Madeira sauce. Figdor—Grilled supreme, served on Anna potatoes, grilled mushroom and grilled tomatoes round, tomato sauce. Florentine—Sliced, dressed on spinach, Mornay sauce over, and gratines.282 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Gentilhomme—Supreme, masked with Villeroy sauce, crumbed and fried, Perigueux sauce. Gourmets—Supreme, in cocottes with sliced raw truffe, Madeira and veal glaze, covered and baked, served thus. Grand Due—Supreme, masked with Mornav sauce and truffe gratines, pointes, jus lie. Guizot—Braised, served with farced tomatoes, potato croquettes, demiglace. Judic—Braised, served with braised lettuce, quenelles and truffe, jus lie. Maintenon — Escalopes, masked with Maintenon sauce, gratines, sliced truffe over, and Madeira sauce round. Marechale—'Escalopes, crumbed a l’Anglaise and grilled, pointes and Perigueux sauce. Marie Stuart—Braised, served with puree of celery, jus lie. Montauban—Braised, served on rice fonds, quenelles, mushroom and veloute, thread of glaze over. Mourse—Braised, sliced and served on peas a 1’A.ng- laise in cocottes, Bearnaise sauce over and slice of truffe. Parisienne—Studded with tongue and truffe, braised, and garnished with fonds and Parisienne pota- toes, own liquor reduced and glazed. Piementaise —Escalopes, sauteed, masked with puree of Piemont truffe served on polenta fonds, jus lie. Princesse—Braised, garnished with fonds filled with pointes, veloute. INgence—Braised, served with Regence garnish.Entrees. 283 Rossini—Supreme, foie gras and truffe on each, Perisrueux sauce. o St. Maude—Garnished with fonds, peas Fran^aise, pointes and Allemande sauce. Talleyrand—Garnished with braised chicory, truffe sauce. Toulousaine — Studded with truffe, braised, and served with Toulouse garnish. Tzarina — Escalope, sauteed, and masked with veloute, fennel flavour, cucumber a la creme garnish. Villeroy — Supreme, masked with Villerov sauce, breaded, sauteed, and garnished with Jardiniere and tomato sauce. Pis d’Agneau (Lamb’s Breads). Blanched and braised or breadcrumbed, and used for garnishing, or as a light entree in cocotte. PoULET A BRUN CHICKEN (BROWN). Ambassadrice—Sauteed, garnished with mushrooms, chicken’s liver, cock’s comb and kidneys. Annette—Sauteed with fines herbes, white wine and demiglace, served in a large timbale of Anna potatoes. Arlesienne—Sauteed with aubergines and tomatoes. Beaulieu—Sauteed with quarter of fonds and olive, Parisienne potatoes round. Biarrotte — Sauteed with oil, fines herbes, cepes, white wine, aubergine, and Parisienne potatoes round.284 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bohemienne—Sauteed with paprika, sliced tomatoes and onions, pimento and fennel, plain rice round. Boivin—Sauteed with button onions, claret, quarters of fonds, and Parisienne potatoes. Bonne Femme—Sauteed with onions, grated carrots, white wine, tomatoes, mushroom, and parsley. Bordelaise—Sauteed with fines herbes, white wine, and quarter of fond. Cynthia—Sauteed with champagne and veal glaze, curacoa lastly. Dartois—Sauteed with onions, new carrots, fonds, and chive. Demidoff—Sauteed, demidoff roots and sliced truffe. Durand — Sauteed with tomatoes, rings of fried onions, and sliced ham round. Faroe—Sauteed, small tomatoes and new potatoes round. En cocotte—Sauteed in cocotte, seasoned, little jus lie over, and served. Espagnole—Sauteed with oil, etc., served with rice pilaff, tomato, pimentoes. Forestiere — Sauteed with morels, onions, strip of bacon and potatoes. Gounod—Sauteed with mushrooms, carrots, fonds, and truffes, cognac. Grand Mere—Sauteed with strips of bacon, button onions, and potatoes. Indienne—Curried chicken in bordure of boiled rice. Jurassienne—Sauteed with strip of pickled pork and chive.285 Entrees. Lathuile—Cut in neat and equal joints and placed in a sauteuse well buttered, with potatoes and fonds, cut in dice, well seasoned, and allowed to cook thus, turned as pancake to brown other side, and serve as a cake of pomrne Anna, glaze and parsley over. Malabar Indien—Sauteed with chopped onion, curry powder, juice of lemon, and cocoanut, served as dry curry. Marengo — Sauteed with onions, dice of tomatoes, tomato sauce, mushrooms, small fried eggs round, and croutons. Marseillaise — Sauteed with oil, eschalots, green peppers, dice of tomatoes and a soup9on of garlic, seasoned, moisten with white wine, and serve almost dry, fines herbes over. Maryland—Chicken cut in four, skinned, seasoned and crumbed a l’Anglaise, sauteed, and served with Indian corn fritters, fried bananas, and Allemande sauce with veal glaze. Mascotte—Sauteed with button onions, quarters of fonds, and noisette potato in cocottes. Massina — Braised with fonds and Perigueux sauce. Mireille—Sauteed with pimento and tomatoes, served in bordure of rice a la Turque. Palermo—Sauteed with tomatoes and fines herbes, and serve with Lazague it l’ltalienne. Parmentier — Sauteed with butter, when nearly cooked add dice of potatoes partly fried, finish cooking, and moisten with little white wine and glaze, and serve.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 286 Paysanne—Sauteed with fines herbes and pavsanne roots. Poona—Sauteed with chopped onions, curry powder, seasoned when cooked, moisten with cream and serve with rice quenelles. Portugciise—Sauteed with fines herbes, tomatoes, mushroom, white wine, and tomatoes round, farced or sauteed. Provengale—Sauteed with fines herbes, tomatoes, garlic, olives, white wine. Rostand—Sauteed with paysanne of carrots, cepes, truffe, and cognac, fines herbes over. SansgSne—Sauteed and served on Anna potatoes, garnished with cock’s comb and kidneys, Villeroy. Souvaroff—Prepared in casserole with truffe, foie gras, mushrooms, cock’s comb and kidneys, Madeira sauce, and glaze. Turenne—In casserole with truffe, Madeira, and glaze, Parisienne potato over. Vichy—Sauteed and served with carrots Vichy. Zingara—Sauteed with paprika, white wine, julienne of tongue and ham, and truffes, rice croquette. PoULET A BLANC OU FRICASSEE (WHITE CHICKEN Entree). The chickens are generally poached (boiled) whole or neatly cut, the sauce is made from the stock, finished and garnished as required. A VAncienne—Served with blanched button onions, mushrooms, and Allemande sauce, croutons and rice round.Entrees. 287 Alexandra—Served with pointes and Soubise in veloute. Americaine—Veloute with dice of pickled pork and red peppers. Archiduc—Creamed veloute, truife, and mushrooms. Armagnati—Rich veloute with crayfish butter and cognac, truife. Bretonne—Veloute with julienne of celery, leeks, and mushrooms. Chantilly—With creamed Allemande sauce. Chevaliere—Allemande sauce, decorated quenelles, button mushrooms, truife, cock’s comb and kidneys, small supremes. Chimay—Veloute, pointes and nouilles round. Crecy—Cream sauce and paysanne of carrots. Fedora—Supreme sauce with crayfish butter, pointes. Gabrielle—Supreme sauce with chicken essence, julienne of truife, and fleurons round. Georgina—Veloute flavoured with chopped fennel, tarragon, and chive, mushroom garnish. Havelock—Wings and fillets studded with truife, garnished with truife, mushrooms, cock’s comb and kidneys, Allemande sauce over. Indienne—White curry sauce, served in bordure of rice. Ivoire — Cream sauce, quarters of fonds,- and mushrooms. Laureate—Rich veloute with mushroom essence, but- ton onions, crayfish tails, and button mushrooms. Leon IX. — Veloute, quenelles, mushroom and macaroni garnish. Odette Valery — Chicken cut raw, poached with butter, eschalots, and white wine, seasoned;288 The New Practical Cookery Guide. when cooked, add cream, sliced mushrooms,, and serve in bordure of rice. Orientale — White curry sauce, served in bordure of curried risotto. Petite Mariee—Supreme sauce, sliced new carrots, peas, and small new potatoes. Polignac — Veloute with puree of mushrooms, julienne of truffe and mushrooms. Peine Margot—Allemande sauce, pink, green, and white quenelles. Bichemond—Veloute, with julienne of carrots and truffe. Stanley—Allemande sauce with puree of onions, julienne of truffe and tongue, served on white rice pilaff. Sultane — Veloute with pistacho butter, pimento, served in bordure of rice au gras. Trianon—Allemande sauce, pink, green quenelles, truffes. Van-dyck— Supreme sauce with hop shoots, in cocotte. Venitienne—Venitienne sauce with mushrooms and calf’s brain, Villeroy round. Viennoise—Paprika in Allemande sauce, cucumber garnish. Supreme de Volaille (Supreme or Fillets of Chicken). Fillets of chicken beaten and trimmed, bread- crumbed, or plainly poached or sauteed, as the case requires, served on fonds, etc., and sauced and garnished.Entrees. 289 Agnes Sorel—Poached and served on oval fonds of chicken and mushroom farce, masked with supreme sauce, decorated with tongue and truffe, veal glaze round. Alexandra—Poached and masked with veloute and Soubise, salamandered, pointes round. Arlesienne—Sauteed, and served on aubergine fonds,. sauteed tomatoes round, jus lie tomate. Armenonville—Sauteed, served on Anna potatoes, demiglace, with julienne of celery and truffe over. Belle Irma—Sauteed, served on Dauphine potatoes, pomtes, truffe, and jus lie. Boiselle—Farced, served in casserole with mush- rooms and jus lie. Chimay — Sauteed and served with morels and pointes, jus lie. Clementine—Poached, served in farce bordure, salsify a la creme, and veloute round. Cussy—Sauteed, served on fonds, slice of truffe on each, rognons de coq, and jus lie. Demidoff— Sauteed and served with paysanne of vegetables and truffe, Madeira sauce. Doria—Sauteed, served with cucumber garnish. Dreux—Studded with truffe and tongue, poached, and garnished with cock’s comb and kidney, Allemande sauce. Ecossaise—Poached, French bean garnish, Ecossaise sauce. Favorite—Sauteed, served with foie gras and truffe on each, pointes round and well buttered, jus lie. u290 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Financiere — Sauteed and served with Financiere garnish. Georgette—Poached, served on Georgette potato fonds, truffe and veloute. Helder—Sauteed, served with a ragout of truffes, carrots, mushrooms, and fonds, jus lie. Henri IV.—Sauteed, served on fonds, Bearnaise over, glaze round. Hongroise—Sauteed, served on timbale of rice pilaff, and Hongroise sauce. Japonnaise—Sauteed, served on rice, fonds with puree of crosnes, jus lie. Judic—Sauteed, served with braised lettuce, truffe, and jus lie. Marechale—Breadcrumbed, sauteed, and served with pointes, truffe, and jus lie. Marie Louise—Breadcrumbed, sauteed, and served on fonds filled with mushroom farce, jus lie. Marie Therese—Poached, served on bordure of rice pilaff, supreme sauce over, crest with tongue on top. Maryland—Breadcrumbed, sauteed, and served with Indian corn fritters, fried bananas, and glazed veloute. Mireille—Sauteed, served on pomme Anna, julienne of fonds sauteed in butter over. Monty ensier — Breadcrumbed, sauteed, garnished with pointes, Perigueux sauce. Orientate—Sauteed, served on chow chow, supreme and tomato sauce mixed over, chopped truffe.Entrees. 291 Orly—As Fritot de Poulet, in pate a frire, tomato sauce apart. Otero—Farced with puree of truffe and foie gras, poached, served in cocottes with creamed veloute. Payillote—Lightly poached dry, mashed with d’Uxelle and slice of ham, wrapped in oiled paper and baked. Pai •isienne— Poached, served on oval quenelles, supreme sauce over, and a slice of truffe, pointes round. Petit Buc—Crumbed a l’Anglaise, grilled, served on Anna potatoes, fresh grilled mushroom, and horseradish, Chateaubriand sauce. Pogarski—Finely minced and mixed with one-third of fresh butter, seasoned, made into supreme shape, breadcrumbed and sauteed, jus lie, and vegetable garnish. Polignac—Poached, and served with supreme sauce, julienne of truffe and mushroom. Princesse—Poached, masked with veloute and a slice of truffe fonds with pointes round. Regence—Poached, served on farce fond, Allemande sauce, finished with crayfish butter over, cock’s comb garnish. Richelieu — Breadcrumbed a l’Anglaise, sauteed, Perigueux sauce. Rossini—Sauteed, and served on sliced foie gras, sliced truffe on top, Madeira sauce, with truffe essence over. St. Germain—Crumbed and sauteed, glazed slices of foie gras on top, jus lie round. u 2292 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Talleyrand—Masked with foie gras farce, poached, and served on oval croustade filled with macaroni mixed with truffe, Madeira sauce. Tzarina — Poached, served with supreme sauce, fennel flavour, cucumber a la creme round, * thread of glaze. Vallencay—Crumbed with chopped truffe, sauteed, and served on croutes of puree of mushroom, jus lie. Vallois—Breadcrumbed and sauteed, farced olive garnish, and Valois sauce. Vermeille—Crumbed, chopped truffe and tongue mixed with the breadcrumbs, sauteed, and served with puree of fonds, jus lie. Pigeon. A VAutrichienne—Filled with fines herbes and bread farce, cooked in casserole and served. Americaine—(Squabs) split and grilled, served with tomatoes. Beale—Braised, served with button onions and mushrooms, carrots, and Parisienne potatoes, demiglace, with liver pounded. Bonne Femme—Braised in casserole with fines herbes and sliced mushrooms. Bordelaise—Braised in casserole with fines herbes, fonds and potatoes, and white wine. Catalane—Braised in casserole with dice of bacon and olives. Chartreuse—Braised, cut in neat pieces and placed in a chartreuse or bordure mould, decorated with cubes of vegetables and lined with well braisedEntrees. 293 cabbage, layer of cabbage over, and poached for thirty to forty minutes, turned out and served with rich demiglace, peas, pointes, and cucumber garnish. Chijpolata — Braised and served with Chipolata garnish. Compote—Braised, carved and simmered in casserole, with dice of bacon, mushrooms, and onions, Madeira sauce. Crapaudine—Split and grilled with crumbs, served with Tartare or devilled sauce. En Pates—Cut in neat pieces, and placed in a pie- dish with layers of sliced rump steak, highly seasoned with salt, fresh ground pepper, chopped eschalots and fines herbes, moistened with stock, covered with puff paste (feuilletage), and baked. En Surprise—Farced and braised partly, wrapped in a large blanched cos lettuce, finish braising, and served with jus lie. Farcis Ptomaine—Farced with d’Uxelle mixed with pork farce, braised, and served on a bordure, mushroom and truffe, demiglace. Grand Mere—As Bonne Femme, addition of noisette potatoes. Nana—Split, cooked in casserole, with onions, olives, mushrooms, truffe, and potatoes, glazed, jus lie. Parisienne— Roasted in casserole, with pearls of carrots, small button onions, peas, truffe, and ham. Paysanne—Braised, carved and served in casserole, with Paysanne garnish.294 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Caneton (Ducklings). Aylesbury ducks or ducklings are mostly stuffed a l’Anglaise, roasted, and served with apple sauce. Rouen ducks, noted for their richness of flesh, are served rather underdone. Nantes ducks and others are more suitable for other culinary preparations. A VAnglaise—Stuffed with sage and onions, parsley, and breadcrumbs, seasoned, roasted, and served with gravy and apple sauce. Au Champagne—Braised with champagne and served with reduced liquor and demiglace. Aux Pois—Braised with button onions, dice of bacon and peas. Bigarade—Braised, served with quarters of peeled oranges and bigarade sauce. • Brassica — Braised and served in casserole with glazed quarters of turnips, demiglace. Chipolata — Braised and served with Chipolata garnish. L’ Orange—Rouen duck lightly roasted, breasted, filleted, juice of orange over with the juice pressed from the chopped carcase, sliced orange round. Lyonnaise — Braised with button onions and chestnut, demiglace. Menthe—Fresh butter kneaded with chopped mint, and seasoned to farce a Nantes duck and braise it, served with reduced liquor and jus lie, chopped mint.Entrees. 295 Moliere—Boned and farced with truffed foie gras, farce meat braised in serviette as galantines, served with jus lie and liquor, and truffe. Navets — Braised and served with glazed turnips and button onions, demiglace and liquor. Nivernaise—Braised and served with Nivernaise garnish. Olives—Braised and garnished with stoned olive and demiglace. Palestine—Braised and served with blanched and glazed Jerusalem artichoke and demiglace. Paysanne — Braised and served with Paysanne garnish. Presse—Rouen duck roasted underdone, the breast sliced, and the juice of carcase pressed over, seasoned, and a little red wine and cognac, and serve. Rouennaise—Farced with duck’s liver farce and lightly roasted ; when carved, juice of lemon and cognac and the juice of the carcase pressed over the fillets, Rouennaise sauce apart. Oie ou Oison (Goose or, Gosling). A VAllemande—Breast boned and stuffed with apples, braised and served with small peeled and cored baked apples with red currant jelly in centre, demiglace, and sauerkraut. Alsacienne—Farced with pork farce, braised and served with sauerkraut, lean pieces of bacon, and demiglace. Anglaise—Stuffed with sage and onion stuffing, roasted, and served with apple sauce.296 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Au Raifort—Braised and served with rice pilaw, and horseradish sauce. Cassoulet—Hashed goose with onions, sausages, haricot beans, and tomatoes, garlic flavour, crumbs over and gratines. Cuisse d'Oie, Sauce Robert—G-oose legs, scored, well seasoned with salt, pepper, and mustard, grilled and served with Robert sauce. En Civet—Cut in equal neat pieces and jugged as hare, lie lastly with the goose’s blood and claret. En Ragout aux Marrons—Stewed or sauteed with white wine, fines herbes, demiglace, and blanched chestnuts. Mont Vernon—Stuffed with mashed potatoes mixed with cooked chopped onions and a few yolks, highly seasoned, roasted and served with peeled and cored small apples, baked with the goose, demiglace with sherry, and red currant jelly. Strasbourgeoise — Stuffed with apples and goose liver, braised and served with sauerkraut and glazed chestnut, own gravy. Paon (Peacock). Peacock is one of the old school of cookery royal dishes. Young birds can be prepared in various ways, as turkeys. Condatino—Larded and carefully roasted, served with rice pilaw, mixed with pistachio and currants, jus lie tomate. En Galantine—As galantine of turkey. En Pates—Pie made as a game raised pie and served with the plumage representing the peacock.29 7 Entrees. Dinde et Dindonneau (Turkey and Turkey Poult). VAnglaise I.—Farced and boiled, served with boiled pickled tongue and celery sauce. Americaine I.—Farced and braised, served with tufts of cauliflower, carrots, onion, and tomatoes, deniiglace. Americaine II.—Farced, roasted and served with cranberry sauce. Anglaise II.—Farced and roasted, served with sausage and bread sauce. Baron—Farced with traffed veal farce, roasted and served with roast quails and whole truffe round, jus lie. Bourgeoise—Braised and served with Bourgeoise garnish. Castillianne—Cut in equal neat pieces and sauteed, with a garnish of Chipolata sausages, chestnut, button onions, mushrooms, and quarters of tomatoes. Chipolata — Braised and served with Chipolata garnish. Conti—Farced and roasted, served with a ragout of quenelles, truffes, and cock’s comb, jus lie. En Daube—Boned and farced as galantine, braised in covered casserole well seasoned and good stock and wine, allowed to cool in own liquor. Gitana—Braised and served with nouilles and jus lie. Godard—Braised and served with G-odard garnish. Gourmet—Chestnut farced, roasted, served with Parisienne sausages and jus lie.298 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Medicis—Roasted and served with croustade filled with puree of game, Madeira sauce. Milanaise—Braised and served with macaroni Milanaise and jus lie tomate. Montorgeuil — Poached with vegetables and light stock, Allemande sauce and truffe. Piemontaise — Larded and braised, white wine, vegetables, etc., dressed on farce fond, and garnished with croustade of rice Piemontaise, Madeira sauce. Russe—Farced with sauteed cepes and onions and fennel, braised, liquor reduced and lie, sour cream, farced cepes round. Poussin ott Potjlet de Grain (Spring Chicken). A la Belle Meuniere — Cooked in casserole with sliced mushrooms, truffe, dice of bacon, and veal glaze. Bergere — Cooked in casserole with squares of pickled pork, mushroom, onions, potatoes, and jus lie. Bonne Femme—Cooked in casserole with bacon, Parisian potatoes, and jus lie. Cendrillon—Split, sauteed, masked with truffed forcemeat, wrapped in pig’s caul, crumbed and grilled, truffe sauce. Clamart—Cooked in casserole and served with peas a la Frai^aise. Gourmet—Split, crumbed and grilled, garnished with straw potatoes, Chateaubriand sauce.Entrees. 299 Howtowdie—Is a chicken farced with veal stuffing, and braised, served with poached eggs on sumach round, mushrooms and jus lie. Katkoff—Split, and seasoned with mustard and paprika, crumbed and grilled, served with Duchesse potatoes, devilled sauce. Limousine—Farced with truffed pork farce and chopped mushroom, braised, and served with chestnuts and button onions. Mascotte—En casserole, with mushrooms, quarters of fonds, noisette potatoes, and veal jus lie. Mignon—Farced with foie gras, wrapped in paper, and roasted, served with rich veal jus lie. Piemontaise—Farced with Piemont truffe and pork farce, braised, served with risotto Piemontaise, jus lie, Polonaise—Farced and cooked in casserole, Polonaise butter. Primeur—Farced, cooked in casserole, and served with tufts of pointes, beans, peas, and jus lie. Romani—Farced with ortolans, wrapped in paper and roasted, jus lie tomate. Ste. Frangoise—Partly cooked and masked with d’Uxelle and pork farce, wrapped in short paste and baked, jus lie. Tartare—Split, grilled, and served with Tartare sauce. Viennoise—Split, breadcrumbed a l’Anglaise, and sauteed, sliced lemon round, and tomato sauce apart.300 The New Practical Cookery Guide. POULARDES. Adelina Patti—Farced with rice Sicilienne, poached, supreme sauce, with paprika over and fonds with glazed truffe round. Albufera—Farced with rice au gras mixed with foie gras and truffe, poached, served with croustades of quenelles, truffe, mushrooms, and cock’s comb and kidneys, Albufera sauce. Alexandra—Studded and poached, remove the fillets or supreme, fill place with chicken farce, Mornay sauce over, and gratine, fillets on croustades, and garnish with bouquets of pointes, veal glaze round. Amateur—Poached in white stock, when done the stock boiled down to glaze, pour over the chicken and serve straw potatoes round. Anna Held—Studded with truffe, farced, and roasted in casserole. Aurore—Poached, masked with Aurore sauce, que- nelles, and sliced rolled tongue round. Beaufort—Farced and braised, served with glazed lamb’s tongue, jus lie. Beaulieu — Braised, served with farced olives in fonds and Parisienne potatoes, jus lie. Belle Mere—En casserole with button onions, strips of bacon, fonds and noisette potatoes, green peas and jus lie. Bonne Femme—Braised in casserole with dice of lean bacon, sliced potatoes, and jus lie. Bouquetiere—Braised and garnished with pointes, fonds with jardiniere, noisette potatoes, and jus lie.Entrees. 301 Cardinal—Farced and poached, supreme sauce mixed with tomato sauce, chicken farced tomato round. Careme—Farced with a salpicon of foie gras, truffe, quenelles lie veloute, braised, and garnished with lamb’s bread and farced olive in fonds, jus lie. Carlsford—Boned aud farced, retrussed and roasted, served with jus lie and watercress. Cavour—Studded with truffe, poached, and served with nouille or lazagne garnish, supreme sauce over. Chantilly—Farced with rice, foie gras and truffe, creamed veloute. Chatelaine I.—Braised, garnished with fonds, filled with puree of chestnut and Soubise, noisette potato and jus lie. Chatelaine II.—Braised, garnished with cepes borde- laise, glazed chestnut, and Parisienne potatoes, demiglace. Chimay—Farced with nouille, poached, garnished with pointes and nouille, supreme sauce. Chipolata—Braised, served with Chipolata garnish. Chivvy—Poached, chivry sauce over, garnished with tufts of spring vegetables. Cussy—Braised, garnished with truffe and mush- rooms, puree of chestnut and chokes, cock’s comb, demiglace. Dauphine—Larded, braised, garnished with croquettes of chicken and truffe, demiglace, and Dauphine potatoes. Demidoff—Braised with button onions, stars of carrots, turnips, celeriac, and truffe, jus lie and reduced liquor.302 The New Practical CooJcery Guide. Derby—Farced with rice, foie gras and traffe, braised with rich stock, served with sliced foie gras and whole truffe, liquor reduced and veal jus lie. Devonshire—Breast boned and farced, braised, served with tongue and fonds with puree of peas, jus lie. Dieppoise—Farced with crayfish flavoured farce, poached, and served with crayfish tails, truffe, and Allemande safuce, finished with crayfish butter. Diva—Farced as Derby, poached and served with cepes, supreme sauce with paprika. Doi 'a—Farced as Derby, poached and served on bordure of rice, Allemande sauce over. Doria—Farced with salpicon of quenelles, truffe, and foie gras, lie veloute, poached; when cooked, slice the breast, replace, and mask the fowl with Allemande sauce, cheese over and gratines, garnish with truffe, mushrooms, cock’s comb, cucumber, and supreme sauce round. Di 'eux—Studded with truffe and tongue, poached, garnished with quenelles, truffe, cock’s comb and kidney, veloute. Duroc—Farced and braised, Madeira sauce with julienne of truffe and tongue. Ecossaise—Farced, dice of tongue and truffe in farce, poached and served with French beans round, Ecossaise sauce. Edouard VII.—Farced as Derby, poached, garnished with pointes and cucumber a la creme, curried supreme sauce.Entrees. 303 Elysee—Farced, studded with truffe, poached and garnished with quenelles, foie gras, truffe, mushroom, cock’s comb and kidneys, supreme sauce. Escurial—Farced with salpicon of truffe, mushrooms, stoned olives and ham, lie, Madeira sauce, braised, served on a rice fond, small fried eggs, a la Francaise round and jus lie aux tines herbes. Espagnole—Farced with rice, pimentoes, and gar- banzoes, braised and served with tomatoes round, jus lie, tomate Favorite—Farced with creamed farce with dice of foie gras and truffe, poached, served with supreme sauce, julienne of truffe and celery and cock’s kidneys. Fermiere—Braised in casserole with small button onions, pearls of carrots, peas, small Parisienne potatoes, jus lie. Gastronome I.—Farced with risotto, braised and served with glazed chestnut and demiglace. Gastronome II.—Farced, braised, and served with cepes, truffe, fonds, and jus lie, chestnut round. Grecque—Farced with rice a la G-recque, braised, and jus lie. Hongroise—Cooked with paprika, garnished with rice and tomatoes, Hongroise sauce over. Imperiale — Farced with salpicon of mushroom, truffes, lamb’s bread, lie veloute and puree of mushroom, poached and garnished with bar- quettes filled with truffe and foie gras, fonds with pointes.304 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Iooire—Poached, garnished with quenelles and small round poached eggs, Ivoire sauce. Jacques—Farced with foie gras, braised, claret sauce with glaze and tomato sauce mixed. Lady Curzon—Farced with rice, foie gras, and truffe, poached and Served with curried supreme sauce, cucumber cassolettes filled with puree of mushrooms. Lancjuedocienne—Braised and garnished with toma- toes sauteed in aubergine croustades, cepes, and jus lie. Maitre Lucas—Farced and braised, garnished with braised lettuce, celery, farced onions, stuffed olive, Duchesse potatoes, and demiglace. Mancini—Poached, breast fillet sliced and carefully removed, breast bone picked out entirely, the cavity filled with macaroni, julienne of truffe, and foie gras; replace fillets and mask with supreme sauce, cheese over and gratines. Mazarin—Braised in casserole with julienne of carrots, celery, truffe, jus lie Madeira and glaze. Menagere—Braised in casserole, button onions, new small carrots and potatoes, jus lie. Milanaise—Farced with macaroni Milanaise, braised and served demiglace tomatee. Mireille—Braised, garnished with rice a la Turque, and tartlets filled with sauteed tomatoes and a stoned olive, tomato sauce. Montbrazon—Studded with truffe, poached, garnished with lamb’s breads, large quenelles, supreme sauce.305 Entrees. Monte Carlo—Poached, masked with supreme sauce, garnished with pink quenelles and truffe. Montmorency—Larded and braised, garnished with decorated quenelles, fonds with pointes, Madeira sauce. Nantua — Poached, served with supreme sauce, finished with crayfish butter over, crayfish quenelles, and truffe round. Nicoise I.—Braised, and served with French beans, fonds, tomatoes and olives, jus lie tomate. Nicoise II.—Braised, and served with small toma- toes, small fonds, sliced courgettes, new potatoes and olives, jus lie tomate. Nouveau Siecle—Braised, garnished with cucumber, new potatoes, button onions, aubergine and cepes, jus lie. Orientate—Poached, and served on rice a la Turque, curried veloute over, and Chayotte garnish. Paysanne—Braised with Paysanne garnish and good veal glaze, served in casserole. Parisienne—Farced, poached, supreme sauce over row of sliced truffe and tongue on breast, deco- rated quenelle garnish. Petite Mariee—Poached with little chicken stock, fancy cut carrots, celery and peas, masked with supreme sauce and reduced liquor. Petite Prussienne—As Bonne Femme, add morels and cepes, en casserole. Plnarao—Farced with rice pilaff minced with toma- toes, currants, pistaches, braised, jus lie. Piemontaise — Farced with risotto Piementaise, braised, garnished with rice croustades filled x306 The New Practical Cookery Guide. with foie gras and Piemond truffe, jus lie tornate. Poivre—Braised in covered casserole with butter and fresh ground black pepper and a pinch of salt, cooked slowly, hermetically closed, served plain. Polonaise—Farced and braised, served on semolina fonds garnished with chicken liver brochette, truffe and demiglace tomatee. Portugaise—Farced with rice Portugaise, braised and served with Portugaise sauce, tomatoes farced with rice Portugaise round. Pi imeur—Braised and served with garnish of spring vegetable and pointes, jus lie. Prince de Galles—Farced with foie gras and wood- cock farce, braised, garnished with truffe, mush- rooms, fillets of woodcock and jus lie. Princesse —Poached, masked with supreme sauce, garnished with pointes and quenelles. Princesse Helene—Farced with rice, masked with supreme sauce, garnished with subric of spinach and truffes. Begence—Farced, chicken and foie gras farce, poached, masked Allemande sauce, Regence garnish. Beine — Poached, masked with supreme sauce, served on rice fond, garnished with mousse of chicken. Brine Margot—Farced with chicken farce flavoured with puree of almonds, poached and garnished with quenelles, with pistachio and crayfish butter.Entrees. 307 Biz (au)—Poached, masked with Allemande sauce, o-arnished with rice cooked with chicken stock. o St. James—Braised, with printanier roots and Madeira sauce. St. Lucia—Farced with chicken and foie gras farce, braised and garnished with gniocchi au jus, deniiglace. St. Menehould—Split and partly braised and bread- crumbed, grilled and served with Madeira sauce. SouJJiee—Poached, fillets removed and si iced, breast bone cut off and cavity filled with light creamed chicken farce mixed with the chicken fillets and foie gras, decorated with truffe and placed in oven to cook farce, masked with rich Allemande sauce. Souvarojf—Farced with foie gras and truffe, poached till half cooked and placed in casserole with truffe, Madeira and veal glaze covered and finished cooking in oven, served thus. Stanley—Farced with chicken farce mixed with julienne of truffe poached and masked with Soubise veloute, julienne of truffe and tongue. Sylvania—Farced with sauteed sliced mushrooms, cooked in casserole with peas a la Fra^aise and served. Talleyrand — Poached, fillets and breast bones removed, the cavity filled with cubes of macaroni, dice of truffe, and foie gras blended with veloute and cheese, masked with fine chicken farce and decorated with truffe, placed in oven to cook farce, and served with demiglace and truffe. x 2308 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Tosca—Farced with rice and foie gras, poached and masked with supreme sauce flavoured with fennel. Toscana—Farced with spaghetti, truffe, and foie gras, braised and served with cassolette filled with foie gras truffe and jus lie. Trianon—Poached and garnished with pink, green and white quenelles, supreme sauce with puree of foie gras. Trieste—Poached in casserole with chicken stock, rice, bay leaf flavour, pieces of cauliflower and served thus, veloute a part. Valencienne — Farced with risotto mixed with julienne of ham, j>oached and masked with supreme and tomato sauce mixed. Vert Pre—Poached, masked with Chi cry sauce, garnished with peas, French beans, and pointes. Vichy—Farced with rice, garnished with carrots Vichy, jus lie. Victoria—As Souvaroff, addition of foie gras. Washington—Farced with Indian corn and pork farce, served with croustade of Indian corn, demiglace.PART VIII. RELEVE (Remove). Aloyau de Bceuf (Sirloin of Beef). A VAnglaise—Roasted and served with Yorkshire pudding and horseradish sauce. Americaine—Boned, larded with lean ham, braised in own liquor, served with demiglace, mixed with red currant jelly and liquor, horseradish. Bourgeoise—Boned, larded, and braised, served with Bourgeoise garnish. Bretonne—Braised and served with haricot beans Bretonne. Florence—Boned, rolled, and braised with vegetable, white wine, knuckle of veal, and good stock; when done, strain, and skim liquor, boiled down to semiglaze, add tomato puree and serve over beef with timbales of spaghetti round. Frangaise—Boned, rolled, and lardel, roasted and served with Parisienne potatoes, watercress, and jus lie. Infante—Boned, roasted and served with fonds filled with noisette potatoes and braised lettuce round, jus he'.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 310 Moderne—Boned and roasted, served with braised lettuce, Parisienne potatoes, fonds and small tomatoes, jus lie. Nivernaise—Boned and braised, Nivernaise garnish. Portugaise—Boned, larded, and braised, garnished with Chateau potatoes and farced tomatoes, jus lie tomate. Cote de Bceuf (Ribs op Beef) Are usually served a l’Anglaise, when a large joint, if single ribs are cooked, dressed as entrecote, Chateaubriand, or fillets. Contrefilet is the sirloin, boned without fillet. Boeuf d la Mode—Boned rump studded with large strips of larding bacon and carrots, braised with vegetables and spices, good stock and demiglace, and served with vegetable garnish and own liquor skimmed and reduced. Bceuf Bouilli aux Racines—Salted round of beef, boiled for several hours with carrots and turnips and dumplings. Filet de Bceuf (Fillet of Beef). A VAndalouse—Larded and roasted, served with pimentoes filled with rice Espagnole and auber- gines filled with sauteed tomatoes, jus lie tomate. Arlesienne—Larded, braised, and served with toma- toes and aubergines, demiglace tomate. Berrichonne—Larded and braised, garnished with braised cabbage, button onions, and glazed chest- nuts, jus lie.311 Releve (Remove). Bisontine—Larded and braised, garnished with Ducliesse potatoes and braised lettuce, jus lie. Bouqueti'ere—Larded and braised, garnished with bouquets of vegetable, jus lie. Brebant—Larded, roasted, and garnished with noisette potatoes, fonds with puree of peas, jus lie. Clamart — Larded and braised, garnished with croustade of peas paysanne, Macaire potatoes, and jus lie. Chatelaine—Larded and braised, garnished with Soubise fonds, glazed chestnuts, and rissole potatoes, jus lie. Doria—Larded, braised, cucumber garnish, jus lie. Dubarry—Larded and braised, garnished with cauli- flower au gratin, jus lie. Fervaal—Larded and braised, Marquise potatoes and puree of celeriac in fonds, jus lie. Flamande—Larded, braised, garnished with braised cabbage, lettuce, and Chipolata sausages. Frascati—Larded and braised, garnished with foie gras, truffe, mushroom, pointes, and jus lie, fleuron round. Gastronome—Studded with truffe, braised and served with truffes, mushrooms, chestnuts, Madeira sauce with truffe essence. Godard—Larded and braised, Godard garnish and sauce. Gouffe—Larded and braised, served on rice fond, garnished with truffe, quenelles, mushrooms, cock’s comb, jus lie. Hongroise—Braised, garnished with glaze, onions, cauliflower Hongroise, and paprika sauce.312 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Hussarde—Larded and roasted, served with Duchesse potatoes, grilled mushrooms, tomatoes, and Hussarde sauce. Japonnaise — Larded and braised, served with Duchesse croustades filled with crosnes, timbale of rice and saffron, jus lie. Jockey Club—Marinated, braised with mirpoix and sherry, garnished with tomato farcis, large quenelles, potato croquettes, liquor reduced and jus lie. Londonderry—Farced with foie gras and truffe by an incision at the side lengthwise, studded with truffe and secured tightly, braised with mirpoix and marsala, served with whole truffe and mushroom and rich jus lie with reduced liquor. Lorette—Larded and braised, served with Lorette potatoes and pointes, jus lie. Madeleine—Larded and braised, garnished with small timbales of puree of peas, puree of lentils and spinach, served on fonds. Maillot—Larded and braised, served with farced mushroom and jus lie. Marjordomo—Marinated and braised, served with fonds of puree of lentils and Madeira sauce. Maraichere—Larded and braised, garnished with new carrots, button onions, farced cucumbers, quar- ters of fonds, braised lettuce, jus lie. Massenet — Larded and braised, garnished with dariole moulds of Anna potatoes, fonds with beef marrow, French beans and jus lie. Mercedes—Studded with larding bacon and anchovy fillets, roasted, garnished with farced tomatoes,Releve {Remove). 313 braised lettuce, new carrots, and olives, Madeira sauce. Mexicaine—Larded and served on rice fonds, gar- nished with French beans, pointes, new carrots, and truffle, jus lie. Moclerne I.—Studded with truffle and tongue, braised, and served with small vegetable chartreuse, braised lettuce, quenelles, jus lie. Moderne II. — Studded with tongue and bacon, roasted, garnished with potato croquettes, farced tomatoes, braised lettuce, and jus lie. Montmorency — Larded and braised, garnished with macedoine fonds, pointes, jus lie au madere. Orientate—Roasted, and served with farced tomatoes, rice croquettes, tomato sauce with pimento. Parisienne—Larded and roasted, served with braised lettuce, fonds, Parisienne potatoes, and Madeira sauce. Petit Due—Larded and braised, garnished with fonds and truffles, pointes, and jus lie', with horseradish butter. Phileas, Gilbert—Larded and braised, served on Duchesse potatoes fonds, garnished with wdiole truffe in fonds, Madeira sauce. Portugaise—Larded and roasted, fonds with pointes, Chateau potatoes, tomato sauce. Prince Albert—Farced with puree of foie gras by an incision at the side, larded and braised with madeira and mirpoix, served with croustades with truffes, liquor reduced with oporto and ius lie.314 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Prince Orloff — Larded and braised, sliced and replaced, masked with puree of mushrooms and soubise, parmesan over and gratines, garnished with braised lettuce and celery, jus lie round Princesse—Larded and roasted, fonds with pointes, Madeira sauce. Provengale — Larded and braised, garnished with farced tomatoes and farced mushroom, Proven- cale sauce. Renaissance—Larded and braised, Renaissance gar- nish and jus lie. Royale—Studded with truffe and tongue, roasted, garnished with mushroom, truffe, and cock’s comb, Madeira sauce with truffe essence. St. Florentin—Larded and braised, garnished with Berny potatoes, cepes and Bordelaise sauce. St. Germain—Larded and roasted, garnished with timbales of puree of peas, new carrots and potatoes, jus lie, Bearnaise sauce. Sarde—Larded and roasted, farced cucumbers and tomatoes, rice croquettes, and tomato sauce. Talleyrand—Studded with truffe, roasted and served with croustade of macaroni with truffe and foie gras, Perigueux sauce. Tivoli—Larded and roasted, garnished with pointes and fonds with jardiniere, jus lie. Trianon—Larded with ham, roasted, garnished with croustades filled with puree of peas, puree of carrots, and puree of chestnut, jus lie. Wellington—Partly roasted, masked with d’Oxelle, wrapped in puff paste and baked, demiglace a part.Releve {Remove). 315 Gigot de Mouton (Leg of Mutton). A VAnglaise—Boiled witli carrots and turnips, served with mashed turnip and caper sauce. Also served plainly roasted, and braised and suit- able garnish, Bretonne, Bourgeoise, etc. Selle de Mouton (Saddle of Mutton). A la Metternich—Braised dry, sliced and replaced, and masked with bechamel sauce and paprika, cheese and gratine, garnished with timbale of rice pilaff, jus lie. Mornay—Braised dry and sliced and replaced, masked with Mornay sauce and gratine, jus lie. Prince Orloff—Braised, sliced and replaced, masked with puree of mushrooms and soubise, cheese and crumbs and gratine, garnished with braised lettuce and celery, jus lie. St. Germain—Boasted, breadcrumbs over, grilled tomatoes, aubergine and mushroom round, jus lie. Mutton and Lamb. The following garnishes are suitable for saddles: Alsacienne, Beatrix, Bouquetiere, Chatelaine, Dau- phine, Duchesse, Favorite, Flamande, Hongroise,. Languedocienne, Lorraine, Mentonnaise, Moderne, N^oise, Portugaise, Provencale, Renaissance, Riche- lieu, Romanoff, Sarde, etc. etc.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 316 Selle d’Agneau (Saddle of Lamb) Are prepared as Saddle of Mutton. A VAnglaise—They are plainly roasted and served with mint sauce. Acjneau de Pouillac—Small special French lamb imported from Pouillac. Agneau Pascal—A small house lamb roasted whole, and served in the ordinal'v way. Epaule de Mouton ou d’Agneau (Shoulder of Mutton or Lamb). Shoulders of mutton are rarely served in high class cookery, the following are a few of the most popular ways of serving them. A VAnglaise—It is roasted plain and served with onion sauce and roasted potatoes. A la Boulangere—Boned and rolled, and roasted with onions and potatoes and served with jus lie. Bonne Femme—Boned and farced with pork farce, rolled and roasted with sliced onions, and served with haricot beans and carrots, jus lie. Braisee—Boned and braised and served with any garnish, as for saddles. Shoulders of lamb can be prepared the same as mutton h l’Anglaise, roasted plain and served with mint sauce; the same applies to forequarters and hindquarters of lamb.317 Releve (Remove). Carre de Mouton (Neck of Mutton). The best end only is used, neatly trimmed and roasted or braised as required. .2 la Beaucaire—Roasted and served with tomatoes and fonds, jus lie with tarragon. Bonne Femme—Braised in casserole with button onions and noisette potatoes. Mireille—Roasted and served with pomme Anna, mixed with julienne of fonds, demiglace. Limousine—Bated and served with glaze onions and chestnuts, jus lie. Printanier—Braised and served with printanier garnish, jus lie. So'ibise—Braised with onions, soubise and jus lie. Toscane—Baked in casserole between two layers of Anna potatoes, Parmesan over lightly gratines. Carre d’Agneau (Neck of Lamb). Same preparation as mutton; it is advisable to cook the delicate necks of small lamb. Barded with slices of larding bacon. Longe et Filet de Yeau (Loin and Fillet of Yeal). A l’Anglaise—Farced with veal stuffing and roasted, served with boiled ham or bacon, jus lie. Ancienne—Boned, braised, and served with braised lettuce, French beans, demiglace with braised liquor strained and reduced.318 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bourgeoise—Larded and braised, Bourgeoise garnish, jus lie. Boulangere—Roasted with Boulangere potatoes, jus lie. Bruxelloise—Larded, braised, and served with sauteed sprouts and noisette potatoes, jus lie. Cambaceres—Larded and roasted, served with fonds filled with puree of cucumbers, jus lie. Dauphine—Larded and braised, served with fonds with pointes, sliced sauteed mushrooms, tomato sauce. Dubouzet—Boned, farced with truffe and pork farce, braised Bignonne potatoes, and jus lie. Farvel—Larded and braised, served with nouille Milanaise and jus lie tomate. Florent—Larded and braised, served with braised lettuce, new carrots, button onions, and Paris- ienne potatoes, jus lie. Lausanne—Braised, served with croustades, filled with puree of lettuce, Robert potatoes, and jus lie. Mancelle—Braised and served with braised chestnuts, jus lie. Milanaise—Larded and braised, garnished with macaroni Milanaise, jus lie tomate. Moderne—Roasted, sliced, replaced with layers of truffed puree of foie gras, masked with bechamel and cheese and gratine, Madeira sauce round. Nemours- -Larded and roasted, served with carrots, Vichy and peas, Boulette potatoes, and jus lie. Pompadour—Roasted, masked with Mornay sauce, gratine, puree of lentils and veal glaze round.319 Releve {Remove). Pontoise—Farced, braised and served with jus lie, tartar sauce a part. Potagere—Larded and braised, served with new carrots, onions, cauliflower tufts, and new potatoes, jus lie. St. Clair—Roasted and served with alternate slices of ham, tomato sauce round. St. Cloud—Studded with truffe, garnished with truffes, mushrooms, quenelles, lamb's breads, lie, Allemande sauce, veal glaze round. Suzane—Larded and braised, served with half- moon shaped potatoes and button onions, jus lie tomate. Suzeraine—Studded with trufle and ham, braised and served wdth farced cucumber and tomatoes, jus lie. Ti 'ianon—Larded and braised, served with cucumber cassolette filled with puree of chestnut, jus lie tomate. Versaillienne — Farced and braised, served with quenelles, pointes, cucumber, and jus lie. Selle de Veau (Saddle of Veal). _ _ A la Doria—Braised dry, sliced, and replaced with alternate layer of puree of cucumber and veloute, masked with the same puree and gratines, gar- nished with truffes, mushrooms, and cock’s comb and kidneys, jus lie. Metternich—Braised dry, sliced, and replaced with alternate layers of thick bechamel and paprika, masked with the sauce and gratines, timbale of rice garnish, jus lie.320 The New Practiced Cookery Guide. Orientcde—Braised, sliced, and replaced with alter- nate layers of curried soubise, mashed with soubise, and cheese and gratines, braised celery and rice croquettes garnish. Prince Orloff—Braised dry, sliced, and replaced with alternate layers of puree of mushrooms and soubise, masked with soubise, and cheese and gratines, braised lettuce and celery round, jus lie. Tosca—Braised dry, sliced, replace slices on a layer of macaroni au fromage, masked with soubise and bechamel, cheese and gratines, jus lie. Selle de Chevretjil (Saddle of Roebuck). A VAllemande—Marinated for at least two days, and roasted with the marinated vegetables, well basted, the liquor strained, skimmed, and boiled down with powdered juniper berries, cream, and poured over saddle. Baden-Baden — Marinated as above and roasted, served with unsweetened stewed pears, liquor reduced and mixed with red currant jelly and powdered cinnamon poured over. Beaugeu—Larded, and braised dry, and served with foncls with puree of lentils, glazed chestnuts and venaison sauce. Cumberland — Roasted wrapped in water paste, served with fonds filled with puree of chestnuts and lentils, Cumberland sauce. Creole—Marinated and roasted, served with sauteed bananas, Robert and poivrade sauce mixed.Releve (Remove). 321 Geniev re—Larded and roasted, basted with oiled butter and Hollands gin mixed, apple sauce separate, poivrade sauce mixed with cream and juniper berry flavour. Roebuck and Venison. Romanoff—Larded and roasted, garnished with cucumber, farced with puree of mushrooms, cepes, and poivrade sauce. Walhyrie—Larded, and braised dry, garnished with potato croquettes, mushrooms farced with sou- bise, poivrade sauce and juniper. Hanche de Venaison (Haunch of Venison) should be hung for twenty days and wrapped in greased paper, then enclosed in water paste and roasted for several hours, according to size; half an hour before serving, the paste crust and paper removed, and placed in a hot oven or in front of a brisk fire and browned, it is then usually served with venison sauce, French beans and potato cro- quettes ; it can also be prepared as saddles. Jambon (Ham). A VAnglaise — Soaked and braised, served with spinach and Madeira sauce. Bayonnaise—Soaked and braised with white wine, stock, etc., served with rice pilaff mixed with dice of tomatoes, sliced mushroom, and fried French sausages, Madeira sauce. Y322 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Bourguignonne—Soaked and braised with Burgundy wine, mirpoix, and served with Bourguignonne garnish and sauce. Broche—Soaked, the rind and bladebone removed and allowed to macerate twelve hours, with sliced carrots, onions, thyme, bayleaves, pepper- corns, coriander seeds, etc., a bottle of sherry, then wrapped in thick greased paper, roasted in front of a good fire (Broche) for about three hours, according to size. Half an hour before cooking is completed make an incision in the paper and pour in the marinating liquor, cover the incision with paste and finish cooking; when done care- fully remove paper and save all liquor enclosed, which is reduced and mixed with demiglace and served separate. Camerani—Braised and served with sauerkraut, potatoes, and demiglace and jus lie. Champagne—Braised with champagne and mirpoix, served with subric of spinach and champagne sauce. Chanoinesse—Braised with white wine and served with lazagne (ribbon macaroni), mixed with puree of onions and truife, Madeira sauce. Christiana—Braised and served with croustades filled with puree of chestnut, stewed cherries (unsweetened), poivrade sauce. Endives (aux)—Braised and served with braised chicory, Madeira sauce. Feves de Marais {aux)—Braised and served with broad beans and Madeira sauce.323 Gibier (Game). Fitz-James—Braised and served with farced toma- toes, timbale of rizotto, and Madeira sauce. Mettemicli—Braised and served with sliced foie gras and truffes, pointes, and Madeira sauce. Norfolk—Braised and served with peas paysanne, Madeira sauce. Puckler Muskau — Braised with Rhin wine and mirpoix, sliced truffes, spinach rissoles, and champagne sauce. Rothschild—Braised, with the rind or skin removed; when done, masked with pheasant farce, poached, and served with a ragout of truffe, tongue, mushroom, cock’s comb and kidneys, and cham- pagne sauce. GIBIER (GAME). LiEvre (Hare). A VAllemande (Roti)—Marinated and roasted, basted with sour cream and port wine, lemon juice added and poured over. A VAnglaise (Roti)—Farced and roasted, well basted with port wine and gravy, port wine sauce, and crouton with red currant jelly round. En Civet d VAnglaise—Jugged with port wine and red currant jelly, forcemeat balls, croutons round. En Civet Bordelaise—Jugged with Bordeaux wine, eschalots, cepes, croutons. En Civet Bourguignonne—Jugged with Burgundy wine, button onions, mushrooms, dice of lean bacon, crouton. y 2324 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. En Civet Forestiere—Jugged with onions, little French vinegar, demiglace, served with tartlets of puree of chestnut and morels. En Pates—Boned, farced, truffe, and larding bacon; as game pie. Cailles (Quails). Au Nid — Boned and farced round shape, and served on large fonds, decorated with small egg-shaped quenelles, and served with puree of chestnut over to imitate nest, rich game sauce round. Aux Cerises—Cooked in casserole with butter, juice of lemon, cognac, and game sauce, stoned sour cherries. Aux Raisins—Cooked in casserole with grape juice, game sauce, cognac, Muscat grapes round (skinned). Beaconsfield—Wrapped in slices of fat bacon, braised and served on puree of peas, mushroom round, demiglace, and quail essence. Bolonaise—Farced with pork farce, foie gras, truffe, and mushrooms, barded and roasted, jus lie to mate. Bonne Femme—Cooked in cocottes with dice of bacon, sliced mushroom and button onions, jus lie and game glaze. Casserole—Cooked in casserole with butter, cognac, and game glaze. Cavaliere—The breast boned, farced, and braised, served in casserole with game quenelles, cock’s comb and kidneys, game sauce.Gibier (Game). 325 Clermont—Cooked in casserole with cepes, truffe, foie gras, madeira, and glaze. Dauphine—Roasted, served on puree of peas, grilled ham, basted and salamandered. Diane—Sauteed in cocotte with sliced mushrooms and truffle, madeira, and game glaze. Figaro—Farced with fresh truffe, cooked in cocottes, with madeira and glaze, and served thus. Freres Provengeaux—Boned, farced, and wrapped in paste and baked. George Sand—Boned, farced with foie gras, wrapped in paste and baked. Grecque—Cooked in casserole and served on rice a la Grecque, game jus lie round. Judic—Braised dry, served with braised lettuce, sliced truffe, cock’s comb, and game sauce. Julie—Split, grilled, chopped truffe over, and game jus lie. Lucullus—Farced with truffed farce, cooked in casserole, Perigueux sauce. Mariane—Roasted, served on duchesse potatoes, crumbs over and gratine, game sauce. Medicis—Boned, farced, braised, served in farce bordure macaroni with foie gras and truffe in centre, game sauce. Normande—Sauteed with butter a few minutes, placed in casserole with stewed apples and cream, complete cooking and serve. Orientate—Braised, served in casserole with rice a la Grecque, pimentoes, and jus lie. Petit Due— Split and grilled, served on Anna potatoes, grilled mushrooms round, Madeira sauce, horseradish flavour.326 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Perigourdine—Cooked in casserole with truffe and glaze, madeira. Pilaff ou Pilaw—Farced and braised, served in casserole with rice pilaw, game jus lie. Richelieu—A piece of truffe in each, cooked in casserole with julienne of celery, carrots, and truffe, sherry, and veal glaze. Richemond—As Richelieu, omitting the celery Romaine—Sauteed with dice of ham and onions in casserole, add fresh peas, game essence, and complete cooking. Savoisienne—Farced, braised, served in large farced tomatoes. Souvaroff—Cooked in casserole with truffe, foie gras, Madeira, and veal glaze. Turque—Braised, served in rice a la Turque, auber- gine round, jus lie tomate. Vigneronne—Wrapped in vine leaves and bacon, cooked in casserole with skinned grapes, cognac, and veal glaze. Perdreattx (Partridge). Au Choux—Sauteed and braised with blanched cabbages and French sausages, served on the cabbage, sausages round, and game sauce. A VAnglaise—Barded and roasted, served on croutes with chips or straw potatoes, browned bread- crumbs, and bread sauce and gravy. Bourguignonne—Sauteed and complete cooking in casserole with blanched button onions and mush- room, Burgundy wine, blended with game sauce, and serve.Gibier (Game). 327 Castillane—Cooked in casserole with button onions, dice of ham, and stoned olives, white wine and game sauce. Demideuil—Breast boned and farced with truffed game sauce, braised with cognac, game essence, and veal glaze. Diplomate—Farced and barded, roasted and served with game quenelles, stoned olives, mushrooms, and Madeira sauce. Eagle—Roasted with a black ground pepper and butter, breadcrumbs over and gratine, water- cress and straw potatoes round, jus lie. Fermiere—Braised with Fermiere garnish in casse- role. Gitana—Sauteed with oil, red peppers, garlic flavour, white wine, tomatoes, glaze, and stoned olives. Lady Clifford—Sauteed, finished in casserole with truffe, brandy, glaze, hermetially closed, tomato sauce separate. Lantrec—Split and grilled, grilled mushrooms round, jus lie, and demiglace. Lorraine—Braised with shredded red cabbage, served with fondante potatoes and game sauce. Marly—Cooked in casserole with fresh mushrooms and butter, well seasoned, juice of lemon, and served. Normande—Cooked in casserole with sliced apples and butter. Polonaise—Farced, cooked in casserole with Polonaise butter, Madeira sauce round. Prince de Galles—Remove fillets for farce, lightly braise remainder of bird; when cold re-form the328 The New Practical Cookery Guide. breast with farce made, decorate with truffe, poached slowly and garnished with game quen- elles, truffe, cock’s comb, and game sauce. Sierra Morena—Barded and cooked in casserole with dice of Spanish ham ; when done, sprinkled with fried breadcrumbs and jus lie round. Souvaroff—Cooked in casserole with sliced fresh truffes, Madeira, and glaze. Strasbourgeoise—Farced with foie gras, served with sauerkraut and game sauce and Frankfort sausages and lean smoked bacon. Valencienne—Braised diy, served in rice a l’Espa- gnole, rice croquettes round, Chorizo sausages, and Castillane sauce. Victoria—Cooked in casserole as Souvaroff, add foie gras. Grouse. A VAilsa—Made into a salmi served in Duchesse bordure, breadcrumbs over and gratines. A VAnglaise—Barded and roasted, served with chipped potatoes, brown breadcrumbs, bread sauce, and game jus lie. En Pates—Boned and farced and made as a raised pie. En Pates d VEcossaise—Prepared as a pigeon pie with steak, etc. En Terrine a VAnglaise—A grouse pudding, prepared as steak pudding with the grouse cut in neat pieces. Imitation Grouse—Select a large pigeon, well hung, place the fillet of a red herring inside and roast it and serve as grouse, removing the herring.Gibier (Game). 329 Kinnaird—Farced with liver forcemeat, barded and roasted, served with Financiere garnish. Bob Boy—Wrapped in fat bacon and sprigs of heather lightly roasted, served on toast as a l’Anglaise. Faisan (Pheasant). A VAlcantara—Breast boned and farced with duck liver farce and chopped truffes, marinated in port wine for three days, cooked in casserole with the wine and sliced truffe; when done, reduce liquor and serve. Angournoise—Breast boned and farced with sausage meat, puree of chestnut, and chopped truffe, wrapped in fat bacon and roasted, served with Perigueux sauce. Bateliere—Braised, served with Madeira sauce, mush- rooms with onions, small fried eggs Francaise, and crayfish tails. Bohemienne I.— Cooked in casserole ; when done, add little cream and serve. Bohemienne II.—Braised, served with sauerkraut and game sauce. Bohemienne III.—Farced, braised, and served with Financiere garnish. Bouilli a VAnglaise—Boiled, served with celery sauce. Bruxelloise—Braised and served on casserole with sprouts. Cavour—Braised, served with lazagnes and game jus lie tornate.330 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Comte de Brabant—Larded, braised, and served with sprouts, dice of lean bacon, game sauce. Connaught — Chestnut farce, roasted, served on c routes, jus lie, and watercress salad. Demidoff—Braised in casserole, Demidoff garnish and game sauce. Derby—Farced with rice, foie gras, truffe, and braised, game jus lie. Diplomate—Farced, larded, and braised, jus lie. En Casserole—Cooked in casserole with dices of lean bacon, button onions, mushrooms, truffe, and game jus lie. En Kari—Curried pheasant served in bordure of rice. En Pates d VAnglaise—Steak and pheasant pie. EnTerrine d V Anglaise—Pheasant and steak pudding. Etojfe on St. Alliance—Farced with woodcock and truffe farce, roasted, served on croutons masked with the woodcock entrails, garnished with quarters of oranges, and game jus lie. Flamande—Braised and served with balls of braised cabbage, carrots, turnips, game jus lie. Georgienne—Braised with fresh walnuts, grape juice, orange juice, white wine, little made green tea and butter; when done, browned slightly, reduce liquor, and pour over. Gitana—Braised with button onions, red peppers, strips of bacon, tomatoes, and jus lie. Gourmet—As Etoffe. Imperiale—Farced with a salpicon of lamb’s breads, truffe, mushroom, blended with puree of mush- rooms and semiglaze, braised, garnished with331 Gibier (Game). fonds filled with pointes, whole truffe and mushroom, and game jus lie. Libournaise—Done in casserole with cepes, mush- room, and game jus lie. Regence—Braised, garnished with button mushrooms, cock’s kidneys, quenelles, truffe, and game sauce. Rossini—Foie gras farced, braised, and served with Perigueux sauce. Roy ale—Farced, larded, and braised, served in braces with a potato crown garnish and financiere. St. George—Roasted ; when cold, cut in neat pieces masked with game, chaudfroid sauce, fried with batter, and served with farced tomatoes and Perigueux sauce. Souvaroff—Farced, truffe and foie gras added to the farce, braised in casserole with madeira and truffe, jus lie. Soyer—Farced and braised, garnished with cock’s comb, mushrooms, and game demiglace. Strasbourgeoise—Farced and braised, served with sauerkraut, smoked bacon, and sausages, game sauce. Tackeray (Supreme)—Masked with d’Uxelles, bread- crumbs, and sauteed, served with quenelles and game sauce. Titania—Done in casserole with skinned Muscat grapes and quarters of oranges, game semiglaze to blend. Victoria—As Souvaroff, add foie gras to garnish. Vosgienne—Done in casserole with dice of lean bacon, button onions, juniper berry flavour, Parisienne j)otatoes and game glaze lastly, and a glass of eau de vie.332 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Wild Duck (Canard Sauyage). A VAmericaine—Farced with breadcrumbs soaked in wine, mixed with chopped tarragon and butter, well seasoned and roasted, served with jus lie and sliced oranges. A VAnglaise—Roasted, served with port wine sauce and orange salad. Bigarade—Roasted and served with quarters of oranges and bigarade sauce, or made into a salmi and served with quarters of oranges and bigarade sauce. Gourmet — Split and grilled, served in croute, garnished with sliced oranges and lemon, water- cress, York sauce. Presse—Roasted (underdone), breast sliced, and port wine and juice of lemon with the juice of the carcass pressed, poured over, game jus lie apart. Providence—Braised and served with Providence garnish. Regence—Roasted and served with Regence garnish or made into salmi Regence. Syrienne—Braised and served with crouton, masked with the liver pounded, farced olives, and game sauce. Tyrolienne—Farced with apples, roasted, and served with game, demiglace, and red currant jelly. Sarcelle (Teal or Widgeons). Prepared as wild duck.333 Gibier (Game). Becasse (Woodcock). .! VEcaillere—Farced with pounded chicken liver, mushrooms, bacon, chive, oysters, and cognac, baked in casserole. Careme — Lightly roasted, halved, seasoned with mustard butter and finished in casserole with glaze and juice pressed out of carcass. Celestine—Boasted, served on croute masked with pounded fat bacon and trails mixed, seasoned with cognac, garnished. En Salmi—Salmi of woodcock prepared with rich game sauce with woodcock essence, truffe, and mushrooms. Farcie—Farced with the trails pounded with fat bacon, chive seasoned, braised, and served with the reduced liquor. Fine Champagne—Cooked in casserole, highly sea- soned, add fine champagne cognac, and lighted, and served with jus lie over. Flambee or Flambante—Lightly roasted, carved, and placed in casserole or timbale with a little fresh ground pepper and cognac, lighted, then the juice of carcass pressed, mixed with jus lie, and served over. Prince—Farced with truffed foie gras farce, roasted, served on farce bordure, garnished with supreme of woodcock, foie gras and truffe, madeira, game jus lie. Riche—Same as a la fine champagne. Souvarojf—Prepared as pheasant Souvaroff. Victoria—Prepared as pheasant Victoria.334 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Becassine (Snipe). Prepared as woodcock. Fn Terrine d VAnglaise — Beefsteak and snipe pudding highly seasoned and flavoured with fresh mushrooms boiled or steamed in suet paste. Pluvier (Plover). Usually served roasted, or in salmi, in casserole ; also prepared as woodcock. Mauviette ou Ortolans (Larks or Ortolans). A la Bonne Femme—Prepared in casserole with dice of lean bacon, button onions, and mushrooms, and demiglace or madere. Diplomats—Boned and farced, placed in dome shape mould, with layers of farce and poached, served with truifes round and Madeira sauce. Fn Casserole d VOlea—Cooked in casserole with madeira, stoned olives, and jus lie. Fn Cerise—Boned and farced, large cherry shape, cooked in small cocottes with Perigueux sauce. En Pates—Boned and farced and finished as raised pie. En Terrine d VAnglaise—Steak and lark pudding with oysters and fresh mushroom with suet paste. Grecque—Braised and served in bordure of riz a la Grecque, jus lie tomate round. Mere Marianne—Sauteed with sliced sour apples and a little brandy, served in timbales with sauteed crumbs over, slightly salamandered.335 Gibier (Gavi^). Meridionale — Farced with truffed d’Uxelle, and sauteed with cepes a la Provencale, served on croutes, jus lie. Pere Phillipe—Sauteed a few seconds, wrapped in thin slices of larding bacon and placed in halves scooped and peeled large potatoes, cover with other half of potato, a slice of fat bacon over and baked, jus lie apart. Perigueux—Boned and farced, baked in cases, and served with Perigueux sauce. Portobello—Sauteed in casserole with oporto and demiglace, served with quenelles and julienne of ham. Turque—Boned and farced, braised, and served on rice pilaw a la Turque, jus lie round.PART IX. LE FKOID (COLD DISHES). Aspic or Savoury Jelly, one of tlie principal elements of cold dislies, used for garnishing, and is added to chaudfroid sauce, etc., consists of rich stock corre- sponding with the dish prepared, either fish, chicken, or game, etc., judiciously seasoned and flavoured, and sufficient calf’s foot jelly, chicken jelly, fish or veal jelly, and galatine added and clarified. Farce for galantine is made with pounded raw meat, such as chicken, turkey, pigeon, game, or veal, etc., according to the kind of galantine required, seasoned and mixed with cream, and flavoured with wine for dark meat, and rolled in the boned chicken, turkey, or whatever sort is prepared, and placed in alternate layers of strips of tongue, some of the meat of which the galantine is composed, and truffle; pistachios are sometimes used; the whole is wrapped in a cloth securely tied at each end, and cooked in stock; when done the cloth is undone and rerolled tightly again, and slightly pressed between boards or dishes and allowed to get quite cold; the cloth is then removed, the galantine trimmed and glazed or aspiced, or masked with chaudfoid sauce, and deco- rated ready for serving.Le Froid (Cold Dishes). 337 Mousse or mousseline for cold table is made with pounded and sliced cooked meat, either chicken, veal, ham, or tongue, etc., as required, seasoned, mixed with cream and a little dissolved aspic jelly or gelatine, and poured into aspiced and decorated moulds and allowed to set; when ready, turned out of the moulds by plunging same in hot water for a few seconds, decorated, and served with or without garnish. Aspic de Homard—Neat slices of lobster, placed in aspic (fish) lined moulds and decorated, and filled with same. Aspic de Homard Cardinal—Slices of lobster masked with pink mayonnaise and finished as above, served with dice of lobster and shrimp salad garnish. Aspic de Homard a la Russe—Slices of lobster masked with Russian mayonnaise and caviare finished as above. Mousse d'Ecrevisse—Crayfish mousse, pounded cray- fish tails to a puree mixed with cream or fish veloute, aspic, etc., and poured into aspiced and decorated moulds (small for mousseline and larger for mousse). Mousse de Homard—(Lobster prepared as Mousse d’Ecrevisse). Mousse de Langouste—(Crawfish prepared as Mousse d'Ecrevisse). Mousse de Rouget—(Red mullet prepared as Mousse d’Ecrevisse). Mousse de Saumon—(Salmon prepared as Mousse d’Ecrevisse). z338 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mousse de Saumon Belle Helene—Saffron flavoured, and the aspiced mould is decorated with tarra- gon, pimentoes, and white of eggs, tomato and prawn salad garnish. Aspic de Crevettes (Prawn in Aspic). Homard a la Chevreuse—Sliced and masked with fish chaudfroid sauce, decorated and served in tim- bales with strips of sole salad, and aspiced over. Homard a la Montholon—Sliced and masked with fish chaudfroid sauce, decorated and served in tim- bales with pointes, beetroot, and celeriac salad in centre, aspiced over. Homard a la Moscovite—Sliced and masked with pink and white mayonnaise, chaudfroid sauce, and decorated, dressed on whole shell, trimmed and filled with Russian salad, barquettes of Russian salad and hard eggs with caviare round. Homard a la Neva—Prepared as a la Moscovite, with aspiced dariole moulds of Russian salad. Homard Parisienne—(Sometimes called Belle Vue) sliced and masked with fish aspic jelly and decorated, served on whole shell, trimmed and filled with vegetable salad and salpicon of lobster, garnished with tomatoes filled with same salad, hard eggs, and lettuce, etc. Homard d la Busse—Prepared as a la Parisienne, using mayonnaise sauce instead of fish aspic jelly, and garnished with cassolettes of beetroot filled with Russian salad, and cucumber casso- lette with caviare.Le Froid (Cold Dishes). 339 Medaillons de Homard ou Langouste Grand Due— Neat medaillons (round slices) of lobster or crawfish masked, half pink and half ordinary mayonnaise, decorated with tarragon on the pink and truffe on other, served in croustades filled with Russian salad and garnished with cucumber cassolettes filled with caviare. Langouste (Crawfish). Prepared as Lobster. V Aspic de Filet de Sole Vatel—Moulds lined with aspic and decorated, the cooked and trimmed fillets of soles placed round, a salpicon of soles, mush- rooms and trufte, lie with mayonnaise to fill the centre of moulds, and liquid aspic to cover served and garnished round. Chartreuse de Filet de Sole—Cooked and trimmed fillets of soles ; when cold, masked with pink and white chaudfroid sauce and decorated, dressed in a mould, and finished as for Aspic de Filet de Sole. Chaudfroid de Filet de Sole a Vltalienne—Four cooked and trimmed fillets of soles ; when cold, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and decorated with trufte, four more masked with green chaudfroid (tarragon) and decorated with hard white of egg, and four masked with tomato chaudfroid sauce and decorated with tarrgaon and dressed alternately on a bordure aspiced over and garnished round with tomatoes, filled with a salad of French beans, soles, anchovies, and truft'e.340 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Filets de Sole Adelaide Piston—Farced, poached; when cold, masked with fish chaudfroid sauce, decorated, served in a bordure of aspic and garnished. Filets de Sole Calypso—Paupiettes of sole farced with puree of lobster, masked with aspic, and decorated, served on halves of tomatoes, crayfish and aspic garnish. Filets de Sole Cambaceres—Farced, poached, and when cold masked with liquid aspic and a fine julienne of carrots, truffe, and celery, dressed on a stand or bordure and garnished with casso- lettes of cucumber filled with puree of salmon, heaps of pointes, hard eggs, and crayfish round. Filets de Sole Celestine—Masked with mayonnaise containing a fine salpicon of crayfish and mush- rooms, decorated with tarragon, aspiced and dressed on aspic fond. Filets de Sole en Domino—-Trimmed domino shape, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and deco- rated with dots of truffe, dressed on a set puree of caviare and sole same size to complete the domino. Filets de Sole d VInsarte—Farced paupiettes masked with half mayonnaise and half fish chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffe, and dressed on croustade filled with Russian salad. Filets de Sole Tendyck—Masked with Vincent or green mayonnaise sauce and garnished with vegetable salad.Be Froid (Cold Dishes). 341 ♦ Truite (Trout). -I Ja Baron—Curled S shape, skinned, and masked with aspic, decorated with Montpellier butter, truffe, and tarragon, garnished with a salad of pointes, cucumber, and hard eggs in barquettes. A la Gourmet—Skinned and masked with green mayonnaise, dressed on a green decorated stand, and garnished with fonds filled with Grande Duchesse salad. _-L la Juice—Skinned and masked with mayonnaise containing a fine julienne of vegetables and truffe, decorated with tarragon, and garnished. A la Montpellier—Skinned and masked with Mont- pellier butter, decorated, and served on a bed of aspic. .4 la Nansen—Skinned and aspiced, decorated and dressed on a suitable ice stand, garnish with farced cucumber barquettes and aspic. *4 la Norvegienne—Skinned and masked with aspic, decorated with picked prawns, etc., dressed on a decorated stand and garnished with cucumber barquettes filled with puree of smoked salmon, cassolettes of beetroot and half tomatoes filled with shrimp salad. il la Rothschild—Skinned and aspiced, decorated with truffe, and garnished with small mousse of lobster and small chartreuse of vegetable, green mayonnaise a part. En Belle V ue—Skinned and placed in a cradle- shaped mould, aspiced and decorated, liquid aspic over to cover ; when set, turn out on a suitable stand and garnish.o42 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Pain de Truite Isabelle—Is a mousse of trout done in a crown-sliaped mould, served on a cushion stand, and garnished with aspic. Saumon (Salmon). A la Norvegienne—Prepared as Truite Norvegienne. A la Parisienne—Skinned and aspiced, decorated, and garnished with prawns or crayfish, tufts of pointes, hard eggs, and tomatoes filled with a salad of peas and carrots, Tartare sauce apart. A la Riga (Dame)—Masked with mayonnaise and aspic, decorated and garnished with cucumber cassolettes filled with puree of lobster, hard eggs filled with caviare and fonds, with Russian salad. Mayonnaise de Saumon—Neatly flaked salmon placed on seasoned bed of lettuce, masked with mavon- naise, decorated, hard eggs and cucumber round, etc. Mayonnaise of lobster, turbot, sole, etc., prepared the same way as salmon, the garnish and decoration to be varied accordingly. Supreme de Saumon Beaupre—Supreme on escallops of salmon masked with Ravigotte sauce and aspic, dressed on bordure, and garnished with small dariole moulds of salpicon of gherkins, capers, anchovies, pointes and peas, lie with mayonnaise and aspic round. Supreme de Saumon Jeannette—Supreme masked with mayonnaise and aspic, decorated, and served in a silver timbale with a vegetable salad in centre, liquid aspic over ; place on a carved block of ice.343 Le Froid (Cold Dishes). Volaille (Poultry). Mousse de Volaille—As described herewith, served on a suitable stand and garnished. Mousse de Volaille Printaniere—The aspiced mould decorated with fancy cut vegetables, finished the usual way, and garnished with vegetable salad in fonds. Chaudfroid de Poulet d VEcossaise—Masked with white chaudfroid sauce, fine salpicon of truffle, tongue and truffle, sprinkled over and aspiced, dressed in timbale or casserole with French beans salad in centre. Chaudfroid de Poulet Beatrice—Masked with mayon- naise and aspic, decorated and dressed on a bordure of aspic, carrots, fonds, and pointes salad in centre. Chaudfroid de Poulet Felix Faure—Supreme farced with mousse of foie gras, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated, and served in timbales, liquid aspic over, and tomato salad in centre. Chaudfroid de Poulet Jeannette—Supreme with a slice of foie gras, masked with chaudfroid sauce, served in timbales with liquid aspic and pointes on ice block. Chaudfroid de Poulet Lady Curzon—Curried white chaudfroid sauce over, decorated with pimentoes and aspiced, served on a bordure of rice slightly curried, garnished with tomatoes filled with puree of chicken and foie gras, and aspic. Chaudfroid de Poulet Moderne—Supreme masked with mayonnaise and chaudfroid sauce mixed,344 The New Practical Cookery Guide. decorated with tarragon, chervil, and served in timbales with liquid aspic and tomato salad in centre. Chaudfroid de Poulet Olya—Supreme farced with mousse of foie gras, chaudfroid sauce over, decorated and served in cocottes with cucumber and pointe salad, liquid aspic over, on ice block. Chaudfroid de Poulet Princesse—Supreme masked with chaudfroid sauce and decorated with truffe to imitate a crown, served in timbale wuth pointes and liquid aspic. Chaudfroid de Poulet Rochelle—Supreme or medail- lon farced with mousse of foie gras, pointes salad in centre, and liquid aspic over. Chaudfroid de Poulet Rossini—Supreme masked with puree of foie gras, aspiced and decorated with truffe to represent a lyre, served in timbales with liquid chicken jelly. Chaudfroid de Poulet St. James—Masked with white chaudfroid sauce, served with alternate slices of ham, liquid aspic over, garnished with tomatoes and rice salad. Chaudfroid de Volatile Vincent — Masked with Vincent or green chaudfroid sauce, decorated with pimentoes aspiced and garnished with celery, cucumber, and hard egg salad in centre, aspic round. Compote de Volatile Primeur—Neatly jointed and skinned chicken dressed in a timbale or casserole with pointes, peas, beans, carrots, etc., and liquid chicken jelly to cover, served on a carved block <• of ice.Le Froid (Cold Dishes). 345 Poularde (Capon). A VAnglaise—Farced, cream chaudfroid sauce over, decorated with tong-ue, tarragon and chervil aspiced, garnished with mousse of tongue. Alexandra—Farced, white chaudfroid sauce over, decorated with truffe representing the Alexandra Crown, garnished with fonds filled with pointes salad and beetroot, aspiced. Au Champagne—Farced and cooked in casserole with champagne, when cold add liquid aspic allowed to set, and then served on ice block. Dampierre—Farced, masked with chaudfroid sauce, decorated and aspiced, garnished with mousse of ham, chicken alternately, and aspic. Ecarlate—Farced with mousse of tongue, masked with chaudfroid sauce, decorated with tongue and truffe, garnished with pickled calf’s tongue and aspic. Gounod—-Farced with mousse of foie gras, masked with chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffe representing music bars and notes, served in casserole with liquid chicken jelly. Isa.belle—Farced and masked with chaudfroid sauce, decorated with tongue and truffe, crown style, aspiced, served in a pink cushion stand, small crown moulds of aspic garnish. Lambertyne—Fillets or breast removed, cavity filled with creamed mousse of chicken, replace fillets and mask with chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffe, served in timbale with liquid aspic. Neva—Masked with chaudfroid sauce and mayonnaise mixed, the breast and wings removed, the cavity346 The New Practical Cookery Guide. filled with mousse of chicken and foie gras, the breast and wings sliced and replaced and aspiced, decorated with truffe and pistachios, served in glass dish with liquid aspic on an ice block. Parisienne—Breast removed and cut into small medaillons, masked with chaudfroid sauce and decorated, fill cavity in fowl with vegetable salad to normal shape and mask the whole fowl with chaudfroid sauce, the medaillons tastefully arranged on fowl aspiced over, and garnished with small chartreuse of vegetables, hard eggs, decorated with savoury butter and aspic, Vincent sauce a part. Princesse—Farced with puree of foie gras, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffe to represent a princess’s crown, garnished with pointes salad and tufts of pointes and asj3ic. Bose de Mai—Fillets removed and cavity filled with mousse of chicken and puree of tomatoes, fillets replaced and the entire fowl masked with pink chaudfroid sauce, decorated with tarragon and pimento imitation of roses, garnished with mousse of tomatoes and aspic. Saint Cyr — Fillets removed, the cavity filled with mousse of chicken and larks, the fowl masked with white chaudfroid sauce, eight fillets of larks coated with brown chaudfroid sauce and eight neat fillets of chicken coated with white chaudfroid sauce, and arrange brown and white fillets tastefully on top of fowl decorated, aspiced, and served with liquid aspic or jelly.347 Le Froicl (Cold Dishes). Strasbourgeoise—Fillets removed, and the cavity filled with mousse of foie gras, the fowl masked with white chaudfroid sauce, the fillets cut into eight small medaillons and coated wiih brown chaudfroid sauce, eight mcdaillons of foie gras of equal size aspiced and decorated, each tastefully arranged on top of fowl, aspiced and garnished with mousse of foie gras and aspic. Wologda—Farced with mousse of foie gras and gelinotte (hazel hen), the fillets of fowl cut m heart shape and masked with brown game chaudfroid sauce, the fowl coated with white chaudfroid sauce; arrange brown fillets on fowl, decorated and served in glass dish with liquid aspic on an ice block. (xALANTINE DE VoLAILLE, DlNDE, ETC., the composition of which is described (page 336), when cold are coated with aspic or chaudfroid sauce, decorated and served on a stand or a bed of aspic and garnished. For game or veal galantine they are coated with brown chaudfroid sauce or glazed. Ballotines are smaller galantines. Canetons (Ducklings). Aiguillettes a la Jaffa—Fillets cut into aiguillettes and masked with puree of foie gras, aspiced over and decorated with blanched rind of oranges, truffle, and hard white of egg, all arranged in a dome-shaped mould lined with348 The New Practical Cookery Guide. aspic, liquid aspic to cover ; when set, turned out and served on a stand or aspic bed, garnished with quarters of oranges and aspic. A la Japonnaise—Coated with aspic and dressed on a rice stand, garnished with mandarines filled with mousse of duck, imitation of small baskets, aspic round. Aux Cerises—Coated with aspic and garnished with morello cherries stewed in claret, served in a glass dish with liquid aspic. Aux Mandarines—Same as Japonnaise. Moscovite—Farced with mousse of foie gras, masked with brown chaudfroid sauce, garnished with mousseline of foie gras and Russian salad. Neva—Fillets removed and cavity filled with mousse of duck and foie gras, fillets replaced and coated with brown glaze, decorated and served in glass dish with liquid jelly round on an ice block. Rouennais a la Edouard VII.—Fillets removed and cavity filled with mousse of duck and duck’s liver, replace fillets and mask with brown chaudfroid sauce aspiced over, served in a glass dish with liquid aspic on a carved ice block. Sevillane—Farced and masked with brown aspic and orange juice, garnished with farced olives and sliced oranges. Timbale de Caneton d la Voisin—Cut into neat joints as for salmi, masked with Rouennaise chaudfroid sauce, served in timbale with sliced truffe and foie gras, liquid aspic over.349 Le Froid (Cold Dishes). Medaillons de Pigeon Laurette—Medaillons of pigeon masked with brown ehaudfroid sauce and deco- rated with pistachios and hard white of egg to imitate a rosette, aspiced over, and garnished. Medaillons de Pigeon Moderne—Medaillons coated with aspic and fine dice of tongue, truffe, hard white of eggs, and tarragon, served in timbale with liquid aspic over. Ris de Veau d la Brighton—Supreme of sweetbreads masked with puree of foie gras, aspiced and decorated, served in cocotte with vegetable salad. Gibier (Game). Faisan (Pheasant). G la Bohemienne—Farced as for a la Bohemienne hot with cognac, etc.; when done, add aspic, and allow to cool in terrine and serve thus. A la Croix de Berny—Fillets removed and cavity filled with mousse of foie gras, replace fillets and aspic over, garnish with boned and farced larks coated with glaze and aspic. Chaudfroid de Faisan Chatelaine—Neatly trimmed supreme, half masked with puree of chicken and coated with white chaudfroid sauce, and half masked with puree of pheasant and coated with brown chaudfroid sauce, decorated and aspiced, served in timbale with liquid aspic. Chaudfroid de Faisan Gastronome—Supreme masked with puree of foie gras and truffe, coated with350 The New Practical Cookery Guide. brown game chaudfroid sauce, decorated and served in timbale with whole truffe and liquid aspic. Mousse de Faisan — Puree of cooked pheasant flavoured with cognac and well seasoned, finished with cream and liquid jelly, poured in a mould lined with aspic and decorated. Mousse de Lievre—Mousse of hare. Mousse de Becasse—Mousse of woodcock, prepared as Mousse de Faisan. Perdreaux (Partridges). All preparations for cold pheasants are suitable for cold partridges. Cailles (Quails). A la Carmen—Cooked with rich veal gravy glaze, sherry, etc.; when cooked, aspic is added to cover, allowed to cool in liquor, and served thus, when set, on a carved block of ice. A la Cecilia—Fillets masked with puree of quails and foie gras, coated with brown quail chaud- froid sauce, and set in a mould of aspic as timbale. A la Chateau Yquem — Cooked in timbales with Chateau Yquem champagne, slices of truffe, and jelly, etc.; allowed to cool thus, when set served on a block of carved ice. A la Nillson—Prepared as ii la Chateau Yquem, with the addition of rognon de coq.351 Le Froid (Cold Dishes). .1 la Richelieu—Served in timbale or cocotte with julienne of carrots, celery, and truffe, liquid aspic, jelly, and glaze over. -d la Vendangeuse — Served in special timbale, decorated with vine leaves and branches with grapes, skinned black and white grapes round the quails and liquid aspic with grape juice over. Glacee a la Carmen—When cooked as above thev are %■ served round a rock shape of granite of pome- granate. Glacee d la Maryland—Coated with a rich veal glaze and sherry, and served round a granite of pine- apple. Glacee a la Heine Amelie—Coated with jus lie tomate and served round a granite of tomatoes. Glacee a la Romanee—Coated with glaze and served round a granite of Romanee wine. Mauviettes (Larks). Prepared as quails. CoTELETTES d’AgNEAU (LAMB CUTLETS). A la Bergere—Coated wiih aspic and chopped green mint, served with green peas salad and garnished. A la Laura—Masked with poivrade chaudfroid sauce, and served with reform roots and aspiced over. A la Princesse Margaret—Masked with puree of foie gras and coated with brown cliaudfroidj sauce, served in timbale with salad of celery, French beans, gherkins, and hard whites of egg, aspiced over.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 352 A la Russe—Masked with tomato chaudfroid sauce and served with Russian salad. En Aspic—Lamb cutlets, masked with aspic and served with vegetable salad in centre and garnished. Chaudfroid de Foie Gras—Sliced and masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated and dressed in timbale with liquid aspic over; or puree of foie gras mixed with liquid aspic or gelatine ; when set, cut to neat shape and finished as above. Chaudfroid de Foie Gras Domino—Cut domino shape and masked with chaudfroid sauce, dots of truffe to imitate dominoes aspiced and dressed on round stand. Cotelette de Chevreuil d la Diane—Masked with poiv- rade chaudfroid sauce and truffe essence, served on fonds of puree of game, garnished with mousse of game and aspic. Foie Gras d la Gastronome—Cut egg shape and masked with white chaudfroid sauce and pap- rika, dressed in a suitable socle and garnished with whole truffe and aspic. Mousse de Foie Gras—Puree of foie gras mixed with cream and liquid aspic poured into moulds lined with aspic and decorated with truffe; when set, turned out and served in a socle or a bed of aspic and garnished. Timbales d la Tzarine—A plain mould lined with short paste, then a layer of fat bacon and a foie trras in centre seasoned with truffe and sherry, O v covered and baked ; when done, filled with aspic and allowed to set.Le Froid (Cold Dishes). 353 Terrine de Faisan ou Perdreaux—Are prepared the same way; the bird is boned and farced and cooked in the casserole lined with fat bacon. Terrine de Foie Gras—Prepared as above in a china casserole or terrine. Brawn d VAnglaise—Is made with salted pig’s head and tongue cut in inch squares, put in a mould with well-seasoned jelly, and served with Francis sauce (thin sweetened mayonnaise). Filet de Bceuf a la Philipine—Slices of fillet coated with a puree of hard eggs, capers, anchovies, and mushrooms, moistened with chaudfroid sauce, and rolled as paupiettes and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce, dressed on a bed of thick horse- radish sauce, moulds of Russian salad round. Filet de Bceuf a la President—Should be underdone, sliced and replaced to former shape, aspiced over and garnished with tomatoes a l’Antiboise and a salad of pointes, celery, and cauliflower in fonds, aspic round. Filet de Veau et Jambond la Gelee—Fillet of veal and ham, boned and braised fillet of veal, allowed to cool in jelly, sliced and dressed with alternate slices of cooked ham and liquid jelly poured over, garnished with spring vegetables. Hure de Sanglier—Boar’s head boned and farced with pickled calf’s tongues rolled in slices of fat bacon and alternate layers of farce meat highly seasoned, truffes, and pistachios, rolled in former shape, wrapped in a cloth and cooked slowly; A A354 The New Practical Cookery Guide. when done, trimmed and formed into proper shape with liver gratin, coated with glaze, decorated, and served with jelly. Jambon d la Gelee—Cooked York ham aspiced over and decorated. Jambon en Croute—Boned and baked York ham entirely wrapped in pie-crust paste; when cold, served thus with aspice round. Langue de Boeuf Cinderella—When the tongue cooked as above is lukewarm, pressed into the shape of a shoe, scooped as a shoe, and a vegetable salad is placed in the cavity, glaze and decorate taste- fully, and serve on a cushion shape socle. Langue de Boeuf Salee—Pickled tongue. To cook a tongue to perfection for the cold table it should be soaked in cold water for about three to four hours, then placed in fresh cold water, and when on the point of boiling allowed to simmer between three to four hours until tender, and remain in liquor till quite cold, then glazed and garnished as required. Bond de Boeuf Sale a la Gelee—Derby round of beef or whole round of salt beef, cooked slowly for five to six hours and allowed to cool in liquor, then placed in a large mould or stewpan and liquid strong beef jelly to entirely cover; when quite cold and set, turned out and served thus. Spiced Beef—Salt brisket, macerated and rubbed with crushed mixed spice for two or three days, braised and rolled; when cold, glazed and served with jelly.355 Instructions on Garving. (Fig. 3). Fig. 3. INSTRUCTIONS ON CARVING. The following instructions, with illustrations, on the art of carving will be found most useful and sufficiently explicit, instructing inexperienced carvers, etc., how joints, poultry, fish, etc., should be carved in the most economical and practical way. Sirloin of Beef. The undercut or fillet of a sirloin of beef is the most tender and best eaten hot; slices should be cut in the direction as from A to B in Fig. 1. The Fig. 1. Fig. 2. upper part should be cut in the direction as from C to D (Fig. 2), and rather thin. The knife should be inserted along the bone at the top, as from E to F, and run sharply along to divide the meat from the bone, the slices will then come away more readily. A delicate morsel of fat should be served with each portion. Ribs of Beef, Similar to the upper cut of sirloin, should be cut rather thin in the direction of the dotted line from A to B A A A 2The New Practical Cookery Guide. 356 Fig. 6 Fig. 7. Round of Beef. (Rolled Ribs of Beef, Top Side, or Aitcli Bone.) A very sharp long-bladed knife is necessary to carve these joints. The slices are cut in the direction as per dotted line from A Fig. 4. to B (Fig. 4). Brisket of Beef. By following the dotted line in the illustration, Fig. 5, the carving of brisket or pressed beef will be found easy. Fillet of Beef. Fig. 5. When a fillet of beef is cooked separately it should be carved in the reverse direction of the grain of the meat, as shown in the illustration, Fig. 6, following the direction of the dotted lines. Saddle of Mutton or Lamb. This joint is usually cut in the direction of the dotted line A to B (Fig. 7). A knife should first be in- serted, running from one end of the saddle to the other to divide the meat A357 Instructions on Carving. from the bone as much as possible. Slices should be of medium thickness, and not be jagged or have an untidy appearance. Another way of carving saddle is shown in Fig. 7, as per direction of dotted line from C to D, or from E to F. This way of carving is adopted in cases of economy. Loin of Mutton A Should be thoroughly well jointed before cooking so that chops can be more easily cut as shown by following dotted line in Fig 8, A to B. Leg of Mutton. To carve this joint the sharply in the direction of the dotted line A to B (Fig. 9), and slices taken from either side. The fat is found as per dotted line from C to D. knife is carried down Hind Quarter of Lamb. Fig. io. The same direction to be followed as for leg of mut- ton from A to B (Fig. 10). The loin part from C to D as per illustration.358 The New Practical Cookery Guide. to B (Fig. 13). Fig. 13. Shoulder of Mutton. Run the knife from outer edge of the shoulder till the bone is reached, as per dotted line from A to B (Rig. 11), and slices taken, medium thickness, from either side to the blade bone. When the upper- most of the shoulder is used, the joint is turned and slices taken from the whole length. The fat is cut as shown from line C to D. Fore Quarter of Lamb. The shoulder should be separated from the target before cooking, properly trimmed and chined, the ribs cracked in the centre. This operation enables the carver to cut through easily. A cutlet and a piece of brisket is cut between each bone as shown by dotted liue from A to B (Fig. 12). The shoulder is cut the same as a shoulder of mutton. Legs, hind quarter, and loin of lamb are carved the same way as the corresponding joints of mutton. Fillet of Yeal Is usually boned and stuffed before cooking. It is then carved as a round of beef. Thin slices from A359 Instructions on Carving. Loin of Veal. When the jointing is properly performed there is little difficulty in carrying the knife down in the direction of the line A to B (Fig- 14). To each portion a piece of the kidney and kidney fat which lie under- neath should be given and are considered a great delicacy. fig. 14. Knuckle of Yeal. The illustration showing the dotted lines from A to B (Fig. 15) sufficiently indicates the direction which should be given to the knife in carving this joint. The best slices are from the thickest part of the knuckle. Calf’s Head. Insert the knife quite down to the bone and cut slices in the direction of the dotted line A to B (Fig. 16). With each of these should be given a piece of what is called the throat sweetbread, cut in the direction of from C to D. The jawbone being then removed, there will be found nice lean slices, also the palate. A piece360 The New Practical Cookery Guide. of the tongue and brains is served with each portion. Pork. The leg and loin of pork are cut the same way as mutton. Sucking pig is usually sent to table in the manner shown in the illustration, Fig. 17. The shoulder is to be separated from the carcass as per dotted line ABO. The same is done with the leg, line ABC also. The ribs then stand fairly open to the knife, which should be carried down in the direction of the line D to E. Different parts of the pig are then served according to the taste of the guests. Ham. In carving a ham the carver is guided according to the desire to practise economy, or have at once the slices out of the prime part. In the first instance the cutting is commenced at the knuckle end and thin slices are cut off towards the thick part of the ham. To reach the choicer portions, the knife, which should be thin and sharp, is carried down to the bone in direction of the line A to B (Fig. 18). 4361 Instructions on Carving. Tongue. To carve a tongue the knife is passed down in the direction of the line A to B (Fig. 19). Slices should not be too thin. The carving is continued until the best of the upper part is served. The fat is found in turning the tongue and cutting in the direction of line C to D. fig. 19. Haunch of Venison. An incision should be made completely down to the bone in the direction of the line from A to B (Fig. 20). The gravy will then be able to flow easily, when slices not too thick should be cut along haunch as indicated by the line C to I), the end marked C having been turned towards the carver to have complete command over the joint. Fowl. To carve a fowl fix the fork in the breast and pass the knife sharply along the line from A to B (Fig. 21), separating the wing from the breast bone. The wing can then easilv be withdrawn. Place the fork in %/ the centre of the leg and gently force away from the fowl. The joint being thus discovered the carver can readily cut through it. The wings and legs362 The New Practical Cookery Guide. on either side having been taken off, if the fowl is a large one a slice or two may be cut from either side of the breast. The knife is then slipped under- neath the merrythought in the direction of the line C to D, which being pressed backward will immediately come off. The collar bones are then removed by raising them to their broad ends and turned from the body until they break off. The breast only remains now, which is cut through in the same direction as line A to B. Turkey. The only art in carving a turkey consists in getting from the breast as many fine slices as possible. The carver should commence cutting slices close to the wing lengthwise. The legs can also be sliced, but are usually reserved for a breakfast dish, grilled and devilled. Goose. Even cut slices of medium thickness should be carved from the breast in the direction of the line from A to B (Fig. 22). A hole should be made in the apron, passing it round the line as indicated by the letters C C, where the stuffing is placed, and some of which should be served on each plate.Instructions on Carving. 363 Ducklings or Ducks. To carve a duckling the wings are carved similar to chicken, then slices from the breast as for goose. Pheasant. Fixing the fork in the breast cut the wings off by pressing the knife down between the wing and breast bone from line A to B (Fig. 23), then slices are taken from the breast. The legs are rarely used. r /- , ^ G-uinea Fowl Is carved same as pheasant. fig. 23. Partridge. The most familiar way of carving a partridge is to carry the knife sharply along the top of the breast of the bird and cut quite through, thus dividing it into two equal parts. An- other plan is to cut it into three pieces by serving a. small wing and leg on either side from the bodv, and the breast as the third portion. It is also carved by thrusting back the body from the legs entirely, and then cutting through the breast in the direction of the line A to B (Fig. 24).364 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Fig. 26. large for a portion, are cut G-rouse May be carved in the way first described in carving partridge. Wild Duck. The breast alone is sliced lengthwise. Pigeon Is divided into two equal parts. Woodcock, Similar to partridge, is cut into two or three portions. Hare. The hare should be first served by cutting slices from each side of the backbone in the direction of the line from A to B (Fig. 25). The legs should then be dis- engaged by cutting round the line indicated by letters C D. The shoulder will then be taken off by passing the knife round from E to F, and slices taken from same and served with the back. Fish. The following few illus- trations indicate the method C of carving the fish they represent. Soles, when tooInstructions on Carving. 365 through bone and all, and served in convenient size pieces, as per Fig. 26, from line A to B. The Haddock. fillets can also be separated with fish carvers as shown by the line C to D.PART X. SALADES VARlEES. Salad making of modern times is a special art of the kind and requires a careful attention and delicacy of taste. The variety of dressed or made salads is enormous; they are often served as a separate course, and some of the varieties are sometimes served as hors d’ceuvres either in small glass dishes or raviers. Adeline—Cooked salsify, tomatoes and cucumbers, and mayonnaise. Allemande — Salted cucumbers, potatoes, apples, onions, hard eggs, beetroot, and smoked or salted herrings. Alsacienne.—Consists of large dice of cooked new potatoes, pickles, and coarsely shredded lettuce round, decorated with sliced cooked Frankfort sausages, French salad dressing over. Americaine I.—Sliced potatoes, tomatoes, celery, spring onions, and green peppers, highly seasoned. Americaine II.—Dice of potatoes, beetroot, tongue, and anchovies, mustard and cress round. Andalouse — Quarters of tomatoes, red peppers (pimento), rice, chopped onions, and flavour of garlic.Salades Varices. 367 Bagration—Shredded celery, artichoke fond, chicken, and fine macaroni, hard egg, tongue, and truffe, seasoned with mayonnaise tomatee. Barbe de Cap-ucin—Barbe salad. Barcelone—Tomatoes, green peppers, chicory, hard eggs. Basto—Julienne of celery, pimentoes, escarolle, and sour apples, creamed mayonnaise over. Beatrice—French beans and tomatoes, tarragon, mustard and cress round. Beaucaire—Celery, celeriac, potatoes, endives, ham, mushrooms, tarragon, and chervil, mayonnaise, beetroot, and sour apple rings round. Belle Fermiere—Julienne of celery, beetroot, capsi- cum, and creamed mayonnaise, mustard and cress round. Betterave—Beetroot salad. Bourbonaise — Potatoes, celery, peas, mushrooms, endives, mayonnaise with chopped pickles over. Buenos Ayres—Alligator peas, geeen apples, green peppers, cucumbers, green walnut round, all cut in neat slices. Canaille — Julienne of fonds, potatoes, pointes, pimentoes, shrimps, and mushrooms, truffe, highly seasoned. Cappone Magro—Salad of all vegetables in season, cooked fish, masked with green mayonnaise, sliced lobster masked with pink mayonnaise round. Carmelite—Squares of potatoes, beetroot, anchovy fillets, and chopped onions, quarters of hard eggs round.368 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. Caroline—Dice of cucumber, red peppers, peas, Swiss cheese, a few chopped hazel nuts and fried croutons over, seasoned with salad dressing. Cazanova—Julienne of celery, white chicken meat, truffe, and creamed mayonnaise, chopped eggs over. Chef de Cuisine—Potatoes, cauliflower, French beans, tomatoes, Ravigotte sauce over, and fried croutons. Chicago—Cucumber and cress salad. Chinoise I.—Macedoine of vegetables mixed with mayonnaise, julienne of gherkins, truffe, and carrots round. Chinoise II.—Dice of potatoes, truffe, and oysters, well seasoned with fines herbes and white wine, allowed to macerate one hour, then mixed with lettuce and mayonnaise. Choux Rouge—Red cabbage salad. Clauzel—Julienne of celery and chicory, mayonnaise over, and tarragon and chervil. Concombre—Cucumber salad. Convent—Julienne of potatoes and cucumber, chopped chive, and tarragon in the dressing. Cressonnaire—Watercress, dice of potatoes, and hard eggs. Cultivateur—Dandelion, spring onions, sorrel and mint flavour in Tartar sauce over, sliced potatoes and beetroot round. Danichef—Dice of celeriac, potatoes, pointes, truffes, fonds seasoned with mayonnaise. Danoise—Macerated cucumber, celeriac, beetroot, mixed with smoked fish, hard eggs, chive, chervil, and tarragon and mayonnaise.Salaries Varices. 369 D'Estrees—Julienne of celery and endive, mayon- naise, sliced potatoes and beetroot round. D'Ete—Lettuce, mustard and cress, radishes, with cucumber, beetroot, and hard eggs round. Demideuil—Potatoes, truffes, creamed mayonnaise, and mustard. Demidoff—As Demideuil, with addition of artichoke fond. D'CEuf—Hard egg salad. Don Carlos—Tomatoes, fonds, onion flavour, cress, and parsley. Dumas—Potatoes, beetroot, turnips, celery, seasoned with Dumas sauce. Duval—Julienne of truffe, fonds, green apples, celery, potatoes, pointes, mayonnaise dressing. Ecossaise — Salmon, cucumber, truffe over, and lettuce round. Emma—Tomatoes with cucumber round. Espagnol — Tomatoes, pimentoes, onion flavour, cucumber round. Faubourg—Celeriac, potatoes, and apples, creamed mayonnaise. Fin rie Siecle—Celeriac, pointes, fonds, chicory, beet- root, flageolets, peas, and hard eggs round. Flamanrie—Potatoes, escarole, smoked herring, hard eggs, chive. Florida—Pumpkin, lettuce, and sweet herbs. Fraises d VAmericaine—Wood strawberries dressed on crisp lettuce leaves, seasoned with salt, pepper, and juice of lemon and cream. Franqaise—Lettuce, tarragon and chervil over, hard eggs round. B B370 The New Practical CooJcery Guide. Francillon— Potatoes, celery, mussels, macerated with white wine, truffe over. Franckfortoise -— Red cabbage, potatoes, beetroot, sour apples, hard eggs. Galloise — Blanched leeks, celery, and beetroot round. Gauloise — Fonds, potatoes, celeriac, mushrooms, mixed with mayonnaise, cock’s combs and kidneys round. Georgia — Julienne of potatoes, beetroot, sour apples, French beans, onion, smoked herring, well seasoned. Gobelin — Artichoke fonds, celeriac, mushrooms, pointes, crayfish tails, tarragon, mayonnaise seasoning. Grande Duchesse—A salad of macedoine of vegeta- bles, gherkins, anchovy fillets, hard eggs, chervil, lie mayonnaise. Grisconne—Julienne of celery and white chicken meat, French beans, capers, hard eggs, a few hazel nuts over. Haricots Verts—French beans salad. Henri IV.—Dice of new potatoes, smoked sardines, fines herbes. Hollandaise—Dutch potatoes, smoked salmon, chive, mayonnaise. Humbert—Tomatoes and pimentoes salad. Imperiale — Asparagus pointes, truffe, anchovy essence added in seasoning. Indianapolis — Dice of potatoes, beetroot, Lyons sausages, peas, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, hard eggs, mayonnaise.Salades Variees. 371 Interlaken — Lozenges of potatoes, beetroot, sour apples, cucumber, well seasoned, watercress on top. Isabelle—Dice of celery, potatoes, mushrooms, fonds, seasoned, chopped chervil over. Italienne—Salad of mixed vegetables, anchovies, salami, hard eggs, and mayonnaise. Japonnaise I.—Potatoes, celery, mussels, macerated with champagne, lie mayonnaise, and chrysan- themum on top. Japonnaise II.—Dice of pine apple, tomatoes and crisp lettuce leaves round. Jardiniere—All vegetables in season, cut in cubes, garnished with potatoes, beetroot, and shredded lettuce. Jockey Club—Asparagus pointes, julienne of truffe, and mavonnaise. •/ Lackme—-Beetroot, rice and hard eggs, oil and juice of lemon, seasoning slightly curried. Laitue—Lettuce salad. Lorrette—Corn salad, beetroot, celery cut in strips, oil and vinegar seasoning, anchovy fillets and potatoes round. Mdche (de)—Corn salad. Margot—Celery, truffe, banana, curry flavour and oil and lemon juice seasoning. Marianne—Julienne of celeriac, potatoes, tongue, pimentoes, beetroot, mayonnaise seasoning, sliced truffe and tomatoes round. Marie Stuart — Celeriac, truffe, hard eggs, and lettuce, cream and vinegar seasoning, chervil over. b b 2372 The New Practical Cookery Guide. * Mascotte—Pointes, plover’s egg, traffe and cock’s kidnevs sliced and crayfish tails, oil and vinegar seasoning. Mercedes—Julienne of chicory, celery, and beetroot, sliced tomatoes round, mayonnaise seasoning. Mignon—Shrimps, dice of fonds, peas, and creamed mayonnaise. Mikado—Dice of potatoes, fonds, prawns, beetroot, capers. Moderne—Julienne of celery, beetroot, ham, andtruffe, mayonnaise, and decorated with eggs, etc. Monte Cristo—Potatoes, lobsters, truffe, and hard eggs, shredded lettuce round, tarragon and mavonnaise seasoning. Moscovite—As Russian salad, garnished with small cucumber cassolettes filled with caviare. Nassau—Escarole, celery, and tomatoes, creamed mayonnaise dressing. New London — Squares of tomatoes, pimentoes, potatoes, and celery, chopped hazel nuts over. Nigoise—Dice of tomatoes, potatoes, and French beans, garnished with capers, olives, and anchovy fillets, tarragon over, oil and vinegar seasoning. Ninon I.—Quarters of mandarines or oranges and lettuce, juice of lemon. Ninon TI.—Quarters of fonds, truffes, shrimps, oysters, cock’s kidneys, highly seasoned. Noemi—Chicken and crayfish tail, garnished with lettuce and chervil, seasoned with creamed cray- fish coulis. Norfolk—Sliced tomatoes, cucumber, celery, pickles, and hard eggs, French salad dressing.Salades Varices. 373 Opera—Julienne of chicken, tongue, celery, and truffe, sliced gherkins and cock’s kidneys round and asparagus pointes. Orientale—Potatoes, gambos, tomatoes, pimentoes, well seasoned. Orpheline—Sardines, sour apples, potatoes, chive in dressing. Paloise—Pointes, quarters of fonds, salsify, mint flavour. Panachee—French beans and haricot beans or fla- geolets salad. Parisienne I.—Moulded vegetable salad mixed with lobster, truffe. Parisienne II—Potatoes, sliced pot au feu beef, capers, fines herbes, anchovies, French dressing. Parmentier—Potato salad with chervil over. Piemontaise — Sliced potatoes and white truffe, anchovy essence and garlic flavour in dressing, decorated. Pieukerke—Julienne of chicken, pointes, truffe, and peas, lie mayonnaise, red and green peppers round. Poireaux—The white part of leeks, blanched in acidulated water, cut to nice pieces and mixed with salad dressing. Polonaise—Dice of carrots, turnips, potatoes, beet- root, hard egg, lie mayonnaise with horseradish flavour, tarragon, and chervil. Pomme cle Terre—Potato salad. Pompadour—Cauliflower, celeriac, potatoes, Ravigotte sauce. Portugaise—Tomatoes seasoned with chopped onions and fines herbes, oil, vinegar, etc.374 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Prince de Galles—Lettuce, watercress, chervil, capers, fillets of sardines and pimentoes round. Provenqale — Tomatoes, artichoke fonds, cepes, anchovy fillets, olives, and capers. Rachel—Celery, potatoes, pointes, truffes, lie mayon- naise and decorated. Regence—Lamb’s tongue, celeriac, new potatoes, cucumber, decorated with pointes and lettuce. Regente—As Salade Opera, add cos lettuce. Reine Madge—Large halves of tomatoes, garnished with shredded lettuce and shrimps, salad dress- ing over and a sliced radish, cress round. Romaine—Cos lettuce salad. Russe I.—Mixed vegetables, tongue, truffe, smoked herrings, gherkins, anchovies, lie mayonnaise and dressed in tufts in timbale, hard eggs round. Russe II.—As above, mixed with aspic and set in an aspiced decorated mould. Salome—Oysters, shrimps, truffes, and pointes, lie pink mayonnaise. Salsifis—Julienne of cooked salsify salad. Sicillienne—Sliced potatoes and tomatoes, julienne of celery and fond round, tarragon over, French salad dressing. Sportsman—Smoked salmon, beetroot, hard eggs, and watercress, sharp dressing. Stetson—Julienne of fonds, celery, pineapple, a few pimentoes, peas and balls of tomatoes round. Straganoff—Julienne of carrots, truffe, and cepes, green peas and quarters of lapwing’s eggs round, highly seasoned.Salades Variees. 375 Suedoise—Pickled herrings, cooked salt beef, sour apples, potatoes, gherkins, olives, and capers, lie Tartare sauce. Suzette—Julienne of fonds, truffe, and pointes, fines herbes. TJi ■these—Julienne of celery and sour apples, lie creamed mayonnaise and juice of lemon. Tomcite—Tomato salad. Tourcingelle I.—French beans, flageolets, and potatoes, lie mayonnaise. Tourangelle II.—Julienne of celery, potatoes, endives, sour apple, lie mayonnaise. Tredirne—Crayfish tails, blanched and bearded oysters, and asparagus pointes in equal quantity, lie with creamed mayonnaise and anchovy essence. Tijrolienne—Beetroot, sour apples, hard eggs, and French beans, seasoned separately and served in tufts. Victoria—As Danicheff salad, lie with pink mayon- naise. Villa—Fine julienne of raw celeriac seasoned with salt, pepper, English mustard, cream, and juice of lemon. Waldimir—Cooked salmon, sterlet, crayfish, smoked herrings, olives, and cucumber, lie with mayon- naise and grated horseradish and French mustard, plover’s eggs round. Waldorf—Celeriac and russet apples seasoned with mayonnaise, chopped walnuts over. Windsor—Julienne of chicken, celery, tongue, truffe, and piccalilli, lie mayonnaise.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 376 POMME DE TERRE (POTATOES). A VAlhufera—Parisian cut potatoes blanched and stewed with Albufera sauce, served in timbales. Alsacienne—Large noisette shape boiled potatoes, served with fried chopped onions and parsley over. Anna—Thin sliced potatoes (as chips) baked in mould or casserole with butter, browned. Annette—As Anna, add chopped onions and cheese. Ardennaise- — Egg shaped, scooped and filled with a puree of chicken, ham, and fines herbes, browned. Au Four—Baked with bacon fat and onion flavour. Baloise—Sliced potatoes sauteed with butter, golden colour, and served in timbales. Bartholy—Equal size new potatoes blanched and sauteed with butter till done, add veal glaze lastly. Bataille—Are French fried potatoes cut rather small, served crisp, seasoned with salt and mignonette pepper. Bayonnaise—Mashed potatoes mixed with chopped ham, eschalots, and parsley and browned. Bengal — Mashed potatoes mixed with Bengal chutney and lightly browned. Bernoise—Cut in half-inch squares, blanched and sauteed with butter till brown, served with fines herbes over. Berny—Duchesse potato mixture mixed with chopped truffe, apricot shaped, breadcrumbs and fried (a few ground almonds are added to the crumbs).Pomme de Terre (Potatoes). 377 Berrichonne—Parisienne potatoes served with fried chopped onions and fines herbes and dice of lean bacon. Beurre (au)—Olive shaped, cooked in casserole with butter. Bignonne — Egg shaped, scooped, blanched, filled with farce and baked, served with jus lie. Bonnefemme—Sliced and stewedwith shredded lettuce, cream, and parsley. Bordelaise—Saute potatoes mixed with fried chopped onions and fines herbes. Boulangere I.—Oval shaped or sliced and baked with sliced onions. Boulangere II.—Thickly sliced and baked with a layer of sliced tomatoes and onions and a little gravy. Bourgeoise—Olive shaped, stewed with brown gravy or demiglace and sliced onions. Bovin—Rissolees potatoes served with fried chopped eschalots and fines herbes. Brabagonne—Mashed potatoes mixed with fines herbes, cheese, highly seasoned, dressed in timbales, cheese and crumbs over and browned. Brabant—Large dice blanched and sauteed with chopped eschalots and parsley. Bretonne I.—Cold sliced potatoes stewed with juli- enne of celery, onions, cream lastly. Bretonne II.—Large dice stewed with chopped onions, leeks, and brown gravy. Brioche—Dauphine potato mixture formed into brioche shape and baked. Byron—Crushed cooked potatoes masked with cream sauce, Parmesan cheese over and gratines.378 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Careme—Mashed potatoes mixed with cream served in cocottes, cheese over and gratines. Cendrillon—Baked in skin, scooped and mashed with cream, yolks of eggs, butter, and seasoning, refilled and browned. Chamberry—As Anna potatoes, with layer of grated cheese. Champignol—Saute potatoes mixed with grated cheese. Chateau—Large olive shape, blanched and sauteed with butter, parsley over, also cut halfmoon shape. Chatouillard—Souffle potatoes (pomme souffl.ee). Chinoise—Egg shaped, scooped and blanched, farced with minced beef, fines herbes, chillies, and snices, and baked. Chipolata — Scooped new potatoes farced with sausage meat, fines herbes, and mushrooms, and baked with gravy. Christie — Olive shaped potatoes blanched and masked with a puree of chicken’s liver, tomato pulp, and mashed potatoes, mixed. Colbert—Cut in squares, cooked with butter, and served in cocotte with chopped parsley over. Collorette—Potatoes sliced with fancy cutting blades and fried. Commandant—Baked in skin, cut in halves, emptied and mixed with fines herbes, spinach, and butter, refilled and browned. Continentale—Fancy cut halfmoon shape, sauteed with butter, and mixed with chopped truffe. Contreville—Cut in quarters and baked with dice of bacon, chopped onion, and fines herbes.Pomme de Terre (Potatoes). 379 Copeaux—Fried ribbon potatoes. Croquettes—Duchesse potato mixture, formed into croquette shape, egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Dauphine—Duchesse potato mixture mixed with one third of pate a choux, formed fancy shape and fried. Dauphinoise—Sliced raw potatoes and layers of grated cheese, seasoned, moistened with milk, and baked. Delicieuse—Duchesse potato mixture, quenelle shape, lightly steamed, and served with cream sauce or oiled butter. Dietrich—Large egg shape, baked and scooped, filled with gniocchis, cream sauce, truffe and cheese over, gratines. Dijonnaise—Thickly sliced and stewed with light demiglace, little French mustard added lastly. Duchesse—Dry mashed potatoes mixed with yolk of egg, little butter, and seasoned, formed into flat croquette shape and sauteed in butter, or piped fancy shape and baked. Ernestine—Scooped, boat shaped potatoes blanched and filled with soft roe au vin blanc. Espagnole—Blanched olive shaped potatoes sauteed with julienne of pimentoes and fines herbes. Etuvee—As Pomme Chateau, baked with butter. Farcie—Egg shaped and scooped potatoes blanched and farced with fines herbes and breadcrumbs, and browned. Favorite—Oval shape, blanched and sauteed with fines herbes and French beans.380 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Flamavde—Oval shape, steamed and served with fried chopped onions and parsley. Fondante—Large olive shape, cooked with butter and little jus and glaze. Garfield—Cut in squares, fried and sauteed with butter, parsley. Georgette—Egg shape, scooped and blanched, filled with a salpicon nantua. Godard—Dauphine potato mixture egged and bread- crumbed and fried. Hongroise I.—Stewed with onions, paprika, and brown gravy. Hongroise II. — Sliced, sauteed, and mixed with paprika, chopped onions, tomatoes, and brown gravy. Indienne—Curried sautee potatoes mixed with little curry sauce. Italienne—Baked in skin, halved, scooped, and filled with rice au parmesan, and gratines. Laffitte — Duchesse mixture formed into finger shaped croquette, breadcrumbed and fried. Liard—Chipped potatoes. Liberte—Olive shaped, blanched, sauteed with butter, and served with light demiglace over. Lorrette—Daiq^hine mixture, formed croissant shape and fried. Lyonnaise—Sautes potatoes mixed with fried sliced onions and parsley. Macaire I.—Mashed with butter and fines herbes, flat croquette shape, and sauteed with butter. Macaire II.—Crushed cooked potatoes, sauteed with butter, golden colour.Pomme de Terre (Potatoes). 381 Mai re—Sliced cooked potatoes stewed with cream, butter and fines herbes over. Maria—Duchesse mixture, cheese over and gratines. Marquise—Duchesse mixture mixed with tomato pulp, piped as meringues, and baked. Menagere I.—Olive shaped, baked with onions and jus. Menagere II.—Potato croquettes mixed with chopped ham and onions. % Mignonnette—Are straw potatoes (pomme paille). Milanise I. — Sliced cold potatoes stewed with bechamel sauce. Milanaise II.—Baked in skin, scooped, mixed pulp with yolk and cream, refilled, cheese over, and gratines. Mireille I.—Sliced, cooked with butter, and mixed with julienne of fonds and truffe. Mireille II.—As pomraes gratines. Mirette—Cut in large dice, partly fried, and sauteed wfith butter, julienne of truffe and glaze, served in cocottes. Moncelet—Sautes potatoes mixed with julienne of truffe, and mushroom and glaze. Mont Dare—Mashed potatoes mixed with cream and parmesan, served in cocottes, pyramid shape, and gratines. Mousseline—Mashed potatoes mixed with butter and whipped cream, served in timbale, and lightly browned. Nana—Cut as julienne, and cooked in casserole as pomme Anna. Nannette—Sliced, sauteed with butter, and finished382 The New Practical Cookery Guide. with chopped chive, parsley, and veal gravy, and baked. Ninette—As pomme Anna, with addition of cheese. Noisette—Olive shape, blanched, and sauteed with butter. Normande—-Cut in squares and stewed with chopped mint and leeks, and milk and butter, served in timbale, gratines. Orsini—Cut as Orsini bombe (two triangles inter- clutched), fried. Parisienne—Cut round with Parisian potato scoop, blanched, and sauteed with butter. Parmentier—Cut in dice, done in casserole with butter and parsley. Paysanne—Sliced and cooked with butter, dice of lean bacon, shredded lettuce and sorrel and parsley. Persillee—New potatoes a l’Anglaise, served with butter and parsley. Polonaise—Olive shape new potatoes, served with Polonaise butter, crumbs, and chopped parsley. Pont Neuf—Cut finger shape fried potatoes, pommes f rites. Portugaise—Rissolees potatoes served with sauteed tomatoes, fines herbes, and chopped onions. Provengale—Etuvee potatoes done with oil, chopped onions, garlic flavour, and fines herbes. 7lissolee—Large olive shape, blanched, and browned with butter. Riche—Cut in quarters, cooked in casserole with butter. Robert—Puchesse potatoes mixed with chive and fines herbes.Pomme de Terre (Potatoes). 383 Rosette—Half Duchesse and half Marquise mixture, piped as a rose and baked. Roxelane—Masked potatoes mixed with yolks, cream, and whipped whites of eggs, baked in tartlets or cocottes, with chopped truffe on top. Russe—Sliced and arranged in layers in a buttered timbale, with soft roe, ham, and moistened with a light pancake mixture, cheese on top, and gratines. St. Florentine—Croquette potatoes, with chopped ham and tongue, crumbed with vermicelli and fried. Sardanaise—Thick sliced sautes potatoes and sliced truffe. Sautes—Sliced cold potatoes sauteed with butter, chopped parsley. Savoie—Lyonnaise potatoes with the addition of sliced fried pork sausages. Savoyarde—Thinly sliced potatoes placed in a gratine dish with grated cheese, salt and pepper, moistened with consomme, little cream and cheese over, and baked. Schneider—Square cut potatoes stewed with con- somme, highly seasoned, glaze, and parsley. Soufflee—Dutch potatoes cut an eighth of an inch thick and fried, plunged lastly in boiling hot fat to souffle them. Surprise—Baked, cut in halves and scooped, filled with various salpicon, a kidney or small bird, etc., replace the halves together, glazed over and served.384 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Suzette—Large egg shape, baked and scooped, filled with pulp mixed with cream, chopped ham, chicken, and truffe, refilled and gratines. Turque—Thickly sliced and cooked with oil, dressed in a bordure of rice a la Turque, curry sauce over. Varsovienne—Duchesse potato mixture wrapped in blanched cabbage leaves size of an egg, and braised with butter. Vauban—Cut in dice and fried in olive oil. Yiennoise—Duchesse mixture with paprika, form Vienna loaf shape, sieved egg over, and baked. Voisin—As pomme Anna, with chopped onion and cheese. Windsor—Olive shape, blanched, sauteed with butter, and mixed with julienne of mushrooms. Yvette—As pomme Anna, baked in small moulds. LEGUMES (VEGETABLES). Asperges (Asparagus). Should be scraped and thoroughly well washed, tied in-suitable size bundles, and cooked in boiling salted water. In some cases the tips (or pointes) only are cooked, in which case it is used for garnishing. A VEspagnole—Served with small poached yolks of eggs and vinaigrette sauce. Flamande—Served with chopped hard yolks of eggs on the tips, oiled butter in boat.Legumes ( Vegetables). 385 Frappee—Served cold on pounded ice and cold mousseline sauce. Genevoise—The tips sprinkled with Parmesan cheese, and noisette butter. Italienne—Served with oiled butter and cheese over tips, and gratines. Maltaise—Served with Maltaise sauce. Milanaise—As Italienne, with Parmesan cheese. Mornay—Served with Mornay sauce and cheese over tips, and gratines. Nigoise—Served cold with G-ribiche sauce. Parisienne—Served with Divine sauce. Piemontaise—Served with cream sauce on the tips Piemont truffle and cheese over, and gratines. Polonaise — Served with Polonaise butter over (crumbs, chopped hard eggs, and parsley). Royale—Serve with hot mousseline sauce (the Victoria asparagus is used). Siberienne—Served cold on a block of ice, vinaigrette sauce. Suisse—The tips stewed with cream, Gruyere cheese over, and gratines. Aubergines (Egg Plant). A VAndalouse—Farced with the chopped pulp, tomatoes, crumbs and fines herbes and pimentoes Algerienne—Farced with minced mutton, tomato sauce over. Americaine—Farced with chopped onions, mush- rooms, tomatoes, and breadcrumbs, tomato sauce over, and gratines. c c386 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. Chatelaine—Farced with d’Uxelle mixed with chopped truffe, chicken, and tongue, and gratines. Egyptienne—Farced with d’Uxelle, gratines, tomato sauce round. Frite—Sliced half-inch thick, floured and fried, or dipped in batter and fried. Grillees—Cut in halves lengthwise, marinated in oil, salt and pepper, and grilled. Napolitaine —Sliced, arranged with layers of sliced tomatoes and parmesan, and gratincs. Parisienne—Farced with d’Uxelle and chopped ham, braised, and a piece of beef marrow on top. Provengale — Farced with d’Uxelle and chopped tomatoes, garlic flavour, braised, tomato sauce round. St. Jean—Cut cassolette shape and farced with puree of chicken and veloute, cheese over, and gratines. Turque I.—Sliced and fried in batter or egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Turque II.—Sliced and farced with minced mutton, rice, and fines herbes, fried rings of onions round. Artichatjd (Green or Globe Artichoke). A la Barigoule—Blanched and inside hay removed, farced with d’Uxelle, braised with demi- glace. Bordelaise—The fond or bottom farced with a mix ture of chopped onions, ham, and parsley, and braised, demiglace.387 Legumes (Vegetables). * Boulangere — Blanched and inside liay removed, farced with sausage meat, wrapped in short paste, and baked. Cavour—The fond blanched, butter and cheese over, and gratine, chopped hard yolks of eggs and parsley over. Clamart—The fonds cooked in casserole with green I>eas and new carrots, lie butter and cream. Colbert—Two fonds garnished with d’Uxelle between, egged and breadcrumbed and fried, Colbert sauce round. Cussy—The fonds farced with foie gras and truffle, masked with Villeroy sauce; when cold egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Dietrich—The fonds cut in quarters and stewed, served in bordure of risotto with sauce veloute. Flamande—Blanched fonds served with new carrots, lie Allemande sauce. Florentine—The fond filled with spinach, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Gastronome—Fond braised with jus, filled with salpicon of mushroom and truffle, Mornay sauce over, and gratines. Grecque—Blanched, inside hay removed, and braised with oil, white wine, button onions, and tomatoes, served hot or cold. Italienne—Cut in quarters, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried, Italienne sauce apart. Lyonnaise—Blanched, cut in quarters, and braised with sliced onions, white wine and butter, served with thickened liquor and parsley. c c 2388 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Ma.raichere — Cooked in casserole with onions, tomatoes, new potatoes, and sorrel, garlic flavour, and white wine. Milanaise—Blanched fond filled with risotto aux tomates, mixed with fine julienne of truffe and ham, crumbs, and gratine. Mornay—Fonds masked with Mornay sauce, and gratines. Parisienne — Blanched fonds, filled with d’Uxelle maigre, and braised. Paysanne—Cut in quarters and braised in casserole with onions, dice of bacon, and potatoes. Poulette—Blanched fonds cut in quarters, served with poulette sauce. Proveng,ale—Blanched, inside hay removed, braised with oil, peas, and shredded lettuce. Bomaine—Blanched fonds cut in quarters, and sauteed with oil, tomatoes, tarragon, and chervil. Sagan—Blanched fonds filled with puree of calf’s brains, fines herbes, and sieved hard egg, cheese over, and gratines. Stanley—The fonds braised with white wine, onions, and ham, served with cream sauce and fine julienne of ham on top. Turgue—Fonds braised with onions, dice of mutton, and tomatoes. Venitienne—Blanched fonds served with Venitienne sauce.Legumes ( Vegetables). 389 Topinambour (Jerusalem Artichoke). They are peeled and kept in acidulated water till ready for cooking, which is done by boiling in salted half water and milk, and served with butter or sauce as required. A la Creme—Served with cream sauce. Au Beurre—Served with oiled butter over. An Gratin—Masked with white sauce and cheese and gratine, or made into a puree, cheese over, and gratine. Cravocienne—Sliced, blanched, and sauteed with butter, served with beurre noisette and browned crumbs over. Genevoise-—Masked with bechamel sauce, cheese and crumbs over, and gratine. Italienne—Demiglace and cheese over, and gratine. Cardons (Cardoons). Prepared as celery, cut to required size, blanched and braised or boiled, and served with sauce, etc. A la Bourgeoise—Stewed in stock, onions and ham, Allemande sauce over. Au Jus—Braised, and served with rich veal jus lie. Espagnole—Braised and served with demiglace. Milanaise—Bechamel sauce, cheese and crumbs over, and gratine. Motile—Braised, served with blanched beef marrow and demiglace. Mornay—Mornav sauce over, and gratines. Nivernaise—Braised with new carrots, butter and cream.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 390 Cepes. A la Bordelaise—Sliced, sauteed with oil, chopped eschalots and fines herbes, seasoned, chopped parsley over. Creme—Blanched and stewed with cream and seasoned. Piemontaise—Farced with d’Uxelle, garlic flavour, and baked. Provengale—Sauteed with eschalots, fines herbes, tomatoes, garlic flavour, and demiglace. Rossini—Sliced, stewed with veal glaze, madeira, and t ruffes. Russe—Sliced, stewed with butter, onions, sour cream, fennel, and parsley. Touraine — Sauteed with fines herbes, tomatoes, dice of ham, and veal jus lie. Celeri (Celery). Celery prepared as a vegetable course makes an excellent dish; it should be blanched first, then cut in neat pieces, and either braised or stewed or fried as required. Au Jus—Braised with good veal or beef gravy; when cooked, the gravy reduced to half glaze and mixed with demiglace tomatee and served over the celerv. A VEspagnole—Braised and served with Espagnole sauce and a few strips of pimentoes. En Beignet a VIndienne—Well blanched, masked with curry sauce, and fried in batter (pate a frire). En Puree—Puree of celerv with cream.Legumes ( Vegetables). 391 Frit—Cut to size required and fried in batter (pate a frire), or egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Genevoise—Boiled, placed in a casserole, bechamel sauce and cheese over and gratines. Italienne—Braised, placed in a gratin dish, with demiglace and cheese over and gratines. Mo'elle—Prepared as for Au Jus, sliced beef marrow over. Reine—Fried in batter (pate a frire). Villeroi—Well blanched, cut into neat pieces' and masked with Villeroi sauce; when cold, egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Concombre (Cucumber). Another vegetable which can be cooked in various ways and served as a garnish or separate course. First peeled, cut to size required, and blanched before the final preparation. A la Clermont—Cut olive shape, blanched and stewed with butter and a little stock, and served in cooked artichoke fonds. Bombay—Cut olive shape, sauteed with chopped onion and green peppers, curry powder, and cider, and served in timbales. Doria—Cut in lozenge shape, blanched, and lie with cream and fresh butter, served in cocottes. Duchesse—Cut in inch slices, blanched, masked with veloute or cream sauce, cheese over and gratines. Espagnole—Cut cassolette shape, blanched and farced with d’Uxelle, braised with veal gravy.392 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Fermiere—Cut cassolette shape, farced with sausage meat, fines herbes, and mushrooms, and braised. Frite—Cut in large diamond shape, blanched, drained, and fried in batter (pfite a frire), tomato sauce round. Nigoise—Cut oblong shape, blanched, and farced with risotto, cheese over and gratines. Poulet^e—Cut olive shape and blanched, stewed with cream sauce. Zarina—As Doria, add fennel and parsley. Flageolets are first blanched, and then prepared with cream sauce, or maitre d’hotel, etc., as haricot beans. F£ves de Marais (Broad Beans). A la Creole — Stewed with finely minced green peppers and tomatoes, seasoned, and served in timbales. A VAncjlaise—Blanched, and served with parsley butter or parsley sauce. An Lard—Blanched, and stewed with dice of lean bacon, and served. Lyonnaise — Blanched, and stewed with butter, chopped onions, fines herbes, and parsley. Westphalienne--Blanched, and stewed with white wine and julienne of ham. Endive Belge (Chicory). Blanched, and stewed or braised, and served with cream sauce or brown as required; can also be prepared as celery.Legumes ( Vegetables). 39$ Chicoe.ee (Endive). Blanched, chopped fine, and prepared as spinach, or blanched and braised whole and served with gravy, etc. .d la Creme—Blanched, chopped, and finished with butter and cream, seasoned. Espagnole—Blanched and chopped, finished with butter, veal gravy, and Espagnole sauce. Flamande—Blanched and braised whole, and served with cream sauce. Paysanne—Blanched and braised whole with butter stock, chopped hard eggs over. Timbales—Blanched and finely chopped, mixed with a few eggs, seasoned, and poached in buttered moulds; when done, turned out and masked with veloute sauce. Garbanzos (Spanish Dried Peas). They are soaked and cooked as haricot beans. used in the Spanish national dish olla podrida. Courge (Vegetable Marrow). A la Creme—Peeled, blanched, and served with cream sauce. Nigoise—Cut in neat equal size, the inside pulp' removed, and chopped with onions and mixed with risotto to farce the marrow, breadcrumbs and cheese over and gratines. Proven^ale—Cut in thick slices, floured, and sauteed with oil, garlic flavour, parsley over.394 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Chouxfleur (Cauliflower). A la Cardinal—Cooked in salted water, masked with Cardinal sauce. Au Gratin — Blanched, and pressed into round heaps or portions, masked with bechamel sauce, grated cheese and gratines. Dubarry—Is a puree of cauliflower. Frangaise—Cooked in salted water, and served with Hollandaise sauce. Frit—Separate each small bouquet and blanch, then fry with pate a frire. Ignatieff—Cooked and served in timbale with bread- crumbs and beurre noisette over. Milanaise—Cooked, dressed in timbales or small heaps, grated cheese over and gratines. Polonaise—Cooked, served in timbales or portions with chopped hard eggs, brown crumbs, parsley and butter over. Rebecca—As Frit. Villeroi — Each small bouquet separated and blanched, masked with Villeroi sauce; when cold, egged and breadcrumbed and fried. Chou de Mer (Seakale) are first blanched in milk and water and juice of lemon, and served with various sauces, etc., as asparagus (hot). Choux de Bruxelle (Brussels Sprouts). A VAnglaise—Cooked in salted water and served with fresh butter over.395 Legumes {Vegetables). Au Marron—Blanched, and sauteed with butter and cooked chestnuts. Bonne Femme—Blanched, and sauteed with butter, served in timbales, chopped parsley over. Flamande—Is a puree of sprouts. Italienne — Blanched, and served with dissolved anchovy butter. Moderne—Blanched, mixed with Allemande sauce. Russe—Blanched, and stewed with sour cream, parsley, and sliced smoked sausages. Sautes—Blanched, and sauteed with butter. Viennoise—Cut in two, blanched, and stewed with butter, sugar, and consomme. ChoucroCte (Sauerkraut). A VAllemande—Braised with lard and goose fat, lie with lard, flour, and fried onions, chopped. Hongroise — Braised with lard, chopped onions, paprika, white wine, tomato puree, and smoked bacon. Russe—Braised with butter, onions, and sour cream. Choux Rouge (Red Cabbage). A VAllemande—Cut in strips and blanched, then braised with butter, chopped onions, cloves, and juniper berries. Alsacienne — Braised with lard, chopped onions, claret, a little sugar, and chestnuts. Bonne Femme—Braised with butter, tomatoes, and bacon.396 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Hollandaise—Braised with butter and puree of sour apples. Busse—Braised with butter, onions, celery, and cloves. Valentienne—Braised with lard, consomme, onions, sour apples, sausages round. Choux Vert (Cabbage). A VAutrichienne—Blanched, chopped, and stewed with chopped onions, consomme, and sour cream. Bavaroise—Braised with lard, cumin flavour, onions, white wine, apples, bacon, and a little vinegar. Bi 'aises—Blanched partly and braised with carrots, onions, butter, and veal gravy. Farcis I.—Blanched, leaves separated and farced with sausage meat, fines herbes, and mushrooms, rolled or made into balls and braised with gravv and bacon. Farcis II.—Blanched whole, the inside removed and filled with riz au gras, wrapped in slices of fat bacon, tied, and braised with gravy. Lahoureur—Cut in large squares and sauteed with butter, chopped onions, and dice of bacon, good stock, and allowed to stew till done. Choux Rave (Celeriac). Au Jus—Cut oblong shape, blanched slightly, and braised with veal gravy. Bourcjeoise—Cut in olive shape or halfmoon, stewed with butter, a little sugar, and veloute.397 Legumes ( Vegetables). Creme—Cut in squares, blanched, and served with cream sauce. Gratin—Sliced and blanched, bechamel sauce, and grated cheese over and gratines. Russe—LCut in squares, blanched, and stewed with butter, finished with sour cream and parsley. Epinards (Spinach). Great care to be taken in preparing spinach, well picked and thoroughly cleaned in several waters, and blanched. Allemande—As Au Jus, add chopped and fried onions and browned crumbs. Au Jus—Finely chopped or sieved, seasoned, and mixed with good veal gravy. En Branche—Plainly blanched and seasoned and served with fresh butter. En Subric—Finely chopped or sieved and mixed with bechamel, seasoned, yolks of raw eggs, and made into flat croquette shape and sauteed with butter. Colbert—Prepared as Au Jus or a la Creme, and served with poached eggs. Comtesse—Mixed with consomme and chopped hard v eggs. Creme—Finely creamed and seasoned. Italienne—Mixed with anchovy butter, flavour of garlic, served in vol au vent, bechamel over. Martha—Mixed with cream, fried sippets, chopped hard eggs, well seasoned, and served in tim- bales.398 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. Romain—Blanched and sauteed with beurre noisette and anchovy fillets. Timbales—Or pain d’epinard, prepared as a la creme, mixed with yolks of raw eggs, placed in buttered moulds and baked, Viroflay—Subric mixture rolled in plain blanched spinach leaves as paupiettes, cheese and butter over and gratines. Maize (Indian or Sweet Corn). Bostonien—Placed in layers in a piedish with sliced skinned tomatoes and cheese, gratines. Creole—Sauteed with fine chopped green peppers, chopped onions, and tomatoes, seasoned, add a pinch of sugar, and served in timbales. En Ragout—Stewed with cream, well seasoned, and served in cocottes. Maryland—Corn fritters, mixed with flour, milk, eggs, and a little baking powder, salt and nut- meg, fried in spoonfuls, with butter as cakes, and served. Roti—Cut off stalk, remove the leaves and silk from the ears of fresh green corn, and boil for twenty minutes; drain and roast in hot oven, with fresh butter, till golden colour. Saute—Boiled green corn, detached from cobs and sauteed with fresh butter, salt and pepper. Okras. A la Creme—Remove stalk and ends of okras, care- fully washed, and cook in milk and water, and serve with cream sauce over.399 Legumes ([Vegetables). Andalouse — Stewed with chopped onions and tomatoes, seasoned, and baked in a gratin dish,, and served with croutons round. An Gratin—Prepared as for a la creme, place the okras in a gratin dish, cheese and ibutter over,, and gratines. Virginia—Trim both ends of okras, and saute with butter and chopped Virginia ham for five minutes ; then add tomato sauce to cover, and stew till done. Petits Pois (Peas). A VAnglaise—Blanched in salted water and mint, served with fresh butter. Ancienne—Cooked with a little water, butter, and a bouquet; when done, add yolks of eggs and cream. Avignonnaise — Blanched, and mixed with sauteed dice of ham, a little chive, French mustard,, and kneaded butter and flour, stewed a few minutes, and served. Bonne Femme—Cooked with water to cover, chopped onions, shredded lettuce, butter, and a pinch of sugar, lie with butter and flour kneaded lastly. Bo urgeoise—Prepared as a 1’Ancienne. Flamancle—Cooked with thinly sliced new carrots,, butter and water to cover, lie fresh butter and cream. Florentine — Cooked with dice of ham, chopped, onions, and lie with tomato sauce.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 400 Frangaise—Cooked with button onions, lettuce, parsley, and chervil, lie butter. Paysanne—Cooked as a la Franchise; the onions chopped and lettuce shredded. Puree de Legumes (Vegetable Puree). Bretonne—Puree of white haricot beans. Dubarry—Puree of cauliflower and potatoes. Flamande—Puree of sprouts and potatoes. Freneuse—Puree of turnips and potatoes. Garbure—Cabbage and potatoes. St. Germain—Puree of peas. Saxonne—Puree of turnips, potatoes, onions, and fines herbes. Soissonaise—Puree of haricot beans. Soubise—Puree of onions. Haricots Vert (French Beans). A la Creme—Blanched, mixed with cream, and served in timbales. Fspagnole—Blanched, mixed with demiglace, and served. Frangaise—Blanched, sauteed with butter, juice of lemon, and chopped parsley. Lyonnaise—Blanched and sauteed with thin sliced onions, demiglace, and chopped parsley. MaiPre d'Hotel—Blanched and mixed with maitre d’hotel butter. Orleannaise—Blanched and sauteed with butter, chopped onions, and juice of an orange.401 Legumes (Vegetables). Paloise—Prepared as Francaise, substituting the juice of lemon for wine vinegar. Panaches — Blanched and mixed with cooked flageolets. Tourangelle—Blanched and mixed with bechamel sauce, yolks, and chopped parsley. Viennoise—Blanched, lie with butter, sugar, a little vinegar, and demiglace. Villiars—Blanched, well drained; when cold, they are floured and fried. Haricots Blanc (Haricot Beans, White). Bretonne—Cooked and sauteed with chopped onions, tomato, and demiglace sauce. Creme—Served with bechamel and cream. Hollandaise—Cooked and served with Hollandaise sauce. Lyonnaise—Cooked and sauteed with onions, escha- lots, and butter. Maitre cVHotel—Cooked and served with maitre d’hotel butter. Robert—Cooked and served with Robert sauce. Viennoise—Cooked and served with sauteed bread- crumbs and butter. Haricots Rouge (Red Haricot Beans). Bourguignonne—When nearly cooked, add claret, dice of bacon, onions, and carrots sauteed with butter, finish cooking, and lie with kneaded butter. D D402 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Etuves—Cooked with claret, water, onions, and butter. Mdconnaise—Cooked with Macon wine and water, lean bacon, and onions. Champignons (Mushrooms). A la Creme—Sliced, cooked with butter, juice of lemon, salt, and pepper; when nearly done, add cream. Bordelaise—Sauteed with butter, eschalots, fines herbes, tomatoes, Jie demiglace. Bourguignonne—Sauteed with oil and beurre d’escar- gots, then grilled. Cajpucine—Sliced and sauteed with oil, parsley, and chopped pigeon, lie Allemande sauce. Farcis—Farced with d’Uxelle, crumbs over, and gratines. Fines Herbes—Sliced and sauteed with butter and fines herbes. Livonienne—Cooked whole or in a marinade of oil, water, salt, and pepper, capers, gherkins, dice of beetroot, and juice of lemon ; served hot or cold. Provengale—Sliced and sauteed with oil, garlic flavour, fines herbes, crumbs over, and gratines. Puree—Pressed through a sieve raw and cooked with thick bechamel, butter, and cream. Busse—Sliced and sauteed with butter, fennel, onions, and bouquet, lie with sour cream. Sous Cloches—Well trimmed and clean fresh mush- room heads, lightly sauteed with butter and highly seasoned, placed in a special dish on403 Legumes ( Vegetables). toast and masked with thick cream, flavoured with sherry, cayenne, and nutmeg, cover with mushroom bell glass, pour a thread of cream round, and bake in hot oven for about ten minutes. Laitue (Lettuce). t Braisee—Blanched and braised with veal gravy served folded with croutons round. Creme—Blanched and cooked with cream sauce. Farcie—Blanched and cut in halves, farced with d’Uxelle, and braised as Au Jus. Moelle—Prepared as Braisee and served with slices of blanched beef marrow over. Paysc.nne—Blanched and braised with gravy, butter, onions, ham, and carrots. Navets (Turnips). Glaces — Blanched and sauteed with butter, veal gravy, and a pinch of sugar. Puree—As Puree Freneuse. Oignons (Onions). A VEspagnole—Sliced and cooked with milk and butter. Farcis—Blanched in salted water, remove top and scoop inside, farced with d’Uxelle, crumbs over, and gratincs. Frits—Sliced in rings, floured, and fried. Glaces—Button onions cooked in butter till browned, add veal gravy, and cook till glazed. Puree—As Puree Soubise. d d 2404 The New Practical Cookery Guide. • Pe-Tzai (Chinese Cabbage). Prepared as cabbage. Poireatjx (Leeks). Au Jus—Blanched and braised with veal gravy. Creme—The white part blanched in acidulated salt water and served with cream sauce. En Tourte—The white part cut an inch long, blanched, and placed in a paste tourte, masked with cream sauce, covered with a layer of paste, and baked. Parisienne—Thick white part blanched and scooped, filled with mayonnaise containing chopped tarragon and chervil. o Carottes (Carrots). Bourgeoise—New carrots braised with butter, con- somme, pinch of sugar, lie with kneaded butter. Flamande—As Bourgeoise, add chopped parsley. Glacees—New carrots or old cut olive shape (if old, blanched first), and cooked with butter, little water to just cover, and a pinch of sugar; when done, should be nearly dry and glazed. Marianne—Cut as large julienne, cooked with butter and little stock, lie maitre d’hotel butter. Parisienne—As Flamande, lie Allemande sauce and mixed with cooked rice. Paysanne—Sliced and cooked with consomme, chopped onions, lie with cream.405 Legumes ( Vegetables). Vichy—Sliced and cooked with butter, stock, pinch of sugar and Vichy salt (Vichy water is used instead of stock abroad). Salsifis—Salsify (or Oyster Plant). Salsify is first scraped and cut to size and soaked in acidulated water to preserve its whiteness; it is then blanched and served it la creme or fried, gratines, or in salad. A la Creme—Blanched and served with cream sauce over. Au Gratin—Prepared as a la creme poured into a gratin dish, cheese over, and gratines. Frits I.—Blanched, breaded, and fried. Frits II.—Blanched, and fried in batter (pate a frire). Tomates (Tomatoes). A VAmericaine—Cut in halves, cooked, and filled with cooked Indian corn and puree of sweet corn. Carmelite—Cut in halves, cooked, and served with fish farce, shrimp sauce round. Genevoise—Cut in halves, filled with fines herbes farce, cheese and crumbs over, butter and gratines. Indienne—Cut in halves and cooked, filled with rice it 1’ Indienne. Polonaise—Farced with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped hard eggs, butter, garlic flavour, and baked. Portugaise—Sliced and sauteed with oil, chopped, parsley over.406 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Provengale—Farced with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped hard eggs, anchovies, and parsley, crumbs over, and baked. 8an Francisco—(Cold) skinned, masked with aspic. Turque—Farced with cooked rice, onions, fennel, and baked with oil over. Truffe. Au Champagne—Cooked in casserole with a mirpoix, champagne, and claret. En Cendre—Wrapped in slices of fat bacon or paste, greased paper round, and cooked in hot cinders (cendre), devilled sauce separate. Provengale—Sliced, sauteed with olive oil, onions, marsala, and anchovy butter, parsley over. Serviette—Cooked as au Champagne, substituting champagne for Madeira wine, served in timbale, with a folded serviette imitating a rose round. Talleyrand—Sliced and sauteed with butter and madeira, lie Madeira sauce, poured into a paste timbale, and baked. Victoria—Cooked with champagne ; reduce liquor, and serve over. Hoping John (J.m.)—Peas and cooked rice stewed with dice of lean bacon. Katalou (Turc.)—Stewed tomatoes, with French beans, aubergines, gombos, and pimentoes. Risi Bisi (Aust.)—Cooked rice and green peas mixed.407 Legumes (Vegetables). Kari de Legumes (Curried Vegetables). To prepare vegetable curry, any kind of vegetable mav be used; they are first cut in neat pieces, blanched, and finished cooking in a curry sauce made with vegetable stock or milk, and creamed lastly, served in a bordure of plain boiled rice; can also be eaten cold.PART XI. ENTREMETS (SWEETS). Poudings (Puddings). Albufera—Semolina souffle mixture with currants, baked in a well-buttered mould, sprinkled with crushed macaroons, red currant sauce served round. Ancienne—As Albufera without currants. Bacheliere — Pudding made of chopped apples, currants, sultanas mixed with vanilla souffle mixture and baked, apple syrup sauce round. Barnado — Vanilla souffle mixture with dice of banana, served with banana marmalade sauce. Beaufort—Ground rice souffle mixture with salpicon of crystallised fruit, tint of saffron, red currant sauce. Beaulieu—Half vanilla souffle mixture and half raspberry souffle mixture, vanilla sauce round. Bohemien—Well-buttered mould lined with thin rolled pancakes with puree of apples inside, the mould filled with custard and baked, Sabayon sauce round. Bresilien — Tapioca souffle pudding, served with coffee cream sauce.Entremets (Sweets). 4091 sauce. Cabinet Moderne—Ordinary cabinet pudding served with chocolate cream sauce. Cambaceres—Beef marrow, sweet almonds, stoned raisins, and candied peel pounded together to a puree, blended with yolks of eggs and corn- flour ; add whipped whites of eggs, noyau flavour, and bake, apricot sauce and noyau round. Cardinal—Raspberry souffle pudding, served with raspberry sauce. Celestine—Thin pancakes cut in strips in a buttered mould filled with custard and baked, vanilla sauce round. Chevreuse—Semolina souffle pudding, kirsch Sabayon sauce round. Chinoise—Vanilla souffle mixture with dice of pre- served ginger, served with apricot sauce and dice of ginger. Churchill — Pineapple souffle pudding, pineapple sauce. Coloniale—Plumcake mixture without fruit, grated cocoanut instead, whipped whites of eggs added and bake, Sabayon sauce round. Comtesse—Orange souffle pudding mixed with dice of pineapple, roseleaf syrup sauce round. Cussy—Plumcake mixture, no fruit, ground almonds instead, add whipped whites and bake, red currant sauce. Denise—Charlotte mould lined with biscuits, vanilla souffle mixture mixed with shredded almonds in centre, bake, and serve with apricot410 The New Practical Cookery Guide. sauce. Diplomate—Strips of genoise cake, arrange round in charlotte moulds, dice of crystallised fruit and genoise in centre, fill with custard, and bake, served with Sabayon sauce, hot or cold. Dominicain—Caramel in bottom of charlotte mould, fill with sweetened cooked rice in milk, lie, bake, and serve with caramel cream sauce. Duchesse—Pear souffle pudding, pear syrup sauce. Edna—Half raspberry souffle mixture and a half chocolate souffle mixture, baked, raspberry and chocolate sauces over. Elizabeth—Souffle pudding with crushed macaroons and kirsch in mixture, vanilla sauce, crystallised violets on top. Evangeline—Semolina souffle mixture with strips of angelica and' apricots, chartreuse flavour, cream and noyau sauce. Franckfort I.—Brown breadcrumb souffle mixture sultanas, ground almonds, and citron, red currant sauce over. Franckfort II.—Cocoa souffle mixture and vanilla souffle mixture in equal parts, cocoa cream sauce. Franklin—Almond souffle pudding, sabayon sauce. Gastronome—Vanilla souffle pudding with dice of citron and marron glaces mixed, apricot sauce. Georgette—Mould lined with pancakes and filled with rice cooked in . milk and sweetened, dice of angelica and crystallised fruit, bake, apricot sauce round. Geraldine—Ground rice souffle pudding with ground almonds in the mixture, apricot and kirschEntremets (Sweets). 411 Gladstone—A light souffle pudding with dice of cooked pears, Sabayon sauce over. ffambolt—Jam pancakes rolled and cut to size in a charlotte mould, fill with custard, and bake, Sabavon sauce. %/ Hanovre—Plumcake mixture with salpicon of fruit, crumbed macaroons, apricot and maraschino sauce. Indienne—Souffle pudding with powdered ginger, custard sauce flavoured with ginger over. Israelite — Almond pudding mixed with orange flower water. Javomais—Tea flavour souffle pudding, Sabayon with tea flavour, chopped pistachios over. Jeanne—Ground rice souffle pudding with dried cherries, baked in a well-buttered mould sprinkled with chopped almonds, red currant sauce round. Joan—Pineapple and orange souffle pudding, cream sauce. Kubelik — Plumcake mixture with brown bread- crumbs, citron, ginger flavour, whiskey Sabayon over Lord Cowley—Three parts of plumcake mixture to one part of sweetened duchesse potatoes and ground almonds, baked in well-buttered and sugared mould, Sabayon sauce over. Malakoff—Souffle pudding mixture in alternate layers with puree of pears, a few shredded almonds, baked, and served with apple syrup sauce over, small balls of cooked apples round. Marcel—Chocolate souffle pudding with crystallised fruit, chocolate sauce.412 The New Practiced Cookery Guide Marquise—Half vanilla souffle and half strawberry souffle pudding in layers, vanilla and strawberry sauces. Mascotte—Half vanilla souffle and half chocolate souffle pudding in layers, vanilla and chocolate sauces. Metternich—Souffle pudding made with chestnut flour and cocoa, vanilla flavour, chocolate sauce over and marrons glace's round. Montmorency—Souffle pudding with cherries, cherry syrup sauce. Mousseline—Light vanilla souffle pudding, vanilla cream sauce. National—Vanilla souffle, orange souffle and straw- berry souffle puddings in layers, chocolate sauce round. Nelson—Pudding made of ground almonds, cake- crumbs, suet, currants, cornflour, eggs, sugar, cinnamon flavour, baked, red currant sauce over. Nesselrode—(Cold) custard, with puree of chestnuts, salpicon of crystallised fruit, vanilla flavour, baked; when cold, served with cold custard sauce, Chantilly cream over. Nina—As Marquise, vanilla sauce over, crystallised violets and rose leaves on top. Normand — Mould lined with cooked sweetened rice, puree of apples in centre, apricot sauce round. Orleans—Souffle pudding with dice of angelica cherries and crushed dry biscuits, kirsch flavour, Sabayon sauce.Entremets (Sweets). 413 Palmyre—Biscuit souffle pudding, anisette flavour, vanilla sauce. Princesse—Vanilla souffle pudding, cream vanilla sauce. Printanier—Souffle pudding with salpicon of crystal- lised fruit, apricot sauce with fruit. Radziwill—Semolina souffle mixture and chocolate souffle in layers, chocolate sauce over. Regence—Mould lined with caramel, filled with vanilla souffle mixture. Reine I.—Mould lined with very thin Swiss roll, fill with souffle mixture, vanilla sauce. Reine II.—Light souffle pudding with salpicon of fruit, cream of chestnut sauce. Rothschild—Souffle pudding with crystallised fruit and Dantzic liqueur, strawberries round, served with strawberry sauce. Royal—Dots of thick liquid chocolate round mould, fill with vanilla souffle mixture, red currant sauce round. Salvador—Lemon souffle pudding, served with straw - berrv sauce. Sans Souci—Souffle pudding with dice of apples cooked with butter and chopped hazel nuts, vanilla sauce. Saxon—Souffle pudding with dice of fruit, Sabayon sauce. Singapore—Pineapple souffle pudding, served with pineapple sauce. Sir Watkins—Pudding made with chopped beef suet , breadcrumbs, sugar, eggs, and marmalade, steamed, served with marmalade sauce.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 414 sauce. Stockholm—Stoned cooked prunes and chopped almonds mixed with custard and baked, served cold with custard sauce. Suchard—Chocolate souffle pudding, cream sauce. Suedois—Pudding made with sugar and butter beaten to a cream, add eggs, breadcrumbs, honey, sugar, and a little cornflour, milk and kirsch, whipped whites of eggs, and baked; hot maple syrup poured over. Tante Suzanne—Rice cooked in milk, sweetened, and mixed with dice of citron, baked in mould, cream sauce over. Tiit'obroma—Half peach souffle and half pineapple souffle pudding in layers mixed with honey, honey sauce round. Tyrnlienne—Chocolate souffle pudding with sultanas, chocolate sauce over. Venus—Ginger souffle pudding, served with syrup and ginger. Versuvienne—Chestnut souffle pudding with rice, sultanas, and candied peel, apricot sauce with dice of fruit and noyau. Viennois — Breadcrumbs, candied peel, ground almonds, sultanas, mixed with caramel custard and baked, vanilla sauce. Vincent—Chestnut souffle pudding, kirsch flavour, vanilla sauce round. Weimar—Pudding made with sugar and butter beaten to a cream ; add yolks of eggs, breadcrumbs, and dry cocoa powder and whipped whites; bake, and serve with chocolateEntremets {Sweets). 415 Wellington—Mould lined with thin pancake, rolled, with apricot jam, coffee, souffle mixture in centre, coffee cream sauce over. Charlotte Chaude (Hot), BanJcoh—Moulds lined as for apple charlotte, filled with puree of bananas, with dice of pineapple and crumbed macaroons, baked, apricot sauce round. Brillat Savarin—Brioche cooked in charlotte mould, scooped, and filled with quarters of stewed pears, lie with apricot sauce and kirsch, apricot sauce over. Castillac—Charlotte mould lined with sweet short- paste, then a layer of puree of pears, filled with quarters of stewed pears and apricot pulp, baked, apricot sauce and kirsch round, and chopped pistachios over. Moderne—Gfenoise paste timbales, charlotte shape, filled with puree of apples, apricot sauce and balls of apples round. Normande—As Apple Charlotte, with addition of apricot pulp. Polonaise—Charlotte mould lined with brioche paste, filled with macedoine of fruit, lie with apricot sauce and kirsch, baked, apricot sauce round. Pomme {de)—Well-buttered and sugared mould lined with slices of bread cut half an inch thick and an inch wide, dipped in oiled butter ; fill the centre with apples cooked to puree, with butter, sugar, and vanilla; cover and bake, apricot sauce and kirsch round.416 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Portugaise—Genoise paste baked in charlotte mould, sliced, and replaced with a layer of creme patissicre between; mask the whole with meringue mixture and bake, serve with orange sauce and curacoa, and sliced oranges round. Reme—Brioche paste cooked in charlotte mould, scooped, and filled with salpicon of pineapple and apricot, masked with Italian meringue mixture, and baked. Royale—Dome mould of Saxon pudding, scooped, and filled with puree of apricots and dice of pineapple, meringue mixture over, and baked, crystallised fruit and strawberry sauce round. Varsovienne—Mould lined as for apple charlotte, then a layer of thick puree of apples, and fill centre with macedoine of fruit, bake, and served with apricot sauce and maraschino. Charlotte Froide (Cold). Arlequin—The mould lined with strips of white and pink iced Genoise cake; place in centre some half-inch cut squares of set Bavarois mixture (pink, green, white, and chocolate), pour over, to fill mould, liquid white Bavarois mixture, to set. Calville—Mould lined with finger biscuits, as for Charlotte Russe, fill with puree of apples and cream. Carmen—Mould lined with wafers and filled with pink Bavarois mixture, ginger flavour.417 Entremets (Sweets). Chantilly—Mould lined with white cream iced wafers filled with whipped cream, flavoured and sweetened. Javanaise—As Charlotte Russe, mould lined with white and chocolate iced biscuits, tea Bavarois cream in centre. Klondyhe—Mould lined with small hard eclairs, masked with syrup cooked to the crack point, fill mould with charlotte Russe cream mixture, decorate with Chantilly cream. Metternich—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with chestnut custard and cream, marrons glaces round. Montreuil—As Charlotte Russe, add dice of peaches in the cream. Moscovite—Mould lined with finger buscuits, filled with Bavarois cream and salpicon of crystallised fruit. Nina—Mould lined with pink and white iced biscuits, filled with strawberry Bavarois cream. Opera—Mould lined with iced biscuits, filled with caramel Bavarois cream, decorated with Chan- tilly cream and crystallised violets. Orientate—Mould lined with biscuits, filled with pista- chios, Bavarois cream, and dice of pineapple. Parisienne—Mould lined with orange iced biscuits, filled with layers of vanilla and orange cream bavarois, decorated with quarters of oranges, masked orange icing. Pompadour—Mould lined with biscuits, pineapple cream filling, decorated with chocolate and vanilla cream cornets. E E418 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Renaissance—Mould lined as for Charlotte Arlequin, filled with vanilla Bavarois cream and salpicon of fruit. Russe—Mould lined with finger biscuits and filled with vanilla Bavarois cream. Timbale (Hot). Ambassadeur—Brioche paste timbale filled with salpicon of fruit, lie with rich thick custard, sabayon round, pistachios over. Bourdaloue—Timbale lined with almond paste, filled with salpicon of fruit, almonds and creme frangipane, almond paste cover, and baked, apricot syrup round. Conde—Short paste timbale filled with creamed sweet rice and dice of apricots, lie yolks of eggs, baked, apricots, decorated with cherries and angelica round, apricot and kirsch sauce over. Darenberg—Brioche timbale filled with quarters of cooked pears, lie with puree of apples and apricot sauce, apricot sauce and maraschino over. Duchesse—Mould lined with brioche paste, filled with cooked quarters of pears and apples, lie apricot pulp, covered and baked, apricot sauce round. Faveur—Brioche timbale filled with cooked chestnut and apricot sauce, marrons glaces over, apricot sauce round. L'Anglaise (a)—Biscuit timbale filled with creme patissiere mixed with dice of crystallised fruit, vanilla cream sauce over.Entremets {Sweets). 419 Marie Louise—G-enoise paste timbale filled with a layer of salpicon of peach, one of Italian meringue mixture and slices of genoise soaked in kirsch, masked with Italian meringue mixture, piped, baked, peached syrup and kirsch round. Montmorency—Brioche timbale filled with stoned stewed cherries, lie cherry sauce, cherry sauce and kirsch round. Parisienne—Brioche timbale scooped and filled with cooked olive shaped pears, apples, pineapple, apricot, Muscat almonds, and angelica, lie apricot sauce and kirsch, apricot sauce round. Suedoise—Mould lined with brioche paste, filled with creme patissiere and dice of pears cooked in syrup, covered and baked, sabayon round. Valencienne— Brioche timbale scooped, decorated with shredded pistachios and filled with quarters of cooked pears, lie apricot pulp, small glace pears on top, apricot sauce round. Cold. Royale Pralinees — A nougat timbale filled with praline, Chantilly cream, decorated. Crimes (Creams or Bavarois). Beau Rivacje—Caramel cream baked in bordure moulds; when cold, serve with cream wafer cornets round. Caramel—Mould lined at bottom with syrup cooked to caramel point, filled with raw custard, and baked. e e 2420 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Clermont—Chestnut Bavarois cream, glaces chest- nuts round. Creole—Chocolate Bavarois cream with a little cooked rice in mixture, fancy iced biscuits round, Chantilly cream over. Dalmatienne—Rich vanilla cream with macedoine of fruit, dice of macaroons and maraschino flavour. Diploma,te—Mould lined with vanilla Bavarois cream, filled with layers of chocolate and strawberry cream. Ecossaise—Whiskey flavoured custard, baked in charlotte mould; when cold, served with apricot sauce, whiskey flavour. Espagnole—Orange Bavarois cream, quarters of oranges round. Eugenie—Vanilla Bavarois cream with biscuit and noyau flavour, custard sauce round, crystallised violets on top. Figaro—Three coloured Bavarois creams in layers, decorated. Florentine—Vanilla Bavarois cream with crushed nougat, Chantilly cream and chopped pistachios over. Marie Louise—Peach mousse, kirsch flavour, served with peach syrup round. My Queen—Strawberry Bavarois cream mixed with whole strawberries, Chantilly cream over. Opera,—Custard baked in fancy moulds ; when cold, served with strawberry syrup, Chantilly cream garnish and crystallised violets. Pompadour—Chocolate and vanilla Bavarois cream in layers, cold apple syrup round.Entremets (Sweets). 421 Printanier—Vanilla Bavarois cream with salpicon of fruit. Regina—Puree of fresli strawberry and cream, blended with dissolved gelatine, garnished with strawberries. Religieuse—Chocolate and vanilla Bavarois cream in layers* pralines over. Yiennoise—As Creme Caramel, the custard flavoured with caramel. Creme Regence (Hot)—A custard flavoured with maraschino and crushed biscuits baked in charlotte mould and garnished with halves of apricots, dried cherries, apricot sauce round. Creme Regence Meringuees (Hot)—As above, masked with meringue mixture when turned out on dish and salamandered. Creme Villageoise (Hot)—A custard mixed with crumbed biscuit, dice of cooked pears and apples, anisette flavour, and poached in mould. CroCtes (Hot). Lyonnaise—Spread sweetened puree of chestnut on half-moon shaped dried brioche croutes, then a coating of puree of apricot, sprinkle chopped browned almonds over, and serve with a sauce made of apricot pulp, Malaga wine, and salpicon of chestnuts, raisins, sultanas, and currants. Marechale—Spread some praline on half-moon shaped brioche dried croutes, serve in couronne with a422 The New Practical Cookery Guide. salpicon of pineapple, raisins, cherries blended with puree of apples in centre, a bordure of olive shaped pink and white pears round, apricot sauce and kirsch over. Normande—Brioche croutes masked with puree of apples, pink and white quarters of apples in centre, apple puree sauce over. Parisienne—Mask a brioche croute with praline, half a slice of pineapple on each, macedoine of fruit in centre, apricot sauce au madere over. Turban Richelieu—Stewed greengages, apricots, and pineapple, served in turban of genoise, apricot sauce with kirsch over. Victoria-—Browned brioche croutes in couronne, served with stewed cherries and chestnuts in centre, apricot sauce and rum over. Cold. Pain de Riz Egyptienne—Rice cooked with milk, sugar, and saffron flavour, finished with cream and a little dissolved gelatine; when near cold, poured into a mould, the bottom of which should be decorated with pink sweet jelly in stars, and half-moon shape of bavarois placed on ice to set, and served with stewed stuffed dates and syrup round. Pain de Riz Imperatrice—Rice cooked with milk, sugar, and vanilla, lie yolks and cream mixed with salpicon of fruit, allowed to set in mould having pink jelly in bottom, and served with apricot sauce round.Entremets {Sweets). 423 Pain cle Biz Maltaise—Prepared as above, ginger flavour, served with a Maltese cross of pink jelly set in bavarois in bottom of mould, apricot sauce and quarters of oranges round. Pain de Biz Richelieu—As Imperatrice, in bordure mould, stewed greengages, apricots,; and pine- apple in centre, apricot sauce over. Gelees (Jellies) Suedoises. Belgravia—Special Belgravia jelly moulds, the tubes of which are filled with different colour jellies and Bavarois mixture, the mould filled with clear liqueur jelly. Carte Blanche — Or champagne jelly, served in glasses. Dantzicrd la Rothschild—Dantzic liqueur jelly, with gold and silver leaves, mixed just before setting. En Coupe—Liqueur jelly set in special glasses (coupe). Grande Chartreuse — Jelly flavoured with green Chartreuse. Grand Due—Pineapple jelly with dice of pineapple in special glass dishes. Imperiale—Champagne jelly with dice of pineapple and pistachios, jelly Russe (whipped jelly) on top. Moderne—Fruit jelly, liqueur flavour, in special glass dishes, with fruit tastefully arranged in layers. Mosaique — White, pink, green, and chocolate Bavarois mixture, set and cut in small square mosaic style in mould, fill with cool clear jelly, and allow to set.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 424 Moscovite—Mould lined with kiimmel jelly, filled with pink and white jelly Russe in layers. Orange—Orange jelly set in the peels, cut basket shape. Orientate—Mandarine jelly, served with quarters of mandarine round. Parisienne—Liqueur jelly Rubannee. Benaissance—Three coloured jellies, pink, Russian, and green. Busse—Jelly whipped into froth on ice, and poured in moulds to set. Volaire—Coffee jelly flavoured with cognac. Volaire Chantilly—Served with whipped cream over and round. Chartreuse de Fraises—Fresh strawberries set in jelly. Chartreuse de Fraises Chantilly—Served with Chan- tilly cream. Chartreuse de Fruit—Fresh fruit cut to neat size and set in jelly. Suedoise Bon Chretien—Mould lined with jelly, arrange a layer of cooked pink and white balls of pears, and fill centre with puree of pears and whipped cream. Suedoise Moderns—Mould lined with jelly, a layer of cooked balls of pink and white apples round, and fill centre with vanilla Bavarois cream and salpicon of fruit. SuSdoise Normande—Mould lined with jelly, a layer of neat strips of cooked apples round, fill centre with puree of apples and whipped cream.425 Entremets (Sweets). Suedoise Princesse—Mould lined with jelly, white and pink puree of apple, Bavarois cream, set and cut size of florin, arranged round, centre filled with the coloured apple Bavarois liquid in layers as it is setting. Suedoise Peine Mab—Mould lined with jelly and decorated with cherries, centre filled with vanilla Bavarois cream, served with red currant syrup round. Suedoise Richelieu—Mould lined with puree of prunes Bavarois, and centre filled with vanilla Bavarois cream. Poires (Pears). Alma—Cooked with port wine flavoured with orange rind; when cold, masked with praline and decorated with Chantilly cream. Au Rum (Cold)—Served in timbale with rum syrup over and a star of Chantilly cream. Au Rum (Hot)—Served in timbale with thick syrup, rum ignited lastly. Bourdaloue—Quarters of cooked pears in flan or timbale, almond paste, frangipane over and praline, gratines, apricot sauce. Cardinal—Cooked pears cut in halves and studded with shredded almonds, served in timbale with raspberry syrup over. Carignon (Cold)—Poached in syrup and scoop core from thick end, fill cavity (when cold) with firm chocolate ice cream, stand stalk uppermost and mask with chocolate fondant, serve on small rounds of genoise basted' with anisette and426 The New Practical Cookery Guide. coated with apricot syrup and coarse almond praline round. Conde—Cooked in syrup and served on bordure of sweetened cooked rice, decorated with cherries and angelica, apricot sauce round. Dijonnaise—Cooked in claret and served with sirop de cassis on a fond of pain d’epices (honey cake). Dreux—Halved cooked pears served iii brioche fond s or tartlets coated with frangipane and praline, apricot sauce round. Duchesse (Cold)—Cooked pears masked with creme patissiere and masked again with liquid jelly; when set, served with chopped jelly round. Fn Surprise—Half pears scooped and cooked in syrup, masked with creme patissiere, chopped cherries on top, thick svrup over. Felicite or Feligia (Cold)—Cooked pears served in bordure of creme Viennoise, decorated with Chantilly cream. Florentine (Cold)—Cooked pears served in a bordure of semolina bavarois, apricot syrup over. George (St.)—Quarters of cooked pears in cocottes or timbales, lie with apricot sauce and kirsclu meringue mixture over, and baked. Helene (Cold) — Served on a layer of vanilla ice cream, hot chocolate sauce over, sprinkled with crystallised violets. Imperatrice (Hot) — Served on a bordure of rice Conde, salpicon of fruit in centre, meringue mixture piped round each pear, bake, apricot sauce round.Entremets {Sweets). 427 Imperatrice (Cold)—Served on a bordure of rice Imperatrice with apricot sauce round, Chantilly cream and sieved chestnut over. Lombarde (Cold)—Served on bordure of rice Conde, Chantilly cream in centre, maraschino syrup round. Louis Phillippe (Cold)—Cooked whole pears scooped and served with ice cream inside, red currant syrup over. Marquise (Cold)—Masked with raspberry and red currant syrup served on genoise bordure basted with liqueur, crystallised rose leaves on top. Mary Gmden (Cold)—Served in timbales with rasp- berry puree and crystallised cherries, piped Chantilly cream over. Melba—As peaches Melba. Moscovite—Served on brioche tartlets or fonds, decorate with almonds and crystallised fruit, apricot sauce au kirscli round. Parisienne—Served on bordure of genoise, rice Conde in centre, all masked with meringue mixture, decorated with candied fruit, and baked, apricot sauce round. Pralinees—Served in timbale on frangipane, Chantilly cream piped round each pear, almond praline over, chocolate sauce apart. Princesse — Cooked in raspberry syrup, masked with hazel nut meringue mixture, and baked. Ranavalo (Hot)—Served on genoise bordure, choco- late sauce over. Ranavalo (Cold)—Served on vanilla ice cream, chocolate sauce over.428 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Btgence—Cooked pears cut in halves, scooped and filled with rice Conde mixed with salpicon of fruit, reform pear, egged and breadcrumbed and fried, apricot sauce separate. Peine Emma (Cold)—Served in timbales withfrangi- pane mixed with crushed macaroons over, decorate with Chantilly cream. Peligieuse (Cold)—Placed in a timbale or cocotte, cover with chocolate Bavarois cream; when set, serve thus. Sultane (Cold)—Served in timbales with vanilla ice in centre, light chocolate sauce over, pistachios and cherries, sucre file round. Van Dick—Served on genoise bordure, chocolate sauce over, crystallised violets on top. Pommes (Apples). Au Beurre—Peeled, cored, and baked, served on a brioche croute, a piece of hard brandy butter in centre. Beatrice—Pared and cored, fill centre with chopped figs and raisins, baked, and served with custard sauce. Bohemienne—Are baked apple dumplings with a little apricot jam inside, served with syrup sauce or hard sauce. Bonne Femme—Apples baked with a little butter, sugar, and water. Cevenole — Pared, scooped, and poached; when cold, fill with puree of chestnut and Chantilly cream.429 Entremets (Sweets). Chatelaine—Pared and scooped, fill centre with chopped cherries and puree of apricots, mask with frangipane and crushed macaroons and gratines. Chevreuse—Halved, cooked, and served on a bordure of semolina, salpicon of fruit in centre, mask with meringue mixture, chopped pistachios over, and bake, quarters of apples and apricot sauce round. Dauphine—Pared, scooped, and baked, served with creme patissiere inside, red currant sauce round, a top of genoise over. Flan de \Pommes—Flan with a layer of puree of apples and a layer of sliced apples neatly arranged over, baked, apricot syrup over. Flan de Pommes Liegeoise—Flan filled with dice of raw apples and a custard made of cream, sugar, yolks of eggs, and oiled butter, lemon flavour, and baked, served hot or cold. Florentine—Pared and scooped, poached, filled with rice Conde, served on puree of chestnuts. Frite—(Fried apples), sliced half-inch thick and cored, dipped in milk and floured, fried golden colour with butter, served in a serviette, caster sugar over. Grimaldi—Quarters of apples served on a flan or tartlet filled with rice Conde, praline over and gratines, vanilla sauce round. Irene—Pared, scooped, and poached in syrup; when cold, filled with vanilla ice cream mixed with puree of plums, masked with Italian meringue mixture and salamandered.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 430 Lady Morgan—Peeled, cored, and baked, served on a fond of genoise, custard sauce over, studded with almond nibs. Malverne—Chopped, mixed with fresh crumbs, sugar, eggs, and baked in a flan paste, apple syrup over. Marie Stuart — (Apfel im schlafi rock), pared and cored, marmalade inside, wrapped in puff paste,, and baked. Maryadel—Cut in regular squares and baked in cocottes with sugar and little fresh butter, served with kirseh or rum and ignited. Meringuees—Poached quarters of apples dressed on rice Conde, masked with meringue mixture, and baked, apricot sauce round. Muscovite—Peeled and scooped, poached in syrup, filled with puree of apple souffle mixture, flavoured with kiimmel, and baked. Parisienne—As pears Parisienne. Portugaise—Peeled, cored, and poached, filled with creme patissiere mixed with currants, served in tartlets, red currant sauce round. Richelieu—Peeled and cored, filled with puree of apples mixed with dice of crystallised fruit, basted with butter, sugar over, and baked, served on brioche fonds, decorated with cherries and almonds, apricot sauce round. Royal (Cold)—Peeled and cored, poached ; when cold, masked with thick red currant syrup, served on blancmange bordure with jelly garnish. Van Dick—Peeled and cored apples baked and served with chocolate sauce.431 Entremets (Sweets). Windsor—Peeled and cored, poaclied, served on rice croquettes, apple syrup round. Abricots (Apricots). Beignets d'Abricots—Macerated halved apricots with sugar and champagne, fried in batter (pate a frire), apricot sauce a part. Bordelaise—Served in timbales on creme patissiere, custard sauce over and shredded almonds, baked. Bourdaloue I. (Cold)—Dressed in a timbale of brioche paste with whipped cream and puree of chestnuts mixed, decorated with Chantilly cream and almonds. Bourdaloue II.—As pears Bourdaloue. Colbert—Halves, filled with rice Conde lie, egged and breadcrumbed and fried, served with apricot sauce. Conde—Served on rice Conde bordure, salpicon of fruit in centre, apricot sauce round. Creole—Dressed round a dome of rice Conde, ginger flavour, currants and angelica on rice, apricot sauce over apricots. Cussy—Served in genoise bordure, macedoine of fruit in centre, Italian meringue mixture over, baked, apricot and kirsch served round. Gratin—Served on creme patissiere, crumbed maca- roons over, and gratines, apricot sauce round. Meringuees—As apple Meringuees. Parisienne (Cold)—Served with vanilla sauce be- tween two halves, dressed on fonds of genoise, Chantilly cream over.432 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Roy ale—Line a mould with liqueur jelly and arrange a layer of apricots round, filled with puree of apricot Bavarois cream, served on a fond of genoise glacee, decorated, with pistachios round. Sultane—Served on bordure of genoise, rice Conde mixed with pistachios in centre, masked with meringue mixture, pistachios on top, and bake, apricot sauce round. Victoria—Served on biscuit fonds or tartlets, apricot sauce over and chopped pistachios. P£ches (Peaches). Aiglon (Cold)—Poached; when cold, served on vanilla ice cream in a timbale, peach and kirsch syrup over, placed on a carved block of ice imitating an eagle. Alexandra I.—Poached and served on a bordure of genoise, strawberries in centre, Italian meringue over, baked, and strawberry sauce round. Alexandra II. (Cold)—Served on a bordure of genoise, Chantilly cream over, strawberry sauce round. Andaloiise—Served on rice Conde, meringued, peach syrup round. Aurore (Cold)—Poached; when cold, served on a strawberry iced mousse, curacao sabayon over. Caroline—Poached and served on a small round of rice Conde, vanilla cream sauce over, and a ring of red currant jelly round. Cardinal—Poached and served in timbales, raspberry sauce and almonds over. Colbert—As apricot Colbert.Entremets (Sweets). 433 Conde—As apricot Conde. Gussy—As apricot Cussy. Diable—Poached and served in timbale, praline over and gratines, pour kirsch over and served lighted, apricot sauce a part. Edna May—Poached; when cold, served on vanilla ice cream, pink Chantilly cream over, and a cherry on top. Flambees—Poached, dressed in timbales with thick fruit syrup over, pour kirsch on top and send to table lighted. Glacees Heine Alexandra I.—Poached; when cold, served on strawberry ice, cream sauce over and a crown of piped red currant jelly, crystallised violet on top. Glacees Heine Alexandra II.—Poached and served on vanilla ice cream, puree of fresh strawberries over, and crystallised rose leaves on top. Maintenon—Place a layer of almond frangipane in a timbale and a dome of salpicon of fruit in centre, cover with Italian meringue, and bake, arrange, neatly all round, halves of peaches cooked in syrup, peach sauce and kirsch over. Melbai —Peaches poached in syrup and kirsch; when cold, served on a fond of fine genoise and vanilla ice cream, fresh puree of raspberry, sweetened, over. Meringuees—As apple Meringuees. Montreuil—Dressed on bordure of rice Conde, peach syrup over. Moscovite—As pears Moscovite. F F434 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Pompa Pose—Poached whole in syrup; when cold, scooped to remove kernel without breaking the fruit, fill the cavity with firm vanilla ice cream, and served on raspberry ice in a timbale, decorate with Chantilly cream and praline and pink spun sugar. Portugaise—As apricot Portugaise. Peine Blanche—Poached in maraschino syrup ; when cold, served on pineapple ice, raspberry syrup over and Chantilly cream. Richelieu—Poached ; when cold, dressed in biscuit fond, mask with meringue praline mixture, and salamander. Pose Cheri—Served in timbales with puree of pine- apple and Clicquot wine. Sultane—Poached ; when cold, served on pistachios, ice cream, rose syrup over and spun sugar (sucre file). Nectarines. Same preparation as peaches. Ananas (Pineapple). Carmelite—Sliced and dressed on fonds of genoise glacee, dome of vanilla ice in centre, pineapple syrup round. Conde—Sliced and served on bordure of rice Conde, decorated with cherries and angelica, apricot syrup over. Creole—Sliced and dressed round a dome of rice Conde, currants on rice and leaves of angelica, apricot and ginger sauce round.435 Entremets (Sweets). Cussy (Cold)—Sliced and macerated in kirsch, served on a bordure of apricot jelly, vanilla syrup over. D' Orleans—Sliced and dressed on rice Conde shaped as half a pineapple, masked with meringue mixture in dots and leaves of angelica at both ends to resemble the pine, baked and served with apricot sauce. EnSurprise—Scooped and filled with rich fruit ice. Georgette—Cut top with tufts and scoop pine and fill with pineapple mousse mixed with dice of pineapple and allow to set on ice, served on serviette, replace top. Marquise — Treated as Georgette, replacing pine- apple mousse for strawberry mousse. Master Joe—Sliced and dressed on couronne in glass dish, kirsch and maraschino over, fresh straw- berries in centre, and quarters of oranges round. Royale—Scooped and filled with sliced fresh peaches and fresh strawberries and kirsch. Bananes (Bananas) can be prepared in most ways suitable for apricots. A la Norvegienne — Split and poached in syrup; when cold, filled with banana ice, masked with Italian meringue mixture, and salamandered. Fraises (Strawberries). Cardinal—Served in timbales with raspberry syrup and orange juice and chopped filberts. Cecil—Served in timbales with orange-flavour juice, Chantilly cream over. f f 2436 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Champagne (au)—Served in glass disli with whipped champagne jelly over, and allowed to set. Creole—Served on sliced pineapple and kirsch, yellow spun sugar over. Femina—Macerated in curacao and sugar, served in timbales on a layer of orange ice, liqueur over. Lerina—Macerated in Lerina liqueur and melon pulp, served in scooped melon. Mdconnaise—Served in glass dishes with Macon wine and sifted sugar. Marguerite—Served in timbales with kirsch, pome- granate sorbet over, and Chantilly cream with kiimmel. Marquise—Macerated in kirsch and served in tim- bales on a layer of Chantilly cream mixed with pineapple puree. Melba—Served on vanilla ice cream, raspberry syrup over. Nina—Served in timbales with maraschino, pine- apple sorbet over, and Chantilly cream mixed with strawberry puree. Palissier—Served on small nougat baskets filled with vanilla ice cream, spun sugar over. Rove de Bebe—Macerated in maraschino and pine- apple juice, and served in layers of sliced pine- apple and Chantilly cream in a scooped fresh pineapple, the whole dressed on a Genoise fond, iced and decorated. Ritz—Served in timbales with puree of wood straw- berries and fresh raspberries, piped Chantilly cream over.Entremets (Sweets). 437 Romanoff—Macerated in port wine, served in sorbet glasses, with Chantilly cream over and a small strawberry on top. Wilhelm—Macerated in orange juice and kirsch, served in timbales, with Chantilly cream over. Zehna Kuntz—Served in timbales on a layer of puree of raspberries mixed with Chantilly cream, piped cream over. Framboises (Raspberries) are seldom served as a sweet, but can be pre- pared in a similar way to strawberries, and should be absolutely freshly gathered. Flail cle Framboises Hollandais—Line a flan ring with short paste and fill with fresh picked raspberries, and pour over a rich sweetened custard made of yolks of eggs, sugar, and cream, bake, serve hot or cold. Melon. Creole—Scooped and filled with fresh strawberries and dice of pineapple macerated in kirsch and maraschino, served ice cold. Orientate—Scooped and filled with fresh straw- berries and dice of melon macerated in kirsch. Surprise—Scooped and filled with macedoine of fruit and puree of fresh strawberries and kirsch.The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. 438 Cerises (Cherries). Dijonnaise—Stoned, stewed in cassis de Dijon, and served in timbales with finger biscuits round, a little kirsch over. Jubilee—Stoned, stewed in claret syrup, served in timbale with the thickened syrup, kirsch .over and flambee. Valerie—Almond paste tartlets, baked; when cold, filled with cherry ice, masked with Italian meringue mixture. Viennoise—Stewed cherries served in a bordure of Viennoise cream, whipped cream over. Flan de Cerises Dubarry—Stoned cherries baked in flan paste and ring when cold, masked with Chantilly cream and macaroon crumbs. Entremets Varies Chaud et Froid. Cotelettes en Surprise d la Vatel—Two layers of puff paste cut cutlet shape, with a filling of almonds and apricot pulp in centre, and baked; when cold, coated with reduced apricot sauce and masked with crushed macaroon and powdered chocolate marked with hot skewer as a grilled cutlet, and served with red currant sauce round. Croutes Dijonnaise—Palmier cakes served with cassis de Dijon and Chantilly cream over. Flan d VAllemande—Sliced apples placed in a dan paste, light Genoise cake mixture, cinnamon davour, pour over, and baked, serve with powdered sugar and ground cinnamon on top. Also made of cherries.439 Entremets ( Sheets). Flan Americaine—A flan made with sweetened puree of pumpkin, cream, and yolks mixed. Flan de Fraises d la Suisse—Fresh strawberries macerated in kirsch and sugar, place in a cooked flan case, and masked with Chantilly cream. Flan de' Pommes Bateliere—A layer of rice Conde over ordinary flan de pommes, sugared and browned. Flan de Pommes Grilles—Strips of paste, lattice fashion, over ordinary flan de pommes, and baked, apricot syrup over. Flan de Semoule Brezilien—Salpicon of fruit in flan paste with kirsch, semolina souffle mixture and baked, pralines lastly. Flan Parisienne—Halves of apricots arranged in a flan paste, crystallised cherry in each, and baked, apricot syrup over. Flan Roosevelt—A flan made of puree of apples and cranberries. Flan Shakespeare—A flan made of sliced apples and sliced quinces, finished with quince syrup over (coings). lie Flottante—Meringue mixture poached in small heaps, served in timbales with custard sauce. Kaltschalle d'Ananas au Champagne—Sliced fresh pineapple served in timbales with syrup and champagne, well iced. Kaltschalle Macedoine—Fresh fruit syrup flavoured with kirsch, champagne, Rhine wine, Bordeaux, lemon and orange juice poured over macedoine of fresh fruit, and served in bowl or timbale.440 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mont Blanc—Sweet puree of cooked chestnut served in timbale, masked with Chantilly cream repre- senting rocks. Mousseline d’GEufs Mimi—Italian meringue mixture, poached egg shape, in sweetened milk, served on creme patissiere, caramel sauce over. Mousseline cVCEufs Rejane—Large round meringue piped on a buttered paper and poached in sweetened milk, placed in egg dish (oeuf sur le plat dish), with half apricot on each meringue to imitate the yolk of egg, and pour light custard sauce over. (Eufs en Surprise—Round croutes of Genoise cake masked with Chantilly cream, half apricot in centre of each to imitate yolk, apricot sauce on top. Pomeleo—(Grape fruit au kirscli), cut the fruit in halves, scoop the pulp carefully, leaving the rind intact, mix the strained pulp with cut brandied cherries and peanuts, cold syrup, cherry brandy, and kirscli, and fill the halves of fruit and served ice cold with Chantilly cream over. Quatre Mendiants en Surprise—Chopped figs, dates, Muscat raisins, and shredded almonds, stewed with sugar, cherry brandy, and rind of lemon ; when cold served in glasses with a star of Chantilly cream and a brandied cherry over. Rihl Grn Danois—Sago cooked in red fruit syrup and placed in a mould to cool and set, served with sabayon.Entremets (Sweets). 441 S a lade de Pomeleo—(American grape fruit), quarters of grape fruit, sugar, and curacao, served in glass dishes. Vetcher in Suisse—Sieved puree of chestnut, sweetened and served on bordure or fonds of meringue, Chantilly cream in centre. Zt'phirs Viennois—Semolina pudding mixture and currants poached in zepliir moulds, served with salpicon of fruit in centre, apricot sauce round. Beignets (Fritteks). I/Abricots—Macerated halves of apricot fried in batter. I)'Ananas—(Pineapple), sliced, macerated in kirsch and sugar, drained, floured, and fried in batter (pate a frire). De Banane—Halves of bananas macerated and fried in batter. Espagnole—Sliced French bread basted with beaten eggs and milk and sauteed (fried) with clarified butter, powdered sugar and cinnamon over, sabayon with madeira a part. Harem—Brioche paste mixed with cooked rice fried ball shape, raspberry syrup round. Beignets Souffles are made of sweet pate a choux, in some cases filled with various jams, fruit, etc., and served with sauce. Dauphine—When beignets souffles are fried, fill with sweet almond cream, sugar over. Grand Mere—They are filled with marmalade.442 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Italienne — Filled with creme patissiere, sabayon a part. Medicis — Filled with chocolate cream, chocolate sauce. Vanille—Served with vanilla custard sauce. Zoe—Filled with puree of apples, red currant sauce. Crepes (Pancakes). Convent—Dice of pears in pancake batter and cooked in the usual way, icing sugar over, and sala- mandered. Georgette—Dice of pineapple in mixture, and finished as above. Gil Bias—Hard sauce (butter, sugar, and brandy) mixed with chopped filberts, spread in ordinary pancakes and rolled. Normande — Puree of apples in rolled pancakes, sugar and salamandered. Parisienne—Add sugar, brandy, almond, milk, and crushed macaroons in ordinary mixture, and cook usual way. Busse—Cream, brandy, kiimmel, and crushed biscuits in mixture. Suzette—Curacao and tangerine juice in mixture ; when cooked, rolled, spread hard sauce over. Omelette Sucree (Sweet Omelet). Aljphonso—A light sweet omelet, Xeres wine flavour, liquid red currant jelly round, the omelet well sugared, and a cross marked on top with hot iron.Entremets ( Sweets). 443 Belle Valence—A light sweet omelet, orange flavour, filled with orange marmalade, salamandered. Gelestine—Three small omelets made with different jams, sugared and salamandered. Claremont—Sweet omelet filled with puree of apples, sugared and salamandered. George Sand—Sweet omelet filled with salpicon of fruit and chestnut, sugared and salamandered. Melba—Sweet puree of fresh raspberries round, sweet omelet sugar and Idrsch over and lighted. Noel—Sweet omelet with cream, cooked mince meat inside, sugar and rum over and lighted. Omelette Soufflee. The manipulation of the ingredients composing omelette soufflee is the secret of success. The proportions are about three yolks of eggs and sufficient fine pow’dered sugar to form a thick creamy mixture, worked with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, the flavour required added and five whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth, carefully mixed, placed on a dish dome fashion and decorated, and quickly baked eight to twelve minutes, according to size. A lAbsinthe—With absinthe flavour. A VOrange—With orange flavour and colouring. A la Vanille—Vanilla flavour.444 The New Practiced Cookery Guide. Omelette en Surprise. Chinoise—Tangerine ice, dome shape, on a fond of Genoise cake, masked with light omelet souffle mixture, decorated and salamandered, quarters of tangerine glace round. Creole—Pineapple ice on a fond of G-enoise cake, masked with light omelet souffle mixture, decorated and salamandered. Elizabeth—Vanilla ice and crushed crystallised violets on a fond of Genoise, masked with light omelet souffle mixture, crystallised violets on top and salamandered. Islandaise—Vanilla ice on a fond of Genoise, masked with omelet souffle mixture, decorated, a small barquette (boat shape) almond paste tartlet fixed on top and salamandered, rum and sugar poured into boat and ignited. Jamaique—Rum ice on a fond of Genoise, masked with rum omelet souffle mixture, salamandered. My Lady—Rich raspberry ice cream, and sliced peaches on a fond of Genoise masked with light raspberry omelet souffle mixture, decorated and salamandered. My Lord—Vanilla ice cream and sliced pears on a fond of Genoise, masked with omelet souffle mixture, salamandered, Norvegienne—Cream ice with salpicon of fruit on a fond of Genoise, masked with omelet souffle mixture, and salamandered. Sylph—A mould of strawberry mousse, placed on a fond of Genoise and maraschino, masked andEntremets {Sweets). 445 decorated with Italian meringue mixture, and salamandered. Vesuve—Strawberry ice and vanilla ice with crushed candied chestnut on a fond of Genoise, masked and decorated with omelet souffle or meringue mixture, a boat shape tartlet of almond paste on toj3, filled with cherries, salamandered, pour cognac and sugar in boat and send lighted to table. Souffles (Varies). Souffles, as omelette soufflee, require a practical hand to make one to perfection—the working of the mixture and perfect knowledge of the propriety of all ingredients used. There are several preparations for souffles. No. 1, the one mostly used, is composed of milk, butter, and sugar. When boiling sufficient sieved flour is added to make a thick mixture. Cooked a few minutes, remove from fire, and yolks of eggs and a few whole eggs are well mixed; lastly, whipped white of eggs. The flavour required is previously added to the mixture. Baked in a souffle case with a strip of buttered paper round. No. 2, for fruit souffles. The puree of fruit, which should be rather thick, is sweetened with heavy syrup, and whipped whites of eggs are carefully mixed. This souffle requires less cooking than the above. No. 3, another very delicious souffle, is a (lemon souffle) souffle au citron, the proportion for which is about four yolks of eggs, 4 ounces of fresh446 The New Practical Cookery Guide. ■ butter, 3 ounces of caster sugar, the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, and the juice of two lemons, the whole placed in a saucepan and stirred over the fire till it attains the consistency of thick sauce, but must not boil. Remove from fire, and add six whites of eggs whipped to a froth, care- fully mixed, and bake in a souffle case. Other souffles are made in a similar way, using different ingredients. o No. 4.—The biscuit mixture souffle is occasionally used with salpicon of fruit, nuts, etc. Souffle Carmago — A souffle prepared as lemon souffle, with tangerines and shredded filberts, mixed. D’ Orleans—No. 1 souffle mixture with crusted Reims biscuits and kirsch. Hilda—Lemon souffle and fresh sliced strawberries. Java—No. 1 souffle mixture, flavoured with strong tea and chopped pistachios. Lerina—Rich cream souffle, flavoured with Lerina liqueur. Lucullus—Fruit souffle mixture (pears, apples, and peaches) cooked in a scooped brioche timbale, fruit syrup round. Orientale—Pomegranate, kirsch, and crumbed bis- cuits. Palmyre—No. 1 souffle mixture, mixed with crumbed biscuits and anisette flavour. Paulette—Puree of fresh strawberry souffle mixture. %! Pralines — No. 1 mixture with chopped almond pralines.Entremets (Sweets). 447 Rothschild—No. 1 souffle mixture with salpicon of fruit macerated in Dantzic liqueur, syrup of strawberries and kirsch a part. Roy ale—No. 1 mixture with layer of macerated salpicon of fruit, and crushed biscuits and maraschino. Entremets Etrangers (Foreign Sweets). Dampfundels—Brioche paste rolled shape of ball, placed on deep baking tin and brushed with oiled butter over; pour warm, sweetened milk to cover, and baked thus; served with vanilla sauce. Gollatschen—Brioche paste rolled half an inch thick cut in rounds about 3in., place hard puree of prunes and a few currants in centre, form a ball, egged and baked. Gucjllmpf—A light brioche paste with currants, sultanas, additional sugar, butter, and whipped white, baked. Indianerkrapfen—Biscuit mixture piped on buttered and floured baking sheet, bouchee fashion, baked; when done, fill centre with Chantilly cream and masked chocolate icing. Kaimak — Quinces (coings) pared and scooped, blanched in syrup; when cold, filled with sweetened cream, quince syrup round. Kerkson—Semolina quenelles (sweet) served with custard sauce. Kutja—Rice cooked in milk, almond flavour, and mixed with honey, served with raisins round.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 448 Malibe—A custard or batter made with hour, eggs, milk, sugar, butter, and essence of rose, baked, served cold. Montecados—Sweet pate a choux, cinnamon flavour, made quenelle shape, fried, and served with apricot sauce. Mctlakoff Pudding—Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, vanilla Bavarois mixture mixed with sliced cooked pears and apples to fill the mould; when set, turned out and served with cold sabayon sauce. Mince Pies. Tartlet tins lined with puff paste filled with mince meat, a layer of same paste over, egged and bake. Mince meat: 61b. beef suet, 61b. currants, 81b. chopped apples, 51b. raisins, 31b. sugar, 31b. mixed peel, 2oz. salt, Joz. ground ginger, 21b. skinned grapes, three oranges, rind and juice, eight lemons, rind and juice, lib. ground almonds, 2oz. ground mixed spice, one large nutmeg, half a bottle of brandy, one bottle of sherry, all finely minced, moistened with syrup if necessary. Plum Pudding or Christmas Pudding. 151b. of beef suet, 121b. currants, 71b. raisins, 51b. sultanas, 71b. sugar, 101b. breadcrumbs, 51b. mixed peel, 71b. flour, lib. ground almonds, thirty eggs, four quarts of old Burton ale, one bottle of rum, three nutmegs, loz. ginger, 2oz. mixed spice, 2oz. salt, eight oranges, rind and juice, 41b. chopped French plums (prunes). Require four to six hoursEntremets {Sweets'). -149 cooking. They are best to cook several weeks before wanted, and reheated for two or three hours in steam when required. Vegetarian Christmas Pudding. lib. of fresh breadcrumbs, lib. stoned raisins, lib. sultanas, lib. currants, Jib. flour, Jib. Demerara sugar, Jib. minced mixed peel, Jib. sweet almonds, ground, Jib.' shelled and ground Brazil nuts, Jib. ground pine kernels, Jib. glace cherries, Jib. warmed butter, six eggs, juice and rind of three lemons, about eight bitter almonds, finely ground, mixed thoroughly, and steam in a buttered mould six hours. Gateaux et Patisserie (Cakes and Pastries). Abricotine—Brioche cake with dice of preserved A I apricots, served with apricot syrup. Aloxa—Genoise cake containing honey, and iced with honey fondant and decorated. Anglais—Is a plum cake : lib. sugar, eight eggs, lib. flour, lib. warmed butter, Jib. currants, Jib. citron, finely shredded, and a glass of rum. Baba—lib. flour, a little yeast, Jib. butter, 2oz. sugar, eight eggs. Jib. dried fruit. Barcelonnette—Jib. sugar, three yolks of eggs, Jib. pounded almonds with two eggs, Jib. flour and eight whipped whites of eggs, rum icing over. Baton de Jacob—Are eclairs. Biscuits de Reims—lib. sugar with ten eggs (slightly warmed), lib. flour, and a little carbonate of soda. G G450 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Biscuits de Savoie—lib. sugar with fourteen yolks and two eggs, fib. flour, fourteen whipped whites of eggs, baked in warmed moulds. Breton—lib. sugar and sixteen eggs, lib. flour, fib. warmed butter, baked in Breton moulds, three- coloured butter icing. Brioche—lib. flour, a little yeast, fib. butter, 3oz. sugar, six eggs. Calvados—21b. flour, fib. sugar, fib. butter, fib. angelica, six eggs, cinnamon flavour, baked in flan rings, iced. Caprice—Tartlets filled with a mixture of fib. ground almonds, fib. sugar, 2oz. flour, 2oz. chopped citron, and four whipped whites of eggs. Champigny—As Dartois with apricot marmalade filling. Chateaubriand—lib. flour, fib. sugar, fib. ground almonds, fib. butter, six eggs baked in rings, iced together with apricot sauce reduced, served with Chantilly cream. Compiegne—A brioche paste made pound to pound ingredients and sixteen eggs, vanilla syrup. Compostella—fib. of almonds pounded with six eggs, lib. sugar, fib. flour, fib. butter, fib. angelica added, baked in flan rings. Conversation—Almond tartlet, iced and decorated lattice fashion. Copeaux—lib. ground almonds, If lb. sugar, fib. flour, eight whipped whites and a little cream, baked finger shape; when hot, twisted corkscrew shape.Entremets (Sweets). 451 Cyrano—Genoise cake cut cushion shape, filled with kirscli cream, iced and decorated. D'Amandes — Pithivier cake or Jewish almond cake. Dartois—Strips of puff paste, almond cream or jam filling, scored on top and baked. Darty—Grenoise cake, chestnut cream filling, mara- schino icing, decorated. De Nantes—21b. flour, lib. sugar to a cream, add 41b. ground almonds, fib. chopped dried fruit, six eggs, pralines over and baked in strips. Duchesse—lib. of almonds pounded with eight eggs, lib. sugar with twelve yolks, mix and add fib. shredded citron and maraschino. Eclair—Sweet pate a clioux, finger shape, baked, filled with Chantilly cream and iced coffee, chocolate, or vanilla. Eugenie — Biscuit mixture baked in tartlet tins, abricotes and curacao icing over. Fanchonnette—Tartlet tins lined with short paste, red currant jelly in base, dome of meringue mixture over, and baked, decorated with thread of red currant jelly. Fondant — lib. sugar beaten with twelve eggs, add fib. flour, fib. almonds, fib. warmed butter. Frascati—fib sugar beaten with six eggs and three yolks, add fib. flour, fib. chopped crystallised fruit, fib. warmed butter, baked in savarin mould, abricotes. Galicien—Genoise cake filled with pistachio cream, abricotes, pistachios over. g g 2452 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Genoiee—lib. sugar beaten -with sixteen eggs ; when creamy, add lib. of sieved flour and lib. of warmed butter, flavour and bake. Hortensia—Gfenoise cake cut large lozenge shape, abricotes and iced white, piped lozenges, apricot jam and red currant jelly in each lozenge. Lecrelet Suisse — -|lb. honey dissolved with ^lb. shredded almonds, little powdered allspice, nut- meg, and lemon rind, well mixed, and add 6oz. icing sugar, a glass of kirsch and orange- flower water, 6oz. of mixed orange, lemon, and citron peel, mixed well over fire, loz. of dissolved carbonate of potash, 14oz. of flour, stir over fire four minutes longer, cover and place in cool place for three days, roll on slab fin. thick, brush over with water and mark oblong with knife, bake in moderate oven; when nearly cooked, brush over with thin icing, and finish baking. Jalousies—As Conde, abricotes, gros sucre over. Langue de Chat—lib. sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a few drops of milk, lib. sifted flour, 4oz. warmed butter, ten whipped whites, piped finger shape, and baked. Le Nelson—lib. ground almonds with sixteen eggs, lib. sugar, vanilla and rum, baked in lined flan rings, meringued over and baked, decorated. Madeleine—41b. sugar beaten with six eggs, add ■|lb. flour, 41b. warmed butter, orangeflower water, six whipped whites of eggs, baked in madeleine moulds, iced pink and white.Entremets (Sweets). 453 Manon—Gfenoise cake filled with pistachios cream; when cold, iced with pistachios butter icing. Manque—1 Jib. sugar beaten with sixteen yolks, then add lib. flour, Jib. warmed butter, eighteen whipped whites ; bake ; when cold, pralines. Marguerites—Apple tartlets masked with meringue mixture, baked, and decorated with pistachios to imitate a marguerite. Mars—Flan rings lined with sweet paste, almond cream inside, meringued over and baked, decorated. Mazarin — Light savarin paste with salpicon of fruit, baked, basted with vanilla syrup, and abricotes. Milanais—lib. sugar beaten with ten eggs, add Jib. flour, Jib. warmed butter, anisette flavour, and baked. Millefeuille—Puff paste (feuilletage) twelve turns, baked in circles ; when cold, abricotes and built in column with apricot jam and red currant jelly between each circle, abricotes and decorated Chantilly cream inside, or baked in strips as dartois. Montmorency—Brioche with dried cherries, basted cherry and kirsch syrup. Mussick—Baba paste with shredded almonds (no fruit) basted with cura9ao and noyau and syrup and butter mixed. Napolitain—21b. flour, 1 Jib. butter, 1 Jib. sugar, ljlb. ground almonds baked in circles; when cold, abricote and built in column, decorated.454 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Norvegien—Jib, sugar beaten with eight eggs, then add fib. of filberts pounded with two eggs, Jib. warmed butter, baked in Genoise mould, pralines. Palais cle Dame—lib. butter beaten with eight eggs, 11b. sugar, lib. flour, rum. Patience—Nine whites of eggs beaten with lib. sugar, add lib. flour and baked finger shape, twisted, whilst hot, corkscrew shape. Petits Polonais—Square of puff paste, corners folded to centre, egged and baked, garnished with red currant jelly. Polonais—lib. almonds pounded with orangeflower water, add lib. sugar, sixteen yolks, lib. flour and sixteen whipped whites, vanilla icing. Pompadour—Genoise cake filled with apricot jam and pralines. Prince de Galles—Flan filled with almond cream, baked, and decorated with Chantilly cream, Prince of Wales’s feathers. Quillet—Genoise cake filled with almond cream masked with Chantilly cream, decorated. Beligieuse—Dartois with puree of apple filling, red currant jelly icing. Ricliebourg—Jib. of almonds pounded with ten whites, lib. sugar, Jib. warmed butter, kirsch and angelica, baked in lined flan rings, apricot and vanilla icing. Richelieu—lib. sugar beaten with sixteen yolks, fib. ground almonds, fib. flour, sixteen whipped whites, baked; when cold, masked with vanilla icing.455 Entremets (Sweets). Sramois—lib. butter beaten with eight eggs, lib. sugar, twenty-four yolks, lib. flour, lib. ground almonds, 11b. chopped dried fruit, twenty-four whipped whites, baked ; when cold, masked with orange icing. Sicillien—lib. sugar beaten with eight eggs and eight yolks, Jib. flour, 11b. warmed butter^ almond flavour and maraschino; bake; when cold, masked with maraschino icing. Solferino—Baba paste baked in Solferino mould, basted with kirsch syrup, abricotes, cream icing over. Suedois—lib. of icing sugar with four whites, 21b. of shredded almonds, 4oz. fecule (potato flour), and baked. Sweet Sandwiches—A paste made of pounded prunes or figs, and clnypped peanuts, dates, almonds, and cream, or any fruit or nuts desired, spread on thin layers of sweet bread or Grenoise cake rolled, Swiss roll fashion, pressed and cut in slices. Teheran—Jib. of butter beaten with lib. of sugar, then Jib. of grated cocoanut, eight whipped whites of eggs, baked in lined flan rings; when cold, iced and decorated. Tetrazzini—G-cnoise made with chocolate and sweetened with honey, as Swiss roll, filled with Chantilly cream, iced and decorated. Trois Freres—lib. sugar beaten with sixteen eggs, then add lib. sifted flour, fib. warmed butter; bake ; when cold, pralines.456 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Viennois—Biscuit mixture with chocolate powder, baked in five different size rings; when cold, abricotes, dressed pyramid style, and iced. Vivienne—Genoise cake, abricotes, dome of Italian meringue over, vanilla fondant icing, decorated. Icing for Cakes. Royal icing, or Glace Royale, is composed of icing sugar blended with whites of eggs and a drop of acetic acid beaten with a wooden spoon to form a thick frothy cream; butter icing is made with icing sugar, fresh butter, and a few yolks of eggs beaten to a cream. Chocolate Icing — Powdered chocolate and syrup cooked to required degree and used whilst hot. Coffee Icing is butter icing in which essence of coffee is added. Fondant—Sufficient lump sugar is moistened with sufficient water to cover and allowed to boil to the crack degree, flavoured and poured on an oiled slab, stirred with a spatula till creamy and cold. Heureka Icing is made with a pound of lump sugar moistened with a little cold water and boiled to the crack degree, then poured over three whipped whites of eggs slowly till mixed, used instantly, as it will set in a very few minutes. Water Icing—A quantity of icing sugar is moistened with a little cold water, and essence to flavour, and beaten till creamy. Anv of the above icings can be coloured and %j O flavoured according to requirements.457 Glaces (Ices). GLACES (Ices). Ice-making has developed into quite an art, and pretty varieties of fancy, dessert, and other ices are included in the following named ices: Bouibes, biscuits glaces, souffle ices, coupes, sorbets, spooms, granits, parfaits, etc. The bombe is composed of two or more different kinds of ice; an endless variety can be produced by amalgamating various colours, and served either in bombe shape or in pretty cases of paper or sweet paste for the purpose,, producing an attractive effect. They are also served with hot sauce, which is quite a novel idea. Bombes. A boukir—Pistachios cream ice lining the mould, and vanilla ice and pralines inside. Africaine—Vanilla ice bombe ; when turned out, powdered with line grated chocolate. Africaine I.—Chocolate ice with apricot mousse inside. Aida—Pineapple ice and strawberry cream ice. Aiglon—Strawberry cream ice with salpicon of fruit and cognac. Alaska—Vanilla ice moulded, and masked with meringue mixture and salamandered. Albufera—Vanilla ice and chestnut and anisette ice. Alexandra—Vanilla ice and creme de noyau. Alexandroivitch — Orange ice and strawberry and champagne ice.458 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Algerienne—Orange ice and cura9ao. Alhambra—Half vanilla ice and half strawberry ice, i 7 fresh strawberry garnish. Almeria—Lining of filbert and anisette ice, pome- granate ice inside. Americaine I.—Fresh strawberry and orange ice. Americaine II.—Lining of mandarine ice and straw- berry mousse. Americaine III.—Cranberry cream ice. Andalouse—Apricot ice lining, vanilla cream inside. Antigone—Apricot ice lining, Russian mousse with pralines and angelica inside. Arabe—Coffee cream ice lining, rum mousse inside. Archiduc—Almond ice lining, strawberry ice inside. Arlesienne— Lemon and raspberry ice lining, kirscli mousse with dice of pineapple inside. Bar-le-Duc—Red currant ice and vanilla ice. Baron Pierre de Saucy—Rich orange cream ice with salpicon of crystallised apricot and can-died citron, the bombe decorated with citron and glace orange quarters. Batavia—Pineapple ice and strawberry mousse with preserved ginger. Beatrice—lib. of honey dissolved in a pint of warm milk, two glasses of cognac, juice of a lemon, one quart of cream. Bombe Cocoanut—Four sheets of gelatine dissolved in half a pint of milk; when cold, add two table- spoonfuls of finely grated cocoanut, the juice of two oranges, and a pint of whipped cream. Bonne Nuit—Vanilla ice moulded in candle shapes, served upright on chocolate ice moulded inGlaces (Ices). 459 candlestick shapes, a lighted special wax match in each to imitate the wick. Bordelciisc—A pint of good Bordeaux claret and a pint of syrup, the juice of three oranges, and freeze. Bourdaline—Vanilla ice lining, anisette and filbert ice inside, decorated with crystallised violets. Bresilienne—Strawberry and pineapple ice with dice of pineapple. Cctmargo—Coffee cream ice lining, vanilla ice inside. Cantalone—Melon ice. Caprice—Pineapple ice lining, peach mousse inside. Cardinale—Raspberry ice and vanilla ice. Carmen—Strawberry ice, coffee ice, and vanilla ice. Ceylon—Coffee ice cream lining, tea and rum mousse inside. Chateaubriand I. — Kirsch mousse with muscat macerated in kirsch and dice of angelica. Chateaubriand II.— Apricot ice lining, vanilla ice inside. Chesterfield—Rich cream and cognac mousse with crystallised fruit. Chinoise—Cream ice with dice of preserved ginger, tea flavour. Clarence—Pineapple ice and crystallised violets. Cleopatra—Pistachios cream ice and rum sorbet. Coloniale—Small fancy tutti-frutti ice bombes. Comtesse Marie — Vanilla ice lining, strawberry mousse inside. Continentale—Coffee and vanilla ices. Coppelie—Coffee cream ice lining, pralines, ice in centre.460 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Courcelles — Vanilla ice lining, orange mousse in centre. Creme Bisque—l|lb. sugar dissolved in a pint of milk; when cold, add two quarts of cream, fib. of crumbed macaroons with half a pint of maraschino, one gill of sherry, a tint of saffron. Creme de Poire—Equal quantity of sweetened pear pulp and whipped cream, lemon flavour, and cinnamon. Creme Ponche—2oz. of gelatine dissolved in half a pint of water, lib. of sugar and one pint of milk ; when cold, add one quart of cream, half a pint of rum, and a little caramel colour. Creme Pralinees—To one quart of cream add 4oz. of powdered almond pralin, a little caramel, vanilla flavour, and half a cup of coffee extract, syrup to sweeten. Creole—Chocolate and pralines ice. Cydonia — Quince ice decorated with Chantilly cream. Cyrano—Apricot ice lining, filbert mousse inside, sugar-coated filberts round. Czar—Raspberry ice lining, orange and champagne mousse inside. Dame Blanche—Ice made of almond, milk, cream, and syrup. Danicheff-—Coffee cream ice with kirsch. Delicieuse — Peach ice lining, mousse pralines inside. Demidojf-—Cherry ice and pineaple ice, salpicon of fruit.461 Glaces (Ices). Dcable Rose — Strawberry ice with kirsch and crystallised cherries. Dij onnaise—Vanilla ice lining, black currant, mousse inside, Chantilly cream. Diplomate—Vanilla ice lining, maraschino mousse with fruit inside. Doctoresse—Strawberry cream ice lining, pineapple and champagne ice inside. Dora—Pineapple ice with kirsch and red currant ice, Chantilly cream. Duchesse—Orange ice and kirsch. Dulmacia —fib. sugar dissolved in a pint of milk, five glasses of curacao, and juice of two lemons, one quart of cream. Edouard VII.—Chocolate cream ice and crystallised cherries. Egyptienne—Tangerines and curacao ice. Electra—Pralines ice lining, mousse of chestnut and maraschino inside. Espagnole —Pralines and coffee ice. Esperance—Mandarine ice lining, cherry ice inside, pistachios over. Excellente—Pear ice lining, coffee ice inside. Excelsior—Orange cream and rum ice. Falstaff—Lemon and apricot ice. Fanclion—Pralines ice lining, coffee and kirsch mousse inside. Favorite—Vanilla ice, pineapple ice, strawberry ice. Fedora I.—Peach and noyau ice. Fedora II.—Orange ice lining, pralines ice inside. Figaro—Strawberry ice with kirsch, crystallised cherries round.The New Practical Coolcery Guide. 462 Florentine—Raspberry ice and pralines. Formosa—Strawberry cream ice and strawberry sorbet. Francillon—Coffee cream ice and fine champagne (old cognac). Franco-Busse—Kiimmel ice lining, pineapple mousse inside. Frou-frou—Caramel cream ice, orange mousse, and vanilla ice. Gaston—i|rlb. powdered macaroons, half a pint of of sherry, lib. sugar dissolved in one quart of cream ; when cold, add a quart of cream. Genevieve—Apricot ice lining, coffee mousse inside. Georgette—Pineapple and cream, pralines ice. Germaine—Vanilla ice lining, pear mousse and dice inside. Gismonda—Pralines ice lining, white currant and anisette ice inside. Havanaise—Coffee ice, vanilla ice, caramel cream ice. Hr Vene—Small cream ice bombe or cases, crystallised violets over, served with hot chocolate sauce. Helyett—Raspberry ice lining, vanilla ice inside. Hilda—Pistachios and aveline cream ices. Hiram—Small fancy raspberry cream bombes and creme noyeau. Hollandaise —Vanilla ice lining, curacao mousse inside. Hortensia—Lemon ice and strawberry cream ice. Isabella—Cherry ice, red currant mousse. Isabelle—l|lb. of sugar dissolved in three pints of milk; when cold, add two quarts of cream,463 Glaces (Ices). half a pint of maraschino, Hlb. of chopped cherries, apricots, and peaches. Italienne—Lemon ice and tutti-frutti ice. Jaffa—Orange and pralines ice. Jamaique—Vanilla ice, lemon sorbet, and rum. Japonnaise—Peach ice and tea mousse. Jeanne d’Arc—Pear ice, kirsch mousse, cherries and pears decoration. Jeannette—Pralines and curacao ice. i Josephine—Coffee cream ice, pistachios cream ice. Leperdib—Coffee cream ice with dice of dried Gfenoise pralines. Le Prophete—Strawberry ice, pineapple sorbet. Liverpool—Vanilla ice, cherry brandy mousse with bran died cherries. Madeleine—Vanilla ice and almond milk and flavoury kirsch mousse with crystallised fruit. Maltaise—Tangerines ice, vanilla ice with kirsch. Marechale — Strawberry ice, pistachios cream ice,, vanilla ice, and orange ice in layers in bombe mould. Marie Brissard—Coflee cream ice lining, vanilla and anisette inside. Marie Louise—Raspberry ice lining, vanilla cream inside. Marie Stuart—Vanilla ice lining, anisette mousse mside. Marie Therese—Chocolate ice, vanilla ice, pineapple ice. Margot—Mandarines and green chartreuse mousse, pistachios over. Marguerite — Lemon and kirsch ice, maraschino mousse.The New Practical Cookery Guide. 464? Marquise—Half strawberry ice, half lemon ice. Marquise au Champagne — Lemon and pineapple sorbet with champagne and dice of pineapple. Mascotte I.—Half chocolate ice cream, half vanilla ice. Mascotte II.—Half peach cream ice and half kirsch mousse. Mathilda—Coffee cream ice lining, apricot ice inside. Medicis—Raspberry ice lining, brandy mousse with crystallised fruit. Mercedes — Apricot ice lining, chartreuse mousse inside. Mexicaine—Pralines ice with kirsch. Michel Strogoff-—Peach and champagne ice. Mignon—Apricot and aveline ice. Milanaise—Vanilla ice with shredded dried almonds, stoned muscat and preserved strawberries, piped Chantilly cream over to imitate spaghetti. Mintha—Cream ice with crystallised mint leaves. Mogador—Coffee cream ice, kirsch mousse. Moldane—Pineapple ice, cura9ao mousse. Monselet—Chocolate ice, anisette mousse. Montebello—Pistachios and chartreuse lining, vanilla ice inside. Monte Carlo—Raspberry ice and lemon ice. Monte Cristo—Strawberry ice, pralines and cognac- ice inside. Montmorency—Cherries and curacao ice. Moscovite—Kiimmel cream ice with crystallised fruit. Mousse au The—Tea mousse done in brick mould (Napolitain). Mousseline—Strawberry cream ice, Chantilly cream over.465 Glaces (Ices). Murillo—Pralines ice lining, pineapple and cham- pagne inside, decorated. Nabob—Pralines ice and brandy mousse with candied %/ fruit. Nelusko—Chocolate ice, pralines ice, sucre file over to decorate. Nero— Half vanilla ice with caramel flavour and half vanilla ice with small balls of soft chocolate, served in layers on fond of G-enoise, masked with Italian meringue mixture and sala- O mandered. Neva—Pear ice lining and creme ponche inside. New York—Place a layer of almond ice cream in a Napolitain mould, arrange fresh raspberries round sides, then a layer of chestnut cream ice flavoured with curacao and another layer of almond ice cream on top with additional fresh raspberries, cover lightly and pack in ice (usual way); when ready to serve, cut in slices and decorate with Chantilly cream and glaces cherries and angelica. Odessa—Apricot ice lining, strawberry ice inside. Odette—Pralines ice decorated with pink Chantilly cream. Orientate I.—Half coffee ice and half vanilla ice, pineapple mousse. Orientate II.—Gfinger ice lining, pistachios cream ice inside. Panachee—Various coloured ices in layers in bombe mould. Parfait de Rose—Rose flavour and colour iced souffle, crystallised rose leaves over. H H466 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Parisienne I.—Pineapple ice lining, chocolate mousse inside. Parisienne II.—Fed currant ice and lemon ice. Parisienne III. — Pineapple ice lining, chestnut mousse with marron glace inside, decorate with marron glace and pineapple. Petit Due I.—Vanilla ice and red currant ice. Petit Due II.—Strawberry ice lining, kirsch mousse inside : decorate with strawberries and angelica. Pomeloe—Grape fruit ice. Pompadour—Pomegranate ice and pistachios ice, moulded in asparagus shape moulds. Portugaise—Cura5ao cream ice lining, mandarine mousse inside. Prince de Galles—Fresh strawberry cream ice served in wafer cases, Prince of Wales’s feathers of Chantilly cream on top. Princesse—Vanilla ice, anisette and pralines ice. Progres—Orange ice, plombicre ice with rum, vanilla cream on top, served in nougat or sugar cases. Prophete—Strawberry ice lining, pineapple ice inside. Regente—Vanilla cream ice, and biscuits and kirsch. Reine Amelia—fib. sugar dissolved in one pint of milk; when cold, add one quart of cream, five glasses of maraschino, the juice of two lemons, and a tint of saffron. Reine Bianca—loz. of gelatine dissolved in one pint and a half of milk, Jib. of sugar, and four glasses of noyau, one quart of cream, and juice of two lemons. Richelieu—Coffee ice lining, rum mousse inside. Romeo—Vanilla and puree of peaches ice, rum mousse.467 Glaces (Ices). Rose Blanche—Peach ice lining, kirsch mousse and red currant jelly inside. Rosette—Vanilla cream ice served in rose shape moulds, pink Chantilly cream over as a rosette. Royale—Kirsch cream ice and chocola.te pralines ice. St. Charles—Raspberry ice lining, peach cream ice inside. St. Georges—Orange, curacao, and rum ices. St. Lorent—Raspberry ice lining, melon ice inside, Chantilly cream over. St. Louis—Banana cream ice with kirsch. Salame—Vanilla ice lining, cassis mousse inside. Sans Gene—Pistachios cream ice, fine champagne (old brandy) mousse. Santagio I.—Parfait pralines (ice souffle mixture). Santagio II.—Vanilla and rum mouse. Selika—Pralines ice lining, curacao mousse inside. Siamoise—Hazel nut ice cream, rum mousse, chopped hazel nuts over. Sicillia—Mandarine ice lining, filberts, pralines ice inside. Sicillienne—Pineapple and curacao mousse inside. Siehel—Pineapple and champagne ice. Skobeleff—Vodka cream ice lining, kummel mousse inside. Solferino — Cura9ao cream ice, strawberry and pralines inside. Souveraine—Vanilla cream ice lining, tea mousse with kirsch and biscuits inside. Succes I.—Apricot ice, kirsch mousse with crystallised apricot inside. Succes II.—Pear ice lining, coffee cream ice inside. H H 2The New Practical CooJcdry Guide. 468 Suedoise—Filbert pralines lining, chocolate mousse inside. Sultane—Pistachios cream ice, chocolate ice, vanilla cream ice. Suzane—Vanilla ice and red currants, rum mousse. Theba—Cocoa cream ice and aveline pralines. Theodora—Vanilla cream ice and noyau mousse. Tortini I.—Strawberry cream ice and kirsch mousse Tortini II. —Pralines and coffee ice. Tosca—Apricot ice and maraschino. T> 'ianon—Vanilla ice lining, Burgundy wine ice inside, decorated with white and black grapes, glace au caramel. Trocadero—Orange ice with candied orange peel, with layers of Chantilly cream with curacao, and pieces of biscuits, filbert praline. Tutti-frutti—Fruit water ice and salpicon of fruit. Tzarina—Vanilla cream ice kiimmel, crystallised violets on top. Valancey—Pralines ice lining, raspberry cream inside. Venitienne—Pistachios cream ice and vanilla ice. Victoria—Puree of fresh strawberry and cream ice. Viennoise—Vanilla cream and caramel ice. Vivienne—Lemon ice and tea mousse. Volya—Rhubarb cream ice. Voltaire—Coffee cream ice and cognac. Xeres—fib. sugar dissolved in half a pint of milk, one quart of cream, half a pint of Xeres wine (sherry), and vanilla flavour. Zamora—Coffee ice lining, curacao mousse inside. Zanzibar—Cura9ao cream ice, praline ices, coffee ice.daces (Ices). 469 Biscuits Glaces. This rich cream ice is placed in square brick-shape moulds (Napolitain mould), and packed in ice and salt for several hours; then cut biscuit shape, decorated, and served as Napolitain ices. No. 1 Mixture.—To lib. of fine sugar add fifteen yolks of eggs, a cupful of milk, and vanilla, beaten in bainmarie till thick and creamy, then stirred on ice till cold, and add to it two quarts of whipped cream and flavour required; placed in moulds as stated above, and packed in ice. No. 2 Mixture.—41b. of Italian meringue mixture and twelve yolks of eggs, beaten in bainmarie till creamy, stired till cold, and add one pint of whipped cream and flavour required. Benedictine—With Benedictine flavour and straw- berry pulp. Brissard—With praline and anisette flavour. Carmen — Strawberry pulp, coffee, vanilla (three colours). Comtesse-—Two colours, coffee and vanilla. Comtesse Marie—Strawberry and vanilla. Comtesse Tosca—Vanilla and coffee. Fedora—Peach puree and noyau. Lilly—With pomegranate, and lily of the valley piped in cream over. Marie Louise—Vanilla, strawberry and orange. Pernot—With absinthe to flavour. Sarah—With puree of strawberries.470 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Souffles Graces (Iced Souffle). The iced souffle mixture is done in special cases of China paper, etc., and placed in an ice case, well packed with crushed ice and salt. No. 1 Mixture for Fruit Iced Souffle.—Use equal quantity of Italian meringue mixture, puree of fruit, and whipped cream. No. 2 Mixture for Liqueur and other Souffle.— Sixteen yolks of eggs to one pint of syrup beaten in bainmarie till creamy; when cold, add one quart of whipped cream, liqueur or other flavouring as required. Fancy Ices and Sorbets. A great variety of iced souffles is obtained by using different flavouring and fruit puree, and named accordingly, as required. A pretty variety of fancy ices, served with hot sauce, is generally served either in bombe moulds, small for one person or in larger moulds for a party, and sauce separate: Cherry Ice is served with violet syrup. Coffee Ice, with cognac or rum sauce. Coffee Ice, with crystallised mint syrup. Cream Grape Fruit Ice, with honey syrup. Cream Ice, with red currant sauce. Grape Ice, with port wine syrup. Lemon Ice, with creme de mentlie syrup. Peach Lee, with maraschino sauce. Pineapple, with green tea sauce. Pink Ice, rose shaped, with violet syrup.471 Glaces (Ices). Pistachios Ice, with chocolate sauce. Pralines Ice, with caramel cream sauce. Raspberry Ice, with pineapple sauce. Tea Ice, with kiimmel or vanilla sauce. Vanilla Ice, with strawberry sauce or orange sauce. Sorbets. Sorbet is a fruit water ice, mixed with a small quantity of whipped whites of eggs, and served in sorbet glasses. Americain—Lemon, orange, and champagne ice. Cardinal—Raspberry and champagne ice. Grecque—Orange, brandy, maraschino, and ginger flavour. t Imperiale—Pineapple and rum ice in bottom of glass, strawberry and champagne ice on top. Nina—Stmwberry and orange ice, a fresh straw- berry on top. Reine de Castille—Orange and pineapple ice, cognac flavour, a star of Chantilly cream on top. Romaine—Lemon and rum ice. Russe—Green tea, lemon, and kiimmel. St. Charles—Cherry ice with cherry brandy. Sicillienne—Melon and maraschino ice. Yvette—Pomelo (grape fruit) ice with creme Yvette liqueur. Spooms. Spoom is a sorbet of fruit or liqueur, wine, etc., made with double the quantity of Italian meringue mixture to obtain a very light and frothy ice, served in glasses.472 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Coupes are served in special glasses and are composed of either water or cream ices, with salpicon of fruit, etc., and decorated. Alexandra—Puree of fresh strawberry ice, a star of %/ Chantilly cream over, and crystallised violets. Cloclo—Vanilla ice with dice of candied chestnuts, a candied chestnut (marron glace) on top, a thread of Chantilly cream round. Dame Blanche—Almond milk ice, half a peach on top, and a thread of red currant jelly round. D’Antigny—Strawberry cream ice, half a peaceh on top, and spun sugar. Denise—Coffee ice with Chantilly cream on top. Edna May—Vanilla ice, a cherry on top, and pink Chantilly cream. Elizabeth—Stewed cherries in coupe, iced Chantilly cream over, and a little powdered cinnamon. Emma Culver—Vanilla pralines ice, a cherry on top, and raspberry syrup. Eugenie—Vanilla ice with salpicon of candied chest- nuts, Chantilly cream and crystallised violets on top. Favorite—Half kirsch and maraschino ice, pineapple ice round edge, pink Chantilly cream in centre. Germaine—Cranberry ice and a small crystallised pear on top, Chantilly cream round. Gertie Millcir—Kicli maraschino cream ice, half apricot on top, with red currant jelly, star of chocolate, Chantilly cream, and pistachios over.473 Glaces (Ices). Jacques—Macedoine of fruit with liqueur in coupe, lemon and champagne ice over. Johannesburg—Vanilla ice, rock shaped, grated chocolate on top. Maison Blanche — Strawberries and liqueur in coupe, strawberry water ice over, small stars of Chantilly cream on top. Mikaclo—Chestnut cream ice, tea Chantilly cream round edge, a candied chestnut scooped in centre, hot brandy in cavity, ignited. Monte Carlo—Raspberry and lemon ice, crystallised rose leaves on top. Petit D uc—Vanilla cream, iced, half a peach on top filled with red currant jelly, Chantilly cream round. Ravanalo—Vanilla cream ice, thick chocolate sauce, lattice fashion, over. Reve de Bebe—Half pineapple and half raspberry ice, a strawberry and orange juice over, Chantilly cream round and crystallised violets. St. Andre—Macedoine of pears, peaches, bananas, pineapple, and oranges in coupes, vanilla ice on top. Sans Gene—Vanilla cream ice, stewed red currants on top and cream. Stephanie—Mandarines and pineapple ice, Chantilly cream and pistachois over. Suedoise—Vanilla ice, cranberry syrup over and a star of Chantilly cream. Venus—Vanilla ice, half a peach and cherries on top, Chantilly cream round. Vesuvienne—Vanilla ice, half crystallised green lime on top, hot rum in the cavity, and ignited.474 The Neiv Practical Cookery Guide. Viennoise—Vanilla ice, stewed blackberries over, and Chantilly cream. Voltaire—Orange sorbet with Italian meringue and maraschino, sliced peaches over, and a cherry. Petits Fours Secs et G-laces. Also called Friandises, Mignardises, Gourmandises, Plaisir des Dames, usually served in fancy paper cases. Almond Biscuit is made of fib. finely ground almonds, fib. finely ground hazel nuts, fib. fine sugar mixed with ten whisked whites of eggs, 6oz. of pastry flour, 6oz. of warmed butter, and baked round, oval, or any fancy shape required. Almond Paste or Shells—Made with fib. ground almonds, fib. fine sugar, and eight whisked whites of eggs, and baked any shape required, embedded with various preparations and iced as described, forms a great element in petits fours. Disguised Fruit Petits Fours are various crystallised fruits filled with almond or marzipan paste of different flavour and colour to match the particular fruit used, and masked with clear sugar coating, sucre au casse. Fresh Fruit, such as grapes, quarters of oranges, strawberries, raspberries, cherries, etc., are also masked with clear sugar coating (sucre au casse) or with fondant plain or coloured, so that an endless variety of these (ladies’ delight) can be prepared as desired. Fruits Glaces (Crystallised Fruit) make a pleasant assortment in general petits fours; they are first macerated in kirsch or other liqueurs, andGlaces (Ices). 475 masked with fondant icing’— plain, white, or coloured—and served in special paper cases. Genoise for Petits Fours is a compound of eighteen eggs to the pound of sugar, flour, and butter, and baked in fancy moulds or tartlets or in blocks about an inch or an inch and a half ; when cold, embedded with creams, jellies, marmalade, fine salpicons of fruit, etc., cut into all possible fancy shapes, and masked with icing. Macaroons—lib. of ground almonds, 141b. fine sugar, five to six whites. Petits Biscuits Souffles au Chocolat — lib. of fine sugar mixed with ten whisked whites of eggs and ^lb. powdered chocolate, baked small finger biscuit shape or in fancy cases. Other Biscuits Souffles are made, substituting almonds, hazel nuts, pistachios, for chocolate, etc. Sucre Paille, or strawed sugar (pulled sugar petits fours). The sugar is boiled in the usual way for pulled sugar work and poured on an oiled slab; when sufficiently cold, it is worked with the hands and pulled until it attains great brilliancy ; then formed into several long strings and placed together to form one single tube; when quite cold and set, it is cut into about inch slices with a very hot knife. Petits Fours Glaces. Abdul—Small round biscuits coated with marmalade, then masked with rum fondant icing. Aida—Small round biscuits coated with butter icing, ring of meringue on top, iced, masked with coffee icing.476 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Alice—Small sweet paste bouches filled with salpicon of fruit, a round of Genoise over, fondant icing. Amandes — Triangle of puff paste masked with praline of coarse chopped almonds, and baked. Ameria—Fancy almond biscuits, sweet puree of cliesnut over, green icing and chopped pistachios on top. Americain—Small fancy almond paste shells filled with preserved chopped pineaj^ple, yellow liqueur icing over. Arlequin—Fancy almond biscuits with a pyramid of rose butter cream, masked with green icing. Bebe—Almond biscuits as finger biscuits, black- currant jelly filling, and iced white. Bruxellois—Petits choux, filled with pistachios cream, green icing. Cendrillon—Fancy biscuits, butter cream pralines between, vanilla icing. Comtesse—Small biscuits with chestnut puree be- tween, coffee iciug. Dalila—Fancy biscuits with a pyramid of curacao butter cream, rose icing over. Danicheff-—Almond Genoise baked in small fancy moulds, moistened with maraschino, vanilla icing, and a qherry on top. Delicats—Small round biscuits with a dome of butter cream, pink icing. Delices—Small almond Genoise rings and biscuits same size, with coffee cream between, chocolate icing over. Diane—Petits choux with apricot puree, rum fondant icing over.Glaces (Ices). 4 77 Exquis—Small almond paste tartlets filled with vanilla butter cream and chopped pistachios, chocolate icing. Gyp—Fancy biscuits with pistachios cream between, chocolate icing over. Indiana—Squares of almond Grenoise, abricote, masked with chocolate icing, and strips of glace royal over. Jaffa—Small sweet paste tartlets filled with creme patissiere mixed with salpicon of candied orange peel, orange icing over. Jamaique—Petits choux filled with rum cream, fondant icing, pistachios on top. Javanas—Rich Grenoise with chocolate fondant between, cut diamond shape, chocolate icing over. Jeannette—Small oval shape almond biscuits with pistachios butter between, fondant icing, chopped pistachios over. Luciana—Fancy biscuits with almond paste between, pistachios icing over. Magicien—Oval almond biscuits with coffee and pralines between, coffee icing and chopped hazel nuts over. Marguerite—Almond paste shells filled with chestnut butter icing and kirscli, yellow icing, marguerite piped over. Marie—Small sweet paste tartlets filled with apple marmalade, white icing and pistachios over. Mascotte—Coffee butter cream formed into balls and placed in small round almond biscuits, or piece of dried walnut over, coffee icing. Mathilde—Macaroons, abricotes, and masked with pralines icing.478 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Mauretania—Small fancy biscuits with chestnut cream mixed with fine chopped hazel nuts between, pink icing, piped lion rampant on top. Mignon—Small fancy cut almond Genoise with cocoa almond cream, coffee icing. Miss Helyett—Round biscuits with a dome of puree of chestnuts, rose icing. Muscadin—Chopped hazel nut mixed with choux paste, baked small pear shape, rose icing. Olga—Squares of almond biscuits, pink butter cream over,.white icing, half a crystallised mirabelle on top. Othello—Barquettes of rich almond biscuits, vanilla butter cream inside, and green icing on top. Ottero—Rich almond biscuits baked in fancy cases, pralines, pale violet icing over, and powdered chocolate on top. Pacha—Long strips of almond biscuits with a string of butter cream piped in centre, one string of pistachios butter one side and one of pink butter the other side ; when hardened, mask with choco- late ; when dry, cut in slices with heated knife. Patti—Oval biscuits with a piped rose of hazel nut butter icing, white fondant over, and chopped browned hazel nuts. Perichole—Strips of puff paste (feuilletage) with Chantilly cream between cut lozenge fashion, orange icing over. Piemontaise—Strips of Genoise with chestnut butter icing over, cut in squares, white fondant icing. Preferes—Rich baba paste baked in very small fancy tartlet tins, moistened with rum syrup; when cold, masked with rum fondant icing.Glaces (Ices). 479 Prima Cafe—Small rounds of G-enoise cake, scooped and filled with coffee cream, coffee fondant icing over. Regent—Fancy cut Genoise with a star of pineapple batter cream, pineapple fondant icing. Rossina—Half-moon shape almond biscuits, rasp- berry puree over, masked with raspberry icing. Salambo are very small petits choux a la creme, coated with clear sugar coating, coarse sugar over. Selika—Petits choux with chocolate cream filling, chocolate icing. Serpentine—Twisted almond biscuits masked with syrup of apple icing. Sigurd—Small round biscuits, pink butter cream between, white icing, a cherry on top. Soupir—Small round meringue shells filled with nut butter cream on a round iced biscuits. Succes—Barquettes of sweet paste filled with honey, pounded nuts, and butter cream, white icing over, pralines. Surprises—Small Italian meringue filled with butter cream, chocolate icing. Symiane—Two half-moon shape pieces of nougat, pralines cream between and over, glace cherry on top. Turino—A strip of almond Genoise masked with chestnut butter cream, cut triangle shape, green icing over. Yvette — A strip of almond biscuit masked with honey butter cream, cut fancy shape, coffee icing over.480 The New Practical Cookery Guide. Zejphirs—Almond paste baked in small fancy tart- lets, filled with stoned brandy cherries, white puree of apples over and chopjied pistachios. Petits Fours Secs. Anonymes—41b. butter beaten to a cream with 41b. fine sugar, eight eggs added gradually, then 2oz. of ground almonds, 2 oz. of currants, 41b. dry flour, and rum flavour, baked in fancy tartlet tins. Biarritz—|lb. of almonds, 41b. fine sugar pounded with a few whites of eggs to make a stiff paste, formed into large olive shape, with a fine salpicon of crystallised fruit inside, baked and gummed. Boulonnais—41b. fine sugar, 41b. pastry floor, 41b. warmed butter, |lb. currants, and flavouring: add sufficient whisked whites of eggs to form a paste, bake as biscuits. Cajntaine—lib. flour, 41b. butter, jib. sugar, and sufficient cream to make a stiff paste, rolled and cut in fancy strips, and bake. Cigarettes Russe—Eight whisked whites of eggs mixed with 14oz. of fine sugar, 5oz. of flour, 6oz. of warmed butter, vanilla, piped on waxed sheets, as finger circuits (a part) ; when lightly done, roll them round a pencil to imitate cigarettes. Cojyeattx—lib. ground almonds, l^lb. fine sugar mixed with a little cream, jib. of flour, and eight whisked whites of eggs; when lightly done, twist them quickly whilst warm round a steel, corkscrew fashion.Glaces (Ices). 481 Diplomate—Small puff paste (feuilletage) tartlets filled with cream patissicre mixed with crushed marrons glaces, cover with rounds of puff paste, pralines, and baked. Eugenie—Small barquette of puff paste filled with minced crystallised apricots, pralines, and baked. Intimes—Strips of sweet paste masked with almond cream, royal icing, and'chopped almonds over, cut in triangles and baked. Jamaique—Fancy sweet paste tartlets filled with almond cream and chopped orange peel, rum flavour, finely shredded almonds on top, and baked. Langue de Chat—lib. fine sugar beaten with four yolks of eggs and a little milk, lib. sifted flour and 6oz. of warmed butter, ten whisked whites of eggs, and baked finger biscuit shape. Lia—Puff paste tartlets filled with salpicon of pine- apple, a rose of almond paste over, and baked. Mignon—Small square tartlets lined with puff paste, filled with almond paste flavoured with coffee essence, royal icing, with coffee essence over and chopped almonds, and baked. Ninette—As Cigarettes Russe, Chantilly cream piped inside, and finely chopped pistachios at one end. Patience—41b. fine sugar, ^lb. pastry flour mixed with a little cream, vanilla, and eight whisked whites of eggs, dressed fancy sliaj^e on waxed sheets, and baked. Rockers—41b. fine sugar, eight whites of eggs, and the juice of a lemon, whisked on hot plate; i i482 The New Practical Cookery Guide. when creamy, add Jib. of shredded almonds, dressed small rocks fashion on oiled sheet, and baked. Rockers cm Chocolat — As above ; use chocolate powder instead of almonds. Sacristins—Wide strips of puff paste, egged and sprinkled with chopped almonds, cut across in Jin. strips, twisted corkscrew fashion, sugar over, and baked. t Sarah Bernhardt—Paste made of lib. of pastry flour and Jib. butter, a little sugar and milk to make a hard paste, rolled size of a pencil, egged, sugar over, and baked. Soleil de Nice—Paste made of Jib. of fine sugar, Jib. ground almonds, a little apricot pulp and whites of eggs to form a stiff paste, formed into good-sized marbles, and make an impression or hole in centre with a skewer, sprinkle coarse sugar over and bake; then fill centre with a little apricot pulp, and decorate round with sliced pistachios to imitate a marguerite. Strella—Small chocolate meringue, size of pigeon’s egg, chopped pistachios over, and baked. Van Dick—Paste made of lib. flour, Jib. butter, Jib. ground almonds, 3oz. fine sugar, two eggs, and a little cream to make a stiff paste, roll out and cut with fancy paste or biscuit cutters, egged, and baked.*0 -J •<! VI -3 Cornichons Bceuf fume 3 INDEX. Agourcis Amandes Salees Anchois: aux Capres de Norvege en Medaillion Paupiettes Nitjoise Salade Surprise Sauce piquante Anguille a la Nage Fnmee Mari nee Appetissant Suedois Arc hard s Artichaud a la Grecque ... Garnis Barquettes : de Concombre a la Tlievenot Danoise Beurre Frise ou paille Betterave: en Salade Farcie Marine e Bonne Bouche a la Rusee Avondale de Sardine Brissolette de Caviare 4 I I Pag e Canapes Moscovite: Admiral 4 Alberta 4 Arlequin 4 Capucine 5 Chan tec air 5 Danois 5 de Caviar moderne 5 de Harengs Russes 5 Lucille 5 Prince de Galles 5 Priutanier 5 Rochelais 5 Souvaroff 5 Turbigo 6 Turque 6 Carolines 6 Carrelets fume 6 1 Caviare 6 Celeri a la Grecque 6 Bonne Femme 6 Celerirave en Salade 6 Clam Americaine 6 Coeur de Poireaux a la Russe 0 Concombre a la Danoise... Cornet d’York Crabe Creme de Fromage Crevette a la Dorisa en Aspic 2 PART I.—HORS D’CEUVERS VARIES. Page 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3* 3 3 3 4 4 4Index. 484 Page Crevettes Grise 7 Rose 7 Croutes : a l’Espagnole 7 Burlington 8 de Sardines 8 Epicurienne 8 Indienne 8 Jeanne 8 Marie 8 Norvegienne 8 Rosamond e 8 Denise a la Danoise 8 a la Reine 9 Duchesse: a la Nantua 0 Reine 9 Russe 9 Sultane 9 Eclair Karoly 9 Eperlans marines 9 Escargots farcis 9 Esprot fume 9 Filet de.Hareng fume a la Bordelaise 9 Frivolites 9 Gallis 10 Gourillos 10 Grenouille a l’Aurore 10 Harengs : a la Russe 10 de Bis mark 10 Dieppoise 10 Fume 10 Livonien 10 Lucas 10 Marines 10 Remoulade 10 Sales fume 11 Saurs 11 Huitres: en Cocktail 11 Marinee 11 Page Jambon : de Brahenham 11 d’Espagne 11 de Strasbourg 11 de Westphalie 11 Fume 11 Karoli Ouida 11 Lamproie a l’huile 11 Langue de Renne fumee ... 11 Langue Fumee 11 Russe 11 Lax a la Doria 11 Fume a l’Huile 11 Maquereau a l’Huile 11 au Vin blanc 11 Fumee 11 Marine 11 Melon 12 Nids de Chartres 12 (Eufs de Pluvier : a la Christiana 12 Belle Vue 12 en Aspic 12 Moderne 12 (Eufs de Yanneaux 12 (Eufs farcis : al’Olea 12 Baroda 12 Dillon . 13 Olives : a. l'Alsacienne 13 a la Madras 13 Farcies 13 Tartare 13 Pain a la Franchise 13 Varsovienne 13 Paupiette a l’Allemande ... 13 d’Anchois Nit^oise 13 de Choux Yert 13 Pates de Foie Gras 14 Petite Caisse Cazanova ... 14 Poireau a la Grecque 14 Farcis 14bid ex. 485 Page Poitrine d’Oie fumee 14 Quartier de Tomate Ecos- saise 14 Radis 14 Noil- , 14 Rosette d’Ancliois 14 Rouget au Safran 14 Roy an 14 Bordelaise 14 Provencal e 15 Yatel 15 Salades: Bagration 15 Grande Duchesse 15 Russe 15 Suedoise 15 Sardines = a la Tomate 15 aux Fines Herbes 15 Bordelaise 16 Diablees 16 Fumee 16 Norvegienne 16 Ravigotte 16 Russe 16 Saucisson: de Bologne 16 Brunswick 16 Foie 16 Foie Gras 16 Frankfort 16 Gutto 16 d’ltalie 16 de Jambon 16 Lyon 16 Milan 16 Mortadelle 16 Perigord 16 Salami 16 Strasbourg 16 Fume 16 Parisien 16 Pas* Sylphite Yiennoise .. 16 Thon a l’Huile 16 a la Tomate 16 aux Fines Herbes 16 Bordelaise 16 Marine 16 Tomates Antiboise 16 Truite Marine Malakoffe... 16 Zakouskies 17 Savouries. Aigrettes au Parmesan .,. 17 Allumette 17 Angels on Horseback 17 Barquette 17 Chevreuse 17 Beignets Malakoff 17 Suisse 17 Beurreck Turque 18 Blinis 18 Brochette de Foie de Volaille 18 Oamembert frit 18 Canapes : Creme de Laitance 18 des Princes 18 Diane 18 Due de Norfolk 18 Gentilhomme 19 Gordon 19 Hollandaise 19 Imperial 19 Ivanhois 19 Julie 19 Juliette ...» 19 Lorenzo 19 Prince de Galles 19 ' Victoria I., II 19 Creme frite au Fromage... 20 „ Croutes Albert 20 aux Champignons 20 Baron 20 Clarisse 20Index. 486 Page Croutes Colonel 20 de Fromage 20 de Merluohe Mornay ... 20 d’York 20 Garrick 20 T. H. C 20 Diablotins 20 Eclair Palmerston 20 Fondant au Chester 21 Laitance de Cabillaud fume 21 Diablee 21 Ecossaise 21 en Surprise 21 Florentine 21 Jeannette 21 Maquereau fume 21 Meunieie 21 Sefton 21 Tzarine 21 Mousse de Camembert 22 Os a Moelle en Serviette... 22 Pailette d’Anchois 22 Paille au Parmesan 22 Pomme Dietrich 22 Georgette 22 Pouding au Fromage 22 Suisse 22 Ramequins 22 de Geneve 23 Pignatelli s 23 Suisse 23 Sardines: a la Colonel 23 f\ l’lndienne 23 en Surprise 23 Saumon fume 23 Scotoh Woodcock 23 Souffles 23 Souffle a la Suisse 24 au Jambon 24 Parmesan 24 d’Huitres 24 de Poisson 24 Souffle Florentine Page .... 24 Helder .... 24 Pignatelli . .. 24 Polouais .... 25 Talmouse .... 25 Tartelettes ; Agnes .... 25 Chasseur .... 25 Ecossaise ... 25 Florentine .... 25 Hongroise .... 26 Marquise 26 Piemontaise 26 Polonaise ... 26 Raglan .... 26 Sefton ... 26 Suisse . 26 Tosca .... 26 Vendome .. 26 Vatrouskis .... 27 Viniskis .... 27 Sandwiches. Aberdeen .... 27 Adelaide .... 27 Americaine .... 27 Andalouse .... 27 Berlinoise .... 27 Bookmaker .... 28 Caroline .... 28 Chasseur ... 28 Cheshire .... 28 Chicago .... 28 Couvent . .. 28 Delhi .... 28 Diane . .. 28 Ecossaise .... 28 Grand Due .... 28 Grand Ville .... 28 Hollandaise .... 28 Indienne .... 28 Infanta .... 29 Irlandaise .... 29487 Index. Page Isabelle 29 Italienne 29 Jockey Club 29 Mancelle 29 Mirabeau 29 Mogador 29 Monegasque 29 Monseigneur 29 Moscovite 29 Normande 29 Nuton 29 Orientale 29 Petit Due 29 Page Petite Princesse 30 Pompadour 30 Punjab 30 Rachel 30 Riquet 30 Rothomago 30 Russe 30 Sanita 30 Sicilienne 30 Suedoise 30 Turque 30 Tzarine 30 Victoria 30 PART II.—INSTRUCTION ON BOUILLON AND CONSOMME. Page Consomme de Volaille 33 de Gibier 34 de Poisson . 34 Bouillon de Sante 35 de Legume 35 Consommes: Africaine 35 Agnoletti 35 Aigo Saou 36 Ailerons 36 Albion I., II., Ill 36 Alexandra 36 Algerien 36 Allemande 36 Alsaeieene I., II 36 Arabassadeur 37 Ambassadrice 37 Amelia 37 Americain 37 Ancienne I., II 37 Andalouse I., II., III. ... 37 Argenteuil 38 Page Consommes—contd. Arlequin 38 Aulanier 38 Aurore 38 Australienne 38 Ayo Blanco 38 Bagration 38 Baron Brisse 38 Baronia 38 Baviere 38 Beigneuse 38 Belle Fermiere 38 Belle Gabrielle 38 Belleville 38 Berchoux I., II 39 Bergere 39 Berlinoise 39 Berny 39 Bizet 39 Bohemien 39 Bo'ildieu 39 Bonne Femme 39Ini ex. 488 Consommes—contd. Bonvalet Borscht Borschtock Bouchere Bouquetiere ...... Bourbon Bourdaloue Bourgeoise Braganza Bresilien Bretonjie Brieux Brillat Savarin... Brisse Britannia I., II. Brown Brunoise Busega Californie Camelia... Cancalais Capucine Cardinal Careme Carlton Carmelite Carmen Carnegie Caroline Castelane Page 39 39 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 41 41 41 41 41 41 41 41 41 41 41 42 42 42 42 42 43 42 Celestine I., II., III. .. .. 42 Chanceliere T.. TT .. 42 Chantilly .. 43 Charley . 43 Charolais . 43 Chartreuse I., II . 43 Chatelaine I., II .. 43 Chesterfield .. 43 Chevreuse .. 43 Chiffonade I., II . 43 Choiseul Choron 44 Chowder . 44 Consommes—contd. Page Christiana 44 Christophe Colomb 44 Clam 44 Clothilde 44 Cock-a-leekie 44 Colbert 44 Colombine 44 Colombo 44 Comma 44 Comtesse I., II 44 Courbet 45 Cowley 45 Crecy 45 Croute au Pot 45 Cucido 45 Cultivateur 45 Cussy 45 Cyrano 45 Dame Blanche 45 Danois 45 Dante 45 Darenberg 46 Daumont 46 Dauphine 46 de Faisan 46 Demidoff 46 Deslignac 46 des Quatres Saisons .... 46 Diablotin 46 Diane 46 Dietrich 46 Diplomate 46 Divette 46 Doctoresse 46 Don Carlos I., II 46 Don Miguel 47 Doria I., II 47 d’ Or lea ns 47 Douglas 47 Dubarry I., II 47 Dubourg 47 Due de York 47 Duft’erin 47Index. 489 Consommes—contd. Page Dumont 47 Durham 48 Duse 48 Ecossais 48 Elizabeth 48 En Tasse 48 Ephemeres 48 Epicurien 48 Epicurienne 48 Fanchonnette 48 Faasse Tortue 48 Favorite 48 Fermiere I., II 48 Filateur 49 Flamande 49 Flementine 49 Fleuri 49 Florador 49 Floreal 49 Florentine I., II 49 Fran9aise 49 Francillon * 49 Frankfortoise 49 Gallois 49 Garbure 49 Garibaldi 49 Gaulois 50 George Sand 50 Germaine .-. 50 Germinal 50 Girondine 50 Grande Duchesse 50 Grenade 50 Grenouille 50 Grimaldi 50 Henri IV 50 Herculeen 50 Hongroise 50 Huitres 51 Imperatrice 51 Imperial I., II 51 Indienne 51 Infanta 51 msommes—contd. Page Infante I., II .... 51 Irma 51 Italienne 51 Jacqueline ... 51 Jardiniere . . 51 Jenny Lind 51 Jockey Club 52 Johore 52 Joinville .. 52 Jouven^ale 52 Juanita 52 J udic 52 Julienne ..... 52 Juliette 52 Kale Brosse 52 Kali a 52 Kapriva 52 Kapustinak 52 Kisseleff 53 Kouscous .. . 53 Krupnick 53 Kursell 53 Lady Morgan 53 Laffite 53 Leberknodl ... 53 Leon XIII 53 Leopold . ... 53 Londonderry 53 Lord Maire 53 Lord Marcus 53 Lorette 53 Lyonnaise 54 Macdonald 54 Magenta 54 Maintenon 54 Maieon Doree . .. 54 Malesburg 54 Maltaise ... 54 Mancelle ... 54 Marguerite 54 Maria 54 Marly 54 Marigny ..... 54Index. 490 Consommes—contd. Page Marquise 54 Martiniere 55 Massena 55 Medicis 55 Megere 55 Mercedes 55 Messaline 55 Metternich 55 Meuniere 55 Mignon 55 Mikado 55 Milanais 55 Mimosa 55 Minestrone 56 Mireille 56 Mirette 56 Mogador 56 Moliere 56 Monaco 56 Moncelet 56 Monte Carlo 56 Monte Cristo 56 Montglas 56 Montmorency I., II 56 Mosaique 57 Muscovite 57 Mutton Broth 57 Nantaise 57 Nantua 57 Napoleon 57 Napolitaine 57 National 57 Navarin 57 Nelson I., II. 57 Nemours 57 Nesselrode 58 Ni9oise 58 Nids d’Hirondelle 58 Nillson I., II 58 Nina 58 Ninon 58 Nivernaise 58 Nouveau Roi 58 Consommes—contd. Page Olga I., II 58 Olla Podrida 58 Ollis 59 Orientale 59 Orleanais 59 Orleans 59 Or say (d’) 59 Ostendais 59 Oukha 59 Oxtail 59 Parisienne 59 Parmesane 59 Pauvre Homme 59 Paysanne 60 Perles (aux) 60 Petit Due 60 Petite Mariee 60 Petite Marmite 60 Picardie 60 Piemontaise 60 Pierre le Grand 60 Pluche 60 Pojarsky 60 Polonaise 60 Polpetti 60 Portugaise 60 Pot an Feu 61 Potemkin 61 Potroka 61 Prince de Galles 61 Princesse 61 Alice 61 Ena 61 Pi'intanier 61 Colbert 61 Royal 61 Printemps 61 Profiterolle 61 Putcliero 61 Pyreuiennes 62 Rabelais 62 Rachel 62 Rackelle 62 %Index 491 Consommes— conid. Page Ramayanda 62 Ranee 62 Rassalmick 62 Raviole 62 Reforme 62 Regence 62 Reine I., II 62 Rejane I., II 62 Renaissance I., II 63 Riche 63 Richelieu 63 Rivoli 63 Rosol 63 Rossini 63 Rothschild 63 Rouennaise 63 Royale 63 Royan 63 Rubens 63 Russe 64 St. George’s 64 St. Germain 64 St. Hubert 64 Salvador 64 Santos Dumont 64 Sarah Bernhardt 64 Savarin 64 Saxon 64 Saxonne 64 Selianka 64 Sevigne I., II 64 Solferina 65 Soubrette 65 Souveraine 65 Stschy 65 Suedois 65 Talma 65 Tassamana 65 Teheran 65 Theodora 65 Tivoli 65 Tortue Clair 65 Tosca 65 Consommes —contd. Page Toscana 65 Trevise 66 Trianon 66 Trois Filets 66 Tzarina 66 Valdes 66 Valencienne I., II 66 Valetta 66 Vatel I., II 66 Veneur 66 Venitienne 66 Veron 66 Vert Pre 66 Vesiga 67 Victor Emmanuel 67 Victoria 67 Viennoise 67 Villageois 67 Villageoise 67 Villeneuve 67 Viveurs 67 Vivianne 67 Westmorland 67 White House 67 Windsor 67 Xavier I., II 67 Consomme Froid (Cold Consomme). A l’essence de Caille ... 68 de Celeri 68 Au Vin 68 En gelec 68 Madrilenne 68 Nansen 68 Portugaise 68 Therese 68 Togo 68 Tortue a la St. James ... 68 Pot ages Lies (Thick Soups). Velout6, Puree, and Cream Soups 68Index. 492 Page Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Africaine 71 Agnes Sorel 71 Albion 71 Algerienne I., II 71 Alsacienne 71 Amazone 71 Ambassadeur 71 Americaine 71 Andalouse I., II., III. ... 71 Ardenais 71 Argentes 71 Argenteuil 71 Argentine 72 Armenouville 72 Artois 72 Aurore 72 Auvergnate 72 Bagratim 72 Bagration (maigre) 72 Balmoral 72 Balsac 72 Balvais 72 Baron Ivorsch 72 Baufort 72 Baviere 72 Beauharnais 72 Beige 73 Berci 73 Biersuppe 73 Bisque de Homard 73 Normande 73 Busse 73 Bloum 73 Boieldieu 73 Bonne Femme 73 Bonvalet 73 Borely 73 Boronia 74 Botzaris 74 Bourdaloue 74 Braban9on 74 Bresilienne I., II., III. .. 74 Page V eloute, etc., Soups—contd. Bressane •. 74 Bretonne I., II 74 Bruxellois 74 Cabrillan 74 Calabrais 74 Camba^es 74 Camelia 75 Campbell . 75 Cancalais 75 Capn ... 75 Capucine 75 Cardinal 75 Carmelite 75 Carmen 75 Catherine 75 Ceres 75 Champenin 75 Champenois 75 Chanoinesse 75 Chantilly I., II 76 Charlotte 76 Chartreuse I., II 76 Chatelaine I., II 76 Chatillon Plessis 76 Chatrillon 76 Chesterfield 76 Chevreuse 76 Chevriere 76 Chicago 76 Chicoree 76 Choiseul .. . 77 Choisy 77 Claire Fontaine 77 Clamart 77 Clementine 77 Clermont . .. 77 Clothilde 77 Colombine 77 Compiegne 77 Comtesse I., II 77 Conde...., 77 Conti.- 77Index. 493 Pa Veloute,etc.. Soups—contd. Coquelin Cormeille Corneille . Cote d’Azur Coulis Crecy Cressonniere Cretois Cumberland Cussy Czar Dame Blanche Danois I., II Darblay Dartois Dauphine d’Avoine Demidoff d’Eperlans a la Joinville Lucullus Princesse Derby Diane Dieppoise Divette Dodds Dolgoruki Douglas Doyen Dubarry I., II., Ill Dubelley Duchesse I., II. Dunkerque Ecossais I., II. Ecrevisse Egyptienne I., II Eliza Erbssuppe Esau Esterel Exelsior Page Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Faisan 81 Fanchette 81 Faubonne I., II 81 Favorite .. 81 Fischbenschisuppe 81 Flamande 81 Florentine 81 Fontange 8l Freneuse 81 Friar Tuck 81 Ganslsuppe 81 Garbure 81 Gascogne 82 Gasconne 82 Genin 82 Gentilhomme 82 George V 82 Georgette 82 Germinal 82 Germiny 82 Gervaise 82 Gosford 82 Grand Manoir 82 Grecque 83 Gulgas Suppe 83 Hare Soup 83 H6teli£re 83 Hugo 83 Huitres 83 Imperator 83 Imperiale 83 Indienne 83 Irlandais 83 Irma 83 Isoline 83 Istrienne 83 Jackson I., II Y 83 Jacquelin 84 Jambalaya 84 Japonnaise 84 Jeanin 84 Jeannette 84 GK 77 77 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 81 81 81494 Index. Page Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Jenny Lind 84 Juanita 84 Jubilee 84 Judic 84 Jussienne 84 Kalamazoo 84 Khaki 84 Krapiwa ■ 84 Krupnick 84 Lamballe 84 Languedocienne 84 L’Aurore 85 Lavalliere 85 Ledoyen 85 Legume 85 Lejeume 85 Leopold 85 Liegeois 85 Lisette 85 Lison 85 Litliunien 85 Livonien I., II 85 Longchamp 85 Longueville 85 Lord Marcus 85 Lorette 85 Lucullus 86 Macdonald 86 Madeleine I., II 86 Madrilenne 86 Malakoff 86 Mancelle 86 Maraichere 86 Marecliale 86 Mareilly 86 Maria 86 Marianne 86 Marie Louise I., II 86 Marie Stuart I., II 87 Marigny 87 Marquise 87 Martha 87 Page Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Massena I., II 87 Mathilda 87 Mathurin 87 Medicis I., II., Ill 87 Mehl Suppe 87 Mercedes 87 Messonier 87 Meuse 87 Mikado 88 Milanaise 88 Mille fanti 88 Miss Betsy 88 Mitonnee 88 Modena 88 Mogador 88 Monaco ... 88 Monte Cristo 88 Montespan 88 Montesquieux 88 Montglas 88 Montmorency 88 Montorgeuil 88 Montpensier 88 Morgan 89 Mozart 89 Mulligatawny 89 a la Delmonico 89 Murillo 89 Mussart 89 Nantua 89 Navarin 89 Nelusko . 89 Nemour 89 N emrod 89 Nesselrode S9 Nimoise 89 Nissarde 89 Nivernaise 89 Normande 89 Norregienne 90 O'Connor 90 Okra 90Index. 495 Page Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Orge (d’) Originale Orleans Ortie Ostendais Oukrop Palestine Paquita Parisienne Parmentier Patti Pavilion Paysanne Petit Due Pierre le Grand I., II. ... Pisto Pois Vert Polonais Pomeranien Pommerische Suppe Pompadour Porto Rico Portugais Potage Yierge Potiron Poupard Pourpier Prince de Galles Princesse Puree de Tomate Quebec Queue de Boeuf Queue de Veau ttabelais Rachel Raphael Regence Reine Hortense Margot Wilhelm Rejane 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 93 93 Page Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Reunion 93 Rigolette 93 Romeo 93 Rossalnick 93 Rouennaise 93 Roy an 93 Russe I., II 93 Sagamita 93 St. Cloud 93 St. Germain 93 St. Hubert 93 St. Louis 94 St. Mar<;eau 94 St. Martin .. 94 Sante 94 Sardaigne 94 Savoyarde 94 Schweinsohrensuppe ... 94 Sevigne I., II 94 Sicilienne 94 Sidney 94 Sigurd 94 Soissonnaise 94 Solferino 94 Spa 94 Sport I., II 95 Stamboul 95 Steward 95 Stshi 95 Sultane 95 Suzon 95 Tassamena 95 Thourino 95 Tortue 95 Tourangelle 95 Trazonere 95 Tschi 95 Turque 95 Tyrolienne 95 Tzarina 95 Valery 95 Valencienne 96496 Index. Page doute, etc., Soups—contd. Valois 96 Van Duzer 96 Velbs leves 96 Velour 96 Veloute de Homard 96 Veloute Rafraichit 96 Venitienne 96 Verneuil 96 Vert Pre 96 Vichy 96 Victor Hugo 96 Victoria 96 Villars 96 Villemot 97 Vintimille 97 Virginie 97 Vivianne 97 Voisin 97 Waldeze 97 Washington 97 Westmorland . . 97 Wilhelmine 97 Windham 97 Windsor 97 f Page i Veloute, etc., Soups—contd. Woronzow 97 Xavier 97 Zavir . 97 Zingara 97 Soupe Proven9ale: Alienoise 98 A l’Oignon 98 A l’Oseille 98 Alsacienne 98 Ardenaise 98 Auvergnate 98 Beaucaire 99 Bonne Femme 99 Dauphinoise 99 DeNoce.... 99 Fermiere 99 Flamande 99 Grand Mere 99 Maigre Parisienne 100 Tyrolienne 100 Normande 100 Paysanne 100 , Soupe Villageoise 100 i Clam Chowder LOO PART III.—(EUFS (EGGS). Page (Eufs sur le Plat (also called Shirred Eggs): Abessynienne 101 Americaine I., II 101 Anvernoise 101 Ardenaise 101 Bercy 101 Beurre noir 101 Bibesco 101 Bragance 102 Bretonne 102 Britain 102 Bruxelloise 102 Page (Eufs sur le Plat—contd. Camerani 102 Chalonnaise 102 Chasseur 102 Clamart 102 Cleveland 102 Cluny 102 Conde 102 Conti 102 Cr4cy 102 Diable 102 Doria I., II 102 Duchesse 102Index. 497 Page CEufs sur le Plat—contd. Egyptienne 103 Espagnole I., II 103 Estragon 103 Florentine 103 Forestiere 103 Gambetta 103 Gamier 103 Grand Mere 103 Hongroise 103 Hubert 103 Isoline 103 Jessica 103 Jockey Club 103 Khedivial 103 Lilloise 104 Lipton 104 Lorraine 104 Lully 104 Lyonnaise 104 Maraichere 104 Matelotte 104 Maximilien 104 Metternich 104 Meyerbeer... 104 Mirabeau 104 Miroir 104 Moderne 104 Moncelet 104 Monegasque 105 Montargis 105 Montmorency 105 Nanceenne 105 Nantua 105 Negus 105 Normande 105 Omer Pasha 105 Opera 105 Orleannaise 105 Pavmesane 105 Patti 105 Perigourdine 105 Petit Due 105 Page GEufs sur le Plat—contd. Piemontaise 105 Portugaise 106 Provein^ale 106 Rachel 106 Richemont 106 Romaine 106 Rossini 106 Rothomago 106 Sagan 106 Savoyarde 106 Soubise 106 Suisse 106 Tar tare 106 Turbigo 106 Turque 106 Valencienne 106 Yancourt 107 Victoria 107 Villars 107 Waldimir 107 CEufs Brouilles (Scrambled Eggs): Allemande 107 Archiduchesse 107 Argenteuil 107 Aumale 107 Balsac 107 Bateliere 108 Benares 108 Boheinienne 108 Bourguignonne 108 Bresilienne 108 Careme 108 Carnot 108 Chalonnaise 108 Chasseur 108 Chatillon 108 Doria 108 En Surprise 108 Espagnole 108 Estragon 108 Forestiere 109 K K498 Index. (Eufs Brouilles—contcl. Page Georgette 109 Gordon 109 Graudpere 109 Jeannette 109 Joinville 109 Longaneae 109 Malga 109 Marivaux 109 Monaco 109 Montberri 109 Offenbach 109 Orientale 109 Orloff 109 Parmentier 110 Piemontaise 110 Portugaise 110 Princesse 110 Marie 110 Proven9ale 110 Rachel 110 Reine Margot 110 Romaine 110 Rothschild 110 Salamande 110 Sultan e 110 Sylvette 110 Turque Ill Tzarine Ill Yancourt Ill Viennoise Ill Waleska Ill Yvette Ill CEufs Poch6s (Poached Eggs) : Abessynienne Ill Alsacienne Ill Americaine I., II Ill Andalouse Ill Archiduc Ill Argenteuil 112 Armenonville 112 Aurore 112 Balfour 112 GSufs Poches—contd. Page Barcelona 112 Bayonnaise 112 Bearnaise 112 Belle Helene 112 Benedictine 112 Berceau (en) 112 Bergere 112 Bignon 112 Bohemienne I., II 112 Boildieu 113 Bonvalet 113 Bourguignonne 113 Breban 113 Bretonne 113 Bruxelloise 113 Cardinale 113 Celestine 113 Chalonnaise 113 Chantilly 113 Chartres 113 Chasseur 113 Chatelaine 113 Chimay 113 Chivry 114 Christophe Colomb 114 Clamart 114 Comtesse 114 Continental 114 CrecyL, II 114 Daumont I., II 114 Bijonnaise 114 Dino 114 Divor^on 114 D’Orsay V 114 Ducale 114 Duchesse 115 Dufferin 115 Ecossaise 115 Elizabeth 115 En Soleil 115 Eugenie 115 Fedora 115 Flora 115Index. 499 (Eufs Poches—contd. Page Floreale 115 Florentine 115 Foresti&re 115 Fran^aise 115 Gauloise 115 Grand Due 116 Haveley 116 Heloise 116 Henri IY 116 Holland aise 116 Hussard 116 Imperiale 116 Indienne 116 Infante 116 Italienne 116 Jessica 116 Jockey Club 116 Khedive 116 Lithanienne 116 Lorette 116 Louisette 117 Magenta 117 . Maintenon 117 Malmaison 117 Massena 117 Maud 117 Medicis 117 Mignon I., II 117 Milanaise 117 Mirabeau 117 Mireille 117 Mogador 117 Monaco 117 Monselet 118 Montglas 118 Montonnais 118 Nantua 118 Ni9oise 118 Ninon 118 Normande 118 Orleans 118 Orsay 118 Otero 118 K (Eufs Poches—contd. Page Perigourdine 118 Petit Due 118 Phoc^enne 118 Piemontaise 118 Polonaise 118 Princesse 119 Ravigotte 119 Regina 119 Reine 119 Richemont 119 Riga 119 Roland 119 Romaine 119 Rougemont 119 Sans Gene 119 Savoyarde 119 Sevigne 119 Seville 119 Shouvaloff 119 Soubise 119 Souveraine 120 Stanley 120 Tampa 120 Tartare 120 Toupinel 120 Tourangelle 120 Trubetzkoy 120 Vediloff 120 Yerdi 120 Victoria 120 Villeroy 120 Volnay 120 Xavier 120 Zingara 120 Zurlo 120 (Eufs Mollets 120 (Eufs en Cocottes (in Cocottes) : A la Crfeme 121 Belford 121 Bergere 121 Carnagie 121 Chanoison 121 2Index. 500 Page (Eufs en Cocottes—contd. Colbert 121 Diane 121 Ecossaise 121 Florentine 121 Forestiere 121 Frou-frou 122 Gouffe 122 Gourmet 122 Jeannette 122 Leonard.. 122 Lorraine 122 Madeleine 122 Marcaichere 122 Orleans 122 Parisienne 122 Pavilion 122 Perigourdine 122 Portugaise 122 Princesse 122 Reine 122 Renauldt 122 Rouennaise 123 Sagan 123 St. Hubert 123 Zingara 123 CEufs Moules (Moulded Eggs): Albufera 123 Archiduc 123 Bo'ildieu 123 Boitelle 123 Bressane 124 Carignan 124 Chartres 124 Daumont 124 Duchesse 124 Forestiere 124 Impdriale 124 Lilli 124 Montrouge 124 Napolitaine 124 Palermite 124 Perigourdine 124 Page (Eufs Moules—contd. Petite Mariee 125 Polignac 125 Portugaise 125 Princesse I., II 125 Printaniere 125 Reine 125 Roy ale 125 Tourangelle 125 Yerdi 125 Viennoise 125 Yiroflay 125 (Eufs frits a la Fra^aise (French fried Eggs) : Benaiton 126 Bergere 126 Bucheronne 126 Clubland 126 Moissonneuse 126 Pastourelle 126 Portugaise 126 Romaine 126 Sauce Tomate 127 York 127 (Eufs farcis, chaud (Stuffed Eggs, hot) : Aurore 127 Boulanger 127 Bretonne 127 Carerne 127 Cecilia 127 Chimay 127 Elizabeth 127 En Cotelette 127 Gasconne 128 Gourmet 128 Grand Due 128 Granville 128 Grimot de Regniere 128 Hongroise 128 Italienne 128 Nissarde 128 Percheronne 128Index. 501 Page (Eufs farcis, chaud—contd. Portugaise , 128 Sarah Bernhardt 128 Waldimir .. 129 Washington 129 (Eufs farcis, froid (Stuffed Eggs, cold) : Alexandra 129 Andalouse 129 Argenteuil 129 Arlequin 129 Brian 129 Capucine 130 Careme 130 Chartres 130 Colbert 130 Colinette 130 Crecy 130 Czarina 130 Danoise 130 Dreux 130 En Chaudfroid 130 Eulolie 130 Floria 130 Frou-frou 131 Gentilhomme 131 Loubet 131 Lucas 131 Maupassant 131 Monstreux 131 Mosaique 131 Moscovite 131 Nantua 131 Ni9oise 131 Polignac 131 Ravigotte 132 Reine 132 Rossita 132 Rubens 122 Russe 132 Yiveurs 132 Volga 132 Waldimir 132 Page Omelettes : Agnes Sorel 133 Algerienne 133 Americaine 133 Andalouse 133 Archiduc 133 Argenteuil 133 Arlequin 133 Benedicte 133 Bohemienne 133 Bonne Femme 133 Boulonnaise 133 Bourguignonne 133 Braconniere 133 Bretonne 133 Brillat Savarin I., II. ... 134 Bruxelloise 134 Chambery 134 Charcutiere 134 Chartres 134 Chasseur 134 Chatelaine 134 Cherbourg 134 Chevreuse 134 Choisy 134 Clamart 134 Crecy 134 Creole 134 Czarine 134 Danoise 134 Diocletien 135 Drotshena 135 Durand 135 Espagnole 135 Fermi ere 135 Fines Herbes 135 Florentine 185 Forestiere 135 Foulard 135 Fran9ai3e 135 Friar 135 Ghiselle 135 Gibbons 135Index. 502 Omelettes—contd. Page Gordon 135 Grand Mere 136 Grimaldi 136 Hollandaise 136 Hongroise 136 Indienne 136 Italienne 136 Ivica 136 Japonnaise 136 Jardiniere 136 Jessica 136 Joinville 136 Jurassienne * 136 La Frita 136 Lorraine 136 Lyonnaise 136 Madras 136 Marcelle I., II. 137 Marseillaise 137 Massena 137 Mexicaine 137 Mireille 137 Moncelet 137 Montenegro 137 Mornay 137 Mousseline 137 Nantua 137 Navarainne 137 Normande 137 Paloise 137 Panachees 137 Parisienne 138 Parmentier 138 Paysanne 138 Petit Due 138 Piora 138 Pivia 138 Omelettes—contd. Pagk Pointes d’Asperges 138 Pomaine 138 Portugaise 138 Prelats 138 Princesse 138 Proven9ale 138 Reine • 138 Richemont 138 Rossini 138 Rouennaise 139 Sardanaise 139 Savoyarde 139 Sigurd 139 Suedoise 139 Suisse 139 Tanitscheff 139 Tifiis 139 Trafalgar 139 Turque 139 Vert Pre 139 Victoria 139 Walewska 139 Zingara 139 CEufs de Pluviers et Vanneaux (Plovers and Lapwings’ Eggs): Brouilles 139 Danoise 139 Petit Due 140 Roy ale 140 Froid (cold): Belle Gabrielle 140 Christiana 140 Moderne 140 Moscovite 140 Nids (en) 140 Petite Reine 140Index. 503 PART IV.—POISSONS (FISH). Cooking and Dressing Fish. Soles: . Page Alicante 142 Americaine 142 Bonne Femme 142 Bourgeoise 142 Colbert 142 Cubat 142 Daumont 142 Dieppoise 143 Diplomate 143 Doree 143 Duglere 143 Fermiere 143 Florentine 143 Grenobloise 143 Marguery I., II 143 Mariniere 143 Miromesnil 143 Mo'ina 143 Montgolfier 144 Montreuil 144 Nantua 144 Normande 144 Parisienne 144 Portugaise 144 Regence 144 Richelieu 144 Ritz 144 Royale 144 Sarah 144 Soles et Filets: Allemande 144 Ambassade 144 Ambassadrice 145 Amelie 145 Amiral 145 Amphytrion 145 Ancienne 145 Andalouse 145 Soles et Filets—contd. Page Anglaise 145 Antiboise 145 Arcbiduc 145 Argenteuil 145 Astronome 145 Au Champagne 145 Baron Brisse 145 Bateliere 146 Belle Helene 146 Bercy 146 Bignon 146 Bonvalet 146 Bourguignonne 146 Brandelle 146 Breteuil 146 Bretonne 146 Brillat Savarin 146 Cabaret 146 Calainaise 146 Calcuta 147 Cancalaise 147 Cantalaine 147 Caprice 147 Cardinal 147 Careme 147 Castilliane... 147 Catalane 147 Cazanova 147 Cecilia 147 Champeau 147 Chauchat 147 Cherbourg 147 Chevaliere 147 Choisy 148 Clara Ward 148 Clarence 148 Claremont 148 Cleopatia 148504 Index. Soles et Filets—contd. Page Colinette 148 Conde 148 Cornelius 148 Courtisane 148 Crecy 148 Creole 148 Czarowitz 148 Danmont 148 Dauphine 149 Dezaret 149 Dieppoise 149 Dieudonne 149 Dominique 149 Doria 149 Dragoniroff 149 Dugltjre 149 Duse 149 Egyptienne 149 Elizabeth 149 En Cocotte 149 Epicurienne 149 Etrelas 149 Fecampoise 150 Fedorowna 150 Feodora 150 Fermiere 150 Flora 150 Florentine 150 Gastronome .' 150 Georgette 150 Gounod 150 Gourmet 150 Grand Due I., II 150 Grill4e Americaine 151 Halery 151 Hambourgeoise 151 Havraise ... 151 Helene 151 Heloise 151 Hongroise 151 Hbtelifere . 151 Imperiale 151 Indienne 151 Soles et Filets—contd. Page Infante 151 Italienne 151 Jackson 151 Janin 151 Jean Bart 152 Jeannette 152 Jeanne d’Arc 152 Jeannin 152 Joinville I., II 152 Judic 152 Jules 152 Labowaska 152 Lacharme 152 Lady Egmont 152 Lavalliere 153 Leopold 153 Lezart 153 Loie Fuller 153 Londonderry 153 Loomis 153 Lorgnette 153 Louis XV 153 Lyonnaise 153 Maconnaise 153 Magny 153 Malesherbes 153 Manchester 154 Manon 154 Mantina 154 Marcelle 154 March and de Vin 154 Marechale 154 Marguery I., II 154 Marie 154 Marinette 154 Mariniere 154 Marquise 154 Mascotte 154 Mathilda : 154 Menag^re I., II. 155 Meuniere 155 Mexicaine 155 Mignon 155505 Index. Soles et Filets—contd. Page Mignonnette 155 Mimi 155 Minerve 155 Minute (a la) 155 Mirabeau 155 Miramar 155 Mogador 155 Moina 155 Monaco 156 Moncey 156 Montabanais 156 Montebello 156 Monte Carlo 156 Montespan 156 Montmorency 156 Montpellier 156 Montreuil 156 Montrouge 156 Mornay , 156 Murat 156 Navarin 156 Nelson 156 Nemours 157 Newburg 157 Nissarde 157 Normande 157 Offemont 157 Olga I., II 157 Orientale 157 Orleans I., II 157 Orly 157 Pagani 157 Parisienne 157 Paula 157 Persane 158 Picarde 158 Pocharde 158 Polignac 158 Pompadour 158 Prince de Galles 158 Princesse I., II 158 Quirinal 158 Rabelais 158 Soles et Filets—contd. Page Rachel 158 Rejane 158 Religieuse 159 Renaissance 159 Rhodesia 159 Riche 159 Richelieu I., II 159 Rigobert 159 Rochelais 159 Rose Caron 159 Rosina 159 Rothschild 159 Rouennaise 159 Rougemont 159 Roy ale 160 Russe 160 St. Cloud 160 St. Germain 160 St. Jean 160 St.Malo.. 160 St. Valery 160 Salisbury 160 Sarah 160 Savoy 160 Sicilienne 160 Solognate 160 Souchard 161 Spiers 161 Sullivan 161 Sully 161 Sultan e 161 Sylvette 161 Taballien 161 Teodore , 161 Tetrazzini 161 Theodora 161 Tolstoi 161 Toulousaine 161 Tout Paris 161 Traviata 162 Trazonere 162 Trois Fr&res 162 Trouville 162506 Index. Soles et Filets—contd. Page Trovatore 162 Urbain Dubois 162 Valentine 162 Valewska 162 Valois 162 Van-der-Berghe 162 Vanderbilt 162 Vatel 162 Vendome 163 Venitienne 163 Verdi 163 Vernet 163 Vernon 163 Veronique 163 Victoria 163 Vierge 163 Villeroi 163 Vin Blanc 163 Via Rouge 163 Virginie 163 Voisin 163 Wilkelmine 163 Windsor 164 Yvette 164 Matelotte Variee: Canotiere 164 Mariniere 164 Meuniere 165 Meurette 165 Nortnande 165 Poacbhouse 165 Timbales de Soles : Cardinale 165 Carmelite 165 Grimaldi 165 Marquise 165 Turban de Filet de Sole Villarey .. 165 Careme 166 Saumon (Salmon): A l’Americaine 166 Amirale 166 Balmoral 166 Saumon—contd. Page Chambord 166 Champere 166 Danoise 166 D’Artois 166 Daumont 166 Dieppoise 166 Ecossaise 166 Epicurienne 167 Genevoise 167 Hollandaise 167 Madras 167 Marianne 167 Metternich 167 Monte Carlo 167 Montmorency 167 Montreuil 167 Moscovite 167 Orientale 167 Paris ienne 167 Phileas Golbert 167 Regence 167 Richelieu 168 Rothschild 168 Rottomago 168 Royal 168 Valois 168 Verdoyant 168 Truite (Trout) : Au Bleu 168 Cambaceres I., II 168 Chambord 169 Cleopatra 169 Garnavie 169 Grenobloise 169 Hoteliere 169 Hussarde 169 Ivanhoe 169 Maconnaise 169 Mantone 169 Montgolfier 169 Piemontaise — 169 Romano 169 Royale 169507 Index. Turbot: Page A l’Arlesienne 170 Amiral 170 Boitel ' 170 Bonne Femme 170 Cambacerfes 170 Commodore 170 Daumont 170 Duchesse 170 Fermiere 170 Hongroise 170 Laguipierre 170 Nelson 170 Parisienne 170 Rachel 171 Regence 171 Reyniere 171 Richemont 171 Royale 171 Salvador 171 Sarah... 171 Turbotin 171 Valentine 171 Vatel I., n 171 Barbue (Brill) 171 Merlans (Whiting) : A l’ambassadrice 171 Audalouse 172 Anglaise 172 Belle Helene 172 Bercy 172 Bonne Femme 172 Boulanger e 172 Bretonne 172 Cecilia 172 Cherbourg 172 Chevaliere 172 Colbert 172 Dieppoise 172 Don Carlos 172 Doria 172 Fecampoise 172 Fran^aise 173 Grand Mere 173 Merlans—contd. Page Grenobloise 173 Heloise 173 Hoteliere 173 Jaekson 173 Juive 173 Marchand de Vin 173 Mascotte 173 Medicis 173 Ni9oise 173 Orly 173 Rachel 173 Re jane 173 Richelieu 173 Tabaillon 173 Verdi 173 Carrelets (Flounders) : Souchet 174 Plie (Plaice) 174 Carpe (Carp) 174 Esturgeon (Sturgeon) 174 Anguille (Eels) : Bordelaise 174 Farces 175 Frite 175 Grand Mere 175 Brochet (Pike or Jack) ; Au Bleu 175 Bateliere 175 Chambord 175 Grilles 175 Normande 176 Cabillaud (Codfish) : A 1’Anglaise 176 Andalouse 176 Dieppoise 176 Dimitri 176 Don Carlos 176 Flamande 176 Nantaise 176 Niverne 176 Portugaise 176 Proven^ale 176Index. 508 Cabillaud—contd. Page Reine 177 Vierge 177 Whitney 177 Morue (Salt Cod) : Brandade 177 Creole 177 Kedgeree 177 Indienne 177 Blanchaille (Whitebait) ... 177 Rouget (Red Mullet) : Baron Brisse 177 Bordelaise 178 Chesterfield 178 Don Carlos 178 En Caisses 178 En Papillotte 178 Fenouil 178 Francillon 178 Grenobloise 178 Juive 178 Jules Janin 178 Marechale 178 Marseillaise 178 Maryadel 178 Nantaise 178 Ni^oise 178 Olga 179 Orientale 179 Polonaise 179 Portugaise 179 Proven^ale 179 Theodora 179 Trouville 179 Venitienne 179 Maquereau (Mackerel) : A l’Anglaise 179 Berte 179 Boulonnaise 179 Caen 179 Calaisienne 179 Chanoise 179 Flamande 179 Maquereau—contd. Page Orientale 179 St. Jean 179 Venitenne 179 Eperlans (Smelts or Sparl- ings) ; Africaine 180 A l’Anglaise 180 Au Vin blanc 180 Baron Brisse 180 Boitel 180 Brochette (en) 180 Juiye 180 Meuniere 180 Mousse (d’) 180 Polonaise 180 Richelieu 180 Grenouille (Frogs): Fricassee 180 Frite 181 Gratinees 181 MeunRre 181 Poisson Americain (Ameri- can Fish) : Blue Fish: A la Bombay 181 Creole 181 Diaz 181 Paysanne 1S1 Clam: Bourguignonne 182 Diablee 182 Newburg 182 Vaudeville 182 King Fish : Bercy 182 Comtesse 182 Danoise 182 Newyorkaise 183 Red Snapper: A l’Ancienne 183 Demideuil 183 Indienne 183 Mobile 183Index. 509 Page Poisson Am<$ricain—contd. Shad: Madrid 183 Planked 183 a la Finoise 184 Ravigotte 184 Vert Pre 184 Stripped Bass : Bostonian 184 Conti 184 Montebello 184 Providence 184 Homard (Lobster) : Americaine I., II 184 Bordelaise 185 Broche 185 Cardinal 185 Cettoise 185 Clarence 185 Danoise 186 En Brochette 186 Grilles 186 Hongroise 186 Infante 186 Laguipierre 186 Lord Randolph Churchill 186 Moderne : 186 Newburg 186 Page 186 Palestine 186 Romanoff 187 Page Homard—contd. Turque 187 Vanderbilt 187 Victoria 187 Waldimir 187 Langouste (Crawfish) 187 Ecrevisse (Crayfish) : A la Nage 187 Bordelaise 187 Leroy 187 Liegeoise 187 Magenta 187 Mariniere .. 188 Mousse 188 Hiiitres (Oysters) : Americaine.. 188 Anglaise .. 188 Favorite 188 Indienne 188 Jacques 188 Marechale 188 Mornay 188 Polonaise 188 Pompadour. 188 Roast Oysters 188 Baked Oysters 188 Russe 188 Vaudeville 189 Villeroi 189 Waldimir 189 Escargots 189 PART V.—GARNITURES (GARNISHES). Page Page Alexandra 190 Argenteuil 191 Algerienne 190 Arlequin 191 Alsacienne I., II 190 Arlesienne 191 Americaine 190 Athenienue ... 191 Amiral 190 Banquiere 191 Andalouse I., II 190 Bayard 191 Anvernoise 191 Beatrice 191510 Index. Page Beaufort 191 Beaugency 191 Beige 191 Belle Helene 191 Berny 191 Berrichonne 191 Bertliier 191 Bizontine 191 Bohemienne I., II 191 Boitelle 191 Bontoux 192 Boulangere 192 Bouquetiere 192 Bourgeoise 192 Bourguignonne 192 Brabanyonne 192 Breban 192 Bretonne I., II 192 Brillat Savarin I., II 192 Bristol * 192 Bruxelloise 192 Cambaceres 192 Camerani 192 Cancale 193 Cardinal I., II 193 Catalane 193 Cavour 193 Chartres I., II 193 Chatelaine I., II 193 Chauchat 193 Chipolata 193 Chivry 193 Choisy 193 Choron 193 Clamart 193 Clermont I., II 193 Comodore 193 Conti 194 Cumberland 194 Cussy 194 Dartois 194 Daumont 194 Dauphine 194 Page Delphine 194 Dieppoise 194 Don Juan 194 Dona Sol 194 Doria 194 Dubarry 194 Duchesse 194 Espagnole 194 Favorite I., II 194 Fermiere 195 Financiere ’ 195 Flamande I., II 195 Florentine I., II 195 Florian 195 Forestiere 195 Franyaise I., II 195 Frascati 195 Gabrielle 195 Gastronome I., II 195 Gauloise 195 Gloria 195 Godard 196 Gourmet 196 Grand Due 196 Grecque I., II 196 Henri IY 196 Hongroise 196 Hussarde 196 Imperiale 196 Italienne 196 Ivoire 196 Japonnaise 196 Joinville 196 Judic 196 Jules Yerne 196 Jussien 196 Langtry 196 Languedocienne 196 Limousine 197 Livonienne 197 Lorette 197 Lorraine 197 Louisiane 197511 Index. Page Louvalliere 197 Luenllus 197 Lyonnaise I., II 197 Madeleine 197 Maillot : 197 Maraichere 197 Marechale I., II 197 Marie Louise 197 Marigny 19S Mariniere 198 Marquise 198 Marseillaise 198 Mascotte 198 Massena 198 Medicis 198 Melba 198 Mentonnaise 198 Metternich 198 Mexicaine 198 Mignon 198 Milanaise 198 Mireille 198 Moderne I., II 198 Moissonneuse 199 Monegasque 199 Montbrazon 199 Montebello 199 Montglas .• 199 Monti ..... 199 Montmorency 199 Montpensier I., II 199 Montreuil 199 Nantua 199 Nap obtain 199 Nemours 199 Ni9oise I., II 199 Nicolais II 200 Nina 200 Nivernaise 200 Normande 200 Opera 200 Orientale /1... 200 Orleanaise 200 Page Palermo .. 200 Parmentier 200 Petit Due 200 Porte Maillot 200 Portugaise 200 Proven^ale I., II 200 Providence 200 Rachel 200 Radziwyl 201 Reforme 201 Regence I., II 201 Renaissance... 201 Riche I., II 201 Richelieu 201 Robinson .. 201 Rohan 201 Romaine I., II 201 Romanoff 201 Rossini 201 Roy ale 201 St. Florentin 202 St. Germain 202 St. Hubert 202 St. Mande 202 Sarde 202 Sarrasine 202. Savoisienne 202 Savoy 202 Saxonne 202 Semillante 202 Sevigne 202 Sicillienne 202 Soubeyran 202 Strasbourgeoise 202 Suzette 202 Talleyrand 203 Tivoli 203 Toulouse 203 Tourangelle 203 Trianon 203 Trouvillaise 203 T zarina 203 Vert Pre I., II, 203Index. 512 Page Victoria .. 203 Viennoise . 203 Viroflay . 203 Walaska . 203 Washington . 203 Zingara . 203 Stocks and Sauces. Fond Brun . 204 Fond Blanc . 205 Fond de Poisson . 206 Espagnole . 206 Demiglace . 207 Espagnole maigre . 207 Jus lie . 208 Essence aromatique . 208 de Champignon . 209 Gibier . 209 Volaille • . 209 Jamb on . 210 Poisson (fumet) . 210 T ruffe . 210 Coulis d’Ecrevisse . 210 Glace de Veau 210 Veloute Ordinaire . 211 Extra . 211 Sauce Allemande . 212 Veloute de Poisson . 212 Sauce Bechamel I., IT. . .. 212 Sauce Supreme . 212 Sauce Au Beurre . 213 Sauce Tomate I., II. ... . 213 Sauce Chaud : Africaine . 214 Albert . 214 Albufera . 214 Ambassadrice . 214 Americaine . 214 Amirale . 214 Aurore . 214 Ayoli . 214 Banquiere . 214 Page Sauce Chaud—contd. Batarde 214 Bavaroise 214 Bearnaise 214 Beauharnaise 215 Belle Vue 215 Belmont 215 Bennet 215 Bercy 215 Bigararde 215 Bonne Femme 215 Bonnefoy 215 Bordelaise 215 Boston 215 Bourguignonne 215 Bressoise 215 Bretonne 216 Britannia 216 Burdwan 216 Byron 216 Canotiere 216 Capecienne 216 Cardin ale 216 Carignan 216 Castillane 216 Catalane 216 Cavalier 216 Chambord 216 Chantilly 216 Charcutiere 216 Chasseur 216 Chateaubriand 217 Cherbourg 217 Chevreuil 217 Chivry 217 Choron. .. 217 Comtesse 217 Cordelier 217 Crapaudine 217 Creole 217 Cumberland 217 Cussy 217 Czarine V... 217513 Index. Sauce Chaud—contd. Page Danoise 217 Demideuil 217 Demidoff 217 Diable 217 Diane 218 Digestive 218 Diplomate 218 Divine 218 Duckesse 218 Duglere .... 218 Ecossaise 218 Epicurienne 218 Estragon 218 Etretat 218 Fermiere I., II 218 Figaro 218 Financiere 218 Fines Herbes 219 Finoise 219 Flamande 219 Fleurette 219 Foyot 219 Fraii9aise I., II 219 Francis Ier 219 Gastronome 219 Genevoise 219 Godard 219 Gourmet 219 Grand Yeneur 219 Granville 219 Hackees 219 Havraise 220 Henri IV 220 Gollandaise 220 Homard 220 Hongroise 220 Hussarde 220 Imperatrice 220 Ivoire 220 Joinville 220 Jubilaire 220 Juliette I., II 220 Laguipierre 220 Sauce Ckaud—contd. Page Lavalliere 220 Livonienne 221 Lyonnaise 221 Madere 221 Maillot 221 Maintenon 221 Maltaise.., 221 Marckand de Yin 221 Mareckale 221 Marguery 221 Marigny 221 Mariniere 221 Marseillaise 221 Maryland 221 Matelotte 221 Medicis 221 Mon Reve 222 Montebello 222 Mornay 222 Moscovite 222 Mousseline 222 Mousseuse 222 Nantua 222 Napolitaine 222 Ni^oise 222 Nivernaise 222 Noisette 222 Norak 222 Normande 222 Orientale 222 Orleans 222 Paloise 222 Paprika 222 Pauvre Homme 223 Perigueux 223 Picard 223 Piquante 223 Poivrade 223 Polonaise 223 Portugaise 223 Poulette 223 Princesse 223 Princiere 223 L LIndex. 514 Sauce Chaucl—contd. Page Proven^ale 223 Ravigotte 223 Reforme 224 Rcgence I., II 224 Reine Ena 224 Reine Marie 224 Remi 224 Ricardo 224 Riche 224 Richelieu 224 Robert 224 Romaine 224 Roosevelt 224 Rouennaise 224 Rubens 224 Russe 224 St. Malo 225 St. Menehould 225 Saxonne 225 Sicilienne 225 Smitane 225 Solferino 225 Soubise 225 Souchet I., II 225 Soyer 225 Stragotto 225 Sultane 225 Texienne 225 Tortue 225 Toulouse 225 Tyrolienne 225 Yalois 226 Venaison 226 Venitienne 226 Vernet 226 Veron 226 VertPre 226 Victoria 226 Yiennoise 226 Villageoise ... 226 Villeroi 226 Vin blanc 226 York (cV) 226 Sauce Chaud—contd. Page Zingara 226 Zouave 226 Sauce Froide (Cold Sauces): Alphonso 227 Andalouse 227 Batarde 227 Benton Bohemienne Cabaret Cambridge Cazanova Chantilly Christopher Cocktail Cramberge Cumberland Dumas Epicurienne Francis Friar Garrick Genoise Gloucester Gothic Gribiche Irlandaise Italienne Livornienne Livournaise Mauretania Maximilien Mayonnaise Russe Moreno Mousquetaire .. Mousseline Newzorhaise Norviigienne Oxford Prince de Galles Raifort Ravigotte Remoulade 227 227 227 227 227 227 227 227 228 228 228 228 228 228 228 228 229 229 229 229 229 229 229 229 229 229 230 230 230 230 230 230 230 230 230 230 230Index. 515 Sauce Froide—contd. Page Roosevelt 230 Russe 230 Siberienne 230 Suedoise 231 Tartare 231 Tyrolienne 231 Udaipur 231 Universelle 231 Valentine 231 Verte 231 Vincent 231 Chaudfroid Sauces : Blanche (White) 231 Brune (Brown) 231 Mayonnaise 231 Rouge I., II. (Pink) 231 Verte I., II. (Green) 232 Beurre Compose (Savoury Butter). Beurre d’Anchois 232 de Caviar 232 de Crevette 232 d’Echalotte 232 d’Ecrevisse 232 d’Estragon 232 de Homard 232 Maitre d’hotel 232 Manie 233 Montpellier 233 de Moutarde 233 de Raifort 233 Plats Farineux Page (Farinaceous Dishes). Gniocchi: Parmentier 233 Romaine 234 Nouille 234 Polenta 234 Macaroni: A l’Allemande 234 Bourgeoise 234 Calabaise 234 Garibaldi 235 Gratin 235 Italienne I., II., Ill 235 Lazagnes 235 Milanaise I., II 235 Natitua 235 Napolitaine 235 Polonaise 235 Ravioles 235 Rossini 226 Sauveteur 236 Sicilienne 236 Spaghetti 236 Riz (Rice) : Creole 236 Grecque 236 Menagere 236 Pilaw ou Pilaff 236 Risi-Bisi 236 Au Gras 236 Rizotto 237 Suisse 237 Turque 237 Valencienne 237 ' L L 2Index. 516 PART VI.—ENTREE VOLANTE ET MIXTE (LIGHT ENTREE). Bouches: Page Bohemienne 238 Bouquetiere 238 Cardinale 238 Careme 238 Chasseur 338 Dauphine 238 Diane 238 Don Juan 238 Duchesse 238 Elysienne 238 Finanf^iere 238 Gracieuse 238 Grand Due 239 Hollandaise 239 Imperiale 239 Indienne 239 Isabelle 239 Joinville 239 Mirabeau 239 Mogador 239 Monseigneur 239 Montglas 239 Nantua 239 Perigourdine 239 Petite Princesse 239 Regence 239 Reine 239 Richelieu 239 Royal 239 St. Hubert 239 Stuart 239 Victoria 239 Cassolettes 240 Vol au Vent,: A l’Ancienne 240 Benedictine 240 Cardinal 240 Finan^ere 240 Frascati 240 Galloise 240 Vol au Vent—contd. Page Godard . 240 Mariniere 240 Mogador . 240 Nesles . 240 Normande . 240 Parisienne . 240 Regence . 241 Senonaise . 241 Talleyrand . 241 Toulousaine .. 241 Croquettes: Americaine . 241 Bergere .. 241 Bohemienne .. 241 Cardinale .. 241 Chasseur .. 241 Dominique .. 241 Gastronome . 242 Hongroise .. 242 Indienne .. 242 Italienne .. 242 Jean Bart .’. 242 Marquise .. 242 Milanaise .. 242 Nantaise .. 242 Sevigne .. 242 Sultane .. 242 Thilda .. 242 Zingara .. 242 Crepinettes: Cendrillon .. 243 Chasseur .. 243 St. Germain .. 243 Kromeskies ou Crome s- quies .. 243 Croiistades: Amirale .. 243 Carmen .. 243 Chasseur .. 243 Duchesse .. 243Index. 517 Croustades—contd. Page Lafitte 243 Nantua 243 Regence 243 St. Cloud 243 Talleyrand 243 Victoria 243 Timbales : Alsacienne 243 Ambassadrice 244 Badoise 244 Bontoux 244 Bourbonnaise 244 Cardinale ,, 244 Conde 244 Cussy 244 Diane 244 D'Orsay 245 Ecossaise 245 Gauloise 245 Haag 245 Imperatrice 245 Mettemicb 245 Milanaise 245 Mirabeau 245 Napolitaine 245 Parisiennne 246 Regina 246 Rejane 246 Reyniere 246 Medaillons de Ris de Vean 246 Mousseline et Mousse : Agnes Sorel 246 Alexandra 246 Belle Irma 246 Dreux 247 Mo'ina 247 Patti 247 Polignac 347 Princesse 247 Sicilienne 247 Tzarina 247 Mousse de Jambon : Page Carmen 247 Daupkine 247 Florentine 247 Hongroise 247 Perigourdine 247 Quenelles et Boudins : Desire de Mascotte 248 Dolmas Turque 248 Ursuline de Nancy 248 Rognons de Mouton; Ambassadeur 248 Au Champagne 248 Bordelaise 248 Carvalho 248 Chateaubriand 248 Hussarde 248 Mexicaine 249 Michel 249 Parisienne 249 St. Lazare 249 Turbigo 249 Vert Pre 249 Vieville 249 Rognons de Veau : Bercy 249 Berichonne 249 Carvalho 249 Hongroise 249 Liegeoise 249 Montpensier 249 Petit Due 250 Turbigo 250 Turque 250 Foie de Veau : A l’Anglaise 250 Bercy 250 Bourgeoise 250 En Brochette 250 Espagnole 250 Fines Herbes 250 Italienne 250 Lyonnaise 250 Moissonneuse 250518 Index. Foie de Yeau—contd. Page Parisienne 251 Proven^ale *251 Talleyrand 251 Turino 251 Coeur de Veau farci 251 Tete de Veau: Americaine 251 Financiere 251 Froide 251 Godard 251 Gribiche 252 Medicis 252 Poulette 252 Rachel 252 Ravigotte 252 Tortilliere 252 Tortue 252 Vinaigrette 252 Blanquette de Veau 252 Veau Saute 252 Pieds de Veau: Bourgeoise 253 En Poulette 253 Farcis 253 Grilles 253 Vinaigrette 353 Fricadelle de Veau 253 Fricandeau 253 Grenadins de Veau 253 Osso Bucco 253 Poitrine de Veau 253 Roulade de Veau 253 Kari de Veau 254 Eraince de Venaison 254 Ragout a la Boston 254 Ragout Irlandais 254 Don Pedro Pot Pie 255 Chicken Pot Pie 255 Lancashire Hotpot 255 London Hotpot 255 Manchester Hotpot 256 Boeuf (Beef) ; Page Bitokes Moscovite 256 Boeuf: Saut6 Doopiaga ... 256 Boeuf Saute Orsini 256 Boeuf Saute Provem^ale.. 256 Carbonade Flamande ... 256 Estouffe de Bourguig- nonne 256 Fricadelle de Boeuf 256 Gulash or Gulyas 256 Medaillon a la Russe .... 257 Clubman 257 St. Hilaire 257 Paupiette de Boeuf 257 Fontange 257 Milton 257 Napoli 257 Savoie 257 Berlin Steak 257 Hamburg Steak 257 Salisbury Steak 257 Vienna Steak 257 Almondigas 258 Bami Hongkongoise 258 Chop Soly 258 Langue de Boeuf: Alsacienne 258 Bourgeoise 258 Christiana 259 Gendarmes 259 Julien 259 Leopold 259 St. Flour 259 Soubeyran 259 Indian Dishes. Banana Chaffer Khan 259 Bhoona Khitchree 259 Chitchkee 259 Dumpoke 259 Beef Kabobs 260 Burdwan 260 Ghee .*: 260519 Index. Page Hash Pouloot 260 Hullnah 260 Celery Fritters 261 Fagadu 261 Pouloot 261 Salad ' 261 Veal Cutlets 261 Way of Cooking Rice for Curries 261 Kalleak 262 PepperPot 262 Foreign Dishes. American Dry Ash 262 Hash 262 Eigos (Polish) 262 Carapulka (Spanish) 262 Coratella d’Agnetto (Ital- 263 ian) 263 Esterhazy Rostbraten 263 Page Ganserweiss-sauer(German) 263 Ganseschwarz-sauer (Ger- 263 man) 263 Hamburger Rauchfleisch (German) 263 Hirn-Mit-Ei (Austrian) ... 263 KasselerRippenspeer (Ger- 263 man) 263 Kifteles (Roumanian) 263 Lieder ohne Worte (Ger- man) 263 Mehemehalon (Persian) 264 Menestra (Spanish) 264 Moussaka ...... 264 Poeckelkamm (German) ... 264 Poerkoell (Austrian) 264 Stucchi (Italian) 264 Tocartua de Mielul (Rou- manian) 264 Wareniskis (Russian) 264 PART VII.—ENTREES. Page Mutton and Lamb. Noisette, Cutlets, or Filet Mignon : Alexandra 265 Algerienne 265 Alsacienne 265 Ambassadrice 265 Arlesienne 265 Belle Alliance 265 Buloz 265 Careme 265 Cendrillon 266 Chatelaine 266 Chavette 266 Page Noisette, etc.—contd. Chevreuse 266 Cova 266 Cyrano 266 Denard 266 Dixon 266 Double 266 Duberley 266 Duglere 266 Durand 266 Epicurienne 266 Forestifere 267 Grand Veneur 267 Henriot 267 Heureka 267 Imperiale * 267Index. 520 Page Noisette, etc.—contd. Laura 267 La Vallieri 267 Maintenon 267 Malmaison 267 Marie Louise 267 Morland 267 Morly 267 Murillo 267 Nantaise 268 Nelson 268 Nevers 268 Parisienne 268 Parmesane 268 Persanne 268 Pompadour 268 Reforme 268 Reine 268 Roumaine 268 St. James 269 Sandringham 269 Savary 269 Savoy 369 Suedoise 269 Suzane 269 Toulouse 269 Tyrolienne 269 Valois 269 Verdi 269 Vert Pre I., II 269 Vicomtesse 269 Villageoise 269 Villeroi 270 Volnay 270 Cotelette de Chevreuil : Conti 270 Diane 270 Grand Veneur 270 Majordomo 270 Romanoff 270 Valencia 270 Villeneuve 270 Walkyrie 270 Page Bceuf (Beef). Filet de Boeuf ou Tour- nados: Alexandre 271 Algerienne 271 Alsacienne 271 Ambassadrice 271 Americaine 271 Andalouse 271 Armenonville 271 Baltimore 271 Beatrice 271 Beaugency 271 Belle Helene 271 Benjamin 271 Bernadi 272 Berrichonne 272 Bizontine 272 Bouquetiere 272 Braban9on .. 272 Cantalane 272 Carignan 272 Cendrillon 272 Chartres 272 Chatelaine 272 Chevreuse 272 Choron 272 Clamart 272 Clermont 272 Cussv 273 Dauphine 273 Deslignac 273 Duchesse 273 Duroc 273 Favorite 273 Florentine 273 Forestiere 273 Frascati 273 Gabrielle 273 Givry 273 Gourmet 273 Grand Veneur 273Index. 521 Page Filet de Boeuf, etc.—contd. Granville 274 Grisconne 274 Helder 274 Henri IV 274 Hongroise 274 Imperiale 274 Irma 274 Japonnaise 274 Judic 274 Jussienne 274 Karolaka 274 Lackme 274 Lesdiguiere 274 Lili 274 Lorette 274 Madeleine 275 Marie-Jeanne ' 275 Marigny 275 Marion Delorme 275 Marleigh 275 Mascotte 275 Massena 275 Masset 275 Matiguon 275 Melba 275 Menagere 275 Mikado 275 Mireille 275 Montgolfier 275 Montgomery 276 Montmorency 276 Montpensier 276 Nanton 276 Nichette 276 Ni^oise 276 Nicolas II 276 Ninon 276 Orientale 276 Paloise 276 Parisienne I., II 276 Persane 276 Piemontaise 277 Page Filet de Boeuf, etc.—contd. Pompadour 277 Portugaise 277 Primeur 277 Princesse 277 Proven9ale 277 Rachel 277 Riche 277 Richelieu 277 Richemont 277 Rivoli 277 Romaville 277 Rossini 277 St. Germain 278 St. Jean 278 St. Mande 278 Saral Bernhardt 278 Sarde 278 Seymour 278 Strasbourgeoise 278 Sully 278 Tivoli 278 Trevise 278 Yalencienne 278 Valois 278 VertPre 278 Victoria 278 Chateaubriand 279 Entrecote 279 Planked Sirloin Steak 279 Porterhouse Steak 279 Veau (Veal). Cbtelettes ou Escalopes : Bisontine 279 Clamart, Choisy, etc. ... 279 Dreux 279 Fleuri 279 Guizot 280 Marechale 280 Orloff 280 Papillotte 280522 Index Page Page Ootelettes, etc.—contd. Parisienne 280 Perigourdine 280 Pogarski 280 Eusse 280 Schnitzels 280 Talleyrand .... 280 Viennoise 280 is de Yeau (Sweet- breads): Berengere 281 Brighton 281 Careme 281 Carmago 281 Chambellane 281 Chevriotte .... 281 Comtesse 281 Demidoff 281 Doria 281 Favorite 281 Figdor 281 Florentine 281 Gentilliomme 282 Gourmet 282 Grand Due .... 282 Guizot 282 Judic 282 Maintenon 282 Marechale 282 Marie Stuart 282 Montauban 282 Mourse 282 Parisienne 282 Piementaise .... 282 Princesse 282 Eegence 282 Eossini 283 St. Mandc 233 Talleyrand .... 283 Toulousaine .... 283 Tzarina 283 Villeroy 283 Eis d’Agneau (Lamb’s Bread) 28 3 Poulet a Bran (Chicken) : Ambassadrice 283 Annette 283 Arlesienne 283 Beaulieu 283 Biarrotte 283 Bohemienne 284 Boivin 284 Bonne Femme 284 Bordelaise . 284 Cynthia 284 Dartois 284 Demidoff 284 Durand 284 Duroc 284 En Cocotte 284 Espagnole 284 Forestiere 284 Gounod 284 Grand Mere 284 Indienne 284 Jurassienne 284 Lathuile 285 Malabar 285 Marengo 285 Marseillaise 285 Maryland 285 Mascotte 285 Massena 285 Mireille 285 Palermo 285 Parmentier 285 Paysanne 28(5 Poona 286 Portugaise 286 Proven^ale 286 Eostand 286 Sansgene 286 Souvaroff 286 Turenne 286523 Index, Page Poulet a Brun—contd. Vichy 286 Zingara 286 Poulet a Blanc (Chicken): A l’Ancienne 286 Alexandra 287 Americaine 237 Archiduc 287 Armagnati ... 287 Bretonne 287 Chantilly 287 Chevaliere 287 Chimay 287 Crecy 287 Fedora 287 G-abrielle 287 Georgina 287 Havelock 287 Indienne 287 I voire 287 Laureate 287 Leon IX 287 Odette 287 Orientale 288 Petite Mariee 288 Polignac 288 Heine Margot 288 Richemont 288 Stanley 288 Sultane 288 Trianon 288 Van-Dyck 288 Venitienne 288 Viennoise 288 Supreme de Volaille: Agnes Sorel 289 Alexandra 289 Arlesienne 289 Armenonville 289 Belle Irma 289 Boiselle 289 Chimay ; 289 Page Supreme de Volaille— contd. Cussy 289 Demidoff 289 Doria 289 Dreux 289 Ecossaise 289 Favorite 289 Finan^&re 290 Georgette 290 Helder 200 Henri IV 290 Hongroise 290 Japonnaise 290 Judic 290 Marechale 290 Marie Louise 290 Marie Therese 290 Maryland 290 Mireille 290 Montpensier 290 Orientale 290 Orly 291 Otero 291 Papillotte 291 Parisienne 291 Petit Due 291 Pogarski 291 Polignac 291 Princesse 291 Regence 291 Richelieu 291 Rossini 291 St. Germain 291 Talleyrand 292 Tzarina 292 Vallencay 292 Vallois 292 Vermeille 292 Pigeon: A l’Autrichienne 292 Americaine 292 Beale 292 Bonne Femme 292Index. 524 Pigeon—contd. Page Bordelaise 292 Catalane 292 Chartreuse 292 Chipolata 293 Compote 293 Crapaudine 293 En Pates 293 En Surprise 293 Farcis Bomaine 293 Grand Mere 293 Nana 293 Parisienne 293 Paysanne 293 Caneton (Duckling) : A l’Anglaise 294 Au Champagne 294 Aux Pois 294 Bigarade 294 Brassica 294 Chipolata 294 L’Orange 294 Lyonnaise 294 Menthe 294 Moliere 295 Navet 295 Nivernaise 295 Olives 295 Palestine 295 Paysanne 295 Presse 295 Bouennaise 295 Oie ou Oison (Goose or Gosling) : A l’Allemande : 295 Alsacienne 295 Anglaise 295 Au Baifort 296 Cassoulet 296 C u i s s e d’Oie, Sauce Bobert 296 En Civet 296 En Bagout aux Marrons 296 Mont Vernon 296 Strasbourgeoise 296 Paon (Peacock) : Page Condatino 296 En Galantine 296 En Pates 296 Dinde (Turkey): A PAnglaise I., II 297 Americaine I., II 297 Baron 297 Bourgeoise .. 297 Castilliane 297 Chipolata 297 Conti 297 En Daube 297 Gitana 297 Godard 297 Gourmet 297 Medicis 298 Milanaise 298 Montorgeuil 208 Piemontaise 298 Busse 298 Poussin et Pouletde Grain: A la Belle Meuniere ... 298 Bergere 298 Bonne Femme 298 Cendrillon 298 Clamart 298 Gourmet 298 Howtowdie 299 Katkoff 299 Limousine 299 Mascotte 299 Mignon 299 Piemontaise 299 Polonaise 299 Primeur 299 Bomani 299 Ste. Fran9oise 299 Tar tare 299 Viennoise 299 Poulardes : Adelina Patti 300 Albufera 300 Alexandra 300Index. 525 Poulardes—contd. Page Amateur 300 Anna Held 300 Aurore 300 Beaufort 300 Beaulieu 300 Belle Mere 300 Bonne Femme 300 Bouquetiere 300 Cardinale 301 Careme 301 Carlsford 301 Cavour 301 Chantilly 301 Chatelaine I., II 301 Chimay 301 Chipolata 301 Chivry 301 Cussy 301 Dauphine 301 Demidoff 301 Derby 302 Devonshire 302 Dieppoise 302 Diva 302 Dora 302 Doria 302 Dreux 302 Duroc 302 Ecossaise 302 Edouard VII 302 Elysee 303 Escuriale 303 Espagnole 303 Favorite 303 Fermiere 303 Gastronome I., II 303 Grecque 303 Hongroise 303 Imperiale 303 Ivoire 304 Jacques 304 Lady Curzon 304 Languedocienne 304 Poulardes—contd. Page Maitre Lucas 304 Mancini..; 304 Mazarin 304 Menagere 304 Milanaise 304 Mireille 304 Montbrazon 304 Monte Carlo 305 Montmorency 305 Nantua 305 Ni9oise I., II 305 Nouveau Siecle 305 Orientale 305 Parisienne 305 Paysanne 305 Petite Mariee 305 Petite Prussienne 305 Pharao 305 Piemontaise 305 Poivre 306 Polonaise 306 Portugaise 306 Primeur 306 Prince de Galles , 306 Princesse 306 Princesse Helene 306 Regence 306 Reine.., 306 Reine Margot 306 Riz (au) 307 St. James 307 St. Lucia 307 St. Menehould 307 Soufflee 307 Souvaroff 307 Stanley 307 Sylvania 307 Talleyrand 307 Tosca 308 Toscana 308 Trianon .. 308 Trieste 308 Valencienne 308526 Index. Poularde3—contd. Page Vert Pre 308 Vichy 308 Poulardes—contd. Page Victoria 308 Washington 308 PART VIII.—RELEVE (REMOVE). Page Aloyau de Bceuf (Sirloin of Beef): A l’Anglaise 309 Americaine 309 Bourgeoise 309 Bretonne 309 Florence 309 Fran^aise 309 Infante 309 Moderne 310 Nivernaise 310 Portugaise 310 Cote de Bceuf (Ribs): Contrefilet 310 Bceuf a la Mode 310 Bceuf bouilli aux Racines 310 Filet de Boeuf (Filet): A l’Andalouse 310 Arlesienne 310 Berrichonne 310 Bisontine 311 Bouquetiere 311 Brebant 311 Clamart 311 Chatelaine 311 Doria 311 Dubarry 311 Fervaal 311 Flamande 311 Frascati 311 Gastronome 311 Godard 311 Gouffd 311 Hongroise 311 Hussard 312 Page Filet de Boeuf—contd. Japonnaise 312 Jockey Club .. 312 Londonderry 312 Lorette 312 Madeleine 312 Maillot 312 Majordomo 312 Maraichere 312 Massenet 312 Mercedes 312 Mexicaine 313 Moderne I., II 313 Montmorency 313 Orientale 313 Parisienne 313 Petit Due 313 Phileas Gilbert 313 Portugaise 313 Prince Albert 313 Prince Orloff 314 Princesse 314 Proven^ale 314 Renaissance 314 Royale 314 St. Florentin 314 St. Germain 314 Sarde 314 Talleyrand 314 Tivoli 314 Trianon 314 Wellington 314 Gigot de Mouton (Leg of Mutton) : A l’Anglaise 315527 Index. Page Selle de Mouton (Saddle) : Metternich 315 Moruay 315 Prince Orloff 315 St. Germain 315 Various Suitable Gar- nishes 315 Selle d’Agneau: Agneau de Pouillae 316 Agneau Pascal 316 A l’Anglaise 316 Epaule de Mouton (Shoul- der) : A l’Anglaise 316 Bonne Femme 316 Boulangere 316 Braisee 316 Quarter and Shoulder of Lamb 316 Carre de Mouton (Neck): Beaucaire 317 Bonne Femme 317 Limousine 317 Mireille 317 Printaniere 317 Soubise 317 Toscane 317 Carre d’Agneau 317 Longe et Filet de Veau (Loin and Fillet of ^ Veal) : A l’Anglaise 317 Ancienne 317 Boulangere 318 Bourgeoise 318 Bruxelloise 318 Cambaceres 318 Dauphine 318 Dubouzet 318 Farval 318 Florent 318 Lausanne 318 Mancelle 318 Page Longe de Veau, etc.—contd. Milanaise 318 Moderne 318 Nemours 318 Pompadour 318 Pontois 319 Potagere 319 St. Clair 319 St. Cloud 319 Suzane 319 Suzeraine 319 Trianon 319 Versaillienne 319 Selle de Veau (Saddle of ^ Veal) : A la Doria 319 Metternich 319 Orientale 320 Prince Orloff 320 Tosca 320 Selle de Chevreuil: A l’Allemande 320 Baden Baden 320 Beaujeu 320 Creole 320 Cumberland 320 Genievre 321 Roebuck and Venison: Romanoff 321 Walkyrie 321 Hanche de Venaison (Haunch of Venison).. 321 Jambon (Ham): A l’Anglaise 321 Bayonnaise 321 Bourguignonne 322 Broche 322 Camerani 322 Champagne .. 322 Chanoinesse 322 Christiana 322 Endives (aux) 322 Feves de Marais (aux). 322528 Index. Jambon—contd. Page Fitz James 323 Metternich 323 Norfolk.... 323 Pucker Muskan 323 Rothschild 323 Gibier (Game). Lievre (Hare) : A l’Allemande 323 A l’Anglaise 323 En Civet a i’Anglaise ... 323 Bordelaise 323 Bourguignonne 323 Forestiere 324 Pates 324 Cailles (Quails) : Au Nid 324 Avx Cerises 324 Aux Raisins 324 Beaconsfield 324 Bolonaise 324 Bonne Femme 324 Casserole ... 324 Cavaliere 324 Clermont 325 Dauphine 325 Diane 325 Figaro 325 Frere Provenceaux 325 George Sand 325 Grecque 325 Judic 325 Julie 325 Lucullus 325 Mariane 325 Medicis 325 Normande 325 Orientale 325 Petit Due 325 Perigourdine 326 Pilaff ou Pilaw 326 Richelieu 326 Richemond 326 Cailles—contd. Page Romaine 326 Savoisienne 326 Souvaroff 326 Turque 326 Yigneronne 326 Perdreaux (Partridges): Au Choux 326 A l’Anglaise 326 Bourguignonne 326 Castillane 327 Demideuil 327 Diplomate 327 Eagle 327 Fermiere 327 Gitana 327 Lady Clifford 327 Lantrec 327 Lorraine 327 Marly 327 Normande 327 Polonaise 327 Prince de Galles 327 Sierra Morena 328 Souvaroff 328 Strasbourgeoise 328 Yalencienne 328 Victoria 328 Grouse : A l’Ailsa 328 Anglaise 328 En Pates 328 Ecossaise 328 En Terrine a 1’ Anglaise . 328 Imitation Grouse 328 Kinnaird 329 Rob Roy 329 Faisan (Pheasant) : A l’Alcantara 329 Angournoise 329 Bateliere 329 Bohemeinne I., II., III. 329 Bouilli a l’Anglaise 329 Bruxelloise 329529 Index. Faisan—contd. Page Cavour 329 Comte de Brabant 330 Connaught 330 Demidoff 330 Derby 330 Diplomate 330 En Casserole 330 En Kari 330 En Pates a l’Anglaise ... 330 Terrine a l’Anglaise... 330 Etoffe ou St. Alliance ... 330 Flamande 330 Georgienne 330 Gitana 330 Gourmet 330 Iraperiale 330 Livournaise 331 Begence 331 Rossini 331 Royale 331 St. George 331 Souvaroff 331 Soyer 331 Strasbourgeoise 331 Tackeray 331 Titania 331 Victoria 331 Vosgienne 331 Canard Sauvage (Wild Duck) : A l’Americaine 332 Anglaise 332 Bigarade * 332 Gourmet 332 Presse 332 Canard Sauvage—contd. Pagbt Providence 332 Rt%ence 332 Syrienne 332 Tyrolienne 332 Sarcelle (Teal or Widgeon) 332 Becasse (Woodcock) : A l’Eeaillere 333 Careme 333 Celestine 333 En Salmi 333 Farcie 333 Fine Champagne 333 Flambee ou Flambante... 333 Prince 333 Riche 333 Souvaroff 333 Victoria 333 Becassine (Snipe) : En Terrine a l’Anglaise 334 Pluvier (Plover) 334 Mauviette ou Ortolan (Lark or Ortolan) : A la Bonne Femme 334 Diplomate 334 En Casserole a l’Olea ... 334 En Cerise , 334 En Pates 334 En Terrine a 1’Anglaise 334 Grecque 334 Mere Marianne 334 Meridionale 335 Pere Phillipe 335 Perigueux 335 Portobello 335 Turque 335 PART IX.—LE FROID (COLD DISHES). Page Aspic or Savoury Jelly ... 336 Farce for Galantine 336 Mousse 337 Mousseline 337 Page Aspic de Homard 337 Cardinal 337 Russe 337 Mousse d’Ecrevisse 337 M M530 Index. Page Mousse de Homard 337 d’Lang'ouste 337 de Rouget 337 de Saumon 337 Belle Helene 338 Aspic de Crevette 338 Homard Chevreuse 338 Montholon 338 Moscovite 338 Neva 338 Paiisienne 338 Russe 338 Medaillon de Homard 339 Aspic de Filet de Sole 339 Chartreuse ,, ,, 339 Chaudfroid ,, „ 339 Langouste (Crawfish) 339 Filet de Sole Adelaide 340 Calypso 340 Cambaceres 340 Celestine 340 Domino 340 Insarte 340 Tendyck 340 Truite (Trout): A la Baron 341 En Belle Yue 341 Gourmet 341 Juive 341 Montpellier 341 Nansen 341 Norvegienne 341 Rothschild 341 Pain de Truite 342 Saumon (Salmon) : A la Norvegienne 342 Parisienne 342 Riga 342 Mayonnaise de Saumon 342 Homard 342 Supreme a la Beaupre... 342 Jeannette 342 Page Volaille (Poultry). Mousse de Volaille 343 Printaniere 343 Chaudfroid de Poulet Beatrice 343 Ecossaise 343 Felix Faure 343 Jeannette...' 343 Lady Curzon 343 Moderne 343 Olga 344 Princesse , 344 Rochelle 344 Rossini 344 St. James 344 Vincent 344 Compote de Volaille Pri- muer 344 Poularde (Capon) : A l’Anglaise 345 Alexandra 345 Au Champagne 345 Dampierre 345 Ecarlate 345 Gounod 345 Isabelle 345 Lambertyne 345 Neva 345 Parisienne 346 Princesse 346 Rose de Mai 346 Saint Cyr 346 Strasbourgeoise 347 Wologda 347 Galantine 347 Caneton (Duckling) : Aiguillette Jaffa 347 Japonnaise 348 Cerise 348 Mandarine 348 Moscovite 348 Neva 348Index. 531 Page Caneton—contd. Rouennaise a l’Edouard YII 348 Sevillane 348 Timbale Yoisin . 348 Medaillon de Pigeon Laurette 349 Moderne 349 Ris de Veau Brighton 349 Gibier (Game). Faisan (Pheasant) : A la Bohemienne 349 Croix de Berny 349 Chandfroid Chatelaine ... 349 Gastronome 349 Mousse 350 Mousse de Lievre 350 de Becaise 350 Perdreaux (Partridges) ... 350 Cailles (Quails) : A la Carmen 350 Cecilia 350 Chateau Yquem . 350 Nillson 350 Glacee Carmen 351 Maryland 351 Reine Amelie 351 Romanee 351 Richelieu 351 Vendangeuse 351 Mauviettes (Larks) 351 Page Various. Cotelettes d’Agneau (Lamb Cutlets: Bergere 351 Laura 351 Prineesse Margaret 351 Russe 352 En Aspic 352 Chaudfroid de Foie Gras... 352 Domino 352 Cotelette de Chevreuil a la Diane 352 Foie Gras a la Gastronome 352 Mousse de Foie Gras 352 Timbales a la Tzarina 352 Brawn a l’Anglaise 353 Filet de Boeuf Philipine ... 353 President 353 Filet de Veau et Jambon a la Gelee 353 Hure de Sanglier 353 Terrine de Faisan ou Perdreaux 353 Terrine de Foie Gras 353 Jambon a la Gelee 354 En Croute 354 Langue de Boeuf de Cin- derella 354 Salee 354 Rond de Boeuf a le Gelee 354 Spiced Beef 354 Instruction in Carving 355 PART X.—SALADES (VARIEES). Adeline Allemande Alsacienne Americaine I., IX Page 366 366 366 366 Andalouse Bargation Barbe de Capucin . Barcelone mm2 Page 366 367 367 367532 Index. Page Basto 367 Beatrice 367 Beaucaire 367 Belle Fermiere 367 Betteraye 367 Buenos Ayres 367 Bourbonaise 367 Canaille 367 Cappone Magro 367 Carmelite 367 Caroline 368 Cazanova 368 Chef de Cuisine 368 Chicago . 368 Chinoise I.5 II 368 Choux rouge 368 Clauzel 368 Concombre 368 Couvent 368 Cressonnaire 368 Cultivateur 368 Danicheff 368 Danoise 368 Demideuil 369 Demidoff 369 D’Estrees 369 D’Ete 369 D’CEuf 369 Don Carlos 369 Dumas 369 Duval 369 Ecossaise 369 Emma 369 Espagnole 369 Faubourg 369 Fin de Si&cle 369 Flamande 369 Florida 369 Fraises a l’Americaine 369 Francaise * 369 Francillon 370 Franckfortoise 370 Galloise 370 Gauloise Page 370 Georgia 370 Gobelin 370 Grande Duchesse 370 Grisconne 370 Haricots Yerts 370 Henri IY 370 Hollandaise 370 Humbert 370 Imperiale 370 Indianapolis 370 Interlaken 371 Isabelle 371 Italienne 371 Japonnaise I., II 371 Jardiniere 371 Jockey Club 371 Lackme 371 Laitue Lorette 371 Macke (de) 371 Margot 371 Marianne 371 Marie Stuart 371 Mascotte . ... 372 Mercedes . ... 372 Mignon o no O i £ Mikado 372 Moderne 372 Monte Cristo 372 Moscovite 372 Nassau 372 New London 372 Ni^oise 372 Ninon I., II 372 Noemi 372 Norfolk 372 Opera 373 Orientale 373 Orpkeline ... 373 Paloise 373 Panackee ... 373 Parisienne I., II 373Index. 533 Page Parmentier 373 Piemontaise 373 Pieukerke 873 Poireaux 373 Polonaise 373 Pomme de Terre 373 Pompadour 373 Portugaise 373 Prince de Galles 374 Pro venial e 374 Rachel 374 Regente 374 Regence 374 Reine Madge 374 Romaine 374 Russe I., II 324 Salome 374 Salsifis 374 Sicilienne 374 Sportsman 374 Stetson 374 Straganoff .. 374 Suednise 375 Suzette 375 Therese 375 Tomate 375 Tourangelle I., II 375 Tredirne 375 Tyrolienne 375 Victoria 375 Villa 375 Waldimir 375 Waldorf 375 Windsor 375 Pomme de Terre (Potatoes). A l’Albufera 376 Alsacienne 376 Anna 376 Annette 376 Ardennaise 376 Page Au Four 376 Baloise 376 Bartkoly 376 Bataille 376 Bayonnaise 376 Bengal 376 Bernoise 376 Berny 376 Berrichonne 377 Beurre (au) 377 Bignonne 377 Bonne Femme 377 Bordelaise 377 Boulangere I., II 377 Bourgeoise 377 Bovin 377 Braba9onne 377 Brabant 377 Bretonne I., II 377 Brioche 377 Byron 377 Careme 378 Cendrillon 378 Chamberry 378 Champignol 378 Chateau 378 Chatouillard 378 Chinoise 378 Chipolata 378 Christie 378 Colbert 378 Collorette 378 Commandant 378 Continentale 378 Contreville 378 Copeaux 379 Croquettes 379 Dauphine 379 Dauphinoise 379 Delicieuse 379 Dietrich 379 Dijonnaise 379 Duchesse 379534 Index. Page Ernestine 379 Espagnole 379 Etuvee 379 Farcie 379 Favorite 379 Flam ancle 380 Fondante 380 Garfield 380 Georgette 380 Godard 380 Hongroise I., II 380 Indienne 380 Italienne 380 Laffitte 380 Liard 380 Liberte 380 Lorrette 380 Lyonnaise 380 Macaire I., II 380 Maire 381 Maria 381 Marquise 381 Menagere I., II 381 Mignonnette 381 Milanaise I., II 381 Mireille I., II 381 Mirette 381 Moncelet 381 Mont Dor6 381 Mousseline 3S1 Nana 381 Nanette 381 Ninette 382 Noisette 382 Normande 382 Orsini 382 Parisienne 382 Parmentier 382 Paysanne 382 Persill^e 382 Polonaise . 382 Pont Neuf 382 Portugaise 382 Page Provencale 382 Riche 382 Rissolee ... 382 Robert 382 Rosette 383 Roxelane 383 Russe 383 St. Florentin 383 Sardanaise 383 Sautes 383 Savoie 383 Savoyarde 383 Schneider 383 Soufflee 383 Surprise 383 Suzette 384 Turque 334 Varsovienne 384 Vauban 384 Viennoise 384 Voisin 384 Windsor 384 Yvette 384 Legumes (Vegetables). Asperges (Asparagus) : A 1’Espagnole 384 Flamande 384 Frappee 385 G^nevoise 385 Italienne 385 Maltaise 385 Milanaise 385 Mornay 385 Nigoise 385 Parisienne 385 Piemontaise 385 Polonaise 385 Royale 385 Sib^rienne 385 Suisse 385535 Index. Page Aubergines (Egg Plant) : A l’Andalouse 385 Algerienne 385 Am6ricaine 385 Chatelaine 386 Egyptienne 386 Frite 386 Grilles ... 386 Napolitaine 386 Parisienne 386 Proven9ale 386 St. Jean 386 Turque I., II 386 Artichauds (Green or Globe Artichoke) : A la Barigoule 386 Bordelaise 386 Boulangere 387 ^ Cavour 387 Clamart 387 Colbert 387 Cussy 387 Dietrich 387 Flamande 387 Florentine 387 Gastronome 387 Grecque 387 Italienne 387 Lyonnaise 387 Maraichfere 388 Milanaise 388 Mornay 388 Parisienne 388 Paysanne 388 Poulette 388 Proven9ale 388 Romaine 388 Sagan •.• 388 Stanley 388 Turque 388 Vemtienne 388 Page Topinambour (Jerusalem Artichoke) : A la Creme 389 An Beurre 389 Gratin 389 Cravocienne 389 Genevoise 389 Italienne 389 Cardons (Cardoons) : A la Bourgeoise 389 Au Jus 389 Espagnole 389 Nivernaise 389 Milanaise 389 Moelle 389 Mornay 389 Cepes: A la Bordelaise 390 Creme 390 Piemontaise 390 Provencal e 390 Rossini 390 Russe 390 Touraine 390 Celeri (Celery): Au Jus 390 A 1’Espagnole 390 En Beignet 390 Puree 390 Frit 391 A l’ltalienne 391 A la Genevoise 391 Moelle 391 Reine 391 Villeroi 391 Concombres (Cucumber) : A la Bombay 391 Clermont 391 Doria 391 Duchesse 391 Espagnole 391536 Index. Concombres—contd. Page A la Fermiere 392 Frite 392 Nh^oise 392 Poulette 392 Tzarina 392 Flageolets 392 Feves de Marais (Broad Beans) : A l’Anglaise 392 A la Creole 392 Au Lard 392 Lyonnaise 392 Westphalienne 392 Endive Beige (Chioory) ... 392 Chicoree (Endive) : A la Creme 393 Espagnole 393 Flamande 393 Paysanne 393 En Timbales 393 Garbanzos (Spanish Dried Peas) 393 Co urge (Vegetable Marrow) : AlaCrfeme 393 Nhjoise 393 Proven9ale 393 Chouxfleur (Cauliflower) : A la Cardinal 394 Dubarry 394 Fran9aise 394 Frit 394 Ignatieff 394 Milanaise 394 Polonaise 394 Rebecca;: 394 Villeroi 394 Au Gratin 394 Chou de Mer (Seakale) ... 394 Page Choux de Bruxelle (Brussels Sprouts) : A l’Anglaise 394 Bonne Femme 395 Flamande 395 Italienne 395 Moderne 395 Russe 395 Sautes 395 Viennoise 395 Au Marron 395 Choucroute (Sauerkraut) : A l’Allemande 395 Hongroise 395 Russe 395 Choux Rouge (Red Cabbage) : A l’Allemande 395 Alsacienne 395 Bonne Femme 395 Hollandaise 396 Russe 396 Valentienne 396 Choux Vert (Cabbage) : A l’Autrichienne 396 Bavaroise 396 Braises 396 Farcis I., II 396 Laboureur 396 Choux Rave (Celeriac) : A la Bourgeoise 396 Au Jus 396 Creme 397 Gratin 397 A la Russe 397 Epinards (Spinach) : Au Jus 397 En Branche 397 En Subric 397 A l’Allemande 39753 7 Index. Page Epinards—contd. A la Colbert 397 Comtesse 397 Creme 397 Italienne 397 Martha 397 Romaine .. 398 Timbales 398 Viroflay 398 Maize (Indian or Sweet Corn): A la Bostonienne 398 Creole 398 Maryland 398 Roti 398 Saute 398 En Ragout 398 Okras : A la Creme 398 A l’Anda'ouse 399 Au Gratin 399 Virginia 399 Petits Pois (Peas) : A TAnglaise 399 Ancienne 399 Avignonnaise 399 Bonne Femme 399 Bourgeoise 399 Elamande 399 Florentine 399 Francaise 400 Paysanne 400 Puree de Legumes (Puree of Vegetables) : Bretonne 400 Dubarry 400 Flamande 400 Freneuse 400 Garbure 400 St. Germain 400 Saxonne 400 Soissonnaise .. 400 Soubise 400 PAGE Haricots Verts (French Beans) : A la Creme 400 Espagnole 400 Fran9aise 400 Lyonnaise 400 Maitre d’Hotel 400 Orleannaise 400 Paloise 401 Panaches 401 Tourangelle 401 Viennoise 401 Villars 401 Haricots Blancs (Haricot Beans, White) : A la Bretonne 401 Cr&me 401 Hollandaise . 401 Lyonnaise 401 Maitre d’Hotel 401 Robert 401 Viennoise 401 Haricots Rouge (Haricot Beans (Red): Bourguignonne 401 Etuves 402 Maconnaise 402 Champignons (Mush- rooms) : xA la Creme 402 Bordelaise .. 402 Bourguignonne 402 Capucine 402 Farcis 402 Fines Herbes 402 Livonienne 402 Prove^ale 402 Russe 402 En Puree 402 Sous Cloche 402 Laitue (Lettuce): A la Cr&me 403 Braisties 403Index. 538 Page Laitue—contd. Farcie 403 Moelle 403 Paysanne 403 Navets (Turnips) : Glacees 403 En Puree 403 Oignons (Onions) : A 1’Espagnole 403 Farcis 403 Frits 403 Glaces 03 En Puree 403 Pe-Tzai (Chinese Cabbage) 404 Poireaux (Leeks) : A la Creme 404 Aq Jus 404 En Tourtes 404 Parisienne 404 Carottes (Carrots) : A la Bourgeoise 404 Flamande 404 Glacees 404 Marianne 404 Parisienne 404 Paysanne 404 Vichy 405 Page Salsifis (Oyster Plant or Salsify) : A la Creme 405 Frits I., II 405 Au Gratin 405 Tomates (Tomatoes) : A l’Americaine 405 Carmelite 405 Genevoise 405 Inclienne 405 Polonaise 405 Portugaise 405 Prove^ale 406 San Francisco 406 Turque 406 Truffe : Au Champagne 406 En Serviette 406 Hoping John 406 Katalou 406 Bisi Bisi 406 Provengale 406 Sous la Cendre 406 Tallyerand 406 Victoria 406 Kari de Legumes 407 PART XI.—ENTREMETS (SWEETS). Pouding (Pudding) : Page Albufera 408 Ancienne 408 Bacheliere 408 Barnado 408 Beaufort 408 Beaulieu . 408 Bohemienne 408 Bresilienne .: 408 Cabinet Moderne 409 Cambac<ir6s 409 Cardinal 409 Pouding—contd. Page Celestine 409 Chevreuse 409 Chinoise 409 Churchill 409 Coloniale 409 Comtesse 409 Cussy 409 Denise 409 Diplomate 410 Dominicain 419 Duchesse 419Index. 539 Ponding-—contd. Page Edna 410 Elizabeth 410 Evangeline 410 Franckfort I., II 410 Francklin 410 Gastronome 410 Georgette 410 Geraldine 410 Gladstone . 411 Hambolt 411 Hanovre 411 Indienne 411 Israelite 411 Javanais 411 Jeanne 411 Joan 411 Kubelik 411 Lord Cowley 411 Malakoff 411 Marcel 411 Marcelle 411 Marquise 412 Mascotte 412 Metternich 412 Montmorency 412 Mousseline 412 National 412 Nelson 412 Nesselrode 412 Nina 412 Normand 412 Orleans 412 Palmyre 413 Princesse 413 Printanier 413 Radziwill 413 Regence 413 Heine I., II 413 Rothschild 413 Royal 413 Salvador 413 Sans Souci 413 Saxon 413 Pouding—contd. Page Singapore .... 413 Sir Watkins 413 Stockholm ... 414 Su chard 414 Suedois 414 Tante Suzanne 414 Theobroma 414 Tyrolienne 414 Venus 414 Versuvienne 414 Viennois 414 Vincent 414 Weimar 414 Wellington 415- Charlotte (Hot) : Bankok 415 Brillat Savarin 415 Castillac 415 Moderne 415 Normande 415 Polonaise 415 Pomme (de) 415 Portugaise 416 Reine 416 Royale 416 Varsovienne 416 Charlotte (Cold): Arlequin 416 Calvill e 416 Carmen 416 Chantilly 417 Javanaise 417 Klondyke 417 Metternich 417 Montreuil 417 Moscovite 417 Nina 417 Opera 417 Orientale 417 Parisienne 417 Pompadour 417 Renaissance 418 Russe 418540 Index. Timbale (Hot) : Page Ambassadeur 418 Bourdaloue 418 Conde 418 Darenberg 418 Ducliesse 418 Faveur 418 L’Anglaise (a) 418 Marie Louise 419 Montmorency 419 Parisienne 419 Suedoise 419 Valencienne 419 Royal Pralinee (cold) 419 Creme (Cream or Bavarois): Beau Rivage 419 Caramel 419 Clermont 420 Creole 420 Dalmatienne 420 Diplomate 420 Ecossaise 420 Espagnole 420 Eugenie 420 Figaro 420 Florentine 420 Marie Louise 420 My Queen 420 Opera 420 Pompadour 420 Printaniere 421 Regina 421 Religieuse 421 Viennoise 421 Hot Creams: Creme R6gence 421 Meringues 421 Villageoise 421 Croiites (Hot): Lyonnaise 421 Marechale 421 Normande 422 Parisienne 422 Croutes (Hot)—contd. Page Turban Richelieu 422 Victoria 422 Cold : Pain de Riz Egyptienne 422 Imperatrice 422 Maltaise 423 Richelieu 423 Gelees (Jellies Chartreuse et Suedoise) : Belgravia 423 Carte Blanche 423 Dantzie 423 En Coupe 423 Grande Chartreuse 423 Imperiale 423 Moderne 423 Mosaique ^... 423 Moscovite 424 Orange 424 Orientale 424 Parisienne 424 Renaissance 424 Russe 424 Volaire 424 Chantilly 424 Chartreuse de Fraises 424 Chantilly 424 Fruit 4-24 Suedoise Bon Chretien 424 Moderne ... * 424 Normande 424 Princesse 425 Reine Mab 425 Richelieu 425 Poires (Pears) : Alma 425 Au Rum 425 Bourdaloue 425 Cardinal...: 425 Carignon 425 Conde 426 Dijonnaise 426 Dreux 426Index. 541 Poires—contd. Page Duchesse 426 En Surprise 426 Felicity 426 Florentine 426 George 426 Helene 426 Imperatrice 426 Lombarde 427 Louis Phillippe 427 Marquise 427 Mary Garden 427 Melba 427 Moscovite 427 Parisienne ... 427 Pralines 427 Princesse 427 Ranavalo 427 Regence 428 Reine Emxna 428 Religieuse < 428 Sultane 428 Van Dick 428 Pommes (Apples) : Au Beurre 428 Beatrice 428 Bokemienne 428 Bonne Femme 428 Cevenole 428 Chatelaine 429 Chevreuse 429 Dauphine 429 Flan de Pomme 429 Liegeoise 429 Florentine 429 Frite 429 Grimaldi 429 Irene 429 Lady Morgan 430 Malverne 430 Marie Stuart 430 Maryadel 430 Meringuees 430 Pommes—contd. Page Parisienne 430 Portugaise 430 Richelieu 430 Royal 430 Van Dick 430 "Windsor 431 Abricots (Apricots) : Beignets 431 Bordelaise 431 Bourdaloue I., II 431 Colbert 431 Condd 431 Creole 431 Cussy 431 Gratin 431 Meringues 431 Parisienne 431 Royale 432 Sultane 432 Victoria 432 Peekes (Peaches): Aiglon 432 Alexandra I., II 432 Andalouse 432 Aurore 432 Cardinal 432 Caroline 432 Colbert 432 Conde 433 Cussy! 433 Diable 433 Edna May 433 Flambee 433 Glacee Reine Alexandra 433 Maintenon 433 Melba 433 Meringuees 433 Montreuil 433 Moscovite 433 Pompa Rose 434 Portugaise 434 Reine Blanche 434 Richelieu 434542 Index. Peches—contd. Page Rose Cheri 434 Sultane 434 Nectarines 434 Ananas (Pineapple) : Carmelite 434 Conoid 434 Creole 434 Cussy 435 D’Orleans 435 En Surprise 435 Georgette 435 Marquise 435 Master Joe 435 Royale 435 Bananes (Bananas) : Norvegienne 435 Praises (Strawberries): Cardinal 435 Cecil 435 Champagne 436 Creole 436 Femina 436 Lerina 436 Maconnaise 436 Marguerite 436 Marquise 436 Melba 436 Nina 436 Pelissier 436 Reve de Bebe 436 Ritz 436 Romanoff 437 Wilhelm 437 Zelma 437 Pramboises (Raspberries): Flan de 437 Melon : Creole 437 Orientale 437 Surprise 437 Cerises (Cherries): Page Dijonnaise 438 Flan Dubarry 438 Jubilee 438 Valerie 438 Viennoise 438 Various. Cotelettes en Surprise ... 438 Croutes Dijonnaise 438 Flan a l’Allemande 438 Americaine 439 de Fraises Suisse 439 Bateliere 439 Brezilien 439 Grilles 439 Parisienne 439 Roosevelt 439 Shakespeare 439 Isle Flottante 439 Kallshalle d’Ananas 439 Macedoine 439 Mont Blanc 440 Mousseline d’GEnfs Mima.. 440 Rejane 440 (Eufs en Surprise 440 Pomelo au Kirsch 440 Quatres Mendiants 440 Rod Gro Danois 440 Salade de Pomelo 441 Vacherin Suisse 441 Zephir Viennois 441 Beignets (Fritters) : Abricots 441 Banane 441 d’Ananas 441 Espagnole 441 Harem 441 Beignets Souffles : Dauphine 441 Grand Mere 441 Italienne 442Index 543 Page Beignets Souffles—contd. Medicis 442 Vanille 442 Zoe 442 Crepes (Pancakes) : Couvent — Georgette 442 Gil Bias 442 Normande 442 Parisienne 442 Russe 442 Suzette 442 Omelette Sucre (Sweet Omelette) : Alplionso 442 Belle Valence 443 Celestine 443 Claremont 443 George Sand 443 Melba 443 Noel 443 Omelette Soufflee : A 1’Absinthe 443 Orange 443 Vanille 443 Omelette en Surprise : Chinoise 444 Creole 444 Elizabeth 444 Islandaise 444 Jamaique 444 My Lady 444 My Lord 444 Norvegienne 444 Sylph 444 Vesuve 445 Souffles Varies : How to Make Them 445 Carmago 446 D’Orleans 446 Hilda 446 Java 446 Lerina 446 Page Souffles Varies—contd. Lucullus 446 Orientale 446 Palmyre 446 Paulette 446 Pralines 446 Rothschild 447 Royale 447 Entremets Etrangers (For- eign Sweets): Dampfundels 447 Gollatschen 447 Guglhupf 447 Indianerlcrapfen 447 Kaimak 447 Kerkson.; 447 Kutja 447 Malibe 448 Montecados 448 , Malakoff 448 Mince Pies 448 Mince Meat 448 Plum Pudding 448 Vegetarian Christmas Pudding 449 Gateaux et Patisserie (Cakes and Pastries) : Abricotine 449 Aloxa 449 Anglais 449 Baba 449 Barcelonnette 449 Baton de Jacob 449 Biscuits de Reims 449 Biscuits de Savoie 450 Breton 450 Brioche 450 Calvados 450 Caprice 450 Champigny 450 Chateaubriand 450 Compiegne 450 Compostella 450544 Index. iteaux, etc.—contd. Page Conversation .... 450 Copeaux ... 450 Cyrano . . 451 D’Amande 451 Dartoi .... 451 Darty .... 451 De Nantes .... 451 Duchesse .... 451 Eclair .... 451 Eugenie .... 451 Fanchonette .... 451 Fondant .... 451 Frascati .... 451 Galicien .... 451 Genoise .... 452 Hortensia .... 452 Jalousies .... 452 Lecrelet .... 452 Langue de Chat ... . .... 452 Le Nelson .... 452 Madeleine .... 452 Manon .... 453 Manque .... 453 Marguerite .... 453 Mars .... 453 Mazarin .... 453 Milanais .... 453 Mille Feuille ... 453 Mussick 453 Montmorency .. .. 453 Napolitain 453 Norvegien 454 Palais de Dame 454 Patience 454 Petits Polonais 454 Polonais 454 Pompadour 454 Prince de Galles 454 Quillet 454 Religieuse 454 Ricliebourg 454 Richelieu 454 Siamois 455 Gateaux, etc.—contd. Page Sicillien 455 Solferino 455 Suedois 455 Sweet Sandwiches 455 Teheran 455 Tetrazzini 455 Trois Freres 455 Viennois 456 Vivienne 456 Icing for Cakes : Coffee Icing 456 Chocolate Icing 456 Fondant 456 Heureka Icing 456 Water Icing 456 Glaces (Ices). Bombes: Aboukir 457 Africaine I., II 457 Aida 457 Aiglon 457 Alaska 457 Albufera 457 Alexandra 457 Alexandrowitch 457 Algerienne 458 Alhambra 458 Almeria 458 Americaine I., II., III... 458 Andalouse 458 Antigone 458 Arabe 458 Archiduc 45S Arlesienne 458 Bar-le-Duc 458 Baron Pierre de Sancy... 458 Batavia 458 Beatrice 458 Bombe Cocoanut 458 Bonne Nuit 458 Bordelaise 459 Bourdaloue 459545 Index. Bombes—contd. Pack Bresilienne 429 Camargo 459 Cantalone 459 Caprice 459 Cardinale : 459 Carmen 459 Ceylon 459 Chateaubriand I., II 459 Chesterfield 459 Chinoise 459 Clarence 459 Cleopatra 459 Coloniale 459 Comtesse Marie 459 Continentale 459 Coppelie 459 Courcelles 460 Creme Bisque 460 de Poire 460 Ponche 460 Pralinees 460 Creole 460 Cydonia 460 Cyrano 460 Czar 460 Dame Blanche 460 Danicheff 460 Delicieuse 460 Demidoff 460 Diable Rose 461 Dijornnaise 461 Diplomate 461 Doctoresse 461 Dora 461 Duchesse 461 Dulmacia 461 Edouard VII 461 Egyptienne 461 Electra 461 Espagnole 461 Esperance 461 Excellente 461 Excelsior 461 Bombes—contd. Page Falstaff 461 Fanchon 461 Favorite 461 Fedora I., II 461 Figaro 461 Florentine 462 Formosa 462 Francillon 462 Franco-Russe 462 Frou Frou 462 Gaston 462 Genevieve 462 Georgette 462 Germaine 462 Gismonda 462 Havanaise 462 Helene 462 Helyett 462 Hilda 462 Hiram 462 Hollandaise 462 Hortensia 462 Isabella 462 Isabelle 462 Italienne 463 Jaffa 463 Jamalque 463 Japonnaise 463 Jeanne d’Arc 463 Jeannette 463 Josephine 463 Leperdit 463 Le Prophete 463 Liverpool 463 Madeleine 463 Maltaise 463 Marechale 463 Marie Brissard 463 Marie Louise 463 Marie Stuart 463 Marie Th^rese 463 Margot 463 Marguerite 463 N NIndex. 546 Bombee—contd. Page Marquise 464 Au Champagne 464 Mascotte I., II 464 Mathilda 464 Medicis 464 Mercedes 464 Mexicaine 464 Michel Strogoff 464 Mignon 464 Milanaise 464 Mintha 464 Mogador 464 Moldane 464 Montebello 464 Monte Carlo 464 Monte Cristo 464 Montmorency 464 Moncelet 464 Mousseline 464 Mousse au The 464 Moscovite 464 Murillo 465 Nabob 465 Nelusko 465 Nero 465 Neva 465 New York 465 Odessa 465 Odette 465 Orientale I., II 465 Panachees 465 Parfait de Rose 465 Parisienne I., II., Ill 466 Petit Due I., II 466 Pomeloe 466 Pompadour 466 Portugaise 466 Prince de Galles 466 Princesse 466 Progres 466 Prophcte 466 Regente 466 Reine Amelia 466 Bombes—contd. Page Reine Bianca 466 Richelieu 466 Romeo 466 Rose Blanche 467 Rosette 467 Royale 467 St. Charles 467 St. Georges 467 St. Lorent 467 St. Louis 467 Salame 467 Sans Gene 467 Santagio I., II 467 Selika 467 Siamoise 467 Sicillia 467 Sicillienne 467 Siebel 467 Skobeloff 467 Solferino 467 Souveraine 467 Succes I., II 467 Suedoise 468 Sultane 468 Suzane 468 Theba 468 Theodora 468 Tortini I., II 468 Tosca 468 Trianon 468 Trocadero 468 Tutti frutti 468 Tzarina 468 Valencey 468 Venitienne ...' 468 Victoria 468 Viennoise 468 Vivienne 468 Volga 468 Voltaire 468 Xtir£s 468 Zamora 468 Zanzibar 468Index 547 Page Biscuits Glaces (How to Make them) : Benedictine 469 Brissard 469 Carmen 469 Comtesse 469 Marie 469 Tosca 469 Fedora 469 Lilly 469 Marie Louise 469 Pernot 469 Sarah 469 Souffles Glaces (Iced Souffle) 470 Fancy Ices served with Hot Sauce 470 Sorbets: Americain 471 Cardinal 471 Grecque 471 Imperiale 471 Nina 471 Reine de Castille 471 Romaine 471 Russe 471 St. Charles 471 Sicillienne 471 Yvette 471 Spooms 471 Coupes: Alexandra 472 Clocio 472 Dame Blanche 472 D’Aptigny 472 Denise 472 Edna May 472 Elizabeth 472 Emma Culver 472 Eugenie 472 Favourite 472 Germaine 472 Gertie Millar 472 Page Coupes—contd. Jacques 473 Johanhesburg : 473 Maison Blanche 473 Mikado 473 Monte Carlo 473 Petit Due 473 Ravanalo 473 Reve de Bebe 473 St. Andr<5 ... . 473 Sans Gene 473 Stephanie 473 Suedoise 473 Venus : 473 Vesuvienne 473 Viennoise 474 Voltaire 474 Petits Fours : Almond Biscuits 474 Almond Paste 474 Disguised Fruit 474 Fresh Fruit 474 Fruits Glaces 474 Genoise for Petits Fours 475 Macaroons 475 Petits Biscuits Souffles.. 475 Sucre Paille 475 Petits Fours Glaces : Abdul 475 Aida 475 Alice 476 Amandcs 476 Ameria 476 Americain 476 Arlequin 476 Bebe 476 Bruxellois 476 Cendrillon 476 Comtesse 476 Dalila 476 Danicheff 476 Delicats 476 Dfflices 476Index. 548 Page Petits Fours Glaces—contd. Diane 476 Exquis 477 Gyp 477 Indiana 477 Jaffa 477 Jamaique 477 Jay anas 477 Jeannette 477 Luciana .. 477 Magicien 477 Marguerite 477 Marie 477 Mascotte 477 Mathilde ....: 477 Mauretania 478 Mignon 478 Miss Helyett 478 Muscadin 478 Olga 478 Othello ...' 478 Ottero 478 Pacha 478 Patti 478 Perichole 478 Piemontais 478 Prefer<5s 478 Prima Cafe 479 Regent 479 Rossina 479 Salambo 479 Selika 479 Page Petits Fours Glaces—contd. Serpentine 479 Sigurd 479 Soupir 479 Succes 479 Surprise 479 Symiane 479 Turino 479 Yvette... 479 Zephirs 480 Petits Fours Secs : Anonymes 480 Biarritz 480 Boulonnais 480 Capitaine 480 Cigarette Russe 480 Copeaux 480 Diplomate .. 481 Eugenie 481 Intimes 481 Jamaique 481 Langue de Chat 481 Lia 481 Mignon 481 Ninette v 481 Patience 481 Rochers 481 Sacristins 482 Sarah Bernhardt 482 Soleil de Nice 482 Strella 482 Van Dick 482The Queen, THE LADY’S NEWSPAPER AND COURT CHRONICLE. Unsurpassed for the Artistic Quality of its Illustrations and the universality of the subjects voith vohich it deals. In Dress the acknowledged authority on English and Parisian Modes. These are profusely illustrated by the best fashion artists, and heralded the first week in the month by a Special Fashion Number, with Supplement and full- sized pages in Colour Printing. Leaders on topics of to-day. Society, its doings, entertainments, marriages, and Court Chronicle. Theatrical News, Sport in the hunting field, kennels, racecourses, &c. Books of the week. A Serial Novel by a leading writer. Short Stories. The Collector, what he seeks, detailed and illustrated. Photography, its current methods and results. Home Decoration, furniture and fitments up-to-date. Cuisine, latest, cooking recipes, floral decorations and inventions for the Menage, Music and Musicians, musical doings, and compositions Needlework, new and old. The World of Art, exhibitions, artists and their productions. Pastimes, golf, motoring, and cycling. Travel, places, how to reach them, their doings and resources. Women’s Employ- ment, their means of livelihood. Saturday, Price 6d., by post 6Jd* Yearly Subscription, Creat Britain, post free, <£1 10s. ; Six Months, 15s.; Three Months, 7s. fid. Yearly Subscription, Foreign Countries, post free, £2 3s. fid.; Six Months, <£1 Is. 9d.; Three Months, lls. Offices: Windsor House, Bream’s Buildings, London, E.C.