3-^tf'/f / t 22101425917Med K9123 ^E Exhibition Cookery Book CONTAINING Practical Recipes for Plain and Superior Household Cookery. BY AN expert CHEF. LONDON: LANGSFORD, may & COMPANY, 178, UPPER THAMES STREET, E.C., AND AT 27, CHANCERY LANE,^2i C Cl WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. or .The Exhibition Cookery Book, —♦— SOUPS. I. STOCK FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. iUmo.st any kind of meat, bones, and trimmings of cooked and raw meat, can be used for making stock. The usual proportions are i lb. of meat, etc., to every quart of water. Put the meat and bones (the latter should be cracked) in a stock-pot or a large well-tinned saucepan, add the required quantity of cold water and a little salt, and let it come to the boil. Remove the scum and add one or two carrots, one turnip, and one or two onions, all of which should first be washed and peeled. A bunch of herbs, one bayleaf, and some peppercorns added to the stock while cooking wil] improve the flavour. The whole must simmer slowly for at least tour hours before it is fit for use. Stock is used for making soups, gravy, and sauces, instead of using water.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 2 2. WHITE STOCK. Shin of beef 1 onion 1 turnip 4 quarts cold water Leg of veal 1 tablespoonful of salt 1 bunch of herbs 1 carrot Cut up the meat and chop the bones into small pieces, scrape the carrot, peel the onion and turnip, and tie up the herbs. Put the meat, bones, and salt into a large sauce- pan, cover with water, and allow it to come to the boil, skim well, add the vegetables and herbs, and allow to simmer for four hours to slowly extract gelatine from the meat and bones. Strain into a basin, remove the fat when cold, and use for soups, sauces, etc. 3. VEGETABLE SOUP. 1 small white cabbage 1 leek 1 pint of milk Salt and pepper 1 small onion 1 oz. butter or dripping 1 oz. sago or crushed tapioca 1 slice of toasted bread Wash and trim the cabbage, cut the leaves into very fine shreds, put them into boiling water (salted), and cook for ten minutes, take up and drain. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the onion and leek (previously peeled, cleaned, and cut into thin slices), fry a little, then add the cabbage, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes longer. Moisten with a quart of water, boil up, skim, and let simmer gently till all the vegetables are tender; season with pepper and salt, add the milk (boiling), put in the sago or tapioca, and cook for another ten minutes. Serve with small sippets of toasted bread.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 3 4. BROWN STOCK. I’o make brown stock the meat and vegetables should be fried a nice brown colour in dripping or butter. Pro- portions of ingredients and method are in other respects the same as given in the foregoing recipes. 5. MUTTON BROTH. li lbs. neck of mutton 1 small carrot 1 small turnip 1 small onion 2 quarts of water 1 oz. pearl barley Pepper and salt Chopped parsley Cut up the meat into small pieces, removing the super- fluous fat, and place it in the saucepan with the cold water and salt. Let this come to the boil, and then skim well. Add the prepared vegetables and pearl barley, which should be well washed, boil for two hours. Take out the meat and cut it into small pieces, removing the bones : return the meat to the soup and re-heat, add more salt, if necessary, and the finely-chopped parsley. i lb. red lentils Half an onion 1 stick celery 1 carrot 6. LENTIL SOUP. 1 oz. batter or dripping Pepper and salt 1 quart of stock or water 1 turnip (small) Soak the lentils all night in cold water; melt the butter or dripping in the saucepan ; wash the lentils and put them in the saucepan with the sliced onion and vegetables cut into pieces; stir them over the fire for five minutes, takingTIUD EXIIiniTIOiS- COOKERY JRJOK. 4 care that they do not get brown; then add the water or stock and a little salt. Let this come to the boil, then skim, and let it simmer gently until the lentils are done. Pass the soup through a wire sieve or colander. Re-heat, season to taste with pepper and more salt if needed. 7. POTATO OR MILK SOUP. 1 lb. potatoes 2 ozs. dripping or butter iV pint milk 1 tablespoonful semolina 1 onion li pints of water Salt and pepper Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in slices; peel and slice the onion; melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook them in the fat for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown; then add the water, and salt and pepper to taste. When this comes to the boil, skim it, and let it boil until the vegetables are tender. Pass the soup through a wire sieve; return it to the saucepan, add the milk, and when it comes to the boil sprinkle in the semolina; boil for ten minutes longer. The soup is then ready for table. 8. GREEN PEA SOUP. 3 pints freshly-shelled neas (large marrow-fats are best) A few sprigs of green mint li pints white stock 1 tablespoonful cream 1 gill milk 1 small bunch of parsley 2 spring onions 1 oz. butter 1 whole egg 3 yolks of eggs Pepper and salt Put the peas in a stew-pan, add about a quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, the parsley, spring onions and mint; boil till tender and rub through a fine sieve. Return to5 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. the stew-pan, put in the stock and butter, and simmer for fifteen minutes longer, then season to taste and add the cream. Mix the milk with the eggs, beat up, season to taste, and strain into a well-buttered charlotte mould. Poach in the usual manner, viz., place the mould in a saucepan half full of boiling water, and cook in the oven till set. Unmould, and cut the custard into even-sized cubes. Just before serving add a pinch of sugar and a pat of fresh butter to the soup, put in the custard cubes, and serve. 9. TOMATO SOUP. 1 lb. fresh or preserved to- matoes Fish bones and trimmings (those from a brill or plaice •will do nicely) 1 small blade of mace 1 bouquet garni 1 tablespoonful of crushed tapioca 1^ ozs. flour 2 ozs. butter ^ pint of milk 1 onion 3 cloves Pepper and salt Chop up the fish bones, put them together with the trimmings in a stew-pan, add about three pints of water, the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves), the mace and bouquet. Let it boil, skim, and simmer for about half an hour. Cut the tomatoes into slices, melt the butter in a stew- pan and boil them over a bright fire. Strain the fish stock into this. Stir the milk into the flour and put with the soup, stir until it begins to boil, skim, and cook .slowly for about half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, boil again, stir in the tapioca, let .simmer for another ten minutes, and serve.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 6 lo. CHESTNUT PUREE. 1 lb. chestnuts (Spanish) 1 pint milk 1 oz. butter 1 pint white stock Salt, pepper, and nutmeg Wipe the chestnuts, slit the skins, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes. Remove the husk and brown skin, and put the peeled chestnuts in a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter. Toss over the fire for a few minutes, tnen add the stock and milk, and cook gently till tender. Pass all through a wire sieve, return the pulp to the stew-pan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, or a pinch of ground mace. Bring it to the boil, skim, and just before serving add the remainder of the butter divided into little bits. If desired, the yolk of one or two eggs and a tablespoonful of cream may be added last of all; but the soup must not be allowed to boil after these are added. Pepper and salt Soak the beans in water for several hours. Peel and slice the onions finely, fry them very slowly in the butter until they are of a pale brown colour. Drain the beans, put them with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock, boil up, skim, and cook gently until the haricot beans are quite tender, then rub the whole II. PUREE OF HARICOT BEANS. i pint haricot beans 4 ozs. butter i gill of cream J lb. onions 2 quarts of stock 1 oz. crushed tapioca7 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. through a fine sieve. Return to the stew-pan, season to taste, bring it to the boil, and stir in the tapioca; cook for about ten minutes longer, then add the cream. Keep hot until required for table. ' Should the puree be found too thick, add a little more stock. A plate of fried bread croutons should be handed round with this soup. Remove the fillets from the partridge, cut up the remainder, and roast it with a little dripping for about twenty minutes. Make a roux i.e. blend the oatmeal and butter to a nice colour, then add the roasted carcase, etc., fry for a few minutes longer, and moisten with sufficient stock to produce the consistency of a pur^e. Allow to cook gently for hours, then season and pass through a fine sieve. Meanwhile pound the fillets of partridge, add the panade and a little white of egg, season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Make this into some quenelles, about the size of small marbles, and poach them. Prepare a royale, which consists of fresh mushrooms, cooked in stock and passed through a sieve. Mix this with the eggs, and put 12. GAME SOUP. 1 partridge or other small bird 4 ozs. oatmeal 2 ozs. panade 3 eggs Seasoning 2 ozs. dripping 4 ozs. butter 4—6 fresh mushrooms 2 quarts of white stock I gill of cream8 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. jn a buttered mould, poach, turn out, and cut into small rounds. Put this and the quenelles into the prepared puree, add the cream, let the soup get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, then serve. 13. SPRING SOUP. 3 pints stock 1 turnip 1 very small bunch of herbs (fresh) 1 white of egg 1 carrot 1 small onion I piece of celery ^ lb. gravy beef Seasoning Clean and wash the vegetables, peel them, scoop out some small rounds of carrot and turnip, cut half the onion and one celery stalk into dice, and cook each of these separately in salted water. Cut up the remainder of the vegetables into small pieces, and put these with the herbs into a stew-pan, add the white of egg (previously beaten) and the meat (previously minced and freed from skin and fat), pour in the stock, stir till it boils, and let simmer very gently for ten minutes. Strain carefully, and put the strained (clarified) soup in a clean stew-pan; add the vegetables, previously cooked, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of castor sugar; boil up and serve. Needless to say that early spring vegetables should be used. A few tarragon and chervil leaves cut into very fine strips may be put into the soup if liked. Great care must be taken in straining the soup, for it should be perfectly clear; if found otherwise it should be strained a second or third time. Use a coarse kitchen cloth for this purpose. It is best to pour a little boiled water through the cloth before straining the soup.9 THE EXHIBITION COOIvERY BOOK. If made properly, the soup should be of a nice light amber colour. A few drops of caramel may be used if found absolutely necessary, though if is best to do without any artificial colouring. 14. JULIENNE SOUP. Prepare a clear soup (consomme) as directed in the foregoing recipe. Cut carrot, turnip, onion, leek, and lettuce into very fine shreds (Julienne shapes) in equal proportion. Put the shredded vegetables in a stew-pan with just as much fresh butter as the vegetables will absorb during a temporary process of blending, which is called sauteing or tossing; when this is done add a pinch of sugar and a little salt and pepper to taste. Pour the clear soup on the vegetables, boil up, skim, and let simmer until the vegetables are quite tender. If found too consistent dilute with some water. 15. CELERY CREAM. 2 heads of young celery • 2 ozs. butter ^ small onion, peeled and sliced I oz. flour 1 quart white stock 2 yolks of eggs A pinch of castor sugar i pint cream or milk Salt and pepper to taste. Wash and trim the celery, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, cool, and cut up into small pieces. Melt the butter, when hot put in the onion and celery, and stir over the fire for several minutes; sprinkle in the flour and stirTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. lO again for a few minutes; moisten with the stock and cook till tender. Rub all through a fine sieve and return to the stew-pan, stir in the milk or cream, season to taste, adding also a pinch of sugar. Allow it to get thoroughly hot, and serve. A handful of fried bread croutons should be put into the soup tureen, or else handed round when the soup is served. i6. CUCUMBER CREAM. 1 large or 2 small cucumbers 3 ozs. fresh butter 3 yolks of eggs 1 tablespoonful cornflour (B. & P.’s patent) Salt and pepper Peel the cucumber, and cut it into small slices. Trim, wash, drain, and shred coarsely the lettuces. Blanch the cucumber and lettuces in salted water containing a very small piece of soda. Strain off the water, and put the vegetables in a stew-pan with the butter; stir for a few minutes, then add the stock. Mix the corn- flour with a little cold milk and stir into the soup. Cook for about thirty minutes, rub through a sieve, and return to a stew-pan. Stir together the yolks of eggs and the cream, pour this into the soup and stir over the fire for a few seconds longer: season to taste with pepper and salt. Put the fried bread crofitons in a soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and send to table at once. 2 lettuces 1 quart white stock 1 gill cream A handful of fried bread croutonsTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 11 T7. COCK-A-LEEKIE SOUP. 1 small fowl for boiling 1 turnip 2 cloves 2 ozs. rice 1 carrot 1 onion 1 small bunch of young leeks Salt and pepper Truss the fowl for boiling, put it in a large stew-pan or stockpot with enough water to well cover it. Add a little salt, and let it come to the boil. Remove the scum, then add the turnip and carrot (previously cleaned), also the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves). When the fowl is tender take it out. Wash the leeks, trim off the roots and outside leaves, and cut them into one inch lengths. Strain the broth, which should measure about 3 pints, into another stew-pan; add the leeks, and the rice, previously washed and blanched. Boil for about half an hour. Season to taste. Cut the fowl in half, divide one half into small pieces and put with the soup; use up the remainder for some other purpose. Before serving add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley to the soup. If preferred, the fowl need not be served with the soup, but it is essential that this soup be made from chicken stock. 18. LOBSTER SOUP. 1 lobster 4 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour 2 quarts fish stock Seasoning teaspoonful lemon ^ carrot or turnip 1 gill white wine 1 bouquet garni i gill cream 8 peppercorns juice, salt and cayenne)THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 12 Split the lobster down the back, take out the meat, break the claws, pound the shell in a mortar until quite fine, then add the butter and mix thoroughly with the pounded lobster shell. Put all in a stew-pan, and stir over the fire until hot; add the flour, and let cook for ten minutes. Then add the vegetables, herbs, and pepper- corns. Moisten with the wine and stock, stir until it boils, let simmer .slowly for twenty minutes. Tf found too thick add a little more stock. Pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the meat of the claws of lobster into neat dice, put them in a soup tureen, together with ^ gill of cream. Heat up the bisque, season to taste with salt, a few drops of lemon juice and a pinch of cayenne, stir into the tureen and serve. The remainder of the lobster meat will come in for cutlets, croquettes, or bouchees. Bone the calf’s head, blanch it and cook for three hours in the stock or salted water. Press it behveen two boards or dishes. Cut the veal, beef, and ham or bacon into pieces, put them in a large stew-pan with the vegetables 19. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. ^ small calf’s head 2 lbs. lean beef 4 ozs. flour 1 gill sherry 1 turnip 1 small onion A few sprigs of parsley 1 sprig of thyme 10 peppercorns i lemon 1 lb. veal 6 ozs. lean ham or bacon 3 quarts of stock 1 carrot 1 oz. butter 1 stalk celery 1 bay leaf 1 sprig of marjoram Salt and cayenne pepperTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 13 (cleaned and cut into slices), the butter, and herbs; stir the whole over a brisk fire until light brown. Stir in the flour, and cook until it acquires a light brown colour; moisten with two quarts of the liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled and three quarts of other stock, add the peppercorns, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Let the whole come to a boil (stir till boiling), take off the scum, and simmer slowly for three hours. Strain the soup, cut the calf’s head into neat one-inch squares, trim off the fat and put the squares into a stew-pan with the wine, cover with a lid, and simmer for a few minutes; then add the strained soup and boil for another twenty minutes. Skim well, add more seasoning if needed, and a few drops of lemon juice. Pour into a hot soup tureen and serve with thin slices of pared lemon. Peel the cucumber, cut it up into short pieces, and cook in salted water till tender. Peal the onions, slice them, and cook them in the same manner as the cucumber. Blanch the calf’s brain, and cook likewise. Drain the onions in the brain, and pound them together in a mortar, add the mulligatawny paste and the butter. Put this in a 20. POMPADOUR SOUP. 1 cucumber (medium size) 1 calf’s brain i gill cream 1 oz. fresb butter Salt, pepper and nutmeg 2 onions 2 quarts stock 1 teaspoonful mulligatawnj- paste 3 yolks of eggsJ4 THE EXHIBITION COOKEEY BOOK. stew-pan with the stock, add the cucumber, and boil for twenty minutes. Rub the whole through a sieve. Return to the stew-pan, re-heat, add the yolks of eggs and the cream; season to taste with salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of sugar, and a pinch of nutmeg. Stir long enough to bind the eggs, and serve.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 15 FISH. 21. BOILED FISH. Fish for boiling should be fresh and firm. Remove the scales and the eyes, cut off the fins, clean it well, and wipe with a damp cloth. Put the fish into hot water with salt and vinegar enough to make the water taste; boil very gently till the tail bones will come out if lightly pulled; if the fish be boiled too fast the skin will break; a good sized fish will take from 20 to 30 minutes. Lift the fish carefully out of the water, drain it well, dish neatly, and serve with melted butter or white sauce. Vinegar or lemon juice added to the water makes the flesh firm and keeps it a good colour. 22. FISH FRIED IN BATTER. 1 plaice 1 tablespoonful sweet oil Salt Frying fat 2 ozs. flour ^ gill tepid water 1 white of egg Wash and dry the fish, lay on a clean board and fillet it; make the batter; put the flour into a basin with a good pinch of salt, then add the oil and the water gradually, taking care to avoid any lumps. Stir till quite smooth. Allow the batter to stand for a while. Just before it is required whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix with the batter. Take each fillet on a skewer, dip it in the batter, and fry in boiling fat. Put the fish on a piece of paper to drain well. Dish up on a hot dish. The fat should be strained after using, as pieces of the batter will have come away from the fish, and these would stick to the next thing fried in the fat.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. i6 23. FRIED WHITING, SOLES, AND COD. Skin and clean two or more small whiting. Truss them for frying. Mix a little flour with enough salt and pepper to taste on a plate. Dip the fish into the flour, shake it and brush over with beaten egg, then cover with bread- crumbs. Fry a golden colour in plenty of hot fat. Take up, drain, dish up, and garnish with parsley. Soles or slices of cod can be done in the same way. Clean and wipe the sprats, range them in a buttered baking dish. Season with pepper and salt and sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley. Bake for about 20 minutes. Dish up, and squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over the fish. 25. FRIED PARSLEY FOR GARNISHING. Pick the stalks off the parsley, wash and drain well. When quite dry drop it into hot fat and fry for a few seconds. Take up and drain. Fried parsley should be perfectly green and crisp. 24. BAKED SPRATS. 26. BAKED HADDOCK STUFFED. 1 fresh haddock 1 oz. chopped suet i teaspoonful mixed herbs 1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs 1 teaspoonful parsley Salt and pepper A little milk Well wash, scale and dry the fish; take out the eyes. Prepare a stuffing with the breadcrumbs, suet, herbs, and parsley, season with salt and pepper. Moisten the stuffingTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. with half the egg and a few drops of milk. Stuff the body of the fish and sew up the opening. Pass a trussing needle, threaded with string, through the tail of the fish, centre of body, and eyes, draw the fish up into the shape of the letter “ S,” brush it over with the remainder of the egg, and sprinkle some breadcrumbs over it and a few bits of butter or dripping. Bake in a brisk oven from half an hour to thi'ee-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. Serve with anchovj' sauce or melted butter. Skin the fish, pick out all the bones, and shred or chop it finely. Mash the potatoes and mix them, (together with the parsley, pepper, and salt), with the fish. Melt the butter, and add the fish, etc. Mix all well together with the cream. Form the mixture into small even-sized round flat cakes on a floured board. Beat up the egg on a plate, brush over the cakes with it, toss them in the breadcrumbs, shape neatly again, shaking off all the loose crumbs, and fry them a golden brown in boiling fat. NOTE.—If the mixture be found too stiff for shaping add a little milk or a yolk of egg. 27. FISH CROQUETTES. 1 lb. cold lisli 2 ozs. butter 1 egg 1 tablespoouful cream i lb. cooked potatoes Pepper and salt 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley Breadcrumbs 3i8 THE EXHIBITION 'COOKERY BOOK. 28. OYSTER PUDDING. ,2 small whitings ozs. flour ■*About i pint milk i teaspoonful anchovy essence Seasoning 6 large sauce oysters 2 ozs. butter i gill cream 3 eggs 1 o: Skin the whitings, remove all the meat from the bones and pound in a mortar. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and cook a little without browning, moisten with the milk and oyster liquor; stir briskly until quite smooth, and add the cream; cook a little longer, but stir all the while. Remove the beards from the oysters, cut the latter into dice, and put them into the mixture; season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; work in the yolks of the eggs, the anchovy essence, and the pounded fish. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully with the mixture. Fill a well-buttered souffle tin or charlotte mould three-parts full, steam for about 45 minutes; unmold, and serve with a white sauce. 29. SCAIXOPS OF TURBOT WITH CREAM SAUCE. For this dish use the remains of boiled turbot, remove the skin and bones, and break into flakes. Butter as many scallop shells as may be required, put a teaspoonful of white sauce in each, arrange a layer of turbot on this, season to taste, and continue this until each shell is full; mask the top of each with white sauce; sprinkle with white breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese; put a tiny piece of butter here and there on top of each. Place the shells on a baking tin and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. The top should be of a nice golden brown. Dish upon a folded napkin, garnish wth fresh parsley, and serve.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 30- .. COD FISH SOUFFL^:. 12 ozs. codfish, freed from skin ,and bones :1 gill cream .1 gill fish Stock- Cardinal sauce 3 eggs 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. flour Seasoning Pound the fish in a mortar and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, stir in the flour, and mix over the fire for several minutes without letting the I flour get brov/n. Moisten with the fish stock, and continue to stir until the mixture becomes a smooth paste. Return the pounded fish to the mortar, add the above preparation mix thoroughly, and, work in the eggs, one by one, also add the cream gradually; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cayenne or paprika. Put this into a well-buttered ‘souffle-tin, cover with a greased paper, and steani or bake W about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with tomato or anchovy sauce; this may be poured over the shape or round the base of the dish. 31. FILLETS OF PLAICE WITH WINE SAUCE. Take off the black skin from the fish, remove the fillets, trim these as neatly as possible and cut each into two or three even-sized fillets; place these in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with the Avine and about a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor, add also the blade of mace and the shallots, peeled and cut in two; cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a 1 medium-sized plaice 6 mushrooms 2 ozs. butter J oz. flour Pepper and salt wine 1 blade of mace 2 sliallots 1 yolk egg A glass of Chablis or Saiiterne20 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. moderately heated oven for about a quarter of an hour, or less, according to the thickness of the fish. In the meantime prepare a white roux with the remaining butter and flour, moisten with a gill of fish stock, a little boiled milk, and the liquor from the fillets, stir until it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes. Cut the mushrooms in slices. Season and strain the sauce, add the yolk of egg and heat up long enough to bind the mixture, then add the mushrooms. Dish up the fish, pour the sauce and garnish over the fillets, and serve. 32. GRILLED RED MULLET. Procure three or four fresh red mullets, wipe them with a damp cloth, and make 3 or 4 incisions across each fish with a sharp knife. Put the fish on a dish, pour over 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, season with salt and pepper, and let them stand thus for about an hour. Meanwhile prepare some Maitre d’hotel butter as follows :—Mix i oz. of fresh butter with one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon, and one of chervil finely chopped, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. See that the gridiron is perfectly clean and the fire suitable for grilling. Grease the gridiron, place the red mullets on it and cook them slowly over or in front of a bright fire. Turn frequently. When done take up the fish. Put some Maitre d’hotel butter on a dish, place the red mullets on this, spread a little more Maitre d’liotel butter on top of each fish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve hot.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 21 33. OYSTER FRITTERS. 12 plump oysters 2 ozs. flour 1 egg Frying fat ^ lemon 6 thin slices streaky bacon A pinch of salt ^ oz. butter Parsley Beard the oysters, and sprinkle over with lemon juice, flatten the bacon with a cutlet bat, and cut each slice in two crossways. Roll up each oyster in a half slice of bacon, and trim the edges. Prepare a*batter in the following manner:—Sift the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, stir in the yolk of egg, and moisten with suflicient tepid water (about a table- spoonful) and the butter (oiled) to form a smooth paste; beat up well with a wooden spoon and allow it to stand for a time. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and add it to the batter. Dip each oyster and bacon into the batter, cover completely with batter, and drop one by one into boiling fat or clarified butter. Fry a golden colour, drain, and di.sh up. Fry some washed and picked parsley, and garnish the dish Avith this. 34. FILLETS OF MACKEREL. FRENCH STYLE. 2 mackerel i gill double cream Salt, pepper, and cayenne i oz. butter 2 shallots A small glass of white wine (Chablis or Santerne) Fillet the fish. Butter a gratin dish (a fire-proof china22 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. dish or a silver plated dish), sprinkle over some finely chopped shallots, and range the fillets, skin upwards, on the dish ; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne; moisten with the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. Now remove the skin from the fillets, pour off the liquor from the fish and mix with. the cream. Sauce over the fillets with this, return the dish to the oven, and cook for another five minutes Wipe the edge of the gratin dish, and place it on another dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve. Fillets of whiting or small fillets of turbot or brill can be prepared in the same manner. Cut the carrot, turnip, and parsnip into very fine strips (Julienne strips), and cook them till tender in slightly salted water, or fish stock. Trim the fish, and place in a deep saute pan, with the onion cut up in .slices, bunch of herbs and peppercorns ; add a little salt, and pour on sufficient water to well cover the fish. Allow it to come to the boil, and cook gently 35. FLOUNDERS EN SOUCHET. 3 or 4 flouaders i turnip 6 peppercorns 1 small bunch of herbs ^ carrot 1 slice of parsnip 1 small onion ParsleyTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. ^3 for about ten minutes. Take up the fish^ and place it on a deep entree dish, sprinkle over the shredded cooked vegetables some finely ■ chopped ' parsley, add a little fish liquor, and serve. - ^ 36. FISH STOCK. Put some fish bones and trimmings of fish in a stew-pan with enough water to cover, add a small onion and a bay^ leaf: and boil for fifteen minutes, strain and use as required.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. H SIMPLE MEAT DISHES. 38 ROAST OR BAKED MEAT. For a medium sized joint of beef or mutton allow fifteen minutes to every pound and fifteen minutes over for cooking. If the meat is very thick, allow half an hour over. Pork, veal, and lamb must always be well done, and require about twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over. These meats are not wholesome if served underdone. For large joints—sirloin of beef, legs of pork, etc.—it is best to allow half an hour to every pound. Wipe the meat, trim if necessary, place it in a baking- tin, on a twist, or hang it in front of the fire. In the former case the meat must be put in a very hot oven, with a little dripping on top, for ten minutes, so as to harden the outside and to keep in the juices of the meat. Then lower the heat of the oven, and cook rather slowly till done, Whether a joint is cooked in the oven or in front of the fire it requires to be basted frequently, and if the meat is lean it will require rather more dripping for basting than fat meat. 39. TO MAKE GRAVY Take up the joint and put it on a hot dish, pour off the fat in the baking tin or dripping pan. The brown particles or lumps adhering to the bottom of the pan must not be poured away, for these contain the essential flavour of the meat and are necessary for the grav)'. Put from one gill to half a pint of water into the pan, add enough salt and pepper to taste, stir over the fire until the brown lumps have quite dissolved, let this boil for a few minutes, then pour over or round the joint.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 2S 40. ROAST CHICKEN. Pick, draw, singe, and truss a chicken, roast it before a clear fire or in the oven. Put a little butter or dripping over the chicken and into the tin, to enable you to baste it frequently during the process of cooking. A quick heat is required for the first ten minutes and a slower heat after that. A small chicken will take about 40 minutes, and a large one about one hour. When done remove the skewer and string, place the chicken on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, pour a little gravy, made in the same manner as directed for roast meat, round the dish, and sen^e with a boat of bread sauce 41. BOILED BEEF OR MUTTON. Wipe the meat, cut off any superfluous fat, and weigh the joint. Put the meat into a stew-pan of boiling water sufficient to cover it, season with salt, and let boil fast for five minutes to harden the outside. Remove the scum, add some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, and let simmer gently until tender. Average time allowed for cooking is twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Salted or pickled meat should be placed in cold or tepid water, and must be brought slowly to the boil. Boiled beef is served with a garnishing of cooked carrots and turnips and small suet dumplings. Boiled mutton is garnished with vegetables, i.e., carrots, turnips, and onions, and is served with caper sauce. (See sauces.)2 6 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 42. BOILED RABBIT. Proceed as directed in the foregoing recipe. Boil the rabbit for about three-quarters of an hour, or if large allow one hour to one hour and a quarter and serve with onion sauce. (See sauces). 43. BOILED FOWL. Pick, draw, singe, and truss a fowl for boiling, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted; add a carrot, a turnip, and an onion stuck with a clove; simmer till tender, and skim frequently. A large fowl will take about one hour and a quarter, while a small fowl will take from three-quarters to one hour. When done take out the fowl, drain it, and put it on a hot dish. Have ready some white sauce or egg sauce (see sauces), completely cover the fowl with same, and serve hot. 44. STEWING. This is cooking meat and vegetables in a small quantity of liquor below boiling point. Many pieces of meat that would otherwise be hard and indigestible can be rendered tender and nutritious by this process. It is especially suited for the cheaper parts of meat. When meat is very tough, a little vinegar should be poured over it before it is cooked; the acifl will help to soften the fibres of the meat. Stewing requires more time than the other modes of cooking. 45. GRILLED OR BROILED MEAT. This is cooking small pieces of meat, such as steak, cutlets, chops, kidneys, etc., on a gridiron, in front of orTHE EXHIBITION f:00IO3RY BOOK. / over a clear fire. Like I'oasting, this process, requires that the meat should be kept close to the fire during the first stage of cooking, in order to harden the outside of the meat, so as to prevent the juices from escaping. The gridiron must be kept very clean, and should be well greased with fat, dripping, or butter before the meat to be grilled is placed on or between it. The time required is from 8 to 12 minutes, according to the thickness of the meat and according to the taste of the person for whom it is intended. Care should be taken not to pierce the meat with a skewer or fork when turning the meat, as this would allow the juices to escape. When the meat is cooked place it on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put a little fresh butter on top. Garnish with parsley or watercress, and serve. 46. HASHED BEEF. About 1 lb. cold roast beef 1 oz. butter Salt and pepper I small onion i pint brown sauce Chopped parsley Cut the meat into thin slices, trim off a little of the fat; mince the onion very finely, and fry it in the butter a golden colour; put in the meat and fry a little, then add the sauce, boil up, and remove scum and fat. Let the whole simmer for about fifteen minutes. Season with pepper and salt, turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. If liked, a dessertspoonful of Worcester or Harvey sauce, or a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, can be added with the sauce.THE EXHIBrnON COOKERY BOOK, 28 47. CORNISH PASTIES. 4 ozs. rump steak 6 ozB. flour Salt and pepper 1 potato (peeled) i small onion (peeled) 3 ozs. dripping or butter Cut up the meat and potato into small pieces, chop the onion, season with pepper and salt, and add a little water. Mix flour with a pinch of salt; shred the dripping and rub it lightly into the flour; work into a firm paste with cold water, which should be added by degrees. Turn paste on a floured board, and roll out rather thin. Cut the paste in rounds, put a spoonful of the meat and potato mixture in the centre, wet the edges, and join neatly together; place on a greased baking tin, and bake in a hot oven for about fortv. minutes. 48. IRISH STEW. 1^ lb. potatoes i lb. neck of mutton (scrag eud) ^ lb. onions Pepper and Salt i pint water Wash and peel the potatoes, and slice one half of them; peel and slice onions; cut the meat into neat pieces. Place half the potatoes at the bottom of the saucepan, lay the meat and onions on them, season with salt and pepper, add the water, and lay the remainder of the potatoes on the top. Cover up closely, and simmer for about one hour and a half. 49. 1 lb. flank of mutton 2 lbs. potatoes 1 pint water Salt and pepper HOTCH-POTCH. 1 turnip 1 carrot 1 onion Wash and peel the potatoes and cut them into quarters ;THE EXHllilTIOiN COOKERY BOOK. 29 peel the turnip, cut it in slices j scrape the carrot and cut it in slices, peel and mince the onion. Cut the mutton into small pieces, put a little of it into the saucepan, then a layer of potatoes, onion, carrot, and turnip; add pepper and salt to taste, then some more mutton, till all is in. Add the water, and simmer gently for about two hours. 50. HARICOT MUTTON. 5 lb. neck of mutton (scrag end) 1 turnip 1 oz. dripping 1 tablespoonful flour 1 tablespoonful of Bovril 2 small carrots 1 small onion, or 3 or 4 button onions Salt and pepper Cut the meat into neat pieces, trim off some of the fat, melt the dripping in a saucepan, and fry the meat so as to brown it on both sides. Take out the meat and put it on a plate. Have the vegetables prepared and cut into neat short pieces. Fry the onion in the fat for a few minutes, take out and put with the meat; then stir the flour into the fat, and fry a nice brown, dilute with three quarters of a pint of water and a tablespoonful of Bovril. Stir till it boils, skim carefully, put in the meat and vegetables, season to taste, and cook gently until tender. It will take from ij to i|- hours. Before serving be very careful in skimming off the fat. 51- J lb. sausages 4 ozs. butter 1 pincb of oalt A little beaten egg SAUSAGE ROLLS 8 ozs. flour 1 teaspoonful Paisley flour (B. and P.'’s ) Steep the sausages in boiling water for a few minutes and let them cool. Make a short crust paste by mixing the butter into the flour; rub lightly with the finger tips,THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. add : the Paisley flour and a pinch of salt, and enough water to make a stiff paste. Roll it out on a floured board about one-eighth of an inch thick, and cut out into square pieces. Skin the sausages, and cut them into halves lengthways. Put half of sausage on each square of paste, wet the edges,- and fold the paste over, thus giving it the shape of a roll; press the edges together, mark the paste with the back of .knife Place the rolls on a baking sheet, blush them over with egg, and bake for about half an hour. 52. STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 1 lb. rump or buttock steak Kidney 4 ozs. butter • - 1 pinch, of salt 8 ozs. flour 1 teaspoonful Paisley flour (B. and P.'s) A little beaten egg j Make a paste crust as directed in the foregoing recipe. Cut about a pound of rump or buttock steak into thin slices, dip each slice into a mixture of flour, salt, and pepper, and roll a slice of kidney and a tiny piece of fat into each slice of beef. Place them in a pie-dish, pour in enough water or stock to come half way up the dish wet the edges of the dish, and line with a strip of paste; brush the edge of the crust with egg, milk, or water, and place on a cover of paste. Make a small incision in the centre of the paste, and decorate with a few fancifully cut leaves of paste. Brush over with beaten egg-yolk, and bake for about hours.-, Veal and ham, pigeon, and rabbit pies are made in the same manner. Hard boiled eggs cut into quarters or slices can be used with the filling ingredients if liked. A rough puff or flaky crust is eminently suitable for all kinds of meat pies.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 31 53. MEAT PUDDING. Prepare a suet crust with 6 ozs. flour, 3 ozs. finely chopped suet j a pinch o£ salt, and enough water to form a stiff paste. Roll out the paste on a well-floured board. Line a well-greased basin with some of the paste. Fill up with beef, prepared in the same way as directed for steak and kidney pie, or, if preferred, wrap an oyster in each slice of meat instead of the kidney; add enough water to come half-way up the basin. Roll out the remainder of paste and trimmings, and cover the pudding with it. The edges of the paste lining must of course be wetted before the top crust is put on; press the edges firmly together cover the pudding with a cloth, previously dipped in hot water and sprinkled with flour, tie the pudding cloth securely, and boil for about hours. 54. GRILLED KIDNEYS. Steep as many sheep’s kidneys as are required in tepid water; remove tlie skins and split each in half without quite detaching them. Fasten them on to wooden or iron skewers, season with salt and pepper, brush over with sweet oil, or liquefied butter, place them on a greased grid- iron, and broil on both sides from 5 to 8 minutes. Dish up on toasted and buttered bread, and serve with a small quantity of devilled butter placed in the centre of each kidney. 55. DEVILLED BUTTER. ' . Mix an ounce of butter with white pepper, cayenne, and curry paste—about a saltspoonful of each—and mix thoroughly with a few drops of lemon juice.32 THE EXHIBITION COOICEliY BOOK. ENTREES AND SIDE DISHES. 56. 1 lb. lean veal 1 gill double cream 2 ozs. butter 1 small truffle 1 gill bechamel sauce VEAL SOUFFLE. 3 eggs Salt, pepper and grated nut- meg Supreme sauce Free the meat from all skin and gristle, cut it up very small, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth; add gradually the butter, the yolks of three eggs and white of one egg, also the sauce (cold); season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Whisk the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth; beat up the cream a little, and mix both carefully into the force-meat. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered timbale or plain charlotte mould with sliced truffles, or sprinkle wdth finely chopped truffle; three parts fill it wfith the preparation; steam gently for about an hour. Unmould and serve with supreme or other good white sauce. 57. CHICKEN SOUFFLE. Proceed in exactly the same manner as indicated in the foregoing recipe, using the same quantity of chicken instead of veal, or, if desired, the weight can be made up with a small quantity of veal. The carcase and trimmings of the chicken should be used for stock to make the white sauce.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 33 58. VEAL OLIVES. 1 lb. lean veal (cushion or fillet) 1 oz. finely-chopped beef suot Chopped parsley Lemon rind 1 egg Brown sauce 2 tablespooni'uls crumbs 2 oz. butter Mixed herbs Nutmegr Salt and pepper 5 glass sherry of bread- Cut the meat into slices, beat them out by means of a wetted cutlet bat, and pare each slice. Mince the trimmings of the meat finely, omitting any skin or sinews. Mix this with the suet, butter, and breadcrumbs, add some chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, and half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix with egg previously beaten, taking only enough to moisten the mixture. Spread each slice with the prej)ared stuffing, roll up, and tie with string. Range them in a stew-pan containing a little dripping or butter, and fry a light colour; pour off the fat, add about f pint brown sauce and the sherry, and stew gently for about an hour or longer, until the meat is quite tender. To serve, remove the string, dress the olives on a bed of spinach or mashed potatoes, and strain the .sauce round the base of the dish. Beef olives are made in exactly the same manner. 59. VEAL FILLETS A LA VICTORIA. About 3 lbs. cushion or kernel of veal 3 or 4 slices of bacon 1 small bouquet of herbs i gill white wine 1 gill white stock i pint well-reduced bechamel sauce 6 preserved mushrooms Clarified butter or dripping for frying 1 carrot 1 tiunip 1 onion 1 oz. butter Pepper and salt 1 egg Breadcrumbs2 Avliole eggs Popper and salt THE EXimUTlOX COOKElfV ]{()OK. Trim the meat, free it from skin and sinews; line a braising-pan with slices of bacon; clean the vegetables and cut them into slices; put them with the bouquet of herbs in the pan, place the meat upon it, put the Irutter on top, and fry over a sharp fire, turning the meat frequently until it acquires a nice golden brown colour; then moisten with the wine and stock, covered with butter paper, and cook in the oven for about three quarters of an hour; baste frequently. When done, take up the meat and let it cool; cut it into slices half an inch thick. Chop the mushrooms, and mix them with the white sauce. INIask each slice of veal thickly with this sauce. As soon a.s the sauce has set, dip each slice into beaten egg, and cover well with breadcrumbs. Fry the crumbed slices in a saute- pan containing clarified butter or dripping, cook them a light brown colour. Drain and dish up in a circle on a hot ,dish, the centre of which may be filled Avith a ragout of mushrooms and truffles, spinach, or green peas. Pour some hot piquante sauce round the fillets, and serve. Cut the beef and bacon very .small, put it into a basin with the breadcrumbs and seasoning. Beat the eggs and stock together, and add with the other ingredients; mix well. Shake this into a neat short roll, tie in a buttered pudding cloth, boil for about two hours and a half. Place between two dishes to press until cold, and then completely brush over with liquefied meat glaze. Let set, and decorate tastefully with creamed butter, or set aspic jelly, or both. Di.sh up and serve. 6o. BEEF GALANTINE. 1 lb. beef 1 gill of stock 1 lb. bacon 6 ozs. bread criunbs35 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 6i. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH TOMATOES. About lbs. fillet of beef 3 ozs. butter Chopped parsley Bovril 3 small tomatoes Lemon juice Salt and pepper Cut the fillet into 5 or 6 slice.s, pare off the skin and fat, and fry in a saucepan with about 2 ozs. butter; the fillets •sliould not be cooked through. Place them on a plate and keep hot. Skin the tomatoes, slice them, and cook in the saute-iian with the butter. Glaze the fillets with liquefied Bovril, and dress them on a hot dish. Place a round of tomato on each fillet. Mix a little lemon juice and chopped parsley, pepper and salt with the remainder of butter (i oz.) spread it in equal proportions on the centre of the tomatoes. Serve with brown sauce, which should be heated in the pan in which the fillets were cooked. 62. FILLETS OF BEEF A LA VIENNOISE. 2 lbs. lean beef 1 teaspoouful savourj’’ herbs 1 tablespoouful flour Salt, pepper, cayenne and nut- meg z eggs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 3 ozs. butter 3 onions 1 gill demi-glace sauce Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small pieces, and chop it up very fine, or pass it twice through the mincing machine. Mix this with chopped parsley, .savoury herbs, a little flour, one yolk of egg, and one whole egg; season with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Form some even-sized balls, flatten each with the palm of your hand to give them the shape of round fillets. Peel and slice the onions, cut some of the slices from the centre of each onion rather thicker than the rest; divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest for frying separately. Dissolve about an ounce of butter in a frying-3<j THE EXHIEITION COOlvEllY J300K. pan, and fry the onions until of a golden colour. Put them in a small stew-pan with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and allow to simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in butter in a frying-pan. Dip the onion rings into flour, tlien into white of egg, and again into flour, place them in a frying basket, and fry a golden colour. Dish up the fillets, and put a spoonful of stewed onions on the centre of each. Ornament round the fillets with fried onion rings. Sauce over the fillets with demi-glace sauce, sprinkle Avith a few drops of meat glaze, and serve. 63. STUFFED SFIOULDER OF MUTTON. ] small slioulder of mutton 1 teaspoonful chopped savoury herbs Salt and pepper 1 egg J small onion, finely chopped 1 dessert spoonful chopped parsley 1 ozs. streaky bacon, cut up very small Fat for baking Bread-crumbs Trim the joint, removing any superfluous fat, etc., remove the bone and lay the joint on the table, spread it out, and season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle some of the herbs, parsley, and onion over the meat, place a layer of chopped bacon on the seasoning, and put the remainder of seasoning over the bacon. Roll up the meat, fasten it securely with string or with skewe/s, then put it on a baking-tin or flat braising-pan containing about 2 ozs. of dripping or butter. Cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half hours. Baste frequently. Now remove the paper, brush over the joint with egg, and cover with breadcrumbs; put it again in the oven (quick heat) for another 20 or 30 minutes37 THE ::XHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. according to the size of the joint. Keep it carefully basted during the whole process of cooking. When done, draw out the string or skewers, place the joint on a hot dish, and serve it with a nicely flavoured thin brown grav}c 64. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA BRETONNE. Trim and pare the cutlets neatl)^, fry them in a saute- pan with the butter, turn them frequently to brown both sides; take up, drain, and keep hot. Mince the onions (peeled) and fry them a golden colour in the butter left from the cutlets; pour off some of the butter and put in the haricot beans, cook these together for about ten minutes, stir frequently, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little brown sauce, and rub through a wire sieve. Re-heat, heap up in the centre of the dish, dress the cutlets round the puree, and serve with rich brown sauce. 65. MUTTON CUTLETS WITH GREEN PEAS. Cut a best end of neck of mutton into cutlets, trim, flatten, and pare them. Season with pepper and salt. Mix a plateful of breadcrumbs with an ounce of finely- chopped lean ham; dip the cutlets in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt about two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and cook the cutlets to a nice golden brown. Take them up, drain, and dish up in the form of a border on a small bed of mashed potatoes and peas. Fill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little gravy or sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 5 or 6 cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of mutton Brown sauce 2 small onions 2 ozs. butter Salt and pepper pint of weii-cooked haricot beansTHE EXIIIBITIOX COOKERY JiOOK. 38 66. CHICKEN QUENELLES. 1 fowl, weifirhiiig about U lbs. 2 ozs. flo\ir 2 eggs Seasoning 1 07.. butter 1 gill milk or Avliite stock 1 tablespoon lul cream White sauce Melt the butter in a stew-pan, stir in the flour, and cook a little; dilute with the milk or stock, and stir until it becomes a smooth paste that leaves the sides of the stew- pan perfectly clean. Spread this on a plate, and let cool. This is the panacle. vSkin and bone the fowl, pound the meat in a mortar till smooth; work in by degrees the panade, the eggs, and the cream; season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg or a pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a saute-pan, shape some quenelles by means of two spoons, dip one spoon into hot water, and fill with forcemeat, smooth its surface wifh a knife dipped in hot water, remove the quenelle with the second spoon, and place it on the saute-pan. Proceed thus until all the forcemeat is used up. Pour boiling stock or water care- fully round the quenelles, and poach them for about 15 minutes. When done, take out, drain them on a hair sieve and dress them neatly on a hot dish. Garnish the centre of the dish with spinach or potato puree and serve with a nicely flavoured white sauce, which should be poured over the quenelles. 67. VEAL QUENELLES. These are made in exactly the same manner as chicken quenelles, using one pound of lean veal instead of the Qwl.39 THE EXIlim'iTON COOKERY ROOK- 68. CHICKEN A LA PRTNCESSE. 1 chicken A bunch of herbs 6 ozs. butter Pepper, salt and nuime)?' 3 yolks of eggs 5 pint of double cream Carrots Onions •i ozs. flour ;J pint of the liquor the chicken is boiled in Asparagus points Take a nice white chicken, truss it for boiling, and put it into a stew-pan or a casserole, breast downwards, in enough water to cover it; add some salt, carrots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. Set the fowl, and cook slowly for about half an hour. Then make a sauce with 4 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. of flour, and three quarters of a pint of the liquor the foAvl was boiled in, add pepper and nutmeg, and let this cook fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolks of three eggs; add these with the cream to the sauce, and strain it through a hair sieve, stir in two ozs. of butter, and work it until it is quite smooth. Take up the chicken, drain it well, place it on a croute of fried bread, pour the sauce round it, and garnish the side with the heads of green asparagus. Serve the rest of the sauce in a tureen. Prepare a chicken souffle as directed on page 32. When steamed and cold cut the shape into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp out some cutlets by means of a cutlet cutter. Decorate some cutlet moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of aspic jelly) with cooked green peas, truffles and hard-boiled white of egg. When the garnish is set, place a chicken cutlet in each of the moulds, fill up with aspic jelly, and set them on the ice until required for table. Unmould the cutlets, arrange 69. CHICKEN CUTLETS IN ASPIC. A COLD ENTREE.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 40 them neatly on a cold dish in the form of a border, fill the centre of the dish with cooked macedoine of vegetables seasoned with mayonnaise sauce, and garnish round with small cress. 70. STEWED PIGEONS WITH OLIVES. 1 Bordeaux pigeon 1 oz. butter Pepper and salt i gill brown sauce 1 shallot 12 stoned French olives 6 preserved mushrooms ^ gill tomato sauce Draw the pigeon, truss it for roasting, and roast for ten minutes in a sharp oven, baste frequently with dripping or butter; untruss and cut it into neat joints. Peel and chop the shallot, fry it to a light brown in an ounce of butter, put in the pieces of pigeon and fry a little longer; season with pepper and salt; pour off the fat, add the brown and the tomato sauces, also the mushrooms cut in dice; boil up and skim; put in the olives, and stew gently for thirty minutes. Arrange the pigeon nicely on a hot dish, dispose of the olives and mushrooms, strain the sauce over the whole, and send to table. I. SALMI OF DUCK WITH TOMATOES. 1 nice duck I oz. butter i pint brown sauce Pepper and salt 1 lb. small firm tomatoes 1 small onion 1 glass sherry (if liked) A few croiites on fried bread for garnish Truss the duck as for braising. Peel and slice the onion, put it in a saute-pan with the butter; when the butter is melted put in the duck, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven forTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 41 about half an hour; baste from time to time. Take up the duck, cut it into neat joints, and put them in the saute-pan after the fat and onion are removed. Chop up the carcase of the duck, put it in stew-pan with the onion and the wine, cover and cook for a few minutes, then add the brown sauce, cook for another fifteen minutes, and strain the sauce over the pieces of duck. Blanch the tomatoes (these must be very small), drain, peel them, and put them in with the duck and sauce. Cover the saute-pan and place it in the oven; cook for about half an hour longer. Arrange the pieces of duck in the centre of a hot dish, surround with the braised tomatoes, and pour over the sauce. Garnish the di.sh with croutons of fried bread, and serve- 72. FOIE-GRAS RISSOLETTES. I pint pancake batter 4 ozs. foie-gras (potted with truffles) 1 egg Seasoning Bread-crumbs 1 oz. butter 4 preserved mushrooms 2 ozs. cooked sweetbread I gill veloutc or bechamel sauce About 2 ozs. chicken forcemeat Frying fat Fry some very thin pancakes in the butter, stamp out some rounds of them about 2 Inches in diameter. Prepare a salpicon as follows:—Cut the foie-gras, mushrooms and sweetbread into very small dice. Put this in a saute-pan with the sauce. When thoroughly hot, add the yolk of an egg; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put it on a plate and let it cool. When cold, shape it into little balls, and place these in the centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken forcemeat round the edge of each, and fold over the same as rissoles.THE KXIl I IllTlO.V COOKKRV JJOOK. 42 Brush them over with egg, dip them with breadcrumbs, and fry a golden colour. Dish them up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. 73. GAME SAT.AD. 1 cold roast partridge or other bird Half a head of celery 1 hard-boile(l egg 2 tablespoonfiils vinaigrette (a sauce made of oil, vinegar, pepper and herbs) 2 lettuces 1 truffle Mayonnaise di’essiiig 1 gherkin 8 stoned French olives 1 tablespoonful capers Pepper and salt Cut the partridge into neat joints, remove the skin and most of the bones; put the meat in a dish, season with pepper and salt, and pour the vinaigrette over it. Keep it in a cool place for about an hour or more. Wash the lettuce and celery; remove the green leaves and shred the white portion of the latter. Season a little. Dress the lettuce, celery, and partridge in alternate layers in the shape of a dome or pyramid on a salad bowd; mask with stiff mayonnaise. Decorate the surface with fanciful slices and strips of gherkin and truffle. Surround with a garnish of quartei'ed hard-boiled eggs, French olives and capers, and serve.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 43 SAUCES. 74. BROWN SAUCE. pint gravy or stock 1 carrot 1 oz. Hour 1 desserlspoonfnl vinegar 1 onion 1 oz. Blitter or dripping 1 ilesseitspoonfnl mushroom ketchup Salt and pepper. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, cut up both into small pieces, and melt .the butter or dripping in a sauce- pan ; when hot add the vegetables and flour, stir over the fire until brown; put in the vinegar, ketchup, and gravy, stir until it boils, skim well, and simmer for twenty minutes. / j- WHITE SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES, MEAT, AND POUI/PRY. 1 oz. butter t pint milk Half a bayleaf 1 oz.' Hour 5 gill white stock Salt and white pepper IMelt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown. Dilute with the milk, stir till it boils, then add the stock and bayleaf, and simmer for at least ten minutes. Remove the bayleaf, season to ta.^te, and strain. 76. WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. 1 oz. butter 1 gill milk 1 small piece of mace 4 teaspoonful lemon juice Bones and trimmings of fish 1 oz. flour 2 tablespoonfuls of cream 5 bayleaf Salt and pepper Boil the milk with some fish bones, bayleaf, and a tiny piece of mace, together with half gill of water.44 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and stir a few minutes over the fire without allowing the flour to take colour. Stir the milk as above prepared into this, allow it to come to the boil whilst stimng, and simmer for ten minutes. Take out the bayleaf and mace, and strain; heat up again, add the cream, lemon juice, and seasoning, and use as directed. 77. BECHAMEL SAUCE. 1 oz. butter 1 pint milk A few" parsley leaves tied in. a bunch 1 small blade of mace 1 oz. flour 1 small onion, peeled, and stuck Avith a clove 5 bayleaf Salt and pepper Boil the milk with the onion, clove, parsley, bayleaf, and mace. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown; then gradually add the milk and the other ingredients. Continue to stir till it boils, and simmer for ten minutes or longer. Strain the sauce, and use as required, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. 78. SUPREME SAUCE. 2 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 1^ pint chicken stock 1 gill cream 2 lemon Teaspoonful chicken glaze Put an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, when dissolved add an ounce of flour, stir and fry until cooked, but do not let it take colour. Stir in a pint and a half of chicken stock. Simmer for twenty minutes, take off scum, add a gill of hot cream, the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste. Stir a little longer, pass through a napkin or tammy cloth.THE EXllluriTOX COOKERY ROOK. 45 return to the stew-pan, and finish with an ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of chicken glaze. Do not let it boil again. 79. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 2 yolks of eggs 1 gill Avliite sauce 1 oz. butter 1 teaspoonful vinegar Salt and pepper Heat the sauce in a small saucepan, stir in the egg yolks, stand the saucepan in boiling water over the fire and whisk until nearly boiling, add the butter in small quantities, also the vinegar. Season to taste, and whisk until the sauce has the consistency of a light cream. This sauce is excellent with boiled fish, asparagus, cauliflower, artichokes, etc. 80. CAPER SAUCE. Ij oz. butter I pint water 1 tablespoon fill caijer vinegar 1 oz. flour 2 tablespoonfuls capers Salt Make a melted butter sauce as follows :—^Put the butter in the saucepan, let it melt, stir in the flour; add the water gradually, stir, and bring it gently to a boil, season with a pinch of salt. Chop the capers coarsely, add them with the vinegar to the sauce; boil for five minutes and serve. This sauce is served Avith boiled mutton or boiled fish. 8r. EGG SAUCE. i pint melted butter sauce A few drops of lemon juice 2 eggs Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, put tliem into a basin of cold water to cool, take off the shells, and chop the+6 THE KXniltlTIOX (OOKEliV BOOK. eggs rather coarsely. Prepare the melted butter sauce in the same manner as in the foregoing recipe, and when ready stir in the chopped eggs. A few drops of lemon juice or vinegar may be added if desired. 82. PIQUANTE OR SAVOURY SAUCE. 2 flioppecl shallots 1 oz. minced lean bacon or ham 2 cloves 1 glass port wine 14- oz. butter 5 small carrot i small tui’iiip 1 teaspoonful of flour -1 tablespoonfuls vinegar i pint stock Salt and pepper Mince the vegetables, fry them for live minutes in the butter with ham and cloves, add the vinegar, stock, flour, and seasoning; simmer for twenty minutes, skim and strain; a small glass of port wine simmered in this sauce will be found a great improvement. This sauce is usually served with grilled meats, chops, steaks, cutlets, etc., but may be served with any other meat dishes when piquancy is desired. 3 ripe tomatoes 1 sprig of thjune I oz. butter Pepper and salt 83- tomato SAUCE. ^ bayleaf }- small onion ^ gill brown sauce Cut the tomatoes in half, squeeze out a little of the juice, cut them into small pieces and place in a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter, herbs, and onions, the latter chopped up finely. Let all simmer until tender, and rub through a sieve. Return to the stew-pan, add the brown sauce, boil for ten minutes and sen^e. NOTE.—A few drops of vinegar or lemon juice may be added to the sauce where piquancy is liked.THE EXHIBITION' COOKEEY BOOK. 47 84. BROWN ONION SAUCE. h pint brown stock 2 small onions, peeled and 2 ozs. dripping chopped 1 tablespoonfiil cornfionr (B. and P.'s patent) Put the onion.s in a stew-pan with dripping, and fry until they are a nice brown; add the stock, let it boil up, mix the cornflour with a little water and add to the sauce; simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Season with pepper and salt before serving. 85. MAYONNAISE. 4 yolks of eggs 1 saltspoonful salt I pint provence oil 1 teaspoonful mustard i saltspoonful white pepper 1 tablespoouful of tarragon vinegar 1 teaspoonful Chili vinegar Put the egg-yolks in a basin (placed on crushed ice), add the salt, and stir with a wooden spoon for some minutes. Pour the oil in gradually while stirring; add the mustard (previously mixed with a little cream or milk) and the vinegar; season with pepper. A mayonnaise if well made should resemble double cream. A little cayenne pepper may be added if liked. 86. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Prepare a white sauce as directed for Avhite fish sauce, and stir in, a few minutes before serving, a dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence.Tire EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK, 48 87. •1 ozs. I'lvsli brciulevumbs 1 clove 1 pint of milk 2 tablespoonfuls cream BREAD SAUCE. 1 small onion 4 peppercorns i oz. fresh butter Peel the onion, stick the clove in it; put the onion and milk in a saucepan, boil up, stir in the breadcrumbs, add the peppercorns, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the onion and peppercorns, stir in the cream and butter, season with a pinch of salt, and keep hot until required for serving. If liked, the onion may be cooked longer, passed through a sieve, and added to the sauce; the cream may be omitted; if found too thick, a little hot water may be added. Bread sauce is usually served with roast fowl, turkey, and game birds. 88. CUSTARD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. ^ pint of milk ‘•i eggs 1 tablespoonful cattor sugar 1 teaspoonful cornflour (B. and P.^s pateait) Flavouring Boil half pint of milk, mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, and add to the boiling milk; beat up two yolks of eggs in a basin, add a heaped up tablespoonful of castor sugar, add some flavouring essence if liked, stir the boiling milk gradually on to the eggs, return into the stew-pan, and stir over a gentle fire until the custard is formed. It must not on any account be allowed to boil. Cinnamon, nutmeg, or lemon rind may be used as flavouring in place of essence.49 THE EXHIBITION COOItERY BOOK. 89. CARDINAL SAUCE. Pound about a tablespoonful of lobster spawn, or rub it through a sieve, stir into a white sauce prepared as directed for white fish sauce, and cook until a nice coral red sauce is obtained. A few drops of anchovy essence added will improve the flavour. 4THE EXIIIBJTIOJV COOKERY BOOK. bo VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 90. BOILED POTATOES. Wash and peel the potatoes thinly, put them in a saucepan of cold water sufficient to well cover them, add a little salt, and boil till they are tender. Pour off the water, and put the saucepan with the potatoes back on the fire for about three minutes to dry. Shake the pan frequently to prevent burning. They will take about half an hour to cook. 91. MASHED POTATOES. Prepare and boil the potatoes as above described; when cooked, drained, and dried, mash them with a fork, or rub through a sieve. Return them to the stew-pan, and add butter, salt, and pepper, allowing an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes. Beat up well over the fire until thoroughly hot, and add a little milk or cream. 92. POTATO CROQUETTES. Mash a pound of potatoes as above described, stir in an ounce of butter, when hot add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and half an egg well beaten ; cook for a few minutes to set the egg, season to taste, and put the mixture on a plate to cool. Shape it into even-sized balls or cork shapes, egg or breadcrumb them, and fry in hot fat to a nice golden brown. Drain and serve.51 THE EXniBITIOISr COOKERY BOOK. 93. FRIED POTATO STRAWS. Peel 4 to 6 medium-sized potatoes, cut them into thin slices, and cut these into fine shreds about inches long. Wash well and drain on a cloth. Have ready some hot fat, sufficient to well cover the quantity of potatoes, put the potatoes into the fat when very hot, and fry for about six minutes. Take out, drain well, sprinkle with a little fine salt, shake them lightly, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. 94. POTATO PIE WITH CHEESE. 1 lb. cooked potatoes li ozs. grated cheese 1 oz. butter h irih milk Nutmeg and pepper Mash the potatoes smoothly; add the seasoning, the butter (melted), an ounce of cheese, and the milk. Grease a pie dish and fill with the mixture; smooth over with a knife, and sprinkle the remaining cheese over the top, also a few tiny bits of butter. Brown in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 95. DUCHESS POTATOES. 2 lbs. potatoes 3 yolks of eggs 2 ozs. clarified butter 1 tablespoonfnl of cream Pepper, salt, and nutmeg For this dish nice mealy potatoes are required. Wash, peel, and boil about 2 lbs. of potatoes, drain off the water, and dry them in the oven, then rub them quickly through a wire sieve. W^hile they are warm mix them with the yolks of eggs, butter and cream; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When well mixed, lay this on a flouredTJIE EXlimmON COOKERY ROOK. 52 board, and divide into twelve pieces of equal size; shape each piece into a square, mark with a knife, put them on a buttered baking sheet, egg over the surface, bake in a quick oven, dish up, and serve. 96. STUFFED POTATOES. 12 round new potatoes Thyme Shallot Yolk of egg 2 OZ3. butter Breadcrumbs Chives Parsley 1 tablespoonful cream Pepper and salt Rasp twelve medium-sized round potatoes, and cut off a small piece of the top of one side of them, so that they can stand steadily ; scoop out the centre, but be careful not to break them. Next prepare a stuffing Avith the bread- crumbs and herbs, season Avith pepper and salt, moisten with the cream and yolk of egg. Fill the potatoes AAuth this stuffing, place them on a buttered saute-pan side by side, brush them Avith oiled butter, and bake them in a moderate oven for tAventy minutes. 97. NEW POTATOES, DUTCPI STYLE. 18 to 20 small even-sized po- tatoes 1 tablespocnfiil bechamel sauce Lemon juice 2 ozs. butter 1 yolk of egg White pepper, salt, and nut- meg Wa.sh, peel thinly, and boil the potatoes, Avhich should be as nearly as possible of the same size and shape. When cooked, drain and dry them, and put them in a vegetable dish. While the potatoes are cooking, melt the butter inTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. S3 a stew pan, add the bechamel sauce, mix well, and stir in one yolk of egg and the juice of half a lemon ■ season with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir it ever the fire till cooked, but be careful not to let it boil, or the egg will curdle. Pour this sauce over the potatoes, and serve very hot. Trim and wash i lb. of Brussels sprouts, boil them in salted water in the usual manner; when done, take up, drain, and let them get cool. Melt ounces of fresh butter in a saute or frying pan, put in the sprouts, season with pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and toss the sprouts on the pan over a bright fire for about ten minutes. Dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped par.sley, and serve. Soak the beans for twelve hours; put them in as much cold water as will cover them, and boil the beans for two hours, or until they are soft; drain the water from them. Melt the butter or dripping in the saucepan, and put in the cooked beans; add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, also the stock or gravy; place them by the side of the fire or in the oven to get hot through, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent them from sticking. Ser\-e on a hot dish. 98. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, SAUTEED. 99. HARICOT BEANS. i pint haricot beans I3 ozs. dripping or butter Pepper and salt 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley i gill stock or gravyTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 54 lOO. I Cttulirtower I oz. flour li OZ8. grated cheese Breadcrumbs CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. li ozs. butter i pint milk Salt, pepper and nutmeg Trim and wash the cauliflower, cook it till tender in slightly-salted water, drain it well and let cool. Melt i oz. of butter in a small stew-pan, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with the milk, and let boil for ten minutes. Season to taste, and add i oz. of grated cheese. Press the cauli- flower into shape. Put a tablespoonful of the sauce on the dish intended for serving, place the cauliflower on this, pour over carefully the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese and a few bread-crumbs, place a few bits of butter here and there, and Ijrown in the oven. loi. STUFFED CUCUMBER. Take a cucumber, and cut it in pieces about two inches long. Take out the centre with a cutter, and fill it up with sausage meat. Braise the cucumber slowly for about twenty minutes. Dish the pieces up on croutons of fried bread brushed over with glaze. Have some round pieces of ham and truffle and put on as lids, and pour some brown sauce (white if liked) round. This makes a pretty dish if served with tomato au gratin. 102. GREEN PEAS WITH LETTUCE. 1 pint cooked green peas 1 small cabbage lettuce A few sprigs of parsley, tied in a buncb 1 button onion 1 oz. butter 1 saltspoonful castor sugar, Salt, pepper and nutmeg Peel and blanch the onion, drain and chop very finely.55 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. Wash and trim the lettuce, and cut the white leaves into very fine shreds. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the onion, and fry a pale golden colour, then add the shredded lettuce and fry with the onion for a few minutes. Now add the peas and the parsley, stir or toss carefully over a moderate fire for several minutes, sprinkle over with flour, and moisten with a few drops of water. Season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg, also add the sugar. Let simmer very gently for ten minutes, remove the parsley and serve. 103. SPINACH WITH POACHED EGGS. 2 lbs. spinach ^ oz. flour Salt and pepper A little stock or gravy 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoon! ul cream 3—4 poached eggs Pick off the stalks and brown leaves, and wash the spinach in several waters. Drain, and put it in a stew-pan with just enough water to keep it from burning; add a teaspoonful of salt, a very small piece of soda, or a little moist sugar. When cooked sufficiently, put the spinach into a colander, and press the moisture from it; then rub through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and cook a little; put in the spinach, and moisten with a little stock or gravy. Stir till it boils, and simmer for at least ten minutes. Lastly add the cream, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg or cayenne. Poach the eggs very carefully in water containing a little salt and a small quantity of vinegar or lemon juice. Take up and trim the eggs. Dish up the spinach, and place the eggs neatly on top of it. Serve hot.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 56 104. TOMATOES WITH MUSHROOMS. 1 lb. tomatoes i gill cream 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 1 dessertspoonful Bovril Pepper and salt 4 0Z8. cracknel biscuits 2 0Z9. butter A pinch of castor sugar 6—3 fresh cup mushrooms Boil the tomatoes in slightly salted water; strain off the water and rub the tomatoes through a sieve. Soak the biscuits in tepid water or milk and pass them through a sieve Mix them with the tomatoes in a stew-pan, add the Bovril, the sugar, half the butter, and enough pepper and salt to taste. Stir until it boils, then add the cream and keep hot. Wash, clean, and dry the mushrooms, fry them in the remainder of the butter; season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put the tomato puree in a round dish, surround with the fried mushrooms. Sprinkle over the remainder of the chopped parsley, and serve hot. 105. LETTUCE SALAD. Trim and wash some cabbage or cos lettuces; drain them thoroughly; break the leaves into convenient pieces. Prepare a dressing with finely-chopped garden cress, tarra- gon, chervil, three yolks of hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a fine sieve, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of tarragon t^inegar, and a little mustard. Work all until smooth, and lastly add the lettuce, and serve. 106. MIXED SALAD. Take two cabbage lettuces, and one endive; rinse and wipe with a soft cloth; break the leaves into smaP. pieces.57 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. place them in a salad bowl; add some shredded celery and slices of cooked beetroot on the top. Season with pepper and salt, dress with some salad dressing, which is prepared with a small quantity of double cream, in addition to the usual ingredients used for salad dressing. 107. TOMATO SALAD. Cut some firm ripe tomatoes into slices, lay them in a salad bowl with a few thinly-cut rings of Spanish onion, sprinkle with chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt and a pinch of moist or castor sugar. Dress with tarragon or malt vinegar and oil, serve with a bottle of salad dressing. The onion rings may be omitted if not cared for. 108, POTATO SALAD. Cut some cold cooked potatoes into thin slices, put them in a salad bowl, mix with one part of vinegar, two of salad oil, a little chopped chives and parsley, and a small quantity of chopped capers; season with pepper and salt. Mix carefully, so as to incorporate all the seasoning. Garnish with stoned olives, mixed pickles, and slices of hard-boiled egg- 109. EGG SALAD. Boil the eggs hard, steep them in cold water to get cool, remove the shell, and cut them into slices. Place in a salad bowl or deep dish, season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and a little chopped parsley, and serve.5 8 THE EXHlEiTlON COOKERY BOOK. no. SALAD DRESSING. The following ingredients prepared in the proportions stated make an excellent dressing for vegetable salads: — Three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, rubbed through a sieve; one dessertspoonful of mustard; one dessertspoonful of salt; four dessertspoonfuls of Worcester sauce or mush- room ketchup; four dessertspoonfuls of salad oil; four dessertspoonfuls of vinegar; and one teaspoonful of white pepper. All is stirred up well, and poured over the salads, in proportion to the quantity of salad required.59 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. SWEETS—HOT AND COLD. IIT. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 4 ozs. Van Houten's chocolate 1 07,. flour 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence ^ oz. sugar 1 oz. butter 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs 1 gill milk Grate the chocolate and mix it with the milk; boil it till quite smooth. Melt the butter and flour and stir them till smooth; add the chocolate and milk, mix well, boil them, and then take them off the fire. Add the yolks of eggs one by one, then the essence. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add them lightly. Turn this mixture into a prepared tin, and steam three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Turn it out, and pour custard sauce round the souffle. 112. CUSTARD SAUCE. I dessertspoonful cornflour (B. and P.^s patent) 1^ gills milk 8 eggs 1 oz, ca.stor sugar Vanilla essence Mix one dessertspoonful of cornflour with half a gill of milk, place it on the fire, add half-ounce of butter, and stir till boiling; then add a gill of boiling milk, one ounce of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. Let it boil for a few minutes, then stir in eight yolks of eggs; continue to stir until the eggs begin to set, and use as required. The sauce must on no account be allowed to boil when once the egg yolks have been added. A little sherry or Marsala wine may be added instead of the vanilla essence if liked.6o THE EXHIBITION (OOKEUY HOOK. 113. CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 2 tablespoonfuls of Van Houten's chocolate (grated) i gill milk or cream ^ oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 1 tablespoonful cornflour (B. and P.'s patent) 2 eggs Put the chocolate and cornflour in a basin, mix it well. Beat up the .yolks of the eggs and work to a cream with the sugar; now add the chocolate and cornflour; moisten with the milk or cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and fold in carefully. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered porcelain souffle dish or an ordinary pie dish, place it in a shallow pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in a moderately-heated oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Serve the dish as soon as it leaves the oven. 114. LEMON PUDDING. ^ lb. beef suet 1 lemon i lb. castor sugar J lb. fresh breadcrumbs 1| eggs A little cream or milk Skin and finely chop the beef suet; mix a little flour with the suet when chopping. Put it in a basin, add the breadcrumbs and sugar; grate the lemon rind and add also. Mix well, moisten with the juice of the lemon and the eggs, previously beaten. Stir in enough cream or milk to get the usual consistency. When thoroughly mixed, fill a well-buttered mould, tie it up in a buttered cloth, and boil for about an hour and a quarter. Serve wdth lemon sauce.bl • THE EXiriniTION COOKERY BOOK. 115. FIG PUDDING. 8 ozs. figs 3 ozs. brown sugar 1 gill milk 4 ozs. breadcrumbs 4 ozs. suet, chopped 1 oz. cornflour (B. and P.'s patent) 1 oz. flour 1 oz. Paisley flour (B. and. P's) 2 eggs ' Grate of nutmeg Chop the figs, mix with sugar, and stew gently in the milk for fifteen minutes. Sift cornflour, flour and Paisley flour well together, put into a basin with the breadcrumbs and suet, and mix all together. Stir in the stewed fig mixture, and add the eggs well beaten. If more moisture is required, add a little milk. Put into a well buttered basin, and steam or boil for four hours. Serve with custard sauce. 116. PINEAPPLE PUDDING. il ozs. butter 1 gill milk 1 inch vanilla pod. or a few drops of vanilla essence 4—6 ozs. preserved pineapple 1 glass Marsala wine, for sauce 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 eggs Pineapple syrup I desserispoonful cornflour (B. and P.'s patent) Put the milk in a saucepan with the vanilla, and bring to the boil. Melt the butter in another saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few seconds; then add the milk stir vigorously with a wooden spoon till a soft paste-like mixture is obtained. Put this in a basin, and add the yolk of two eggs, the sugar, and the pineapple (cut into small dice). Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir carefully in the above. Pour the mixture into a well buttered plain pudding or charlotte mould, and steam for about hours. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour round the sauce as below and serve.the exhibition cookery book. ii6a. PINEAPPLE SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 1 dessertspoonful cornflour 1 glass Marsala or sherry wine (B. aiul P. 8 patent) Castor sugar 1 gill pineapple syrup Mix the cornflour with a gill of pineapple syrup, boil up whilst stirring, then add a glass of Marsala or sherry wine, and, if needed, a little castor sugar j boil for a few minutes longer, and use as directed. 117. FROSTED BREAD PUDDING. G ozs. stale bread, free from crust 1 gill cream 2 ozs. castor sugar i teaspoonful of cavona or vanilla essence j pint milk 2 ozs. butter 3 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls jam Cut the bread into dice, put it in a well tinned stew-pan, or in an enamelled saucepan, pour over the milk, place it on the fire, and cook very slowly for fifteen minutes. Work it smooth with a fork or whisk, add the sugar and the butter, stir in the yolks of two eggs, one whole egg, the cream, and the flavouring essence. Mix thoroughly. Turn the mixture into a well buttered souffle or pie dish, spread a tablespoonful of jam in the centre layer, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and sweeten with a little castor or icing sugar. Spread a layer of jam on top of the baked pudding, and pile on top of this the stiff whites of eggs, dredge over with a little more castor sugar, return to the oven for another ten minutes to brown the surface, and serve very hot.63 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK, 118. NELSON PUDDING. 2 ozs. breadcrumbs or cake- crmnbs 2 ozs. ratafia crumbs 1 oz. cornflour (B. and P.^s patent) 1 oz. Paisley flour (B. and P.’s) 1 oz. chopped suet 1 oz. chopped lemon rind 2 ozs. castor sugar 1 wineglassful sherry 4 eggs I pint milk 1 oz. ground almonds Butter a plain mould with clarified butter. Decorate with a few candied cherries and strips of candied peel. Blend the cornflour with the milk, and boil for one minute. Take off the fire, and let it cool for a few minutes. Stir in the beaten eggs, the crumbs (mixed well with the Paisley flour), ground almonds, suet, lemon rind, castor sugar, and sherry. Place in the buttered mould, and steam gently for one hour. Serve with the following sauce poured round :—i tablespoonful of apricot jam, i dessert- spoonful of castor sugar, half gill water, i glass sherry. Dissolve together, make hot and strain round the dish. 1^ ozs. Paisley flour (B. and P.'s) Mix the flour and Paisley flour, chop the suet with them, add the sugar, and mix well together. Vary in the following manner: — 120. FOR BROWN PUDDING.—Add to the above a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and quarter of a pound of treacle. Then stir in sufficient milk to mix. 119—124. SUET PUDDINGS. 8 ozs. flour 3 ozs. suet 4 ozs. sugar Milk to mix64 THE EXiriBlTIO.V COOKERY BOOK. 121. FOR SULTANA PUDDING.—Add three ounces of sultanas or raisins, one ounce of citron, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix with milk. 122. FOR MARMALADE PUDDING.—Add a quarter of a pound of marmalade and sufficient milk to mix. 123. FOR FIG PUDDING.—Add half a pound of chopped figs and milk to mix. 124. FOR LEMON PUDDING.—Add the grated rind and juice of two lemons, and sufficient milk to mix. Any of the above puddings can be boiled in a well greased pudding basin, and served with sweet sauce; or they may be put in a pie dish and baked in the oven. Chop the suet finely, and mix it with the flour, Paisley flour, and salt; then add sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste, roll out the pastry on a floured board to an oblong strip, spread over the jam, leaving half an inch clear each side; wet the edges and roll up the paste. Rinse a pudding cloth in boiling water, sprinkle over with the flour, and place the pudding in it, roll it, and fasten the ends with string. Boil or steam for about three quarters of an hour. Take up, remove the cloth, and serve hot. 125. ROLLED JAM PUDDING. 6 028. flour A pinch of salt 2 tablespoonfuls jam 2 029. sugar i teaspoonful Paisley flour (B. and P.^8)THE EXHIBITIOA’- COOKERY BOOK. 65 126. 1 pint milk 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 ozs. crushed macaroons VICTORIA PUDDING. ^ gill cream 4- eggs A few drops of lemon essence Boil the milk, then add the cream and sugar, and pour over the crushed macaroons. Beat up the eggs and strain into the above. Set this over the fire into a stew-pan, and stir until quite hot, but not boiling. When nearly cold add the flavouring and, if liked, a tablespoonful of Brandy. Pour into a well buttered mould (plain mould in preference) cover it with a buttered paper, and steam from 45 minutes to an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with any kind of sweet sauce or syrup. 127. CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 4 ozs. flour 4 ozs. bread-crumbs 1 oz. Paisley flour (B. and P.'’s 5 ozs. chopped suet 8 ozs. sultanas 8 ozs. raisins, stoned 8 ozs. mixed peel 4 ozs. castor sugar 1 lemon, rind and juice 1 glass of brandy 3 eggs Milk to mix Sift the flour and Paisley flour, and mix well together, chop the suet with a little of the flour, and add all the other dry ingredients. Stir in the beaten eggs and sufficient milk to make the mixture rather moist. Boil in well greased pudding basins for five hours. Serve with custard, wine or brandy sauce. 128. CABINET PUDDING. i lb. ratafias and macaroons mixed I lb. finger biscuits or .sponge cakes A few glace cherries 2 eggs ^ pint milk A little butter A few drops of vanilla essence 0THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 66 Line a well buttered plain pudding mould with some of the ratafias and glace cherries (the latter to be cut in halves); cut the remainder of cherries into quarters, crumble up the macaroons, the biscuits, and the remainder of ratafias. Mix well with the fruit, and fill up the mould. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and flavouring essence, (vanilla, lemon, or other flavours); pour this into the mould. Let it stand for about twenty minutes, then steam for an hour or so. Dish up and serve with a custard sauce or any other kind of sweet sauce. 1 tablespoonful cornflour (B. and P.'s patent) Separate the yolks from the; whites of eggs, put the latter in a basin, and keep on the ice till wanted. Mix the yolks with the sugar, butter, and other ingredients, and whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water until hot and of a creamy appearance. Whisk the whites of eggs, to a stiff froth, and mix with the above. Butter some dariole or timbale moulds, three parts fill them with the mixture, and steam or bake them frorh 20 to 25 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot fruit syrup or custard. 129. DAISY PUDDINGS. li ozs. castor sugar 1^ ozs. butter 1 tablespoonful milk 3 eggs The grated rind and juice of half a lemon 130. BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 8 ozs. breadcrumbs 4 ozs. flour 1 oz. Paisley flour (B.and P.'s) 4 ozs. chopped suet Milk to mix 4 ozs. raisins 4 ozs. currants 4 ozs. candied peel 2 eggsTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. ^7 Mix the flour and Paisley flour well together, chop the suet with a little of the flour, and add all the other dry ingredients. Stir in the beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten. Turn into two well greased pie dishes, or a well greased pudding tin. Bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Turn ^ut, dust with castor sugar, and serve with custard-sauce.' - 131. HONEYCOMB PUDDING j oz. of Cox’s gelatine j A little water 3 oz. sugar 1 teaspoonful of vanilla esseiice 1 pint of milk 3 eggs Soak the gelatine in sufficient water to cover it, for about ten minutes. Stir over the fire till the gelatine is disolved, then add the sugar and milk. Now add the beaten yolks of eggs and vanilla, stir until it thickens, but be careful not to let it boil. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir gently into the mixture. Pour at once into a mould rinsed in cold water. 132. CASTLE PUDDING. 2 eggs I oz. Paisley flour (B.and P.’s) Their weight in butter, sugar, ; and flour 1 Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, and stir ii‘ the flour and Paisley flour well mixed together. Bake in buttered darioles for twenty minutes. Turn out and serve with jam sauce round. (See next page.)THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 68 JAM SAUCE.—I tablespoonful of jam, i tablespoonful of castor sugar, i teaspoonful of lemon juice, i gill water. Boil together, colour with cochineal, and strain round the pudding. PRINCE’S PUUUING. i oz, Cox’s gelatine 1 gill of milk The yolks of 2 eggs The whites of 3 eggs 1 pint jelly (149 Ijemon Jelly) The juice of 1 small lemon 1 gill of apricot pulp (from fresh fruit or tinned) 2 ozs. castor sugar f gill water Few drops of carmine or cochineal Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and dissolve gently over the fire. Make a custard of the yolks of eggs and the milk, then add the apricot pulp, sugar, lemon juice, dissolved gelatine and carmine. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly, but thoroughly, into the mixture. Pour into a basin and stir occasionally until nearly cold. Set in a mould previously . masked \vith bright pale jelly and decorated with angelica and fancifully cut pieces of glace fruit. Put the mould in a cool place. Turn out 'when cold and quite set, and serve as dinner or luncheon sweet. 134. SOUFFLE OMELET. 6 fresh eggs 1 dessertspoouful kirEch, brandy or mm 1 dessertspoonful cornflour (H. and P.'s patent) 6 ozs. castor sugar A pinch of salt i oz. butterTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 6q Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, and put the former in a basin with the sugar, beating the contents of the basin thoroughly as each yolk is added. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and keep on the ice till wanted. The pinch of salt should be added to the whites of eggs before they are whisked. Add the remainder of ingredients with the exception of the butter and the yolks, and work the mixture for at least ten minutes longer. Butter a souffle dish, pile the prepared mixture on to it, smooth over with a wetted knife, dredge with castor sugar, and make an incision with the blade of a knife. Bake in a brisk oven for about 15 or 20 minutes, and send to table as soon as it leaves the oven. In place of liqueurs a few drops of vanilla essence may be used. Soak the gelatine in half a cup of cold milk fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together and put into a doulble boiler with the remaining milk. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken (but do not let it boil), then add the gelatine, stir till dissolved and strain into a large basin. Put in a cold place, and when it begins to- cool add the whisked whites of eggs, flavouring and the whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, and when beginning to set, pour into a mould previously lined with the finger biscuits. 135. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. I oz. of Cox’s gelatine 5 eggs 4 ozs. white sugar 1 pint; of milk ^ pint of cream Finger sponge cakes'I'HE EXHTIU'I'ION' COOKKTIY HOOK. 70 J30. RICE PUDDING 1 pint of milk (made as directed j 1 oz. butter, below), I 1 egg. 1 oz. rice. j For one pint of milk take four tablespoonfuls of Milkmaid Brand Condensed Milk, and add sufficient water to make the pint. Wash the rice well and put it into a lightly buttered pie dish with the butter and milk. Bake in a slow oven for about three quarters of an hour. 137. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 3 large slices of buttered bread. 1 egg. 1 oz. Currants (well washed and 1 If liked, a little grated lemon picked), I rind, or grated nutmeg. 1 pint of milk (made with Milk- j maid Brand as directed in recipe No. 136), i Cut the slices of bread into small portions and put them in layers into a lightly buttered pie dish. Sprinkle the currants between the layers. Beat up the egg, add it to the milk, pour this into the pie dish and bake for half an hour.71 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 138. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 1 pint of milk (made with Milk- maid Brand as directed in recipe No. 136). 2 07.8. tapioca. 1 oz. hutter, or shredded suet. 1 egg. Lightly butter a pie dish, then put in the tapioca, the remainder of butter or suet, and half the milk. Let the tapioca swell in a cool oven for half an hour, then add the egg well beaten, and the rest of the milk. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake in a slow' oven for about three quarters of an hour. 139. MACARONI PUDDING. 1 pint of milk (made with Milk- maid Brand as directed in recipe No. 136). 2 ozs. macaroni. 1 egg. Flavouring (grated lemon rind, powdered cinnamon or nut- meg). Break the macaroni into pieces one or tw'o inches long, throw into fast boiling slightly salted water, and cook till nearly tender. Then drain off the water, put the macaroni into a buttered pie dish, add the milk, flavouring and the egg well beaten. Bake in a moderate oven from three quarters of an hour to one hour.IIIK EXHIBITION COOKKRY ROOK. 72 140. BLANC i\IANC;E. 1 quart of milk (made with | A few drops of vanilla or Milkmaid Brand, as directed j almond flavouring in recipe No. 136. ! 2 tablespoonfnls cornflour Put the cornflour into a basin and mix smooth with a little milk, then add the rest of the milk and allow to boil for about ten minutes, until reduced to about two-thirds the original quantity, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed with cold water, and place it in the cool till set. 141. CUSTARD. f pint milk (made by adding j 1 teaspoonful cornflour water to 2 tablespoonfuls of I 1 egg of Milkmaid Brand) / Put the cornflower into a basin and mix smooth Avith a little of the milk. Put the rest of the milk on to boil, when boiling, pour into the cornflour, etc., stirring all the time. Return it to the saucepan and cook for eight minutes. Cool slightly, then pour in the egg, which must be lightly beaten, and add a few drops of almond or vanilla flavouring. Cook a;gain till the egg thickens, but do not allow the mixture to boil after the egg has been added. Pour into a glass dish or custard cups and let cool. . , ■THE EXHIBITION COOIvERY BOOK. 73 142. HOVIS ORANGE PUDDING. 4 or 5 ozs- Hovis breadcrumbs 1 egg 4 ozs. snet lb. marmalade 3 ozs. Hovis flour Beat the egg and mix with the marmalade; then thoroughly mix with the other ingredients adding a little milk if necessary. Put in a greased basin and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 143. CHERRY CREAM PUDDING. ^ oz. Cox’s gelatine j pint of cream ^ pint of milk 2 ozs. preserved cherries f gill of water Whisked white of one egg A few drops of vanilla or almond essence 2 oz. castor sugar Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and then dissolve slowly over the fire with the sugar. Strain into a basin, and when a little cool add the vanilla. Whip the cream and add it with the milk, and then incorporate gradually the whisked \vhite of egg. When beginning to set, sprinkle in the cherries (cut in halves), and stir for a few minutes before moulding. 144. SWISS BREAD FRITTERS. i stale tin loaf 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence 2 small eggs ^ pint milk 2 ozs. sugar Prying fat Cut the bread into half-inch slices, stamp out some heart or other fancy shapes, put them on a dish, pour over the milk sweetened with sugar, and add the vanilla essence. Beat up the eggs in a basin. When' the bread is soakedTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. sufficiently take up, drain, dip each piece in egg, cover well, drop into hot fat, and fry a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper, dredge with sugar flavoured with vanilla or powdered cinnamon, dish up, and serve with some nicely flavoured custard. 145. PRUNE MOULD. ^ oz. Cox’s gelatine j lb. of prunes pints water 2 ozs. of sugar Half the juice and rind of a lemon Cochineal 1 small glass Of Sherry or Marsala (optional). vSplit the prunes and take out the stones, put into a saucepan with i pint of water, sugar, rind and juice of the lemon, and simmer for twenty minutes. Soak the gelatine in J pint water, dissolve over the fire, and strain in. Add the wine if liked, and colour with cochineal. Set in a mould rinsed with water. When firm, dip the mould into warm water for one moment and turn out. J46. CHOCOLATE MOULD. 8 ozs. Van Houten's chocolate 3 ozs. cornflour (B. and P.'s patent) Vanilla 2 pints milk or water 2 ozs. sugar Melt the chocolate in one pint of milk, blend the cornflour smoothly in the other pint of milk; add the melted chocolate and sugar, and boil for eight minutes, always stirring. Flavour with vanilla. Rinse a mould with cold water, and pour the mixture in. Turn out when set, and surround with whipped cream.THK EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 75 147. BANANA CREAM. f oz. of Cox’s gelatine 3 bananas 1 pint milk 3 oz. loaf sugar i pint whipped cream Juice of 1 lemon f gill water Skin the bananas and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the gelatine to soak in the water for about ten minutes and dissolve gently over the fire with the milk, sugar, banana pulp and lemon juice. Allow to cool a little, and stir in the whipped cream. As soon as it begins to set, pour the mixture into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Unmould in the usual manner and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with jelly and decorated with different coloured preserved fruits. 148. CANARY CREAM. H pints milk 4 ozs. loaf sugar 1 lemon | oz. Co.x’s gelatine 6 yolks of eggs Boil the milk, add the sugar and the thin rind of the lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in a little warm milk, and add it to the above. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the strained juice of half the lemon; stir into the stew-pan containing the milk, etc., put it on the fire, and stir until it becomes thick (it must not boil). Strain into a wetted mould, place it on the ice or in a very cool place to set. Turn out when set, and serve with fruit compct or jam. 149. CHOCOLATE i oz. Cox’s gelatine 4 pint of cream ^ pint of custard 3 ozs. of chocolate CREAM MOULD. 1 oz. of sugar Vanilla ^ gill water76 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. Soak the gelatine with suthcient water to cover it for ten minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Dissolve the chocolate in sufficient milk to form a smooth paste. Whip the cream, add the custard, the dissolved chocolate, and the sugar to it; then strain in the gelatine, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. Set in a mould. When firm, dip the mould into warm water for one moment and turn out. 150. APRICOT CREAM. I J oz. Cox's gelatine 1 pint of custard made of eggs, 7nilk and I oz. of sagar ^ pint of apricot j am j pint milk Soak the gelatine in pint of milk for about ten minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Add the preserve, and stir until it is quite melted, then add the custard. When beginning to set, pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, drop for one moment into warm water, wipe the mould with a cloth, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. jKi. RATAFIA CREAM. j oz, Cox’s gela,tine 3 ozs. sugur 1 pint milk 2 ozs. macaroons J pint cream 2 ozs. i-atafias Grated rind of 1 lemon Soak the gelatine in half pint of cold milk for about ten minutes. Crush the macaroons and ratafias and put into a bowd and pour over them half pint of boiling milk. Then add the sugar, lemon rind and dissolved gelatine, and stir77 THE EXHIBITION^ COOKERY BOOK. till dissolved. When cool add the cream. Pour into a mould rinsed in cold water and stand in a cool place to set. This mould would be improved if masked in jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica. 152. I oz. Cox’s gelatine ^ pint of custard 1 ,, cream VANILLA CREAM. 2 oz. castor sugar 1 teaspoonful Vanilla essence I gill water Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and dissolve gently over the fire. Whij) the cream, add the custard and sugar, and strain in the dissolved gelatine, flavour with Vanilla essence. Pour into a jelly mould, allow to set until firm in a cool place or on ice. Turn out on a dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with a thin layer of jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica. 153- J oz. of Cox’s gelatine ^ pint of cream I pint of custard GINGER CREAM. 2 ozs. of sugar 4 ozs. of preserved ginger f gill of water Soak the gelatine in the water for ten minutes, and then dissolve over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard, the sugar, and the ginger cut into slices. Stir in a dessert- spoonful of the ginger syrup, then add the dissolved gelatine. Set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, dip the mould into warm water for one moment and turn into a cold dish.TIIE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 78 154- A Gd. packet of Uox’s gelatine 1^ pints of water i pint of Sherry, Madeira or Marsala wine ^ pint of lemon j nice 6 ozs. loaf sugar WINE JELLY. 1 inch of cinnamon The rind of 2 lemons thinly cu t The white of an egg whisked The shell crushed 2 cloves Soak the gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a saucepan and whisk until it begins to boil. Allow it to boil up well and then simmer gently for another ten minutes, and strain through a clean coarse cloth scalded. Return the jelly through the cloth until it is clear, each time placing a clean hot basin underneath instead of the one removed. When clear, set in a mould rinsed with cold water, and let it stand until firm. It is recommended to always set this mould in ice. To turn out, dip the mould for one moment into warm water, and turn into a cold dish. 155. LEMON JELLY. A 6d. packet of Cox’s gelatine 1| pints of cold water ^ pint of lemon juice 1 inch, of cinnamon 6 oz. loaf sugar 3 cloves The rind of four lemons thinly cut ' The white of an egg whisked i The .shell crushed Soak the gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a saucepan together. Whisk until it begins to boil, allow to boil up well and then simmer for ten minutes. Strain through a clean scalded cloth. Return through the cloth until clear, each time putting a basin, rinsed with hot water, underneath. When clear set79 THE EXHIBITION COOXIEIIY BOOK. in a mould rinsed with cold water, and let it stand until firm. It is recommended to always set this mould in ice. To turn out, dip the mould for one moment into warm water and turn on to a cold dish. 156. LEMON JELLY (Economical). A 6d. packet of Cox’s gelatine 2 large lemons (peeled thinly and strained juice) 6 ozs. loaf sugar 1 inch of cinnamon 3 cloves If pints of water A few drops of liquid saffron Put the gelatine into a basin and pour over it some of the cold water and allow it to soak for ten minutes. Then add the rest of the ingredients, except the saffron. Place on the fire and stir until it boils, colour with a little saffron and strain through a cloth scalded. Pour into a wetted mould and allow to set in a very cool place. 157. MILK JELLY. 1 pint milk , i oz. sugar ^ oz. Cox’s gelatine [ Lemon rind or cinnamon Soak the gelatine in water, drain and put with the milk which must be boiled with the lemon rind or cinnamon. Add the sugar, and let the milk, etc., stand on the side of the stove for ten minutes or so. Rinse a pint mould or several small ones in cold water, strain the milk into it, and keep in a cool place to set. Unmould and serve. 158. CLARET JELLY. 1 oz. (hy weight) Cox’s gelatine ^ pint of claret 2 ,, water JRind and juice of 1 lemon A few drops of cochineal 1 gill of raspberry jam or syrup, from fresh fruit 4 ozs. of sugar 1 clove and J inch of cinnamon or 1 tables poonful of brandy8o THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. Soak the gelatine in the water for ten minutes, tlien put all the ingredients into a saucepan together. Whisk until it boils up well; let simmer ten minutes. Colour with the cochineal, and strain through a coarse cloth scalded. Pour into a jelly mould rinsed in cold water, and allow to set in a very cool place. To turn out. dip the mould for one oment into warm water and turn quickly into a cold dish. If preferred, pour into a border mould and serve with whipped cream. 159. LEMON SPONGE. 2 ozs. cornflour (B. and P.’s patent) 1J pints milk 4 ozs. sugar 2 lemons, juice and grated riud ^ oz. butter 2 eggs Mix the milk gradually with the cornflour, put into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Add the butter and sugar, and boil for eight minutes, stirring all the time; then add the yolks of eggs, stir in the lemon juice, and allow to cool. Beat up the white of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly through the rest. Set in a mould, and turn out when firm. This may also be made with water instead of milk. 160. RIZ A LTMPERATRICE. pint of clear jelly (154 or 156) ^ oz. of Cox’s gelatine 3 ozs. of castor sugar ^ pint of cream. A few drops of vanilla essence 1 oz. glace cherries f oz. Angelica j ^ lb. of rice. 1 quart of milk 3 gill of water8 I THE EXHIBITION COOKEBY BOOK. Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and dissolve over the fire. Coat the inside of a mould with a thin layer of jelly and decorate with cherries and angelica. Wash, pick, blanch and cook the rice till tender in the milk. It should have plenty of time, as it must be cooked very slowly so that the rice well absorbs the milk. Turn into a basin and let cool. Now add the cream, dissolved gelatine, sugar and vanilla essence. Stir well and [lour into the decorated mould. When firm immerse the mould in warm water for a moment and turn out c[uickly on a cold dish. Serve with preserved apricots or peaches. i6i. RATAFIA MOULD. I5 ozs. cornflour (B. and P.'s 1 2 ozs. citron patent) 1 glass sherry 1 pint milk 1 oz. castor sugar 2 ozs. ratilias Blend the cornflour with a little of the milk, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the milk and sugar. Boil for eight minutes, stirring all the time. Cut up the citron and put it into a basin wdth the ratafias. Pour the sherry over to soak. Stir this into the cornflour and set in a mould. When firm turn out and serve wdth jam or custard. 162. MOCK ICE PUDDING. ^ oz. of Cox’s gelatine 1 pint of milk 1 tablospoonful of sugar A few crystallized fruits 1 egg. Ratafias INIacaroons Garnish a mould with a few' crystallized fruits of different colours, and then fill with alternate layers of macaroons and 6THE EXIilElTION COOKERY BOOK. Sz ratafias. Soak the gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about ten minutes, and dissolve slowly over the lire. Strain the gelatine into a custard (made of the egg, sugar and remaining boiling milk). Let it cool. Strain and pour into the prepared mould. Place the mould in a basin surrounded with two pennyworth crushed ice and keep in a cool place until required for table. To serve it, immerse the mould in warm water for one moment and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. t oz. cornflour patent) 1 pint milk 163. CHOCOLATE ICE. (B. and P.'s 4 ozs. grated chocolate (Van Ilouten^s) i teaspoonful vanilla 2 ozs. castor sugar Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, and stir it into a pint of boiling milk. Cook for three minutes, stirring all the time. Add the sugar and grated chocolate dissolved in a little cold milk. Allow this to become cold, add the vanilla essence and freeze. 164. STRAWBERRY ICE. 1 oz. cornflour (B. and P.'’s patent) 3 ozs. castor sugar 2 j^olks of eggs ^ pint strawberry pulp 1 pint milk 1 tablespoonful lemon juice Mix the cornflour smoothly with the milk, and boil for three minutes, stirring all the time. Take off, and add the yolks and sugar. Let this cool. Add the strawberry pulp to the cornflour custard, mix thoroughly with a vhi.sk, flavour with lemon juice, and freeze.83 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 165. lp:mon snow. ^ A Oil. packet Cox’s gelatine Whites of 3 eggs 6 ozs. loaf sugar 1 pint water 2 lemons (peeled thinly and strained juice) I Soak the gelatine in I- pint cold water ten minutes. Put into a saucepan pint boiling water, the sugar, lemons and soaked gelatine. Stir over a slow fire until entirely dis- solved, taking great care it does not boil Remove from the fire. When cool and beginning to set, add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk altogether until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Pleap up on a dish to appear as rocky as possible. i66. ORANGE MOULD. li oz. cornflour (B. and P.'s patent) 6 ozs. loaf sugar 2 small oranges Rub down the zest of one lemon and one orange with lumps of sugar. Peat up the egg- Blend the cornflour smoothly with a little water, then put the rest of the water, the egg, sugar, the zest and juice of the lemon and oranges into a saucepan, add the cornflour and stir until it boils. Boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Then pour ijito a mould rinsed with cold water, and when set turn out, and serve with whipped cream round the dish. 1 pint water 1 small lemon 1 oggTHE EXniJHTlON COOKERY ROOK. 167. KIMl’.ERLEV MOULD. ✓ i oz. Cox’s geliitiue -j gill of water 1.1 pints of milk 2 ozs, loaf sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla or almond Thin rijid of one lemon essence Yolks of two eggs Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Simmer the milk with the lemon rind, remove the rind, add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil, then add the sugar and gelatine and stir till dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the flavouring, and strain into a wetted mould. When set, dip the mould for one moment into warm water, wipe the out- side, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish.85 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. INVALID COOKERY. 168. BEEF TEA. i lb. lean beef (beef steak) j)int water Salt Shred the meat as finely as possible, remove every particle of fat, sinew, and skin; put it in a jar or basin wth the given quantity of cold Avater, add about half a teaspoonful of salt, and let it stand for half an hour or longer. Cover the jar with white paper or a close fitting lid, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and place on the fire to allow the water to boil for at least two hours. Strain the beef tea into a jug or large cup. Remove any fat that may be on the surface by means of a piece of thin white paper, add a little more salt if needed, and serve hot or cold. Beat up the egg yolks ; mix the Bovril with the water, previously heated ; stir this into the beaten eggs. Boil up the milk and add it to the above ; season to taste, and strain into a well buttered mould or basin. Place the mould in a stew-pan containing some hot water, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about tAventy minutes. 169. NOURISHING CUSTARD. S yolks of eggs J gill AA’ater 1 gill milk 2 tablespoonfuls BovrilTHE EXIlIJjmON COOKEllY JJOOK. 1 urn out and serve hot or cold. In cooking this custard quick baking or stewing should be avoided so as to prevent any possible coagulation of the albumen contained in the eggs and meat extract. lyo. STEWED OYSTERS. 12 oysters h oz. flour h gill cream 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 1 oz. butter 1 gill oyster liquor and milk 1 yolk of egg A small blade of mace Blanch (he oysters. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, and oyster liquor. Bring to the boil, add the mace and cream. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Beard the oysters and cut in two. Add the oysters and yolk of egg to tlie sauce. Make very hot together without browning; take out the mace, add the lemon juice, and serve. 171. BARLEY CUSTARD PUDDING. 1 oz. patent barley i ounce butter A tiny pinch of salt Nutmeg 1 teaspoonful castor sugar I pint milk 1 large egg Boil the milk. Mix the barley with the sugar and a little cold milk, pour on the hot milk, and put on the fire; add the butter and a small pinch of salt, stir over the fire till it boils, then add the yolk of the egg. Whisk th-c white of an egg to a stiff froth and add to the mixtiure when it has cooled a little. Butter a small ]>ie dish, pour in the prepared custard, grate a little nutmeg on top, and bake it for ten minutes.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 172. CHICKEN CREAM. i lb. raw chicken or veal 1 egg 5 oz. butter 1 white of egg, whipped i gill of cream j Pound the chicken in a mortar; add the whole egg and seasoning. Rub through a sieve. Stir in half the whipped white of egg and the cream whipped. Place in small buttered moulds. Steam gently for about fifteen minutes. Serve with a nice white sauce. Pheasant or game may be cooked in this way if wished. ^ gill stock or milk Chop the chicken and ham finely. Make a sauce with the butter, flour and stock. Season. Put in the minced chicken, parsley and ham. Mix well. Spread on a plate to cool. Form into balls, cutlets, or cork shapes. Egg and crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Dish on lace paper, and garnish with parsley. Toast a slice of bread to a nice brown, butter it well, and trim off the crust of the bread. Break one or two new laid eggs into a cup, drop separately into fast boiling water containing enough salt to taste and a few drops of lemon juice. Keep the pan on the fire until the whites of the eggs harden, then take up with a slice, trim neatly, and lay on the prepared toast. Dish up, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. 173. CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 3 ozs. cooketl chicken i oz. butter 1 oz. cooked ham i oz. hour 174. POACHED EGGS ON TOAST.THE EXIIIBITIOX COOKERY HOOK. S8 175. WINK WHKY. Boil a pint of new milk, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, and let it stand until it curdles. Sweeten with very little sugar, then strain and serve. 176. FRIED SOLE. 1 sole I 1 tablespoon fill flour 1 egg 1 Breadcrumbs Frying fat \ Wash, skin, and trim the sole. Dip lightly in flour seasoned with very little pepper and salt. Egg and crumb the sole. Fry in boiling fat. Drain and serve on paper with fried parsley. 177 FISH CAKES. i lb. cooked fish 2 ozs. mashed potatoes \ oz. butter I yolk of egg Pepper and salt Chop the fish. Melt the butter in a saucepan; stir in the fish and potato, and bind with the yolk of an egg. Season. Form into cakes. Egg and crumb. Fry in boiling fat and drain. Serve on a dish paper. 178. SCRAMBLED EGGS. 2 errgs 1 a oz. fresh butter 1 teaspoonful Bovril I Beat up two small fresh eggs, add a teaspoonful of Bovril pour this into a small saucepan, add about half an ounce of fresh butter and stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set. Have ready a slice of toasted bread, butter it, place it on a hot plate, and pour the egg mixture upon it.T>rE EXUIBITIOX COOKERY BOOK. 89 179. GRILLED CHOP. Make up a clear fire. Season the chop with pepper and salt. Brush the gridiron over with butter or a little salad oil. Cook from 4 to 6 minutes on each side. Mix a small pat of butter with a little chopped parsley. Take up the chop, dish up, and put the parsley butter on the chop, garnish with a few finely fried potatoes (ribbons or straws). 180. GRUEL (NOURISLIING). ]Mix an ounce of patent groats with a dessertspoonful of Bovril and add enough cold water to make a smooth paste; pour this into a saucepan containing about a pint of boiling water, stir till it boils, and simmer for ten minutes longer. A little fresh butter may be added, but as a rule gruel for invalids should not contain any fat. 181. MILK POSSET. Boil a pint of milk, pour this over two or three slices of soft bread cut into dice, add a little grated nutmeg, a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and a tablespoonful of sherry or brandy. Serve very hot. This is excellent for colds. 182. EGG FLIP. 1 egg I 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar 1 glass of sherry or brandy | Stir the raw yolk and sugar in a tumbler till creamy, then add the wine. Beat the ^white to a stiff froth, and stir it lightly in. Serve. Half the juice of a lemon may be used instead of the wine if liked.THE ExirriuTiox coorrEitY hook. 9(» .83. i 02. cornflour (B. patent) i pint milk 1 02. sugar CORN!'1.0UR S()UFRLK. and P.'s 1 teas poor) fill vanilla - eggs Pastry to line pie dish Line a pie dish with x^astry, decorating the edges with pieces cut Avith a fancy cutter. Blend the cornflour smoothly with a little milk, and strain it into the half pint of milk when boiling. Cook for tw^o or three minutes, then stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs and vanilla essence. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and lightly stir into the mixture. Pour into the lined dish, bake for about fifteen minutes. Shake a little sugar over the top, and serve at once Avith chocolate sauce. 184. CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR CORNFLOUR SOUFFLIC oz. grated chocolate (Van oz. castor sugar Houten's) A few drops vanilla essence i gill milk Boil the chocolate and Avater together, then take it off the fire, and stir in the sugar smoothly. Flavour Avith vanilla, pour into a sauce boat, and serve. 185. CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 4r ozs. Van Houten^s chocolate 3 ozs. castor sugar pints milk 2 ozs. cornflour (B. atjd patent) 4 j’-olks of eggs Vanilla essence P.'s Grate the chocolate, and dissolve it in half a pint of milk, in a saucepan. Blend the cornflour Avith a little • cold milk. Boil the rest of the pint of milk and pour it into the cornflour. Add the dissoh’ed chocolate andTHE EXUlI!mox cookery rook. 91 sugar. Boil for eight minutes, stirring all the time. Add the yolks one by one off the fire, cook for a minute, flavour with vanilla, and pour into jelly glasses or a glass dish. This may also be poured into a mould to set, and served cold, decorated with a little cream stiffly whipped, forced through a large rose pipe. \ oz. of Cox’s gelatine 186. bp:ef tea jelly i pint of strong beef tea made ■with a small pot of IJovril Make half a pint of good beef tea and strain into a basin. Soak the gelatine in a little water, then dissolve over a gentle heat and strain into the beef tea. Season and pour into small moulds rinsed in cold water or into china cases. When firm, dip the moulds into warm water, and turn quickly out on to a dish—or if in china cases, serve in the case. I oz. Cox’s gelatiue 1 piut of water AVell-beaten yolks eggs 187. EGG JIG.LV. I t ozs. sugar or 2 grains of ' saccharine in tabloids of four I The grated rind and ^strained I juice of one lemon Soak the gelatine in the water for about ten minutes 'I’hen place it in a stewpan with the sugar and lemon, and stir over the fire until the mixture comes tothe simmering, point. Have ready the well-beaten yolks of the eggs in a basin, and add to them the contents of the stewj)an. Stir, over the fire for a few seconds, but do not let it boil. AVhen nearly cold, strain into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. If wanted for an invalid, set in little moulds, in order that it may be served in convenientlv small quantities so essential in sick room cookery.92 THE EXHIIHTION COOKElfY HOOK. I88. I’OR'r A 6(1. packet Cox’s gelatine 1 pint of wati'v 1 pint of port wine ^Vlutes of two eggs whisked, the shells crushed WINK JKLK^■. 5 (>zs. sugar Strained juice of two lemons, and the thinly-cut rind of one lemon Soak the gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a stewpan and whisk together until it boils, let simmer for ten minutes. 'I’ake off the fire, and let stand five minutes, and strain through a coarse cloth scalded. When clear, set in a mould rinsed with cold ^^ater, and let stand until firm. I'o turn out, dip for one moment into warm water, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream 189. CORNFLOUR BLANCMANGE. 2^ oz. (5 table=spoonfuls ^ oz. (1 tea=spoonful) salt filled level) B. and P.’s butter, patent Corn Flour. 2 pints (3 breakfast=cupfuls filled to brim) good sweet milk. Mix the Corn Flour to a smooth cream with a little of the milk. Bring the rest of the milk to the boiling point. Remove the saucepan from the fire. Pour the mixed Corn Flour slowly into it, stirring vigorously Add the butter. Bring to the boil again and boil for ten mhiutes (by the clock) stirring well ail the time. Pour into the mould and cool. When quite cold turn out. 190 2 yolks of eggs li oz. castor sugar A fe>v drops of vanilla essence SO UFFLE OMEEE r. 0 whites of eggs- 1 teaspoonful flour 1 tablespoonful of jam93 Till; EXJllltlTIOX COOKEUY BOOK. Put the yolks of eggs and castor sugar into a basin, and stir them with a wooden spoon to a thick cream. Lightly stir in the flour, and add the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Flavour with vanilla. Place in a buttered omelet- pan, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Turn out; place the jam in centre, and fold over. 191. i pint boiling water 5 oz. sugar LEMONADE. 1 lemon Put the thinly peeled lemon rind, the lemon juice, and sugar into a jug and pour the boiling water over. Cover and let cool, then strain and serve. A little more sugar may be added if needed. Great care must be taken in peeling the lemon very thinly, and to remove white skin afterwards, otherwise the lemonade will be bitter. 192. EGG WINE. 1 egg 1 glass sherry 2 lumps of sugar 2 pint boiling water Beat the egg up well, add the sugar and sherry. Pour the boiling water on to the egg. Return to the saucepan, and stir till it thickens. Do not boil or it will curdle. Serve. If liked it can be served when the boiling water is poured on, and need not be cooked in the saucepan. 193. BARLEY WATER. 2 ozs. pearl barley j 2 lumps of sugar Eind of 1 lemon I 1 pint boiling water Peel the lemon rind very thinly. Wash the barley well in several waters. Put the barley, sugar, and lemon rindTHE EXIIIHITION COOKERY JJOOK. 94 in a jug, pour the boiling water over, and keep the infusion covered as tightly as possible. When cold strain and serve. This is thin barley water. For THICK BARLEY WATER proceed in the same way, but allow the barley to simmer in the water for at least one hour. Then strain and serve as above directed. The barley can be used a second time, but it is then not quite so nourishing. 194. LIGHT INVALID CAKES. 2 ozs. butter 2 eggs 1 oz. coi’ntlour (B. and P.'s patent) 3 ozs. castor sugar 2 ozs. flour 1 teaspoonful Paisley Hour (B. and P.’s) Cream the butter and sugar together; beat in the eggs; add the cornflour and Paisley flour. Bake in well buttered patty pans or small dariole moulds for about fifteen minutes.95 THE EXHIlHTlU^Sr COOKERY EOOK. PASTRY AND CAKES. PETITS CTIOUX. 195- 1 gill Avater A pinch of salt The j'olks of 2 eggs and the Avhite of 1 egg 1 oz. butter 2 ozs. Vienna flour (sifted) I teaspoonful castor sugar A few drops of vanilla essence or other suitable flavouring Put the water and the butter in a stew-pan and boil up. Stir the flour into the boiling liquid, and continue stirring with a wooden spoon till a smooth and soft paste is obtained. Remove the pan from the fire; when the contents have cooled a little stir in the yolks and white of eggs; do this very gradually, and beat the paste up well. Now add a tiny pinch of salt, the sugar, and the flavouring essence. Drop the paste in tea or dessertspoonfuls on to a buttered baking sheet about an inch apart, and bake a light brown colour in a moderate oven. Take up, and place them on a sieve to cool. These petits choux may be served plain, dredging them oyer with fine castor or icing sugar, or the tops may be covered with liquified jam, and sprinkled over with chopped almonds, pistachio nuts or dessicated cocoanut. 196. PETITS CHOUX A LA CREME. Prepare the choux as above stated, when baked make an incision, and scoop out some of the soft part of the interior of each choux, fill them with whipped and slightly sweetened cream, or with chocolate cream, then dredge with fine sugar, and serve.'mt: KXHIJSITIOX COOKEIfY BOOK. gb 6 ozs. fiour 197. ECLAlRvS. Make a choux paste as for “ petits choux.” Shape the paste on a floured board to small fingers, range them on a buttered baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. When baked take up the cakes and let cool, then slit one side of each, scoop out a little of the interior, and fill the cavities with whipped cream, custard, or jam. Cover each with chocolate or coffee icing. 198. WHIPPED CREAM. Pour the cream into a clean cool basin; whip (at first gently) until light and frothy. When required for sweet dishes, mix in lightly a little plain castor or vanilla flavoured sugar. When whipped sufficiently put the cream on to a hair sieve, and stand in a cool place or on the ice until required. 199. CHOCOLATE CREAM. For filling pastry, or for serving with jellies, fruit compots, etc. Whip about half a pint of double cream till stiff, add about one ounce of Van Houten’s chocolate, finely grated, and a tablespoonful of icing sugar. Flavour with a few drops vanilla essence, and use as required. 200. GENOISE CAKE. () eggs 6 ozs. butter The thin rind of half a lemon, finely chopped i lb. castor sugar97 'IHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. Break the eggs into a basin or into a copper egg bowl, beat up with a whisk and add the sugar. Whisk these together over a stew-pan of boiling water for about fifteen minutes, till it appears like a thick cream, then stir in by degrees the flour (sifted) and the butter (melted); lastly add the lemon rind. Pour this mixture into a well buttered saute-pan and bake in a moderately heated oven from 25 to 30 minutes. Turn out, let cool, and use as required. 201. SPONGE CAKES. 6 ozs. flour j 6 ozs. castor sugar 6 yolks aucl 4 whites of eggs A gill of milk Sift the flour and put it in front of the fire to dry. Cream the sugar and egg-yolks, and beat or whisk for at least twenty minutes. Now add the milk and the flour, together with the whites of eggs, which have been whisked to a stiff froth; the flour and egg-whites must be whisked in very lightly and by degrees. Three parts fill some well buttered and sugared or floured sponge cake moulds, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about thirty minutes. 202. PLUM CAKE. 8 ozs. flour J oz. Paisley flour (B. and P.’s) 4 ozs. castor sugar 2 ozs. currants 5 ozs. butter 5 gill milk 1 oz. mixed peel 2 ozs. raisins or sultanas h teaspoonful ground cinnamon 2 eggs Put the sugar into a basin, beat well with the two yolks of eggs, dissolve the butter; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, sift the flour with the Paisley flour, clean the fruit, shred the peel., mix all the dry ingredients with the 798 THE EXIIIJHTION COOKERY ROOK. sugar and yolks of eggs, add gradually the whites of eggs and milk. Pour into a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and half hours. 203 1 lb. butter 3 eggs. 2 ozs. glace cherries, cut in dice The juice of 1 lemon i lb. Vienna flour i lb. castor sugar QUEEN CAKES. 2 ozs. currants (cleaned) ' A grate of nutmeg The thin rind of half a lemon chopped finely i tablespoonful brandy ^ oz. Paisley flour (II. and P.’s) Put the butter and sugar in a basin and work with a wooden spoon to a cream, add the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture thoroughly till it resembles a light sponge. Mix in a separate basin the fruit, lemon rind, the Vienna and Paisley flour. Stir this into the beaten eggs, etc., then add the nutmeg, strained lemon juice, and the brandy. Stir the mixture for several minutes longer. Have ready some buttered and floured queen cake tins, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty.five minutes. Unmould the cakes, and place them on a sieve to cool. These cakes may be coated with chocolate icing, water icing, or royal icing, or served plain according to taste. 204. 8 ozs. apples 6 ozs. sugar 6 ozs. currants 4 ozs. suet i oz. mixed spice MINCEMEAT. 6 ozs. raisins 4 ozs. figs I 'oz. ground ginger Bind and juice of 1 lemon Peel, core, and chop the apples into small pieces, mince the fig.s, stone and chop the rasins, and clean the currants, Mix all the ingredients together, and keep in a covered jar. This will make rather more than two pounds.99 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 205. MINCE PIES. Roll out some rough puff pastry half an inch thick, stamp into rounds and line some small tins; place in each a teaspoonful of mincemeat; roll out more of the pastry rather thicker inan the first lot, stamp into rounds the size of the top of the tins, wet edges, and cover the pies, brush over with milk or water, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. 205. ROUGH PUFF PASTRY. 12 ozs. sifted flour Not quite J pint water 8 ozs. butter or lard J oz. Paisley Hour (1». and P.’s) Salt Mix a pinch of salt with the flour, cut the butter or lard into small pieces, and mix well with the flour, add just enough water to make a firm paste, roll out one-third of an inch thick, sprinkle over half the Paisley flour, fold in three, turn the paste round, the round edge towards }'0u; let it rest for ten minutes in a cool place. Roll out again, sprinkle over the remainder of the Paisley flour, fold in three, turn the paste round, and roll out; again fold in three. 207. WATER BISCUITS. 1 lb. Hour (sifted) 1 oz. Paisley Hour (B. and P.’s) 3 ozs. butter A saltspoonful of salt Mix the two kinds of flour in a basin, rub in the butter until the latter becomes thoroughly amalgamated with the flour; add the salt, and mix well; moisten with enough water to form a soft paste or dough. Roll it out on a floured board about one-eighth of an inch thick, prick the paste with the prongs of a fork, stamp out someTHE EXIIIIilTIOX COOKERY ROOK. loo round or square biscuit shapes, place them on a buttered baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. If liked a little grated cheese can be mixed with the flour. 208. ROYAL ICING. Put half pound icing sugar in a clean and dry basin, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, work these to a creamy substance with the white of one egg. Beat it with a wooden spoon until the mixture is a white, shiny and fairly consistent paste. 209. CHOCOLATE ICING. Break 3 ozs. of Van Houten’s chocolate into small pieces, put it in a clean and dry stew-pan with half a gill of water, place it on the fire, and stir mth a wooden spoon till melted; then stir in half a pound of icing sugar. When well dissolved remove from the fire, and use whilst warm as required. 210. WATER ICING OR TRANSPARENT ICING. Put a pound of loaf sugar into a clean and dry stew-pan or copper sugar boiler, add half a gill of warm water, stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved; then place it over the fire and boil for about five minutes, or until it is reduced to a thick syrup. Pour it in a basin, and stir till almost cold. Use it for coating or covering cakes and pastry. This icing must be used before it is quite cold, otherwise the covering will not be successful.lOt THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 211. FRUIT TART. ^ lb. flour J teaspoonful Paisley flour (B. and P.’s) f lb. apples, plums or other fruit 2 ozs. butter or dripping Castor sugar Prepare the fruit. If apples are used, peel, core and cut them into pieces; put them in a pie dish. When the dish is filled add some sugar to taste, and pour in a little water. Mix the flour with the Paisley flour, rub in the butter or dripping, and add a teaspoonful of castor sugar, then mix with enough water to make a stiff paste; turn the pastry on to a floured board, roll out rather larger than the size of pie-dish; cut off strips to line the edge of the dish; wet the dish and fit the strips round, then wet the paste and cover with the top crust. Mark the edge with the back of a knife, then brush over the top with a little water; dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. 2 12. SWISS ROLL. 3 ozs. flour 2 ozs. castor sugar 1 tablespoonful milk IJ oz. butter or dripping 2 eggs ] teaspoon fill Paisley flour (B. and P’i.) 3 drops of vanilla or almond essence Some jam Sift the flour on a paper, put the butter and sugar into a basin and work to a cream; when light, work in the eggs and half the flour (mix the eggs one at the time), last of all add the milk. Paisley flour, and the remainder of the flour. Spread on to a buttered paper placed on a baking102 THE EXllllJlTION' COOKElty BOOK. sheet, and bake slowly about ten minutes; then turn quickly on to a board, sjiread with jam (made warm) roll it up, and dredge with castor sugar. The cake must be rolled whilst it is hot. 6 ozs. flour 1 oz. butter i gill milk 213. TEA SCONES. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar 3 teaspoonful,s raisk-y flour (B. and P.’s) Mix the flour with the Paisley flour, rub in the butter; add the sugar; mix with the milk, to a smooth paste. Turn the paste on to a floured board, shape into a round flat cake, divide it crosswise into quarters, flour a baking tin and place the scones on it. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, when half done brush them over with sweetened milk to glaze them. 214. MILK ROLLS. ^ lb. flour (sifted) 1 oz. butter i gill milk i teaspoonful sugar 2 teaspoonful Paisley flour (B. and P.’i>) A pinch of salt Mix the flour with the Paisley flour, rub in the butter, add the salt, sugar and enough milk to make a fairly firm'03 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. dough. Put it on a floured board, divide the paste into six even-sized portions, and shape each into a small roll. Place them on to a floured baking tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. 215. HOVIS GINGERBREAD. lbs. Hovis flour 6 ozs. fine sugar 12 ozs. butter 1 oz. ground ginger 1 oz. bicarbonate soda 2 eggs A little milk After well mixing “Plovis” flour and soda, rub in butter, sugar and ginger, and make into a firm dough with the syrup, eggs and milk. Requires to be baked slowly and well. Will make about four cakes if one pound weight. 216. HOVIS SCONES. 2 lb. Hovis flour 3 ozs. I’aisley flour 5 ozs. lard or butter 2 eggs 3 oz sugar 1 pint of milk Carefully mix the “Hovis” flour with the Paisley flour then rub in the butter. Beat the eggs and sugar well, and add them and the milk to the flour and make a smooth dough. Wash over with milk or egg and bake in sharp oven.10+ THE EXHIBITION COOKER T BOOK. 217. HINTS TOR MAKING AND BAKING HOVIS BREAD AT HOME. warm water). Take about three parts of the flour and mix it thoroughly with the water, then pour in the yeast and mix again, this time using also the remainder of the flour. BAKING.—Let it rise 20 to 40 minutes and bake rather longer than ordinary bread, say 15 or 20 minutes longer. 3i lbs. Hovks flour 1 oz. compressed yeast (dis- 1 quart water (about as warm as the hand can bear it). Use no salt. solved in 2 tablespoonfuls ofJ°5 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. SAVOURIES & BREAKFAST DISHES. 218. SAVOURY OMELET. 3 eggs Salt and pepper 1 small shallot 1 tablespoonful cream or milk 1 oz. butter 1 teaspoouful chopped parsley Break the eggs into a basin; add the milk or cream and chopped parsley, and enough pepper and salt to taste. Beat up well. Peel and chop finely the shallot, fry it in the butter to a golden colour in an omelet pan, then stir in the beaten eggs, etc. Continue to stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; then roll up into the shape of a cushion; allow the omelet to get a nice golden colour, and turn out on to a hot dish. 2IQ. SARDINE OMELET. 3 eggs 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence 1 oz. butter i tablespoonful cream or milk 3 sardines, freed from skin and bones Pepper Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream or milk, and beat up well, cut the sardines into small dice, add these and the anchovy essence, and mix thoroughly. Season with a pinch of pepper. Melt the butter in a frying or omelet pan, pour in the mixture, cook whilst stirring until the eggs begin to set, then form the mixture into a half moon or cushion shape, allow it to take colour (a nice light brown) and turn out quickly on to a hot dishTJIK EXmiilTION COOKER Y LOOK. IO() 220. SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 4 eggs 6—8 preserved muslirooTns Salt and pepper 2 ozs. fresh butter A tablespoonful cream A round of toasted bread Break the eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt, beat up well, and add the cream and the mushrooms (chopped finely). Melt the butter in a stew-pan, pour in the mixture of egg, cream, etc., and stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set. Have ready the toasted bread, well buttered, on a hot dish, pour the prepared eggs over the toast, and serve hot. Great care must be exercised not to over-cook nor under-cook the mixture, otherwise this dish will be spoilt. A few thin slices of streaky bacon nicely fried served round this dish will be found a great imiDrovement if the dish is intended for breakfast. 22 1. SAVOURY EGGS ON TOAST. 4—6 poached eggs 1 tablespoonful of anchovy paste Pepper and salt 1.^ ozs. butter 2 firm tomatoes Chopped parsley Toasted bread Poach the eggs very carefully in slightly salted water containing also a little lemon juice, and trim them neatly. Mix the anchovy paste with the butter, cut the tomatoes into 4—6 nice slices, and remove the skin. Stamp out as many rounds of toasted bread as there are eggs, and spread the toast with anchovy butter. The round of toast should be the same size as the poached eggs. Place a round of tomato on top of the toast, and put an egg on each. Season with pepper. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot or cold.TI3K EXHlBmO^^ COOKEllY BOOK. 107 2 2 2. ANCHOVY PATTIES. 12 anchovies 1 yolk of egg Cayenne 4 lb. puff paste 2 ozs. grated parmesan cheese Parsley Scrape, wipe and bone one dozen Gorgona anchovies, roll out some short paste or remnants of puff paste rather thin, enclose each anchovy neatly in the paste; place them on a baking sheet, brush them over with the beaten yolk of egg, mark slightly with a knife, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese and a pinch of cayenne over each. Bake them in a quick oven for ten minutes. Dish them up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve quickly. Cut some slices of stale bread stamp out round or oval shapes by means of a paste cutter, and fry them a light brown in hot fat. Fry a finely chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, put in the ham finely chopped, and stir over the fire till quite hot; then add the yolks of eggs and the cream, season with pepper, and stir till it thickens. Pour about a tablespoonful of the mixture on to the croutes, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. Dish up and send to table very hot. 223. HAM CROUTES. 8—y fricl biYaJ croutes h oz. butter 2 yolks eggs Pepper C—8 oz. cooked bam 1 shallot Chopped parsley gill creamio8 TIIK KXJHBrriON COOKERY HOOK. 224. SAVOURY TONGUE CROUTES. <)—S p.roiites of fried bread li oz. butter 2 firm tomatoes 1 tablespoont'ul cream Pepper and salt 4 slices cooked ox tongue 1 oz. anchovy or bloater paste 1 egg Fried parsley Cut the tongue to the size of the croutes. Mix the anchovy or bloater paste with half an ounce of butter, and spread the croutes with it; place the slices of tongue upon this. Break the eggs into a stew-pan, beat it well, and add the cream and half an ounce of butter; season to taste. Stir over the fire until it thickens, pour a little over each croiite, and place a slice of tomato on top of each. Divide the remaining half ounce of butter into little bits, and put on the tomato. Set the croutes in a hot oven for a few minutes. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot. 225. ^ oz. of Cox’s gelatine ^ lb. of fillet veal 2 hard-boiled eggs Parsley, pepper and salt VEAL CAKE. J lb. of streaky bacon ^ pint of stock A little grated lemon rind Cut the eggs into thick slices, and line the bottom of a plain well-buttered cake tin. Now cut the veal and bacon into dice, and place a layer on top of the eggs, add chopped parsley, seasonings and grated lemon rind. Fix two or three slices of egg on to the sides of the tin ; then fill up with alternate layers of egg, veal, bacon, and parsley, etc., until two-thirds full. Dissolve the gelatine in the stock gently over the fire, and strain it into the tin until, quite full. Place a greasy paper over it and bake in a slow oven for one hour and a half. Remove from theTHE EXHIBITIOlSr COOKERY BOOK. I09 oven and set by until cold. Place the tin for one moment in hot water and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and serve. 226. CHEESE FRITTERS. 1 oz. cornflour (B. and P.^s patent) 1 ess 1 oz. of grated parinesan or Gtuyere cheese Frying fat Mix the cornflour and grated cheese in a small basin, moisten with the yolk of an egg; whip the white to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the above. Drop the mixture by means of a teaspoon into very hot fat, fry a nice colour and drain. Dish up and serve quicidy. 227. CHEESE AIGRETTES. Prepare a paste as for “Petits Choux” (page 92), omitting the sugar, and add half an ounce of grated cheese instead. Drop the mixture into boiling fat or lard by means of a dessert or tablespoon, and fry to a golden colour. Drain, sprinkle with grated cheese, and serve hot. 228. MACARONI WITH HAM. i lb. macaroni 1 oz. butter \ gill cream Fried bread-crumbs 4—6 ozs. lean cooked ham 1 oz. gihted paimesan or Gray ere cheep e Salt and pepper Break the macaroni into short pieces, drop them into fast boiling slightly salted water, and cook until tender. Drain and cool. Chop the ham rather finely. Put the butter in a stew-pan, when hot add the macaroni and stirTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 110 over the fire for a few minutes, then add the grated cheese and a little stock (if handy), lastly moisten with the cream. Spread a layer of this on a well buttered gratin or ordinary fireproof dish, sprinkle a layer of chopped ham on this, and proceed thus until the macaroni and ham are used up. Season with pepper. Cover the surface with a few t fried breadcrumbs, and bake for ten minutes in a quick o^en. 229. SWISS CHEESE DARTOIS. 5 lb. ordinary pastry 1 oz. butter 3 ozs. grated Gruyere cheese Salt and cayenne 1 gill milk 5 oz. cornflour (B. and P.^s patent) 2 eggs Anchovy paste Line a dozen small dariole moulds with very thin ordinary paste; boil up a gill of milk in a stew-pan, add one ounce of butter, mix with half an ounce of cornflour, also three ounces of grated Gruydre cheese, stir well over the fire, and mix with two beaten eggs; season with a little salt, and highly with cayenne. Half fill the moulds with this preparation; put a small quantity of anchovy or bloater paste in the centre of each, cover with the remain- ing mixture, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven a light brown, turn out, and serve quickly on a folded napkin.Ill TJIK EXHIBITION COOKEKY BOOK. 230. TOMATO JELLY. A Od. paclcct of Co.v’s golatino 1 tea spoonful of salt ll)s. of ripe tomatoes 1 dessertspoonful of tomato ketchup Soak the gelatine in half pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Slice the tomatoes and stew them gently in one pint of water until soft, add dissolved gelatine, salt, sugar and sauces, and mix thoroughly. Strain through a fine sieve or coarse cloth scalded. Pour into a border mould rinsed in cold water, and allow to set. Serve with chicken lobster, or .salmon mayonnaise in the centre. i touspoonful of .<ug'ar 1 tahlospoonful of Tarragon Vinegar pints cold water 231. LOBSTER CROUTES A LA DIABLE. 1 Lobster G drops Tarragon vinegar 2 ozs. white breadcrumbs Grated nutmeg White cream sauce 2 ozs. butter 1 tablespoonful Avhite vinegar Half a lemon Cayenne and mustard Croutons wine Remove the meat from the shells and head of a lobster, and pound it to a paste with two ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of white wine vinegar six drops of tarragon, two ounces of white breadcrumbs, and the grated rind and juice of half a lemon. To each eight ounces of lobster use one saltspoonful of nutmeg, the same of cayenne, and one teaspoonful of mustard. Have some small croutons ready, and put a teaspoonful of the mixture on each. Cover with the white cream sauce, Savour with cayenne and lemon juice.THE EXJHBITION COOKERY HOOK. I 12 232. ASPIC JELLY. 2 lemons 1 tablespoonful Bovril i gill sherry or Madeira wine 1 sliced carrot 1 sliced onion 6—8 peppercorns 1 small bunch, of savoury herbs (parsley, tarragon, thyme and basil) 6d. packet Cox’s gelatine 14 pints water i gill vinegar (tarragon and malt, or French wine) i stick celery (sliced) 1 bayleaf Salt to taste 2 whites of eggs and the shell Peel one lemon, put its rind and the juice of both lemons in a clean dry stew-pan; add the gelatine, Bovril, water, and all the other ingredients above-named. Whisk over a clear fire until it boils; then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently for at least fifteen minutes. Scald a clean cloth or jelly bag, and strain the jelly in the usual manner until it is bright and clear. It is then ready for use.THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. II3 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 233. TO MAKE TEA. Put a .kettle with freshly drawn, pure, and if possible, filtered water on the fire, and bring it to the boil for the purpose of making tea. Do not use water which has been standing on the stove all day, and which has been replenished from time to time, for this will not make good tea. It is most important that the water used must be boiled purposely. Use an earthenware teapot in preference to a metal one, pour some boiling water in the pot to heat it. Pour it out and put in a level teaspoonful of tea for every cup required and add an extra teaspoonful for the pot. As soon as the water in the kettle boils (water boils when it bubbles and the steam comes out of the spout) pour on as much as will fill the number of cups required. Set the pot to stand for three minutes. Stir up the tea-leaves with a spoon, and after another two minutes the tea will be ready. 234. TO MAKE COFFEE 2 heaped-up teaspoonfula of ^ pint boiling water ground colfee Sugar to taste i pint boiling milk See that the jug or coffeepot is perfectly clean, warm it, put the coffee in the jug which should have a strainer, or failing this a muslin bag will do. Pour the boiling water on the coffee, cover well, and let it stand on the top of the stove for five minutes. Serve with hot milk and sugar to taste. 8I] 14 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 235. TO MAKE COCOA Put a teaspoonful of Van Houten’s cocoa into the cup, withdraw the spoon, pour on the boiling water, then stir and add the sugar to taste. , To make larger quantities of cocoa, put a teaspoonful for each cup required into a dry jug which has been previously thoroughly warmed, pour on boiling water, then stir and serve into cups adding sugar to taste. Most cocoas require boiling in milk, but with Van Houten’s cocoa this is not necessary. All that is required is to see that water is boiling when poured on the cocoa, as otherwise a perfect cup of cocoa cannot be made.THE EXHIBITION COOKEKY BOOK. 5 IT HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 236. SIX REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD USE THE “RICHMOND” GAS COOKING STOVE. I St. WHERE NO SERVANTS ARE KEPT the work is much lighter for the ladies of the house. 2nd. COST OF GAS IS LESS THAN HALF THAT OF COAL. A family of eight can do all their cooking for 2jd. to 3d. per day. 3rd. ECONOMY IN MEAT IS VERY CONSIDER- ABLE. 10 lbs. of meat cooked by Coal, weighs 6 lbs. when done. 10 lbs. of meat cooked by Gas, weighs 73 lbs. when done. 4th. CLEANLINESS. A taper or match instead of paper, coal, and wood. No soiled hands or spoiled dresses. No smoke, soot, cinders, ashes or dust. 5th. CONVENIENCE. The handiness of a Gas Stove is not to be over-estimated. No waiting for fire to burn up. No “ doing without” tasty dishes for any meal. No irregular heat in the oven—“too fast” or “ too slow.” 6th. SUPERIORITY OF COOKING. “Cookery and Cleanliness are the next to Godliness,” the Americans say, and the perfection of both are attained by Richmond’s “Model” Gas Cookers.m6 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 237. THE PRAISES OF “RICHMOND” IN RHYME. “ Richmond’s Stoves for wear and tear, Nothing can surpass ; They all excel, they cook so well, And burn so little Gas,” “ Richmond’s a treasure, use it well. No dust! no dirt!! no smoke!!! no smell!!!!’’ “A Richmond fire is quite a joke, You gain the heat and lose the smoke ! ” “ Where first-class cooking must be done Tr}- Richmond’s MODEL,—that’s the one.” “ Remember it’s never too late to cook With a Richmond Stove and a ‘Cookery Book. ’ ” “ A Richmond I wanted, a Richmond I’ve got. Now peaceful my days and happy my lot.” “ To roast or grill, to bake or boil, bTse Richmond’s Stoves -they’ll save you toil.” “For comfort you’ll find Richmond’s MODEL the best; You just light the Gas, The stove does the rest.”THE KXHIUITION COOKERY BOOK. 1 17 FRUIT GROWING AND JAM MANUFACTURING- SOLVING THE PROBLEM. 238. A VISIT TO AN INTERESTING FRUIT-FARM. What problem ? What problem is being solved ? It is two-fold in character, and of great importance to every thoughtful mind. It is on the one hand, the problem of the decline of agriculture—as it is called—and the depletion of the population in the rural districts ; and on the other hand, the dense overcrowding of people in the large towns. How is this problem being solved ? AVe do not pretend to have found an universal panacea ? the causes of the problem are no doubt numerous and the remedies must be numerous likewise. But it is obvious that the development of village industries assists in solving the problem of agricultural depression, and of overcrowding in towns. 'fhe experiment was tried and proved abundantly successful by Messrs. S. Chivers & Sons, Fruit Growers and Jam Manufacturers, of Histon, Cambridge. The cardinal and inexorable rule of this firm is, they say themselves, to fully preserve the more perishable fruit within a few hours of picking. Thus all the freshness, flavour, and purity, are preserved. The fruit comes straight from the fields to the factory; there is no jolting railway journey, no long hours of standing in baskets in the heat of summer, no chance ofTHE EXIIIJUTION COOKKKV BOOK. Il8 \ ■ fermentation. J^ut straiglit from Messrs. Cliivers’ own fields, t)f those of neighbours on the spot on whom they can rely, comes the absolutely fresh fruit to the factory, and is boiled up into Jam in silver-lined, steam-jacketed pans. The result is an absolutely pure and thoroughly high-class article, which has met with the most brilliant success. Other results have been equally satisfactory. Half a century ago there was scarcely fifty acres of fruit in the neighbourhood, to-day there are thousands. Messrs. Chivers own several thousand acres themselves, a large portion of which is planted with fruit, while they purchase the produce of neighbouring fruit-growers ; and although we read that in certain agricultural districts the value of land has woefully declined, yet in the neighbourhood of Histon it has risen fully ten pounds per acre. This remarkable fact speaks for itself. The buildings of the factory cover more than three acres of ground. The store rooms seem endless. You can stroll through streets of Jam-pots. • The boiling rooms are large, light, and airy, and in the season may be seen half a hundred pans sputtering with boiling fruit. Further, the firm have added the preservation of whole (Greengages and Plums in syrup to their Jam manufacture, while to assist in keeping their large staff busy when the fruit season is finished, they make Patent Custard Powders, manufacture Marmalade, and among other things produce Mince-meat in glass jars. This last has developed into a very large trade, several tons per week being sent out in the au,tumn months.THE EXHilHTlON COOKEKY JiOOK. II9 The firm also do their own printing, make their own packing cases, produce electric light for their own works, silver their own boiling pans, work their own artesian wells, and keep their own engineers’ shop for maintaining all th$ machinery in the pink of perfection. Surely a most remark- able development of a huge self-contained village factory in the space of about 25 years ! ^ And the fruit-growing is the root of the whole business. Its success of course involves technical knowledge and love of the land. It keeps people employed on the land, and when as at Histon the products are manufactured on the spot it develops a village industry of a very satisfactory character. The firm often employ over a thousand persons Every one cannot of course become a fruit-grower and Jam manufacturer; but there is abundant evidence to shew that very much more might be done with the land, besides wheat growing and pasture, if only business enterprise and business energy be added to love of the land and desire to develop it to the full. 239. ON BLACKING STOVES AND WROUGHT IRON CASTINGS. Stoves can be best got into condition by using W. G. Nixey’s Egg Shell Enamel Berlin Black, which dries perfectly in a few minutes, and produces a rich surface of uniform dead black unaffected by heat or damp, and upon this Nixey’s Celebrated Refined Black Lead, as used in the Royal Households, quickly develops a perfect polish, rich in quality, and unequalled by any other brand, while itTHE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. I 20 preserves the stove from rust and lasts a long while.—For wrought iron castings, lamp and kettle floor stands, tops of fire irons and fenders, Nixey’s Egg Shell Enamel Berlin Black is always used—sold in bottles by all respectable tradesmen. When fires are discontinued and black leading is not required to be done so frequently most of the stoves will have to be coated with Nixey’s Egg Shell Enamel Berlin Black, a rich dead enamel that wears well all through the summer; it is a black coating, and can be put on best with a small tool brush, it dries perfectly in a few minutes. 240. POLISHING STOVES. During the past few years many competitors have arrived on the British shores from America and elsewhere with light grey soft plumbago polishes and enamel pastes, but we hesitate not to say that Nixey’s Refined Black Lead, that has stood the test of fifty years’ world wide reputation, and secured the Royal Appointments to the Queen and Prince of Wales and the highest awards at all Exhibitions including that in Chicago, is still the richest, blackest, easiest and most satisfactory. Should any reader desire the light polishes, then Nixey’s “ Silver Moonlight ” stove polish in packets, and Nixey’s “ Nixelene ” stove polishing paste in tins are superior to any other in their class, and can be obtained at any grocers. Full directions on packages. 241. KNIFE CLEANING. In these days of multiplying labour-saving articles it is121 THE EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. of importance to see that the knives, forks and all cutlery are polished rapidly without friction, and we know of no other article to secure this like W. G Nixey’s “ Cervus ” Knife Polish, at once the softest, easiest, magic polish, preserving the cutlery from wear, and is used in any knife machine and on the boards. 242. BLUEING IN THE LAUNDRY. Thanks to W. G. Nixey, we have now a perfect washing blue, known universally as Nixey’s “ Cervus ” Bag Blue, produced in neat flannelette or linen bags ready for use. The bag is simply squeezed in the water until the desired tint is obtained, then taken out and hung up; the water then stirred round is ready for all fabrics to be passed through, and the finest snow-like whiteness is obtained without any injurious effects, even to the most delicate articles. It is just necessary to caution our readers that there is but one Nixey’s Bag Blue and it is needful to see the name NIXEY. 243. CYCLES. We strongly recommend for chains and all other parts in need of lubrication Nixey’s “ Cervus ” Cycle Lubricant, sold in tubes, the most effective, noiseless and preserving we have seen. Many testimonials show its superiority over others, and it is so cleanly in application and suitable for ladies’ use.122 THli KXIIIBITIOX OOOKKKY BOOK'. 244. TOILET SOAPS. • Nothing is more injurious to a sensitive skin than the use of a soap containing an undue proportion of alkali, or one made from cheap rancid fats. Many of the cheaper kinds of soap sold for toilet purposes contain irritating ingredients, some of the highly coloured old fashioned soaps being positively ruinous to the skin. In no matter therefore should more di.scrimination be used than in the choice of soap for Toilet purposes, and it is with pleasure that we are able to speak in high terms of the VINOLIA Soaps. They have been before the public for a number of years, and received the highest awards for excellence of quality. The “ Premier ” Vinolia Soap is specially prepared and sold at a price which brings it within the reach of all classes; it is delicately perfumed, yields a splendid lather, and is most economical in use. It is admirably adapted for the most sensitive skins. Floral Vinolia Soap in sixpenny tablets is absolutely free from injurious ingredients, has a rich floral perfume, and does not dry or irritate the skin. Medical Vinolia Soap is specially prepared for the bath, and is highly recommended by the medical profession. I'oilet (Otto) Vinolia Soap is perfumed with the finest Otto of Rose, the rare and delicate properties of which are fully developed. Other high-class toilet soajDS manufactured by the Vinolia Co., comprise “ Liril ” Violettes de Parme and “ Losaria ” Peau d’ Espagne Soaps.TIIK EXHIBITION COOKERY BOOK. 123 Vinolia powder is almost too widely known to need mention here. It is entirely free from bismuth or other injurious metallic ingredients, and may be freely used for the toilet or nursery without fear of any deleterious results. The mouth and the teeth play a very important part in the liability to microbic infection, and the Vinolia Dentifrices are offered as being aromatic, antiseptic, tonic, refreshing and preservative. They keep the teeth ivory white, the breath sweet, and the gums strong, and are most soothing to tender gums and sensitive teeth. Vinolia Dentifrices can be obtained in either powder, liquid, paste or soap. While on the subject of Vinolia Preparations, we take the opportunity of recommending Vinolia Cream which will relieve the most intense itching and allay irritation and inflammation of the skin when nothing else will. It is invaluable for Eczema, Insect Bites, Sunburn, Prickly Heat, etc. One of its greatest recommendations is that it does not “ run ” like ordinary ointments, consequently, it is perfectly adapted for cold sores, chilblains, etc., form- ing a perfect protective and emollient, and preserving the skin from the evil effects of wind, heat, irritating particles, etc. We must also add a special word of praise for Lypsyl, a coralline emollient for rough, cracked, dry or pallid lips. It is manufactured in Rose-red and White tints, and is most agreeable to use. While upon the subject of Vinolia Preparations, weTIIK KXlinUTlON COOKKKY liOOK. 124 would draw attention to the Vinolia Perfumes, which are prepared in all popular odours and are concentrated delicate and pure. Vinolia Pomade for the Hair, Vinolia Violet Powder for Toilet and Nursery Use, Vinolia In- exhaustible Lavender Smelling Salts, Vinolia Shaving Soap (Sticks and Flat Cakes), Lait Vinolia, a non-medicinal preparation for the Complexion, Vinolia Eau de Cologne, Vinolia Lavender Water, etc., etc.INI) MY SOUPS. No. of Recipe Brown Stock. . . . .. . • • . 4- Celery Cream .. •. .. . . 15 Chestnut Puree .. .. • • . . 10 Cock-a-Leekie Soup .. . . .. 17 Cucumber Cream .. .. .. .. 16 Game Sou]> . . . . .. . . . . iz Green Pea Soup . . .. . . . . H Julienne Soup .. .. . . . . Lentil Soup . . . . .. . . ,. 6 Lobster Soup .. . . . . .. 18 Mock Turtle Soup . . . . . . . . iq Mutton Broth . . .. .. .. 5 Pompadour Soup . . . , . . .. 20 Potato or Milk Soup , . . . . . ~j Puree of Haricot Beans .. . . .. i ( Spring Soup.. .. .. . . . . 13 Stock for Soups and Sauces . . .. i Tomato Soup .. . . . . .. g Vegetable Soup .. .. .. . . 3 White Stock. . . . . . .. .. 2 FISH. Baked Haddock (stuffed) . . . . . . 26 Baked Sprats . . .. . . . . 24. Boiled Fish ., . . . . . . . . 2/ Cod Fish Souffle .. .. .. .. 30 Fillets of Mackerel, French Style. . . , 34INDEX. fillets of PluicCj witli Wine Sauce Fish Croquettes Fish, Fried in Batter Fish Stock . . Flounders en Souchet Fried Parsley lor Garnishing Fried Whiting, Soles and Cod Grilled Red Mullet • • • • • Oyster Fritters * • • • • t Oyster Pudding o • • • • - , , Scallops of Purbot with Cream Sauce SIMPLE MEAT DISPIES. Boiled Beef or Mutton Boiled Fowl Boiled Rabbit Cornish Pasties ’ * • • t • Devilled Butter Gravy Grilled or Broiled Meat Grilled Kidneys ., Haricot Mutton Hashed Beef Irish Stew Hotch-Potch Meat Pudding Roast Chicken Roast or Baked Meac Sausage Rolls Steak and Kidney Pie Stewing No of Recipe. 3' 27 22 36 35 25 23 32 33 28 29 41 43 42 -47 5 5 39 -45 54 50 46 48 49 53 40 38 51 52 44INDEX. 111. ENTREES AND SIDE DISHES. Beef Gelantine .. .. . .. .. 6o Chicken a la Princesse . . . . . . 68 Chicken Cutlets in Aspic .... . . 69 Chicken Quenelles . . . . .. . . 66 Chicken Souffle . . .. . . . . 57 Fillets of Beef a la Viennoise .. .. 62 Fillets of Beef with Tomatoes .. . . 61 Foie-Gras Rissolettes . . .. , . 72 Game Salad .. .. . . . . . . 73 Mutton Cutlets a la Bretonne .. . . 64 Mutton Cutlets with Green Peas .. .. 65 Salmi of Duck with Tomatoes . . .. 71 Stewed Pigeons with Olives .. . . 70 Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton . . .. 63 Veal Fillets d la Victoria .. . . .. 59 Veal Olives .. .. . . 58 Veal Quenelles .. .. .. . . 67 Veal Souffle.. .. .. .. .. 56 SAUCES. Anchovy Sauce . . .. .. .. 86 Bechamel Sauce .. .. .. .. 77 Bread Sauce . . . . .. .. 87 Brown Sauce .. .. .. .. 74 Caper Sauce.. .. .. .. 80 Cardinal Sauce .. .. .. . . 8g Custard Sauce for Puddings . . . 88 Egg Sauce .. .. .. . . .. 81 Hollandaise Sauce . . .. . . ., 79 Mayonnaise .. . . . . . . .. 85INDEX. IV. Onion Sauce No. of Recipe. 84 Piquant Sauce • t • • 82 Supreme Sauce • t • • 7« Tomato Sauce • • • • 83 White Sauce for Vegetable.s, &c. 75 White Sauce for Fish .. 76 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Boiled Potatoes • • • • 90 Brussels Sprouts (Sauteed) • • • • 98 Cauliflower au Gratin • • • • 100 Duchess Potatoes .. • • • • 95 Egg Salad .. • • • . log Fried Potato Straws • • • • 93 Green Peas with Lettuce. . • • • • 102 Haricot Beans » • • • 99 Lettuce Salad • • • . 105 Mashed Potatoes .. • • 9' Mixed Salad • • • « 106 New Potatoes, Dutch Style . . • • 97 Potato Croquettes .. . . 92 Potato Pie with Cheese .. . . 9+ Potato Salad . . 108 Salad Dressing 110 Spinach with Poached Eggs . . 103 Stuffed Cucumber . . roi Stuffed Potatoes 96 Tomatoes with Mushrooms . . 104 Tomato Salad . . 107 SWEETS HOT AND COLD. Apricot Cream 150 Baked Plum Pudding • t « • 130INDEX. V. Banana Cream No. of Recipe. • • 147 Plane Mange 140 Bread Butter Pudding '37 Cabinet Pudding . . 128 Canary Cream , * 00 Castle Pudding 132 Charlotte Russe 135 Cherry Cream Pudding . . 143 Chocolate Cream Mould .. 149 Chocolate Frosting 113 Chocolate Ice 163 Chocolate Mould .. .. 146 Chocolate Souffle .. III Christmas Pudding. . 127 Custard * • 141 Claret Jelly . . 158 Custard Sauce ., 112 Daisy Puddings .. 129 Fig Pudding • 115 Frosted Bread Pudding .. Ginger Cream • • ii7 T - T Honeycomb Pudding PIovis Orange Pudding Kimberley Mould .. Lemon Jelly., Lemon Jelly (Economical) Lemon Pudding Lemon Snow Lemon Sponge iMacaroni Puddin -\Iilk Jelly ig 142 ; 67 155 156 irp 165 '59 139 '57VI. INDEX. No. of Recipe. Mock Ice Pudding .. r62 Nelson Pudding ii8 Orange Mould i66 Pineapple Pudding and Sauce 116 Prince’s Pudding ., 133 Prune Mould 145 Rolled Jam Pudding 125 Ratafia Cream .. 151 Ratafia Mould 161 Rice Pudding 136 Riz a rimperatrice . . 160 Souffle Omelet ... 134 Strawberry Ice .. 164 Suet Puddings—Rrown / 20 Fio* ^ • • 123 Lemon 124 INIarmalade 122 Plain 119 Sultana .. .. 121 Swiss Bread Fritters 144 Tapioca Pudding . . 139 Vanilla Cream 152 Victoria Pudding .. 126 Wine Jelly .. '5+ invalid' cookery. Barley Custard Pudding 171 Barley Water 193 Beef Tea 1-68 Beef Tea Jelly 00 On Chicken Cream 172INDEX. VI1. Chicken Croquettes Chocolate Custard . Chocolate Sauce, for Cornflour Souffle Cornflour Blancmange Cornflour Souffle Egg Flip Egg Jelly Egg Wine Fish Cakes Fried Sole Grilled Chop Gruel (nourishing) Lemonade Light Invalid Cakes Milk Posset . Nourishing Custard Poached Eggs on Toast Port Wine Jelly Scrambled Eggs Souffle Omelet Stewed Oysters Wine Whev ., PASTE'f AND CAKES. Chocolate Cream • • • • • • Chocolate Icing ^ O’* • • . . . , Eclairs • • • • , , Fruit Tart .. Genoise Cake * * • • • ■ Hovis Bread, hints for making and baking at home.. .. ® No.of Recipe. W3 ^85 184 189 182 187 IQ2 177 176 179 180 191 194 181 I 69 188 178 190 170 05 199 209 197 211 200 • • • » 217vni. Hovis Gingerbread .. Hovis Scones Milk Rolls .. Mince Meat Mince Pies .. Petits Choux.. • • • Petits Choux a la Creme Plum Cake .. • • • • Queen Cakes Rough Puff Paste . . Royal Icing Sponge Cakes Swiss Roll . r Tea Scones , . • • • ^Vater Biscuits Water Icing or Transparent Icin Whipped Cream o- o No. of Recipe. 2J5 216 214 204 205 W5 196 202 203 206 208 20J 212 2^3 207 210 198 SAVOURIES AND Anchovy Patties Aspic Jelly . . . . Cheese Aigrettes BREAKFAST DISHES. 222 232 227 226 223 231 228 2 J9 221 218 224 Cheese Fritters Ham Croutes • • • • Lobster Croutes a la Diable Macaroni with Ham Sardine Omelet • • • • Savoury Eggs on Toast Savoury Omelet Savoury Tongue Croutes ..INDEX. IX. No. of Recipe. Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms.. 220 Swiss Cheese Dartois • • • • 229 Tomato Jelly • • • • 230 Veal Cake . . ... • • • • 225 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. To make Cocoa • • • • 235 To make Coffee • • • 1 234 To make Tea .. 233 HOUSEHOLD PUNTS. On Blacking Stoves and Wrought-Iron Castings • • • • 239 On Blueing in the Laundry • .* • • 242 On Cooker}" by Gas 236, 237 On Cycles .. • • • • 243 On Fruit Growing and Jam manufacturing 238 On Knife Cleaning. . • • • • 241 On Polishing Stoves • • • • 240 On Toilet Soaps • • • • 244Advertisements 1 CHIVERS’ ^ ^ ^ GOLD MEDAL 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. jams. Carefully prepared witli Refined Sugar, from freshly Picked Fruit, preserved whole as far as possible. CHIVERS’ + ^ + + + CUSTARDS NUTRITIOUS. DELICIOUS. DIGESTIBLE. (Lemon, Almond, Vanilla) MADE IN A FEW MINUTES BY SIMPLE ADDITION OF MILK. 2d. Packets and 6d. Boxes.11. Advert iHementfi. Ask Your Grocer for CHIVERS’ + + + * * MINCEMEAT. PREPARED WITH THE GREATEST CARE FROM FRESH AND WHOLESOME INGREDIENTS. COMMENTS OF THE PRESS. Twenty-Fifth Anniversary Celebration, July, 1898. The Independent.—“The visitors were all impressed with the perfect cleanliness of every department.” The Home Magazine.—“The first thing that will strike the visitor to Histon is the absolute cleanliness of every part of the works.” The Ladies Home.—“In the factory, as in the fields, rosy cheeks and smiling faces characterised the workers. Moreover, like everything else in the place, they were as clean, both in person and clothing, as the proverbial new pin. S. CHIVERS & SONS, HISTON, CAMBRIDGE.111. Advertisements. FRIENDS OLD AND NEW. BROWN & POLSON’S “PATENT” CORN FLOUR, An old friend of 40 years’ standing-. For light and delicate puddings, blanc-manges, custards, jellies, sponges, and a host of tempting and delicious dishes. But if the bests results are to be obtained every precaution must be taken to secure onl}' B. & P’s is delivered—or something else may be sent instead. BROWN & POLSON’S PAISLEY FLOUR. A NEW FRIEND OF EQUAL PROMISE. By its help the delights of the tea-table are increased, by the easy addition of dainty and temptiog tea cakes and scones ; all kinds of home-baking are assisted and simplified, and everything made light and digestible. “ Even a tyro need never fail in baking if PAISLEY FLOUR be used.” SOLE MAKERS: BROWN & POLSON.IV, Advertisements. BEOWN & POLSON’S COEN PLOUE Is used in the following Recipes ■ Cucumber Cream Brown Onion Sauce.. Custard Sauce for Puddings Custard Sauce .. Chocolate Frosting .. Fig Pudding .. Pineapple Pudding & Sauce Nelson Pudding Daisy Puddings Souffle Omelet . . 16 84 88 112 113 115 116 118 129 134 j Chocolate Mould .. 146 ! Orange Mould .. .. 166 j Lemon Sponge.. .. 159 I Eatafia Mould .. .. 161 I Chocolate Ice .. . . 163 Strawberry Ice.. .. 164 Cornflour Souflee .. 183 Chocolate Custard .. 185 I Cornflour Blanc Mange 189 j Light Invalid Cakes 194 I Cheese Fritters.. .. 226 ' Swiss Cheese Dartois 229 BROWN & POLSONS PAISLEY FLOUR Is used in the following Recipes '■ Sausage Polls .. . . 51 Steak and Kidney Pie 52 Fig Pudding .. .. 115 Nelson Pudding .. 118 Suet Puddings, Plain 119 Do. Brown .. 120 Do. Sultana .. 121 Do. Marmalade 122 Do. Fig .. .. 123 Do. Lemon .. 124 Boiled Jam Pudding 125 Christmas Pudding.. 127 Baked Plum Pudding 130 Castle Pudding .. 132 Light Invalid Cakes 194 Plum Cake . . .. 202 Queen Cakes .. .. 203 Eough Puff Paste .. 206 AVater Biscuits.. .. 207 Fruit Tart 211 Swiss Poll 2i2 Tea Scones .. .. 213 Milk Polls 214 Hovis Scones .. . . 216Advertisements. V. WARRINGTON Stratford & LONDON. aiTi usir^ a fycn/V)OND. xsaid. “ Richmond’s a treasure, use it welJ^ No dust, no dirt, no smoke, no smell.”\ i. yL(hi'i'l innuentn.VI1. Advertisements. StUl UurivktUd for Qu^my a&d O 03E’S PATENT REFINED SPARKLING GELATINE. HTAONUEK TBAN I.SINULASE. ai oai-* Vaiii. TRf ITiM. (or Coiitian^c*. St«»k»th. roKiit. 0»alt*. t>ul ('aiAPaiiR. STANDS UN»IVA«,I.EU for u«kAii« #iic« Ca?«r.(.LiRi JiLLV ■•M Is rackats oslj •t 8d. 9d Ik. Ik. Od 3k. 5k. and lOk. »*ch. p j 14 j 3 6t >l U4 W>i«n.R III Jelly. nS’ The ln». racket yield* Je(l> eo h « *» 6d. »>er tJi*eT. 1 Patent Gelatine Worha. Corgic Mill*. Edinburgh. (When buying, see you yet the Registered Tartan Packet, as aboveJ. COX’S SPARKLING GELATINE is used in the fol- lowing’ recipes contained in this Cookery Book:— 131. Honeycomb Pudding 133. Prince’s Pudding 135. Charlotte Busse 143. Cherry Cream Pudding 145. Prune Mould 147. Banana Cream 148. Canary Cream 149. Chocolate Cream Mould 150. Apricot Cream 151. Batafia Cream 152. Yanilla Cream 153. Ginger Cream 154. Wine Jelly 155. Lemon Jelly 136. Lemon Jelly (Economic) 157. Milk Jelly 158. Claret Jelly 160. Biz a I’lmperatrice 162. Mock Ice Pudding 165. Lemon Snow 167. Kimberley Mould 186. Beef Tea Jelly 187. Egg Jelly 188. Port Wine Jelly 225. Yeal Cake 230, Tomato Jelly 232. Aspic Jelly ABSOLUTELY PURE. Free from Ciiemicals in Manufacture,Advertinomenls. VIU. REFINED SPARKLING GEUTINE Makes clear Crystalline Jellies, de- licious Creams and Pudding’s, and many appetising^ Luncheon and Supper Dishes. “It would 1)6 difficult to imagine Low it would be jmssible to get a commercial gelatine of a higher degree of purity.”— Health, Feb. 4, ’99. Manufactured by J. & G. COX, Ltd., of Edinburgh. London Office: Eastcheap Buildings, E.C. Established 1725.IX. Advertisements. eal Milk TDEAL MILK is un- ^ sweetened Condensed Milk, sterilized solely bj' beat, and absolutely free from Chemical or other preservatives. IDEAL MILK contains all the cream of the original milk, and is further enriched 20 per cent, by the addition of pure cream. It is therefore exceptionally nutritious. IDEAL MILK is superior to any other sterilized milk in richness, in flavour, and in the retention of all the q^ualities of fresh milk. IDEAL MILK is a safe and valuable food for Infants and Invalids, and is equally serviceable for all household purposes. If you cannot get IDEAL MILK at your Grocers, send a post card to the ANGLO-SWISS MILK CO., 10, MARK LANE, LONDON, E.C.AdvcrUmnenls. X 10, MARK LANE, LONDON, E.C. See that the MILKMAID Trade Mark is on every Tin. The Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Co. are tlie largest manufacturers of Condensed Milk in the world, having eleven Factories and condensing daily the milk uf 50,000 Cows. Their “ Milkmaid ” Brand is the Original Con- densed Milk introduced into England thirty years ago. Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Co.,Advertisements. XI; YINOLIA SOAP. FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS, For Sensitive Skins, 4d. per Tablet. Yields a Splendid Lather, Scented with Choice Otto 6d. per Tablet, of Kose, lOd. per Tablet For the Bath, 6d. per Tablet. VINOIIAKL^'’ tONDON.N.W. MNTflWWc ewra cream Causes no Blotches under the Chin, 6d. per Stick. Contains no Poisonous Colouring Matter, 2d. per Tablet. Specially prepared to suit Keeps the Skin as Soft the tender Skins of o o'’® Velvet, Infants, 6d. per Tablet. '^1° Pe*" Tablet. Choicely Perfumed with the Scent of the Parma Violet, 4d. per Tablet. Creamy, Kefreshing, Pure Emollient.Toilet,9d.&l/- Vestal, 1/6. Most Delightful to Use, Yields a Creamy Lather, 3d. per Tablet. Premier, 1/-, Toilet, 2/-, Vestal, 2/6. Sold JSvei?y^'yirli.ex*eJell. Ad/vertuemenis. VINOLIA TOILET REQUISITES. For Itching, Face Spots, Avery soothing Emollient lledness, Iloughness. Sunburn, Insect Bites, for the Lips, 6d. In Hose- 1/li, 1/9, 3/6. Ked and White Tints. 1/-, 1/9, 3/6, ’ In Three Tints. Keeps the Teeth Ivory White, 4d. and 8d. Specially prepared for Toilet and Nursery Use, 3d., 6d. and 9d. Contains no grit or mineral acid, 4d. and 8d. Imparts a Fine Silkiness to the Hair, 6d. These Smelling Salts are of exceptional Strength, and most Refreshing, 6d. and 9d. Cleanses and Whitens the In White Enamelled Box 6d. For the Hair & Moustache Fragrant, Refreshing, Does not leave the Hair Pure. Absolutely un- greasy and sticky, equalled for Strength 9d., 1/3, 2/-. and Purity, 6d. 1/-. 2/-. 3/3. Concentrated, Delicate, Refreshing and very Lasting, 1^, 2/-, 3/6. ^ Sold S 'Hirli ex>e.Advertisemunts, Xlll. VAN HOUTEN'S It ranks among Chocolates as Van Houten’s Cocoa does among Cocoas ; it is unequalled 1 Wholesome, Nourishing & Digestible GIVE IT A TRIAL ! CHOCOLATE For Eating. Sold in the following sizes Croquettes ... 5M. per Tir Urops 5*d. per Tir Square Tablets sid. each. ^ Bars id. each. \ Pure — \ \ teLIClOUS TASTU |Ti the breakfast tables of the\\brldXIV. AilvertuemenU. FRUGALITY. oo2:0{00 Many persons are of the opinion that they must begin in a large way, if they are to begin to save at all, or otherwise their efforts are of no avail. This is quite a mistake; he who begins to save in a small way will soon notice the effects of the effort. In the daily expenses incurred for the kitchen and cupboard, ofttimes something could be saved, but the necessary knowledge is wanting. For instance, many housewives think they are acting in a sparing manner when they purchase cheap packet, or loose cocoa, because they do not know that really good cocoa (like Van Houten’s) by going farther, can be used more economically. Sometimes, too, people hesitate, although unwisely, before purchasing a really sound article, because the price appears a little high. But a very little practical experience will convince anyone fliat Van Houten’s Cocoa can be used so economically that it really is the cheapest in the end. Above all, it will be found extremely nourishing and easily digestible, while its delicious flavor never palls on the taste by the most frequent use.. XV, A dvertuements. BOVRIL KITCHEN. EYETIT GOOD COOK. Knows wliat can be achieved with Bovril and at what small cost. For the preparation of rich strengthening soups, delicious gravies, and savoury sauces it stands absolutely alone, and it is invaluable for giving piquancy and adding real nourish- ment to all kinds of entrees. No w e 11 - ordered kitchen can dispense with BOVKTL, BOVRIL IS BEEF, Prepared by a Special Process, wliicli retains the entire nourishing as well as the stimulating properties of the Meat, thereby difiering from ordinary fluid Extract of Beef or Meat Extracts, which merely stimulate without nourishing. IT 18 MANUFACTURED UNDERTHESUPERV18I0N OF EMINENT ANALY8T8 AND EVERY BOTTLE IS GUARANTEED. IS KING IN THEXVI, . Advertuements. I BEEF SOUP (Clear). Sew up loosely in a muslin bag 6 or 8 cloves, 12 allspice, and a small blade of mace. Put this with a pint or more of finely chopped vegetables of any kind available (the greater the mixture the better) into J gallon of water, and boll slowly*for an hour or more. Kemove the spice bag, and stir in 4 tablespoonfuls of Bovril, seasoning with pepper and salt to taste. Colour richly with caramel. (Thick). This soup may be thickened with little hits of butter rolled in flour. GAME SOUP. * Cut all the lean off the bones of any kind of cold game, venison, hare, partridge, pheasant, grouse, &c.,and put the bones and any trimmings into a pot with 2 or 3 carrots (sliced lengthwise), a turnip, an onion, bunch of sweet herbs, mushroom trimmings, salt, pepper, and a small bag containing 8 or 10 cloves, a teaspoonful of allspice, and a blade of mace. Upon this pour 3 quarts of water, and boil down to 2 quarts. In the meantime mince all the lein flesh (not less than 2 ibs.), pound it in a mortar. Strain off the stock, and stir in the potmded meat and 4 t iblespoonfuls of Bovril, a gill of wine, and the beaten yolks of 2 or 3 eggs. Pour into a tureen and serve with sippets, RESTORATIVE SOUP FOR INVALIDS. Boil a tablespoonful each of celery, carrots, onions, minced fine, 4 cloves and '8 peppercorns, in IJ pints of water for an hour. Strain off, and dissolve in the liquid 2 tablespoonfuls of Bovril and half a wineglassful of brandy. Adminis- tered in small quantities at frequent intervals will restore vitality with remarkable success. BOVRIL SAUCE (for Grills, Roasts, Stews, Entrees, &c.). Beat the yolk of an egg thoroughly, and stir into it a full tablespoonful of Bovril, 5 a tablespoonful of lemon juice, i a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, J a pint of water, salt and pepper to taste Stir this in a small pan over a quick fire until the sauce thickens. Serve hot, GRAVY FOR ROASTED MEATS (such as Beef, Lamb, Mutton, Pork and Veal) Pour the fat from the pan, leaving all the sediment you can retain. Dissolve from one to two tablespoonfuls of Bovril in 1 pint of hot water, or as much in proportion as is required for the size of the joint. Place the pan on the stove, dust in pepper and salt, and pour in the Bovril stock, stirring and rubbing to dissolve in all the sediment. Boil up and strain over the meat, or serve separately in a tureen. RAGOUT. Any meat wili serve to make up into a ragout, conditionally that a good sauce or gravy is prepared for it. Cut 2 lbs. of any kind of raw lean meat into J inch cubes, put them into a stew-pan with pints of water in which 2 tablespoonfuls of Bov'ril have been dissolved ; puton the cover and leave tills to simmer gently. Meantime put in the pan a bandlul of coarsely minced mushrooms, a wineglassful of while wine, a saltspoonful of salt and the same quantity of pepper. Make 1 tablespoonful of flour into a thin batter with water, and stir this into the ragoftt. Colouring a rich brown with caramel. When cooked this should be thick. Dress the dish with a border of mashed potatoes, and pour the ragoilt into this, and serve. Calf’s, or lamb’s, or pig’s liver makes an excellent ragout.