22101425132uNATIONAL VIANDSDigitized by the Internet Arctiive in 2014 https://arcliive.org/details/b20397264NATIONAL VIANDS authoress of the a la mode series of cookery books 'household wrinkles' 'floral decorations' 'new-laid eggs' ' drinks ' ' dogs ' etc. * Let them bring stomachs; there's no want of meat, sir : Portly and curious viands are prepared To please all kinds of appetites ' Massinger LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST i6»l> STREET 1895 A LA MODE RECIPES COLLECTED BY MRS DE SALIS LONDON All rights reservtdWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. /PREFACE The offering of this little book to the public does not emanate from myself, but from the wish of a great many of the patronesses of my ' A la Mode ' series of cookery books, who have written to me asking for recipes for foreign dishes which they have met with abroad, and expressing a desire that I would publish a little volume on the subject. So many foreigners constantly visit our little isle, and naturally like, if possible, to meet with some of their own especial dishes, and at the present time, with the quick travelling, aided by the ice chambers, we are enabled to procure almost any thmg from other climes ; consequently foreign dishes of all nation- alities can be now made in England. I have, there- fore, collected a few recipes from various friends and from periodicals, besides having translated many from French, German, and Italian cookeryvi NATIONAL VIANDS books ; and many foreign friends have also given nme great help. Only a few of my large printed and MS. collec- tion have been given here, but at any time I shall be happy to give others, or translate any that may be required, in which case I must request a directed envelope and twelve stamps to be sent to me. The proceeds will be devoted to the education of young necessitous gentlewomen in earning their own living. My cookery recipes number many thousands, and my common-place book contains many hundreds of every kind of household matter, including de- scriptions of every possible fancy dress. HARRIET A. DE SALIS. Hampton Lea, Sutton : Feln'itary 1895.CONTENTS PAGE African (Cape of Good Hope, Numidia, and Tenerife) I American and Canadian 3 American, South, with Mexican 13 French (Provincial) 18 German 23 Greek ." 36 Italian 40 Oriental (East Indian, Arabian, and Chinese). . 52 Russian, Polish, and Siberian 58 Spanish and Portuguese 67 Swedish 75 Swiss • . 78 Turkish and Levantine 81 West Indian &c 86 INDEX . . 90NATIONAL VIANDS AFRICAN (CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, NUMIDIA, AND TENERIFE) Chutnies. (Mauritius) Mince first, then pound, two or three dozen prawns till they become paste, add two tomatoes from which the seeds and water have been squeezed, after which add some finely chopped chives and two minced chillies ; salt and cream to make the paste the consistency of butter, and add the strained juice of a lemon. Chervil Tart Boil some chervil till soft, squeeze off all the water and stir in a large piece of butter, sugar to taste, with a wineglassful of sherry; beat up four eggs and add to this mixture. Line a tart pan with paste, and fill in these ingredients and bake.2 NATIONAL VIANDS Gofio. (Tenerife) This is a large dumpling made of Indian corn and wheat mixed and then slowly baked. The mixture is usually made in the skin of a young goat. Goat's milk is served with this dish. Kossuless Take one pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, three eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a tea- spoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar, and a little milk. Mix all these ingredients together and make them into a soft paste with the beaten yolks of eggs ; roll out and make into balls, and put them into a deep stewpan with plenty of boiHng lard for a few minutes. Cucumber Sambal Peel a cucumber very thin, then cut it up in strips as if peeling an apple, but the strips must be very thin. Cut an onion in rings, and add it to the cucumber. Make a mayonnaise sauce and pour over, then mince some red chillies very small and sprinkle over.AMERICAN AND CANADIAN B 2 AMERICAN AND CANADIAN Beaten Biscuit. (Canadian) To one quart of sifted flour add a dessertspoon- ful of butter, the same of lard, and a teaspoonful of salt, and make it into a stiff dough with a teacupful of milk. This must be beaten with a mallet till the dough blisters are very light. The biscuits are formed with the hands into little balls, then flattened into the required thickness, stuck with a fork or pricker, and baked in a quick oven. Chowder Clam Put half a pound of fat salt pork into a frying- pan. Let it slowly fry till crisp, then put it aside ; it should not be very brown. Chop up fifty good- sized clams, three sticks of celery, four large onions, and two tablespoonfuls of parsley. Pare two quarts of potatoes and cut them into dice. Add the onions to the fat pork ; fry them for a moment till soft ; put all into a saucepan and add all the other ingredients, a pint of tinned tomatoes, a table- spoonful of thyme, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of Worcester sauce. Cover and cook slowly at the back of the fire for twenty minutes. If the chowder is too thick add sufficient water to make it of the proper consistency. When it begins to boil add twelve water crackers broken into small pieces, and stir constantly for five minutes. Add five or six slices of lemon and serve.NATIONAL VIANDS 4 Clam Fritters (' Boston Cook Book') Take fifty large or twenty-five small clams ; if large, cut each into two ; lay them on a thickly- folded napkin. Put a pint bowl of wheat flour into a basin, add to it two well-beaten eggs, half a pint of sweet milk, and nearly as much of the liquor of the clams ; beat the butter until it is smooth and perfectly free from lumps, then stir in the clams. Put plenty of lard or beef fat into a thick-bottomed frying-pan ; let it become boiling hot, and put in the batter by the spoonful ; let the fritters fry gently ; when one side is a delicate brown turn them over and fry the other side the same ; serve hot. Chowder Cod Take some thin slices of fat salt pork and put them in a deep stewpan, and over these some sliced onions and mixed sweet herbs. On these flake some thin pieces of codfish and place them on the top of the pork and on that a layer of ship's biscuits soaked in milk, and fill up the saucepan with all these ingredients arranged alternately ; let it stew for four or five hours, then add pepper and salt to taste, a wineglassful of Madeira made hot, some cooked mushrooms and oysters, and let all stew for half an hour. x\dd a little minced cucumber before serving. Cocoanut Kisses Dissolve three cupfuls of granulated sugar and a pinch of cream of tartar in sufficient water.AMERICAN AND CANADIAN 5 When the syrup reaches boih'ng-point add a grated cocoanut and boil, stirring continually till it will thread ; then remove it from the fire, add a drop of blue colouring, and stir with a small wooden paddle till it becomes creamy. Then drop the kisses from a small-lipped pan upon sheets of tin, cutting the drops from the lip by means of a wire. The drops should be an inch and- a half in diameter. Cookies One cup of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, half a pint of milk, half a cup of butter, one teaspoonful of baking powder, with sufficient flour to make a dough, and two eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat again. Beat the eggs all together until light, and add them to the butter and sugar. Then put in the milk, nutmeg, baking powder, and flour, and mix all well together; roll out the dough, cut with a round cutter, and bake the cookies in a moderate oven till they are a light brown. Corned Beef Hash. (Philadelphia) Chop cold corned beef fine; mix it with cold boiled potatoes, butter, onions, stock, and pepper ; heat the whole thoroughly on a frying-pan and serve on slices of buttered toast. Filbert Ice Cream. (New York) To one quart of cream add a pound of nuts and twelve ounces of sugar. Break the nuts and roast the kernels in the oven ; when done pound them with a little cream and make a custard, then mix and finish by freezing. ...NATIONAL VIANDS 6 Green Molasses Pie Take one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, four teaspoonfuls of butter, and mix together the sugar, butter, and eggs ; then stir in the molasses and bake in a rich crust. Serve green gooseberry preserve with it. Green Tomato Pie Line a china pie-dish with pie crust, and slice green tomatoes into the thinnest of slices, and lay them in ; pour a cup of molasses well seasoned with ginger over this, and add more tomatoes and more treacle till the dish is raised above the level of the edge. Press on a top crust and prick it with a floured fork. Gumbo Take two quarts of veal stock and put into it one quart of ochras and one of tomatoes ; add a little pepper and salt, and cook till soft ; strain and send up with fried sippets. The same of ripe tomatoes scalded and peeled ; put them into a pan to melt with butter, pepper, and salt; strain through a colander, and send the gumbo up with toast sippets. This may be made either meagre or with a veal stock. Hickory Nut Cake Take a cupful and a half of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, a half-cup of butter, and the whites of three eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two and a half cups of flour ; stir one cup of hickory nuts, chopped fine, into the mixture. Bake in a square pan and ice with sugar ; cut into squares, and stick a half-kernel in each square.AMERICAN AND CANADIAN 7 Hot Stewed Squash Peel the squashes into milk or cream and steam till tender, season with a little butter, pepper, and salt; stew till of the consistency of mashed potatoes ; add a sliced onion, a couple of slices of ham. Stew till thick, season with pepper and salt. Lobster. (American Fashion) Cut the lobster in pieces and fry them in boiling olive oil, with the addition of a small clove of garlic and a capsicum ; then put in a little pepper and salt, with some white wine and a few whole tomatoes. Serve in a deep dish. Matelote of Eels. (Delmonico) Pare and then cut a pound and a half of eels into pieces two inches in length. When well washed put them into a stewpan with one table- spoonful of butter ; fry them for two minutes ; add a glassful of red wine, a third of a pinch of nutmeg, half a pinch of salt, and a third of a pinch of pepper, also a bouquet, a glassful of fish stock or white broth, and three tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Add six small glazed onions and six mushroom buttons. Cook for thirty minutes, then put in a tablespoonful of roux, stir well while cooking two minutes longer, and serve with six fried pieces of bread garnished with soubise. Mulligatawny. (Delmonico) Cut a quarter of a medium»sized chicken in pieces with half a green pepper, half an ounce of lean raw ham, and half a finely sliced onion. BrownNATIONAL VIANDS 8 the whole for five minutes in a saucepan. Moisten with one quart of white broth, adding two table- spoonfuls of rice, a teaspoonful of curry, and half a green apple cut into small pieces, one slice of egg plant cut into small pieces, and a tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Season with half a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper; boil for twenty- five minutes and add twelve medium-sized oysters two minutes before serving. Oyster Soup. (French Canadian) Make white stock as follows: a knuckle of veal about six pounds, cut into pieces the size of a hen's egg, half a pound of lean ham or bacon ; then rub a quarter-pound of butter upon the bottom of the stew-pan (holding two gallons), into which put the meat and bacon with half a pint of water, two ounces of salt, three middle-sized onions, into each of which stick two cloves, one turnip, one carrot, half a leek, and half a head of celery ; put the cover on the stewpan, and place it over a sharp fire, stirring round the contents occasionally with a wooden spoon till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white thickish glaze, which will adhere slightly to the spoon ; fill up the stewpan with cold water, and when on the point of boiling draw it to the back part of the fire ; there it must simmer gently for three hours, carefully skimming off every particle of grease and scum. Strain the stock through a hair sieve and keep it uncovered for use. Then put four dozen good-sized oysters into a stewpan with their liquor,and place them on the fire; when on the point of boiling drain them upon aAMERICAN AND CANADIAN 9 sieve, catching the liquor in a basin ; cut off the beards, which put into the liquor, putting the oysters into a soup tureen; then put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into another stewpan over the fire, and when melted add six ounces of flour; stir over a slow fire for a short time, but keeping it quite white ; let it cool, then add the liquor and beards of the oysters, a quart of milk, and two quarts of the stock ; stir over the fire till boiling, then add the seasoning, consisting of a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, five pepper- corns, half a blade of mace, a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, and half a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies. Let all boil quickly together for ten minutes, skim well, add a gill of cream, and strain through a hair sieve over the oysters. Pork Cake. (American) Chop fine one cup of fat pork ; take one cup of stoned raisins and flour them well. Put a cup of treacle into a bowl; dissolve a half-teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of warm water, add it to the treacle, then add one cup of milk, four cups of sifted flour, and the pork ; beat thoroughly; add the raisins and a tablespoonful of salt. Mix and bake in a moderate oven. Pumpkin Pie Take a pumpkin, peel it, cut it in halves, and remove the seed and centre ; then slice the pumpkin and put the slices into the dish it has to be served in ; add a little mixed spice, a small cupful of molasses, and a little water. Make a nice crust with butter, and bake as usual. Thick cream and powdered sugar should be served with it.NATIONAL VIANDS 10 Succutash. (American) Shell or string Lima beans and cut them into small pieces ; cut the green corn from the cob, using one third more corn than beans. Boil the beans for twenty minutes, then strain and mix with the corn. Cover them with boil- ing water; add sufficient salt. Stew for half an hour, stirring frequently ; then pour off the water and replace it with milk, adding butter, pepper, and salt to taste ; stew for ten minutes more and serve very hot. Slaw. (American) Get a good solid white-heart winter cabbage ; remove all the outer leaves and quarter it. Cut out the stalk and thinly slice up the heart. Stand the cut cabbage in a colander, sprinkle it freely with salt, and toss it about well. In half an hour's time hold the colander under the cold-water tap and well rinse the cabbage, and dress with any dressing which may be preferred. Fresh oysters are gene- rally eaten with it. Sweet Mountain Salad Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin through a wire sieve ; mix with them half a pint of good cream, then work in a tablespoonful of chilli vinegar and one of shallot vinegar ; season with salt, add a teaspoonful of lemon, then arrange some green corn in a salad bowl, and pour the dressing over.AMERICAN AND CANADIAN II Terrapin. (Senator Bayard's) Put the terrapin into boiling water for five minutes, then take out and remove the skin from the sides. Put back and boil until you can crush the claws between your fingers ; then take them out and place them on their backs ; remove the bottom shell, and take care to preserve all pieces ; remove gall and sand bags. Cut up all the balance and put into a saucepan, adding a little water, and seasoning with salt and tobacco. Stew till done. Make a paste of two ounces of butter, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, one dessertspoonful of flour ; add paste to stew while hot and one wineglass each of cream and sherry. Trout. (Philadelphia) Cleanse the fish as usual, split them open, and keep them apart with small skewers, and place a piece of fat bacon the size of a walnut inside, keep- ing it there by means of the skewers ; cook them over a charcoal fire quickly, and place a piece of toasted bread under them as they cook. When done send them to table with the toast under them and with good lobster sauce ; lemon and butter sauce is also very good with them. Virginia Pudding One pint of corn meal mash. While yet warm put into it half a teacupful of butter, six well- beaten eggs, and a pint of milk sweetened with half a pound of sugar. Season highly with the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and bake in puff12 NATIONAL VIANDS paste. Serve warm, not hot, with a little fine sugar sprinkled over the tops. Water-Melon Rinds Pickled. (Harpur's Bazaar) Peel the rinds evenly w^ith a sharp knife ; trim off every trace of the pink flesh ; then cut the strips of rind into small pieces two or three inches long and place them in a large earthen dish ; sprinkle them lightly and evenly with salt. Cover the dish and let it stand over night; drain off the water in the morning, rinse the rinds in cold water and cook them in a steamer till a broom splint will readily pierce them. When the rinds are tender take them out carefully and put them into a stone jar. Take a quart of good cider vinegar, two pounds of sugar, half an ounce of stick cinnamon broken into inch pieces, and half a teaspoonful each of cloves and blades of mace. Boil the vinegar, sugar, and spices together quickly for half an hour, skim- ming off the froth, and pour the pickle boiling hot over the rinds. Press the rinds down under the pickle by means of a plate, fasten the cover on, and tie a cloth over the whole. These pickles will be ready for use in two weeks.SOUTH AMERICAN, WITH MEXICAN 13 SOUTH AMERICAN, WITH MEXICAN Bean Dish. (Mexican) Wash the beans and put them in an earthen pot, and let them cook till they are soft, over a slow fire. When sufficiently boiled ladle the beans into a pipkin in which lard is boiling, and into which a few shreds of onions have been thrown, and stir and crush with a wooden spoon until they are as stiff as jam. They are served in a long roll, with grated cheese sprinkled upon them, and on the same plate leaves of young lettuce, then slices of radish, and one or two squares of tortilla dough fried in lard to a crisp, brittle brownness. Canvas-Back Ducks Roasted. (Mexican, Delmonico) Procure two fine, fat canvas-back ducks ; pick, singe, draw well, and wipe neatly ; throw a light pinch of salt inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the back, truss nicely, and place in a roasting-pan. Sprinkle a little salt over, put them in a brisk oven, and let cook for eighteen minutes. Arrange on a very hot dish, untruss, throw two tablespeonfuls of white broth into each duck, and serve with six slices of fried hominy and currant jelly. Cazuela de Chili. (Chilian) Braise two young fowls with butter and cut up in small pieces of about an inch square. Next take a14 NATIONAL VIANDS nice solid cabbage, not too large, and cut it into eight or ten pieces, one bunch of small carrots, one bunch of small turnips, both cut up into medium-sized pieces, six or eight onions, small and whole, two or three tomatoes, half a tin of green peas, or the same quantity of fresh, half a tin of French beans, or the same quantity of fresh. Place all these ingredients in a stock-pot; cover with water and simmer for three- quarters of an hour ; then add twelve small potatoes whole, let them cook, and flavour to taste with Cayenne pepper and salt. The great thing is to preserve the vegetables whole. When the vege- tables are nearly done add the chicken. Some- times a little kidney and bacon is cut up small and braised with the chicken. The whole of the vege- tables being cooked, beat up three eggs in a soup tureen with a little chopped parsley and a pint of milk, pour in the ' cazuela,' and serve on soup plates. Enchiladis, or Pepper Tortillas. (Mexican) (Miss Jewson) Tortillas are pancakes made of equal parts of Indian corn meal and wheat flour, seasoned with salt, and mixed with cold water to a thick paste, which can be patted thin between the hands. They are then baked on the fire upon a griddle and dusted with corn meal. After the tortilla paste is ready for frying make a Spanish sauce and a red pepper sauce. The Spanish sauce is made by blistering a dozen large green garden peppers, to allow of the rubbing off of the skin, and peeling a dozen tomatoes and two large onions ; chop them all fine, and put them over the enchiladis before heating. The pepper sauce is made by blistering red garden peppers in hotSOUTH AMERICAN, WITH MEXICAN 15 ashes or in the oven, then boiling them just tender enough to squeeze out their juice by pressure, or by wringing in a cloth. Chop fine one pound each of Spanish olives, raisins, and firm cheese, and mix them together. Bake twelve tortillas, about the size of a large plate, of the paste described above, and dip them into the pepper sauce ; divide the chopped olives, &c., upon the tortillas, roll them up like French pancakes, lay them on a metal dish to heat with the Spanish sauce over them, and serve. Frijoles. (Mexican) (Miss Jewson) These are rather small reddish beans, which must be boiled till they are tender, then drained. Chop some onion very fine, just enough to flavour ; fry it in hot lard, and then fry the beans in the same pan, adding enough lard to prevent burning, and to slightly brown the beans. These beans some- what resemble the red French haricot beans. Llemas Encaramelades. (Cuban) Take the yolks of twelve eggs, sweeten to taste with syrup made with lemon and sugar, put on the fire in a nice saucepan, cook till hard enough to roll, flour the hands and roll into balls ; drop into a thick syrup boiled till it is almost like caramel, only drop one at a time and remove it at once from the syrup and put on greased plates. Mexican Omelet. (Delmonico) Have half a pint of veloute sauce in a sauce- pan ; place it on a moderate fire ; add a piece of butter about the size of half an egg, twelve shelledi6 NATIONAL VIANDS and cooked shrimps, and season with a Httle salt and a very Httle pepper. Let it cook for two minutes, stirring lightly ; then add a quarter of a good-sized peeled green pepper, finely chopped ; cook for one minute longer, then let it rest on the corner of the stove. Make an omelet with six eggs, fold up the off side, pour half of the preparation in the centre, fold the other end up, turn the omelet on a hot dish, and garnish both sides with the rest of the shrimps, pouring the remainder round the dish. Mexican Camaroncito con Papas Cook some shrimps and some potatoes sepa- rately ; make a sauce of cooked and ground peppers fried in oil and ripe tomatoes pounded and fried ; add a little cooked and pounded onion, a little vinegar, and the water from the shrimps ; shell the shrimps and put them to boil with the potatoes. Moniatillo. (Cuban) Boil a pound and a half of large sv/eet potatoes ; mash very smooth, then mix thoroughly with a syrup made with a pound of sugar and a pint of water; then cook both together till they will leave the sides of the saucepan, stirring all the time ; then take from the fire and drop in spoonfuls on plates; when cold sprinkle powdered sugar on them. New Mexican Dulce, or Sweetmeats ('Caterer') Peel and slice a ripe yellow squash of the winter variety, and cut it into half-inch dice ; mix half a peck of unslaked lime in a v/ash-tub nearlySOUTH AMERICAN, WITH MEXICAN 17 full of cold water, and soak the squash in it over night; the next morning drain the squash and boil it for fifteen minutes in boiling water; again drain it and boil it until it looks clear in a syrup made of sugar, weight for weight with the squash ; a little lemon and green ginger may be added, and citron preserve if available. The squash may either be put up like citron preserve in the syrup or it may be crystallised. Tomales, or Corn Rolls Boil a large chicken and flake the meat off and chop it fine ; also chop fine one pound each of raisins and olives stoned, and the pressed juice of two dozen red peppers boiled soft; mix these with two pounds of dried Indian corn. Season with salt and stir over the fire for fifteen minutes, and then add six hard boiled eggs minced finely ; mean- time, lay smooth the soft inner husks of corn and tear some strips for tying ; lay upon two of the husks as much of the tomale paste as they will contain, wrap them about it, and tie each roll with the stripped husk ; drop these rolls into boiling salted water, and boil them for an hour. When the tomales are done take narrow red and yellow ribbons in place of the strips of husk, and serve them piled upon a napkin laid on a hot dish. Salad is eaten with them.i8 NATIONAL VIANDS FRENCH (PROVINCIAL) Cabbage Farci. (Normandy) Cut out the heart of the cabbage, leaving the outer leaves for a shell; carefully wash and wipe it, and fill it with the following forcemeat of bread, onion, a smoked sausage or two shred fine, blended together with milk or the yolk of an egg. Add chopped parsley and salt. Put this mixture into the centre of the cabbage, and place it in a wire basket and plunge it into boiling water. Let it boil very fast for half an hour, and five minutes before it boils put a saltspoon of soda into the water; the cabbage should then be tender and ready to serve. Serve with it a white milk sauce. Croquettes de Carottes. (Normandy) Boil half a dozen carrot still tender, and beat them whilst warm to a pulp ; then add the yolks of two eggs, salt and white pepper, ground nutmeg, cinnamon, and brown sugar : form the mass into croquettes the size of champagne corks, dipped in the white of an egg, then rolled in powdered biscuit, and fried a light brown in boiling oil. Galettes a la Gruyere. (Normandy and Brittany) Take a pound of flour and mix with it a pinch of salt, half a pound of fresh butter, having squeezed all water from, it, and four ounces of Gruyere cheese; make it into a stiff paste with a cup of milk and two yolks of eggs and one white well beaten ; roll19 FRENCH out as for puff paste twice and stamp out into rounds the size of buns ; egg over the tops and arrange neatly across them narrow strips of Gruyere cheese, and bake in a brisk oven for about thirty- five minutes. Galimafree. (Gascony) Take a large slice cut out of a ham, about one and a half inch thick ; remove any piece of bone. Put it into a large stewpan with plenty of good clarified dripping, with some small Jerusalem arti- chokes, sliced onions, and a dozen large carrots cut in slices, and let all stew slowly together, every now and then turning the ham till it is slightly browned. After it has simmered for half an hour add three or four handfuls of haricot beans, some French beans coarsely chopped, and a large sprig of parsley. Season plentifully, add some sauterne, and let it simmer for half an hour more ; vegetables in season can now be added if liked. Stir in a pinch of butter, a pinch of sugar ; boil up, and when cooked serve up and arrange the vegetables. Nougat de Provence Peel four pounds of small sweet almonds, dry them well, and keep them warm ; put into a copper pan two pounds of pounded sugar and three ounces of white honey; set the pan over the fire and boil the sugar, skimming it well; after the first boil add four tablespoonfuls of wheat syrup and a few drops of citric acid. When the syrup has reached the casse stage, remove it from the fire, flavour with essence of orange flower or neroli, add a fezv drops of vegetable carmine, pour it on to an oiled slab of marble, and with a flat wooden spoon bring it back c 2NATIONAL VIANDS 20 towards the centre till it forms a pliable paste. Work the paste by pulling with the hands or lengthwise, as for spun sugar; this must be done by two persons, and so quickly that the stuff has not time to get cold. Then mix in the warm almond and two handfuls of blanched pistachios ; place it in a wooden box lined throughout with strips of wafering. Smooth the surface of the nougat on the top, and it should be cut into pieces about two inches thick. Cover this also with wafer, then put on the lid, weigh it down with a weight that will press the nougat close. After ten minutes take out the nougat and cut it in oblong squares. Sou-Fassu a la Mode de Grasse. (Provence) Prepare a pot-au-feu with half a leg of mutton of about five pounds, oil it, and add half a pound of bacon, two large carrots, two large turnips, and one onion stuck with cloves, and continue boiling for six hours in plenty of water or stock over a moderate fire ; after which, remove it from the fire. Have ready a large white cabbage, blanch it, and cook it in some of the boiling stock ; drain it, and set it on a clean cloth ; then remove all the leaves one by one without detaching them altogether, until the heart of the cabbage is reached ; then cut the heart out, leaving the rest of the vege- table intact. Cut the vegetables into dice, and fry a few slices of pork and then cut them into dice ; then chop up the mutton, add half a pound of bacon or ham, which mix into the heart of the cabbage, adding a pinch of chopped parsley, a piece of garlic, and a handful of chopped spinach. Season plenti- fully with salt, mustard, nutmeg, and pepper; stirFRENCH 21 in two whole eggs ; put this mixture in the centre of the cabbage ; fold the leaves over one by one, so as to well cover the stuffing ; put the cabbage into a string net. Put it into the pan and let it stew for four or five hours ; strain before serving and put it on a dish, and send the meat and vege- tables up separately. Salmi of Grives a la Provence Thrushes Provence Fashion Roast a dozen thrushes without drawing them, and place slices of toast under them whilst cooking ; when they are cooked cut off the legs and heads, and divide them in two and keep warm. Put their bones and trimmings into a stewpan, put some good gravy to them and some vin ordi- naire^ let it cook but not boil; then pass through the sieve and pour over the divided thrushes. Pound the livers ; add a little of the sauce and strain through a sieve ; dish the birds on the slices of toast, and cover with the liver sauce. Srasis Polonais a la Paysanne (Bourgeoise) Chop fine one pound of lean raw beef fillet; mix it with six ounces of finely chopped suet, salt, and pepper. Divide into two parts, and make two thin strips of three inches wide ; on these strips spread a layer of cooked fine herbs, chopped onions, and mushrooms, thickened with breadcrumbs and chopped parsley ; then roll these strips into a ball, and place them in a buttered stewpan with plenty ofNATIONAL VIANDS 22 gravy and stock for half an hour with fire on the cover as well as under the saucepan ; then strew round the meat little potato balls, scooped out with a vegetable cutter, add a little more, and place on the fire till the potatoes are done. Tourte a la Provencale. (South of France) Make a vol-au-vent case of very short paste ; bake it and keep it in a warm place. Take some calf's brains boiled, divided into equal pieces, some slices of sweetbreads, and some slices cut from a tongue. Chop some mushrooms and olives ; put all these in a shallow stewpan with butter to moisten and a little white sauce. Be careful these do not boil; when cooked arrange them on the tourte; cover it up and serve with rich gravy. GERMAN Bratenfiille Prepare a goose for roasting ; peel and cut up apples into pieces the size of nuts, add three ounces of currants well cleaned and plumped in boiling water; also a small bunch of mugwort ; put a piece of butter in with the apples. Fill the goose and close it with a skewer or sewing, and roast, with buttered paper over it, for three hours, well basting it. Send good gravy in a sauceboat with it.23 GERMAN Broccoli and Eggs. (Bavarian) Boil and dish up some broccoli, then dust liberally with the yolks of hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a sieve. Stick little bits of butter among the broccoli and serve. Danish Cream Take the yolks of ten eggs, half a pound of sugar, the grated rinds of two lemons and the juice of three ; stir this over the fire till quite thick ; have ready two ounces of gelatine dissolved in half a pint of white wdne, add this to the yolks, and when quite cool the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; pour into a dish which has been dipped in cold water; set it on ice, and when ready to use dip the dish for a moment in hot water and turn it out on another dish. Englander (Mrs. Eichenlaub) Blanch and peel half a pound of almonds ; cut lengthwise in thin pieces. Beat the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth ; add half a pound of castor sugar and the almonds, with the juice of half a lemon. Put all into a saucepan, set over the fire, and stir till thick ; form into croquettes, set them on a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a very cool oven to a light brown. It takes from four to five hours to dry them. Fowl Fricassee with Chestnuts Put two good cleaned and trussed fowls into a stewpan with some vegetables and species^ cover24 NATIONAL VIANDS them plentifully with good stock, and let them boil gently till cooked. Then take them from the pan, divide each into eight portions, and put into a stewpan, adding some mushrooms and morels, about a handful of each, also the livers, and let stand by the side of the fire. Have ready a chestnut sauce made by roasting some chestnuts, take off the skins and pound them in a mortar, then put into some good white sauce into which a little sauterne has been poured. Fromage des CEufs Euerkase, Euerzieger Whisk up eight eggs with a pint and a half of cold milk, a few drops of lemon juice, one ounce of sugar, a very little salt, and pass two or three times through a hair sieve ; then stir over a slow fire till they begin to curdle, when they must be taken off the fire at once ; keep stirring for one minute, then pour into mould and let it get cold. Make a cream sauce with one pint of cream in which three ounces of sugar, a small stick of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon has been boiled mixed with the yolks of four eggs. The eggs should have been stirred with the point of a knife full of rice flour and a tablespoon- ful of cold milk. Pour over mould, then turn out. Fruit Flummery Take equal portions of raspberries and currants (about a pound of the latter and four cups of the former) ; pick the currants from the stems and put them with the raspberries in a bowl, crush the fruit well between the fingers, and then strain25 GERMAN- through a cloth. To two-thirds of the juice add one-third of water, sweeten to taste, and set on to boil. Mix some cornflour with water, and when the juice boils pour it in carefully, stirring all the time to prevent lumpiness, but it must not be too thick. When cold it should appear of the consistency of jelly, and should be eaten ice cold with ice-cold milk. Goose a la facon de Mecklenburg After the goose has been drawn and cleansed, stuff it with the following mixture. Cut up eight apples in quarters, removing peel and core. Mix in with them fourteen ounces of sultanas and currants, and season with a little cinnamon. Then add three handfuls of fine breadcrumbs and two eggs. After stuffing the goose with this, truss it, and put it on a baking dish with a glass of water. Spread good dripping or butter all over it, cover with foolscap paper, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours, well basting it constantly. Whilst the goose is cooking chop a good-sized red cabbage and cook it gently in a little thin stock, and when nearly done add to it six sausages slightly fried in goose fat, and when the cabbage is quite done pour in three spoonfuls of vinegar. When the goose is cooked dish it with the red cabbage and sausages. Pour over a little broth to the cooking stock, let it boil up, strain it, and send up in sauce tureen. Goose Breasts Pfaffenschnitzel Take the breast of a young fat goose im- mediately after roasting it, and cut into slices halfNATIONAL VIANDS 26 of a finger breadth, and so cut that at each slice there remains a portion of the fat skin. These pieces must then be tastefully arranged on a dish. The juice that oozes out must be carefully caught in a basin and mixed with butter, some glaze, pepper, lemon juice, or ketchup, and poured over the whole. Hahnenkamme Cretes de Coq Cut off the outside tips of some cock's-combs, put them in a saucepan with cold water, and let them just warm through over the fire, stirring fre- quently with the hand and slightly pressing with the fingers, so that all the blood is squeezed out and they become perfectly white. The water must then be changed and heated again, and when the water begins to get hot rub each cock's-comb over with coarse salt, so as to remove the outer fine skin. They should now remain standing a few hours in lukewarm water, which should be occasionally renewed ; after which boil them till tender in some fat stock seasoned with salt and lemon juice. Hase Filets de Lievre a la Potsdam Take out the fillets from a hare, season them well with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and lay them in good clarified butter. Put the bones and trimmings in a little good stock, which boil together, and when cooked pass through a fine sieve and add four spoonfuls of good vinegar and some sweet herbs. Reduce this, and then put in a small pot of red currant jelly melted and a dessertspoonful of27 GERMAN lemon juice and let it simmer a little longer ; then throw in a handful of currants which have been soaked in a light hock, and just boil up once more. Fry the fillets, then cut them into slices, dish them up, and cover them with the sauce. Kalbsmilchen in Papier Ris de Veau en Papillotes Cut the sweetbreads (which must have been previously boiled till tender and allowed to get cold in braise ; see Braise) lengthwise in pieces half the thickness of a finger, and cover with the following mixture : two tablespoonfuls of pressed-out button mushrooms, the same of truffles, half as much parsley and shallot all cut up fine, salt, white, and nutmeg; and steam them slowly in six ounces of butter or anchovy butter; then let them get cold. In the meantime fold some writing paper, double and cut it according to the size of the sweetbreads ; it should be a good finger-breadth wider, so that when unfolded it has the shape of a heart. Paint the inside over with salad oil, cover the sweetbreads with the mushroom and truffle mixture, lay them on the paper ; fold it over, making a little fold under- neath ; press down tightly ; make another fold in the middle, pressing it likewise down tightly, and so on till the whole is closed up and the sweet- breads do not lose any of the juice during the frying. They must be now fried or grilled over a gentle fire on both sides. The Braise Take two onions cut in slices, two carrots, the quarter of a head of celery, a bay leaf, three or fourNATIONAL VIANDS 28 slices of lemon, a spoonful of whole white pepper, and half that quantity of cloves, fried to a white colour for about fifteen minutes in a pound of beef dripping or marrow; then fill up with four pints of light stock, place in the meat required, and steam it; season with salt; keep the pan tightly closed and allow it to simmer slowly. When cooked, if it is to remain white, it should not be taken out till it has got cold. Kalbschnitten Veal Kidney Slices Mince some veal kidney very fine, take some butter and fry some very finely chopped parsley and a veiy little onion in it ; then soak two or three good slices of bread in water ; drain all the water off, add it to the butter, and fry all together until the vvhole becomes a mass, and then stir in gradually three whole eggs to it; season with salt and pepper, a little nutmeg, and mix well with the chopped meat. Cut some little rounds of bread (not too thick) and spread the mince on to them ; the bread should have been previously dipped on one side into a beaten egg, to ensure its joining the mixture ; then dip some slices of the veal kidney into egg and then breadcrumb them and hy quickly in good hot dripping, and serve. Kartoffel-Klop Potato Dumplings Choose large and floury potatoes, and either boil them in their skins or bake them, so that they may be peeled after getting quite cold ; then grate them. Take a quarter of a pound of butter and three orGERMAN 29 four eggs, and stir to a froth, flavoured with a Httle salt (or anything else, according to fancy), and work into the grated potato some flour and little square pieces of bread which have been fried beforehand in butter to a yellow colour. Now form the dump- lings with floured hands ; put them into boiling salt water a quarter of an hour before serving, and slowly boil ; strew over them fried breadcrumbs or onions and serve. These are very good the next day cut in slices and fried. Kirschen-Kaltschale Cherry Fruit Salad Remove the stones and stalks of two pounds of small sour cherries which are quite ripe and mash a handful of the ripest ones, crack the stones and pound the kernels in a mortar, and put all the cherries with the mashed ones in a pint of water and half a pound of sugar ; cover, and set the jar in a saucepan of water; boil till the cherries are quite soft, then set the jar in a cool place till next day. Rub through a strainer ; add equal quantities of wine and water, with sugar to taste, so as to form a smooth syrup ; make some light paste, cut into fingers, sift sugar over them, glaze them with a salamander, and w^hen they and the fruit are cold serve together. German Kouglauffe Beat a pound and a quarter of butter to a thick cream for ten minutes ; then throw in half an ounce of pounded cinnamon and grated lemon peel, four ounces sifted sugar, half a pound of flour, and three eggs ; work all quickly together without stopping whilst adding the different ingredients. After aNATIONAL VIANDS 30 few minutes sprinkle in one and a half pound of flour, add four more eggs and the yolks of six. When the paste is ready spread it at the bottom of the pan, so as to form a well in the middle ; pour into this half an ounce of German yeast previously dissolved with half an ounce of salt in half a pint of warm cream. Fold the paste over quickly, knead it till it becomes of the consistency of thick batter, put it into a large buttered mould. Have ready six ounces of Jordan almonds split length- wise, and stick them in close order just round the inside of the mould. Bake till of a light reddish-yellow colour. Imperiale Krebsklosse Crayfish Butter Pick out the meat of freshly-boiled crayfish, pound the shells and claws in a marble mortar, add butter, and pound all into a paste. Put the meat, &c., into a stewpan and stir it over a slow fire till the butter boils and looks red. Then pour in a cup- ful of boiling water and let it simmer a few minutes; strain it through a hair sieve. When cold take the red butter off the top and press it into a jar for use. Two dozen good-sized crayfish will be found enough for half a pound of butter. Langues de Mouton aux Concombres Hammelzungen mit Gurken Peel several large ghe^l^ins, quarter them length- ways ; take away the insfde kernels, and cut the other part into squares ; blanch these and cool them in cold water. Then pour off, add four ounces of butter, and steam them over a brisk fire,GERMAN 31 frequently shaking the pan. Let them steam till the superfluous liquor is reduced, and in the mean- time prepare a bechamel sauce; then cut up, cover with a warm glaze, and serve on the gherkins. Macaroni-Pastete Break up half a pound of macaroni ; boil it in salt water and drain off the water on a hair sieve. Chop finely half a pound of ham, grate a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese, and mix up together as quickly as possible in a basin ; add one pint of sour cream. Line a buttered and floured tin with puff paste the thickness of the back of a knife, pressing it evenly into the shape, leaving at the top about an inch hanging over. Brush over the inside with beaten egg, fill in with the macaroni mixture, and cover with another piece of pastry. Roll the piece hanging over on to the tin. Make a slit in the middle of the crust with a knife and brush it over with egg, and let it bake slowly one hour, then turn out and serve. Puree of Almonds Mandelbrei Stir together in a pint of milk half a pound of sugar, ten ounces of potato flour with eighty finely- powdered almonds, among which should be sixteen bitter ones. Boil to a thick pulp, constantly stir- ring till bubbles appear ; then beat twelve eggs to a froth and add over the fire to the mixture and let it simmer. Then damp a china mould and pour in the mixture, and when cold turn out with vanilla sauce.NATIONAL VIANDS 32 Mandel-Kranze Take half a pound of butter and half a pound of flour, and warm them ; whilst mixing have ready an ounce of yeast dissolved and one-eighth of a pint of milk, with some castor sugar. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, put in the milk and the yolk of an egg, and work this together till it forms a soft paste, but not clinging to the hand. Tear off small pieces, twist them into rings, brush them with well-beaten white of egg, cover them freely with a mixture of almonds (a quarter of a pound) coarsely chopped, cinnamon, and sugar. Put them on a buttered tin, bake slowly till they have risen, then quickly with increased heat and well-closed oven till dark and yellow. Mandel-Meerrettig Horse Radish Sauce with Almonds Scrape a thick stick of horse radish and grate it fine ; grate also six ounces of skinned almonds ; mix in a tablespoonful of flour, and add cream to make it of a proper consistency, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Stir all over the fire till it thickens. Rahmschnee mit Erdbeeren und gestiirzter Creme Fromage Bavarois aux Fraises Pass two pints of very ripe strawberries through a fine hair sieve, sweeten with half a pound of castor sugar and mix in three ounces of dissolved gelatine and three tablespoonfuls of sherry. When cool mix in with it two pints of whipped cream.33 GERMAN Sardellenbutter Anchovy Butter. Beurre d'Anchois Wash and bone eight ounces of anchovies, lay them on a cloth to dry, pound them up very finely ; mix in twelve ounces of butter during the pounding ; pass through a hair sieve and keep in a cool place. Sauce Rahmsame Sauce a la Creme Aigre Cut into small pieces six ounces of fresh butter and mix in four yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of fine flour ; stir in some cold water ; place on the fire, stirring in equal quantities of sour cream and stock to a smooth sauce; season with salt and nut- meg and pass through a fine sieve. If this sauce is to be served with fish the liquor it has been boiled in should be substituted for the stock. This sauce applies to asparagus or cauli- flower, the water they have been boiled in being used. The addition of lemon-juice or a few drops of vinegar is sometimes considered an improve- ment. Sauerkraut Take some good beef dripping and stock and cabbage, and let all boil together for five or six hours. A few minutes before serving add some good stock, and serve. A few pounds of fresh pork boiled with the cabbage is an improvement ; it should be very tender and dry. Sander de Dantzig Take three dozen oysters and give them one boil in vin de Grave ; strain and divide a couple of Sanders into pieces, which put into a saucepan with DNATIONAL VIANDS 34 some sprigs of parsley. Add some more wine and the oysters' liquor, with some small champignons and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Put the lid on the pan and cook it for ten minutes briskly. When the fish is cooked, take it out; reduce the gravy, tammy it, and thicken it when cool with the yolks of two eggs ; then add the oysters and serve ; and just give one squeeze of lemon over at the last. Schinken-Kartoffeln Boil and peel the potatoes ; cut them into slices. Mix some minced ham with a thick savoury sauce. Mix all together; sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese on the top and bake to a nice brown. Schwarzwild mit Kirschen-Sauce Sanglier a I'Allemande Cut off the skin of a leg of wild boar; put the leg into a pan with some onions, a sliced carrot, a bay leaf, and half a lemon cut in slices; season with salt and pepper, pour over some rather fat stock, and baste whilst roasting (if roasted in the oven, it must not be quick). Have ready a couple of handfuls of brown bread crumbs, a tablespoonful of pounded cinnamon, and five and a half table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and strew this over the leg; sprinkle over some oiled butter, then strew again with bread ; bake it in the oven till it is very brown, and serve with cherry sauce. Schweins-Carre mit Kirschen-Sauce Carre de Pore frais a PAllemande Bone a tender chine of pork, cut off superfluous fat, then roast it in the oven with the trimmings.35 GERMAN some onions, slices of carrots, salt and pepper ; it must be continually basted and cooked slowly, and care must be taken that it does not colour ; to pre- vent this stock or water must be added occasion- ally. The next process is to take it out of the fat and put it on a deep dish, and strew over the top some fine black bread crumbs, which should pre- viously have been mixed with pounded sugar and cinnamon. The crust which has now formed should be of the thickness of one's finger. Twenty minutes before serving the chine should be put into a moderate oven (not too hot) and baked to a light brown. A thick cherry sauce, almost a pap, is served with it. Wachholder-Sauce Juniper Sauce ' Pound up in a mortar seven or eight table- spoonfuls of juniper berries mixed with the thinly grated peel of a small bitter orange ; add a hand- ful of sorrel and parsley, with two shallots, a table- spoonful of capers finely chopped. Pound all together and pass through a hair sieve. Having mixed in three or four tablespoonfuls of cold brown or white sauce, stir gradually to this four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and two tablespoonfuls of French mustard ; stew it with a few drops of vine- gar, and season with salt and white pepper. Place in a cool place or on ice. Zimmet-Waffeln Cream half a pound of fresh butter; beat up four eggs and beat into the butter, and flavour with one ounce of cinnamon and a tablespoonful of D ZNATIONAL VIANDS 36 Maraschino; then add one pound of fine flour. Mix well ; grease and heat the waffle irons, pour the mixture into them, and bake till of a nice yellow colour. GREEK Boiled Pillau of Lamb Bone a leg of a young lamb, and with the bone and the intestines and a few herbs make a gravy, and put it into the stewpan with a tablespoonful of chopped onion, and fry ; cut into dice-sized pieces the lamb meat and add to this gravy, season to taste, and fry over a brisk fire for ten minutes. Moisten with the strained gravy, add a bunch of parsley, two pimentos, a tomato, and the juice of a lemon, and boil up quickly for a few minutes ; then arrange this in a pyramid with slices of lemon and apuree of sorrel. Garlic Sauce Bruise in a stone mortar three or four heads of - garlic ; then add two boiled potatoes ; pound all well together, adding a little salt and pepper, and stir thoroughly, and whilst doing so add in gradually salad oil and vinegar. Greek Soup Take a shoulder of lamb and cut off the meat into pieces not too large, and put it into a saucepan with a sliced onion and butter, and fry till a nice colour ; then sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and one of curry powder, and in a few minutesGREEK 37 moisten with three quarts of broth, add a few sprigs of parsley and a few trimmings of raw ham. When it boils up, remove the pan back, and let all finish cooking slowly. Then pass the soup through a sieve, and add to it a pound of rice boiled as curry, and boil for ten minutes. Put the pieces of lamb into a soup tureen and thicken the soup with the yolks of three eggs mixed with a little cream, and pass the soup through a strainer into the tureen. Pigeons on the Skewer a la Grecque Take as many pigeons as required, bone them, and season them with salt, pepper, and let them marinade for an hour in lemon juice and oil ; then wrap up each pigeon in a slice of fat bacon, and run them on to small skewers and boil. Serve hot on the skewers. Quails a la Cypriote. (Greece and Cyprus) Empty and truss the birds, and brown them in the best salad oil till half cooked; season them well inside and out; have ready a pound of rice slightly browned in a little oil; add this to the quails and just cover them with good strong stock ; put in half a dozen tomatoes cut in two, a bunch of aromatic herbs, and one small onion studded with cloves. Boil over a brisk fire for not more than twenty minutes ; stand the saucepan inside a fairly hot oven for six or seven minutes ; put the rice in the middle of the dish and serve with the birds all round ; or chop up the liver of half a dozen quails with some bacon, truffles, parsley, chives, and shallot ; add some breadcrumb squeezed out of warm water, season plentifully, and stir into the38 NATIONAL VIANDS mixture half an egg well beaten. Fill the birds with this mixture ; tie two bay leaves to each one; put skewers through them and roast them for fifteen minutes before a fierce fire, basting plenti- fully with melted lard ; when they are nearly done put a handful of bread raspings, some raw bacon (about half a pound) cut into small squares, and a large onion chopped coarsely into a saucepan with some of the dripping from the roasting quails ; when quite brown add a claret-glassful of light French wine and some gravy, and let it boil two or three times ; place the bay leaves on a dish, lay the quails on them, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Greek Ravioles Take one pound of meat from a braised leg of mutton, chop and pound it with some sheep's brains ; season the mince with four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine herbs and two yolks of eggs. Roll out a pound of puff paste to a thin square flat, and place on half of it the mince divided into small balls, placing them in straight rows at equal distances ; then cover them with the other half of the paste and stamp out the ravioles with a round cutter. A little before serving throw them into salted boiling water, and let them boil for three or four minutes, then drain, and dish up, sprinkling each one with grated Parmesan ; pour over some rich gravy thickened with tomato sauce. Red Mullets in Oil Choose a few very fresh red mullets ; wash them well and clean, taking out the insides ; salt them, sprinkle them with chopped garlic andGREEK 39 shallot. Moisten with a little lemon juice and bring to the boil; then strain the liquid, and add to it the cooked livers, and a little parsley, and serve over the fish. Resurrection Cutlets Take the leaves of a white cabbage ; boil them in salted water for twenty-five minutes. Prepare some forcemeat composed of fat bacon and lean mutton ; season with pepper and salt and add a pinch of onions, some chopped mushrooms, two eggs, and some breadcrumbs ; moisten with brown gravy ; put in each leaf a tablespoonful of the forcemeat, fold into a flat round shape, place them in a stewpan with a little butter, with which baste them and boil quickly ; when done sprinkle over a little grated Parmesan and serve. Stuffed Egg Plant a la Grecque Cut the egg plants in slices, empty them and fill the hollow with a mince of mutton and a little suet mixed in with it: a pinch of chopped onion, a little parsley, and some blanched rice. Season with cayeime, salt and pepper. Cook the egg plants with a little broth and tomato liquor ; then dish them up. Mix a little gravy into the broth they were cooked in, boil up, pass it through a sieve and pour over the egg plants.40 NATIONAL VIANDS ITALIAN Braciuole di Vitello alia Veronese Cut up two small cloves of garlic very small, also a little parsley and two boned anchovies; place all in a mortar and pound them to a paste ; add a piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg, than pass through a sieve. In the meanwhile lay some slices of fillet of lean veal on the gridiron and cook over the fire, sprinkling a little salt over them; put the mince on the dish, and then lay on it the slices of fillet of veal. Squeeze a lemon over the whole, and serve quickly. Carciofi alia Genovese Artichokes a la Genoise Take twelve rather small artichokes ; cut away the first green leaves and pluck out the others, and with a very small spoon raise up the very small leaves in the middle, making a space to hold force meat; scoop out also the inner circle, leaving a small piece of stem ; then put the artichokes in a pan with butter, parsley, celery, and salt, and let these cook for eight or ten minutes. Prepare in another saucepan a little piece of onion, some chopped parsley and butter, and let all fry together ; then put in a little tongue and meat of a breast of veal, mince finely, and let all cook together for ten minutes ; then add the leaves of the artichokes which have been removed, also some green peas. Let these ingredients remain together, simmering for a little while ; then let them cool and fill in the artichoke bottoms ; also take the chyle from theITALIAN stomach, some of the fat and lean of a breast of veal, and some tongue, chop it into small pieces, and let it cook for a quarter of an hour ; then put it into a mortar, adding crumb of bread soaked in broth ; pound to a paste, and add four yolks of eggs and one white, a handful of grated Parmesan, salt, and pepper. Next take the artichokes already filled, force them over with this last preparation until they resemble large eggs, put them into a frying-pan with plenty of oil, and fry them, Serve very hot and crisp. Chicken. (Neapolitan) II re dei Cuochi Cut up a fowl and cook it in a stewpan with a little butter and salad oil till light brown ; then add six tomatoes, some mushrooms chopped very fine, and two table-spoonfuls of very good broth; add salt to taste. Cook slowly for two hours, keeping the stewpan tightly covered, adding a very little garlic. Serve very hot. Frittura Mista Mixed Fry Take calfs and chicken's livers cut in thin small slices and add neatly trimmed veal cutlets, brains, mussels, oysters, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, artichokes, cauliflowers, and any other vege- table that is fancied. Blanch the brains ; wash the vegetables and cut them into neat but not too small pieces. Then dip the brains and the veal cutlets into the yolk of an egg vv^ell beaten, and then into fine breadcrumbs seasoned with pepper and salt ready for frying.42 NATIONAL VIANDS The slices of liver, fish, vegetables, and other ingre- dients must be simply dipped in flour already seasoned, and then all must be fried in boiling fat, putting in first the veal cutlets and those ingredients which take longest to cook. Carefully drain from the fat the pieces of meat, &c. ; arrange them on a hot dish, the cutlets and large pieces in the centre, and serve very hot. Funghi con Erbe Fine Mushrooms with Fine Herbs Cut some large mushrooms in half; wash and drain them ; then place them for two hours in oil, with salt, pepper, and a little garlic. Fry them in butter and parsley with chopped onions. Put them in a fire-proof dish : moisten with a little oil, .sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and heat them over a gentle fire. When quite hot squeeze a little lemon juice over them and serve. Gnocchi alia Lombardi Boil one pound of potatoes ; skin and mash them and pass them through a sieve ; then take one- third of a pound of flour, add to the potatoes, and incorporate well together till an equal and consis- tent paste is made ; then divide it into pieces as large as a lemon, and roll them on a board with the palms of the hands, and form them into little sticks, which must be cut across in small pieces the size of walnuts ; then mould them one by one with the fingers into any desired shapes ; they must then be left to dry by leaving them exposed to the air on a drainer. In the meanwhile put a saucepan on the fire with salted water, and when it boils throwITALIAN 43 in the gnocchi a few at a time till cooked ; then drain them and season to taste ; arrange them on a dish, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, and pour over them butter which has been melted and fried brown. Lattughe alia Dama Lettuce alia Dama Take some cabbage or Roman lettuce and remove the coarser leaves. Put them into boiling water and boil for a very few minutes, strain them, and then throw them into cold salted water, where they should remain for half an hour. Prepare the following stuffing. Pound a sufficient quantity of cold boiled fish, and wash, bone, and pound one or two anchovies ; add two or three minced olives, parsley, truffles, capers, herbs, and mushrooms, and pine-tree seeds and bind with yolk of egg, then place the lettuce on a clean cloth, and drain it, taking care not to break the leaves. Remove some of the centre leaves, and fill the space from which they have been taken, with the stuffing, then tie it together. Place some slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, and add a little pickled tunny-fish, and some slices of onions and carrots, three cloves, and salt and pepper. On these place the lettuces, and then again on the top place some more of the bacon mixture. Serve without gravy, garnish with bread, cut in the form of cock's-combs. Lingua alia Napolitana Tongue a la Napolitaine. II re de Cuochi Cook a tongue in the usual way ; then cut it into slices and arrange them in rows, having soaked them in oil; add salt, pepper, some sliced onion, aNATIONAL VIANDS 44 little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Let them fry slowly for about a quarter of an hour ; moisten with half a wineglass of Sauterne or Chablis, and just before taking them off the fire add a little Liebig and a little tomato juice. Luccio alia Romana Pike a la Romaine Cut up a little parsley, a clove of garlic, and two boned anchovies ; put them in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter and a dessertspoonful of oil; let them fry for a few minutes, adding a very little flour ; then pour in a glass of vin de Grave, and after it has boiled up put the pike in, with a little spice and salt to taste. Leave it to cook over a moderate fire and serve it hot in the sauce, to which a few mushrooms which have been cooked separately should be added. Maccheroni al Pomidoro II re dei Cuochi Remove the skin and the seeds from some large tomatoes ; cut them in pieces and put them into a colander to drain. Then slice a large onion ; put it into a saucepan with some butter over the fire, and when it begins to brown add half a pound of minced ham, a bouquet of garni, some peppercorns, and a clove of garlic. Two minutes after put in the tomatoes ; stir gently till they begin to thicken, then add a quarter of a pint of reduced Espagnole sauce ; let this simmer for a few moments, then strain the mixture through a fine sieve. Boil a pound of macaroni ; strain it, and put it into a saute pan with half a pound of butter broken upITALIAN 45 into small pieces. Stir gently on the side of the fire till the butter is melted ; add a little pepper ; put the macaroni into the dish in layers, alternat- ing them with a handful of grated Parmesan, and cover generously with the brown of the sauce. Put a layer of Parmesan on the top and finish off with beurre a la noisette. Minestra Soup Cut up three or four potatoes, two carrots, a turnip, two leeks, the quarter of a cabbage, two onions, celery, some pumpkin rind cut into slices, and a few dried beans. Steam these in two ounces of butter until the potatoes are soft, adding salt and pepper, and one tablespoonful of macaroni. When it is nearly cooked add a tomato ; let it boil again for ten minutes, then moisten with three pints of broth, and then serve with two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese separately, and a little olive oil, which latter m.ust be put in before removing from fire. Polenta di Napoli Make some polenta in the usual fashion, but not too thick, using plenty of butter, and let it get cold, when it should be cut into narrow fingers, and line a plain buttered mould with it ; sprinkle it all over thickly with grated Parmesan cheese, and fill up the mould with pieces of polenta, slices of Gruyere cheese, and forcemeat balls made of livers and truffles. Add a little more butter and a little pepper, then cover over with a thick layer of polenta. Bake for one hour, and serve hot with grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over it46 NATIONAL VIANDS Polio con Formaggio Fowl with Cheese. (' Caterer') Truss and flatten a young chicken, and slightly cook it in a saucepan with some butter, and then moisten with a wineglassful of light white wine and the same quantity of stock ; add a bunch of mixed herbs, salt and pepper, and cook for an hour over a very slow fire without letting it boil. Then take the chicken out of the saucepan and thicken the sauce with a piece of butter the size of a walnut worked up with flour. Take the hot dish on which the chicken is to be served and pour on it a portion of the sauce, and mix with it a good spoonful of grated cheese. Dish up the chicken and pour over it the rest of the sauce, with the same quantity of grated cheese ; then put it in the oven till it is slightly brown, and the sauce is completely ab- sorbed. Polio con Olive Chicken and Olives Take some celery, onions, parsley, and carrots in equal portions ; chop them up and put them into a frying-pan wath some butter, and let them fry a few minutes ; then truss a fowl, sprinkle a little salt over it, and roast it, basting well with boiling stock. Pound some large olives in the mortar with a little tomato juice ; add this to some of the gravy from the fowl, and let it boil up till it thickens, and w^hen the chicken is cooked surround it with the same and serve ; two or three whole olives should be added to the sauce before serving. Polpettone Cut two onions into small pieces, fry them in oil till of a golden brown, then put them into a47 ITALIAN stewpan with meat cut into small pieces, a few slices of raw apple, salt, pepper, and some hot water; let all boil up together, then add two spoonfuls of curry powder; leave on the fire for ten or twelve minutes, then dish up and serve. Raviuoli Prepare a paste with flour, eggs, and a pinch of salt. Have ready some forcemeat made from cooked fish, meat, or poultry, mixed with fine herbs and lemon peel chopped very fine. Roll the paste till it is as thin as parchment, cut it into circular pieces three or four inches in diameter; place on each a portion of the forcemeat, then double the paste, and pinch the edges together. Place the raviuoli in a deep fire-proof dish, pour some stock over, and powder with grated Parmesan cheese. Put them in the oven for twenty or thirty minutes, and serve very hot in the dish in which they have been baked. Raviuoli alia Fiorentina Take a quantity of beetroot, cut out the heart, wash it, and let it boil, and when it is cooked throw it into fresh water and leave it for a few minutes ; then squeeze it and pass it through a sieve and put it into a basin, mixing with it four eggs, an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a spoonful of rennet, an almond, spices, and salt, thoroughly macerating the different ingredients. Sprinkle some Vienna flour on the board, and put to it small pieces of dough, and with the palm of the hand roll it about and form into little balls the size of a nut. See that it is well covered with flour. Put theseNATIONAL VIANDS 48 raviuoli to cook in some boiling stock, throwing in a few at a time, and so gently that the liquid does not stop boiling, and when they have all risen, and swim to the top of the stock, take them out quickly and serve them with some good beef extract and grated Parmesan cheese. Risotto a la Milanaise Take half a pound of Italian rice well washed and perfectly dried. Put into a stewpan with half a pint of good stock and a quarter of a pound of butter; add a little pepper and salt. Let it cook gently, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon till it is just tender, leaving each grain whole. The stock and butter should be absorbed by the rice. Add a little powdered saffron while the rice is stewing, and just before it is quite cooked add about two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. If preferred a teacupful of fresh tomato sauce can be added instead of the saffron ; serve very hot. Salade Napolitaine Take two large carrots, cut off the pointed part and boil thoroughly ; but they must not be over- boiled : then remove the outer skin and cut them into very thin slices as thin as cucumber slices, or they can be cut longways into four, and then cut into dice-shaped pieces. Arrange these tastefully on a dish. Make a mixture with oil, vinegar and salt to taste, and just a taste of garlic. On the top of the carrot place some fresh green mint, each leaf being divided into four or six pieces ; sprinkle over some small pieces of pickled red capsicums, and pour over the vinegar and oil mixture; then pour off this49 ITALIAN mixture again, taking great care not to disturb the nicely arranged salad ; then pour it over again very slowly, pour off again, and continue doing this till nearly all the dressing is absorbed. This salad is improved by standing for a couple of hours before eating. Salsa Agro-dolce Sweet Sharp Sauce Fill half a wineglass with caster sugar, and pour over it two-thirds of vinegar. Place in a small saucepan one pound of pine kernels (if pine kernels are not obtainable, split sweet almonds and use them instead) and the same quantity of small currants, and half a cup of ground chocolate ; add the vinegar and sugar. Mix well together with a wooden spoon and place it on the fire till it boils. Scallops a I'ltalienne Parboil twelve scallops in salted water; then place them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and rosemary, a tablespoonful of grated nutmeg and mace, two ounces of butter rolled in flour, half a tumbler of white wine or vinegar, one pint of the liquor the scallops were boiled in, and the juice of one lemon. Stew over the fire for about eighteen minutes. Place each scallop on a small square of toast on a dish. Pour the sauce over. Spaghetti a Fltalienne II re dei Cuochi Cut an onion in slices ; lay them in a saucepan with some bacon cut in pieces, a little pepper and salt, and some butter ; when the onion is of a nice E50 NATIONAL VIANDS brown colour, add one pint of stock, a little tomato paste, and a few chopped-up dried mushrooms. Let the whole boil up once or twice, then simmer gently for a couple or three hours. When boiling lay in the spaghetti and boil for twenty minutes ; pour in a jugful of cold water, strain the spaghetti at once ; put some of the sauce in a hot dish ; lay in part of the spaghetti, then more sauce, then more spaghetti and a plentiful sprinkling of grated Parmesan. Serve quickly. Torta di Funghi Mushroom Tart Peel and cut some mushrooms into thin slices, and put them in a stewpan with a little lemon juice and a clove of garlic; add salt to taste. After the juice is extracted it must be thrown away and olive oil introduced instead, then add a sprig of mint, and let all cook for twenty minutes. When it is done the clove of garlic m.ust be removed ; have ready a nice pastry open tart, fill in with the mushroom and serve very hot. Uova al Raviggiuolo Eggs and Cream Cheese Put into a saucepan a piece of good cream cheese with a little butter, and let it fry over a moderate fire till it is all reduced ; then stir well with a wooden spoon ; add an egg, and let it cook till done; send to table very hot. Gruyere cheese may be used if preferred. Zabajone This is a frothing wine mixture—yolks of eggs and sugar thickened over the fire. It is generallyITALIAN made of old Cyprus wine and two other kinds, mixed together, such as Malaga and Marsala, one sweet and the other spirituous. It is made, according to Italian recipe by taking three yolks of eggs for every two guests, a spoonful of sugar to each egg, and as much wine as the eggs will use up. First mix the yolks and sugar well together ; then add the wine and put the mixture over the fire till it becomes condensed. It must not boil, and should be served very hot in glasses. Zuppa alia Romana Take some marrow from a marrow bone, and cook it over the fire in a saucepan ; then pass it through a colander. When it is cool add two eggs to it, with a piece of crumb of bread which has been soaked in soup and then pressed nearly dry, a sprig of parsley, an almond, grated cheese, and salt; reduce this to a good consistency, mix it with flour, and make it into little balls the size of a nut, which must be put into the stock to cook, throwing in a few at a time. While the stock is boiling, which only takes a few minutes, have ready some little croutons made of bread or fried butter ; put these in the soup tureen, and pour over the soup with the soaked balls.NATIONAL VIANDS 52 ORIENTAL (EAST INDIAN, ARABIAN, AND CHINESE) Apician Macedoine of Chicken. (Indian) Chop the meat of a chicken small, which mix with a kid's breast and put it into a saucepan with parsley seed, dried mint, ginger, green coriander, and raisins ; then add three pieces of the " finest oaten bread, some honey, vinegar, oil, and wine ; some time after add good cheese, pine nuts, cucumbers, and dried onions well chopped. Pour gravy over the whole and serve. Arab Cakes Make flour and milk into a dough. Make this into large flat cakes about twice the size of a muffin. In the middle of each put honey, dates, dried figs, raisins, and bake over a rather quick fire. Bobotee Take two pounds of mixed meat, a large slice of bread soaked in milk and squeezed out dry. Fry two onions in a tablespoonful of dripping and mix with two tablespoonfuls of curry powder, a dessert- spoonful of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and six or eight almonds. Mix this with the meat and soaked bread. Pour one egg into the mixture and whisk the other with some milk and pour it over the whole, after being put into a buttered pie-dish or into little cups with a lemon or bay leaf stuck into each cup. Put them in the oven to bake and serve with rice.53 ORIENTAL Chop Sin. (Chinese) Take chickens' and ducks' livers, gizzards, and hearts, and cut them into dice ; some fresh pork, celery, asparagus tops, bamboo shoots, dried mush- rooms, and greens, and cut them up into convenient- sized pieces ; pour over it some good gravy, then put it in a spider and fry it. Dates. (Arabian) Peel a few dozen fresh dates, remove their stones, pound them to a pulp, and pass through a sieve ; give sugar to this puree, add a few drops of extract of roses or lemons, spread it in a layer on a pie-dish, and mask this puree immediately with a *bouillie' of good arrowroot or rice flour prepared with milk and flavoured with orange or lemon. Dhal Curry. (Indian) Boil half a pint of lentils in one quart of water till soft and pulpy ; set them aside. Cut up an onion into thin rings, fry in two ounces of butter, and add to it curry powder and all the flavourings as for other curries. Then put in the lentils and boil for an hour, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. Eel Mouillie. (Indian) (Mrs. Grace Johnson) Soak for twelve hours four ounces of desiccated cocoanut in one pint of water and simmer for one hour ; strain the liquor and put it by. Cut up an onion into thin rings and chop up two heads of n-arlic;NATIONAL VIANDS 54 fry these with twenty-four cloves to a delicate gold colour in two ounces of butter; add three bay leaves, a sprig of tarragon, one teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and the cocoanut liquor. Let all boil for an hour, strain, and add one gill of thick cream and a penny- w^orth of saffron dissolved in half a wineglass of hot water and strained ; stir well, add salt to taste, and pour over the fish. Garnish with sliced green ginger and pickled red chillies. Indian Burdwan Take the joints of a parboiled fowl ; peel and chop very finely four shallots and an onion. Put them in a small stewpan with a small cup of good stock, a tablespoonful of the essence of anchovies, a little cayenne, and an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Stir over the fire till the same is ready to boil, then put it aside to simmer, adding a small cupful of mixed Indian pickles cut into less than half-inch pieces, a tablespoonful of chilli vinegar, and a glass or two of sherry. Simmer the same, to make the pickles tender, and pour in the wine when the fowl is ready to be stewed. Skin and lay the fowl, cut in neat pieces, in the stewpan with the same, and if the fowl has been only parboiled, stew it gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, but for a thoroughly cooked fowl serve as soon as it is ready to boil with the juice of a fresh lemon. Rice is sometimes served with it. An Indian Drink Add sugar and maraschino to taste to the juice of fresh limes. Put a little of this into a glass of water and add slices of pineapple or peaches,ORIENTAL 55 Indian Pooloot Wash one pound of rice; parboil it; put a trussed fowl into a stewpan with the rice ; moisten with three pints of stock and the juice of six onions by pounding in a mortar ; season with salt and a table- spoonful of ground ginger in a gill of water, mixed with the juice of a lemon, and strained through muslin over the contents of the stewpan ; let all boil slowly. Meanwhile slice four onions and brown them in the frying-pan, also about a dozen thin rashers rolled and fastened with wooden skewers Keep these warm ; when the fowl is tender remove it and draw the rice aside to dry a little ; cut up the fowl into joints and fry them in the same pan as the onions. Pile up rice in the middle of the dish, arrange the fowl all over it, strew the onions over the top, and garnish round alternately with slices of hard-boiled eggs and rolls of bacon. Mashie. (Arabian) Make up some very finely minced meat (already cooked) into as many tiny sausages as required, mixing in well-boiled rice. Roll each of these up in a vine leaf and lightly fry them in butter or dripping over a very slow fire. Season with pepper and salt. Mutton Stew. (Persian) Cut up the meat of a leg of mutton in equal sized squares : season highly ; sprinkle over a sliced onion, the juice of two or three lemons, and let ail soak for two hours. Drain and put the meat into a stewpan with fat and fry on a brisk fire. Moisten56 NATIONAL VIANDS with broth to three parts its height and boil it on a slow fire with live embers on the lid. When the meat is about done skim the fat off the cooking stock ; add to the stew a handful of shred almonds dried in the oven, and a few dozen dried prunes previously boiled and well drained. The meat being done, dish up and surround it with the prunes and almonds ; thicken the stock with a little syrup of raisins, finish with the juice of a few lemons, and pour it over the stew. Persian Pillau Cut into dice a pound of the meat of a mutton fillet the sinews of which have been removed. Chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with either butter or fat, let it fry slightly ; then add the mutton, which season ; let it fry on a moderate fire, stirring it with a spoon ; season again. The meat having set well, add to it two pounds of good rice, washed and dried in the air. Moisten the meat and rice with some good mutton broth ; add a bunch of pars- ley garnished with aromatics ; boil the rice : keep covered for twenty minutes ; then add to it a few tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce ; keep the stewpan now on embers for ten minutes, then serve the pillau. Fish-Fash. (Indian) Into some clear broth put an onion, pepper, salt, and a little mace ; stew a fowl very gently in this for half an hour : then add half a pound of rice. Simmer till quite tender, and place on a hot sieve to drain ; dish the fowl, and place the rice all round ; serve hot with melted butter and parsley sauce,57 ORIENTAL Quince Sambal. (Chinese, Malay) Peel and quarter three or four green quinces and pound them in a mortar with a green chilH, some sHced onion, and salt to taste. This is good to eat with roast meat. Sweet Pillau Boil one pound of Patna rice in two quarts of strong white stock, with only a pinch of salt. Watch the rice carefully ; the moment it is tender drain and steam before the fire. Now prepare a syrup flavoured with either lemon, cocoanut, musk, or rose water. Turn the rice into a dish, put a little piece of fresh butter on it, stir lightly with a fork for the butter to mix with it, then pour over the syrup ; garnish the top with fried almonds or pis- tachios and sultanas. If preferred, the rice may be coloured with a little saffron. White Indian Soup Cut up an onion into very thin rings ; fry it—in two ounces of butter with twenty-four cloves—to a delicate brown. Now add a tablespoonful of the very best curry powder; stir in one pint of water ; add it to two tablespoonfuls of pea flour that has been mixed to the consistency of cream in a little cold water ; allow it to thicken a little, and then add one pint of fresh curds, a stick of cinnamon, a blade of mace, the seeds of twelve cardamoms, two beads of garlic chopped, three bay leaves, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil ; let it simmer gently for an hour, strain through a wire sieve or tammy cloth just before serving ; put in salt to taste. The juice of a lemon is a great improvement. Serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice.NATIONAL VIANDS 58 Zarebrian Junther (Mrs. Grace Johnstone) Meat four pounds, rice two pounds, curds four pounds, ghee one pound, onions one pound, thirty- six grains of black pepper, one drachm of cinnamon, green ginger one ounce, cloves and cardamoms each thirty-six grains, cummin seed nineteen grains, coriander seeds one ounce, turmeric nineteen grains, salt one and a half ounce. Cut the meat into large slices, and soak it in bruised green ginger and salt for an hour ; grind the cardamoms and turmeric with half the curds and coriander seeds ; add these together and rub over the meat, and let stand for a short time ; put it into a pan with the cummin seeds and spices and a little ghee. Soak the rice in water for a few minutes, mash it, then mix a little salt with some water, and add the rice to it; stir well, and mash again. Mix now with the rest of the curds, put it over the meat, and cover it close. Simmer it gently till the curds are dried up, then pour over a little ghee, let it stand near the fire for an hour, and serve. RUSSIAN, POLISH, AND SIBERIAN Russian Appetiser Stir together two cups of sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup of melted butter, and one tablespoonful of sugar. Add a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, one well-beaten w^hite ofRUSSIAN, POLISH, AND SIBERIAN 59 egg. These two ingredients are stirred slowly together, the others are added, and then the mix- ture is poured into small paper cases—one for each person—and baked slowly. Russian Apple Souffld Take some apple marmalade (about one and a half pound), well flavoured with lemon, let it boil, stirring well; have ready the whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and whipped in to the apple mixture. Put this into a souffle dish, smooth its surface with the blade of a knife into the form of a dome. Bake in a slack oven for twenty minutes, and dust over with caster sugar. Bigos. (Polish) (Dubois) Take two pounds of sauerkraut (see German recipe), and place it in layers in an earthen pan alternately with any kind of cooked meat, poultry, or game. Cut in pieces, moisten with good gravy, cover the pan, and let it cook in the oven for half an hour. Blinis. (Russian) (Dubois) Take two ounces of German yeast, dilute with a gill of warm milk, and put it into a pound of flour ; make a light soft paste, and let it rise in a warm place for three hours. Take the yolks of four eggs, and dilute with a tablespoonful of lukewarm milk ; then add gradually half a pound of rice flour to the rising paste, and mix in6o NATIONAL VIANDS the eggs and milk. When the paste is smooth introduce into it the four whipped whites of the eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream ; then stand it to rise for an hour and a half, and take some tartlet moulds, and put in a tablespoonful of the mixture, and place them in a hot oven for five minutes ; then turn them, moisten with a little butter, and let remain in the oven for another five minutes, when remove the moulds and serve quickly with melted butter in a tureen. Russian Cabbage and Meat Soup Three pounds of washed meat (beef), and slightly salted as if for making broth. Three hours before dinner put one cabbage, one carrot, and one turnip, and all ought to be boiled slowly in a covered saucepan. At dinner-time add a table- spoonful of sour cream and the yolk of an egg, mixing all well together. Put in a very little fennel when serving. Cream Flavin a la Russe Line a flawn mould with puff paste trimmings, and place at the bottom of it a layer of kiimmei cream ; cover the cream with a round of white paper, and put the mould into the oven. When the pastry is nearly done remove from the oven, take away the paper, and place a layer of cranberry preserve jam which has passed through the sieve ; then cover this with more cream, and sprinkle over some macaroons that have been crushed with the rolling-pin ; then shake some caster sugar over this, and put the mould into the oven for ten minutes more, when it will be ready.RUSSIAN, POLISH, AND SIBERIAN 6i Chicken Cutlets a la Poskari. (Russian) Take a chicken, roast it, let it get cold, then chop it very fine with slices of bread and eggs served up in the shape of a cutlet with brown chaudfroid sauce ; fill the centre with small glazed truffles, and jelly croutons round. Kissel of Currants Take three pounds (six tumblerfuls) of fresh currants crushed and pressed through a sieve, as much water as currant juice, six teaspoonfuls (one tumblerful) of potato flour. Put into a metal basin, and steam in the oven and let it boil. Add loaf sugar to taste and stir constantly, stirring till the kissel thickens ; then pour into china moulds and serve hot or cold with cream or sugar. Koulbac or Coulebraka Take three pounds of flour and half a tumbler- ful of warm milk, half an ounce of yeast, and put in as much flour as the milk will absorb; when risen add the remainder of the flour, one pound of butter, six eggs, and a little salt. Boil two pounds of rice in butter, put into it some chopped mush- rooms, pepper and salt, boil six eggs hard and cut them into slices, with any cold remains of boiled fish also cut in slices ; roll a layer of pastry on a buttered metal dish, and put the rice on to thin slices of fish and eggs, then rice again and then another layer of eggs ; put breadcrumbs on the top, and bake in the oven.NATIONAL VIANDS 62 Lenten Shtshi Fry four minced onions in half a pint of oil till tender, add a pound of sauerkraut, and let fry. When quite cooked put all into a saucepan, add water and a quarter of a pound of dried mushrooms softened in water and chopped, cover and let boil over a gentle fire, then strain through a fine sieve ; add flour fried in oil and some olives, and let all simmer for an hour, sprinkle with finely chopped fennel and serve very hot For good soup use bouillon instead of oil with water and butter, and add a tablespoonful of sour cream to it; it can also be sprinkled with Par- mesan. Russian Melange of Fruit Divide a couple of pears and the same of apples into quarters, peel and core them, then slice them very thinly ; take three oranges and prepare them likewise; also take a portion of pineapple and cut it in the same manner. Place these in layers, arranging them in different shades, and sprinkle well with caster sugar and leave on ice for an hour. Just before serving drain the syrup from the fruit, and add to it three tablespoonfuls of brandy and kirschwasser and pour over the fruit. Mushroom Pie (Dubois) Get large and fleshy mushrooms ; trim their stalks away, pare and cut them in two; put the pieces in a frying-pan with butter or oil, season with salt and pepper ; fry them on a brisk fire for a few minutes only, diminishing their volume, andRUSSIAN, POLISH AND SIBERIAN 63 then take them off the fire. Spread the bottom of a pie-dish with a few slices of raw ham ; then place on the mushrooms by layers, alternating with chopped onion, parsley, and a little fennel; press them close together ; mask also the top with slices of ham and then baste with two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce ; cover the pie with short crust, and bake for one hour. Mutton a la Moscovite. (Polish) Mince and fry three onions, the same of carrots and celery roots ; moisten with vinegar and water, boil it, and add a bayleaf, two cloves of garlic, parsley, cloves, and pepper, and boil for twenty minutes ; let it cool, then pour it over a leg of mutton which has been placed in an earthen pan ; then wipe the mutton and roast in a moderate oven for half an hour, and baste with the marinade. When cooked strain the stock, thicken it, and pour over the leg. Okroska Soup. (Russian) Make a puree or cold mash of pears, apples, (_ grapes, plums, and oat grits, with some small pieces of poultry, meat, herring, tomatoes, and cucumbers floating in it. Russian Sandwiches Thickly butter hot or cold toast, spreading the slices with caviare, sprinkling with Cayenne pepper and lemon juice, and cutting into fingers. Serve piled up in stacks, garnished with slices of lemon. Crumpets are used sometimes instead of the toast.64 NATIONAL VIANDS Red Smitane Salad Mix together two tablespoonfuls of red cabbage, a beetroot, two or three sHced tomatoes, some chopped carrots, some gherkins, some pickled peaches, a few peppercorns, a chiUi shredded ; add a Httle salt, and make the dressing for it with smitane or sour cream, the yolks of some sliced red tomatoes, one cupful of cold boiled carrots, ofie cupful of pickled peaches shredded fine, four peppercorns, half a red pepper pod shredded to fill a teaspoon, and some vinegar in which beet- root has been pickled. Mix all together, salt to taste, put in the peppercorns; mix the dressing, which should be of smitane or sour cream rubbed smooth with yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, a pinch of sugar and of salt; then work the vinegar gradu- ally into the cream and with it dress the salad. Russian Waffles Melt a quarter of a pound of butter, and when it is quite soft but not running stir into the beaten yolks of eight eggs, also some sifted flour very gradually—^a little at a time. Have ready some yeast melted in about half a pint of vv^ater and pour it into the mixture, and leave it to rise for half an hour in a warm place. Afterwards stir in the whisked whites of six eggs and a tablespoonful of whipped cream, and when all is quite smooth pour it into waffle irons to bake. Serve hot with caster sugar and apricot preserve. Take six ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of ten eggs whipped light, eight whites ditto, as much whipped cream as white of egg, two ounces of hard yeast melted in half a tumbler of warm porter.RUSSIAN, POLISH, AND SIBERIAN 65 When the butter is melted in a warm earthenware saucepan and is as soft as pomatum, stir in the beaten yolks, a spoonful at a time, then very gradually the sifted flour. Then pour in the yeast, cover, and leave for half an hour in a warm place ; then stir in the whipped white of egg, the cream, a pinch of salt, and when the batter is smooth bake in waffle irons. Serve hot with butter, powdered sugar, and cinnamon, or with preserves, Srazis Cut pieces of meat without bone into half-inch squares, pepper and salt them, and let them stand for an hour. Make a forcemeat with three minced onions, some grated breadcrumbs, some cooked minced mushrooms, one egg, with salt and pepper to taste. Spread this mince over the pieces of meat, and roll them up, tie them with thread, and dip them in egg and flour ; put them in a stew- pan in which some butter has been melted, put the cover on, and simmer over a gentle fire, stirring well ; then let them brown on all sides, add two tumblerfuls of bouillon, and let them boil up at once. Serve and dish up with gravy poured over them in which is a little white wine, and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Veal Kidneys Polish Fashion (Dubois) Trim the fat from a couple of kidneys, slice them lengthwise, and season with salt and pepper ; flour them, and then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them on both sides in butter. Have ready someNATIONAL VIANDS 66 minced mushrooms, which place in the centre of a dish, and arrange the sHces of kidney all round, and sauce them with a sauce made with two tablespoon- fuls of mustard worked with a gill of olive oil and two spoonfuls of French vinegar ; add a little salt and a pinch of sugar. Vatrovskis Press a pound of white cheese through a cloth to extract the moisture, pound it in a mortar with a piece of butter, season with salt and a very little nutmeg ; put all into a basin, and work in four eggs. Make a paste with an ounce of yeast mixed in a glass of milk, pass through a sieve, mix with as much flour as it will absorb, cover, and put into a warm place to rise. When ready add in six ounces of flour, four of butter, a little milk, and three eggs ; work the paste, cover it up, and let it rise again, when it will be ready to use. Then roll it out thin, stamp it in rounds, and set in the centre a little of the cheese preparation ; fold flat in half-moon shapes, and put them on a baking sheet, and let them remain for twenty minutes at the kitchen temperature. Then egg them over, and bake in a moderate oven.SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE 67 SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE Agraz Take pounded unripe grapes, pounded sugar, and water ; strain and ice. It is good mixed with dry sherry. Alpistera. (Spanish) (Dubois) Rub a pound of flour through a sieve after drying it well, then mix with it half a pound of caster sugar and four well-whipped eggs till it becomes a good stiff dough ; then cut the paste into strips, as near as possible to represent a hand with the fingers all separated ; fry these hands till they are crisp and a pale brown, and till the strips are curled up. When done the biscuits should look like bunches of ribbons ; powdered white sugar should be well sprinkled over them before serving. Arroz Doce. (Portuguese) Sweet Rice Wash and dry a pound of rice and boil it in half a pint of water with a pinch of salt. When the rice has absorbed all the water add a pint and a half of milk, and sugar to taste. Boil till the milk is absorbed, and then take the saucepan off the fire till it ceases to boil. Then add the beaten yolks of two or three eggs and two dessertspoonfuls of orange-flower water. Turn the rice out on a very hot flat dish and cover it thickly with pow- dered cinnamon. F 2NATIONAL VIANDS 68 Camalitos Take some Indian corn and cook it with a little milk ; mix it with some lard, sugar, and a little salt, and leave to get cold, and make the dumplings of Indian meal filled with almonds and citron. Camaran ^ I'Espagnole Shrimps, Spanish fashion Bruise the feet of the shrimps and fry them in oil; put half a glass of brandy, half a glass of Madeira, and half a glass of white wine (such as Chablis or Sauterne), plenty of cooked and mashed tomatoes, and let them all cook. When they have boiled add a sprinkle of beef gravy and six or eight spoonfuls of brown sauce ; then divide the claws in pieces and slice the flesh of the shrimps, arrange them on a dish, and strain the sauce over them. Carapulca Cut up some fillet of pork in square pieces, put them into a stewpan with a dozen small onions and two cloves of garlic, fry them in fat, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with well- flavoured stock ; let all boil up together for some minutes, then put it on one side of the fire to simmer. Then place this stew in a china pudding dish and put into it four chirangos fried and cut up in pieces with four hard-boiled eggs cut up in quarters. Season with pepper and salt. Fry some bruised almonds in oil, and then shred them finely and sprinkle them over, and let this sauce boil up ; then put it into a moderate oven for half an hour, and serve in the dish it is cooked in.SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE 69 Escudella. (Spanish) Take one pound of soup meat and cover it with cold water, the same as for any soup ; add to this two pig's feet. When it boils skim carefully. When the meat is half done add one pint of white beans, half a pint of cabbage cut fine, a few small potatoes, and half a cupful of rice. When nearly done add a little Spanish saffron to colour light yellow. Add sufficient salt and serve. Estofado. (Spanish) Put into a small crock a spoonful of lard ; add two pounds of round of veal cut in pieces ; let this brown a little; stir all the time, to prevent burning; add to this a pinch of marjoram and a bay leaf, a pinch of mace, salt and pepper, and two teaspoon- fuls of grated plain chocolate ; add a quart of boiling water. Place on the top of the crock a piece of coarse brown paper; on this put a soup plate filled with water. Cook slowly; when half done add potatoes cut in halves, half a dozen small onions, and a glassful of sherry. Keep the plate filled with water all the time. This dish requires an hour's preparation. Fillet a I'Estremadura Trim a good-sized fillet of beef and lard it right through with strips of raw ham and lard ; put it into a long-shaped earthenware pan ; season with salt and pepper. Marinade it well with salad oil ; add a large onion sliced, half a lemon sliced, and a few sprigs of parsley, and leave it in a cool place for a few hours. Then put the fillet and its pickle into a stewpan with half a pint of marsala and70 NATIONAL VIANDS good stock ; add a bouquet of parsley, herbs, and a garlic root. Cover the meat with a sheet of buttered paper, and when the liquor begins to boil put on the lid and place the saucepan in a moderately hot oven, where it may stew slowly. When nearly done take the meat out and strain ; add a little more wine to the liquor and boil it, strain, and remove all fat, then reduce it to a half- glaze. Place the fillet on a baking dish, pour the sauce over it, and send to table quickly with a garniture a I'Estremadura and Castiglione sauce served separately. The garniture is made with braised lettuces, cabbages, peas, sausages, and ham. The vegetables are arranged en bouquet on either side of the dish, and the sliced sausages and ham at either end. The Castiglione sauce is made by reducing a pint of Espagnole to a third. Let it simmer; then stir in a tablespoonful of red pimentos powdered, six ounces of cooked lean ham cut into small dice, and the juice of two lemons. Garbanzos Take some chick peas and plunge them into tepid salted water, and keep them at the same heat for a quarter of an hour, stirring them continually. When tender drain and wash them in several courses of water ; then throw them into boiling salt water, and boil gently until tender. Gaspachio Mince a large Spanish onion and a peeled cucumber together. Take three large and peeled tomatoes, cut them into halves, and take out the seeds. Then cut them into pieces the size of dice,SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE 71 and place them in a salad bowl in alternate layers, sprinkling them well with pepper, salt, and some bread crumbs. Pour vinegar and oil over them, and put on ice, and let them marinade for about an hour, or until soft, when the salad will be ready. Gaspachio (Another way) Take ten chillies (removing the seeds), an onion, also two cloves of garlic, and fry them in oil. Then add some cooked tomatoes, and fry with the already cooked chillies. Grate a French roll and fry in oil, and then add it to the sauce, with oil, vinegar, capers, salt, olives, sweet peppers, and rings of onions to garnish the dish. Guisado Cut some pounds of meat, poultry, or game into very small pieces and put them in a frying-pan with some lard, some sliced onions, and some garlic, and fry for fifteen minutes. Then put in some boiling red wine, a couple of chillies, and salt and pepper to taste. Let it steam for an hour and a half, and serve very hot. 011a Podrida Take half a quart of chick peas previously soaked in water for a few hours, a couple of carrots, chirizos (Spanish red sausages), long pepper, a clove of garlic and an onion, a bunch of parsley, a dozen lettuces, two coleworts, tomatoes, a slice of gourd, and any other vegetable. These must be cut up and put into the stockpot with about six pounds of brisket of beef, the knuckle end of a leg of mutton,NATIONAL VIANDS 72 half a pound of smoked streaky bacon, a few slices of ham, and a fowl. These should be well covered with water and the liquid carefully skimmed, and only simmered after it has first boiled up. Let it simmer for six hours. Pastel de Salpor Cook some potatoes, stringed beans, nectarines, and long white turnips, all chopped and fried with tomatoes, garlic, onions, and parsley. Sprinkle with pepper, vinegar, sweet wine, and fried bread- crumbs, into which mix the yolk of an egg. Mix a pound of corn flour with the yolks of six eggs, sugar, salt, and melted butter, and put them on a dish ; add as condiments, capers, olives, and pickles. Put the whole in an oven, and when cooked take it out and sprinkle over with sugar. Puchero (Da Silvia) Take two pounds of brisket of beef, a pig's ear, some chicken giblets, half a pound of ham, and three handfuls of well-soaked * garbanzos,' and put them in an earthenware pot. Moisten the meat with plenty of water, skim well, and when it all boils set it on one side of the stove to simmer for a couple of hours. Then add two leeks, a bunch of chervil, a bunch of mint, a large carrot, half a blanched savoy cabbage, and a slice of pumpkin peeled and seeded ; after which add one or two pork sausages, and continue to simmer for an hour. Before serving strain the soup, and add leeks and lettuces, with some slices of fried toast. Place the meat on a deep dish, with the vegetables and other ingredients around, and serve the soup in a tureen.SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE 73 Pumpkin Stew Take some pumpkins, peel them and remove the pips, cut them into ver}^ small pieces, and cook them over a slow fire with very little water. Put into another saucepan some stewed mutton, with all kinds of spices, and when cooked throw in the pumpkin and the water in which it has been cooked ; add cooked potatoes cut in quarters, fresh crumbled cheese, and a roll ; stir all well together, and leave to boil for five minutes ; then remove it from the fire, and throw in a raw egg without beating it ; stir all together ; then it will be ready for serving. Red Sauce for Fish Putintoa wide-mouthed jug one quart of vinegar, half a pint of port wine, half an ounce of cayenne, one tablespoonful of walnut catsup, two of anchovy sauce, the quarter of a tablespoonful of cochineal, and six cloves of garlic. Let all marinade for forty hours, stir two or three times a day, then run it through a tammy and bottle it in half-pints. Senorita Salad Boil together sweet potatoes, quinces, and onions cut in halves, and half a clove of garlic. When they are tender mix them well together; add plenty of olive oil and a very little vinegar ; when the mixture is cold put into a bowl and sprinkle on it some ground pepper, and put on the top some more olive oil ; then cover it all over with the seeds of pomegranate, two lettuces, two tomatoes, two pickled capsicums, a piece of lemon with the peel on, three pickled walnuts mashed to a pulp, a good quantity of grapes, prickly pears.74 NATIONAL VIANDS guavas, sour plums cut in slices, olives stoned, slices of hard-boiled eggs, green figs chopped to a mince, and a few peas (uncooked). Sesos a la Portugaise Parboil the brains with salt, and divide them into small pieces ; cut also cooked potatoes into slices. Take another saucepan and make a mutton stew with all sorts of spices ; add a little of the water in which the brains have been boiled, some St. John's wort, and a piece of sour orange or some white wine vinegar. Put the brains and sliced potato into the mutton, stir well, and let all boil for ten minutes over a slow fire. Soupe a TAndalouse Take an earthenware pot, and line it with cabbage leaves; then put in some beef, some pork, a piece of the fleshy part of bacon, sausages cut in small pieces, sweet potatoes, a cabbage, two carrots, a small piece of quince, a pinch of rice, a few soaked peas, and a little ground rice to thicken it with; salt, onions, green pepper, a whole garlic, some spice, two large platanos. All these must be covered completely with water, and put a cabbage leaf on the top, and place on the top of the earthenware pot a napkin doubled four times, so that the steam may not escape, and let it boil from four to five hours ; then put aside on the stove to settle for half an hour before it is served. In the meantime prepare the following sauce : Take parsley, salt, one or two cloves of garlic, a sprig of mint, one or two coriander seeds, all braised together in a mortar ; make it tart with the juice of a sour75 SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE orange or white vinegar, and put a little of this sauce into the plate on which the soup is served. Vindaloo Take six ounces of lard, one tablespoonful of bruised garlic, one of ground garlic, one of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of ground chillies, one of roasted and ground coriander seed, half a teaspoonful of cooked cumin seed or three bay leaves, a few peppercorns, four cloves, four cardamoms, six small sticks of cinnamon, half a cupful of vinegar, and two pounds of pork, beef, or duck. Let all simmer over a slow fire for two hours, or till the meat is perfectly tender. SWEDISH Holdarma One pound of round steak; half a pound of pork steak, chopped fine ; one onion, also chopped fine ; one white cabbage boiled in salted water for ten or fifteen minutes. Mix together the steak, pork, and onion ; then add one egg well beaten, season well with salt and pepper, add a half-pint of milk and a half-cupful of cracker crumbs ; mix well. Take a tablespoonful of the mixture and brown it in the butter, to see if it is of the right consistency : then it should hold its shape. Take up and drain the cabbage; take one cabbage leaf, put a tablespoon- ful of the meat mixture into the leaf, and tie it up; then take another leaf and do the same, and con- tinue doing so till all the cabbage leaves and meat76 NATIONAL VIANDS are used up. Take a very large spoonful of butter and put it in the meat pan on the top of the stove ; when the butter is melted put in the cabbage leaves which have been tied ; brown on one side and then turn and brown on the other ; when all are brown add a little hot water and cook slowly on the top of the stove for one and a half or two hours, adding more water as it boils away. When ready dissolve a good tablespoonful of flour into the same quantity of milk, put it into the meat pan, and stir till smooth; then add a cupful of cream or milk. Pain of Wood Hens Take the meat from the breast of three wood hens, pound it in a mortar, and add by degrees twelve ounces of butter and of rice panada, and four yolks of eggs. Season to taste, pass it through a sieve, put it into a basin, work it well with a spoon for a few minutes, and stir well ; then add four tablespoonfuls of double cream. When well mixed up pour the preparation into a round mould and poach for thirty-five minutes. When ready to serve turn it out on a dish and mask it with a little bechamel sauce reduced with a few table- spoonfuls of meat glaze, with slices of cocks'-combs and truffles arranged round the base. Sillsillat, or Herring Salad Take six red herrings that have been soaked in cold milk and water and fillet them, removing the bones carefully ; then take a piece of cold veal, two hard-boiled eggs, a raw apple, a pickled beetroot, cucumbers, some pickled onions, and a few gherkins. Season with oil, vinegar, mustard.77 SWEDISH and a pinch of chopped chives, and mix all these ingredients well together ; add a few cold boiled potatoes. All should be of the consis- tency of cream, which lay smoothly on a flat dish in a dome shape, mask with mayonnaise, and cover with minced beetroot. Garnish with anchovy fillets, capers, and cherries in vinegar. Serve the salad with a sauce made of cream, vinegar, mustard, and sugar, or with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Smoked Eels Take two or three moderate-sized eels and place them in salt for a few hours ; then wipe and hang them up by some hooks by their heads, placed at a distance from each other at the bottom of an over- turned tun open on one side. Put the tun on three bricks round a half-dying fire, which keep up with small pieces of bark of resinous wood, thus con- centrating in the tun a thick warm smoke. In five or six hours the eels will be smoked and cooked. Divide them into pieces freed of the skin, place in a kitchen basin, season, and baste with oil and vinegar. Prepare a mixed salad of boiled potatoes, beetroot, celery, boiled carrots, gherkins, salted cucumber, and capers ; all these vegetables, except the capers, cut up into small pieces, seasoned and basted with oil and vinegar, and thus left for two hours. When ready to serve put these vegetables into a border mould. Turn it out on a dish ; place the pieces of eel in the centre and baste them with their seasoning.78 NATIONAL VIANDS SWISS Fondu i la Bernoise Grate half a pound of Gruyere cheese, mix it thoroughly with four yolks of eggs, and stir in three- quarters of a pint of fresh cream, one teaspoonful of kirschwasser, salt, and nutmeg. Melt a small piece of butter, stir in the mixture over the fire till smooth, and serve. Gateau de Fromage Make some good pastry ; roll it out, not too thin, and over it slice some cheese ; break four eggs into a basin ; stir briskly, adding a tablespoonful of cream and seasoning. Pour this mixture over the cheese and bake for half an hour in a hot oven. Merveilles Dissolve a dessertspoonful of caster sugar, a pinch of salt in a wineglassful of Sauterne, and beat half a dozen eggs, and mix into a little lard three- quarters of a pound of flour. Pour in the sugared wine, stir all together, and well knead for about three-quarters of an hour, till bubbles appear all over ; then cover the pan with a cloth and put to rise in a warm place, after which the paste must be rolled out as thinly as possible ; then cut into strips, which are rolled round the finger, when they must be thrown into boiling butter. Throw these little rolls one at a time into it, andSIV/SS 79 with a clean stick move the paste about, and then turn it, and so on till finished. They should look something like small snakes when finished, and have a light yellow appearance, and must be sprinkled with sugar. Montagnarde Take half a dozen eggs and whisk them for a few minutes ; add six ounces of butter in small pieces ; set it on a slow fire with three-quarters of a pint of light claret. The mixture must be stirred till it begins to thicken ; then mix with it half a pound of Swiss cheese grated ; stir briskly, and put on the fire again till the cheese is dissolved ; then stir till quite smooth ; add a little pepper and stir again ; then add a tablespoonful of kirsch- wasser and serve. Omelet a la Canton de Vaud Break six eggs into a basin with a pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls of caster sugar and one of kirsch- wasser, and beat together for half a minute ; melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan, pour the eggs into it, and stir briskly till it thickens. As soon as the omelet is set take it up from the pan and roll it twice, and sprinkle over it some caster sugar ; heat a glass of kirschwasser and thicken it with some nicely-flavoured preserve, and pour it round the dish. Rice a la Berne Blanch half a pound of rice, drain and put it into a stewpan ; moisten it with warm milk, and8o NATIONAL VIANDS let it cool on a moderate fire, and when tender and dry add sugar enough to sweeten it; then cover it over and let it remain till nearly cold ; then mix in a small glass of kirschwasser or maraschino. Have ready a dome-shaped mould which has been well cooled on ice, and put the rice into it in layers alternately with some preserved fruits cut small which have soaked in kirschwasser or maraschino for an hour. When the mould is full cover it first with a round of paper reaching beyond the rims, then with its own lid ; butter liberally where the cover joins and put it on ice for an hour, and then turn out in the usual way and serve whipped cream round it. Salmon a la Geneve Boil slices of salmon in salt and water till the bones will draw out easily. Salt and dip them in oil, then cover them with breadcrumbs and place them on a gridiron which has been oiled and warmed. When cooked place on a dish and sprinkle all over with shallots chopped, and put into a stewpan with some vinegar, and boil till vinegar is reduced one half; when nearly cold add three or four yolks of eggs off the fire and three or four tablespoonfuls of oil ; add lemon juice and chopped parsley and tarragon, and serve shallot sauce over, made with shallots. Vacherin a la Creme Take half a pound of sweet almonds and half a pound of white sugar. Blanch, peel, and pound theS1V/SS Si almonds ; add the sugar and make into a stiff paste with white of egg. Sprinkle some powdered sugar on a pastry board and roll the almond paste upon it to a quarter of an inch thick. Take a plain mould about six inches round and put a band of the paste inside it an inch and a half deep ; then stamp out a round of the paste a little larger than the bottom of the mould, and bake in a gentle oven ; when cooked remove the band and stick it with white of egg upon the round. Put the case again in the oven ; let it remain till it becomes slightly coloured, then let it get quite cold. When wanted fill it with any nicely-flavoured whipped cream, piling the cream as high as possible. TURKISH AND LEVANTINE Aubergines k la Turque Soften the vegetables by rolling them on the table evenly and gently under the palm of the hand. Cut off the ends, scoop out the insides, and fill up with a stuffing of raw meat mixed with good fat, a little well-washed rice, and the insides of the aubergines; add plenty of pepper ^nd salt; tie the top on again, then proceed as with dolmas, and serve with the following sauce : Beat up a couple of eggs, add the juice of half a lemon with enough water to make sufficient sauce, season, put into a saucepan, stir over the fire till it thickens, and pour over the aubergines. Dolmas Parboil some rice, drain it, add a few finely- chopped herbs and a little salad oil ; roll the rice G%2\ NATIONAL VIANDS up in young vine leaves, then place each roll in a saucepan with water and stock, and boil for about fifteen minutes. The rice must not be packed too tightly, as it will swell in its second boiling and break the leaves. Pile them on a dish and serve hot. Dolmas a la Cyprus Take the whitish leaves of a cabbage, well scald them for a few seconds, put them to drain, spread them out on a clean cloth, and remove all the hard parts. Chop about half a pound of raw mutton and the same quantity of bacon with a couple of handfuls of slightly scalded rice, an onion chopped small, pepper and salt, and some grated Parmesan cheese and chopped mushrooms. Make this up into balls the size of a walnut, and roll them each in a separate leaf cut just large enough to roll them in, pack them in a stewpan, sauce them with good stock, cover them closely, and let them boil till the liquor is reduced to one-quarter ; draw them aside for about half an hour, then drain, and arrange them on a dish, and pour over them a thick tomato sauce in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred. Fried Egg Plant Procure as many egg plants as are wanted, cut off both ends, scoop out the interior flesh, chop, and mix with an equal quantity of raw mutton chopped and raw rice, season, and fill the egg plants ; score the skin and insert into them a little minced onion ; then throw the plants into hot butter and fry to a nice colour. When done take them out with a slice, drain, and serve them with a little sauce poured over them.TURKISH 83 I man Baildi Take some aubergines on egg plants, cut each into several slices, and let them soak in water for two hours ; then let them stew slowly in good olive oil, adding some finely cut onions, and serve cold. Kabobed Eels Well wash and skin the eels, and cut them up into two-inch pieces. Slice some onions, a little green ginger, some red chillies, and two beads of garlic. Arrange on a skewer alternately a piece of eel, and then onion, ginger, garlic, and chilli, till the skewers are full. Have ready an onion minced, finely fried in plenty of butter. Sprinkle the skewers over with ground mixed spice, and fry in the onion and butter with about two dozen cloves, four leaves of tarragon, three bay leaves, the seeds of twelve cardamoms, with salt to taste. When the fish is cooked take out the skewers, dish them tastefully, and pour into the frying-pan a teacupful of fish stock. Kataif Kataif is a kind of sweet dough cake or pastry. Take some kataif and place it on a tin ; sprinkle some chopped walnuts, sugar, and spice on it; then on the top of that place a second layer of w^alnuts, &c., and then a third one of kataif Each layer of kataif should be about half an inch thick. Next place it in the oven and bake till it becomes a light golden colour. When cooked cut it into squares, sprinkle a little caster sugar over it, and serve hot. Kebab Cut some mutton (the leg part is best) into pieces the size of walnuts ; pass them on to a84 NATIONAL VIANDS skewer with a bay leaf and a piece of onion between each piece of meat, and roast before the fire. When cooked draw out the skewer and serve very hot. Keihma Squeeze the water out of a vegetable marrow, grate it small, grate some new cheese ; add eggs and a small quantity of fried onions and pistachio nuts ; make this into a paste, and beat it up well together. Then take some slices of vegetable marrow or fruit of the egg plant; spread the paste upon them rather thickly, having first put a little butter on the slices. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Keinfte Pound meat and suet in a mortar with onions half boiled, parsley, eggs, pepper, salt, and a little water. Make this into small balls ; throw flour over them and fry them. Ouson Kebab Take some fillet of beef—say, about two pounds —and cut into dice-shaped portions; season with salt and pepper, then run them on to a small skewer alternately with a slice of sheep's tail fat and a bay leaf Roast them in front of the fire, and when done dish up at once. Pasta alia Turca Pound eight ounces of blanched almonds to a fine paste, and to this add one pound of sifted flour, half a pound of butter, three-quarters of a pound of caster sugar, and a teaspoonfulof powdered saffron. Mix these all thoroughly, and put in as many eggs as will make the paste soft. Butter aTURKISH «5 baking tin, spread it evenly with the paste. Mark it on the surface with fancy cake cutters. Bake in a gentle oven, and when done divide according to the marks. Pilaf Take a breakfast cupful of Patna rice and fry it in butter (a tablespoonful) ; take also two or three tomatoes cut up in pieces, put a little salt on them, and let all boil till the water is absorbed and the rice is tender ; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, place a cloth on the rice, and let it stand for twenty minutes. Serve hot. Tailli Kataif (Dubois) Make a very smooth paste with one pound of flour, a little salt, a pinch of sugar, a gill of oil, and a little water. Introduce this paste into little cor- nets of strong paper, which cut in such wise as to get strips of paste the thickness of vermicelli, which squeeze through a strainer on to a flat stewpan over a moderate fire. The strips of paste should not touch one another. When set take them out and make some more. When cold place the strips in a biscuit mould, flat in form and buttered ; pour clarified butter over and put the mould into a very slack oven. In twenty minutes it will be ready. Turn the kataif on to a dish ; pour over a syrup flavoured with orange or rose essence. Tawntatalet Mix half a pound of rice flour with three glass- fuls of cream (cold), pass through a sieve, and put it on over the fire in a stewpan and stir it well ;86 NATIONAL VIANDS when it bubbles add half a pound of caster sugar and let the pap reduce for twenty minutes over a very moderate fire. Have ready the breast meat of two spring chickens, remove the skin and pound in a mortar ; add the grated zest of half a lemon and lastly seven yolks of eggs. Pass the paste through a sieve and put it into a stewpan. When it is quite smooth pour it over the chicken meat and work it briskly; let it boil up once, and put it into the dish it is to be served in. Garnish with a few drops of caramel let fall at intervals, and then stir to and fro by the aid of the point of a small knife to imitate marbling. WEST INDIAN, &c. Bananas. (Fijian) Cut bananas in long slices, fry them in butter, serve them with a glass of sherry and a garnishing of crystallised sugar. A Breakfast Dish.—Fry some thin slices of bacon, then some slices of banana in the hot bacon fat, and serve them together in the style of the homely bacon and eggs. Bananas can be served with mayonnaise sauce ; they make an excellent salad, and in curry they make a delicious addition. Banana Cream Press some ripe bananas through a sieve, put them in a basin with half a tumblerful of fresh cream; add to this a dessertspoonful of liquid87 WEST INDIAN, ETC. lemon jelly ; divide this mixture into two parts and colour each differently. Fill two shallow tins with the two mixtures to the depth of a quarter of an inch; dip the tins into warm water for a few seconds ; let them partly cool and turn them out on a marble slab. Cut out the jelly in diamonds ; line a plain mould with thin jelly and arrange all over this, both at the bottom and at the sides, the coloured jelly ; fill the mould with the remainder of the pressed bananas and cream flavoured with vanilla and mixed with a little caster sugar and some plain liquid jelly. Set the mould on ice till cold and turn out; garnish with grapes. Scalloped Cauliflower a la Creole Prepare and boil till tender some cauliflowers. Pick them into small clusters, and put them, stems downwards, in a deep earthenware dish which has been previously rubbed with garlic and buttered. Pour over a very rich white sauce, and strew thickly with grated Parmesan and a very little red pepper ; then add another layer of cauliflower, then more sauce; then cover thickly with grated Parmesan, then breadcrumbs and a little red pepper, and bake till browned in a quick oven. Green Peas a la Creole Take some fresh and freshly shelled peas, rinse them in a colander with fresh running water, drain, and throw them into very slightly salted boiling water ; add a vejy small lump of sugar, and the pods well washed and tied loosely in a bag of coarse netting. Boil from ten to twenty-five minutes, or rather till tender. Drain and put into a very hotNATIONAL VIANDS 88. dish. Stick little bits of butter among the peas, and turn them lightly over until the peas are thoroughly buttered, then serve. Jambolaya. (Creole) (' La Cuisine Creole') Cut a fowl into joints and stew it. When half cooked add to it a cupful of raw rice, a slice of ham minced fine, salt, and pepper. Let all cook to- gether till the rice swells and has absorbed all the gravy from the fowl ; then serve it in a deep dish, garnished with boiled or braised tomatoes. West Indian Pepperpot Take a good-sized duck, divide it into neat pieces, also two ounces of ham; put this into a large stone jar which has a lid, cover with water, add a teacupful of cassareepe and moist sugar, and set on the stove to stew. When it begins to boil add salt and red pepper to taste. It must be boiled up each day, and a little more water and seasoning added as it wastes. Slaw. (Creole) Soak a large cabbage for about an hour in cold water, drain it, and then slice it, and pour over it a mixture made with a teaspoonful of raw mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, an ounce of butter, and one and a half ounce of powdered sugar, to which half a pint of vinegar is added, and all stirred well. Then bring to the boil ; add the yolks of two eggs stirred in quickly.89 WEST INDIAN, ETC. l^olasses Pie Take one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, four whole eggs and four teaspoonfuls of butter. Mix together the sugar, butter and eggs, stir in the molasses, and bake in a rich crust. Squash Stewed Peel the squashes and steam them till tender, and season with milk and cream. Add a little butter and salt, also add an onion cut fine and a slice of ham. They should stew till as thick as mashed potatoes./ INDEX Agraz, 67 Alpistera, 67 Apicianmacedoine of chicken, 52 Arab cakes, 52 Arroz doce, 67 Aubergines a la Turque, 81 Banana cream, 86 Bananas, 86 Bean dish, 13 Beaten biscuit, 3 Bernoise, 78 Bigos, 59 Blinis, 59 Bobotee, 52 Boiled Pillau of Lamb, 36 Braciuole di vitello alia Vero- nese, 40 Bratenfiille, 22 Broccoli and eggs, 23 Cabbage farci, 18 Cabbage and meat soup, 90 Camalitos, 68 Camaran a I'Espagnole, 68 Canvas-back ducks, roasted, 13 Carciofi alia Genovese, 40 Carapulca, 68 Caucasian pates, 59 Cauliflower a la Creole, 87 Cazuela de Chili, 13 Chervil tart, I Chicken cutlets a la Poskari, 61 - Neapolitan, 41 Chop sin, 53 I Chowder clam, 3 — cod, 4 Chutnies, i Clam fritters, 4 Cocoanut kisses, 4 Cookies, 5 Corn rolls, 17 Corned beef hash, 5 Cream flawn a la Russe, 60 Croquettes de carottes, 18 Cucumber sambal, 2 Danish cream, 23 Dates, 53 Dhal curry, 53 Dolmas, 81 — a la Cyprus, 82 Eels, kabobed, 83 — matelote of, 7 — mouillie, 53 — smoked, 77 Egg plant, fried, 82 stuffed, 39 Enchiladis, 14 Englander, 23 Escudella, 68 Estofado, 69 Filbert ice cream, 5 Fillet a I'Estremadura, 69 Fondu a la Bernoise, 78 Fowl fricassee with chestnuts, 23 Frijoles, 15 Frittura mista, 41 Fromage des ceufs, 24INDEX Fruit flutnmery, 24 Funghi con erbe fine, 42 GALETTES a la Gruyere, 18 Galimafree, 19 Garbanzos, 70 Garlic sauce, 36 Gaspachio, 70, 71 Gateau de fromage, 78 Gnocchi alia Lorabardi, 42 Gofio, 2 Goose a la fa9on de Mecklenburg, — breasts, 25 Greek ravioles, 38 — soup, 36 Green molasses pie, 6 — peas a la Creole, 87 — tomato pie, 6 Guisado, 71 Gumbo, 6 Hahnenkamme, 26 Hase, 26 Hickory nut cake, 6 Holdarma, 75 Hot stewed squash, 7 I MAN Bai'ldi, 83 Indian burdwan, 54 — drink, 54 — pooloot, 55 Jambolaya, 88 Kabobed eels, 83 Kalbschnitten, 28 Kalbsmilchen in Papier, 27 Kartoffel-Klop, 28 Kataif, 83 Kebab, 83 Keihma, 84 Keinfte, 84 Kirschen-Kaltschale, 29 Kissel of currants, 61 Kossuless, 2 Kouglauffe, 29 Koulbac, 61 Krebsklosse, imperiale, 30 Lamb, boiled, 36 Langues de mouton aux con- combres, 30 Lattughe alia dama, 43 Lenten shtshi, 61 Lingua alia Napolitana, 43 Llemas encaramelades, 15 Lobster, 7 Luccio alia Romana, 44 Macaroni al pomidoro, 44 — pastete, 31 Mandelbrei, 31 Mandel-Kranze, 32 — Meerrettig, 32 Mashie, 55 Matelote of eels, 7 Melange of fruit, 62 Merveilles, 78 Mexican camaroncito on papas, 16 — dulce, 17 — omelet, 15 Minestra soup, 44 Molasses pie, 6, 89 Moniatillo, 16 Montagnarde, 79 Mulligatawny, 7 Mushroom pie, 62 Mutton a la Moscovite, 63 — stew, 55 Nougat de Provence, 19 Okroska soup, 63 011a podrida, 71 Omelet a la Canton de Vaud, 79 Ouson Kebab, 84 Oyster soup, 8 Pain of wood hens, 76 Pasta alia Turca, 84 Pastel de Salpor, 72NATIONAL VIANDS 92 Pigeons on the skewer, 37 Pilaf, 85 Pillau of Lamb, 36 Pillau, Persian, 56 Pish-pash, 56 Polenta di Napoli, 45 Polio con formaggio, 46 — con olive, 46 Polpettone, 46 Pork cake, 9 Puchero, 72 Pumpkin pie, 9 — stew, 73 Puree of almonds, 31 Quails a la Cypriote, 37 Quince sambal, 57 Rahmschnee, 32 Ravioles, 38 Raviuoli, 47 — alia Fiorentina, 47 Red mullets in oil, 38 — sauce for fish, 73 — smitane salad, 64 Resurrection cutlets, 39 Rice a la Berne, 78 Risotto a la Milanaise, 48 Russian appetiser, 58 — apple souffle, 59 — cabbage and meat soup, 60 — sandwiches, 63 — waffles, 64 Salade Napolitaine, 48 Salmi of grives a la Provence, 21 ' Salmon a la Geneve, 80 Salsa agro-dolce, 49 Sander de Dantzig, 33 Sardellenbutter, 33 Sauerkraut, 33 Scalloped cauliflower a la Creole, 87 Scallops a I'ltalienne, 49 Schinken-Kartoffeln, 34 Schwarzwild mit Kirschen- Sauce, 34 Schweins-Carre mit Kirschen- Sauce, 34 Senorita salad, 74 Sesos a la Portugaise, 74 Sillsillat, 76 Slaw, 10, 88 Sou-fassua la mode de Grasse,20 Soupe a I'Andalouse, 74 Spaghetti a I'ltalienne, 49 Squash stewed, 89 Srazis, 65 — Polonais a la paysanne, 21 Succutash, 10 Sweet mountain salad, 10 — pillau, 57 Tailli Kataif, 85 Tawntatalet, 85 Terrapin, fricassee of, 11 Tomales, 17 Torta di funghi, 50 Tourte a la Proven9ale, 22 Trout, II UovA al raviggiuolo, 50 Vacherin a la creme, 80 Vatrovskis, 66 Veal kidneys, 65 Vindaloo, 75 Virginia pudding, 11 Wachholder-Sauce, 35 Water-melon rinds pickled, 12 West Indian pepperpot, 88 White Indian soup, 57 Zabajone, 50 Zarebrian junther, 58 Zimmet-Wafifeln 35 Zuppa alia Romana, 51 Spottiswoo(^j^^o. Printers, ^i^'\reet Squa7'e, London LIBRARY