Med K10574 VPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY frencb menus THE COMPLETE MENU COMPILER AND REGISTER OF DISHES l (Copyrighted 1892 C. HERMAN SENN Inspector and Consulting Chef, National Training School of Cookery; Author of “Recherche Cookery,” “ The New Century Cookery Book,” “ Recherche Side Dishes,” “The Culinary Encyclopaedia,” “The Cookery Manual,” ETC., ETC. LONDON SPOTTISWOODE & CO., LTD. 54 GRACECHURCH STREET, E.C. 1903WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. G) jPREFACE. The ever-growing necessity for variety in our menus impels us to glean new ideas and fresh help from every possible source. The object, therefore, of this culinary handbook is to assist managers, chefs and housekeepers to compile menus of every kind of meal with greater ease, and to enable them to have at their disposal a large and constant variety of seasonable and suitable dishes. Every course, from hors-d’oeuvre to dessert, has been exhaustively treated ; and the work is compiled so as to give at a glance an almost infinite variety of every possible kind of dish that can be introduced into a menu. In most cases the requisite mode of cooking, the garniture and style of dressing or dishing up, is briefly described. The book should not, however, be con- fused with a book of recipes, for its raison d'etre is to enable those who can cook or superintend cooking to draft menus and give each dish its proper French name. The adoption of French names in menus has become fashionable because most of the typical French dishes are now fully naturalised in the kitchens and on the tables of this country. It therefore becomes the duty of all persons interested in culinary matters to know how to describe them in correct French. The author can hardly expect that this book will bring about a revolution in the customs of gastronomy, but he does hope that its use will be the means of introducing greater variety into the daily menus, and, if possible, economy in the preparation of dishes. Hence its mission should, if for no other purpose, prove practical and useful to those who avoid ordinary cookery books and fight shy of scientific culinary treatises. If such an aim is achieved the author’s efforts will be amply rewarded. A 2CONTENTS. Page When Food is in Season .. .. .. .. 5 Names of Food in English and French .. .. 8 Spelling and Pronunciation .. .. .. 10 The Menu .. .. .. .. .. .. 15 Dinner Menus (Specimens) .. .. .. 16 Luncheon and Lunch Menus .. .. .. 21 Supper and Supper Menus.. .. .. .. 23 Plors-d’ceuvre .. .. .. .. .. 25 Soups (Potages) .. .. .. .. .. 32 Clear Soups (Consommes) .. .. .. .. 33 Thick Soups, Creams, and Purees .. .. 40 Sauces.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 47 Fish (Poissons) .. .. .. .. .. 57 Light Entrees .. .. .. .. .. 78 Entrees of Beef .. .. .. .. .. 84 Entrees of Veal .. .. .. .. .. 93 Entrees of Lamb and Mutton .. .. .. 103 Entrees of Pork .. .. .. .. .. 114 Entrees of Poultry .. .. .. .. .. 117 Entrees of Game .. .. .. .. .. 131 Cold Entrees (Service froid) .. .. .. 140 Removes (Releves) .. .. .. .. .. 145 Dressed Vegetables (Legumes) .. .. .. 150 Punches and Sorbets .. .. .. .. 166 Roast (Roti) .. .. .. .. .. .. 107 Salads (Salades) .. .. .. .. .. 170 Entremets .. .. .. .. .. .. 174 Sweet Dishes (Hot and Cold) .. .. .. 175 Souffles and Sweet Omelettes .. .. .. 187 Patisseries (Fancy Cakes and Pastry) .. .. 189 Savouries and Breakfast Dishes .. .. .. 192 Farinaceous Savouries and Cheese Dishes .. 196 Eggs and Omelettes.. .. .. .. .. 198 Savoury Omelettes, etc. .. .. .. .. 203 Ices (Glaces) .. .. .. .. .. .. 206 Dessert 2104WHEN FOOD IS IN SEASON, Arranged in Alphabetical Order. The following is a table showing the period when the principal foods are in prime condition and best obtain- able in the markets. When marketing it is well to remember that the food most seasonable is usually that which is most plentiful, most wholesome, and as a rule the most reasonable in price. A number of the articles named can be had almost at any time of the year, though not, strictly speaking, in season. Apples Apricots Artichokes (Globe) . . Artichokes (Jerusalem). Asparagus (Giant) . . Asparagus (Sprue) . . Barberries Barbel, Barbue . . . Bass Blackberries . . . . Black Cock . . . . Broad Beans . . . . Broccoli Sprouts . . Brussels Sprouts . Bullaces Capsicums Carp Carrots (New) . . . Cauliflowers . . . . Celeriac Celery Cherries Cherries (Montreal) Chestnuts Chickens, Spring Cygnets (Norfolk) . . Cobnuts Codfish Cranberries . . . . Crawfish Crayfish Cucumbers September to May August to September January to April October to February February to July January to July September to November August to February May to September September to October October to December July to August October to March September to February September to November September to October July to February May to June March to November October to March September to February June to September May to August November to January April to June May to July September to February September to February November to January May to July July to February May to September A36 WHEN FOOD IS IN SEASON Currants, English . . (red, white and black) Currants, French . . Damsons Dawsons Ducks, Wild .... Ducklings Eels Endive Fieldfare Figs, Green .... Filberts Flageolets .... Flounders Foie-Gras Fowl, Wild .... French Beans. . . . Geese Geese, Wild .... Gooseberries, Green . Gooseberries, Ripe . Goslings Grapes, Almeria . . . Grapes, French . . . Greengages .... Grouse Halibut Hares Hares, Grey .... Herrings, Fresh Indian Corn .... John Dories . . . . Kale Lamb Landrails Larks Lettuces, English . . Lettuces, French . Leverets Lobsters Mackerel Maize Medlars Melons (Hothouse) . Melons, Rock . . . . Melons,Spanish Water Mulberries . . . . Mullet, Grey and Red Mushrooms . . . . Mussels Nectarines . . . . Oranges June to September May to July September to October September to October August to March March to September September to May November to March November to February August to September August to October May to August August to April October to April August to March July to October September to February September to March April to May June to July March to September October to April September to October July to September August to December May to January August to March October to December July to February August to December July to April December to March January to July October to February August to February April to September December to March August to March July to September April to December August to December September to October August to September August to September October to March August to September July to October March to October August to March August to October November to JuneWHEN FOOD IS IN SEASON 7 Oranges, Seville . . Ortolans Oysters Parsnips Partridges Partridges, Foreign . Peaches Pears Pears, Californian . . Peas, English Green . Perch Pheasants Pigeons, Bordeaux . . Pike Pines, St. Michael’s . Pintail Plaice Plovers’ Eggs . , Plovers, Golden and Grey Plums, English . . . Plums, French . . . Pomegranates . . Pork Potatoes, New Kidney Ptarmigans . . . . Prairie Hens . . Prawns Pumpkins Quails Quinces Raspberries . Red Cabbage . Reeves Rhubarb, Forced . Rhubarb, Natural . Ruffs Shrimps Salmon Salsify Savoys Scarlet Runners . Scallops Skate Snipe Spinach Sprats Strawberries. Sturgeon, Royal . Tangerine Oranges Teal Tench February to March June to August September to April September to April September to February February to June August to October August to December November to April August to September July to February October to February August to April July to February October to April September to March May to January April to May August to March August to September July to August October to November September to April March to May December to May February to April April to August September to October June to August October to November June to September September to January August to September December to May April to July August to September April to September February to October December to March October to March July to October October to April October to May August to March March to December November to April June to September September to March November to February September to March July to February8 NAMES OF FOOD IN ENGLISH & FRENCH Tomatoes . . . , Trout .... Turkeys . . . Vegetable Marrow Venison .... Walnuts . . Whitebait . Whiting. . . . Widgeons . . . Woodcocks . . March to December February to September September to February August to October May to October September to December February to August May to January August to March August to March NAMES OF FOOD IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH. English. French. Anchovy Anchois Artichoke A rtichaut Asparagus A sperges Bacon Lard Beans Feves, haricots Beef Boeuf Beetroot Betterave Brains Cervelles Broccoli Brocoli Brussels Chou dc Brux- sprouts elles Butter Beurre Cabbage Chou Calf’s head Tete dc Veau Caper Capre Capon Chapon Cardoon Cordon Carrot Carotte Cauliflower Choufleur Caviare Caviar Celery Celeri Cheese From age Chicken Poulet Chic-chicken Poussin Cod Cabillaud Cod (salt) Morue Cos lettuce Romaine Coffee Cafe Cress Cresson Cucumber Concombre Cutlet Cdtclette Duck Canard Duckling Caneton English. French. Eel Anguille Egg CEuf Egg plant Aubergine Endive Chicoree Fish Poisson Game Gibicr Garlic Ail Gherkin Cornichon Goose Oie Goose-liver Foie-Gras Gosling Oison Grey mullet Mulct Gudgeon Goujon Guinea-fowl Pintade Haddock Merluche Halibut Fie tan Ham Jarnbon Hare Lievre Herring Hareng Horseradish Raifort Kale Chou-frise Kidney Rognon Lamb Agneau Lark Mauviette Leek Poireau Lettuce Laitue Liver Foie Lobster Homard Mackerel Maquereau Meat Viande Milk Lait Mushroom Champignon Mustard MoutardeNAMES OF FOOD IN ENGLISH & FRENCH g English. Mussels Mutton Onion Ox-tail Oyster Parsley Parsnip Partridge Peas Pheasant Pigeon Plaice Plover Plum Pork-chop Potato Poultry Pullet Pumpkin Rabbit Radish Red mullet Rib Roe Saddle Sago Salmon Salt Sausage Seakale French. Monies Mouton Oignon Queue de Bceuj Hultre Persil Panais Perdrix Pois Faisan Pigeon Plie Pluvier Prune Cotelettedeporc Pomme de terre Volaille Poularde Potiron Lapin Radis Rouget Cote Laitance Selle Sagou Saumon Sel Saucisse Chou de mer English. Semolina Sirloin Skate Smelt Snail Snipe Soft roes Sorrel Spinach Sturgeon Sucking Pig Sugar Sweetbread Teal Tongue Trout Truffles Turkey Turnip Turtle Veal Vegetable marrow Vegetables Venison Whitebait Whiting Widgeon Woodcock French. Semoule A loyeau Raie Eperlan Escargot Becassine Laitances Oseille Epinard E sturgeon Cochon del ait Sucre Ris de veau Sarcelle Langue Truite Truffes Dinde Navet Tortue Veau Courge a la moelle Legumes Venaison Blanchaille Merlans Sarcelle Becasse FRUIT. Almond Amande Medlar Nefle Angelica A ngelique Melon Melon Apple Pomme Mulberry Mure Apricot Abricot Nut Noix Banana Banane Orange Orange Cherry Cerise Peach Peche Chestnut Marron Pear Poir Cranberry A irelle Pineapple Ananas Currant Raison de Plum Prune Corinthe Prune Pruneau Damson Prune dedamas Quince Going Date Datte Raisin Raisin sec Fig Figue Raspberries Framboises Gooseberry Groseille Rhubarb Rhubarbe Grape Raisin Strawberry F raise Greengage Reine-Claude Tomato Tornate Lemon Citron Walnuts NoixIO SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION OF PRINCIPAL WORDS USED IN FRENCH MENUS. The custom of writing menus for luncheons, dinners or suppers is one of long standing, not only in this country but in all parts of the civilised world, although there are many people who regard it with a certain amount of prejudice. Those who go abroad or frequent first-class hotels, clubs and restaurants, are familiarised with the langue de cuisine; but the occa- sional diner is frequently at a loss to understand not only the terms and phrases used in the compilation of the menu, but also their correct pronunciation. It is a recognised fact that we owe much of the advancement and development of cookery to the French, who excel in the culinary art; and with the introduction of special dishes and processes of food preparation, we have also to a certain extent become acquainted with many of the ordinary culinary terms used in the French language, which, as far as menus are concerned, has become the fashion, not- withstanding the inconvenience which the average Englishman feels in consequence. It is, however, a matter of difficulty to give the correct rendering of the phonetic pronunciation of French words, on account of there being in English no equivalents in many instances for the sounds in French. The accents must receive especial attention in writing or reading menus, as the meaning of a word may be completely changed by its use or omission. At the same time, it must be observed that there is, in general, no especial stress of voice on any one syllable in French, even when an accent is placed over a letter in that syllable. The accent determines the sound or pronunciation of the letter alone. The following suggestions and explanations having reference to the various courses comprising a luncheon or dinner menu may prove helpful, not only in the compilation of the latter, but also as an aid to the correct interpretation and pronunciation * of the phraseology generally in vogue. The following are a few examples of the names of dishes and words used in French menus, with their approximate pronunciations: Aigre (ehgr) Sour, acrid or piquant. Aigrefin (eh-gre-fan) Haddock. * It is, however, impossible to give exact equivalents to the French u, the c in many instances, the oi and the oil. Our phonetic rendering is approximate only.\VSPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION n a la diable (ah lah dee-abl) Devilled. a la (ah lah) In the style of; after the manner of. Alose (ah-lose) Shad. Aloyau (al-oy-yo) Sirloin of Beef. Alouette (al-ou-et) Lark. Ananas (an-an-ah) Pineapple. Anguille (an-geeye) Eel. 1 Aspic (ahs-peek) Savoury jelly. au bleu (oh bldh) Stewed in wine, or in vinegar and water, with herbs. au gratin (oh grah-tan) Scalloped. au kari (oh karee) Curried. au maigre (oh mehgr) Dish in which no meat is used. au naturel (oh nah-tu-rehl) Uncooked, or boiled in water. Baba (bahbah) Spongy yeast cake like savarin, but con- taining currants, or soaked in rum syrup. Bearnaise (ber-nehz) Rich white herb sauce with egg yolk liaison. Becasse (beh-kas) Woodcock. Bechamel (beh-shah-mel) French rich white sauce—the premier foundation sauce. Beignets (bayn-yeh) Fritters. Beurre-noir (berr-nooahr) Butter cooked to a brown colour. Bisque (beesq) Thick soup, made from shell fish. Blanchailles (blan-shy) Whitebait. Bouchees (boo-shay) Small puff paste patties filled with minced meat, fish, etc. Bouilli (boo-ee) Fresh boiled beef. Braise (breh-zeh) A combination of roasting and stew- ing. Broche (broh-sh) Roasted before a fire on the spit. Brunoise (bruh-nuyooahs) A class of French thick soups. Cabillaud (cab-ee-yo) Codfish. Cafe (kah-feh) Coffee. Caille (kiey) Quail. Canard (can-ar) Duck. Caneton (can-ehton) Duckling. Celeri (seh-le-ree) Celery. Cerises (ser-ease) Cherries. Canap£ (kah-nah-peh) Fried or toasted pieces of bread. C6pes (sehp) A species of large mushroom. Cervelle de veau (serve-el-de-vo) Calf’s brains. Champignons (cham-peen-yon) Mushrooms. Chartreuse (shar-trerrz) A liqueur, also a mould of savoury meat and vegetable or sweet. Chaudfroid (shoh-frwa) A name for dishes which are prepared hot, coated with sauce, dressed and served cold, usually garnished with aspic and truffles, etc. Chevreuil (shev-rye) Roebuck, roe-deer.12 SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION Chicoree au jus (she-co-reh oh ju) Endive stewed in stock. Choux (shoo) Cabbages. Civet de Lievre (see-vay de lee ehvre) Jugged hare. Colbert (coal-bear) A French clear soup and certain other dishes, named after Jean Baptiste Colbert, a clever statesman in the reign of Louis XIV of France, 1619-1683. Compote (kom-poht) Stewed fruit or game. Consomme (kon-some-meh) Clear gravy soup, clarified double stock. Coquilles (coquee) Light fish or meat entrees served in shells. Creme Crevette (crayme crev-et) Shrimp soup. Crepes (crehpe) Pancakes. Croquette (kroh-ket) Savoury minced shapes rolled in bread crumbs and fried. Croutons (kroo-ton) Sippets of fried bread. Dejeuner (deh-jerr-neh) Lunch or luncheon. Dinde (dand) Hen turkey. Dindon (dandon) Young turkey or turkey poult. Ecrevisse (eh-crev-eese) Crayfish. Entree (on-treh) A course of dressed dishes, or side dish for the first course. Entremets (ontromay) Name of a course of dishes com- prising sweets and savouries. Epaule d’agneau (eh-pole dan-yo) Shoulder of lamb. Eperlan (ehper-lan) Smelt. Epinard (ehpin-ar) Spinach. Faisan (fay-san) Pheasant. Farce (farce) Stuffing or forcemeat. Feves (fayve) Broad beans. Filet de bceuf (fee-leh de-boif) Fillet of beef. Foie de veau (fwa de-vo) Calf's liver. Fondue (fon-du) Cheese melted with butter and served hot. Fraises (frayze) Strawberries. Fricassee (free-kah-seh) A white stew of fish or poultry. Frites (freet) Fried. Gateaux (gahtoh) Cakes. Gel6e (jeh-leh) Jelly. Gigot de Mouton (gee-go de-mooton) Leg of mutton . Glace Iglahs) Ice. Glace (glah-seh) Iced or glazed. Goujon (goojon) Gudgeon. Grive (greeve) Thrush. Gras Double (graa doobl) Tripe. Hachis (hah-shee) Hash or mince. Haricot (hah-ree-koh) Haricot beans or meat stewed ivitli vegetables. Haricots (arry-co) Beans. Homard (ome-ar) Lobster.SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION 13 Hors-d’oeuvre (or-derrvr) Small relishes with which luncheon or dinner begins—appetisers. Huitre (weetre) Oyster. Jambon aux epinards (jambon-oes-ay-peen-ar) Ham with spinach. Julienne (juh-lee-en) Finely shredded vegetables used for clear soup, etc. Jus (juh) Gravy; liquid unthickened seasoning for roast meat, etc. Kromeskies (kroh-mes-kees) Chopped meat fried in batter. Langouste (lan-gooste) Crawfish or rock lobster. Lapereaux (lap-er-roh) Rabbits. Laitue (leh-tu) Lettuce, served plain or braised. Lapin saute (la-pan so-teh) Stewed rabbit. Maquereau (mac-er-ro) Mackerel. Mauviettes (mauvi-yet) Larks. Mayonnaise (my-yo-nehz) The principal salad sauce, composed of yolk of egg, oil and vinegar. Menu (meh-neu) Bill of fare or list of dishes. Meringue (meh-rang-g) Light-baked egg crust made with frosted white of egg and sugar. Merlan (mare-lan) Whiting. Merluche (mare-luche) Smoked haddock. Morue (more-u) Salt cod. Navet (nav-ay) Turnips. Noix (nwa) Walnuts. Noisettes (nwa-set) Ntits. Nougat (noo-gah) Edible paste of sugar and almonds. Oie (wa) Goose. Oseille (o-zay) Sorrel. Pate (pah-t) Paste of meat, fish or fruit. Pate (pah-teh) Pie, patty Peche (peysh) Peach. Petits four (puh-tee foor) Small pastry of the sponge cake variety, decorated with sugar, etc. Petits pois (puh-tee pwa) Peas. Perdreaux (pear-drow) Partridges. Piece de resistance (pee-es de reh-zees-tons) The principal dish of the meal. Pintade (pan-tahd) Guinea fowl. Poire (pwar) Pear. Pommes (pohm) Apples. Pommes Pailles (pohm pie) Potato straws. Pommes de Terre (pohm de tare) Potatoes. Pommes Nouvelles (pohm nouvel) New potatoes. Pommes Rissolees (pohm ree-sole-ay) Olive-shaped potatoes browned in butter. Potage a l’oseille (potaa j oh-say) A cream soup with sorrel as garnish. Potage Parmentier (potaa j par-mon-tyay) Potato cream soup, so-called because Parmentier introduced potatoes into France.14 SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION Potage petite marmite (potaa j pee-tee mar-meat) Beef broth vegetables, served in small earthen pots with garnish. Potage a la Reine (potaa j rain) Chicken puree with cream, garnished with small fried bread croutons. Potage St. Germain (san-jer-man) Green pea soup wit cream. Potage a la Soubise (soo-beese) Puree of onions. Potage au tomates (oh-toe-mat) Tomato puree (filtered soup). Poularde au riz (poo-lard oh WKEfBoiledchicken with rice. Poule au pot (pool o po) A fowl boiled and served with bourgeoise sauce. Poulet saute (pool-ay so-teh) Joints of chicken saute, with mushrooms, etc. Pruneaux au riz (prune-o oh ree) Pmnes with rice. Prunes (preun) Prunes. Puree (puh-reh) Pulp of vegetables or fruit. Quartier de pre sale (pray-sal-eh) Fore-quarter oj Southdown mutton. Quenelles (quh-nel) Pounded meat, poultry or fish mixed with panade and poached in stock. Ragout (ra-goo) A rich stew of meat or poultry. Ragout (rah-goo) Brown steiu of meat or poultry. Raie (reh) Skate. Raisin (ra-san) Grapes. Rechauffe (reh-shoh-feh) Cold meat warmed up. Ris-de-veau a la jardiniere (ree-de-vo) Sweetbreads garnished with vegetables. Rissoles (ree-sohl) Half-moon shapes of fried minced pastry containing meat, fish, poultry or game. Rognons (rohn-yon) Kidneys. Rouget (roo-jeh) Red Mullet. Salmis (sahl-mee) A rich brown stew of game. Saute (soh-teh) Tossed in butter; cooked rapidly. Souffle (sou-fleh) Puffed. Applied to very light culinary preparations. Soupe au choux (soop oh shoo) Cabbage soup with cream liaison (thickened with cream). Soupe au lait (soop oh leh) Milk soup thickened with potato puree. Soupe a l’oignon (soop-ah ldn-yon) Onion soup. Terrine (teh-reen) Earthen dish; term applied to dishes served in such a vessel. Tete de veau (teht de vo) Calf’s head. Timbale (tam-bal) Thimble-shaped moulds applied to crusted hash, purees, etc., baked or steamed. Thon (ton) Tunny-fish. Tomates (toe-mat) Tomatoes. Truite (trweete) Trout. Vol-au-vent (vohl-oh-vohn) Case of pastry in which stewed meat or fruit is served.15 THE MENU. Menu mal fait, diner perdu.—A. Careme. Mend is the French word for “bill of fare,’’ the kitchen bill, and the table card. It is the programme or plan of a meal — the architect’s plan, of which the cook is the builder. Menu making is an art that is learnt only by experi- ence. To be able to plan or compile a recherche luncheon, dinner, or supper, is regarded as a high accomplishment, for indeed much of the success of a repast depends upon its menu. The arrangement of an elaborate dinner is an art in itself, and consists in selecting the various courses so that the dishes harmonise with each other ; the chief requirements being that: 1. Each dish shall be different in composition and mode of cooking. 2. The composition of the individual dishes must be excellent; while they should be well cooked, tastefully dressed, and yet distinct in character. 3. The harmonising effect is obtained by so arrang- ing the dishes that each one is distinct from the other, bearing no relation in appearance to the preceding or following dishes. 4. A judicious selection of the raw materials, having regard to the season of the year, must be made in all cases, else the menu of a meal may be easily marred. 5. The various meats and other more important materials must not be repeated in the same menu from one course to another. 6. The various kinds of sauces employed in the preparations, and serving as accompaniments to the dishes, must each be distinctly different in colour, taste and flavour. The true estimate of the value of a menu as a literary compilation is not to be obtained by observing the attention given to it by the guest at a dinner table, for at such a time the average diner is engaged in concentrating his whole mind on a rapid analysis of the good things present and to come. It is later, in some leisured moment, that the menu is read with a critical eye, and if found the least worthy from a literary point of view, is treasured as an interesting souvenir of a memorable occasion. Menus are planned for every meal, breakfast, luncheon, dinner and supper, but of all these the dinner menu is of the greatest importance. For special occasions, i.e., Dinner parties, etc.,i6 DINNER MENUS menus are usually prepared a day or more in advance, so that the needful provisions may be purchased and other necessary arrangements made, thus allowing ample leisure to get everything ready in good time, and avoiding much confusion when the moment for cooking and serving arrives. The menu must in all cases be strictly followed. DINNER (LE DlNER). The word “ dinner ” is supposed to be a corruption of dix lieuves, indicating the hour at which in the time of the Normans this meal was taken. In a book published in 1512, entitled the Household Book, it is stated that the family rose at six, breakfasted at seven, dined at ten, supped at four, and closed the gates at nine p.m. Dinner with all classes forms the principal meal of the day. The working and middle classes take it at mid-day, whilst the better classes and fashionable society partake of it between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. The aristocracy have always dined later in the day than the other classes. The number of courses of a dinner depends on the circumstances of the host and hostess, but the courses have increased with time and fashion, whilst the number of dishes served have decreased; that is to say, that instead of serving two soups, two or three fish, and as many entrees, not more than one, or at the most two, are now placed on modern menus. MENU DU DINER. Potage. French. Queue de Boeuf Poisson. Filets de Cabillaud a la Normande Entree. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise Roti. Dinde roti aux Marrons Entremet. Pouding a la Viennoise Soup. English. Ox-tail Fish. Fillets of Cod (.Normandy style) Entree. Mutton Cutlets (.Milanese style) Roast. Roast Turkey stuffed with Sweet. Chestnuts Viennese Pudding It will be observed that no vegetables are given on the above bill of fare. One or two vegetables should be served; these are selected according to taste and season. The following, in addition to potatoes, is a list of vegetables procurable in January: artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem), brussels sprouts, celery, greens, savoys, salsify, parsnips, turnips, Spanish onions. Season—January or February.DINNER MENUS 17 MENU DU DlNER. BILL OF FARE. Le 15 Mars. Hors-d'CEuvre. Anchois sur Canapes Pot age. Consomme Fleury Poisson. March 15th. Side Dish. Anchovy fillets on toast Soup. Clear Soup {Rice and Vege- table garnish) Fish. Fillets d’Anguille ala Juive Fried Fillets of Eel (Jewish Sauce Tartare fashion) Tartare Sauce Entree. Made Dish. Tournedos a la Bearnaise Tournedos {.Bearnaise style) Pommes Parisienne Roti. Canard roti Salade a la Fran5aise Entremets. Concombres farcies etouffee Parisian Potatoes Roast. Roast Duck French Salad Vegetable. Stuffed Cucumber [baked) Riz a l’lmperatrice Tourte a la Rhubarbe Bonne Bouche. Huitres a la Diable en caisses Sweets. Rice Mould {Empress style) Rhubarb Tart Savoury. Devilled Oysters in Cases DINER CAREME—A LENTEN DINNER. French. English. Puree de Choufleur, maigre Cauliflower Soup Blanchailles au Naturel Souchet de Carrelets Whitebait Flounders in Souchet Mousses d’Homard a la Cardinal Cotelettes de Turbot a 1’Indienne Lobster Mousses, Cardinal Sauce Turbot Cutlets {Indian Style) Darne de Saumon a la Suedoise Salmon {Swedish Style), Cold Chou de Mer a la Hollandaise Seakale with Dutch Sauce Chartreuse aux Oranges Orange Jelly (Chartreuse Style) Cafe frappe a la Neige Eclairs de Sardines Iced Coffee with Whipped Cream Sardine Eclairsi8 DINNER MENUS SPECIMEN MENUS. Season—May-J une . Menu. Bill of Fare. Consomme Brunoise Clear Vegetable Soup (Brunoise style) Filets de Soles a la Regence Fillets of Sole (Regent style) Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Lamb Cutlets (Clamart style) Clamart Petits Pois a la Mayonnaise Green Peas with Cold Dressing Cote de Boeuf roti a l’Anglaise Creme d’Asperges a l’Argenteuil Canard farcies, etouffee Salade d’Orange Pommes Nouvelles Mousse frappee, Prince Piickler Gateaux Pithiviers Fromage Fruits et Dessert Roast Beef, Yorkshire Pudding, Horseradish Sauce Asparagus in Savoury Jelly Braised Duck, Stuffed Orange Salad New Potatoes Iced Chocolate Mousse with Chestnut Puree Pithiviers Cakes Cheese Fruit and Dessert- Season—J UNE-J ULY. Pot age. Creme a l’Oseille Poissons. Sole au Gratin Petites Bouchees de Crevettes Entree. Cotelettes de Veau aux puree de Pois vert. Roti. Poulet roti Salade de Laitue Pommes Souffles Entremets. Omelettes sucr^e Bavaroise aux Peches Soup. Cream of Sorrel Fish. Sole au Gratin (baked) Small Patties of Praims Entree. Veal Cutlets with Puree of Green Peas Roast. Roast Chicken Lettuce Salad Puff Potatoes Sweets. Sweet Omelet Peach Creami9 DINNER MENUS Season—November-December. Menu. Bill of Fare. Hors-d'CEuvre. Appetisers. Hors-d’QEuvre varies Selection of Side Dishes Pot ages. Soups. Consomme a la Royale Clear Soup with Royal Custard Potage a la Mulligatawny Thick Mulligatawny Poissons. Sole au vin blanc Eperlans frite. Sauce R£moulade Fish. Soles with White Wine Sauce Fried Smelts, Remoulade Sauce, Tomato Flavour Entrees. Made Dishes. Petites Bouchees de Faisan Small Pheasant Patties a la Moderne Terrine de Lapereaux Relev e. Gigot de Mouton,Galois Legumes Roti. Sarcelles roti Pommes Julienne, Salade Entremets. Pouding Souffle aux Pommes Creme glacee de Prunes de Damas Savoureux. Petites Croustades au Parmesan Terrine of Rabbit or Hare Remove. Roast Leg of Welsh Mutton Vegetables Roast. Roast Teal Straw Potatoes and Salad Sweets. Apple Souffle Pudding Damson Cream Ice Savoury. Parmesan Cheese, Cream in Crusts FRENCH FAMILY DINNER MENUS. French. Potage Sevigne Filets de Turbot a la Vatel Poulets de Grains en Cocotte Flageolets au Beurre Cailles de Vigne sur Canapes Salade de Chicoree Glace, Vanille et Fraise Tartelettes aux Amandes English. I. Sevigne Soup Fillets of Turbot (Vatel style) Spring Chicken (Cocotte style) Flageolets done in Butter Quails on Toast Chicoree Salad Vanilla and Strawberry Ice Almond Tartlets20 FAMILY DINNER MENUS French. English. Potage a la Reine II. White Chicken Puree Truite Saumonee, sauce Boiled Salmon Trout, Genoise Genoise Sauce Ris de Veau aux Petits Sweetbread with Green Peas Pois Perdreau roti Roast Partridge Salade de Celeri en Celery Salad branches Fonds d’Artichauts Artichoke Bottoms in Brown a l’ltalienne Sauce Compote de Fruits Stewed Fruit with Kirsch au Kirsch Syrup Biscuit Manque French Biscuits Hors-d’CEuvre III. A ppetiscrs Consomme Grisonne Clear Beef Broth with Filet de Sole a l’Horly Batter Garnish Fillets of Soles, Fried, with Tomato Sauce Cotes d’Agneau aux Points Lamb Cutlets with Asparagus d’Asperges Points Caneton de Rouen poele Rouen Duckling braised in Petits Pois Paysanne the pot Green Peas Pommes Noisettes Potatoes Browned in Butter Salade Fran£aise French Salad Tartelettes de Fraises Strawberry Tartlets Souffle au Parmesan Parmesan Souffle Tapioca au Consomme IV. Tapioca Clear Soup Cabillaud, Sauce aux Boiled Cod, Caper Sauce Capres Poulet saute aux Stewed Chicken with Champignons Mushrooms Gigot d’Agneau Roast Leg of Lamb a l’Anglaise Salade de Laitue Lettuce Salad Haricots Verts a la French Beans (Poulette style) Poulette Tarte aux Cerises Cherry TartV ' * t21 LUNCHEON AND LUNCH MENUS. Menus des Dejeuners a la Fourchette. The French have two kinds of dejeuners: one is called “ a la Tassc," being a simple breakfast, and the other "a la fourchette,” which is equivalent to an English luncheon. The word “lunch,” or “luncheon,” is said to be derived from the Welsh llwne, which is a derivation of lump. In bygone days lunch or luncheon meant simply a lump of bread and cheese taken between meals, “a frugal bit”; but now the lunch, more especially among the upper classes, has become a fashionable meal, and one quite as important as the dinner of former times. Few meals offer better opportunities for combining smart little dishes at comparatively little expense than the lunch or luncheon. There are lots of dainty dishes which can be prepared with little trouble, suitable as luncheon dishes, that can with advantage be brought within the scope of high-class cookery. The menus given below show what kinds of dishes are suitable for such repasts. SPECIMEN MENUS FOR SET LUNCHEONS. French. Souffle aux Hultres Cotelettes de Venaison aux Marrons Pommes Soufflees Gateau au Chocolat Compote de Figues Fromage Bouillon en tasse Artichauts a la Chanzy Entrecote a la Bearnaise Okra aux Tomates Bordure Japonaise a la Gelde Pailles au Parmesan Dessert English. Oyster Souffle Venison Cutlets with Chest- nut Puree Puff Potatoes Chocolate Cake Stewed Figs Cheese Beef Broth in cups Artichokes with Poached Eggs Sirloin Steak, Bearnaise Sauce Okras with Tomatoes Japanese Border in Jelly Cheese Straws Dessert22 LUNCHEON MENUS Dejeuner de Chasse. Filets de Soles a la Mayonnaise Mousse de Homard frappe Bceuf brais6 a la Gelee Langue a l’Ecarlate Filets de Caneton a la Loraine Cailles Poelees a la Parisienne Faisan en Robe de Chambre Salade a la Japonaise Bordure de Riz aux Prunes Gateaux a l’Africame Batons Gougere Fromage Dessert Luncheon. Fillets of Soles in Mayonnaise Iced Lobster Souffle Braised Beef with Savoury Jelly Dressed Ox-tongue Fillets of Duckling with Goose-liver Farce Braised Stuffed Quails Roast Pheasant in Crust Japanese Salad Border of Rice with Stewed Prunes African Cakes Savoury Cheese Tit-Bits Cheese Dessert MENUS DES DEJEUNERS. I. Soles a la Meuniere Soles, Meuniere style CEufs mollets aux Scrambled Eggs with Spinach epinards Langouste Sauce Tartare Lobster with Tartare Sauce Lasagnes au Parmesan Cheese Pastry Beignets de Pommes Apple Fritters II. Jambon d’York a la Gel£e York Ham with Savoury Jelly Veau saute aux Champignons Cotelettes de pre-sale, vert-pre Puree de Pommes au gratin Omelette aux Confitures Stewed Veal with Mushrooms Mutton Cutlets with Green Pea Sauce Scalloped Potatoes Jam Omelet CEufs a la Meyerbeer Poulet en Casserolle Parmentier Carre d’Agneau roti Salade de Laitue Tartelettes de Reine- Claude III. Eggs Meyerbeer style Chicken in pot with Potatoes Roast Neck of Lamb Lettuce Salad Greengage Tartlets23 SOUPER ET MENUS DES SOUPERS. SUPPER AND SUPPER BILLS OF FARE. This is the term for the last meal of the day, and one which has a wide and varied meaning. During the Middle Ages supper used to be served as early as 5 p.m., when it was customary to serve soup ; from this the name supper is supposed to have originated. History tells ps that soups, or supper dishes, originally consisted of liquid food both savoury and sweet, such as fumity, porridge, and various kinds of spoon meat, which were eaten with pieces of bread called sops, soppets, or sippets. Where late dinner is served, as is usually the case at the present time, supper is rarely eaten. So-called ball suppers and theatre suppers are fashionable both here and abroad. There is no set rule as to the kind of dishes served for supper, but when partaken of as an every-day meal supper may consist of dishes hot or cold, with or without soups, vegetables, or even sweets. Cheese and salad when in season are usually included, but this is not to be regarded as a hard- and-fast rule. Light cakes and fancy gateaux, tea or coffee, are sometimes included in a supper menu, which shows that many regard this meal as but a light repast. The following menus are selected as specimens for so-termed set suppers; SPECIMEN MENUS FOR SUPPERS. MENUS DES SOUPERS. French. Darne de Saumon a la Remoulade Roulade de Veau en Chaudfroid Jambon a la Gelee Salade Risotto a l’ltalienne Souffle a la Mexienne Denises aux Amandes Fruits et Dessert I. English. Salmon Steak, Remoulade style Veal Roll, coated with Chaud- froid Sauce York Ham with Aspic Jelly Salad Italian Risotto Cold Chocolate Souffle Frosted Almond Sandwiches Fruit and Dessert24 SUPPER MENUS French. II. Ecrevisses en Aspic Darioles de Creme de Volaille Boenf a la Presse Pates de Veau et Jambon Salad de Haricots Panaches Creme a la Romaine Compote de Poires Fromage de Camembert C£leri III. Denises Suedoise Filets de Boeuf ala Madrid Salade de Celeri a la Rachel Foie-gras a la Dumas Pate de Volaille et Jambon Bordure de Creme de Homard Petites Cremes a la Princesse Fromage de Roquefort Biscuits de Fromage English. Shrimps in Savoury Jelly Chicken Creams Pressed Beef Veal and Ham Patties Haricot Bean Salad Roman Cream Stewed Pears Camembert Cheese Celery Sivedisli Sandwiches Fillets of Beef,Madrid style Celery and Truffle Salad Foie-gras Croutes Chicken and Ham Pie Border of Lobster Cream Fruit Creams (Princess style) Roquefort Cheese Cheese Biscuits SOUPER DU BAL. BALL SUPPER. Huitres au Naturel Plats Chauds. Homard a la Gauloise Mauviettes en Casserole Ris de Veau en Caisses a la Chasseur Plats Froids. Filets de Soles en Aspic Zdphires de Foie-Gras a la Martin Carre de Mouton a la Bohdmienne Dindonneau farci a la Moderne Jambon de York a la Gelee Faisan roti Pate de Pigeon a la Fran?aise Salade de Saison Denises a la Princesse Natives Hot Dishes. Lobster served in Shells Larks stewed in Casserole Sweetbread in cases with Mushroom Puree Cold Dishes. Fillets of Soles in Savoury Jelly Zephyrs of Foie-gras (Goose Liver) Neck of Mutton (Bohemian style) Young Turkey, stuffed York Ham with Aspic Jelly Roast Pheasant Pigeon Pie, French fashion Salad Princess Sandwiches*i25 HORS-D'CEUVRE Entremets. Gelee au Champagne Creme aux Amandes Charlottes Mignonnes Corbeilles de Nougat a la Chantilly Patisserie Dessert Sweets. Champagne Jelly Almond Cream Little Russian Charlottes Nougat Baskets with Whipped Cream French Pastry Dessert SPECIAL SUPPER PARTY MENU. English. French. Consomme de Volaille Mayonnaise de Homard Chaudfroid Mauviettes Luculus Mousse de Jambon Parisienne Filet Bceuf Piqu6 Bouquetiere Galantine Volaille Truffee Poulet Surrey a la Gelee Jambon de York Salade Henriette Creme de Fraise Gateau Duchesse Petits Fours Dessert Clear Chicken Broth Lobster Mayonnaise Chaudfroid of Larks with Truffles Ham Mousse (Parisian style) Fillet of Beef larded and braised, with Vegetables Chicken Galantine, truffled Surrey Fowls with Aspic York Ham Cauliflower, Bean and Truffle Salad Strawberry Cream Duchess Cakes Fancy Pastry Dessert HORS-D’CEUVRE (Appetisers). The hors-d’oeuvre course, which forms the so-called prelude to a set dinner, has of late become very popular. A very large variety of little dishes, both plain and dressed, can be served under this heading. These dishes to the thoughtful cook present one of the best opportunities for showing his or her skill and originality in combination and garnish. Such dishes must, however, be strictly confined to such colour and such material as will harmonise with the other dishes on the menu. Usually one or two plain and one dressed hors- d’oeuvre are served at a dinner, this being a matter of taste left to the maltre d’hotel or the chef. Whatever the hors-d’oeuvre may consist of, let it be remembered that these little side dishes are intended to stimulate and not satisfy the appetite, i.e., they must be tempting and smart in appearance, and the portions must be very small, so as not to impair the enjoyment of the remainder of the meal. BHORS-D' CEUVRE 26 These dishes are frequently placed on the table before the guests enter the dining-room; and, when dressed in a pretty and dainty manner, they add greatly to the effective decoration of a table. CLASSIFICATION of HORS-D’CEUVRE. PLAIN SIDE DISHES. French. Anchois a l’huile Anchois aux capres Anguilles fumees Anguilles marinees Carrelets fumes Caviar russe Crevettes Ecrevisses Filets de harengs Harengs marines Harengs a la remoulade Huitres au naturel Lamproies a l’huile Langouste Lax fume a l’buile Maquereaux a l’huile Melesses fumees Melon cautaloup Melon brode CEufs de mouettes (Eufs de pluviers CEufs de vanneaux Royans a l’huile Sardines au citron Sardines a l’huile Sardines fumees Sardines sans aretes Sardines a'la tomate Sardines russe Saumon fume Thon marine Betterave marinee Celeri en salade Cornichons Cornichons a la moutarde Clames Americains Cresson alenois Crevettes dress£es Ecrevisse garnie Escargots farcis Grenouilles marinees English. Anchovies in oil Anchovies with capers Smoked eel Pickled or soused eel Smoked flounders Russian caviare Prawns Crayfish Fillets of herrings Pickled herrings [save: Pickled herrings in mustard Oysters on shells Lampreys in oil Spiny lobster [oil Smoked salmon preserved in Mackerel in oil Smoked sprats French rock melon {iced) Pickled melon Mew eggs (gull eggs) Plover's eggs Lapwing eggs {puvet eggs) Royans in oil [sauce Sardines preserved in lemon Sardines in oil Smoked sardines Boneless sardines Sardines in tomato sauce Russian sardines {pickled) Smoked salmon {thinly sliced) Pickled tunny fish Pickled beetroot Celery dressed in mayonnaise French gherkins Gherkins in mustard sauce A merican clams Garden cress Dressed prawns Dressed crawfish Stuffed snails Pickled frogs' legs27 HORSED' CEUV RE French. Jambon d’Espagne Jambon de Strasbourg Jambon Westphalie Langue de Boeuf fumee Langue de Renne fumee Olives d’Espagne Olives Lucullus Olives farcies Pat<§ de foie-gras Poitrine d’oie fumee Radis rose et blanc Sandwich aux anchois Sandwich au caviar Sandwich de foie-gras Sandwich au fromage Sandwich de homard Sandwich au jambon Sandwich panachee Sandwich aux sardines Saucisson blanc Saucisson de Bologne Saucisson de Brunswick Saucisson de foie-gras Saucisson de foie de Stras- bourg Saucisson de jambon Saucisson de Lyon Saucisson de Milan Saucisson de Mordadelle Saucisson noir Saucisson de perigueux Tomates crues English. Spanish ham [ham Strasburg cured and smoked Westphalian ham Smoked ox-tongue Smoked reindeer tongue Spanish olives French olives Stuffed olives Goose-liver pie in terrines Smoked breast of goose Radishes, pink and white Anchovy sandwich Caviare sandwich Goose-livev sandwich Cheese sandwich Lobster sandwich Ham sandwich Mixed sandwich with different kinds of meat, etc. Sardine sandwich White sausage (smoked) Bologna sausage Brunswick sausage Goose-liver sausage Strasburg liver sausage Ham sausage Lyons sausage Salami sausage Mordadella or Italian sausage Black sausage (smoked) Liver and truffle sausage Small fresh tomatoes, sliced N.B.—All side dishes of this description should be served on small glass or china dishes, and small pats of butter ought to be handed round at the same time. Smoked provisions, such as salmon, ham and sausage, suitable for hors-d’oeuvre, cut into very thin slice s are usually served in hors-d’oeuvre dishes. DRESSED HORS-D’CEUVRE. Appetissants Maeonnaise.—Small bread croutons hollowed out and filled with puree of mussels, anchovies, egg-yolks, etc. ; decorated with savoury butter. Anchois sur Canapes.—Anchovy canapees.HORS-D’CEUVRE 28 Anchois et queues d’Ecrevisses au Capisantis. —Anchovies and crayfish tails dressed in shells. Rosettes aux Anchois. — Little rounds of fried bread spread with anchovy butter and garnished with anchovy fillets, with small mushroom head in centre, arranged in rosette form, and decorated with green herb butter and chopped hard-boiled egg. Anchois en Salade.—Anchovy salad dressed with oil and vinegar. Bceuf fume a la Hambourgeoise.—Smoked beef, Hamburg style. Bceuf haehe a l’Aspie. — Shredded beef with savoury jelly. *Canapes a rArlequin.—Oblong or crescent shapes of toasted and buttered bread, with strips of tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins and truffles, arranged in harlequin style. Canapes a la Coquelin.—Croutons of fried bread, spread over with a paste composed of cooked ham, chicken, butter and grated cheese; garnished with gherkins, beetroot and capers. Canapes a la Diana.—Layers of chopped ham, truffles and hard-boiled egg-yolks placed alternately on croutons of bread; decorated with chopped aspic. Canapes a la Darvelle.—Oval-shaped pieces of toasted or fried bread, spread with anchovy paste, and finished with layers of ham and caviare; decorated with hard-boiled eggs and aspic. Canapes a la Geneve.—Oblong croutons of fried bread spread with a paste composed of anchovy, sardine and ham ; garnished with hard-boiled egg- yolk and white, and parsley. Canapes a la Selon.—Buttered water biscuits covered with slices of hard-boiled egg dipped in lemon juice and chopped parsley, caviare in centre, and garnished with prawns. Canapes a la Turque.—Finger-shaped pieces of fried bread spread with savoury ham mixture, decorated with three distinct coloured butters, anchovy, herb and yolk of egg. Canapes a la Turbigo.—Halves of very small rolls of bread (farthing rolls), filled with crayfish tails, celery, truffle and egg white ; dressed with tomato and r£moulade sauce. Canapes & la Windsor.—Puree of cooked chicken fillets, ham, tongue, butter, Cheshire cheese, mustard and cayenne, spread on canapees of fried bread; garnished with gherkins and hard-boiled egg whites. * Canapes are made of either toasted or fried bread, cut into suitably shaped slices.HORS-D' CEUVRE 29 Cassolettes a l’Epieupienne.—Little pastry cases filled with seasoned lax, tongue, olives and gherkins, all cut into fine shreds. Brisolettes de Caviar a la Moscovite.—Caviare dressed in paste crusts, Moscow style. Brisolettes de Caviar.—Very small farthing rolls cut in halves and filled with caviare, surface masked with aspic, and garnished with anchovy fillets, parsley, etc. Caviar aux Blinis.—This is a special supper dish, the caviare being served on a glass dish set in a block of ice ; garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Blinis is served at the same time. It is a kind of light sponge or yeast mixture, a savarin without sugar baked in small pans, and sent to table hot with a boat of sour cream. Caviar en Belle-vue.—Halves of lemon prettily edged, centre filled with caviare ; dressed on bread socle in pyramidal form ; garnished with parsley. Caviar sur Canape a la Remoulade.—Caviare canapees, remoulade style. Caviar a la Capueine.—Small oval or boat-shaped bread crusts, filled with caviare and chopped prawns, seasoned with mayonnaise; garnished with hard-boiled egg and cress. Dariole de Caviar.—Caviare darioles, dressed in small tartlet pastry crust, seasoned. Caviar aux Eerevisses.—Small fried bread cups, filled with caviare and prawns; garnished with olives and gherkins. Caviar en Salade.—A neatly dressed salad of caviare, and small dice of tomato and hard-boiled egg- Tartines de Caviar en ehaudfroid. — Round fried bread croutons, slit open and filled with caviare, coated alternately with brown and white chaud-froid sauces, dressed round a small salad. Tranches de Caviar, Remoulade.—Layers of bread covered with caviare, decorated with savoury butter, and cut into neat slices. Chantrelles en Salade.—Chantrelles are a species of mushroom grown in Switzerland. When cooked they are dressed with plain salad dressing seasoning and served as hors-d’oeuvre. Crabe garnie.—Dressed crab. Bonnes-Bouches de Crevettes k l’Avondale,— Bouche-shaped cups of pastry, filled with shrimps or prawn tails ; garnished with tomato aspic. Denises a la Turque.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with prawns, tomato puree, hard-boiled egg and anchovy, and decorated with paprika butter. b 3HORS-D'CEUVRE 30 Denises a la Prineesse.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with chicken puree, walnuts and cream mixture ; garnished with small cress. Pate d’Eerevisses sur Canapes.—Potted crayfish on small fingers of toasted bread. Croutes d’Eerevisses k la Tartare.—Croutes of crayfish or prawn tails dressed with tartare sauce. Escargots aux fines herbes.—Snails with fine herb butter. Bonnes-Bouehes de Foie-gras. — Goose-liver patties. Canapes de Foie-gras a la Russe.— Rounds of toasted bread spread with foie-gras puree, a dice of hard-boiled egg placed on top ; garnished with anchovy fillets and caviare. Darioles de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver darioles. Nids a la Chartres.—Little nest-shaped bread croutes filled with foie-gras puree, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. Canapes de Harengs a la Russe.—Fingers of fried bread spread with anchovy butter mixed with herring roes ; fillets of kippered herrings are placed on each ; garnished with gherkins. Ballotins de Homard a la Reforme.—Ballotines of lobster, reform style. Bonnes-Bouehes a la Cardinal. — Lobster and anchovy bonnes-bouches. Canapes de Homard a la Reine. — Lobster canapees, queen style. Homard a la Careme.— Lobster dressed careme style. Darioles de Homard a la Tomate.—Lobster darioles with tomatoes. Tartines k la Cardinal.—Fancifully cut sandwiches made of brown bread and savoury lobster puree; decorated with truffle, hard-boiled egg, gherkin, and parsley. Darioles d’Huitres a la Carlton.—Oyster darioles Carlton style. Jambon sur Canapes. — Ham on fried bread croutons. Petites Bouehees de Jambon a la Creme.— Small puff-paste patties filled with minced ham and cream. Laitanee de Cabillaud fume sur Canapes.— Smoked or pickled tunny fish on toast. Langue de Boeuf sur Canapes.—Ox-tongue on toasted or fried bread slices. Lax fume aux Coneombres.—Salad made of thin slices of smoked salmon and thin slices of cucumber, neatly dressed on small glass dishes. CEilfs fareis ala Russe.—Stuffed eggs,Russian style.HORS-D'CEUVRE 3i (Eufs a la Suedoise.—Small hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, filled with green herb butter and egg-yolk ; prettily decorated and served on glass dishes. Olives la Madras.—Spanish olives stuffed with anchovy and chutney puree, dressed on croutons. Croutons k l’Espagnole.—Large Spanish olives stuffed with tartare sauce, placed on round croutons, with anchovy fillets twisted round olives; decorated with lobster coral, egg-yolk and parsley. Petites Bouehees k la Caroline.—Very small rice cassolettes filled with seasoned chopped hard-boiled white of egg and truffles. Palmiers d’Ecrevisses.—Small oval-shaped paste crusts filled with picked shrimps and mayonnaise dressing (cream), finished with chopped parsley and lobster coral. Petites Caisses k la Casanova.—Small china or paper ramakin cases, filled with celery and truffle shreds, seasoned with tartare sauce, an oyster, slice of egg on top, and decorated with green herb butter. Roulettes a la Creole.—Thinly cut slices of brown bread spread with game or chicken puree, mixed with pounded capers and anchovy paste, rolled up, buttered, and sprinkled alternately with chopped parsley and lobster coral. Bonnes-Bouehes de Sardines k la Royale.— Sardine patties (royal style) filled with puree of sardines, and garnished with truffles, gherkins, etc. Sardines sur Canapes.—Sardine canapees (boned and skinned and dressed on fried or toasted bread). Bonnes-Bouehes de Sardines.—Fancifully cut shapes of brown bread filled with sardine paste; decorated with hard-boiled egg and savoury butter. Canapes de Sardines a la Fran^aise.—Small fried bread croutons masked with sardine paste or butter, layers of sardines, chopped parsley, and coated with remoulade sauce. Salade Suedoise.—Cooked lean veal, fillets of salt herrings or kippers ; cooked potatoes and beetroot, all cut in dice ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper ; garnished with hard-boiled egg-yolks. Canapes de Saumon fume.—Smoked salmon on toast. Tartelettes de Saumon, Eeossaise. — Little tartlet crusts of pastry filled with shreds of cooked salmon and mayonnaise-aspic; garnished with slices of hard-boiled egg and truffle. Tartines k la Baroda.—Very small sandwiches, lined with chicken and rice puree, flavoured with curry ; masked with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorated with set aspic.POTAGES 32 Tartines Lueullus. — Finger-shaped puff pastry, seasoned with cheese, and layer of anchovy paste in centre; garnished with olives and anchovy butter. Thon marine sur Canapes.—Pickled tunny fish on toast. Darioles de Tomate a la Creme. — Tomato darioles with cream. Zakousky.—This is the name given for hors-d’oeuvre dishes in Russia. They consist of various kinds of daintily dressed caviare, pickled or smoked fish, etc. Certain Russian liqueurs are usually served with zakousky, which form a great feature in the Russian cuisine. Note.—A large number of these dishes are well adapted for after-dinner savouries as well as hors- d’oeuvre, especially those made from shell fish, smoked fish, eggs, meat and certain savoury vege- table mixtures. For after-dinner savouries please see end of book. POTAGES (soups). Next to hors-d'oeuvre, soup forms the best introduction to a meal; it is, as far as the dinner is concerned, an indispensable course, and therefore important. Soups are divided into four groups: consommes, clear soups with garnish ; purees of meat, poultry or game; bisques and fish soups; and creams, or filtered soups made from vegetables and farinaceous products. Sometimes the choice of two or three varieties of soups are given at one meal, in which case the clear soup, or consomme, must be placed on the menu before the thick soups. The present fashion is in favour of one soup only, either clear or thick. For a full-course dinner, or one of many courses, a clear or light thick soup, cream or bisque, gives more satisfaction than a heavy soup, because it conduces better to the appreciation of the succeeding dishes. Heavy or thick soups are generally considered more seasonable in winter than in summer. There are certain more or less flexible rules observed in serving consomme : cheese straws, or grisini, fingers, toasted bread and grated parmesan cheese are generally handed round with it. Sherry is served with turtle soup; fried bread croutons with purges; and celery salt with vegetable and cream soups. With mulligatawny, both thick and clear, a small dish of plain boiled rice is handed round, unless included in the soup as garnish.33 BOUILLONS (broths). Bouillon de Boeuf.—Beef broth (not clarified). — de Mouton.—Mutton broth. — aux OEufs.—Beef broth with beaten egg, served in cups. — en tasses.—Beef broth in cups. — de Veau.—Veal broth. — de Volaille. —Chicken broth. — de Volaille & l’Orge.—Chicken broth thickened with pearl barley. CONSOMMES (clear soups). Consomme a l’Afrieaine.—A rich clear chicken soup, flavoured with curry and garnished with rice and small shreds of artichoke bottom. — k 1’AndaloUSe. — Clarified chicken stock with tapioca (i quart to ^ oz. tapioca). Garnitures : small rounds of tomato, cucumber cubes, and small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — a la Bagration.—A richly flavoured clear soup, garnished with small fish quenelles, vegetable and prawns. — k la Baviere (Clear Soup, Bavarian style).—A clear soup with very small semolina dumplings. — Benjamin Le§Ois. — Rich chicken consomme, garnished with green peas, small cubes of truffle, and royal custard containing chicken puree. — Bouquetiere.— Clear soup garnished with spring vegetables daintily cut. — k la Brisse.—Clear soup with a garnish of three varieties of vegetable puree, custard or plain boiled rice. — a la Bpunoise (Brunoise Soup).—A clear gravy soup, with finely minced carrots, turnips, leeks and onions. — Brunoise au Riz (Brunoise Soup with Rice).— The same as above, with the addition of a handful of plainly boiled rice. — k la Careme.—Chicken and veal stock, clarified, and garnished with slices of cooked carrot, lettuce, turnip, leek, asparagus points, and round bread crusts. — Caroline. — Straw-coloured rich consomme, garnished with Carolina rice, royal custard and chicken fillets, both cut very small.34 POTAGES Consomm6 Cel^stine (Celestine Soup).—A clear gravy soup with thin pancakes cut into julienne strips. — k la Chasseur.—A clear, game-flavoured soup, garnished with small game quenelles. — Chataleine. — Clear soup with slight tarragon flavour, garnished with royal custard, mixed with artichoke pur£e, green peas, and French beans. — Chiffonnade (Chiffonade Gravy Soup).—A clear soup garnished with finely shredded spring onion heads, green peas, and lettuce leaves stamped out round, seasoned with green mint and tarragon leaves. — Choron a la Richelieu.—Clarified game stock, garnished with julienne strips of cooked game, pea shapes of young carrots and Brazil tapioca. — Christophe Colombe.—Clear chicken broth,with two coloured diamond shapes of poached savoury egg custard. — aux Choux fareis.—Clear soup garnished with stuffed Brussels sprouts. — Clair.—Clear soup (plain). — Claremont.—Clear soup with royal custard and fried onion rings as garnish. — Cock-a-Leekie (Cock-a-Leekie Soup). — Clear chicken broth, with leeks cut into julienne strips, pearl barley, and small dice of cooked chicken. Prunes are sometimes added as a garnish. — a la Colbert.—A clear soup with small poached eggs and green peas. — a la Conde.—A clear game soup, garnished with quenelles of haricot bean puree and julienne strips of partridge fillets. — Croute a-U Pot.—A clear beef soup, garnished with stock-pot vegetables and very thinly cut pieces of toasted bread. •— a la Dante.—Clarified beef stock in which two or three roast pigeons have been cooked. Garniture : small darioles of chicken farce in two colours, i.e., white and yellow, the latter coloured with saffron, also truffles and ox-tongue. — & la Daumont.—Clarified beef stock with fine tapioca, and a garnish of champignons and cooked ox-palate cut into julienne strips. — Deslignae.—A clear soup with dice of egg custard. The eggs for this are mixed with milk and stock, finely chopped parsley, celery, and truffles before poaching. — aux Diablotines.—Clarified beef stock with tiny baked bread crusts, seasoned with cheese and cayenne.SOUPS 35 Consomme k la Diplomate.—A rich clear soup with poached egg-yolks and small olive shapes of cucum- ber and turnip, also very small button onions. — a la dll Barry.—Clear chicken and veal stock, with cubes of royal custard and finely shredded Jordan almonds. — a la Dubelloy.—Clear chicken broth with royal custard, green peas and rice as garnish. — a la Dubourg*.—Clear soup garnished with royal custard, cooked rice and green peas, used in equal proportions. — ala DuehesSQ.—Clear chicken soup, with a light sage liaison and shredded chicken breast as garnish. — a la Duelair.—Clear soup with pancakes spread with savoury forcemeat and cut in lozenge shapes. — a 1’EcOSSaise (Scotch Broth). — Mutton broth with pearl barley and the usual soup vegetables cut into dice. — k l’Estragon. — A clear soup flavoured and garnished with tarragon leaves. — a la Fermiere. — Clear soup with carrots, cabbage, leeks, potatoes and turnips, cut into thin triangular shaped slices. — a la Flamande.—Clear soup with a garnish of vegetables cut in dice shapes, i.e., carrot, turnip and cabbage, and shreds of sorrel and chervil leaves, also crusts of bread. Fleury.—A clear soup, garnished with rice and a few vegetables cut into fancy dice (mace- doine) . a la Florador.—Clear soup, garnished with small quenelles made with Florador or Indian maize and milk, and poached in stock. a la Florentine.—A clear soup with parmesan cheese quenelles. frappe.—Clear soup, iced. de Gibier .—Clear game soup, garnished with dice of cooked game. de Gibier a la St. Hubert. — Clarified game stock, garnished with green peas and pea shapes of carrot, turnip and celery. d’abatis de Gibier.—Clear giblet soup. a la Grisonne.—A clear soup, garnished with batter passed through a coarse colander into the soup when boiling. a l’lndienne.—Clear mulligatawny soup, served with cooked rice. a l’Imperiale.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with whole poached yolks of eggs and shreds of ham and truffles.36 POT AGES Consomme k la Jardiniere.—A clear soup, gar- nished with carrots, turnips and celery scooped out in olive shapes. — Juliette.—Clarified chicken stock, with a garnish consisting of very small cream quenelles, green pea puree a la Royal cut in cubes, tiny rounds of truffle, and lozenge shapes of hard-boiled white of egg. — Julienne (Julienne Soup).—A clear soup with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, cabbage and lettuces cut into very thin strips, called julienne, about an inch long. — a la Lilienne.—Clear soup flavoured with tarra- gon and chervil, and garnished with a julienne of slightly baked almonds, truffles and mushrooms. — au Macaroni (Macaroni Soup). — Clear soup, garnished with cooked macaroni cut into short pieces. — a la Madrid.—A tomato-flavoured clear soup, garnished with thin slices of skinned and cooked tomatoes. — a la Magenta.—A rich clear soup, flavoured and coloured with ripe tomatoes, and macedoine of vegetables as garnish. — a la Maneelle.—Clarified beef and veal stock, garnished with dice shapes of roasted chestnuts and julienne strips of cooked game or poultry. — Maigre (Clear Fish Soup).—A clear soup (Lenten soup) made with fish stock and vegetables. — a la Metternich.—Clarified beef stock, flavoured with chicken, garnished with cooked tomatoes cut into dice, and chicken fillets. — a la Milanaise.—Clear soup, garnished with cooked rice, dice of ox-tongue, and shreds of ripe tomatoes. — Mikado.—A curry-flavoured clear chicken soup, garnished with finely-shredded chicken fillets and cooked rice. — a la Mirenmare.—Clarified chicken stock with the following garnish : plainly cooked rice tossed in lobster butter, to which is added oysters cut in dice, chopped truffles and pistachios, and the whole moistened with white sauce and cheese as for salpicon ; filled in very small shell-shaped thin paste crusts, which are handed round with the consomme. — a la Moelle de Boeuf (Beef Marrow Soup).— A clear soup with small rrrarrow-fat quenelles. — a la Monaco.—A clear soup with stuffed fried bread quenelles. — a la Nantaise.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with green peas.SOUPS 37 Consomme a la Napoleon.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with small foie-gras Talmouse (triangular- shaped cocked hats of paste stuffed with foie-gras puree) and poached in stock. — k la Napolitaine.—A game-flavoured clear soup, with macaroni, shreds of celery and ham as garnish. — a la NemoUl’S.—Clear soup, garnished with diamond shapes of custard made with carrot puree, bechamel sauce and egg yolks. — Nesselrode.—Clear soup with small chestnut quenelles. — Nouveau Regne.—Rich chicken consomme, with a special kind of chicken quenelle, made by having cubes of richly flavoured aspic and gold leaf intro- duced prior to being cooked, these quenelles being put into the soup just at the moment of serving. — aux Nouilles.—A clear soup with nouilles (a kind of macaroni paste, only flat instead of round). — aux (Ellfs files.—Clear soup with beaten egg run through a colander whilst the soup is boiling. — Olga .—Clarified chicken broth with julienne strips of chicken breast, ox-tongue and truffles, also green peas. — d’OrleanS (Maigre Soup).—A rich clarified fish stock, garnished with small fish quenelles and green peas. — au Pain de Foie.—Clear soup with small liver quenelles. — aux Pates d’ltalie.—Clear soup with Italian paste. — a la Paysanne (Peasant Soup).—A clear gravy soup, with carrots, cabbages, leeks, turnips and lettuces cut into dice. — aux Petits Choux fareis.—Clear soup, gar- nished with small choux paste fritters, stuffed with forcemeat. — aUX Petits Navets.—Clear soup, with olive- shaped young turnips, braised. — Petites Marmites a la Parisienne.—A rich clear beef broth, garnished with boiled beef and soup vegetables, served in separate earthenware soup pots (marmites); crusts of bread are handed round. — Pierre le Grand.—A clear soup, with lettuce, turnips, celery and champignons (preserved mush- rooms) cut into julienne-shaped strips. — aux Pointes d’Asperges.—A clear soup, gar- nished with asparagus points. — a la PortUgaise.—A rich clear soup, garnished with stoned French plums, strips of leeks and ripe tomatoes.38 POTAGES Consomme Pot au Feu (the National French Soup). —A clear beef and veal soup, with onions, carrots, turnips and celery, and small rounds of toasted bread. -- k la Printaniere (Spring Soup).—A clear gravy soup, garnished with finely-cut spring vegetables. — Printaniere aux Quenelles.—Clear soup with poached chicken forcemeat quenelles and macedoine of spring vegetables. — Prineesse.—Clarified chicken broth, garnished with small cube-shaped chicken quenelles (stamped out) and asparagus points. — aux Profiterolas.—Clear soup with a kind of very small cheese paste fritter. — aux Quenelles frites.—Clear soup, garnished with very small choux paste quenelles, fried. — aux Queues de Bceuf.—Clear ox-tail soup. — a la Rachel.—A richly flavoured clear soup, with small chicken quenelles, dice of tongue and truffles. — a la Ramboule.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with stamped-out rounds of poached chicken que- nelle meat and young green peas. — aux Ravioli.—A clear soup made with chicken and veal stock, with little round nouille paste shapes stuffed with forcemeat (poached). — au riz.—Clear soup garnished with plain boiled rice. — a la Renaissance.—Clear soup with sliced white mushrooms, green peas, rice, and small cheese croutons (separate). — a la Royale.—Clear soup with poached egg custard, called royal, cut into cube, dice, round, diamond, or other fancy shapes. — des Rois.—A rich chicken stock, clarified, gar- nished with julienne strips of quail fillets, truffles, and asparagus points. Parmesan croutons handed separately. — a la Russe (Russian Gravy Soup).—A clear soup with finely-cut slices of carrots, beetroot, celery and leeks, flavoured with beetroot juice. — St. Saens.—Delicately flavoured chicken con- somme, garnished with fine pearl barley and small dice of black-skinned potatoes known as pommes de tcrve negvesse. — au Sagem (Sago Soup).—A clear soup with sago. — Solferino.—A clear soup with carrots, turnips and potatoes, cut out with a small round vegetable sepop, termed in French d la culiere. — au Semoule.—Clear soup with evenly-grained semolina cooked in it.SOUPS 39 Consomme k la Sarah Bernhardt.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles, crayfish tails, fine tapioca, and tiny bits of blanched beef marrow. — a la SantOS-Dumont.—Consomme of chicken lie with Brazilian tapioca, garnished with carrots cut in small olive shapes, French beans cut in julienne shapes, and turnips scooped out in pea shapes. — a la Sevigne.—A clear soup with small chicken quenelles. — a la Talma.—A rich clear soup, garnished with almond - flavoured custard cut into cubes or diamonds, and rice. — au Tapioca (Tapioca Soup).—A clear soup with tapioca. — a la Tortile.—Clear real turtle soup. — a la Tortue Seehe.—Clear turtle soup made with dried turtle. — a la Fausse Tortile.—Clear mock turtle soup. — k la VeneUP.—A rich clear soup, garnished with finely shredded lettuce hearts, celery and truffles. — aux Vermicelles.—Clear soup with vermicelli. — Vietrich. —Clarified veal stock, with garniture of nouilles, carrots, turnips and French beans, cut in fine shreds. — a la Vitellus.— Clear chicken-flavoured soup, thickened with pearl barley, and garnished with lozenge strips of nouille paste. — froid a la Vivian. —Cold chicken consomme, garnished with small dice-shaped cooked cucumber, tomato and lettuce leaves, also cubes of royal custard made with aspic and cream, and cut out when set. — deVolaille .—Clear chicken soup. — aux Quenelles de Volaille (Chicken Quenelle Gravy Soup).—A clear soup with chicken force- meat dumplings. — de Volaille frappe.—Iced clear chicken soup. — a la Xavier.—A vegetable-flavoured clear soup, with a kind of cheese-flavoured batter quenelle. Tehy de Soldat (Russian Chicken Broth).—A clear soup made with duck and veal stock, garnished with vegetables cut into small strips, and dice shapes of duck fillets.40 CREMES, PUREES (POTAGES lies). (CREAMS, PUREES & OTHER THICK SOUPS). Bartseh Polonaise (a Russian Soup).—A rich beef soup of broth-like consistency, flavoured with duck, beetroot and sour cream, dice of duck fillet as garnish. Bisque de Crevettes (Shrimp Soup, pink).—A cream-like puree of fish stock and shrimps or prawns. — d’EereviSSes (pink).—Crayfish soup. — de Homard a la Mariniere (Lobster Bisque).— Lobster cream soup with small fish quenelles as garnish. — de Homard k la Parisienne.—Lobster cream soup. — aux Huitres (Oyster Puree).—A light cream-like oyster soup, served with croutons. — de Langoustes (Langouste Soup, pink). — A cream-like puree of sea crawfish or large lobsters. — de Petoneles.—Scallop soup (white). — de Volaille aux Eerevisses (white). —Light chicken cream with crayfish tails as garnish. Creme d’ArtichautS.—Green artichoke soup. — d’Asperges a la Printaniere. — Asparagus cream, with jardiniere vegetables as garnish. — de Celeri.—Celery cream soup. — de Chieoree au Veloute.—Puree of chicoree or endive enriched with cream and egg-yolks. — Clementine.— Light chicken cream, with three- coloured royal stamped out in cubes. — de Coneombre a la Reine.—Cucumber cream with dice of royal custard. — Dame-Blanche. — White chicken puree with cream, flavoured with sweet almonds, garnished with barley and royal custard. — a la Duehesse.—A light chicken cream, garnished with rice and savoury custard (royal). — a l’ltalienne.—A light mutton or lamb puree, garnished with macaroni, slice of fowl, and macedoine. — Risotto.—Rice puree, mixed with tomato pulp diluted with rich consomme. — aux truffes.— A light puree of fresh truffles, made with veal stock, egg and cream liaison, and consomme.SOUPS 41 Creme Valeneienne.—White cream of rice soup, with a liaison of sago cooked in consommd. — de Volaille Chevaliere.—Light white chicken cream, with truffles and tongue julienne as garnish. — de Volaille a la Fran§aise (fawn)—A light brown chicken puree enriched with cream. Potage des Ambassadeurs.—A light cream soup, made with chicken stock, rice and peas pur£e, and finely shredded sorrel. — a l’Americaine (American Soup, red).—Tomato soup thickened with rice or tapioca. — a 1’AndalOUSe.—Light white soup (veal stock foundation) mixed with tomato puree, and nouilles as garniture. — d’Anguilles a l’Allemande.—German eel soup (white). — a l’Argenteuil (Argenteuil Soup).—Filtered rice and cream soup with asparagus points. — d’Asperges a la Prineesse (Asparagus Soup, Princesse Style, white). — Asparagus pur£e, gar- nished with asparagus points and rice. — d’Asperges aux Quenelles.—Asparagus puree with small chicken quenelles. — Puree d’Aubergine. — Egg plant or vegetable marrow soup (white). •— a la Bagration (cream).— A light cream made of veal stock, with small chicken quenelles. — aux Beeasses.—Woodcock soup (brown). — Puree de Bceuf (Beef Soup, brown).—A thick soup made of beef. — a la Bonne Femme (Good Woman Soup, green). —Sorrel cream soup, with small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — a la Creme de ble vert aux ceufs.—Green corn soup with eggs (green). — Bouille-a-Baisse.—A rich fish soup, with small fillets of fish, onions and tomatoes as garnish. — Puree a la Bretonne (Breton Soup, cream).—A puree of white haricot beans with croutons. ■— de Cailles.—Quail soup (brown). — Puree de Canard a l’Anglaise.—A thick soup made from duck giblet (brown). •— a la Capri.—A thick game soup, garnished with minced quail fillets and cocks’ combs. — de Carottes.—Puree of carrots (pink). — Puree a la Castelaine.—a thick brown soup made with beef. — Puree de Celeri a la Creme.—Puree of celery with cream. — Puree de Champignons. — Mushroom soup (light brown). — a la Chantilly .—Lentil puree with cream liaison.42 POT AGES Potage a la Chantilly (Chantilly Soup, cream).— Lentil soup thickened with cream and egg-yolks. — a la Chartreuse (Chartreuse Soup).—A white cauliflower pur6e with tapioca. — Puree k la Chasseur (Hunter’s Soup, brown).— A game puree with minced mushrooms and small dice of cooked game. — de Choux de Bruxelles (pale green).—Brussels sprouts soup. — de Choux-Fleurs. — Puree of cauliflowers with croutons. — de Choux-Fleurs k la Creme.—Cauliflower soup enriched with cream. — a la Puree de Coneombre.—Cucumber soup. — a la Conde (Conde Soup, yellow).—A thick soup made with haricot beans and cream. — A la Creey (Cressy Soup, pink).—Puree of young carrots with rice or barley. — a la Creme d’Avoine.—Oatmeal soup with cream (white). — a la Creme d’Orge.—Pearl barley soup with cream (white). — a la Creme de Riz.—Filtered rice cream soup (white). — Demidoff.—A light brown chicken puree, gar- nished with julienne strips of mushrooms, truffles and carrots, also small braised button onions. — a la Duehesse (Duchess Soup, white).—A light puree of fowls, with minced chicken or game fillets. — Dumonteuil.—A bisque of crawfish blended with tomato puree (egg-yolk liaison and cream), gar- nished with small fish quenelles. — a 1’EeoSSaise (Hodge Podge Soup).—National Scotch soup, consisting of mutton broth, finely-cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, cauliflowers and peas. — aux Epinards.—Spinach soup (green). — a 1’Espagnole (Spanish Soup).—A brown beef or mutton blended soup with onion puree. — a l’Esturgeon.—Sturgeon soup (white). — de Faisail.—Pheasant soup (light brown). — de Faisan k la Diana.—A light puree of pheasant flavoured with claret and cream, garnished with small game quenelles. — Faubonne.—Puree of French lentils and haricot beans, enriched with cream and garnished with green peas and fried bread croutons. — Fausse Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup, thick).—A brown thick soup made from calf’s head, flavoured with sherry or Marsala wine, garnished with small pieces of calf’s head.43 SOUPS Potage & la Favorite. — White chicken purde diluted with consomme, with Brunoise, i.e., finely minced carrots, turnips and leeks, as garnish. — a la Fermiere (Farmhouse Soup).—Potato soup with minced carrots and turnips. — de Fonds d’ArtichautS.—Artichoke bottom soup (white). — Puree de Gelinotte.—Grouse soup (brown). — a la Gentilhomme (Gentleman’s Soup, brown). —Puree of rabbit, pork and ham, garnished with minced sausages and mushrooms. — Gounod.—A light green peas puree made with rich chicken stock, garnished with julienne of chicken fillets. — Puree de Gibier.—Filtered game soup (brown). — de Gibier a l’Anglaise.— English game gibiet soup. — de Gibier a la Conde. —Venison soup with lentils. — de Grenouilles.—Filtered frog soup (white). — Puree aux Haricot Blanc.—White haricot bean puree. — aux Huitres.—Oyster soup (white). — a l’lrlandaise.—A kind of thick mutton broth. — a l’lstrienne.—Puree of chestnuts and tomatoes, flavoured with juice of pomegranates, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and cream (Austrian origin). — a la Jackson.—Potato soup enriched with cream and egg liaison. — aux Laitues.—Lettuce soup (green). — de Lapin a l’Oseille.—Rabbit soup with sorrel. — de Lentilles.—Lentil soup. — de Lentilles a la Brunoise (Lentil Soup, Brunoise style, light brown).—Filtered lentil soup with finely cut vegetables. — de Lievre a l’Anglaise.—English hare soup (brown). — de Macaroni au Lait.—Macaroni soup with milk (white). — a la MaeMahon.—A curry-flavoured cream-like soup, garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and cubes or slices of cooked cucumber. — a la Madeleine.—Rich consomme stock blended with haricot bean and tomato puree, with leek and carrot strips as garnish. — h la Mareehale (Marshal Soup, light brown).— Bread soup with small lobster quenelles. — a la Marie-Louise.—Pearl barley soup with cream and small chicken quenelles. — a la Marie-Stuart.—White chicken cream with foie-gras cubes, carrot and green peas as garnish.44 POTAGES Potage de Marrons.—Pur^e of chestnuts. — de Marrons k la Chasseur (fawn).—Chestnut puree, enriched with cream and garnished with dice of cooked game. — de Mauviettes St. Hubert.—This is a pale brown cream soup, made with veal stock, roux and braised larks, garnished with fillets of larks cut into strips. — a la Mercedes.—Jerusalem artichoke puree, en- riched with cream and egg-yolks, garnished with dice of artichoke bottoms and chicken fillets. — a la Montglas (Montglas Soup, white).—A thick soup made of capon, with minced truffles and mushrooms. — de Mufle de Bceuf.—Ox-cheek soup (brown). — Mulligatawny.—Thick mulligatawny soup. — a la Nivernaise. — A puree of vegetables, potatoes, turnips, leeks and sprouts, enriched with cream, and garnished with jardiniere. — aux Oignons.—A cream-like onion soup. — a l’Orleans (Orleans Soup, white).—A chicken puree with tapioca as liaison. — a rorleans Maigre.—A soup made with white bread and milk, finished with cream. — a l’Oseille .—Puree of sorrel (light green). — de Pain bis a la Russe.—Russian brown bread soup with poached eggs. — a la Palestine (Palestine Soup, cream).—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes with small bread croutons. — a la Parmentier (Parmentier Soup, cream).—A cream-like potato soup with croutons of fried bread. — au Pauvre Homme (Poor Man’s Soup, brown).— A kind of brown meal soup, the flour being roasted with butter or dripping to a chestnut brown colour. — de Perdreaux.—Partridge soup. — de Perdreaux a la Grand Due (brown) — Partridge puree, thickened with oatmeal, garnished with small mushroom quenelles. — de Pieds de Veau.—Calf’s feet soup (white). — Pierre le Grand.—White barley cream (veal stock foundation), with puree of pigeon and dice of pigeon fillets as garnish. — de Pigeons Sauvages. — wild pigeon soup (brown). — a la Pluehe (Pluche Soup, pink).—Potato soup with finely minced carrots and herbs. — de PlllVierS.—Plover soup (brown). — Puree de Poireaux. — Puree of leeks with croutons. — de Poireaux a la Creme.—Leek soup enriched with cream.45 SOUPS Potage Puree de Pois.—Filtered pea soup (made from dried peas), served with croutons. — de Pois Vert.—Green pea soup. — de Pommes de Terre.—Potato soup (white). — au Potiron.—French pumpkin soup. — a la Polonaise (Polish Soup, light brown).—A puree of beef and pork, with sauerkraut as garnish. — a la Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales Soup, brown).— A thick mock turtle with small veal quenelles. — lie aux Queues de Boeuf.—Thick ox-tail soup, with jardiniere or macedoine vegetable garnish (brown). — aux Queues de Veau a l’lndienne (Indian Calf’s Tail Soup). — A thick calf’s tail soup, flavoured with curry and garnished with rice. — a la Regence (Regent Soup, white).—A light puree of fowls, garnished with macedoine of vegetables. — a la Reine (Queen Soup, wdiite).—A cream- like chicken soup, garnished with small chicken quenelles and rice. — Reine Wilhelmine.—A rich chicken puree with rice liaison, to which is added cream and egg-yolks, also a garniture of asparagus points and julienne strips of cooked carrots and truffles. — de Riz aux Choux.—Light cream of rice, with julienne cut white cabbage, blanched and cooked in stock. — de Ris de Veau a la Reine.—Sweetbread soup, queen style. — a la Romaine (Roman Soup, white).—A white thick soup with small rice quenelles. — Romeo.—A rich Parmentier pur£e (potato) mixed with half its volume of onion puree (Soubise), finished with a liaison of cream and egg-yolks; garniture : chervil leaves, poached white of egg, and dice of ham. — de Sagou au Lait.—Sago soup with milk (white). — a la St. Germain (St. Germain Soup, green).— A puree of green peas with croutons. — de Sante (Health Soup, green).—Sorrel soup, with cabbage, lettuce and herbs. — lie au Semoule.—Semolina soup with cream (white). — Creme Sevigne.—Light chicken puree with cream, and royal made with egg and chicken cream as garnish. — Sevigne (Royale).—A light chicken cream, with a garnish of asparagus points, dice of chicken fillets and truffles.46 POT AGES Potage Sultane.—White chicken puree, with pista- chios and truffles as garniture. — cl la Sylvestra.—Chicken consomme, blended with velout£ cream and egg-yolks, garnished with asparagus points and small chicken quenelles stuffed with spinach. — de Tapioca au Lait.—Tapioca soup with milk. — cl la Terapene (River Turtle Soup, brown).—A kind of thick turtle soup made with terrapin turtle. — aux Tomates (red).—Thick tomato soup. — k la Tomate Maigre (red).—Tomato soup made from vegetable or fish stock. — de Tomate a la St. Louis. — Tomato puree thickened with tapioca, garnished with small chicken quenelles. — de Topinambours.—Palestine or artichoke soup (white). — a la ToPtue.—Real turtle soup (brown). — k la ToPtue Fausse.—Mock turtle soup (brown). — a la Typilienne (Tyrolian Soup).—Barley cream soup with onions and carrots. — Pupee de Veau (Veal Soup, white).—A thick soup made of veal. — au VelOUPS (Velvet Soup).—Chicken cream soup thickened with rice and tapioca. — Veloute ail Riz.—Rice soup made with rich veal or chicken stock, enriched with cream. — de Vepmieelle au Lait.—Vermicelli soup with milk (white). — a la VietOPia (Victoria Soup).—A puree of potatoes, with sprigs of cauliflowers as garnish. — au Vin de Boupgogne.—a brown soup flavoured with Burgundy wine. — a la Waldstein.—A rich puree of pheasant, mixed with an equal quantity of consomme, flavoured with white Burgundy, seasoned with paprika, etc., garnished with chopped truffles and Piquoli kernels. — a la WindsOP (brown).— A thick soup made with mutton, beef and rice. Soupe a la Biepe.—French beer soup (brown). — aux CePises. — Cherry soup, made with sour cooking cherries, and a liaison of potato flour flavoured with cinnamon. Bread croutes as garnish. — au Lait.—Milk soup (Lenten soup). — a rOignon.—French onion soup (brown). Tschi de Soldat (A Russian Soup).—A rich beef broth, slightly thickened with brown roux and flavoured with sour cream; served with small fried choux paste balls.47 SAUCES. The importance of sauce in cookery is so well known that I need not offer any excuse for including the definitions of all the standard sauces and the most popular of other liquid seasonings in this book. In almost every instance some kind of sauce is named along with or as an ingredient in the pre- paration of dishes. Again, the blending of two or more sauces is frequently recommended, so that we have given the names of these, together with a con- densed description of the kinds most frequently required. It is needless to add that the blending of a sauce, its flavour and colour, has much to do with the success of any dish with which it is served, whilst the harmonising effect, or the want of it, may make or spoil a dish listed on a menu. Albert.—Allemande sauce, finely chopped shallots reduced in tarragon vinegar, grated horseradish, cream, yolks of eggs, and chopped parsley. Albufera.—Rich white sauce (supreme) flavoured with meat extract or glaze. Allemande (German).—A white sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with white roux, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon j uice. Amepieaine (American).—Tomato sauce blended with lobster butter (whisked in). Amiral (Admiral).—A white sauce, with chopped capers, parsley, lemon rind and juice, and anchovy paste to flavour. AnehoiS (Anchovy).—A fish sauce made with flour, butter, fish stock, milk, and anchovy essence. Aurore (Aurora).—Bechamel sauce, cream, red pepper, tarragon and shallot, flavoured with lobster butter to give it a reddish tint. Avignonnaise.—Bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese and chopped parsley, flavoured with shallots and garlic. Ayola.—A mayonnaise flavoured with crushed garlic and lemon juice. Bearnaise.—Consists of fresh butter, yolks of eggs, chopped shallots or onion, tarragon, parsley, a pinch of cayenne, and lemon juice. Bearnaise Brune.—Same as above, with the addi- tion of meat glaze to give it a brown colour. Bearnaise Tomate.—Same as above, adding tomato pur£e in place of meat glaze.48 SA UCES Bechamel (Foundation Sauce).—Made with milk or milk and stock, flour, and butter (white roux), flavoured with pepper, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. Beefsteak.—A light brown sauce made of chopped onion, parsley, meat glaze and butter, flavoured with sherry and lemon juice. au BeUPre.—Melted butter sauce. Beurre Cpemeuse.—Creamed butter sauce ; beaten egg-yolks and butter stirred into boiling stock. BeUPPe Noip (Burnt Butter).—A thin brown sauce made with nut-brown butter, flavoured with tarra- gon vinegar and anchovy essence. Big’aPade.—Demi-glace sauce with shreds of orange rind, flavoured with orange juice and red currant jelly. Blanche.—White sauce, made with white roux, half stock and milk, finished with butter and lemon juice. Blanquette.—Allemande (white) sauce, enriched with an extra quantity of cream. Bohemienne (Bohemian).—A white sauce made with fresh breadcrumbs, white stock, butter, and grated horseradish, seasoned with pepper and salt. Bonne Femme.—A white sauce made with finely chopped onion and shallots, blended in butter and cooked in fish stock, thickened with egg-yolks and whipped cream, seasoned and flavoured with lemon juice. Bonnefoy.—A light bordelaise sauce, into which fresh butter, chopped parsley, and beef marrow is incorporated. Bordelaise (Bordelaise).—A brown sauce, with re- ductions of red wine, chopped parsley, tarragon and shallots. Bourg’uig'nonne (Burgundy). — Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions reduced in Burgundy wine, flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves and mace. Bretonne (Brittany).—Brown onion sauce, thickened with a little haricot puree. Bulgare.—Cold tomato sauce, blended with finely shredded cooked celery. Byron.—Demi-glace sauce, with a reduction of claret and chopped truffles. aux Cappes (Caper).—A white sauce, with capers. Capres Brune (Brown Caper Sauce).— A brown sauce with capers, seasoned with black pepper and nutmeg. Cardinal. — White fish sauce mixed with lobster coral, or spawn, flavoured with essence of anchovies and tarragon vinegar. Carlet.—A white cream-like sauce, made with fish stock, white wine, butter, flour, and egg-yolks, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sugar.49 SA UCES Castelaine. — Demi-glace, with pimienta (Spanish pepper) and finely chopped ham, flavoured with lemon juice. Cazanova.—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise, finely shredded truffles and whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. Celepie (Celery).—A white sauce, with cooked chopped celery ; served with boiled poultry. Champagne.— Thin brown sauce, reduced with champagne and ham essence. Champignons (Mushrooms).—Velout£ and mush- room liquor, or demi-glace and sliced mushrooms. Chantilly. —Well reduced bechamel blended with whipped cream. Chasseur (Huntsman). — Espagnole sauce, with chopped shallots, mushrooms and parsley, flavoured with pepper, lemon juice and game essence. Chateaubriand.—Rich brown sauce, made with meat glaze, espagnole sauce, fresh butter, white wine, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, flavoured with cayenne pepper and red currant jelly. ChaudfPOid.—Masking or coating sauce, made of well-reduced white, fawn, cream, green or brown sauce, blended with sufficient gelatine or aspic to set when cold. Chevreuil (Venison).—A brown sauce, reduced with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced gherkins, seasoned with red pepper. Chorroil.—Bearnaise blended with tomato puree. Colbert. — Thin brown fish sauce, enriched with butter and glaze, finely chopped herbs, and lemon juice. aux Concombres (Cucumber).—Bechamel or white cream sauce blended with cucumber puree. Corniehon (Gherkin).—A brown sharp sauce, like poivrade, with finely chopped gherkins. Crevettes (Shrimp).—Pink fish sauce with picked shrimps. Creme (Cream). — Bechamel sauce finished with fresh cream. Cumberland.—Thin brown sauce, with meat glaze, orange juice, red currant jelly, lemon juice, and port wine, fine shreds of orange rind, seasoned with mustard, paprika and ginger. Curry.—A pale brown or fawn coloured sauce, made with veloute gravy, finely chopped onion fried in butter, and curry powder, well reduced and tamined. Danoise (Danish).—White wine sauce, flavoured with grated cheese, anchovy cream and lobster butter. Demi-glace (Half Glaze).—Espagnole reduced with veal stock or gravy of light consistency. cSA UCES 50 k la Diable (Devilled).—Chopped shallots blended in butter and reduced in vinegar, diluted with demi-glace and red wine, reduced and highly seasoned with Worcester sauce, cayenne, etc. Diplomate.—Bechamel sauce blended with lobster butter and anchovy essence. Duehesse.—Bechamel, enriched with fresh butter, with finely chopped ox-tongue and mushrooms. Duglere.—Tomato sauce blended with bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. Duxelle.—Brown sauce enriched with meat glaze, chopped mushrooms, truffles, ham, blended shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice. Eehalote (Shallot).—Thin brown gravy sauce, with finely chopped shallots and parsley, blended in butter, flavoured with shallot vinegar, or finely chopped shallots mixed with vinegar and lemon juice and seasoning; served with oysters. Eerevisses (Crayfish).—White cream sauce mixed with crayfish butter. Epieurienne. — Mayonnaise cream mixed with cucumber puree, aspic, chopped gherkins and chutney; served cold. Espagnole (Foundation Sauce).—A brown sauce made with brown roux, mirepoix of vegetables and ham or bacon, meat stock, wine and seasoning. Estragon (Tarragon).—Demi-glace reduced with white wine and tarragon vinegar, with finely chopped blanched tarragon leaves. Fenouil (Fennel).—A white sauce, with finely chopped fennel flavoured with lemon juice ; served with boiled fish. Fermiere (Farmhouse). — Brown sauce, with finely chopped ham, parsley and capers; served with game. Financiere.—Brown madere sauce reduced with chicken essence, truffle and mushroom liquor. Fines Hepbes.—A white or brown sauce with finely chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon and chervil); chopped shallots blended in butter are sometimes added. Flamande (Flemish).—A white sauce with egg-yolks, flavoured with mustard. Francois.—Tomato sauce reduced with white wine, with chopped mushrooms finished with butter. Garibaldi.—A brown sauce, flavoured with crushed garlic, capers, curry, anchovy paste and mustard ; served with fish or meat. Generale.—A brown savoury sauce, flavoured with lemon juice, tarragon vinegar, orange peel finely chopped, garlic and sherry.5i SA UCES Genevoise (Geneva).—Madere sauce reduced with fish essence, flavoured with garlic and anchovy essence. Genoise (Genoese).—Espagnole reduced with fish stock and red wine, flavoured with anchovy essence, parsley and mushrooms. Gibier (Game).—A brown sauce flavoured with essence of game. Gloucester.—Mayonnaise cream mixed with chopped tarragon, flavoured with mustard and chilli vinegar ; served with fish or meat salads. Gourmet.—A brown fish sauce mixed with lobster butter, chopped prawns and truffles. Grand Veneur.—Espagnole reduced with blood of game, hare, etc., highly spiced with pepper. Granville.—White wine sauce mixed with chopped mushrooms, shrimps and truffles. Gribiehe.— Mayonnaise mixed with mustard and finely chopped herbs. Hachis.— Brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, capers and gherkins. Hessoise.—Cold horseradish sauce made with sour cream, grated horseradish and fresh breadcrumbs, seasoned with sugar and salt; served with roast beef or steaks. Hollandaise (Dutch).—A rich fish sauce prepared with butter, yolks of eggs, tarragon vinegar, lemon juice, and mignonette pepper. Hollandaise Verte.—Hollandaise sauce mixed with parsley leaves, blanched and pounded. Holstein.—Bechamel sauce reduced with fish stock and white wine, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with nutmeg. Homard (Lobster).—Bechamel with chopped lobster meat, finished with lobster butter. Horly.—A supreme (rich white sauce) blended with tomato puree, meat extract or glaze, and butter. Hure de Sanglier (Boar’s Head).—A cold sauce prepared with bitter orange juice and finely chopped rind, sugar, red currant jelly, port wine and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. A useful stock sauce. aux HuitPes (Oyster).— Bdchamel with oysters, bearded and cut in four, egg yolks and lemon juice. Indienne (Indian).—A brown sauce flavoured with curry powder or paste. Italienne (Italian).—Espagnole sauce blended with tomato puree, chopped mushrooms,white wine, and chopped shallots fried in oil; seasoned with pepper, lemon juice and nutmeg. Jambon (Ham).—A brown sauce with finely shredded ham, chopped chives, shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice and paprika or krone pepper.52 SA UCES Joinville.—A white fish sauce, enriched with yolks of eggs, fresh butter and lobster coral; flavoured with lemon juice and cayenne pepper. Kari.—Indian curry sauce. Livournaise.—A cold sauce prepared with anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and nutmeg. Lyonnaise (Lyons Sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce with minced Spanish onions (previously fried in butter), flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice ; also made with bechamel foundation. MadePe (Madeira).—A brown sauce composed of demi-glace sauce, tomato sauce, reduced with Madeira wine. Maitre d’Hotel (Hotel-keepers’).—A white sauce with butter, cream and chopped parsley. Maintenon.—White onion puree thickened with egg- yolks and veloute sauce. Malaga (Port Wine).—A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine and lemon juice, flavoured with shallots and cayenne. Maltaise. — Veloute sauce with chopped parsley, shallots and mushrooms, diluted with sherry wine, flavoured with lemon juice and finely shredded orange peel. Marchand de Vin.—Demi-glace, reduced with fried shallots, claret, and meat glaze. Marguery.—White fish sauce, blended with oyster puree and finished with cream. MaPiniePe.—White wine sauce with finely chopped herbs, shallots and fish essence. Matelote Blanche.—A white fish sauce with mush- room juice, white wine and button mushrooms, flavoured with savoury herbs. Matelote Bpune.—A red wine sauce, reduced with fish essence, mushroom liquor and anchovy essence. Maximilian.—Tartare sauce with tomato pulp and finely chopped tarragon leaves to flavour. Mayonnaise.—A cold sauce composed of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad oil and vinegar; a little cold bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added as foundation. Medieis.—B£arnaise flavoured with tomato puree and very little red wine. Melba.—Chopped shallots cooked in chablis, reduced in tomato sauce, and thickened with egg-yolks, finished like hollandaise. Menthe (Mint). —Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint leaves and moist sugar to flavour. MiPabeau.—Veloute sauce with pounded garlic, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a liaison of butter and meat extract.SA UCES 53 Miroton.—Demi-glace blended with finely minced, blanched, and fried onions, tomato sauce, vinegar and mustard to flavour. a la Moelle (Beef Marrow).—Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, vinegar and cayenne to taste. MoPnay.—Bechamel enriched with egg-yolks and grated cheese. aux Mollies (Mussel). — Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels. Mousseline.—A very light froth-like sauce, holland- aise whisked with double cream. Other mousseline sauces are made with tomato or spinach foundations. Moutarde (Mustard).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, mixed with prepared mustard. Nantua.—Bechamel reduced with fish essence and finished with crayfish butter. Napolitaine.—A brown sauce with finely minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horseradish, flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves, Ni§Oise. — Demi-glace blended with concentrated Italian tomato puree. Noisette.— Hollandaise sauce mixed with based, pounded, and sieved hazel nuts, finished with double cream. Nonpapeille. — Hollandaise sauce enriched with crayfish or lobster butter, mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles. NOPmande.—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg- yolks, fresh butter and cream, flavoured with lemon juice and essence of fish. Nopvegienne (Norwegian).—A cold sauce, prepared with hard-boiled egg-yolks (passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil and vinegar, mixed with finely chopped herbs. aux Olives.—A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with lemon juice; served with ducks, fowls and beef. aux CEufs (Egg).—A white sauce with hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. Oignon (Onion).—A white sauce with minced and blanched onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt and pepper ; served with rabbit or mutton. Oseille (Sorrel).—Gravy or demi-glace sauce with finely chopped blanched sorrel leaves ; served with fish, veal or fowls, etc. OPange.—Reduced gravy sauce, mixed with orange juice and finely shredded orange rind; served with roast duck or game. c 354 SA UCES Pain (Bread).—Milk thickened with fresh bread- crumbs, cooked with a small onion stuck with a clove; finished with a little butter and seasoned with salt and pepper; served with roast poultry and some game. Paprika. — Veloute or allemande sauce highly seasoned with paprika and red Hungarian pepper. Parisienne.— A rich brown sauce, with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter; served with entrecotes, steaks, or fillets of beef. Pauvre Homme.—A brown sauce, blended with tomato ketchup and anchovy essence ; suitable as a fish sauce. Perigueux (Perigord).—Madere sauce with finely chopped truffles, enriched with meat glaze. PePSil (Parsley).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, with finely chopped parsley. Persillade.—A kind of vinaigrette sauce, prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped savoury herbs; served cold with fish, vegetables or salad. Piment. — Demi-glace sauce blended with tomato puree, highly seasoned with chopped pimentos and cayenne. Piquante. — A sharp brown sauce with chopped gherkins, capers and shallots, seasoned with plenty of pepper and essence of anchovy. Poivrade (Pepper). — A brown pepper sauce, flavoured with lean bacon or ham, celery, onions, thyme and bay-leaf, reduced with vinegar, anchovy essence and black pepper. Pomme (Apple).—Apple pulp, slightly sweetened, enriched with whipped cream; served hot with roast pork, goose or duck. Pompadour. — Allemande or veloute sauce with shallots (fried), cream, egg-yolks, chopped mush- rooms, and parsley. Polonaise (Polish).—Veloute sauce with sour cream, grated horseradish, chopped fennel and lemon juice ; served with cutlets or steaks. Portugaise. — Tomato sauce diluted with well- reduced veal gravy, flavoured with onion, blanched and fried, and garlic. Poulette (Veloute).—A white sauce, flavoured with aromatic herbs, thickened with egg-yolks and fresh bu tter,finished with chopped parsley and lemon j uice. Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales.)—A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled and raw egg-yolks, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped herbs and French mustard ; served with grilled or fried fish, or meat.55 SA UCES Prineesse.—Well reduced allemande or bechamel, with chicken essence and mushroom liquor, sliced mushrooms and double cream. PFOVengale.—Demi-glace with tomato pulp, finely- chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley and olives, flavoured with lemon juice and garlic. Raifort (chaude) (Horseradish, hot).—Bechamel sauce, mixed with grated horseradish and a little cream. Raifort (froide) (Horseradish, cold).—Sour cream, mixed with freshly grated horseradish and a little vinegar, seasoned with sugar and salt. Ravigote (chaude).—A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with fine herbs, butter and cream (hot). RavigOte (froide).-—Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening (cold). Reforme.—Poivrade sauce, diluted with port wine, red currant jelly and Worcester sauce. Regenee.—Demi-glace or gravy sauce, reduced with white wine and truffle essence, flavoured with finely minced and blended onions. Reine-Marie (Queen Mary).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies ; served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. Remoulade.—A mayonnaise sauce, with chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and pre- pared mustard. Ricardo.—A brown sauce, prepared from the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, thickened with a little meat glaze; served with dishes of game, etc. Riche.—Hollandaise enriched with lobster butter or spawn, with dice shapes of truffles and crayfish tails. Richelieu.—A brown game sauce, with Madeira wine and meat extract. Robert (Robert).—A brown sauce, with finely chopped onions fried in butter, chilli vinegar, prepared mustard, and a little anchovy essence. Romaine (Roman).—Demi-glace or espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), diluted and reduced with white wine vinegar, and strained. Rouennaise.—Madere sauce blended with duck liver puree. Ru SSe (Russian).—Allemande or bechamel, with grated horseradish, finely chopped ham, shallots, reduced with vinegar and white wine, seasoned with sour cream, sugar, pepper and salt; served hot.56 SA UCES Sieilienne (Sicilian). — Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine; sliced onions fried in butter are mixed with the sauce just before serving; served with beefsteaks, roast fillets of beef, etc. Salmis.—A brown game sauce, reduced with white wine, meat glaze, and tomato pulp, flavoured with savoury herbs. Soubise.—A white, flavoured onion sauce, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, sugar, and salt; passed through tammy, and finished with cream and butter. Soyer.—A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream ; strained. Stragotte.—A rich game sauce, reduced with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with vegetable mirepoix, shallots, cloves and mace, and strained ; generally served with Italian dishes. Suedoise (Swedish).—A white sauce,highly flavoured, with grated horseradish and chilli vinegar ; served hot. Supreme.—A rich white sauce, made with chicken stock and white roux, enriched with egg-yolks, cream and fresh butter; a garniture of sliced truffles and mushrooms is sometimes added. TaPtare.—Mayonnaise mixed with French mustard, finely chopped chives, spring onions, tarragon and chervil leaves, gherkins, capers and parsley; served cold. Texienne (Texas).—A mild curry sauce, with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon juice, finished with fresh butter. Tomate (Tomato).—Fresh tomatoes cooked with mirepoix, white wine, and veal stock, thickened with white roux, seasoned and strained ; or puree of tomatoes, mixed with a little brown sauce and meat glaze, flavoured with aromatic herbs and shallots, seasoned with salt and sugar. TOPtue (Turtle).—A brown sauce, made from turtle stock, with finely chopped shallots, flavoured with anchovy essence, lemon juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon rind; seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper ; strained. Univepselle (Universal). — A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, etc., prepared with mush- room ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper and anchovy essence. Valoise.—Finely chopped shallots reduced in white wine, mixed with meat extract, egg-yolks, chopped parsley, cream and butter ; whisked in bain-marie ; seasoned with salt and Worcester sauce.POISSONS (FISH) 57 VelOUt6 (Foundation sauce).—A rich white sauce, prepared with chicken or veal stock, flavoured with savoury herbs, vegetable mirepoix, and white roux. When finished it should be as smooth as velvet: hence its name veloute (velvet-like). Venitienne (Venetian).—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg-yolks and butter or cream, mixed with chopped parsley, flavoured with lemon juice, and garnished with small button mushrooms. Verjus.—Espagnole sauce, with mashed unripe green grapes, cooked in stock, reduced with sherry and finished with fresh butter ; served with roast duck or pork. Vepte-pre (Green Herb).—Composed of puree of cooked spinach, blanched parsley, chives and tarragon,worked up with whipped cream or butter, and mixed with ravigote sauce. Verte.—Green herb sauce (same as verte-pre). Villeroi. —Veloute or bechamel, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, enriched with egg-yolks and fresh butter. Vin Blanc. — Bechamel or veloute, flavoured with white wine, lemon juice and fish essence. Vinaigrette. — Composed of salad oil, vinegar, chopped shallots, parsley, chervil and gherkins, seasoned with pepper and salt; served cold with calf’s head, seakale, asparagus, etc. Vincent.—Mayonnaise mixed with green herb puree (tarragon, chervil, chives and parsley). Viennoise.—Poivrade (pepper sauce), blended with lemon and orange juice, reduced and finished with cream. Victoria. — Supreme sauce finished with lobster butter. d’York (Yorkshire).—Demi-glace sauce, fine shreds of orange rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange juice, and a little ground cinnamon ; served with boiled ham, roast or pickled pork. THE FISH COURSE. LES POISSONS. Fish is served in two ways, viz., plainly cooked and dressed as an entree. Many people prefer fish cooked in the simplest way, accompanied by a good sauce; and the English epicure finds far greater enjoyment in fish cooked in the simplest manner than the French epicure in the elaborately cooked and dressed fish58 POISSONS {FISH) entree. Fish is cooked in various ways—boiled, steamed, baked, fried, stewed and grilled. Almost every kind of fish gains in importance if served with a well-made sauce. When two fish are served at a dinner, the boiled or whole, i.e., solid, fish should be served before the fried, stewed or braised. Plain boiled potatoes, or so called fish potatoes, which are of marble shapes, sprinkled with chopped parsley, should be handed round with all solid fish cooked au naturel, whilst boiled or grilled salmon should in all cases be accompanied by a dish of sliced cucumber, plainly dressed. PLATS DE POISSON. Fish Dishes. Aigrefin (Merluehe) grille.—Grilled or broiled fresh haddock. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Boiled or steamed haddock with parsley sauce. Aigrefin etouffe.—Fresh haddock steamed in the oven. Filets d’Aigrefms frits, Sauce Tartare.—Fried fillets of fresh haddock, tartare sauce. Able saute a la Diable.—Devilled bleak tossed in butter. Alose au gratin.— Baked shad, gratin style. Anguille a l’Anglaise.—Stewed eel, English style.^ — en Aspic (Eel in Savoury Jelly).—Cooked and boned eel and slices of hard-boiled egg set in aspic jelly. — a la broehe.—Grilled eel with parsley butter. — en eaisses.—Braised eel in paper cases. — a l’Espagnole.—Eel fried in oil, then stewed in fish stock and wine, flavoured with garlic, saffron and peppercorns, garnished with blanched coarsely shredded baked almonds. — glae^e.—Rolled fillets of eel, broiled, and glazed with a rich sauce. — a l’ltalienne (Eel Stewed, Italian Style).—Stewed eel with small rice timbales. — a la Matelote.—Brown eel stew flavoured with claret and mushrooms. — k la Poulette.—Fricasseed eel in parsley sauce. — & la Proven^ale.—Fried eel, onion sauce. — k la Tartare (Eel, Tartare Style).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter and fried, dished up in circles, with tartare sauce in centre.\59 PIKE Blanquette d’AnguiUe.—Stewed eel in white sauce. Friture d’Anguille.—Skinned and boned pieces of eel, seasoned, egged, crumbed and fried, served with piquant sauce. Barbue bouillie.—Boiled brill. — au gratin.—Baked brill, gratin style. — braisee A 1’AmiPal.—Brill braised with chablis and white stock, garnished with fried oysters and mussels, pommes Parisienne, and thin slices of truffle and lemon, served with cardinal sauce. Filets de Bapbue fpite.—Fried fillets of brill. — A la Grand Due.—Fillets of brill, dipped in veloute sauce, eggs and breadcrumbs, served with veloute sauce, to which is added horseradish, tomato pulp and cream, garnished with mussels and oysters. — A la Madeleine.—Fillets of brill covered on one side with whiting forcemeat mixed with herbs, placed in paupiette rings and sauteed, and white stock and mirepoix; then dipped in egg and bread- crumbs and fried ; served with marseillaise sauce — A la Russe.—Fillets of brill poached in richly flavoured fish essence (reduced fish stock), sauced over with a mushroom sauce, and glazed under the salamander. Blanchailles A la Diable.—Whitebait devilled. — au naturel.—Whitebait fried in deep fat. Bouille-A-Baisse (French Fish Stew).—Fish stew made from various kinds of fish and lobster flavoured v/ith garlic, savoury herbs, and white wine. COUPt Bouillon.—A French savoury fish stew, pre- pared from all kinds of fish, tomatoes, etc. Bpochet A l’Aneienne.—Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mush- rooms and capers. — A la Castelaine (Pike, CastelaineStyle).—Braised pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue and bacon, served with white sauce, and garnished with lobster croquettes, truffles and oysters. — A la CaVOUP (Pike, Cavour Style).—Broiled pike, garnished with nouilles, grated horseradish and carrots, served with rich veloute sauce. — fpit.—Fried pike. — fapei et gratine.—Stuffed pike, baked, gratin style. — grille.—Grilled or broiled pike. — A la Remoulade (Pike.Remoulade Style).—Grilled pike served with a remoulade sauce. Filets de Bpoehet pique A la Colbert.—Filleted pike, larded, steamed in the oven, with white wine sauce.60 POISSONS {FISH) Filets de Brochet piqu6 k la Lyonnaise.—Fillets of pike stewed in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. Cabillaud & l’Anglaise.—Boiled cod with melted butter sauce. — bouilli .—Boiled cod. — bouilli aux Cappes.—Boiled cod with caper sauce. — en eoquilles.—Codfish baked and served in shells. — aux Crevettes.—Boiled cod and shrimp sauce. — a la Dieppoise.—Slices of cod dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, and served with white matelotte sauce. — frit, Sauce Anehois.—Fried cod and anchovy sauce. — au gratin.—Baked cod, gratin style. — grill6 a la Colbert (Grilled Cod, Colbert Style).— Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and flour, grilled, and served with maltre d’hotel butter. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled cod, oyster sauce. — a l’lndienne.—Grilled cod with curry sauce. — a la Maltaise.—Codfish stewed in veloute sauce, white wine, stock, shallots and bouquet garni, sauce flavoured with anchovy paste, chopped parsley and capers. — a la Portllgaise (Cod, Portuguese Style).—Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy and mussels. — recrepi bouilli.—Crimped cod, boiled. Barne de Cabillaud a la Sefton.—Boiled cod coated with cream chaudfroid sauce, coloured with spinach puree. Garnish: salad, chopped cucumber, and diamond shapes of aspic. Mousseline de Cabillaud.—Steamed codfish souffle served with cardinal sauce. Carpe au bleu.—Boiled carp. — farcie.—Stuffed carp, baked. — frite. —Fried carp. — gratinee.—Baked carp. Carrelet frit, Sauce Persil.—Fried flounder, parsley sauce. Souehet de Carrelet (Souchet of Flounder). — Boiled flounder with finely-cut strips of carrots and turnips. Coquilles de Moules.—Scalloped mussels. — de Crevettes.—Coquilles of shrimps. — aux Huitres.—Coquilles of oyster. — de Poissons (Coquilles of Fish).—Stewed fish served in shells. Scalloped fish.HALIBUT 61 Coquilles aux Queues d’Ecrevisses.—Coquilles of crayfish tails. Beignets de Clames.—Clam fritters. Crabe fareie.—Dressed and stuffed crab. Ecrevisses farcies.—Stuffed crayfish. Beignets d’ECPeviSSes.—Crayfish fritters. Escargots k l’Anglaise.—Stewed snails. Beignets d’EscargOtS.—Snail fritters. Eperlans en Brochettes.—Fried smelts on skewers. — a la Celestine.—Boned smelts stuffed with force- meat, placed on pancake and forcemeat sandwiches cut in triangles or other shapes, sauteed ; garnished with prawns, and served with rdmoulade sauce. — au Citron. — Smelts dipped in panurette and fried; garnished with fried parsley and lemon. Served with plate of brown bread and butter. — a la Diable.—Fried smelts devilled. — frits.—Fried smelts. — gPatines.—Baked smelts. — fareis a la Pouraine.—Smelts stuffed with forcemeat, mushrooms and parsley, covered with melted butter, and baked ; dished up, covered with bechamel sauce, and browned under salamander. Souffle d’Eperlans.—Souffle consisting of fillets of smelts, whiting, bechamel sauce, cream and white of egg. Esturgeon a 1’AnchoiS. — Boiled sturgeon with — ala Cardinal (Sturgeon, Cardinal Style).—Boiled sturgeon, garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish, and served with cardinal sauce. Darne d’Esturgeon a la Milanaise (Sturgeon Steak, Milanese Style).—Middle piece or steak of sturgeon stewed ; garnished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails. Papillotes d’Esturgeon.—Stewed sturgeon in paper cases. Goujon (Gudgeons).—A kind of small fish-like white- bait, dipped in flour, and fried in deep fat. Grenouilles frites.—-Fried frogs. Beignets de Grenouilles.—Frog’s legs fritters. Grondins farei etOUffe.—Baked gurnet, stuffed ; dished on fried bread croutons ; served with sauce matelote, mixed with anchovy essence and fish liquor. — a la Talleyrand.—Baked fillets of gurnet, served with a sauce consisting of butter, flour, fish liquor, fish stock, cream, and yolks of two eggs beaten up with lemon juice. Halibute au gratin.—Baked halibut.62 POISSONS (FISH) Halibute grille, sauce cpevettes. — Grilled halibut, shrimp sauce. Hareng frais grille.—Grilled fresh herring. —■ au beUPPe.—Broiled herring in butter. — k la Maitre d’Hotel.— Grilled herring with parsley butter. — a la Moutarde.—Grilled herring with mustard sauce. Homard saute k la Dumas.—Lobster meat tossed in butter and finished in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, paprika and lemon juice. Buissons de Homard (Bush of Lobsters).—Lobster dressed in a pyramidal form. Cotelettes de Homard (Lobster Cutlets).—Mixture of lobster, shallots, bechamel sauce, mushrooms and egg made into cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, fried, and served with tomato or other sauce. Homapd a l’Americaine (Lobster, American style). —Lobster stewed in the shell with tomato sauce, red wine and savoury herb seasoning. — en Aspic.—Lobster and hard-boiled egg set in aspic jelly. — a la Bechamel (Baked Lobster, Bechamel Style). —Shells of lobster filled with minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce and seasoning, and baked. — faPCi.—Stuffed lobster baked. — k la Gloucester (Lobster, Gloucester Style).— Stewed lobster,with a sauce composed of pulverised lobster shell, butter, egg yolks, and meat extract. — au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style. — A l’lndienne.—Curried lobster. — a la Suedoise (Lobster, Swedish Fashion).— Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould, and sauced over with anchovy sauce. Bordure de Homard k l’lndienne.—Border of savoury lobster mixture, centre filled with rice, decorated with hard-boiled egg and truffle. Coquilles de Homard a la Gauloise.—Poached coquille shapes of lobster forcemeat, with lobster scallop in centre of each, served with cardinal sauce. — de Homards (Scalloped Lobster).—Stewed lobster served in shells. Cotelettes de Homard a 1’Aspie.—Slices of lobster meat set in aspic, cutlet shapes. — a la Tomate. — Lobster cutlets with tomato sauce. Mayonnaise de Homard.—Pieces of lobster and salad masked with mayonnaise sauce, decorated with pieces of claws, hard-boiled egg, strips of fillet of anchovy, capers, beetroot, coral, stoned olives and gherkins.'1FLOUNDER 63 Mousse de Homard, frappee.—iced lobster souffle, top decorated with lobster coral and paprika. Petites Dormes de Homard a la Creme.—Lobster and tomato aspic set in square fluted moulds, dressed on squares of pastry. Souffle de Homard, sauce aurora.—Steamed souffle, consisting of lobster, eggs, and bechamel sauce, served with aurora sauce. Beignets d’Huitres.—Oyster fritters. Huftres grilles.—Grilled oysters. — en coquilles.—Scalloped oysters. — a la Duxelles.—Oyster stew baked in shells. — a la Du Barry.—Small baked potatoes stuffed with oysters ; supreme sauce. — frites.—Fried oysters. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed oysters. — a la Salamandre. — Oysters on shells with supreme sauce and cayenne ; sprinkled with bread- crumbs, grated parmesan and butter; browned under salamander. Chaudfroid d’huitres a la Montpelier.— Oysters set in aspic on border of rice, masked with white or red chaudfroid sauce, centre filled with seasoned green salad. Cromeskies aux huitres. — Small cork shapes composed of minced oysters, oyster liquor, cream, lemon juice, egg-yolks, etc., wrapped in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried parsley. Fricassee d’huitres.—Oystersistewed in white sauce. Quenelles aux huitres.—Small chicken or veal quenelles, with one or two oysters in centre of each, poached in fish stock, served coated with white sauce. — frites aux huitres.—Fried oyster quenelles, served with piquant or white wine sauce. Petits Pates aux huitres.—Puff pastry patties filled with a delicately prepared oyster stew. Lamproie sautee a la Francaise.—Stewed lam- prey, French style. — en fricassee.—Fricasseed lamprey. Escalopes de Langouste a la Cardinal.—Oval croquet shapes of crawfish or lobster, dished up in row, with a small poached egg coated with cardinal sauce in centre of each, decorated with a prawn at each end of croquet, and stars of truffle. Limande aux Eperlans.—Boiled flounder garnished with fried smelts. — k la Janin.—Braised fillets of flounders stuffed with fish quenelle forcemeat, garnished with truffles, oysters cut in halves, and crayfish or prawn tails in centre of dish, sauced over with espagnole, enriched with fish liquor and white wine.64 POISSONS {FISH) Limande en souehet. — Boiled flounders with julienne vegetables cooked in fish stock, served with some of the liquor. Maquereau a la Maitre d’Hotel. — Broiled mackerel with parsley butter. — k la Boulonnaise.—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. — bouilli, sauce capres.— Boiled mackerel and caper sauce. — a l’eau de sel.—Mackerel cooked in salted water and garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — a la Flamande.—Broiled mackerel with Flemish sauce. — au pePSil.—Boiled mackerel and parsley sauce. Filets de Maquereau a l’lndienne (Fillets of Mackerel, Indian Style.) — Braised fillets of mackerel, served with curry sauce, reduced with white wine. — au vin blanc.— Broiled mackerel fillets with white wine sauce. — au gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. Merlan bouilli k l’Anglaise. — Boiled whiting with parsley sauce. — frit.—Fried whiting. — grilles.—Grilled whiting. — au gratin.—Baked whiting, gratin style — a la Verdi.—Fillets of whiting, poached in white wine, dressed, and coated with bearnaise sauce sprinkled over with julienne of truffles; tomato sauce round base of dish. Filets de Merlan a la Juive.—Fillets of whiting soaked in oil and vinegar, coated with batter, and fried in deep fat, served with Joinville sauce. — a la Comtesse (Fillets of Whiting, Countess Style).—Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases, garnished with crayfish tails and small liver forcemeat balls. — frits a la Frangaise (Fried Whiting, French style).—The fish is wiped and scored along the sides, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured and fried in fat until crisp ; served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel (Fillets of Whiting, Hotel- keeper’s Style).—Broiled fillets of whiting with parsley butter. — al’Orly (Fillets of Whiting, Orly Style).—Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served with tomato sauce. — frits ct la tomate.—Fried fillets of whiting with tomato sauce.SKATE 65 Filets de Merlan a la bonne femme.—Stewed whiting with bordelaise sauce. — a l’ltalienne (Whiting, Italian Style).—Baked or steamed whiting with brown mushroom sauce. — frits k la Tyrolienne. — Fillets of whiting dipped in oil and breadcrumbs, fried with ends skewered to form a ring ; served with rich tomato sauce handed separately. Blanquette de merlans.—Filleted whiting fricas- seed. Quenelles de merlans, Joinville. — Quenelles made of whiting forcemeat,with shrimp salpicon in centre, poached in fish stock ; served with joinville sauce; fleuron garnish. Souffle de merlan.—Whiting souffle. Merluehe etouffee. — Steamed haddock cooked in the oven. — euite au four.—Haddock baked in the oven. Morue k la Capueine.—Boiled salt cod with egg sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Broiled salt cod with fine herb or parsley butter. Tete de morue aux huitres.—Boiled cod’s head with oyster sauce. Moules a la mariniere.— Stewed mussels with onion and parsley sauce. — a la Bourguignonne.—Stewed mussels in red wine sauce. — en eoquilles.—Scalloped mussels. — a la Californie (Mussels, California Style).— Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, chopped onions, parsley, and veloute sauce. — a la poulette.—Stewed mussels in white sauce. Ombre au bleu.—Boiled grayling. — a la maitre d’hotel.—Broiled grayling with parsley butter. Petoneles gratines.—Scallop stew browned under grill. — au gratin.—Baked scallops, gratin style. — a la Proven§ale.—Scallops stewed in white fish sauce, garnished with fleurons of puff pastry. Plie frite.—Fried plaice. Filets de plie au vin blane. — Poached fillets of plaice with white wine sauce. — frites k la Tartare.—Fried fillets of plaice, tartare sauce. — Sauce persil.—Broiled fillets of plaice, parsley sauce. — frites, sauce anchois.—Fried fillets of plaice, anchovy sauce. Raie a la Parisienne.—Skate stewed in well- seasoned stock, dressed with capers and carlet sauce.66 POISSONS (FISH) Raie k la poulette.—Skate stewed in parsley sauce. — ail beurre noir.—Boiled skate with nut brown butter. — & la bourgeoise.—Boiled skate with brown sauce, garnished with croutons of bread, glazed over with meat extract. Renke a la broche.—Grilled renk. RougetS a l’ltalienne.—Broiled red mullets with Italian sauce. — au beurre fondu.—Broiled mullets with melted butter. — en filets a la Juive.—Fillets of red mullets soaked in oil, etc., fried and garnished with parsley ; served with tartare or vert pre sauce. — aux fines herbes. — Stewed red mullets with fine herb sauce. — a la Franeillon.—Grilled red mullets, dressed on bread croutes spread with anchovy butter; served with tomato sauce flavoured with anchovy; garnished with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley. — au gpatin.—Baked red mullets, gratin style. — grilles, sauee ravigote.—Grilled mullets and ravigote sauce. — en papillotes (Red Mullets in Paper Cases).— Red mullets wrapped separately in oiled paper, with the ends twisted, and thus baked or broiled, dished up, and served with brown fine herb sauce. — a la Venitienne.—Baked red mullets with brown sauce; garnished with Spanish olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom heads. Saumon bouilli, sauce Hollandaise. — Boiled salmon, Dutch sauce. — grille au beurre d’anehois.—Grilled salmon with anchovy butter. — grille au persil.—Grilled salmon with parsley butter. — grille aux fines herbes.—Grilled salmon with fine herb butter. — & la Matelote.—Sauteed slices of salmon with espagnole sauce, poached fish quenelles, slices of mushrooms and truffles ; garnished with braised button onions, truffles, etc. — a la Parisienne.—Slices of salmon, cut rather thick, braised in mirepoix and claret; dished up and garnished with groups of champignons, little fish croquettes, crayfish tails, and poached oysters ; sauce genoise is served with it. — en tranches a la Meuniere (Slices of Salmon, Meuniere Style).—Slices of salmon braised and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs.67 SALMON Saumon k la Montmorency.—Head piece or middle cut of salmon baked, dished up, upper skin re- moved ; sauced over with matelote sauce; garnished with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives. — a la Godard (Salmon, Godard Style).—Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegetables dressed round the dish. — a la Hollandaise.—Boiled salmon with Dutch sauce, garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — & la Miehat Pacha.— Boiled salmon with date sauce. — en papillotes.—Heart-shaped slices of salmon wrapped in grease-proof paper and thus boiled or baked ; served with a rich brown herb sauce. ■— ala Piemontaise (Salmon, Piedmontese Style).— Fried fillets of salmon; garnished with small timbales of savoury rice ; tomato sauce. — a la Richelieu (Salmon, Richelieu Style).— Grilled pickled salmon with tomato sauce. — a la Rothschild (or a la Perigueux).—Broiled salmon or salmon trout stuffed with truffles and served with truffle sauce. — a la Victoria (Salmon, Victoria Style).—Broiled salmon with stewed oysters, crayfish quenelles, madeira sauce. Cotelettes de Saumon a la Danoise.—Salmon cutlets spread on each side with anchovy paste and fried ; served with Danish sauce. Darioles de Saumon alaMoseovienne.—Darioles, shapes of salmon, ornamented with truffles, oysters, chopped aspic and cucumber ; served cold. Darne de Saumon a la Chambord.—Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, gar- nished with fish quenelles, heads of mushrooms, cooked oysters, slices of truffles and crayfish tails, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce. — a l’Amiral. — Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, sauced over with a rich brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and lobster collops. — aux lines herbes.—Grilled salmon steak with parsley butter. — k la National.—Broiled piece of salmon and white sauce; garnished with groups of stewed potato and cucumber balls. — k la RavigOte.—Boiled centre piece of salmon, masked and decorated with cold ravigote sauce and fresh butter, centre of salmon filled with salad or vegetable macedoine, and sides garnished with hard-boiled egg, green peas and chopped aspic; served with tartare sauce ; served cold.68 POISSONS [FISH) Darne de Saumon k la Vert-Pre.—Cold salmon coated with green chaudfroid sauce, garnished with dressed salad, sliced cucumber, and diamond shapes of aspic ; served cold. Escalopes de Saumon a l’lndienne.—Fried salmon cutlets served with curry sauce and rice. — k la Nantaise.—Collops of salmon, seasoned and broiled in butter; dished up alternately with slices of lobster; dressed with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Filets de Saumon a la Duehesse.—Braised fillets of salmon arranged in the centre of a mashed potato border, masked with rich brown sauce,and garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes. — aux huitres.—Rolled fillets of salmon with stewed oysters braised and served with a rich brown sauce. — sautes a la Perigueux. —Braised fillets of salmon with truffle sauce. — k la Regenee (Regent Style).—Rolled fillet of salmon, stuffed and served with regent sauce. Grenadins de Saumon a la Venitienne.—Fillets of salmon, larded, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped bread croutons, sauced with a well-buttered parsley sauce. Hure de Saumon aux truffes. — Braised head- piece of salmon with truffle sauce. — a la Cambaceres.—Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with truffles, mushrooms and stoned olives, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice. — a la Moderne.—Boiled and baked head-piece of salmon, sauced over with brown fish sauce; gar- nished with small groups of cork-shaped pieces of fish sausage, sliced truffles, mushroom heads, and stoned and blanched olives ; top of fish garnished with slices of lemon, truffles and parsley. Mousseline de Saumon a la Cardinal.—Timbale or dariole of light salmon forcemeat (souffle), served with cardinal sauce. Pate de Saumon a l’Homard.—Raised salmon pie with layers of lobster meat. Petits Souffles de Saumon a l’lndienne.—Cold souffle of curried salmon, decorated with anchovy butter or anchovy cream. Queue de Saumon aux huitres.—Braised tail- piece of salmon with stewed oysters. Tranehettes de Saumon en Belle Vue.—Small sandwich-shaped moulds of salmon set in aspic and mayonnaise cream. Sole bouillie.—Boiled sole.SOLE 69 Sole frite a l’Anglaise.—Fried sole with anchovy sauce or melted butter. — k la Bosniaque.—Steamed sole, seasoned with paprika and white wine; garnished with julienne of carrots, celery and mushrooms cooked in fish stock ; sauce, au vin blanc. — frite k la Colbert (Sole, Colbert Style).—Fried sole, stuffed with fine herb butter. — frite.—Fried sole. — frite a la Gastronome.—Stuffed fried sole with shrimp sauce. — au gratin.—Baked sole, with brown sauce and mushrooms. — gratinee.—Baked sole, gratin style. — grillee a la Maitre d’Hotel. —Grilled sole with parsley butter. — a la Hambourgeoise..—Steamed sole, garnished with julienne strips of carrot and celery root cooked in stock, sauced over with sauce vin blanc. — a la Normande.—Poached soles in white wine, etc., garnished with oysters, mussels and button mushrooms, sauced over with normande sauce, served with buttered and browned slices of French rolls. — au Parmesan. — Soles cooked in mushroom liquor, etc., sauced over with bechamel, flavoured with parmesan cheese ; browned under salamander and served in same dish. — au Vin blanc.—Braised sole with white wine sauce. Filets de Soles a l’Americaine.—Fillets of soles cooked with white wine in gratin dish ; sauced over with rich tomato sauce and lobster butter ; breaded and browned in oven. — en Aspic.—Folded fillets of sole poached, dressed in border shape, centre filled with seasoned salad. — aux aubergines.—Baked fillets of soles dressed with nut brown butter; garnished with fried olive shapes of aubergine (egg-plant). — Belles de Nuit.—Fillets of soles forced with fish farce and prawns; poached in white wine ; gar- nished with mushroom heads, potato cubes, and tomatoes ; sauce, normande. — a la Boitel.—Fillets of soles folded and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed on dish and sauced over with white mushroom sauce; baked. — a la Bovin.— Poached fillets of soles with rich cream sauce flavoured with fish essence ; garnished with potato balls and chopped parsley. — a la Catalaine.—Poached fillets of soles dressed on border of Jerusalem artichokes, centre filled with c£pes tossed in butter ; sauced over with well- reduced rich bechamel sauce.7o POISSONS {FISH) Filets de Soles k la Caneale.—Fillets of soles poached in fish liquor and oyster liquor; dressed and garnished with poached oysters and mush- rooms ; sauced over with maxtre d’hotel sauce. — a la Chasseur Royal.—Steamed fillets of soles dressed on a white fish border, decorated with truffles and garnished with oysters, mushrooms and truffles ; royal chasseur sauce. — a la Cherbourg.—Rolled fillets of soles braised in white wine, dished up and garnished with oysters, crayfish and mussels; sauced over with cardinal sauce. — en fers a Cheval.—Stuffed rolled fillets of sole set in horseshoe-shaped moulds, with mayonnaise or aspic cream, decorated with truffles (cold). — Chevaliere.— Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with fish farce mixed with chopped truffles ; poached in white wine; sauced over with crayfish or bisque sauce, with finely chopped truffles on top. — a la Czarina.—Baked fillets of soles dressed on potato puree, scraped horse-radish on each fillet; served with a rich brown fish sauce flavoured with tomato and meat glaze. — a la Dauphine.—Sole fillets spread over with a mixture of forcemeat, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, folded and braised ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with lobster sauce. — a la Diable.—Rolled fillets of soles, crumbed and fried, served in paper cases, with devilled sauce poured over. — a la Diocletien.—Fillets of soles spread with fish farce, folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and Marsala wine ; garnished with small braised let- tuces and small fish quenelles; rich espagnole sauce, flavoured with fish liquor and chopped truffles. — a la Florentine.—Fillets of soles dressed on and coated with a light spinach puree, enriched with cream and flavoured with grated cheese ; baked in oven. — a la Grand Due.—Fillets of soles poached in mushroom liquor, etc.; dressed with alternate slices of truffles and prawn tails, masked with mornay sauce, sprinkled with cheese, etc., and browned ; garnished with asparagus points. — a la St. Germain.—Rolled and crumbed fillets of soles fried in butter, dressed on slices of lemon, with stiff bearnaise sauce forced on top of each ; garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — k l’lndienne.—Fried fillets of soles stuffed with lobster puree; garnished with shreds of piccalilli, gherkins and mushrooms, curry or madeira sauce; served with boiled rice.7i SOLE Filets de Soles k la Joinville (Fillets of Sole, Joinville Style). — Rolled fillets of soles, dressed with truffles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles. — Louisa-Anna. — Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in white wine, dressed on bread croutons, sauced over with rich tomato puree, with slice of truffle in centre. — a la Mareelle.—Fillets of soles spread over with champignon purde, folded and poached ; dressed on dish in border form, sauced over with perigueux sauce, pommes Anna in centre. -a la Mapie-Louise.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed in centre of oblong dish, with a fancy border of potato puree; baked in oven; sauced over with supreme sauce, with border of green mousseline sauce, julienne strips of truffles sprinkled over the fillets; served hot. — a la Mareehale.—Stewed fillets of soles in reduced white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; bechamel sauce served separate. — a la Mayonnaise.—Fillets of soles set in border mould with mayonnaise aspic, centre filled with dressed salad. — a la Messaline.—Fillets of soles poached in champagne, dressed and sauced over with tomato sauce flavoured with Italian pimentos; garnished with artichoke bottoms. — a la MontPeuil.—Fillets of soles cooked in white wine, dressed in a circle, with fried potato balls in centre; fillets sauced over with veloute sauce, enriched with fish essence. — a la Mornay.—Baked fillets of soles, dressed on dish with rich white sauce and grated cheese; browned under salamander. — a la Nantua.—Fillets of soles poached in white wine, dressed on rice or semolina border, and sauced over with allemande sauce flavoured with crayfish butter, centre filled with prawn or crayfish tails, heated up in allemande sauce. — a l’OPly (Fillets of Sole, Orly Style).—Fried fillets of soles with tomato sauce and fried parsley. — Pagani.— A dish similar to sole au vin blanc, finished with a rich veloute ; garnished with mussels, champignons, and grated cheese, browned. — a la Piemontaise.—Fillets of soles with tomato sauce; garnished with polenta croutons and slices of truffles. — en Ramequin.—Rings of pastry filled with layer of white sauce, fillets of soles, soubise pur£e and grated cheese, etc, baked in sharp oven.72 POISSONS {FISH) Filets de Soles k la Regence. — Stuffed rolled fillets of sole, masked in aspic, dished up in form of border, each fillet being decorated with truffles and cream, salad in centre. — k la Roy ale.—Rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with minced truffles and champignons and bechamel sauce ; steamed in oven ; served with hot mousseline or hollandaise sauce. — k la Salisbury.—Lobster shells filled with sole and lobster forcemeat and veloute sauce, with folded fillets of soles on top of each; steamed in oven; dressed on rice border; garnished with button mushrooms. — a la Sezet.—Fillets of soles stewed in bechamel and tomato sauce, flavoured with anchovy butter; garnished with small lobster croquettes, truffles, anchovy fillets and mushroom heads. — SOUffle.—Fillets of soles set in dish, covered with mornay sauce and beaten egg whites, and baked. — k la Suetone. — Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in the oven with butter and white wine; sauced over with normande sauce, flavoured with pounded pistachio kernels ; garnished with small shells of prawns or shrimps and pistachios. — a la Sully .—Fillets of soles egged and crumbed, slightly fried in butter, dressed with mushroom head on each fillet, sauced over with bearnaise, and around with anchovy sauce. — a la Trouville.—Folded fillets, seasoned, broiled in saute pan with white wine and mushroom liquor, dressed with mushrooms, oysters, fresh bread- crumbs and white sauce; surface browned in oven. — a la V6nitienne.—Folded fillets of soles poached in white wine, butter and parsley; dressed in circle, centre garnished with mushroom heads, sauced with hollandaise sauce. — a la Victoria.—Folded fillets of soles cooked with a little white wine, dressed on border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in oven; sauced over with white wine sauce ; garnished with chopped truffle and tongue and small fleurons of puff paste. — k la Xavier.—Baked fillets of soles tied in knots, dressed on a border of whiting forcemeat, covered with hot Xavier sauce ; liquid meat glaze sprinkled over surface. — en Zephires.—Cold fillets of sole set in aspic cream in small zephyr moulds. Chaudfroid de Filets de Soles k la Capucine.— Stuffed and rolled fillets of sole dressed on pink rice border, decorated with prawns, truffles, etc. ; seasoned salad in centre (cold).73 SOLE Coquilles de Filets de Soles k la Favorite.— Cockle-shell moulds filled with cooked fillets of sole and lobster meat, coated with mayonnaise, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white of egg- Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon (Scallops of Soles, Vernon Style).—Braised fillets of soles dressed on rice; garnished with stewed oysters and mussels; rich white sauce. Hatelets de Sole k la Villeroi.—Rolled sole fillets stuffed with forcemeat, placed on silver skewers, seasoned, crumbed, and baked in the saute pan ; served with a richly buttered tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Soles, Alexandra.—Fillets of soles spread with lobster farce and rolled into paupiettes; poached in sauterne and fish stock ; garnished with truffles, anchovy butter and new potatoes tossed in butter; sauce, cardinal. — a la Bismark. — Fillets of soles soaked in marinade, spread with fish farce and chopped truffles, and rolled up ; poached in white wine ; dressed on a border of potato puree, sauced over with sauce marguary, sprinkled with grated par- mesan, and browned in sharp oven. — a l’Empereur.—Braised fillets of soles, rolled and stuffed with turbot farce, dressed in cassolettes, sauced over with bechamel cream sauce, flavoured with paprika, anchovy essence; tops sprinkled with finely chopped truffle and horseradish. — a la Michel.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with foie-gras farce and poached, dressed on a border of green peas, with ragout of prawns in centre; sauce, supreme. — a la Ni§oise.—Baked rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with fish farce, herbs and anchovy paste; sauced over with a rich tomato puree containing parmesan cheese ; garnished with small gherkins, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in oven. — de Filets de Soles a la Richelieu.—Baked rolled fillets of soles stuffed with whiting forcemeat, dressed on croutes spread with fish farce, with mushroom head on each ; sauced over with cardinal sauce, enriched with egg-yolk; a star of truffle placed on centre of each fillet. Soles en souehet (Souchet of Soles).—Boiled soles with finely-cut strips of carrot and turnips and chopped parsley. — a la Vatel.—Baked soles, boned and stuffed, with whiting forcemeat, cooked in white wine and mushroom liquor; masked over with white wine sauce; garnished with truffles, gherkins, cocks’ combs and mushrooms. D74 POISSONS (FISH) Soles k la Villeroise.—Soles cooked in cyder and mushroom liquor, garnished with cubes of plain boiled potatoes. Stoudines de Poissons k la Russe.—Fillets of soles and small fillets of salmon poached and dressed alternately in crown shape, masked with aspic, and served with iced horseradish sauce. Turban de Filets de Soles k la Montpelier.— Cold fillets of soles set in turban or border mould, with green herb chaudfroid sauce, aspic, etc. ; garnished with white of egg and truffle; centre filled with dressed salad, etc. Timbale de Filets de Soles k la Savoy.—Poached fillets of soles finished in rich white wine sauce, mixed with truffle, macaroni and crayfish, served in pastry crust made of pate a foncer. Sterlet a la Russe (Sterlet, Russian Style).— Broiled sterlet with braised button onions, small ball-shaped fried potatoes, and anchovy sauce. — au bleu.—Boiled sterlet. Tanehe au bleu.—Boiled tench. — grillee au beurre d’Anehois.—Grilled tench with anchovy butter. — a la Maitre d’Hotel. —Broiled tench with parsley butter. Truite au bleu.—Trout boiled in water and white wine flavoured with herbs. — au beurre d’Anehois. — Broiled trout with anchovy butter. — a la Cambaeeres.—Baked trout, garnished with slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, stuffed olives and fleurons ; brown genoise fish sauce. — au Chablis.—Braised river trout (mirepoix and chablis) garnished with olive-shaped potatoes, plain boiled, and parsley ; sauce noisette (see Sauces). — a la Christiania. — Boned trout stuffed with fish farce and hard-boiled egg slices, rolled up, cooked in stock and milk; skinned when cold and masked with aspic jelly and mayonnaise; garnished with caviare canapees, etc. — a la Divonnaise.—Braised river trout, breaded, sauced over with sauce genoise; garnished with braised button onions and mushroom heads. — frite.—Fried trout. — a la Meuniere (Trout, Meuniere Style).—Braised trout served with burnt butter, breadcrumbs, and chopped parsley. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled trout with parsley butter. — a la Malvoisie.—Boiled trout masked with aspic mayonnaise; garnished with cucumber balls ; served with mayonnaise flavoured with cucumber puree.75 D 2 TURBOT Truite marinee.—Soused or pickled trout masked with half-set savoury jelly. — a la Montgolfier.—River trout, boned and stuffed with whiting farce mixed with chopped truffles, poached in oven (fumet de poisson), dressed with garnish of lobster cut in dice, and mushroom heads; sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce). — k la Nansen.—Cold trout masked with finely- cut vegetable, brunoise and aspic, dressed on a shape of aspic; garnished with small tomato flavoured timbales and cucumber; served with frozen horse-radish sauce and semi-set aspic mixed with brunoise. — aUX petitS pois.—Broiled trout with green peas. — Saumonee bouillie.—Boiled salmon trout. — saumonee k la Norwegienne.—Boiled salmon trout dressed on rice socle, masked with mayonnaise and aspic; garnished with tarragon and chervil leaves, cucumber rind and slices, and chilli; served with cold horseradish sauce. — saumonee a la Rothschild.—Baked stuffed salmon trout masked cold with madere sauce (chaud- froid), decorated with truffles, blocks of set aspic, cucumber, lemon and parsley. — a la Vinaigrette.—Cold boiled trout served with vinegar and oil dressing, chopped gherkins, capers and parsley. Filets de Truite au Vin blane.—Broiled fillets of trout with white wine sauce. — a la Mayonnaise.—Cold fillets of trout in border of aspic and mayonnaise, centre filled with dressed salad. — frites a la Milanaise.—Fillets of trout marinated in oil, etc., then rolled in breadcrumbs and grated cheese, then in egg and chopped parsley, and fried in oil; served with Italian sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Braised fillets of trout with mirabeau sauce. — a la Tomate.—Fried fillets of trout with tomato sauce. Turbot bouilli.—Boiled turbot. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled turbot with oyster sauce. — sauce aux Crevettes. — Boiled turbot with shrimp sauce. — sauce Homard. — Boiled turbot with lobster sauce. — a la Proven§ale. — Small whole turbot (or thick slices) cooked in veloui£ sauce, white wine, white stock, chopped shallots and bouquet garni; dished up with a rich white herb sauce, flavoured with anchovy essence, chopped parsley and capers.76 POISSONS {FISH) Turbot sauce aux ceufs.—Boiled turbot and egg sauce. — sauce aux Anehois.—Boiled turbot and anchovy sauce. — k la Reyniere (Turbot, Reyniere style).—Stewed turbot served in shells, dressed with shrimp sauce. — bouilli a la Victoria.—Boiled turbot garnished with ball-shaped lobster croquettes, prawns and parsley, served with Victoria sauce. Escalopes de Turbot a la Dauphine.—Fillets or escallops of turbot, poached and covered with fish farce, baked, and dressed in centre of decorated border of potato puree, sauced over with prawn or crayfish sauce, and garnished with small fish quenelles. Filets de Turbot frits.—Fried fillets of turbot. — k la Careme.—Slices of turbot, garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, halves of oysters, dressed on border of whiting forcemeat, with garni- ture and picked prawns in centre; sauced over with rich cardinal sauce. — a la Cussy.—Fillets of turbot poached in white wine, mushroom liquor, etc. ; garnished with mushrooms, cock’s kernels and quenelles, covered with allemande and tomato sauces (blended) ; decorated with slices of lemon and fleurons. — a la Florentine.—Sauteed fillets of turbot covered with layer of spinach puree and bechamel sauce, mixed with grated cheese, then sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and oiled butter, and kake(i — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled fillets of turbot with parsley butter. — a la Salamandre.—Poached fillets of turbot, dished up in row on buttered dish, covered with veloute or rich bechamel sauce, sprinkled with grated cheese, etc., and browned under salamander. — au Vin blane. — Broiled fillets of turbot with white wine sauce. Fleurettes de Turbot a la Hollandaise.—Small flat dariole shapes of cooked turbot set with mayonnaise cream, dressed on bed of salad or little blocks of aspic (cold). Supreme de Turbot a la Royale. — Fillets of turbot poached in white wine, etc., dressed on gratin dish, covered with rich white fish sauce, sprinkled with grated Swiss cheese and butter, and browned in the oven. Timbales de Turbot a la Russe.—Small timbale shapes of cooked flakes of turbot, garnished with prawns, parsley, etc., dressed round a rice shape.ENTREES d 3 77 Turbotin k la Lussinoise.—Small young turbot filleted and steeped in marinade, then cooked in an onion mirepoix; upon this a light layer of fish farce is placed and then finished in the oven ; sauce aux champignons is poured over the top before serving ; served in casserole. Croquettes de Poisson.—Cutlet shapes of mixture composed of cold fish, bechamel sauce, anchovy essence, egg-yolk, dipped in egg and breadcrumbs or panurette, and fried in deep fat. Entrees de Poisson froid.—Cold dressed fish entrees; suitable also as luncheon, buffet, cold collation, and ball supper dishes. Petites Bouchees k la Suedoise. — Pastry crusts filled with ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails and broiled bacon, top of bouchees sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs and lobster butter, and browned in oven. Pate de Poisson k l’Amerieaine (American Fish Pie).—Pie crust filled with layers of mashed potatoes, cooked turbot, cod or haddock, flaked; white sauce and grated cheese ; surface egged and sprinkled over with grated cheese,and baked in oven. — a la Mariniere.—French raised pie filled with twisted fillets of sole, pieces of eel, mushroom heads, prawn tails, button onions, anchovy sauce flavoured with claret, and baked. Timbales de Poisson k la Mapigny.—Small dariole moulds lined with fish farce, centre filled with prawn tails, herring roes and truffle, made up as salpicon ; sauce hollandaise with crayfish butter; served hot. Vol-au-Vent k la Chambopd.—Round or oval puff paste crust (vol-au-vent) filled with crayfish tails, truffles, mushrooms, small fish quenelles, bearded oysters and genoise sauce. ENTREES. Dishes following the fish, or preceding the remove when such is served, are called entrees ; which, being translated into English, means “ entrances.” Hence the dishes served under this heading are considered by the epicure as the first of the essential dishes of the dinner, and rightly so, because there may be dinners without hors-d’oeuvre, and even without soup, or without a remove or releve, but there can be no proper dinner without an entree course. Entries are defined as “ dressed dishes,” or “ madeENTREES 7« dishes.” A dish bearing the name “entree” is always composed of more than one ingredient, and should be distinguished from meat served only with a garnish. When two entrees are chosen in a dinner, the first should be the lighter of the two. All entrees should be made in fancy style, so as to avoid carving; for entrees are never carved or served from the side- board. Dishes known as fish entrees, excepting in the case of cold dishes, are allowable as entrees during Lent. The great secret in entrees in general lies undoubt- edly in the sauces used for their preparation or their accompaniment. As sauces, or as liquid seasonings, they must be rich and carefully prepared. Compound or long process sauces, foundation sauces and their offsprings, play a most important part in the entrees themselves, as well as in their relation to the dishes which precede and follow them. ENTREES, LEGERS, ETC. Light Entrees and Hot Side Dishes. Note.—A number of these dishes are also suitable as buffet or supper dishes for balls and receptions, and can be served cold. Beignets, etc. Beignets de Cervelle de Veau. — Calf’s brain fritters. — de Pied de Veau (Calf’s Foot Fritters).—Cooked calf’s foot cut in strips, marinated, coated with batter, and fried in fat. — de Ris de Veau (Sweetbread Fritters).—Slices of cooked or blanched sweetbread, egged and crumbed or dipped in batter, and fried in fat. — de Volaille (Chicken Fritters).—Small joints of chicken, boned, marinated, coated with batter, and fried in fat. Boudins or Boudinades. These are, as a rule, small oblong, cylindrical, spherical, or border shapes of souffld-like mixtures (farce) of fish, meat, poultry or game, steamed or poached, and served with a suitable sauce. Boudins de Volaille a la Reine.—Small cylindrical shapes of chicken farce, poached, and served with supreme sauce. — de Volaille blane.—White chicken boudins, centre filled with chicken salpicon, and served with white sauce.IrCANNELONS 70 Boudins de Gibiep k la Pepigueux. — Small oblong or oval shapes of game farce mixed with chopped truffle, steamed, and served with a rich truffle sauce. — de Lievre a la Richelieu.—Boudins of hare farce with truffle salpicon in centre, steamed in oven, and served with rich truffle sauce. — de Sangliep.—Wild boar boudins, poached, and served with bigarade sauce. — de Veau.—Veal boudins, poached or steamed in oven, served with cream or veloute sauce. Bouchees or Petites Bouchees. Bouchees are, unless otherwise stated, small puff- paste cases filled with certain savoury preparations of either fish, meat, poultry or game. Bouchees a FAstpaehan.—Very small puff-paste patties filled with coarse-grain seasoned Russian caviare. — de GibieP.—Game patties. — de HomaPd.—Lobster patties. — aux Huitpes.—Oyster patties. — de Jambon.—Ham patties. — a la Modepne.—Small bouchee cups lined thinly with potato puree, and filled with chicken salpicon. •— a la Montglas.—Puff-paste patty cases filled with chicken fillets, sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles cut in dice, and moistened with white sauce. •— a la Ppineesse.—Puff-paste cases filled with minced ortolan fillets and truffles (brown sauce). - a la Reine.—Puff-paste cases filled with minced chicken fillets, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles (white sauce). •— a la Toulouse.—Puff-paste cases filled with veal fillets, chicken, cocks’ combs, mushrooms and truffles cut in dice (white sauce). — de Volaille. —Chicken patties. Cannelons. Cannelons are small rolls of puff paste filled with a savoury mince of game, poultry, meats, etc. They are either egged and baked in the oven, or egged and rolled in crushed vermicelli or breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Cannelons a la pup6e de champignons.—Can- nelons filled with mushroom pur£e. — a la pupee de gibiep. — Cannelons filled with game puree. — aux saucisses.—Sausage meat cannelons.8o ENTREES Cannelons k la puree de trufFes. — Cannelons filled with truffle puree. — k la puree de volaille.—Cannelons filled with chicken farce. Vol-au-Vent. The name vol-au-vent is given to a light puff-paste crust made oval or round in shape, the interior of which is filled with delicately flavoured ragouts of fish, lobster, oyster, etc., meat, veal, rabbit, and sweet- bread or chicken. This dish is always served hot. For other fillings see Bouchees. Vol-au-Vent k la Chambord. — Small fish quenelles, mushrooms and truffles heated up in veloute sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent cases. — la Duehesse.—Boned boiled fowl, cut up small, with mushrooms and truffles, heated in supreme sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent cases. — k la Financiere.—A brown stew of sweetbread, truffles, cocks’ combs, kernels, small chicken quenelles, mushrooms and stoned olives, dressed in vol-au-vent. — k la Toulouse.—A white stew of small chicken quenelles, truffles, mushrooms and veal fillets, dressed in vol-au-vent. Coquilles, etc. Coquilles are scallop shells, filled with coarsely minced meats, etc., baked in the oven to brown the surface. Coquilles de Volaille truffee. — Chicken fillets minced and mixed with truffle and white sauce, baked in shells. — de Champignons.—Mushroom and white sauce baked in shells. — de Cervelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain and white sauce baked in shells. — de Perdreau.—Partridge fillets baked in shells. — de poulet k ia Cardinal.—Minced chicken and crayfish tails baked in shells. — de RiS de Veau.—Sweetbread stew baked in shells. — de TrufFes.—Sliced truffles, with brown sauce baked in shells. Croustades or Cassolettes. Croustades are oval or spherical shapes of baked or fried paste, bread, rice or potato crusts, which are filled with minced or delicate ragouts of meat or game.CROMESQUIS 81 Croustades aux huitres.— Oyster croustade filled with poached oysters, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and veloute sauce. — de gibier a la Vatel (Game Croustade, Vatel Style).—Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried bread croustades. — & l’lmperiale.—Baked rice croustade filled with a ragout of chicken fillets, foie-gras, mushrooms and truffles (supreme sauce). — de Macaroni.—Macaroni croustade filled with cooked macaroni, ham cut in dice, cheese and tomato sauce. — de volailles a laPerigueux (Chicken Croustade, P£rigord Style).—Stewed fillets of chicken with truffles and brown sauce, baked in paste crust cases. — a la PePigOUPdine.—Fried rice croustade filled with small game quenelles, slices of sweetbread, cocks’ combs, kernels and truffles ; sauce, madere. — a la Richelieu.—Baked paste croustade filled with small chicken quenelles, poached and fried, mushrooms, and truffle sauce. — de Venaison (Venison Croustade).—Stewed fillets of venison baked in paste crust cases. Crepinettes and Andouillettes. Crepinettes are small square-shaped meat mixtures, wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Andouillettes are made similarly to crepinettes, but, in place of being crumbed and fried, are braised in butter and served in paper cases. Crepinettes de Volaille truffee.— Chicken and truffle crepinettes. — de Faisan.—Pheasant crepinettes. — de Lievre.—Hare crepinettes. — de LeVPaut.—Wild rabbit crepinettes. — de Perdreau tFUffee. — Partridge and truffle crepinettes. ■— de Pluvier.—Plover crepinettes. Andouillettes de Gibier.—Game andouillettes. — a la Romaine.—Minced chicken, mushroom, truffle, cheese, and meat glaze, made into salpicon, shaped oval, wrapped in caul and braised; served with truffle sauce. Cromesquis. Cromesquis or kromeskis are small rolls of savoury preparations called^salpicon, which are rolled in thinENTREES 82 slices of bacon, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot lard or other fat; garnished with fried parsley. Cromesquis au Jambon.—Little rolls or cork shapes of minced ham, mushroom and truffle, made up in salpicon with madere sauce, rolled up in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — d’eepevisses.—Crayfish kromeskis. — de gibier.—Game kromeskis. — de homapd.—Lobster kromeskis. — aux huitpes.—Oyster kromeskis. — de pied de pope.—Pig’s feet kromeskis. — de pluvieP.—Plover kromeskis. — <L la Russe (Russian Kromeskis).—These consist of minced chicken, ham or tongue, truffles and mushrooms. — de volaille.—Chicken kromeskis. Croquettes. Croquette is the name given to oval, round, ball, cutlet, or cork shapes of minced meats, fish, poultry or game. These shapes are egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Croquettes de volaille.—Chicken croquettes. — de foie-gras.—Goose liver croquettes. — de Gibier aux truffes.—Game croquettes with truffles. — de perdPeau.—Partridge croquettes. — de PiZ au salpicon.— Cooked rice and minced chicken, ham, etc., made into croquettes and fried. — de Rognons de Veau.—Calf’s kidney croquettes. — de Veau.—Veal croquettes. Friandines. These are made of puff paste, rolled out thinly with a 2-inch fluted round cutter; a portion of prepared mince or salpicon of meat or game, etc., is placed in the centre of each round ; this is covered with a round of paste, egged, dipped in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter, lard, or dripping. Fpiandines de volaille.—Chicken friandines. — de foie-gpas.—Goose liver friandines. — de gibieP.—Game friandines. — de homapd.—Lobster friandines. — aux huitpes.—Oyster friandines. — de poissoil.—Fish friandines. — de Pis de veau.—Sweetbread friandines. Fpitupe d’huitpes (Fried Oysters).—Poached oysters, bearded and drained, dipped in batter, fried in boiling lard, and served with fried parsley.\/RISSOLES 83 Petites Caisses. Caisses are small round or oval-shaped pastry crust, paper, china or silver cases. These are filled with certain savoury mixtures. Petites caisses de Ris de Veau.—Braised sweet- bread in cases. — de Champignons farcis.—Stuffed mushrooms in cases. — de Foie-Gras aux truffes.—Goose liver truffled in cases. — a la Henri IV. —Chicken souffle mixture baked in cases, with mushroom head on top of each. — de Moelle.—Braised marrow fat in cases. Petits Pates aux Huitres.—Small oyster patties. — aUX Alouettes.—Small lark patties. — aux Cailles.—Small quail patties. — a la Joinville.—Small patties filled with lobster, chicken and truffle. Petits Pains or Darioles. Pains or darioles are made with certain kinds of preparation forcemeat, which are placed in suitable small buttered moulds, and poached in the oven; usually served with rich white or brown sauces. Pains are made in plain and darioles in fluted moulds. Petits Pains de Cailles.—Small darioles of quail forcemeat; truffle sauce. — de Foie-Gras. — Small goose liver and truffle timbales; madere sauce. Petits Souffles de Poisson en caisses.—Small fish souffles baked in china or paper cases. — de Volaille a la Creme. — Chicken cream souffles baked in china or paper cases. Pilau or Pillaw k lTndienne. Braised, boned, and stuffed fowl, cut into small slices, dressed with minced fried onions, mangoes, on small rice shapes ; curry sauce. Pilau a la Turque.—Minced chicken and ham with savoury rice, seasoned with savoury herbs and sherry wine. Rissoles. These are small half-moon shapes of short crust or puff paste, filled with prepared minced fish, meat or game, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, dripping, or lard ; they are garnished with fresh or fried parsley. Rissoles a la Russe (Russian Rissoles).—Filling: salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham, and mushrooms.84 ENTREES Rissoles k la Moelle de Bceuf.—Rissoles of beef marrow. — de B6casse aux truffes.—Snipe rissoles with truffles. — El la Chasseur.—Venison rissoles. — de Foie-Gras.—Goose liver rissoles. — de Gibier.—Game rissoles. — a la Hollandaise.—Oyster and truffle rissoles. — de Homard.—Lobster rissoles. — aux Huitres.—Oyster rissoles. — de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread rissoles. — de Volatile kl’Indienne.—Curried fowl rissoles. Ravioles. Ravioles &la Napolitaine (Neapolitan Ravioles). —These are very small round flat patties made of nouille paste, and filled with a mixture of grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs, and cayenne, poached in stock or baked in the oven, and served with tomato sauce. Timbales and Darioles. The word timbale means a cup, bowl, or beaker, but in cookery it is applied to certain kinds of light fish, meat,or game souffles, cooked in cup-or timbale-shaped moulds, either baked or poached. The moulds are frequently lined with a thin paste, nouille or short crust, or with cooked macaroni. Timbale de Cailles.—Quail timbale. — de GibieP.—Game timbale. — de Perdreau.—Partridge timbale. — a la Talleyrand.—Forcemeat and ox-tongue timbale. Cassolettes a la Montglas.—Cornucopian shapes of puff paste, baked and filled with braised lamb’s breads, cut in dice, mushrooms and truffles, with allemande sauce. BCEUF—BEEF. Cervelle de Boeuf (Ox-Brains) en Matelote.— Stewed in red wine sauce with braised button onions. — frite (Fried).—Blanched, cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, or dipped in frying batter and fried. — au gratin (Baked).—Blanched, placed in a buttered dish, sauced over, breaded, and baked in the oven. Chateaubriand. — Double fillet, cut very thick, and generally boiled or grilled. — k la B6arnaise. — Basted with sweet oil and broiled ; served with b£arnaise sauce. — & la Chipolata.—Grilled ; garnished with braised chestnuts, fried pieces of sausages, and mushroom heads ; tomato sauce.BEEF 85 Chateaubriand k la Cordon Rouge.—Basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled ; garnished with sliced truffles, brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes; demi-glace sauce. — a la Grecque.—Grilled ; garnished with fried egg- plants (aubergines); madere sauce with chopped parsley. — a la Hoteliere. — Grilled ; sauced over with supreme sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat glaze. — k la Lombarde.—Grilled; garnished with stuffed, baked tomatoes ; madere sauce. — k la Marquise.—Broiled in butter; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with small stuffed lettuce. — a la Marseillaise.—Broiled ; surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and small pieces of fried calf’s feet; bordelaise sauce. — a la Rosny.—Broiled in butter; served with fried slices of cucumber and poivrade sauce. — a la Veron.—Stuffed from the side with chopped blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil and grilled; served with echalote sauce. Beef Steak or Small Rump Steak. Beef Steak a la Bardoux.—Steaks cut rather thin, dipped in oiled butter rolled in a mixture of fresh breadcrumbs, chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper, fried briskly and served with brown herb sauce. — a la Brisse.—Slightly marinated and broiled; served with richly spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small turnip timbales. — a la GodaPd.—Grilled ; garnished with sliced sweetbreads, mushroom heads, quarters of arti- choke bottom, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — kl2i SoyeP.—Thickly cut steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, finely chopped chives, parsley and seasoning, and broiled; sauce fines herbes. — Suedois.—Small steaks cut from rump, seasoned, and cooked in butter ; dressed with onion, finely cut and fried, and garnished with saute potatoes. — a la Tupinoise.—Grilled ; garnished with small nouilles timbales ; tomato sauce. Entrec6tes—Sirloin Steaks. Entrecotes a la Beapnaise.—Grilled; served with bearnaise sauce.86 ENTRIES Entrecotes au beurre d’Anchois.—Grilled; with anchovy butter. — a la Bordelaise.—With bordelaise sauce. — k la Maitre d’Hotel. — Broiled ; with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Moelle.—Broiled ; with blanched and grilled slices of beef marrow. — k la Montague.—Grilled ; garnished with small stuffed tomatoes, and artichoke bottoms filled with tossed mushrooms. — a la Nicolas. — Broiled in butter; dressed in casserole, with whole truffles and slices of foie- gras. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled or grilled ; spread over with crushed shallot and chopped parsley, lemon juice and meat glaze, and garnished with marble- shaped fried potatoes. — aux Pommes soufflees.—With parsley butter, garnished with puff or souffle potatoes. — a la Rockaway. — Grilled; served with fried onion rings and grated horseradish. Note.—For other kinds of dressing and garnish, see Fillets and Tournedos. Filets, etc.—Fillets. Filets mignons, or coeurs de filets de boeuf, are rather smaller than ordinary fillets, and more closely trimmed than the former. Faux-filet is the name given to fillets cut from other parts, such as rump, sirloin, or the rib of beef. All these names are intended to be included under the above heading, the mode of cooking being exactly the same as for ordinary fillets. When no special sauce is quoted, demi-glace or plain gravy should be poured round the base of the dish. Filets de Bceuf a l’Andalouse. — Larded and braised ; garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage-lettuces and tomatoes. — a l’Athenienne.—Larded and braised ; served with fried, sliced egg-plants ; madere sauce. — au beurre d’Anehois.—Broiled or grilled ; with anchovy butter. — a la B^arnaise. — Broiled or grilled; with bearnaise sauce on fillets, and demi-glace round them. — a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled ; with beef- marrow and bordelaise sauce. — aux Champignons.—With sliced mushrooms and brown sauce. — a la Claremont.—Larded and braised; served with braised cucumber and tomatoes, and smallIBEEF 87 stuffed onions glazed ; bearnaise and demi-glace sauces. Filets de Bceuf a la Dauphine. — Larded and grilled ; garnished with fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles ; p£rigueux sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled or broiled ; with brown savoury herb sauce. — a la Garfield.—Larded and grilled ; served with finely cut julienne strips of ham, tongue, truffles and mushrooms; poivrade sauce. — a la Gouffe.—Larded and fried ; garnished with small beef-marrow toasts; demi-glace sauce. — a la Jardiniere. — Grilled ; garnished with groups of spring vegetables. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled; with parsley butter. — au Malaga.—Barded and braised ; dressed with madere or Marsala wine sauce; garnished with potato croquets done up in the shape of grapes, with nouille paste stalks inserted, and fried. — a la Marinade. — Larded and marinated in vinegar wine and herbs; grilled or braised; poivrade sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Broiled ; garnished with fried eggs, tarragon leaves, and anchovy fillets on fillets of beef; group of truffles and champignons around dish; madere sauce. — Moscovite. — Larded; placed in Rhine wine marinade, and braised or sauteed; served with madere sauce, and garnished with chopped and rolled almonds. — aux Olives farcies.—Grilled ; with stuffed olives. — a la Palmeritaine.—Larded and broiled, and garnished with stuffed aubergines and mashed potatoes. — a la Polonaise.—Finely chopped lean beef and chopped suet, seasoned, and shaped like fillets ; egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes; demi-glace sauce. — a la Proven^ale. — Grilled ; garnished with stuffed mushrooms and tomatoes; demi-glace or madere sauce. — a la Sieilienne.—Grilled; served with rings of fried onion ; sauce, madere. — a la Sigurd.—Larded fillet of beef, marinated in madere, and braised ; garnished with small potato cassolettes filled with asparagus point puree, sauteed artichoke bottoms cut in dice, chestnut croquettes, and mushroom heads. — aux truffes.— Broiled or grilled ; served with brown sauce containing sliced truffles.ENTREES 88 Filets de Bceuf k la Therapeia. — Broiled; dressed on a bed of mushroom puree, sprinkled with finely chopped herbs, garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes and truffles, sauced over with nut- brown butter and Worcester sauce. — a la Toreador.—Grilled, rather underdone ; gar- nished with sauteed fresh mushrooms and Spanish pimentos; tomato sauce. — a la Viennoise.—Fillet or other tender lean beef chopped finely and shaped into small fillets, fried in butter, garnished with onion puree and fried onion rings; brown sauce. — a la Wellington.—Tossed in butter over a brisk fire, cooled and wrapped carefully in thinly rolled- out puff paste, with a layer of “ fines herbes ’ ’ spread over the fillets; brush over the paste with egg-yolk and bake in moderate oven io to 15 minutes; dress on potato puree (socle), garnish with green peas, French beans, truffles, and potatoes cut in cubes and tossed in butter. Toupnedos de Boeuf. — Small fillets of beef, trimmed into oval shapes, weighing about two ounces. They are usually dressed on croutons of fried bread. Unless otherwise stated, all tournedos are to be broiled or tossed in butter over a fairly quick fire. — a FArlesienne.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, sauced over with demi-glace containing julienne strips of celery. — a rAlexandra.—Larded, braised and glazed ; dressed on croutons with slice of truffle on each; garnished with quarters of artichokes ; sauce peri- gueux. — a l’Apmand.—Grilled, dressed on fried bread croutons covered with foie-gras puree; garnished with souffle potatoes and slices of truffles ; sauce, bordelaise. — bpais4s au Celeri.—Larded fillets of beef braised with celery, and finished in rich brown sauce; dressed on croutons in a circle, with celery in centre. — k la ChasseUP.—Slightly marinated, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. — a la Colbept.—Fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter, dished up in circle, centre of dish filled with small rounds of fried potatoes ; eschalot sauce reduced with sherry wine. — a la Dpexel.—Grilled, dressed on fried bread croutons coated with bearnaise sauce, border of each fillet garnished with tomato puree, slice of truffle in centre, and dish surrounded with straw potatoes (pommes pailles).BEEF 89 Tournedos de Bceuf k l’Elysee.—Slice of braised sweetbread and mushroom head on each tournedo, with a border of b£arnaise sauce. — a 1’EmppesS.—Broiled in butter, dressed on fried bread croutons, with half a grilled tomato and a small piece of grilled marrow on each; garnished with asparagus points and noisette potatoes; sauce, p£rigueux. — a la FavOPite.—Grilled, dressed on croutons, with slice of foie-gras ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points ; sauce, madere. — a la Gabrielle. — Sauteed, dressed on rounds of puff pastry of similar size, covered with light chicken puree; garnished with truffles, green peas, and straw potatoes ; sauce, b£arnaise and demi- glace. — a la Grand Hotel.—Grilled, dressed on croutons of rice of same size, slices of foie-gras and asparagus points; sauce, madere. — a la Helder.—Broiled in butter, dressed on crou- tons, with bearnaise sauce as border of each tournedo, and tomato puree in centre ; surrounded with noisette potatoes. — MacMahon.— Grilled, garnished with slices of truffles, flageolets, and chateau potatoes; sauce, madere. — Menagere.—Tournedos dressed on a border of duchess potato (puree), centre filled with braised carrots and turnips (olive shape), button onions, and noisette potatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. — a la Mercedes.—Coated with artichoke puree and mushroom heads ; sauce, demi-glace or madere. — Meridionale.—Grilled, garnished with sorrel, stuffed tomatoes, green peas, and cepes; plain gravy. — k la Mireille .—Tournedos dressed on croutons of brioche paste ; garnished with asparagus points ; sauce tomate. — Mikado.—Grilled and garnished with half a stuffed and baked tomato on each tournedo ; sauce, madere. — k la Monaco. — Tournedos dressed on bread croutons spread with foie-gras farce ; garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tongue ; demi- glace sauce. — Montmorency.—Tournedos placed on rice crou- tons ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus points ; plain gravy. — Monte Carlo.—Garnished with slice of foie-gras and truffle on top of each, and dish surrounded with fried slices of sweetbread and fried brain ; sauce, madere.90 ENTREES Toupnedos de Bceuf k la Nelson. — Par-fried tournedos, finished in casserole .with braised button onions, demi-glace or madere sauce, and dice of fried potatoes. ■— a la Nesselrode.—Garnished with chestnut puree, potato chips, sauced round with demi-glace. — k la Ni§Oise.—Sauteed beef fillets dressed on croutons ; garnished with small French beans and small tossed tomatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. — a l’OPSay.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, gar- nished with stoned olives, mushrooms, and chateau potatoes; sauce, madere. — Othello.—Poached or fried egg on each tournedo, with p^rigueux sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled, with a garnish of asparagus points, noisette potatoes, and bearnaise sauce. — Piemontaise.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with small timbales of rice mixed with chopped truffles, with mushroom head on each ; sauce, demi-glace. •— PompadoUP. — Tournedos spread with tomato puree, with a slice of fried ham and a slice of truffle on top of each ; clear gravy. — Ppince Mupat.—Small fillets of beef and slices of raw foie-gras, of similar size, broiled separately, dressed together on bread croutons; garnished with turned Spanish olives, stuffed with farce de champi- gnons and olive-shaped potatoes baked in butter ; sauced over with tomato and madere blended sauce. — a la Quipinal.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, spread with duralle or champignon puree; garnished with straw potatoes ; sauce, madere. — a la Rachel.—Tournedos dressed on artichoke bottoms, sauced over with beef marrow sauce (moelle). — a la Riche.—Artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas, placed on each tournedo, with a slice of truffle on top; sauce, chorron. — Savoisienne.—Braised tournedos done in casse- role, with demi-glace sauce, small button onions, champignons, green peas, and chateau potatoes. — a la Sepibe.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of rice spread over with foie-gras puree ; sauce, madere. — Stpasboupg’eoise.—Slice of braised foie-gras and a slice of smoked sausage on each tournedo ; sauce, madere. — a la ThiePS.—Pre-fried tournedos finished in casserole, with braised button onions, slices of truffles, stoned olives, and brown sauce flavoured with sauterne.I i\ / \9* BEEF Tournedos de Bceuf k la Troia.—Grilled toumedos with anchovy fillet and slice of truffle on top of each; when cold enclosed in brioche paste and baked in a quick oven; served with madere sauce, containing finely cut strips of truffle. — La Valliere.—Sauteed and dressed on croutons, coated with demi-glace sauce, containing julienne strips of truffle, mushrooms and tongue. Beignets de Bceuf a la Minute.—Cold roast beef cut in strips, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. Boeuf saute a la Bourgeoise.—Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions; brown sauce. — a la Flamande. — Braised pieces of rump of beef; garnished with stuffed spring cabbages; brown sauce. Carbonade k la Flamande.—Thin slices of lean beef stewed in casserole, in rich brown sauce, with minced onions, neatly shaped plain boiled potatoes placed on top of stew ; served in casserole. Croquettes de Bceuf a l’Anglaise(Beef Croquettes). —Finely minced cooked beef, made into square, cork,cutlet,or ball shapes,egged,crumbed, and fried. — a l’ltalienne. — Fried beef croquettes with Italian sauce. Culottes de Boeuf, Maintenon.—Braised beef cut in slices and dressed in pyramids ; garnished with small timbales of nouilles; seasoned with soubise and duchess potatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. Frieot de Bceuf k la Charles X.—Braised rump steak, when cold cut into strips ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with a brown eschalot sauce. — a l’lndienne.—Curried beef stew, served with boiled rice. — a l’lrelandaise.—Stewed beef with potatoes cut in cubes, and onions; brown sauce. Goulaseh de Bceuf.—Lean beef cut in dice shapes and tossed in butter; mixed with dice-shaped potatoes ; seasoned with paprika and finished in brown sauce. — a la HerzegOVine.—Saute of beef, sliced finely, and fried onions; tomato sauce and claret flavour ; seasoned with salt and paprika; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes. — a la Polonaise.—Sliced beef, stewed, with fried bacon and potato cut in dice; seasoned with Hungarian red pepper Hachis de Bceuf a la Frangaise.—Sliced cold beef braised in butter and finely chopped onions, finished in brown sauce and chopped parsley. ■— a l’Anglaise.— Minced or hashed beef with poached eggs ; garnished with fried bread sippets.92 ENTREES Lang*ue de Boeuf.—Ox-Tongue. — A la Flamande.—Braised ox-tongue, garnished with groups of cooked carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage, sauced over with brown sauce. — fum6e aux petitS pois.—Smoked, braised ox- tongue with green peas. — au gratin (Baked Ox-Tongue).—Sliced boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking dish, with a mixture of brown sauce, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and served on the dish it is baked on. — a l’lndienne.—Curried ox-tongue with boiled rice. — k la Napolitaine.—Braised ox-tongue, with stewed macaroni, tomato puree, and parmesan cheese. — au Parmesan.—Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven. — a la Robert. — Stewed ox-tongue with brown onion sauce. — k la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with a sauce composed of espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine- seeds (pignolis), flavoured with chilli vinegar and castor sugar. Miroton de Boeuf.—Sliced cooked beef broiled in butter and chopped onions, and stewed in brown sauce. Noix de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or cushion of beef larded, finished in a richly flavoured brown sauce with a little tomato pur£e, garnished with braised carrots and button onions. — A l’etouffade.—Kernel of beef with brown sauce, stewed in the oven. Olives de Boeuf k l’Anglaise.—Thin slices of rump steak spread over with suet stuffing, rolled and braised, served with richly flavoured brown sauce, chopped parsley, and thin slices of fried bacon. Opeilles de Boeuf k la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled pickled ox-ears, when cold dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. Paupiettes de Boeuf k la Richelieu.—Sliced fillets of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled and braised; garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, mush- rooms ; served with Richelieu sauce.'▼' ♦ f1 * % s ♦VEAL 93 Palais de Bceuf au gratin.—Braised ox-palates prepared and baked in gratin style. — gFillds.—Pickled ox-palates egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter and grilled, served with a piquant tomato sauce. — a l’lndienne. — Curried ox-palate, with boiled rice. — a ntalienne.—Stewed ox-palates dished up in a circle with fried bread croutons ; Italian sauce. — aux Macaronis.—Braised ox-palates with maca- roni. — a l’Orly. —Stewed ox-palate; when cold spread with forcemeat mixed with savoury herbs, rolled, coated with white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — a la Ravigote.—Stewed ox-palates dressed in a border of fried bread, sauced over with ravigote sauce. Poitrine de Bceuf frite k la Sainte-Menehould.— Boned and braised breast of beef cut into slices, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Queue de Bceuf, braisee aux Olives.—Braised ox-tail with turned olives and brown sauce. — aux Haricots Verts.—Stewed ox-tail, garnished with French beans. — a la Hotch-potch.—Hotch-potch ox-tail stew, garnished with glazed carrots and small onions (a national Scotch dish). — aux Petits Pois.—Stewed ox-tail, with green peas in centre of dish. Haricots de Queue de Bceuf.—Stewed ox-tail, with braised carrots and turnips neatly shaped, small onions, and white haricot beans. VEAU—VEAL. Ballotine de Veau farcie.— Stuffed rolled breast of veal, braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. Blanquette de Veau a l’Allemande.— Fillet or breast of veal with sliced mushrooms stewed in white sauce. — aux COneombreS.—Stewed veal in white sauce with cubes of braised cucumber. — k l’lndienne. — Stewed veal in white sauce flavoured with curry ; served in border of rice. — k la Poulette.—Stewed veal with sliced mush- rooms in white sauce with finely chopped parsley. — aux truffes.—Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced truffles.ENTREES 94 Carre de Veau piqud aux petits pois.—Neck of veal larded and braised, with green peas. — pique k la Creme Aigre.—Braised larded neck of veal with sour cream sauce. — a la Puree de Tomate.— Braised neck of veal with tomato sauce. Cotes et Cotelettes de Veau (Veal cutlets).—Cotes or cutlets of veal should be cut from the neck or loin ; cutlets, however, should be trimmed with the bone left on, and in consequence can only be obtained from the neck. — a l’Allemande.—Breaded veal cutlets fried in butter, dressed round potato purde; sauce, demi- glace. — a TAnglaise. — Breaded veal cutlets grilled; garnished with potatoes fried or tossed in butter. — en Belle Vue.—Fillets or cutlets of veal cooked and set in aspic, coated with chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with truffles and jardiniere. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled veal cutlets, dished up on fried bread croutons with stewed cepes in centre; sauce, bordelaise. — a la Chieoree.—Broiled veal cutlets with mashed chicory. — a la Craeovie.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with strips of anchovy fillets ; sauce, madere. — en Crepinettes.—Veal cutlets wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried; demi-glace or plain gravy. — a la Dauphine. — Veal cutlets stuffed with chopped tongue and truffles; garnished with potato croquettes; perigueux sauce. — a la Demi-glaee.—Veal cutlets fried or grilled ; served with brown, i.e., demi-glace, sauce. — k la Dreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins; served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread; sauce, tomate. — aux epinards.—Broiled veal cutlets with mashed spinach. — k 1’EcaPlate.—Plain broiled veal cutlets dressed alternately with heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue; sauce, tomate. — grilles.—Plain grilled veal cutlets — & l’ltalienne.—Plain broiled veal cutlets with Italian sauce. — k la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; garnished with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour, and fried in clarified butter.95 VEAL Cotes et Cotelettes de Veau k la Maitre d’Hotel. —Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maitre d'hotel butter. — a la Marshal.—Egged and cheese-crumbed veal cutlets fried ; served with bigarade sauce. — k la Milanaise.—Veal cutlets garnished with macaroni, stewed in tomato sauce and parmesan cheese. — au naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled veal cutlets. — panees.—Breaded and fried veal cutlets. — en papillotes. — Stuffed veal cutlets braised, served in paper cases. — a la PaFjarski.—Cutlet shapes of minced veal, egged, crumbed, and fried; sauce, demi-glace and tomate. — a la Parma.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, and fried; tomato or demi-glace sauce. — a la Prusse.—Veal cutlets spread with a mixture of truffles and finely chopped shallots braised. — a la Reine.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed, broiled in butter; served with demi-glace sauce, truffles, and preserved mushrooms. — saut6es au beurre.—Veal cutlets broiled in butter ; served with plain gravy. — a la Singapat.—Veal cutlets larded with small strips of smoked ox-tongue, and braised. — a la Soubise.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; served with white onion puree. — a la Saint-Cloud.—Veal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, and garnished with forcemeat quenelles ; sauce, allemande. — k la ZingaPa. — Fried veal cutlets dished up alternately with cutlet-shaped slices of broiled ham ; sauce, madere. Cepvelle de Veau.—Calfs brain. — au beignets.—Calf’s brain fritters. — au beUPPe noip.—Poached calf’s brain; served with nut-brown butter. — a la Demi-glace.—Calf’s brain cooked in brown sauce. — a la FinanciePe.—Boiled calf’s brain with a rich financiere sauce and garniture. — fpitupe OP fpites.—Fried calf’s brain. — au gpatin.—Calf’s brain prepared with white sauce, dressed on dish, and browned in oven. — aux huitPes.—Calf’s brain stewed with oysters and chopped parsley. — a la Milanaise. — Fried calf’s brain served with macaroni and tomato sauce ; garnished with ham, tongue, finely-shredded mushrooms, and truffles.96 ENTRIES Cervelle de Veau k la Ravigote.— Fried calf’s brain with savoury herb sauce. — k la Tartape. — Fried calf’s brain served with tar tare sauce. Souffle de Cepvelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain souffle baked in paper cases or shells. Escalopes de Veau are fillets of veal cut into cutlet, round, oval, or heart shapes, flattened and trimmed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — aux aspepges.—With stewed asparagus points. — aux epmapds.—With spinach as garnish. — a la Holstein.—Garnished with slices of hard- boiled egg, anchovy fillets, gherkins, and capers. — au jambon.—With fried or broiled slices of ham. — k la P^pigopd.—Larded with truffles and bacon, and fried ; served with madere sauce. — aux petitS pois.—With green peas. — a la Savoisienne.—Dressed in the centre of a border of small savoury rice timbales; sauce, demi-glace and tomato. — a la Tomate.—Served with tomato puree. — a la Viennoise.—Served with brown sauce ; garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard-boiled egg. Foie de Veau.—Calf’s Liver. — saut6 k l’Allemande.—Sliced calf’s liver tossed in butter, with brown savoury sauce. — A l’Anglaise.—Fried calf’s liver with slices of bacon and brown sauce. — a la Boupgeoise.—Slices of calf’s liver larded and braised ; garnished with braised carrots and button onions ; sauce, demi-glace. — bpaise a l’ltalienne.—Braised calf’s liver with brown sauce containing tomato puree, chopped shallots, and mushrooms. — pane.—Breaded calf’s liver fried. — pique.—Larded calf’s liver, braised. — poti. —Roast calf’s liver. — saute, sauce piquante. — Stewed or tossed calf’s liver with piquante sauce. — fpit a la Tomate. — Fried calf’s liver with tomato sauce. Quenelles de Foie de Veau.—Calf’s liver quenelles poached and served with brown sauce. Fpicandeau de Veau aux Champignons. — Served with stewed mushrooms. — k la Macedoine.—Larded and braised cushion piece of veal; garnished with fancifully cut vege- tables called macedoine de legumes.—I * 1f 497 VEAL Frieandeau de Veau au naturel.—Braised and served with plain gravy. — a la Regence.—Larded, braised, and glazed with its own gravy reduced; garnished with veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles ; sauce, madere. — a la Tomate.—Served with stewed tomatoes and tomato sauce. Fricandelles de Veau, Sauce Tomate. — Small veal forcemeat dumplings, boiled, drained, and when cold egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — au gratin.—Veal forcemeat dumplings boiled, placed in a buttered dish, covered with white sauce and breadcrumbs ; browned in the oven. Filets de Veau k la Bechamel.—Fillets of veal boiled and stewed in bechamel sauce. — a la Fran§aise.—Braised fillets of veal, served with a brown sauce, blended with tomato puree. — farei a la Fpan§aise.—Larded fillets of veal stuffed and rolled, and braised ; served with brown sauce and marble-shaped fried potatoes. — aux Haricots Verts.—Broiled fillets of veal with French beans. — a la Milanaise.—Fried fillets of veal, garnished with stewed macaroni mixed with white sauce, parmesan cheese, and finely shredded ox-tongue; tomato sauce. — a l’Oseille.—Small veal fillets broiled, and served with sorrel puree. — a la Puree de Coneombres.—Broiled fillets of veal with mashed cucumber. — roti aux Pommes Pailles.—Roast fillet of veal larded ; garnished with very finely cut strips of fried potatoes. — a la Talleyrand.—Small circular or oval slices of veal fillets fried in butter, and finished by cooking in a cream sauce flavoured with lemon juice and shallots, and enriched with egg-yolks. Fricassee de Veau k l’Anglaise.—Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms ; served with thin slices of fried bacon. — a l’Allemande.—Stewed pieces of breast of veal in white sauce, garnished with small quenelles, crayfish tails, asparagus, and sprigs of cauliflower. Gateau de Veau aux truffes.—Savoury veal cake baked and served with truffle sauce. — au bain-marie.—Veal cake poached or steamed ; served with white sauce. Goulaehe de Veau k la Hongroise. — Finely cut broiled veal with pepper sauce. E93 ENTREES Grenadins de Veau.— Larded veal fillets (coilops) broiled or braised. — aux epinapds.—With spinach puree. — a la Fermiere.—Garnished with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, cauliflower, and small round fried potatoes; sauce, demi-glace. — aux petits pois.—With green peas. — a la Tomate.—With tomato sauce, or garnished with fried tomatoes. Timbales de Godiveau.—A kind of small pudding made of veal forcemeat, steamed; served with white sauce. Haricot de Veau a l’Anglaise.—Stewed pieces of neck of veal, with braised button onions, green peas, carrots and turnips; brown sauce. Hachis de Veau. — Minced veal cooked in white sauce. Langue de Veau.—Calf’s Tongue. — aux epinapds.—With spinach. ’ •— au gratin.—Cooked calf’s tongue sliced, dressed on dish, and baked with brown sauce. — a l’ltalienne.—Boiled pickled calf’s tongue with Italian sauce. — en papillotes.—Braised calf’s tongue in paper cases. — aux petits pois.—Braised calf’s tongue with green peas. — a la Poivrade.— Braised calf’s tongue with brown pepper sauce. — aux pointes d’asperges. — With asparagus points. — a la Tartare.—Cooked veal tongues, cut in halves, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with tartare sauce. Longe de Veau.—Loin of Veal. — a l’Anglaise.—Loin of veal stuffed with force- meat and savoury herbs; served with fried or grilled slices of bacon. — a l’Allemande.—Braised loin of veal, boned, and stuffed with veal forcemeat and bacon. — a la Fpan^aise.—Braised loin of veal boned and stuffed; served with stuffed tomatoes and potato croquettes. — a la Montglas.—Braised loin of veal, larded, garnished with tongue, truffles, chicken fillet, and mushrooms cut in dice or shi-eds ; sauce, demi-glace. ■— a la Proveneale.—Roast loin of veal, stuffed with minced onions and pork forcemeat ; served with stuffed tomatoes ; sauce, proveneale. Mous de Veau a l’lndienne.—Calf’s lungs stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice.99 VEAL E 2 Noix de Veau piquee a la Bechamel.—Larded, braised white ; served with bechamel sauce. — & la FinanciePe.—Stewed whole, with cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, sliced mushrooms, and truffles ; sauce, demi-glace or financiere. — k la Gendarme.—Larded and roasted ; served with a highly spiced brown sauce reduced with chilli vinegar and tomato puree. — ala Jardiniere.—Larded and braised ; garnished with groups of small spring vegetables. — a la Lyonnaise.—Braised; garnished with stuffed braised onions, glazed chestnuts, and small pieces of fried sausages. — piquee a la Montpensier.—Braised cushion or kernel of veal larded with truffles and bacon. — k la Napolitaine. — Stewed or braised with macaroni and timbales ; tomato sauce. — a la Nivernaise. — Braised; garnished with braised turnips; sauce, espagnole reduced with white wine. — a la Sarde.—Larded and braised ; garnished with baked, parboiled ravioli, previously filled with spinach and parmesan cheese. — piquee a la Trianon.— Larded and braised; served with a puree of chestnuts and demi-glace sauce. — k la Westphalie.—Braised, with slices of West- phalian ham. Paupiettes de Veau aux Champignons.—Rolle fillets of veal larded and braised; served with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce. — aux tomates farcies. — Served with braised stuffed tomatoes. Pieds de Veau.—Calf’s Feet. — en fricassee. — Stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms. — a la Poulette.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley. — frits k la Tyrolienne.—Fried calf’s feet with tomato sauce. — k la Vinaigrette.—Boiled in stock, dressed and served with vinaigrette sauce. Olives de Veau (Veal Olives).—Slices of lean veal spread over with savoury forcemeat, rolled up like olives, and stewed in white or brown sauce. — k l’Anglaise.— Small olive-shaped rolls of thin slices of fillet of veal stuffed with veal forcemeat and bacon, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with brown sauce and fried slices of bacon.100 ENTREES OreiUes de Veau.—Calf’s Ears. — farcies, sauce tomate. — Stuffed with force- meat and baked, and tomato sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, cut into strips, stewed in brown sauce, and served with fried onion rings and bread croutons. — a la Tomate.—Calf’s ears fried with tomato sauce. Queue de Veau.—Calf’s tail. — a l’Allemande. — Calf’s tail stewed in white sauce. — a rindienne.—Curried calf’s tail with rice. Ragout de Veau.—Pieces of breast or other parts of veal, fried and stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mushrooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread. — a la St. Cloud. — Braised sweetbread larded, served with tomato sauce and sliced truffles. — a la ChasseuP.—Stewed in brown sauce; served in a border of puree of game. — a la ChiCOPee.—With chicory or endive puree. — a la Colbept. — Slices of cooked sweetbread, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled; served with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.— Braised, garnished with small puff paste bouchees filled with vegetable macedoine tossed in butter. — a la Creme sup Bopdupe de Riz. — White sweetbread stew; served on a border of rice. — a la Dauphine.—Larded and braised; served with potato croquettes and sorrel pur£e. — en Demi-Deuil. — Braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only. — a la Duxelles.—Slices of sweetbread coated with velout6 sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, ox- tongue, and mushrooms, breaded and fried ; sauce, supreme. — aux epinapds.—Braised sweetbread with spinach. — fpit, sauce tomate. — Fried sweetbread with tomato sauce. — a la Finaneiepe.—Same as Toulouse, but garni- ture is prepared in brown Madeira sauce. — a la Godard.—Like financiere, with the addition of stuffed olives. — l’ltalienne.—Fried sweetbread, masked with white sauce and breaded ; Italian sauce. — & la Japdiniepe.—Larded and braised, with neatly cut groups of spring vegetables; demi-glace sauce. — & la Matignon.—Parboiled, slightly marinated in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce.VEAL IOI e 3 His de Veau a la Milanaise.—Larded, braised and glazed; served with stewed macaroni, flavoured with parmesan cheese, and mingled with shreds of ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — k la Montpensier.—Larded and braised ; served in a border of rice with truffles. — a l’Oseille. —With sorrel puree. — en papillotes.— Braised sweetbread served in paper cases. — aux petitS pois.—With green peas. — pique aux champignons.—Larded and braised, with mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce. — aux pointes d’asperges. — With asparagus points. — a la Raehel.—Larded and braised ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with finely shredded truffles. — a la Talleyrand.—Larded and braised ; dressed on spinach or chicory puree ; truffle sauce. — a la Tomate.—With stewed tomatoes. — a la Toulouse. — Larded and braised white ; served with truffles, chicken quenelles, and cocks’ combs; prepared in allemande sauce; garnished with fried bread croutons or fleurons. — a la Turque.—Blanched and braised, cut into slices, then egged, crumbed, and fried; sauce, tomate. — au Vol-au-Vent.—White sweetbread stew in a light puff-paste crust. — a la Villeroi .—Braised sweetbread sliced, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with fried parsley; tomato sauce.. Beignets de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread fritters. Coquilles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread stew baked in shells. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Huitpes.—Slices of fried sweetbread, with stewed oysters as garnish. — a la Doria.—Slices of braised sweetbread finished in veloute sauce; garnished with cooked cucumber slices. Hatelettes de Ris de Veau.—Larded sweetbread roasted on silver skewers. Papillotes de Veau k la Maintenon.—Boned veal cutlets, fried in butter, stuffed with forcemeat and savoury herbs, wrapped in paper, and baked ; served with fried parsley.ENTREES 102 Rognon de Veau.—Calf’s kidney. — a la Bordelaise.—Fried and stewed ; red wine sauce with chopped shallots and parsley, and dice shapes of fried potatoes. — a la Demidoff.—Sliced, fried in butter, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and stewed in sauce madere ; dressed in border of stewed rice mixed with truffles. — en Demi-glace.— Veal kidneys, barded, and braised whole ; served with demi-glace sauce. — grilles.—Grilled veal kidneys cut in halves and served with fried bacon. — a la Maitre d’Hotel .—Stewed veal kidneys with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. — sautes. — Thinly sliced veal kidney, tossed in butter, and stewed with onion sauce. — sautes au Vin blane.— Sliced, sauteed, and stewed in white wine sauce. — sautes au Vin rouge.— Sliced, sauteed, and stewed in red wine sauce. Roulade de Veau au Madere.—Rolled fillet or boned loin of veal stuffed and braised ; served with madere sauce. Saute de Veau a la Marengo.—Slices of cushion, neck, or loin of veal, fried and stewed, with sliced mushrooms,chopped shallots, tomato and espagnole sauce ; flavoured with sherry wine ; dished up in pyramid form ; garnished with eggs fried whole in very hot sweet oil, and bread croutons. Tendrons de Veau.—Veal gristles, or veal tendrons, cut off the thick end of the breast of veal and fried, and stewed in brown sauce. — aux Coneombres.—Braised and garnished with stewed cucumbers. — a l’Indienne.—Stewed in curry sauce, with slices of fried bacon and boiled rice. — a la Proven§ale.—Fried in salad oil, with finely chopped onions and herbs, drained, and stewed in a brown onion sauce. — frits a la Suisse.—Braised ; when cold cut into one inch thick slices, egged, crumbed, and fried; tomato sauce. — ail Veloute.—Braised white and stewed in veloute sauce. — A la Villeroi.—Braised ; when cold, cut into slices, soaked in marinade, drained, dipped in frying batter and fried ; tomato sauce. Tete de Veau.—Calf’s head. — a l’Amdrieaine.—Stewed in tomato sauce, with peeled tomatoes, chopped parsley, and fennel. — k l’Anglaise.—Stewed in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and sippets of bread.I%LAMB AND MUTTON 103 Tete de Veau k la Destilliere.—Stewed in brown sauce, with sliced ox-tongue, gherkins and mush- rooms ; garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and slices of pickled beetroot. — en escalopes.—Boiled, cut in slices, steeped in oil and vinegar, sprinkled with chopped parsley, dipped in batter and fried. — fpite k la Taptape.—Boiled, cut in pieces, pickled, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with tar tare sauce. — en fricassee.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — aux huitPes. — Stewed in white sauce with oysters. — & l’ltalienne.—Stewed in brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, shallots, white wine, and tomato puree. — k la Maitre d’Hotel. —Stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley ; maitre d’hotel sauce. — a la Poulette.— Calf’s head stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. — k la Robert.—Stewed in brown onion sauce. — k la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled, dished in a well buttered dish, covered with a mixture of veloute sauce, yolks of eggs and breadcrumbs, baked in the oven. — en TOPtue.—Stewed in rich brown sauce, with veal quenelles, button mushrooms, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, crayfish tails, and pickled gherkins; garnished with fried whole eggs and fleurons (little half-moon shapes of baked puff paste). — a la Tyrolienne.—Cooked in stock, cut in slices, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with fried parsley and lemon quarters; sauce, Tyrolienne. — k la Vinaigrette.—Boiled in stock and served with vinaigrette sauce ; garnished with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy fillets, and olives. AGNEAU ET MOUTON. Lamb and Mutton. Blanquette d’Agneau k la Romaine.—A white stew of lamb (shoulder and breast pieces), enriched with egg-yolks, lemon juice and meat glaze ; garnished with small baked timbales of pur£e of artichoke bottoms.104 ENTREES Cervelles d’Agneau.—Lamb’s Brains. •— au beuPFe noip.—Blanched lamb’s brains, boiled and drained, with nut brown butter poured over. — en eoquilles.— Stewed sheep’s brains, baked and served in shells. — fpites.—Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried. — a la Maitpe d’Hotel.—Blanched sheep’s brains soaked in white sauce with chopped parsley. — en Matelote,—Braised sheep’s or lamb’s brains with a red wine sauce; served with small dice of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. — a la Rosita.—Croustades of fried bread with half a poached lamb’s brain, sauced over with mornay sauce, sprinkled with parmesan, and baked ; dished in circle with fine macaroni, and shredded truffles in centre of dish. Beignets de Cepvelles a la Tupque.—Parboiled, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served with tomato sauce. Chaptpeuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, stewed in white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a chartreuse mould, alternately with braised lettuce steamed “ au bain-marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Carbonades ala Bechamel.—Larded fillets of lamb or mutton braised, and served with bechamel sauce. •— a la Bretonne.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of white haricot beans. ■— a la Chartreuse. — Cooked as above, cut in slices, and dressed in a plain mould, with green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans; demi-glace, sauce. — a l’Oseille.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of sorrel. '— sauce Poivrade.—Braised boned loin of lamb or mutton larded, served with poivrade sauce. Casserole a l’Anglaise. — Slices of lean lamb or mutton, with suet crust, stock, and seasoning, stewed in earthenware pot. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb cutlets. — a la Constance. — Breaded and fried, with financiere ragout as garnish. — aux Coneombres. — Broiled or grilled, with slightly fried cucumbers. — a la Cussy.—Breaded and fried ; served with velout6 sauce, mixed with chopped cooked ox- tongue and mushrooms. — k la Duchesse.—Braised, masked with duxelle purde, egged, crumbed, and fried; dished up on a border of green peas pur£e ; served with sauce supreme.105 LAMB AND MUTTON Cotelettes d’Agneau aux epinards.—Grilled or fried ; garnished with spinach. — A la Jardiniere.—Breaded and fried ; served with stewed spring vegetables. — a la Longuet.—Partially cooked, pressed, and coated with villeroi sauce mixed with mushroom and soubise puree, then egged and crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with mushroom heads ; sauce, demi-glace. — a la Maltaise.—Breaded and fried ; served with well reduced sauce, composed of veloute sauce, sherry, lemon and orange juice, and finely shredded orange peel. — a la Mareehal.— Egged and cheese crumbed, fried, with bigarade sauce. — A la Minute.—Plain grilled or fried ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — en papillotes. — Par-broiled, wrapped in oiled paper with ends twisted, baked in the oven, and served with demi-glace sauce. . — aux petits pois.—Broiled ; garnished with green peas. — k la Prineesse.—Par-fried, pressed, coated with chicken farce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg; when set, egged, crumbed, and fried; dressed round a puree of green peas or asparagus. — a la Robert.—Breaded and fried; served with brown onion sauce. — A la Royale.—Grilled, dressed en couronne, with foie-gras pur£e and tomato pulp (mousse) in centre ; garnished with pommes souffl£es ; sauce madere. — k la Sainte-Menehould.—Stuffed from the sides with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley ; braised in the oven and served with Italian sauce. — a la Singarat.—Grilled or broiled; served with finely shredded ox-tongue and onion puree. — aux truffes.—Grilled or broiled ; served with truffle sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Broiled or grilled and pressed, dipped in veloute sauce, rolled in crushed vermicelli, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Cotelettes de Mouton.—Mutton cutlets. — a l’Avignonnaise.—Boiled or grilled, dressed in a circle on a baking dish, masked with veloute sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven. — k la Bardoux.—Breaded, and broiled in butter ; served with green peas mixed with chopped fried ham.ENTREES io6 Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bouehere.—Breaded and fried ; served plain or with gravy. — a la Bypon.—Par-broiled, pressed, immersed in brown sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried, dished up in a circle, with stewed kidneys in centre. — a la ChaSSeuP.—Broiled, served with brown sauce containing finely chopped mushrooms. — a la Choiseuil.—Spread over with veal force- meat, mixed with chopped herbs and mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s or lamb’s caul, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh breadcrumbs, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la ClamaPt.—Breaded, fried, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas in centre; demi- glace sauce. — a la Dpeux.—Breaded and fried ; garnished with minced fried bacon, tongue and gherkins ; dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. — a la FinaneiePe.—Larded, cooked in butter, sliced onion, carrot and bay-leaf; dressed in crown shapes, with financiere ragout in centre. — a la Fpangaise.—Breaded and fried in butter ; garnished with macedoine of vegetables; sauce, madere. — aux HaPiCOtS Vepts. —Fried, garnished with French beans. — a l’lndienne.—Breaded and fried, served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Marinated in a mixture of salad oil and chopped savoury herbs, egged and crumbed in finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-peel, a pinch of mace, and breadcrumbs, fried in butter; Italian sauce. — a la Maintenon.—Split open from side, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and chicken forcemeat, broiled or baked in the oven, dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham ; Italian sauce. — a la Madpas.—Breaded and fried (crumbs mixed with finely chopped ham) ; garnished with piccalilli cut in julienne shreds, and served with curry sauce. — a la Mancelle.—Plain broiled or grilled, dressed round a puree of chestnuts ; demi-glace sauce. —]& la Milanaise.—Grilled, dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and parmesan cheese; demi-glace or tomato sauce. —Ik la Minute.—Plain grilled or broiled, with gravy or brown sauce, chopped mushrooms and shallots.LAMB AND MUTTON 107 Cotelettes de Mouton an naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled mutton cutlets. — cl la Nelson.—Par-broiled and pressed, covered with chicken forcemeat, onion pur£e, and grated cheese, baked in the oven ; demi-glace sauce. — cl la NivePnaise.—Plain broiled ; served with glazed turnips in centre; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — cl la PompadoUP.—Stuffed with onion puree, fried, and garnished with stuffed tomatoes. — a la Ppoven^ale.—Par-broiled, one side coated with onion puree, egged and breaded (crumbs mixed with grated cheese), fried, and served with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Pupee de Pommes de Teppe.—Breaded and fried, dressed round mashed potatoes. — a la RefOPme.—Breaded with white breadcrumbs, mixed with finely chopped ham, and fried in butter ; garnished with mushrooms, truffles, gherkins, ham and hard-boiled white of eggs, all cut into fine julienne strips, and served with poivrade sauce, mixed with red currant jelly. — a la Salvanty.—Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dished up with puree of green peas in centre ; sauce, demi-glace. — a la St. Cloud.—Larded with truffles and broiled ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Gepmain.—Grilled or broiled, with green pea puree. — a la Soubise.—Broiled or braised, with white onion soubise sauce. — a la SoyeP.—Par-broiled and pressed, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots and savoury herbs, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with demi-glace sauce, and flavoured with garlic and red currant jelly. — aux Tomates.—Crumbed and fried, with stewed tomatoes or tomato puree. — a la Vatel.—Stuffed from the sides with chicken farce, mixed with chopped truffles, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with financiere ragout. — a la Vicomtesse.—Grilled and pressed, coated with reduced madere sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with macedoine of spring vege- tables ; demi-glace sauce. Cous op Capbonades de Mouton en Ragout.— Stewed mutton, neck or loin chops, with carrots, turnips, onions and mushrooms, and brown sauce. — a la JaPdiniePe.—A brown stew of mutton, gar- nished with a mixture of carrots, turnips, peas and French beans.ENTREES io8 Epaule—Shoulder. Epaule d’Agneau roul6e aux petits pois.— Boned, rolled shoulder of lamb, braised, served with green peas. — a la Bretonne.—Braised ; served with a puree of white haricot beans, and demi-glace sauce. — braisee aux truffes. — Boned, stuffed and rolled, braised; served with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce. — a la Chevet.—Boned, rolled, roasted and glazed ; served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, flavoured with chopped shallots and parsley. — glaeee.—Boned, rolled, braised and glazed ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Boned, stuffed with force- meat, larded and braised; served with a garniture of cock’s combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloute or allemande sauce. — a la Paysanne.—Boned and braised; garnished with small stewed carrots, turnips and peeled tomatoes; demi-glace sauce. — a la Polonaise.— Boned, braised, and sliced; dressed in the centre of a border of mashed pota- toes ; sauced over with gravy, sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs, and baked. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boned and braised, with carrots, turnips, bacon and savoury herbs ; when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under the sala- mander. — aux tomates farcies. — Braised, with stuffed baked tomatoes and demi-glace sauce. — a la Windsor.—Boned, rolled and braised ; gar- nished with cauliflower, carrots, turnips, capers, and fried potato croquettes ; espagnole sauce. Epigrammes. — Boned breast of lamb or mutton, braised or boiled, pressed, and cut into small por- tions (collops) ; denotes also a dish of alternate cutlets, cut from the neck and the breast, according to the style adopted. Epigrammes d’Agneaux a la Perigord.—Fried slices of lamb stewed in truffle sauce. — k la B6arnaise.—Prepared as above ; when cold coated with veloute sauce, dipped in eggs and breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter ; served with b£arnaise sauce in the centre of dish.log LAMB AND MUTTON Epignammes d’Agneaux a la Dauphine. — Cooked, pressed, cut up, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolks of eggs, and crumbed, fried, and served with a pur£e of green peas and potato croquettes. — ala Macedoine.—As above, with a mixture of vege- tables in centre of dish ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Fried, served with stewed macaroni aud tomato puree. — a la Parme.—Braised, pressed, cut up, egged and crumbed in bread and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in butter. —• au Puree de Marrons.—As above, with chestnut puree in centre of dish ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Soubise.—Prepared as above and fried in butter ; served with white onion puree in centre of dish ; demi-glace sauce. Escalopes.—Fillets or cutlets cut from the neck or loin (chump end) of lamb or mutton, freed from bone or fat; egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — a la Chipolata.—Crumbed and fried ; garnished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and button onions, pieces of fried sausages, and potato cro- quettes. — aux fines herbes.—Broiled, served with a rich brown sauce, mixed with chopped shallots and parsley. — a la Puree de Champignons. — Grilled or broiled, with puree of fresh mushrooms. Fiiets—Fillets (d’Agneau ou de Mouton). These are obtained from the loin or neck of lamb or mutton, cut of usual thickness, and must be free from bone and fat. Filet de Mouton braise a l’Anglaise.—Boned loin of mutton stuffed with forcemeat, braised, cut up and dressed ; garnished with French beans. — k la Byron.— Grilled or broiled, coated with onion puree and stewed sheep’s kidneys in centre of dish. — a la Gascogne.—Larded with anchovy fillets, and braised ; served with brown sauce, flavoured with garlic. — k la Minute.—Grilled or broiled; served with plain gravy. — a la Polonaise.—Larded, pickled and braised ; garnished with stuffed mushrooms ; brown sauce. — a la Venaison.—Larded and marinated whole in vinegar brine; flavoured with cloves, juniperno ENTREES berries, peppercorns, and savoury herbs; braised, and served with brown sauce enriched with sour cream. Filet de Mouton braise k la Villeroi. — Braised whole, cooled, cut up, and masked with allemande sauce, then egged and crumbed in bread and grated cheese .fried in deep fat,and served with tomato sauce. Fricassee d’Ag’neau.—Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with mushrooms and chopped parsley. — aux Champignons.—Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — aux Houblons.—Stewed breast of lamb with hop sprigs. — aux pointes d’Asperges.— Stewed breast of lamb with asparagus points. Haehis de Viande.—A superior kind of hashed or minced meat. — a 1’EeOSSaise.—Hashed or minced meat laid in a pie dish ; seasoned, covered with brown or white sauce and breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven. — aux ceufs poehes.—Hashed or minced cold meat fried in butter and heated up in brown sauce, with poached eggs placed on top. — a la Pompadour.—Hashed meat, with stewed mushrooms, truffles, and artichoke bottoms as garnish. — a la Portugaise.—Sliced cold lamb or mutton slightly browned in butter, with ham, carrots, and shallots, a little garlic, and parsley ; heated up in brown sauce. Haricot or Ragout.—Pieces of loin or neck of mutton or lamb, fried in butter, with a few small turned carrots, turnips, and onions, drained, and stewed in brown sauce. — a la Bourgeoise. — Braised, with vegetables; garnished with same, and small braised button onions and boiled potato dumplings. — a 1’EcOSSaise. — Stewed lamb in brown sauce, surrounded with small forcemeat timbales lined with thin pancakes. — a la Flamande.—Stewed in brown sauce, with spring vegetables cut into neat shapes. — a la Hessoise.—Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce; served with sour-crout (choux-croute), and pieces of small ham sausages. — a l’lndienne. — Par-fried, and stewed in curry sauce ; served in a border of boiled rice. — a la Parisienne.— Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce, with cubes of carrots and turnips and fried button onions; garnished with small round fried potatoes.LAMB AND MUTTON hi Haricot or Ragout aux Petits Pois.—Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce, with green peas. — & la Provengale.—Hashed, reheated in brown onion sauce, and garnished with small stuffed tomatoes. Langues d’Agneau.—Lamb’s tongues. — a la Duxelles.—Braised, spread over with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, butter and egg-yolks, dressed on a dish, coated with duxelles sauce, and browned in a sharp oven. — marinees.—Pickled and broiled; served with brown sauce. — au Madere.—Braised, in Madeira wine sauce. — a la Soubise.—Braised, served with white onion puree and demi-glace sauce. Langues de Mouton.—Sheep’s tongues. — braisees a la Fran§aise. — Blanched and braised, split in half, and garnished with puree of turnips, braised button onions, and turned carrots ; brown sauce. — aux Olives.—Braised, with French olives ; brown sauce. — en papillotes.—Braised, dressed in paper cases, and glazed. — grillees a la Suisse.—Cooked, split in halves, seasoned, dipped in butter and breadcrumbs, and grilled ; served with piquant sauce. Longe de Mouton en Chevreuil.—Boned loin of mutton stewed in a rich game stock, flavoured with savoury herbs, carrots, onions, peppercorns and juniper berries ; served with port wine sauce. — a la Celestine.—Braised, garnished with pan- cakes spread over with chicken farce, rolled, dipped in frying batter and fried. — k la Demi-glace.—Braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Dubonzed.—Boned and roast; garnished with stuffed potatoes ; tomato sauce. Noisettes de pre-sale, Chatelaine. — Braised noisettes (fillets of mutton) dressed on halves of braised lettuce; garnished with noisette potatoes and artichoke bottoms filled with chestnut puree ; sauce madere. — Maintenon.—Small slices from neck or loin of mutton, free from bone and skin, breaded and fried, dressed on croutons; garnished with arti- choke bottoms filled with green peas; sauce, demi- glace.112 ENTRIES Noisettes d’Agneau au Chou.—Small lamb chops, freed from skin, fat and bone, tossed in batter and braised, with small spring cabbages. Oreilles d’Agneau.—Lamb’s ears. Oreilles de Mouton.—Sheep’s ears. Oreilles d’Agneau farcies.—Stuffed lamb’s ears, fried or braised. — frites, sauce Tomate.—Fried lamb’s ears with tomato sauce. — gratinees. — Stewed lamb’s ears, sauced over, breaded, and baked. — a l’lndienne.—Curried lamb’s ears with boiled rice. — a l’ltalienne.—Braised lamb’s ears with Italian sauce. Pieds d’Agneau.—Lamb’s feet. Pieds de Mouton.—Sheep’s trotters. — fareis et braises.—Boiled, boned, stuffed, and braised; sauce, demi-glace. — frits a l’Horley.—Cooked in stock, boned and cut in slices, marinaded in oil, vinegar and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat; sauce tomate. — a l’lndienne.—Boiled, boned, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a la Poulette.—Cooked in stock, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. — k la Rouennaise.—Boiled, boned, and stuffed with sausage meat, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat; served with piquant sauce. — frits a la Tartare.—Fried as above; served with tartare sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Boiled, boned, stuffed, rolled, coated with supreme sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Poitrine d’Agneau.—Breast of lamb. — aux Asperges.—Braised ; served with asparagus points. — a l’Espagnole. — Boned, stuffed, rolled, and braised ; garnished with olives, and served with Spanish sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Braised; dressed on a bed of rice, stewed in tomato sauce, etc. — farcie a la Very.—Boned, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised ; served with saut£ of French beans and demi-glace sauce.LAMB AND MUTTON i*3 Poitrine d’Agneau k la Turque.—Boned, stuffed with sausage meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, flavoured with saffron, sauced over with demi-glace. Poitrine de Mouton.—Breast of mutton. — aux Haricots Verts.—Braised; served with French beans. — aux Macaroni.—Cut into pieces, stewed, and served with macaroni stewed in tomato sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Stuffed and braised; garnished with braised turnips and button onions. — aux Petits Pois.—Stewed the same way as ragout or haricot; served with green peas. ■— a la Robert.—Braised ; served with brown onion sauce. Queue d’Agneau.—Lamb’s tail. — sautees.—Sheep’s or lamb’s tails fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce. — a la puree de pois.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in a border of puree of green peas. — au Riz.—Stewed in brown sauce with rice. Queue de Mouton.—Sheep’s tail. — aux epinards.—Braised, served with spinach. — braisees a la Fran^aise. — Braised, with carrots, turnips, and small onions; garnished with these vegetables and with fried potato balls. — a la Jardiniere.— Braised, served with neatly cut mixed spring vegetables. Ris d’Agneau aux Petits Pois.—Braised lamb’s breads larded ; served with green peas. — en eaisses.—Braised lamb’s breads, served in paper cases. — frit.—Fried lamb’s breads. — a la Jardiniere.—Braised lamb’s breads larded ; served with finely cut spring vegetables. — au riz.—Stewed lamb’s breads with sliced mush- rooms and white sauce ; served in a rice border. Coquilles de Ris d’Agneau.—Lamb’s breads stew baked in shells or cases. Rognons de Mouton.—Sheep’s kidney. — au beurre d’AnchoiS.—Broiled or grilled, with anchovy butter in centre ; demi-glace sauce. — a la broche.—Grilled or broiled on skewers. — au Champagne.— Sliced, par-fried, and stewed with champagne and brown sauce. — a la Chinoise.—Split, grilled, centres filled with stewed asparagus points, and garnished with whole fried eggs ; tomato sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skinned, split open, and broiled ; served with maitre d’hotel butter.114 ENTREES Rognons de Mouton a l’Epicurienne. — Split open and broiled, the centres filled with tartare sauce; garnished with small round fried potatoes; poivrade sauce round dish. — aux fines herbes. — Grilled or broiled, centre filled with parsley butter ; demi-glace sauce. — sautes k la Fran§aise.—Sliced and seasoned, forced with butter over a quick fire, when partly done dredged with flour, and finished with demi- glace sauce; garnished with fried bread croutons, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — sautes au Madere.—Sliced, tossed in butter, and served with madere sauce. — panes.—Par-broiled split sheep’s kidneys put on skewers, buttered, breadcrumbed, and baked in the oven, or fried in deep fat. — a la Turbig’O.—Sliced and stewed, with finely chopped shallots and white wine, mixed with thin slices of sausages and dice of fried lean bacon. PORC—PORK. Carbonade de Pore a la Franqaise (Breast or Belly part).—Slices of fresh pork with vegetable garnish stewed in brown sauce. Caree de Pore a la Nivernaise.—Braised neck of pork with glazed button onions and cubes of turnips. — braisee, sauce Piquante.—Braised neck of pork with piquant sauce. — & l’lndienne.—Curried neck of pork with boiled rice. Cervelles de Pore a la Demi-Glace.—Blanched pork brains stewed in demi-glace sauce. — a l’ltalienne. — Stewed in Italian sauce, with macaroni garnish. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate.—Braised spare ribs of pork, garnished with stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. Cotelettes de Pore grillees.—Broiled pork cutlets. — aux fines herbes.—Broiled, and stewed in brown sauce containing chopped parsley and white wine. — aux Haricots blancs.—Fried, served with puree of white haricot beans.ii5 PORK Cotelettes de Pore a l’lndienne. — Par-fried, stewed in curry Sauce, and served with boiled rice, — aux Lentilles.—With a pur£e of lentils. — marinees.—Pickled pork cutlets, fried in oil, stewed, and served in tomato sauce. — a la NavaPraise.—Pickled, fried, and stewed in brown sauce with sliced tomatoes ; dressed on a bed of stewed rice. — aux Pommes.—Fried pork cutlets or chops with apple sauce. — a la Robert.—Par-fried, and stewed in brown onion sauce. — k la Soubise.—Grilled or fried; served with onion puree ; demi-glace sauce. Jambon grille aux petits pois.—Grilled ham with green peas. — a l’Alsaeienne.—Braised ham, with sourcrout, mashed potatoes, and Strasbourg sausages. — a l’Anglaise.— Parboiled ham, wrapped in a paste crust made of flour and water, and baked ; served with the crust and skin removed ; reduced wine sauce. — bouilli, sauce Madere. — Boiled ham with Madeira wine sauce. — braise aux Nouilles. — Braised ham, with nouilles as garnish. — braise au Champagne. — Braised ham, with champagne sauce. — braise a la Fran^aise.—Parboiled ham braised in espagnole sauce, flavoured with sherry or Madeira wine. — braise a la Choueroute.— Braised ham with stewed choueroute (sauerkraut). — a la Bayonnaise.—Braised ham, with fried onions, dressed on stewed rice; garnished with pieces of fried sausages ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Clamart.—Braised ham, glazed with reduced demi-glace ; garnished with puree of green peas. — a la Polonaise.— Braised ham, garnished with small timbales of peas, choueroute (sauerkraut), and small smoked pork sausages. — a la Russe.—Braised ham, with small stufted spring cabbages and stewed rice. BeignetS de Jambon (Ham Fritters).—Minced ham mixed with yolk of eggs and bechamel sauce, shaped into small rolls or balls, dipped in frying batter, and fried in fat. Jarrets de Pore marine a l’AHemande.—Boiled pickled knuckles of pork with stewed sauerkraut, forcemeat dumplings, and white sauce.116 ENTREES Langues de Pore a l’ltalienne.— Braised pork tongues, with brown sauce and chopped preserved mushrooms. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled,with fried sliced onions and brown sauce. Oreilles de Pope en Vinaigrette.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, with vinaigrette sauce ; garnished with hard-boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and olives. — fpites, sauce Taptape.—Boiled, soaked in oil and chopped herbs, dipped in frying batter and fried ; served with tartare sauce. — en Menus Droits.—Pickled, braised, and served with finely sliced fried onions. Palais de Pope gpatine.—Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dressed in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce, sliced mushrooms, breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, baked in a quick oven. — aux Champignons.—Stewed pig’s palate with sliced mushrooms. Pieds de Coehon au Champagne. — Pickled, stewed in champagne sauce. — en Fricassee.—Fricasseed pig’s feet (white sauce and mushrooms). — au MadePe.—Stewed pickled pig’s trotters (pig’s feet) with madere sauce. — fareis a la Perigueux.—Pickled, stuffed with finely chopped truffles, braised, and served with truffle sauce. — sauce Piquante.—Pickled pig’s feet stewed and served in piquant sauce. — a la Sainte-Menehould. — Pickled, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in frying batter, fried in deep fat; served with piquant or Robert sauce. Saueisses* de Pope aux tPUffes.—Fresh German pork sausages (Bratwurste) fried; served with truffle sauce. ■— a la Lyonnaise.— Fried pork sausages with braised sliced onions. — a la Puree de Pommes de Terpe.—Fried pork sausages with mashed potatoes. Tete de Pope a la Poulette.—Boiled pickled pig’s head with parsley sauce. — frite, sauce Remoulade.—Boiled pickled pig’s head, cut in small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with remoulade sauce and fried parsley. — a la Mobile.—Braised salted pig’s head, with fried sliced tomatoes; dished on stewed rice; demi-glace sauce. * Saucisse usually stands for fresh sausage, whilst saucisson denotes smoked sausage.VOLAILLE—POU LTRY. CANARD—DUCK (tame). Caneton—Duckling. Canard braise aux Petits Pois. — Braised duck with green peas. — a rAm6ricaine.—Duck divided down the middle, rubbed over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce and seasoning, broiled in butter; served with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped lemon pickles, and preserved mushrooms. — a la Bigarade.—Braised duck with orange sauce. — a la Duelair.—Stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopped shallots, parsley, and season- ing, roasted, and sauced with demi-glace reduced with claret, orange juice, and chopped chives. — braise a la Fran§aise.—Braised (breast larded), stuffed with chestnuts, chopped onions and savoury herbs ; served with port wine sauce. — a l’ltalienne.—Par-roasted, cut up, fried in oil, with chopped chives, parsley and herbs, stewed in Italian sauce. — aux NavetS.—Stewed duck with new turnips. — a la Nivelle .—Boned, and stuffed with chopped ham and beef, braised, cut up, and sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised, with glazed turnips and demi-glace sauce. — aux Olives.—Stewed duck with olives and brown sauce. — a la Proven§ale.—Broiled, and stewed in brown sauce; garnished with braised carrots, turnips and button onions. — a la fiouennaise.—Roasted, and served with brown sauce containing finely chopped duck liver, duck juice, and shallots. (Ducklings or ducks can be served in the same manner as a roast by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg and fresh butter.) — a la Saint-Mand6.—Braised, and served with madere sauce ; garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. — k la Valeneienne.—Roasted, garnished with rows of slices of orange, and served with orange sauce.n8 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Canard saute au Pecheur.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with crayfish-tails. — k la Chasseur.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and fillets of game. — k la Reforme.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, reduced with black currant jelly and port wine. Croustade de Canard a la Chartraine.—French raised pie crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and stewed fillets of duck, baked in the oven. Salmi de Canard.—Par-roasted, cut up, stewed in rich brown sauce made with duck giblets. — a la Bourgeoise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with button onions slightly fried,and reduced in espagnole sauce with red wine. — a la Castillane.—Roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with orange juice, and rind finely shredded. — a l’lrlandaise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with slices of fried onions, dice of fried ham, and port wine sauce. — aux Olives farcies. — Par-roasted, cut up, and stewed in brown sauce with stuffed olives. — a la Verjus.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce containing blanched green grapes and red currant jelly. Zephires de Canard a la Metropole.—Zephyr moulds filled with duck quenelle meat and salpicon; poached, decorated with thin borders of puff paste, spinach and cherries ; sauce reforme. — a la Presse.—Roast fillets and wing portions removed, carcase chopped and pressed, and the juice thus obtained is blended with chopped liver and port wine sauce ; this is strained over the dish. CHAPON, POULARDE. Capon or Capon Pullet. Note.—Most of these dishes may, if left whole, be served as remove (relev£) ; but when cut up, sauced over and garnished, they become entrees. Turkeys can be treated in the same way. Chapon k l’Argenteuil.—Braised white, sauced over with supreme and garnished with asparagus points. — blanquette de, aux Champignons. — Boiled and stewed in white sauce (bechamel), with sliced mushrooms. — a la Clery.—Broiled in butter and stewed in parsley and onion sauce. — bouilli k la Genoise.—Boiled, garnished with finely cut nouilles, finished in veloute or allemande sauce flavoured with parmesan cheese and curry.119 CAPON Chapon a la BoUPgeoise.—Braised, finished in a rich brown sauce reduced with tomato sauce and white wine, garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions — k la CavoUP.—Stuffed and braised (breast larded and glazed), served with allemande sauce flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice, garnished with small baked nouille or macaroni timbales. — a la ChaneeliePe.—Braised capon (breast larded) finished and served with a well spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon, glazed). — k la Edouapd. VII.—Stuffed with cooked rice and foie-gras, cut in dice braised white, and finished in supreme sauce slightly flavoured with curry ; gar- nished with diamonds of Spanish pimientos ; served in casserole. — bpaise a 1’EstPagon.—Braised, with tarragon sauce. — saute a la Fpan^aise.—Parboiled and braised, finished in white wine sauce, with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — bpaise a la Gapfield.—Braised (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly. — au gTOS sel.—Braised (breast larded and covered with strips of lemon rind), served with demi-glace sauce, containing a little coarse freezing salt added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel). — a l’lvoipe.—Braised, sauced over with a rich ivory-coloured supreme sauce. — a la Pepigueux.—Stuffed with forcemeat and chopped truffles and roasted ; served with perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. — a la Piemontaise.—Stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles and roasted, served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles, stuffed with veal forcemeat and tomato puree. — Ragout de, aux Petits Pois.—Stewed in brown sauce, with green peas. — a la Regenee.—Stuffed and braised, with white supreme sauce and sliced truffles. — bpaise a la St. Cloud.—Braised (breast larded with strips of truffles and bacon); Madeira sauce. — bpaise aux tpuffes.— Braised (breast larded with truffles) and served with perigueux sauce. — Quenelles de, a la Vatel.—Poached forcemeat quenelles made of capon, chopped truffles and mushrooms, served with a brown truffle sauce. — haehis de, a la VietOPia.—Minced, reheated in supreme sauce, with poached eggs, sprinkled over with finely chopped truffles.120 POULTRY (V0LA1LLE) Chapon en Supreme.—Blanched and boiled in rich stock, skin removed when jointed; finished in supreme sauce and garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — Timbales de, k la Prineesse. — Timbales of capon forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles; poached, and served with supreme sauce. Poularde braisee k la Chieor^e.—Braised, with stewed endive or chicory. — en petit Deuil.—Braised capon or poularde, with whole truffles inserted in bird whilst braising; cut upand finished in veloute sauce. — a la Dora.—Stuffed with cooked rice mixed with dice shapes of foie-gras and truffles, and braised whole (white), dressed on rice socle; garnished with artichoke bottoms, and sauced over with supreme. — Grand Due.—Fat pullet or poularde, fried in casserole and braised thin with a rich brown sauce flavoured with port wine and old brandy ; garnished with asparagus points, slice of foie-gras, and truffles. — aux Lasagnes.—Braised, with stewed nouilles. — a la Milton.—Galantine of capon or poularde, braised in white stock, served with supreme sauce and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. ( — fareie a la Perigueux.—Stuffed with force- meat and truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. — bouillie a la Turque.—Boiled, cut up, dressed in a rice border with tomato sauce. — sautee a la St. Valentin.—Stewed, with finely chopped truffles and mushrooms, garnished with mushroom heads, hard boiled yolks of eggs, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste, baked) and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce, reduced with sherry. DINDE—TURKEY. Dinde en Brioche.—Fricasseed, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. — Ailerons de, brais6e aux navets.—Braised wings, with mashed turnips. — Ballotines.—Boned and stuffed legs, braised; served with spinach, tomatoes, or other suitable garnish. — en Blanquette.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms. — bouillie au C6leri.—Boiled, with a white sauce flavoured with celery, and garnished with braised celery. — bouillie aux Huitres.—Boiled,with oyster sauce.I121 TURKEY Dinde bouillie, sauce Persil.—Boiled, with parsley sauce. — brais^e aux 6pinards.—Braised breasts, with spinach. — brais^e k rindienne.—Stuffed legs, braised, finished in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice. — k la Chipolata.—Larded and stuffed with sausage meat or veal forcemeat and roasted, dished up with a ragout of small sausages, squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, quenelles, and sliced truffles heated in madere sauce. — euisses de, farcies k la Garibaldi.—Legs, boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, chopped ham and tongue, and braised ; served with small macaroni and rice timbales ; sauce tomate. — k l’^touffade aux concombres.—Stewed in the oven in brown sauce, garnished with braised cucumbers. — Filets de, k la Chicoree.— Braised fillets with endive or chicory puree. — Filets de, k la Cardinal. — Breasts, stewed in white sauce, coloured with tomato puree, garnished with stewed crawfish-tails and lobster corals. — frite It la Tomate.—Cold turkey cut into pieces, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. — a la Godard.—Breast, larded, stuffed with veal forcemeat, sliced sweetbread, mushrooms, and braised; garnished with sliced truffles, mushroom heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives and chicken quenelles; madere sauce. — grillee k la Diable.—Cold roast turkey cut into pieces, spread with devilled butter, and grilled ; served with a sharp sauce flavoured with curry. — aux Morilles. — Stewed in white sauce with morels (a species of mushrooms). — k la Provencale.—Stuffed, with finely chopped boiled onions, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, egg yolks, sliced truffles and seasoning, and roasted ; served with tomato sauce. — k la Reyniere.—Roast, dished up, garnished with small fried sausages and chestnuts, cooked in chicken stock ; served with brown sauce containing finely chopped and braised liver. — k la St. James.—Stuffed, with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, and roasted; served with brown sauce. Small shapes of cranberry jelly are served separately. F122 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Dinde & la Toulouse.—Boiled, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushrooms, sliced sweetbread, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs and forcemeat quenelles heated in allemande or veloute sauce. — a la Yorkshire.—Boned turkey stuffed with forcemeat and slices of cooked York ham, braised or boiled; garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine, and served with ham sauce. Dindonneau saute aux Champignons.—Young turkey, stewed, with sliced mushrooms. — braise au Madere. — Braised, finished in Madeira sauce. OIE—GOOSE. Note.—In those cases where the bird is cooked whole it can be served as remove (releve). Oie kl’Anglaise.—Roast, stuffed with sage and onion filling and roasted ; served with apple sauce (separately) and gravy or brown sauce. — saut£e a la Bourgeoise.—Broiled and stewed, with green peas, braised carrots, and button onions. — aux Chataignes.—Stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and braised ; served with apple sauce (separately). — Chipolata.—Roast or braised, dished up with chipclata garnishing (see Dinde a la Chipolata) ; served with apple sauce. — Dauphinoise.— Stuffed, wi,th chestnut puree and chopped and braised shallot; served with brown sauce blended with orange juice and shredded orange rind. — A 1’EtOUffade.— Stuffed, with boiled chopped onions, sausage meat, breadcrumbs and seasoning ; braised in oven, dished up with a border of glazed turnips, brown sauce. — a la Mont Vernon.—Stuffed with boiled chopped onions and mashed potatoes; dressed in border of halves of apples, baked brown with goose grease in the oven, and served with brown sauce flavoured with red currant jelly. — & l’Orange. — Par-roasted, stewed or braised ; garnished with sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. — Boudins de foie-gras Parisienne.—Small goose liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes,served with madere sauce. — Quenelles de Foie-gras P6rigueux.—Goose liver quenelles, poached ; served with truffle sauce. — braisee k la Polonaise. — Braised, garnished with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal quenelles and small smoked pork sausages.123 ENTREES OF PIGEON sauce. Timbales d’Oie, aux truffes.—Goose liver tim- bales, poached in the oven and served with perigord sauce. Pat6 de Foie-gras chaud.—Hot goose liver pie. PIGEON—PIGEON. Pigeon farei braise.—Braised stuffed pigeon. — braise aux Champignons. — Braised pigeon with mushrooms. — Chartreuse de, k la Rouennaise.— Braised, dressed in a border of carrots, turnips, braised savoy cabbage, and small pieces of boiled pickled pork; garnished with slices of smoked pork sausages, and served with demi-glace sauce. — Compote de, a l’Am^rieaine.—Stewed, with small pieces of fried bacon and small onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter, served with brown sauce flavoured with cranberry jelly. — Compote de, ala Bourgeoise.—Broiled, stewed in brown sauce flavoured with claret and savoury herbs ; served with young carrots, green peas and glazed button onions. — Compote de, aux Champignons. — Stewed, with mushrooms. — en Compote aux Petits Pois.—Stewed pigeons with green peas. — Compote de, a la Rentiere.— Braised, stewed in brown sauce, enriched with a liaison of egg- yolks and fresh butter. — Cotelettes de, aux Champignons.—As above, served with stewed sliced mushrooms. — Cotelettes de, aux Petits Pois.— As above, garnished with green peas. — Cotelettes de, aux pointes d’Asperges.— Boned, cut in halves, seasoned and shaped into cutlets, parbroiled, pressed, egged, crumbed and fried in butter; served with a brown sauce flavoured with sherry or port wine, and garnished with stewed asparagus points. — Cotelettes de, a la Proven^ale. — Boned, excepting legs, cut in halves, and seasoned, broiled in oil, pressed, immersed in oiled butter, crumbed and fried in butter; served with proven5ale sauce. — Cotelettes de, au Supreme.— Boned, cut in halves, seasoned, fried, pressed, covered with chicken salpicon and truffles, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed and fried; served with veloute124 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Pigeon A la Crapaudine.—Split open, put on skewers, egged, crumbed and broiled ; served with brown sauce, stoned olives and sliced truffles. — Patd de, k l’Anglaise (English PigeonPie) .-Par- broiled stuffed pigeons into halves filled into a pie- dish,with slices of rumpsteak, parsley,seasoning,and hard-boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with piecrust and baked ; served hot or cold. — Pouding de, k l’Anglaise (English Pigeon Pudding).—Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, filled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rumpsteak, hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and stock, covered with suet crust and boiled or steamed. — k l’Espagnole.—Braised, with dice shapes of fried ham, served with espagnole sauce, flavoured with white wine and chilli vinegar. — a la Marigny.— Cut in halves, seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven ; served with madere sauce. — en Matelote.—Cut into pieces, seasoned, broiled in butter and slices of bacon,stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped chives, parsle}'-, thyme and mushrooms ; garnished with fried button onions. — A la Nivernaise.—Stewed, with braised turnips. — en papillotes (Pigeons in Cases).—Cut in halves, seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver farce, chopped shallots, parsley, and sliced mushrooms ; dressed in buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. — A la Paysanne.—Braised Bordeaux pigeons, cut in joints, dressed with green peas ; sauce demi- glace. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled, in rich white sauce, flavoured with parsley and savoury herbs; when cold cut up; egged, crumbed and fried ; served with the above sauce drained and poured round the dish. — A la Talleyrand.—Braised, garnished with arti- choke bottoms, mushroom heads, braised chicken liver and ox-tongue, heated in velout£ sauce. Kari de Pigeons (Curried Pigeons). — Cut into quarters, fried in butter and curried ; served in a rice border. Patd Chaud de Pigeons (French Pigeon Pie).— Piecrust filled with stewed pigeons and sliced bacon and mushrooms baked ; served hot or cold (poivrade sauce)125 ENTREES OF CHICKEN Timbales de Pigeons k l’Espagnole.—A kind of raised pie (hot water crust) filled with braised pigeons, mushrooms, chicken liver, olives, small chicken quenelles, and dice of bacon and brown sauce ; baked in usual way, served hot. POULET—VOLAILLE. Chicken or Fowl. Bouchees de Volaille k la Vatel.—Small bouche shaped chicken creams, with foie-gras in centre, poached, and set in paste crusts ; sauce, supreme. COGOtte de Volaille.—Jointed and sauteed, placed in earthenware casserole, with truffles, cepes, arti- choke bottoms, and lamb’s bread and its sauce; covered with a light chicken farce, and steamed in the oven. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Montpensiep.— Boned, cut up, or shaped into cutlets, fried, pressed, coated with farce, egged, crumbed, and fried; tomato sauce. Cuisses de Volaille a la Florentine.—Legs, fried in butter, immersed in supreme sauce, egged, crumbed in breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, fried in deep fat ; tomato sauce. — a la Wellington.—Legs, fried in oil, drained, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with chutney. Filets de Volaille aux pointes d’Asperges.— Braised fillets with asparagus points. — aux Coneombres. — Braised fillets with small cucumbers stuffed. — A la Supreme.—Broiled fillets larded ; garnished wilh truffles, and served with supreme sauce. Medaillons de Volaille k la Reine. — Fillets in medallion shapes, pre-fried and covered with chicken farce, mixed with lobster spawn, poached, dressed on socle, and sauced over with supreme; decorated with strips of truffles forming the initials A. R. Poulet.—Chicken. — k l’Arlequin.—Breast and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served with financiere ragout. — Blanquette en Demi-Deuil.—Fricasseed, gar- nished with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — bouilli k 1’EstragOn.—Boiled, served with white sauce, flavoured with tarragon leaves. — braise a 1’EstragOn.— Larded, stuffed, and braised ; served with a rich brown sauce flavoured with tarragon. — braises aux Fines Herbes.—Braised, served with brown sauce flavoured with chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, cress, and white wine. f 3126 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Poulet Cardinal.—Breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and boiled; garnished with small quenelles and slices of truffles; served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, tomato essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. — a la Careme.—Breast and wings flattened and cut into round shapes, braised and pressed, finished in madere sauce, and dressed on border of potato puree (baked); centre filled with julienne of truffle, mushroom and tongue; bearnaise sauce on each medallion, and madere sauce round base of dish. — en Casserole.—Browned in butter, with or with- out mirepoix, stewed or braised in an earthenware fire-proof stewpan, in brown sauce; sent to table in same pan. — a la Catalane.—Saute of chicken, ranged in earthenware casserole, with layers of rice, bouquet, etc., and finished in oven. — Cdeil. —Breast and wings, larded with strips of tongue and truffles, braised white, dressed in border of potato puree (browned in oven) upon a foie-gras farce ; sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Chanut.—Saute of chicken (tossed in butter with garlic and shallot flavouring), white wine, demi-glace, and sliced tomatoes, dressed on crou- tons of bread ; garnished with sauteed mushrooms, new potatoes (fried), and green peas, liquor reduced and strained over. — Cotelettes de, a la Chinoise. — Pounded chicken, free from skin and sinews, flavoured with salt, pepper, curry powder, and nutmeg, rubbed through a sieve and mixed with breadcrumbs and egg white, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter; served with tartare sauce. — a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed (fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised and glazed), garnished with mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and small fried chicken croquettes. — k la Chivry.—Braised; garnished with rings of Spanish onions, filled with onion purde, chives, and chopped tarragon, sauced over with a rich herb sauce. — en Coeotte or a la Casserole.—Small fat chicken braised whole in a fire-proof casserole; garnished with slices of ham, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms; demi-glace sauce. — en Compote.—Stewed in rich brown sauce, with mushrooms, slices of fried bacon, and braised button onions.127 ENTREES OF CHICKEN Poulet a la Diable.—spring chickens split open at the back, highly seasoned with cayenne, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled; spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Cold fowl treated in same manner. — a l’Ecarlate.— Braised, garnished with heart- shaped slices of cooked ox-tongue; served with demi-glace or veloute sauce. — Epigrammes, a la Villeroi.—Fillets, seasoned and slightly broiled, immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with tomato sauce. — Epigrammes aux truffes.—Boned and skinned, cut into heart shapes or fillets, larded with trufflesj and broiled in butter; served with truffle sauce. — Escalopes, a l’Anglaise.—Minced (cold roast or boiled), stewed in bechamel sauce, filled into scallop shells, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. — Filets, a rimperiale. — Larded breasts and wings, braised, and served with game quenelles and truffles. — Filets, a la Jardiniere.—Breasts broiled ; gar- nished with groups of young spring vegetables ; demi-glace sauce. — Filets de, a la Marcelle. — Chicken fillets, crumbed and broiled in butter, dressed round a shape of Anna potatoes ; sauce, Godard, flavoured with paprika. — Fricassee aux Champignons.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — Fricassee, k la Havelock. — Blanched and stewed in allemande sauce, enriched with egg- yolks and fresh butter; garnished with rings of ox-tongue, truffles, mushrooms and cocks’ combs. — frit a la Dauphine.— Broiled, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried; garnished with small potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — frit a la Duchesse.— Boned, cut into small por- tions and flattened, steeped in oil and lemon juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with veloute sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. — frit k l’Orly .— Parboiled, cut into neat pieces, and marinated; dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — frit k la Tartare.— Boiled ; when cold, cut into joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce.128 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Poulet frit k la Tyrolienne.— Jointed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried slowly in clarified butter ; served with tomato sauce. — frit a la Viennoise.— Boned, cut into small portions and flattened, marinated, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la General.—Braised; garnished with groups of green peas and asparagus points; served with madere sauce. — haehis, a l’Eearlate.—Stewed in demi-glace sauce and garnished with slices of braised ox- tongue. — k l’lvoire.—Boiled ; breast covered with slices of lemon and barded ; served with supreme sauce. — a l’lndienne. — Stewed in curry sauce, with Indian pickles or piccalilli, cut in fine strips; served with boiled rice. — Livournaise.—Split open from back, flattened, steeped in lemon juice and sweet oil, flavoured with bay-leaf, parsley, and onions, drained, breaded, egged, and broiled in butter; served with mayon- naise sauce flavoured with anchovy essence. — marine frit.—Boiled and cut into pieces, steeped in lemon juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried. — Montmorency.—Stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles and mushrooms, breast larded and braised; garnished with sliced sweetbreads and mushroom heads ; served with madere sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Boned, stuffed with sausage forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles, and breast larded ; braised, cut up, and served with demi- glace sauce. — Paschaline.—Braised, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloute sauce and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with veal forcemeat and fried. — poele aux Groseilles vertes.—Stewed in the oven in earthenware casserole; brown sauce with green gooseberries. — k la Polenta.—Braised white, finished in white wine and tomato sauce, garnished with small timbales of maize or polenta. — Pondiehery.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce, mixed with apple puree, the juice and rind of a mandarin orange finely chopped; served in a border of boiled rice. — PPOVen§ale.—Stewed, with braised onions, sliced tomatoes, mushrooms, and madere sauce. — & la Reine.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, garnished with chicken quenelles, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and fried bread croutons.129 ENTREES OF CHICKEN Poulet Romaine.—Braised, finished in tomato sauce reduced with marsala; garnished with sliced truffles, braised lettuce, and macaroni timbales. — & la St. Cloud.—Braised white or boiled ; breast larded with truffles and ox-tongue and barded; served with supreme sauce mixed with finely chopped truffles. — & la St. Lambert.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. — & la Stanley.—A delicate fricassee of chicken, with rich supreme sauce ; garnished with fine sheds of truffle and ham or tongue. — Supreme de, Jeanette (invented by M. A. Escoffier).—Braised chicken fillets (white) ; when cold coated with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; decorated with tarragon leaves. — Trianon.—Barded and roasted whole in fire-proof casserole, finished with demi-glace sauce reduced with chablis ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled alternately with mushroom heads and green peas. — Timbales de, a la Meridionale. — Souffle of chicken, filled in timbale moulds, with concentrated tomato puree in the centre, steamed in the oven, and served with madere sauce. — a la Vert-Pre.—Boiled ; served with veloute or supreme sauce, containing chopped chervil and tarragon, and spinach greening. — a la Vigo.— Braised, and finished in Madeira sauce ; garnished with small tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. Poulet saute a la Bayonnaise. — Fried, with coarsely minced ham, stewed in brown sauce, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes, dressed in a border of stewed rice. — a la Bearnaise.—Sauteed, finished in a veloute sauce, enriched with cream, meat glaze, white wine, chopped parsley, and tarragon leaves. — Beaulieu.—Like “ Cocotte,” to which a garniture of marble-shaped fried potatoes and dice shapes of artichoke bottoms is added. — k la Bourgeoise.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and red wine ; garnished with green peas and young carrots. •— k la Chasseur. — Sauteed, and stewed in es- pagnole and tomato sauce, with white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, and lemon juice. — k la Demidoff.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce diluted with sherry ; dressed in a border of cooked rice.130 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Poulet saute k la Duse.—Cut into joints, fried in oil, and stewed in tomato sauce with artichoke bottoms cut in dice, dressed in border of risotto (stewed savoury rice), sprinkled over with chopped white Pi£mont truffle. — k la Fermiere.—Sauteed, stewed in demi-glace sauce diluted with cream, lemon juice, sprinkled with chopped parsley, and garnished with groups of small cut spring vegetables. — a la Florentine.—Sauteed and stewed in brown sauce and tomato puree, and flavoured with chopped shallots, green pepper, and white wine. — a la GodaPd.—Breast, fillets and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and stewed in white sauce with chopped mush- rooms ; garnished with whole truffles, mushroom heads, and fleurons. — a la HongTOise.—Sauteed and stewed in veloute sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. — aux HuitPes.—Par-fried, and stewed in white sauce with bearded oysters. — a la Inkermann.—Sauteed and stewed in tomato sauce, flavoured with curry and meat glaze ; gar- nished with fried eggs, and small slices of broiled ham. — a l’ltalienne. — Par-fried, and stewed with brown sauce, flavoured with tomato, dished in border of rice; seasoned with tomato puree and parmesan cheese. — Lathuile.—Jointed, tossed in butter, mixed with dice shapes of par-fried potatoes and slices of artichoke bottoms, and finished in demi-glace sauce; garnished with groups of braised button onions and fried parsley. — a la Lyonnaise.—Broiled, jointed, and stewed in tomato and espagnole sauce, reduced with white wine, minced onions, and fried in butter. — a la Marengo.—Jointed, seasoned, and fried in oil, stewed in rich brown sauce, with sliced mush- rooms, and truffles ; garnished with whole fried eggs, bread croutons, and braised button onions. — Maseotte.—Jointed, tossed in butter, and stewed in madere sauce with slices of truffles ; garnished with artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes. — Mousquetaipe.—Cut in joints and sauteed in butter and chopped ham, drained, and finished in a tomato sauce flavoured with claret, meat glaze, and lemon juice; garniture: cubes of foie-gras, fleurons, cocks’ combs, cepes, and truffles. — a la Paysanne.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with olive-shaped carrots, turnips and celery root.t131 ENTREES OF GAME Poulet saut6 a la Perigueux. — Par-fried and stewed chicken with truffle sauce. — a la PrintanieFe. — Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with groups of green peas, small cut carrots, and French beans. — au Piz gratine.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with dice shapes of bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a bed of rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. — & la St. George.—Fried in oil, and stewed in veloute sauce and sliced mushrooms ; surface glazed with meat extract. Poussins.—Very young chickens (baby or chic- chickens)-. — HambOUPg. — Stuffed with quenelle meat and braised ; garnished with noisette potatoes, truffles, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace sauce. — Lyonnaise. — Cut into joints, blanched, and marinated in oil, vinegar, and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried onion rings ; tomato sauce. — ParmentieP.—Braised as above, with cubes of fried potatoes added. — POPtUgaise.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce flavoured with sherry, with sliced tomatoes and cubes of cucumber. — Tupenne.—Browned in butter and stewed in earthenware stewpan in the oven, with brown sauce, noisette potatoes, slices of tomatoes, and truffles. Quenelles de Volaille a l’ltalienne.—Pounded chicken meat mixed with chopped mushrooms, shaped into quenelles, and poached in stock ; served with sauce, containing chopped truffles, mush- rooms, demi-glace, and ham. — a la Supreme.—Pounded chicken fillets, filled into quenelle moulds, with salpicon in the centre, and steamed in the oven ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Souffle de Volaille a la Reine.—Light chicken forcemeat enriched with cream, filled in moulds, and steamed ; served with supreme sauce and gar- nished with slices of truffles. GIBIER—GAME. Volaille Sauvage—Wild Poultry. Becasse.—Woodcock. — a la Minute.—Broiled woodcock or snipe, served with madere sauce.132 GAME {GIBIER) Bdeasse brais^es k l’Orange.—Braised woodcock or snipe, served with orange sauce. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted or par-fried, and stewed in salmi sauce ; garnished with olives, etc. — a la Stockholm.—Parboiled, stuffed with beef and pork forcemeat, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins, braised in fire-proof casserole ; white wine sauce. Caille.—Quail. — en caisses.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised, cut in halves, and dressed in quail cases; served with perigueux sauce. — en casserole. — Braised whole in fire-proof earthenware stewpan (casserole); garnished at will with braised lettuce, endive, mushrooms, button onions, truffles, financiere, etc.; sent to table in the casserole. — en Compote.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with dice of broiled bacon and fried bread croutons, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. — Demidoff. — Braised whole in casserole, with small shapes of carrots, turnips, sliced truffles; demi-glace sauce ; sent to table en casserole. — a la Diane.—Boned, stuffed, and braised in hearts of lettuce en casserole ; financiere garniture. — George Sand.—Boned, stuffed, and par-braised ; when cold, rolled in puff paste and baked in oven. — a la Jardiniere.—Broiled or braised quails, with finely cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc.; demi-glace sauce. — a la Lucullus.—Boned, stuffed, and braised, with game quenelles and sliced truffles. — a la Mirepoix.—Marinated in white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, and juniper berries, etc.; then braised ; sauce, marinade. — au Nid. —Halved, tossed in butter, and cooked en casserole with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce ; finished with nest-like border of shredded artichoke bottoms. — a la Perigueux.—Braised; brown sauce with truffles. — Piemontaise.—Braised whole, dressed in cooked rice mixed with tossed chicken liver, foie-gras and truffles, in casserole, and finished in oven ; sent to table in same pan as cooked in. — en Polenta.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in polenta border. (Polenta is Italian oatmeal.) — Pouding de, k l’Anglaise. — Quail pudding, mould lined with suet crust, filled with quails, slices of beef, seasoned, and then boiled or steamed.133 ENTREES OF GAME Caille Regenee. — Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, and braised ; garnished with financiere; truffle sauce. — SOUS la Cendre.—Barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers, the same as baked potatoes ; remove paper when done ; brown sauce reduced with white wine. Croustades k la Champenoise.—Braised halves of quails, stuffed with game forcemeat, chopped mushrooms and liver, dressed on fried bread crou- tons, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Canards Sauvages.—wild ducks. — & rAm^rieaine.—Stuffed with suet and bread stuffing, and braised ; served with salmi sauce con- taining chopped shallots, duck liver, and port wine. — k la Chasseur.—Stuffed with game forcemeat and chopped mushrooms, and braised ; served with a game sauce flavoured with black currant jelly. — Filets de, aux truffes.—Fried fillets, served with salmi sauce, with sliced or chopped truffles. — aux NavetS.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with braised young turnips. — aux Olives. — Par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce, with turned French olives. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted, and stewed or jugged in salmi sauce. Coq de Bruyere aux quenelles de truffes. — Heath-cock larded and braised ; served with small quenelles of chicken and chopped truffles. — a la Polonaise.—Heath-cock, jointed, parboiled, steeped in game marinade, and braised in the oven ; served with brown game sauce mixed with sour cream. Faisan.—Pheasant. — k la Bonne Femme.—Braised whole, with small pieces of ham and slices of Spanish onion ; served with a brown sauce mixed with Indian chutney. — Bruxelloise.—Braised in casserole, with mirepoix and brussels sprouts; garnished with the latter ; brown sauce. — aux ChOUX.—Braised in casserole, with stewed spring cabbages, fried slices of bacon, small carrots, and sausages. — Cavour.—Roast or braised, dressed in casserole with nouilles, previously tossed in butter ; derai- glace sauce. — Compote de, au Madere.—Stewed in madere sauce. — Cotelettes de, k la Richelieu.—Pheasant force- meat shaped into cutlets, and poached ; when cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with brown truffle sauce.134 GAME (GIBIER) Faisan k la Flamande.—Braised; garnished with small stuffed braised cabbages and fried sausages. — a la Jardiniere.—Braised, dressed in border of pheasant farce; garnished with mixture of spring vegetables. — Livournaise.—Braised in casserole, with cepes, mushrooms, and slice of lean bacon ; salmi sauce. — a la Richemont.—Fillets larded, with truffles and bacon, and braised ; supreme sauce. — Rossini.—Braised white,sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with foie-gras and truffles. — en Robe de Chambre.—Boned, cut flat, spread with veal farce, tongue and truffles rolled up and braised ; when cold, wrapped in puff paste and baked ; served with demi-glace sauce ; also served cold with aspic garnish. — Salmi de, aux truffes.— Par-roasted, and stewed in salmi sauce with sliced truffles. — Salmi de, k la Bohemienne.—Broiled, and stewed in madere sauce, chopped ham, and mush- rooms ; garnished with fried bread croutons and whole mushrooms. — Souvaroff.—Braised white, breasts removed, and stuffed with chicken farce ; supreme sauce. — a la Talleyrand.—Larded fillets, braised, dressed in centre of a border made of pheasant forcemeat ; garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed, and fried. Gelinotte.—Hazel hen. — Filets de, au Champagne. — Broiled fillets stewed in champagne sauce. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, olives, etc. Grive.—Fieldfare or thrush. — Bonne Femme.—Tossed in butter, with dice of bacon, mushrooms, and small button onions; finished in demi-glace sauce. — braisees en caisses.—Braised, served in small paper cases. — braisees au Lard.—Braised, with fried bacon ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Barded and roast; served with mushroom sauce ; garnished with game quenelles. — Genievre. — Braised in casserole, with juniper berries and brown sauce. Mauviettes.—Larks. — Bonne Femme.—Broiled with butter, bacon cut in dice, button onions, and mushrooms; finished in demi-glace sauce, enriched with meat glaze and lemon juice.*135 ENTREES OF GAME Mauviettes farcies aux truffes.—Boned, stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised; served with truffle sauce. — Lueullus. — Boned, stuffed with foie-gras, and braised, dressed in cases and served with truffle sauce. — a la Madrid.—Boned, stuffed with pounded veal, ham, and breadcrumbs, braised and glazed, dressed in paper cases, or in border of potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — Parmentier.—Boned, stuffed with celery puree, and braised ; when cold, wrapped in puff paste and baked ; dressed in border of finely cut fried straw potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — Pompadour.—Boned, stuffed with chopped beef, crumb bread, braised, and served with perigueux sauce. Ortolans k la Proven§ale.—Braised ortolans with richly stewed onions ; sauce, Robert. — a la Delmonico.—Boned, stuffed with ham farce and chopped truffles, braised in earthenware pot (casserole),covered with paste crust; sent to table in the casserole. — Marianne. — Braised in casserole, with spinach and demi-glace sauce. — & la Perigord.—Braised, with truffle sauce. — a la Polonaise.—Broiled and stewed ; garnished with sauerkraut, small pease dumplings, and pieces of smoked sausage. Perdrix—Perdreaux.—Partridge—Grouse. — Bateliere.—Braised, with button onions, mush- rooms, fried eggs, and crayfish tails ; demi-glace sauce — a la Beauharnais. — Braised, garnished with asparagus tips, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms ; truffle sauce. — en Casserole.—Braised in earthenware stewpan, with dice shapes of bacon, button onions, mush- rooms, and bouquet garni; brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted and stewed, with chopped mushrooms, claret sauce, and chopped lemon rind; garnished with fleurons or sippets of bread. — Chartreuse de.— Stewed, with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in timbale with alternate layers of vegetables ; brown sauce. — Chantilly.—Stuffed with foie-gras and braised ; garnished with lentil purde in border or timbales ; sauce madere. — aux ChOUX.—Braised, with bacon and stewed spring cabbages.136 GAME (GIB1ER) Perdrix—Perdreaux. — farcis aux Champignons. — Stuffed and braised ; served with mushroom sauce. — k la Mar6chal.—Braised breasts and wings, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato croquettes; madere sauce. — pains de, k la Dauphine.—Darioles or timbales of partridge farce mixed with truffles and mush- rooms, poached, and garnished with asparagus points, potato croquettes, and button mushrooms; madere sauce. — a la Prineesse.—Breasts, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, and braised ; madere sauce. — a la Pompadour. — Stuffed with liver farce, larded and braised; served with goose-liver and truffle stew ; perigueux sauce. — Salmi de, aux truffes.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce with truffles. Perdreaux blancs aux Olives.—Ptarmigan stewed in brown sauce with olives. •— a la Gambetta.—Broiled and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with small stuffed tomatoes and croutons. Pluviers.—Plovers. — Cotelettes de, en Caisses.—Boned, shaped into cutlets, braised, spread over with farce, egged, crumbed, and fried; served in china or paper cases; chasseur sauce. — Duglairs.—Stuffed with liver farce, and braised, fillets and wings dressed on croutons spread over with foie-gras, etc. ; sauce madere, flavoured with cognac. — a la Perigueux.—Braised, with truffles. — sautes au Champagne.—Tossed in butter and stewed in champagne sauce. GIBIER QUADRUPEDE. (FOUR-FOOTED GAME.) Cerf.—Deer. — Filet de, sauce Poivrade.—Braised fillet of deer with pepper sauce mixed with red currant jelly. ■— pique a la Diable.—Larded and braised, served with a sharp pepper sauce or sauce diable. — Ragout de, marin4. — Pickled or marinated, stewed or jugged. Chevreuil.—Roebuck. — ft la Bourgeoise.—Stewed venison, with braised button onions.137 ENTRIES OF GAME Chevreuil brais6 a la St. Hubert.—Braised pickled venison, larded ; finished in brown sauce flavoured with claret and cinnamon; garnished with stoned prunes, glazed with meat extract. — Civet de.—Jugged venison,with red currant jelly served separate. — Cotelettes de, a la Turque.—Cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried ; fried parsley garnish ; tomato sauce. — Cumberland. — Braised, with marinade sauce, port wine, and orange juice flavour introduced. — Escalopes de, k la Chasseur.—Scallops breaded and fried; served with chasseur sauce mixed with red currant jelly. — Fricot de, k la Piemontaise.—Jugged neck or breast, with small savoury rice timbales ; tomato sauce. — Grenadin de, aux truffes. Small fillets, larded and braised ; served with truffle sauce. — Longe de, k la Tomate.— Braised loin with tomato puree. — Noix de, k la gelee de groseille.—Braised kernel, with brown sauce flavoured with red currant jelly. — a la Sultane.—Marinated neck, loin or fillet, stewed in salmi sauce containing pickled sultanas, reduced with port wine. — Tournedos de, k la Milanaise.—Very small steaks, broiled or grilled ; served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. V enaison.—V enison. — Filet de, aux Olives.—Grilled venison steaks dressed with stoned olives and brown sauce. — Cuissot de, k la Richemont.—Boned, larded, and braised or roasted leg, served with small fried sweet potatoes and red currant jelly. Lapin op Lapereau.—Rabbit. — Gibelotte de, & la Bourguignonne.—Par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce, with claret and braised button onions. — Croquettes de, k la Maintenon. — Minced cooked rabbit, made into salpicon, with bechamel sauce, shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. — fpits k la Tartare. — Boned, pickled or marinated, boiled and pressed, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce. — a l’lndienne.—Curried, with boiled rice. — k la Minute.—Cut up, tossed in butter, and stewed in Madeira wine sauce.138 GAME (GI BIER) Lapin a la Poulette.—Cut up, fried in butter, stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Levraut.—Leveret. — Cotelettes de, aux truffes. — Fried leveret cutlets, with truffle sauce. — farci a l’Americaine. — Boned, stuffed, and braised ; served with demi-glace and tomato sauce blended. — Gibelotte.—Cut up small, tossed in butter, with button onions, and cubes of fried potatoes ; demi- glace or madere sauce. ■— Marengo.—The same as poulet marengo. — frit a l’Orly.—Boned, cut into small pieces, breaded or dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. Lievre.—Hare. — Civet de.—Jugged hare. — Civet de, k la Finnoise.—Pickled and jugged, in demi-glace sauce, flavoured with sour cream. — Cotelettes de, a l’Allemande. — Loin chop cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with hard-boiled eggs and pickled gherkins ; served with a white wine sauce. — Escalopes de, marinees.—Marinated or pickled fillets or cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried ; sauce, marinade. — farei a la Fermiere.— Stuffed with veal and pork farce, and braised; served with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely chopped ham and parsley, and reduced with white wine. — Filets de, a la Sieilienne. — Larded fillets, braised and finished in reduced gravy ; flavoured with cinnamon and chopped parsley ; dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. — Florendines de.—Boned legs stuffed with game farce, rolled, and braised in casserole in the oven. — Grenadins de.—Small fillets, larded and braised ; tomato or demi-glace sauce. — en glte.—Alternate layers of potted hare, sausage meat, and hare fillets, dressed in a tureen, moistened with sherry, covered with slices of bacon, and baked in the oven ; served in the tureen (hot or cold). — Haricot de. — Cut into joints, seasoned, fried in butter, and stewed inbrown sauce, mushrooms and button onions. — Longe de, a la Soubise.—Braised loin, with onion purde ; brown sauce.139 ENTREES OF GAME Lievre, Pat6 de, a l’Anglaise (Hare Pie).—Cut into small joints, filled in a pie dish, with forcemeat, slices of bacon, liver and stock, covered with puff- paste crust, and baked in the oven. — Pat6 de, k la Franpaise.—Raised pie crust, filled with pieces of fried hare, pork farce, bacon, mushrooms, and stock, baked in the oven. — Rable de, a la St. Denis.—Loin or neck cut into cutlets, braised, and served with truffle sauce. — Rable de, k la Mode.—Small joints (larded fillets), fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce, with small pieces of salt or pickled pork ; flavoured with chilli vinegar ; served in casserole. OUFS.—Bear. Cuissot d’Ours a la Cussy.—Boned leg, marinated or pickled, braised, and served with salmi sauce, sliced truffles, etc. Frieot d’Ours k la Chasseur.—Jugged, with chas- seur sauce. Jambpn d’Ours Braise, au vin de Malaga. — Braised bear’s ham, with malaga or port wine sauce. Renne.—Reindeer. — Cotelettes de, Sauce Poivrade.—Reindeer cut- lets fried, with pepper sauce. Sareelle.—Teal. — bardees a la Westphalie.—Barded and braised, with slices of broiled Westphalian ham and truffles ; demi-glace or champagne sauce. — en Salmi.—Teal stewed in brown sauce with olives, etc. Sanglier.—Wild boar. — Carre de, k la Russe.—Braised neck ; served with sweet orange sauce containing sultanas. — Cotelettes de, sauee Madere.—Braised wild boar cutlets, with madere sauce. — Cuissot de, aux Cerises. — Braised leg of young wild boar, flavoured with red wine, castor sugar and cinnamon; served with brown sauce, containing glace cherries. — Cumberland.—Braised, with salmi or marinade sauce; port wine and orange juice flavour intro- duced. — Grand Veneur.—Marinated and encrusted in bread dough, and baked or roasted; served with reforme sauce. — en Chevreuil or Venaison.—Larded leg or fillet, marinated and braised; sauce venaison, and crou- tons. — Jambon de, aux Petits Pois.—Braised ham of wild boar with green peas. — a la Robert.—Fried wild boar cutlets with Robert sauce.140 SERVICE FROID—COLD ENTREES. Collection of dishes suitable as entrees, and for cold collations, luncheon and supper buffets, etc. En Aspic—In Savoury Jelly. Aspic de Foie-gras. — Goose-liver pate set in savoury jelly. — de Homard.—Lobster set in savoury jelly. — aux (Eufs de Pluvier.—Plovers’ eggs set in savoury jelly; mould garnished with macedoine, or green peas and truffles. — de Ris de Veau.—Cold braised sweetbread set in savoury jelly. — de Saumon.—Cold salmon set in aspic. — de Filets de Soles.—Fillets of soles set in aspic. — de Volaille.—Chicken, skinned and boned, set in savoury jelly. Ballotine de Perdreau, SouvarofF. — Boned partridge, stuffed with goose-liver farce and truffles, done up like galantine, and braised, pressed, and glazed ; served as cold entree or supper dish. Caneton a la Lombertie.—Boned duckling, stuffed with foie-gras and truffle farce, and braised, coated with brown chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles, white of hard-boiled egg, and masked with aspic. Chartreuse de Faisan.—Charlotte-shaped mould lined with aspic, and decorated with green peas, truffles, etc., coated with fawn chaudfroid sauce, and filled with a mixture of cooked pheasant cut in dice, mushrooms, small chicken quenelles, truffles, cocks’ combs, and hard-boiled egg, moistened with aspic and madere sauce; turned out when set and garnished suitably. Chaudfroid (Meat, Fish or Poultry). — Cooked (boiled, broiled or braised), and, when cold, masked with suitably flavoured and tinted chaudfroid sauce, coated and decorated with aspic or some other special garnish; often dressed on a bed of seasoned salad. — de Becasses.—Chaudfroid of woodcock. — de Cailles.—Chaudfroid of quails. — de Coq de Bruy ere.—Heathcock or grouse. — de Faisan.—Braised or boiled pheasant fillets and wings, masked with white chaudfroid sauce; decorated with truffles and aspic.4141 COLD ENTREES Chaudfroid de Foie-gras en caisse.—Round or oval-shaped slices of foie-gras, masked with white or fawn chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with slices of truffle. — de Gelinottes.—Hazel-hen. — de Poulets.—Cooked chicken fillets, wings and legs skinned, masked with chaudfroid sauce or savoury jelly ; decorated with truffles. — de Perdreaux.—Partridge. Coq de Bois en Gelee.—Fillets of cold black grouse set in mould in savoury jelly. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb cutlets. — de Chevreuil en Gelee.—Braised venison cutlets masked with savoury jelly. — Danzig.—Braised or broiled cutlets, pressed, coated with foie-gras farce, and masked with white chaudfroid sauce blended with green pea puree; ornamented with truffle and white of egg, dressed on vegetable aspic border. — de Foie-gras en aspic.—Goose-liver cutlets set in savoury jelly. — M0SC0Vienne.—Neck braised whole, cut into cutlets, set in aspic blended with chopped green mint, dressed on border of tongue, truffles, peas, beans, and egg, set in aspic, macedoine of vege- tables seasoned with tartare in centre of dish. — de Mouton.—Mutton cutlets can be prepared and dressed in the same manner as described for lamb cutlets. — de Mouton en Belle Vue. — Broiled or braised mutton cutlets, masked with chaudfroid sauce, dressed cold in savoury jelly, with truffles and fancifully cut vegetables. — Renaissance. — Broiled cutlets, pressed, and coated with liver farce mixed with mushrooms and onion puree, masked with tomato aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle, and dressed round salad pyramids. — de Sanglier en mayonnaise. — Cooked wild boar cutlets dressed with mayonnaise aspic. — Vallorbes.—As above, with celery and truffle salad mixed with tartare sauce in centre of dish, in place of the ordinary salad. — de Veau en Belle Vue.—Veal cutlets truffled, larded and braised, set in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables ; when cold, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and garnished with truffles. — de Volaille a la Russe.—Cold chicken cutlets, truffled and larded, masked with mayonnaise aspic, and dressed on vegetable salad.142 COLD ENTREES Creme de Volaille en Tomates. — Scooped-out tomatoes filled with chicken cream and poached; when cold, skin removed and coated with aspic; garnished with chopped aspic and parsley. Cuisses de Volaille, Belle Alliance.—Boned, stuffed, and braised legs of chicken, masked with chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; garnished with truffles, and dressed in aspic; vegetable border. Darioles de Foie-Gras k la Vatel.—Fluted dariole moulds lined with aspic, and decorated with white of egg and truffle slices; filled with layer of foie- gras pat£ and aspic. — de Volaille a la Chartreuse.—Small dariole shapes of chicken cream, centre filled with mush- room, truffle, and chicken mince. Dominos de Foie-Gras.—Domino-shaped moulds lined with aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle spots to represent dominos; coated with mayonnaise, aspic, or white chaudfroid sauce, and filled with foie-gras slices; dipped in madere flavoured sauce; dished up on a delicate celery salad. Filets de Bceuf en Chaudfroid.—Fillets of beef, larded, braised, glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; decorated with truffle and white of egg ; garnished and dressed according to taste. Filets de Caneton a la Lorraine. — Roasted duckling fillets, spread over with foie-gras or ham puree, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; decorated with truffle, etc.; dressed on ham mousse border. — a la Madrid.—Braised whole, cut into fillets, masked with mayonnaise aspic, mixed with grated horseradish and mustard ; garnished with slices of tomatoes, chopped aspic, and cress. — Javanaise.—Larded and braised whole, glazed with demi-glace and aspic; garnished with vege- table macedoine dressed with aspic, etc., grated horseradish, and tomatoes; suitable as remove or supper dish. Fleurettes de Foie-Gras.—Small square, oblong, or oval (flat) moulds, lined with aspic and decorated with chervil leaves, truffle and chilli skin, masked with aspic cream and filled with foie-gras mixture (pounded) ; chicken, salmon, and turbot may be prepared in this style. Galantine de Dinde aux Truffes.—Galantine of turkey with truffles. — d’Ortolans en Chaudfroid.—Braised, stuffed ortolan shaped into galantine, masked with chaud- froid sauce ; garnished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables and chopped aspic.COLD ENTREES 14 3 Galantine de Poulet or de Volaille. — Chicken galantine, garnished with aspic. — de Veau en Aspic.—Veal galantine, garnished with savoury jelly. Langue de Bceuf roulee k 1’Aspic.—Rolled ox- tongue, masked and garnished with savoury jelly. Mauviettes a la Lucullus. — Boned and stuffed larks braised, cooled, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with truffles, border of green peas, etc. Mayonnaise de Poissons.—Fish mayonnaise. — de Volaille. —Chicken mayonnaise. M6daillons de Volaille k l’Imperiale.—Round slices of cooked chicken (fillets), masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffle slices, and dressed on rounds of tongue; garnished with asparagus salad in centre of dish. Mousse de Foie-gras a la Reine.—Mousse or charlotte moulds lined with aspic, decorated and masked with white chaudfroid sauce, filled with cold mixture of minced foie-gras, ham, truffle, meat glaze, and aspic, centre of same filled with green peas or asparagus points, dressed with mayonnaise. Pain de Volaille aux Truffes.—Chicken farce mixed with truffles, shaped, and poached; garnished with truffles and aspic. — de Foie-gras k la Perigord.—Small goose-liver shapes, decorated with truffles poached. Pains de Gibier k la Gelee.—Small game farce shapes. — de Volaille a ^’Argenteuil. — Small timbale shapes of cooked chicken cream, mixed with supreme, centre filled with asparagus puree; gar- nished with asparagus points and truffles. Parfait de Foie-gras.—Delicately flavoured potted foie-gras (souffle) dressed in tureen; when cold garnished with aspic, etc. Pate de Becassine aux Truffes.—Snipe pie with truffles. — de Cailles Froid.—Quail raised pie. — de Pintade.—Guinea-fowl pie. — de Pigeons Froid.—Pigeon pie. — froid de Veau k l’Anglaise.—Veal and ham pie. — froid de Saumon.—Salmon pie. Petites Bombes a la Victoria.—Small bombs or bouches, flavoured with tomato aspic, and filled with pounded cooked chicken breasts, mixed with supreme sauce, and chopped truffles, aspic, etc. ; surmount each shape with a large Spanish olive stuffed with foie-gras.COLD ENTRIES 144 Petites Croustardes Milanaise.—Puff-paste tartlet crusts, flavoured with cheese ; when cold, lined with tomato cream, filled with light ham souffle mixture ; decorated with whipped cream. Petites Langues k l’Espagnole.—Ox-tongue and chicken or veal farce poached in small tongue moulds, masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; garnished with macedoine of vegetables, etc. Ris d’Agneau, Sevignb.—Lamb’s breads braised, pressed in pastry rings, coated with villeroi sauce and aspic; garnished with green pea puree, and dressed on seasoned salad. — A l’Amiral.—Oval slices of braised sweetbread, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles; dressed on vegetable aspic border, with suitable salad in centre of dish. Ris de Veau k la Biarritz (or Monte Carlo).— Braised sweetbread, glazed, cut into slices, coated with fawn-coloured chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles and chilli skins; dressed on rice border or carved rice block (socle) with hatelet in centre. Roulade Norv6gienne.—Cooked breast of veal, lean beef and bacon, minced up and shaped into roll, boiled or braised, and glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with slices of truffles, etc. Salade de Poulets.—Chicken salad. Souffles de Jambon.—Pounded ham mixed with madere sauce, cream, and aspic, set in moulds ; decorated with truffle strips, etc., set on ice, and turned out when required. Supreme de Veau k rAspic.—Braised, larded cushion piece of veal cut into fillets, and masked with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic, decorated with truffle, etc., and dressed on carved rice block (socle); garnished with chopped aspic. Tartines de Volaille en Surprise. — Sandwich shapes of chicken, tongue and chicken farce, poached in sandwich moulds, and coated, when cold, with aspic cream; decorated with finely cut strips of tongue and truffle ; served on a bed of green salad. Terrine de Gibier a la Suisse.—Fire-proof terrine lined with bacon, veal and pork farce, and filled with boned and skinned sliced game (either hare, partridge, or pheasant), moistened with stock, top covered with bacon and farce, and thus cooked in oven; when cold, surface masked with aspic, and decorated with slices of hard-boiled egg and truffle.145 REMOVES Timbale Toulousienne.—The same as Chartreuse de Faisan, using white sauce to mask the mould, and cooked veal or chicken in place of pheasant. Tomates k l’Alg4rienne.—Tomato moulds masked with tomato aspic, filled with cooked chicken cream, mixed with aspic, etc. ; turned out when set and garnished with chopped green aspic. Zephires de Foie-Gras.—The same as fleurettes, but using zephyr moulds. RELEVES-REMOVES. GROSSE PIECES. These are, as a rule, solid joints, such as saddle of lamb or mutton,, loins of veal or mutton, legs of mutton or lamb, fricandeau of veal, fillets, sirloin, or ribs of beef, venison, deer, wild boar, ham, etc. ; boiled turkey, large fowls, capons, etc., are also at times served under this heading. Some kind of vege- table is usually sent with this course as an accompani- ment or garnish. On the Continent and occasionally in England these dishes are often served after hors- d’oeuvre or after fish. Following this course are served: DU BCEUF—BEEF. Aloyau de Bceuf braise.—Braised sirloin of beef. — a l’Espagnole.—Braised, with button onions. — Flamande.—Braised ; garnished with groups of garden vegetables. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised, with young turnips and French carrots, glazed. Beefsteak d*Aloyau.—Porterhouse steak. Bceuf braise a la Mode. — Braised rump, with vegetables. — bouilli a l’Anglaise.—Boiled salt beef, with carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings. — Bernoise.—Braised top side or rump, with stewed nouilles, and baked potatoes. — a la Celestine.—Roast sirloin ; garnished with small baked potatoes and roll of stuffed pancakes, cut into one-inch pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — a la Fran§aise.—Boiled, with carrots, turnips, and cabbage. — a la Jardiniere.—Parboiled and braised; gar- nished with small spring vegetables. — a la Lorraine.—Roast sirloin; garnished with braised button onions, mashed potatoes, and braised spring cabbages. t G146 REMOVES Boeuf Palermo.—Roast rib or sirloin, boned; gar- nished with braised potatoes and small stuffed cucumber or vegetable marrow. — Piemontaise.—Roast boned ribs ; garnished with timbales of cooked rice or macaroni, flavoured with tomato and saffron, and fried potatoes. — A la Russe.—Boiled, served with cucumber salad. Cote de Boeuf braise.—Braised boned ribs of beef. — a la Normande.—Braised ribs; garnished with mashed potatoes and young glazed carrots. — & la Saint Hubert.—Roast or braised ; garnished with stuffed braised cabbages, lettuces, and glazed button onions. Culotte de Boeuf braise.—Braised round of beef. De l’Agneau et Mouton or Pre-Sal6. Lamb or Mutton. Epaule d’Agneau brais^e.— Braised shoulder of lamb. — roulee aux Petits Pois.—Rolled shoulder of lamb braised, with green peas. — braisee aux Truffes.—Boned, rolled, stuffed with truffles and forcemeat, braised ; demi-glace sauce. Filet de Boeuf a la Braban^onne.—Fillet of beef trimmed whole, larded, and put in marinade for twenty-four hours, braised slowly, essence of braize used for sauce ; garniture: carrots and turnips, round or olive shapes, glazed potato puree, brussels sprouts puree, spinach and soubise (onion puree), all dressed in groups round the base of the fillet; brown sauce served separately. — a l’Aneienne.—Braised ; garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans, and braised lettuces. — en Chevreuil.—Pickled in red wine marinade and braised ; served with piquant sauce. — Clairemont. — Roast (larded) ; garnished with kidney potatoes and glazed chestnuts. — Louis XV.—Braised (larded) whole ; garnished with stuffed potatoes fried or baked. — Palestine. — Roast (larded) whole ; garnished with braised Jerusalem artichokes, parsnips, and button onions. 2W — Paysanne. — Braised ; garnished with celery, turnips, carrots, and new kidney potatoes ; browned in the oven. — Parisienne. — Roast (larded) ; garnished with small marble-shaped fried potatoes. ,REMOVES 147 Filet de Bceuf Richelieu.—Larded and braised; garnished with stuffed tomatoes, truffles, and mushrooms. — Strasbourgeoise.—Roast; garnished with sauer- kraut (pickled white cabbages), slices of rolled braised ham, smoked sausage, and mashed potatoes. — Toscane.—Roast (larded); garnished with arti- choke bottoms, stuffed tomatoes, and small braised brussels sprouts, tossed in butter. Gigot de Mouton.—Leg of Mutton. — bouilli k l’Anglaise.—Boiled; garnished with boiled young carrots, turnips, sprigs of cauliflower, French beans, and brussels sprouts; served with caper sauce. — braisd en Chevreuil. — Pickled in red wine marinade and braised. — braise k la Soubise.—Braised leg of mutton with onion puree. — brais6 a la Turque.—Braised, with stufted cucumbers. — en Chevreuil.—Boned leg of mutton, marinaded for three days in wine, vinegar, and herbs, etc., then roasted, and served with poivrade (pepper) sauce. — Nesselrode.—Roast, served with stewed chest- nuts (whole), sliced mushrooms, and truffles. Langue de Bceuf braisee.—Braised smoked ox- tongue Musettes d’Agneau k la Frangaise. — Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, rolled and braised (usual mirepoix and white wine), dressed on a bed of mashed potatoes; garnished with small potato balls, stuffed tomatoes, dice of ham, tossed in butter, and mushrooms; sauce, demi-glace, served separate. Poitrine d’Agneau Fareie k la Soubise.—Stuffed breast of lamb braised, with onion puree. Quartier d’Agneau a la Flamande.—Roast fore or hind quarter of lamb, garnished with braised turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages. Selle d’Agneau k la Bretonne.—Roast saddle of lamb, with puree of haricot beans. Selle de Mouton.—Saddle of mutton. — k la Castillane.—Roast saddle of mutton ; gar- nished with stufted tomatoes, aubergines, pimentos, fried bananas, and duchesse potatoes; sauce, demi-glace. — A la Jardiniere.—Garnished with spring vege- tables. — Milanaise.—With macaroni and tomato puree.148 REMOVES Selle de Pre-Sale, Belle Alliance.—Roast saddle of prime mutton; garnished with potato puree, braised lettuce, and stuffed tomatoes ; served with gravy. du Cochon or Pore—Pork. Carre de pore braise.—Braised neck of pork. Cochon de Lait roti (Roast Sucking Pig).—Sucking pig roasted on spit or in the oven, basted with olive oil or beer (the latter is the custom in Germany and Switzerland) ; serve with ravigote or other suitable sauce. — braise.—Braised sucking pig. — a la Broche.—Roasted on the spit. — farei.—Stuffed and roasted. Gigot de Pore a la Hongroise (Braised Leg of Pork, Hungarian style). — Boned, rolled, and braised, with sauerkraut; garnished with the latter and with small potato croquettes. — bouilli a l’Anglaise. — Boiled leg of salt pork, with carrots, turnips, parsnips, and peas pudding. — roti.—Roast leg of fresh pork. Jambon a la Beaueaire. — Braised ; garnished with small rice croquettes, small heads of braised lettuce and potato fondantes ; sauce, demi-glace, flavoured with ham essence. — au Madere.—Boiled ham with Madeira sauce. — a la Roederer.—Braised ham with champagne sauce. — Westphalie, braise.—Braised Westphalian ham. Longe de Pore farcie.—Braised and stuffed loin of pork. Selle de Pore.—Roast saddle of pork. du Veau—Veal. Carre de Veau garni. — Roast neck of veal, garnished with braised vegetables. Longe de Veau a la Fran§aise.—Roast loin of veal, garnished with stuffed tomatoes and potato croquettes. — k la GeneVOise.—Braised, with stewed nouilles (flat macaroni), mushrooms, and truffles. — a l’ltalienne.—Braised, with rice timbales and tomato sauce. — Montpensier.—Roast, with stewed truffles. Noix de Veau piquee.—Braised (larded) cushion of veal. — a l’Allemande.—Braised (larded), garnished with new potatoes (baked) and green peas. — a la Chasseur.—Roast, stuffed with minced game and mushrooms. — Piquee a la Chieoree.—Roast (larded), with puree of endive.149 REMOVES Poitrine de Veau fareie.—Roast stuffed breast of veal. — a la Milanaise.—Roast (stuffed), with macaroni and tomato stew. Rond de Veau farci.—Rolled loin of veal stuffed and roasted. Seile de Veau aux tomates farcies. — Roast saddle of veal with stuffed tomatoes. — aux Champignons frais.—Roast, with stewed fresh mushrooms. Chapon bouilli a l’Anglaise.—Boiled capon and bath chap. — braise a la Perigord.—Braised capon and truffle sauce. Cimier de Cerf, sauce Piquante.—Pickled saddle of deer, braised, with piquant sauce. — de Chevreuil aux Tomates.—Braised pickled saddle of venison, with stewed tomatoes. Cuissot de Sanglier a la Bourgogne.—Roast leg of wild boar, with Burgundy wine sauce. Dinde bouillie aux huitres.—Boiled turkey with stewed oysters. Fricandeau de Chevreuil a la Broche.—Fillet of venison, larded, roasted on spit. Gigot de Chevreuil braise. — Braised leg of venison. ■— a la Creme aigre.—Roast leg of venison with sour cream sauce. Jamboil de Renne.—Smoked leg of reindeer. Marcassin farei aux truffes.—Roast young wild boar stuffed with truffles and forcemeat. — a la Broche.—Roasted on the spit. Poularde poelee a la Bergere.—Pullet or poulard cooked in onion mirepoix in earthenware vessel in oven; dressed with soubise, i.e., onion puree, and garnished with tomatoes tossed in butter, and straw potatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. Reins de Sanglier au Madere.—Roast loin of wild boar, with Madeira wine sauce. Tete de Veau fareie aux truffes. — Braised calf’s head stuffed with veal forcemeat and truffles. Note.—For other removes refer to the Entree and the Roast Sections, where a number of dishes are given that can be served under this heading. Small birds or joints that are cut up are not suitable. It is necessary to serve some kind of seasonable vegetable along with this course, unless the dish selected has a prominent vegetable garnish. A selection of dressed vegetables will be found in the chapter devoted to Vegetables. G 3150 ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. (DRESSED VEGETABLES.) Although this course is exceedingly popular on the Continent, and especially in France, dressed vege- tables as an Entremet are not much in favour in England; many dinners are served where only plain vegetables are given, and dressed vegetables as a separate course is but seldom included. This is regrettable, because in point of excellence as well as economy dressed vegetables deserve to be more largely, if not generally, introduced in dinner menus. Of these vegetables, Asparagus, Green or Globe Arti- chokes, Jerusalem Artichokes, Cardoons, Celery, Salsify, Celeviac, Cauliflower, Seakale, Spinach, Tomatoes, Green Peas, Sprouts, Potatoes, French Beans, Mushrooms, Cucumbers and Aubergines are particularly adapted for dressing as an Entremet Course. The dressing varies considerably. Asparagus, Artichokes, and Cauli- flowers are often served plainly boiled, dished on toasted bread, with a good white sauce or oiled butter. Oiled butter must be perfect; fresh and sweet butter only should be used, and a dash of lemon juice incor- porated. Many of these vegetables are well suited to be cooked au gratin ; others are tossed in butter, after being boiled and well drained ; whilst others, such as Tomatoes, Potatoes, Cucumbers, Aubergines, Mush- rooms, and Artichoke Bottoms, etc., are stufted. There are about 200 ways of cooking and dressing potatoes, and of these quite 100 render them fit for use as savoury vegetables. Asparagus and Artichokes are also served au Vinai- grette, i.e., with a plain salad dressing, consisting of oil, vinegar, chopped chives or parsley, chopped gherkins, and seasoning. Bechamel, Tomato, Hollandaise, Piquante and Poivrade Sauces are frequently used for dressing vegetables. Many dainty souffles of Vegetable Puree rank prominently as savouries; for these, Spinach, Cucumber, Lettuces, Tomatoes, Artichokes, Carrots, etc., are generally used. Lastly, Vegetable Fritters should be accorded a prominent place under this heading. These are made of Salsify, Celery, or Celeriac, Beetroot, Cardoons, C6pes, etc. These are generally first cooked, and when cold cut into slices or small pieces, then dipped in batter, and fried.. . ■'V151 VEGETABLES Artichauts—Artichokes. Artichauts frais.—Fresh globe artichokes. — A la Bechamel.—Boiled; served with white sauce. — Bruxelloise. — Globe artichoke, boiled, inside stuffed with a rich mushroom mixture, and braised ; served with allemande sauce flavoured with white wine. — A la Barigoule.—Centre stuffed with duxelle purge, braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. — frits.—Fried artichokes. — fareis.—Stuffed artichokes. — au gratin.—Baked, gratin style. — a l’ltalienne.—Boiled and broiled, with chopped mushrooms and brown sauce. — de Jerusalem A la Bechamel.—Boiled Jeru- salem artichokes with bechamel sauce. — & la Lyonnaise.—Cut in quarters, stewed in demi-glace, with fried slices of onions. — a la Reine.—Green artichoke purge and chicken cream mixed with aspic and set in fancy moulds; served cold. — sautes. — Green artichokes quartered, boiled, dressed, and tossed in butter; served with or without sauce. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled, served with vinaigrette sauce. Fonds d’Artichauts.—Artichoke Bottoms. — a TAmericaine.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with chicken forcemeat, with a garnish of cooked chicken slices, truffle, tongue, etc., in centre; served hot with sauce, or cold with aspic. — Alice.—Boiled, drained, and tossed in butter, dressed on croutons with a small round of cooked beef marrow in each, and sauced over with demi- glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Tossed in butter, and fried shallots cooked in red wine sauce, and beef marrow- fat as garnish. — a la Demi-glace.—Boiled, and stewed in demi- glace sauce. — k l’Espagnole.—With espagnole sauce. — a la Florentine.—Braised, filled with asparagus tips and bechamel sauce, sprinkled over with grated cheese and butter, and browned in oven. — A la Poivrade.—Stewed in, and served with, pepper sauce. — a la Proven^ale.—Stuffed with onion purge and served with a rich brown sauce.VEGETABLES 152 Souffle d’Artichauts k la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke pur6e, mixed with chicken souffle mixture, centre garnished with champignon puree, cooked in artichoke moulds, served hot with supreme sauce. Asperges—Asparagus. Asperges en Branches a l’Allemande.—Green asparagus cooked in chicken stock ; served with cream sauce. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled, with bechamel sauce. — a la Bearnaise.—Boiled, dressed with layers of grated gruyere cheese, top covered with finely minced fried onions, cheese, and breadcrumbs; browned in hot oven. — en branches au beurre fondu.—Boiled, with oiled butter. — en branches a la Colbert. — Boiled, with poached eggs and brown sauce. — a la Fribourg.—Boiled, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese, and sauced with hot oiled butter. •— ala Hollandaise.—Boiled, with hollandaise sauce. — a l’ltalienne. — Boiled head portion; dressed with white sauce or oiled butter, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in sharp oven or under salamander. ■— a la Melba.—Giant asparagus tied in bundles and. cooked in salted water; served with sauce Melba. — a la Nigoise.—Boiled, and served cold, with a sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg-yolks, passed through a sieve, vinegar and seasoning. ■— en Petits Pois.—Green asparagus points (sprue), cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. — a la Piemontaise.—Boiled ; dressed with grated parmesan cheese and white sauce. — Polonaise.—Boiled soft portion ; dressed with nut brown butter and fried breadcrumbs. — sautees au Beurre.—Boiled, and finished in butter. •— au Veloute.—Boiled,and finished in veloute sauce. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled, with vinaigrette sauce. Pointes d’AspergeS.—Asparagus points. — a l’Argenteuil. — Puree of green asparagus points or sprue, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked), set in asparagus shaped mould, so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus (white part, chicken forcemeat) ; served hot, with supreme sauce ; or cold, with aspic and salad. — a la S6villienne. — Asparagus puree served inside a shape mounted with cooked cold asparagus, masked with aspic ; served cold and garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre.153 VEGETABLES Aubergines—Egg Plants. Aubergines k la Lyonnaise.—Baked, with fried sliced onions ; demi-glace sauce. — farcies au gratin.—Stuffed, top breaded, and baked in oven. — frites.—Peeled, cut in slices, dipped in batter, and fried. — k l’ltalienne. — Peeled, sliced, and tossed in butter, seasoned and dressed on gratin dish, with slices of tomatoes, finely minced onions or shallots, grated parmesan and butter, then browned in the oven. — Proven§ale.— Halved, stuffed with duxelle or mushroom mixture, flavoured with suspicion of garlic, browned in oven. — sautees.—Peeled, cut in quarters or smaller, and tossed in butter. — a la Turque.—Cut in two lengthways, scooped out and filled with a mixture of cooked savoury rice, finely minced mutton, and grated cheese, sauced over with espagnole, and baked. Betterave—Beetroot. Betterave au natural.—Plain boiled, cut in slices. — a la Bordelaise.—Thickly sliced cooked beet- roots, fried in sweet oil, flavoured with chopped onion, and finished in a red wine sauce. — sautees au Beurre. — Cube or clove-shaped pieces of cooked beetroot, tossed in butter. Cardons—Cardoons. Cardons. sauce a la Creme.—Parboiled and stewed in rich stock ; served with cream sauce. — a l’Espagnole.—Boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. — au Jus.—Parboiled, cooked in rich gravy, and served with gravy. — a la Moelle.—Parboiled, braised in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with slices of beef marrow. — a la Veloute.—Stewed white; dressed on crou- tons of bread, and served with veloute sauce. Carottes—Carrots. Carottes k 1’AndalOUSe.— Braised young carrots, finished in rich port wine sauce. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled young carrots with white sauce. — k la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled and stewed in white stock, thickened with flour and butter. — k l’Espagnole.—Parboiled, stewed in stock and espagnole sauce, seasoned with sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter.VEGETABLES 154 Carottes & la Lilloise.—Cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season, finished in bechamel sauce, egg-yolks, cream, and chopped parsley. — k la MaitFe d’Hotel.—Parboiled (pared and cut in quaters), cooked in white stock, thickened with veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar, and chopped parsley ; garnished with fried bread croutons. — k la Poulette.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce with chopped parsley. — au Saumon fume.—Young carrots and aspara- gus points stewed, and garnished with slices of smoked salmon. Compote de Carottes.—Young carrots scraped and cooked till tender in vanilla flavoured syrup; dressed and served like fruit compote. — a la Creme.—Turned, parboiled, and cooked in white sauce enriched with cream and butter. — farcies.—Young carrots hollowed out and stuffed with green pea puree mixed with egg-yolks, and braised in butter and gravy. — a la Vichy.—Small, round, young carrots, boiled, tossed in butter, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley. Celeri—Celery. Celeri a la Bechamel.—Boiled celery, served with white sauce. — a l’Espagnole.—Boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. — frit It la Tomate.—Boiled, cut in four-inch lengths, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat; served with tomato sauce. — a la Fermiere.—Parboiled, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork ; served with brown sauce. — a la Genevoise.—Parboiled, stewed in stock, with layers of fat bacon; when done, drained, ranged in a baking dish, sauced over with veloute, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven until brown. — a ritalienne.—Parboiled celery heads stewed in stock, covered with thin slices of bacon; served with Italian sauce. — au Jus.—Stewed in and served with gravy. ■— k la Paysanne.—Boiled, cut in five-inch lengths, stewed in brown sauce. — au Veloute.—Parboiled, stewed in stock, finished with veloute sauce. — a la Villepoi.—Boiled, cut in four-inch pieces, drained, dipped in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat; served plain or with tomato sauce.* " *I55 VEGETABLES Pup^e de Celepi aux Croutons.—Mashed or puree of celery, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, and a little sugar, finished with bechamel sauce and fresh butter; garnished with fried bread croutons. C61eriac—Celery-knobs. Celeriae & la Bechamel.—Stewed in and served with white sauce. — a l’Espag’nole.—Parboiled, and stewed in and served with brown sauce. — k la Joinville.—Boiled, cut into thick slices, immersed in velout6 sauce, set to cool, dipped in egg and crumbed, fried in hot fat, garnished with fried parsley. Cepes.—A species of mushroom. — a la BOPdelaise.—Broiled in butter, served with gravy, mixed with lemon juice and chopped parsley. — farcies au Jus.—Stuffed, and cooked in gravy. — a la Ppovengale.—Stewed in stock, and served with onion puree. Citronille fapeie.—Stuffed pumpkin. Champignons—M ushrooms. Champignons fareis.—Stuffed mushrooms. — a la BOPdelaise.—Broiled in butter and seasoned ; served with gravy, mixed with chopped shallots previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley. — au beurre.—Broiled in fresh butter and served on toast. — Casse-tOUt.—Grilled or broiled in butter, placed on buttered toast, and baked in the oven. — fapeis a la Napolitaine.—Stuffed with cooked rice, mixed with finely chopped garlic, shallots, and parsley, grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and cheese, and sweet oil, and baked in the oven ; served with demi-glace sauce. — aux fines hepbes. — Stewed in savoury herb sauce. — au gpatin.—Stuffed with grated ham, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, etc., placed on buttered gratin dish, sauced with brown sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and baked in sharp oven. — a la Goupmet.—Turned cup mushrooms, hollow parts filled with minced champignons, butter and truffles, braised in light butter, meat glaze sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — Piemontaise.—Cut in slices, tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce, flavoured with lemon juice and chopped parsley.VEGETABLES 156 Champignons a la Pro ven^ale.—Fried in oil, stewed in rich gravy with chopped shallots, crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, seasoned, and served on croutons. Chicoree—Chicory or Endive. Chicoree a la Demi-glaee.—Stewed, with brown sauce. — a la Creme.—Stewed, with cream sauce. Choux—Cabbages. Chou blane farei.—Braised stuffed white cabbage. — a l’ltalienne.—Boiled and stewed; served with braised chestnuts and small fried sausages. Choux Broeolis.—Broccoli sprouts. — a la Lilloise.—Small pieces of boiled cabbage broiled in butter, seasoned with chopped onions and parsley. — frises or Chou erepu.—Scotch kale. — de Savoie.—Savoy cabbage. Choueroute au four.—Sourcrout stewed in the oven. — a l’Alsaeienne.—Stewed, with boiled bacon and smoked sausages. — au Champagne.—Stewed, flavoured with cham- pagne. Chou-navet.—Chou-rave.—Turnip cabbage. Chou Printanier.—spring cabbage. Chou-rouge etouffe.—Stewed or braised red cab- bage. Choux de Bruxelles—Brussels Sprouts. Choux de Bruxelles sautes.—Boiled, drained, and tossed in fresh butter. — Cantabres. — Braised cabbages, with slices of ham and Basque sausages. — a la Maitre d’Hotel. — Boiled, with parsley butter or parsley sauce. Chou de Mer (Chou Marin d’Angleterre)—Seakale. Chou de Mer a la Bechamel.—Boiled seakale, with white sauce. — a la Hollandaise.—With hollandaise sauce. C hou-fleur—Cauliflower. Chou-fleur a l’Anglaise. — Boiled; served with melted butter sauce. — au beurre fondu.—Boiled ; served with oiled butter. — a la Fran^aise.—Cut into quarters, boiled and stewed in white sauce, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg.157 VEGETABLES Chou-fleur au gratin.— Boiled, coated with white sauce, breadcrumbs, grated cheese, oiled butter, and baked in oven. — a la Fran§aise.—Parboiled and stewed, with braised chestnuts. — k la Hollandaise.—Boiled, with hollandaise sauce. — a la Piemontaise.—Boiled, sauced over with white sauce mixed with grated parmesan cheese. — Polonaise.—Boiled, breaded with fried bread- crumbs, nut brown butter, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Rejet de Chou.—Cabbage sprout. Chou sauvage.—Curled cabbage. Choux-vents.—Greens. Concombre—Cucumber. Coneombre a la maitne d’hotel.— Peeled, and boiled in white stock ; served with parsley sauce. — a la eneme. — Peeled, parboiled, and stewed with cream sauce. — farcis.—Stuffed and braised. — sautes aux fines herbes.—Peeled, sliced, and broiled in butter, with finely chopped parsley, etc. — a la tomate.—Peeled, and stewed with tomato sauce. Pupee de eoneombres.—Peeled, boiled .and mashed (passed through a sieve), mixed with bechamel sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. — a l’Espagnole.—Peeled, cut in quarters, par- boiled, drained, and fried in butter ; served with espagnole sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Peeled, halved, stuffed with chopped mushrooms and savoury herbs, and braised, ranged on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with veloute sauce. Epinards—Spinach. Epinands au Jus.—Boiled, with gravy. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled, mashed, and finished with white sauce. — k la Colbert.—With poached eggs. — fancis. — Large spinach leaves spread with chicken forcemeat, rolled up, braised in consomme stock, and served with brown sauce. — k la Fnanqaise. — Boiled, and finished with cream and butter. — a l’ltalienne. — Spinach puree mixed with bechamel, grated cheese, and butter; garnished with small ravioles poached in stock. Roulade d’Epinands.—Pancakes filled with spinach.158 VEGETABLES Ffcves de marais—Broad beans (Windsor beans.) Feves de marais a la creme.—Boiled, with white cream sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Boiled, with parsley sauce. — au lard.—Boiled, tossed in butter, with fried dice shapes of bacon. — la poulette.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce with chopped parsley. — a la Proven§ale.—Boiled, and stewed in brown sauce, with fried sliced onions. Haricots blancs—White haricot beans. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne.—Boiled, and stewed in brown sauce, with finely chopped fried onions and parsley. — a la B6ehamel.—Parboiled, and’stewed in white sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Stewed, with slices of fried onions. Haricots verts—French beans. Haricots verts & la Fran§aise.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter,with chopped parsley. — aux fines herbes.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, seasoned, tossed in butter, with thinly sliced fried onions. — sautes au beurre.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter. Jets de houblons a la Polonaise.—Stewed young hop sprigs with fried breadcrumbs. Laitues—Lettuces. Laitues braisees.—Braised cabbage lettuce. — farcies, braisees. — Braised stuffed cabbage lettuces. Puree de lentilles.—Mashed lentils. Lentilles en fricassee.—Boiled lentils in white sauce. Macedoine de legumes.—Mixed vegetables cut into small fanciful pieces, cubes, stars, or other shapes, to be cooked separately in salted water, and mixed when done. — & la Bechamel.—Boiled, tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce. — k la printaniere.—Mixed spring vegetables, boiled, drained, and tossed in butter. N avets—T urnips. NavetS braises.—Braised turnips. — & la bourgeoise.—Stewed turnips in brown parsley sauce.f .1VEGETABLES 159 Navets braises k la veloutd.—Stewed young turnips in white sauce. Purde de navets.—Mashed turnips. Oignons d’Espagne bouillis.—Plain boiled Spanish onions. — a la demi-glace.—Boiled Spanish onions stewed in brown sauce. Okra fpites (Fried Okra).—Treated the same as egg-plant or aubergines. Petits pois—Green peas. Petits pois a l’Anglaise.—Cooked in salted water and served plain. — a la Basque.—Green peas served with ham, slightly flavoured with garlic. — au beuPPe.—Cooked plain, tossed in fresh butter, and seasoned. — bonne femme.—Cooked plain, mixed with small braised button onions and shreds of cabbage lettuce, tossed in butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar. — a la Fpan§aise.—Boiled, tossed in butter, with minced fried ham and chopped parsley. — au lard fume.—Boiled, tossed with small pieces of fried bacon. — au jambon grilld.—Green peas with broiled ham. — paysanne.—Boiled, drained, and mixed with shredded lettuce tossed in butter. Pommes de terre—Potatoes. Note.—In compiling menus, it is not necessary to spell “pommes de terre’’ in full. “Pommes’’ is sufficient, if the style of preparation follows, i.e., Pommes a la duchesse, Pommes pallies, Pommes soufflees, Pommes chateau, Pommes parisiennes, etc. Pommes de terre naturcl. Pommes de terre bouilles. Pommes de terre frites. Pommes de terre nouvelles. Pommes puree. Pommes soufflee. Pommes roties. Pommes chippes. Pommes pallies. Pommes de terre au jus. Beignets de pommes. Plain boiled potatoes. Boiled potatoes. Fried potatoes. New potatoes. Mashed potatoes. Potato puff's. Baked potatoes. Chipped potatoes. Straw potatoes. Stewed potatoes in gravy. Potato fritters. Pommes de terre Anna.—Peeled and sliced thinly, ranged in layers, with melted butter and seasoning, in a cylindrical shaped mould ; baked in oven. — k l’Anglaise.—Plain boiled, seasoned with salt, sauced over with melted butter.160 VEGETABLES Pommes de terre a l’Allemande.—Plain boiled, sauced over with brown sauce mixed with lemon juice, white wine, well reduced and thickened with egg yolks and butter. — k la Bpaban§onne.— Mashed potatoes, mixed with finely chopped blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, dressed on a shallow dish, top sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and bits of butter ; browned in the oven. — a la Bignon. — Peeled and parboiled, centre scooped out and filled with forcemeat, and baked with butter. — a la bechamel.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce. — Bpetonne. — Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares, broiled in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley, and a little brown sauce. — a la bourgeoise.—Mashed, dressed on a dish (dome shape), basted with melted butter, sprinkled over with fresh breadcrumbs and cheese, and baked. — bonne femme.—Same as paysanne, with squares of fried bacon added. — Bordelaise.—Peeled, sliced thinly, fried soft in a saute pan, with oiled butter and finely chopped onions. — Chatonilland.—Oblong shaped soufflee or puff potatoes, made from large kidney potatoes. — cuites au bouillon.—Boiled in beef broth. — cuites SOUS la eendre.—Baked in hot ashes (in their jackets). — Chateau. — Oval or olive shapes of potatoes, blanched, drained, fried a light colour in clarified butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — eopeau (Potato Ribbons).—Peeled, cut similarly to sugar loaves; peeled carefully so that the peel (ribbon) remains whole; fried in very hot fat. — croquettes.—Mashed or puree, seasoned, mixed with yolks of eggs, shaped into ball or any other shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — Chateaubriand.—Peeled, cut into quarters and pared into neat shapes, parboiled, drained, and fried in butter. — a la creme.—Sliced, and stewed in white sauce enriched with cream. — en cotelettes.—Puree as for croquettes, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — eomtesse. — Sliced, ranged neatly in buttered timbale mould, with veloute sauce, and baked in a hot oven.161 VEGETABLES Pommes de terre Colbert.—Cooked potatoes cut into squares, seasoned, stewed in gravy, finished with a little fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Chantilly. —Cut out into round shapes, parboiled in salt water, drained, and finished in bechamel sauce; sprinkled with liquefied meat glaze. — Delmonico.—Finely minced raw potatoes, cooked in butter and cream, seasoned and dished ; sprinkled with brown crumbs and baked in oven. — Duehesse. — Mashed, seasoned, shaped into fingers, or other shapes, brushed over with yolk of eggs, and baked in the oven. — Dauphine. — Same as duehesse ; mixed with choux paste,shaped into balls, and fried in deep fat. — Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with cold sausages, broiled in butter, seasoned, and served with demi-glace sauce. — Espagnole.—Thickly sliced, boiled, drained, and served with espagnole sauce. — Flamande.—Peeled, cut in large dice shapes, tossed in butter, with finely chopped onion and parsley. — fondantes.—Peeled, cut in quarters, parboiled, and cooked in fire-proof casserole, with butter, in oven. — faubonne.—Thickly sliced, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with onion. — farcies.—Large kidney potatoes peeled, hollowed out, and filled with any kind of forcemeat; baked in buttered saute pan ; when done glazed with meat glaze. — frisees.—Curl or ribbon shapes, fried in clarified butter or other fat. — gratinees.—Mashed potatoes mixed with grated cheese and butter, browned in the oven or under the salamander. — au gratin. — Sliced, parboiled, mixed with cream, seasoned, and dressed on buttered gratin dish, covered with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a few pieces of fresh butter; browned in the oven. — Garfield.—Peeled, cut into small dice, parboiled, and fried in clarified butter. — Hongroise.— Peeled, minced finely, cooked in stock and butter, seasoned with paprika and meat glaze. — Hanovrienne. — Peeled and sliced, stewed in white stock, with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Hollandaise. — Plain boiled kidney potatoes, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon juice, or dressed with hollandaise sauce.VEGETABLES 162 Pommes de terre Italienne.— Sliced, placed in layers in buttered and breaded mould, with, alternately, slices of salami sausage, and white sauce mixed with cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped ham, and anchovy fillets ; baked in the mould. — ImperatPice.—Walnut shapes,parboiled,drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and broiled in butter. — julienne.—Peeled, cut into very thin strips like matches, and fried a light brown colour in deep fat. — au land.—Cold potatoes cut into dice shapes, mixed with dice shapes of bacon, seasoned, and fried in butter. — Macaire.—Baked in their skins, cut open, interior mixed with butter and fine herbs, refilled, and rebaked. — Maine.—Peeled, chopped coarsely, and stewed in milk and butter; seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. — maitne d’hotel.—Sliced, and stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley. — maehees. — Peeled, boiled in beef stock, and mashed, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and sprinkled over with chopped parsley. — a la Madeleine. — Small, even-sized kidney potatoes, scraped or peeled, tossed in butter, seasoned, and baked in the oven. — melangees. — Coarsely sliced, parboiled, mixed with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed with a little fresh butter, and seasoned with salt. — Milanaise. — Cut into dice shapes, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares of cooked ham and grated parmesan cheese, and mixed with yolks of eggs ; shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat. — Mignonette. — Like straw potatoes, only cut a little coarser ; sprinkled with chopped parsley when done. — Mont-Done.—Mashed, mixed with cream, grated cheese, and seasoning; filled in shells and baked in oven. — Mousseline. — Fried potato balls (croquettes), interior filled with whipped seasoned cream; re- heated before serving. — Nantaise.—Mashed, dished up in dome shape, masked with supreme sauce, sprinkled with bread- crumbs and oiled butter, and browned in the oven. — Navanraise.—Peeled, cut in half-inch squares, and fried in oil, drained, and sprinkled with salt.*163 VEGETABLES Pommes de tepre noisette. — Peeled, cut into large dice shapes, parboiled, and fried nut brown in butter. — de poisSOn.—Peeled and neatly shaped, boiled in salt water, drained, melted butter poured over; served with, or as a garnish for, fish. — au papmesan.—Sliced, stewed in stock or white sauce, with grated parmesan cheese. — pilPee a la Jackson. — Mashed, mixed and garnished with anchovy fillets. — PaPisienne. — Small ball shapes, scooped out when peeled, blanched, and fried in clarified butter. — pup4e a la creme.—Mashed, with cream. — pepsillees.—Peeled, cut into marble shapes, par- boiled, and broiled in butter ; sprinkled with chopped parsley. — a la paysanne.—Thickly sliced, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with fried onions ; demi-glace sauce is poured over when dished up. — a la Reitz.—Peeled, cut into small thin strips, and fried crisp in butter. — Pissolees. — Small ball or other shapes, par- boiled, drained, and broiled in butter. — en PObe de chambpe.—Boiled or baked in their jackets. — FOties au foup.—Baked potatoes (done in the oven). — a la Robert.—Peeled, sliced, and stewed in a sharp brown sauce. — a la Rouennaise.—Mashed as for croquettes, shaped like olives, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. — sautees.— Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, seasoned, and tossed in butter. — sautees k la Lyonnaise. — Same as saute potatoes, mixed with finely chopped fried onions. — SaVOyaPde. — Peeled, sliced thinly, mixed in layers, with butter and grated cheese, baked in the oven. — Saxonne.—Medium-sized balls of potato puree (same as for croquettes), egged and crumbed twice, well fried in hot fat; when done, scooped out and filled with onion puree, reclosed, and served quickly. — San Remo.—Small potato dumplings seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dipped in melted butter and chopped parsley, then in grated par- mesan cheese ; when set, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — Strasbourg.— Sliced, stewed in white sauce, dished up, and baked in the oven.VEGETABLES 164 Pommes de terre surprise.—Baked in their skins, opened, and the interior mixed with butter, cream, fine herbs, and seasoning, refilled and rebaked. — Suedoise.—Sliced, and stewed with fried onions and gravy. — la Turque.—Puree as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes, filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — Tyrolienne. — Medium sized kidney potatoes, seasoned, stewed with cream, beef broth, and small pieces of butter; when dished sprinkled with grated cheese. — Vaudoise.—Peeled and sliced, ranged in layers on a buttered baking dish, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated gruyere cheese, top sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter ; baked in the oven. — Viennoise.—Cut into dice, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley when dished up. *— VaPSOVienne. — Choux-paste fritters, emptied, and filled with seasoned potato puree. — Villageoise. — Finely chopped cold potatoes, seasoned, stewed in fresh milk, cream and butter. — Worlitz. — Puree prepared as for croquettes, shaped into squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, on one side only, with a small piece of lobster butter on centre of each, and baked in sharp oven. Bopdupe de pupee de pommes.—Border of mashed potatoes. Quenelles de pommes de teppe.—Small potato dumplings poached in salt water, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs. Salsifis—Salsify. Salsifis fPitS.—Fried salsify. — a la bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce. — au beUPFe fondu.—Boiled, and served with oiled butter. — Hollandaise.—Stewed in stock and served with hollandaise sauce. Beignets de salsifis.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. T omates—T omatoes. Beignets de tomates. Puree de tomates. Tomates ernes. Tomates an naturcl. Tomates sautees. Tomates frites. Tomates farcies. Tomates grillees. Tomato fritters. Mashed tomatoes. Raw tomatoes. Plain boiled tomatoes. Tomatoes tossed in butter. Fried tomatoes. Stuffed tomatoes. Grilled tomatoes.165 VEGETABLES Tomates au gratin.—Skinned and sliced, ranged on buttered dish, with shallots and brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs, etc., and baked in the oven. — a la Caroline.—Stuffed with cooked rice, seasoned with meat glaze and grated parmesan cheese; baked — a la CPeole (Cold).—Ripe, firm tomatoes, scooped out and filled with shredded celery, beetroot, and hard-boiled egg ; finished with tartare sauce and dressed on lettuce leaves. — a l’Espagnole. — Stuffed with breadcrumbs, chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned ; baked in the oven ; served with demi-glace sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed in gravy and butter, with finely chopped parsley. — a la Florentine.—Cut in halves, stuffed with a mixture of fried chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg-yolks, fried chopped shallots, and breadcrumbs, moistened with sherry and seasoned, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and butter; baked. — frappees en mayonnaise. — Peeled raw tomatoes, scooped out in centre and frozen, filled with half frozen mayonnaise, and served on lettuce leaves. — a l’lndienne.—Halves of tomatoes stuffed with curried rice and baked. — a la Proven§ale. — Stuffed with onion puree, flavoured with garlic, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — k la Sieilienne.—Stuffed whole with a mixture of tomato pulp, chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mush- rooms, and breadcrumbs, moistened with a madere sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated cheese; baked. — a la Toscane.—Stuffed with chicken farce and braised ; served with perigord sauce. Topinambours—Jerusalem Artichokes. Topinambours a la creme. — Stewed in white cream sauce. — ct la Bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce. — k l’Espagnole.—Stewed in brown sauce. — a la GeOPgienne.—Sliced and boiled, seasoned, fried in butter, and sprinkled with fried bread- crumbs. — au gpatin.—Parboiled and stewed in white sauce; dished up, covered with breadcrumbs and cheese ; browned in the oven. — a l’lndienne.—Parboiled and stewed in curry sauce ; served with boiled rice.166 PUNCHES Puree de Topinambours.—Boiled and mashed (rubbed through a sieve), seasoned, enriched with stock and cream. T ruffes—T ruffles. Truffes en belle Vue.—Peeled fresh truffles cooked in rich stock, Madeira or champagne, and meat extract; served in small, thin, pastry crust cup shapes. — k l’ltalienne.—Sliced, broiled in fresh butter, with finely chopped shallots and parsley, moistened with gravy and lemon juice, seasoned with salt, cayenne, and ground mace. — de P^Pig’OPd.—Black perigord truffles. — a la Rothschild.—Peeled fresh truffles, coated entirely with light chicken farce, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; dressed in pyramid, and garnished with fried parsley. — saut6es au champagne.—Broiled truffles in butter, and finished in champagne. — k la sepviette.—Large fresh truffles, cooked in wine, and served cold on folded napkin. Buisson de tpuffes k la Royale.—Large round truffles, stewed in Madeira wine ; served on fried bread-crust, decorated with silver skewer and parsley. Cpoutes aux tpuffes.—Whole or sliced truffles on toast. PuPee de tpuffes. — Mashed truffles, tossed in butter, and served with brown sauce. Truffes sautees a la metpopole.—Stewed truffles dressed on fried ham croutons. PUNCHES, SORBETS. Sorbets, Granites, Roman Punch, and similar preparations, are ices in a semi-liquid state ; they are never moulded, but are served in goblet, stem, or punch glasses, immediately before the roast, the object being to refresh the palate and to prepare the guest for the more perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes, viz., the roast and the entremets. Although served separately, the punch or sorbet should not be given an extra heading on the menu, but be simply placed on a line distinct from the other courses. There are close on a hundred varieties of these preparations, the most popular of which are listed below. SOPbet aux fpaises (Strawberry Sorbet).—Straw- berry water ice half frozen, flavoured witn sauterne and Curasao.ROAST (ROT I) 167 SOPbet d’ananas.—Pineapple water ice half frozen, flavoured with sherry and maraschino. — d’abricot.—Apricot sorbet. — aUX cerises (Cherry Water-ice).—Cherry sorbet mixed with Italian meringue, and flavoured with kirsch and noyeau. — au Citron.—Lemon sorbet. — de groseilles verts.—A kind of gooseberry fool, flavoured with maraschino. — Imperiale.—Same as above, but flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, and mixed with beaten egg-white. — de melon.—Melon sorbet. — d’orange.—Orange sorbet. — aux peches.—Peach sorbet. — de raisin.—Grape sorbet. Granites.—These are similar to sorbets, that is, partially frozen fruit-water ices, flavoured with liqueur and mixed with crushed ice, and at times with dice cut pieces of fruit. Granite de citron.—Lemon granite. — d’ananas.—Pineapple granite. — au champagne.—Champagne granite. Punch k la Romaine (Roman Punch).—Semi- frozen lemon water, mixed with Italian meringue, flavoured with rum and kirsch. — Cardinal.—As above, but flavoured with rasp- berry pulp, cinnamon, and port wine. — au kiPSCh.—As above, but flavoured with kirsch- wasser only. — au lait.—Semi-frozen sweetened milk, flavoured with vanilla ; served in small china cups. — Nansen.—Semi-frozen vanilla syrup, mixed with meringue and flavoured with maraschino. — Ni^oise.—Like Romaine, flavoured with rum and champagne, and served in frozen imitation goblets. — Royal.—As Romaine, but flavoured with Curasao or maraschino and champagne. ROTI—ROAST. The dishes served under this heading form the second service of a dinner, and are known as the Roast, Rote, or Roti course. On the Continent the large joints of butchers’ meat are preferred as releve (remove),while in England, especially when that course is omitted, they are prepared as Roast. The essential part about this course is that the meat, poultry, or168 ROAST [ROTI) game is roasted (cooked) before the fire on the spit, or else in the oven, and is served with a nicely flavoured rich gravy. When a remove (joint) is served, the Roast consists of birds, game, or poultry. When game is out of season, capons, poularde, turkey, duckling, duck, pigeon, guinea fowl, etc., etc., are served instead. Game and poultry should be accompanied with the necessary bread sauce, brown (fried) breadcrumbs, croutes of bread, garnished with watercress, chipped or other fried potatoes, and a seasonable salad also forms a usual accompaniment with roast birds. Roast joints are not again mentioned here, because these have already been exhaustively treated in the chapter headed Releve. De la Volaille—Poultry. Canard roti. Campines rotis. Canetons votis. Chapon roti. Dinde rotie. Dindon roti. Dindonneau roti. Oie rotie sauce aux pommes. Oison roti. Pigeons rotis. Pigeonneaux rotis. Poulet roti sauce an pain. Poulette rotie. Poularde rotie. Poussin roti. Roast duck. Roast young chickens (fine fat pullets). Roast ducklings. Roast capon. Roast turkey-hen. Roast turkey-cock. Roast young turkey. Roast goose and apple sauce. Roast gosling. Roast pigeons. Roast young pigeons. Roast chicken and bread sauce. Roast pullet (young hen). Roast fat pullet. Roast chic-chicken. Du Gibier—Game Alouettes roties. Bartavelle rotie. Bccasse commune rotie. Becasse or becasseau roti. Becassine rotie. Bec-figue rotie. Caille a la broche. Canard sauvage roti. Canards sauvages d la broche. Coq de bois roti. Coq de bois de Norvege roti. (Wild Poultry). Roast larks (wood-larks) (also called mauviettes). Roast partridge(red legged). Roast woodcock (common snipe). Roast young woodcock. Roast snipe. Roast fig-pecker. Roast quail. Roast wild duck. Wild ducks roasted on skewers. Roast heathcock (black grouse). Roast Norwegian grouse.-ROAST (ROTI) 169 Coq de bruyere roti. Faisan roti a la broche. Gelinotte des bois rotie. Grimpereau roti. Grive rotie bar dee. Macreuse rotie. Mauviette rotie bar dee. Merle roti. Ortolan roti. Outarde rotie. Paon roti. Jeunepaon roti. Perdreau roti. Perdrix rotie. Perdreau blanc roti. Perdreau rouge a la broche. Pigeon sauvage roti. Pintade rotie. Pluvier roti. Poule de neige rotie. Poule de prairie rotie. Ramier roti. Rouge-gorge roti. Sarcelle rotie bardee. Sarcelle rotie. Tetras d'Amerique roti. Tourtereau roti (tourterelle). Roast mountain cock (wood grouse). Roast pheasant. Roast hazel-hen. Roast woodpecker. Roast fieldfare barded (also called thrush). Roast sea-duck. Roast lark barded. Roast blackbird (water ousel). Roast ortolan. Roast oustard. Roast peacock. Roast young peacock. Roast partridge (young partridge). Roast partridge(red legged). Roast ptarmigan. Roast red-legged grouse. Roast wild pigeon. Roast guinea-fowl. Roast plover. Roast white grouse (snow grouse, or snow-hen). Roast prairie-hen. Roast wood-pigeon. Roast robin (red-breasted robin). Roast teal (water fowl), barded. Roast teal or widgeon. Roast American grouse. Roast turtle-dove. Four-Footed Game. Broquart roti. Cimier de cerf roti. Cuissot de cerf roti. Filet de cerf roti. Filet de chamois roti. Gigot de chamois roti. Chevrette rotie. Cimier de chevreuil roti. Cuissot de chevreuil roti. Epaule de chevreuil rotie. Gigot de chevreuil roti. Longe de chevreuil rotie. Quartier de chevreuil roti. Rdble de chevreuil roti. Roast brocket. Roast saddle of deer. Roast haunch of deer. Roast fillet of deer. Roast fillet of chamois (wild goat). Roast leg of chamois. Roast fawn (young veni- son). Roast saddle of venison. Roast haunch of venison. Roast shoulder of venison. Roast leg of venison. Roast loin of venison. Roast quarter of venison. Roast saddle of venison. HI'JO Gigot de daim voti. SALADS Selle de daim votie. Selle d’elan votie. Lievve voti. Mavcassin voti. Gigot de venne voti. Filet de venne voti. Selle de venne votie. Cuissot de sangliev voti. Gigot de sangliev voti. Reins de sangliev votis. Roast leg of deer (fallow deer). Roast saddle of deer. Roast saddle of moor deer. Roast hare. Roast young wild boar. Roast leg of reindeer. Roast fillet of reindeer. Roast saddle of reindeer. Roast haunch of wild boar. Roast leg of wild boar. Roast loin of wild boar. SALADES-SALADS. The variety of salads is almost endless: raw herbs or plants (salad plants) known as acetarious or succu- lent plants, hot or cold cooked vegetables, cold fish, shell fish, cooked poultry, game, and meat, and even fruits, indifferently mixed or blended together, form salads. It would therefore seem that almost every- thing edible can be converted into a salad. In a typical plain salad cabbage or cos lettuce forms the foundation, whilst the Russian salad, or salade Russe, is regarded as the most vechevche of dressed salads. Green or plain salads are unquestionably the most popular. The secret of these salads is of course the dressing, so that salad making and salad mixing is an art, and the complete mastery of it is granted to but few. With a little knowledge of how to please the palate, with careful and judicious use of seasoning materials, it is, however, possible for everyone to achieve fair success in this branch of the culinary art. In addition to salt and pepper, oil, vinegar, and the fouvnituve d’hevbes,mayonnaise forms the most important ingredient for mixing or dressing salads. The great point in all salads, but especially those served with a roast, is that they be well blended, correctly seasoned, and nicely garnished. A salad must look cool, inviting and dainty, if it is to be a success. There are salads and salads, but unless a cook or maitre d’hotel has what Hamlet calls a feeling fov his business, the salad misses its character—that is, its dressing. A correct dressing must be so blended that no one flavour predominates, otherwise the salad is a failure from the epicurean point of view. Salade d’anchois. Anchovy salad. Salade d'aspevges. Asparagus salad. Salade de bettevave. Beetroot salad.SALADS 171 h 2 Salade de boeuf. Salade dc boeuf fume. Salade de celeri. Salade de champignons. Salade de chicoree. Salade de choux de Bruxelles. Salade de choux-fleurs. Salade de civettes. Salade de concombres. Salade de crabe. Salade de cresson. Salade de fonds d’artichauts. Salade de gibier. Salade de haricots blanc. Salade de haricots verts. Salade de homard. Salade aujambon. Salade de laitue. Salade de lap in. Salade de legumes. Salade aux oeufs. Salade d'oranges. Salade de perdreau. Salade de poisson. Salade de ponimes. Salade de pommes de terre. Salade de radis. Salade a la Romaine. Salade de salsifis. Salade de tomates. Salade de truffes. Salade verte. Salade de volaille. Cold beef salad. Hamburg beef salad. Celery salad. Mushroom salad. Chicory or endive salad. Brussels sprouts salad. Cauliflower salad. Chives salad. Cucumber salad. Crab salad. Watercress salad. Salad of artichoke bottoms. Game salad. Kidney bean salad. French bean salad. Lobster salad. Ham salad. Lettuce salad. Rabbit salad. Vegetable salad. Egg salad. Orange salad. Partridge salad. Fish salad. Apple salad. Potato salad. Radish salad. Cos lettuce salad. Salsify salad. Tomato salad. Truffle salad. Green salad. Chicken salad. Salade de betterave a l’Americaine. — Finely shredded white leaves of cow cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. — de Bananes.—Banana salad, dressed with salt, pepper, sugar, and white wine. — Beige.—Consists of Belgian endive mixed with French salad dressing ; garnished with Spanish pimientos. — Brissane.—Cooked French beans, raw tomatoes, and cooked artichoke bottoms, all cut in julienne strips ; dressed with oil and vinegar. — a la Cazanova (Cazanova Salad).—Consists of white celery, truffles, and hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with mayon- naise, finely chopped salad herbs, and shallots. — chasseur.—Cooked chicken fillets, cold potatoes, tomatoes, celery, beetroot, and sour apples, all cut in thick julienne ; dressed with tartare sauce.172 SALADS Salade de Chou rouge.—Salad made with pickled red cabbage; garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, etc. — eomtoise.—Seasoned lettuce salad, with coarsely- minced streaky bacon (petit sale), fried crisp in butter, poured hot over the salad, and well mixed. Salt should be omitted in this salad, as the pork is usually salt enough. — k la Dumas.—Dice shapes of cooked potatoes, beetroots, gherkins, or pickled cucumbers, and sliced tomatoes, dressed with a mixture of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; garnished with chopped whites of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroot, chives, and white lettuce leaves. — Elva.—Beetroot salad, garnished with Elva plums stuffed with tartare sauce. — k l’Espagnole.—Sliced tomatoes, cooked kidney beans, French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions ; dressed with mayonnaise sauce. — d’ete.—Lettuce, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, all cut into thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with radishes and pickled beetroot. — Eva.—Artichoke bottoms cut in dice, cooked asparagus points, sliced mushrooms, and ham cut in strips ; dressed with remoulade sauce. — a la Flamande (Flemish Salad).—Consists of fillets of Dutch herrings, apples, beetroot, cooked potatoes, brussels sprouts, seakale and cauliflower, cut up neatly, seasoned with plain salad dressing. — k la Fpangaise.—Cabbage lettuce mixed with finely chopped salad herbs, and dressed with a mixture composed of two parts of olive oil, one of French wine, vinegar, salt, pepper, and French mustard ; garnish of slices of beetroot and hard- boiled eggs is optional. — Francillon. — Olive-shaped cooked potatoes, oysters, and slices of truffles, seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. — de Fruits.—Fruit salad, dressed with syrup, liqueur, or wine. — Georgette. — Cucumber, beetroot cut into fine strips, mixed with boiled rice, seasoned with mayonnaise, and filled in heart of artichoke ; gar- nished with truffles. — Gallati.—Blanched mushrooms, diced and tossed in butter, mixed while hot with cooked asparagus tips, French dressing, and a little French mustard.SALADS H 3 *73 Salade k la Grimod.—Consists of cabbage lettuce, cooked French beans, beetroot, and slices of cold game ranged on slices of toasted bread, previously dipped in sweet oil; garnished with groups of whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot or chervil; seasoned with plain salad dressing. — HenPiette.—Sprigs of cooked cold cauliflower, fine shreds of cooked carrots, turnips, French beans, and truffles, seasoned with French dressing. — d’hivep.—Endive, celery, beetroot, horse-radish, and boiled potatoes; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. — a l’ltalienne (Italian Salad).—Prepared with various kinds of smoked meats or sausages (shredded), cooked vegetables, tunny fish, an- chovies, olives, and capers ; seasoned with tartare sauce. — a la Judie.—Slices of cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, ranged in pyramidal form in salad bowl; garnished with cooked brussels sprouts, French beans, and cauliflower sprigs; dressed with ravigote sauce. — Jockey Club.—Finely cut strips of celery, cold potatoes, cooked French beans, preserved mush- rooms, gherkins, and lettuce hearts, dressed with mayonnaise; garnished with anchovy fillets and hard-boiled eggs. — au lard.—Green salad dressed in usual way, with streaky bacon cut in dice, fried, and finished in vinegar, poured over the salad. — de legumes a la Lyonnaise.—Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mixed with thin slices of Lyons sausage cut in strips, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots; dressed with cold ravigote sauce. — a la Miliken.—Salad composed of Spanish pimientos and truffles, cut in dice shapes, and cold boiled rice ; seasoned with mayonnaise ; dressed on lettuce leaves. — Mapiette. — Piccalilli or mixed pickles, raw cucumber, and not over ripe pears, cut in fine strips, and dressed with mayonnaise. — Napolitaine.—Thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately (crown shape) ; centre filled with shredded celery, lettuce, and beetroot; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — a la paysanne (Farmhouse Salad).—Consists of sliced cooked red cabbage (pickled), cold potatoes, and celery root, all cut in thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing.174 ENTREMETS Salade de pauvre homme-Potato salad mixed with cooked haricot beans and buds of cooked cauliflower; seasoned with oil and vinegar, salt, etc., and chopped parsley. — Polonaise.—Lettuce, endive, celery, sliced cold potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies, seasoned with salad dressing, and gar- nished with minced ham and hard-boiled eggs. — a la Rachel.—White celery root cut into fine strips, hard-boiled eggs, truffles, beetroot, and gherkins shredded finely, mixed with mayonnaise, and suitably decorated. •— & la Reine.—White celery stalks, hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of salami or Brunswick sausage and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. — a la Russe.—Consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, and gherkins, cut in small squares or cubes, capers, grated horse-radish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with mayonnaise aspic in cylindrical shaped mould; garnished with border of aspic jelly and caviare. — a la Sotteville. — Cos lettuce salad, seasoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, cream, and chopped parsley. — Suedoise.—Filleted smoked herrings, cold beef, boiled potatoes, sour apples (all cut into dice), chopped capers and gherkins, tarragon and chervil, seasoned with plain salad dressing ; garnished with olives, fillets of anchovies, and oysters. — Sahara.—Consists of dice-shaped cold potatoes, cold cooked celery root or celeriac, truffles, and bananas; seasoned with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley and chervil. ENTREMETS. Note.—Olives, Salted Almonds, Grisini (salted bread sticks), etc., are usually served just before the Sweet Entremets, their special object being to cleanse the palate. Entremets.—Under this heading no less than three distinct varieties of culinary preparations are served. 1. The Dressed Vegetable, if such be desired ; these are known in French as “ Entremets de Legumes ’ ’ (given in the previous chapter). 2. The Sweets, hot and cold dishes, known as Entremets Sucres. Hot Sweets generally consist of Puddings, Souffles, Croutes of Fruit, Fritters (Beignets), Savarins, Omelettes, Pancakes, etc., etc. ; whilst175 SWEETS the Cold Sweets are usually composed of Jellies, Chartreuse of Fruits, Bordures, Tourtes, Fruit Pies, Bavarois, Cream, Compotes, Macedoines, Trifles, Charlottes, Fancy Gateaux and Pastry, Frozen Pud- dings, Iced Creams and Puddings, Souffles, Ices, Plombieres, and various kinds of sweetmeats. 3. Savouries or Entremets Savoureux. These are commonly known as “After-Dinner Savouries” ; the dishes selected may be hot or cold, but they are more often served hot than cold. They must always be dressed in very small portions, and, above all, daintily. The most popular savouries are Cheese Savouries, Egg Savouries, and those made from Smoked Fish. ENTREMETS SUCRES. SWEET DISHES. Abricots—Apricots. AbriCOts a la Colbert (Hot).—Compote of apricots (halves), filled with rice cooked in milk, sweetened, and flavoured with vanilla, coated with reduced apricot marmalade, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in pulverised macaroons, and fried in clarified butter ; dished up on rounds of fried bread, sauced over with apricot pur£e. — a la Conde.—Timbale or border of cooked rice, flavoured with cream and vanilla, dressed with compote of apricots, and decorated with cherries and angelica ; served hot or cold, with fruit syrup. — a la Reine.—Border of genoise cake dressed with apricot compote, garnished with glace fruit, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — au Fiz.—Stewed apricots, dressed on a border of cooked sweetened rice ; garnished with glace fruit; served hot or cold. — au Fiz meFingU^ (Hot or Cold).—As above, omitting the garnish, and coating the whole with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. Pains d’abFicots au marasquin (Cold) .—Stewed apricots flavoured with maraschino and lemon juice, set in small moulds with wine jelly. Ananas—Pineapples. Ananas a la CFeole (Hot or Cold).—Slices of pineapple dressed on a border of cooked rice; garnished with angelica and glace cherries; served with maraschino syrup.ENTREMETS 176 Ananas a la Cussy (Cold).—Border shape of wine jelly set with pineapple slices, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured wth apricot puree, and suitably decorated. eft? — k la Reine (Cold).—Border of light g£noise poached or steamed, with slices of pineapple ranged on top, centre of dish filled with pineapple, glace cherries, and apricots cut in dice and moistened with hot syrup ; liqueur flavour. — en tUPban.—Savarin border, flavoured with rum syrup, centre of dish filled with compote of pine- apple. Papfait d’ananas, Tostini. — Whole pineapple, scooped out in centre, stewed in maraschino liqueur, filled with confectioner’s custard, placed in genoise border, masked with meringue, and baked ; served hot or cold with fruit syrup. Baba au Phum.—Light yeast cakes containing currants, soaked in rum syrup ; served hot or cold. — k la StOPeP (a Polish Cold Sweet). — Baba (yeast paste) mixed with raisins and glace fruit, baked in suitable mould ; when cold coated with apricot marmalade flavoured with rum and orange juice; centre of baba filled with orange ice; gar- nished with angelica and glace cherries. Bananes fpite sup canapes (Hot). — Slices of bananas, egged, and fried in butter, dressed on small rice shapes of canapes; served hot as side dish. — fapeies aux fpaises (Cold).— Bananas filled with mashed scarlet strawberries and puree of bananas, sweetened with curac^ao and sugar; tied up with ribbon. Dattes fapeies, fpites (Hot or Cold). — Stoned dates filled with confectioner’s custard, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons, and fried in butter ; served with vanilla cream. Bordure—Border. Bopdupe de Agues (Cold).—Stewed figs mixed with cream and set with wine jelly in border mould. — de mappons a la Chantilly (Cold).—Border of chestnut puree, etc., centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. — PiePPe le Gpand (Cold).—Rich savarin border, centre filled with whipped cream, then masked with apricot marmalade, and studded with strips of almonds and pistachios. — de ppunes (Cold).—Border of rice and stoned stewed prunes, masked with apricot marmalade, and sprinkled with chopped pistachios ; centre filled with whipped cream ; garnished with glace cherries and angelica.SWEETS 177 Bordure a la Japonaise (Cold).—Savarin border, soaked in maraschino syrup and set in jelly Bavaroises—Cremes. Bavaroise a la Colbert (Cold).—Timbale shape of vanilla cream, with chocolate cream in centre, decorated with whipped cream. — de bananes.—Vanilla cream mixed with banana pulp set in moulds. Bavaroise aux framboises. Bavaroise au chocolat. Bavaroise an melon. Bavaroise au cacao. Blancmanger a la vanille. Blancmanger a la creme. Blancmanger aux pistaches Blancmanger aux avelines. Raspberry cream. Chocolate cream. Melon cream. Cocoa cream. Vanilla blancmange. Cream blancmange. Pistachio kernel cream. Blancmange flavoured with filbert. Coffee cream. Chocolate cream. Vanilla cream. French tea cream. French coffee cream. Peach kernel cream. Like caramel cream, flavoured Creme au cafe. Creme au chocolat. Creme a la vanille. Creme Frangaise au the. Creme Frangaise au cafe. Creme aux noix de pe ches. Creme renversee.- with lemon. — au caramel (Caramel Cream). — Egg custard cooked in mould, coated with brown sugar. — brulee.—Similar to caramel cream. — euite a la Puisse.—A kind of bavaroise mixed with glace fruit and cream, set in fancy mould lined with wine jelly, and decorated. — diplomate.—Rich custard mixed with macaroons and Savoy biscuits, set in a mould lined with jelly, and decorated. — de fraises a la chartreuse.—Strawberries set in wine jelly in fancy mould (bottom and side) and filled with strawberry cream, flavoured with chart- reuse liqueur. — frappee aux milles fruits.— Vanilla cream mixed with stiff whites of eggs, mixed glace fruit, and liqueur as flavour, set in moulds, and iced. — a la Genoise.—Rich custard mixed with crushed macaroons, orange juice, and glac6 cherries, flavoured with brandy, set in moulds. — Imperatrice.—Vanilla cream mixed with chopped pistachios and glace cherries, set in a border mould previously masked with wine jelly, and suitably decorated. — jubilee. —A rich fruit cream set in the centre of a mould of port wine or claret jelly.178 ENTREMETS Creme de mirabelles en surprise.—Bomb-shaped mould lined with jelly, then thickly masked with mirabelle pur£e, centre filled with port wine jelly. Strawberries and raspberries can be treated the same. — Monaco. — Vanilla cream and apricot cream, scooped out into spoon shapes.and set in plain mould lined with maraschino jelly, glace cherries, and jelly placed between layers of cream; garnished with glace finger biscuits. — Romaine.—Rich cream, flavoured with burnt almonds and orange flower water. Beignets, etc.—Fritters, etc. Beignets d'ananas. Beignets d’abricots. Beignets Berlinois. Beignets de cerises. Beignets de coings. Beignets de frangipane. Beignets aux fraises. Beignets aux marrons. Beignets a l'orange. Beignets depommes. Beignets de peches. Beignets aux prunes. Beignets de poires. Beignets de reine-Claudes. Beignets de riz. Beignets de semoule. Beignets souffles a la vanille. Beignets Viennoise. Beignets a la creme. Beignets de noix de coco. Cannelons aux praises. Cannelons a la Pithiviers. Pineapple fritters. Apricot fritters. Berlin or dough-nut fritters. Cherry fritters. Quince fritters. Macaroon fritters. Strawberry fritters. Chestnut fritters. Orange fritters. Apple fritters. Peach fritters. Plum or prune fritters. Pear fritters. Greengage fritters. Rice fritters. Semolina fritters. Vanilla souffle fritters. Vienna fritters. Custard firitters. Cocoanut fritters. Strawberry cannelons. Puff-paste rolls filled with almond cream. Balles de neige.—Snowball fritters. Beignets k la Portugaise (Portuguese Fritters).— A kind of rice croquette, flavoured with cinnamon, with orange marmalade in centre. Croquettes de riz k l’ananas.—Rice croquettes with pineapple sauce. — k la d’Egmont.—Rice croquettes made of rice, chopped pistachio nuts and chopped almonds fried, and served with brandy sauce. — aux fraises. — Rice croquettes with preserved strawberries in centre. — aux peehes.—Rice croquettes with peach jam. — de semoule aux fraises.—Semolina croquettes with strawberry jam in centre.SWEETS 179 Croquettes k la vanille.—Vanilla rice croquettes. — de vermieelle.—Vermicelli croquettes. Pain frits au vin rouge.—Fried milk roll slices with claret syrup. Charlottes. Note.—There are two kinds of charlottes, i.e., those served hot and those served cold ; they are made quite differently. For the former, the hot, the interior of plain charlotte moulds are lined with slices of bread dipped or slightly browned in butter; they are then filled with the respective fruit pur£e, and baked. For cold charlottes the moulds are lined with slices of genoise cake, finger, or Savoy biscuits, and then filled with certain creams or ice mixtures. In the latter case the word glacee (frozen) should be placed after the name on the menu. Charlotte aux cerises (Hot or Cold).—Cherry charlotte. — Jt la Chantilly (Cold).—Vanilla cream charlotte. — Colville (Cold).—Like charlotte Russe, but cream is mixed with pear or apple puree. — Florentine (Iced charlotte).—Mould lined with biscuits, filled with orange water-ice mixed with whipped cream, and set to freeze. — aux fraises (Cold).—Like Russian charlotte, but filled with strawberry cream made from fresh fruit. — de groseilles vertes (Cold).—Gooseberry char- lotte. — Imperiale (Hot). — Charlotte shape made of genoise cake, filled with apricot pulp flavoured with rum, the whole coated with meringue, and baked. — aux marrons (Hot).—Chestnut charlotte. — aux maearons (Cold).—Macaroon charlotte. — de melons (Cold).—Melon charlotte. — Medicis (Iced charlotte).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with white chocolate ice-cream, and set to freeze; garnished with glace chestnuts and fruits. — Parisienne (Cold).—Light genoise cake hollowed out and filled with chocolate and vanilla cream, masked with chocolate icing, and decorated with whipped cream. — Plombiere (Cold).—Charlotte shape lined with finger biscuits, centre filled with vanilla ice, mixed with almonds, whipped cream, crystallised fruits, and kirsch flavour, and set to freeze ; served. — de poires (Hot).—Pear charlotte. — Polonaise (Hot).—An apple charlotte flavoured with apricot marmalade. — de pommes (Hot).—Apple charlotte. (See Note.)i8o ENTREMETS Charlotte k la Pompadour (Cold).—Croustade made of almond paste and small wafer cornets filled with whipped cream, centre filled with pine- apple cream. — aux pistaches (Cold).—Like Russian charlotte, but cream is mixed with chopped pistachios. — k la Reine (Hot).—G^noise cake hollowed out and filled with vanilla souffle mixture, pineapple and apricots, masked with meringue, and baked. — a la Russe (Cold).—Rich vanilla cream set in mould lined with finger buscuits. — St. Jose (Cold). — Charlotte lined with Savoy biscuits, bottom decorated with jelly and glace fruit, and filled with pineapple cream. Compotes de Fruits—Stewed Fruits. Compote d’abricots. Compote d'ananas. Compote d’airelles. Compote de coings. Compote de cerises. Compote de dattes. Compote d’epines-vinettes. Compote de figues. Compote de praises. Compote de framboises. Compotedegroseilles blanches. Compote degroseilles rouges. Compote de groseilles vertes. Compote de melon. Compote de mirabelles. Compote de mirtilles. Compote de mures. Compote de marrons. Compote d'oranges. Compote de peches. Compote de poires. Compote de pommes. Compote de prunes. Compote de pruneaux. Compote de reine-Claudcs. Compote de rhubarbe. Compote de ronces. Stewed apricots. Stewed pineapples. Stewed cranberries. Stewed quinces. Stewed cherries. Stewed dates. Stewed barberries. Stewed figs. Stewed strawberries. Stewed raspberries. Stewed white currants. Stewed red currants. Stewed gooseberries. Stewed melon. Stewed mirabelles. Stewed bilberries. Stewed mulberries. Stewed chestnuts. Stewed oranges. Stewed peaches. Stewed pears. Stewed apples. Stewed prunes. Stewed plums. Stewed greengages. Stewed rhubarb. Stewed brambleberries. F raises—Strawberries. Bombes de fraises, moderne (Cold). — Bomb- shaped moulds masked with jelly and decorated with fresh strawberries and angelica strips, filled with a rich strawberry cream. Chartreuse de fraises.—Fresh strawberries set with wine jelly in suitable mould (with pipe), centre filled with whipped cream mixed with fresh or glac£ fruit.181 SWEETS Framboises (Raspberries). — The same style as strawberries can be applied to raspberries. Petits pains de fraises (Cold).—Little timbale moulds coated with maraschino jelly, filled with fresh strawberry puree, stiffened with gelatine. Tivoli aux fraises (Cold). —Maraschino jelly and strawberry cream set in alternate layers in fancy mould ; garnished with fresh strawberries. CPOUtes aux fruits.—These are compotes of fruit dressed on fried cake or bread croutons, and are garnished with glac6 fruit, angelica, cherries, raisins, and almonds, sauced over with fruit syrup. Croutes aux abricots. Croutes aux ponimes. Croutes a l'orange. Croutes aux cerises. Croutes aux peches. Croutes aux framboises. Croutes aux fraises. Apricot croutes. Apple croutes. Orange croutes. Cherry croutes. Peach croutes. Raspberry croutes. Strawberry croutes. Croutes k la Normande (Hot).—Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon juice and sherry, dressed on fried bread croutons, coated with dissolved peach jam ; served with hot syrup. — au Madere.—Any kind of compote of fruit, dressed on fried bread or cake crusts, and served with hot fruit syrup flavoured with sherry. Cotelettes en surprise.—Puff paste shaped like cutlets, centre filled with apricot or apple marma- lade, egged, crumbed, and fried, or baked in oven. Denises a la jalousie.—Little puff paste sandwiches filled with custard, and made to appear like lattice work on surface. Gelees—Jellies. Gelee aux amandes. Gelee de pommes. Gelee aux abricots. Gelee d'epines-vinettes. Gelee de groseilles noires. Gelee de fraises. Gelee de menthe. Gelee de pied de veau. Gelee au marasquin. Gelee au cafe. Gelee au the vert. Gelee au curaqao. Gelee aux airelles. Gelee de groseilles vertes. Gelee d'ananas. Gelee de citron. Gelee de raisins. Almond jelly. Apple jelly. Apricot jelly. Barberry jelly. Black currant jelly. Strawberry jelly. Mint jelly. Calf’s foot jelly. Maraschino jelly. Coffee jelly. Green tea jelly. Curasao jelly. Cranberry jelly. Gooseberry jelly. Pineapple jelly. Lemon jelly. Grape jelly.182 ENTREMETS Gelee d’orange. Gelee de mandarines. Gelee au madere. Gelee de brugnon. Gelee de Bordeaux. Gelee de framboises. Gelee au vin du Rhin. Gelee au vin de Champagne. Gelee de nefle. Gelee d la vanille. Gelee au rhum. Gelee au kirscli. Gelee au vin d'Oporto. Gelee au poires. Gelee de coing. Orange jelly. Mandarin jelly. Madeira winej elly. Nectarine jelly. Claret jelly. Raspberry jelly. Rhine wine jelly. Champagne jelly. Medlar jelly. Vanilla jelly. Rum jelly. Kirsch liqueur jelly. Port wine jelly. Pear jelly. Quince jelly. Gelee panachee (Mixed Jelly). — Two or three different kinds of jelly, appropriately flavoured, set in alternate layers in the same mould. — fouettee au jus de fruits. — Whipped fruit juice jelly. — h la macedoine de fruits.—Jelly with mixed fruits. — a la Russe (Russian Jelly).—Wine jelly whisked to a froth and set in a mould. Jambon de Careme (Cold).—Imitation ham made from genoise cake, almond paste, and chocolate icing, garnished with wine jelly. Japonais a l’Orientale (Cold). — Small almond meringues and slices of set bavarois or set vanilla cream arranged in layers to form a border, centre filled with whipped sweetened cream. Oranges a la centrale (Cold).—Oranges scooped out carefully and filled with wine jelly coloured red and flavoured with orange juice; when cold cut into quarters. Compote d’oranges.—Orange quarters stewed in syrup. — Maltaise.—Oranges .filled with port wine jelly and vanilla cream, two or three layers, cut into quar- ters when cold, and dressed on rice or vanilla ice. — Napolitaine.—Oranges filled with vanilla and raspberry ice; when frozen cut into quarters. CEufs vanille a la neige (Hot). — Quenelles of whisked whites of eggs poached in milk; served with vanilla custard. CEufs en surprise (Cold). — Halves of apricots masked with jelly, and set in whisked and set jelly so as to resemble poached eggs; sauced over with maraschino syrup. Oranges. CEufs—Eggs.SWEETS 1S3 P£ches—Peaches. Peehes & la Cardinal.—Halves of peaches studded with almond strips and stewed in raspberry syrup, dressed on genoise border ; served hot or cold. — Montreuil.—Halves of peaches stewed in maras- chino syrup, dressed in centre of a semolina border; served hot or cold. — Melba (Cold).—Halves of peaches cooked in vanilla syrup, filled with vanilla cream ice, and dressed in pyramidal form, sauced over with rasp- berry puree, and sprinkled with chopped almonds. — a la Ninette (Cold).—Small brandied peaches, dressed on macaroons soaked in maraschino, sauced over with cold custard sauce. — Opientale (Iced).—Halves of peaches stewed in syrup, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, drained and cooled, filled with raspberry ice, and dressed on shapes of vanilla cream ice. — Piemontaise.—Halves of peaches filled with almond paste (marzipan), dressed on croutons of genoise, and then cooked in oven ; served hot with syrup. Timbales de Peehes Marie-Louise (Hot).—Small timbale shapes of genoise hollowed out and filled with peach puree mixed with whisked egg white, baked and glazed; halves of peaches, glazed, placed on top of each, and decorated with glace cherries cooked in kirsch flavoured syrup. Poires—Pears. Poires a la Reine (Hot).—Border of genoise cake and custard, poached, dressed with compote of pears, sauced over with raspberry syrup. — a la Florentine (Cold).—Compote of pears, dressed on a bed of cooked semolina, flavoured with vanilla, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — a la Mapquise.—Bartlett pears cooked in vanilla syrup, dressed on timbale of rice, flavoured with maraschino, meringued over, and baked ; served hot or cold. — k la Sieilienne. — Halves of Bartlett pears stewed in syrup, drained, filled with almond paste, placed on cake croutons, and glaced in oven; served hot. Pommes—Apples. Casserole de pommes au riz (Hot).—Stewed apples ranged in a casserole with layers of cooked rice, mixed with chopped glace cherries and almonds; baked, and ornamented with glac£ fruit.184 ENTREMETS Charlotte de Pommes.—Apple charlotte. Grisette de pommes.—Apple puree mixed with crushed macaroons, sugar, sultanas, chopped lemon rind, and whisked whites of eggs ; baked in souffle dish. Pommes au beurre. — Peeled and cored apples, baked with butter in the oven, and glazed, sauced over with syrup, and flavoured with nutmeg or cinnamon. — bonne femme.—Same as ” au beurre.” — la Conde.—Apples, pared and cored, cooked in the oven, with sugar, lemon juice, and butter; dressed on a bed of rice ornamented with angelica, glace cherries, raisins and almonds; served hot or cold with apple syrup. — a la Duehesse.—Peeled apples, scooped out in small rounds, cooked in syrup, dressed on genoise croute, with a layer of apple marmalade ornamented with small sticks of angelica stuck in each round of apple ; served with hot or cold apple syrup. — Lexington.—Peeled and cored apples, steamed whole; when cold, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons or cake crumbs ; centre filled with pine- apple pulp and red currant jelly; served hot with fruit syrup. — mepinguees.—Apples cooked whole or in halves, dressed on rice, masked with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. ■— a la neige (Hot).—Apple puree mixed with whisked whites of eggs, filled in gratin dish with custard, and browned in oven. — Polonaise (Hot).—Slices of apples, cut crosswise, ranged on a layer of marmalade on a gratin dish, masked with syrup, sprinkled with crushed maca- roons, ground cinnamon, and sugar; baked in a moderate oven and served in the baking dish. — PoPtugaise (Cold).—Small cored apples, rubbed over with lemon juice, stewed in syrup with maraschino liqueur ; centre of apples filled with red currant jelly, with a crystallised cherry over top ; served with the syrup. Poudings—Puddings. Ponding d'abricots. — aux amandes. — d'amandes a l'orange. — a lananas. — au chocolat. — de cabinet. — au citron. Apricot pudding. Almond pudding. Almond pudding with orange flavour. Pineapple pudding. Chocolate pudding. Cabinet pudding. Lemon pudding.■ . r 4185 SWEETS (PUDDINGS) Ponding aux cerises. — d la college. — a Venfer. — de figues. — de gittgembre. — de groseilles vertes. — de groseilles noires. — au lait. — au macaroni. — de macarons. — de marrons. — de Noel. — de nouilles. — aux noix de coco. — aux oranges. — de pommes. — de pommes de terre. — a la printaniere. — de pain beurre a V Anglaise. — au pain noir. — froid a la pomare. — de raisins. — de reine-Claudes. — a la Rocheford. — roule a l'Anglaise. — au riz. — de riz aux raisins. — de sagou. — souffle. — de tapioca . — a la vanille. — de vermicelle. Pouding’ k l’Allemande from small pieces of grated lemon rind, eggs steamed. Cherry pudding. College pudding. Plum pudding, burning. Fig pudding. Ginger pudding. Green gooseberry pudding. Black currant pudding. Milk pudding. Macaroni pudding. Macaroon pudding. Chestnut pudding. Christmas pudding. Nudel or nouille pudding. Cocoanut pudding. Orange pudding. Apple pudding. Potato pudding. Cold strawberry pudding. Bread-and-butter pudding. Brown bread pudding. Cold apricot pudding. Raisin or plum pudding. Greengage pudding. Cold vanilla pudding. Rolled jam pudding. Rice pudding. Rice and raisin pudding. Sago pudding. Souffle pudding. Tapioca pudding. Vanilla pudding. Vermicelli pudding. (German Pudding).—Made cake, chopped almonds, , sugar, and Madeira wine ; — Albemarle.—Made from ground almonds, flour, eggs, sugar, and vanilla flavouring ; baked in tin moulds. — k l’Arlequin. — A rich semolina and almond pudding mixture, made in four varieties—vanilla, raspberry, chocolate, and pistachio; the mould is filled in three layers, steamed, and served with maraschino flavoured sauce. — k la bachelier (Bachelor’s Pudding).— Made from eggs, finely minced apples, currants, bread- crumbs, lemon rind, grated nutmeg, and sugar; steamed in mould. — aux cerises.—Cherry pudding made with the basis of a souffle mixture.186 ENTREMETS Pouding de cerises k l’Anglaise.—Cherry pud- ding with suet crust lining. — k la chaneelier (Chancellor’s Pudding). — Steamed custard pudding, with sponge cakes, ratafias, and dried fruit; mould garnished with fruit ; served hot with wine sauce. — Coburg (Coburg Pudding). — A kind of thick custard, with brandy flavouring, baked in cups. — Delaware.—Suet pudding, filled with peeled and cored apples, currants, orange peel, etc.; steamed in cloth. — Diplomate.—A rich cabinet pudding, flavoured with rum or other liqueur. — Genevoise (Geneva Pudding). — Ground rice cooked in milk, with apples filled in mould ; baked in the oven. — a la gastronome.—A rich semolina pudding, masked with apricot puree and thin pancakes ; sauce, a l’abricot. — A rimperatrice (Empress Pudding).—A rich custard pudding, served hot with spiced sweet sauce. — a l’ltalienne (Italian Pudding).—A rich bread pudding, with cream, apples, and dried fruit ; baked in a mould lined with puff paste. ■— Louis Napoleon. — Light cake, savarin or genoise, scooped out and filled with fruit compote masked over with meringue, and baked; served with fruit syrup. — a la minute (Hasty Pudding).—Usually made with eggs, milk, flour, and sugar, well mixed, baked in a tin mould; a little jam or marmalade is also introduced. — a la Nesselrode.—A light cold chestnut pudding, flavoured with maraschino liqueur ; garnished with whipped cream and crystallised cherries. — k rOrleans.—Cold custard or blancmange, mixed with biscuit or cake crumbs, and chopped candied fruit; set in fancy moulds. — a la pasteur (Curate’s Pudding).—Egg custard mixed with mashed potato, flavoured with sugar and lemon ; baked in cups. — Prince Albert.—Made from eggs, butter, flour, sugar, and lemon rind; mould lined with slices of citron peel, angelica, cherries, etc., to garnish ; steamed. — Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales Pudding).— Made from yolks of eggs, sugar, lemon rind, almonds, flour, and butter ; baked in fancy tin moulds.SOUFFLES AND OMELETTES 187 Pouding a la Reine (Queen Pudding).—Lemon souffle, with minced fruit and crushed macaroons in centre, flavoured with liqueur. — Royale. — Vanilla souffle, mixed with crushed finger biscuits before steaming. — k la Renaissance. — Almond souffle mixture filled in mould, buttered, and thickly sprinkled with pistachios, steamed, and served with pistachio cream sauce. — St. Cloud. —Brown bread pudding, mixed with almonds and glac6 cherries, steamed, and coated with apricot marmalade. — k la Sicilienne (Sicilian Pudding).—Made from rice cooked in milk, fruits, eggs, cream, and sugar. — a la Saxonne (Saxon Pudding).—Brown bread pudding,mixed with ground almondsand crystallised fruit; baked or steamed. — a la Victoria (Victoria Pudding).—Prepared with chopped marrow, apples, flour, eggs, milk, sugar, apricot jam, breadcrumbs, and glace fruit; steamed or baked in moulds. — Viennoise.—Bread and custard, flavoured with caramel, steamed, and served with Sabayon or custard sauce. — Vincent.—Souffle of chestnut puree with crushed biscuits, minced glace fruit, flavoured with kirsch syrup in centre. Pain de riz aux fraises (Hot).—Timbale of rice with compote of strawberries in centre, sauced over with strawberry syrup. Timbales de riz au fraises.—Light rice cream in the form of a timbale, masked with strawberry jelly, and decorated with fresh fruit. Savarin Medici.—Baked savarin border dipped in maraschino syrup, centre filled with firm rich almond cream ; decorated with whipped cream. — aux fruits.—Savarin soaked in syrup, studded with strips of almonds and garnished with fruit. — au kiPSCh.—Savarin with kirsch syrup. — au rhum.—Savarin with rum syrup. SOUFFLES AND OMELETTES. Note.—The name souffle in cooking is given to any light preparation, hot or cold ; as a rule, sweet souffles are either steamed or baked. Sweet omelettes are made soufflee by beating the egg whites to a stiff froth, and mixing it with the other ingredients; these are baked in the oven, whilst ordinary sweet omelettes are fried in the omelette pan over a quick fire. See also notes on Omelettes.SOUFFLES AND OMELETTES iS8 Souffle aux abricots. Souffle aux amandes. Souffle au cacao. Souffle au cafe. Souffle au chocolat. Souffle au citron. Apricot souffle. Almond souffle. Cocoa souffle. Coffee souffle. Chocolate souffle. Lemon souffle. Souffle aux/raises en caisses. Strawberry souffle in cases. Souffle a la minute. Hasty souffle. Souffle a Vorange. Orange souffle. Souffle d I’orge. Barley flour souffle. Souffle au pain bis. Brown bread souffle. Souffle a la polenta. Maize flour souffle. Souffle au riz. Rice souffle. Souffle d la semoule. Semolina souffle. Souffle au tapioca. French tapioca souffle. Souffle aux avelines pralinees.—Souffle flavoured with burnt sugar hazelnuts or filberts. See also Puddings. Omelette soufflee au ehoeolat.—Souffle omelette flavoured with chocolate. — aux Confitures.—Souffle omelette with jam in centre. — soufflee a l’eau de fleurs d’oranger.—Souffle omelette flavoured with orange-flower water. — soufflee au kirsch.—Souffle omelette flavoured with kirschwasser. — SOUfflee aux peches. — Souffle omelette with peaches in centre. — soufflee aux pistaehes.—Souffle omelette fla- voured with pistachio kernels. — SOUfflee en surprise.—Souffle omelette with ice cream in centre. — soufflee la vanille.—Souffle omelette flavoured with vanilla. Omelette aux abricots.—Apricot omelette. — Celestine.—Small sweet omelettes flavoured with crushed macaroons, each filled with jam, rolled up, sugared and glazed under salamander. — & la charlotte.—Light soufflee omelette filled with apple marmalade. — au confiture.—Jam omelette. — au four.—French pancakes baked in oven. — aux framboises.—Raspberry omelette. — & la meringue (Cold).—Omelette shape made out of meringue mixture, and^baked; when cold, filled with sweet pear or apple ^puree; red currant jelly poured round dish. — au rhum.—Rum omelette. — SUCree.—Plain sweet omelette.CAKES AND PASTRY i8g Pannequets op crepes au cacao.—Cocoa pan- cakes. — aux confitures.—Jam pancakes. — aux fraises.—Strawberry pancakes. — aux framboises.—Raspberry pancakes. — k la Maneelle.—Thin, fried pancakes, spread over with sweetened chestnut purge flavoured with maras- chino, rolled up, dredged with sugar, and glazed in a hot oven. — & la vanille.—Pancakes flavoured with vanilla. PATISSERIES—FANCY CAKES AND PASTRY. Denises aux amandes. — Frosted almond sand- wiches with puff paste foundation. Talmouses d’abpicot.—Sweet short crust pasties, shaped like three-cornered hats, filled with apricot jam, and iced. Gateaux—Cakes. The name " gateau,” with a few exceptions, applies to a light, dainty looking and tasty French cake, which is usually iced over with butter, fondant, or royal icing, and suitably decorated. Gateau aux amandes. Gateau a la cannelle. Gateau au citron. Gateau aux dattes. Gateau au gingembre. Gdteau genoise. Gateau au madere. Gdteau au miel. Gdteau de noce (imanage). Gdteau de Noel. Gdteau a l'orange. Gdteau de paque. Gdteau aux pontmes. Gdteau a la vanille. Almond cake. Cinnamon cake. Lemon cake. Date cake. Ginger cake. Genoa cake. Madeira cake. Honey cake. Wedding (bride) cake. Christmas cake. Orange cake. French Easter cake. Apple cake. Vanilla cake. Gateau au Moka.—Cornflour cake with mocha cream, iced and decorated. — Mousseline.—Very light plain cake, strewed with almonds, and glazed. — Pithivier.—A kind of puff-paste tart or tartlet with almond filling. — Russe.—Three or four distinctly coloured genoise cakes, ranged in layers with apricot marmalade, and rolled in almond paste crust cut into slices.igo CAKES AND PASTRY Gateau St. Honors.—Puff paste or short crust foundation, with border of baked choux paste balls dipped in sugar glazing, centre filled with rich custard, and decorated with whipped cream. Biscuit de Savoie.—French Savoy biscuits. — Genoise.—Genoise biscuits. Champignons. — Mushrooms shaped so, with me- ringues and almond paste. Daptois aux abpieots.—Slices of puff pastry spread with apricot marmalade, decorated with meringue (lattice work fashion). Genoise au cafe.—Genoise cake flavoured with coffee, and iced with coffee icing. — au ehoeolat. — Genoise cake flavoured with chocolate, and iced with similar icing. Langues de Chat.—Small wafer biscuits shaped like cats’ tongues. Pain d’epiee.—French gingerbread cake. Baba au rhum. Baba or Polish cake with rum syrup. Dames d’honneur. Maids of honour. Dariole a la creme. French cream tart. Flans are round or oval-shaped tart crusts filled with fruit or cream, as indicated. Flans aux abricots. Flans aux censes. Flans creme au citron. Flans aux fraises. Flans aux framboises. Flans aux fruits. Flans au marasquin. Flans creme a Vorange. Flans Parisienne. Flans aux peclies. Flans aux poires. Flans aux pommes. Gateau feuillete. Gaufres hollandaise. Gimblettes de peches. Meringues a la creme. Meringues glaces. Savarin au rhum. Tarte aux abricots. Tarte aux cerises. Tarte aux praises. Tarte aux framboises. Tarte aux groseilles et fram- boises. With layers of apricot. With stoneless cherries. Filled with lemon cream. Open strawberry tart. Open raspberry tart. With fruit. With maraschino cream. With orange cream. Fruit flans meringued. With peaches. Filled with pears. Filled with apple slices. French cake, composed of puff pastry, etc. Dutch cream wafers. Small light cakes filled with peaches. Filled with whipped cream. Filled with ice cream. A light yeast cake with rum syrup. Apricot tart. Cherry tart. Strawberry tart. Raspberry tart. Currant and raspberry tart.CAKES AND PASTRY 191 Tarte aux groseilles noires. Black currant tart. Tarte aux groseilles vertes. Gooseberry tart. Tartelettes Balmoral.—Puff paste lined tartlets, filled with cornflour and sponge cake, cream mixed with cherries, etc. — aux amandes.—Almond tartlets. — a l’ananas.—Pineapple tartlets. — de bergamottes.—Pear tartlets. — de framboises.—Raspberry tartlets. — de fraises.—Strawberry tartlets. — de fruits.—Fruit tartlets. — Granville.—Puff paste lined tartlets, filled with light custard, mixed with cake crumbs and citron, glaced after baking, and decorated with desiccated cocoanut. — de groseilles rouges.—Gooseberry tartlets. — de paVOtS.—Poppy tartlets. — Parisienne.—Short crust lined tartlets, filled with light almond cream, mixed with cake crumbs, cream and lemon juice, glazed after baking, and decorated. — de pommes.—Tartlets with apple puree. Bouehees des dames.—G£noise baskets filled with whipped cream, garnished with pistachios and angelica. Brioches.—Light milk dough bun or border shapes, baked, sometimes filled with cream. Cornets k la creme.—Wafer biscuits rolled up as cornets, and filled with whipped cream. — au nougat.—Sugar and almonds boiled to the crack, shaped into cornets, and filled with cream. Dominos.—Domino-shaped g^noise pastry, iced over, and suitably decorated. Eclairs.—Finger shapes of choux paste, baked, filled with cream, and iced with coffee or chocolate icing. Madeleines.—Small cakes of the gdnoise class, baked in tartlet moulds or patty pans. Tarte aux pommes. Tarte aux prunes. Tartes aux fruits. Tartes (tourtes). Tourte au chocolat. Tourte au citron. Tourte aux fruits. Tourte aux marrons. Tourte de noix. Tourte a l'orange. Tourte au pain bis. Tourte au punch. Tourte au rhum. Tourte a la sableuse Apple tart. Plum tart. Fruit tarts or fruit pies. Tarts and pies. Chocolate cake. Lemon cake. Open fruit tart. Chestnut cake. Walnut cake. Orange cake. Brown bread cake. Punch cake. Rum cake. A kind of flat sponge cake.SAVOURIES 192 Nids d’oiseaux (Birds’ Nests).—Egg and almond paste shaped like birds’ nests, baked, and filled with whipped cream, flavoured with apricot mar- malade ; small comfits to imitate eggs are put on top. Palmiers OP Ppussiens.—Thin puff paste dredged with castor sugar and rolled up, cut into round slices, and baked. Quillets.—Small tartlets filled with madeleine mix- ture, centre scooped out when baked and filled with almond cream, decorated with whipped cream. Smelles (Soles).—Oval shapes of thin puff paste, rolled in castor sugar, and baked. Tranches a la neige.—Slices of rich almond short crust pastry, lined with jam, spread over thickly with meringue mixture, and baked in slow oven. Tuilles.—Meringue and almond paste, shaped and baked like macaroons. ENTREMETS, SAVOUREUX, ETC. AFTER DINNER SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES. Fish Savouries. Anchois farris. Beignets de filets de hareng. Canapes de thon marines. Caviar de Russie aux blenis. Caviar sur canapes a la Diable. Crevettes a la Diable. Ecrevisses d la Diable. Filets de harengs fumes au from age. Laitance de cabillaud fume sur croutons. Laitance de maquereau a la Diable. Failles au parmesan d la Yarmouth. — d VAnchois. Souffles a la Yarmouth. Stuffed anchovies. Fritters of kipper fillets. Tunny fish on toast. Small thin pancakes spread with Russian caviare,and rolled. Devilled caviare on toast. Devilled shrimps. Devilled crayfish. Fillets of kippered herrings with cheese. Smoked cod’s roe on toast. Devilled mackerel’s roe and bones. Cheese straws twisted with strips of bloater fillets. Cheese straws twisted with anchovy fillets. Cheese and bloater paste souffles. Allumettes d’anchois (Anchovy Matches).—Short paste crust, spread with anchovy paste, and cut into thin strips.FISH SAVOURIES 193 AnchoiS frits.—Fried anchovies. Eclairs d’anchois.—Small anchovy pasties. Beignets de Poisson.—Fish fritters. — fumes.—Smoked fish fritters. Bisquits au beurre d’anehois.—Anchovy butter biscuits. Bonnes-bouehes aux huitres.—Oyster tit-bits. Canapes a la creme de laitanees.—Blanch some cod’s roe (fresh), pound in mortar, and add whipped cream and seasoning ; dress on little canapes of fried bread, finger, oval, or oblong shapes ; sprinkle over with lobster coral and krona pepper, heat in sharp oven, and dish up. — Nantua. — Rounds of toasted bread spread with green herb butter, stoned olives stuffed with anchovy placed in centre of each, with a prawn or crayfish tail. — de sardines.—Sardines on toast. Coquille de homard.—Scalloped lobster. Crabe aux ceufs a la Diable.—Curried crab and egg. — sur canapes k l’lndienne.—Curried crab on toast. — a la tomate.—Crab with tomato purde. Croustade de sardines au fromage.—Sardines in pastry crusts with grated cheese. Croutons d’anehois aux fines herbes.—Savoury anchovy paste on toast. — au fromage.—Anchovy fingers with cheese. — a l’lndienne.—Curried anchovies on toast. Croutes de merluche fume.—Smoked haddock mixed with bechamel sauce, cheese, and egg yolk, and heated ; spread on buttered toast and baked. Homard au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style. Huitres a FAmericaine. — Grilled oysters with tomatoes. — au beurre.—Broiled oysters in butter. — k la Colbert. — Marinated oysters, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; served with sauce Colbert. — a l’Horly.—Marinated oysters dipped in frying batter and fried in deep fat; garnished with slices of lemon and parsley ; sauce, tomato. — a l’ltalienne. — Soused or marinated oysters, drained and dipped in flour, and then in beaten seasoned eggs, fried in an omelette pan with clari- fied butter ; served with nut brown butter. — a la Villeroi.—Poached oysters in fish stock ; drained and coated with reduced bechamel sauce, then egged and crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. 1194 MEAT SAVOURIES Huitres en brochettes.—Large oysters, bearded, dipped in oiled and seasoned butter and covered with fresh breadcrumbs, fastened on skewers, and grilled over the fire ; dressed with skewers stuck in bread croutons, and garnished with lemon slices and parsley. — en cassolettes. — Bearded oysters ranged in threes or fours in small buttered china cassolette or ramakin cases, seasoned, two or three prawn tails, with piquante demi-glace sauce added to each, and thus cooked in oven; served in the cassolette cases. — frites a la Diable.—Fried oysters devilled. — aux fines herbes. — Grilled oysters with savoury herb butter. — k la Normande.—Ragout of oysters, crayfish tails, and truffles, mixed with sauce normande, dressed in very small china casseroles, allowing one for each person. — SUP J>ain grille.—Oysters on toast. Les huitpes a eheval. — Oysters on horseback (rolled in bacon and grilled). Sardines a la Diable.—Devilled sardines. — aux ceufs poches.—Sardines with poached eggs. — Proven^ale.—Sardines on toast with egg sauce. Saumon fume k la Diable. — Smoked salmon devilled. — au gratin.—Baked salmon, gratin style. Meat Savouries. Batons de Caviar.—Baked puff paste fingers split open and filled with seasoned caviare. Beignets de gibier k la Diable.— Devilled game fritters. — de jambon.—Ham fritters. Brochettes de foie de volaille.—Chicken livers and bacon slices tossed in butter and fastened on little skewers, crumbed and broiled; served with bearnaise sauce. Canapes k l’Arlequin.—Buttered toast decorated with strips of chopped tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, arranged in lattice work fashion. — & la Coequeri. — A puree of chicken and ham and butter, spread on toasted or fried bread slices, covered with plenty of grated cheese, browned under salamander, and garnished with gherkins, capers, and beetroot. — Reforme.—Squares or oblongs of toasted bread spread with herb butter; garnished the same as for arlequin, but arranged in different design.195 VEGETABLE SAVOURIES Croutons de langue k la Diable.—Devilled ox- tongue on toast. — de jambon k la Diable. — Devilled ham on toast. Foie de volaille a la Diable.—Devilled chicken liver. Jambon & la Casino.—Slices of cooked ham spread with chutney and mustard, sandwiched together and thus grilled. — aux tomates. — Grilled slices of raw ham, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes tossed in butter; served with piquant sauce. Langue de veau fumee k la Diable.—Devilled smoked calf’s tongue. Moelle de bceuf aux fines herbes.—Beef marrow savoury, with fine herbs dressed on toast. Vegetable Savouries. Aubergines au gratin.— Baked aubergines, gratin style. Fonds d’artiehauts farcis k la Diable.—Stuffed artichoke bottoms devilled and baked. Beignets d’aubergines k la Diable.—Devilled egg-plant fritters. Beignets de betterave.—Beetroot fritters. — de cardons k la Diable.— Cardoon fritters devilled. Champignons en eaisses k la Diable.—Devilled mushrooms in cases. — SUr Croutons.—Grilled mushrooms on toast. — aux fines herbes. — Savoury mushrooms on toast. Croutes aux champignons.—Cassolettes or tim- bale shaped crusts of bread or rice, filled with minced mushrooms, supreme sauce, cream, and chopped parsley, thus baked in sharp oven. Chou-fleur au parmesan. — Baked cauliflower with cheese. Coneombre farcie au fromage.—Savoury cucum- bers stuffed with cheese, and baked. Epinards au gratin.—Baked spinach, gratin style. Laitues k la Genoise (Cold).—Lettuce leaves cut out round and spread with anchovy butter, placed on rounds of toast covered with mayonnaise and chopped hard-boiled egg ; garnished with capers. — A l’lndienne.—Same as genoise, but using lobster butter in place of anchovy. Lentilles en fricassee k la Diable.—Devilled lentil fricassee, savoury. Olives sur erodtons k la Diable.—Devilled olives on toast.SA VOURIES ig6 Pommes de terre farcies. — Stuffed potatoes baked. — farcies aux fines herbes.—Baked potatoes stuffed with savoury herbs, etc. — a l’lndienne.—Curried potatoes. Beignets de pommes de terre.—Potato fritters. Coquilles de pommes de terre. — Scalloped potatoes. Crepes de pommes de terre au fromage.— Potato pancakes with cheese. Salsifis frits a la Diable.—Salsify fritters devilled. Tomates au fromage.—Tomatoes with cheese. — farcies ala Diable.—Stuffed tomatoes devilled. — sur pain grille.—Tomatoes on toast. — au gratin.—Baked, stuffed, or breaded tomatoes. Beignets de tomates.—Tomato fritters. Bombes aux tomates (Cold).—Small bomb-shaped moulds filled with sweetened tomato puree and cream, frozen in usual way; garnished with small tomato shaped cakes, masked with tomato coloured icing. ENTREMETS FARINEUX ET PLATS AU FROMAGE. Farinaceous Savouries and Cheese Dishes. Macaroni a la Calabraise. — Boiled macaroni, dressed in gratin dish with alternate layers of tomato pur£e, grated parmesan cheese, and white sauce ; browned in oven or under salamander. — a la creme.—Boiled macaroni with cream sauce. — au gratin. — Prepared macaroni, baked gratin style. — a l’ltalienne.—Macaroni with tomato and cheese. Beignets de macaroni.—Macaroni fritters. Croquettes de macaroni.—Macaroni croquettes. Tartelettes de macaroni. — Cooked macaroni tossed in butter and moistened with bechamel sauce, filled in baked tartlet crusts, covered with grated cheese, and baked. Timbale de macaroni.—Savoury macaroni tim- bales. Nouilles a la Palermo.—Stewed nudels (nouilles) with grated cheese. Risotto aux tomates.—Stewed rice with tomato pur£e. Riz a l’Espagnole.—Boiled rice, drained, and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages.197 CHEESE SAVOURIES Riz k la Florentine. — Stewed rice with picked shrimps, crayfish tails, or prawns, curry paste, grated parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. — a l’Indienne.—Curried rice. — Milanaise.—Rice cooked with grated parmesan cheese, mixed with chopped fowl, game, tongue, or ham, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. — Piemontaise.—Stewed rice with mashed pota- toes, finely chopped fried shallots, grated parme- san cheese, butter, and cayenne pepper. — Polonaise.—Stewed rice with thinly sliced fried onions, chopped ham, cayenne pepper, and grated cheese. — a la Reine.—Stewed rice with chopped hard- boiled white of egg, cooked smoked haddock, and grated cheese ; dished up and browned in a quick oven. — Turque. — Stewed rice with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and fresh butter. Rizzoletti.—Savoury rice croquettes, composed of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich savoury sauce; some prepared minced meat (salpicon) is enclosed in the centre of each croquette ; they are then egged, crumbed, and fried. Bouehees la Caroline.—Small bouche shapes of savoury rice, fried in deep fat, scooped out in centre and filled with scrambled eggs. Croutes de fromage a l’Ang-laise. — Welsh rarebit. — aux OBUfs poches. — Buck rarebit. Toasted cheese with poached egg on top. Feuillentines an parmesan. — Puff paste sticks with parmesan cheese. Fondu au parmesan.—Parmesan cheese souffles. Fondue Brillat Savarin.—A kind of stirred or scrambled egg mixed with grated cheese, butter, a little white wine, and seasoning ; served in little china casseroles. — Italienne. — Cream thickened with flour and cooked, mixed with parmesan cheese, eggs, and butter ; baked in gratin dish. Fondus a la Yarmouth.—Cheese souffles mixed with bloater-paste. Gnokis Suisses. — Cheese-flavoured choux paste quenelles poached in stock, drained, and fried in butter. Noisettes au parmesan.—These are small ball shapes of choux paste, mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in deep fat. Pailles au parmesan.—Cheese straws. I 3198 SAVOURIES Paillettes au parmesan. — Small cheese straws made from puff paste and grated cheese, fried in deep fat. Souffles au fPOmage.—Cheese souffles. Taptelettes Suisses au fpomage.—Swiss chees tartlets. CEufs et Omelettes.—Eggs and Omelets. CEufs brouilles. CEufs ct la coque. CEufs crus. CEufs durs. CEufs enveloppes. CEufs frais. CEufs frits. CEufs au gratin. CEufs au miroiv. CEufs mollets. CEufs perles. CEufs sur plat, CEufs poches. CEufs poches au jus. Scrambled eggs. Soft-boiled eggs. Raw eggs. Hard-boiled eggs. Eggs in wrappers. Fresh eggs. Fried eggs. Baked eggs (breaded) Eggs fried in butter (open). Soft-boiled eggs. Perled eggs. Eggs baked on the plate. Poached eggs. Poached eggs in gravy. CEufs a l’Afrieaine.—Poached eggs with fried ham. — Ambassadpiee.—Poached eggs, trimmed, coated when cold with mayonnaise aspic, decorated with green tarragon leaves, and dressed in tartlet crusts of baked plain paste. — aux anehois.—Scrambled eggs with anchovy fillets. — fpits k 1’AndalOUSe.— Fried eggs dressed in circle on slices of fried ham, centre of dish fried artichoke bottoms and fried parsley; sauce, tomate. — en banquettes.—Little fancy moulds of paste crust filled with chopped hard-boiled egg, mush- rooms, parsley, grated cheese, and white sauce ; browned in sharp oven. — dups a la Belloy. — Hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, yolks removed, and whites filled with salpicon of truffle and lobster and stiff mayonnaise ; dress eggs on croutons, and garnish with anchovy butter (creamed). — au beUPFe noip.—Poached or fried eggs with nut brown butter. — a l’oeil de bceuf.—Eggs baked in butter. — Bolognaise. — Fried eggs dressed on a bed of spinach, cooked in branches ; garnished with slices of Bologna sausages ; sauce, madere. — a la bonne femme.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, stuffed with minced chicken, ham, and beetroot; served cold.EGG SAVOURIES, ETC. igg (Eufs brouille aux pointes d’asperges. — Scrambled eggs with asparagus points; stir seasoned eggs with butter, cream, and asparagus points over fire till set, dress on toasted bread, and put a teaspoonful of velout£ sauce on centre of each. — bpouilles aux champignons.—Scrambled eggs, with minced preserved mushrooms. — bpouilles aux fines herbes.—Scrambled eggs, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chervil, and chives ; served with fried bread croutons. — brouilles k l’lndienne.—Scrambled eggs, sea- soned with curry powder and cayenne pepper. — bP0Uill6s k l’ltalienne (Scrambled Eggs, Italian Style).—Scrambled eggs placed in centre of risotto border, i.e., cooked savoury rice mixed with fried chicken livers ; tomato sauce round base of dish. — bpouilles au jambon.—Scrambled eggs, with finely shredded or minced ham. — bpouilles, Lyonnaise.—Scrambled eggs with fried onions. — bpouilles aux tPUffes.—Scrambled eggs, with chopped or shredded truffles. — a la mode de Caen.—Slices of hard-boiled eggs, cooked in a rich white cream sauce, with slices of Spanish onion. — en eaisses.—Eggs baked in paper cases. — a la Carmelite.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with fried chopped shallots, parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs, and baked. — aux champignons.—Eggs stuffed with mush- room puree and baked. — Chipolata.—Cassolettes of bread, shaped to take form of eggs, fried, and filled with poached eggs; garnished with braised button mushrooms, button onions, dice of ham, chestnuts, small fried sausages, and fried Parisian potatoes ; sauce, madere. — a la Christen. — Halves of tomatoes scooped out, lined with spinach, with poached egg on top of each ; white wine sauce round dish. — Colbert.—Small china souffle cases lined with light chicken farce, and raw egg in each, seasoned, and poached in oven ; coated with Colbert sauce. — Comtesse.— Poached eggs dressed on croutons of toasted or fried bread, sauced over with hol- landaise, and chopped truffles on top. — coque k la ereme de volaille.— Egg shells filled with a light chicken cream, and poached in stock ; cut off top of shells, and garnish with a slice of truffle on each.200 SA VOURIES (Eufs a la eoque en surprise (Cold) .—Fresh eggs are carefully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayonnaise; dressed on a bed of crisp cresses. — Cosmopolite.—Poached eggs, trimmed, drained, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat; dressed “crown shape,” with sliced truffles in centre; demi-glace sauce. — a la creme. — Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and finished in rich bechamel or cream sauce. — Creole.—Rounds of toasted and buttered bread spread with chicken cream, slightly poached eggs placed on each, finished in oven ; pour bechamel sauce round base of dish. — croquettes d’ceufs, durs.—Chopped hard-boiled eggs made into salpicon with white sauce, raw egg-yolk and anchovy essence to flavour, shaped into croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried in fat. — k la Diable.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy paste, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and baked. — durs au gratin.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in slices and ranged on buttered gratin dish, with layer of white sauce and grated cheese ; oiled butter on top, and browned in oven. — durs Italienne.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with anchovy paste and grated cheese; served with bechamel sauce. — durs a la St. Germain (Cold).—Hard-boiled eggs with yolks removed and mixed with mayon- naise and chopped shrimps, refilled, and dressed on a bed of chopped aspic, with a bearded oyster on top of each egg. ■— & Fecarlate.—Poached eggs dressed on rounds of fried bread, spread with tongue paste or slices. — a 1’EcOSSaise.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat or sausage meat, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. — & l’Eug6nie.—Large cup mushrooms, scooped out, filled with mixture of smoked salmon, truffles, and foie-gras sauce, etc. ; place poached egg on top of each ; decorate with lobster coral and truffle. —■ fareis.—Stuffed eggs. — fareis aux epinards. — Eggs stuffed with spinach. — Florentine. — Poached eggs placed in baked paste croustades lined with spinach purde, sauced over with morna sauce, and browned in sharp oven. — frits k la Suisse.—Eggs, fried whole, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese and seasoning.EGG SAVOURIES, ETC. 201 CEufs frits & la tomate.—Fried eggs with tomato sauce. — Garfield.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat, egged, crumbed in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter; served with piquant sauce. — a la gourmet. — Stuffed with crayfish tails, chopped truffles, and smoked salmon, and baked. — Grand Due.—Scrambled eggs dressed on small croutons of fried bread, sauced over with rich bechamel and reduced tomato, garnished with asparagus tips and shredded truffles. — Granville.—Coarsely shredded hard-boiled eggs, stewed in brown onion sauce, flavoured with lemon rind and mace. — a la gruyere.—Scrambled eggs with grated gruyere cheese. — Hussard.—Rounds of fried bread spread with minced ham and mushrooms, with tomato slice on top and poached egg, sauced over with hol- landaise; served hot. — a l’lndienne.—Curried eggs with rice. — maire.—Poached eggs, trimmed, and dressed on toast, garnished with finely shredded ox-tongue, ham, and truffles; sauced over with madere sauce. — maitre d’hotel.—Sliced hard-boiled eggs cooked in parsley sauce. — a la Matelot.—Eggs poached in meat stock, dressed on rounds of toast, sauced over with a rich brown fine herb and onion sauce; garnished with fillets of anchovies. — Meyerbeer. — Poached eggs dressed on grilled sheep’s kidneys, sauced over with perigueux sauce. — Montpensier. — Poached eggs, dressed on fried bread croutons, spread with foie-gras puree, centre of dish green peas ; garnished with truffles. — k la neige.—Whisked whites of eggs, seasoned, steamed in moulds, and served with cream sauce. — Norfolk. — Halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquant sauce. — a la Pache.—Hard-boiled eggs sliced, mixed with mushroom heads, and heated in tomato sauce; dressed in centre of rice border. — sur pain grille.—Poached eggs on toast. — k la Pasqual.—Small eggs poached in seasoned milk, trimmed, drained, and masked with chaud- froid sauce ; when cold, dressed in a nest made of baked nouilles, and, if liked, a fish farce founda- tion. — poches aux epinards. — Poached eggs with spinach.202 SAVOURIES (Eufs poeh6s k l’lmperiale (Cold).—Poached eggs dressed on artichoke bottoms; garnished with mace- doine of vegetables and julienne of tongue and tomatoes ; sauced over with remoulade sauce. — poch6s k la Portugaise.—Poached eggs dressed on rounds of toasted bread, with stuffed halves of tomatoes. — Prineesse Alice.—Hard-boiled eggs cut into two lengthways, centre filled with puree of egg-yolk, asparagus tips, truffles, and cheese, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — a la puree de lentilles.—Poached eggs with lentil pur£e. — a la pur6e de marrons.—Poached eggs with puree of chestnuts. — a la puree de navets.—Poached eggs with mashed turnips. — a la pur4e d’oseilles.—Poached eggs with sorrel puree. — Romaine.—Small egg souffles, seasoned with grated cheese and cayenne, baked in patty-pans. — Rossini.—Eggs baked “ au gratin,” dressed in a border of saute of chicken liver and truffles, sauced over with perigord sauce. — salamandre.—Hard-boiled white of egg cut in dice, cooked in parsley and egg sauce, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes, and browned with a hot salamander. — au soleil. — Poached or fried eggs, trimmed, placed between rounds of thinly cut ham, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — Soubise. — Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, heated in bechamel, dressed with onion puree in centre. — SOUffl^S a la Reine.—Small tartlet moulds lined with chicken souffle mixture, with poached egg in centre of each, covered with chicken farce, and finished in oven ; garnished with truffles. — SOUVeraine.—Soft boiled eggs, shelled, and placed in crown-shaped ham mousses; served with light sauce, Italian. — a la tripe..—Hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut in strips, stewed in white sauce. — mollets Tyrolienne.—Eggs boiled for barely five minutes and carefully shelled, dressed on suitable croutons of bread, and served with tomato sauce, enriched with butter, egg-yolks, and cream.203 OMELETS (Eufs Waldimir.—Eggs (new) placed in fireproof buttered dish, covered with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, strewn with grated parmesan cheese, slightly baked in oven, and sent to table with supreme sauce poured round edge of dish. Cotelettes aux ceufs.—Minced hard-boiled eggs, prepared with grated cheese and herb seasoning, moistened with raw yolks and sauce, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried. Pyramide d’ceufs k la Reforme.—Stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and truffles, sauced, and baked in a quick oven. Ragout d’ceufs k la Frangaise.—Slices of hard- boiled eggs, with truffles and morels, stewed in red wine sauce. OMELETTES-OMELETS. An omelet is usually defined as a dish consisting of beaten and seasoned eggs, fried in butter over a quick fire, and shaped like a cushion. There are three varieties of omelets: the plain (simple and compound), the stuffed (puree), and the puffed (souffle omelets). An almost endless variety of omelets can be pre- pared, either plain, compound, savoury, or sweet, because the addition of a special ingredient often brings about a new name. As a savoury, the so-called omelettes fines herbes are the most favoured, the fine herbs being mainly repre- sented by chopped parsley. A number of other omelets besides the savoury kinds are introduced in this register, most of which make admirable break- fast or lunch dishes. A little sauce or gravy is frequently served with an omelet, and should be poured round the base of the dish and not over the omelet. Simple and Compound Omelets. Omelette aux anchois. Omelette aux bucardes. Omelette au caviar. Omelette aux champignons. Omelette aux dames. Omelette aux crevettes. Omelette aux ecrevisses. Omelette aux fines herbes. Omelette au fromage. Omelette de homard. Anchovy omelet. Cockle omelet. Omelet filled with caviare. Mushroom omelet. Clam omelet. Shrimp omelet. Prawn omelet. Savoury omelet. Cheese omelet. Lobster omelet.OMELETS 204 Omelette aux hultres. Omelette au jamb on. Omelette au lard. Omelette aux lentilles. Omelette axix moules. Omelette au naturel. Omelette aux olives. Omelette aux pommes de terre. Omelette aux rognons. Omelette aux tomates. Omelette aux truffes. Oyster omelet Ham omelet. Bacon omelet. Lentil omelet. Mussel omelet. Plain omelet. Olive omelet. Potato omelet. Omelet with stewed kidney. Tomato omelet. Truffle omelet. Omelette a l’Alg^rienne. — Plain omelet, filled with artichoke bottoms, stewed in tomato sauce. — a l’Anglaise.—Plain omelet, garnished with thin rashers of fried bacon. — Allemande.—Rich pancake batter, fried in butter rather thickly,and folded; usually served with salad. ■— Amerieaine.—Savoury omelet, filled with sliced tomatoes tossed in butter, chopped bacon, and fried shallots. — Bearnaise.—Plain omelet, mixed with asparagus puree, and filled with mushroom and artichoke bottom ragout; sauced with bearnaise round base. — bonne femme.— Savoury omelet, filled with sorrel puree. — a la ehasseup. — Savoury omelet filled with minced game ; sauce, madere. — Czarina.— Plain omelet, filled with a delicate cucumber stew. — Duehesse.—Very small savoury omelets, mixed with chopped tongue and dressed on slices of tongue; sauce, tomate. — Espagnole. — Savoury omelet, containing dice shapes of fried ham, filled with sauteed tomatoes. — fourree.—Stuffed or compound omelet (filled with a savoury mixture). — Franeaise.—Savoury omelet, containing cream, and filled with eschalot flavour. — aux hareng’s fumes.—Omelet with fillets of kippered herrings. — HongTOise.—Omelet containing paprika, season- ing, etc., stuffed with fried ham, onion, and veloute sauce ; veloute sauce poured round omelet. — Imp4ratriee.—Omelet filled with delicate ragout of mushrooms, bearded oysters, and chicken fillets; sauce, veloute. — Indienne.—Omelet flavoured with curry, filled with cooked rice, chopped mint, onion, or chives ; curry sauce. — Italienne.—Plain omelet, stuffed with chicken liver, ham, and mushrooms tossed in butter ; sauce, tomate.205 OMELETS Omelette a la jardiniere. — Omelet filled with mixed vegetables. — Joinville. — Savoury souffle omelet, filled with ragout of prawn or crayfish and truffles, mixed with bechamel sauce. — a la langue de bceuf (ecarlate). — Omelet mixed with chopped ham. — Lyonnaise.—Omelet mixed with finely sliced fried onion; when shaped, dredged with grated cheese and glazed. — maitre d’hotel.—Omelet filled with ragout or salpicon of sweetbread and kidney, tossed in parsley butter ; sauce, maitre d’hotel. — Maneelle.—Mixed with artichoke bottoms cut into dice, and filled with fried potato cubes when omelet is shaped ; sauce, madere. — Milanaise. — Omelet filled with thin macaroni stewed in tomato pulp, strips of truffle, and cheese ; sauce, tomate. — Mexicaine.—Mixed with par-fried sliced toma- toes, mushrooms, and pimientos; shaped like ordinary omelet; tomato sauce. — mOUSSeline. — Savoury souffle omelet, with spinach or cucumber puree in centre. — NoPmande.—Omelet filled with bearded oysters and shrimps or prawns, heated in normande sauce. — aux oignons.—Omelet flavoured with onion or filled with onion puree. — PaPisienne.—Plain souffle omelet, spread with hot duxelle puree (chopped mushrooms, shallots, parsley, etc.), and folded. — Papmentiep.—Stuffed with dice-shaped potatoes, blanched, and fried in butter. — paysanne.—Savoury omelet, containing chopped and blanched sorrel, stuffed with braised lettuce. — PePigOPd.—Plain omelet, mixed with chopped truffles and served with truffle sauce. — aux pointes d’aspepges.—Omelet with aspara- gus points. — POPtUgaise.—Savoury omelet, mixed with an- chovy fillets ; tomato sauce. — au poissons op poissoniepe.—Plain or souffle omelet, stuffed with salpicon of white fish, heated in white sauce. — Ppincesse. — Mixed with asparagus points, or filled after making with asparagus puree. — Reine.—Savoury souffle omelet, filled with chicken pur€e or salpicon of chicken; sauce, allemande.206 ICES Omelette a la Reforme. — Omelet filled with shredded truffle, hard-boiled white of egg, gherkins and mushrooms ; heated in rich brown sauce. — Robert.—Omelet mixed with finely chopped fried onion and bacon ; sauce, piquante. — Rossini.—Plain omelet, filled with foie-gras puree and chopped truffles ; sauce, madere. — Russe.—Very small omelets filled with seasoned caviare; sauce, eschalot. — au saumon fum&—Omelet mixed with chopped smoked salmon. — Soubise.—Plain omelet, stuffed with white onion purde; sauce, bechamel. — Suisse. — Cheese omelet, surface glazed with cheese. — de volaille.—Omelet filled with chicken puree. G LACES—ICES. In French cookery or confectionery language the word glace has a threefold meaning: anything coated or masked with meat glaze, sugar, or syrup, is called glace; but the course known as glaces in this instance refers to sweet juices, creams, or other sweet mix- tures, which are by means of artificial freezing rendered into semi-liquid or solid ice. There are several varieties of ices; those known as cream and water ices are the most popular; whilst Souffles, Mousses, Par/aits, Sorbets, Bombes, Poudings glaces, and Ponding souffles, being somewhat more complicated, are termed compound ices, or iced pre- parations. Glace a la creme d’abricot. — a la creme d’amande. — a la creme d'ananas. — de creme au cacao. — au chocolat. — creme de framboises. — au marasquin. — au moka. — creme de noyeau. — aux fleurs d'or anger. — d la creme de peches. — creme au the. — a la creme de vanille. Apricot cream ice. Almond cream ice. Pineapple cream ice. Cocoa cream ice. Chocolate ice. Raspberry cream ice. Maraschino cream ice. Coffee cream ice. Noyeau cream ice. Ice cream flavoured with orange flowers. Peach cream ice. Vanilla cream ice flavoured with tea. Vanilla cream ice.*% \ t207 ICES Glace aux abvicots. — d l'ananas. — aux cerises. — au citron. — d'epines-vinettes. — aux fraises. — aux framboises. — aux gvoseilles. — de melon. — mille fruits. — aux mirtilles. — d l'orange. — en verves a l'orange. — aux peches. ■— aux poires. — auxpommes. ■— a la tutti-frutti. Pouch a la glace. Sorbet aux f raises. Biseuits glaees a la a mixed with cream and Apricot water ice. Pineapple water ice. Cherry water ice. Lemon water ice. Barberry water ice. Strawberry water ice. Raspberry water ice. Red currant ice. Melon water ice. Mixed fruit and cream ice. Bilberry water ice. Orange water ice. Orange water ice, served in glasses. Peach water ice. Pear water ice. Apple water ice. Mixed cream and fruit water ice. Iced punch. Strawberry ice, served in glasses. mille.—Vanilla souffle ice, ined with wafer biscuits. Charlotte glacee.—Ice cream pudding, lined with thin finger, genoise, or savoy biscuits. Coupes St. Jacques.—Layers of vanilla cream ice and red currant water ice filled-in goblets, sprinkled over with maraschino and cura9ao liqueur. Demi-glace de groseilles vertes.—Gooseberry fool. Glace Albufera.—Vanilla cream ice mixed with chestnut puree and maraschino. — Alexandra. — Bomb mould lined with vanilla cream ice, and filled with peach and strawberry cream ice. — plombiere d’ananas.—A rich cream ice, made with one quart of cream, six egg yolks, \ lb. sugar, vanilla flavour and pineapple juice. Pine- apple cut in dice is mixed with cream when partially frozen. — Bresilienne.— Mousse of kirsch flavour mixed with chopped pineapple. — Cardinal.—Bomb mould lined with raspberry or strawberry water ice, centre filled with vanilla cream flavoured with maraschino. — Chateaubriand.—Vanilla ice cream, mixed with glac6 or crystallised fruits and whipped cream.208 ICES Glace Cleopatre.—Vanilla cream ice, chopped pista- chios, flavoured with Curasao and rum; centre whipped sweetened cream. — Comtesse. — Strawberry cream ice, frozen in small cases, with fresh fruit on top, garnished with angelica leaves. — Coureelles.—Bomb of orange water ice, with centre filling of vanilla cream and glace fruit. — Creole.—Chocolate flavoured ice cream, mixed with pounded burnt sugar almonds. — Dame-Blanche.—Compound ice, consisting of lemon water flavoured with kirsch, and vanilla cream mixed with whipped cream in centre. — Diplomate.—Mocha cream ice in bomb shape, centre filled with mousse, flavoured with Curasao cream. — Duehesse.—Orange cream ice flavoured with kirsch. — Florentine. — Bomb mould lined with filbert cream ice, centre filled with strawberry water ice. — Georgette.—Pineapple cream ice, mixed with pounded French almond rock. — a la Havanne.—Coffee cream ice mixed with burnt sugar almonds (pralines), centre vanilla cream. — Creme de maearons.—Macaroon cream ice. — Madeleine.—Vanilla cream ice, centre filled with half-frozen pineapple salad, flavoured with kirsch. — Maltaise.—Mandarine or tangerine water ice, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, centre whipped cream so flavoured. — Marguerite.—Lemon water ice, flavoured with maraschino, centre filled with strawberry cream. — Marquise.—Vanilla souffle, frozen, with straw- berry cream in centre; served in cups or cases. — Mexieaine. — Line bomb mould with vanilla ice, fill centre with grated chocolate and cover with vanilla ice, freeze, and unmould ; garnish with tiny chocolate coated meringues. — Napolitaine.—Mixed ice, two or three distinct sections ; served in oblong slices. — Nesselrode.—Vanilla ice cream flavoured with chestnut puree. — Prince PUekler.—Chocolate ice cream flavoured with chestnut. — Plombiere. — Vanilla cream ice, mixed with ground almonds and whipped cream.ICES 209 Glace an pain noir.—Brown bread cream ice. — panach^e en surprise. — Moulded cream ice, masked with meringue, and quickly baked. — panach^e.—Mixed ice. Pouding glac£ (Ice Pudding).—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with crushed or crumbled sponge cakes and fruits ; flavoured with various kinds of liqueurs. Sorbet au champagne.—Lemon water ice enriched with Italian meringue and champagne; served in glasses in semi-frozen consistency. (For other Sorbets see page 166.) Souffles glaces a la vanille. — Vanilla cream souffles, frozen, and served in cases. — aux fraises.—Strawberry cream souffles, frozen, and served in paper cases. — au pain noir. — Brown bread cream souffles, frozen, and served in paper cases. — creme de noix de COCO.—Cocoanut cream ice. — Japonaise. — Vanilla cream ice, mixed with brown breadcrumbs, almonds, and maraschino liqueur. Bombs, Mousses, etc. Mousses or souffles are light ice cream preparations made from custard, cream, fruit, or syrups, whipped whites of eggs, and flavouring according to names given. They are served in souffle cases or souffle dishes, in which they are frozen. Other compositions for mousses and souffles will be found among the compound ices. Mousse au cafe. Mousse au citron. Mousse aux fraises. Mousse aux framboises. MoJisse au marasquin. Mousse a l'orange. Mousse aux peches. Coffee mousse. Lemon mousse. Strawberry mousse. Raspberry mousse. Maraschino mousse. Orange mousse. Peach mousse. Mousse de fraises k l’Americaine.—Strawberry pulp, mixed with gelatine, sugar, and cream ; filled in dome-shaped moulds and thus frozen; garnished with fresh ripe strawberries and whipped cream. •— Fedora.—Souffle of cream and Curasao flavour, served in cases, decorated with glac6 cherries and angelica. — Madrid .—Vanilla cream mixed with burnt sugar filberts (noisettes pralinees), centre filled with whipped cream, flavoured with maraschino or other white liqueur.210 DESSERT Mousse de fraises k la Nansen.—Vanilla cream ice, flavoured with noyeau, decorated with spun sugar. — Neluski.— Pistachio cream ice, flavoured with chocolate, centre filled with caramel cream, decorated with small chocolate macaroons. — printaniepe. — Bomb of vanilla or chocolate cream ice, interior filled with whipped cream, mixed with fresh strawberries, etc. — bombe Sarah Bernhardt. — Rose flavoured cream ice (souffle character), centre filled with violet flavoured mousse containing crystallised violets. — Sultane.—Vanilla cream, mixed with powdered French almond rock, chocolate caramel in centre, decorated with whipped cream. — Tosea.—Coffee cream ice souffles, flavoured with kirsch, and served in cases. — Venitienne or Venetia. — Bomb of pistachio cream ice, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with orange flower water, and thus frozen. DESSERT. After the Entremet comes the Dessert, which in- cludes cheese, followed by fruit—fresh fruit and dried fruit, glace or crystallised or candied—Bon-bons, Petits fours, fancy biscuits, and sometimes small fancy dessert ices. Nuts and biscuits should always be included as an essential part of the dessert. As regards cheese, * Fromage,” which is served before the fruit, etc., of a dinner or luncheon, this item is frequently mentioned on the menu, but it is not considered essential. It is usual to serve at least two kinds or varieties of cheese. Small pats of fresh butter, dry, plain biscuits, and pulled bread should be handed with it. The most popular kinds of cheese are : Cheddar, Cheshire, Gloucester, Stilton, Gruyere, Gorgonzola, Roquefort, Camembert, Brie, and the various Cream Cheeses. COFFEE (caf£ noir). This forms the last item of a menu. There are three blends or styles of coffee, either of which is eminently suitable as Cafe noir : French Cafe, Cafe Turque, and Cafe Russe. Turk; three. Coffee is Liqueurs, su or liqueur branfy? kirsch, re usually LIBRARY is the strongest of the all cups. schwasser, cognac, d with coffee.ADVERTISEMENTS * >.V--——» i ,>n ■». *4 v The most nourishing, digestible and delicious of aU Cocoas van Houten’5 Co co a BEST % GOES FARTHEST / “I—- —7* ••II A D VERTISEMENTS “MAIN” cookers: Used in the Royal Households. R. & A. MAIN, LTD., Cooking & Heating Engineers. LONDON AND GLASGOW. Every description of ... . GAS, COAL, AND STEAM APPARATUS. London Showrooms: Glasgow Showrooms: 214 ST. JOHN STREET, E.C. 26 WEST NILE STREEThi ADVERTISEMENTS HOLBROOKS WORCESTERSHIRE =SAUCE= tS UNDOUBTEDLY . . . The Premier Sauce of the World. ~ HOLBROOK’S SAUCE. “The Sauce is of a pleasing piquant description, and it is evident good and sound ingredients are chosen in its preparation.”—Vide "Lancet," Decem- ber 27, 1902. HOLBROOK’S ARE PREPARED IN PURE. . . MALT VINEGAR. PICKLES.IV A D VERTISEMENTS ti The Leading Culinary Organ” Published in London. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION for the United Kingdom FOUR SHILLINGS, post free. For any other part of the World, FIVE SHILLINGS. “Food and Cookery” Is an Illustrated Magazine-Journal designed and produced to appeal to all persons engaged in Cookery and Gastronomy. It is the only official organ of the Universal Cookery and Food Association. Gives a Monthly supply of season- able Menus, Recipes for new tested and reliable dishes for breakfast, luncheon, dinner and supper. Advice on Culinary, Gastronomic, and Household matters is given. Articles on Kitchens, Dining Rooms, and Cellars, written by eminent authorities, are given from month to month. These contain many valuable hints to all who wish to be up to date. Advice as to When, How, and Where to buy food. How to prepare, and How to cook it, What to eat, and numerous other features are dealt with. In order to extend the usefulness and influence of this Magazine, the Publishers will be pleased to send a Specimen Copy of “ Food and Cookery ” gratis to anyone who is likely to be interested in such a Journal. Address : THE MANAGER, 329 Vauxhall Bridge Road, LONDON, S.W.v A D VERTISEMENTS HAVE THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY IN THE UNITED KINGDOM. Contractors to His Majesty’s Government. TEN GOLD MEDALS. BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER Makes a perfect high-class Custard at a minimum 20st and trouble. Used by all the leading Diplomees of the South Kensington School of Cookery. Invaluable also for a variety of Sweet Dishes, recipes for which accompany each Packet. No Eggs! No Risk! No Trouble!ADVERTISEMENTS VI "FOR VARIOUS SAVOURY DISHES SIMPLY INDISPENSABLE.” “BISCUIT.” Attention is directed to the following from “ Food and Cookery,” July, 1902 : Thoughts on Shredded Wheat. In accordance with the promise made in our last number, we give herewith six of the most popular recipes for dainty dishes made by the help of Shredded Wheat Biscuits. The ever increasing demand for this article is ample proof that it forms a useful culinary adjunct for many sweet and savoury dishes. Pineapple in Shredded Wheat Biscuit Baskets. One pineapple, half a cup of sugar, half cup cold water, six Shredded Wheat Biscuits. Pare, and remove all the eyes from the pineapple, cut into slices and divide into shreds with silver fork. Place layer of pineapple in pie dish, sprinkle with sugar ; proceed in this way till pineapple and sugar are used. Then pour over all the half cup cold water. Set away in a cool place till ready to serve. Then mix all thoroughly, and fill into prepared biscuits, using all the syrup, allowing it to saturate the biscuits thoroughly. Serve on small plates. Welsh Rarebit. One cup hot milk, J lb. cheese, grated, half teaspoon salt, quarter teaspoon mustard, dash cayenne, six Shredded Wheat Biscuits, one teaspoon wheat flour, one egg well beaten, one teaspoon full butter. Put the milk to heat. Mix cheese, flour, egg, mustard, salt, and cayenne in saucepan, and when the milk is scalding hot add a little at a time to the cheese mixture. Stir, cooking slowly, until smooth as cream. Take from fire and add butter, serving well, and pour over the toasted biscuit. Serve at once. Sample Free SHREDDED WHEAT CO. 6-8 EASTCHEAP, LONDON, E.C.A D VERTISEMENTS VII A Good Saiad Dressing requires the very best Mustard, to be made properly. There is — there can be — no better Mustard made than Colman’s Mustard. Its universal use is a tribute to its goodness. Its excellence is its passport to royal tables—its price enables it to give a zest to the most frugal meal. All kinds of both hot and cold meats, game, fowl, cheese, herring, and smoked fish are made more palatable, more digestible, by the use ofVIII A D VERTISEMENTS PROFESSIONAL BOOKS By C. HERMAN SENN. THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK.-Price 12s. 6d. Post free 13s. A work full of sound and useful information, and of the greatest service to every Cook, Manager, or Steward. It is the most complete and reliable of all vade mecums for Chefs. It is handy, luminous and skilfully arranged, and easily consulted. 740 pages; illustrated. Strongly bound in leather. THE ART OF CURRY MAKING. A reliable Manual on the treatise of Curries, containing a number of recipes by the late Charles Francatelli. Price 6d. Post free 7d. A BOOK OF SALADS; The Apt of Salad-Making: Made Easy. By A. Suzanne, M.C.A. Price is. 6d. Post free is. 8d. RECHERCHE SIDE DISHES (Hors-d’(Euvre and Savouries). Price 3s. 6d. Post free 3s. iod. Fourth, Enlarged and Revised Edition now ready. A handy book of recipes for dainty Hors-d'CEuvres, Savouries, Salads, Sandwiches and Oriental Dishes, containing nearly 600 reliable recipes. SENN’S CULINARY ENCYCLOPEDIA. Price is. Post free is. 2d. A dictionary of technical terms, the names of foods, cooking auxiliaries, condiments, and beverages. Specially adapted for Chefs, Hotel and Restaurant Managers, Cookery Teachers, etc. BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. Price is. Post free is. 2d. A collection of useful recipes of easy and distinct directions for economical yet elegant dishes. ICES, AND HOW TO MAKE THEM. Price is. 6d. Post free is. 8d. A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc., etc. PRACTICAL COOKERY MANUAL. Price is. Post free is. 3d. A book of simple but practical recipes and instructions for plain and middle-class cookery. 178 pages. COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT. Price 9d. A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for invalids and convalescents. TABLE SERVIETTES; How tp Fold Them. Price is. Post free is. id. The Art of Napkin Folding fully explained and profusely illustrated by means of 130 diagrams, and half-tone portraits. THE MAIN COOKERY BOOK. Price is. Post free is. 2d. A Manual for Plain and Middle Class Cookery. Reliable. Compiled by an experienced cook. Any of the above-mentioned Works may be obtained from the FOOD & COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, 329 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W. Remittances, must in every case accompany orders. Cheques and Postal Orders should be crossed and made payable to the Manager.ADVERTISEMENTS ix ALWAYS ORDER LIEBIG AS WARNING: It is not generally known that there are more than a dozen inferior imitations of the genuine Liebig Company’s Extract (Lemco). But the only extract with which the celebrated Justus von Liebig was ever connected and to which he gave his name is LIEBIG COMPANY’S EXTRACT, made by Liebig’s Extract of Meat Company, whose initials—L E M C O —mark the only genuine brand to protect you from inferior substitutes.ADVER TI SEME NTS X The Cook’s Helpmate 13 . . . Brown & Poison’s “Patent” Corn Flour. It is essential to best results in so many delightful dishes. For Soups, Vegetable and Fish Sauces, Milk Puddings, Custards, and Blanc-manges, this Corn Flour should especially be the foundation. Bake Better, Make nicer Bread, Cakes, Pie Crusts, and Pastry, by using Brown & Poison’s Raising Powder “Paisley Flour.” (Trade Mark.) It does the raising quickly and evenly, and makes baking pleasant, easy work. Ask your Grocer for a 7d. Packet, and try it at once.7