The University Library Leeds ☆☆☆ The Blanche Leigh Collection of Cookery Books \eigh LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: A 0106 01107 cooi^Ent \^o*LTHE / ROYAL to BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 4 A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 4 BY THE CHEFS OF THE NEW YORK COOKINO SCHOOL NEW YORK ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO. 1902By Royal Baking Powder Company. Copyright, 1902,ALPHABETICAL INDEX TO RECEIPTS PAQS Apple Snow 29 Asparagus on Toast 39 Bannocks 7 Barley Water 42 Batter, Fritter, Plain 8 Beans, Kidney, Brown Sauce 39 Beans, String 39 Beef, Braised 34 Beef, Corned, and Turnips.35 Beef Stew, Brown 35 Beef Tea 42 Beefsteak, Broiled 34 Beefsteak,or Chops, Panned 34 Beefsteak Pie, French 34 Beets, Cream Sauce 39 Biscuit, Breakfast 5 Biscuit, Eccles 20 Biscuit, Egg 5 Biscuit, Emergency 5 Biscuit, Nut 5 Biscuit, Royal Hot 5 Biscuit, Sandwich 5 Blanc Mange, Chocolate ... 29 Boys, Jolly 9 Bread, Brown 2 Breatl, Brown, No. 2 2 Bread, Brown, Boston 2 Bread, Brown, Boston, No. 2 2 Bread, Brown, Boston, No. 3 2 Bread, Brown,Pennsylvania 3 Bread, Corn-loaf 3 Bread, Corn, New Orleans . 3 Bread, Com, Nonpareil.... 3 Bread, Corn, St. Charles ... 3 Bread, Corn, Spider 3 Bread, Entire Wheat 3 Bread, Graham, Delicate... 3 Bread, Graham Lunch 3 Bread,GrahamUnfermented 2 Bread, Hominy 3 Bread, Household 2 Bread, Mush 3 Bread, Norwegian, for Dys- peptics 2 Bread, Oatmeal 2 Bread, Rice 3 Bread, Rice and Indian 3 Bread, Royal Baking Pow- der 2 Bread, Rye 3 Broth, Scotch 31 Buchtels 20 Buns, Bath 20 Buns, Cinnamon 20 Buns, Hot Cross 7 Buttercups 18 Cabbage, Boiled 40 Cake 11 Cake, Adelaide 11 Cake, Almond 11 Cake, Almond, No. 2 11 Cake, Angel Food 12 Cake, Apple Jelly 12 Cake, Banana 12 Cake, Bride’s 12 Cake, Centennial 12 Cake, Chocolate 12 Cake, Chocolate Cream 12 Cake, Chocolate Layer 12 Cake, Chocolate Loaf 12 Cake, Cinnamon Chocolate. 12 Cake, Citron 12 Cake, Cocoanut Layer 12 Cake, Cocoanut Loaf 12 Cake, Coffee 12,20 Cake, Coffee, No. 2 13 PAOE Cake, Coffee, German 7 Cake, Continental Fmit ... 13 Cake, Cream 13 Cake, Cup 13 Cake, Currant 13 Cake, Currant, No. 2 13 Cake, Currant, English 13 Cake, Duchesse 13 Cake, Dutch Peach 20 Cake, Fig 14 Cake, French 14 Cake, Fruit, Dark 13 Cake, Fruit, Delicate 13 Cake, Fruit, Light 14 Cake, Fruit, Wedding 17 Cake, Geranium 14 Cake, German Apple 20 Cake, Ginger 14 Cake, Ginger Sponge 14 Cake, Gingerbread 14 Cake, Gold 14 Cake, Gold, No. 2 14 Cake, Harrison 14 Cake, Hazelnut 14 Cake, Honey 14 Cake, Ice Cream 14 Cake, Imperial 14 Cake, Jelly 15 Cake, Jumbles 18 Cake, Lady 15 Cake, Lemon 15 Cake, Lightning 15 Cake, Lunch, Boston 15 Cake, Marbled 15 Cake, Marshmallow 15 Cake, Minnehaha 15 Cake, Molasses 16 Cake, Nut 15 Cake, Orange 15 Cake, Peach Blossom 15 Cake, Pond Lily 16 Cake, Pound 16 Cake, Queen 16 Cake, Rolled Jelly 15 Cake, Royal Cookies 17 Cake, Scotch 16 Cake, Shrewsbury 17 Cake, Silver 16 Cake, Snow 16 Cake, Spice 16 Cake, Spice, Delicate 16 Cake, Sponge 16 Cake, Sponge, Almond 16 Cake, Sponge, Berwick 16 Cake, Sponge, Cream 16 Cake, Vanilla 17 Cake, Wash. (St. L., 1780) .16 Cake, Webster 17 Cake, Wedding (or Bride). .17 Cake, White Mountain 17 Cake, Wild Rose 17 Cake, Wine 17 Cake, Yorkshire Breakfast. 7 Cakes, Albert 18 Cakes, Anise-seed 17 Cakes, Bread 10 Cakes, Buckwheat 10 Cakes, Buckwheat, Royal.. 10 Cakes, Butter 6 Cakes, Chocolate, Little... .18 Cakes, Cigarettes 18 Cakes, Cinnamon 18 Cakes, Cream 13 Cakes, Delicious Little 18 Cakes, Drop (Breakfast).... 7 Cakes, Drop (Sweet) 18 Cakes, Edenkobers 18 PAOK Cakes, Fried 22 Cakes, Griddle, Corn-meal. 10 Cakes, Griddle, Crushed Wheat 10 Cakes, Griddle, Egg 9 Cakes, Griddle, Geneva 9 Cakes, Griddle, Graham ... 9 Cakes, Griddle, Hominy ... 10 Cakes, Griddle, Huckleberry 10 Cakes, Griddle, Indian 10 Cakes, Griddle, Rice 10 Cakes, Griddle, Rye 9 Cakes, Griddle, Three Egg. 10 Cakes, Hermits 18 Cakes, Little Chocolate 18 Cakes, Little Spice 18 Cakes, Rice 18 Cakes, Rye Drop 22 Cakes, Scotch 18 Cakes, Soft Gingerbread.. .19 Cakes, Spencer 18 Cakes, Spice Drop 19 Cakes, Spice, Little 18 Cakes, Strudel 20 Cakes, Tarts, Sand 19 Cakes, Tea 20 Cakes, Walnut Wafers 19 Cakes, Wheat or Flannel .. 10 Cakes, Wheat, Royal 9 Cake Fillings 19 Chocolate 19 Chocolate, No. 2 19 Cocoanut 19 Cocoanut, No. 2 19 Cream 19 Cream, No. 2 19 Cream, No. 3 19 Cream, Chocolate 19 Fig 19 Fruit 19 Lemon 19 Orange 19 Prune and Nut 19 Candy, Butter Scotch 42 Candy, Butter Taffy 42 Candy, Caramels, Choco- late 42 Candy, Cocoanut Cream ... 42 Candy, Cream 42 Candy, Creamed Nuts 42 Candy, Pudge 42 Candy, Hickory-nut 42 Candy, Ice Cream 42 Candy, Molasses 42 Candy, Peanut Brittle 42 Candy, Popcorn, Candied . .42 Candy, Velvet Molasses ...42 Candy, Walnut Cream 42 Canning 30 Carrots and other Root Vegetables 40 Catsup, Tomato 41 Catsup, Walnut 41 Cauliflower. Pickling 41 Celery Stuffing 36 Charlotte Russe 29 Cheese Straws 39 Chestnut Stuffing for Poul- try 36 Chicken, Boned 37 Chicken, Broiled 36 Chicken, Brown Fricassee 36 Chicken, Creamed 37 Chicken, Fricassee 36 Chicken, Fried Spring 36 Chicken Pfl,t6s 37 Chicken Pie 37PAGE PAGE Chicken Pot-pie 37 Chicken Pot-pie, No. 2 37 Chocolate 41 Chocolate Blanc Mange 29 Chops. Panned 34 Chow Chow 41 Chowder, Clara 33 Chowder, Fish 33 Clam Chowder 33 Clam Fritters 8 Cocoa 41 Coffee, Boiled 41 Coffee for Six Persons 41 Coffee, French 41 Coffee, Vienna 41 Cold Slaw 39 Consoinm6 31 Cookies, Cocoanut 17 Cookies, Plain 17 Cookies, Royal 17 Cookies, Soft 17 Com, Dried Sweet 40 Cora Pudding 40 Corn, Stewed 40 Corned Beef and Turnips, Boiled 35 Crabs, Deviled 33 Crabs, Soft Shell 33 Croutons 32 Crullers 22 Crullers, No. 2 22 Crullers, No. 3 22 Crullers, No. 4 22 Crullers, Dutch 22 Crumpets 7 Crumpets, Hominy 7 Crumpets, London 7 Crumpets, Rice 7 Currant Loaf 21 Custard, Baked 29 Custard, Cora Starch 29 Custard, Tapioca 29 Diamonds 5 Dressing, Boiled 38 Dressing, Cream 38 Dressing, French 38 Doughnuts 22 Doughnuts, No. 2 22 Doughnuts, No. 3 22 Doughnuts, No. 4 22 Doughnuts, No. 5 22 Doughnuts, German 22 Doughnuts, Puff Ball 22 Dumpling, English 23 Dumplings, Apple, Royal .. 23 Dumplings, Apple, No. 2.. .23 Dumplings, Apple, No. 3.. .23 Dumplings, Berry 23 Dumplings, Egg, for Soup .23 Dumplings, Farina 23 Dumplings for Soup 23 Dumplings for Stews 23 Dumplings for Stews, No. 2 .23 Dumplings, Peach 23 Dumplings, Peach, No. 2 ..23 Dumplings, Potato 24 Dumplings, Royal Apple... 23 Dumplings, Suet 24 Dumplings, Suet, Danish . .24 ficlaires & la Crfime 13 Egg Plant, Pried 40 Eggs. Baked. Fancy 39 Eggs, Baked, Plain 39 Eggs, Boiled, Hard 39 Eggs, Boiled, Soft 39 Eggs, Poached 39 Eggs, Scrambled 39 Eggs, Snow 29 Fish, Blue, Pried and other Kinds 32 Pish, Boiled, Bass or other Fish 32 Fish, Broiled 32 Pish, Brook Trout or other Small Fish, To Pry 33 Pish Cakes 32 Pish Chowder 33 Pish, Cod, Balls 32 Pish, Creamed 32 Fish, Directions for Prepar- ing 32 Fish, Halibut, Broiled 32 Fish, Mackerel, Salt, Broiled 32 Pish, To Broil 32 Floating Island 30 Pood for the Sick 41 Freeze, How to 30 Fritter Batter, Plain 8 Fritters, Apple 8 Fritters, Banana 8 Fritters, Clam 8 Fritters, Cora 8 Fritters, Fruit 8 Fritters, Hominy 8 Fritters, Meat 8 Fritters, Oyster 8 Fritters, Pineapple 8 Fritters, Rice 8 Fritters, Strawberry 8 Frosting, Maple Sugar 20 Frosting, Marshmallow 20 Fruits, Iced 29 Fruits, Spiced 31 Fruit Wheels 21 Geese anu Duck Stuffing.. 36 Gems 6 Gems, Apple 6 Gems, Graham, Royal 6 Gems, Rice 6 German Puffs 7 Gingerbread, Soft 13,19 Ginger Snaps 18 Glac6, Biscuit 30 Gravy, Poultry 36 Gruel, Corn-meal 42 Ham, Boiled 35 Ham, Broiled, and Eggs .34 Ice, Orange Water 30 Ice, Raspberry Water 30 Ice Cream, Biscuit Glac4.. .30 Ice Cream, Chocolate 30 Ice Cream, Crushed Straw- berry 30 Ice Cream, Delmonico 30 Ice Cream, Peach 30 Ice Cream, Philadelphia ... 30 Ice Cream, Plain 30 Iced Fruits for Dessert 29 Ices, Water 30 Icing, Almond 19 Icing, Bakers’ Soft 19 Icing, Boiled 20 Icing, Chocolate Transpa- rent 19 Icing, Chocolate Water 20 Icing, Clear 19 Icing, Plain 20 Icing, Royal 20 Icing, Transparent 19 Icing, Water 20 Icing, White 19 Jams 31 Jellies 31 Jelly, Restorative 42 Jolly Boys 9 Jumbles 18 PAGE Jumbles, Peanut 18 Kidney, Brown Stew 35 Liver and Bacon 35 Lobster Newburg 33 Lobster Salad 38 Lobster, To Open 33 Lobsters or Crabs, To Boil.33 Macaroni 40 Mayonnaise 38 Meats, Boiling and Stew- ing 34 Meats, Broiling 34 Meats, Frying 34 Meats, Roasting 34 Mince-meat 28 Mince-meat, No. 2 29 Muffins, Berry 6 Muffins, Boston 5 Muffins, Cora. Royal 6 Muffins, Egg, Royal 6 Muffins, English 6 Muffins, French 5 Muffins, Graham 6 Muffins, Hominy 6 Muffins, Mountain 6 Muffins, Oatmeal 6 Muffins, Potato 6 Muffins, Rice 6 Muffins, Royal 5 Muffins, Royal Sally Lunn. 6 Muffins, Rye 6 Muffins, Sweet 6 Mutton Haricot 35 Mutton or Lamb, Boiled .. .35 Omelet 39 Omelet, Orange and other Sweet 39 Omelet Souffl4 39 Omelets, Fancy 39 Onions, Fried 40 Oyster P&t6s 33 Oyster Pie 33 Oyster Stuffing for Poultry. 36 Oysters, Broiled 33 Oysters, Creamed 33 Oysters, Fried 33 Oysters, Panned 33 Oysters, Pickled 33 Oysters, Roasted in the Shell 33 Oysters, Scalloped 33 Oysters, Stewed 33 Pancakes 10 Pancakes, English 10 Pancakes, French 10 Paste for Pies 27 Paste for Pies, No. 2 27 Pa.ste for Pies, No. 3 27 Paste for Pies, No. 4 27 Paste for Pies, No. 5 (Puff Paste) 27 Paste for Pies, No. 6 27 Peach Tart 29 Peculiars 2 Piccalilly 41 Pickled Red Cabbage 41 Pickles 41 Pickles, Chow Chow 41 Pickling Cauliflower 41 Pie, Apple 28 Pie, Apple, No. 2 28 Pie, Apple, Dried 28 Pie, Apple Pot 28 Pie, Chocolate Custard 28 Pie, Cocoanut 28 i Pie, Cranberry 28 I Pie, Cream and Orange 28 I Pie, Custard (Plain) 28 1 Pie, Custard, Apple 28PAGE I’ie, Custard, Peach 28 Rolls, Fruit 4 Pie, Gooseberry ... Pie, Lemon (,'ream. 28 28 Pie, Lem ouCrea m Men n >;uo. 28 Pie, Mince 28 Pie, Mince-meat ... Pie, Paste for Pie, Plum 29 Pie, Pumpkin 29 Pie, Rhubarb 29 Pie, Squash 29 Pies, Fruit 28 Pork and Beans ... 3o Pork Chops, with Tomato Gravy 35 Pork, Roast Leg of Pork, Salt. Fried .. Pork, Stuffing for . 36 Potato Croquettes . 40 Potatoes, Baked ... 40 Potatoes, Creamed. 40 Potatoes, Pried .. 40 Potatoes, Pried, No. 2 40 Potatoes, Lyonnaiso 40 Potatoes. Mashed.. 40 Poultry Gravy 30 Poultry Stuffing .. 30 Poultry, To Clean . 36 Poultry, To Roast . 36 Poultry, To Truss . 36 Preserves, Amount Sugar to Quart 31 Preserving 31 Pudding, Apple (Boston) . .24 Pudding, Apple (English). .24 Pudding, Apple, Tapioca... 24 Pudding, Batter (Baked).. .24 Pudding, Batter (Boiled).. .24 Pudding, Batter (Fruit)... .24 Pudding, Blackberry 24 Pudding, Blackberry, No. 2.24 Pudding, Cabinet 24 Pudding, Cherry 24 Pudding, Chocolate 24 Pudding, Cottage 24 Pudding, Cottage, No. 2 24 Pudding, Custard 2.j Pudding, Pig 25 Pudding, Pine Peach 25 Pudding, Indian 25 Pudding, Lemon Suet 25 Pudding, Orange 25 Pudding, Peach Cottage .. .25 ■Pudding, Plum (Bo.>Jton Baked) 24 Pudding, Plum (Royal Christmas) 25 Pudding, Plum. No. 2 25 Pudding, Poor Man's '25 Pudding, Princess 25 Pudding, Raisin 25 Pudding, Rice 25 Pudding, Rice, No. 2 25 Pudding, Sago 26 Pudding, Sauces for 26 Pudding. Souffl(5, Fruit 26 Pudding, Suet 26 Pudding, Tapioca 26 Pudding, Tapioca and Cocoa- nut ‘26 Pudding, York.shire 34 Puffs, German 7 Puffs, Yankee 7. Rarebit, Welsh 39 Rice, Boiled 40 Rolls, Breakfast 3 Rolls, Dinner 4 Rolls, French 4 PAGB Rolls, Graham 3 Rolls, Lunch 4 Rolls, Parker House 4 Rolls, Twist 4 Roly Poly, Raisin 25 Rusks 7 Salad, Celery 38 Salad, Chicken 38 Salad, Cucumber and Onion 38 Salad, Lobster 38 Salad, Potato 38 Salad, Potato and Egg 38 Salad, Salmon 38 Salad, Tomato 38 Sally Lunns, Royal 7 Salt Pork, Fried 35 Sauces for Meats and Fish . 37 Allemande 37 Bechamel .37 Bread 37 Brown 37 Caper 37 Cream 37 Currant Jelly 38 Curry 37 Drawn Butter 37 Egg, for Fish 37 HoUandaise 38 Horse-radish 38 Italian Tomato 38 Maitre d’Hdtel Butter 38 Mint 38 Mushroom 37 Olive 37 Piquante 37 Robert 37 Sharp Brown 37 Soubise 37 Spanish 37 Tartare 38 Thick White or Cream ... 37 Tomato 38 White 37 Sauces for Puddings 26 Brandy 26 Canned Fruit 26 Cream 26 Cream, Hygienic 26 Creamy 26 Currant Jelly 26 Currant Jelly, No. 2 26 Custard 26 Duchesse 26 Foaming 26 Golden 26 Hard 26 Lemon .26 Molasses 26 Orange 26 Peach 26 Rexford 26 Royal Wine 27 Sugar 27 Vanilla 27 Wine 27 Wine, No. 2 27 Sausages ,35 Scallops in Batter 33 Scones, Scotch 71 Scotch Broth 311 Short Cake 21 j Short Cake, No. 2 211 Short Cake, No. 3 21 Short Cake, No. 4 21 Short Cake, Apple 21 Short Cake, Banana 21 Short (’ake, Blackberry 21 PAQK Short Cake, Canned Fruit .21 Short Cake, Cherry 21 Short Cake, Huckleberry ..21 Short Cake, Individual 21 Short Cake, Peach 21 Short Cake, Raspberry 21 Short Cake, Strawberry 21 Slappers ’..... 7 Slaw, Cold 39 Snow, Apple 29 Snow Eggs 29 Soup, Bean 32 Soup, Clam 32 Soup, Consomm6 31 Soup, Family 32 Soup, Mock llisque 31 Soup, Oxtail 32 Soup Stock 31 Soup, Tomato 31 Soups of Dried Peas or Beans 32 Soups with I’astes or Vege- tables 31 Spiced Fruits 31 Squash, Stewed. 40 Steak or Chops, Panned ... 34 Stew, Brown Beef 35 Stew, Brown Kidney 35 Stew, Irish 35 Stew, Oyster 33 Straws, Cheese 39 Stuffing for Geese and ^ Ducks 36 Stuffing, Pork 36 Stuffing, Poultry 36 Stuffing, Poultry, Celery.. .36 Stuffing, Poultry, Chestnut.36 Stuffing, Poultry, Oyster .. 36 Stuffing, Tomatoes, Green Peppers, etc 36 Stuffing, Veal 36 Sweetbreads 36 Tart, Peach 29 Tartlets 29 Tarts, Banbury 28 Tarts, Gooseberry, Currant, Apple, or any other Fruit 29 Tarts, Open Jam 29 Tarts, Sand 19 Tea 41 Tea, Beef 42 Tomato Catsup 41 Tomato Sauce 38 Tomatoes, Panned 40 Tomatoes, Stewed 40 Tomatoes, Stuffed 40 Tomatoes, Stuffing for 36 Triangles 20 Turnip, Ma.shed 40 Veal, Braised Shoulder 34 Veal Cutlets, Breaded 36 Veal Stuffing 36 Vegetables, Hints on Cook- ing 39 Vegetables, Ragout of 40 Waffles 8 Waffles, No. 2 8 Waffles, German 9 Waffles, Rice 9 Waffles, Soft 9 Waffles, Virginia 9 Walnut Catsup 41 Walnut Wafers 19 Wheels. Fruit 21 Wine Whey 42 Wonders 23 Yankee Puffs 7 Yorkshire Pudding S'*THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK The cuts o>‘ this page represent utensils used in the various kinds of baking, and are re- ferred to in the Receipts according to numbers. Fig. IV. Fig. V. Timbale Mold. Fig. IX. Lemon Cake Pan. Fig. XIII. Square Cake Pan. Fig. VI. Pudding Mold. Fig. X. Fig. VII. Muffin Pans. Fig. XI. Wash Brush. Fig. XIV. Baking Sheet. One Oallon Ice Cream Freezer. FIG. XVII. Oval Pudding Pan. Fig. XII. Tin Bread Pan. Fig. XVI. Flour Sieve. Fig. XX. Family Scale. DO NOT BUY BAKING POWDER LOOSE OR IN BULK.—(What is meant by loose is weighed out in any quantity asked for.) All examinations made hy Boards of Health, Govern- ment Chemists, and others, prove loose powders are, almost without exception, made from alum, and at a cost of about one tenth of what a pure Cream Tartar powder, like the “ Royai. ” Baking Powder, can he made for. The argument that the consumer will save, in the purchase of such poisonous stuff, the cost of can, label, etc., is used simply to enable the seller to make a larger profit in selling an alum hulk, or loose, powder at the expense of the unsuspecting consumer, than can be made by selling the absolutely pure “ Royal ” brand. Remember this, and insist on getting the “ Royal ” in cans. Do not buy alum baking powders under any circumstances.THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. GENERAL DIRECTIONS MUST BE CAREFULLY READ BY EVERY ONE USING THIS BOOK Hints on baking.— To achieve perfect success, the cook must use discrimination and care. Some flour requires more water, or milk, than others; so that the quantity may have to be varied to make dough of a proper consistency. Different bakings will vary as to time and heat required, and should, therefore, be examined occasionally. To ascertain whether the bread is sufficiently done in the center of the loaf or cake, thrust a clean straw or long thin splinter into it. If done, there will be no dough on it when drawn out. Measure the flour, and he careful to mix with it the baking powder in a dry state, and before sift- itig. You can always substitute water for milk, or milk for water; butter for lard, or lard for butter. The number of eggs may be increased or diminished, or, in plainer cake, etc., dispensed with entirely. Where fewer eggs are used than directed, always use a little more baking powder. Never use sour milk. When about to cut new bread or cake, heat the knife very hot; this will prevent its crumbling. CAKE BAKING.— For a plain cake made with one pound of flour. Royal Baking Powder, etc., the time to be allowed in baking would be from 40 to 50 minutes; at the outside not more than 1 hour. Very rich cakes, in which butter and eggs predominate, take, of course, very much longer time to bake, a pound cake taking from IMj to 2 hours, and a bride’s cake 3Mi. On no account should an oven be too hot when the cake is put in — that is, hot enough to brown at once; if so, in 5 minutes the whole outside will be burned and the interior will stand little chance of being baked. The old plan of feeling the handle of the oven door to test the heat is not always successful; it is better to sprinkle a little flour inside and shut the door for about 3 minutes; if at the end of that time it is of a rich light brown, the cake may be put in, but if burned the heat must be lessened. In baking loaf cake, remember that unless you place a piece of paper over for protection at flrst, a top crust will be formed at once that prevents the raising. When cake is well raised, remove the paper for browning on top. ADVICE TO THE COOK.— Great cleanliness, as well as care and attention, are required from a cook. Keep your hands very clean; try to prevent your nails from getting black or discolored; don’t “scatter” in your kitchen; clean up as you go; put cold water into each saucepan or stewpan as you flnish using it. Dry your saucepans before you put them on the shelf. Scour tins with good mineral soap and rinse thoroughly in hot water. In cleaning a frying-pan, scour the outside as well as the inside. In cleaning greasy utensils, such as the soup-pot and frying-pan, wipe off the worst of the grease with soft paper (which can be burned), then soak in warm water to which soap-powder or a little ammonia has been added, flnishing with mineral soap. Wash your pudding-cloths, scald, and hang them to dry directly after using them; air them before you put them away, or they will be musty: keep in dry place. Be careful not to use a knife that has cut onions till it has been cleaned. Keep sink and sink-brush very clean; be careful never to throw anything but water down sink. Do not throw cabbage water down it; throw it away out of doors; its smell is very bad. Never have sticky plates or dishes; use very hot water for washing them; when greasy, change it. Take care that you look at the meat the butcher brings, to see that it is good. Let there be no waste in the kitchen. Bread and Rolls Bread was first made without leaven, heavy and soUd. Then yeast was dis- covered, and yeast-risen bread came into use throughout the civilized world. Finally baking powder was devised, the most health- fid, economical, and convenient of all leavening or lightening agents. Yeast is a living plant. Mixed with the dough it causes fermentation and destruction of a part of the flour, and this produces car- bonic-acid gas. The bubbles of this gas become entangled in the dough, swelling it up and making it spongy. In this process, however, a part of the most nutritious elements of the flour (estimated at ten per cent.) is destroyed in producing the leavening gas; there is al- ways danger of sour dough, and there is a delay of many hours for the sponge to rise. Perfect bread is that in which wheat is trans- posed into an available food without loss of any of its valuable properties. Royal Baking Powder is now largely used inTHE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 2 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. place of yeast to leaven bread. It does pre- cisely the same work — that is, swells up the dough and makes it porous and spongy. But the process is not destructive: the baking powder by itself produces the leavening gas. No part of the flour is decomposed or de- stroyed. Moreover, there is no mixing or kneading with the hands, no setting of sponge overnight, as the loaf is mixed and ready for the oven at once. Bread thus made cannot sour, but will retain its moisture and freshness, and may be eaten while hot or fresh without distress even by persons of delicate digestion. The ease with which Royal Baking Powder bread is made, its cleanliness and healthful- ness, have caused it to supersede yeast bread with many of the best pastry cooks. In making this bread the materials and utensils should be brought together before the mixing of the dough is begun. The fire must be looked to so as to secure a steady, moderate heat. Remember to mix the flour and Royal Baking Powder together before sifting, and sift thoroughly before wetting. Royal Baking PowderBread.—Iquart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, teaspoon sugar, 2 heap- ing teaspoons Royal Baking Powder,* % medium-sized cold boiled potato, and water. Sift together thoroughly flour, salt, sugar, and baking powder; rub in the potato; add sufii- cient water to mix smoothly and rapidly into a stiff dough, about the consistency of cake bat- ter : about a pint of water to a quart of flour will be required —more or less according to the brand and quality of the flour used. Do not make a stiff dough as in yeast bread. Put the dough into a greased pan iMi by 8 inches, and 4 inches deep, filling about half fuU. The loaf will rise to fill the pan when baked. Bake in very hot oven about 4") minutes, placing paper over flrst 15 minutes’ baking, to prevent crust- ing too soon on top. Bake immediately after mixing. Household Bread.— Sift twice together 1 quart of flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Make a well in the center; add gradually sufiBcient cold liquid — water, milk, or equal quantities of each — to mix to a stiff batter or soft dough ; this will require about 1 pint of liquid. Turn at once into a greased loaf-pan (fig. XII), smooth the top with a knife dipped in melted butter, and bake immediately in a moderate oven about 1 hour. When done take from the pan, moisten with the hand dipped in cold water, wrap in bread-cloth tiU cold. Qraham Unfermented Bread.— IMi pints Graham flour, Vfj pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons Royal BaMng Powder, VA pints milk, or equal parts milk and water. Sift together Graham flour, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add the milk, or milk and water; mix rapidly into soft dough, which put into grea.sed tin (fl'g. XII). Bake in rather hot oven about 40 minutes. Protect loaf with paper flrst 15 minutes. Brown Bread.— 1 pint Indian com meal, 1 pint rye flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, 1 tea- • Perfect succem can be had only with the Royal Baking Powder. spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, % pint milk. Sift together corn meal, rye flour, sugar, salt, and powder. Rub in the shortening; add the milk, and mix the whole into a batter. P*ut into grea.sed tin (fig. XII), and bake about 40 min- utes in rather hot oven. Protect at first with paper. Brown Bread, 2.— Mix together 3 cups Graham flour, 1 cup wheat flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt; rub in 1 tablespoon butter or other shortening. Beat 3 eggs; add 1 cup milk and 1 tablespoon mo- lasses : stir into dry mixture. Add more milk if needed to make a drop batter. Put into a greased loaf-pan (fig. XII), smooth with knife dipped in cold water. Bake about 1 hour in j moderate oven. Boston Brown Bread.— Vfj pint flour, 1 pint Indian corn meal. Mi pint rye flour, 2 po- tatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, pint water. Sift flour, corn meal, rye flour, sugar, salt, aud baking powder together thor- oughly. Peel, wash, and boil well 2 mealy po- tatoes, rub them through a sieve, diluting with water. When this is quite cold use it to mix flou r, etc., into a batter. Pour into well-greased mold (fig. VI) having a cover. Place it in I saucepan half full of boiling water, where the j loaf will simmer 1 hour, without water getting I into it. Remove it then, take oflf cover, finish I by baking in fairly hot oven about 30 minutes. I Boston Brown Bread, 2.— 1 cup corn meal, 2 heaping cups rye meal, 1 tea^oon salt. Mi teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, 1 cup molasses. Mix dry ingredients; add molasses and 1 pint warm water; boat smooth. Pour at once into greased mold (fig. VI) with cover, steam or boil 3 hours. Uncover, set in oven 10 minutes. Boston Brown Bread, 3.— 2 cups yellow Indian com meal, 1 cup rye meal, 1 cup flour, 2 cups milk, 1 cup molasses, Mt teaspoon salt, j 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix well I together, pour into greased brown-bread mold, steam 4 hours. Dry oflf 10 minutes in mod- erate oven. Norwegian Bread (for Dyspeptics).— 1 pint barley meal, Mi pint Graham flour, ta pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 pint milk. Sift together barley meal, Graham flour, flour, salt, and powder; mix into Ann batter with the milk ; pour into greased tin (fig. XII), bake in moderate oven aBbut 40 minutes. Cover with paper 20 mintites. Oatmeal Bread.— Vi pint oatmeal, 1 Vi pints flour, Vi teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, ^4 pint milk. Boil oatmeal inlVi pints salted water 1 hour; add milk; set aside until cold. Then place in bowl, sift to- gether flour, salt, and powder, and add. Mix smoothly and deftly. Bake in greased tin (fig. XII) about 45 minutes, protected with paper 20 minutes. Peculiars.—1 pint flour, sifted with 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder and a little salt; add 1 egg; mix with 1 pint sweet milk, beat well to a batter, and bake quickly in buttered gem-pans already hot.3 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK Pennsylvania Brown Bread.—Mix well together 1 quart Graham flour, 1 pint Indiaji corn meal. 2 scant teaspoons salt, 2 scant tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Dissolve 1 scant teaspoon soda in 1 teaspoon boiling water; mix with 1 cup molasses. To the dry ingre- dients add 1 quart cold water, then the mo- lasses. Beat 1 minute, pour into 2 well-greased molds, steam or boil 4 hours. Dry off on pan in moderate oven 10 minutes. Graham Lunch Bread.— IMj junts Gra- ham flour, % pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der, ^ pint milk. Sift together Graham flour, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add the milk ; mix into smooth dough that can be easily handled. Flour the board, turn out dough, give it a quick, vigorous additional kneading to complete its smoothness; then divide into four large pieces, which form into long loaves, lay them just touching in a square shallow cake- pan (fig. XIII), wash them over with milk. Bake in rather hot oven 30 minutes. When removing from oven rub them over with a lit- tle butter on a clean piece of linen. Corn Bread (New Orleans).— Uij pints In- dian com meal, pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Roj’al Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 1V4 pints milk, 2 eggs. Sift together corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in the shortening, add eggs (beaten) and the milk; mix into a moderately stiff batter; pour from bowl into shallow cake-pan (flg. XIII). Bake in rather hot oven 30 minutes. St, Charles Corn Bread.—Beat 2 eggs, add 1 pint milk, 1 pint Indian com meal, 1 table- spoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat hard 2 minutes, pour into greaseil pan (fig. XIII), bake about 30 minutes in hot oven. Loaf Corn-Bread.— Scald 1 pint milk; dis- solve in it 1 tablespoon butter, cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. While on fire sift in sufficient Indian com meal to make a thick mush, cook 5 minutes, and set away till cold ; add 3 beaten eggs, 2 cups flour mixed with 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and turn into greased loaf- pan. Bake about 2 hours in moderate oven, and serve hot. Nonpareil Com Bread.— 2 heaping cups In- dian com meal, 1 cup flour, 2Mt cups milk, 1 tablespoon lard, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tear spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Beat 2 eggs, whites and yolks separately. Sift together dry ingredients, melt lard. Mix all together, beat hard 1 minute, turn into greased shallow pan, and bake about ^ hour in hot oven. Spider Corn Bread.— Beat 2 eggs with 2 tablespoons sugar. Add 1 pint milk, 1 tea- spoon salt, IVij cup Indian com meal. Ml cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. In a spider melt 2 tablespoons butter; turn so as to grease sides. Pour in batter, add 1 cup milk, but do not stir. Bake about 30 minutes in hot oven. When done it should have a streak of custard through the middle. Rice and Indian Bread.— Beat 3 eggs very light; add 1 pint milk, 2 cups white Indian com meal, 1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 tablespoons THE ROYAL BAKING POWI melted butter, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup more milk. Beat hard, bake in shallow greased pan in hot oven. Delicate Graham Bread (for Invalids).— 1 pint Graham flour, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 of salt, 2 of Royal Baking Powder. Sift all well together, rejecting coarse bran left in sieve ; add 1 Mi pints milk. Mix quickly into smooth, soft dough. Bake in 2 small grease<l tins (fig. XII) 25 minutes. Protect with paper 10 minutes. Entire Wheat Bread.— 1 quart entire wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift all well together; add sufficient liquid (water, milk, or equal quantities of each) to mix to a very thick batter or soft dough. Turn at once into a greased loaf-pan (flg. XII), smooth with knife dipped in cold water, and bake about 1 hour in moderate oven. Rye Bread.— 1 pint rye flour. Mi pint Indian corn meal, pint wheat flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, % pint milk. Sift together rye flour, corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in the shorten- ing; add milk. Mix into smooth batter. Pour into well-greased tin (tig. XII), bake in moder- ate oven about 45 minutes. Protect loaf with paper first 20 minutes. Mush Bread.—1 pint milk cooked in a dou- ble boiler, with sufficient Indian com meal to make a thick mush. Cook 1 hour; add 1 table- spoon butter; stir, let cool; add 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 1 cup flour, % tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Turn into shallow grreased pan, bake 40 min- utes in moderate oven. Rice Bread.—1 cup cold boiled rice, 1 cup white Indian com meal, 1 cup wheat flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, Mj tea- spoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 cup milk. Mix the dry ingredients; add beaten eggs mixed with milk and the melted butter. Pour into shallow greased pans. Bake 30 min- utes in a moderate oven. Hominy Bread.— Mix together 1 pint soft- boiled hominy, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter. 4 beaten eggs, 2 cups milk. Mix together 1 cup flour, 2 tea-spoons Royal Baking Powder; add to batter, with more flour if needed to mix to a drop batter. Beat hard, bake in a shallow pan in very hot oven. Graham Rolls.— 1 pint Graham flour, 1 pint wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, \ pint milk. Sift together Graham flour, flour, salt, and powder; mb in the shortening; add milk, and mix the whole into smooth dough that can be handled — not too soft; flour board, turn it out, and form into rolls shape and size of large fingers. Lay them on baking-sheet (flg. XIV) so that they will not touch. Wash their surfaces with soft brash (fig. XI) dipped in milk to glaze them. Bake in hot oven from 10 to 12 minutes. Breakfast Rolls.— IMj pints flour, Mj pint Indian com meal (white), 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, %k pint milk. Sift together lER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.4 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. flour, com meal, salt, and powder; mb in shortening; add the milk, mix smoothly into rather firmer dough than usual. Flour the board, turn out the dough, give it 1 or 2 turns to complete its smoothness. Divide it, thus prepar^, into pieces size of an egg; again di- vide these in half, which roll out under the hand until they are long and half the size of one’s little finger. Lay on greased baking- tin (fig XrV) so that they do not touch, wash them over with milk. Bake in hot oven 7 or 8 minutes. Lunch Rolls.— 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, and powder ; mb in the shortening; add milk, mix to a smooth dough to be easily handled. Flour the board, turn out dough, give 1 or 2 quick kneadings to give it smoothness. Roll out little over Vi inch thick, cut out with round cutter about 2Vi inches in diameter; lay them on greased baking-tin (fig. XIV), ( just touching (in rows evenly), wash over with milk, bake in fairly hot oven 25 minutes. Wash them over again with milk when taken from oven. Twist Rolls.— Prepare dough as for lunch roUs. Cut in pieces size of egg. Roll each with hands into plain roU tapering at ends and 5 inches long. Lay 3 together; begin in middle and braid to end; turn over and braid opposite end. Mold and twist all the pieces of dough in the same way. Lay well apart on flat greased pans. Brush with milk, bake golden brown in very hot oven. Dinner Rolls.— Prepare dough as for lunch rolls, but slightly stififer. Knead and roll out quite thin. Cut in strips 3 inches wide. Roll strips up very tight; they should not be too thick. Lay well apart on greased flat pans, bmsh with mUk, and bake in very hot oven. French Rolls.— Make dough as for lunch rolls. Knead on board. Divide into pieces size of an egg. Form each into a short, thick, tapering roll. Put together by twos, side by side, pinching ends together a little. Place on flat greased pans. Bmsh with milk. Bake in very hot oven. Parker House Rolls.— Prepare Arm dough as for dinner roUs. Knead and roll out Vij ) inch thick. Cut into 3-inch circles. Press j pencil down across middle of each ; mb edges with soft butter. Double each, lay 1 inch apart on flat greased pans. Brush with milk, and bake in hot oven. Fruit Rolls.— Mix together 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder; mb in 2 tablespoons butter. Cut fine V4 pound citron, seed and halve V4 pound raisins. Mix fruit evenly with dry ingredients, make to a firm dough with milk. Knead on board for a moment, divide into pieces size of egg, make into long rolls, lay 1 inch apart on flat greased pans, bmsh with milk. Bake in a very hot oven. Hot Biscuits, Cakes, and Muffins Experienced housekeepers agree that breakfast is difficult to cater for. Even the appetite ordinarily easy to satisfy is likely to be captious when approaching the first meal of the day. Every article of food upon the breakfast-table, therefore, should be perfect — the coffee as clear as amber, the bacon white and crisp, the biscuits flaky, ten- der, delicious. As a nation we approve of hot-breads, and most of all at the breakfast-table. And while we eat and enjoy them, we have the satisfac- tion of knowing that American methods and American cookery have made them healthful as well as appetizing and nutritious. And of all the breakfast foods, nothing is so appetizing, so appetite-whetting, so always dependable, so satisfying, as the light, flaky, hot biscuit, with a crisp, brown emst, just from the oven, broken apart without use of knife, and spread with butter; or, to top off the meal, with honey, jam, or marmalade. The very simplicity of the methods of mak- ing and the familiar, every-day use of this little hot bread-morsel have, however, some- times led to lack of care in its preparation, so that we too seldom And it in perfection upon our tables. It is the object of this chapter to stimulate an interest in and awaken a love for this most healthful and economical of our purely Ameri- can foods, so that it will be found, as it de- serves to be, a prominent part of every day’s food in every household. With a basis of flour, salt, and Royal Baking Powder, we can add other ingredients to vary and enrich the cakes and biscuits generally known to the housewife, and produce in al- most endless variety breakfast and luncheon foods that shall be dainty and delicious or sub- stantial and hearty. Are eggs scarce and high, does too much shortening disagree with some member of the family. Royal Baking Powder permits the les- sening of both or either of these ingredients, without impairing the delicacy or digestibility of the finished biscuit. Royal Baking Powder is pure and healthful, and its use in excess can produce no harm; yet for cooking results it is best to be guided by the quantity specified in the receipts. Baking powder could be added until a dry, powdery biscuit resulted. The mixing of the baking powder, flour, and other dry ingredients should be thorough. This is imperative if a delicate, evenly leav- ened biscuit is wanted. The other ingredients can then be added, following the special direc- tions as given in each receipt.5 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. In using shortening for biscuits, especially through the winter season, with some limita- tion, good, sweet home-made lard may take the place of butter. Butter will color slightly yellow; lard will whiten the biscuits. This substitution will not do when considerable shortening is called for, as in cake; but in receipts where the quantity does not exceed 2 ounces or tablespoons to the quart of flour, butter may, in the majority of cases, be replaced by lard without impairing the taste. Biscuits are mixed to a soft dough, which is turned out, patted down or rolled to a proper thickness, and then cut out and baked. From long experience it has been found that the re- sult is much better and the food more digestible when the finished biscuit is small and not too thick. The scientific reason for this is that the oven heat necessaryforbiscuit,if they are made verj' large, will brown the outside before the center is as thoroughly baked as it ought to be. The dough should be rolled out until inch thick; the biscuits should be of medium size,— 2 inches or less across,— and placed slightly apart in the pans. A favorite cutter of expert biscuit-makers is the open end (not the cover) of a V4-pound Royal Baking Powder can. A good oven heat will bake the biscuit perfectly in from 15 to 20 minutes, and even a dyspeptic can eat them without fear of consequences. The biscuit may, of course, be made thicker or thinner, as more or less of the soft inside part may be preferred, but the time of baking must be regulated accordingly. The same directions will apply to hot baking powder breads made with a batter. If baked in a sheet the batter should rarely be more than an inch deep in the pan, sometimes less; if in cups or molds they should not be more than % full. This allows the heat to pene- trate the mixture quickly; the moisture and heat start the baking powder into life; each tiny grain of the powder acts on the materials surrounding it; the dough or batter expands, then is stiffened by the heat, and all the starch grains are thoroughly and evenly cooked. Royal Hot Biscuit.— 1 quart flour, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon lard or butter, 1 pint sweet mUk. cold (never use sour milk); use cold water when milk cannot be obtained. Sift together flour, salt, and powder; rub in shortening; add mUk; form into smooth, consistent dough. Flour the board, turn out dough, roll out to thickness of % inch, cut with small round cut- ter ; lay them close together on greased bak- ing-tin ; bake in good hot oven. Old biscuit can be made fresh by moistening and placing in oven until heated through. Breakfast Biscuit.— Take 1 quart sweet milk, cup melted butter, a little salt, 2 tear spoons Royal Baking Powder, flour enough to make a stiif batter; do not knead into dough, but drop into buttered tins from a spoon; bake in a hot oven — unless it is hot they will not be light and tender. Emergency Biscuit.—2 cups flour, tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder; mix and sift; rub in 1 tablespoon butter. Mix to a thick batter with milk, drop by small spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in quick oven. Egg Biscuit.— Mix and sift well together 1 pint flour, tis tea^oon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat 1 egg, add % cup milk, stir into dry mixture, adding more mUk if necessary to mix to soft dough. Turn out on board, knead for a moment, cut into circles, place 1 inch apart on g;reased pans. Brush with little beaten egg, and bake in very hot oven. Sandwich Biscuit.— Sift together 1 pint flour, Mj teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon but- ter. Mix to a soft dough with milk. Roll out % inch thick. Cut into rounds. On Mi of the rounds spread a little soft butter, add a thick layer of finely chopped and seasoned cold meat; cover with remaining rounds and press together. Brush tops with milk, place 1 inch apart on greased pans, and bake in hot oven. Nut Biscuit.— Sift together 2 cups flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon but- ter, add 1 cup ground or very finely chopped nuts — English walnuts, hickory-nuts, or almonds — and 2 tablespoons sugar; mix to a soft dough with milk. Mold with the hands into small balls, place well apart on greased pans, brush each with mUk, put a pinch of chopped nuts on top, and bake in hot oven. Diamonds.— Prepare dough as for Royal biscuit. Knead and roll out Mi inch thick. Cut in strips 2 inches wide, then cut strips into diamonds; place on greased pans 1 inch apart, brush with mUk, and bake in very hot oven. Royal Muffins.— Beat 3 eggs, add 1 pint milk, Ml teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, and sufficient flour to make a drop batter — about 3 cups — into which has been thoroughly sifted 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Beat hard for 1 minute, fill greased muffin-cups or -pans % full, bake in hot oven about 20 minutes. Boston Muffins.— IM2 pints flour. Mi pint Indian com meal, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, and 1 pint (full measure) milk, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon (which may be omitted without detriment). Sift together flour, com meal, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in butter or lard; add eggs, beaten, milk, and extract cinnamon. Mix into batter a little stifFer than ordinary griddle- cake batter. Have griddle heated regularly all over; grease it. lay on it muffin-rings, also greased; half fill them with batter. As soon as risen to tops of rings, turn them over gently with cake-turaer; bake nice brown on either side. They should bake in 7 or 8 minutes. French Muffins.— IMi pints flour, 1 cup honey. Mi teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, and little over Mi pint milk or thin cream. Sift together flour, salt, and powder; rub in butter, cold; add beaten eggs, milk or thin6 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. cream, and honev. Mix smoothly into batter as for pound cake; about fill sponge-cake tins, cold and fully greased, and bake in good steady oven 7 or 8 minutes. Rice Muffins.— 2 cups cold boiled rice, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon sent, 1 tablespoon sugar, teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, pint milk, 3 eggs. Dilute rice, made free from lumps, with milk and beaten eggs; sift to- gether flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add to rice preparation, mix into smooth, rather firm batter; muffin-pans (flg. VII) to be cold and well greased, then fill % ; bake in hot oven 15 minutes. Hominy Muffins.—Same as rice muffins, substituting 1 cup boiled hominy for the rice. Royal SaIly*Lunn Muffins.— 1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 1 egg, lii pints milk. Sift together floiir, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in shorten- ing; add egg, beaten, and milk; mix into rather firm batter ; muffin-pans to be cold and well greased, then fill %. Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. Rye Muffins.— 1 pint rye flour, % pint com meal, % pint flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 tea- spoon salt, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together rye flour, corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder ; rub in butter ; add beaten eggs, and milk; mix into smooth, rather Arm batter; muffin-pans to be cold and well greased, then fill %. Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. Royal Corn Muffins.—1 pint Indian com meal, 1 pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together com meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; mb in the shortening, add eggs, beaten, and milk; mix into batter of consistence of cup cake; muffin-pans to be cold and well greased, then fill %. Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. English Muffins.— 1 quart flour, tea- spoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 large teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, IVi pints milk. Sift together flotir, sugar, salt, and powder; add milk, and mix into smooth batter trifle stiffer than for griddle cakes. Have griddle heated regularly all over, grease it, and lay on muffin- rings (flg. XVII); half All them, and when risen well up to top of rings, turn over gently with cake-turner. They should not be too brown — just a buff color. When all cooked, pull each open in half, toast delicately, butter well, serve on folded napkin, piled high and very hot. Mountain Muffins.—Pour IV4 cups scald- ing milk on 1 cup white Indian com meal; cover; let stand 10 minutes; add 1 cup cold boiled rice; mix; add 1 cup flour mixed with 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Beat hard; ba£e in greased muffin-pans in hot oven. Berry Muffins.— 1 pint flour, teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, V4 cup sugar, 2 small teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 cup mUk, 1 cup berries. Mix as for plain muffins; add berries last, dusting them with a little flour. Bake in muffin-pans in hot oven. Qraham Muffins.— 1 quart Graham flour, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. Sift together Graham flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add beaten egg and milk; mix into batter like pound cake; muffin-pans (flg. VII.), well greas^, % full; bake in hot oven 15 minutes. Oatmeal Muffins.— 1 cup oatmeal, IMs pints flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon lard, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together oatmeal, flour, salt, and powder; rub in lard cold, add beaten eggs and milk; mix smoothly into batter rather thinner than cup cake? nil muffin-pans (flg. VII) % full; bake in good hot oven 15 minutes. Potato Muffins.—Boil and mash 3 potatoes; add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter; beat well. Add 2 beaten eggs. Mi cup milk, flour to make a drop batter, and 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Bake on hot greased g;riddle in greased rings. Royal Egg Muffins.—1 quart flour, 1 table- spoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 large table- spoon butter, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 3 eggs, II4 pints milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in the butter; add the beaten eggs and milk ; mix quickly into a smooth batter, a little firmer than for grid- dle cakes; Vi fill cold, carefully greased muffin- pans (fig. VII); bake in hot oven 15 minutes. Sweet Muffins.— 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 table- ^oon melted butter, 1 pint sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk and beaten egg and butter. Beat hard, bake in greased muffin-pans. Butter Cakes.— Mix 1 quart flour, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder. Rub in 3 tablespoons butter. Mix to a soft dough with milk, roll out % inch thick, cut in round cakes. Lay on a moderately hot greased griddle, and when pale brown turn and brown on other side. Tear open, butter liberally, and send to table. Gems.—Ipint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 3 teaspoons melted butter, 1 cup milk, 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Mix as formuffins, ^ding beatenwhites last; bake in hot, well-greased iron gem-pans. Royal Qraham Qems.—IVfe pints Graham flour. Ml pint Indian com meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, IV4 pints milk. Sift together Graham flour, com meal, salt, and powder. Add the milk, and mix into a moderately stiff batter. Viz All cold gem-pans (flg. X), well greased. Bake in a solid hot oven 10 to 12 minutes. Rice Qems.— 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 cup cold boiled rice, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter. Mix as for plain gems, and bake in hot oven in gem-pans. Apple Qems.—Chop fine 4 sour apples, add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoons molasses, \Mi cups Indian com meal, IViz cups flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Add sufficient milk to make thick drop batter, and bake in hot greased gem-pans.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 7 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Crumpets.— Melt 1 heaping tablespoon lard; add 2 b^ten eggs and cups milk. Beat well, add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons sugar, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted with 2 Vi cups flour. Crumpet^rings are larger than muffin-rinM. Put greased rings on hot greased griddle; All % full with batter. Turn when half done. London Crumpets.— IVi pints flour, Vi tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, nearly a pint milk and cream in equal parts, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and powder; add beaten egg, milk, cream, and extract; mix into rather firm batter; half fill large greased muffin-rings (flg. XVII) on hot, well-greased griddle. Bake on one side of them only. Serve hot with cottage cheese. Rice Crumpets.— 3 eggs, IVi cups milk, 1 cup cold boiled rice, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 cup Indian com meal, Vi cup flour, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, Vi teaspoon salt. Mix in order named, and bake in criunpet- rings on hot greased griddle. Hominv Crumpets.— 1 scant cup boiled hominy, 3 cups milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea- spoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, enough flour to make thin drop batter, with 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder sifted into the first cup. Bake as directed for plain cmm- pets. Bannocks.— Scald 2 cups Indian com meal with just enough boiling water to moisten. Cover; let stand 30 minutes; add 4 beaten eggs, 2 cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Bake in greased shallow pans in hot oven. Slappers.— Put 2 cups Indian corn meal in bowl with V4 teaspoon salt and 2 tablespoons butter. Pour on slowly sufficient boiling water to thoroughly moisten without being sloppy. Cover; let stand for some hours or overnight. Add 3 welT-beaten eggs, 1 cup milk, and 1 cup wheat flour, the first half-cupful of flour being mixed with 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, to make a very thick drop batter. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle, cook slowly till brown, turn and brown other side. Scotch Scones.— 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, V^ teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons ^yal Baking Powder, 1 large tablespoon lard, 2 eggs, nearly 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; mb in lard cold; add beaten eggs and milk; mix into dough smooth and just consistent enough to handle. Flour the board, turn out dough, give it one or two quick kneadings to complete its smoothness; roll it out with rolling-pin to V& inch in thickness, cut with sharp knife into squares larger than soda crackers, fold each in half to form three- cornered pieces. Bake on hot griddle 8 or 10 minutes; brown on both sides. Hot Cross Buns.—Sift together 1 quart flour, V^ teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 3 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in V<{ cup butter, then add V<j pound cleaned currants, V4 teaspoon nutmeg, >4 pound cut citron, V4 pound seeded raisins, V4 teaspoon allspice. Beat 2 eggs, add V<j cup milk, and stir into the dry mixture, adding enough more milk to mix to a firm dough. Mold into round buns, lay 2 inches apart on greased pans, brush with mUk. Cut cross on each, sprinkle cut with granulated sugar, bake in hot oven. German Coffee Cake.—Sift together 3 cups flour, V& teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 2 heaping tablespoons butter. Beat 2 eggs, add % cup milk, stir into dry mixture, adding more milk if necessary to mix to very stiff batter. Spread % inch thick in well-buttered shallow pan. Mix together 2 tablespoons flour, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon cinnamon. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter until it is cmmbly. Spread thickly over top of dough, bake about % hour in moderate oven. Drop Cakes. — 1 pint flour, V<j teaspoon salt, V<j teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder sifted together. Rub in % tablespoon lard. Mix with milk to a thick batter. Drop by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a very hot oven. Yorkshire Breakfast Cake.— Sift together 3 cups flour. Ml teaspoon salt, 3 level teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon butter. Mix to a soft dough with milk. Roll out Mi inch thick. Place without cutting on hot greased griddle, and cover. Place on moderate fire, cook about 10 minutes. Slip off on board, turn without breaking, re- turn to griddle and cook 10 minutes longer. Break into pieces and serve with butter. Royal Sally Lunns.—Sift together 1 pint flour, 1V<2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, V^ teaspoon salt. Stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs mixed with Mi cup milk and V^ cup melted butter. Beat hard, add the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in well-greased muffin- pans in a hot oven. Rusks.— IMi pints flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 1 tea- spoon each extract nutmeg and cinnamon, pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and powder; rub in butter; add milk, beaten eggs, and extracts. Mix into dough soft enough to handle; flour the board, turn out dough, give it quick turn or two to complete its smoothness. Roll under the hands into round balls size of a small egg; lay them on greased shallow cake-pan (flg. XIII), put very close to- gether, sprinkle a little sugar over, bake in moderately heated oven about 30 minutes. Yankee Puffs.—Mix together 1 Mi cups flour, M4 teaspoon salt, scant teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon sugar. Cream 1 table- spoon butter, add the beaten yolks of 2 oggs, then alternately the dry mixture and 1% cups milk. Ml teaspoon vanilla, whipped whites of 2 eggs. Bake in hot greased muffin-pans in a hot oven. German Puffs.—1 pint flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, IVi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 3 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, 1 cup cream. Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, then, alternately, the cream and dry ingredients sifted together. Bake in well-greased cups in hot oven.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 8 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Fritters and WaflBles Fritters are served as a vegetable or a sweet, for a lunch, dinner, or supper, according to the ingredients used in mak- ing them. Whether sweet or plain, the foun- dation batter is much the same, and, with some additions, the first receipt given in this chap- ter can be used for many kinds of fritters. By the use of Royal Baking Powder a fine frit- ter batter may be stirred up in a moment, and a meal which it may be thought necessary to extend, perhaps because of unexpected guests, can be embellished by the addition of a delicate and tasty dish. A fritter batter which is to be used as a medium for whole or sliced fruit should be quite thin, as it is to serve as a cover for the fruit. When chopped fruits or vegetables are stirred in, or the batter is to be used plain, it should be thick enough to retain its shape when dropped by spoonfuls into the frying- kettle. The fat should be deep enough to cover the fritters, and it should be smoking hot when used. Each fritter will at first sink to the bottom of the kettle; then, as the heat starts the baking powder into action and the dough begins to swell, it will rise to the surface, and should be gently turned, the turning to be repeated until the fritter is finely colored. Most fritters are done within five minutes, the time needed to cook them being determined by one which should be cooked as a tester. The very word “ waffles ” brings to our minds a host of pleasant recollections. The only drawback, in the old days, was that they must be started so long before they were ready for the irons, for home-made yeast took time to raise the batter to the requisite degree of lightness. Now, by the use of Royal Baking Powder, they can be prepared in five minutes. They are better than of old, too, for there is no yeasty taste to them; they are light, tender, and toothsome, and, what is most important, en- tirely digestible and whol^ome. Plain Fritter Batter.—1 cup'^our, te^ spoon Royal Baking Powder, teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk. Siftdry ingredients together* add beaten eggs and milk; beat till smooth. Apple Fritters.—4 largo sound apples, peeled, cored, and cut each into 4 slices, gill wine, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Place slices of apples in bowl with sugar, wine, and extract; cover with plate; set aside to steep two hoiirs, then dip each slice in plain fritter batter, fry to light brown in plenty of lard made hot for the purpose; serve with sugar. Fruit Fritters.—Any kind of fruit may be made into fritters, as directed for apple frit- ters. Whole canned fruits, drained from syrup, may also be used. Apples and other fruits may also be prepared, coarsely chopped, stirred into a plain fritter batter, and dropped by small spoonfuls into smoking hot fat, finish- ing as already directed. Banana Fritters.— Peel bananas, cut in lengthwise slices. Let them steep an hour with sugar and lemon juice, dip in fritter bat- ter, and fry as directed for apple fritters. Corn Fritters.— To 1 pint scraped com add ^ cup milk, cup flour, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 2 beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, tea- spoon pepper, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der. Beat well, and fry in small spoonfuls as directed. Clam Fritters.— Wash and dry 25 good- sized clams or 2 strings soft-shell clams, dis- carding black part. Chop fine. Make a plain fritter batter, using the clam liquor (or that and milk) in place of milk. Stir in the chopped clams, season well with salt and pepper, and fry as directed. Oyster Fritters.— Substitute oysters for clams as in above receipt. Pineapple Fritters— Sprinkie half-inch slices of fresh pineapple with sugar and sherry; let stand 1 hour. Dip each into plain fritter batter, drop into deep kettle of smoking hot fat, fry brown. Drain on paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Strawberry Fritters.— Crush and sieve fresh berries to make 1 cup pulp. Add 3 beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 cup flour mixed with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder and enough more flour to make thick drop batter. Fry in deep kettle of smoking hot fat, and serve with plenty of mashed berries. Meat Fritters.— Cut cold cooked meat in slices or fingers and dip in batter; or chop and stir into the batter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and herbs or chopped onion, as desired. Fry as directed. Rice Fritters.—1 cup rice, 1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons butter. Boil rice in milk until soft and aU the milk is absorbed, then remove, add yolks of eggs, sugar, and butter; when cold add whites, whipped to diy froth; drop in spoonfuls in plenty of lard, made hot for the purpose ; fry them deep buff color. Serve with cream, wine or lemon sauce. Hominy Fritters.— To 1 pint hot ooifed hominy add 2 beaten eg^s, % teaspoon salt, dash of pepper, Mt cup milk. When cool add flour to make a thin drop batter, and 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat and drop in hot fat'by small spoonfuls. Waffles.— Sift together 1 quart flour, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in % cup butter. Add 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, and sufficient milk to make a thin batter. Cook in hot greased waffle-irons. Waffles, 2.— Iquartmilk, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder mixed with 3 cups flour, 1 cup melted butter, Mi teaspoon salt, whites and yolks 6 eggs, more flour to make thin batter. Bake at once.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 9 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Qerman Waffles.— 1 quart flour, tea- spoon salt, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 large teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespooni^ lard, rind of 1 lemon, grated, 1 teaspoon extract cinna- mon, 4 eggs, and 1 pint thin cream. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in lard cold; add beaten eggs, lemon rind, extract, and milk. Mix into smooth, rather thick bat- ter. Bake in hot waffle-iron, serve with sugar flavored with extract of lemon. Soft Waffles.—1 quart flour, ^ teaspoon ^It, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 large tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, IVs pints milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and powder; rub in butter cold; add beaten eggs and milk; mix into smooth, consistent batter that will run easily and limpid from mouth of pitcher. Have waffle-iron hot and carefully greased each time ; All close it up; when brown turn over. Sift sugar on them, serve hot. Rice Waffles.—Into a batter as directed for soft waffles stir 1 cup of rice, free from lumps ; cook as directed in same receipt. Virginia Waffles.— Cook cup white Indian com meal in IMj cups boiling water 30 minutes, adding IMt teaspoons salt. Add cups milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 cups flour mixed with 2 heap- ing teaspoonsiRoyal Baking Powder, and 2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Cook in hot, weU-greased waffle-iron. Jolly-Boys.— Mix and sift together 3 cups rye meal, 1 cup flour, cup Indian com meal, Vi teaspoon powdered cinnamon, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and 2 tablespoons sugar. Add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoons molasses, and sufficient cold water to make a thick batter. Drop by small spoonfuls in a kettle of smoking hot fat, and cook till brown. ¥ Griddle Cakes, Etc. The griddle cake as made to-day with Royal Baking Powder is another arti- cle of food which has taken high rank upon the American table. The heavy, sour, grease-soaked, indigestible griddle cake of old is, where modem methods are employed, a thing of the past. The properly made griddle cake is a delicious food, healthful, appetizing, and nutritious. Raising the griddle cake with yeast is alto- gether obsolete with expert cooks. Mixtures of soda, saleratus, sour milk, buttermilk, etc., are likewise not permissible. Royal Baking Powder has altogether redeemed the griddle cake. It makes the cake light, tender, digest- ible, and its preparation and baking are the work of a moment only. Royal Baking Powder, plain, sweet milk, flour, and a little salt make a food fit for a feast. What .so simple, so easUy prepared? Eggs are altogether unessential. The batter must be thin, the cakes made small and not too thick,— about a good Vk inch thick when baked,—browned, and neatly turned. The griddle must be merely mbbed with grease, not grease-soaked. This is highly important. Take a thick piece of salt pork on a fork, or a lump of suet in a piece of cheese-cloth, and mb lightly over the hot grid- dle and pour the batter on immediately. Remember that buckwheat is one of the most difficult flours to lighten. Where it en- ters into combination with other materials this fact must be recognized and a somewhat larger proportion of Royal Baking Powder allowed. Made in the manner directed in these receipts buckwheat cakes can be safely and profusely eaten by every one. Royal Wheat Cakes.—This is the best plain hot griddle cake without eggs. The cakes will be light, tender, and healtMul. 1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vk teaspoon salt. Sift well together and add sweet milk to make into a soft batter. Bake immediately on hot griddle. Should be full Vk inch thick when baked. Smother with butter and maple symp or honey. Qriddle Cakes with Eggs.— 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix well together, add 2 well-beaten eggs and sufficient sweet milk to make a thin drop batter. Bake at once on a hot, weU- greased griddle. Make them thin. Qraham Qriddle Cakes.— 1 pint Graham flour, Vk pint Indian com meal, Vk pint flour, 1 heaping teaspoon brown sugar, Vk teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, Vk pint each of milk and water. Sift together Graham flour, com meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder. Add beaten egg, milk, and water. Mix together into a smooth batter. Heat griddle hot, pour batter into cakes as large as a tea saucer. Bake brown on one side, care- fully turn and brown other side. Pile one on the other, serve very hot, with sugar, mUk, cream, or maple symp. Rye Griddle Cakes.— 1 pint rye flour, Vk pint Graham flour, Vk pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, Vk teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons R^al Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. S^ift together rye flour, Graham flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder, add beaten egg and milk, mix into smooth batter. Bake deep brown color on hot griddle. Geneva Qriddle Cakes.— IVk pints flour, 4 tablespoons sugar, Vk teaspoon salt, IVk tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, nearly Vk pint milk. Rub but- ter and sugar to white, light cream ; add yolks of eggs, 1 at a time. Sift flour, salt, and pow- der together; add to butter, etc., with milk and egg whites whipped to dry froth; mix together into a smooth batter. Bake in small cakes ; as soon as brown, turn and brown the other side. Have buttered baking-tin ; fast as browned, lay them on it, and spread raspberry jam over them; then bake more, which lay on others already done. Repeat this until you have used jam twice, then bake another batch.10 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. which use to cover them. Sift sugar plenti- fully over them, place in a moderate oven to finish cooking. Three-Egg Griddle Cakes.—3 cups milk, 2 heaping cups fiour, Vfj teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mis as for plain griddle cakes, adding whites and yolks of eggs beaten separately. Huckleberry Griddle Cakes.— pint huck- leberries, IMj pints fiour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add beaten eggs, mUk, and huckleberries (washed and picked over). Mix into batter that will run ftrom pitcher in thick, continuous stream. Have griddle hot enough to form crust soon as batter touches it. In order to confine juice of berries, turn quickly, so as to form crust on other side; turn once more on each side to complete baking. Blackberry or raspberry griddle cakes in same manner. Rice Griddle Cakes.— 2 cups cold boiled rice, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, teaspoon salt, teaspoons Royal BaMng Powder, 1 egg, little more than pint milk. Sift to- gether flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add rice free from lumps, diluted with beaten egg and milk; mix into smooth batter. Have griddle well heated, bake nice brown, not too thick; serve with maple syrup. Crushed Wheat Griddle Cakes.— 1 cup crushed wheat, pints flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. Boil 1 cup crushed wheat in % pint of water 1 hour, then dilute with beaten egg and milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add to crushed wheat preparation when quite cold; mix into smooth batter. Bake on hot griddle; brown delicately on both sides; serve with hygienic cream sauce. Corn Meal Griddle Cakes.— 2 cups com meal, 1 cup flour, teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon molasses, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, milk or milk and water to mix to thin batter. Bake as already directed. Indian Griddle Cakes.— % quart corn meal. Ml quart flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, Vi tea- spoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together com meal, flour, salt, sugar, and powder, add beaten eggs and mUk, mix into a smooth bat- ter. Bake on very hot griddle to a nice brown. Serve with molasses or maple syrup. Royal Buckwheats.— This is the most de- licious of all the griddle cakes. It has been against buckwheat cakes when made from yeast or risen overnight that it was difficult to make them light and sweet, and that dis- agreeable effects followed their eating. It is found that by the use of the Royal Baking Powder to raise the batter these objections have been entirely overcome, and that buck- wheat cakes are made a most delicious food, light, sweet, tender, and perfectly wholesome, that can be eaten by any one without the slightest digestive inconvenience. 2 cups pure buckwheat (do not use the so-caUed “ pre- pared” or “self-raising” flours), 1 cup wheat flour, 2 tablespoons Royal Baking Powder, Ml teaspoon s^t, all sifted well together. Mix with sweet milk into thin batter, and bake at once on a hot griddle. Buckwheat Cakes.— To IMi pints pure buckwheat flour (^never use prepared or self- raising flour) add Mi pint each wheat flour and Indian meal, 3 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar or molasses. Sift well together, in dry state, buckwheat, Indian meal, wheat flour, and baking powder, then add remainder; when ready to bake add 1 pint water or suffi- cient to form smooth batter that will run in a stream (not too thin) from pitcher; make griddle hot and cakes as large as a saucer. When surface is covered with air-hples it is time to turn cakes over; take off when suffi- ciently browned. Bread Cakes.— Mi pound bread, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, Mi teaspoon salt, 1% teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, ^4 pint milk, 1 egg. Put bread, free from crust, to steep in warm water. When thoroughly soaked, wring dry in a towel; dilute with beaten egg and milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder, add to prepared bread, mix together into a smooth batter. Bake on weU-heated griddle. Serve with sugar and cream. Wheat (or Flannel) Cakes.—IMi pints flour, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, IMi pints milk. Sift together fiour, sugar, salt, and powder; add beaten eggs and milk, mix into smooth batter that w^l run in rather continuous stream from pitcher. Bake on good hot griddle rich brown color, in cakes large as tea saucers. Serve with maple syrup. Hominy Griddle Cakes.— Proceed as di- rected for rice griddle cakes; serve with ma- ple syrup. Pancakes.— 1 pint flour, 6 eggs, 1 saltspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, and milk to make a thin batter. Add the baking powder to the flour, beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately; add the yolks, salt, 2 cups milk, then the whites and the flour alternately with milk, until the batter is of right consis- tency. Run 1 teaspoon lard over the bottom of a hot frying-pan, pour in a large ladleful of batter, and fry quickly. Roll pancake up like a sheet of paper, lay upon a hot dish, put in more lard, and fry another pancake. Keep hot over boiling water. Send Mi dozen to table at a time. Serve with sauce, jelly, or preserves. English Pancakes.— 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Btoyal Baking Powder, 1 cup cream, pinch salt. Sift flour, salt, and powder together; add to it eggs beaten with sugar and diluted with milk and cream; mix into thin batter. Have small round frying-pan; melt little butter in it; pour about Mj cup batter in it, turn pan round, that batter may cover the pan, put on hot fire; turn it and brown other side. Butter each and roll it up; sprinkle with powdered sugar. French Pancakes.— Proceed as directed for English pancakes; when all are done, spread each with any kind of preserves, roll up, sift over plenty sugar, glaze vdth red-hot poker.11 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Cakes whipped to a stiff froth. Add them alternately with the sifted flour (mixed with baking pow- der), and cut both in very lightly and quickly. Flour To Bake Cakes FANCY-CAKE makers and confectioners prefer to use “pastry” flour for the making of cakes and pastry, which is a flour of different grade from that used for bread and general baking purposes. Bread flour contains a large proportion of gluten, the nitrogenous property of the wheat grain, which gives bone and muscle, and makes bread a nutritiou.s food. When bread flour is used for cake and pie crust the result is not quite as flaky and light as it should be, because of the gluten in the flour. A special sack of pastry flour for use in making fine cakes and pastry will be advantageous. In appearance pastry flour is whiter than bread flour. When rubbed between the fingers it feels as soft and fine as corn- starch ; if squeezed in the hand it forms a firm ball. Because of this tendency to “pack” it should always be sifted very thoroughly. Generally speaking. Royal Baking Powder used with any good flour will make satisfactory cake which will be creditable to any house- keeper. Royal Baking Powder In no department of cookery is Royal Bak- ing Powder of greater use and importance than in making fine cake. Eggs are too expensive nowadays to bo used as lavishly as they were a generation ago — ten or more to a cake. Not as a substitute wholly, but as an accessory,— as an aid toward producing the lightness and digestibility of the food.— we use the Royal Baking Powder. We thereby obtain uniformly good results and do a large amount of work at a minimum expense. The quantity called for by the receipt should be thoroughly mixed with the flour before the latter is sifted. The Royal Baking Powder has worked a revolution in cake-making. It is now no trouble to make at home the finest cakes in almost endless variety, which shall rival the productions of the confectioner. If you follow these directions there will be no spoiled or heavy cakes, no wasted materials through fail- ures in mixing or baking. To Mix Cakes Containing Butter Cream the butter, beating till light. Gradu- ally add the sugar, beating till light and creamy. Add the yolks of eggs beaten till light, then the flavoring. Beat in alternately the liquid and flour, the latter mixed with salt and baking powder. Lastly, add the beaten whites, and fruit, if used. To Mix Cakes Containing No Butter Beat the egg yolks until very light and thick. Add the sugar gradually, beating till very light and spongy. Add the flavoring and liquid, if used. Have the whites of eggs Thin cakes need a hotter oven than loaf cakes. Cakes without butter (sponge cakes) should have a more moderate, longer baking than cakes of same size containing butter. The process of baking may be divided into four periods or quarters of time: in first quar- ter the cake begins to rise; in second quarter it is stiU rising and begins to color; in third quarter it browns all over; in last quarter it shrinks from sides of pan. To test, insert a clean broom-straw into the middle of the cake ; if it comes out clean, the cake is done. Hold the pan to the ear; it should scarcely “ sing.” Line loaf-cake pans with buttered paper; fruit cakes need several thicknesses of the same. Do not use sour milk, buttermilk, or any of the so-called prepared or self-raising flours. Weights and Measures 1 cup, medium size . . 14 pint or V4 poimd. 4 cups, medium size, of flour weigh 1 pouni 1 pint flour weighs . . . I4 pound. 1 pint white sugar weighs . . 1 pound. 2 tablespoons of liquid weigh . 1 ounce. 8 teaspoons of liquid weigh . 1 ounce. 1 gill of liquid weighs ... 4 ounces. 1 pint of liquid weighs . . 16 ounces. Adelaide Cake.— 1 cup butter, 114 cups su- gar, 4 eggs, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 cup dried, stoned cherries, 14 cup cream, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Rub butter and sugar to white, light cream; add eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift flour and powder together, add to butter, etc., with cherries, cream, and extract vanilla. Mix smoothly and gently into rather firm batter. Bake in paper-lined cake- tin (fig. IX) 40 minutes in moderate, steady oven. Watch carefully; if getting too brown, protect with paper. Almond Cake.—14 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, I4 cup almonds blanched — by pouring water on them until skins easily slip off — and cut in fine shreds, Mt teaspoon extract bitter almonds, 1 pint flour, 114 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 glass brandy, 14 cup milk. Rub butter and sugar to smooth white cream; add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 3 or 4 minutes after each. Sift flour and powder together, add to butter, etc., with almonds, extract of bitter almonds, brandy, and milk; mix into smooth, medium batter, bake carefully in rather hot oven 20 minutes in a fluted mold (flg. I). Almond Cake, 2.— % cup butter, 1 cup su- gar, 14 cup milk, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 level tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 pound almonds blanched and cut in strips. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and cream again; add the beaten yolks, then, alternately, the milk and the flour sifted with the baking powder. Lastly, add the whites whipped to a stiff froth and the almonds. Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 12 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Angel Food Cake.—Whites 11 eggs, IMj cups fine granulated sugar, 1 cup flour sifted four times with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Whip the whites to a firm, stiff froth. Cut in lightly the sugar, then the flour mixed with the baking powder, lastly the vanilla. Pour into an ungreased pan (lig. IV) and bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. When baked invert pan on 2 cups; let stand till cold. Apple Jelly Cake.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups su- gar, 4 eggs, 3 cups floui', IM2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 6 apples, 6 ounces sugar, 1 teaspoon butter. Rub together butter and sugar to flue, light, white cream, add eggs 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes after each ad- dition. Sift flour and Royal Baking Powder together, add to butter, etc., with milk, and mix into rather thin batter. Bake in jelly- cake tins carefully greased. Meanwhile have apples peeled and sliced, put on Are with su- gar; when tender remove, rub through fine sieve, and add butter. When cold use to spread between layers. Cover cake plentifully with sugar sifted over top. Bride’s Cake.— 1 scant cup butter, 3 cups sug.ar, 1 cup milk, whites 12 eggs, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup corn-starch, 3 cups flour, 14 teaspoon salt. Cream butter and sugar. Mix flour, baking powder, and corn- starch, and add alternately with milk and whipped whites. Flavor with vanilla or almond extract and bake in loaf-tin lined with 4 thick- nesses of paper; have oven moderate. Banana Cake.— cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^<8 cup milk, 2 scant cups flour, IMi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs, Vfe tea^ ^oon vanilla. Mix flour and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add milk and flour alternately, then vanilla and beaten whites. Bake in 3 layer-tins in hot oven. To receipt for boiled icing (see Cake Fillings) add Mi cup mashed banana and use as filling. Dust top with powdered sugar. Chocolate Cake.— Make a cake as for ba- nana cake, and bake in 3 l^ers. Put together with chocolate filling (see Cake Fillings). Chocolate Cream Cake.—IMi pounds each butter, sugar, and flour, 14 eggs. Beat the yolks separate with sugar and butter. Beat the whites separately, and add to above. To Mi of the dough mix *4 pound chocolate, and bake of each part (the dark and light) 6 cakes. For filling take % pint cream, yolks 8 eggs. Sugar to taste; flavor with extract vanilla, put on fire and stir until it thickens, then put between the cakes. Chocolate Layer Cake.— 2 eggs, 2 cups powdered sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, V4 tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon vaniUa. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Beat egg yolks till thick. Gradually add and beat in the sugar. Add vanilla and milk, whites whipped stiff, and flour. Bake in 3 layer-cake pans in hot oven. Put together with chocolate filling. No. 2 (see Cake Fillings). Chocolate Loaf Cake.— Mi cup butter, cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Btudng Powder, >4 teaspoon salt. Mi cup milk. 4 eggs, 4 ounces chocolate dissolved m 5 table- spoons boiling water, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks, vanilla, and dissolved chocolate. Alternate the milk and flour and beat hard, then add whipped whites, turn into buttered loaf-pan lined with 3 thicknesses of paper. Bake in moderate oven. Cinnamon Chocolate Cake.— Mi cup but- ter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup milk, IMi cups flour, \Mi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, ^ teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons powdered cinnamon. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and .sugar. Add cinnamon and beaten yolks, then alternate milk and flour. Add whipped whites, beat hard, and bake in 3 layer- pans in quick oven. When cold put together with boiled icing containing melted chocolate. Centennial Cake.— % pound butter, \Mi pounds brown sugar, 6 eggs, 2 cups milk, 1% pounds flour, teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons ^yal Baking Powder, % pound cleaned cur- rants, V4 pound seeded raisins, Vi pound sliced citron, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 glass wine. Dredge fruit well vi.th a little of the flour. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks, nutmeg, and wine. Beat in alternately the milk and flour, add whipped whites, and beat hard. Stir in pre- pared frtiit. Line 2 loaf-pans with 3 thick- nesses of paper. Divide the batter between the pans and bake about IV4 hours in moderate oven. Cocoanut Layer Cake.— Mi cup butter, IV4 cups sugar, whites 8 eggs, cups flour, Vi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add vanilla, then, alternately, the flour and whipped whites. Beat hard; bake in 3 layer-cake pans. When cold put together with cocoanut filling. No. 2 (see Fillings). Cocoanut Loaf Cake.— ^l cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 cups fre.shly grated cocoanut. Put together same as chocolate loaf cake, and bake in loaf- pan in moderate oven. Citron Cake.— IMj cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 cup citron cut in thin, large slices, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a smooth, light cream, add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift the flour and powder to- gether, which add to the butter, etc., with the citron and extract nutmeg. Mix into a firm batter, and bake carefully in paper-lined shal- low, flat cake-pan (fig. XIII), in a moderate oven, 50 minutes. Coffee Cake.— 1 cup very strong coffee, I cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, IMi pints flour, IMi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup stoned raisins, cut in two, Mi cup chopped citron, 10 drops each extract allspice and nut- meg, and Ml cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a white cream; add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating 3 or 4 minutes after each. Sift together flour and powder, which add to the butter, etc., with the coffee, raisins, citron, milk, and extracts. Mix into a smooth batter.13 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Bake in paper-lined cake-tin (fig. IX), in a hot oven, 50 minutes. Coffee Cake, No. 2.— 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, Vfj cup molasses, 1 cup strong coffee, Vj teaspoon soda dissolved in the molasses. 2 teaspoons powdered cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped raisins, 5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift together the flour, salt,baking powdor,aud spices. Dredge raisins with some of the flour. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks and molasses, then alternate the coffee and flour; lastly beat in whipped whites. Divide into 2 loaves and bake in moderate oven. Cream Cakes (Eclatres a la Creme).—10 eggs, ’>‘2 cup butler, pound flour, 1 pint water. Set the water on the fire in a stewpan wdth the butter; as soon as it boils, stir in the sifted flour with a wooden spoon; stir vigorously until it leaves the bottom and sides of pan; remove from fire, beat in the eggs, 1 at a time. Place this batter in a pointed canvas bag having a nozzle at small end, press out the batter, in shape of Angers, on a greased tin, a little distance apart. Bake in steady oven 20 minutes. W’hen cold, cut the sides and fill with following: PASTRY CREAM 2 cups sugar, 1 Vfe pints milk, 3 large table- spoons com-starch, yolks of 5 eggs, 1 table- spoon good butter, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla. Bring the milk to a boil; with the sugar add the starch dissolved in a little cold water; as soon as it reboils, take from the Are. Beat in the egg yolks. Return to the fire 2 minutes to set the eggs. Add the extract and butter. Spread tops, when cold, with chocolate or va- nilla icing. Cream Cake.— % cup butter, 2 cups sugar, IMt pints flour. 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift the flour with the powder, which add to the butter, etc., and the milk. Mix into rather thin batter, and bake in jelly- cake tins, well greased, in hot oven 15 minutes. When cold spread pastry cream between the layers, and ice the top with clear icing. (See pastry cream, above.) Continental Fruit Cake.— 1 pound butter, 1 pound sugar, It^ pounds flour, 1 cup cream, 1 wine-glass each brandy and wine, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon each mace and cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 14 teaspoon salt, 8 eggs, % pound each raisins and currants, ^ pound shred citron. Put together as for centennial cake, and bake in 2 loaves in moderate oven, lining pans with 3 thicknesses of paper. Cup Cake.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 cups flour, 20 drops extract bitter almonds. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift together the flour and powder, which add to the butter, etc., with the extract. Mix into a smooth, medium batter. Bake in well-greased cups or muffln-pans (fig. VII), in a rather hot oven, 20 minutes. Currant Cake.— 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, IV2 cups currants, washed and picked, 2 teaspoons extract cinnamon, and 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating a few minutes after each. Add the flour sifted with the powder, the currants, and the extracts. Mix into a medium batter. Bake in paper-lined cake-tin (fig. IX) 50 minutes, in a moderate oven. Currant Cake, No 2.— cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, cup milk, 2 cups flour, tea- spoon salt, 1'^ teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der, 1 cup cleaned currants, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder, dredge the cui’raiits. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks and vanilla. Beat in flour and milk; add whipped whites and currants, and beat hard. Bake in shallow pan in moderately hot oven. Currant Cake (English).— 1 % cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup citron, in small thin slices, the rind of an orange, peeled very thin and cut in shreds, 2 cups cuiTants, washed and picked, IMi pints flour, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift the flour and powder together. Add it to the butter, etc., with the citron, orange peel, currants, and the extract. Bake in a thickly paper- lined tin (fig. XIII), 1 hour and 25 minutes, in a moderate oven. Duchesse Cake.— It^ cups butter, 1 cup sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon extract cin- namon. Rub the butter and sugar to a light cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes after each addition. Sift together flour and powder, add to the butter, etc., with the extract. Mix into a medium thick batter, and bake in small, shallow, square pans (fig. XII), lined with thin white paper, in a steady oven .30 minutes. When they are taken from the oven, ice them. Soft Gingerbread.—Mi cup butter, 2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, gin- ger and cloves to taste. Dark Fruit Cake.—2 cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 12 eggs, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 pound cur- rants, 1 pound sliced citron, 3 pounds seeded raisins, 1 pound chopped figs, % cup any kind of wine, 2 tablespoons strained lemon juice, 2 teaspoons cinnamon. Mi teaspoon each cloves and mace, ■I4 teaspoon each allspice and nut- meg. Sift together flour, salt, baking powder, and spices. Dredge fruit thoroughly. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks and lemon juice. Alternate flour and wine, add whipped whites, and beat for 10 minutes. Stir in pre- pared fruit. Line loaf-pans with 4 thicknesses paper; pour in batter. Bake in slow oven from 3 to 5 hours, covering pans with paper tin til % baked. Delicate Fruit Cake.—% cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 2% cups flour, V4 teaspoon salt,14 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. 2 teasp>oons Royal Baking Powder, whites 5 eggs, 1 tablespoon grated lemon rind. Cream butter and mix dry ingredients. Cream butter and sugar. Add whipped whites, flour, and milk, and beat hard. To 5 tablespoons of this batter add spices to taste, and 1 oup raisins and cup sliced citron, and bake in 1 layer. Bake remainder of batter in 2 layer-pans. When cold put together with boiled icing, hav- ing dark layer in center. Fig Cake.—IV2 cups sugar, hi cup butter, % cup sweet milk. IMi cups flour, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, hi cup corn- starch, whites C eggs. Put together as for corn- starch cake, and bake in 2 shallow oblong pans in a quick oven. Put together with fig filling (see Cake Fillings). French Cake.—\hi cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 12 eggs, 1 quart flour, V2 teaspoon Roj^al Bak- ing Powder, 1 gill each of cream, wine, and brandy, 20 drops each extract bitter almonds and nutmeg, 1% cups raisins, stoned, % cup almonds, blanched, 1 cup chopped citron. Rub butter and sugar to a white, light cream ; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes be- tween the first 3 additions, and 5 minutes between the rest; add the flour, sifted with the powder, raisins, almonds, citron, extracts, cream, wine, and brandy. Mix into a smooth, consistent batter; bake in a thickly paper- lined cake-pan (fig. XIII), in a steady oven, 2 hours. Light Fruit Cake.—V2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, hi cup milk, 2 cups flour, Ihi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs, % cup seeded raisins, hi cup sliced citron, Mi cup chopped blanched almonds, teaspoon salt. Mix flour, baking powder, and salt. Dredge fruit with flour. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten whites, and beat hard; add flour and milk and beat again ; stir in the prepared fruit. Line a loaf-pan with 3 thicknesses of paper, and bake cake Ihi hours in moderate oven, covering with paper for first hour. Geranium Cake.—hi cup butter, 1 cup sugar, % cup water, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream but- ter and sugar. Add alternately the water and flour, then whites of eggs, and whip hard for 5 minutes. Line loaf-pan with buttered paper, then with rose-geranium leaves. Bake in a moderate oven. The leaves can be pulled off with the paper. ’ Ginger Cake.—% cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, Ihi tea^oons Royal Baking Powder, IVi pints flour, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon extract ginger. Rub the butter and sugar to a light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes between; add the flour, sifted with the powder, the milk and extract; mix into a smooth batter; bake in a cake-tin (fig. IX), in rather hot oven, 40 minutes. Ginger Sponge Cake.—2 cups brown sugar, 4 eggs, 1 pint flour, % cup water, Ihi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon extract ginger, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar together for 10 minutes ; add the water, the flour sifted with the powder, and the extracts; mix into a smooth sponge, and bake in quick oven 30 minutes. Gingerbread.—1 cup brown sugar and 3 tablespoons butter, stirred to a cream; add 1 cup New Orleans molasses, 2 eggs; mix well; stir dry 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder in 2hi cups flour, put in ginger or spice to taste, bake in 1 loaf 1 hour. Gold Cake.—^ cup butter, 2 cups sugar, yolks 10 eggs, Ihi pints flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup thin cream, 1 tea- spoon each extract lemon and nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a white cream; add the yolks, 3 at a time, beating a little after each addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, the thin cream, and the extracts ; mix into a pretty firm batter; bake in a paper- lined cake-tin (fig. IX), in a steady oven, 50 minutes. Gold Cake, No. 2.—hi cup butter, 1 cup su- gar, yolks 6 eggs, 2 cups flour, hi, teaspoon salt, i heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, grated rind and strained juice 1 large orange. Mix the dry ingredients. Cream the butter and sugar, add weU-beaten yolks, or- ange rind and juice, and flour. Bake in shal- low pan in moderate oven, and ice with orange-water icing. Harrison Cake.—Ihi cups sugar, Ihi cups butter, 1 cup thick molasses mixed with ^3 tea- spoon soda, hi cup mUk, 1 teaspoon each cinna- mon and cloves, 5 eggs, 2 cups stoned raisins, 5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der. Mix flour, spices, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add molasses, then beat in of flour. Add milk and beaten yolks, add remainder of flour, then egg whites whipped stiff. Beat hard, and bake in a loaf- pan in moderate oven about IV2 hours. Hazelnut Cake.—9 ounces flour, 4 ounces butter, 4 ounces sugar, 4 ounces chopped hazel- nuts, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, I4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add vanilla, chopped nuts, and beaten yolks. Add flour, then whipped whites, and beat well. Bake in shallow pan in me- dium oven, and when cold ice with boiled icing. Honey Cake.—hi cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup honey, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon caraway seeds. Mix the honey with the sugar; add the butter melted, the eggs slightly beaten, the flour, sifted with the powder, and the seeds; mix into a smooth batter of the consistency of sponge cake, and bake in a fairly hot oven 35 minutes. Ice-Cream Cake.—1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3hi cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 8 eggs, V4 tea- spoon salt. Mix dry ingredients. Cream but- ter and sugar, add milk, then flour, and beat. Add whipped whites and beat again. Flavor with almond extract. Bake in three jelly-tins in hot oven, and when cold put together with boiled icing flavored with almond extract. Imperial Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind, 1 table- spoon lemon juice, ^ pound seeded raisins, hi cup sliced blanched almonds, hi pound flour, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix dry ingredients. Cream butterTHE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 15 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. and sugar. Add 1 whole egg and beat bard until incorporated. Stir in some of the flour. Alternate eggs and flour in same way until all the eggs are added, then beat hard 10 minutes. Add lemon juice, almonds, and dredged rai- sins. Line loaf-pan with 3 thicknesses paper. Bake in moderate oven about 1*4 hours. Jelly Cake.—Beat 3 eggs well, whites and yolks separately; take a cup of fine white sugar and beat in well with yolks, and 1 cup sifted flour, stirred in gently ; then stir in the whites, a little at a time, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, and 1 tablespoon milk; pour into 3 jelly-cake plates and bake from 5 to 10 minutes in a well-heated oven; when cold spread with currant jelly, place each layer on top of the other, and sift powdered sugar on top. Rolled Jelly Cake.—i eggs, % cup powdered sugar, ^ cup pastry flour, Vi teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat egg yolks and sugar till light. Add mixed dry in- gredients; then stiffly beaten whites. Mix lightly together. Bake in thin sheet in quick oven. As soon as done turn quicklv on a towel wrung out of water, spread with jelly, roll up, and dust with powdered sugar. Lemon Cake.—1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, IMi pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Rub to a light cream the butter and sugar; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition ; add the flour, sifted with the powder, and the extract; mix into a medium batter; bake in paper-lined tin (fig. XIII), in a moderate oven, 40 minutes. Lady Cake.—1V4 cups butter, 3 cups sugar, whites 8 eggs, 1 pint flour, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 20 drops extract bitter almonds. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the flour sifted with the powder, milk, and extract; mix into a smooth batter; then gently mix the 8 egg whites, whipped to a dry froth ; when thoroughly mixed, put into a shallow cake-pan (fig. XIII), papered, and bake carefully in steady oven 40 minutes. When cool, ice the bottom and sides with white icing. Lightning Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup gran- ulated sugar, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, Vi teaspoon Royal BaMug Powder, grated rind 1 lemon. Mix flour and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add lemon and beaten eggs, add flour, and beat well. Spread 1 inch thick on flat buttered pans, sprinkle with a mixture of granulated sugar, powdered cinnamon, and few chopped almonds. Bake pale brown in hot oven, and when cold cut in squares. Lunch Cake (Boston).—2 cups butter, 2 cups sugar, pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 6 eggs, 1 gill wine, 1 teaspoon each extract rose, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a very light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, wine, extracts; mix into a smooth batter, put into a thickly papered shallow cake-pan (fig. XIII), and bake in moderate oven IVi hours. When cold, ice the bottom and sides with white icing. Marshmallow Cake.—1 egg, Hi cups sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour. teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter, add *4 of sugar, and beat. Add beaten egg and remainder of sugar, and beat 4 minutes. Add alternately flour and milk, beating well. Add vanilla and bake in layer- cake pans in quick oven. Cut fine *4 pound marshmallows. Spread them between cake layers, and stand in open oven till they melt. Marbled Cake.—This is made in separate batters, a dark and a light one. For the dark one, take cup butter, I cup brown sugar, 2Vi cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, yolks of 4 eggs, Vj cup milk, 1 teaspoon each extract cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. For the light one take cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2V2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, whites of 4 eggs, cup milk, 1 tea- spoon extract lemon. Both batters are made by rubbing the butter and sugar to a cream, adding the eggs, beating a few minutes, then adding the flour, sifted with the powder, the extracts and milk, and mixing into smooth bat- ter, rather firm. Have a paper-lined tin (fig. IX); with a spoon drop the two batters alter- nately into it, and bake in a rather quick oven 35 minutes. Minnehaha Cake.—Vj cup butter, cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2Vs cups flour, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon va- nilla. Mix dry ingredients. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks and vanilla, then, al- ternately, the milk and flour. Beat well, and bake in 3 layers in quick oven. Put together with fruit filling (see Cake Fillings). Orange Cake.—Vi cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 1 pint flour, IVj teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract orange, 1 cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, the milk and extract; mix into a smooth, fine batter, put in a paper-lined cake- tin (fig. IX), and bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. When cool, cover the top with the following preparation: Whip the whites of 3 eggs to a dry froth ; then carefully mix in 4 cups sugar, the juice, grated rind, and soft pulp, free of white pith and seeds, of 2 sour oranges. Nut Cake.—Vs cup butter, IV2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, 2Vs cups flour, IVs teaspoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, Vs cup milk, 1 cup of any meats of nuts preferred or at hand. Rub the butter and sugar to a hght, white cream ; add the eggs, beaten a little, then the flour, sifted with the powder; mix with the milk and nuts into a rather firm batter, and bake in a paper-lined tin (fig. IX), in a steady oven, 35 minutes. Peach-Blossom Cake.—1 cup pulverized sugar, Vs cup butter, stirred together until like thick cream, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vs cup sweet milk; beat the whites of 3 eggs, and add to a cup of flour, mixed with the baking powder; stir and add Vi teaspoon com-starch. Flavor strongly with extract peach. Bake in 2 square sponge-tins in moderately quick oven, and when done sandwich with finely grated cocoanut and pink sugar. Frost with clear icing, and sprin- kle this with pulverized pink sugar.16 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Mola&ses Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, cup molasses, 1 cup milk. Its pints flour, IMt teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg. Rub smooth the butter and sugar; add the milk, egg, and molasses ; stir in flour, sifted with the powder; mix into a consis- tent batter, and bake in cake-tin (fig. IX) 40 minutes. Pound Cake.—IMi cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream ; add 3 of the eggs, 1 at a time, and the rest, two at a time, beating minutes after each addi- tion ; add the flour, sifted with the powder; add the extract; mix into a smooth, medium batter, and bake in a paper-lined cake-tin (flg. XIII), in a steady oven, 50 minutes. Pond-Lily Cake.—1 cup butter, cups sugar, whites 5 eggs, pints flour. Its tea- spoons Royal Balking P-wder, 1 cup milk; flavor with extract peach and a few drops ex- tract rose. Bake in 2 cakes, in very deep jelly- or sponge-tins, and when done put together with freshly grated cocoanut and pulverized sugar between and on top of the cakes, and ice with clear icing. Queen Cake.—2 cups butter, 2tS cups sugar. Its pints flour, 8 eggs, ts teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 wine-glass each wine, brandy, and cream, tS teaspoon each extract nutmeg, rose, and lemon, 1 cup dried currants, washed and picked, 1 cup raisins, stoned and cut in two, 1 cup citron, cut in small, thin slices. Rub the butter and sugar to a very light cream ; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add the flour, sifted with the powder, the raisins, currants, wine, brandy, cream, citron, and extracts; mix into a batter, and bake carefully in a papered cake- tin (flg. XIII), in a moderately steady oven. Its hours. Sponge Cake.—2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Whip sugar and eggs together until thick and white; add flour, sifted with powder and salt, and the ex- tract ; mix together quickly; bake in tin (fig. XII) lined with buttered paper, in hot oven, 35 minutes. Sponge Cake (Almond).—Its cups .sugar, 8 eggs, Its cups flour, tS teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract bitter almonds. Boil sugar in 1 tS giUs water until, taking some up on end of spoon-handle and cooling in wa- ter, it breaks brittle, when at once pour it on the eggs, previously whipped 10 minutes ; con- tinue the whipping 20 minutes longer; add flour, sifted with powder, and extract; bake in well-buttered cake-mold (fig. I), in quick oven, 30 minutes. Sponge Cake (Berwick).—6 eggs, 3 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup cold water, pinch salt, 1 tea- spoon extract lemon. Beat eggs and sugar to- gether 5 minutes ; add flour, sifted with salt and powder, water, and extract; bake in shal- low square cake-pan (fig. XIII), in quick, steady oven, 35 minutes; when removed from oven, ice it with clear icing. Cream Sponge Cake.—6 eggs, their weight in powdered sugar, and Vi, their weight in flour, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt, grated rind 1 orange. Beat egg yolks and sugar till thick. Sift in the mixed flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix lightly, add orange rind and stiffly whipped whites. Out them in lightly, and bake in 2 shallow pans in mod- erate oven. Put together with cream filling flavored with orange. Silver Cake.—Whites 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 4 cups flour, V4 tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon almond extract. Cream butter and sugar ; add alternately the milk and flour mixed with salt and baking powder; then the extract and the stiffly whipped whites. Beat well, and bake in loaf-pan in moderate oven. Snow Cake.—1 pound arrowroot, 14 pound sugar, 1 cup butter, whites 6 eggs, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon almond ex- tract. Cream butter and sugar. Add whipped whites and teaspoon salt, then the arrow- root mixed with baking powder. Beat well for 10 minutes; add extract, and bake in loaf- pan lined with 3 thicknesses paper. Have oven moderate, bake IMi hours, and cover pan with paper for first hour. Spice Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 pint flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon each caraway and corian- der seeds, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg, cinnamon, and ginger, 1 cup milk. Sift flo\ir, sugar, and powder together; rub in butter; add milk, seeds, and extracts; mix smooth into batter of medium thickness; fill greased patty-pans % full; bake in hot oven 8 or 10 minutes. Delicate Spice Cake.—% cup melted butter, % cup sugar, 2Mi cups flour, 1 egg, % cup molas- ses, 1 cup milk, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon mixed OTound spice, pinch salt. Beat egg, add milk. Add, mixed, flour, baking powder and salt, spice, sugar, melted butter, molasses, and vinegar. Eake in two shallow pans in quick oven. Scotch Cake.—Itii cups butter, 2V<2 cups sugar, 8 eggs, 1V& pints flour, % teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 cups raisins, stoned, 1 tablespoon extract lemon. Rub butter and sugar to light, white cream; add eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add flour sifted with powder, raisins, and ex- tract ; mix into smooth batter; put into paper- lined square, shallow cake-pan (fig. XIII); bake in moderate oven 1 hour. Washington Cake (St. Louis, 1780).—2 cups butter, 3 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 2 tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder, 5 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup stoned raisins, lie cup washed and picked currants, 14 cup chopped citron, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg and cinnamon. Rub but- ter and sugar to light, white cream ; add beaten eggs gradually, the flour sifted with powder, milk, raisins, currants, citron, and extracts; mix into smooth, medium batter ; bake in shal- low square cake-pan (fig. XIII), in rather quick, steady oven. Ilia hours; when cold ice with white icing.17 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Shrewsbury Cake.— 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, IVi pints flour, 3 eggs. 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon extract rose. Rub butter and sugar to smooth, white cream; aild eggs, 1 at a time, beating 5 min- utes after each; add flour, sifted with pow- der, and extract; mix into medium batter; bake in cake-mold (fig. I), well and carefully greased, in quick oven, 40 minutes. Vanilla C"ke.— IMj cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 yolks eggs, 1 pint flour, IVi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup cream, 1 tea- spoon extract vanilla. Rub butter and sugar until very light and creamy ; add egg yolks and cream, flmir, sifted with powder, and extract; mix into smooth, rather firm batter; bake in shallow square pan (fig. XIII), in fairly hot oven, 35 minutes. Wedding (or Bride) Cake.— 4 cups butter, 4 cups sugar, 10 eggs, 4 pints flour, 6 cups currants, washed, dried, and picked, 3 cups sultana raisins, 3 cups citron, W cup can- died lemon peel, 2 cups almonds, blanched and cut in shreds, ^ pint brandy, 2 teaspoons each nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, tablespoon each cloves and allspice. Prepare all these ingredients in following manner: place butter and sugar in large bowl; break eggs into quart measure or pitcher; cover small waiter with clean sheet of paper; on it lay sifted floiir, fruit, citron and lemon peel cut into shreds, the almonds and spices, with brandy measured at hand ; also get ready large cake-tin (fig. XVIII), by papering it inside with white paper and out^ side and bottom with 4 or 5 thicknesses of coarse wrapping-paper, which can be tie<l on. Having thus prepared everything, and banked up fire to last, with addition from time to time of a shovel of coal, by which means you will not reduce oven heat, proceed to beat to very light cream the butter and sugar, adding eggs. 2 at a time, beating a little after each addition, until all are used; then put in contents of waiter all at once, with brandy; mix very thoroughly and smooth, put into prepared cake-tin, smooth over the top, put plenty of paper on to protect it; bake 8 hours, keeping oven steadily up to clear, moderate heat; watch carefully and you will produce a cake worthy of the occasion ; re- move from oven very carefully, and suffer it to stay on tin until quite cold ; next day ice it with thin coat of white icing, both top and sides; place in cool oven to dry the icing. Now spread a second coat of icing, which will prevent any crumbs or fruit being mixed up with the icing when you are icing to finish ; now with broad k nife proceed, w hen first coat is dry, to ice sides, then pour icing on center of cake, in quantity sufficient to reach the edges, when stop; deco- rate with vase of white, made flowers, etc., to taste. White Mountain Cake.— 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 1 pint flour, IMi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, whites 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 20 drops extract bitter almonds. Rub butter and sugar to light, white cream; add the 6 whites whipped to dry froth, the flour sifted with the powder, the milk, and extract; mix together thoroughly, but carefully, and bake in jelly- cake tins in a qiiick oven 15 minutes; then arrange in layers with white icing and grated cocoanut mixed, in the proportion of 2 cups of former to 1 of latter. Wild Rose Cake.— Make the dough after the receipt given for pond-lily cake, flavoring with rose and strawberry instead of peach. Bake in 2-inch-deep jelly-tins, and sandwich with pink icing, and the same on top. (Made by substituting finely pulverized pink sugar for white.) When you have put the last layer of pink icing on top, sift very lightly over with granulated white sugar. Webster Cake.— 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 5 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 cups raisins, seeded, 1 tea- spoon each extract bitter almonds and vanilla, 1 Vi cups milk. Rub butter, sugar, and eggs smooth ; add flour sifted with powder, raisins, mUk, and extracts; mix into medium batter; bake in cake-mold (fig. I), in quick, steady oven, 45 minutes. Wedding Fruit Cake.— 1 pound flour, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 2 pounds cur- rants, 1 pound raisins. Mi pound citron, 1 ounce mace, 1 ounce cinnamon, 4 nutmegs, 1 ounce cloves, 8 eggs, wine-glass brandy. Mi ounce extract rose. Wine Cake.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour. Ml teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, 1 gill wine, 3 eggs. Rub butter and sugar to light cream, add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addition; add flour sifted with powder, and wine ; mix into medium, firm batter; bake in shallow square cake-pan (fig. XIII), in moderate oven, 40 minutes; when taken from oven carefully ice with transpa- rent icing. ¥ Cookies and Small Cakes Royal cookies.— l cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 1% pints flour, Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk. Mix butter, sugar, and eggs smooth; add flour sifted with powder, and milk; mix into dough, soft enough to handle conveniently; flour the board, roll out dough, thin; cut out with bis- cuit-cutter ; lay on greased baking-tin, bake in hot oven 5 or 6 minutes. Soft Cookies.— 1 cup butter, IMi cups sugar, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, just enough flour to roll out to a soft dough. Sprinkle with sugar be- fore rolling, cut in rounds, bake in quick oven. Cocoanut Cookies.— 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup grated cocoanut, 1 tea- spoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- der, flour to roll out. Bake pale brown. Plain Cookies.— Mi cup butter, IMi cups sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup water, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, sufficient flour added to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut into cookies, and bake pale brown in moderate oven. Anise-seed Cakes.— 8 eggs, 1 pound sugar, 1 scant pound flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt, 1 tablespoon anise-seed. Beat eggs and sugar together 30 minutes, then add anise, flour mixed with powder, and roll out thin. Cut in fancy shapes and bake on flat tins in quick oven.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 18 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Albert Cakes.— Yolks 6 eggs, white 1 egg, 5 ounces sugar, 5^4 ounces blanched and chopped almonds, 3 ounces flour, Mi teaspoon Roym Baking Powder, 1 ounce chopped can- died orange peel, Mi teaspoon extract cinnamon, pinch cloves, grated rind lemon. Bake in small patty-pans in moderate oven. Buttercups.— 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, yolks 9 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, % cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder. Bake in patty-pans, ice with boiled icing, tinted yellow. Jumbles.— 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Rub together the butter and sugar; add the beaten eggs, and flour sifted with the powder; flour the board, roU out the dough rather thin, cut with jumble-cutter, or any you may have; roll in sugar, lay out on greased tin (fig. XIII); bake in fairly hot oven 10 minutes. Peanut Jumbles.— cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 eggs, 1V<2 pints flour, ^ cup corn-starch, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Mi cup chopped peanuts, mixed with Mj cup granulated sugar. Rub the but- ter and sugar smooth; add the beaten eggs, the flour, corn-starch, and powder, sifted to- gether, and the extract; flour the board, roll out the dough rather thin, cut out with bis- cuit-cutter, roll in the chopped peanuts and sugar, lay on greased baking-tin (fig. XIII); bake in rather hot oven 8 to 10 minutes. Little Spice Cakes.— 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon black coffee, V4 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons cocoa, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, 2 ounces com-starch, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix as for cakes with butter, and bake in patty- pans in a hot oven. Little Chocolate Cakes.— 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar. Mi cup water, IMi cups flour, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons grated chocolate melted over hot water, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Put together as for cake with butter; bake in patty-pans in moderate oven. Scotch Cakes.— 1 pound flour, \>2. pound butter. Ml teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, % cup granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon extract va- nilla. Mix flour and baking powder. Riib in butter as for biscuits. Work in the sugar and flavoring. This gives a rather crumbly dough. Work with hands to make it adhere, pat out in cakes, sprinkle with caraway-seed. Bake in moderate oven. Very rich. Spencer Cakes.— 2 cups sugar, 8 eggs, pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons coriander-seed, 1 teaspoon ex- tract lemon. Beat eggs and sugar together, until they get thick and white; add flour sifted with powder, the seed, and extract; mix into rather thick sponge; drop in spoonfuls on greased tin (flg. XIV), bake in hot oven 5 or 6 minutes. Rice Cakes.— Mi cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, IMi cups rice flour, cups flour, 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup cream, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. B^t the eggs and sugar together 10 minutes; add the butter, melted; sift together flour, rice flour, and the powder, which add to the eggs, etc., with the cream and the extract; mix into a thin batter, and bake in patty-pans, well greased, in a hot oven, 10 minutes. Delicious Little Cakes can be made by making a rich jumble-paste — rolling out in any desired shape; cut some paste in thick, narrow strips and lay around your cakes so as to form a deep, cup-Uke edge; place on a well- buttered tin and bake. When done, fill with iced fruit, prepared as follows: Take rich, ripe peaches (canned ones will do if fine and weU drained from all juice), cut in halves; plums, strawberries, pineapples cut in squares or small triangles, or any other available fruit, and dip in the white of an egg that has been very slightly beaten, and then in pulverized sugar, and lay in the center of your cakes. Cinnamon Cakes.— Whites 4 eggs. Mi cup sugar, 1 cup flour. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons cream, 1 teaspoon ex- tract cinnamon. Mix as for cakes without butter, and bake in patty-pans in a quick oven. Ice with water icing flavored with cinnamon extract. Cigarettes.— Mix and sift 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons sugar, hi teaspoon salt. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, add Mi teaspoon extract cinnamon, 10 drops extract cloves, and milk to mix to a rather firm dough. Knead till smooth, cut off bits size of hickory nuts and mold into shape of cigarettes. TaJte Mi cup granulated sugar and 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon, mix, and roU each cigarette in it. Lay on greased pans, bake in moderate oven. Drop Cakes.— 1 cup butter. Mi cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 small teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 cup washed and picked currants, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg and lemon, ^ cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light cream ; add the eggs, beat 10 min- utes ; add the flour and powder sifted together, the milk and extracts. Mix into a rather firm batter, and drop with a spoon on a greased baking-tin (fig. XIV); bake in a quick oven 10 minutes. Ginger Snaps,— Mi cup lard. Mi cup butter, 1 large cup brown sugar, 1 cup water, 1 table- spoon extract ginger, 1 teaspoon each extract cinnamon and cloves, 1 quart fiour, \Mi tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub to a smooth paste the lard, butter, and sugar; then rub it into the flour and powder sifted together. Mix into a firm dough with the water and ex- tracts. Roll out the dough thin on a floured board, cut out with a round biscuit-cutter, and bake on greased pan (fig. XIV), in a hot, steady oven, 8 minutes. Edenkobers.— 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, V4 pound almonds, pounded to paste, pound chopped citron, M4 pound chopped candied lemon peel, 2 tablespoons drained honey, 2 cups flour, % teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix to a paste, roll out, and cut in small cakes. Bake in moderate oven. Hermits.— 3 eggs, 1 cup butter, IMz cups sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 tablespoons chopped citron, 1 teaspoon each extract cloves.19 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. allspice, and cinnamon, pinch of salt, 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, flour to roll out. Cut in rounds, bake in moderate oven. Soft Gingerbread.— 1 cup molasses, % cup sugar, cup butter, cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon allspice, 2 cups flour, 1 Ms teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Bake in shallow pans or gem-pans in moderate oven. Spice Drop Cakes.—Yolks 3 eggs, Mi cup butter, 1 cup molasses, cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, pinch of salt, spice to taste. Drop on buttered paper on tins, and bake in hot oven. Sand Tarts.— 1 cup butter, cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon water. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, flour to roll out. Cut in squares, sprinkle with granulated sugar and powdered cinnamon before baking in hot oven. Walnut Wafers.— pound brown sugar. Ml pound broken walnut meats, 2 level table- spoons flour, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der, Ml teaspoon salt, 2 eggs. Drop small spoonfuls on buttered pans, bake in quick oven. ♦ Fillings and Icings for Cake CREAM FILLING.— 2 cups sugar, 3 cups milk, 3 heaping tablespoons com-starch, yolks 5 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tea- spoons extract vanilla. Scald milk in double boiler, add corn-starch dissolved in little cold milk, stir till smooth. Add sugar, cook 10 min- utes. Add egg yolks, cook 4 minutes, take off and add vanilla. Cream Filling, 2.— 2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sifted flour, 1 cup sugar, flavoring. Cook as above. Cream Filling, 3.—1 cup thick cream whipped to a solid froth. Mi cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Mix lightly together and use at once. Cocoanut Filling.— 1 cup grated cocoanut, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs. Cook all to- gether 5 minutes. Cocoanut Fiiling, 2.— To cream Ailing, 2 add 2 cups freshly ^ated cocoanut, and 2 teaspoons extract vanula. Chocolate Cream Filling.— M cake choco- late, grated, % cup milk, Vfe cup sugar, 1 table- spoon butter, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Boil gently till thick. Chocolate Filling.— V4 cake chocolate, grated. Mi cup milk, yolk 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Boil sugar, choco- late, and milk till thickened, add egg yolk, cook 2 minutes, take from Are, add vanilla. Chocolate Filling, 2.— 5 tablespoons grated chocolate, cream to moisten, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Beat egg, add chocolate and sugar, cook over fire till thick, add flavoring. Lemon Filling.— Grated rind 2 lemons, their strained juice, 2 cuds sugar, whites 2 eggs, 1 cup boiling water, 2 tablespoons flour mixed with cold water, 1 tablespoon melted butter. Cook together in double boiler, adding beaten whites last. Orange Filling.— As lemon filling, using but cup sugar and oranges instead of lemons. Fig Filling.— ^ pound chopped figs, 2 table- spoons sugar, 3 tablespoons boiling water, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Cook in double boiler till thick enough. Fruit Filling.— 4 tablespoons finely chopped citron, same of chopped seeded raisins. Mi cup chopped blanched almonds, pound chopped figs, whipped whites 3 eggs, Vi cup sugar. Whip whites with sugar, add fruits, and beat well. Prune and Nut Filling.— Soak Mi pound large prunes over night. Steam until plump and soft. Remove pits. When cold add cup chopped blanched almonds and stir into this whites 3 eggs, beaten stiff, with Mi cup powdered sugar. Almond Icing.— Whites 3 eggs, 1 pound Jordan (sweet) almonds, 3 cups sugar, 10 drops extract rose. Pound to fine paste almonds, with a little sugar; then add whites of eggs, rest of sugar, and extract; pound few minutes to thoroughly mix. Take up in bowl and use as directed. Clear Icing, for Cake.— Put 1 cup sugar in a bowl with a tablespoon lemon juice and whites of 2 eggs. Mix together smooth and pour over the cake; if the cake is not hot enough to dry it, place it in the mouth of a moderately warm oven. Transparent Icing.— Place 1 pound pulver- ized white sugar in saucepan with Mi pint water. Boil to consistency of mucilage, then rub sugar with wooden spatula against sides of pan until it assumes white, milky appearance. Stir in 2 tablespoons extract vanilla; mix weU to- gether. Pour this while hot over top of cake so as to completely cover it. Chocolate Transparent Icing.— Melt 3 ounces fine chocolate with small quantity water in pan over fire (stirring constantly) until it becomes soft. Dilute this with gill of syrup; work until perfectly smooth. Then add to boiled sugar as above. White Icing.—The whites of 4 eggs, 11^ pounds white sugar dust, the juice of Mi lemon, V4 ounce extract rose. Place the whites and the sugar in a bowl with the juice and ex- tract. Beat with a wooden spoon until, letting some run from the spoon, it maintains the thread-like appearance for several minutes, when use as directed. Bakers’ Soft Icing.— Boil 2 cups granulated sugar with 1 cup water without stirring till it ropes when dropped from fork. Take quickly from Are, let stand untouched till blood-warm. Beat till thick as soft dough, take in hands and knead tiU soft, smooth, and creamy. Pack in covered glass and keep in cold place. To use, put some in bowl, set in hot water, stir con- stantly till soft enough to spread. Flavor and use. Will keep indefinitely.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 20 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Boiled Icing.— Boil 1 cup granulated sugar with cup water till it ropes when dropped from fork. Pour grad ually over stiffly whipped whites of 2 eggs, beating hard. Add flavoring and use at once. Chocolate Water Icing.— Melt 3 ounces fine chocolate in a few spoons water until creamy. Boil 2 cups granulated sugar with 1 cup water without stirring till it can be rolled in soft ball between fingers in cold water. Take from fire, stir for a moment till it becomes slightly cloudy. Add chocolate and use at once on cake. Plain Icing.—Whip white 1 egg tUl frothy. Add 1 teaspoon cold water, then 1 tablespoon at a time, sufficient sifted confectioners’ sugar to make stiff enough to spread. Flavor as desired. Royal Icing.— Put whites 2 eggs in a bowl, add 1 tablespoon sifted confectioners’ sugar, beat 3 minutes. Add another tablespoon sugar, beat again, continue till icing is very stiff and glossy, adding 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Spread on cake, let stand till dry. Water Icing.— To 2 tablespoons boOing water add enough confectioners’ sugar to make thick enough to spread. Add any fiavoring desired. Maple Sugar Frosting.— Boil % pound broken maple sugar with 3 tablespoons water till dissolved and thick enough to rope when dropped from fork. Povir gradually on whipped whites of 2 eggs. Beat till thick enough to spread. Marshmallow Frosting.— Heat 2 table- spoons milk and 6 tablespoons sugar over fire; boil 6 minutes without stirring. In double boiler heat pound cut marshmallows. When very soft add 2 tablespoons boiling water, cook till smooth. Beat in hot sugar; keep beating till partly cool, add teaspoon extract vanilla. Use at once. ¥ Plain Cakes German apple cake.—i pint fiour, teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vi teaspoon salt, mixed and sifted. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, add 1 beaten egg, and milk to make very thick batter. Spread 1 inch deep in greased shallow tin; have ready sev- eral pared, cored, and quartered apples. Press points into dough, sprinkle thickly with sugar mixed with little cinnamon. Bake in hot oven. Dutch Peach Cake.— Make a soft biscuit- dough with 1 quart flour, 2 tablespoons but- ter, Ml teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and sufficient cold milk to mix. Roll out % inch thick, lay on flat greased pans. Have ready some peaches pared and quartered. Press these into the top of the dough in rows. Sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake in a quick oven. Cut in squares while hot. Coffee Cake.— Mix 1 pint flour, % teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons sugar. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter. Beat 2 eggs, add Mi cup milk, add more milk if necessary to mix to soft dough. Roll out 1 inch thick, sprinkle with 1 cup chopped dates, almonds, figs, mixed together. Roll little thinner, sprinkle -with granulated sugar. Lay on greased shallow pan, bake in hot oven. Break in squares, seiwe hot. Tea Cakes.— 3 cups flour, Ufa teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, ^ teaspoon salt, % cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon cara- way-seeds, milk to mix to soft biscuit-dough. Roll out Mi inch thick, cut in circles, and bake in flat pan in hot ovcu. Strudel Cakes.— Mix 1 quart flour, 1 tea- spoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 4 tablespoons butter, mix to soft dough with milk, roll out Mi inch thick. Have ready mixed 1 cup chopped almonds, Mi pound seedless raisins, Mi^ cup grated maple sugar. Cut dough in 2 pieces. On 1 piece spread nut mixture, cover with other piece, roll together with pin. Cut in 4- inch squares, brush tops with milk, sprinkle with maple sugar, bake in quick oven. Bath Buns.— Mix and sift 1 quart flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking I’owder, Mi teaspoon salt, % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon powdered cinna- mon. Add grated rind 1 lemon. Mi cup chopped citron. Rub in Mi cup butter. Beat 6 egg yolks, add % cup milk, and mix all to soft dough, adding more milk if needed. Mold with the hands in round buns. Place 1 inch apart on greased pans. Brush with milk, sprinkle with chopped citron, and bake in quick oven. Cinnamon Buns.— Sift together 1 pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar. Mi teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, mix with milk to soft d'■^]gh. Roll out Ml inch thick, spread with sfllirbutter, granulated sugar, and powdered cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roU, cut in inch slices, lay close together in greased pan, and bake in quick oven. Buchtels.— Prepare dough as for cinnamon buns, but take double quantity butter. Roll out Mi inch thick, cut in 4-inch squares with jagging-iron. In center of each place 2 stewed and pitted prunes and pinch of grated lemon rind. Draw corners of dough together, pinch. Place close together in greased pan, brush with white of egg, sprinkle with granulated sugar, and bake in hot oven. Triangles.— Prepare dough as for cinnamon buns. Roll out, cut in strips, then in 3-cor- nered pieces. Brush each with white of egg, press in center Mi lump .sugar, surround with seeded raisins, and bake in hot oven. Eccles Biscuit.— Sift together 1 pint flour. Ml teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 2 scant tablespoons butter. Mix to a soft dough with milk; roll out ^ inch thick. Have ready a mixture of Mi cup each chopped seeded raisins, citron, cleaned cur- rants, finely chopped almonds or other nuts, 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, V4 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon allspice, pinch cloves, and just enough good sherry or brandy to moisten. Cut the dough in ovals. On each put a spoonful of the filling; brush edges with white of egg; fold over to make pointed oval cakes. Turn plain side up, press lightly to flatten. With sharp scissors make 3 short cuts21 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. across top. Sift over little powdered sugar, place well apart on greased pans, and bake in quick oven till pale brown. Good for lunch. Currant Loaf.— 3 c\ips flour, % cup butter, Vi cup sugar. Vs teaspoon salt, 1 cup cleaned currants, grated rind 1 lemon, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix dry ingredients, rub in butter, add currants and lemon rind, mix to a very thick drop batter with cold milk. Turn into well-greased loaf-pan, bake 1 hour in moderate oven. Fruit Wheels.— Sift together 2 cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Vs teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar. Rub in 2 large tablespoons butter. Mix to soft dough with milk; roll out inch thick. Spread thickly with soft butter, dust with 1 teaspoon flour, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 tea- spoon cinnamon]; sprinkle over Mi cup each of seeded and cut raisins, chopped citron, and cleaned currants. Roll up, cut in 1-inch slices, put 1 inch apart on greased flat pans, and bake in hot oven. Fruit Short Cakes The old-fashioned fruit short cakes were generally made with flour, soda, sour milk, and shortening, and were restricted to the strawberry season. We now use Royal Baking Powder for lightening them, employ all the fruits of the various seasons, and thus feast ourselves upon the delicate confections almost the whole year through. The short cake made with Royal Baking Powder and sweet milk is incomparably better, surer, ■ i 1 more healthful than the old-fashioned concoc- tion. Too much skill was reqviired in combin- ing soda and sour milk. The milk had to be at just the right stage of sourness; not a grain more of soda could be used than was sufficient to neutralize the acid in the milk, or the cake would be yellow, with a disagreeable odor and soapy taste; if too little, the cake was heavy. But even the young or inexperienced house- keeper will find that with Royal Baking Powder a perfect short cake is an easy and agreeable task. The baking powder only needs to be thoroughly sifted with the fiour, so that it may evenly lighten the cake. Use sweet milk al- ways. For the old-fashioned short cake no eggs are needed, the dough being put together in the same way as for baking powder biscuit. Throughout the summer fresh fruit of all kinds can be used. With cold weather substi- tutes are found in tropical fruits such as ba- nanas and oranges, stewed fruits such as prunes, dried, and all varieties of canned fruits; but it is better to keep the fruit short cake for those seasons when ripe, fresh fruits are obtainable. The cake part for a fruit short cake may be made from any one of the following receipts: Short Cake.— 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 pint milk. Sift the flour. salt, and powder together, rub in the butter cold; add the milk and mix into a smooth dough, just soft enough to handle; divide in half, and roll out to the size of breakfast-plates; lay on a greased baking-tin (fig. XIV), and bake in hot oven 20 minutes; separate the cakes without cutting, as cutting makes them heavy. Short Cake, 2.— 1 quart flour, Vj cup but- ter, Vj teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, milk to make soft dough. Dlix as in first receipt, and bake. Short Cake, 3.— 1 pint flour, 3 tablespoons butter. Mi teaspoon s^t, 2 teaspoons sugar, 2 scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, milk to mix to stiff batter. Sift dry ingredients; add milk to make very thick batter in which spoon will stand upright. Turn into shallow greased pan (fig. XIII), and steam 30 minutes; place in not oven 10 minutes. When cold split in 2 or 3 thicknesses. Short Cake, 4.— Cream cup butter and 1 cup sugar. Add 2 well-beaten eggs. Mi tea- spoon salt; then, alternately. Mi cup milk and 2 cups flour in which is sifted 2 teaspoons Roym Baking Powder. Bake in layer-cake tins and use when cold. Apple Short Cake.— Pare, core, and cut 8 sour apples into eighths. Put in earthen dish with 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Ml cup sugar, and a pinch of cinnamon or nutmeg. Cover and bake in moderate oven till dark red and tender. Wlien cold spread between layers of short cake and serve with plain or whipped cream or a cold boiled custard. Blackberry Short Cake.— Wash and drain 1 quart berries. Sweeten, spread between lay- ers of short cake, and serve with cream or a cold custard. Strawberry Shortcake.—Pick, hull, wash, and drain berries. Sweeten, spread between bottom layers of short cake. Garnish top layer with large whole berries, dust with sugar, and serve with cream or custard. Raspberry Short Cake.— Prepare as for strawberry short cake. Cherry Short Cake.— Make as for straw- berry short cake, using pitted sweet or tart cherries. Peach Short Cake.—Pare and slice peaches. Finish as for strawberry short cake. Banana Short Cake.— Peel and slice ba- nanas. Finish as for strawberry short cake. Canned Fruit Short Cake.— Any canned fruit, drained from syrup, may be used in place of fresh fruit, finishing as for other short cakes. Huckleberry Short Cake.—2 cups sugar. Ml cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pint milk, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted into 3 cups flour, 1 quart washed and well- drained huckleberries, more flour to make a very thick batter. Bake in greased dripping- pan, break in squares, serve hot with butter. Individual Short Cakes.—Make short cake, 2. Roll out Ml inch thick, cut in rounds size of small saucer. Bake and finish as for other short cakes.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 22 Doughnuts and Crullers These old-fashioned “fried cakes,” as they used to be called, need the addition of Royal Baking Powder to make them light. By its use less shortening is necessary and the cakes are more tender and far more digestible. After it is mixed with the flour the other ingredients are added and the dough quickly rolled out, cut, and at once cooked. The fat should be in a deep pot (to obviate any danger of boiling over), and should be of suffi- cient depth to cover the dough when flrst dropped in. It should be smoking hot, or the dough will absorb grease and be soggy. Not more than half a dozen should be dropped in at one time, or the fat will be unduly cooled and some of the cakes submerged during the entire cooking; in which case the cakes when cooked will be greasy and not light. One or two pieces of dough should be cooked flrst as testers. When done the cakes should be drained on unglazed paper, then rolled in pow- dered sugar. Doughnuts.— Beat well together 2 eggs and 2 cups granulated sugar. Add 1 pint milk and 1 quart flour in which are mixed and sifted 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1 grated nutmeg. Beat well, then add more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out inch thick, cut in rings or small balls, and fry brown in a deep kettle of smoking-hot fat. Doughnuts, 2.— cup butter, 1 cup sugar, Hi pints flour. Hi teaspoons Royal BaWng Powder, 1 egg, IVi cups milk, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub the butter, sugar, and egg to- gether smooth. Sift the flour and powder to- gether, add it to the butter, the milk, etc. Mix into a soft dough; well flour the board, roll out the dough to ^i inch in thickness, cut out with large biscuit-cutter, and fry to a light brown in plenty of lard made hot for the pur- pose. Serve with sifted sugar over them. Doughnuts, 3.— % cup granulated sugar, yolks and whites 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons melted butter or lard, 3 cups flour, 3 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon grated nut- meg. Add beaten whites last, then ^d enough more flour to make a soft dough. Roll Vi inch thick, cut, and fry as directed. Doughnuts, 4.— Sift together 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 quart flour, Vi cup sugar, M) teaspoon salt. Add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, a little more flour if necessary to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut, and fry. German Doughnuts.— Scald 1 pint milk, pour hot over 1 pint flour, and beat till smooth; add Vi teaspoon salt, and let cool. Add beaten yolks 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon flavoring, Vi cup sugar, beaten whites of eggs, 1 cup flour mixed with 2 teaspoons Roy^ Baking Powder, and more flour to make a soft dough. Roll, cut, and fry. Puffball Doughnuts.—3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint milk, Vi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted with 2 cups flour, more flour to make a thick batter in which s^on will stand upright. Drop by small spoonfuls in kettle of smoking-hot fat and fry brown. Crullers.— IVi cups sugar, 1 cup mUk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, melted, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon, Vi tea- spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder mixed with 2 cups flour, more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut in squares, cut slits in each with jagging-iron, and braid together. Fry in smoking-hot fat. Crullers, 2.— 1 quart flour, Vi cup lard, Vi cup butter, 1 cup sugar, IVi teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, % pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tea- spoon extract nutmeg. Sift the flour, sugar, and powder together; rub in the lard and but- ter ; add the beaten eggs, extract, and milk. Mix into a smooth dough, just soft enough to handle conveniently. Roll out with the rolling-pin on a well-floured board; cut into strips about Vi inch wide, twist in different shapes, and fry to a light brown color in plenty hot lard. Serve with sifted sugar. Crullers, 3.— 2 cups brown sugar, IVi cups butter, 6 eggs, Vi nutmeg, grated, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, flour to make soft dough. Roll, cut with jagging-iron, fry as directed. Crullers, 4.— 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 cup cream, 3 cups flour mixed with 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and Vi tea- spoon salt, adding enough flour to make soft dough. Roll out, cut in 2-inch squares, and slash with jagging-iron. Fry, drain, and roil in sugar. Dutch Crullers.— 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cream, V4 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, suffi- cient flour to mix to a soft dou^h. RoU out, cut in squares, cut several times m center with jagging-iron; fry brown in kettle of deep smoking-hot fat. Fried Cakes.— 2Vi cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Vi cup milk, Vi tea- spoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 scant tablespoon melted butter, 5 tablespoons sugar. Sift dry materials together. Add beaten eggs, mUk, and melted butter. Drop by small spoonfuls in deep smoking-hot fat, fry brown, drain on unglazed paper. Doughnuts, 5.— Scald 1 cup milk, add Vi cup sugar, stir till dissolved, and cool. Add 1 Vi cups flour sifted with V4 teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, the well- beaten whites 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted but- ter, and enough more flour to make a soft dough. Roll, cut, and fry. Rye Drop Cakes.— 1 heaping cup rye meal, 1 heaping cup flour, 1 tea^oon salt, 3 table- spoons molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 eg^, 2 Vi tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift dry ma- terials together. Add milk, molasses, and beaten eggs. Drop by spoonfuls in deep smok- ing-hot fat. When brown drain on paper. THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. 123 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Wonders.— 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons melted shortening, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder mixed \vith 1 cup flour. Add more flour to make stiff dough, roll very thin. Out in 3-inch squares; in each cut sev- eral slits; run finger through and separate, then dent them. Fry and roll in sugar. ¥ Dumplings Apple dumplings, royal.— l quart flour, thoroughly mix with it 3 teaspoons L Royal Baking Powder and a small tea- spoon salt; rub in a piece of butter or lard the size of an egg, and then add 1 medium po- tato, grated in the flour; after the butter is well mixed, stir in milk and knead to the con- sistency of soft biscuit-dough; break off pieces of dough large enough to close over 4 quarters of an apple (or other fruit as desired) without rolling, and lay in an earthen dish and steam until the fruit is tender. Serve with brandy sauce. Apple Dumplings, 2.— Paste, 2; 6 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced, 1 cup sugar. Line 6 cups, well greased, with the paste rolled out thin, wet edges, flU with apples, some of the sugar, cover with more paste; put in shal- low stewpan, large enough to contain them, with boiling water to reach half-way up the cups; steam thus 45 minutes; turn out on dish, sift sugar over them; serve with spice sauce. Apple Dumplings, 3.— Paste, 3; 8 apples, peeled and cored, 1 cup sugar. Roll out the paste thin, cut into 8 squares of 4 inches, lay on each an apple with sugar in aperture made by removing core, wet four corners of paste, and bring them to top of apple and fas- ten ; sift sugar over them ; lay on baking-sheet and bake in hot oven 25 minutes; serve with hard sauce. Berry Dumplings.— Use berries of any kind carefully picked, hulled or prepared, and make as for apple dumplings, putting 1 or 2 tablespoons of berries in each dumpling. English Dumpling.—1 pint flour, 1 cup finely chopped suet, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix and sift flour, salt, and baking powder. Add suet; mix to firm dough with ice-water. Knead for 2 minutes; roli out inch thick. Put a floured cloth over a bowl; on it spread the crust. Fill with sliced apples mixed with sugar and a little powdered cinnamon. Draw up crust and cloth so as to completely cover apples; tie cloth, al- lowing a little room to swell. Drop in kettle of rapidly boiling water, with trivet at bottom to prevent scorching. Keep at a rapid boil for 2 hours. If water stops boiling the dumpling will be heavy. Or place in steamer and steam 3 hours. Serve hot with cream and sugar or a liquid sauce. Farina Dumplings.—1 quart milk, 10 ounces farina, 3 eggs, 114 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, a tablespoon fresh butter, 14 pound flour. Bring milk to a boil, stir in farina, and boil till well done, continually stirring. After cooling, stir in the melted butter and eggs previously^ beaten up, and last add flour siftM with baking powder and salt. Drop with ta- blespoon into boiling water, well salted ; boil about 15 minutes till they rise; take out with skimmer and serve with fruit sauce. Peach Dumplings.—Proceed as directed for apple dumplings, 1. Peach Dumplings, 2.—Bring 1 cup water, 2 tablespoons butter, to boiling point; turn in quickly 1 cup dry flour; stir till mixture draws away from sides of pan. Take from fire and cool. Work in 4 eggs, % cup flour mixed with Ml teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, more flour if necessary to make a soft dough. Pat out in a cake, cut in rounds with a saucer. On each place a pared, unpitted peach. Draw dough round to cover the fruit. Place in greased pan, brush with milk, and bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. Serve with clear sauce. Receipts for making dumplings for a stew or fricassee frequently call for shortening. This is a mistake, and usually results in heavy, soggy dumplings. Heaviness may also be caused by a removal of the lid of pot or steamer before the dumplings are done. Flour, salt. Royal Baking Powder, and sweet milk are all that are needed to make tender, fluffy dumplings of this kind. The dry ingredients should be sifted carefuUy together, then quickly mixed with the milk. During the cooking the liquid in pot or steamer should be kept at a steady boil. No more batter or dough should be dropped in at one time than will cover the surface of the liquid or rest on top of the meat, for, if too many dumplings are dropped in at once, those underneath are sure to be soggy. The cover shotild not be lifted until the dump- lings are done. Dumplings for Soup.—1 cup flour, >4 tea- spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, sifted together. Add Ms cup finely chopped suet, and enough milk to make stiff dough. Bake into dumplings size of marbles, drop into soup, cover, and boil 10 minutes. Egg Dumplings for Soup.—Beat 2 eggs, add ■4 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons mOk. Sift 1 cup flour with 1 scant teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, add egg mixture, and more flour if necessary to make thick batter. Drop by half teaspoonluls in boiling soup; cover, cook 10 minutes. Dumplings for Stews.—Mix and sift 1 pint flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, tea- spoon salt. Mix to soft dough with milk. Turn on board, roll out 1 inch thick, cut in small circles. Roll each in flour, drop on top simmering stew. Cover, cook 20 minutes without opening pot. Dumplings for Stews, 2.—Mix 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Vj teaspoon salt. Add milk to mix to thick batter. Drop by small spoonfuls over boiling stew, and cook as in preceding receipt.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 24 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Suet Dumplings.—1 cup bread crumbs, 2j tablespoons finely chopped beef suet, whites and yolks 2 eggs beaten separately, Vi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder sifted with 1 cup flour, sufficient milk to mix to stiff paste. Flour hands and make into baUs. Wring small cloths in hot water, du *■ with flour, lay ball in each and tie, leaving room to swell. Cook in rapidly boiling water 45 min- utes, and serve with liquid sauce (see Sauces). Potato Dumplings.—1 dozen large potatoes, 6 tal)lespoons flour, 2 tablespoons Royal Bak- ing Powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, salt, and nutmeg. Grate potatoes, which have been boiled and skinned the day before; mix with the flour, previously sifted together with bak- ing powder, add the melted butter, and eggs one by one, and salt and nutmeg to taste; form into balls about size of a .small apple, put into boiling water, which has been well salted, boil 15 minutes; take out with skimmer, and serve with any kind of fricassee or pot-roast. Suet Dumplings (Danish).—1 cup suet, chopped fine, 1 cup grated English muffins or bread, 1 cup flour, teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Vt cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 pint mBk, large pinch salt. Sift together powder and flour, add beaten eggs, grated muffins, sugar, suet, and milk; form into smooth batter, which drop by tablespoons into pint boiling milk, three or four at a time ; when done, dish and pour over them milk they were boiled in. « Puddings Apple pudding (Boston).—Paste, 3; 12 or 14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced ; 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, IVfe cups sugar. Line edge of deep earthenware dish with the paste; pack in the apples, add sugar, Vfj cup water, and extract; wet edge of paste; lay on cover of paste, press two together, orna- ment edge, wash with milk, bake in moderate oven ; serve with rich cream. Apple Pudding (English).—Paste, 2; 12 or 14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced; 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, IVfe cups sugar. Line earthen- ware pudding-mold with paste, pack in apples, sugar, and extract; wet edges; cover, pinch edges together firmly; place in saucepan full boiling water. Apple Tapioca Pudding,—Pare and core enough apples to fill dish; put into each apple bit of lemon peel. Soak % pint tapioca in 1 quart lukewarm water 1 hour, add a little salt; flavor with lemon; pour over apples. Bake until apples are tender. Serve cold with cream and sugar. Blackberry Pudding.—Paste, 2; 1 quart berries. lV<j cups sugar. Proceed as directed for apple pudding. Blackberry Pudding, 2.—Proceed as di- rected for cottage pudding, adding IVij cups blackberries ; serve with liquid sauce. Batter Pudding (Baked).—Proceed as di- rected for batter pudding (hoilM), baking it in well-buttered pudding-dish 35 minutes ; serve with foaming sauce. Batter Pudding (with Fruit).— 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pint milk, 4 eggs, 2 cups any kind of fruit prepared as usual, IVfj cups sugar. Sift flour, sugar, and powder together, add eggs, beaten, milk, and fruit; pour into weU-buttered pudding-dish, bake in quick oven 40 minutes; serve with wine sauce. Batter Pudding (Boiled).— 1% cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, 10 drops extract nut- meg, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift flour, salt, and owder together; rub in butter cold; add eggs, eaten, and milk; mix into batter as for muf- fins ; pour into well-buttered mold; set in sauce- pan with boiling water % up sides of mold; steam one hour, and serve with spice sauce. Boston Baked Plum Pudding.— IMi cups beef suet, freed of skin, chopped very fine, 1^ cups raisins, stoned, IMi cups currants, washed and picked, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk. Ml cup citron, chopped, pinch salt, 1 tablespoon extract nutmeg, 1 glass brandy. Put all these ingredients in a bowl, eggs as they drop from the shell, flour sifted with powder, and brandy; mix into rather short batter; pour into weU-buttered clean cake-tin, bake in steady oven 2 hours; serve with va- nilla sauce. Cabinet Pudding.— Mi pound stale sponge cake, VSj cup raisins. Mi can peaches, 4 eggs, IMi pints milk. Butter plain oval mold; lay in some stale cake, Vb of the raisins, stoned, Vb of peaches; make two layers of remainder of cake, raisins, and peaches; cover with very thin slice of bread; then pour over milk beaten with eggs and sugar; set in saucepan with boiling water to reach % up sides of mold, steam it % hour, turn out carefully on dish, and serve with peach sauce. Cottage Pudding.— 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups cream, 1 pint flour, IV2 teaspoons Etoyal Baking Powder. Beat the eggs and sugar to- gether; add cream, flour with the powder sifted in, and a pinch of salt; mix into smooth batter as for cup cake; put into long narrow or oval buttered mold, bake in hot oven 30 minutes ; serve with liquid or foaming sauce. Cottage Pudding, 2.— 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, lump butter size of egg. 1 pint flour, salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Sauce.— 1 cup sugar, 1 egg. 1 tea- spoon flour, small piece of butter, mixed. Add boiling water, let come to boil, flavor with extract vanilla. Cherry Pudding.—2 eggs, 1 cup milk, Mi teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter, IMi cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch salt. Mix in order given, turn into shallow greased pan. Over top put 2 pounds cherries, press into the batter, sprinkle with 3 tablespoons granulated sugar. Bake 30 min- utes in moderate oven, serve hot with cream and sugar. Chocolate Pudding.—1 quart milk, scalded; IMi squares chocolate, grated; wet with cold milk, and stir into scalded milk. When choco- late is dissolved, pour into pudding-dish; add yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten, and 6 table- spoons sugar. Bake about \ hour. Beat25 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK lER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. THE ROYAL BAKING POWI whites of eggs to stiff froth; add 6 tablespoons sug^r. Spread the frosting over top; set again in oven until a light brown. Custard Pudding.— IMj pints milk, 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla, and pinch of salt. Beat eggs and sugar together ; dilute with milk and extract; pour into but- tered pudding-dish, set in oven in dripping- pan full of boiling water; bake until firm, about 40 minutes, in moderate oven. Fig Pudding.— pound good dried figs, washed, wiped, and minced; 2 cups fine dry bread crumbs, 3 eggs, cup beef suet, pow- dered ; 2 scant cups sweet milk, cup wliite sugar, in which 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- der has been mixed, little salt. Soak the crumbs in milk, add eggs, beaten light with sugar, salt, suet, and figs. Beat 3 minutes; put in buttered mold with tight top, set in boiling water with weight on cover to prevent mold from upsetting, and boil 3 hours. Eat hot with hard sauce made of butter, powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Indian Pudding.— tg cup flour, cups Indian corn meal, V<s cup syrup, tfj teaspoon salt, 1 quart milk. Mix flour, corn meal, salt, and cup milk together; pour the rest on it, boiling; stir once in a while for 30 minutes; bake in moderate oven 2 hours in well-but- tered pudding-dish; serve with wine sauce. Lemon Suet Pudding.—3 cups stale bread, 1 cup suet, Mi cup sugar, mixed with 1 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, 4 eggs, 1 table- ^oon extract lemon, pints milk, pinch salt. Grate bread, chop suet, freed of skin, very fine, put them in bowl; add sugar, eggs, beaten, salt, and extract; pour over boiling milk, stir- ring it the while; suffer it to stand 30 minutes, covered, then pour into well-buttered pudding- dish ; bake in moderate oven 40 minutes; serve with sugar sauce. Orange Pudding.—1^4 cups stale Royal un- fermented bread, 1 cup finely chopped suet, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, juice of 1 orange or 1 tablespoon extract orange. Mi cup milk. Mix aU thor- oughly together, fill 6 cups, well greased, boU 30 minutes. Turn out on dish, serve with hard sauce flavored with 1 teaspoon extract orange. Peach Cottage Pudding.—Make a batter with Vi cup sugar, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 Vi tea- spoons Royal Baking Powder. Stir in 2 cups sliced peaches, bake in a loaf and serve with hard sauce. Fine Peach Pudding.—Fill pudding-dish with whole peeled peaches, pour over 1 pint water, cover, and bake till peaches are tender. Drain off juice and let cool. Add to it 2 cups milk, 4 beaten eggs, 1 scant cup flour mixed with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter, pinch salt. Beat hard 4 minutes, pour over peaches in dish, bake to rich brown and serve with cream. “ Poor Man’s Pudding.”—V^ cup suet, chopped, V<2 cup seeded raisins, V<s cup currants, washed and picked, IVfe cups grated bread, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, Mi cup brown sugar, 1 pint milk. Slix all well together, put into well-greased mold, set in saucepan with boiling water to reach Vi up sides of mold; steam 2 hours; turn out on dish carefully ; serve with butter and sugar. Plum Pudding (Royal Christmas).—2 cups raisins, 2 cups currants, 2 cups suet, Vi cup almonds, blanched, 2 cups flour, 2 cups grated bread, Vi cup each citron, orange, and lemon peels, 8 eggs, 1 cup sugar, Vi cup cream, 1 gill each wine and brandy, large pinch salt, 1 table- spoon extract nutmeg, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak- ing Powder. Put in large bowl raisins, seeded, currants, washed and picked, suet, chopped very tine, almonds, cut fine, citron, orange, and lemon peels, chopped, sugar, wine, brandy, and cream; lastly, add flour, sifted with powder ; mix all well together, put in large, well-buttered mold (fig. II); set in saucepan mth boiling water to reach ^ up sides of mold, steam thus 5 hours; turn out on dish carefully; serve with Royal wine sauce. Plum Pudding, 2.—IVi cups each grated bread, very finely chopped suet, raisins, seeded, currants, washed and picked, and coffee .sugar. Mi cup each citron, milk, and orange marma- lade, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon each extract cin- Tiamou, cloves, and nutmeg. Mix all these ingredients well together in large bowl, put in well-buttered mold, set in saucepan with boil- ing water to reach Mi up its sides; steam thus 3Mj hours; turn out carefully on dish, and serve with Royal wine sauce. Princess Pudding.— % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 large cup flour, 3 eggs. Mi teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, small glass brandy. Rub to smooth cream butter and sugar; add eggs, 1 at a time, beating few minutes after each addition; add flour sifted with powder, and brandy; put into mold well buttered, set in saucepan with boiling water to reach % up its sides; steam thus IV^ hours; turn out on dish carefully; serve with lemon sauce. Raisin Roly Poly.— 2 cups flour. Mi teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, sifted together. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, miT with milk to soft dough, roU out Mi inch thick. Spread with a little soft butter. Sprinkle thickly with seeded raisins, then with 2 ta- blespoons granulated sugar. Roll up, pinch ends together, lay on buttered pie-plate, and steam 30 minutes. Dry off in oven 10 minutes. Serve with creamy or liquid sauce. Raisin Pudding.— 1 cup finely chopped suet. Mi cup sugar, 2 eggs, Mi cup milk, 1 cup entire wheat flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup floured raisins. Steam 3 hours. Serve with liquid sauce. Rice Pudding.— Mi cup rice, IVfj pints milk. Ml cup sugar, large pinch salt, 1 tablespoon lemon rind chopped fine. Put rice, washed and picked, sugar, salt, and milk in quart pudding- dish ; bake in moderate oven 2 hours, stirring frequently first IMi hours, then permit it to finish cooking with light-colored crust, disturb- ing it no more. Eat cold wdth cream. Rice Pudding, 2.— Vfj cup rice, % pint milk, 4 apples, peeled, cored, and stewed, Vh cup sugar, 4 eggs. Boil rice in milk until reduced to pulp; beat well with apple sauce and sugar for 10 minutes, then set aside to cool; then carefully mix in whites of eggs, whipped to stiff froth,26 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWl )ER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. butter the mold, pour in pudding, set in sauce- pan with boUing water to reach Mi up _ its sides; steam slowly for 25 minutes; permit it to stand 3 minutes before turning out; serve with custard sauce. Sago Pudding.— 1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons sago boiled in the milk till soft; set dish in kettle of hot water, and let sago swell gradu- ally. Beat up 3 eggs, and stir into cooked milk and sago; salt and sugar to taste. Then put in oven and bake very lightly. Serve with creamy sauce. Souffld" of Different Fruits.— With fruits of a soft and juicy nature, such as peaches, plums, apricots, bananas, etc., proceed in this manner: Remove the kernels and press the fruit through a sieve; put what you have thus obtained in a bowl, adding Mi pound powdered sugar and the whites of 3 eggs; beat well with an egg-beater for 5 or 6 minutes. Then take the whites of G or 7 eggs and beat them into a stiff froth ; mix well together. Put this on a dish in a well-heated oven 5 or G minutes be- fore serving. Sprinkle powdered sugar on top. For hard fruits, such as apples, pears, etc., cook them first and then press through a sieve. The treatment is exactly the same as for the others. Suet Pudding.—2 eggs, 1 cup milk, Mi cup molasses. Mi cup finely chopped suet, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 3 scant cups fiour, spices to taste, and 1 cup mixed chopped fruit — raisins, citron, currants, or almonds. Steam 2 hours and serve with a soft sauce. Tapioca Pudding.— 1 small cup tapioca, 1 quart mUk, 1 teaspoon butter, 3 tablespoons sugar. Soak tapioca in water 4 or 5 hours, then add the milk; flavor with extract lemon, or anything else you prefer. Bake slowly 1 hour. To be made day before it is wanted, and eaten cold with cream or milk and sugar. Some prefer the pudding made with 3 pints mUk and no water. Tapioca and Cocoanut Pudding.— 1 cup tapioca soaked overnight, 1 quart milk, yolks 4 eggs, whites of 2, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons grated cocoanut; bake Mi hour. Make frosting of whites 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 table- spoons grated cocoanut; spread over pudding when baked. Set in oven until a light brown. ¥ Sauces for Puddings, Etc. Brandy sauce.— Proceed as directed for wine sauce, 2, substituting brandy for wine. Canned Fruit Sauce.—Take the syrup from any canned fruit, add sufflcient sugar to sweeten, and an equal quantity of boiling water. Measure, and for 1 pint thicken with 1 tablespoon arrowroot blended in a little wa- ter. Boil 10 minutes; add 1 tablespoon butter and stir till melted. Currant Jelly Sauce.— Melt 1 cup red-cur- rant jelly, add 1 glass white wine, and 1 tea- spoon extract raspberry. Currant Jelly Sauce, 2.— Cream 2 table- spoons butter ; add gradually % cup stifl' cur- rant jelly slightly softened by standing in warm room. Beat well and serve very cold. Cream Sauce.— Bring % pint cream slowly to boil; set in stewpan boiling water; when it reaches boiling point add sugar, then pour slowly on whipped whites of 2 eggs in bowl; add 1 teaspoon extract vanilla and use. Creamy Sauce.— Cream 2 tablespoons but- ter ; beat in by degrees Mi cup powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons each of thick cream and sheiry. Beat long and hard. Just before serving stand bowl over hot water and beat till sauce b oks creamy but is not hot enough to melt the butter. Custard Sauce.— 1 pint milk, yolks 4 eggs, Ml cup sugar. Set over fire and stir until thick. Duchesse Sauce.— Boil 2 ounces grated chocolate in Mi pint milk 5 minutes; strain on 2 yolks of eggs beaten with Mi gill cream and Y2 cup sugar; strain, return to fire, stir until thick as honey; remove and add 1 tea- spoon extract vanilla. Foaming Sauce.— Whip white 1 egg and Mi cup powdered sugar to a stiff froth. Whip separately 1 cup thick cream to a solid froth. Mix lightly together, flavor with 1 tablespoon sherry. Hard Sauce.— Beat 1 cup sugar and Mi cup butter to white cream; add whites 2 eggs; beat few minutes longer; add tablespoon brandy and teaspoon extract nutmeg; put on ice until needed. Qolden Sauce.— Make hard sauce as above without egg whites or flavoring. Beat in gradually the yolks of 2 raw eggs and add flavoring to suit. The color may be accentu- ated by the addition of a little yellow color- paste. Hygienic Cream Sauce.— Mi pint milk. Mi pint cream, yolk 1 egg, 1 tablespoon buckwheat dissolved in little milk, large pinch salt. Bring milk and cream to boil in thick, weU-lined saucepan; add to it buckwheat dissolved in milk, stirring rapidly to prevent lumping; al- low it to boil 5 minutes; remove from fire, beat in the yolk of egg diluted with a table- spoon milk. Lemon Sauce.— Boil 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water together 15 minutes, then remove; when cooled a little, add Mi teaspoon extract lemon and 1 tablespoon lemon jmce. Molasses Sauce.— Boil together 10 minutes 1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 table- spoon butter, pinch salt. For apple puddings. Orange Sauce.— To golden sauce made as above add the grated yellow rind and 1 table- spoon of the juice of an orange. Peach Sauce.— Place peach juice from can in small saucepan; add equal volume of wa- ter, little more sugar, and 8 or 10 raisins ; boil this 10 minutes, strain, and just before serv- ing add 8 drops extract bitter almonds. Rexford Sauce.— Dissolve 1 teaspoon corn- starch in little water; add it to 1 cup boiling water, with % cup brovm sugar; boil 10 min-THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 27 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. utes; remove from fire; add ’^4 cup cider, sc«dding hot, 1 large tablespoon good butter, aud yolks 2 eggs. Royal Wine Sauce.— Bring slowly to boil- ing point ‘>2 pint wiue; then add yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cup sugar; whip it on fire until in state of high froth aud a little thick; remove and use as directed. Sugar Sauce.—Beat to light cream cup sugar, flavored with V4 teaspoon extract lemon and V4 cup butter; add yolks of 2 eggs and place on ice until wanted. Vanilla Sauce.— Put 14 pint milk in small saucepan over Are; when scalding hot, add yolks 3 eggs; stir until thick as boiled custard; add, when taken from the Are and cooled, 1 tablespoon extract vanilla and whites of eggs whipped stiff. Wine Sauce.— % pint water, 1 cup sugar, 1 small teaspoon corn-starch, 1 teaspoon each extract lemon and cinnamon, gill wine. Boil water, add corn-starch dissolved in little cold water, and the sugar; boil 15 minutes, strain; when about to serve, add extracts and wine. Wine Sauce, 2.—14 pint water, 1 cup sugar, l4 teaspoon com-starch, 1 teaspoon each ex- tract bitter almonds and vanilla, 14 cup white wine. Stir 2 tablespoons of sugar on the fire in thick saucepan, with 1 tablespoon water, until very dark, but not burned; add water boiling, rest of sugar, the com-starch dissolved; boil 10 minutes; when about to serve, strain, add extracts and wine. ¥ Pies The richest pastry for pies Is called puff paste, and much skill and practice are required to make it flaky, tender, and very light. First-class puff paste will rise in baking to double its thickness and be in light, flaky layers and without greasiness. The novice must leam to handle it as lightly and little as possible in rolling and turning. It should be put in the ice-box as soon as made and stand at least twelve hours before being used. Pastry flour should always be used for pie cmst. It is whiter than bread flour and when mbbed between the fingers it feels very smooth and soft, like com-starch. Carefully sift before using. Where it is desired to have a plainer pastry, or one less troublesome to make and more economical, the use of a small quantity of Royal Baking Powder will give a light and tender crust. As in other cases, the baking powder must be mixed and sifted with the flour before the shortening is added. Sweet home-made lard may be used in place of butter, either whoUy or in part, giving a less expen- sive but equally good aud light paste. Never use sour milk or so-called prepared or self- raising flours. Paste for Pies.— 3 cups sifted flour, V4 tea- spoon Royal Baking Powder, large pinch salt, 1 cup cream. Vs cup butter. Sift flour, salt, and powder together; add the cream; mix into smooth, rather firm paste; flour the board, roll it out thin; spread the butter on it evenly, fold in three; roll out thin, aud fold in three; repeat twice more and use. Paste, 2.— 3 cups flour, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, V4 pound beef suet, freed of skin and chopped very fine, 1 cup water. Place the flour, sifted with the powder, in bowl; add suet aud water; mix into smooth, rather firm dough. Paste, 3.— 3 cups sifted flour, V4 cup lard, IV4 cups butter, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup water. Cut lard into flour, sifted with powder; mix into smooth, firm paste with the water; place it to cool for 15 minutes; meanwhile press milk and salt from butter by pressing in clean, wet towel, and flour it. Roll out dough on well-floured board; place butter on it; fold dough over it, com- pletely covering butter; roll it out lightly to ^ inch in thickness, turn it over, fold each end to middle, flour it, roll out again; fold ends to middle, and turn it; repeat this 3 times more, and use. If this paste is made in Slimmer, put on ice after each operation of folding and rolUng. Paste, 4.— 5 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 1 cup lard, 1 cup water, V4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Sift flour with powder; rub in lard and butter cold; add the water; mix into a smooth, lithe dough. Paste, 5 (Puff Paste).—3 cups sifted flour, 2 cups butter, 1 egg yolk, a little salt. This is difficult to make. The essentials are: A cool place to make it in, ice broken up in 2 shallow cake-pans, good flour, and butter, firm, with salt and buttermilk worked out. Sift flour on pastry slab, form it in a ring with back of your hand. Place in center the egg yolk and salt; add a little ice-water, and from inside of ring gradually take flour, adding a little at a time, as you require it, more ice-water, about a cup altogether, until you have smooth, fine paste, very tenacious and lithe. Place in ice- box 15 minutes, then roll out to size of a din- ner-plate ; lay on it butter, and wrap over it edges of dough, carefully covering it; turn it upside down, roll out very thin; then turn face down — the face is side of paste next to rolling-pin — folding it in three, squarely; re- peat this three times more, placing it in thin tin on the broken ice, and other tin containing ice on it, after each turn or operation of fold- ing and rolling. By this method this diffi- cult puff paste may be made successfully in hottest weather. Paste, 6.— 3 cups sifted flour, 1 large cup butter, % teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 tablespoons sugar, V4 cup milk. Sift flour with powder and sugar, rub in butter, add milk; mix into a smooth dough of medium stiffness.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 28 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Apple Pot Pie.—14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced, 1*^ pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup sugar. Mi cup butter, 1 cup milk, large pinch salt. Sift floiir with powder and salt, rub in butter cold, add milk, mix into dough as for tea biscuits; with it line shallow stewpan to within 2 inches of bottom; pour in cups water, apples, and sugar; wet edges and cover with rest of dough; put cover on, set it to boil 20 minutes, then place in moderate oven until apples are cooked; then remove from oven, cut top crust in four equal parts; dish apples, lay on them pieces of side crust cut in diamonds, and pieces of top crust on a plate; serve with cream. Apple Pie.— 5 or 6 apples, 1 cup sugar, */t) cup water, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, paste, 4. Peel, quarter, and core apples, put in stew- pan with sugar and water; when tender, re- move ; when cold, add extract and fill pie-plate, lined with paste; wet the edges, cover with paste rolled out thin, and wash with milk; btdie in steady, moderate oven 20 minutes. Apple Pie, 2.— 3 tart apples, Mi cup sugar. Ml lemon rind grated, paste, 4. Peel, core, and sUce apples very thin; line pie-plate with paste; put in apples, sugar, and little water; wet the edges, cover with paste rolled out very thin; wash with milk; bake in steady, moderate oven 25 minutes — or till apples are cooked. Dried Apple Pie.— Stew apples until quite soft; rub through a colander ; have them juicy. Beat 2 eggs, saving the white of 1; ^ cup butter. Mi cup sugar to every pie; season to taste. Quantity of sugar must be governed somewhat by the acidity of the apples. Bake with a bottom crust; while they are baking make a frosting of the white of 1 egg; when pies are done spread frosting evenly over the top; set again in the oven and brown slightly. Cream Pie and Oranges.— Cut the oranges in thin slices and sprinkle sugar over them; let them stand for 2 or 3 hours; serve in ordi- nary fruit-plates. The pie is made with a bottom crust only, and that not thick, but light and flaky. Take 1 coffee-cup thick, sweet cream, Mt cup pulverized sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 egg; flavor with extract lemon ; bake imtil you are sure the crust is brown and hard, so that it will not absorb the custard. Banbury Tarts.— Chop 1 cup seeded raisins, add % cup cleaned currants, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons cracker dust, 1 beaten egg, juice and grated, rind 1 lemon. Roll pie crust, 5 very thin, cut in circles. Lay on each a table- spoonful of filling; wet edges of paste; fold each side over the middle to form pointed ovals, dust with granulated sugar, and bake 20 min- utes in slow oven. Cocoanut Pie.— Proceed as for custard pie, (plain), adding IMi cups grated cocoanut, and leaving out ^ pint milk. Cranberry Pie.— Paste, 4, 3 cups cran- berries, stewed with IMi cups sugar, and strained. Line pie-plate with paste; put in cranberry jam; wash the edges, lay 3 narrow bars across; fasten at edge, then 3 more across, forming diamond-shaped spaces. Lay rim of paste, 5, or of same; wash with egg wash: bake in quick oven until paste is cooked. Custard Pie (Plain).— Paste, 6, 1% pints milk, 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, add pinch salt. Line well-greased pie- plate V4 inch thick, take ball of paste, flour it well, and proceed, with palm of left hand pressed against edge, to push the paste from center into a thick, high rim on edge of plate. Pill while in oven with sugar, eggs, and milk, beaten with extract and strained; bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. Custard Pie (Apple).— Proceed as for cus- tard pie (peach), substituting thick, stewed apples. Custard Pie (Peach).— Proceed as for cus- tard pie (plain), laying in bottom of pie some cooked, fresh, or canned peaches, then adding the custard. Fruit Pies of all Kinds.— Use about 3 cups prepared fruit for each pie. Heap fimit in center. Sprinkle with sugar to sweeten; _ if juicy, add 1 teaspoon or more of flour with sugar. Use pie crust, 4 or 6. Gooseberry Pie.— Paste, 5, 3 cups goose- berries, stewed with IVii cups sugar lo minutes, and strained. Proceed as directed for cran- berry pie. Lemon Cream Pie.— Paste, 5,H<2 pints milk, 3 tablespoons com-starch, 1 cup sugar, 2 table- spoons butter, grated rind and juice of 2 lem- ons, yolks 4 eggs. Boil milk, add corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk; when it re- boils, take off, beat in yolks, butter, lemon juice, and rind; pour at once into pie-plates lined with paste, having high rim — as described in custard pie; bake in hot oven until paste is cooked — about 20 minutes. Lemon Cream Meringue Pie.— Having made the lemon cream pie, whip whites of 4 eggs to dry froth; gently incorporate 1 cup sugar; spread over top of pie; dust with powdered sugar; return to oven to set fawn color. Lovers of Chocolate, in any and every form, can make this addition to a common custard pie. Beat 1 egg to a stiff froth, then add pulverized sugar and grated chocolate with Ml teaspoon extract vanilla; spread this on the top of the pie and let it harden for a moment in the oven. Or you may prepare it in still another way. Put the chocolate in a basin on the back of the stove, and let it melt (do not put a drop of water with it); when melted beat 1 egg and some sugar in with it. In the latter case it will be a regular chocolate brown in color, and in the other a sort of gray. Mince Pie.— Paste, 3, 2 cups mince-meat. Mince-meat.—7 pounds currants,3V^ pounds peeled and cored apples, 5Mi pounds beef, 3Mj pounds suet, ^ pound each citron, lemon, and orange peel, pounds coffee sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 4 nutmegs, 1 ounce cinnamon. Mi ounce each cloves and mace, 1 pint brandy, and 1 pint white wine. Wash currants, dry, pick them; stone the raisins; remove skin and sinews from beef and suet. Chop each ingre- dient, separately, very fine; put into large pan as they are finished, finally adding spices, brandy, and wine; thoroughly mix together; pack in jars; store in cold, dry plaoe. ThisTHE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 29 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. mince-meat will keep from 12 to 18 mouths. The fruit should never be floured iu making mince pie. Mince-meat, 2.— 2 pounds currants, 5 pounds peeled and cored apples, 2 pounds lean boiled beef, 1 pound beef suet, \ pound citron, 2^ pounds coffee sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 1 pound seedless raisins, 2 tablespoons cinna- mon. 1 nutmeg, 1 tablespoon each mace, cloves, and allspice, 1 pint each Madeira wine and brandy. Wash currants, dry, pick them; stone the raisins; remove skin and sinews from the beef. Chop each ingredient up, separately, very flne; place as soon as done in large pan, finally adding spices, Madeira, and brandy ; mix thoroughly; pack in jars; keep in cold place. Peach Tart.—For each large peach allow 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 tablespoon water. Fill baking-dish with sliced peaches, add sugar and water. Cover with pie crust, 6, bake in moderate oven about 30 minutes. Serve hot with cream. Plum Pie.— Paste, 5, 3 cups plums; simmer in water, cover with cups sugar, until ten- der. Line pie-plate with the paste; wet edges; cover; wash with egg; bake in quick oven 20 minutes. Pumpkin or Squash Pie.— Use pie crust, 4 or 6. Mix 3 cups thick stewed and sieved pumpkin or squash, 2 cups milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, Mt teaspoon cinnamon, pinch cloves. Line 2 pie-plates as for custard pie; bake in moderate oven. Rhubarb Pie.— Paste, 4, IMi bunches rhu- barb, Iti cups sugar. Cut fruit in small pieces after stripping off skin, cook it very fast in shallow stewpan, with sugar. Line pie-plate with the paste; wet rim; add rhubarb, cold; lay 3 bars paste across, fastening ends; lay 3 more across, forming diamond-shaped spaces ; lay round a rim, wash over with egg, and bake in quick oven 15 minutes. Tarts: Gooseberry, Currant, Apple, or any other Fruit.— Time to bake, from ^ to 1 hour. 1 quart gooseberries, rather more than ^ pound paste, moist sugar to taste. Cut off tops and tails from gooseberries, or pick cur- rants from their stems, or pare and quarter the apples or peaches; put them into pie-dish with sugar, line edge of dish with paste, pour in a little water, put on cover, ornament edge of paste in the usual manner, and bake it in a brisk oven. Tartlets.— Time to bake, V4 hour. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them with any jam or preserve, and bake lightly. Open Jam Tart.—Time to bake, until paste loosens from the dish. Line shallow tin dish with puff paste, put in the jam, roll out some of paste, wet it lightly with yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk and a tablespoon of powdered sugar; cut it in very narrow strips, then lay them across the tart; lay another strip round the edge, trim off outside, and bake in quick oven. Other Desserts Baked custards.— For each quart milk allow 4 large or 5 small eggs and 3 tablespoons sugar. Warm milk; pour over eggs and sugar beaten together. Fill small earthen cups or pudding-dish. Stand in pan of warm water; add flavoring to suit, and bake in moderate oven till firm in center. For chocolate custards melt chocolate with sugar. Corn-starch Custard.— Scald 1 quart milk. Dissolve 2 level teaspoons corn-starch in little cold milk. Turn quickly into hot milk; stir till thickened, then cover and cook 10 minutes. Beat 2 eggs with 3 tablespoons sugar, add to custard, stir a moment longer, strain. Add flavoring when partly cooled. Tapioca Custard.— Put 2 tablespoons flne tapioca in double boiler with 1 pint mdk, cook and stir till tapioca is transparent. Add yolks 2 eggs beaten with 3 tablespoons sugar, and pinch salt; stir till thickened. Add whites whipped to stiff froth, stir lightly 3 minutes; take from Are; add flavoring when cooled. If pearl or lump tapioca is used, it must be soaked in cold water for several hours before cooking. Apple Snow.— Core, quarter, and steam 3 large, sour apples. Rub through sieve, cool; whip whites 3 eggs to very stiff froth with ^ cup powdered sugar, gradually add apple, and whip long time tUl white and stiff. Pile in dish, garnish with dots currant jelly. Snow Eggs.— To whites 5 eggs add pinch salt, and whip to very stiff froth; gradually add 1 tablespoon powdered sugar and few drops flavoring. Scald 1 quart milk in large pan. Shape whites in tablespoon, drop a few at a time in hot milk. Turn until cooked. Lift out with skimmer, lay on glass dish. When all are cooked make custard with egg yolks, milk, and 3 tablespoons sugar, and serve with eggs. Charlotte Russe.— Mix 1 pint rich cream, % cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Have very cold and whip to stiff froth, turning under cream when it first rises. Line dish with sponge cake or ladyflngers, fill with whipped cream. Chocolate Blanc-mange.— Quart mUk, box gelatine soaked in 1 cup water, 4 table- spoons grated chocolate rubbed smooth in a little milk, 3 eggs, extract < vanilla to taste. Heat milk until boiling, then add other ingre- dients ; bon 5 minutes. Pour into mold. Serve cold with sugar and cream, or custard. Iced Fruits for Desserts.—Any desirable fruit may be easily iced by dipping first in the beaten white of an egg, then in sugar finely pulverized, and again in egg, and so on until YOU have the icing of the desired thickness. For this purpose oranges or lemons should be carefully pared, and all the white inner skin removed that is possible, to prevent bitterness; then cut either in thin horizontal slices ifTHE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 30 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. lemons, or in quarters if oranges. For cherries, strawberries, currants, etc., choose the largest and finest, leaving stems out. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet, juicy pears may be treated in the same way, or look nice when pared, leaving on the stems, and iced. Pineapples should be cut in thin slices, and these again divided into quarters. Floating Island.— 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 4 table- spoons sugar, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla or bitter almonds, ^ cup currant jelly. Heat mUk to scalding, but not boiling. Beat the yolks; stir into them the sugar, and pour upon them gradually, mixing well, a cup of the hot milk. Put into sauc^an and boil until it begins to thicken. When cool, flavor and po\ir into a glass dish. Heap upon top me- ringue of whites whipped until you can cut it, into which you have beaten the jelly, a tea- spoon at a time. Frozen Desserts How TO FREEZE.— Pound ice to bits size of hickory nut. Use salt in lumps Ml size of a pea. Allow 1 part salt to 3 parts ice. Mix together in pail. In bottom of freezer put 1 inch layer of mixture, and pack. Arrange and fasten can in freezer. Fill up space between with the mixture, packing hard. Turn can occasionally to make sure it will run freely. When ice is within 1 inch of top of can open and fill can, replace and fasten top. Turn slowly at first. Increase speed, adding more ice and salt as mixture sinks. When cream is very firm open can, draw out dasher, work cream down in can wdth wooden spoon, cover top with paper, then with can cover, add more ice and salt, heaping it over top of can. Cover with heavy blanket, set away in cold place for 2 hours. Plain Ice Cream.— Scald 1 pint milk ; mix I cup sugar with 2 tablespoons flour, pinch salt, and 2 beaten eggs. Add to hot milk, stir over fire till thick and smooth, cover and cook 20 minutes. Strain and cool. Add 1 pint cream, fla- voring desired, and freeze. One can condensed milk and 1 cup milk may be mixed and added in place of cream. Very good ice cream may be made without the addition of any cream. Philadelphia Ice Cream.— Scald 1 pint cream. Add 1 cup sugar and stir till dissolved. Take from fire and add 1 pint chilled cream. Freeze when cold. Delmonico Ice Cream.— Make a cooked custard with 1 pint milk, 5 eggs, 1 cup sugar; strain and cool. Add 1 pint rich cream, 2 tablespoons flavoring, and freeze. To this as well as to any cream may be added at will 1 cup fresh fruit or berries rubbed through sieve, cup cake crumbs, or any variety flavorings and colorings desired. Water Ices.— Boil 1 quart water and 1 pint sugar 5 minutes. Add box gelatine soaked in cold water, stir till dissolved and chill. Add 1 cup lemon juice and freeze. All water ices are made in this way, varying the proportion of sugar according to the acidity of the fruit used. Canned fruit syrups may be substituted for fresh fruit juice. Biscuit Qlace'.— 1 % pints cream, 12 ounces sugar, yolks of 8 eggs, and 1 tablespoon extract vanilla. Take 6 ounces crisp macaroons, pound in mortar to dust. Mix cream, sugar, eggs, and extract. Place on fire, and stir composi- tion until it begins to thicken. Strain and rub through hair-sieve into basin. Put into freezer; when nearly frozen, mix in macaroon dust, another tablespoon extract vanilla, and finish freezing. Chocolate Ice Cream.—3 pints best cream, 12 ounces pulverized white sugar, 4 whole eggs, 1 tablespoon extract vanilla, 1 pint rich cream whipped, 6 ounces chocolate. Dissolve chocolate in small quantity of mUk to smooth paste. Now mix with cream, sugar, eggs, and extract. Place all on fire, stir until it begins to thicken. Strain through hair-sieve. Place in freezer; when nearly frozen, stir in lightly the whipped cream, and 1 tablespoon extract va- nilla, and finish freezing. Crushed Strawberry Ice Cream.—3 pints best cream, 12 ounces pulverized white sugar, 2 whole eggs. Mix all in porcelain-lined ba- sin ; place on fire; stir constantly to boiling point. Remove and strain through hair-sieve. Place in freezer and freeze. Take 1 quart ripe strawberries, select, hull, and put in a china bowl. Add 6 ounces pulverized white sugar, crush all down to pulp. Add this pulp to frozen cream, with 2 tablespoons extract vanilla; mix in well. Now give freezer few additional turns to harden. Orange Water Ice.—Juice 6 oranges, 2 tea- spoons extract orange, juice 1 lemon, 1 quart water, 1 pound powdered sugar, 1 rich, sweet cream; add all together and strain. Freeze same as ice cream. Peach Ice Cream.—One dozen of best and ripest red-cheeked peaches; peel and stone; place in china basin, crush with 6 ounces pul- verized sugar. Now take 1 quart best cream, 8 ounces pulverized white sugar, 2 whole eggs. Place all on fire until it reaches boiling point; now remove and strain; place in freezer and freeze. When nearly frozen stir in peach pulp, with teaspoon extract almonds; give few more turns of freezer to harden. Raspberry Water Ice.—Press sufficient raspberries through hair-sieve to give 3 pints juice. Add 1 pound pulverized white sugar and juice of 1 lemon, with 1 teaspoon extract raspberry. Place in freezer and freeze. ¥ Canning and Preserving CANNING.— The important points to be observed in canning are, to use only sound, ripe fruit; to have hot syrup and air-tight jars; to fill jars to overflowing and seal immediately. Jars should be scalded and tested before using. Patent canners greatly simplify the work. Pick over the fruit, stem, pare, cut, wash, etc., and pack in jars. Make syrup by adding Ml pint boiling water to 1 pound sugar. When clear, bring to boiling point and carefully fill the jars. Stand in canner or on board in wash- boiler containing water up to shoulders of31 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. jars. Cover and cook according to directions or till tender. Take from canner or boiler, add more syrup till overflowing, cover and seal immediately. Amount of Sugar per Quart Jar Cherries . . Canned Prese Strawberries . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Raspberries . . . 4 “ . ... 6 Blackberries . . . 6 “ . ... 9 Quinces . . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Pears . . . ... 8 Grapes . . . . . 4 “ . ... 8 Peaches . . . . . 4 “ . ... 8 Pineapples . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Crab-apples . . . . 6 “ . ... 10 Plums . . . . . G “ . ... 9 Rhubarb . . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Sour apples . . . . 6 “ . ... 9 Currants . . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Cranberries . . . . 8 “ . ... 12 Preserving.— Preserves require from ^ to 1 pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, and cup water to each pound sugar. The fruit should be simmered in the syrup until tender, a little at a time; skimmed out into the jars; when all are done the syrup should be brought to boiling point, jars filled and sealed. Hard fruits Uke quinces should be first steamed or cooked in boiling water till tender. Jams.— Jams are usually made with small fruits or with chopped large fruits; they are cooked with an equal weight of sugar till rich and thick, then put into tumblers or small jars and sealed. Jellies.— Use equal parts of sugar and drained fruit juice. Mash and heat berries till juice runs readily, then turn into bags of unbleached muslin or 2 thicknesses of cheese- cloth and let drip. Measure juice and sugar. Boil juice 20 minutes. Have sugar in shallow pan, heat through in open oven. Add to boil- ing juice, boil up once, take off fire and pour into tumblers. Fruit like apples and quinces should be chopped and covered with water, then simmered till tender before turning into jelly-bags. Spiced Fruits.— These are also called sweet pickled fruits. For 4 pounds prepared fruit allow 1 pint vinegar, 2 pounds brown sugar, % cup whole spices — cloves, allspice, stick cin- namon, and cassia-buds. Tie spices in thin muslin bag, boil 10 minutes with vinegar and sugar. S&m, add fruit, cook till tender. Boil down syrup, pour over fruit in jars, and seal. If put in stone pots, boil syrup 3 successive mornings and pour over fruit. Currants, peaches, grapes, pears, and berries may be prepared in this way, also ripe cucumbers, muskmelons, and watermelon rind. ¥ Soups SOUP STOCK is made from cheap, tough cuts. The meat should be cut in small pieces and soaked in cold water for half an hour to draw out the juices. Bone is added for the sake of the gelatine which it con- tains, and which will give body to the soup. A good proportion is 1 pound each of meat and bone to each quart of water. Use a kettle with a very tight cover and simmer slowly for a number of hours. Stock is better when made the day before it is to be used. Soup Stock.—1 pound lean beef, 1 pound bone (or 2 pounds of shin), 1 quart cold water, 1 teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon peppercorns, 2 cloves, 2 allspice berries, 1 sprig parsley, 1 tea- spoon mixed herbs, 1 tablespoon each kind chopped vegetable. Prepare meat as above, soak in water Vi hour, heat slowly and simmer 3 hours, add vegetables and seasonings, sim- mer 1 hour longer, and strain. Next day re- move cake of fat. To clear stock beat white 1 egg till frothy, add with broken shell to above stock when cold (after fat is removed); heat slowly and stir constantly. Boil 10 minutes without stir- ring ; set aside 10 minutes; strain through 2 thicknesses cheesecloth dipped in cold water. Soups with Pastes or Vegetables.—Pre- pare and clear stock as above. In salted water boil macaroni, vermicelli, barley, rice, tapioca, or other vegetables or dry material until done \ drain and add to the clear soup and simmer to- gether 10 minutes. Proportion, Vis cup cooked material to 1 quart stock. Vegetables should be boiled in salted water, cut in shapes, and added to stock in same proportion. Tomato Soup with Stock.—1 quart stock, 1 can tomatoes, salt, pepper, and .sugar to taste. Stew and strain tomatoes; add to boiling stock, season, and simmer 10 minutes. Tomato Soup without Stock.—Stew to- gether for 10 minutes 1 can tomatoes, 1 pint water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 5 cloves, V4 teaspoon peppercorns, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Rub through sieve, return to fire, and thicken with 1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon flour rubbed together and stirred in. Mock Bisque Soup.—% can tomatoes, IVfe tablespoons butter, IMs tablespoons flour, 1 quart mUk, salt and pepper. Stew and strain tomatoes; scald milk in double boiler and thicken with the flour and butter; season to- matoes well and reheat. Take both from fire and mix together; if tomatoes are acid add pinch of soda. If mixed on fire soup is apt to curdle. Scotch Broth.—Soak V<j cup pearl barley overnight. Cut 2 pounds neck of mutton in bits, add 2 quarts water, soak 1 hour. Heat slowly, skim, add barley, skim again; simmer 1 hour, add V4 cup each diced onion, carrot, turnip, celery fried for 5 minutes in 1 table- spoon dripping. Simmer 3 hours. Season well, thicken a little with flour, add 1 table- spoon chopped parsley, and serve. Consomme.—1 chicken, 3 pounds lean beef, 1 onion, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, bunch sweet herbs, 7 quarts cold water, Vfj cup sago soaked in cold water, pepper and salt. Cut beef in strips and disjoint chicken, slice vegetables, chop herbs, put all on with water to cook slowly for 6 hours. Take out chicken and beef; salt and pepper and put into jar. Strain soup, pulping vegeta- bles through a sieve. Season and divide it, pouring V<j on meat in jar, and setting in pot of hot water to cook, covered, 2 hours more. Heat the rest and skim; put in sago, simmer for Vfe hour, then pour out. When 2 hours32 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. have passed, pour out stock in bowl; when cold put on ice. Bean Soup.—Soak quart white beans over- night ; in morning pour off water; add fresh, and set over fire until skins will easily slip off; throw them into cold water, rub well, and skins will rise to top, where they may be re- moved. Boil beans till perfectly soft, allowing 2 quarts water to 1 quart beans; mash beans, add flour and .butter rubbed together, also salt and pepper. Cut cold bread into sm^l pieces, toast, and drop on soup when you serve. Family Soup.—Time, 6 hours; 3 or4quarts pot liquor, i. e., the water in which mutton or salt beef has been boiled. Anv bones from dressed meat, trimmings of poultry, scraps of meat or 1 pound gravy beef, 2 large onions, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, a little celery seed tied in a piece muslin, bunch savory herbs, 1 sprig pars- ley, 5 cloves, 2 blades mace, a few peppercorns, pepper and salt to taste. Put all your meat- trimmings, meat-bones, etc., into stewpan. Stick onions with cloves, add them with other vegetables to meat; pour over all the pot liq- uor ; set over slow fire and let simmer gently, removing all scum as it rises. Strain through fine hair-sieve Clam Soup.—Boil juice of clams, make a little drawn butter and mix with the juice; stir till it boQs, chop up clams and put them in; season to taste with pepper, salt, and little lemon juice; cream or milk is to be added. Boil over slow fire 1 hour. Soups of Dried Peas or Beans.—Pick and soak split peas, dried green peas, or black or white beans overnight. Drain, measure, add 4 times as much cold water; to each quart of water, Vi onion. Simmer slowly till soft. Rub through sieve. Return to fire, season with salt and pepper; for each quart thicken with 1 teaspoon each butter and flour. Boil up again for a few minutes. Black bean soup should also have a pinch of mustard and a little lemon juice added, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Croutons.—Trim crust from stale bread and cut in Vi-inch dice. Fry golden brown in a little butter or in a kettle of smoking-hot fat. Drain and serve hot with soups. Instead of frying they may be browned in the oven. Ox-tall Soup.—1 ox-tail, 2 pounds lean beef, 4 carrots, 3 onions, thyme and parsley, pepper and salt to taste, 4 quarts cold water. Cut tail into joints, fry brown in good dripping. Slice onions and 2 carrots and fry in the same, when you have taken out the pieces of tail. When done tie the thyme and parsley in lace bag, and drop into the soup-pot. Put in the tail, then the beef cut into strips. Grate over them 2 whole carrots, pour over all the water, and bod slowly 4 hours; strain and season; thicken with brown flour wet with cold water; boil 15 minutes longer and serve. Fish Directions for preparino.—Clean fish carefxiUy, slit it low enough so as not to have any blood on the backbone, but do not make too large a cut so as to spoil look of fish; wash thoroughly in cold water. Great care must be taken not to break gall, for it would make fish bitter. Use good dripping or lard for frying. To Broil Fish.— Clean, wash, and wipe dry. Split so that when laid flat the backbone will be in the middle, or take the backbone out. Sprinkle with salt and lay, inside down, upon a buttered gridiron over a clear Are until it is nicely colored, then turn. When done, put upon a hot dish, butter plentifully, and pepper. Put a hot cover over it and send to table. Boiled Bass, or other Fish.—Put sufficient water in pot to enable fish, if alive, to swim easily. Add Via cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 onion, 1 dozen whole black peppers, 1 blade mace. Sew up fish in piece of clean net or muslin, fitted to shape. Heat slowly for first VIj hour; then boil 8 minutes, at least, to pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over it cup of drawn butter, based upon the liquor in which fish was boiled, with juice of Mi lemon stirred into it. Creamed Fish.— Steam 2 pounds codfish, break in flakes, removing bones and skin. Make 1 pint white sauce (see Meat and Fish Sauces). Grease a baking-dish, fill with alter- nate layers of fish and sauce, seasoning with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar. Mix together 1 cup dry bread crumbs and 3 tablespoons melted butter; spread over top and brown in quick oven. This may be varied by using tomato, becha- mel, curry, or any other sauce, or by adding grated cheese or sliced hard-boiled eggs to the white sauce; by baking in shells or patty-pans in place of the deep dish, or by covering with mashed potato or biscuit crust instead of crumbs. Broiled Salt Mackerel.—Freshen by soak- ing it overnight in water, taking care that the skin lies uppermost. In the morning dry it without breaking, cut off the head and tip of the tail, place it between the bars of a buttered fish-gridiron, and broil to a light brown; lay it on a hot dish, and dress with a little butter, pepper, and lemon juice, vinegar, or chopped pickle. Broiled Halibut.—Slices of halibut, salt, pepper, butter. Cut the slices of fish about an inch tliick, season with pepper and salt, and lay them in melted butter Mi hour, allowing 3 tablespoons of butter to a pound of fish, then roll them in flour, and broil about 20 minutes. Serve very hot. Codfish Balls.— Put fish in cold water, set on back of stove; when water gets hot, pour off and put on cold again until fish is fresh enough; then pick it up. Boil potatoes and mash them; mix fish and potatoes together while potatoes are hot, taking % potatoes and Vti fish. Put in plenty of butter; make into balls and fry in plenty of lard. Have lard hot before putting in balls. Variation may be had by rolling each ball in beaten egg, then in dry bread cmmbs be- fore frying. Fried Blue Fish, and other Kinds.—Clean, wipe dry, inside and out. Sprinkle with flour, and season with salt. Fry in hot butter or sweet lard. Mi lard and Mi butter make a good mixture for frying fish. The moment fish areTHE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 33 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. done to good brown, take them from fat and drain in hot strainer; garnish with parsley. Fish Chowder.— Cut 2 or 3 slices of salt pork into dice pieces; fry to crisp, and turn the whole into chowder-kettle. Pare 6 medium- sized potatoes and cut them.iu two. Peel small onion and chop fine. Put potatoes into kettle with part of onion. Cut lisu (which should be fresh cod or haddock) into convenient pieces, and lay over potatoes; sprinkle over it rest of the onion. Season well with salt and pepper, add just enough water to come to top of fish. Pour over the whole quart can tomatoes; cover closely and allow to cook about as long as takes to boil potatoes; then add 2 quarts milk, and let it scald up again. Season with tomato catsup, and more salt and pepper if required. To Ftw Brook Trout or any other Small Fish.—Clean fish, and let them lie few minutes wrapped singly in clean dry towel; season with pepper and salt; roll in corn meal, fry in butter and % lard; drain on sieve, and serve hot. Shell Fish CLAM CHOWDER.— 25 clams cut up, Vi pound salt pork chopped fine, 6 potatoes sliced thin, 4 onions sliced thin. Put pork in kettle; after cooking a short time add potatoes, onions, and juice of clams. Cook 2 Vi hours, then add clams ; 15 minutes before serving add 2 quarts milk. Fried Oysters.— Select largest and finest oysters. Drain and wipe them by spread- ing upon cloth, laying another over them, pressing lightly. Roll each in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs with which has been mixed a very little pepper. Fry in mixture of equal parts of lard and butter. Oysters Roasted in the Shell.— Wash and scrub the shells. Cook in hot oven, on top of stove, over red-hot coals, or in steamer until shells open. Always place them round shell down to retain juice. Serve melted butter and vinegar or lemons with them. Panned Oysters.— Pick over the opened oysters to remove bits of shell. Wash quickly in cold water and drain on sieve. Put into saucepan with 1 tablespoon butter for 25 oys- ters and a dash of salt and pepper. Cover and shake over a hot fire until edges ruffle and oysters are plump. May be served on toast. Stewed Oysters.—Pick over and wash 1 quart oysters. Scald 1 pint milk. Strain, boil, and skim oyster liquor ; when clear add oysters. Cook till oysters are plump and well ruffled; take from fire, add hot milk, salt, and pepper. If desired thicker, rub together 1 tablespoon each of butter and flour; add to milk and stir until smooth. This may be varied by addition of a little chopped celery or onion. Creamed Oysters.— Prepare 1 cup thick cream sauce (see Sauces). Pan 1 pint cleaned oysters; drain and add to sauce. Season with salt, pepper, pinch of mace, and few drops lemon juice. Scalloped Oysters.— Pick, wash, and drain 1 solid quart oysters. Put in layers in baking- dish, alternating with drv broad or cracker crumbs and seasoning. When dish is filled add strmned oyster liquor and sufflcient milk to moisten. Cover with crumbs, add 1 tablespoon butter in bits, and bake V<i hour in hot oven. Broiled Oysters.— Pick, wash, and drain large oysters. Dip each in melted butter, roll in fine crumbs, and broil in fine wire broiler over a clear, hot fire. Serve on toast with sliced lemons. Pickled Oysters.— 2 gallons large oysters, drain and rinse them; put 1 pint oyster juice in 1 quart vinegar over fire; scald and skim until clear ; add I tablespoon whole pepper, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon mace, 1 even tablespoon salt; scald a minute, then throw in oysters; let them just come to a boil. The oysters should be pickled day before being wanted, as they grow tough after standing a few days in vinegar. Oyster Pates.—1 quart oysters, minced fine with a sharp knife; 1 cup rich drawn butter based upon milk; cayenne and black pepper to taste. Stir minced cwsters in drawn butter and cook 5 minutes. Have ready some shapes of pastry, baked in pM6-pans, then slipped out. Fill these with the mixture; set in oven 2 min- utes to heat, and send to table. Oyster Pie.— 1 quart oysters, drained; pep- per, salt, and butter to taste. 1 quart flour, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 tablespoon salt, mix with water for pie crust. Butter plate, then line pie plate with crust; fill with oysters, seasoned ; put over a crust and bake. Scallops in Batter.—Wash and dry large scallops. Dip each in fritter batter (see Frit- ters) and fry golden brown in smoking-hot fat. To Boil Lobsters or Crabs.—Thelobsteris in good season from April to December, and should be purchased alive and plunged into boiling water in which a good proportion of salt has been mixed. Continue to boil accord- ing to size about 20 minutes. Crabs should be boiled in the same manner, but a little more than half the time is necessary. Deviled Crabs.— 1 cup crab meat, picked from shells of well-boiled crabs, 2 tablespoons fine bread crumbs or rolled cracker, yolks two hard-boiled eggs chopped, juice of a lemon, ^ teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 1 cup good drawn butter. Mix 1 spoon crumbs with chopped crab meat, yolks, season- ing, drawn butter. Fill scallop shells—large clam shells will do — or small pftt4-pans — with the mixture; sift crumbs over top, heat to slight browning in quick oven. Soft Shell Crabs.— Fry in butter or lard. To Open a Boiled Lobster.— Wipe off shell, break off large claws; separate tail from body ; take body from shell, leaving “ lady,” or stom ach, on shell. Pu t aside green fat and coral; remove small claws ; remove woolly gills from body, break latter through middle, and pick out meat from joints. Crush or cut under side of tail, draw meat from shell. Draw back flesh on upper end and pull off intestinal cord. Break edge of large claws and remove meat. Lobster Newburg.—Season 1 pint diced lobster with teaspoon salt, dash cayenne, pinch nutmeg. Put in saucepan with 2 table- spoons butter, heat slowly. Add 2 tablespoons34 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. sherry; cook 5 minutes; add ’>2 cup cream beaten with yolks 2 eggs, stir till thickened. Take quickly from fire. Meats Broiling The rules for roasting meat apply to broil- ing, except that instead of cooking it in the oven it is to be quickly browned, first on one side and then on the other, over a hot fire, and removed a little from the fire to finish cooking. Meat an inch thick will broU in about 4 minutes. It should be seasoned after it is cooked. Frying There are two distinct methods of frying: One with very little fat in the pan, to practise which successfully the pan and the fat must be hot before the article to be fried is put into it. For instance, in frying chops, if the pan is hot, and only fat enough is used to keep the chops from sticking to it, the heat being main- tained so that the chops cook quickly, they will be nearly as nice as if they were broiled. Frying by the other method consists in entirely immersing the article to be cooked in sufficient smoking-hot fat to cover it, and keeping the fat at that degree of heat until the food is brown. It should then be taken up with a skimmer and laid upon brown paper for a mo- ment to free it from grease. Boiling and Stewing Fresh meat for boiling shoidd be put into boiling water and boiled very gently about 20 minutes for each pound. A little salt, spice, or vegetables may be boiled in the water with the meat for seasoning. A little vinegar put in the water with tough meat makes it tender. The broth of boiled meat should always be saved to use in soups, stews, and gravies. Stewing and simmering meats means to place them near enough to the fire to keep the water on them bubbling moderately, constantly, and slowly. Salt meats should be put over the fire in cold water, which as soon as it boils should be replaced by fresh cold water, the water to be changed until it remains fresh enough to give the meat a palatable flavor when done. Salted and smoked meats require about 30 minutes’ very slow boiling, from the time the water boils, to each pound. Vegetables and herbs may be boiled with them to flavor them. When they are cooked the vessel containing them should be set where they will keep hot without boiling until required, if they are to be served hot; if they are to be served cold, they should be allowed to cool in the pot liq- uor in which they were boiled. Very salt meats, or those much dried in smoking, 'should be soaked overnight in cold water before boiling. Roasting Wipe meat with damp cloth. Trim and tie into shape if necessary. In the bottom of pan put some pieces of fat from meat. Arrange meat on rack in pan. Dredge with salt, pep- per, and flour. Have oven very hot at first; when meat is half done reduce heat. Baste every 10 or 15 minutes. If there is danger of fat in pan being scorched add a few spoons of boiling water. Allow from 10 to 20 minutes per pound of meat, according as it is desired rare or well done. WHben done remove to hot platter. Thicken gravy in pan with browned flour, adding more water as necessary and add seasoning. Yorkshire Pudding.— % pint flour, 3 eggs, IVfe pints milk, pinch salt, 1^ teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift flour and powder to- gether, add eggs, beaten with milk, stir quickly mto rather thinner batter than for griddle cakes, pour into dripping-pan, plentifully greased wdth beef-dripping, bake in hot oven 25 minutes; serve with roast beef. Braised Beef.—Wipe and trim 6 pounds round or rump of beef without bone. Sear brown on all sides in very hot frying-pan over hot fire. In braising-pan or iron kettle put layers of sliced onions, turnips, and carrots; add bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon pepper; on this lay meat. Add 1 pint boiling water (or water and stewed tomatoes). Cover closely and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. If water evaporates rapidly add more. Transfer meat to hot platter. Strain, thicken, and season gravy. The vegetables may be served separately if desired. Braised Veal Shoulder.—Have shoulder boned. Fill with stuffing (see Stuffings). Pre- pare bed of vegetables as for braised beef. Lay veal on it, add 1 pint boiling water, 1 pint stewed tomatoes, ^2 teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon pepper. Cover and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. Uncover and brown. Serve strained gravy separately. Broiled Steak.— Trim and wipe steak, which should be at least 1 inch thick. Rub broiler with fat, arrange steak with thickest part in center of broiler. Have fire clear and very hot, but without blaze. Hold steak close to fire. Turn every Mi minute, that it may sear quickly. When Ml done season with salt and pepper. Steak 1 inch thick will broil in 4 minutes. Panned Steak or Chops.—Trim and wipe steak. Heat frying-pan until it smokes all over. Rub bottom with a bit of fat. Lay in steak and turn every 10 seconds. Keep pan very hot. Season when Mi done. Mutton and pork chops, ham and bacon, may be panned in same way. If hot platter for steak is rubbed with a cut onion it will give a delightful flavor to the meat. Broiled Ham and Poached Eggs.— Cut slices of boiled ham of equal size; broil on a gridiron over a clear fire; lay on a hot dish. Lay on each a poached egg, neatly trimmed, and serve. Beefsteak Pie (French style).—Take a nice piece of beef, rump or sirloin, cut in smaBTHE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 35 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. slices; slice also a little raw ham; put both in a fryinf:-pan, with some butter and small quan- tity chopped onions; let them simmer together a short time on the fire or in the oven; add a little flour and enough stock to make sauce; salt, pepper, chopped parsley, aud a little Wor- cestershire sauce as seasoning; add also a few sliced potatoes, and cook together for about 20 minutes; put this into a pie-dish, with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and cover with a layer of common paste. Bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a well-heated oven. All dark- meat pies can be treated precisely in the same way. If poultry, leave the potatoes out. To Boil a Ham.— A blade of mace, a few cloves, a sprig of thyme, and 2 bay-leaves. Well soak ham in large quantity of water for 24 hours, then trim and scrape very clean; put into large stewpan, with more than sufficient water to cover it; put in mace, cloves, thyme, and bay-leaves. BoU 4 or 5 hours, according to weight; when done, let it become cold in liquor in which it was boiled. Then remove rind carefully, without injuring the fat; press cloth over it to absorb as much of the grease as possible. It is always improved by setting in the oven for nearly an hour, till much of the fat dries out, and it also makes it more tender. Shake some bread raspings over the fat. Serve cold garnished with parsley. Boiled Mutton or Lamb.— Trim and wipe the meat. Have ready kettle of rapidly boiling salted water. Immerse meat, boil hard 5 min- utes, then reduce to gentle simmer. Allow 12 to 15 minutes per pound. Lamb should always be well done; mutton .may be rare. A little rice may be added to water to keep meat white; if a few vegetables are also added the pot liquor will make a good thick soup. Boiled Corned Beef and Turnips.— Select a ^iece not too salt. The brisket is a good cut tor family use when not too fat. Cook beef in plenty cold water. Bring slowly to boil. Cook 18 miniites to the pound after it begins to sim- mer. When fully % done put in a dozen tur- nips, peeled and quartered. When both beef and tximips are thoroughly done dish out the beef, and lay the turnips, unmashed, about it. Serve with drawn butter, having as a base the pot liquor. Remaining liquor will make a good soup for next day’s dinner. Pork Chops with Tomato Gravy.— Trim off skin and fat; rub the chops over with a mixture of powdered sage and onion; put small piece butter into a frying-pan; put in the chops and cook slowly, as they should be well done. Lay chops on hot dish; add a little hot water to gravy in pan, 1 large spoon butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and sugar, and cup juice drained from can tomatoes. The tomatoes themselves can be used for a tomato omelet. Stew 5 minutes and pour over the chops and serve. Sausages.— Have % lean and V* fat pork chopped very fine, 1 pound salt, pound pepper, and teacup sage to every 40 pounds meat. Warm the meat, that you can mix it well with your hands, do up a part in small patties mixed with a little flour, the rest pack m jars. When to be used, do it up in small cakes, flour the outside, fry in butter or alone. They should not be covered while frying, or they will fall to pieces. They should be kept where it is cool, but not damp. To prevent sausages from bursting when cooking, never make a hole in them vrith a fork while turn- ing them. Fried Salt Pork.— Cut fat salt pork in thin slices and soak in milk for a few hours. Pour boiling water over, drain, and fry until crisp. When partly fried they may be dipped into batter (see Fritters), then finished in the same pan, turning several times. Pork and Beans.— Soak 1 quart white beans overnight in cold water. Drain, add fresh water, and simmer gently till tender. Put in baking-pan and place in center, rind up, gashed, pound fat salt pork parboiled. Rfix 1 tea- spoon salt, *>*2 teaspoon dry mustard, and 1 table- spoon molasses; add to the beans, with enough boiling water to cover. Bake 8 hours in a moderate oven, adding more water as necessary. Liver and Bacon.— Cut liver in Irjt-inch slices, soak in cold water 20 minutes, drain, dry, and roll in flour. Have pan very hot. Put in bacon thinly sliced, turn until brown, trans- fer to hot platter. Fry liver quickly in the hot fat, turning often. When done pour off all but 1 or 2 tablespoons fat, dredge in flour until it is absorbed, aud stir tilt brown. Add hot water gradually to make smooth gravy, season and boil 1 minute. Serve separately. Few people know that lamb’s liver is as ten- der and well flavored as calf’s liver; it is much less expensive. Stew, Irish.— Time, about 2 hours. 2Vi pounds chops, 8 potatoes, 4 turnips, 4 small onions, nearly a quart of water. Take some chops from loin of mutton, place them in a stewpan in alternate layers of sliced potatoes and chops; add turnips and onions cut into pieces, pour in nearly quart cold water; cover stewpan closely, let stew gently till vegetables are ready to mash and greater part of gravy is absorbed; then place in a dish ; serve it up hot. Brown Beef Stew.—Cut 2 pounds beef in small pieces. Melt some of the fat in a pan, brown in it the meat. Put rest of meat in kettle with 1 pint cold water, let stand 20 min- utes, then heat slowly. Transfer browned meat to kettle; thicken fat with two table- spoons browned flour, add 1 pint boiling water and stir; when thick strain into kettle. Add 1 cup diced carrot, cover, and simmer. When half done add 1 pint diced potatoes. Season well with salt and pepper. Mutton Haricot.— Cut 2 pounds breast mutton in pieces, roll in flour, and brown in drippings. 'Transfer to a stewpan, and 2 sliced onions, cover with boiling water, and simmer until very tender. Add 1 pint parboiled pota- toes or 1 pint boiled macaroni and 1 pint shelled peas; season, simmer till vegetables are done. Brown Kidney Stew.— From a beef kidney cut off the outside meat in bits, rejecting tubes and purplish cores. Cover with cold water; heat slowly till steaming, drain, add cold water, and heat a second and again a third time. To the drained kidneys add 1 cup brown sauce (see Sauces), season very highly with Worces- tershire and catsup, and stand over hot water for 10 minutes.36 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. To Roast a Leg of Pork.— Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space with sage, and onions chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When half done score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. Sweetbreads.— Scald in salted water ; re- move stringy parts ; put in cold water 5 or 10 minutes ; drain in towel; dip in egg and bread or cracker crumbs, fry in butter, or broil them plain. Veal Cutlets, Breaded.— Trim and flatten the cutlets, pepper and salt, and roll in beaten egg, then in pounded cracker. Fry rather slewly in good dripping, turning when the lower side is brown. Drain off the fat, squeeze a little lemon juice upon each,'and serve in a hot flat dish. ¥ Stuffings VEAL STUFFING.—3 cups stale bread crumbs, 3 onions chopped fine, 1 tea- spoon salt, Ml teaspoon white pepper, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, Mi cup melted butter or suet. Poultry Stuffing.— 1 quart stale bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and dried thyme to season highly, \ cup melted butter. Chestnut Stuffing for Poultry.— 1 pint fine bread crumbs, 1 pint shelled and boiled French chestnuts chopped fine, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley to season, cup melted butter. Oyster Stuffing for Poultry.— Substitute small raw oysters, picked and washed, for chestnuts in foregoing receipt. Celery Stuffing.— Substitute finely cut celery for chestnuts. Stuffing for Pork.— 3 large onions parboiled and chopped, 2 cups fine bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons powdered sage, 2 tablespoons melted butter or pork fat, salt and pepper to taste. Stuffing for Geese and Ducks.— 2 chopped onions, 2 cups mashed potato, 1 cup bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and powdered sage to taste. Stuffing for Tomatoes, Green Peppers, etc.— 1 cup dry bread crumbs, teaspoon salt, M4 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Hominy, rice, or other cooked cereal may take the place of crumbs. ¥ Poultry O CLEAN POULTRY.—Put 2 table- spoons alcohol in saucer, ignite, and over this singe the fowl. Cut off head just below bill. Untie feet, break bone, and loosen sinews just below the joint; pull out sin- ews and cut off feet. Cut out oil-sac. Lay breast down, slit skin down backbone toward head; loosen windpipe and crop and pull them out. Cut off neck close to body. Make small slit below end of breast-bone, put in the fingers, loosen intestines from backbone, take firm grasp of gizzard and draw all out. Cut round the vent so that the intestines are unbroken. Remove heart and lungs. Re- move kidneys. See that inside looks clean, then wipe oxit with wet cloth. Wipe off skin with cloth. To Truss Poultry.—Fill inside with stuf- fing (see StuflSngs). Have at least 1 yard fine twine in trussing-needle. Turn wings across back so that pinions touch. Run needle through thick part of wing under bone, through body and wing on other side; return in same way, but passing needle in over bone, tie firmly, leave several inches of twine. Press legs up against body, run needle through thigh, body, and second thigh, and return, going round bone in same way; tie firmly. Run needle through ends of legs, return, passing needle through rump; if opening is badly torn, 1 or 2 stitches may be needed, otherwise not. T© Roast Poultry.—Rub all over with soft butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on rack in roasting-pan and put in very hot oven. Make basting-mixture with % cup each of butter or chicken-fat and water ; keep hot and baste every 10 or 15 minutes. Roast 3 hours for 8^pound turkey, 1 to 1 Ms hours for fowls. Keep oven very hot. If fowl is very large and heavy, cover breast and legs with several thicknesses paper to keep from burning. Poultry Gravy.—Pour off excess of fat in pan. Set pan on stove and sprinkle in suffi- cient flour to absorb fat. Stir until well browned. Gradually add hot water, or the chopped giblets with water in which thCT were cooked ; stir till smoothly thickened. Season, simmer for few minutes, and serve. Broiled Chicken.—Singe, split down back- bone, and clean. Grease broiler, arrange chicken on it, crossing legs and turningwings. Rub inside and out with soft butter, and sea- son. Have fire clear and hot. Cook flesh side first, holding up well that it may not brown too quickly. Should cook in about 20 or 25 min- utes, then turn and brown skin side. Fried Spring Chicken.— Clean and disjoint, then soak in salt water for 2 hours. Put in frying-pan equal parts of lard and butter— in aU enough to cover chicken. Roll each piece in flour, dip in beaten egg, then roll in cracker crumbs, and drop into the boiling fat. Fry until browned on both sides. Serve on flat platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. Pour most of fat from frying-pan, thicken the remainder with browned flour, add to it cup of boiling water or milk. Serve in gravy-boat. Chicken Fricassee.— Clean and disjoint chicken. 'Wipe each piece. Put in pot, cover with boiling water and simmer tiU tender. To the liquor add 1 cup or more hot milk, and thicken with flour dissolved in cold water. Season well, boil up for a few minutes. Serve with dumplings or Royal biscuit. Brown Fricassee of Chicken.—Clean and disjoint. Brown in a few spoons hot butter or pork fat. Transfer to a kettle. To fat in pan add sufficient flour to absorb, stir and brown. Gradually add 1 pint hot water, stir till thickened, strain over chicken. Cover and simmer gently till tender.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 37 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Chicken Pat^s.—Chop meat of cold chicken coarsely and season well. Make large cup rich drawn butter, and while on fire stir in 2 eggs, boiled hard, minced very fine, also a little chopped parsley, then chicken meat. Let al- most boil. Have ready some p&t^pans of good paste, baked quickly to light brown. Slip from pans while hot, fill with mixture and set in oven to heat. Arrange upon dish and serve hot. Boned Chicken.— Boil a chicken in little water as possible until meat will fall from bones; remove all skin, chop together light and dark parts; season with pepper and salt. Boil down liquid in which chicken was boiled, then pour it on meat; place in tin, wrap tightly in cloth, press with heavyweight several hours. Serve cold, cut in thin slices. Chicken Pot-pie.— 2 large chickens dis- jointed and boiled in 2 quarts water ; add a few slices salt pork; season. When nearly cooked, add crust made of 1 quart flour, 4 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 saltspoon salt; stir in stiff batter with water; drop into kettle while boiling; cover close and cook 25 minutes. Chicken Pot-pie, 2.—Disjoint 2 fowls and cook in 2 quarts water till very tender. Slip out bones and season. Line sides of clean ket- tle with rich biscuit crust (see Biscuits). Add chicken and thickened liquor. Stand on mod- erately hot fire. Build fire of dry cobs or small sticks round kettle, and keep burning till crust is well browned. Put chicken on platter and lay crust on it. Old-fashioned receipt. Make thick dumpling batter (see Dumplings). Drop by spoonfuls into thickened boiling liq- uor, cover closely for 20 minutes. New receipt. Chicken Pie.— Take 2 full-grown chickens, or more if small, disjoint them, cut backbone, etc., small as convenient. Boil them with few slices of salt pork in water enough to cover them, let boil quite tender, then take out breast- bone. After they boil and scum is taken off, put in a little onion cut very fine — not enough to taste distinctly, just enough to flavor a lit- tle ; rub some parsley very fine when dry, or cut fine when green — this gives pleasant fla- vor. Season well with pepper and salt, and few ounces good fresh butter. When all is cooked well, have liquid enough to cover chicken, then beat 2 eggs and stir in some sweet cream. Line 5-quart pan with crust made like Royal Baking Powder biscuit, only more shortenmg, put in chicken and liquid, cover with crust same as lining. Bake till crust is done, and you will have a good chicken pie. Creamed Chicken.— Make 1 cup cream sauce (see Sauces). Prepare 2 cups diced cooked chicken. Add to sauce, season well, simmer 10 minutes. ¥ Meat and Fish Sauces WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE.—Put 1 tablespoon each of butter and flour in saucepan over fire. When mixed without browning add Mi teaspoon salt, Vi tea- spoon white pepper, then, gradually, 1 cup hot milk. Stir until smoothly thicken^, and sim- mer for 3 minutes. Thick White or Cream Sauce.— Make as above, but use double quantities of flour and butter. Bechamel Sauce.— 1 tablespoon each of flour and butter, Vi cup each thin cream and white stock — chicken or veal — salt and pep- per to taste. Prepare same manner as white sauce. Allemande Sauce.— Same as white sauce, with addition of 2 raw egg yolks added as taken from fire. Egg Sauce (for Fish).—1 cup white sauce, 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar. Add parsley after taking from fire. Caper Sauce.— 2 tablespoons butter, 1 ta- blespoon flour; mix well; pour on boiling water till it thickens; add 1 hard-boiled egg chopped fine, and 2 tablespoons capers. Drawn Butter.—cup butter, 2 tablespoons flour; rub thoroughly together, then stir into pint boiling water; little salt; parsley if wished. Curry Sauce.— Slowly cook 1 tablespoon chopped onion in 1 tablespoon butter 5 minutes without coloring. Add 1 teaspoon curry pow- der, cook 2 minutes, add 1 cup white sauce, cook 2 minutes longer. Soubise Sauce.— Peel 3 large white onions; boil very soft in salted water. Drain, rub through sieve, add 1 cup white sauce. Bread Sauce.— Cook in dorible boiler for 15 minutes 1 pint mUk, 2 tablespoons chopped onion; add 1 tablespoon butter. Mi teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon pepper, and rub through sieve. Brown Mi cup coarse dry bread crumbs in 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Add these to sauce as it goes to table. Brown Sauce.— In saucepan brown 1 table- spoon butter until dark, but not burned. Add 1 tablespoon flour, stir and brown again. Add gradually 1 cup good stock (beef is l^st) or hot water and stir until smooth and thick. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Simmer 5 minutes. Sauce Piquante.—To 1 cup brown sauce add 1 tablespoon each of chopped capers and pickles and simmer 5 minutes. Mushroom Sauce.— Make 1 cup brown sauce, using equal quantities stock and liquor from canned mushrooms. Season, add 2 ta- blespoons chopped mushrooms, simmer 5 minutes. Sharp Brown Sauce.— 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon tomato catsup, % cup stock. Make same way as brown sauce, add salt and pepper to taste. Sauce Robert.— 1 cup brown sauce made with stock, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Simmer 5 minutes. Olive Sauce.— 1 cup brown sauce, 24 stoned olives, 1 tablespoon sherry. Simmer olives in hot water 10 minutes. Drain, r.dd sauce, sim- mer 5 minutes ; take from fire and add sherry. Spanish Sauce.— Boil 1 quart strong stock down one half. Make as directed for brown sauce, and add 2 tablespoons sherry.38 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Currant Jelly Sauce.—Melt % glass cur- rant jelly over slow fire. Add 1 cup hot brown sauce; stir well and simmer 1 minute. Tomato Sauce.— Simmer Viz can tomatoes, 1 chopped onion, Viz teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon pepper, 1 clove together 10 minutes. Bub through sieve. Cook together 1 tablespoon each of flour and butter 1 minute, add tomato gradually, stir till smooth, aud simmer 5 minutes. Italian Tomato Sauce.— Simmer together for 20 minutes V4 can tomatoes, 6 cloves, 3 sprigs parsley, 1 teaspoon mixed herbs, Viz tea- ^oon whole allspice. Viz teaspoon peppercorns, ^owly brown 2 tablespoons chopped onion and 1 tablespoon butter until very dark; add 2 table- spoons flour, brown again; add gradually 1 cup rich brown stock, then the cooked toma- toes. Simmer 10 minutes, rub through a sieve and add more seasoning if necessary. Hollandaise Sauce.— Cream Viz cup butter ; add gradually 2 beaten egg yolks; stir weU. Add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, dash each of salt and cayenne. Add Viz cup boiling water, and stir over boiling water tiU thick as boiled custard. Serve immediately. Sauce Tartare.— Make 1 cup mayonnaise (see Salads). Chop very fine 1 tablespoon each of capers, olives, green cucumber pickle, and parsley. Press in a cloth till quite dry. Blend gradually with the mayonnaise. For fried or broiled fish. Maitre d’Hotel Butter.— Cream 2 table- spoons butter, add gradually Viz teaspoon salt, V| teaspoon white pepper, 1 tablespoon each of lemon juice and chopped parsley. Keep very cold. Serve with fried fish or broiled steak. Horse-radish Sauce.— Cream 2 tablespoons butter; add 2 tablespoons fresh grated horse- radish, 1 tablespoon very thick cream. Viz tea- spoon lemon juice. Keep very cold. Mint Sauce.— 1 cup chopped green mint leaves. Viz cup vinegar, V4 cup powdered sugar. Mix 1 hour before serving. ¥ Salads and Cheese MAYONNAI'E.— Have dishes and in- gredient. very cold. If summer, set dish in pan of pounded ice. In soup- plate or shallow bowl put yolk 1 raw egg, add U teaspoon salt and dash cayenne, a few drops of Tobasco and a teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, stir with fork till very thick. Add few drops olive oil and stir; add more oil, few drops at a time, until mixture balls on fork. Thin with few drops lemon juice or vinegar, then add more oil. Alternate in this way un- til 1 cup olive oil is used and dressing is thick and glossy, like a jelly. About 3 tablespoons lemon juice or 2 of vinegar will be needed, ac- cording to its acidity. Always stir in the same directum. Keep covered and on ice until needed. French Dressing.—Mix Vi teaspoon salt, dash white pepper, and 3 tablespoons olive oil. Stir for few minutes, then gradually add 1 ta- blespoon vinegar, stirring rapidly until mix- ture is slightly thickened and vinegar cannot be noticed. Mixture will separate after about 20 minutes. Boiled Dressing.— 3 beaten eggs, 1 cup rich milk, % teaspoon dry mustard, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 dashes cayenne, 2 tablespoons olive oil or melted butter, V<z cup vinegar. Cook in double boiler till thick as custard. Strain and keep in cold place. Cream Dressing.—1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons but- ter, V<z teaspoon powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, Vi teaspoon peppier, % teaspoon mustard, whites 2 eggs. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, and adding whipped whites just be- fore taking from fire. Celery Saiad.—2 bunchescelery,! tablespoon salad oU, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 1 small tea- spoon fine sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Wash and scrape celery; lay in ice-cold water until dinner-time. Then cut into inch lengths, add above seasoning. Stir well together with fork and serve in salad-bowl. Chicken Salad.— Cut cold roast or boiled chicken in small dice, add Va as much blanched celery cut fine, season with salt and pepper. Mix with French dressing and set away for an hour or more. Just before serving stir in some mayonnaise slightly thinned with lemon juice or French dressing, arrange on lettuce leaves and cover with thick mayonnaise. Lobster Salad.— Tear the meat of lobster into shreds with two forks, and let it get cold. Mix with blanched celery cut in small pieces — V4 celery, % lobster. Mix with mayonnaise. Make cups of small blanched leaves of lettuce, fill with salad, garnish with mayonnaise, capers, and lobster coral. Keep on ice until served. Salmon Salad.— Remove bones and skin from can salmon. Drain off liquid. Mix with French dressing or thin mayonnaise; set aside for a while. Finish same as lobster salad. Other fish salads may be prepared in same manner. Tomato Salad.— Pare with sharp knife. Slice and lay in salad-bowl. Make dressing as follows: Work up saltspoon each of salt, pep- per, and fresh made mustard with 2 table- spoons of salad oil, adding only a few drops at a time, and, when thoroughly mixed, whip in with an egg, beaten, 4 tablespoons vinegar; toss up with fork. Cucumber and Onion Salad.— Pare cucum- bers and lay in ice-water 1 hour; do same with onions in another bowl. Then slice them in proportion of 1 onion to 3 large cucumbers; arrange in salad-bowl, and season with vine- gar, pepper, and salt. Potato Salad.— Make Viz amount of boiled dressing given; when cold, thin with vinegar or lemon juice, and add 2 tablespoons onion juice. Pour over diced boiled potatoes while hot. When cold serve with watercress or field salad, garnishing with diced pickled beets and sliced hard boiled egg. Potato and Egg Salad.— Hard boil 3 eggs 30 minutes; shell and cut fine with silver knife. Boil 3 or 4 potatoes. Dice while hot, mix with cut eggs and add French dressing. Let stand till cold. Serve on bed of water- cress with more French dressing or boiled dressing thinned with vinegar.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 39 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Cold Slaw.—Prepare Mj quantity boiled dressing. While hot pour over 1 quart shaved cabbage, cover closely; set away till cold. Red cabbage may also be used. Cheese Straws.— Roll out pie crust, 5, very thin. Sprinkle with grated sharp cheese and a dust of cayenne, fold in three, roll out, and dust a second time with cheese. Fold, roll out quite thin, cut in fine strips or straws with jagging-iron, lay on flat pans and bake in very moderate oven. Welsh Rarebit.— Select richest and best American cheese, the milder the better, as melting brings out strength. To make 5 rare- bits, take 1 pound cheese, grate and put in tin or porcelain-lined saucepan; add ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine-glass to each rarebit. Place over fire, stir until it is melted. Have slice of toast ready for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it. Serve while hot. ¥ Eggs SOFT AND HARD BOILED EGOS.—For soft boiled drop into boiling water and boil 3 to 3 til minutes. A better way is to have water boiling in a saucepan. Take from fire, add eggs quickly, cover, and let stand off fire away from drafts from 8 to 10 minutes, according to freshness of eggs. Hard boiled eggs should be simmered at least 20 minutes. This gives mealy yolks, which digest more readily than sodden ones. Poached Eggs.— Toast small slice of bread for each egg; trim and lay on hot platter. Have frying-pan partly filled with salted water. When simmering, carefully break in 1 egg at a time. Baste with the water until white is firm, take up with skimmer, trim edge of white and slip on toast. Scrambled Eggs.— Beat together 4 eggs, ^ cup cream or rich mUk, teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon pepper. Turn into hot buttered pan, stir till set. Serve on toast. Chopped boiled ham or other cold meat may be mixed with the eggs before cooking. Omelet.— Break 3 eggs in bowl; add 1 tea- spoon cold water. Beat with fork till mixed. Add teaspoon salt. Turn into very hot but- tered pan, shake and stir till eggs begin to set. Let form, fold and turn out on hot platter. Fancy Omelets.— Finely chopped cooked meats, vegetables cut fine, chopped parsley, etc., may be added to plain omelet and dish named according to what is added, as ham omelet, omelet with peas, etc. Orange or other Sweet Omelet.— Sepa- rate and whip whites and yolks of 3 eggs. Pour yolks over whites, add grated rind of orange and 1 tablespoon of orange juice, 1 table- spoon powdered sugar. Mix and cook as above. Omelet Souffle.— Break 6 eggs into sep- arate cups; beat 4 of the yolks, mix with them teaspoon flour, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, very little salt; flavor with extract lemon or any other flavors that may be preferred. WWsk the whites of the 6 eggs to firm froth; mix them lightly with yolks; pour the mixture into a greased pan or dish; bake in quick oven. When well risen and lightly browned on the top it is done; roll out in dish, sift pulverized sugar over and send to table. You can also pour some rum over it and set it on fire, as for an omelet au rhum. Plain and Fancy Baked Eggs.— Butter small stoneware dishes. Carefully break egg in each. Add salt, popper, and bit of butter. ' Bake in oven till white is set. May be varied by buttering dish and adding : chopped parsley or ham, soaked bread crumbs, , chopped onions, or a little stewed tomato. ¥ Vegetables Hints on cooking vegetables.— First — Have them fresh as possible. Summer vegetables should be cooked on same day they are gathered. Second — Look them over and wash well, cutting out all decayed or unripe parts. Third — Lay them, when peeled, in cold water for some time before using. Fourth — Always let water boil before putting them in, and con- tinue to boil until done. Turnips.— Should be peeled, and boiled from 40 minutes to an hour. Beets.— Bon from 1 to 2 hours ; then put in cold water and slip skin off. Spinach.— Boil 20 minutes. Parsnips.— Boil from 20 to 30 minutes. Onions.— Best boiled in 2 or 3 waters, add- ing milk the last time. String Beans.— Should be boiled IMi hours. Shell Beans.— Require an hour. Green Corn.— Boil 20 or 30 minutes. Green Peas.— Should be boiled in little water as possible; boil 20 minutes. Asparagus.— Same as peas; serve on toast with cream gravy. Winter Squash.— Cut in pieces and boil 20 to 40 minutes in small quantity of water; when done, press water out, mash smooth, season with butter, pepper, and salt. Cabbage.— Should be boiled from 1 to 2 hours in plenty of water; salt while boiling. Asparagus on Toast.—Have stalks of equal length ; scrape lower ends ; tie in small bunches with tape. Cook 20 to 30 minutes, according to size. Dip 6 or 8 slices di _ toast in asparagus liquor, lay on hot platter, place asparagus on them, and cover with a white or drawn butter sauce; in making sauce use asparagus liquor and water or mUk in equal quantities. String Beans.—Top and tail the beans, and strip off all strings carefully; break into short len^hs and wash. Boil in salted water until tender — from 1V& to 3 hours. Drain, season with butter, salt, and pepper. Kidney Beans, Brown Sauce.—Cook 1 pint fresh shelled beans in salted water till tender. Drain ; shake in saucepan with 1 teaspoon but- ter 3 minutes. Add 1 cup brown sauce (see Sauces), and simmer 5 minutes. Beets, Cream Sauce.—Wash and boil beets till tender. Rub off skins and slice or dice. To 1 pint add 1 cup white sauce (see Sauces); simmer 5 minutes. Other root v^etables may be finished same way.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 40 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Boiled Cabbage.—Strip off outer leaves, cut in quarters, cut out stalk. Soak in salted wa- ter 1 hour. Drain. Have kettle of rapidly boiling water. Add Mi teaspoon baking soda and cabbage. Cover and keep at galloping boil. Unless very old, cabbage will be done in 1 hour. Press out all water; season well; put in hot dish. Carrots and other Root Vegetables.— Scrape or pare carrots, parsnips, turnips. Dice and cook gently in unsalted water till tender. Drain and reheat in seasoned butter, 1 table- spoon to 1 pint, or in a drawn butter or white sauce. In early summer, when roots are small, water should be salted. Onions should also be boiled in salted water, then finished as here directed. Stewed Corn.—Husk corn. Draw sharp knife down center of each row of grains; press out pulp with back of knife. To 1 pint add Mi teaspoon salt. Mi teaspoon sugar, dash pe^er, cup cream or rich milk. Heat and .simmer 10 minutes. Corn Pudding.—To 1 pint scraped corn pulp add 4 beaten eggs, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, Mj teaspoon pepper. Mix, bake in moderate oven till set in center. Fried Egg Plant.— Wipe the egg plant, cut in V4-inch slices, soak in salted cold water 1 hour. Dip each shce in beaten egg and fry in butter until inside is very soft, outside brown. Fried Onions.— Peel (holding onions and hands under water to prevent tears), wash and cut crosswise so as to form undivided rings. Flour them, fry 5 or 6 minutes. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve with beefsteak. Fried Potatoes.— Pare raw potatoes; cut thin as wafers with sharp knife or patent sheer. Soak 20 minutes in cold water; dry on towel. Throw a handful at a time in kettle of smoking-hot fat; skim out fast as browned and drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with salt. Fried Potatoes,2.—Cut cold boiled potatoes in thick slices, season and saut6 in a little hot fat in a frying-pan. Mashed Potatoes.— Boil potatoes in salted water; while hot put through ricer or mash with fork till smooth. Season with salt and pepper; to 1 pint add 1 tablespoon butter and 2 tablespoons hot milk. Beat till Ught, heap in hot dish. Baked Potatoes.— Scrub potatoes of same size. Bake in very hot oven until tender. Press till skin breaks shghtly, serve hot with butter. Potato Croquettes.— Mix together 1 pint hot mashed potato, 1 teaspoon salt. Mi teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, yolks 2 beaten eggs. Stir over fire till mixture leaves sides of saucepan. When cool, shape into cro- quettes, dip each in beaten egg, roll in crumbs, and fry brown in deep kettle of smoking-hot fat. Lyonnaise Potatoes.— Heat 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Add 1 tablespoon chopped onion. \^en pale brown add 1 pint diced boiled potatoes, seasoned. Shake tUl butter is absorbed; potatoes should not color. Add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley and take up. Creamed Potatoes.— To 3 cups diced boiled potatoes add 1 pint cream sauce (see Sauces), more seasoning if necessary, and simmer 10 minutes. Or, season cold sliceM potatoes, cover with mUk, and stew till milk is reduced one half, then add a little butter. Stewed Squash.— Pare .small squash, re- move seeds, boil in salted water till tender. Drain, mash, season, and stir over slow fire till quite dry. Add butter and seasoning to taste. Stewed Tomatoes.— Scald and skin toma- toes, remove hard ends and cut up. Stew in agate saucepan till tender, add smt, pepper, and sugar to taste, also 1 teaspoon butter to each pint. If liked, thicken with fine crumbs or with a little flour dissolved in cold water. Stuffed Tomatoes.— Choose large toma- toes ; cut off stem ends and take out centers. Fill with stuffing (see Stuffings), lay on but- tered baking-pan, and bake in hot oven _ 30 minutes. Peppers, summer squash, large rij>e cucumbers, onions, and egg plant may be pre- pared in same way. Panned Tomatoes.— Cut firm tomatoes in halves. For 4, heat 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Dip tomatoes in floru', put cut side down in pan, cover, and cook over hot Are until browned. Transfer to hot dish, sprinkle 1 tablespoon flour in pan, stir, add 1 cup milk ; stir till thickened, season, boil 1 minute, and pour round tomatoes. Mashed Turnips.— Pare and dice turnips, boU in unsalted water till tender. Mash, adding salt, pepper, and butter to taste. If cut small they will cook in less time and be less odorous. Ragout of Vegetables.— Parboil 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 potatoes, 2 ears of corn, 1 cup of lima beans, and the same of peas, 1 onion, and with them M4 pound of fat salt pork. Drain off the water and lay aside the pork. Slice carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onion. Put into a saucepan with a cup of some good meat soup before it has been thickened. Season well; cut the com from the cob and add with the peas, beans, and a sliced tomato as soon as the rest are hot. Stew' all together Mi hour. Stir in a great lump of butter rolled in flour. Stew 5 minutes, and serve in a deep dish. Dried Sweet Corn.— Soak 1 pint overnight. Drain, add fresh cold water, and cook slowly. When tender drain, add Mi cup rich milk, 1 tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste, simmer 10 minutes. Boiled Rice.— Wash 1 cup rice through sev- eral waters till water mns off clear. Have at least 4 quarts rapidly boiling water in kettle. Add rice and 1 tablespoon salt. Boil at a gallop until rice is tender — this takes 12 to 20 min- utes according to kind and age of rice. Drain, set colander over boiling water for 10 minutes or more to steam. Each grain will be distinct yet tender. Macaroni.— Have a large kettle nearly full of rapidly boiling salted water. Break maca- roni into 2 or 3 inch lengths, drop into the water, and boil as directed for rice until tender, which will take from 30 to 45 minutes. Drain, then pour cold water through the colander to remove pastiness. Reheat in a little butter, or in a white, brown, or tomato sauce. Before sending to table, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese or stir the cheese through it. Spaghetti, vermicelli, or any of the forms of paste may be prepared in the same way.THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 41 THE ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE. Pickles, Etc. USE glass bottles for pickles, also wooden knives and forks in preparation of them. Fill bottles 3 parts full with articles to be pickled, then fill bottle with vinegar. Use saucepans lined with earthen- ware, or stone pipkins, to boil vinegar in. Chow Chow.— 1 quart large cucumbers, 1 quart small cucumbers, 2 quarts onions, 4 heads cauliflower, 6 green peppers, 1 quart green tomatoes, 1 gallon vinegar, 1 pound mustard, 2 cups sugar, 2 ctips flour, 1 ounce turmeric. Put all in salt and water one night; cook all the vegetables in brine until tender, except large cucumbers. Pour over vinegar and spices. Pickling Cauliflowers.— Take whitest and closest cauliflowers in bunches; spread on earthen dish, cover them with salt, and let stand 3 days to draw out all the water. Then put in jars, pour boiling salt and water over them, let stand overnight; then drain with a hair-sieve, and put in glass jars; flU up jars with vinegar; cover tight. Piccalllly.— 1 peck green tomatoes, sliced; % peck onions, sliced; 1 cauliflower, 1 peck small cucumbers. Leave in salt and water 24 hours; then put in kettle with handful scraped horse-radish, 1 ounce turmeric, 1 ounce cloves (whole), *4 pound pepper (whole). 1 ounce cassia-buds or cinnamon, 1 pound white mus- tard seed, 1 pound English mustard. Place in kettle in layers, and cover with cold vinegar. Boil 15 minutes, constantly stirring. Pickled Red Cabbage.— Slice it into a col- ander, sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain 2 days, then put into a jar, pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, put in a few slices of red beet-root. Choose purple red cabbage. Those who like flavor of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in bunches, and thrown in after being salted, will look red and beautiful. Tomato Catsup.— 1 gallon tomatoes (strained), 6 tablespoons salt, 3 tablespoons black pepper, 1 tablespoon cloves, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 tablespoons allspice, 1% pints vinegar; boil down one half. 1 peck tomatoes will make 1 gallon strained. Walnut Catsup.— Take green walnuts be- fore the shell is formed (usually in a proper state early in August). Grind them or pound them in an earthen or marble mortar. Squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, and add to every gallon of juice 1 pound of anchovies, 1 pound salt, 4 ounces cayenne pepper, 2 ounces black pepper, 1 ounce each ginger, cloves, and mace, and the root of one horse-radish. Boil all together till reduced to half the quantity. Pour off, and when cold bottle tight. Use in 3 months. v Beverages Boiled coffee. —For 4 heaping table- spoons ground coffee allow 1 quart freshly boiling water and Mt white 1 raw egg. Mix the egg white with 3 tablespoons cold water, beating with fork. Add coffee and stir till well wet. Scald coffee-pot, put in pre- pared coffee. Pour in boiling water, cover spout, and boil 5 minutes. Pour in quickly V4 cup cold water, let stand 3 minutes to set- tle. Strain into hot pot or have strainer on table. Coffee for Six Persons.—Take 1 full cup ground coffee, 1 egg, a little cold water; stir together, add 1 pint boiling water, boil up ; then add another pint boiling water, and set back to settle before serving. French Coffee.—1 quart water to 1 cup very fine ground coffee. Put coffee grounds in bowl; pour over about Mt pint cold water and let stand for 15 minutes; bring remaining water to a boil. Take coffee in bowl, strain through flne sieve, then take French coffee- pot, put coffee grounds in strainer at top of French pot. leaving water in bowl. Then take boiling water and pour over coffee very slowly. Then set coffee-pot on stove 5 min- utes ; must ywt boil. Take off and pour in cold water from bowl that coffee was first soaked in, to settle. Serve in another pot. The French, who have the reputation of mak- ing the best coffee, use 3 parts Java, 1 part Mocha. Vienna Coffee.—Equal parts Mocha and Java coffee; allow 1 heaping tablespoon of coffee to each person, and 2 extra to make good strength. Mix 1 egg with grounds, pour on coffee as much boiling water as will be needed, let coffee froth, then stir down grounds and let boU 5 minutes; then let coffee stand where it will keep hot, but not boU, for 5 or 10 minutes, and add rest of water. To 1 pint cream add white of an egg, well beaten; this is to be put in cups with sugar, and hot coffee added. Tea.—Water for tea should be freshly heated and just boiling. Teas are of differing strengths, but a safe rule is 1 teaspoon dry tea to Mt pint boiling water. Scald tea-pot; put in dry tea and cover for 1 minute. Add boiling water, cover closely. Let stand 3 to 6 min- utes, strain off into second hot pot. A wadded cozy will keep tea hot for a long time off the Are. Cocoa.—The usual rule is 1 teaspoon cocoa to each cup. Mix dry cocoa with little cold water, add scalded milk or boiling water, and boil 1 minute. Chocolate.—1 square unsweetened choco- late, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons hot wa- ter. Grate chocolate, boil all together till smooth, add gradually 1 pint scalded milk, cook in double boiler 5 minutes. Some like to add 1 teaspoon vanilla. It can be made stronger by using more chocolate. Cookery for the Sick Always prepare food for the sick in the neatest and most careful manner. In ^ sickness the senses are unusually acute, and far more susceptible to carelessness, neg- ligence, and mistakes in the preparation and serving of food than when in health.42 THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK Corn Meal Qruel.—Mix 1 tablespoon corn meal, ^ teaspoon salt, and 2 tablespoons cold water. Add 1 pint boiling water, simmer slowly 1 hour. In serving bowl put 2 table- spoons cream, 1 lump sugar, strain in gruel, stir for a moment, and serve. Flour and arrowroot gruel is made in the same way, but cooked only 10 minutes. Farina gruel is made with milk and cooked 1 hour in double boiler. Boil oatmeal gruel 1 hour and strain. Barley Water.— Wash 2 tablespoons pearl barley, scald with boiling water, boil 5 minutes, strain. Add 2 quarts cold water, simmer till reduced Mi. Strain, add lemon juice to taste. Good in fevers. Wine Whey.—Scald 1 cup milk, add 1 cup wine, cook gently till it wheys. Strain through cheese-cloth. Beef Tea.— Chop very fine 1 pound lean beef round. Cover with Ms pint cold water. Stand in cold place 1 hour. Set over hot water, stir till liquid begins to turn color. Strain, add pinch salt. To reheat, set cup in pan of hot water. Restorative Jelly.—Put in glass jar Ms box granulated gelatine, 1 tablespoon granulated gum arable, 2 cloves, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 cup port wine. Stand in kettle cold water, heat till all is dis- solved. Strain into shallow dish. Chill. Cut in Ms-inch squares. ¥ Candies Granulated sugar is preferable. Candy should not be stiired while boil- ing. Cream tartar should not be added until syrup begins to boil. Butter should be put in when candy is almost done. Flavors are more delicate when not boiled in candy but added afterward. Butter Scotch.— 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons water, piece butter size of an egg. Boil with- out stirring until it hardens on a spoon. Pour out on buttered plates to cool. Cream Candy.— 1 pound white sugar, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. Add little water to moisten sugar, boU until brittle. Put in ex- tract, then turn quickly out on buttered plates. When cool, pull until white, and cut in squares. Cream Walnuts.— 2 cups sugar, % cup water. Boil without stirring until it will spin a thread; flavor with extract vanilla. Set off into dish with cold water in; when at blood heat stir briskly until white and creamy, then knead and work with the hands for sev- eral minutes. Have walnuts shelled; make cream into small round cakes with your fingers; press half a walnut on either side, and drop into sifted granulated sugar. For cream dates, take fresh dates, remove stones, and fill center of dates with this same cream. Drop into sugar. Creamed Nuts.— Mix 1 pound confectioners’ sugar, white 1 imbeaten egg, 1 teaspoon va- nilla, and 2 teaspoons cold water to a stiff paste. Shape in little balls, press between THE ROYAL BAKING POWl halved walnut or other nut meats. Ston^ dates and large raisins may be filled with this cream, or it may be mixed with chopped nuts, shaped in bars, and cut in squares. Butter Taffy.— Boil 3 cups brown sugar, cup molasses, Mi cup each hot water and vin- egar. When it crisps in cold water, add 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla, cook 3 minutes, cool on buttered pans. Candied Popcorn.— Put into an iron kettle 1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons water, 1 tea-cup white pulverized sugar. Boil until ready to candy, then throw in 3 quarts nicely popped corn. Stir briskly till candy is evenly distributed over com. Take kettle from fire, stir*until it is cooled a little and you have each grain separate and crystallized with sugar, taking care that corn does not burn. Nuts of any kind may be prepared in same way. Cocoanut Cream Candy.— 1 cocoanut, 1% pounds granulated sugar. Put sugar and milk of cocoanut together, heat slowly until sugar is melted; then boil 5 minutes; add cocoanut (finely grated), boil 10 minutes longer, stir constantly to keep from burning. Pour on buttered plates, cut in squares. Will take about 2 days to harden. Use prepared cocoa- nut when other cannot be had. Hickory Nut Candy.— 1 cup hickory nuts (meats), 2 cups sugar, hi cup water. Boil sugar and water, without stirring, until thick enough to spin a thread; flavor with extract lemon or vanilla. Set off into cold water; stir quickly until white; then stir in nuts; turn into flat tin; when cold cut into small squares. Chocolate Caramels.—2 cups molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup cream or milk, Mj pound chocolate, piece of butter size of an egg. Beat all together; boil until it thickens in water; turn into large flat tins, well buttered. When nearly cold, cut into small squares. Ice Cream Candy.— 3 cups‘sugar, crushed or cut loaf, a little less than Mj cup vinegar, 1 Mt cups cold water, piece of butter size of a wal- nut, flavor with extract vanilla. Boil until it hardens, then pull until white. Molasses Candy.— 3 cups yellow coffee sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup water, Mi tea- spoon cream tartar, butter size of a walnut. Follow directions for cream candy. Velvet Molasses Candy.—Put IMj pounds sugar. Mi pint molasses, Mz pint water, Mi cup vinegar, in agate kettle. Heat; when boiling add Mj teaspoon cream tartar, boil tiU it crisps in cold water. Stir; when almost done add \ pound butter, 14 teaspoon soda. Cool in but- tered pan and pull. Peanut Brittle.— Shell and chop roasted nuts to measure 1 pint. Put 2 pounds granu- lated sugar in clean frying-pan. Stir over slow fire. It will lump, then gradually melt. WTien pale coffee color and clear add nuts and pour quickly on buttered tin sheet. Roll thin as possible. When cold break up. Fudge.— Cook 3 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, and 1 tablespoon butter. When sugar is melted add 4 or 5 tablespoons cocoa. Stir and boil 15 minutes. Take from fire, add 1 teaspoon va- nilla, stir till creamy, pour on buttered plates, cut in squares. )ER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.ROYAL 1 SimaLy PllRE,CREinOFIARTAII bakinr powder rilHE tests made by the Government chemists show that Royal X Baking Powder is of the highest efficiency and usefulness as a leavening agent; that it does not contain alum, ammonia, or lime, and is absolutely pure. The official tests by the various State Food Com- missions, Boards of Health, and official analysts show no other baking powdej so pure, strong, and healthful. More ill health and physical discomfort result from unwholesome food than from any other one cause, and chief among unwholesome foods are the alum and other cheaply made baking powders. The market is full of low-grade powders, mostly made from burnt alum and phosphatic acid. The sale of these powders is urged by some dealers because they are bought cheap at wholesale and yield them large profits. Consumers should ask for Royal and take no substitute. Alum baking powders are classed as poisonous by the most eminent physicians. They cost but three cents a pound to make, and being sold at from twenty to forty cents, are also a commercial fraud. They cause indigestion, heartburn, dyspepsia, and diseases of the liver and kidneys. Consumers who value their health must be on their guard against these dangerous powders. It will be safer in all cases to demand the Royal and take no other. The housewife will find no possible substitute for the Royal Baking Powder. There is no other baking powder or preparation that will render the food so excellent in every quality. Instead of cream of tartar and soda, or soda and sour milk, the best housekeepers now use Royal Baking Powder. It is almost impos- sible for the housekeeper to procure pure cream of tartar. Professor Chandler, when president of the New York Board of Health, stated in an official report that he found upon investigation that nearly all the cream of tartar sold by grocers was adulterated with white clay, alum, or other hurtful substance. These ingredients are dangerous to health, impoverishing the blood, producing dyspepsia, etc. Professor Chandler strongly recommends the use of a well-known baking powder (like the Royal) in all kinds of baking as more convenient, economical, and healthful. Royal Baking Powder is sold only in securely labeled tin cans. Remember, in all old receipts where cream of tartar and soda or saleratus are called for, you can substitute Royal Baking Powder and get better results. The usual proportions, old way, are: 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar to 1 of soda or saleratus; Instead of which use 2 teaspoonfuls op Royal Baking Powder, and mix it with the flour while dry. This powder is so pure and per- fectly combined that one third less will do better work. Never use so-called prepared or self-raising flours. They mostly contain alum, phosphates, or other injurious ingredients.THE OFFICIAL TESTS SHOW ROYAL BAKING POWDER SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS The United States Government, after elaborate tests, reports the Royal Baking PowdOT a pure cream of tartar powder of greater leavening strength than any other. Bulletin 13, U. S. Ag. Dep., p. 599. The Canadian official tests, recently made, show the Royal Baking Powder highest of all in leavening strength. Bulletin 10, Inland Rev. Dep., p. 16. The Royal naving powder is superior to any other powder which I have examined; a baking powder imequaled for purity, strength, and wholesomenees. Willis G. Tucker, M.D., Ph.D., New York State Analyst As the excellence of a baking powder is dependent upon the yield of leavening gas, and upon the wholesomeness and piu'ity of its ingredients, the Royal is unquestionably the best Massachusetts State Analyst The best baking powder made is, as shown by analysis, the RoyaL Cyrus Edson, M.D., Com’r of Health, New York City. I find the Royal Baking Powder superior to all the others in every respect. It is purest and strongest Walter S. Haines, M.D., Consulting Chemist, Chicago Board of Health. Our test shows that Royal Baking Powder has greater leavening power than any other of which we have knowledge. W. B. Rising, State Analyst, California. I have from time to time analyzed the Royal Baking Powder, and have uniformly found it to be high in leavening power and to be composed of pure ingi-edients. H. A. Weber, State Analyst, Ohio. My tests show the Royal Baking Powder of very superior leavening power; a cream of tartar powder of the highest purity, containing no alum, lime, ammonia, or any unwhole- some material. R. C. Kedzie, late State Analyst, Michigan. Royal Baking Powder is composed of the best and purest ingredients. It is absolutely pure, with perfect keeping qualities, and as strong as such a powder can be made. Royal makes the food much finer, besides assuring its perfect healthfulness. G. N. Failure, Kansas State Chemist I have submitted the Royal Baking Powder to careful chemical tests, and find it to be perfectly free from any substance in any way deleterious or injurious. H. A. Huston, Indiana State Chemist Royal Baking Powder is free from alum and every adulteration, and it has a larger amount of leavening gas than any of the others analyzed. M A. Scovell, Director Kentucky AgL Exp. Station. I have made a large number of analyses of Royal Baking Powder, and have found it to be an absolutely pure cream of tartar powder, entirely free from alum, ammonia, and all adultera- tions and impurities. In leavening power it is of the very highest. Charles W. Drew, late State Chemist, Minnesota. In this market I find but one powder besides Royal made from cream of tartar. Royal is the strongest, purest, most economical. H. H. Nicholson, Nebraska State Chemist. I find the Royal to be absolutely pure and highest in leavening power. Albert Menke, Arkansas State Chemist From actual analysis made by me, I pronounce the Royal Baking Powder to be the strongest and purest Baking Powder before the public. W. T. Wenzell, Analyst San Francisco Board of Health. The Royal Baking Powder Is superior in regard to purity, leavening power, and keeping qualities. Geo. S. Cox, State Chemist, Wisconsin. I allow no baking powder other than the Royal to be used in my kitchen, lor I know it to be absolutely pure and aU that is claimed lor it. Wm. T. Cutter, Connecticut State Chemish The Royal was found the highest in leavening strength, and the best powder analyzed. George F. Payne, State Chemist, Georgia. There is no baking powder known to us equal to the RoyaL We confidently recommend it for purity and wholesomeness. W. Q. Webb, M.D., President Board of Health, Spokane, Washington. Royal Baking Powder has been found by every examination — official or competitive — to be the highest of ALL in leavening power, and of absolute purity and yrtiolesomeness.I I jRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: j Date Particulars 1 Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks