22101424080Med K8494American Pishes HOW TO COOK THEM lAtfnt tl)c OF AN AMERICAN LADY J?onbou T FISHER UNWIN 1883•Z.-2, / ? WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll welMOmec Call No. ft i k unwin brothers, the Gresham press, ciiilworth and London'.CONTENTS SOUPS . . ... FISH MEATS .... POULTRY AND GAME . ENTREES SALADS BREAD . FLOUR VEGETABLES . PIES AND PUDDINGS . DESSERT CAKES BREAKFAST AND TEA l'AGE I 16 37 4i 49 80 92 93 95 107 i32 161 . i77AMERICAN DISHES. * M SOUPS. REMARKS ON SOUP STOCK. There is a number of methods of making soup stocks, and no two will give exactly the same results. One of the simplest and most satisfactory is that of clear stock or bouillon. By this the best flavour of the meat is obtained, for none passes off in steam, as when the meat is boiled rapidly. The second mode is in boiling the stock a great deal, to reduce it. This gives a very rich soup, with a marked difference in the flavour from that' made with clear meat kept in water at the boiling point. The third way leaves a mixed stock, which will not be clear unless whites of eggs are used. In following the first methods we buy clear beef specially for the stock, and know from the begin- ning just how much stock there will be when the work is completed. By the second method we are not sure because more or less than we estimate may boil away. The third stock, being made from bones and pieces of meat left from roasts, and from the trimmings of raw meats, will always be changeable in colour, quantity, and quality.2 AMERICAN DISHES. This is, however, a very important stock, and it should always be kept on hand. No household, even where only a moderate amount of meat is used, should be without a stock-pot. It can be kept on the back of the range or stove while cooking is going on. Two or three times a week it should be put on with the trimmings and bones left from cooked and uncooked meats. This practice will give a supply of stock at all times, which will be of the greatest value in making sauces, side dishes, and soups. Meat if only slightly tainted will spoil a stock; therefore great care must be taken that every particle is perfectly sweet. •v. Vegetables make a stock sour very quickly, so if you wish to keep a stock do not use them. Many rules advise putting vegetables into the stock-pot with the meat and water and cooking from the very beginning. When this is done they absorb the fine flavour of the meat and give the soup a rank taste. They should cook not more than an hour—the last hour—in the stock. A white stock is made with veal or poultry. The water in which a leg of mutton or fowl have been boiled makes a good stock for light soups and gravies. A soup stock must be cooled quickly or it will not keep well. In winter any kind of stock ought to keep good a week. That boiled down to a jelly will last the longest. In the warm months three days will be the average time stock will keep. Stock for Clear Soups.—Five pounds of clear beef, cut from the lower part of the round; five quarts of cold water. Let come to a boil, slowly; skim carefully, and set where it will keep just at the boiling point for eight or ten hours. Strain, and set away to cool. In the morning skim off all the fat and turn the soup into the kettle, being careful not to let the sediment pass in. Into the soup put an onion, one stalk of celery, two leaves of sage, two sprigs of parsley,SOUPS. 3 two of thyme, two of summer savory, two bay leaves, twelve pepper-corns, and six whole cloves. Boil gently from ten to twenty minutes; salt and pepper to taste. Strain through an old napkin. This is now ready for serving as a simple clear soup or for the foundation of all kinds of clear soups. Mixed Stock.—Put the trimmings of your fresh meats and the bones and tough pieces left from roasts or broils into the soup pot with one quart of water to every two pounds of meat and bones. When it comes to a boil, skim and set back where it will simmer six hours; then add a bouquet of sweet herbs, one onion, six cloves, and twelve pepper-corns to each gallon of stock. Cook two hours longer; strain and set in a cool place. In the morning skim off the fat. Keep in a very cool place. This can be used for common soups, sauces, and where stock is used in made.dishes. It should always be kept on hand, as it really costs nothing but the labour (which is very little), and enters so often into the preparation of simple, yet tooth- some, dishes. White Stock.—Six pounds of a shin of veal, one fowl, three table-spoonfuls of butter, four stalks of celery, two onions, one blade of mace, one stick of cinnamon, eight quarts of cold water, salt, pepper. Wash and cut the veal and fowl into small pieces. Put the butter in the bottom of the soup pot and then put in the meat. Cover, and cook gently (stirring often) half an hour, then add the water. Let it come to a boil, then skim and set back where it will boil gently for six hours. Add the vegetables and spice and boil one hour longer. Strain and cool quickly. In the morning take off all the fat. Then turn the jelly gently into a deep dish, and with a knife scrape off the sediment which is on the bottom. Put the jelly into a stone pot and set in a cold place. This will keep a week in cold weather and three days in warm.4 AMERICAN DISHES. Cheese Soup.—One and a half cupfuls of flour, one pint of rich cream, four table-spoonfuls of butter, four of grated Parmesan cheese, a speck of cayenne, two eggs, three quarts of clear soup stock. Mix flour, cream, butter, cheese, and pepper together. Place the basin in another of hot water and stir until the mixture becomes a smooth, firm paste. Break into it the two eggs, and mix quickly and thoroughly. Cook two minutes longer, and set away to cool. When cold, roll into little balls about the size of an American walnut. When the balls are all formed drop them into boiling water and cook gently five minutes; then put them in the soup tureen and pour the boiling stock on them. Pass a plate of finely grated Parmesan cheese with the soup. Thick Vegetable Soup.—One quart of the sediment which is left from the clear stock, one quart of water, one-fourth of a cupful of pearl barley, one good-sized white turnip, one carrot, half, a head of celery, two onions, about two pounds of cabbage, three potatoes, salt, and pepper. Wash the barley and put it on in the quart of water, and simmer gently for two hours. Then add all the vegetables (except the potatoes), cut very fine, and the quart of stock. Boil gently for one hour and a half, then add the potatoes and the salt and pepper. Cook thirty minutes longer. When there is no stock, take two pounds of beef and two quarts of water. Cook beef, barley, and water two hours, and add the vege- tables as before. The meat can be served with the soup or as a separate dish. Green Turtle Soup.—One can of green turtle, such as is put up by the “ Merriam Packing Co.” (This can be pro- cured in London.) Separate the green fat from the other contents of the can, cut. into dice and set aside. Put one quart of water with the remainder of the turtle; add twelve pepper-corns, six whole cloves, two small sprigs each ofSOUPS. 5 parsley, summer savory, sweet marjoram and thyme, two bay leaves, two leaves of sage. Have the herbs tied together. Put one large onion, one slice of carrot, one of turnip, and a stalk of celery, cut fine, into a pan, with two large table- spoonfuls of butter. Fry fifteen minutes, being careful not to burn. Skim carefully from the butter and put into the soup. Now, into the butter in which the vegetables were fried, put two table-spoonfuls of dry flour, and cook until brown. Stir into the soup ; season with salt and pepper and let simmer very gently one hour. Strain, skim off all the fat and serve with thin slices of lemon, egg, or force-meat balls, and the green fat. The lemon should have a very thin rind ; should be put into the tureen and the soup poured over it. Cooking the lemon in this or any other soup often gives it a bitter taste. If the soup is wished quite thick, add a table-spoonful of butter to that in which the vegetables were cooked, and use three table-spoonfuls of flour instead of two. Many people use wine in this soup, but it is delicious with- out. In case you do use wine there should not be more than four table-spoonfuls to this quantity. If you desire the soup extremely rich, use a quart of rich soup stock. The green turtles are so very large that it is only in great establishments that they are available, and for this reason a rule for prepar- ing the live turtle is not given. Few housekeepers would ever see one. The cans contain not what is commonly called turtle soup, but the meat of the turtle, boiled, and the proper proportions of lean meat, yellow and green fat put together. They cost about 2s. 6d. each, and a single can will make soup enough for six persons. Black Bean Soup.—A pint of black beans, soaked over night in three quarts of water. In the morning pour off this water, and add three quarts of fresh. Boil gently six hours. When done there should be one quart. Add a quart of stock, six whole cloves, six whole allspice, a small piece ofAMERICAN DISHES. 6 mace, a small piece of cinnamon, stalk of celery, a bouquet of sweet herbs, also one good-sized onion and one small slice each of turnip and carrot, all cut fine and fried in three table- spoonfuls of butter. Into the butter remaining in the pan put a spoonful of flour, and cook until brown. Add to soup, and simmer all together one hour. Season with salt and pepper, and run through a fine sieve. Serve with slices of lemon and egg balls, the lemon to be put in the tureen with the soup. Okra, or Gumbo Soup.—One cold roast chicken, two quarts of stock (any kind), one of water, quarter of a pound of salt pork, one quart of okra (which may be purchased in London, canned), an onion, salt, pepper, three table-spoon- fuls of flour. Slice the pork and onion. Fry the pork, and then add the onion and okra. Cover closely and fry half an hour. Cut all the meat from the chicken. Put the bones on with the water. Add the okra and onion, first being careful to press out all the pork fat possible. Into the fat remaining put the flour, and stir until it becomes a rich brown ; add this to the other ingredients. Cover the pot, and simmer three hours ; then rub through a 'sieve, and add the stock, salt and pepper, and the meat of the chicken cut into small pieces. Simmer gently twenty minutes, Serve with a dish of boiled rice. Okra, or Gumbo Soup, No. 2.—One pint of okra, one of green peas, one of green corn, cut from the cob (these vegetables may be purchased in London, preserved, and of excellent quality), half a pint of shell beans, two onions, four stalks of celery, two ripe tomatoes, one slice of carrot, one of turnip, two pounds of veal, quarter of a pound of fat ham or bacon, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four quarts of water, salt, pepper. Fry the ham or bacon, being careful not to burn. Cut the veal into dice; roll these in the flour and fry brown in the ham fat; then put them in the soup7 SOUPS. pot. Fry the onion, carrot, and turnip in the remaining fat. Add these to the veal, and then add the okra, the shell beans, celery, and water. Simmer two hours, and then add the tomatoes, corn, peas, and salt and pepper. Simmer half an hour longer and serve without straining. If dried okra be used for either soup, half the quantity given in the recipes is sufficient. Okra is often called gumbo. The same kind of a soup is meant under both names. Prairie Hen Soup.—The bones of two roasted prairie hens and the breast of one, a quart of any kind of stock, or pieces and bones of cold roasts; three quarts of cold water, two slices of turnip, two of carrot, two large onions, two cloves, two stalks of celery, a bouquet of sweet herbs, three table-spoonfuls of butter, three of flour. Cook the prairie hen bones in three quarts of water four hours. The last hour add the vegetables and the cloves; then strain, and return to the fire with the quart of stock. Cook the butter and the flour together until a rich brown, and then turn into the stock. Cut the breast of the bird into very small pieces and add to the soup. Season with salt and pepper and simmer gently half an hour. If there is any fat on the soup, skim it off. Serve with fried bread. When bones and meat are used instead of the stock, use one more quart of water, and cook them with the prairie hen bones. Prairie hens are largely imported into England about November. American Spring Soup.—Half a pint of green peas, half a pint of cauliflower, one pint of turnip, carrot, celery, and string beans (all the four vegetables being included in the pint), half a cupful of tinned tomato, half a pint of asparagus heads, two quarts of soup stock—any kind will do; three table-spoonfuls of butter, three table-spoonfuls of flour, and salt and pepper. Cook all the vegetables, except the peas and tomato, in water to cover one hour. Cook butter and dry flour together until smooth, but not brown; stir into theAMERICAN DISHES. 8 stock, which has been heated to the boiling point. Now •add the tomato and simmer gently fifteen minutes; then strain. Add the peas and cooked vegetables to the strained soup, and simmer again for thirty minutes. Serve small slices of toasted bread in a separate dish. Spring and Summer Soup without Stock.—Quarter of a pound of salt pork, or three large table-spoonfuls of butter; three large young onions, half a small head of cabbage, three potatoes, half a small carrot, half a small white turnip, three table-spoonfuls of flour, two quarts of water, six large slices of toasted bread, salt, pepper, one small parsnip. Cut the pork into thin slices ; place these in the soup pot and let them fry out slowly. Have the vegetables (except the potatoes) cut quite fine, and when the pork is cooked, put the vegetables into the pot with it. Cover tightly, and let cook very gently, on the back of the stove, one hour. Stir frequently to prevent burning. Add the water, which should be boiling. Let simmer gently for one hour, and then add the potatoes, cut into slices, and the flour, which has been mixed with a little cold water. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer gently an hour longer. Have the toasted bread in the tureen. Turn the soup on it and serve. A pint of green peas, cooked in the soup the last half, is a great addition. When the butter is used, let it melt in the soup pot before adding the vegetables. Giblet Soup.—The giblets from two or three fowl or chickens, any kind of stock, or if there are remains of the roast chickens, use these; one large onion, two slices of carrot, one of turnip, two stalks of celery, two quarts of water, one of stock, two large table-spoonfuls of butter, two of flour, salt, pepper. Put the giblets on to boil in the two quarts of water, and boil gently until reduced to one quart (it will take about two hours); then take out the giblets. Cut all the hard, tough parts from the gizzards, and putSOUPS. 9 hearts, livers, and gizzards together and chop rather coarse. Return them to the liquor in which they were boiled, and add the quart of stock. Have the vegetables cut fine, and fry them in the butter until they are very tender (about fifteen minutes), but be careful they do not burn; then add the dry flour to them and stir until the flour browns. Turn this mixture into the soup, and season with pepper and salt. Cook gently half an hour and serve with toasted bread. If the chicken bones are used, put them on to boil in three quarts of water, and boil the giblets with them. When you take out the giblets, strain the stock through a sieve and return to the pot; then proceed as before. Tomato Soup.—One quart can of tomato, two heaping table-spoonfuls of flour, one of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, a pint of hot water. Let tomato and water come to a boil. Rub flour, butter, and a table- spoonful of tomato together. Stir into boiling mixture, add seasoning, boil all together fifteen minutes, rub through a sieve, and serve with toasted bread. This bread should first be cut in thin slices; should be buttered, cut into little squares, placed in a pan, buttered side up, and browned in a quick oven. Mock Bisque Soup.—A quart can of tomato, three pints of milk, a large table-spoonful of flour, butter the size of an egg, pepper and salt to taste, a scant teaspoonful of soda. Put the tomato on to stew, and the milk in a double kettle to boil, reserving, however, half a cupful to mix with flour. Mix the flour smoothly with this cold milk, stir into the boiling milk, and cook ten minutes. To the tomato add the soda; stir well, and rub through a strainer that is fine enough to keep back the seeds. Add butter, salt, and pepper to the milk, and then the tomato. Serve immediately. If half the quantity is made, stir the tomato well in the can before dividing, as the liquid portion is the more acid.AMERICAN DISHES. 10 Onion Soup.— One quart of milk, six large onions, yolks of four eggs, three table-spoonfuls of butter, a large one of flour, one cupful of cream, salt, pepper. Put the butter in a frying-pan. Cut the onions into thin slices and drop in the butter. Stir until they begin to cook; then cover tight and set back where they will simmer, but not burn, for half an hour. Now put the milk on to boil, and then add the dry flour to the onions, and stir constantly for three minutes over the fire. Then turn the mixture into the milk and cook fifteen minutes. Rub the soup through a strainer, return to the fire, season with salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of the eggs well; add the cream to them and stir into the soup. Cook three minutes, stirring constantly. If you have no cream, use milk, in which case add a table-spoonful of butter at the same time. Potato Soup.—A quart of milk, six large potatoes, one stalk of celery, an onion, and a table-spoonful of butter. Put milk to boil with onion and celery. Pare potatoes and boil thirty minutes. Turn off the water, and mash fine and light. Add boiling milk and the butter, and pepper and salt to taste. -Rub through a strainer and serve immediately. A cupful of whipped cream, added when in the tureen, is a great improvement. This soup must not be allowed to stand, not even if kept hot. Served as soon as ready, it is excellent. Asparagus Soup.—Two tins of asparagus (the fresh vegetable, of course, if in season), one quart of white stock or water, one pint of milk, and one of cream, if stock is used, but if water, use all cream; three table-spoonfuls of butter, three of flour, one onion, salt and pepper. Cut the tops from one bunch of the asparagus and cook them twenty minutes in salted water to cover. The remainder of the asparagus cook twenty minutes in the quart of stock or water. Cut the onion into thin slices and fry in the butterII SOUPS. ten minutes, being careful not to burn; then add the aspara- gus that has been boiled in the stock. Cook five minutes, stirring constantly; then add flour, and cook five minutes longer. Turn this mixture into the boiling stock and boil gently twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add the milk and cream, which has just come to a boil, and also the asparagus heads. Season with salt and pepper, and serve. Dropped eggs can be served with it if you choose, but they are rather heavy for such a delicate soup. Green Pea Soup.—Cover a quart of green peas with hot water, and boil, with an onion, until they will mash easily. (The time will depend on the age of the peas, but will be from twenty to thirty minutes.) Mash, and add a pint of stock or water. Cook together two table-spoonfuls of butter and one of flour until smooth, but not brown. Add to the peas, and then add a cupful of cream and one of milk. Season with salt and pepper, and let boil up once. Strain and serve. A cupful of whipped cream added the last moment is an improvement. Pumpkin Soup.—Two pounds of pumpkin. Take out seeds and pare off the rind. Cut into small pieces, and put into a stew-pan with half a pint of water. Simmer slowly an hour and a half, then rub through a sieve and put back on the fire with one and a half pints of boiling milk, butter the size of an egg, one teaspoonful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and three slices of stale bread, cut into small squares. Stir occasionally; and when it boils, serve. Cream of Celery Soup.—A pint of milk, a table-spoonful of flour, one of butter, a head of celery, a large slice of onion, and small piece of mace. Boil celery in a pint of water from thirty to forty-five minutes; boil mace, onion, and milk together. Mix flour with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and add to boiling milk. Cook ten minutes. Mash celery in the water in which it has been cooked, and12 AMERICAN DISHES. stir into boiling milk. Add butter, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Strain and serve immediately. The flavour is improved by adding a cupful of whipped cream when the soup is in the tureen. Tapioca Cream Soup.—One quart of white stock, one pint of cream or milk, one onion, two stalks of celery, one- third of a cupful of tapioca, two cupfuls of cold water, one table-spoonful of butter, a small piece of mace, salt, pepper. Wash the tapioca, and soak over night in cold water. Cook it and the stock together, very gently, for one hour. Cut the onion and celery into small pieces, and put on to cook for twenty minutes with the milk and mace. Strain on the tapioca and stock. Season with salt and pepper, add butter, and serve. Cream of Rice Soup. — Two quarts of chicken stock (the water in which fowl have been boiled will answer), one teacupful of rice, a quart of cream or milk, a small onion, a stalk of celery, and salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice carefully, and add to chicken stock, onion and celery. Cook slowly two hours (it should hardly bubble). Put through a sieve; add seasoning and the milk or cream, which has been allowed to come just to a boil. If milk, use also a table- spoonful of butter. Cream of Barley Soup.—A teacupful of barley well washed, three pints of chicken stock, an onion, and a small piece each of mace and cinnamon. Cook slowly together five hours; then rub through a sieve, and add one and a half pints of boiling cream or milk. If milk, add also two table-spoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. The yolks of four eggs, beaten with four table-spoonfuls of milk, and cooked a minute in the boiling milk or cream, makes the soup very much richer. Yacht Oyster Soup.—A quart of milk, one of oysters, a head of celery, a small onion, half a cupful of butter, half aSOUPS. 13 cupful of powdered cracker or biscuit, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a speck of cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste. Chop onion and celery fine. Put on to boil with milk for twenty minutes. Then strain, and add the butter, cracker, oyster liquor (which has been boiled and skimmed), and finally the seasoning and oysters. Cook three minutes longer, and serve. Lobster Soup with Milk.—Meat of a small lobster chopped fine, three crackers or biscuits rolled fine, butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste, and a speck of cayenne. Mix all in the same pan, and add, gradually, a pint of boiling milk, stirring all the while. Boil up once, and serve. Lobster Soup with Stock.—One small lobster, three pints of water or stock, three large table-spoonfuls of butter and three of flour, a speck of cayenne, white pepper and salt to taste. Break up the body of the lobster, and cut off the scraggy parts of the meat. Pour over these and the body the water or stock. If there is “ coral ” in the lobster, pound it and use also. Boil twenty minutes. Cook the butter and flour until smooth, but not brown. Stir into the cooking mixture, and add the seasoning. Boil two minutes, and strain into a saucepan. Have the remainder of the lobster meat—that found in the tail and claws—cut up very fine, and add it to the soup. Boil up once, and serve. Philadelphia Clam Soup. — Twenty-five small clams (these shell-fish may be procured, tinned, in London), one quart of milk, half a cupful of butter, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, three potatoes, two large table-spoonfuls of flour, salt, pepper. The clams should be chopped fine and put into a colander to drain. Pare the potatoes, and chop rather fine. Put them on to boil with the milk, in a double kettle. Rub the butter and flour together until perfectly creamy, and when the milk and potatoes have been boilingAMERICAN DISHES. 14 fifteen minutes, stir this in, and cook eight minutes more. Add the parsley, pepper, and salt, and cook three minutes longer. Now add the clams. Cook one minute longer, and serve. This gives a very delicate soup, as the liquor from the clams is not used. Fish Chowder.—Five pounds of any kind of fish (the light salt-water fish is the best), half a pound of pork, two large onions, one quart of sliced potatoes, one quart of water, one pint of milk, two table-spoonfuls of flour, six crackers or biscuits, salt, pepper. Skin the fish, and cut all the flesh from the bones. Put the bones on to cook in the quart of water, and simmer gently ten minutes. Fry the pork; then add the onions, cut into slices. Cover, and cook five minutes; then add the flour, and cook eight minutes longer, stirring often. Strain on this the water in which the fish bones were cooked and boil gently for five minutes; then strain all on the potatoes and fish. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer fifteen minutes. Add the milk and the crackers, which were first soaked for three minutes in the milk. Let it boil up once, and serve. The milk may be omitted, and a pint of tomatoes used, if you like. Corn Chowder.—Enough green corn to make a quart; pare and slice one quart of potatoes; pare and slice two onions. Cut half a pound of pork in slices, and fry until brown; then take up, and fry the onions in the fat. Put the potatoes and. corn into the kettle in layers, sprinkling each layer with salt, pepper, and flour. Use half a tea- spoonful of pepper, one and a half table-spoonfuls of salt, and three of flour. Place the gravy strainer on the vege- tables, and turn the onions and pork fat into it, and with a spoon press the juice through; then slowly pour one and one-fourth quarts of boiling water through the strainer, rub- bing as much onion through as possible. Take out the strainer, cover the kettle, and boil gently foi twenty minutes.15 sours. Mix three table-spoonfuls of flour with a little milk, and when perfectly smooth add a pint and a half of rich milk. Stir this into the boiling chowder. Taste to see if seasoned enough, and if it is not, add more pepper and salt. Then add six crackers or biscuits, split, and dipped for a minute in cold water. Put on the cover, boil up once, and serve. Corn Soup.—One pint of grated green corn, one quart of milk, one pint of hot water, one heaping table-spoonful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of butter, one slice of onion, salt and pepper to taste. Cook the corn in the water thirty minutes. Let the milk and onion come to a boil. Have the flour and butter mixed together, and add a few table- spoonfuls of the boiling milk. When perfectly smooth stir into the milk; and cook eight minutes. Take out the onion and add the corn. Season to taste, and serve. Egg Balls for Soups.—Boil four eggs ten minutes. Drop into cold water, and when cool remove the yolks. Pound these in a mortar until reduced to a paste, and then beat them with a teaspoonful of salt, a speck of pepper, and the white of one raw egg. Form in balls about the size of a walnut. Roll in flour, and fry brown in butter or chicken fat, being careful not to burn. Fried Bread for Soups.—Cut stale bread into dice, and fry in boiling fat until brown. It will take about half a minute. The fat must be smoking in the centre when the bread is put into it.16 AMERICAN DISHES, FISH. A GENERAL CHAPTER ON FISH. It may seem as if a small number of recipes has been given, but the aim has been to present, under the heads of Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Frying, and Stewing, such general directions that one cannot be at a loss as to how to prepare any kind of fish. Once having mastered the five primary methods, and learned also how to make sauces, the variety of dishes within the cook’s power is great. All that is required is confidence in the rules, which are perfectly reliable, and will always bring about a satisfactory result if followed carefully. Fish, to be eatable, should be perfectly fresh. Nothing else in the line of food deteriorates so rapidly, especially the white fish—those that are nearly free of oil, like cod, cusk, &c. Most of the oil in this class centres in the liver. Salmon, mackerel, &c., have it distri- buted throughout the body, which gives a higher and richer flavour, and at the same time tends to preserve the fish. People who do not live near the seashore do not get that delicious flavour which fish just caught have. If the fish is kept on ice until used, it will retain much of its freshness; let it once get heated and nothing will bring back the delicate flavour. Fresh fish will be firm, and the skin and scales bright. When fish looks dim and limp, do not buy it. Fish should be washed quickly in only one {cold) water, and should not be allowed to stand in it. If it is cut up before cooking, wash while whole, else much of the flavour17 FISH. will be lost. For frying, the fat should be deep enough to cover the article, and yet have it float from the bottom. Unless one cooks great quantities of fish in this way it is not necessary to have a separate pot of fat for this kind of frying. The same pot, with proper care, will answer for chops, cutlets, muffins, potatoes, croquettes, &c. All the cold fish left from any mode of cooking can be utilized in making delicious salads, croquettes, and escallops. Boiled Fish.—A general rule for boiling fish, which will hold good for all kinds, and thus save a great deal of time and space, is this : Any fresh fish weighing between four and six pounds should be first washed in cold water and then put into boiling water enough to cover it, and con- taining one table-spoonful of salt. Simmer gently thirty minvites; then take up. A fish-kettle is a great conveni- ence, and it can be used also for boiling hams. When you do not have a fish-kettle, keep a piece of strong white cotton cloth in which pin the fish before putting into the boiling water. This will hold it in shape. Hard boiling will break the fish, and, of course, there wall be great waste, besides the dish not looking so handsome and appetizing. There should be a gentle bubbling of the water, and nothing more, all the time the fish is in it. A fish weighing more than six pounds should cook five minutes longer for every additional two pounds. Boiled fish can be served with a great variety of sauces. After you have learned to make them (which is a simple matter), if you cannot get a variety of fish you will not miss it particularly, the sauce and mode of serving doing much to change the whole character of the dish. Many people put a table-spoonful of vinegar in the water in which the fish is boiled. The fish flakes a little more readily for it. Small fish, like trout, require from four to eight minutes to cook. They are, however, much better baked, broiled, or fried. 3i8 AMERICAN DISHES. Court-Bouillon.—This preparation gives boiled fish a better flavour than cooking in clear water does. Many cooks use wine in it, but there is no necessity for it. Four quarts of water, one onion, one slice of carrot, two cloves, two table-spoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, one table-spoonful of vinegar, the juice of half a lemon, and a bouquet of sweet herbs are used. Tie the onion, carrot, cloves, and herbs in a piece of muslin, and put in the water with the other ingredients. Cover, and boil slowly for one hour. Then put in the fish and cook as directed for plain boiling. Boiled Cod with Lobster Sauce.—Boil the fish as directed [see Boiled Fish], and, when done, carefully remove the skin from one side; then turn the fish over on to the dish on which it is to be served, skin side up. Remove the skin from this side. Wipe the dish with a damp cloth. Pour a few spoonfuls of the sauce over the fish, and the remainder around it; garnish with parsley, and serve. This is a handsome dish. Boiled Haddock with Lobster Sauce.—The same as cod. In fact, all kinds of fish can be served in the same manner; but the lighter are the better, as the sauce is so rich that it is not really the thing for salmon and bluefish. Many of the best cooks and caterers, however, use the lobster sauce with salmon, but salmon has too rich and delicate a flavour to be mixed with the lobster. Cold Boiled Fish, & la Vinaigrette.—If the fish is whole, take off the head and skin, and then place it in the centre of a dish. Have two cold hard-boiled eggs, and cut fine with a silver knife or spoon (steel turns the egg black). Sprinkle the fish with this, and garnish either with small lettuce leaves, water-cresses, or cold-boiled potatoes and beets, cut in slices. Place tastefully around the dish, with here and there a sprig of parsley. Serve the vinaigretteFISH. t) sauce in a separate dish. Help ta the garnish when the fish is served, and pour a spoonful of the sauce over the fish as you serve it. This makes a nice dish for tea in summer, and takes the place of a salad, as it is, in fact, a kind of salad. If the fish is left from the dinner, and is broken, pick free from skin and bones, heap it lightly in the centre of the dish, sprinkle the sauce over it, and set away in a cool place until tea-time. Then add the garnish, and serve as before. Many people prefer the latter method, as the fish is seasoned better and more easily served. The cold fish remaining from a bake or broil can be served in the same manner. This same dish can be served with a sauce piquante or Tartare sauce, for a change. Baked Fish,—As for the boiled fish, a general rule, that will cover all kinds of baked fish, is herewith given: A fish weighing about five pounds; three large, or five small crackers, quarter of a pound of salt pork, two table-spoonfuls of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, half a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of flour. If the fish has not already been scraped free of scales, scrape, and wash clean; then rub into it one table-spoonful of the salt. Roll the crackers very fine, and add to them the parsley, one table-spoonful of chopped pork, half the pepper, half a table-spoonful of salt, and cold water to moisten well. Put this into the body of the fish, and fasten together with a skewer. Butter a tin sheet and put it into a baking pan. Cut gashes across the fish, about half an inch deep and two inches long. Cut the remainder of the pork into strips, and put these into the gashes. Now put the fish into the baking pan, and dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour. Cover the bottom of the pan with hot water, and put into a rather hot oven. Bake one hour, basting often with the gravy in the pan, and dredging each time with salt,AMERICAN DISHES. 20 pepper, and flour. The water in the pan must often be renewed, as the bottom is simply to be covered with it each time. The fish should be basted every fifteen minutes. When it is cooked, lift from the pan on to the tin sheet, and slide it carefully into the centre of the dish on which it is to be served. Pour around it Hollandaise sauce, tomato sauce, or any kind you like. Garnish with parsley. Broiled Fish.—Young cod, mackerel, salmon, large trout, and all other fish, when they weigh between half a pound and four pounds, are nice for broiling. When smaller or larger they are not so good. Always use a double broiler, which, before putting the fish into it, rub with either butter or a piece of salt pork. This prevents sticking. The thickness of the fish will have to be the guide in broiling. A bluefish weighing four pounds will take from twenty minutes to half an hour to cook. Many cooks brown the fish handsomely over the coals and then put it into the oven to finish broiling. Where the fish is very thick this is a good plan. If the fish is taken from the broiler to be put into the oven, it should be slipped on to a tin sheet, that it may slide easily into the platter at serving time; for nothing so mars a dish of fish as to have it come to the table broken. In broiling, the inside should be exposed to the fire first, and then the skin. Great care must be taken that the skin does not burn. Mackerel will broil in from twelve to twenty minutes, young cod (also called scrod) in from twenty to thirty, minutes, bluefish in from twenty to thirty minutes, salmon in from twelve to twenty minutes, and whitefish, bass, mullet, etc., in about eighteen minutes. All kinds of broiled fish can be served with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and butter, or with any of the following sauces : beurre noir, viaitre d'hote/, Tartare, sharp, tomato, and curry. Always, when possible, garnish with parsley or something else green.21 fisii. Stewed Fish.—Six pounds of any kind of fish, large or small; three large pints of water, quarter of a pound of pork, or half a cupful of butter; two large onions, three table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the heads from the fish, and cut out all the bones. Put the heads and bones on to boil in the three pints of water. Cook gently half an hour. In the meanwhile cut the pork in slices, and fry brown. Cut the onions in slices, and fry in the pork fat. Stir the dry flour into the onion and fat, and cook three minutes, stirring all the time. Now pour over this the water in which the bones have been cooking, and simmer ten minutes. Have the fish cut in pieces about three inches square. Season well with salt and pepper, and place in the stewpan. Season the sauce with salt and pepper, and strain on the fish. Cover tight, and simmer twenty minutes. A bouquet of sweet herbs, sim- mered with the bones, is an improvement. Taste to see if the sauce is seasoned enough, and dish on a large platter. Garnish with potato balls and parsley. The potato balls are cut from the raw potatoes with a vegetable scoop, and boiled ten minutes in salted water. Put the pi in little heaps around the dish. Fried Fish.—All small fish, like brook trout, smelts, perch, etc., are best fried. They are often called pan-fish for this reason. They should be cleaned, washed, and drained, then well salted, and rolled in flour and Indian meal (half of each), which has been thoroughly mixed and salted. For every four pounds of fish have half a pound of salt pork, cut in thin slices, and fried a crisp brown. Take the pork from the pan and put the fish in, having only enough to cover the bottom. Fry brown on one side; turn, and fry the other side. Serve on a hot dish, with the salt pork as a garnish. Great care must be taken that the pork or fat does not burn, and yet to have it hot enough to brown22 AMERICAN DISHES. quickly. Cod, haddock, and halibut are all cut in hand- some slices and fried in this manner; or, the slices can be well seasoned with salt and pepper, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread or cracker crumbs, and fried in boiling fat enough to cover. This method gives the handsomer dish, but the first the more savoury. Where Indian meal is not liked all flour can be used. Serve very hot. Any kind of fried fish can be served with black butter, but this is par- ticularly nice for that which is fried without pork. When the cooked fish is placed in the dish, pour the butter over it, garnish with parsley, and serve. To Cook Salt Codfish.—The fish should be thoroughly washed, and soaked in cold wrater over night. In the morning change the wrater, and put on to cook. As soon as the water comes to the boiling point set back where it will keep hot, but will -not boil. From four to six hours will cook a very dry, hard fish, and there are kinds which will cook in half an hour. Dropped Fish Balls.—One pint bowlful of raw fish, twTo heaping bowdfuls of pared potatoes (let the potatoes be under medium size), two eggs, butter the size of an egg, and a little pepper. Pick the fish very fine, and measure it lightly in the bowd. Put the potatoes into the boiler, and the fish on top of them ; then cover with boiling water, and boil half an hour. Drain off all the water, and mash fish and potatoes together until fine and light. Then add the butter and pepper, and the egg, well beaten. Have a deep kettle of failing iat. Dip a table-spoon in it, and then take up a spoonful of the mixture, having care to get it into as good shape as possible. Drop into the boiling fat, and cook until brown, which should be in twro minutes. Be careful not to crowd the balls, and, also, that the fat is hot enough. The spoon should be dipped in the fat every time you take a spoonful of the mixture. These balls are delicious.FISH. 2 3 Common Fish Balls.—One pint of finely-chopped cooked salt fish, six medium-sized potatoes, one egg, one heaping table-spoonful of butter, pepper, two table-spoonfuls of cream, or four of milk. Pare the potatoes, and put on in boiling water. Boil half an hour. Drain off all the water, turn the potatoes into the tray with the fish, and mash light and fine with a vegetable masher. Add the butter, pepper, milk, and eggs, and mix all very thoroughly. Taste to see if salt enough. Shape into smooth balls the size of an egg, and fry brown in boiling fat enough to float them. They will cook in three minutes. If the potatoes are very mealy it will take more milk or cream to moisten them, about two spoonfuls more. If the fat is smoking in the centre, and the balls are made very smooth, they will not soak fat; but if the fat is not hot enough, they certainly will. Putting too many balls into the fat at one time cools it. Put in say four or five. Let the fat regain its first temperature, then add more. Salt Fish with Dropped Eggs.—One pint of cooked salt fish, one pint of milk or cream, two table-spoonfuls of flour, one of butter, six eggs, pepper. Put milk on to boil, keeping half a cupful of it to mix the flour. When it boils, stir in the flour, which has been mixed smooth with the milk; then add the fish which has been flaked. Season, and cook ten minutes. Have six slices of toasted bread on a platter. Drop six eggs into boiling water, being careful to keep the shape. Turn the fish and cream on to the toast. Lift the eggs carefully from the water, as soon as the whites are set, and place very gently on the fish. Garnish the dish with points of toast and parsley. Salt Codfish, in Pur£e of Potatoes.—Six large potatoes, one pint and one cupful of milk, two table-spoonfuls of butter, a small slice of onion (about the size of a shilling), one pint of cooked salt codfish, salt, pepper, one large24 AMERICAN DISHES. table-spoonful of. flour. Pare the potatoes and boil half an hour; ■ then drain off the water, and mash them light and fine. Add the salt, pepper, one table-spoonful of butter, and the cupful of milk, which has been allowed to come to a boil. Beat very thoroughly, and spread a thin layer of the potatoes on the centre of a hot platter. Heap the remainder around the edge, making a wall to keep in the cream and fish, which should then be poured in. Garnish the border with parsley, and serve. To prepare the fish : Put the pint of milk on to boil with the onion. Mix flour and butter together, and when well mixed add two table-spoonfuls of the hot milk. Stir all into the boiling milk, skim out the onion, add the fish, and cook ten minutes. Season with pepper, and if not salt enough, with salt. This is a nice dish for breakfast, lunch, Or dinner. Salt Fish Souffld.—One pint of finely-chopped cooked salt fish, eight good-sized potatoes, three-fourths of a cupful of milk or cream, four eggs, salt, pepper, two generous table-spoonfuls of butter. Pare the potatoes and boil thirty minutes. Drain the water from them, and mash very fine; then mix thoroughly with the fish. Add butter, seasoning, and the hot milk. Have two of the eggs well beaten, which stir into the mixture, and heap this in the dish in which it is to be served. Place in the oven for ten minutes. Beat the whites of the two remaining eggs to a stiff froth, and add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt; then add yolks. Spread this over the dish of fish; return to the oven to brown, and serve. Cod or Haddock & la Creme.—A cod or haddock, weighing five or six pounds; one quart of milk, two table- spoonfuls of flour, one of butter, one small slice of onion, two sprigs of parsley, salt, pepper. Put the fish on in boiling water enough to cover, and which contains oneFISH. 25 table-spoonful of salt. Cook gently twenty minutes; then lift out of the water, but let it remain on the tray. Now carefully remove all the skin and the head; then turn the fish over into the dish in which it is to be served (it should be stone china), and scrape off the skin from the other side. Pick out all the small bones. You will find them the whole length of the back, and a few in the lower part of the fish, near the tail. They are in rows like pins in a paper, and if you start all right it will take but a few minutes to remove them. Then take out the backbone, starting at the head and working gently down toward the tail. Great care must be taken that the fish may keep its shape. Cover with the cream, and bake about ten minutes, just to brown it a little. Garnish with parsley or little puff-paste cakes; or, you can cover it with the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and then slightly brown. To prepare the cream : Put the milk, parsley, and onion on to boil, reserving half a cupful of milk to mix with the flour. When it boils, stir in the flour, which has been mixed smoothly with the cold milk. Cook eight minutes. Season highly with salt and pepper, add the butter, strain on the fish, and proceed as directed. Escalloped Fish.—One pint of milk, one pint of cream, four table-spoonfuls of flour, one cupful of bread crumbs, and between four and five pounds of any kind of white fish— cusk, cod, haddock, etc., boiled twenty minutes in water to cover, and two table-spoonfuls of salt. Put fish on to boil, then the cream'and milk. Mix the flour with half a cupful of cold milk, and stir into boiling cream and milk. Cook eight minutes, and season highly with salt and pepper. Remove skin and bones from fish, and break it into flakes. Put a layer of sauce in a deep escallop dish, and then a layer of fish, which dredge well with salt (a table-spoonful) and pepper ; then another layer of sauce, again fish, and then26 , AMERICAN DISHES. sauce. Cover with the bread crumbs, and bake half an hour. This quantity requires a dish holding a little over two quarts, or, two smaller dishes will answer. If for the only solid dish for dinner, this will answer for six persons; but if it is in a course for a dinner party, it will serve twelve- Cold boiled fish can be used when you have it. Great care must be taken to remove every bone when fish is prepared with a sauce (as when it is served ct la crane, escalloped, etc.), because one cannot look for bones then as when the sauce is served separately. Turbot a la Creme.—Boil five or six pounds of haddock. Take out all bones, and shred the fish very fine. Let a quart of milk, a quarter of an onion, and a piece of parsley come to a boil; then stir in a scant cupful of flour, which has been mixed with a cupful of cold milk, and the yolks of two eggs. Season with half a teaspoonful of white pepper, the same quantity of thyme, half a cupful of butter, and well with salt. Butter a pan, and put in first a layer of sauce, then one of fish. Finish with sauce, and over it sprinkle cracker crumbs and a light grating of cheese. Bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Matelote of Codfish.—Cut off the head of a codfish weighing five pounds. Remove bones from the fish, and fill it with a dressing made of half a pint of oysters, a scant pint of bread crumbs, a fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, two table-spoonfuls of butter, half an onion, an egg, and half a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Place five slices of pork both under and over the fish. Boil the bones in a pint of water, and pour this around the fish. Bake an hour, and baste often with gravy and butter. Have a bouquet in the corner of the baking-pan. Make a gravy, and pour around the fish. Then garnish with fried smelts. Fish au Gratin.—Any kind of light fish—that is, cod, haddock, flounder, etc. Skin the fish by starting at the27 FISH. head and drawing down towards the tail; then take out the bones. Cut the fish into pieces about three inches square, and salt and pepper well. Butter such a dish, as you would use for escalloped oysters. Put in one layer of fish, then moisten well with sauce; add more fish and sauce, and finally cover with fine bread crumbs. Bake half an hour. The dish should be rather shallow, allowing only two layers of fish. Sauce for an gratin: One pint of stock, three table-spoon- fuls of butter, two of flour, juice of half a lemon, half a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a slice of onion—the size of half a crown, and about as thick—chopped very fine (one table-spoonful of onion juice is better); one table-spoonful of vinegar, salt, pepper. Heat the butter in a small frying- pan, and when hot add the dry flour. Stir constantly until a rich brown; then add, gradually, the cold stock, stirring all the time. As soon as it boils, season well with salt and pepper, and then add the other seasoning. This quantity is enough for three pounds of fish, weighed after being skinned and boned, and will serve six persons if it is the only solid dish for dinner, or ten if served in a course. Another way to serve fish an gratin is to skin it, cut off the head, and take out the backbone; and there are then two large pieces of fish. Season the fish, and prepare the sauce as before. Butter a tin sheet that will fit loosely into a large baking-pan. Lay the fish on this, and moisten well with the sauce. Cover thickly with bread crumbs, and cook twenty-five minutes in a rather quick oven. Then slip on a hot dish, and serve with tomato, Tartare, or Hollandaise sauce poured around the fish. OYSTERS. On the Half Shell.—Oysters are a luxury not within the reach of frugal housewives in England; some of those im-28 AMERICAN DISHES. ported are, however, not to be despised. When served raw before the soup six oysters are usually allowed each person. Left in half the shell, they are placed on a dinner plate, with a piece of lemon in the centre of the dish. On a Block of Ice.—Having a perfectly clear and solid block of ice, weighing ten or fifteen pounds, a cavity is to be made in the top of it in either of two ways. The first is to carefully chip with an ice pick ; the other, to melt with heated bricks. If the latter be chosen the ice must be put into a tub or large pan, and one of the bricks held upon the centre of it until there is a slight depression, yet sufficient for the brick to rest in. When the first brick is cold remove it, tip the block on one side to let off the water, and then use another brick. Continue the operation till the cavity will hold as many oysters as are to be served. These should be kept an hour previous in a cool place; should be drained in a colander, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and vinegar. After laying two folded napkins on a large platter, to prevent the block from slipping, cover the dish with parsley, so that only the ice is visible. Stick a number of pinks, or of any small, bright flowers that do not wilt rapidly, into the parsley. Pour oysters into the space in the top of the ice, and garnish with thin slices of lemon. This gives an elegant dish, and does away with the un- sightly shells in which raw oysters are usually served. It is not expensive, for the common oysters do as well as those of good size. Indeed, as many ladies dislike the large ones, here is an excellent substitute for serving in the shell, par- ticularly as the oysters require no seasoning when once on the table. A quart is enough for a party of ten; but a block of the size given will hold two quarts. Roasted Oysters on Toast.—Eighteen large oysters, or thirty small ones, one teaspoonful of flour, one table-spoon- ful of butter, salt, pepper, three slices of toast. Have theFISH. 29 toast buttered, and on a hot dish. Put the butter in a small saucepan, and when hot add the dry flour. Stir until smooth, but not brown ; then add the cream, and let it boil up once. Put the oysters (in their own liquor) into a hot oven, for three minutes; then add them to the cream. Season, and pour over the toast. Garnish the dish with thin slices of lemon, and serve very hot. It is nice for lunch or tea. Oysters Panned in their Own Liquor.—Eighteen large, or thirty small, oysters, one table-spoonful of butter, one of cracker crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, a speck of cayenne. Put the oysters on in their own liquor, and when they boil up add seasoning, butter, and crumbs. Cook one minute, and serve on toast. Oysters Panned in the Shell.—Wash the shells and wipe dry. Place them in a pan with the round shell down. Set in a hot oven for three minutes; then take out, and remove the upper shell. Put two or three oysters into one of the round shells, season with pepper and salt, add butter the size of two peas, and cover with cracker or bread crumbs. Return to the oven and brown. Oyster Saut£.—Two dozen large, and three dozen small oysters, two table-spoonfuls of butter, four of fine cracker crumbs, salt, pepper. Let the oysters drain in the colander. Then season with salt and pepper, and roll in the crumbs. Have the butter very hot in a frying-pan, and put in enough of the oysters to cover the bottom of the pan. Fry crisp and brown, being careful not to burn. Serve on hot, crisp toast. Oysters Roasted in the Shell.—Wash the shells clean, and wipe dry. Place in a baking-pan, and put in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Serve on hot dishes the moment they are taken from the oven. Though this is not an elegant dish many people enjoy it, as the first and best flavour of the oysters is retained in this manner of cooking.AMERICAN DISHES. 30 The oysters can, instead, be opened into a hot dish and seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, and lemon juice. They should be served immediately. Little Pigs in Blankets.—Season large oysters with salt and pepper. Cut fat English bacon in very thin slices, wrap an oyster in each slice, and fasten with a little wooden skewer (toothpicks are the best things). Heat a frying-pan and put in the “little pigs.” Cook just long enough to crisp the bacon—about two minutes. Place on slices of toast that have been cut into small pieces, and serve immediately. Do not remove the skewers. This is a nice relish for lunch or tea; and, garnished with parsley, is a pretty one. The pan must be very hot before the “ pigs ” are put in, and then great care must be taken that they do not burn. Fricasseed Oysters.—One hundred oysters (about two quarts), four large table-spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one table-spoonful of flour, a speck of cayenne, salt, yolks of three eggs. Brown two table-spoon- fuls of the butter, and add to it the paisley, cayenne, and salt, and the oysters, well drained. Mix together the flour and the remainder of the butter, and stir into the oysters when they begin to curl. Then add yolks, well beaten, and take immediately from the fire. Serve on a hot dish with a garnish of fried bread and parsley. Creamed Oysters.—A pint of cream, one quart of oysters, a small piece of onion, a very small piece of mace, a table- spoonful of flour, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the cream, with the onion and mace, come to a boil. Mix flour with a little cold milk or cream, and stir into the boiling cream. Let the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor, and skim carefully. Drain off all the liquor, and turn the oysters into the cream. Skim out the mace and onions, and serve.31 FISH.. Croustade of Oysters.—Have a loaf of bread baked in a round two-quart basin. When two or three days old, with a sharp knife cut out the heart of the bread, being careful not to break the crust. Break up the crumbs very fine, and dry them slowly in an oven; then quickly fry three cupfuls of them in two table-spoonfuls of butter. As soon as they begin to look golden and are crisp they are done. It takes about two minutes over a hot fire, stirring all the time. Put one quart of cream to boil, and when it boils stir in three table-spoonfuls of flour, which has been mixed with half a cupful of cold milk. Cook eight minutes. Season well with salt and pepper. Put a layer of the sauce into the croustade, then a layer of oysters, which dredge well with salt and pepper; then another layer of sauce and one of fried crumbs. Continue this until the croustade is nearly full, having the last layer a thick one of crumbs. It takes three pints of oysters for this dish, and about three tea- spoonfuls of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Bake slowly half an hour. Serve with a garnish of parsley around the dish. Escalloped Oysters.—Two quarts of oysters, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of cream or milk, four teaspoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, two quarts of stale bread crumbs, and spice, if you choose. Butter the escallop dishes, and put in a layer of crumbs and then one of oysters. Dredge with the salt and pepper, and put small pieces of butter here and there in the dish. Now have another layer of oysters, seasoning as before; then add the milk, and, finally, a thick layer of crumbs, which dot with butter. Bake twenty minutes in a rather quick oven. The crumbs must be light and flaky. The quantity given above is enough to fill two dishes. Escalloped Oysters, No. 2.—Put a layer of rolled crackers in an oval dish, and then a layer of oysters, and lay onAMERICAN DISHES. 32 small pieces of butter. Dredge with salt and pepper, and moisten well with milk (or equal parts of milk and water). Add another layer of cracker and of oysters, and butter, dredge and moisten as before. Continue these alternate layers until the dish is nearly full; then cover with a thin layer of cracker and pieces of butter. If the dish be a large one, holding about two quarts, it will require an hour and a half or two hours to bake. Oysters Served in Escallop Shells.—The shells maybe tin, granite-ware, or silver-plated, or the natural oyster or escallop shells. The ingredients are: one quart of oysters, half a pint of cream or milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one table- spoonful of butter, if cream is used, or three, if milk ; salt and pepper, a grating of nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls of flour. Drain all the liquor from the oysters into a stewpan. Let it come to a boil, and skim ; then add the cream or milk, with which the flour should first be mixed. Let this boil two minutes, and add the butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and then the oysters. Take from the fire im- mediately. Taste to see if seasoned enough. Have the shells buttered, and sprinkled lightly with crumbs. Nearly fill them with the prepared oysters; then cover thickly with crumbs. Put the shells in a baking-pan, and bake fifteen minutes. Serve very hot on a large platter, which garnish with parsley. The quantity given above will fill twelve commomsized shells. Oyster Chartreuse.—One quart of oysters, one pint of cream, one small slice of onion, half a cupful of milk, whites of four eggs, two table-spoonfuls of butter, salt, pepper, two table-spoonfuls of flour, one cupful of fine, dry bread crumbs, six potatoes. Pare and boil the potatoes. Mash fine and light, and add the milk, salt, pepper, one spoonful of butter, and then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Have a two-quart charlotte russe mould well buttered, andFISH. 33 sprinkle the bottom and sides with the bread crumbs (there must be butter enough to hold the crumbs). Line the mould with the potato, and let stand for a few minutes. Put the cream and onion on to boil. Mix the flour with a little cold milk or cream—about one-fourth of a cupful—• and stir into the boiling cream. Season well with salt and pepper, and cook eight minutes. Let the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor. Skim them, and drain off all the juice. Take the piece of onion from the sauce, and add the oysters. Taste to see if seasoned enough, and turn gently into the mould. Cover with the remainder of the potato, being careful not to put on too much at once, as in that case the sauce would be forced to the top. When covered, bake half an hour in a hot oven. Take from the oven ten minutes before dishing time, and let it stand on the table. Place a large platter over the mould and turn both dish and mould at the same time. Remove the mould very gently. Garnish the dish with parsley, and serve. A word of caution : Every part of the mould must have a thick coating of the mashed potato, and when the covering of potato is put on no opening must be left for sauce to escape. To Pickle Oysters.—Two hundred large oysters, half a pint of vinegar, half a pint of white wine, four spoonfuls of salt, six spoonfuls of whole black pepper, and a little mace. Strain the liquor, and add the above-named ingredients. Let boil up once, and pour, while boiling hot, over the oysters. After these have stood ten minutes pour off the liquor, which, as well as the oysters, should then be allowed to get cold. Put into a jar and cover tight. The oysters will keep some time. LOBSTER. Lobster Broiled in the Shell.—Divide the tail into two parts, cutting lengthwise. Break the large claws in two parts, 4AMERICAN DISHES. 34 and free the body from the small claws and stomach. Re- place the body in the shell. Put the meat from the claws in half of the shells it came from, and put the other half of the shells where they will get hot. Put the lobster into the double broiler, and cook, with the meat side exposed to the fire, for eight minutes; then turn, and cook ten minutes longer. Place on a hot dish, and season slightly with salt and cayenne, and then well with mcntre d'hotel butter. Cover the claws with the hot shells. Garnish the dish with parsley, and serve. Broiled Lobster.—Split the meat of the tail and claws, and season well with salt and pepper. Cover with soft butter and dredge with flour. Place in the broiler, and cook over a bright fire until a delicate brown. Arrange on a hot dish, pour Bechamel sauce around, and serve. Breaded Lobster.—Split the meat of the tail and claws, and season well with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten egg and then in bread crumbs, which let dry on the meat; and then repeat the operation. Place in a frying-basket, and plunge into boiling fat. Cook till a golden brown—about two minutes. Serve with Tartare sauce. Stewed Lobster.—The meat of a two and a half-pound lobster, cut into dice; two table-spoonfuls of butter, two of flour, one pint of stock or water, a speck of cayenne, salt and pepper to taste. Let the butter get hot, and add the dry flour. Stir until perfectly smooth, when add the water, gradually, stirring all the while. Season to taste. Add the lobster ; heat thoroughly, and serve. Curry of Lobster.—The meat of a lobster weighing between two and three pounds, one very small onion, three table- spoonfuls of butter, two of flour, a scant one of curry powder, a speck of cayenne, salt, a scant pint of water or stock. Let the butter get hot; and then add the onion, cut fine, and fry brown. When the onion is cooked add the flourFISH. 35 and curry powder, and stir all together for two minutes. Add stock; cook two minutes, and strain. Add the meat of lobster cut into dice, and simmer five minutes. Serve with a border of boiled rice around the dish. Devilled Lobster in the Shell.—Two lobsters, each weigh- ing about two and a half pounds; one pint of cream, two table-spoonfuls of butter, two of flour, one of mustard, a speck of cayenne, salt, pepper, a scant pint of bread crumbs. Open the lobster, and, with a sharp knife, cut the meat rather fine. Be careful, in opening, not to break the body or tail shells. Wash these shells and wipe dry; join them in the form of a boat, that they may hold the prepared meat. Put the cream on to boil. Mix the butter, flour, mustard, and pepper together, and add three spoonfuls of the boiling cream. Stir all into the remaining cream, and cook two minutes. Add the lobster, salt, and pepper, and boil one minute. Fill the shells with the mixture, and place in a pan, with something to keep them in position (a few small stones answer very well). Cover with the bread crumbs, and brown for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve on a long, narrow dish; the body in the centre, the tails at either end. Garnish with parsley. If for a large company, it would be best to have a broad dish, and have four lobsters instead of two. This is a very handsome dish, and is really not hard to cook. There is always a little more of the prepared lobster than will go into the shells without crowding, and this is nice warmed and served on slices of crisp toast. Escalloped Lobster.—Prepare the lobster as for devilling, omitting, however, the mustard. Turn into a buttered escallop dish, and cover thickly with crumbs. Brown in a hot oven, and serve. White stock may be used instead of the cream. Many people who cannot eat lobster when prepared with cream36 AMERICAN DISHES. or milk find it palatable when prepared with stock or water. Lobster Cutlets.—A lobster weighing between two and a half and three pounds, three table-spoonfuls of butter, half a cupful of stock or cream, one heaping table-spoonful of flour, a speck of cayenne, salt, two eggs, about a pint of bread crumbs, twelve sprigs of parsley. Cut the meat of the lobster into fine dice, and season with salt and pepper. Put the butter on to heat. Add the flour, and when smooth add the stock and one well-beaten egg. Season. Boil up once, add the lobster, and take from the fire im- mediately. Now add a table-spoonful of lemon juice. Butter a platter, and pour the mixture upon it, to the thickness of about an inch. Make perfectly smooth with a knife, and set away to cool. When cool, cut into chops, to resemble cutlets. Dip in beaten egg and then in bread crumbs, being sure to have every part covered. Place in the frying-basket and plunge into boiling fat. Cook till a rich brown. It will take about two minutes. Drain for a moment in the basket; then arrange on a hot dish, and put part of a small claw in each one, to represent the bone in a cutlet. Put the parsley in the basket, and plunge for a moment into the boiling fat. Garnish with this, or, pour a white or Bechamel sauce around the dish, and garnish with fresh parsley. The quantity given will make six or seven cutlets. Canned Lobster.—Canned lobster can be used for cutlets, stews, curries, and patties, can be escalloped, or served on toast.37 MEATS. BOILING. All pieces, unless very salt, should be plunged into boiling water, and boiled rapidly for fifteen minutes, to harden the albumen that is on the outside, and thus keep in the juices. The kettle should then be put back where it will just sim- mer, for meat that is boiled rapidly becomes hard and stringy, while that which is kept just at the boiling point (where the water hardly bubbles) will cut tender and juicy, provided there is any juiciness in it at the beginning. White meats, like mutton and poultry, are improved in appearance by having rice boiled with them ; or, a still better way is to thickly flour a piece of coarse cotton cloth, pin the meat in it, and place in the boiling water. Meat cooked in this way will be extremely juicy. ROASTING. There are two modes of roasting: one is to use a tin kitchen before an open fire, and the other and more common way is to use a very hot oven. The former gives the more delicious flavour, but the second is not by any means a poor way, if the meat is put on a rack, and basted constantly when in the oven. A large piece is best for roasting, this being especially true of beef. When meat is cooked in a tin kitchen it requires more time, because the heat is not equally distributed, as it is in the oven. To prepare for roasting: Wipe the meat with a wet38 AMERICAN DISHES. towel. Dredge on all sides with salt, pepper, and flour; and if the kitchen is used dredge the flour into that. Run the spit through the centre of the meat, and place very near the fire at first, turning as it browns. When the flour in the kitchen is browned add a pint of hot water, and baste fre- quently with it, dredging with salt and flour after each basting. Roast a piece of beef weighing eight pounds fifty minutes if to be rare, but if to be medium, roast one hour and a quarter, and ten minutes for each additional pound. Roasting in the Oven.—Prepare the meat as before. Have a rack that will fit loosely into the baking-pan. Cover the bottom of the pan rather lightly with flour, put in rack, and then meat. Place in a very hot oven for a few minutes, to brown the flour in the pan, and then add hot water enough to cover the bottom of the pan. Close the oven, and in about ten minutes open, and baste the meat with the gravy. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Do this every fifteen minutes; and as soon as one side of the meat is brown, turn, and brown the other. Make gravy as before. Allow a quarter of an hour less in the oven than in the tin kitchen. The heat for roasting must be very great at first, to harden the albumen, and thus keep in the juices. After the meat is crusted over it is not necessary to keep up so great a heat, but for rare meats the heat must, of course, be greater than for those that are to be well done. The kitchen can be drawn back a little distance from the fire and the drafts closed. Putting salt on fresh meat draws out the juices, but by using flour a paste is formed, which keeps in all the juices and also enriches and browns the piece. Never roast meat with- out having a rack in the pan. If meat is put into the water in the pan it becomes soggy and loses its flavour. A meat-rack may be purchased for a very small amount, andMEATS» 39 the improvement in the look and flavour of a piece of meat is enough to pay for it in one roasting. The time given for roasting a piece of beef is for rib roasts and sirloin. The same weight in the face or the back of the rump will require twenty minutes longer, as the meat on these cuts is in a very compact form. If a saddle or loin of mutton is to be roasted, cook the same time as beef if the weight is the same; but if a leg is to be roasted, one hour and a quarter is the time. Lamb should be cooked an hour and a half; veal, two hours and three-quarters; pork, three hours and a quarter. Ten minutes before dishing the dinner turn the gravy into a saucepan, skim off all the fat, and set on the stove. Let it come to a boil; then stir in one table-spoonful of flour, mixed with half a cupful of cold water. Season with salt and pepper, and cook two minutes. Serve the meat on a hot dish and the gravy in a hot tureen. BROILING. The fire for broiling must be clear, and for meats it must be hotter and brighter than for fish. Coals from hard wood or charcoal are best, but in all large towns and cities hard coal is nearly always used, except in hotels and restaurants, where there is usually a special place for broiling with char- coal. The double broiler is the very best thing in the market for broiling meats and fish. When the meat is placed in it, and the slide is slipped over the handles, all there is to do is to hold the broiler over the fire, or, if you have an open range, before the fire. A fork or knife need not go near the meat until it is on the dish. A great amount of the juice is saved. With the old-fashioned gridirons it is absolutely necessary to stick a fork into the meat to turn it, and although there are little grooves for the gravy to run40 AMERICAN DISHES. into, what is saved in this way does not compare with what is actually kept within the meat where the double broiler is used. Professional cooks can turn a steak without running a fork into the meat, but not one in a hundred common cooks can do it.41 POULTRY AND GAME. Boiled Fowl with Macaroni.—Break twelve sticks of macaroni in pieces about two inches long; throw them into one quart of boiling water, add a table-spoonful of salt and half a table-spoonful of pepper. Boil rapidly for twelve minutes; then take up, and drain off all the water. Season with one table-spoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of salt. After the fowl have been singed and cleaned stuff with the macaroni. Truss them, and then pin in a floured cloth and plunge into enough boiling water to cover them. Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes ; then set back where they will just simmer for from one and a half to two and a half hours. The time of cooking depends upon the age of the birds. Serve with an egg or Bechamel sauce. The quantity of macaroni given is for two fowls. Plain boiled macaroni should be served with this dish. Boiled Turkey with Celery.—Chop half a head of celery very fine. Mix with it one quart of bread crumbs, two scant table-spoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, two heaping table-spoonfuls of butter, and two eggs. Stuff the turkey with this; sew up and truss. Wring a large square of white cotton cloth out of cold water, and dredge it thickly with flour. Pin the turkey in this, and plunge into boiling water. Let it boil rapidly for fifteen minutes; then set back where it will simmer. Allow three hours for a turkey weighing nine pounds, and twelve minutes forAMERICAN DISHES. 42 every additional pound. Serve with celery sauce. The stuffing may be made the same as above, only substitute oysters for celery, and serve with oyster sauce. Roast Turkey with Chestnut Stuffing and Sauce. —Clean the turkey, and lard the breast. Throw fifty large chestnuts into boiling water for a few minutes; then take them up, and rub off the thin, dark skin. Cover them with boiling water, and simmer for one hour; then take up, and mash fine. Chop one pound of veal and half a pound of salt pork very fine. Add half of the chestnuts to this, and add, also, half a teaspoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of salt, and one cupful of stock or water. Stuff the turkey with this. Truss, and roast as already directed. Serve with a chestnut sauce. The remaining half of the chestnuts are for this sauce. Boned Turkey.—Get a turkey that has not been frozen (freezing makes it tear easily). See that every part is whole; one with a little break in the skin will not do. Cut off the legs, in the joints, and the tips of the wings. Do not draw the bird. Place it on its breast, and with a small, sharp boning knife, cut in a straight line through to the bone, from the neck down to that part of the bird where there is but little flesh, where it is all skin and fat. Begin at the neck, and run the knife between the flesh and the bones until you come to the wing. Then cut the ligaments that hold the bones together and the tendons that hold the flesh to the bones. With the thumb and forefinger press the flesh from the smooth bone. When you come to the joint carefully separate the ligaments and remove the bone. Do not try to take the bone from the next joint, as that is not in the way when carving, and it gives a more natural shape to the bird. Now begin at the wishbone, and when that is free from the flesh run the knife between the sides and the flesh, always using the fingers to press the meat from the43 POULTRY AND GAME. smooth bones, as, for instance, the breastbone and lower part of the sides. Work around the legs the same as you did around the wings, always using great care at the joints not to cut the skin. Drawing out the leg bones turns that part of the bird inside out. Turn the bird over, and proceed in the same manner with the other side. When all is detached carefully draw the skin from the breastbone; then run the knife between the fat and bone at the rump, leaving the small bone in the extreme end, as it holds the skewers. Carefully remove the flesh from the skeleton, and turn it right side out again. Rub into it two table-spoonfuls of salt and a little pepper, and fill with dressing. Sew up the back and neck and then the vent. Truss the same as if not boned. Take a strong piece of cotton cloth and pin the bird firmly in it, drawing very tight at the legs, as this is the broadest place, and the shape will not be good unless this precaution be taken. Steam three hours, and then place on a buttered tin sheet, which put in a baking-pan. Baste well with butter, pepper, salt, and flour. Roast one hour, basting every ten minutes, and twice with stock. When cold remove the skewers and strings, and garnish with aspic jelly, cooked beets, and parsley. To carve : First cut off the wings, then about two thick slices from the neck, where it will be quite fat, and then cut in thin slices. Serve jelly with each plate. Filling for a turkey weighing eight pounds : The flesh of one chicken weighing four pounds, one pound of clear veal, half a pound of clear salt pork, one small cupful of cracker crumbs, two eggs, one cupful of broth, two and a half table- spoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, one tea- spoonful of summer savory, one of sweet marjoram, one of thyme, half a spoonful of sage, and, if you like, one table- spoonful of capers, one quart of oysters, and two table-spoon- fuls of onion juice. Flave the meat uncooked and free44 AMERICAN DISHES. from any tough pieces. Chop very fine. Add seasoning, crackers, etc. ; mix thoroughly, and use. If oysters are used, half a pound of the veal must be omitted. Where one cannot eat veal use chicken instead. Veal is recommended for its cheapness. Why people choose boned turkey instead of a plain roast turkey or chicken is not plain, for the flavour is not so good; but at the times and places where boned birds are used it is a very appropriate dish. That is, at suppers, lunches, and parties, where the guests are served standing, it is impracticable to provide anything that cannot be broken with a fork or spoon; therefore, the advantage of a boned turkey, chicken, or bird, is apparent. One turkey weighing eight pounds before being boned will serve thirty persons at a party, if there are, also, say oysters, rolls, coffee, ices, cake, and cream. If the supper is very elaborate the turkey will answer for one of the dishes for a hundred or more persons. If nothing more were gained in the boning of a bird, the knowledge of the anatomy and the help this will give in carving pay to bone two or three chickens. It is advisable to bone at least two fowls before trying a turkey, for if you spoil them there is nothing lost, as they make a stew or soup. Aspic jelly : One and a half pints of clear stock—beef if for amber jelly, and chicken or veal if for white ; half a box of gelatine, the white of one egg, half a cupful of cold water, two cloves, one large slice of onion, twelve pepper-corns, one stalk of celery, salt. Soak gelatine two hours in the cold water. Then put on with other ingredients, the white of the egg being beaten with one spoonful of the cold stock. Let come to a boil, and set back where it will just simmer for twenty minutes. Strain through a napkin, turn into a mould or shallow dish, and put away to harden. The jelly can be made with the bones of the turkey and chicken, by washing them, covering with cold water, and boiling downPOULTRY AND GAME. 45 to about three pints; by then straining and setting away to cool, and in the morning skimming off all the fat and turning off the clear stock. The bones may, instead, be used for a soup. Chicken Stew with Dumplings.—One chicken or fowl, weighing about three pounds ; one table-spoonful of butter, three of flour, one large onion, three slices of carrot, three of turnip, three pints of boiling water, and salt and pepper. Cut the chicken in slices suitable for serving. Wash, and put in a deep stewpan, add the water, and set on to boil. Put the carrot, turnip, and onion, cut fine, in a saucepan, with the butter, and cook slowly half an hour, stirring often; then take up the vegetables in a strainer, place the strainer in the stewpan with the chicken, and dip some of the water into it. Mash the vegetables with the back of a spoon, and rub as much qs possible through the strainer. Now skim two spoonfuls of chicken fat from the water, and put in the pan in which the vegetables were cooked. When boiling hot add the three table-spoonfuls of flour. Stir over the fire until a dark brown; then stir it in with the chicken, and simmer until tender. Season well with pepper and salt. The stew should only simmer all the while it is cooking. It must not boil hard. About two hours will be needed to cook a year old chicken. Twelve minutes before serving draw the stewpan forward, and boil up; then put in the dumplings, and cook ten minutes. Take them up, and keep in the heater while you are dishing the chicken into the centre of the platter. Afterwards, place the dump- lings around the edge. This is a very nice and economical dish, if pains be taken in preparing. One stewed chicken will go farther than two roasted. Potted Pigeons.—Clean and wash one dozen pigeons. Stand them on their necks in a deep earthen or porcelain pot, and turn on them a pint of vinegar. Cut three large46 AMERICAN DISHES. onions in twelve pieces, and place a piece on each pigeon. Cover the pot, and let it stand all night. In the morning take out the pigeons, and throw away the onions and vinegar. Fry, in a deep stewpan, six slices of fat pork, and when browned take them up, and in the fat put six onions, sliced fine. On these put the pigeons, having fiist missed them, and dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour. Cover, and cook slowly for forty-five minutes, stirring occa- sionally ; then add two quarts of boiling water, and simmer gently two hours. Mix four heaping table-spoonfuls of flour with a cupful of cold water, and stir in with the pigeons. Taste to see if there is enough seasoning, and if there is not, add more. Cook half an hour longer. Serve with a garnish of rice or riced potatoes. More or less onion can be used; and, if you like it so, spice the gravy slightly. Pigeons in Jelly.—Wash and truss one dozen pigeons. Put them in a kettle with four pounds of the shank of veal, six cloves, twenty-five peppercorns, an onion that has been fried in one spoonful of butter, one stalk of celery, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and four and a half quarts of water. Have the veal shank broken in small pieces. As soon as the contents of the kettle come to a boil, skim carefully, and set for three hours where they will just simmer. After they have been cooking one hour add two table-spoonfuls of salt. When the pigeons are done, take them up, being careful not to break them, and remove the strings. Draw the kettle forward, where it will boil rapidly, and keep there for forty minutes; then strain the liquor through a napkin, and taste to see if seasoned enough. The water should have boiled down to two and a half quarts. Have two moulds that will each hold six pigeons. Put a thin layer of the jelly in these, and set on ice to harden. When hard arrange the pigeons in them, and cover with the jelly,POULTRY AND GAME. 47 which must be cold, but liquid. Place in the ice chest for six or, better still, twelve hours. There should be only one layer of the pigeons in the mould. To serve : Dip the mould in a basin of warm water for one minute, and turn on a cold dish. Garnish with pickled beets and parsley. A Tartare sauce can be served with this dish. If squabs are used, two hours will cook them. All small birds, as well as partridge, grouse, etc., can be prepared in the same manner. Remember that the birds must be cooked tender, and that the liquor must be so reduced that it will become jellied. Roast Rabbit.—First make a stuffing of a pound of veal and a quarter of a pound of pork, simmered two hours in water to cover; four crackers, rolled fine; a table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of sum- mer savory, a large table-spoonful of butter, and one and a quarter cupfuls of the broth in which the veal and pork were cooked. Chop the meat fine, add the other ingre- dients, and put on the fire to heat. Cut off the rabbit’s head, open the vent, and draw. Wash clean, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff while the dressing is hot, and sew up the opening. Put the rabbit on its knees, and skewer in that position. Rub thickly with butter, dredge with flour, and put in the baking-pan, the bottom of which should be covered with hot water. Bake half an hour in a quick oven, basting frequently. Serve with a border of mashed potatoes, and pour the gravy over the rabbit. Saddle of Venison.—Carefully scrape off the hair, and wipe with a damp towel. Season well with salt and pepper, and roll up and skewer together. Rub thickly with soft butter and dredge thickly with flour. Roast for an hour before a clear fire or in a 'hot oven, basting frequently. When half done, if you choose, baste with a few spoonfulsAMERICAN DISHES. 48 of claret. Or, you can have one row of larding on each side of the backbone. This gives a particularly nice flavour. To make the gravy : Pour off all the fat from the baking- pan, and put in the pan a cupful of boiling water. Stir from the sides and bottom, and set back where it will keep hot. In a small frying-pan put one table-spoonful of butter, a small slice of onion, six peppercorns, and four whole cloves. Cook until the onion is browned, and then add a generous teaspoonful of flour. Stir until this is browned; then, gradually, add the gravy in the pan. Boil one minute. Strain, and add half a teaspoonful of lemon juice and three table-spoonfuls of currant jelly. Serve both veni- son and gravy very hot. The time given is for a saddle weighing between ten and twelve pounds. All the dishes and plates for serving must be hot. Venison is cooked in almost the same manner as beef, always remembering that it must be served rare and hot. Roast Leg of Venison.—Draw the dry skin from the meat, and wipe with a damp towel. Make a paste with one quart of flour and a generous pint of cold water. Cover the venison with this, and place before a hot fire, if to be roasted in the tin kitchen, or else in a very hot oven. As the paste browns baste it frequently with the gravy in the pan. When it has been cooking one hour and a half take off the paste, cover with butter, and dredge thickly with flour. Cook one hour longer, basting frequently with butter, salt, and flour. Make the gravy the same as for a saddle of venison, or serve with game sauce. The time given is for a leg weighing about fifteen pounds.49 ENTREES. Fillet of Beef in Jelly.—Trim a short fillet, and cut a deep incision in the side, being careful not to go through to the other side or the ends. Fill this with one cupful of veal, prepared as for quenelles, and the whites of three hard-boiled eggs, cut into rings. Sew up the openings, and bind the fillet into good shape with broad bands of cotton cloth. Put in a deep stewpan two slices of ham and two of pork, and place the fillet on them; then put in two calf’s feet, two stalks of celery, and two quarts of clear stock. Simmer gently two hours and a half. Take up the fillet, and set away to cool. Strain the stock, and set away to harden. When hard scrape off every particle of fat, and put on the fire in a clean saucepan, with half a slice of onion and the whites of two eggs, beaten with four table- spoonfuls of cold water. When this boils season well with salt, and set back where it will just simmer for half an hour ; then strain through a napkin. Pour a little of the jelly into a two-quart charlotte russe mould (half an inch deep), and set on the ice to harden. As soon as it is hard, decorate with the egg rings. Add about three spoonfuls of the liquid jelly, to set the eggs. When hard add enough jelly to cover the eggs, and when this is also hard trim the ends of the fillet, and draw out the thread. Tlace in the centre of the mould, and cover with the remainder of the jelly. If the fillet floats, place a slight weight on it. Set in the ice 5So AMERICAN DISHES. chest to harden. When ready to serve, place the mould in a pan of warm water for half a minute, and then turn out the fillet gently upon a dish. Garnish with a circle of egg rings, each of which has a stoned olive in the centre. Put here and there a sprig of parsley. Macaronied Beef.—Six pounds of beef from the upper part of the round or the vein, a quarter of a pound of macaroni (twelve sticks), half a cupful of butter, four large onions, one quart of peeled and sliced tomatoes, or a quart can of the vegetable; two heaping table-spoonfuls of flour, salt, pepper, and two cloves. Make holes in the beef with the large larding needle or the steel, and press the macaroni into them. Season with salt and pepper. Put the butter and the onions, which have been peeled and cut fine, in a six-quart stewpan, and stir over the fire until a golden brown; then put in the meat, first drawing the onions aside. Dredge with the flour, and spread the top of the meat with the fried onions. Put in the spice and one quart of boiling water. Cover tightly, and simmer slowly for three hours; then add the tomato, and cook one hour longer. Take up the meat, and strain the gravy over it. Serve hot. The tomato may be omitted if one pint more of water and an extra table-spoonful of flour are used instead. Always serve macaroni with this dish. Cannelon of Beef.—One thin slice of the upper part of the round of beef. Cut off all the fat, and so trim as to give the piece a regular shape. Put the trimmings in the chopping tray, with a quarter of a pound of boiled salt pork and one pound of lean cooked ham. Chop very fine; then add a speck of cayenne, one teaspoonful of mixed mustard, one of onion juice, one table-spoonful of lemon juice, and three eggs. Season the beef with salt and pepper. Spread the mixture over it, and roll up. Tie with twine, being careful not to draw too tightly. Have six slices of fat pork fried inSi ENTREES. the braising-pan. Cut two onions, two slices of carrot, and two of turnip into this, and stir for two minutes over the fire. Roll the cannelon in a plate of flour, and put it in the braising-pan with the pork and /vegetables. Brown slightly on all sides; then add one quart of boiling water, and place in the oven. Cook three hours, basting every fifteen minutes. When it has been cooking two hours, add half a cupful of canned tomatoes or two fresh ones. Taste to see if the gravy is seasoned enough ; if it is not, add season- ing. The constant dredging with flour will thicken the gravy sufficiently. Slide the cake turner under the beef, and lift carefully on to a hot dish. Cut the string in three or four places with a sharp knife, and gently draw it away from the meat. Skim off all the fat. Strain the gravy through a fine sieve on to the meat. Garnish with a border of toast or riced potatoes. Cut in thin slices with a sharp knife. Cannelon of Beef, No. 2.—Two pounds of the round of beef, the rind of half a lemon, three sprigs of parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, barely one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nutmeg, two table-spoonfuls of melted butter, one raw egg, and half a teaspoonful of onion juice. Chop meat, parsley, and lemon rind very fine. Add other ingredients, and mix thoroughly. Shape into a roll about three inches in diameter and six in length. Roll in buttered paper, and bake thirty minutes, basting with butter and water. When cooked, place on a hot dish, gently unroll from the paper, and serve with Flemish sauce poured over it. You may serve tomato or mushroom sauce if you prefer either. Beef Roulette. — Have two pounds of the upper part of the round cut very thin. Mix together one cupful of finely-chopped ham, two eggs, one teaspocnful of mixed mustard, a speck of cayenne, and three table-spoonfuls of52 AMERICAN DISHES. stock or water. Spread upon the beef, which roll up firmly and tie with soft twine, being careful not to draw too tightly, for that would cut the meat as soon as it began to cook. Cover the roll with flour, and fry brown in four table- spoonfuls of ham or pork fat. Put it in as small a sauce- pan as will hold it. Into the fat remaining in the pan put two finely-chopped onions, and cook until a pale yellow; then add two table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir three minutes longer. Pour upon this one pint and a half of boiling water. Boil up once, and pour over the roulette; then add two cloves, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, and one heaping teaspoonful of salt. Cover the saucepan, and set where it will simmer slowly for three hours. After the first hour and a half turn the roulette over. Serve hot, with the gravy strained over it. It is also nice to serve cold for lunch or supper. Ham force-meat balls and parsley make a pretty garnish. Fillets of Tongue. — Cut cold-boiled tongue in pieces about four inches long, two wide, and half an inch thick. Dip in melted butter and in flour. For eight fillets put two table-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and when hot put in the tongue. Brown on both sides, being careful not to burn. Take up, and put one more spoonful of butter in the pan, and then one heaping teaspoonful of flour. Stir until dark brown; then add one cupful of stock, half a teaspoonful of parsley, and one table-spoonful of lemon juice, or one teaspoonful of vinegar. Let this boil up once, and then pour it around the tongue, which has been dished on thin strips of toast. Garnish with parsley, and serve. For a change, a table-spoonful of chopped pickles, or of capers, can be stirred into the sauce the last moment. Escalloped Tongue.—Chop some cold tongue—not too fine, and have for each pint one table-spoonful of onion juice, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one heaping teaspoonful53 ENTRIES. of salt, one teaspoonful of capers, one cupful of bread crumbs, half a cupful of stock, and three table-spoonfuls of butter. Butter the escallop dish, and cover the bottom with bread crumbs. Put in the tongue, which has been mixed with the parsley, salt, pepper, and capers, and add the stock, in which has been mixed the onion juice. Put part of the butter on the dish with the remainder of the bread crumbs, and then bits of butter here and there. Bake twenty minutes, and serve hot. Tongue in Jelly.—Boil and skin either a fresh or salt tongue. When cold, trim off the roots. Have one quart and a fourth of aspic jelly in the liquid state. Cover the bottom of a two-quart mould about an inch deep with it, and let it harden. With a fancy vegetable cutter cut out leaves from cooked beets, and garnish the bottom of the mould with them. Gently pour in three table-spoonfuls of jelly, to set the vegetables. When this is hard, add jelly enough to cover the vegetables, and let the whole get very hard. Then put in the tongue, and about half a cupful of jelly, which should be allowed to harden, and so keep the meat in place when the remainder is added. Pour in the remainder of the jelly and set away to harden. To serve : Dip the mould for a few moments in a pan of warm water, and then gently turn on to a dish. Garnish with pickles and parsley. Pickled beet is especially nice. Lambs’ Tongues in Jelly.—Lambs’ tongues are prepared the same as beef tongues. Three or four moulds, each holding a little less than a pint, will make enough for a small company, one tongue being put in each mould. The tongues, can all be put on the same dish, or on two, if the table is long. Lambs’ Tongues, Stewed.—Six tongues, three heaping table-spoonfuls of butter, one large onion, two slices of carrot, three slices of white turnip, three table-spoonfuls of54 AMERICAN DISHES. flour, one of salt, a little pepper, one quart of stock or water, and a bouquet of sweet herbs. Boil the tongues one hour and a half in clear water; then take up, cover with cold water, and draw off the skins. Put the butter, onion, turnip, and carrot in the stewpan, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes; then add the flour, and cook until brown, stirring all the while. Stir the stock into this, and when it boils up add the tongue, salt, pepper, and herbs. Simmer gently for two hours. Cut the carrots, turnips, and potatoes into cubes. Boil the potatoes in salted water ten minutes, and the carrots and turnips one hour. Place the tongues in the centre of a hot dish. Arrange the vegetables around them, strain the gravy, and pour over all. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Chicken Pie.—One fowl weighing between four and five pounds, half the rule for chopped paste (see chopped paste), three pints of water, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, one table-spoonful of salt (these last two quantities may be increased if you like), three table-spoonfuls of flour, three of butter, two eggs, one table-spoonful of onion juice, and a bouquet of sweet herbs. Clean the fowl, and cut in pieces as for serving. Put it in a stewpan with the hot water, salt, pepper, and herbs. When it comes to a boil, skim, and set back where it will simmer one hour and a half. Take up the chicken and place in a deep earthen pie dish. Draw the stewpan forward where it will boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. Skim off the fat and take out the bouquet. Put the butter in the frying-pan, and when hot add the flour. Stir until smooth, but not brown, and stir in the water in which the chicken was boiled. Cook ten minutes. Beat the eggs with one spoonful of cold water, and gradually add the gravy to them. Turn this into the pie dish. Lift the chicken with a spoon, that the gravy may fall to the bottom. Set away to cool. WhenENTRIES. 55 cold, roll out a covering of paste a little larger than the top of the dish and about one-fourth of an inch thick. Cover the pie with this, having the edges turned into the dish. Roll the remainder of the paste the same as before, and with a thimble, or something as small, cut out little pieces all over the cover. Put this perforated paste over the first cover, turning out the edges and rolling slightly. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Pasties of Game and Poultry.—Make three pints of force-meat. (See Force-meat for Game.) Cut all the solid meat from four grouse. Lard each piece with very fine strips of pork. Put half a cupful of butter and a finely-cut onion in a frying-pan. Stir until the onion is yellow ; then put in the grouse, and cook slowly, with the cover on, for forty minutes. Stir occasionally. Take up the grouse, and put three table-spoonfuls of flour with the butter remaining in the pan. Stir until brown ; add one quart of stock, two table-spoonfuls of glaze, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and four cloves. Simmer twenty minutes, and strain. Butter a four-quart earthen dish, and cover the bottom and sides with the force-meat. Put in a layer of the grouse, and moisten well with the gravy, which must be highly seasoned with salt and pepper; then put in the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, and the whites, cut into rings. Moisten with gravy, and add another layer of grouse, and of eggs and gravy. Twelve eggs should be used. Make a paste as for chicken pie. Cover with this, and bake one hour and a half. Serve either hot or cold. Any kind of meat pasties can be made in the same manner. With a veal pastie put in a few slices of cooked ham. Cold Game Pie.—Make three pints of force-meat. (See borce-meat for Game.) Cut all the meat from two partridges or grouse, and put the bones on to boil with three quarts ofAMERICAN DISHES. 56 water and three pounds of a shank of veal. Fry four large slices of fat salt pork, and as soon as brown, take up, and into the fat put one onion, cut in slices. When this begins to turn yellow, take up, and put the meat of the birds in the pan. Dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour, and stir constantly for four minutes; then take up and put away to cool. Make a crust as directed for raised pies. Butter the French pie mould very thoroughly, and line with paste. Spread upon the paste—both upon the sides and bottom of the mould—a thin layer of fat salt pork, then a layer of force-meat, one of grouse, again one of force-meat, and so on until the pie is filled. Leave a space of about half an inch at the edge of the mould, and heap the filling in the centre. Moisten with half a cupful of well-seasoned stock. Roll the remainder of the paste into the shape of the top of the mould. Wet the paste at the edge of the mould with beaten egg; then put on the top, and press the top and side parts together. Cut a small piece of paste from the centre of the top crust, add a little more paste to it, and roll a little larger than the opening, which it is to cover. Cut the edges with the jagging iron, and with the other end of the iron stamp leaves or flowers. Place on the top of the pie. Bake in a slow oven three hours and a half. While the pie is baking the sauce can be prepared. When the bones and veal have been cooking two hours add two cloves, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and the fried onions. Cook one hour longer; then salt and pepper well, and strain. The water should be reduced in boiling to one quart. When the pie is baked take the centre piece from the cover, and slightly press the funnel into the opening. Pour slowly one pint of the hot gravy through this. Put back the cover, and set away to cool. The remainder of the gravy must be turned into a flat dish and put in a cold place to harden. When the pie is served,ENTRIES. 57 place the mould in the oven, or steamer, for about five minutes ; then draw out the wires and open it. Slip the pie on to a cold dish, and garnish with the jellied gravy and parsley. This is nice for suppers or lunches. All kinds of game and meat can be prepared in the same manner. Chartreuse of Chicken.— Make the force-meat as for quenelles of chicken. Simmer two large chickens in white stock for half an hour. Take up, and let cool. Have a pickled tongue boiled tender. Cut thin slices from the breasts of the chickens, and cut these in squares. Cut the tongue in slices, and these in turn in squares the same size as the chicken. Batter a four-quart mould, and arrange the chicken and tongue handsomely on the bottom and sides, being careful to have the pieces fit closely together. Have note paper cut to fit the bottom and sides. Butter it well, and cover about an inch deep with the force-meat. Take up the bottom piece by the four corners and fit it into the mould, the meat side down. Pour a little hot water into any kind of a flat-bottomed tin basin, and put this in the mould and move it over the papers, to melt the butter ; then lift out the paper. Place the papers on the side in the same way as on the bottom and melt the butter by rolling a bottle of hot water over them. Remove these papers, and set the mould in a cold place until the filling is ready. Cut from the tenderest part of the chicken enough meat to make two quarts. Cut four large, or six small, mushrooms and four truffles in strips. Put half a cupful of butter, half a large onion, four cloves, a blade of mace, a slice of carrot, one of turnip, and a stalk of celery in a saucepan, and cook five minutes, stirring all the while; then add five table-spoonfuls of flour. Stir until it begins to brown, when add one quart of the stock in which the chickens were cooked, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper.58 AMERICAN DISHES. Simmer twenty minutes; strain, and add to the chicken. Return to the fire, and simmer twenty minutes longer and set away to cool. When cold, put a layer of the chicken in the mould, and a light layer of the truffles and mush- rooms. Continue this until the form is nearly full, and then cover with the remainder of the force-meat. Spread buttered paper upon it, and put in a cool place until cook- ing time, when steam two hours. Turn carefully upon the the dish. Brush over with three table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Pour one pint of supreme sauce around it, and serve. The force-meat must be spread evenly on the paper and smoothed with a knife that has been dipped in hot water. All kinds of meat chartreuses can be made in this manner. Chartreuse of Vegetables and Game.—Six large carrots, six white turnips, two large heads of cabbage, two onions, two quarts of stock, three grouse, one pint of brown sauce, four table-spoonfuls of glaze, two cloves, a bouquet of sweet herbs, one pound of mixed salt pork, and one cupful of butter. Scrape and wash the carrots, and peel and wash the turnips. Boil for twenty minutes in salted water. Pour off the water, and add three pints of stock and a tea- spoonful of sugar. Simmer gently one hour. Take up, drain, and set away to cool. Cut the cabbage in four parts. Wash, and boil twenty minutes in salted water. Drain in the colander, and return to the fire with a pint of stock, the cloves, herbs, and onions, tied in a piece of muslin ; a quarter of a cupful of butter and the pork and grouse. Cover the saucepan, and place where the contents will just simmer for two hours and a half. When cooked, put the grouse and pork on a dish to cool. Turn the cabbage into the colander, first taking out the spice and onion. Press all the juice from the cabbage and chop very fine. Season with salt and pepper, and put away to cool. Butter a plain mould holding about four quarts. Butter noteENTREES. 59 paper, cut to fit the sides and bottom, and line the mould with it. Cut the cold turnips and carrots in thick slices, and then in pieces all the same size and shape, but of any design you wish. Line the sides and bottom of the mould with these, being particular to have the pieces come to- gether. Have the yellow and white arranged in either squares or rows. With the chopped cabbage put half a pint of the brown sauce and two spoonfuls of the glaze. Stir over the fire for six minutes. Spread a thick layer of this on the vegetables, being careful not to displace them. Cut each grouse into six pieces. Season with salt and pepper, and pack closely in the mould. Moisten with the remain- ing half-pint of brown sauce. Cover with the remainder of the cabbage. Two hours before serving time place in a steamer and cook. While the chartreuse is steaming make the sauce. Put two table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan, and when hot, add two table-spoonfuls of flour. Stir until a dark brown; then add the stock in which the cabbage was cooked and enough of that in which the turnips and carrots were cooked to make a quart. Stir until it boils; add two spoonfuls of glaze, and set back where it will just simmer for one hour. Skim off the fat, and strain. When the char- treuse is done, take up and turn gently upon the dish. Lift the mould very carefully. Take off the paper. Pour two table-spoonfuls of the sauce on the chartreuse and the remainder around it. The vegetable chartreuse can be made with any kind of game or meat. Chartreuse of Chicken and Macaroni.—One large fowl, about four and a half or five pounds, boiled tender; half a box of gelatine, one cupful of broth in which the chicken was boiled, one cupful of cream, salt, pepper, fourteen ounces of macaroni. Just cover the fowl with boiling water, and simmer until very tender, the time depending upon the age, but being from one to two hours if the bird is not moreAMERICAN DISHES. 6o than a year old. Take off all the skin and fat, and cut the meat in thin, delicate pieces. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cupful of cold water, and dissolve it in the cupful of boiling broth; add to the cream, and season highly. Have the chicken well seasoned also. Put the macaroni in a large flat pan with boiling water to cover, and boil rapidly for three minutes. Drain off the water, and place the macaroni on a board, having about twelve pieces in a bunch. Cut in pieces about three-fourths of an inch long. Butter a two-quart mould (an oval charlotte russe mould is the best) very thickly, and stick the macaroni closely over the bottom and sides. When done, put the chicken in lightly and evenly, and add the sauce very gradually. Steam one hour. Serve either cold or hot. Great care must be taken in dishing. Place the platter over the mould and turn platter and mould simultaneously. Let the dish rest a minute, and then gently remove the mould. Serve imme- diately. A long time is needed to line the mould with the macaroni, but this is such a handsome, savoury dish as to pay to have it occasionally. If you prefer, you can use all broth,, and omit the cream. Chicken in Jelly.—For each pound of chicken a pint of water. Clean the chicken, and put to boil. When it comes to a boil, skim carefully; and simmer gently until the meat is very tender—about an hour and a half. Take out the chicken, skin, and take all the flesh from the bones. Put the bones again in the liquor, and boil until the water is reduced one-half. Strain, and set away to cool. Next morning skim off all the fat. Turn the jelly into a clean saucepan, carefully removing all the sediment; and to each quart of jelly add' one-fourth of a package of gelatine (which has been soaked an hour in half a cupful of cold water), an onion, a stalk of celery, twelve pepper-corns, a small piece of mace, four cloves, the white and shell of one egg, andENTREES. 61 salt and pepper to taste. Let it boil up ; then set back where it will simmer twenty minutes. Strain the jelly through a napkin. In a three-pint mould put a layer of jelly about three-fourths of an inch deep. Set in ice water to harden. Have the chicken cut in long, thin strips, and well seasoned with salt and pepper; and when the jelly in the mould is hard, lay in the chicken, lightly, and cover with the liquid jelly, which should be cool, but not hard. Put away to harden. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water and then turn into the centre of a flat dish. Garnish with parsley, and, if you choose, with Tartare or mayonnaise sauce. Chicken Chaud Froid.—Skin two chickens, and cut in small pieces as for serving. Wash, and put them in a stew- pan with enough white stock to cover, and one large onion, a clove, half a blade of mace, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and half a table-spoonful of salt. Let this come to a boil; then skim carefully, and set back where it will simmer for one hour. Take up the chicken, and set the stewpan where the stock will boil rapidly. Put three table-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and when it melts stir in two table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook until smooth, but not brown. Stir this into the stock, of which there must be not more than a pint; add four table-spoonfuls of glaze, and boil up once. Taste to see if seasoned enough; if it is not, add more salt and pepper. Now add half a cupful of cream, and let boil up once more. Have the chicken in a deep dish. Pour this sauce on it, and set away to cool. At serving time, have large slices of cold-boiled sweet potatoes, fried in butter till a golden brown, handsomely arranged on a warm dish. On them place the chicken, which must be very cold. On each piece of the meat put a small tea- spoonful of Tartare sauce. Heap the potatoes around the edge of the dish, garnish with parsley, and serve.AMERICAN DISHES. 62 Chicken Quenelles.—One large chicken or tender fowl, weighing about three pounds; six table-spoonfuls of butter, one table-spoonful of chopped salt pork, three eggs, one teaspoonful of onion juice, one of lemon juice, half a cupful of white stock or cream, one cupful of stale bread, one of new milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Skin the chicken, take all the flesh from the bones, and chop and pound very fine. Mix the pork with it, and rub through a flour sieve. Cook the bread and milk together for ten minutes, stirring often, to get smooth. Add this to the chicken, and then add the seasoning, stock or cream, yolks of eggs, one by one, and lastly the whites, which have been beaten to a stiff froth. Cover the sides and bottom of a frying-pan with soft butter. Take two table-spoons and a bowl of boiling water. Dip one spoon in the water, and then fill it with force-meat, heaping it; then dip the other spoon in the hot water, and turn the contents of the first into it. This gives the quenelle the proper shape ; and it should at once be slipped into the frying-pan. Continue the operation until all the meat is shaped. Cover the quenelles with white stock, boiling, and slightly salted, and cook gently twenty minutes. Take them up, and drain for a minute ; then arrange on a border of mashed potatoes or fried bread. Pour a spoonful of either Bechamel, mushroom, or clive sauce on each, and the remainder in the centre of the dish. Serve hot. Chicken Quenelles, Stuffed.—Prepare the force-meat as for quenelles. Soak four table-spoonfuls of gelatine for one hour in cold water to cover. Put two table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, add one table-spoonful of flour. Stir until smooth, but not brown; then gradually stir in one pint of cream. Add one table-spoonful of lemon juice, a speck of mace, and plenty of salt and pepper. Cook for two minutes. Stir in the soaked gelatine, and remove from the fire. Into this sauce stir one pint and a half ofENTREES. 63 cold chicken, cut very fine. Set away to cool. Butter eighteen small egg cups, and cover the sides and bottoms with a thick layer of the force-meat. Fill the centre with the prepared force-meat, which should be quite firm. Cover with chicken. Place the cups in a steamer and cover them with sheets of thick paper. Put on the cover of the steamer, and place upon a kettle of boiling water for half an hour. Do not let the water boil too rapidly. Take up, and put away to cool. When cold, dip the quenelles twice in beaten egg and in bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for three minutes. Serve hot with a garnish of stoned olives. Chicken Quenelles Breaded.—Prepare the quenelles as before, and when they have been boiled, drain and let them grow cold. Dip in beaten egg and roll in bread crumbs ; place in the frying basket and plunge into boiling fat. Cook three minutes. Serve with fried parsley or any kind of brown sauce. Veal Quenelles.—One pound of clear veal, one cupful of white sauce, six table-spoonfuls of butter, one cupful of bread crumbs, one of milk, four eggs, salt, pepper, a slight grating of nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Make and use the same as chicken quenelles. Chicken Pillau.—Cut a chicken into pieces the size you wish to serve at the table. Wash clean, and put in a stew- pan with about one-eighth of a pound of salt pork, which has been cut in small pieces. Cover with cold water, and boil gently until the chicken begins to grow tender, which will be in about an hour, unless the chicken is old. Season rather highly with salt and pepper, add three teacupfuls of rice, which has been picked and washed, and let boil thirty or forty minutes longer. There should be a good quart of liquor in the stewpan when the rice is added. Care must be taken that it does not burn. Instead of chicken any kind of meat may be used.AMERICAN DISHES. 64 Chicken Souffle.—One pint of cooked chicken, finely chopped; one pint of cream sauce, four eggs, one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of onion juice, salt, pepper. Stir the chicken and seasoning into the boiling sauce. Cook two minutes. Add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and set away to cool. When cold, add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish, and bake half an hour. Serve with mushroom or cream sauce. This dish must be served the moment it is baked. Any kind of delicate meat can be used, the souffle taking the name of the meat of which it is made. Fried Chicken.—Cut the chicken into six or eight pieces. Season well with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten egg and then in fine bread crumbs in which there is one teaspoonful of chopped parsley for every cupful of crumbs. Dip again in the egg and crumbs. Fry ten minutes in boiling fat. Cover the centre of a cold dish with Tartare sauce. Arrange, the chicken on this, and garnish with a border of pickled beets. Or, it can be served with cream sauce. Blanquette of Chicken.—One quart of cooked chicken, cut in delicate pieces; one large cupful of white stock, three table-spoonfuls of butter, a heaping table-spoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one cupful of cream or milk, the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper. Put the butter in the saucepan, and when hot add the flour. Stir until smooth, but not brown. Add the stock, and cook two minutes; then add the seasoning and cream. As soon as this boils up add the chicken. Cook ten minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs with four table-spoonfuls of milk. Stir into the blanquette. Cook about half a minute longer. This can be served in a rice or potato border, in a crdustade) on a hot dish, or with a garnish of toasted or fried bread. Blanquette of Veal and Ham.—Half a pint of boiled ham, one pint and a half of cooked veal, one pint of creamENTREES. 65 sauce, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, the yolks of two un- cooked eggs, salt, pepper, two hard-boiled eggs. Have the veal and ham cut in delicate pieces, which add with the seasoning to the sauce. When it boils up, add the yolks, which have been beaten with four table-spoonfuls of milk. Cook half a minute longer. Garnish with the hard-boiled eggs. Game Cutlets a la Royale.—One quart of the tender parts of cold game, cut into dice; one generous pint of rich stock, one-third of a box of gelatine, one quart of any kind of force-meat, four cloves, one table-spoonful of onion juice, two of butter, one of flour, three eggs, one pint of bread or cracker crumbs, salt, pepper. Soak the gelatine for one hour in half a cupful of cold water. Put the butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, add the flour. Stir until smooth and brown, and add the stock and seasoning. Simmer ten minutes ; strain upon the game, and simmer fifteen minutes longer. Beat an egg and add to the gelatine. Stir this into the game and sauce and take from the fire instantly. Place the stewpan in a basin of cold water, and stir until it begins to cool; then turn the mixture into a shallow baking-pan, having it about an inch thick. Set on the ice to harden. When hard, cut into cutlet-shaped pieces with a knife that has been dipped in hot water. When all the mixture is cut, put the pan in another of warm water for half a minute. This will loosen the cutlets from the bottom of the pan. Take them out carefully, cover every part of each cutlet with force-meat, and set on ice until near serving time. When ready to cook them, beat the two eggs with a spoon. Cover the cutlets with this and the crumbs. Place a few at a time in the frying basket, and plunge them into boiling fat. Fry two minutes. Drain, and place on brown paper until all are cooked. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pour mushroom sauce in the centre, garnish with 6AMERICAN DISHES. 66 parsley, and serve. Poultry cutlets can be prepared and served in the same way. Cutlets & la Duchesse.—Two pounds of lamb, mutton or veal cutlets, one large cupful of cream, one table-spoonful of onion juice, four table-spoonfuls of butter, one of flour, two whole eggs, the yolks of four more, two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped ham, one of lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Put two table-spoonfuls of the butter in the frying- pan. Season the cutlets with salt and pepper, and when the butter is hot put them in it. Fry gently for five minutes, if lamb or mutton; but if veal, put a cover on the pan, and fry very slowly for fifteen minutes. Set away to cool. Put the remainder of the butter in a small frying-pan, and when hot stir in the flour. Cook one minute, stirring all the time, and being careful not to brown. Stir in the cream. Have the ham, the yolks of eggs, and the onion and lemon juice beaten together. Stir this mixture into the boiling sauce. Stir for about one minute, and remove from the fire. Season well with pepper and salt. Dip the cutlets in this sauce, being careful to cover every part, and set away to cool. When cold, dip them in beaten egg and in bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for one minute. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, and have green peas in the centre, and cream sauce poured around. Stewed Steak with Oysters.—Two pounds of rump steak, one pint of oysters, one table-spoonful of lemon juice, three of butter, one of flour, salt, pepper, one cupful of water. .Wash the oysters in the water, and drain into a stewpan. Put this liquor on to heat. As soon as it comes to a boil, skim, and set back. Put the butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, put in the steak. Cook ten minutes. Take up the steak, and stir the flour into the butter remaining in the pan. Stir until a dark brown. Add the oyster liquor, and boil one minute. Season with salt and pepper. Put backENTREES. 67 the steak, cover the pan, and simmer half an hour; then add the oysters and lemon juice. Boil one minute. Serve on a hot dish with points of toast for a garnish. Rice Borders.—These are prepared in two ways. The first is to boil the rice as for a vegetable, and, with a spoon, heap it lightly around the edge of the fricassee, ragout, etc. The second method is a little more difficult. Put one cupful of rice on to boil in three cupfuls of cold water. When it has been boiling half an hour, add two table- spoonfuls of butter, and one heaping teaspoonful of salt. Set back where it will just simmer, and cook one hour longer. Mash very fine with a spoon, add two well-beaten eggs, and stir for three minutes. Butter a plain border mould, and fill with the rice. Place in the heater for ten minutes. Turn upon a hot dish. Fill the centre with a fricassee, salmis, or blanquette, and serve hot. A mould with a border two inches high and wide, and having a space in the centre five and a half inches wide and eleven long, is pretty and convenient for rice and potato borders, and also for jelly borders, with which to decorate salads, boned chicken, creams, etc. Potato Border.—Six potatoes, three eggs, one table- spoonful of butter, one of salt, half a cupful of boiling milk. Pare, boil, and mash the potatoes. When fine and light add the butter, salt, and pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. Butter the border mould and pack the potato in it. Let this stand on the kitchen table ten minutes; then turn out on a dish and brush over with one well-beaten egg. Brown in the oven. Fill the centre with a curry, fricassee, salmis, or blanquette. To Make a Croustade.—The bread for the crdustade must not be too light, and should be at least three days old. If the loaf is round, it can be carved into the form of a vase, or if long, into the shape of a boat. Have a very sharp68 AMERICAN DISHES. knife, and cut slowly and carefully, leaving the surface as smooth as possible. There are two methods by which it can be browned: one is to plunge it into a deep pot of boiling fat for about one minute ; the other is to butter the entire surface of the bread and put it into a hot oven, being careful not to let it burn. Care must be taken that the inside is as brown as the outside; if not, the sauce will soak through the croustade and spoil it. Creamed oysters, stewed lobster, chicken, or any kind of meat that is served in a sauce, can be served in the croustade. Cheese Souffle.—Two table-spoonfuls of butter, one heap- ing table-spoonful of flour, half a cupful of milk, one cupful of grated cheese, three eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne. Put the butter in a saucepan, and when hot add the flour, and stir until smooth, but not browned. Add the milk and seasoning. Cook two minutes; then add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the cheese. Set away to cool. When cold add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve the moment it comes from the oven. The dish in which this is baked should hold a quart. An escallop dish is the best. Rissoles.—Roll the trimmings from pie crust into a sheet about a sixth of an inch thick. Cut this in cakes with the largest patty cutter. Have any kind of meat or fish pre- pared as for croquettes. Put a heaping teaspoonful on each cake. Brush the edges of the paste with beaten egg, and then fold and press together. When all are done, dip in beaten egg and fry brown in boiling fat. They should cook about eight minutes. Serve hot. Fritter Batter.—One pint of flour, half a pint of milk, one table-spoonful of salad oil or butter, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs. Beat the eggs light. Add the milk and salt to them. Pour half of this mixture on the flour, and whenENTREES. 69 beaten light and smooth, add the remainder and the oil. Fry in boiling fat. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve on a hot dish. This batter is nice for all kinds of fritters. Fritter Batter, No. 2.—One pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, one of cream of tartar, half a tea- spoonful of soda, one table-spoonful of oil, one egg, half a pint of milk. Mix the flour, salt, sugar, cream of tartar, and soda, together, and rub through a sieve. Beat the egg very light, and add the milk. Stir half of this on the flour, and when the batter is light and smooth, add the remainder, and finally the oil. Chicken Fritters.—Cut cold roasted or boiled chicken or fowl in small pieces, and place in an earthen dish. Season well with salt, pepper, and the juice of a fresh lemon. Let the meat stand one hour; then make a fritter batter, and stir the pieces into it. Drop by the spoonful into boiling fat, and fry till a light brown. Drain and serve immediately. Any kind of cold meat, if tender, can be used in this way. Apple Fritters.—Pare and core the apples, and cut in slices about one-third of an inch thick. Dip in the batter, and fry six minutes in boiling fat. Serve on a hot dish. The apples may be sprinkled with sugar and a little nutmeg, and let stand an hour before being fried. In that case sprinkle them with sugar when you serve them. Fruit Fritters.—Peaches, pears, pineapples, bananas, etc., either fresh or canned, are used for fritters. If you choose, when making fruit fritters, you can add two table-spoonfuls of sugar to the batter. Oyster Fritters.—One pint of oysters, two eggs, one pint of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one table-spoonful of salad oil, enough water with the oyster liquor to make a scant half-pint. Drain and chop the oysters. Add the water and salt to the liquor. Pour part of this on the flour, and when smooth add the remainder. Add the oil and the7° AMERICAN DISHES. eggs well beaten. Stir the oysters into the batter. Drop small spoonfuls of this into boiling fat, and fry until brown. Drain, and serve hot. Clam Fritters.—Drain and chop a pint of clams, which can be procured in London tinned, and season with salt and pepper. Make a fritter batter as directed, using, however, a heaping pint of flour, as the liquor in the clams thins the batter. Stir the clams into this, and fry in boiling fat. Cream Fritters.—One pint of milk, the yolks of six, and whites of two, eggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a pint of flour, three heaping table-spoonfuls of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a slight flavouring of lemon, orange, nutmeg, or anything else you please. Put half of the milk on in the double boiler, and mix the flour to a smooth paste with the other half. When the milk boils stir this into it. Cook for five minutes, stirring constantly; then add the butter, sugar, salt, and flavouring. Beat the eggs well, and stir them into the boiling mixture. Cook one minute. Butter a shallow cake-pan, and pour in the mixture. Have it about half an inch deep in the pan. Set away to cool. When cold, cut into small squares. Dip these in beaten egg and in crumbs, place in the frying basket, and plunge into boiling fat. Fry till a golden brown. Arrange on a hot dish, sprinkle sugar over them, and serve very hot. Potato Fritters.—One pint of boiled and mashed potato, half a cupful of hot milk, three table-spoonfuls of butter, three of sugar, two eggs, a little nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt. Add the milk, butter, sugar, and seasoning to the mashed potato, and then add the eggs well beaten. Stir until very smooth and light. Spread, about half an inch deep, on a buttered dish, and set away to cool. When cold cut into squares. Dip in beaten egg and in bread crumbs, and fry brown in boiling fat. Serve immediately.7i Entrees. Croquettes.—Care £lncl practice are required for success- fully making croquettes. The meat must be chopped fine, all the ingredients be thoroughly mixed, and the whole mixture be as moist as possible without spoiling the shape. Croquettes are formed in pear, round, and cylindrical shapes. The last is the best, as the croquettes can be moister in this form than in the two others. To shape : Take about a table-spoonful of the mixture, and with both hands shape in the form of a cylinder. Handle as gently and carefully as if a tender bird. Pressure forces the particles apart, and thus breaks the form. Have a board sprinkled lightly with bread or cracker crumbs, and roll the croquettes very gently on this. Remember that the slightest pressure will break them. Let them lie on the board until all are finished, when, if any have become flattened, roll them into shape again. Cover a board thickly with crumbs. Have beaten eggs, slightly salted, in a deep plate. Hold a croquette in the left hand, and with a brush, or the right hand, cover it with the egg; then roll in the crumbs. Continue this until they are all crumbed. Place a few at a time in the frying basket (they should not touch each other), and plunge into boiling fat. Cook till a rich brown. It will take about a minute and a half. Take up, and lay on brown paper in a warm pan. Royal Croquettes.—Three small, or two large, sweet- breads, one boiled chicken, one large table-spoonful of flour, one pint of cream, half a cupful of butter, one table- spoonful of onion juice, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of mace, the juice of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the sweetbreads stand in boiling water five minutes. Chop very fine, with the chicken, and add seasoning. Put two table-spoonfuls of the butter in a stewpan with the flour. When it bubbles, add the cream, gradually; then add the chopped mixture, and stir72 AMERICAN DISHES. until thoroughly heated. Take from the fire, add the lemon juice, and set away to cool. Roll into shape with cracker crumbs. Dip in six beaten eggs and then in cracker crumbs. Let them stand until dry, when dip again in egg, and finally in bread crumbs—not too fine. All the crumbs should first be salted and peppered. Fry quickly in boiling fat. Royal Croquettes, No. 2.—Half a boiled chicken, one large sweetbread, cleaned, and kept in hot water for five minutes; a calf’s brains, washed, and boiled five minutes ; one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, half a pint of cream, one egg, quarter of a cupful of butter, one table- spoonful of corn-starch. Chop the chicken, brains, and sweetbread very fine, and add the egg well beaten. Mix the corn-starch with a little of the cream. Have the remainder of the cream boiling, and stir in the mixed corn-starch; then add the butter and the chopped mixture, and stir over the fire until it bubbles. Set aside to cool. Shape, and roll twice in egg and in cracker crumbs. Put in the frying basket, and plunge into boiling fat. They should brown in less than a minute. Oyster Croquettes.—Half a pint of raw oysters, half a pint of cooked veal, one heaping table-spoonful of butter, three table-spoonfuls of cracker crumbs, the yolks of two eggs, one table-spoonful of onion juice. Chop the oysters and veal very fine. Soak the crackers in oyster liquor, and then mix all the ingredients, and shape. Dip in egg and roll in cracker crumbs, and fry as usual. The butter shou’d be softened before the mixing. Lobster Croquettes.—Chop fine the meat of a two- pound lobster; take also two table-spoonfuls of butter, enough water or cream to make very moist, one egg, salt and pepper to taste, and half a table-spoonful of flour. Cook butter and flour together till they bubble. Add the cream or water (about a scant half-cupful), then the lobster73 ENTREES. and seasoning, and, when hot, the egg well beaten. Set away to cool. Shape, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry as usual. Salmon Croquettes.—One pound of cooked salmon (about a pint and a half when chopped), one cupful of cream, two table-spoonfuls of butter, one of flour, three eggs, one pint of crumbs, pepper, salt. Chop the salmon fine. Mix the flour and butter together. Let the cream come to a boil, and stir in the flour, butter, salmon, and seasoning. Boil for one minute. Stir into it one well-beaten egg, and remove from the fire. When cold, shape, and proceed as for other croquettes. Shad Roe Croquettes.—One pint of cream, four table- spoonfuls of corn-starch, four shad roe, four table-spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, the juice of two lemons, a slight grating of nutmeg, and a speck of cayenne. Boil the roe fifteen minutes in salted water ; then drain and mash. Put the cream on to boil. Mix the butter and corn-starch together, and stir into the boiling cream. Add the seasoning and roe. Boil up once, and set away to cool. Shape and fry as directed. Rice and Meat Croquettes.—One cupful of boiled rice, one cupful of finely-chopped cooked meat—any kind ; one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, two table-spoonfuls of butter, half a cupful of milk, one egg. Put the milk on to boil, and add the meat, rice, and seasoning. When this boils, add the egg, well beaten; stir one minute. After cooling, shape, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry as before directed. Rice Croquettes.—One large cupful of cooked rice, half a cupful of milk, one egg, one table-spoonful of sugar, one of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a slight grating of nutmeg. Put milk on to boil, and add rice and seasoning. When it boils up, add the egg well beaten. Stir one minute;74 AMERICAN DISHES. then take off and cool. When cold, shape, and roll in egg and crumbs, as directed. Serve very hot. Any flavouring can be substituted for the nutmeg. Potato Croquettes.—Pare, boil, and mash six good-sized potatoes. Add one table-spoonful of butter, two-thirds of a cupful of hot cream or milk, the whites of two eggs well beaten, and salt and pepper to taste. If you wish, use also a slight grating of nutmeg, or a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Let the mixture cool slightly, then shape, roll in egg and crumbs, and fry. Chicken Croquettes.—One solid pint of finely-chopped cooked chicken, one table-spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, one cupful of cream or chicken stock, one table- spoonful of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of onion juice, one table-spoonful of lemon juice, one pint of crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of butter. Put the cream or stock on to boil. Mix the flour and butter together, and stir into the boiling cream ; then add the chicken and seasoning. Boil for two minutes, and add two of the eggs well beaten. Take from the fire immediately, and set away to cool. When cold, shape and fry. Many people think a teaspoonful of chopped parsley an improvement. Other Croquettes.—Veal, mutton, lamb, beef, and turkey can be prepared in the same manner as chicken. Very dry, tough meat is not suitable for croquettes. Tender roasted pieces give the finest flavour. Large Vol-au-Vent.—Make puff or chopped paste, accord- ing to the rule given, and let it get chilled through ; roll it again four times, the last time leaving it a piece about seven inches square. Put in the ice chest for at least half an hour; then roll into a ten-inch square. Place on this a plate or a round tin, nine and a half inches in diameter, and, with a sharp knife, cut around the edge. Place another plate, measuring seven inches or a little more, in the centre. Dip75 ENTRIES. a case-knife in hot water and cut around the plate, having the knife go two-thirds through the paste. Place the paste in a flat baking-pan and put in a hot oven. After twelve or fifteen minutes close the drafts, to slacken the heat, and cook half an hour longer, being careful not to let it burn. As soon as the vol-au-vent is taken from the oven, lift out the centre piece with a case-knife, and take out the uncooked paste with a spoon. Return the cover. At the time of serving place in the oven to heat through ; then fill and cover, and serve while hot. The vol-au-vent can be made and baked the day before using, if more convenient. Heat it and fill as directed. Vol-au-Vent of Chicken.—Cut into dice one and a half pints of cooked chicken, and season with salt and pepper. Make a cream sauce, which season well with salt and pepper; and, if you like, add half a teaspoonful of onion juice and the same quantity of mixed mustard. Heat the chicken in this, and fill the vol-au-vent. All kinds of poultry and other meats can be used for a vol-au-vent with this sauce. Vol-au-Vent of Sweetbreads.—Clean and wash two sweetbreads, and boil twenty minutes in water to cover. Drain and cool them, and cut into dice. Heat in cream sauce, and fill the vol-au-vent. Serve hot. Vol-au-Vent of Salmon.—Heat one pint and a half of cooked salmon in cream sauce. Fill the vol-au-vent, and serve hot. Any rich, delicate fish can be served in a vol-au- vent. Vol-au-Vent of Oysters.—Prepare the vol-au-vent as directed. Put one quart of oysters on to boil in their own liquor. As soon as a scum rises, skim it off, and drain the oysters. Return half a pint of the oyster liquor to the saucepan. Mix two heaping table-spoonfuls of butter with a scant one of flour, and when light and creamy, gradually76 AMERICAN DISIIES. turn on it the boiling oyster liquor. Season well with salt, pepper, and, if you like, a little nutmeg or mace (it must be only a “shadow”). Boil up once, and add three table- spoonfuls of cream and the oysters. Stir over the fire for half a minute. Fill the case, cover, and serve immediately. Vol-au-Vent of Lobster.—Rub together four table-spoon- fuls of butter and one and a half of flour. Pour on this, gradually, one pint of boiling white stock. Let it boil up once, and add the juice of half a lemon, salt, and a speck of cayenne; add also the yolks of two eggs, beaten with a spoonful of cold water, and the meat of two small lobsters, cut into dice. Stir for one minute over the fire. Fill the case, put on the cover, and serve. Patties.—Make puff paste as directed. (See Puff Paste.) After it has been rolled four times, put it on ice to harden. When hard, roll again twice. The last time leave the paste about an inch thick. Put in the ice chest to get very firm ; then put on the board, and gently roll it down to three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Great care must be taken to have every part equally thick. Cut out pieces with a round tin cutter three and a half inches in diameter, and place in the pans. Take another cutter two and a half inches in diameter, dip it in hot water, place in the centre of the patty, and cut about two-thirds through. In doing this do not press down directly, but use a rotary motion. These centre pieces, which are to form the covers, easily separate from the rest when baked. Place in a very hot oven. When they have been baking ten minutes close the drafts, to reduce the heat; bake twenty minutes longer. Take from the oven, remove the centre pieces, and with a teaspoon dig out the uncooked paste. Fill with prepared fish or meat, put on the covers, and serve. Or, if more convenient to bake them early in the day, or, indeed, the previous day, put them in the oven twelve minutes before serving, and77 ENTREES. they will be nearly as nice as if fresh baked. The quantities given will make eighteen patties. Chicken Patties.—Prepare the cream the same as for oysters, and add to it one pint of cold chicken, cut into dice. Boil three minutes. Fill the shells and serve. Where it is liked, one teaspoonful of onion juice is an improvement. Other poultry and all game can be served in patties the same as chicken. Veal Patties.—Put in a stewpan a generous half-pint of white sauce with a pint of cooked veal, cut into dice, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir until very hot. Fill the shells, and serve. Lobster Patties.—One pint of lobster, cut into dice ; half a pint of white sauce, a speck of cayenne, one-eighth of a teaspoonful of mustard. Heat all together. Fill the shells and serve. Oyster Patties.—One pint of small oysters, half a pint of cream, a large teaspoonful of flour, salt, pepper. Let the cream come to a boil. Mix the flour with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling cream. Season with salt and pepper. While the cream is cooking let the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor. Skim carefully, and drain off all the liquor. Add the oysters to the cream, and boil up once. Fill the patty shells, and serve. The quantities given are enough for eighteen shells. Crust Patties.—Cut a loaf of stale bread in slices an inch thick. With the patty cutter press out as many pieces as you wish patties, and with a smaller cutter press half through each piece. Place this second cutter as near the centre as possible when using. Put the pieces in the frying basket and plunge into boiling fat for half a minute. Take out and drain, and with a knife remove the centre crusts and take out the soft bread ; then fill, and put on the centre pieces.AMERICAN DISHES. 7S Filling for crusts: Put two table-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and when hot, add one of flour. Stir until smooth and brown. Add one cupful of stock. Boil one minute, and stir in one pint of cooked veal, cut rather fine. Season with salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice. When hot, fill the crusts. Any kind of cold meat can be served in this manner. Sweetbreads Larded and Baked.—When the sweetbreads have been cleaned, draw through each one four very thin pieces of pork (about the size of a match). Drop them into cold water for five or ten minutes, then into hot water, and boil twenty minutes, lake out, spread with butter, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve with green peas, well drained, seasoned with salt and butter, and heaped in the centre of the dish. Lay the sweetbreads around them, and pour a cream sauce around the edge of the dish. Garnish with parsley. One pint of cream sauce is sufficient for eight or ten sweetbreads. Sweetbread Saut&—One sweetbread, after being boiled, split and cut in four pieces. Season with salt and pepper, Put in a small frying-pan one small table-spoonful of butter and the same quantity of flour. When hot, put in the sweetbreads; turn constantly until a light brown. They will fry in about eight minutes. Serve with cream sauce or tomato sauce. Broiled Sweetbreads.—Split the sweetbread after being boiled. Season with salt and pepper, rub thickly with butter, and sprinkle with flour. Broil over a rather quick fire, turning constantly. Cook about ten minutes, and serve with cream sauce. Breaded Sweetbreads.—After being boiled, split them, and season with salt and pepper; then dip in beaten egg and cracker crumbs. Fry a light brown in hot lard. Serve with tomato sauce.79 ENTREES. Sweetbreads in Cases.—Cut the sweetbreads, after being boiled, in very small pieces. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten well with cream sauce. Fill the paper cases, and cover with bread crumbs. Brown, and serve. Pancakes.—Six eggs, a pint of milk, one heaping tea- spoonful of salt, one cupful of flour, one table-spoonful of sugar, one of melted butter or of salad oil. Beat the eggs very light, and add the milk. Pour one-third of this mixture on the flour, and beat until perfectly smooth and light; then add the remainder and the other ingredients. Heat and butter an omelet pan. Pour into it a thin layer of the mixture. When brown on one side, turn, and brown the other. Roll up, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. Or, cover with a thin layer of jelly, and roll. A number of them should be served on one dish.8o AMERICAN DISHES. SALADS. A salad should come to the table fresh and crisp. The gar- nishes should be of the lightest and freshest kind. Nothing is more out of place than a delicate salad covered with hard-boiled eggs, boiled beets, etc. A salad with which the mayonnaise dressing is used should have only the delicate white leaves of the celery, or the small leaves from the heart of the lettuce, and these should be arranged in a wreath at the base, with a few tufts here and there on the salad. The contrast between the creamy dressing and the light green is not great, but it is pleasing. In arranging a salad on a dish, or in a bowl, handle it very lightly. Never use pressure to get it into form. When a jelly border is used with salads, some of it should be helped with the salad. The small round radishes may be arranged in the dish with a lettuce salad. In washing lettuce great care must be taken not to break or wilt it. The large, dark green leaves are not nice for salad. As lettuce is not an expensive vegetable, it is best, when the heads are not round and compact, to buy an extra one and throw the large, tough leaves away. In winter and early spring, when lettuce is raised in hot-houses, it is liable to have insects on it. Care must be taken that all are washed off. Only the white, crisp parts of celery should be used in salads. The green, tough parts will answer for stews and soups. Vegetable salads can be served for tea and lunch and with, or after, the meats at dinner. The hot cabbage,81 SALADS. red cabbage, celery, cucumber, and potato salads, are particu- larly appropriate for serving with meats. The lettuce salad, with the French dressing, and the dressed celery, are the best to serve after the meats. A rich salad, like chicken, lobster, or salmon, is out of place at a company dinner. It is best served for suppers and lunches. The success of a salad (after the dressing is made) depends upon keeping the lettuce or celery crisp and not adding meat or dressing to it until the time for serving. A Mayonnaise Dressing.—A table-spoonful of mustard, one of sugar, one-tenth of a teaspoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of three uncooked eggs, the juice of half a lemon, a quarter of a cupful of vinegar, a pint of oil, and a cupful of whipped cream. Beat the yolks and dry ingredients, until they are very light and thick, with either a silver or wooden spoon—or, better still, with a Dover beater of second size. The bowl in which the dressing is made should be set in a pan of ice water during the beating. Add a few drops of oil at a time until the dressing becomes very thick and rather hard. After it has reached this stage the oil can be added more rapidly. When it gets so thick that the beater turns hard, add a little vinegar. When the last of the oil and vinegar has been added it should be very thick. Now add the lemon juice and whipped cream, and place on ice for a few hours, unless you are ready to use it. The cream may be omitted without injury. Salad Dressing made at the Table.—The yolk of a raw egg, a table-spoonful of mixed mustard, one-fourth of a tea- spoonful of salt, six table-spoonfuls of oil. Stir the yolk, mustard, and salt together with a fork until they begin to thicken. Add the oil gradually, stirring all the while. More or less oil can be used. Cream Salad Dressing.—Two eggs, three table-spoonfuls 7AMERICAN DISHES. 82 of vinegar, one of cream, one teaspoonful of sugar, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of mustard. Beat two eggs well. Add the sugar, salt, and mustard, then the vinegar and the cream. Place the bowl in a basin of boiling water, and stir until about the thickness of rich cream. If the bowl is thick and the water boils all the time it will take about five minutes. Cool, and use as needed. Red Mayonnaise Dressing.—Lobster “ coral ” is pounded to a powder, rubbed through a sieve, and mixed with mayonnaise dressing. This gives a dressing of a bright colour. Or, the juice from boiled beets can be used instead of “ coral.M Green Mayonnaise Dressing.—Mix enough spinach green with mayonnaise sauce to give it a bright green colour. A little finely-chopped parsley can.be added. Aspic Mayonnaise Dressing.—Melt, but heat only slightly, one cupful of aspic jelly; or, one cupful of consomme will answer, if it is well jellied. Put in a bowl and place in a basin of ice water. Have ready the juice of half a lemon, one cupful of salad oil, one-fourth of a cupful of vinegar, one table-spoonful of sugar, one scant table-spoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, and one-tenth of a teaspoonful of cayenne. Mix the dry ingredients with the vinegar. Beat the jelly with a whisk, and as soon as it begins to thicken, add the oil and vinegar, a little at a time. Add the lemon juice the last thing. You must beat all the time after the bowl is placed in the ice water. This gives a whiter dressing than that made with the yolks of eggs. Boiled Salad Dressing.—Three eggs, one table-spoonful each of sugar, oil, and salt, a scant table-spoonful of mustard, a cupful of milk, and one of vinegar. Stir oil, salt, mustard, and sugar in a bowl until perfectly smooth. Add the eggs, and beat well; then add the vinegar, and§3 SALADS. finally the milk. Place the bowl in a basin of boiling water and stir the dressing until it thickens like soft custard. The time of cooking depends upon the thickness of the bowl. If a common white bowl is used, and it is placed in water that is boiling at the time, and is kept constantly boiling, from eight to ten minutes will suffice; but if the bowl is very thick, from twelve to fifteen minutes will be needed. The dressing will keep two weeks if bottled tightly and put in a cool place. Sour Cream Salad Dressing.—One cupful of sour cream, one teaspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne, one table- spoonful of lemon juice, three of vinegar, one teaspoonful of sugar. Mix all together thoroughly. This is best for vegetables. Sardine Dressing.—Pound in a mortar, until perfectly smooth, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and three sardines, which have been freed of bones, if there were any. Add the mixture to any of the thick dressings, like the mayonnaise or the boiled. This dressing is for fish. Salad Dressing without Oil.—The yolks of four un- cooked eggs, one table-spoonful of salt, one heaping tea- spoonful of sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of mustard, half a cupful of clarified chicken fat, a quarter of a cupful of vinegar, the juice of half a lemon, a speck of cayenne. Make as directed for mayonnaise dressing. Salad Dressing made with Butter.—Four table-spoonfuls of butter, one of flour, one table-spoonful of salt, one of sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of mustard, a speck of cayenne, one cupful of milk, half a cupful of vinegar, three eggs. Let the butter get hot in a saucepan. Add the flour, and stir until smooth, being careful not to brown. Add the milk, and boil up. Place the saucepan in another of hot water. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper, sugar, and mustard together, and add the vinegar. Stir this into theAMERICAN DISIIES. 84 boiling mixture, and keep stirring until it thickens like soft custard, which will be in about five minutes. Set away to cool; and when cold, bottle, and place in the ice-chest. This will keep two weeks. Bacon Salad Dressing.—Two table-spoonfuls of bacon or pork fat, one of flour, one of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, one of mustard, two eggs, half a cupful of water, half a cupful of vinegar. Have the fat hot. Add the flour, and stir until smooth, but not brown. Add the water, and boil up once. Place the saucepan in another of boiling water. Have the eggs and seasoning beaten together. Add the vinegar to the boiling mixture, and stir in the beaten egg. Cook four minutes, stirring all the while. Cool and use. If corked tightly, this will keep two weeks in a cold place. French Salad Dressing.—Three table-spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one salt-spoonful of salt, one-half a salt- spoonful of pepper. Put the salt and pepper in a cup, and add one table-spoonful of the oil. When thoroughly mixed, add the remainder of the oil and the vinegar. This is dressing enough for a salad for six persons. If you like the flavour of onion, grate a little juice into the dressing. The juice is obtained by first peeling the onion, and then grating with a coarse grater, using a good deal of pressure. Two strokes will give about two drops of juice—enough for this rule. Chicken Salad.—Have cold roasted or boiled chicken free of skin, fat, and bones. Place on a board, and cut in long, thin strips, and cut these into dice. Place in an earthen bowl (there should be two quarts), and season with four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, two of oil, one teaspoonful of salt, and one-balf of a teaspoonful of pepper. Set away in a cold place for two or three hours. Scrape and wash enough of the tender white celery to make one quart. CutSALADS. 35 this, with a sharp knife, in pieces about half an inch thick. Put these in the ice-chest until serving time. Make the mayonnaise dressing. Mix the chicken and celery together and add half of the dressing. Arrange in a salad bowl or on a flat dish, and pour the remainder of the dressing over it. Garnish with white celery leaves. Or have a jelly border, and arrange the salad in this. Half celery and half lettuce is often used for chicken salad. Many people when preparing for a large company use turkey instead of chicken, there being so much more meat in the same number of pounds of the raw material; but the salad is not nearly so nice as with chicken. If, when the chicken or fowl is cooked, it is allowed to cool in the water in which it is boiled, it will be juicier and tenderer than if taken from the water as soon as done. Lobster Salad.—Cut up and season the lobster the same as chicken. Break the leaves from a head of lettuce, one by one, and wash them singly in a large pan of cold water. Put them in a pan of ice water for about ten minutes, and then shake in a wire basket to free them of water. Place in the ice-chest until serving time. When ready to serve, put two or three leaves together in the form of a shell, and arrange these shells on a flat dish. Mix one-half of the mayonnaise dressing with the lobster. Put a table-spoonful of this in each cluster of leaves. Finish with a teaspoonful of the dressing on each spoonful of lobster. This is an exceedingly inviting dish. Another method is to cut or tear the leaves rather coarse, and mix with the lobster. Garnish the border of the dish with whole leaves. There should be two-thirds lobster to one-third lettuce. Salmon Salad.—One quart of cooked salmon, two heads of lettuce, two table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, one of vinegar, two of capers, one teaspoonful of salt, one-third of a tea- spoonful of pepper, one cupful of mayonnaise dressing, or86 AMERICAN DISHES. the French dressing. Break up the salmon with two silver forks. Add to it the salt, pepper, vinegar, and lemon juice. Put in the ice-chest, or some other cold place, for two or three hours. Prepare the lettuce as directed for lobster salad. At serving time, pick out leaves enough to border the dish. Cut or tear the remainder in pieces, and arrange these in the centre of a flat dish. On them heap the salmon lightly, and cover with the dressing. Now sprinkle on the capers. Arrange the whole leaves at the base, and, if you choose, lay one-fourth of a thin slice of lemon on each leaf. Oyster Salad.—One pint of celery, one quart of oysters, one-third of a cupful of mayonnaise dressing, three table- spoonfuls of vinegar, one of oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper, one table-spoonful of lemon juice. Let the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor. Skim well and drain. Season them with the oil, salt, pepper, vinegar, and lemon juice. When cold, put in the ice-chest for at least two hours. Scrape and wash the whitest and tenderest part of the celery, and, with a sharp knife, cut in very thin slices. Put in a bowl with a large lump of ice, and set in the ice-chest until serving time. When ready to serve, drain the celery, and mix with the oysters and half of the dressing. Arrange in the dish, pour the remainder of the dressing over, and garnish with white celery leaves. Sardine Salad.—Arrange one quart of any kind of cooked fish on a bed of crisp lettuce. Split six sardines, and if there are any bones, remove them. Cover the fish with the sardine dressing. Over this put the sardines, having the ends meet in the centre of the dish. At the base of the dish make a wreath of thin slices of lemon. Garnish with parsley or lettuce, and serve immediately. Shad Roe Salad.—Three shad roe, boiled in salted water87 SALADS. twenty minutes. When cold, cut in thin slices. Season and set away the same as salmon. Serve the same as salmon, except omit the capers, and use chopped pickled beet. Salads of Fish.—All kinds of cooked fish can be served in salads. Lettuce is the best green salad to use with them, but all green vegetables, when cooked and cold, can be added to the fish and dressing. The sardine and French dressings are the best to use with fish. Polish Salad.—One quart of cold game or poultry, cut very fine; the French dressing, four hard-boiled eggs, one large, or two small heads of lettuce. Moisten the meat with the dressing, and let it stand in the ice-chest two or three hours. Rub the yolks of the eggs to a powder, and chop the whites very fine. Wash the lettuce and put in the ice-chest until serving time. When ready to serve, put the lettuce leaves together and cut in long, narrow strips with a sharp knife, or tear it with a fork. Arrange on a dish, heap the meat in the centre, and sprinkle the egg over all. Beef Salad.—One quart of cold roasted or stewed beef— it must be very tender, double the rule for French dressing, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and one of onion juice, to be mixed with the dressing. Cut the meat in thin slices, and then into little squares. Place a layer in the salad bowl, sprinkle with parsley and dressing, and continue this until all the meat is used. Garnish with parsley, and keep in a cold place for one or two hours. Any kind of meat can be used instead of beef. Meat and Potato Salad.—Prepare the meat as directed for beef salad, using, however, one-half the quantity. Add one pint of cold-boiled potatoes, cut in thin slices, and dressing. Garnish, and set away as before. These salads can be used as soon as made, but the flavour is improved by their standing an hour or more.AMERICAN DISHES. 88 Bouquet Salad.—Four hard-boiled eggs, finely chopped ; one head of lettuce, or one pint of water-cresses; a large bunch of nasturtium blossoms or buttercups, the French dressing, with the addition of one teaspoonful of sugar. Wash the lettuce or cresses, and throw into ice water. When crisp, take out, and shake out all the water. Cut or tear in pieces. Put a layer in the bowl, with here and there a flower, and sprinkle in half of the egg and half the dressing. Repeat this. Arrange the flowers in a wreath, and put a few in the centre. Serve immediately. Cauliflower Salad. — Boil one large cauliflower with two quarts of water and one table-spoonful of salt, for half an hour. Take up and drain. When cold, divide into small tufts. Arrange on the centre of a dish and garnish with a border of strips of pickled beet. Pour cream dressing, or a cupful of mayonnaise dressing, over the cauliflower. Arrange a star of the pickled beet in the centre. Serve immediately. Asparagus Salad.—Boil two bunches of asparagus with one quart of water and one table-spoonful of salt, for twenty minutes. Take up and drain on a sieve. When cold, cut off the tender points, and arrange them on the dish. Pour on cream salad dressing. Asparagus and Salmon Salad.—Prepare the asparagus as before directed. Season a quart of cooked salmon with one teaspoonful of salt, one-third of a teaspoonful of pepper, three table-spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, and two of lemon juice. Let this stand in the ice-chest at least two hours. Arrange the salmon in the centre of the dish and the asparagus points around it. Cover the fish with one cupful of mayonnaise dressing. Garnish the dish with points of lemon. Green peas can be used instead of asparagus. Cucumber Salad.—Cut about one inch off of the pointSALADS. 89 of the cucumber, and pare. (The bitter juice is in the point, and if this is not cut off before paring, the knife carries the flavour all through the cucumber.) Cut in thin slices, cover with cold water, and let stand half an hour. Drain, and season with French dressing. If oil is not liked it can be omitted. Tomato Salad.—Pare ripe tomatoes (which should be very cold), and cut in thin slices. Arrange on a flat dish. Put one teaspoonful of mayonnaise dressing in the centre of each slice. Place a delicate border of parsley around the dish, and a sprig here and there between the slices of tomato. Cabbage Salad.—One large head of cabbage, twelve eggs, two small cupfuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one table-spoonful of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of mustard, one cupful of vinegar, or more, if you like. Divide the cabbage into four pieces, and wash well in cold water. Take off all the wilted leaves and cut out the tough, hard parts. Cut the cabbage very fine with a sharp knife. Have the eggs boiled hard, and ten of them chopped fine. Add these and the other ingredients to the cabbage. Arrange on a dish and garnish with the two remaining eggs and pickled beets. Hot Cabbage Salad.—One quart of finely-shaved cabbage, two table-spoonfuls of bacon or pork fat, two large slices of onion, minced very fine; one teaspoonful of salt, one- fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, half a cupful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of sugar. Fry the onion in the fat until it becomes yellow; then add tire other ingredients. Pour the hot mixture on the cabbage. Stir well, and serve at once. Lettuce can be served in the same manner. Vegetable Salad.—A spoonful of green parsley, chopped fine with a knife ; six potatoes, half of a small turnip, half of a carrot, one small beet. Cut the potatoes in small slices,90 AMERICAN DISHES. the beet a little finer, and the turnip and carrot very fine. Mix all thoroughly. Sprinkle with a scant teaspoonful of salt—unless the vegetables were salted in cooking, and add the whole French dressing, or half a cupful of the boiled dressing. Keep very cool until served. Red Vegetable Salad.—One pint of cold-boiled potatoes, one pint of cold-boiled beets, one pint of uncooked red cabbage, six table-spoonfuls of oil, eight of red vinegar (that in which beets have been pickled), two teaspoonfuls of salt (unless the vegetables have been cooked in salted water), half a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut the potatoes in thin slices and the beets fine, and slice the cabbage as thin as possible. Mix all the ingredients. Let stand in a cold place one hour; then serve. Red cabbage and celery may be used together. Use the French dressing. Potato Salad.—Ten potatoes, cut fine; the French dressing, with four or five drops of onion juice in it, and one table- spoonful of chopped parsley. Potato Salad, No. 2.—One quart of potatoes, two table- spoonfuls of grated onion, two of chopped parsley, four of chopped beet, and enough of any of the dressings to make moist. The sardine is the best for this. Pare and cut the potatoes in thin slices while hot. Mix the other ingredients with them, and put away in a cool place until serving time. This is better for standing two or three hours. Cooked Vegetables in Salad.—Nearly every kind of cooked vegetables can be served in salads. They can be served separately or mixed. They must be cold and well drained before the dressing is added. Any of the dressings given, except sardine, can be used. Dressed Celery.—Scrape and wash the celery. Let it stand in ice water twenty minutes, and shake dry. With a sharp knife cut it in pieces about an inch long. Put in the ice chest until serving time ; then moisten well with mayon-91 SALADS. naise dressing. Arrange in the salad bowl or on a flat dish. Garnish with a border of white celery leaves or water-cresses. When served on a flat dish, points of pickled beets, arranged around the base, make an agreeable change. Lettuce Salad.—Two small, or one large head of lettuce. Break off all the leaves carefully, wash each separately, and throw into a pan of ice water, where they should remain an hour. Put them in a wire basket or coarse towel, and shake out all the water. Either cut the leaves with a sharp knife, or tear them in large pieces. Mix the French dressing with them, and serve immediately. Beets, cucumbers, tomatoes, cauliflower, asparagus, etc., can each be served as a salad, with French or boiled dressing. Cold potatoes, beef, mutton, or lamb, cut fine and finished with either dressing, make a good salad.AMERICAN DISHES. 93 BREAD. Graham Bread.—With this material two loaves or two dozen muffins can be made : One pint of water or milk, one of flour, one large pint of Graham, half a cupful of yeast, half a cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt. Have the milk or water blood warm, and add the yeast. Sift the flour into a deep dish. Add the milk and yeast, gradually, and beat until wholly smooth. Set in a rather cool place (about sixty degrees) to rise over night. In the morning add the salt and sugar and then the Graham, a little at a time, beating vigorously all the while. When thoroughly beaten, turn into pans, and let it rise an hour in a temperature of from 90° to ioo°. Bake an hour. Togus Bread.—Three cupfuls of sweet milk and one of sour, three cupfuls of Indian meal and one of flour, half a cupful of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one of salt. Steam three hours. Brown Bread.—One cupful of rye meal, one of Indian meal, one of molasses, two of flour, one pint and a half of sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda, an egg, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix the dry ingredients together. Dissolve the soda in two table-spoonfuls of boiling water. Add it and the milk to the molasses. Stir well, and pour on the other mixed ingredients. Beat the egg and add it. Mix thoroughly, and pour into a well-buttered tin pan that holds two quarts. Steam four hours, and then put in the oven for half an hour.93 FLOUR. There is now in general use in America flour made by two different processes, by the old, or St. Louis, and the new, or Haxall. The Haxall flour is used mostly for bread and the old process for pastry, cake, etc. By the new process more starch and less of the outer coats, which contain much of the phosphates is retained; so that the flour makes a whiter and moister bread. This flour packs closer than that made in the old way, so that a pound of it will not measure as much as a pound of the old kind. In using an old rule, one-eighth of this flour should be left out. For instance, if in a recipe for bread you have four quarts (old process) of flour given, of the new process you would take only three and a half quarts. This flour does not make as good cake and pastry as the old process. It is, therefore, well, to have a barrel of each, if you have space, for the pastry flour is the cheaper, and the longer all kinds of flour are kept in a dry place, the better they are. Graham.—The best Graham flour is made by grinding good wheat and not sifting it. Much that is sold is a poor quality of flour mixed with bran. This will not, of course, make good, sweet bread. The “ Arlington Whole Wheat Meal” is manufactured from pure wheat, and makes delicious bread. Graham, like flour, will keep in a cool, dry place for years. Indian Meal.—In most American families there is a large94 AMERICAN DISHES. amount of this used, but the quantity purchased at a time depends upon the kind of meal selected. The common kind, which is made by grinding between two mill-stones, retains a great deal of moisture, and, in hot weather, will soon grow musty; but the granulated meal will keep for any length of time. The corn for this meal is first dried ; and it takes about two years for this. Then the outer husks are removed, and the corn is ground by a process that pro- duces grains like granulated sugar. After once using this meal one will not willingly go back to the old kind. Indian meal is made from two kinds of corn, Northern and Southern. The former gives the yellow meal, and is much richer than the Southern, of which white meal is made. Rye Meal.—This meal, like the old-process Indian, will grow musty in a short time in hot weather, so that but a small quantity of it should be bought at a time. The meal is much better than the flour for all kinds of bread and muffins. Cracked Wheat.—This is the whole wheat just crushed or cut like the coarse oatmeal, but unlike the meal. It will keep a long time. It is cooked the same as oatmeal. That which is cut makes a handsomer dish than the crushed, but the latter cooks more quickly. Hominy.—This is made from corn, and it comes in a number of sizes, beginning with samp and ending with a grade nearly as fine as coarse-granulated sugar. The finest grade is really the best, so many nice dishes can be made with it which you cannot make with the coarse. Hominy will keep a long time, and it can be bought in five-pound package or by the barrel.95 VEGETABLES. Potato Puffs,—Prepare the potatoes as directed for mashed potato. While hot, shape in balls about the size of an egg. Have a tin sheet well buttered, and place the balls on it. As soon as all are done, brush over with beaten egg. Brown in the oven. When done, slip a knife under them and slide them upon a hot platter. Garnish with parsley, and serve immediately. Riced Potato.—Have a flat dish and the colander hot. With a spoon rub mashed potato through the colander on to the hot dish. Be careful that the colander does not touch the potato on the dish. It is best to have only a few spoon- fuls of the potato in at one time. When all has been pressed through, place the dish in the oven for five minutes. Potato a la Royale.—One pint of hot-boiled potatoes, a generous half-cupful of cream or milk, two table-spoonfuls of butter, the whites of four eggs and yolk of one, salt and pepper to taste. Beat the potato very light and fine. Add the seasoning, milk, and butter, and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered escallop dish. Smooth with a knife and brush over with the yolk of the egg, which has been well beaten. Brown quickly, and serve. It will take ten minutes to brown. The dish in which it is baked should hold a little more than a quart. Potatoes a l’ltalienne.—Prepare the potatoes as for serving a la royale. Add one table-spoonful of onion juiceAMERICAN DISHES. 96 one of finely-chopped parsley, and half a cupful of finely- chopped cooked ham. Heap lightly in the dish, but do not smooth. Sprinkle on this one table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Brown quickly, and serve. The cheese may be omitted if not liked. French Fried Potatoes.—Pare small uncooked potatoes. Divide them in halves, and each half in three pieces. Put in the frying basket and cook in boiling fat for ten minutes. Drain, and dredge with salt. Serve hot with chops or beef- steak. Two dozen pieces can be fried at one time. Potatoes a la Parisienne.—Pare large uncooked potatoes. Cut little balls out of these with the vegetable scoop. Six balls can be cut from one large potato. Drop them in ice water. When all are prepared, drain them, and put in the frying basket. This can be half full each time—that is, about three dozen balls can be put in. Put the basket care- fully into the fat, the same as for thin fried potatoes. Cook ten minutes. Drain. Dredge with salt, and serve very hot. These are nice to serve with a fillet of beef, beefsteak, chops, or game. They may be arranged on the dish with the meats, or served in a separate dish. Potato Balls Fried in Butter.—Cut little balls from cooked potatoes with the vegetable scoop. After all the salt has been washed from one cupful of butter (chicken fat will do instead), put this in a small frying-pan. When hot, put in as many potato balls as will cover the bottom, and fry until a golden brown. Take up, drain, and dredge with salt. Serve very hot. These balls can be cut from raw potatoes, boiled in salted water five minutes, and fried in the butter ten minutes. When boiled potatoes are used, the part left after the balls have been cut out will answer for creamed or Lyonnaise potatoes ; but when raw potatoes are used, the part left should be put into cold water until cooking time, and can be used for mashed or riced potatoes.97 VEGETABLES. Broiled Potatoes.—Cut cold-boiled potatoes in slices a third of an inch thick. Dip them in melted butter and fine bread crumbs. Place in the double broiler and broil over a fire that is not too hot. Garnish with parsley, and serve on a hot dish. Or, season with salt and pepper, toast till a delicate brown, arrange on a hot dish, and season with butter. Duchess Potatoes.—Cut cold-boiled potatoes into cubes. Season well with salt and pepper, and dip in melted butter and lightly in flour. Arrange them on a baking sheet, and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Serve very hot. Housekeeper’s Potatoes.—One quart of cold-boiled potatoes, cut into dice; one pint of stock, one table-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, one of butter, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, pepper. Season the potatoes with the salt and pepper, and add the stock. Cover, and simmer twelve minutes. Add lemon juice, butter, and parsley, and simmer two minutes longer. Stewed Potatoes.—One quart of cold-boiled potatoes, cut into little dice, one pint and a half of milk, one table- spoonful of parsley, one of flour, two of butter, salt, pepper. Put the potatoes in the double boiler, and dredge them with the salt, pepper, and flour. Add the parsley, butter, and milk. Cover, and put on to boil. Cook twelve minutes. Serve very hot. Creamed Potatoes.—One quart of cold-boiled potatoes, cut in very thin slices, one pint of cream sauce, salt, pepper. Season the potatoes with salt and pepper, and turn them into the sauce. Cover the stewpan, and cook until the potatoes are hot—no longer. Serve immediately in a hot dish. They will heat in the double boiler in six minutes, and will not require stirring. Escalloped Potatoes.—Cut one quart of cold-boiled potatoes in very thin slices, and season well with salt and 893 AMERICAN DISHES. pepper. Butter an escallop dish. Cover the bottom with a layer of cream sauce, add a layer of the potatoes, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and moisten with sauce. Continue this until all the material is used. Have the last layer one of cream sauce. Cover the dish with fine bread crumbs, put a table-spoonful of butter in little bits on the top, and cook twenty minutes. It takes one pint of sauce, one table- spoonful of parsley, half a cupful of bread crumbs, one tea- spoonful of salt, and as much pepper as you like. This dish can be varied by using a cupful of chopped ham with the potatoes. Indeed, any kind of meat can be used. Sweet Potatoes.—Sweet potatoes, which are often to be seen in Covent Garden market, require from forty-five to fifty-five minutes to boil, and from one hour to one and a quarter to bake. The time given will make the potatoes moist and sweet. If, however, they are preferred dry and mealy, fifteen minutes less will be enough. French Fried Sweet Potatoes.—Prepare and fry the same as the white potatoes. Or, they can first be boiled half an hour, and then pared, cut, and fried as directed. The latter is the better way, as they are liable to be a little hard if fried when raw. Cold-Boiled Sweet Potatoes. — Cut cold-boiled sweet potatoes in thick slices, and season well with salt and pepper. Have the bottom of the frying-pan covered with either butter or pork, ham or chicken fat. Put enough of the sliced potatoes in the pan to just cover the bottom. Brown one side, and turn, and brown the other. Serve in a hot dish. Cold potatoes can be served in cream, cut in thick slices and toasted, cut in thick slices, dipped in egg and bread crumbs and fried brown, and can be fried in batter. Macaroni in Gravy.—Twelve sticks of macaroni, one and a half pints of stock, one scant table-spoonful of flour, one generous table-spoonful of butter, salt, pepper. Break andVEGETABLES. 99 wash the macaroni. Put it in a saucepan with the stock. Cover, and simmer half an hour. Mix the butter and flour together. Stir this and the seasoning in with the macaroni. Simmer ten minutes longer, and serve. A table-spoonful of grated cheese may be added. Macaroni in the Italian Manner.—Twelve sticks of macaroni (a quarter of a pound), half a pint of milk, two table-spoonfuls of cream, two of butter, one of flour, some salt, white pepper, and cayenne, and a quarter of a pound of cheese. Break and wash the macaroni, and boil it rapidly for twenty minutes in two quarts of water. Put the milk on in the double boiler. Mix the butter and flour together, and stir into the boiling milk. Add the seasoning, cream, and cheese. Drain, and dish the macaroni. Pour the sauce over it, and serve immediately. One table-spoonful of mustard can be stirred into the sauce if you like. If the sauce and macaroni are allowed to stand long after they are put together the dish will be spoiled. If they cannot be served immediately, keep both hot in separate dishes. Stuffed Tomatoes.—Twelve large, smooth tomatoes, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, one table-spoonful of butter, one of sugar, one cupful of bread crumbs, one tea- spoonful of onion juice. Arrange the tomatoes in a baking- pan. Cut a thin slice from the smooth end of each. With a small spoon scoop out as much of the pulp and juice as possible without injuring the shape. When all have been treated in this way mix the pulp and juice with the other ingredients, and fill the tomatoes with this mixture. Put on the tops, and bake slowly three-quarters of an hour. Slide the cake turner under the tomatoes and lift gently on to a flat dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Stuffed Tomatoes, No. 2.—Twelve tomatoes, two cupfuls of bread crumbs, one of stock, four table-spoonfuls of butter, one of flour, salt, pepper, one teaspoonful of onion juice.AMERICAN DISIIES. 100 Cut slices from tire stem end of the tomatoes. Remove the juice and pulp with a spoon, and dredge the inside with salt and pepper. Put two table-spoonfuls of the butter in a frying-pan, and when hot stir in the bread crumbs. Stir constantly until they are brown and crisp, and fill the tomatoes with them. Cover the openings with fresh crumbs and bits of butter. Bake slowly half an hour. Fifteen minutes before the tomatoes are done, make the sauce in this manner : Put one table-spoonful of butter in the frying- pan, and when hot add the flour. Stir until brown and smooth; then add the stock, tomato juice, and pulp. Stir until it boils up, and add the onion juice, salt, and pepper. Simmer ten minutes, and strain. Lift the tomatoes on to a flat dish, with the cake turner. Pour the sauce around, garnish with parsley, and serve. Any kind of meat, chopped fine and seasoned highly, can be used in place of the crumbs. Escalloped Tomatoes. — One pint of fresh or canned tomatoes, one generous pint of bread crumbs, three table- spoonfuls of butter, one of sugar, one scant table-spoonful of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper. Put a layer of the tomato in an escallop dish. Dredge with salt and pepper, and dot butter here and there. Now put in a layer of crumbs. Continue this until all the ingredients are used, having crumbs and butter for the last layer. If fresh tomatoes have been used, bake one hour, but if canned, bake half an hour. Broiled Tomatoes.—Cut the tomatoes in halves. Sprinkle the inside of the slices with fine bread crumbs, salt, and pepper. Place them in the double broiler, and broil over the fire for ten minutes, having the outside next the fire. Carefully slip them on a hot dish (stone china), and put bits of butter here and there on each slice. Put the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and then serve. Or, if you have a range or gas stove, brown before the fire or under the gas.IOI VEGETABLES. Fried Tomatoes.—Slice ripe tomatoes and dip them in well-beaten eggs, which have been seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar (one teaspoonful of sugar to each egg), and then in fine bread or cracker crumbs. Have two table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and when hot put in as many slices of tomato as will cover the bottom. Fry for ten minutes, five for each side. Serve on thin slices of toast. To Peel Tomatoes.—Put the tomatoes in a frying basket and plunge them into boiling water for about three minutes. Drain and peel. Baked Onions.—Peel large onions, and boil one hour in plenty of water, slightly salted. Butter a shallow dish or a deep plate, and arrange the onions in it. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, put a teaspoonful of butter in the centre of each onion, and cover lightly with crumbs. Bake slowly one hour. Serve with cream sauce. Stuffed Onions.—Boil as for baking. Cut out the heart of the onions, and fill the space with any kind of cold meat, chopped fine, and highly seasoned. To each pint of meat add one egg and two-thirds of a cupful of milk or cream. When the onions are filled put a bit of butter (about a tea- spoonful) on each one. Cover with crumbs, and bake one hour. Serve with cream sauce. Parsnips Fried in Butter.—Scrape the parsnips, and boil gently forty-five minutes. When cold, cut in long slices about one-third of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper. Dip in melted butter and in flour. Have two table-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and, as soon as hot, put in enough parsnips to cover the bottom. Fry brown on both sides, and serve on a hot dish. Parsnips Fried in Molasses.—Have one cupful of mo- lasses in a large frying-pan. When boiling, put in slices of parsnips that have been seasoned with salt, and cooled. Fry brown and serve hot.AMERICAN DISHES. 102 Parsnip Balls.—Mash one pint of boiled parsnips. Add two table-spoonfuls of butter, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, two table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, and one beaten egg. Mix all the ingredients except the egg. Stir on the fire until the mixture bubbles; then add the egg, and set away to cool. When cold make into balls one-third the size of an egg. Dip them in beaten egg and in crumbs. Put in the frying basket and plunge into boiling fat. Cook till a rich brown. Escalloped Parsnip.—Prepare the parsnips as for the balls, omitting the egg. Turn into a buttered dish, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and brown in the oven. Asparagus with Cream.—Have the asparagus tied in bundles. Wash, and plunge into boiling wrater in which there is a teaspoonful of salt for every-quart of water. Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. Take up, and cut off the tender heads. Put them in a clean saucepan with one generous cupful of cream or milk to every quart of asparagus. Simmer ten minutes. Mix one table-spoonful of butter and a generous teaspoonful of flour together. When creamy, stir in with the asparagus. Add salt and pepper to taste, and simmer five minutes longer. Green Peas & la Francaise.—Boil green peas until tender, and drain. For every quart put in a saucepan two table- spoonfuls of butter, one of flour, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Stir until all are thoroughly mixed. Add the peas, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Add one cupful of white stock or cream, and simmer ten minutes. The canned peas can be prepared in the same manner. Minced Cabbage.—Drain boiled cabbage in the colander. Put it in the chopping tray and chop fine. For each quart of the chopped cabbage put two table-spoonfuls of butter and one of flour in the frying-pan. As soon as smooth and hot put in the cabbage, which season well with salt, pepper,103 VEGETABLES. and, if you like it, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir con- stantly for five or eight minutes. When done, heap on a dish. Make smooth with a knife, and garnish with hard- boiled eggs. Minced. Spinach.—Boil the spinach in salt and water until tender. Drain in the colander, and chop fine in the tray. Season well with pepper and salt. For each quart of the chopped spinach put two table-spoonfuls of butter- and one of flour in a frying-pan. When this has cooked smooth, and before it has become browned, add the spinach. Stir for five minutes; then add half a cupful of cream or milk, and stir three minutes longer. Arrange in a mound on a hot dish. Garnish with a wreath of slices of hard- boiled eggs at the base, and finish the top with another wreath. Serve hot. Lettuce can be cooked and served in the same manner. It must be boiled about twenty minutes to be tender. Cauliflower with Cream Sauce.—Take off the green leaves and the stalk of the cauliflower. Wash, and put on to cook in boiling water. Boil gently for half an hour. Turn off the water, and add one pint of milk, one pint of boiling water, and one table-spoonful of salt. Simmer half an hour longer. Take up with a skimmer, being careful not to break it. Pour over this a cream sauce, and serve. Escalloped Cauliflower.—Cook the cauliflower one hour in salt and water. Drain, and break apart. Put a layer of the cauliflower in an escallop dish, moisten it with Bechamel or cream sauce, and sprinkle in a little grated cheese. Put in another layer of cauliflower, and continue, as directed before, until all of the vegetable is used. There should be two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and one pint of sauce to each head of cauliflower. Cover with bread crumbs and cheese, and dot with bits of butter. . Bake half an hour in a moderate oven.AMERICAN DISHES. 104 Stewed Celery with Cream Sauce.—Wash and scrape the tender white part of two heads of celery. .Cut them in pieces about two inches long. Cover with boiling water and simmer gently half an hour. Season well with salt. Drain off the water in which the celery was cooked. Add a pint of cream sauce, and serve. Celery Stewed in Stock.—Scrape, wash, and cut the white part of two heads of celery. Put in a stewpan with one pint of stock, and simmer half an hour. Mix together two table-spoonfuls of butter and one of flour. Stir this in with the celery. Season with salt, and simmer five minutes longer. Stewed Okra.—After the ends of the pods have been cut off, wash, and put on with just enough water to prevent burning (about a cupful to a quart of the okra), and a tea- spoonful of salt. Simmer gently thirty minutes. Season with pepper and butter, and with more salt, if necessary. Okra may be purchased in England in tins. Okra Stewed with Tomatoes.—Cut he okra in thin slices, and pare and slice the tomatoes. Have one pint of tomatoes to two of okra. Put the vegetables in a stewpan with one teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Simmer half an hour. Add one table-spoonful of butter, and more salt, if needed. Escalloped Okra and Tomatoes.—Prepare the same as stewed okra and tomatoes. When they have been stewing fifteen minutes add the butter and pepper, and turn into a deep dish. Cover with bread or cracker crumbs, dot with butter, and bake half an hour. Fried Egg Plant.—Cut the plant, which is to be had in London markets, in slices about one-third of an inch thick. Pare these, and lay in a flat dish. Cover with boiling water, to which has been added one table-spoonful of salt for every quart of water. Let this stand one hour. Drain, and pepperVEGETABLES. io5 the slices slightly, and clip in beaten egg and bread crumbs (two eggs and a pint of crumbs for a good-sized plant). Fry in boiling fat for eight or ten minutes. The slices will be soft and moist when done. Or, the slices can be seasoned with pepper, and fried in just enough pork fat to brown them. The egg plant is sometimes stewed, and sometimes baked, but there is no other mode so good as frying. Corn Oysters.—One cupful of flour, half a cupful of melted butter, three table-spoonfuls of milk, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, one pint of grated corn, which is to be purchased in England in tins. Pour the corn on the flour, and beat well; then add the other ingredients, and beat rapidly for three minutes. Have fat in the frying-pan to the depth of about two inches. When smoking hot, put in the batter by the spoonful. Hold the spoon close to the fat and the shape of the oyster will be good. Fry about five minutes. New Bedford Corn Pudding.—Twelve ears of corn, four eggs, a generous pint and a half of milk, a generous tea- spoonful of salt, four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Grate the corn, beat the eggs with a spoon, and mix all the ingredients together. Butter a deep earthen dish, and pour the mixture into it. Bake slowly two hours. Serve hot. When the corn is old it will take one quart of milk. If very young and milky, one pint of milk will be sufficient. Baked Beans.—This is the staple dish of New England. Pick one quart of beans free from stones and dirt. AVash, and soak in cold water over night. In the morning poui- off the water. Cover with hot water, put two pounds of corned beef with them, and boil until they begin to split open (the time depends upon the age of the beans, but it will be from thirty to sixty minutes). Turn them into the colander, and pour over them two or three quarts of cold water. Put about half of the beans in a deep earthen pot,AMERICAN DISHES. lo6 then put in the beef, and finally the remainder of the beans. Mix one teaspoonful of mustard and one table-spoonful of molasses with a little water. Pour this over the beans, and then add boiling water to just cover. Bake slozuly ten hours. Add a little water occasionally.107 P^IES AND PUDDINGS. Puff Paste.—One quart of pastry flour, one pint of butter, one table-spoonful of salt, one of sugar, one and a quarter cupfuls of ice water. Wash the hands with soap and water, and dip them first in very hot, and then in cold, water. Rinse a large bowl or pan with boiling water and then with cold. Half fill it with cold water. Wash the butter in this, working it with the hands until it is light and waxy. This frees it of the salt and butter-milk, and lightens it, so that the pastry is more delicate. Shape the butter into two thin cakes, and put in a pan of ice water to harden. Mix the salt and sugar with the flour. With the hands rub one-third of the butter into the flour. Add the water, stirring with a knife. Stir quickly and vigorously until the paste is a smooth ball. Sprinkle the board lightly with flour. Turn the paste on this, and pound quickly and lightly with the rolling pin. Do not break the paste. Roll from you and to one side; or, if easier to roll from you all the while, turn the paste around. When it is about one-fourth of an inch thick wipe the remaining butter, break it in bits, and spread these on the-paste. Sprinkle lightly with flour. Fold the paste, one-third from each side, so that the edges meet. Now fold from the ends, but do not have these meet. Double the paste, pound lightly, and roll down to about one-third of an inch in thickness. Fold as before, and roll down again. Repeat this three times if for pies, and sixio8 AMERICAN DISHES. times if for vol-au-vcnts, patties, tarts, etc. Place on the ice to harden when it has been rolled the last time. It should be in the ice chest at least an hour before being used. In hot weather if the paste sticks when being rolled down put it on a tin sheet and place on ice. As soon as it is chilled it will roll easily. The less flour you use in rolling out the paste the tenderer it will be. No matter how carefully every part of the work may be done, the paste will not be good if much flour is used. Chopped Paste.—One quart of pastry flour, two cupfuls of unwashed butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one table- spoonful of sugar, and a scant cupful of ice water. Put the flour, salt, sugar, and butter in the chopping-tray. Chop all together until the butter is thoroughly mixed with the flour; then add the water, and continue chopping. When well mixed sprinkle the board with flour, turn the paste on it, and roll into a flat piece. Place in a pan on the ice. When hard, use the same as puff paste. It can be used as soon as mixed, but will not, of course, be so nice. French Paste for Raised Pies.—One quart of pastry flour, one table-spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one scant cupful of butter, one egg, one teacupful of water. Rub the butter, salt, and sugar into the flour. Beat the egg, and add the water to it. Stir this into the flour and butter. Stir this mixture until it is a smooth paste; then put on the board and roll the same as puff paste. This paste must be rolled eight times. To Make a Pie.—Butter the pie plate (tin is the best), and cover with paste that has been rolled very thin. Roll a strip of paste long enough to go around the plate, and cut in strips an inch wide. Wet the edge of the plate with water, and put a strip of paste on it. Fill with any kind of prepared fruit. Have the paste in a roll, and cut enough from the end to cover the pie. Sprinkle the board lightly109 PIES AND PUDDINGS. with flour, and place the paste upon it. Flour the rolling pin with the hand. Roll from you and to one side until the paste is the right size. It must be much larger than the plate. In the centre cut a slit about half an inch long. Cover the pie, having the paste “fulled" on, as it shrinks in the baking. The oven must be hot at first, and after the first fifteen minutes the draughts must be closed. A mince pie will require one hour to bake, and an apple pie fifty minutes. Peach, and nearly all other fruit pies, require the same time. Mince Pie Meat.—Boil a beef tongue, weighing six pounds, and six pounds of the vein of a round of beef (these should just simmer). After skinning the tongue, chop it and the beef very fine, and add five pounds of beef suet, chopped fine ; five pounds of stoned raisins, three of dried currants, one and a half of citron, cut fine; nine of sugar, one and a half pints of molasses, two quarts of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, one quart of brandy, one pint of white wine, a cupful of salt, half a cupful of cinnamon, one- fourth of a cupful of cloves, one-fourth of a cupful of allspice, three nutmegs, a table-spoonful of mace. Put all in a large pan, and let stand over night. Put what you wish to bake in another pan with half as much stewed and sweetened apple as you have meat, and let it stand one hour. Put the remainder of the meat in a jar. Cover with a paper dipped in brandy, and then cover tightly, to exclude the air. Set in a cool place for future use. Squash Pies.—Five pints of stewed and strained squash, two quarts of boiling milk, one and a half nutmegs, four teaspoonfuls of salt, five cupfuls of sugar, nine eggs, four table-spoonfuls of Sicily Madeira, and two of rose-water. Gradually pour the boiling milk on the squash, and stir con- tinually. Add the nutmeg, rose-water, and sugar. When cold, add the eggs, well beaten; and just before the mixture is put in the plates, add the Madeira. Butter deep plates,no AMERICAN DISHES. and line with a plain paste. Fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Sweet Potato Pies.—When the potatoes are dry and mealy, take a quart after they have been pared, boiled, and mashed, a quart of milk, four eggs, salt, nutmeg, cinnamon, and sugar to taste. Bake the same as squash pies. If the potatoes are very moist, use less milk. Lemon Pie.—The juice and rind of one lemon, two eggs, eight heaping table-spoonfuls of sugar, one small teacupful of milk, one teaspoonful of corn-starch. Mix the corn- starch with a little of the milk. Put the remainder on the fire, and, when boiling, stir in the corn-starch. Boil one minute. Let this cool, and add the yolks of the eggs, four heaping table-spoonfuls of the sugar, and the grated rind and juice of the lemon, all well beaten together. Have a deep pie plate lined with paste, and fill with this mixture. Bake slowly half an hour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually beat into them the remainder of the sugar. Cover the pie with this, and brown slowly. Orange Pies.—Two cupfuls of sugar, two of flour, five eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, the juice and rind of one orange. These are for the cake. Beat the eggs very light; then add the sugar, and beat until frothy. Now add the orange. Mix the soda and cream of tartar with the flour, and rub through a sieve on to the beaten eggs and sugar. Stir well, and bake in deep tin plates. There will be enough for six plates. When baked, put a thin layer of the icing between the cakes, and cover the pie with icing. There should be three cakes in a pie. Icing: The whites of four eggs, one teacupful of pow- dered sugar, the juice and rind of two oranges. After beating the whites to a stiff froth, beat in the sugar and then the rind and juice' of the oranges. When the pies are iced, dry them in the heater.PIES AND PUDDINGS. 111 Chocolate Pies.—Make plain cup cake, and bake in rather shallow dishes, having the cake thick enough to split. After splitting, spread one half with a filling made as below, place the top piece on, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. The cake should always be fresh. Filling : One square of chocolate, one cupful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, one-third of a cupful of boiling milk. Mix scraped chocolate and sugar together; then add, very slowly, the boiling milk, and then the eggs, and simmer ten minutes, being careful that it does not burn. Flavour with vanilla. Have fully cold before using. HOT PUDDINGS. Custard Souffle.—Two scant table-spoonfuls of butter, two table-spoonfuls of flour, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one cupful of milk, four eggs. Let the milk come to a boil. Beat the flour and butter together; add to them, gradually, the boiling milk, and cook eight minutes, stirring often. Beat the sugar and the yolks of the eggs together. Add to the cooked mixture, and set away to cool. When cool, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture. Bake in a buttered pudding dish for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve immediately with creamy sauce. Rachel Pudding.—One quart of bread crumbs, one of apples, cut very fine ; half a cupful of suet, chopped very fine; one cupful of English currants, the rind and juice of two lemons, four eggs, well beaten. Mix thoroughly. Grease a pudding mould, and put the mixture in it. Steam three hours, and serve with rich wine sauce. Chocolate Pudding.—One quart of milk, four table-spoon- fuls of corn-starch, four of sugar, four of scraped chocolate, two of boiling water, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. Reserve one cupful of the milk, and put the remainder onI 12 AMERICAN DISHES. to boil. Put the sugar, chocolate, and water in a saucepan or, better still, a small frying-pan, and stir over a hot fire for about a minute, when the mixture should be smooth and glossy. Stir this into the boiling milk. Mix the corn-starch with cold milk. Beat the egg, and add to the corn-starch and milk; add also the salt. Stir this into the boiling milk, and beat well for about three minutes. Turn the mixture into a melon mould that has been dipped in cold water. Let the pudding stand in the mould about fifteen minutes. Turn into the pudding dish, and heap whipped cream around it. Serve sugar and cream with it; or, vanilla sauce will answer. Chocolate Roll Pudding.—This pudding consists of cake, frosting, and sauce. It is very nice. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and add the yolks. Beat into the eggs one cupful of sugar and one of flour. As soon as all are thoroughly mixed, stir in half a cupful of cold water, in which has been dissolved soda about the size of a pea. Pour thin into a buttered pan, and bake in a moderate oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. When baked, sprinkle the top with two table-spoonfuls of milk. Frosting : Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, and divide into two parts. Put a teaspoonful of sugar to one half, and one teaspoonful of sugar and three of grated chocolate to the other. Take the cake from the pan and put it on a flat dish or tin sheet. Spread half of each mixture over the top. Return to the oven for about five minutes, to harden the frosting. Take out and roll up. Put the remainder of the frosting on the top and sides of the roll. Put again in the oven to harden the frosting. Take out, and slide on a flat dish. Pour the sauce around, and serve. The yolks of the eggs may be used for puddings or custards. Sauce : One egg, one teacupful of powdered sugar, five table-spoonfuls of boiling milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla”3 PIES AND PUDDINGS. extract. Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the sugar. Add the yolk of the egg, the vanilla, and lastly the boiling milk. Ground Rice Pudding.—One quart of milk, five table- spoonfuls of ground rice, four of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, six eggs, half a cupful of butter. Put the milk in the double boiler, reserving half a cupful. Mix the rice and cold milk together, and stir into the milk in the boiler when this is hot. Stir constantly for five minutes. Add the salt, butter, and sugar, and set away to cool. When cold, add the eggs, well beaten. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve with creamy sauce. Rice Pudding.—One cupful of rice, one quart of milk, one cupful of raisins, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of water, one quart of soft custard. Wash the rice, and let it soak two hours in cold water. Turn off the water, and put the rice in the double boiler with the cupful of water. Cook half an hour; then add the salt, raisins, and milk, and cook an hour longer. Butter a melon mould and pack the rice in it. Let it stand twenty minutes. Turn out on a deep dish, decorate with bits of bright jelly, pour the custard around, and serve. The custard should be cold and the pudding hot. The raisins can be omitted if not liked. German Puffs.—The yolks of six eggs, five table-spoon- fuls of flour, one of melted butter, one pint of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs light, add the milk to them, and pour part of this mixture on the flour. Beat light and smooth ; then add the remainder of the eggs and milk, and the salt and butter. Butter muffin pans, and half fill them with the batter. The quantities given will make twelve puffs. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve on a hot platter with the sauce poured over them. Sauce : The whites of six eggs, one cupful of powdered sugar, the juice of two oranges or of one lemon. After 9114 AMERICAN DISHES. beating the whites to a stiff froth, gradually beat in the sugar, and then the juice of the fruit. Down-East Pudding.—One pint of molasses, one quart of flour, one table-spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, three pints of blackberries. Boil three hours, and serve with sauce made in the following manner : One teacupful of powdered sugar, half a cupful of butter, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of boiling water, one of brandy. Beat the butter to a cream, and add, very gradually, the sugar and brandy. Beat in the yolk of the egg, and, when perfectly creamy, add the white, which has been beaten to a froth ; then add the water, and stir very carefully. Amber Pudding.—One dozen large, tart apples, one cup- ful of sugar, the juice and rind of two lemons, six eggs, four table-spoonfuls of butter, enough puff or chopped paste to line a three-pint pudding dish. Pare and quarter the apples. Pare the thin rind from the lemon, being careful not to cut into the white part. Put the butter, apple, and lemon rind and juice in a stewpan with half a cupful of water. Cover tightly, and simmer about three-quarters of an hour. Rub through a sieve, add the sugar, and set away to cool. Line the dish with thin paste. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and stir into the cooled mixture. Turn this into the lined dish. Bake slowly for half an hour. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat into them three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Cover the pudding with this. Return to the oven and cook twelve minutes with the door open. Serve either hot or cold. Fig Pudding.—One cupful of molasses, one of chopped suet, one of milk, three and a quarter of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one pint of figs. Mix together the molasses, suet, spice, and the figs, cut fine. Dissolve the soda with a table- spoonful of hot water, and mix with the milk. Add to thePIES AND PUDDINGS. H5 other ingredients. Beat the eggs light, and stir into the mixture. Add the flour, and beat thoroughly. Butter two small or one large brown bread mould. Turn the mixture into the mould or moulds, and steam five hours. Serve with creamy or wine sauce. Date Pudding.—Make the same as fig pudding, but use a pint of dates instead of the figs. Apple Tapioca Pudding.—One large cupful of tapioca, three pints of water, one cupful of sugar, one teaspconful of salt, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, three pints of pared and quartered apples. Wash the tapioca and soak over night in three pints of cold water (three hours will do if there is no more time). Put the tapioca in the double boiler and cook until it looks clear. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked enough, add the sugar, salt, and lemon, and then the apples. Turn into a buttered dish and bake an hour and a quarter. Let it stand in a cool room half an hour before serving. Serve with sugar and cream. Baked Apple Pudding.—Fill a three-quart earthen dish with pared and quartered apples. Sprinkle on these one cupful of sugar, a slight grating of nutmeg, one table-spoon- ful of butter, and half a cupful of water. Cover, and bake thirty minutes. Make half the rule for chopped paste. Roll a piece of the paste into a strip that will reach round the pudding dish. This strip should be about two inches deep. Roll the remainder of the paste to cover the dish. Take the pudding dish from the oven, slip the strip of paste between the apple and the dish, and put on the top crust. Return to the oven, and bake one hour longer. Serve with a cream sauce. Dutch Apple Pudding—One pint of flour, one teaspoon- ful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, half a tea* spoonful of salt, an egg, a generous two-thirds of a cupfulAMERICAN DISHES. 116 of milk, two table-spoonfuls of butter, four large apples. Mix the salt, soda, and cream of tartar with the flour, and rub through the sieve. Beat the egg light, and add the milk. Rub the butter into the flour. Pour the milk and egg on this, and mix quickly and thoroughly. Spread the dough about half an inch deep on a buttered baking-pan. Have the apples pared, cored, and cut into eighths. Stick these pieces in rows into the dough. Sprinkle with two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Bake in a quick oven for about twenty- five minutes. This pudding is to be eaten with sugar and cream or a simple sauce. Apple Souffle.—One pint of steamed apple, one table- spoonful of melted butter, half a cupful of sugar, the whites of six eggs and the yolks of three, a slight grating of nutmeg. Stir into the hot apple the butter, sugar, and nutmeg, and the yolks of the eggs, well beaten. When this is cold, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into the mixture. Butter a three-pint dish, and turn the souffle into it. Bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve imme- diately with any kind of sauce. Apple and Rice Pudding.—One cupful and a half of uncooked rice, and two dozen apples. Wash the rice well, and soak two hours in cold water. Peel and quarter the. apples. Wet the pudding cloth and spread it in the colander. Cover with two-thirds of the rice. Lay in the apples, having them packed as closely as possible. Sprinkle the remainder of the rice over them. Tie as tightly as possible, and plunge into boiling water. Boil one hour. Serve with molasses sauce. Eve’s Pudding.—Six eggs, six apples, six ounces of bread, six ounces of currants, half a teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg. Boil three hours, or steam four. Serve with wine sauce. Batter and Fruit Pudding.—One pint of milk, one pint of flour, four eggs, one table-spoonful of butter, one tea-n 7 PIES AND PUDDINGS. spoonful of salt, one pint of fruit, pared and quartered (apples or peaches are best). Beat the eggs well with a spoon, and add the milk to them. Turn part of this mixture on the flour, and beat to a light, smooth batter. Add the remainder of the milk and eggs, and the salt. Butter a pudding dish and pour in the batter. Sprinkle in the fruit. Bake half an hour. Serve with foaming sauce the moment it comes from the oven. / Amherst Pudding.—Three-fourths of a cupful of butter, three-fourths of a pint of sugar, four eggs, five table-spoonfuls of strained apple, the grated rind and the juice of a lemon, and nutmeg and rose-water, if you like. Bake half an hour, in a moderate oven, in a shallow pudding dish that has been lined with a rich paste, rolled very thin. Let it become partially cooled before serving. Swiss Pudding. —One teacupful of flour, four table- spoonfuls of butter, three of sugar, one pint of milk, five eggs, the rind of a lemon. Grate the rind of the lemon (the yellow part only, remember) into the milk, which put in the double boiler. Rub the flour and butter together. Pour the boiling milk on this, and return to the boiler. Cook five minutes, stirring the first two. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, and stir into the boiling mixture. Remove from the fire immediately. When cold, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Have a three-quart mould, well buttered. Turn the mixture into this, and steam forty minutes. Turn on a hot dish, and serve without delay. Creamy sauce, or a tumbler of currant jelly, melted with the juice of two lemons, should be served with it. Delicate Indian Pudding.—One quart of milk, two heap- ing table-spoonfuls of Indian meal, four of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. Boil the milk in the double boiler. Sprinkle the meal into it, stirring allIIS AMERICAN DISHES. the while. Cook twelve minutes, stirring often. Beat together the eggs, salt, sugar, and half a teaspoonful of ginger. Stir the butter into the meal and milk. Pour this gradually on the egg mixture. Bake slowly one hour. Indian and Apple Pudding.—One cupful of Indian meal, one cupful of molasses, two quarts of milk, two tea- spoonfuls of salt, three table-spoonfuls of butter, or one of finely-chopped suet; one quart of pared and quartered apples (sweet are best, but sour will do), half a teaspoonful of ginger, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Put the milk on in the double boiler. When it boils, pour it gradu- ally on the meal. Pour into the boiler again and cook half an hour, stirring often. Add the molasses, butter, seasoning, and apples. Butter a deep pudding dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake slowly three hours. Make half the rule if the family is small. COLD PUDDINGS. Royal Pudding.—One quart of milk, half a cupful of sago, two table-spoonfuls of butter, one teacupful of granu- lated sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, four eggs, four table- spoonfuls of raspberry jam, four table-spoonfuls of wine. Put the milk in the double boiler, and just before it comes to a boil, stir in the sago. Cook until it thickens (about half an hour), stirring frequently; then add the butter, sugar, and salt. Let it cool; and when cold, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the wine. Turn into a buttered pudding dish, and bake half an hour. Set away to cool. When cold, spread the jam over it. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into them four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Spread this on the pudding. Brown quickly, and serve. The pudding can be made the day before using. In this case put the whites of the eggs in119 PIES AND PUDDINGS. the ice-chest, and make the me'ringue and brown just before serving. Cold Tapioca Pudding.—Soak a cupful of tapioca over night in a quart of cold water. In the morning drain off all the water. Put the tapioca and a quart and half a pint of milk in the double boiler. After cooking forty-five minutes, add a teaspoonful of salt. Stir well, and cook fifteen minutes longer. Wet a mould or bowl in cold water. Turn the pudding into this, and set away to cool. Serve with sugar and cream. This pudding is also nice hot. Danish Pudding.—One cupful of tapioca, three generous pints of water, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teacupful of sugar, one tumbler of any kind of bright jelly. Wash the tapioca, and soak in the water all night. In the morning put on in the double boiler, and cook one hour. Stir fre- quently. Add the salt, sugar, and jelly, and mix thoroughly. Turn into a mould that has been dipped in cold water, and set away to harden. Serve with cream and sugar. Black Pudding.—One quart of blueberries, one pint of water, one cupful of sugar, a half-quartern loaf, butter. Stew the berries, sugar, and water together. Cut the bread in thin slices, and butter these. Put a layer of the bread in a deep dish, and cover it with some of the hot berries. Continue this until all the bread and fruit is used, and set away to cool. The pudding should be perfectly cold when served. Serve with cream and sugar. Any other small berries can be used instead of blueberries. Almond Pudding.—One pint of shelled almonds, two dozen macaroons, the grated rind of a lemon, half a cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, the yolks of six eggs, one quart of milk, one pint of cream, one table-spoonful of rice flour. Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar. Put the milk in a double boiler, reserving half a cupful. Add the pounded almonds to it. Mix the rice flour with120 AMERICAN DISIIES. the half-cupful of cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook six minutes, and put away to cool. When about half cooled add the sugar and butter, which should have been beaten together until light. When cold, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, the macaroons, which have been dried and rolled fine, and the cream. Butter a pudding dish that will hold a little more than two quarts; or, two small ones will do. Turn the mixture into this, and bake slowly forty-five minutes. Serve cold. Jenny Lind Pudding.—One dozen sponge fingers, one dozen macaroons, one dozen cocoanut cakes, one quart of custard, two cupfuls of freshly-grated cocoanut. Make a quart of soft custard, and season with one teaspoonful of lemon extract or two table-spoonfuls of wine. When cold, pour on the cakes, which have been arranged in a deep glass dish. Sprinkle the grated cocoanut over this, and serve. If you have not the fresh cocoanut use one cupful of the prepared. Peach Meringue Pudding.—Three dozen ripe peaches, one and a third cupfuls of granulated sugar, six table-spoon- fuls of powdered sugar, one quart of milk, three teaspoonfuls of corn-starch, six eggs. Put one cupful of the granulated sugar and one pint of water on to boil. Peel and quarter the peaches. When the sugar and water begins to boil, put in one-third of the peaches, and simmer eight minutes. Take them up, and put in another third. Continue this until all the fruit is done. Boil the syrup until it becomes thick. Pour over the peaches and set away to cool. Sepa- rate the whites and yolks of the six eggs, and put the whites in the ice-chest. Beat together the yolks and one-third of a cupful of sugar. Put a pint and a half of milk in the double boiler. Mix three teaspoonfuls of corn-starch with half a pint of cold milk, and when the other milk is boiling stir this into it. Stir for three minutes; then put on the121 PIES AND PUDDINGS. cover and cook three minutes longer. Pour the boiling mixture gradually on the beaten eggs and sugar. Return to the boiler and cook four minutes, stirring all the while. Take from the fire, add half a teaspoonful of salt, and set away to cool. This is the sauce. Twenty minutes before serving heap the peaches in the centre of a shallow dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in five table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Cover the peaches with this. Place a board in the oven, put the dish on it, and cook until a light brown. Season the sauce with one-fourth of a teaspoonful of almond extract, and pour around the pudding. Serve. The peaches and sauce must be cold. If the oven is hot, and the board is placed under the dish, the browning of the meringue will not heat the pudding much. Apple Meringue Pudding.—Two quarts of pared and quartered apples, a lemon, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, and six table-spoonfuls of powdered, six eggs, one quart of milk, three teaspoonfuls of corn-starch. Pare the thin yellow rind off the lemon, being careful not to cut into the white part, and put it in a saucepan with one and two-thirds cup- fuls of the granulated sugar. Boil ten minutes; then put in the apples and juice of the lemon. Cover, and simmer half an hour. The apples should be tender, but not much broken. Take them up, and boil the syrup until thick. When it is reduced enough pour it over the apples, and put these away to cool. Make the sauce and finish the pudding the same as for peach meringue, flavouring the sauce, how- ever, with extract of lemon. Frozen Cabinet Pudding.—Two dozen stale lady-fingers, one cupful of currants, one pint of cream, one pint of milk, one small teacupful of sugar, three eggs, three table-spoonfuls of wine. Put the milk in the double boiler. Beat the eggs and sugar together, and gradually pour the hot milk onAMERICAN DISHES. 122 them. Return to the boiler and cook two minutes, stirring all the while. Pour the hot custard on the lady-fingers, add the currants, and set away to cool. When cold, add the wine and the cream, whipped to a froth. Freeze the same as.ice cream. When frozen, wet a melon mould in cold water, sprinkle a few currants on the sides and bottom, and pack with the frozen mixture. Pack the mould in salt and ice for one hour. At serving time wipe it, and dip in warm water for a moment. Turn out the pudding on a dish, pour apricot sauce around it, and serve. Frozen Cabinet Pudding, No. 2.—One dozen macaroons, one dozen and a half sponge fingers, one dozen cocoanut cakes, one cupful of English currants, one quart of custard. Wet a melon mould in cold water. Sprinkle the sides and bottom with currants. Arrange layers of the mixed cakes, which sprinkle with currants. Continue this until all the cake and currants are used. Put a pint and a half of milk in the double boiler. Beat together four eggs and two table-spoonfuls of sugar. When the milk is hot, stir in one- third of a package of gelatine, which has been soaking one hour in. half a cupful of milk. Add the beaten egg and sugar, and cook four minutes, stirring all the while. Take off, and add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt and one tea- spoonful of vanilla, or two table-spoonfuls of wine. Pour this, a few spoonfuls at a time, on the cake. Set away to cool. When cold, cover with thick white paper, and put on the tin cover. Pack the mould in salt and ice for four or six hours. At serving time wipe the mould free of salt and ice and dip for a moment in warm water. Take off the cover and paper, and turn out. Serve with quince sauce. Peach Pudding.—Pare and cut fine one dozen ripe peaches. Sprinkle with three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and let them stand one hour. Make a custard the same as for frozen cabinet pudding, No. 2. Have the peaches in a deep123 PIES AND PUDDINGS. glass dish, and, as soon as the custard is partly cooled, turn it on them. Set away in a cold place for six or eight hours. When convenient it is well to make this pudding the day before using. Orange Pudding.—One pint of milk, the juice of six oranges and rind of three, eight eggs, half a cupful of butter, one large cupful of granulated sugar, a quarter of a cupful of powdered sugar, one table-spoonful of ground rice, paste to line the pudding dish. Mix the ground rice with a little of the cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk in the double boiler, and when it boils stir in the mixed rice. Stir for five minutes; then add the butter, and set away to cool. Beat together the sugar, the yolks of the eight eggs and whites of four. Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of the oranges into this. Stir all into the cooked mixture. Have a pudding dish, holding about three quarts, lined with paste. Pour the preparation into this, and bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Beat the remaining four whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the powdered sugar. Cover the pudding with this. Return to the oven, and cook ten minutes, having the door open. Set away to cool. It must be ice cold when served. Orange Pudding, No. 2.—One cupful and a half of granu- lated sugar, six table-spoonfuls of the powdered, six eggs, six large, or eight small, sweet oranges, half a package of gelatine, one quart of boiling milk. Soak the gelatine for two hours in one cupful of the milk. Put the remaining milk in the double boiler. Beat together the yolks of the eggs and the granulated sugar. When the milk boils stir in the gelatine, and then the beaten yolks and sugar. Stir constantly until the mixture begins to thicken (which will be about five minutes); then remove from the fire and put away to cool. Pare the oranges, and free them of seeds and tough parts. Put them in a large glass dish, and whenAMERICAN DISHES. 124 the custard has cooled pour it over the fruit. Let this stand in a cold place six or eight hours. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the pow- dered sugar. Cover the pudding with this, and serve. Royal Diplomatic Pudding.—Soak half a box of gelatine in half a cupful of cold water one or two hours. Pour on this two-thirds of a pint of boiling water, and add the juice of a lemon, a cupful of sugar, and half a pint of wine. Stir and strain. Have two moulds, one holding two quarts, the other a quart. Put a layer of jelly in the large mould, and place on ice. When hard, garnish with candied cherries, cut in two. Pour in a few spoonfuls of liquid jelly, not hot, to hold the cherries, and then pour in enough to cover them. When the jelly is perfectly hard, set the small mould in the centre of the large one, and fill the space between with jelly. Fill the small mould with ice, and set both in a basin of ice water. When the jelly is again hard, remove the ice from the small mould, which fill with warm water, and lift it out carefully. The vacant space is to be filled with custard made by the following recipeThe yolks of five eggs, half a cupful of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of wine, one teaspoon- ful of vanilla extract, half a box of gelatine, soaked in half a cupful of cold water, a scant cupful of milk. Put the milk to boil. Add the gelatine, and the eggs and sugar, beaten together. Strain, and add the wine and vanilla. When the custard begins to thicken, add half a pint of cream, whipped to a stiff froth. Pour the custard into the space mentioned, and let it stand until it hardens. Turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve with soft custard poured around it. Orange Diplomatic Pudding.—Make one quart of orange jelly. Arrange this in the mould and make a filling the same as for royal diplomatic pudding. Flavour the filling, and the custard for the sauce, with orange. Lemon Diplomatic Pudding.—Make one quart of lemon125 PIES AND PUDDINGS. jelly, and prepare the mould with it the same as for the royal diplomatic pudding. Make a lemon sponge, with which fill the cavity. When hard, serve with a custard flavoured with lemon. Bird’s Nest Pudding.—Half a package of gelatine, six oranges, three cupfuls and a half of sugar, one pint of blanc- mange. Take the peel from the oranges in quarters. Put it in two quarts of water, and let it stand over night. In the morning drain off the water. Cut the peel in thin strips with the scissors. Put it in cold water and boil until tender. Make a syrup of half a cupful of sugar and a pint of water. Drain the straws of orange peel on a sieve. Put them in this syrup and simmer half an hour. Turn into a bowl, and let stand until next day. Put one pint of sugar and one pint of water on to boil. Cook rapidly for twenty minutes ; the syrup will then fall from the spoon in threads. Put the straws in this and boil half an hour. Take out, and drain on a sieve. As they dry, put them in a dish, which place in the warm oven. These are for the nests. For the jelly, soak the gelatine two hours in half a cupful of cold water; then pour on it enough boiling water to make, with the juice of the oranges, two cupfuls and a half. Add one small cupful of sugar and the orange juice. Stir well, and strain through a napkin into a shallow dish. In one end of each of six eggs make a hole about the size of a threepenny- piece. Break the yolks with a skewer, and pour the eggs into a bowl. (They may be used for puddings and custards.) Wash and drain the shells. Fill them with the blanc-mange. Have a pan filled with meal in which to stand the shells. Set away to cool. Break the jelly in pieces with a fork, and put in a flat glass dish. Arrange the straws in the form of nests, six in number, and arrange them on the jelly. Place the eggs in these, and serve. Quince Iced Pudding.—Beat three eggs very light; thenAMERICAN DISHES. 126 add one cupful and a half of powdered sugar, and beat until foamy. Put two cupfuls of sifted pastry flour in the sieve, and add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of soda. Stir half a cupful of cold water into the beaten eggs and sugar; then sift the flour on this. Mix quickly and thoroughly. Have a tin mould of oval shape, high and plain. It should be about four inches high, and six wide, and eight long, top measurement — the mould tapering. The space between the outer and inner walls should be an inch and a half. Butter this mould and pour the cake mixture into it. Bake slowly for forty-five minutes. Let it stand in the mould until nearly cold. Turn on a flat dish. Put the whites of two eggs in a bowl, gradually beat into them one cupful and a half of powdered sugar, and season with half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Ice the cake with this, and set away to dry. In the meantime, make a cream with one generous quart of cream, one cupful of sugar, one table-spoonful of vanilla, and one pint of soft custard. Freeze the same as ice cream. Spread the inside of the cake with a large tumbler of quince jelly. At serving time pack the frozen cream in the centre of the cake. Heap whipped cream on the top and at the base, and serve immediately. This is an elegant pudding, and is not difficult to make. Princess Pudding.—Soak for an hour in a pint of cold water one box of Cox’s sparkling gelatine, and add one pint of boiling water, one pint of wine, the juice of four lemons, and three large cupfuls of sugar. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into the jelly when it begins to thicken. Pour into a large mould, and set in ice water in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn out as you would jelly, only have the pudding in a deep dish. Pour one quart of soft custard around it, and serve. Apple Porcupine.—Sixteen large apples, two large cupfuls127 HES AND PUDDINGS. of granulated sugar, one lemon, one quart of water, one teacupful of powdered sugar, one quart of milk, one table- spoonful of corn-starch, half a teaspoonful of salt, six eggs, one pint of blanched almonds. Put the water and granu- lated sugar in a saucepan. Have ten of the apples pared and cored, and as soon as the sugar and water boils, put in as many of the apples as will cook without crowding. Simmer gently until the fruit is cooked through. When done on one side the fruit must be turned. Drain, and cool them on a dish. Cook ten apples in this manner. Have the six that remain pared and quartered and stewed in one cupful of water. Turn the stewed apples into the syrup left from cooking the others. Add the grated rind and the juice of the lemon. Simmer until a smooth marmalade is formed. It will take about twenty minutes. Set away to cool. Put the milk on in the double boiler, reserving half a cupful. When it boils, stir in the corn- starch, which has been mixed with the cold milk. Stir well, and cook five minutes. Beat the yolks of the six eggs and the whites of two with half of the powdered sugar. Gradually pour the boiling mixture on this. Return to the boiler and cook three minutes, stirring all the time. Add the salt. Turn into a pitcher or bowl, and set away to cool. Heap the cooked apples in a mound, using the marmalade to fill up the spaces between the apples. Beat the four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and beat the half- cupful of powdered sugar into it. Cover the apples with this, and stick the almonds into it. Brown slowly in the oven. Set away to cool. At serving time, season the custard with lemon, and pour it round the porcupine.AMERICAN DISHES. 128 SWEET SAUCES. Rich Wine Sauce.—One cupful of butter, two of powdered sugar, half a cupful of wine. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar gradually, and when very light add the wine, which has been made hot, a little at a time. Place the bowl in a basin of hot water and stir for two minutes. The sauce should be smooth and foamy. Creamy Sauce.—Half a cupful of butter, one cupful of powdered sugar, one-fourth of a cupful of cream or milk, four table-spoonfuls of wine, or one teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon extract. If lemon or vanilla is used, add four table-spoonfuls of cream. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, beating all the while. When light and creamy, gradually add the wine and then the cream, a little at a time. When all is beaten smooth, place the bowl in a basin of hot water and stir until the sauce is smooth and creamy—no longer. It will take only a few minutes. This is a delicious sauce, and if well beaten, and not kept in the hot water long enough to melt the sugar, it will be white and foamy all through. Foaming Sauce.—One cupful of butter, two of powdered sugar, the whites of two eggs, five table-spoonfuls of wine or three of brandy, one-fourth of a teacupful of boiling water. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually beat the sugar into it. Add the whites of the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, and then the brandy or wine. When all is a light, smooth mass, add the water, beating in a little at a time. Place the bowl in a basin of hot water and stir until smooth and frothy, which will be about two minutes. This sauce is for rich puddings. German Sauce.—One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of water, three eggs, one table-spoonful of butter, three of129 PIES AND PUDDINGS. brandy, or a teaspoonful of any extract you like. Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and boil for fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and stir them into the boiling syrup. Put the basin in another of hot water and beat the mixture with the whisk until it begins to thicken ; then add the butter, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and add the brandy. Stir one minute longer, and serve. German Sauce, No. 2.—The yolks of five and whites of three eggs, one cupful of powdered sugar, one pint of cream, and any flavour you choose. Beat together the yolks of the eggs and the sugar, and add the cream. Put this mixture in the double boiler (having first beaten the whites to a stiff froth), and stir until it begins to thicken ; then add the whites and seasoning. Beat thoroughly, and serve. Lemon Sauce.—One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of water, the rind and juice of two lemons, the yolks of three eggs. Boil together the sugar, water, lemon juice, and grated rind for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs. Put the basin containing the boiling syrup in another of boiling water. Stir the yolks of the eggs into this, and beat rapidly for three minutes. Take up the saucepan and continue the beating for five minutes; then serve. Cream Sauce.—One cupful of powdered sugar, one egg, two cupfuls of whipped cream. Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth. Add the yolk and sugar, and beat well. Flavour with vanilla, lemon, or wine, and add the cream last of all. This sauce is excellent for a light pudding. Vanilla Sauce.—The whites of two eggs and the yolk of one, half a cupful of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three table-spoonfuls of milk. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, next beat in the sugar, and then the yolk of the egg and the seasoning. Serve immediately. This sauce is for light puddings. 10130 AMERICAN DISHES. Molasses Sauce.—One cupful of molasses, half a cupful of water, one table-spoonful of butter, a little cinnamon or nutmeg (about half a teaspoonful), one-fourth of a teaspoon- ful of salt, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Boil all together for twenty minutes. The juice of a lemon can be used instead of the vinegar. This sauce is nice for apple or rice puddings. Caramel Sauce.—Put one cupful of sugar in a small frying-pan and stir on the fire until a dark brown, if you like a strong caramel flavour, or till a light brown, if you like a delicate flavour. Add a cupful of boiling water, and simmer fifteen minutes. Set away to cool. Quince Sauce.—One cupful of quince preserve, one of milk, one table-spoonful of corn-starch, half a cupful of sugar. Mix the corn-starch with a little of the cold milk, and put the remainder in the double boiler. When it boils, stir in the corn-starch, and cook ten minutes; then add the sugar and the preserve, mashed fine. Cook ten minutes longer and rub through a strainer. This sauce is usually served cold, but when used with hot pudding it too should be hot. Apricot Sauce.—One cupful of canned apricot, one of sugar, one of milk, one table-spoonful of corn-starch, half a cupful of water. Put the milk in the double boiler. Mix the corn-starch with a few spoonfuls of cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook ten minutes. Boil the sugar and water together for twenty minutes. Rub the apricot through a sieve, and stir it into the syrup. Beat well, and then beat in the boiled milk and corn-starch. Place the saucepan in a dish of cold water and stir for about eight minutes. Set away to cool. If you have cream, use it instead of the milk. All kinds of fruit can be used in pudding sauces by following this rule. If the fruit is preserved, use less sugar; and if very acid, use more.PIES AND PUDDINGS. 131 If it is necessary to make the wine, creamy, or foamy sauce any considerable time before dinner, do not add the hot water or hot wine, and do not place the bowl in hot water until serving time. The vanilla and cream sauces are spoiled by standing after being made.132 AMERICAN UISIIES. DESSERT. Blanc-Mange made with Sea Moss Farina.—One quart of milk, one level table-spoonful of sea moss farina, half a teaspoonful of salt, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of flavour. Put the milk in the double boiler and sprinkle the farina into it, stirring all the while. Let this heat slowly. Stir often. When it boils up, and looks white, add the sugar, salt, and flavour. Strain, and turn into a mould that has been dipped in cold water. Set away to harden. It will take about three hours for this. The blanc-mange is ready to use as soon as cold. Blanc-Mange made with Gelatine.—One package of gelatine, three pints of milk, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla or of lemon. Put the gelatine with the milk and let it stand in a cold place for two hours; then put it in the double boiler, and heat quickly. Do not let it boil. Stir often; and as soon as the gelatine is melted, take off, and add the sugar, salt, and flavour. Strain, and partially cool, before putting into the moulds. It should stand six hours before serving, and it is even better, especially in summer, to make it the day before using. Blanc-Mange made with Isinglass.—One quart of milk, three and a half sheets of isinglass, half a teaspoonful of salt, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a four-inch piece of stick cinnamon. Break up the isinglass, put it and the133 DESSERT. cinnamon with the milk, and let stand in a cold place two hours, then put it in the double boiler and let it come, gradually, to the boiling point. It must not boil. Stir often while heating. As soon as the isinglass is dissolved, take from the fire, and add the salt and sugar. Strain into a tin basin, which place in a pan of cold water. Stir occasionally while cooling. When nearly cold, turn into a mould and place in the ice-chest. It can be poured into the mould as soon as strained, but the cream will rise to the top in that case, unless the mixture is stirred care- fully in the centre of the mould. The sheets of isinglass vary in thickness, so that it is best to take part of the thick sheets and part of the thin. Chocolate “ Blanc ’’-Mange.—One package of gelatine, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, one (ounce) square of choco- late, three pints of milk. Soak the gelatine two hours in the milk, and then put it in the double boiler. Scrape the chocolate fine and put it in a small frying-pan with two spoonfuls of the sugar and two of boiling water. Stir this over a hot fire until smooth and glossy (it will take about a minute), and stir into the milk. Add the remainder of the sugar, and strain. Turn into moulds, and set away to harden. This dish should be made at least eight hours before being used. If you please, you can add a teaspoon- ful of vanilla extract. By adding the chocolate to any of the preparations for blanc-mange while they are hot, you have a chocolate “ blanc ’’-mange. Cream k la Versailles.—One quart of milk, half a cupful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, half a tea- spoonful of salt, seven eggs, two table-spoonfuls of water. Put the sugar in a small frying-pan and stir until a very light brown. Add the water, stir a moment longer, and mix with the milk. Beat the eggs and salt with a spoon. Add this mixture and the vanilla to the milk. Butter a134 AMERICAN DISHES. two-quart charlotte russe mould lightly, and put the custard in it. Put the mould in a basin of warm (not hot) water and bake slowly until the custard is firm in the centre. It should take forty minutes; but if the oven is quite hot, it will be done in thirty minutes. Test by putting a knife down into the centre, for if the custard is not milky, it is done. Set away in a cold place until serving time. It must be ice cold when eaten. Turn out on a flat dish, and pour caramel sauce over it. Royal Cream.—One quart of milk, one-third of a box of gelatine, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three eggs, vanilla flavour. Put the gelatine in the milk, and let it stand for half an hour. Beat the yolks well with sugar, and stir into the milk. Set the kettle in a pan of hot water and stir until the mixture begins to thicken like soft custard. Have ready the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; and the moment the kettle is taken from the fire stir them in, quickly, and turn into the moulds. Set away in a cold place to harden. When you cannot get cream to make charlotte russe, this is a good filling, if you omit the whites of eggs, and fill the moulds when the cream is perfectly cold, but not hardened. Lemon Sponge.—The juice of four lemons, four eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a package of gelatine, one generous pint of cold water. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cupful of the water. Squeeze the lemons, and strain the juice on the sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix them with the remainder of the water. Add the sugar and lemon to this, and cook in the double boiler until it begins to thicken; then add the gelatine. Strain this mixture into a tin basin, which place in a pan of ice water. Beat with the whisk occasionally, until it has cooled, but not hardened. Now add the unbeaten whites of the eggs, and beat all the time until the mixture begins to thicken. Let it thicken almost135 DESSERT. to the point where it cannot be poured, and then turn into a mould and set away to harden. Remember that the whites of the eggs must be added as soon as the mixture cools, which should be in about six or eight minutes, and that the mixture must be beaten until it begins to harden. The hardening is rapid after it once begins, so that it will be necessary to have the moulds all ready. The sponge will not be smooth and delicate if not poured into the moulds. If for any reason you should get the mixture too hard before pouring, place the basin in another of hot water, and let the sponge melt a little; then beat it up again. Serve with powdered sugar and cream. Orange Sponge.—Make orange sponge the same as lemon, using a small pint of water and the juice of six large oranges. Peach Sponge.—One pint of canned peaches, half a package of gelatine, the whites of five eggs, one scant cupful of sugar, one and a half cupfuls of water. Soak the gelatine for two hours in half a cupful of the water. Boil the cupful of water and the sugar fifteen minutes. Mash the peaches fine, rub through a sieve, and put in the syrup. Cook five minutes, stirring all the time. Place the saucepan in another of boiling water and add the gelatine. Stir for five or eight minutes, to dissolve the . gelatine; then place the saucepan in a dish of ice water and beat the syrup until it begins to cool. Add the whites of the eggs, and beat until the mixture begins to harden. When it will just pour, turn .it into the mould, and set away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. Apricot and pear sponges can be made in the same manner. Strawberry Sponge.—One quart of strawberries, half a package of gelatine, one cupful and a half of water, one cupful of sugar, the juice of a lemon, the whites of four eggs. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cupful of the136 American dishes. water. Mash the strawberries, and add half the sugar to them. Boil the remainder of the sugar and the cupful of water gently twenty minutes. Rub the strawberries through a sieve. Add the gelatine to the boiling syrup and take from the fire immediately; then add the strawberries. Place in a pan of ice water and beat five minutes. Add the whites of eggs and beat until the mixture begins to thicken. Pour into the moulds and set away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. Raspberry and blackberry sponges are made in the same way. Pineapple Sponge.—One small fresh pineapple or a pint- and-a-half can of the fruit, one small cupful of sugar, half a package of gelatine, one cupful and a half of water, the whites of four eggs. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cupful of the water. Chop the pineapple, and put it and the juice in a saucepan with the sugar and the remainder of the water. Simmer ten minutes. Add the gelatine, take from the fire immediately, and strain into a tin basin. When partially cooled, add the whites of the eggs, and beat until the mixture begins to thicken. Pour into a mould and set away to harden. Serve with soft custard flavoured with wine. Strawberry Bavarian Cream.—One quart of strawberries, one pint of cream, one large cupful of sugar, half a cupful of boiling water, half a cupful of cold water. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Mash the berries and sugar together, and let them stand one hour. Whip the cream to a froth. Strain the juice from the berries, pressing through as much as possible without the seeds. Pour the hot water on the gelatine, and when dissolved strain it into the strawberry juice. Place the basin (which should be tin) in a pan of ice water and beat until the cream begins to thicken. When as thick as soft custard stir in the whipped cream; and when this is well mixed turn into theDESSERT. 137 mould (it will make nearly two quarts), and set away to harden. Serve with whipped cream heaped around it, or, if the border mould is used, have the cream in the centre, Raspberry and blackberry Bavarian creams are made the same as the strawberry. Orange Bavarian Cream.—A pint and a half of cream, the juice of five oranges and grated rind of two, one large cupful of sugar, the yolks of six eggs, half a package of gelatine, half a cupful of cold water. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Whip the cream, and skim off until there is less than half a pint unwhipped. Grate the rind of the oranges on the gelatine. Squeeze and strain the orange juice, and add the sugar to it. Put the unwhipped cream in the double boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add to the milk. Stir this mixture until it begins to thicken, and add the gelatine. As soon as the gelatine is dissolved, take off, and place in a pan of ice water. Stir until it begins to cool (about two minutes), and add the orange juice and sugar. Beat about as thick as soft custard, and add the whipped cream. Stir until well mixed, and pour into the moulds. Set away to harden. There will be about two quarts. Serve with whipped cream heaped around the orange cream. Peach Bavarian Cream.—One quart of canned peaches, one large cupful of sugar, one pint of cream, half a box of gelatine, half a cupful of cold water. Mash the peaches and rub them and the juice through a sieve. Add the sugar. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Whip the cream to a froth. Put the peaches in a sauce- pan and let them simmer twenty minutes. Stir often. Add the gelatine to the hot peaches and remove from the fire immediately. Place the saucepan in a pan of ice water and beat until the mixture begins to thicken; then stir in the cream. Mix thoroughly, and pour into the mould.AMERICAN DISHES. 138 Set away to harden. Serve with whipped cream. Apricot and pear Bavarian creams are made in the same way. Pineapple Bavarian Cream.—One pint of canned pine- apple, one small teacupful of sugar, one pint of cream, half a package of gelatine, half a cupful of cold water. Soak the gelatine two hours in the water. Chop the pineapple fine and put it on with the sugar. Simmer twenty minutes. Add the gela'ine, and strain immediately into a tin basin. Rub as much of the pineapple as possible through the sieve. Beat until it begins to thicken, and add the cream, which has been whipped to a froth. When well mixed, pour into the mould, and put away to harden. Serve with whipped cream. Almond Bavarian Cream.—One pint and a half of cream, one pint of blanched sweet almonds, one fourth of a tea- spoonful of essence of almond, half a package of gelatine, three eggs, one small cupful of sugar, half a cupful of milk. Soak the gelatine two hours in the milk. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, until about half a pint is left unwhipped. Pound the almonds to a paste in the mortar. Put the almonds and unwhipped cream in the double boiler. Beat the sugar and eggs together and stir in with the cream and almonds. Cook until the mixture begins to thicken; then stir in .the gelatine, and remove from the fire. Strain this into a tin basin, and add the essence of almond. Beat until it begins to thicken, and add the whipped cream. Mix well, pour into the moulds, and set away. Serve with whipped cream. Pistachio Bavarian cream is made in the same way, using one pint of pistachio nuts instead of the almonds, and omitting the essence of almond. Chocolate Bavarian Cream.—One pint of cream, one cupful of milk, half a cupful of sugar, half a box of gelatine, one square of chocolate (an ounce). Soak the gelatine in half a cupful of the milk. Whip the cream to a stiff froth.139 DESSERT. Scrape the chocolate, and add two table-spoonfuls of the sugar to it. Put in a small frying-pan with one table- spoonful of hot water. Stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Have the remaining half-cupful of milk boil- ing. Stir the chocolate into it, and add the gelatine. Strain into a tin basin, and add the remainder of the sugar. Place the basin in a pan of ice water and beat the mixture until it begins to thicken; then add the whipped cream; and, when well mixed, turn into the mould. When hard, serve with whipped cream heaped around. Coffee Bavarian Cream.—One cupful of strong coffee, one pint of cream, half a package of gelatine, one cupful of sugar, one-third of a cupful of cold water. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Pour on this the coffee, boiling hot, and when the gelatine is dissolved, add the sugar. Strain into a tin basin, which put in a pan of ice water. Beat with a whisk until it begins to thicken; then add the cream, which has been whipped to a froth. When thoroughly mixed, turn into a mould and set away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. Directions for Freezing.—Pour the mixture that is to be frozen into the tin can, put the beater in this, and put on the cover. Place in the tub, being careful to have the point on the bottom fit into the socket in the tub. Put on the cross- piece, and turn the crank to see if everything is in the right place. Next comes the packing. Ice should be broken in large pieces, and put in a canvas bag, and pounded fine with a mallet. Put a thick layer of it in the tub (about five inches deep), and then a thin layer of salt. Continue this until the tub is full, and pack down solid with a paddle or a common piece of wood. After turning the crank a few times add more salt and ice, and again pack down. Continue in this way until the tub is full. For a gallon140 AMERICAN DISHES. can, three pints of salt and perhaps ten quarts of fine ice will be required. Remember that if the freezer is packed solid at first, no more ice or salt is needed. The water must never be let oft, as it is one of the strongest elements to help the freezing. If more salt than the quantity given is used, the cream will freeze sooner, but it will not be so smooth and rich as when less is used. Turn the crank for twenty minutes—not fast at first, but very rapidly the last ten minutes. It will be hard to turn when the mixture is frozen. Turn back the cross-piece, wipe the salt and ice from the cover, and take off the cover, not displacing the can itself. Remove the beater and scrape the cream from it. Work a large spoon up and down in the cream until it is light and the space left by taking out the beater is filled. Cover the can, cork up the hole from which the handle of the beater was taken, put on the cross-piece, and set the tub in a cool place until serving time. Then dip the can for a few seconds in water that is a trifle warm, wipe it, and turn on the dish. Rest it for a moment, and lift a little. If the cream is to be served from a mould, remove it when you do the beater. Fill the mould and work the cream up and down with a spoon. This will press the cream into every part and lighten it. Cover the top of the mould with thick white paper, put on the tin cover, and bury in fresh ice and salt. There are a great many good freezers. The “ Packer ” is especially suited to family use. It turns so easily that any lady can make her own creams. For the first twelve minutes a child can work it. It is made of the best stock, and will last many years. The cogs on freezers should be oiled occasionally. When you have made cream see that every part of the freezer is clean and perfectly dry before putting away.141 DESSERT. Vanilla Ice Cream.—The foundation given in this rule is suitable for all kinds of ice cream. One generous pint of milk, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of flour, scant; two eggs, one quart of cream, one table-spoonful of vanilla extract, and, when the cream is added, another teacupful of sugar. Let the milk come to a boil. Beat the first cupful of sugar, the flour, and eggs together, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes, stirring often. Set away to cool, and when cool add the sugar, seasoning, and cream, and freeze. Vanilla Ice Cream, No. 2.—One pint of sugar, one of water, three pints of cream—not too rich—the yolks of five eggs, and one large table-spoonful of vanilla extract. Boil the sugar and water together for twenty-five minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs with one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt. Place the basin of boiling syrup in another of boiling water. Stir the yolks of the eggs into the syrup, and beat rapidly for three minutes. Take the basin from the fire, place it in a pan of ice water, and beat until cold. Add the vanilla and cream, and freeze. Lemon Ice Cream.—Make the same as vanilla cream, and flavour with one table-spoonful of lemon extract. Lemon Ice Cream, No. 2.—Three teacupfuls of sugar, the juice of three lemons, three pints of cream, the yolks of eight eggs, one pint of water. Boil the water, sugar, and lemon juice together twenty minutes; then proceed as directed for vanilla ice cream, No. 2. Orange Ice Cream.—Follow the second rule for lemon cream, but use the juice of six oranges instead of that of lemons. Pineapple Ice Cream.—Make the same as vanilla, and flavour with a teaspoonful of extract of pineapple. Pineapple Ice Cream, No. 2.—Pare a pineapple and cut it fine. Put it in a saucepan with one pint of water and a142 AMERICAN DISHES. scant pint of sugar. Simmer gently for thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add the cream, gradually, and freeze. Strawberry Ice Cream.—One quart of cream, one quart of strawberries, one pint of sugar. Mash the sugar and strawberries together, and let them stand one or two hours. Add the cream, rub through a strainer into the freezer, and freeze. Or, the cream can be made the same as the vanilla cream, and, when half frozen, the whole berries be stirred in. Strawberry Ice Cream a la Surprise.—Put three pints of strawberries in a deep dish with one cupful of sugar. Season three pints of cream with a cupful and a half of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of wine. Freeze this. Take out the beater and draw the frozen cream to the sides of the freezer. Fill the space in the centre with the strawberries and sugar, which cover with the frozen cream. Put on the cover and set away for an hour or more. When the cream is turned out, garnish the base, if you please, with strawberries. Raspberry Ice Cream.—Make raspberry ice cream the same as strawberry, using a little less sugar. Apricot Ice Cream.—One quart of cream, one generous pint of canned apricot, one pint of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, one pint of water. Boil the sugar and water together twenty minutes. Rub the apricot through a sieve and add it to the boiling syrup; add also the beaten yolks of the eggs, and cook for six minutes, stirring all the while. Take from the fire and place in a pan of cold water. Beat the mixture ten minutes. If cold at the end of that time, add the cream, and freeze. Peach Ice Cream.—Peach ice cream can be made like the apricot, having the pint of peaches a very generous one. Banana Ice Cream.—Make this the same as the apricot, using, however, only one cupful and a half of sugar, and six bananas. More bananas can be used if a strong flavour of the fruit is liked.143 DESSERT. Chocolate Ice Cream.—Make a foundation with two eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of flour, and a pint of milk, the same as for vanilla ice cream. While this is cooking, scrape one square (an ounce) of chocolate, and add to it two table-spoonfuls of sugar and one of boiling water. Stir this over the fire until perfectly smooth and glossy, and add it to the boiling mixture. This quantity gives a very delicate flavour. If a stronger one is wished use two squares of the chocolate. Put the mixture in cold water to cool. Stir occasionally. When cold, add one teacupful of sugar and one quart of milk. Freeze. Brown Bread Ice Cream.—Dry the crust of brown bread in a warm oven. Roll fine and sift. Add one pint of the crumbs to the preparation for vanilla ice cream. The vanilla and two-thirds of the second cupful of sugar must be omitted. Macaroon Ice Cream.—Make a cream the same as for vanilla, except omit the second cupful of sugar and the vanilla flavour. Brown one dozen and a half macaroons in the oven. Let them cool; then roll them into fine crumbs. Add these and three table-spoonfuls of wine to the cream, and freeze. Coffee Ice Cream.—Make the same as vanilla, with the addition of one cupful of strong coffee. This gives a strong flavour. Less can be used. The second cupful of sugar should be large. Caramel Ice Cream.—Make the hot mixture, as for vanilla. Put the small cupful of sugar in a small frying- pan and stir over the fire until the sugar turns liquid and begins to smoke. Turn into the boiling mixture, and put away to cool. When cold, add one quart of cream. Strain the mixture into the freezer, and freeze. The flavour of this cream can be varied by browning the sugar more or less. Almond Ice Cream.—This is made the same as vanilla,144 AMERICAN DISHES. except that one teaspoonful of extract of bitter almond is used for flavouring. Almond Ice Cream, No. 2.—One pint of blanched almonds, the yolks of five eggs, one quart of cream, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, one pint of milk, one pint of water. Boil the water and sugar together for twenty-five minutes. Put the almonds in a frying-pan and stir over the fire until they are a rich brown. Remove from the fire, and pound to a paste in the mortar. Cook the milk and powdered almonds in the double boiler for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs and stir them into the boiling syrup. Beat this for four minutes, having the basin in boiling water. Take from the fire, and gradually beat into it the almonds and milk. Strain the mixture through a sieve, and rub through as much as possible. Stir occasionally while cooling. When cold, add the cream and half a teaspoonful of extract of almond. Freeze. Pistachio Ice Cream.—One pint of pistachio nuts, half a cupful of blanched almonds, one quart of cream, one pint of water, one scant pint of sugar, the yolks of five eggs, one pint of milk, spinach green enough to give a delicate colour (about a heaping teaspoonful—to be cooked with the nuts). Make the same as almond cream. Walnut Ice Cream.—One pint of the meat of walnuts pounded fine in a mortar, one pint of milk, one quart of cream, two small cupfuls of sugar, four eggs, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs with one cupful of sugar. Put them and the milk in the double boiler, and stir constantly until the mixture begins to thicken ; then add the salt, and put away to cool. When cold, add the cream and nut meat, and freeze. Cocoanut Ice Cream.—One quart of cream, one pint of milk, three eggs, one cupful and a half of sugar, one cupful of prepared cocoanut, the rind and juice of a lemon. Beat145 DESSERT. together the eggs and the grated lemon rind, and put with the milk in the double boiler. Stir until the mixture begins to thicken. Add the cocoanut, and put away to cool. When cool, add the sugar, lemon juice, and cream. Freeze. Fig Ice Cream.—One quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of corn-starch, one of gelatine, one pint of cream, a cupful and a half of sugar, three eggs, two cupfuls of figs cut fine, one table-spoonful of vanilla. Put the milk in the double boiler, reserving half a cupful. When it is boiling, stir in the corn-starch, which has been mixed with the cold milk. Cook ten minutes. Beat the eggs and sugar together. Pour the cooked mixture on this, stirring all the time. Return to the fire, add the gelatine, which has been soak- ing in four table-spoonfuls of cold water, and cook three minutes. Set away to cool. When cold, add the cream and vanilla, and freeze. When the cream has been freezing ten minutes, take off the cover and stir in the figs. Cover again and freeze until hard. Take out the beater, and with a large spoon pack the cream smoothly. Set away until serving time. Glac4 Meringue.—One quart of cream, one large cupful of granulated sugar and six table-spoonfuls of powdered, one table-spoonful of vanilla extract, the whites of six eggs, one cupful of milk, one table-spoonful of gelatine, soaked an hour in four of cold water. Let the milk come to a boil, and stir the gelatine into it. Strain into the cream. Add the vanilla and granulated sugar. Turn into the tin, and freeze. When the mixture is frozen (it will take about fifteen minutes), take out the beater and pack the cream smoothly, being careful to have the top perfectly level. Set away until serving time. It should stand half an hour at least. When ready to serve, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually beat into this the powdered sugar. Turn the cream out on an earthen dish and cover 11AMERICAN DISHES. 46 every part with the meringue. Brown in a hot oven, and serve immediately. If the dish is flat, put a board under it. This keeps the heat from the bottom. Glace Meringue is an elegant dish. Bombe Glacde.—One quart of strawberry or raspberry sherbet, No. 2, one pint of sugar, one pint and a half of water, the yolks of eighteen eggs, one large table-spoonful of vanilla extract. Boil the sugar and water together twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs very light. Place the saucepan, with the syrup, in another of boiling water. Stir the beaten yolks of eggs into this syrup and beat with a whisk for ten minutes. Take from the fire, place the basin in a pan of cold water, and continue beating for twelve or fifteen minutes. Pack an ice cream mould in salt and ice. Take the sherbet from the freezer and spread on the sides and bottom of the mould. When it is hard, put the cooked mixture in the centre, being careful not to disturb the sherbet. Cover the cream with a piece of thick white paper. Put on the cover, and cover the top of the mould with salt and ice. Bombe glacee can be made with any kind of (No. 2) sherbet, having the centre part flavoured to correspond with the sherbet. The handsomest dishes are, of course, made with the brightest-coloured sherbets. Frozen Pudding.—One generous pint of milk, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, a scant half-cupful of flour, two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of gelatine, one quart of cream, one pound of French candied fruit—half a pound will do— four table-spoonfuls of wine. Let the milk come to a boil. Beat the flour, one cupful of sugar, and the eggs together, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes, and add the gelatine, which has been soaking one or two hours in water enough to cover it. Set away to cool. When cool, add the wine, sugar, and cream. Freeze ten minutes; then add the candied fruit, and finish freezing. Take out the47 DESSERT. beater, pack smoothly, and set away for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the tin in warm water, turn out the cream, and serve with whipped cream heaped around. Nesselrode Pudding.—One pint of shelled almonds, one pint and a half of shelled chestnuts, one pint of cream, a pint can of pineapple, the yolks of ten eggs, half a pound of French candied fruit, one table-spoonful of vanilla ex- tract, four of wine, one pint of water, one of sugar. Boil the chestnuts half an hour; then rub off the black skins, and pound in the mortar until a paste. Blanch the almonds, and pound in the same manner. Boil the sugar, water, and juice from the pineapple for twenty minutes in a saucepan. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and stir them into the syrup. Put the saucepan in another of boiling water and beat the mixture, with an egg beater, until it thickens. Take off, place in a basin of cold water, and beat for ten minutes. Mix the almonds and chestnuts with the cream, and rub all through a sieve. Add the candied fruit and the pineapple, cut fine. Mix this with the cooked mixture. Add the flavour and half a teaspoonful of salt. Freeze the same as ice cream. Lemon Sherbet.—The juice of five lemons, one pint of sugar, one quart of water, one table-spoonful of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in a little of the water. Boil one cupful of the water, and dissolve the gelatine in it. Mix together the sugar, water, gelatine, and lemon juice. Turn into the can, and freeze. This is light and creamy. Lemon Sherbet, No. 2.—One pint and a half of sugar, three pints of water, the juice of ten lemons. Boil the sugar and water together twenty-five minutes. Add the lemon juice, and strain and freeze. This makes a smooth, rich sherbet. Orange Sherbet.—Make this the same as the lemon, using, however, ten oranges. In the spring, when oranges are not very acid, add the juice of a lemon.148 AMERICAN DISHES. Orange Sherbet, No. 2.—Make the same as lemon sher- bet, No. 2, but use the juice of twenty oranges instead of ten lemons. Boil the syrup for this dish thirty minutes. Pineapple Sherbet.—A pint and a half can of pineapple, or, if fresh fruit is used, one large pineapple; a small pint of sugar, a pint of water, one table-spoonful of gelatine. Soak the gelatine one or two hours in cold water to cover. Cut the hearts and eyes from the fruit, chop it fine, and add to the sugar and the juice from the can. Have half of the water hot, and dissolve the gelatine in it. Stir this and the cold water into the pineapple. Freeze. This sherbet will be white and creamy. Pineapple Sherbet, No. 2.—Two small cans of pineapple, one generous pint of sugar, one quart of water. Pour the juice of the pineapple into a bowl. Put the fruit in a sauce- pan with half the water, and simmer twenty minutes. Put the sugar and the remainder of the water on to boil. Cook fifteen minutes. Rub the cooked pineapple through a sieve and add it to the boiling syrup. Cook fifteen minutes longer. Add the juice, and cool and freeze. Strawberry Sherbet.—Two quarts of strawberries, one pint of sugar, one pint and a half of water, one table-spoon- ful of gelatine. Mash the berries and sugar together, and let them stand two hours. Soak the gelatine in cold water to cover. Add one pint of the water to the strawberries, and strain. Dissolve the gelatine in half a pint of boiling water, add this to the strained mixture, and freeze. Strawberry Sherbet, No. 2.—One pint and a half of strawberry juice, one pint of sugar, one pint and a half of water, the juice of two lemons. Boil the water and sugar together for twenty minutes. Add the lemon and straw- berry juice. Strain, and freeze. Raspberry Sherbet.—This sherbet is made the same as the strawberry. When raspberries are not in season, useDESSERT. 149 the preserved or canned fruit and a smaller quantity of sugar. The juice of a lemon or two is always an improve- ment, but is not necessary. The sherbet can also be made by following the second rule for strawberry sherbet. Easpberry Sherbet, No. 2.—One bottle of raspberries holding a little more than a pint, one cupful of sugar, one quart of water, the juice of two lemons. Mix all together, strain, and freeze. Currant Sherbet.—One pint of currant juice, one pint and a half of water, the juice of one lemon, one pint of sugar, one table-spoonful of gelatine. Have the gelatine soaked in cold water, and dissolve it in half a pint of boiling water. Mix it with the pint of cold water, the sugar, lemon and currant juice, and freeze. Currant Sherbet, No. 2.—One pint of sugar, one quart of water, one pint of currant juice, the juice of a lemon. Boil the water and sugar together half an hour. Add the currant and lemon juice to the syrup. Let this cool, and freeze. Frozen Strawberries.—Two quarts of fresh strawberries, one pint of sugar, one quart of water. Boil the water and sugar together half an hour; then add the strawberries, and cook fifteen minutes longer. Let this cool, and freeze. When the beater is taken out add one pint of whipped cream. Preserved fruit can be used instead of the fresh. In this case, to each quart of preserves add one quart of water, and freeze. Frozen Easpberries.—Prepare raspberries the same as strawberries. When cold, add the juice of three lemons, and freeze. All kinds of canned and preserved fruits can be prepared and frozen in any of the three ways given. Frozen Peaches.—One can of peaches, one heaping pint of granulated sugar, one quart of water, two cupfuls of whipped cream. Boil the sugar and water together twelve minutes ; then add the peaches, and cook twenty minutes150 AMERICAN DISIIES. longer. Rub through a sieve, and, when cool, freeze. When the beater is taken out, stir in the whipped cream with a large spoon. Cover, and set away until serving time. It should stand one hour at least. Frozen Apricots.—One can of apricots, a generous pint of sugar, a quart of water, a pint of whipped cream—mea- sured after being whipped. Cut the apricots in small pieces, add the sugar and water, and freeze. 'When nearly frozen add the cream. Biscuit Glacd.—Mix together in a deep bowl or pail one pint of rich cream, one-third of a cupful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Put the mixture in a pan of ice water and whip to a stiff froth. Stir this down, and whip again. Skim the froth into a- deep dish. When all the cream has been whipped to a froth, fill paper cases with it, and place these in a large tin box (or the freezer will do) that is nearly buried in ice and salt—two quarts of salt to six of ice—and is wholly covered after the cases are put in. Let these remain there two hours. Make a pint of straw- berry sherbet. Put a thin layer of it on each case of cream, and return to the freeze’r. Let the cases stand half an hour longer, and serve. They should be arranged on a bright napkin, spread on a flat dish. Biscuit Glac6, No. 2.—One pint of cream, whipped to a froth; a dozen and a half macaroons, three eggs, half a cupful of water, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, a teaspoon- fid of vanilla extract. Boil the sugar and water together for half an hour. Beat the eggs well, and stir into the boiling syrup. Place the saucepan containing the mixture in another of boiling water, and beat for eight minutes. Take from the fire, place the saucepan in a pan of cold water, and beat the mixture until it is cold; then add the flavour and whipped cream. Stir well, and fill paper cases. Have the macaroons browned and rolled fine. Put a layer of theDESSERT. 151 crumbs on the cream in the cases, and freeze as directed in the other recipe. Chocolate Souffld.—Two cupfuls of milk, one and a half squares of chocolate, three-fourths of a cupful of powdered sugar, two table-spoonfuls of corn-starch, three eggs, one- fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Boil the milk in the double boiler, leaving out a third of a cupful to mix with the corn starch. After mixing, stir into the boiling milk, and cook eight minutes. Dissolve the chocolate with half a cupful of the sugar and two table- spoonfuls of boiling water. Add to the other mixture. Beat the yolks and add them and the salt. Cook two minutes. Set in cold water, and beat until cool; then add the flavour, and pour into a dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the remaining sugar, and heap on the custard. Dredge with sugar. Brown with a salamander or hot shovel. Orange Souffld.—A pint of milk, five eggs, one-fourth of a cupful of granulated sugar and three table-spoonfuls of powdered, five Florida oranges, and a speck of salt. Put the milk on to boil. Beat the yolks of five eggs and whites of two with the granulated sugar. Pour the milk, gradually, over this, stirring all the while. Return to the saucepan, place in a basin of boiling water, and stir until it begins to thicken like soft custard. This will be about two minutes. Add the salt, and set away to cool. Pare the oranges, remove the seeds, cut up fine, and put in a glass dish. Pour on the cold custard. Just before serving beat the three remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and beat in the powdered sugar. Heap this on the custard, and brown with a hot shovel or a salamander. Surprise Souffle.—One pint of the juice of any kind of fruit, one-third of a package of gelatine, half a cupful of sugar (unless the fruit is very acid, in which case use a little152 AMERICAN DISHES. more), one pint of soft custard, ten macaroons, half a cupful of water. Soak the gelatine two hours in a little of the water. Let the remainder of the water come to a boil, and pour it on the soaked gelatine. Place the basin in another of hot water and stir until all the gelatine is dissolved. Strain this into the fruit juice. Add the sugar. Place the basin in a pan of ice water, and, as soon as the mixture begins to thicken, beat with a whisk until it hardens; then place in the ice-chest for a few hours. Brown the macaroons in a cool oven. Let them cool and roll them fine. At serving time put the custard in a souffle dish. Heap the jelly on this, and cover all with the macaroon crumbs. Omelet Souffle k la Cr&me. — Four eggs, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, a speck of salt, half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, one cupful of whipped cream. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually beat the sugar and the flavour into them. When well beaten add the yolks, and lastly the whipped cream. Have a dish, holding about one quart, slightly buttered. Pour the mixture into this and bake just twelve minutes. Serve the moment it is taken from the oven. Omelet Souffle a la Poele.—The whites of eight and yolks of four eggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a speck of salt, two table-spoonfuls of butter, half a teaspoonful of any kind of flavour. Beat the yolks of the eggs, the sugar, salt, and flavour together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Stir this in with the beaten yolks. Have a large omelet pan very hot. Put one table-spoonful of butter in this, and pour in half the mixture. Shake rapidly for a minute ; then fold, and turn on a hot dish. Put the remainder of the butter and mixture in the pan and proceed as before. Turn this omelet on the dish by the side of the other. Dredge lightly with sugar, and place in the oven for eight minutes. Serve the moment it. comes from the oven.153 DESSERT. Charlotte Russe.—Ten eggs, one cupful of sugar, four table-spoonfuls of wine, one of vanilla extract, a package of gelatine, one and a half cupfuls of milk, one pint of cream. Soak the gelatine in half a cupful of the milk. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, and put in the double boiler with the remaining milk. Stir until the mixture begins to thicken; then add the gelatine, and strain into a large tin basin. Place this in a pan of ice water, and, when it begins to cool, add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, the wine and flavour, and the whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, and pour into moulds that have been lined with sponge cake. Set away to harden. With the quantities given two quart moulds can be filled. The lining may be one piece of sponge cake, or strips of it, or lady-fingers. The wine may be omitted. Charlotte Russe, No. 2.—One pint of rich cream, one teaspoonful of vanilla flavour, one-third of a cupful of sugar. Mix all together in a tin pail and place in a basin of ice water. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and skim into a colander. When nearly whipped, return to the pail that which has drained through the colander, and whip it again. Have a quart mould lined with stale sponge cake. Fill it with whipped cream and set in the ice-chest for an hour or two. Apple Charlotte.—One scant pint of apples, steamed, and rubbed through a sieve; one-third of a box of gelatine, soaked an hour in one-third of a cupful of cold water; one cupful of sugar, the juice of a large lemon, the whites of three eggs. Pour half a cupful of boiling water upon the gelatine, stir until thoroughly dissolved, and pour upon the apple; then add the sugar and lemon juice. Place in a basin of ice water, and beat until it begins to thicken. Add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a two-quart mould, which has been lined with sponge cake,154 AMERICAN DISHES. and put on ice to harden. Make a soft custard of the yolks of the eggs, one pint of milk, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar. When the charlotte is turned out on a dish, pour this around. Calf’s Foot Jelly.—Four calf’s feet, six quarts of water, the juice of two lemons and rind of one, two cloves, a two- inch piece of stick cinnamon, two cupfuls of sugar, a pint of wine, the whites and shells of two eggs. Wash the feet very carefully and put them on with the cold water. Boil gently until the water is reduced to two quarts ; then strain through a napkin, and set away to harden. In the morning scrape off all the fat and wipe the jelly with a clean towel. Break it up and put in a kettle with the other ingredients, having first beaten the whites of the eggs and the shells with half a cupful of cold water. Let the mixture come to a boil slowly, and set back for twenty minutes where it will keep at the boiling point. Strain through a napkin, mould, and set away to harden. Wine Jelly.—One box of gelatine, half a pint of cold water, a pint and a half of boiling water, one pint of sherry, one of sugar, the juice of a lemon. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Pour the boiling water on it, and stir until dissolved. Add the lemon juice, sugar, and wine. Strain through a napkin, turn into moulds, and, when cold, place in the ice-chest for six or eight hours. One good way to mould this jelly is to pour some of it into the mould, harden it a little, put in a layer of straw- berries, pour in jelly to set them, and then enough to make another layer, then put in more berries, and a third layer of jelly, and so continue, until all the jelly has been used. Cider Jelly.—A box of gelatine, one pint of sugar, a quart and half a pint of cider, half a pint of cold water. Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours. Let the cider come to a boil, and pour it on the gelatine. Add theDESSERT. 155 sugar, strain through a napkin, and turn into moulds. When cold, place in the refrigerator for six or eight hours. Lemon Jelly.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one of lemon juice, one quart of boiling water, one cupful of cold water, a box of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours. Pour the boiling water on it, add the sugar and lemon juice, strain through a napkin, mould and harden. Orange Jelly.—One box of gelatine, one pint of orange juice, the juice of a lemon, one pint of sugar, a pint and a half of boiling water, half a pint of cold water, the white and shell of an egg. Soak the gelatine as for the other jellies. Add the boiling water, sugar, the fruit juice, and the white and shell of the egg, beaten with two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Let the mixture come to a boil, and set back for twenty minutes where it will keep hot, but will not boil. Strain through a napkin. A pretty way to mould this jelly is to fill the mould to the depth of two inches with liquid jelly, and, when this is hardened, put on a layer of oranges, divided into eighths, to pour on a little more jelly, to set the fruit, and then fill up with jelly. Keep in the ice-chest for six or eight hours. Currant Jelly.—Make the same as wine jelly, using a pint of currant juice instead of wine. Strawberry Jelly.—Three pints of ripe strawberries, a box of gelatine, a pint of sugar, one pint of boiling water, half a pint of cold water, the juice of a lemon. Soak the gelatine for two hours in the cold water. Mash the berries with the sugar, and let them stand two hours. Pour the boiling water on the fruit and sugar. Press the juice from the strawberries and add it and the lemon juice to the dis- solved gelatine. Strain through a napkin, pour into moulds, and harden. Raspberry jelly is made in the same way. Pineapple Jelly.—A pint-and-a-half can of pineapple, a scant pint of sugar, the white and shell of an egg, a box of156 AMERICAN DISHES. gelatine, the juice of a lemon, one quart of boiling water, half a pint of cold water. Cut the pineapple in fine pieces, put with the boiling water, and simmer gently twenty minutes. Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours. Add it, the sugar, lemon, and pineapple juice, and the white and shell of the egg to the boiling mixture. Let this boil up once, and set back for twenty minutes where it will keep hot, but will not boil. Strain through a napkin, turn into moulds, and set away to harden. Coffee Jelly.—One pint of sugar, one of strong coffee, a pint and a half of boiling water, half a pint of cold water, a box of gelatine. Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Pour the boiling water on it, and, when it is dis- solved, add the sugar and coffee. Strain, turn into moulds, and set away to harden. This is to be served with sugar and cream. Soft Custard.—One quart of milk, one scant half tea- cupful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two, one teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla flavour, or half as much of almond. Beat the sugar and eggs together, and add one cupful of milk. Let the re- mainder of the milk come to a boil, pour it on the beaten mixture, and put this on the fire in the double boiler. Stir until it begins to thicken, which will be in about five minutes, when add the salt, and set away to cool. When cold, add the flavour. Serve in custard glasses. Soft Caramel Custard.—One quart of milk, half a cupful of sugar, six eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk on to boil, reserving a cupful. Beat the eggs, and add the cold milk to them. Stir the sugar in a small frying-pan until it becomes liquid and just begins to smoke. Stir it into the boiling milk; then add the beaten eggs and cold milk, and stir constantly until the mixture begins to thicken. Set away to cool. Serve in glasses.157 DESSERT. Chocolate Whips.—One quart of milk, one (ounce) square of chocolate, one generous half-cupful of sugar, six eggs, a speck of salt. Scrape the chocolate fine and put it in a small frying-pan with two table-spoonfuls of the sugar and one of boiling water. When dissolved, add it to a pint and a half of the milk, which should be hot in the double boiler. Beat the eggs and the remainder of the sugar together, add the cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Stir constantly until it begins to thicken. Add the salt, and set away to cool. Season one pint of cream with two table- spoonfuls of sugar and half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Whip to a stiff froth. When the custard is cold, half fill glasses with it, and heap whipped cream upon it. Or, it can be served in one large dish, with the whipped cream on top. Kisses.—Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth. They should be beaten until so light and dry that they begin to fly off of the beater. Stir in a cupful of powdered sugar, gently and quickly. Spread paraffine paper over three boards, which measure about nine by twelve inches. Drop the mixture by spoonfuls on the boards, having perhaps a dozen on each one. Dry in a warm oven for about three- quarters of an hour; then brown them slightly. Lift from the paper and stick them together at the base by twos. A dozen and a half can be made from the quantities given. Cream Meringues.—These are made similar to kisses, but are put on the paper in oblong shape, and dried two hours. Take from the board and, with a spoon, remove all the soft part. Season half a pint of rich cream with a table-spoon- ful of sugar and one of wine, or a speck of vanilla, and whip it to a stiff froth. Fill the shells with this, and join them. Or, they may be filled with ice cream. If the meringues are exposed to much heat they are spoiled. Kiss Wafers.—Half a pint of blanched bitter almonds,158 AMERICAN DISHES. one heaping cupful of powdered sugar, the whites of six eggs, one-third of a cupful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of corn-starch. Blanch the almonds and pour them in a mortar. As soon as they are a little broken add the white of an egg. Pound until very fine. When there is a smooth paste add the sugar, a little at a time, the whites of two eggs, one at a time, and the flour and corn-starch. When thoroughly mixed, add, by degrees, the three re- maining whites. Butter the bottom of a flat baking-pan and put the mixture on it in spoonfuls. Spread it very thin, especially in the centre, and bake in a quick oven. The moment the cakes are taken from the oven roll into the shape of cornucopias. If allowed to cool, they cannot be rolled, and for this reason it is best to bake only half a dozen at a time. When all are shaped, fill with the kiss mixture, made by beating the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stirring into them, lightly, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Place the wafers in a warm oven for twenty minutes or half an hour to dry. With the quantities given two dozen can be made. Brier Hill Dessert.—Stew one quart of blackberries with one quart of sugar and half a cupful of water. They should cook only fifteen minutes. When cold, serve with powdered cracker and sugar and cream. The cracker and berries should be in separate dishes. Fanchonettes.—One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of water, one table-spoonful of corn-starch, one teaspoonful of butter, the yolks of four eggs, the juice and rind of two lemons. Mix the corn-starch with a little cold water, and stir in half a cupful of boiling water. Beat the sugar, eggs, and lemon together, and stir into the boiling corn-starch. Place the basin in another of boiling water, and stir (over the fire) until it thickens, perhaps from eight to ten minutes) then add the butter and set away to cool. Line little patty159 DESSERT. pans with puff paste, or any rich paste, rolled very thin. Put a spoonful of the mixture in each one, and bake in a slow oven from twelve to twenty minutes. When cool, slip out of the pans, and serve on a napkin. They are nice for lunch, tea, or children’s parties, only for parties make them small. The mixture for fanchonettes will keep a number of weeks in a cool place, so that if one makes a quantity at one time portions can be used with the trimmings of pastry left from pies. Fruit Glacd.—Boil together for half an hour one cupful of granulated sugar, one of water. Dip the point of a skewer in the syrup, after it has been boiling the given time, and then in water. If the thread formed breaks off brittle the syrup is done. Have oranges pared, divided into eighths, and wiped free of moisture. Pour part of the hot syrup into a small cup, which keep in boiling water. Take the pieces of orange on the point of a large needle or skewer and dip them in the syrup. Place them on a dish that has been buttered lightly. Grapes, cherries, walnuts, etc., can be prepared in the same way. Care must be taken not to stir the syrup, as that spoils it. Gateau Saint Honord.—Make a paste the same as for eclairs. Butter three pie plates. Roll puff or chopped paste very thin, and cover the plates with it. Cut off the paste about an inch from the edge all round the plates. Spread a thin layer of the cooked paste over the puff paste. Put a tube, measuring about half an inch in diameter, in a pastry bag. Turn the remainder of the paste into the bag and press it through the tube on to the edges of the plates, where the puff paste has been cut off. Care must be taken to have the border of equal thickness all round the plates. With a fork prick holes in the paste in the centre of the plate. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. When the plates have been put in the oven make what paste is left inAMERICAN DISIIES. i6o the bag into balls about half the size of an American walnut. There will be enough for three dozen. Drop them into a pan that has been buttered lightly, and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. While they are baking, put half a cupful of water and half a cupful of granulated sugar in a small saucepan, and boil twenty-five minutes. When the little balls and the paste in the plate is done, take the balls on the point of a skewer or large needle, dip them in the syrup and place them on the border of paste (the syrup will hold them), about two inches apart. A word of caution just here: Do not stir the syrup, as that will make it grain, and, of course, spoil it. A good plan is to pour part of the syrup into a small cup, which place in hot water. That remaining in the saucepan should be kept hot, but it should not boil, until needed. When all the balls have been used, dip four dozen French candied cherries in the syrup, and stick them between the balls. Reserve about fifteen cherries with which to garnish the centre of the cake. Whip one pint and a half of cream to a froth. Soak half a package of gelatine in half a cupful of milk for two hours. Pour on this half a cupful of boiling milk. Place the pan of whipped cream in another of ice water, and sprinkle over it two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and nearly a teaspoonful of vanilla flavour. Strain the gelatine on this, and stir gently from the bottom until it begins to thicken. When it will just pour, fill the three plates with it, and set them in the ice-chest for half an hour. Garnish the top with the re- maining cherries, and serve. This is an excellent dish for dessert or party suppers.i6i CAKES. Rice Cake.—One cupful of butter, two of sugar, two and one-fourth of rice flour, six eggs, the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat the butter to a cream ; then gradually beat in the sugar, and add the lemon. Beat the yolks and whites separately, and add them to the beaten sugar and butter. Add also the rice flour. Pour into a shallow pan, to the depth of about two inches. Bake from thirty-five to forty- five minutes in a moderate oven. Silver Cake.—One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, the whites of three eggs, half a cupful of corn-starch, dissolved in nearly half a cupful of milk, one and a fourth cupfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-fourth of a tea- spoonful of soda, and vanilla or almond flavour. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually beat in the sugar. Add the flavour. Mix the flour, cream of tartar, and soda together, and sift. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the corn-starch and milk to the beaten sugar and butter; then add the whites of the eggs and the flour. Mix quickly and thoroughly. Have the batter in sheets, and about two inches deep. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. A chocolate frosting is nice with this cake. Gold Cake.—One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, the yolks of three eggs and one whole egg, half a cupful of milk, one-fourth of a teaspoonful each of soda and cream of tartar, one and three-fourths cupfuls of flour. Mix the 12162 AMERICAN DISHES. butter and sugar together, and add the eggs, milk, flavour, and flour, in the order named. Bake the same as the silver cake. A white frosting is good with this cake. Angel Cake.—The whites of eleven eggs, one and a half cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of pastry flour measured after being sifted four times; one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one of vanilla extract. Sift the flour and cream of tartar together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Beat the sugar into the eggs, and add the seasoning and flour, stirring quickly and lightly. Beat until ready to put the mixture in the oven. Use a pan that has little legs at the top corners, so that when the pan is turned upside down on the table, after the baking, a current of air will pass under and over it. Bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. Do not grease the pan. Sunshine Cake.—This is made almost exactly like angel cake. Have the whites of eleven eggs and yolks of six, one and a half cupfuls of granulated sugar, measured after one sifting; one cupful of flour, measured after sifting ; one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and one of orange extract. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the sugar. Beat the yolks in a similar manner, and add to them the whites and sugar and the flavour. Finally, stir in the flour. Mix quickly and well. Bake for fifty minutes in a slow oven, using a pan like that for angel cake. Demon Cake.—One cupful of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, two eggs, four and one-fourth cupfuls of flour, one table-spoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon, four of brandy,, half a grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of milk, one cupful of currants, and one of preserved ginger, cut in fine strips. Beat the butter to a cream ; then beat in the sugar, molasses, brandy, and spice.. Have the eggs well beaten, and add them. Stir in the soda and flour. Have two pans well buttered, or lined with paraf-163 CAKES. fine paper. Pour the cake mixture, to the depth of about two inches, in each pan. Sprinkle a layer of fruit on it. Cover with a thin layer of the mixture, and add more fruit. Continue this until all the batter and fruit is used. Bake two hours in a moderate oven. Ames Cake.—One generous cupful of butter, two of sugar, three cupfuls of pastry flour, one small cupful of milk, the yolks of five eggs and whites of three, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, or one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, or the juice of one fresh lemon. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, then the seasoning, the eggs, well beaten, next the milk, and then the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar are mixed. Mix thoroughly, but quickly, and bake in two sheets in a moderate oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Cover with a frosting made by stirring two small cupfuls of pow- dered sugar into the whites of two eggs, and seasoning with lemon. Black Cake.—Three cupfuls of butter, one quart of sugar, three pints of flour, half a pint of molasses, half a pint of brandy, half a pint of wine, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one ounce each of all kinds of spices, twelve eggs, three pounds of raisins, two of currants, half a pound of citron. Bake in deep pans, in a moderate oven, between three and four hours. This is one of the best of rich cakes. White Fruit Cake.—One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, the whites of eight eggs, half a wine-glass of white wine, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-fourth of a pound of citron, cut fine; half a pound of chopped almonds, one teacupful of dessicated cocoanut. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually beat in the sugar, and then the wine. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into the butter and sugar. Add the flour, which is thoroughly mixedAMERICAN DISHES. 164 with the baking powder, and lastly the fruit. Bake, in two loaves, forty minutes in a moderate oven. Wedding Cake.—Nine cupfuls of butter, five pints of sugar, four quarts of flour, five dozen of eggs, seven pounds of currants, three and a half of citron, four of shelled almonds, seven of raisins, one and a half pints of brandy, two ounces of mace. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours or more. This will make eight loaves, which will keep for years. Lady’s Cake.—Three-fourths of a cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of milk, three cupfuls of pastry flour, the whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of essence of almond. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, then the essence, milk, the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and the flour, in which the baking powder has been mixed. Bake in one large pan or two small ones, and frost, or not, as you please. If baked in sheets about two inches deep, it will take about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Queen’s Cake.—One cupful of butter, a pint of sugar, a quart of flour, four eggs, half a gill of wine, of brandy, and of thin cream, one pound of fruit, spice to taste. Warm the liquids together, and stir quickly into the beaten sugar, butter, and egg; add the flour ; finally add the fruit. Bake in deep pans in a moderate oven. Composition Cake.—One and one-half quarts of flour, half a pint of sour milk, one pint of butter, three-fourths of ,a quart of sugar, eight eggs, one wine-glass of wine and one „of brandy, one scant teaspoonful of soda, one cupful of .raisins, stoned and chopped; two pounds of currants, half a pound of citron, a nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of mace, half a teaspoonful of clove. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar, gradually, .the well-beaten eggs, the spice, wine, and brandy. Dissolve165 CAKES. the soda in a table-spoonful of hot water, stir into the sour milk, and add to the other ingredients. Then add the flour, and lastly the fruit. Bake two hours in well-buttered pans in a moderate oven. This will make three loaves. Ribbon Cake.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, four of flour (rather scant), four eggs, half a tea- spoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, beating all the while; then the flavouring (lemon or nutmeg). Beat the eggs very light. Add them and the milk. Measure the flour after it has been sifted. Return it to the sieve, and mix the soda and cream of tartar with it. Sift this into the bowl of beaten ingredients. Beat quickly and vigorously, to thoroughly mix, and then stop. Take three sheet pans of the same size, and in each of two put one-third of the mixture, and bake. To the other third add four teaspoon- fuls of cinnamon, a cupful of currants, and about an eighth of a pound of citron, cut fine. Bake this in the remaining pan. When done, take out of the pans. Spread the light cake with a thin layer of jelly, while warm. Place on this the dark cake, and spread with jelly. Place the other sheet of light cake on this. Lay a paper over all, and then a thin sheet, on which put two irons. The cake will press in about two hours. Regatta Cake.—Two pounds of raised dough, one pint of sugar, one cupful of butter, four eggs, a nutmeg, a glass of wine, a teaspoonful of saleratus, one pound of raisins. Mix thoroughly, put in deep pans that have been thoroughly greased, and let it rise half an hour, if in very warm weather, or fifteen minutes longer, if in cold weather. Bake in a moderate oven. Nut Cake.—One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of milk, two cupfuls of pastry flour, two eggs, one coffee-cupful of chopped raisins, one of chopped Englishi6 6 AMERICAN DISHES. walnuts, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, and, when light, the eggs, well beaten, then the milk and the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar have been thoroughly mixed. Mix quickly, and add the raisins and nuts. Bake in rather deep sheets, in a moderate oven, for thirty-five minutes. Frost, if you please. The quantities given are for one large or two small sheets. If you use baking powder, instead of cream of tartar and soda, take a teaspoonful and a half. Snow Flake Cake.—Half a cupful of butter, one and a half of sugar, two of pastry flour, one-fourth of a cupful of milk, the whites of five eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, or a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder, the juice of half a lemon. Beat the butter to a cream. Gradually add the sugar, then the lemon, and, when very light, the milk, and whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff" froth; then the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar are well mixed. Bake in sheets in a moderate oven. When nearly cool, frost. Frosting : The whites of three eggs, two large cupfuls of powdered sugar, half a grated cocoanut, the juice of half a lemon. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the sugar, gradually, and the lemon and cocoanut. Put a layer of frost- ing on one sheet of the cake. Place the other sheet on this, and cover with frosting. Or, simply frost the top of each sheet, as you would any ordinary cake. Set in a cool place to harden. Federal Cake.—One pint of sugar, one and a half cupfuls of butter, three pints of flour, four eggs, two wine-glasses of milk, two of wine, two of brandy, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of saleratus, fruit and spice to taste. Bake in deep pans, the time depending on the quantity of fruit used.167 CAKES. Sponge Rusks.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, two of milk, one of yeast, three eggs. Rub the butter, sugar, and eggs together. Add the milk and yeast, and flour enough to make a thick batter. Let this stand in a warm place until light, and then add flour enough to make as thick as for biscuit. Shape, and put in a pan in which they are to be baked, and let them stand two or three hours (three hours unless the weather is very warm). Bake about forty minutes in a moderate oven. It is always best to set the sp onge at night, for it will then be ready to bake the following forenoon. If the rusks are’wanted warm for tea, the sponge must, of course, be set early in the morning. Taylor Cake.—Half a cupful of butter, two and a half of sugar, one of milk, three and a half of pastry flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, flavour to taste. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the sugar, next the eggs, well beaten; the seasoning, the milk, and lastly the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar have been thoroughly mixed. Bake in a moderate oven, either in loaves or sheets. If in sheets, twenty-five minutes; if in loaves, forty-five. The quantities given are for two loaves or sheets. This cake is nice for Washington or chocolate pies, and is good baked in sheets and frosted. Loaf Cake.—Two quarts of sugar, seven cupfuls of butter, six quarts of sifted flour, six pounds of fruit, one pint of wine, one pint of yeast, eight nutmegs, mace, twelve eggs, one quart of milk. It should be made at such an hour (being governed by the weather) as will give it time to get perfectly light by evening. It should stand about six hours in summer and eight in winter. Put in half the butter and eggs, and the milk, flavour, and yeast, and beat thoroughly. In the evening add the re- mainder of the butter, rubbing it with the sugar, the rest of the eggs, and the spice. Let the cake rise again, untilAMERICAN DISHES. 168 morning; then add the fruit. Put in deep pans, and let rise about half an hour. Bake from two to three hours in a slow oven. Chocolate Cake.—One and a half cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of milk, one and three-fourths cupfuls of flour, a quarter of a pound of chocolate, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda. Scrape’the chocolate fine, and add five table- spoonfuls of sugar to it (this in addition to the cupful and a half). Beat the butter to a cream. Gradually add the sugar, beating all the while. Add three table-spoonfuls of boiling watei to the chocolate and sugar. Stir over the fire until smooth and glossy ; then stir into the beaten sugar and butter. Add to this mixture the eggs, well beaten, then the milk and the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar have been thoroughly mixed. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. This will make two sheets. Frost it, if you like. Chocolate Cake, No. 2.—One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three and a half of flour, one of milk, five eggs—-the whites of two being left out—one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a teaspoonful of soda, or one and a half of baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, then the eggs, well beaten, the milk, next the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar have been well mixed. Bake in two sheets for thirty minutes in a moderate oven, and ice. Icing : The whites of two eggs, one and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar, six table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the chocolate and six table spoonfuls of the sugar in a saucepan with two spoonfuls of hot water. Stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Beat the whites to a froth, and add the sugar and chocolate. Orange Cake.—Two cupfuls of sugar, a small half-cupfulCAKES. 169 of butter, two cupfuls of flour, half a cupful of water, the yolks of five eggs and whites of four, half a teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, the rind of one orange and the juice of one and a half. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, gradually, then the orange, the eggs, well beaten, the water, and the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar have been well mixed. Bake in sheets for twenty- five minutes, in a moderate oven, and, when cool, frost. Frosting : The white of an egg, the juice of one and a half oranges and the grated rind of one, one cupful and a half of powdered sugar, unless the egg and oranges are very large, in which case use two cupfuls. Railroad Cake.—Two cupfuls of sugar, two of flour, six table-spoonfuls of butter, two of milk, six eggs, one teaspoon- ful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, lemon peel. Bake in shallow pans in a quick oven. Hot Water Sponge Cake.—Six eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two of pastry flour, half a cupful of boiling water, the grated rind of half a lemon, and one teaspoonful of the juice. Beat the yolks and sugar to a froth ; also, beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the lemon to the yolks and sugar, then add the boiling water, next the whites, and, last of all, the flour. Mix quickly, and bake in two sheets for half an hour, in a moderate oven. Sponge Cake.—Ten eggs, twro and a half cupfuls of sugar, two and a half of pastry flour, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar together until very light. Add the lemon. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Stir the flour and this froth alternately into the beaten yolks and sugar. Have the batter about three inches deep in the pan. Sprinkle with sugar, and bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. If the batter is not so deep in the pan it will not take so long to bake. Sponge Cake, No. 2.—The yolks of a dozen eggs and170 AMERICAN DISHES. whites of eight, one and three-fourths cupfuls ot sugar, the same quantity of flour, the rind of one lemon and juice of two. Beat the yolks and sugar together. Add the lemon rind and juice and beat a little longer. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add them to the mixture. Gradually stir in the flour. Pour the mixture into a baking-pan to the depth of about two inches. Bake from thirty-five to forty minutes in a slow oven. Viennois Cakes.—Cut any kind of plain cake into small s quares. Cut a small piece from the centre of each square, and fill the cavity with some kind of marmalade or jelly. Replace the crust part that was removed, and cover with icing. These cakes are nice for dessert. Dominos.—Have any kind of sponge cake baked in a rather thin sheet. Cut this into small oblong pieces, the shape of a domino. Frost the top and sides of them. When the frosting is hard, draw the black lines and make the dots with a small brush that has been dipped in melted chocolate. These are particularly good for children’s parties. Lady-Fingers.—Four eggs, three-fourths of a cupful of pastry flour, half a cupful of powdered sugar. Have the bottom of three large baking-pans covered with paraffine paper or sheets of buttered note paper. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar to a froth. Beat the whites to a stiff, dry froth, and add to the yolks and sugar. Add the flour, and stir quickly and gently. Pour the mixture into the pastry bag, and press it through on to the paper in the shape and of the size you wish. When all the mixture has been used, sprinkle powdered sugar on the cakes, and bake from twelve to sixteen minutes in a very slow oven. Caution. The mixture must be stirred, after the flour is added, only enough to mix the flour lightly with the sugar and eggs. Much stirring turns the mixture liquid. If theCAKES. 171 oven is hot the fingers will rise and fall, and if too cool they will spread. It should be about half as hot as for bread. You will not succeed in using the pastry bag the first time, but a little practice will make it easy to get the forms wished. There are pans especially for baking lady-fingers. Sponge Drops.—Make the batter the same as for lady- fingers, and drop on the paper in teaspoonfuls. Sprinkle with sugar. Bake in a slow oven from twelve to sixteen minutes. Sponge Drops, No. 2.—Three eggs, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, two of flour, half a cupful of cold water, one tea- spoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of saleratus. Beat the sugar and eggs together. Add the water when they are light, and then the flour, in which mix the saleratus and cream of tartar. Flavour with lemon. Have muffin cups very lightly buttered, and drop a teaspoonful of the mixture into each one. Bake in a quick oven. These drops are nice for dessert or tea. Sponge Cake for Charlotte Russe.—Line the bottoms of two shallow baking-pans with paraffine paper or buttered paper, and spread the lady-finger mixture on it. Bake slowly eighteen minutes. Cut paper to fit the sides of the mould. When the cake is cold, lay this pattern on it and cut with a sharp knife. Jelly RoH .—Make the sponge cake mixture as for lady- fingers, and bake in one shallow pan twenty minutes. While it is yet warm cut off the edges, and spread the cake with any kind of jelly. Roll up, and pin a towel around it. Put in a cool place until serving time. Cut in slices with a sharp knife. Molasses Pound Cake.—One quart of molasses, one pint of water, six and a half pints of flour, one ounce of soda, half an ounce of alum, one heaping cupful of butter, six eggs, one ounce of cinnamon, one pound of raisins. Boil172 AMERICAN DISHES. the alum in part of the pint of water, and let it cool before mixing with the other ingredients. Instead of alum, one ounce of cream of tartar may be used. Soft Gingerbread.—Six cupfuls of flour, three of molasses, one of cream, one of lard or butter, two eggs, one teaspoon- ful of saleratus, and two of ginger. This is excellent. Hard Gingerbread.—One cupful of sugar, one of butter, one-third of a cupful of molasses, half a cupful of sour milk or cream, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one table-spoonful of ginger, flour enough to roll. Roll thin, cut in oblong pieces, and bake quickly. Care must be taken that too much flour is not mixed in with the dough. All kinds of cakes that are rolled should have no more flour than is absolutely necessary to work them. Canada Gingerbread.—One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of molasses, five of flour, three eggs, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of ginger, one of soda, one teacupful of cream or rich milk, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, one pound of currants. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, molasses, and spice ; next the eggs, well beaten; then the milk, in which the soda has been dissolved, next the flour ; and lastly the currants. This will make three sheets, or two very thick ones. Bake in a moderately-quick oven, if in three sheets, twenty-five minutes; if in two sheets, ten minutes longer. Fairy Gingerbread.—One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of flour, three-fourths of a teaspoonful of soda, one table-spoonful of ginger. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar gradually, and, when very light, the ginger, the milk, in which the soda has been dissolved, and finally the flour. Turn baking-pans upside down and wipe the bottoms very clean. Butter them, and spread the cake mixture very thin on them. Bake in a moderate oven until brown. While still hot cut into squares with a case-knife173 CAKES. and slip from the pan. Keep in a tin box. This is delicious. With the quantities given a large dish of gingerbread can be made. It must be spread on the bottom of the pan as thin as a wafer, and cut the moment it comes from the oven. Shrewsbury Cake.—Two cupfuls of butter, one pint of sugar, three pints of flour, four eggs, half a teaspoonful of mace. Roll thin, cut into small cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Not a particle more of flour than what is given above must be used. The cakes should be made in a rather cool room, and they cannot be made in very warm weather. They can be kept a long time, and are delicious. Jumbles.—Three cupfuls of sugar, two of butter, five of flour, one egg, half a teaspoonful of soda, flavour to taste. Roll thin, sprinkle with sugar, cut in round cakes, and cut a small piece from the centre of each. Bake in a quick oven. Seed Cakes.—Three-fourths of a pint of sugar, one cupful of butter, a quart and half a pint of flour, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two eggs, and seeds. Roll thin, cut in round cakes, and bake quickly. Cookies.—One cupful of butter, two of sugar, five of flour, a teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in four of milk; one egg, flavour to taste. Roll and bake like seed cakes. Hermits.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of raisins (stoned and chopped), three eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in three table-spoonfuls of milk ; a nut- meg, one teaspoonful each of clove and cinnamon, and six cupfuls of flour. Roll about one-fourth of an inch thick, and cut with a round cake cutter. Bake in a rather quick oven. It will take about twelve minutes. Kneaded Plum Cake.—Two and a half cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of sour milk, two spoonfuls of cream, a teaspoonful of saleratus, half a spoon- ful of cinnamon and of nutmeg, a cupful of chopped raisins,174 AMERICAN DISHES. and flour enough to knead (about six cupfuls). Roll an inch thick, and cut in oblong pieces. Bake on sheets in a quick oven. Eclairs.—Put one cupful of boiling water and half a cupful of butter in a large saucepan, and when it boils up turn in one pint of flour. Beat well with the vegetable masher. When perfectly smooth, and velvety to the touch, remove from the fire. Break five eggs into a bowl. When the paste is nearly cold beat the eggs into it with the hand. Only a small part of the eggs should be added at a time. When the mixture is thoroughly beaten (it will take about twenty minutes), spread on buttered sheets in oblong pieces about four inches long and one and a half wide. These must be about two inches apart. Bake in a rather quick oven for about twenty-five minutes. As soon as they are done, ice with either chocolate or vanilla frosting. When the icing is cold, cut the eclairs on one side and fill them. Chocolate Eclairs.—Put one cupful and a half of milk in the double boiler. Beat together two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, one-fourth of a cupful of flour, two eggs, and one- fourth of a teaspoonful of salt. Stir the mixture into the boiling milk. Cook fifteen minutes, stirring often. When cold, flavour with one teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Put two squares of scraped chocolate with five table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and three of boiling water. Stir over the fire until smooth and glossy. Dip the tops of the eclairs in this as they come from the oven. When the chocolate icing is dry, cut open, and fill with the cream, which shoul d be cold. If a chocolate flavour is liked with the cream, one table-spoonful of the dissolved chocolate may be added to it. Vanilla Eclairs.—Make an icing with the whites of two eggs and a cupful and a half of powdered sugar. Flavour with one teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Frost the eclairs ; and, when dry, open, and fill with a cream, the same as175 CAKES. chocolate eclairs. They may be filled with cream sweetened, flavoured with vanilla, and whipped to a stiff froth. Straw- berry and raspberry preserves are sometimes used to fill eclairs. They are then named after the fruit with which they are filled. Frosting.—The white of one egg, one teacupful of pow- dered sugar, one table-spoonful of lemon juice. Put the white of the egg in a bowl and add the sugar by degrees, beating with a spoon. When all has been added, stir in the lemon juice. If the white of the egg is large it will require a very full cup of sugar, and, if small, a rather scant cupful. The egg must not be beaten until the sugar is added. This gives a smooth, tender frosting, which will cover one small sheet of cake. The same amount of material, prepared with the whites of the eggs unbeaten, will make one-third less frosting than it will if the eggs are beaten to a stiff froth before adding the sugar; but the icing will be much smoother and softer to pay for the extra quantity. It may be flavoured with half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Chocolate Icing.—Two squares of chocolate, the whites of two eggs, two cupfuls of powdered sugar, four table- spoonfuls of boiling water. Beat one and two-thirds cupfuls of the sugar into the unbeaten whites of the eggs. Scrape the chocolate, and put it and the remaining third of a cupful of sugar and the water in a small frying-pan. Stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy, and then stir into the beaten whites and sugar. With the quantity given two sheets of cake can be iced. Chocolate Icing, No. 2.—Soak a teaspoonful of gelatine one or two hours in three table-spoonfuls of water. Pour on it one-fourth of a cupful of boiling water, and stir into it one and two-thirds cupfuls of powdered sugar. Prepare two squares of chocolate as for the first icing, and stir them into this mixture. Use immediately.AMERICAN DISHES. 176 Caramel Frosting.—One cupful of brown sugar, one square of chocolate, scraped fine; one table-spoonful of water. Simmer gently twenty minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Spread on the cake while hot. Golden Frosting.—Into the yolks of two eggs stir pow- dered sugar enough to thicken, and flavour strongly with lemon. This does not have so good a flavour as other kinds of frosting, but it makes a change. Marking Cakes in Gold.—Bake round cakes for the children, and, when the frosting on them is hard, dip a small brush into the yolk of an egg, and write a word or name upon the cake. It pleases the little ones very much.177 BREAKFAST AND TEA. Meat Hash.—Chop rather fine any kind of cold meat; corned beef is, however, the best. To each pint add one pint and a half of cold-boiled potatoes, chopped fine; one table-spoonful of butter, and one cupful of stock; or, if no stock is on hand, two-thirds of a cupful of hot water. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Put the mixture in a frying- pan and stir over the fire for about eight minutes, being careful not to burn. Spread smoothly. Cover the pan and set back where the hash will brown slowly. It will take about half an hour. When done, fold it like an omelet and turn on to a hot dish. Garnish with points of toast and parsley. Serve hot. If there are no cold potatoes, the same quantity of hot-mashed potatoes may be used. Vegetable Hash.—Chop, not very fine, the vegetables left from a boiled dinner, and season them with salt and pepper. To each quart of the chopped vegetables add halt a cupful of stock and one table-spoonful of butter. Heat, slowly in the frying-pan. Turn into a hot dish when done,, and serve immediately. If vinegar is liked, two or more table-spoonfuls of it can be stirred into the hash while it is, heating. Breaded Sausages.—Wipe the sausages dry. Dip them in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Put them in the frying- basket and plunge into boiling fat. Cook ten minutes* Serve with a garnish of toasted bread and parsley. 13178 AMERICAN DISHES. Meat Fritters.—Cut any kind of cold meat into dice. Season well with salt and pepper. Make a fritter batter. Take up some of it in a large spoon, put a small spoonful of the meat in the centre, cover with batter, and slide gently into boiling fat. Cook about one minute. Drain on brown paper, and serve on a hot dish. Lyonnaise Tripe.—About one pound of cooked tripe, cut in small pieces; two table-spoonfuls of butter, one of chopped onion, one of vinegar, salt, pepper. Put the onion and butter in a frying-pan, and, when the onion turns yellow, put in the tripe. Cook five minutes. Season with the salt, pepper, and vinegar. Serve on slices of toast. Meat and Potato Sandwiches.—Any kind of cold meat, cut in slices and seasoned with salt and pepper; four large potatoes, two eggs, salt, pepper, one-fourth of a cupful of boiling milk, one table-spoonful of butter. Have the meat cut in thin slices and seasoned with salt and pepper. Pare, boil, and mash the potatoes. Add the milk, butter, salt, pepper, and one well-beaten egg. Cover the slices of meat on both sides with this preparation, and dip in well-beaten egg. Put in the frying-basket and fry till a light brown. Serve on a hot dish. Minced Veal and Eggs.—One quart of cold veal, chopped rather coarse ; one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one cupful of stock or water, two table-spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, salt, pepper. Melt the butter in a frying-pan. Add the flour to it. Stir until smooth, and add the stock and seasoning. When it boils up add the chopped veal. Heat thoroughly, and dish on slices of toast. Put a dropped egg injthe centre of each slice, and serve very hot. Mutton, R6chauff£.—Cut cold-roasted or boiled mutton in slices about half an inch thick, and cover both sides with sauce made in this way : Put two table-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and, when melted, add one of flour. StirBREAKFAST AND TEA. 179 until smooth. Add, gradually, one cupful of stock and two table-spoonfuls of glaze. Boil for one minute, and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and one table-spoonful of lemon juice, and remove from the fire at once. Season the mutton with salt and pepper, and as soon as the sauce begins to cool dip both sides of the slices in it, and roll them in fine bread crumbs. Beat one whole egg and the two whites together. Dip the sauced mutton in this and again in the crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for two minutes. Drain on brown paper, and serve with either tomato, Tartare, or Hollandaise sauce. Any kind of cold meat can be served in this manner. Chicken in Jelly.—A little cold chicken (about one pint), one cupful of water or stock, one-fifth of a box of gelatine, half a teaspoonful of curry powder, salt, pepper. Cut the meat from the bones of a chicken left from dinner. Put the bones on with water to cover, and boil down to one cupful Put the gelatine to soak in one-fourth of a cupful of cold water. When the stock is reduced as much as is necessary, strain and season. Add the curry and chicken. Season, and si mmer ten minutes; then add the gelatine, and stir on the table until it is dissolved. Turn all into a mould, and set away to harden. This makes a nice relish for tea or lunch. If you have mushrooms, omit the curry, and cut four of them into dice. Stir into the mixture while cooking. This dish can be varied by using the whites of hard-boiled eggs, or bits of boiled ham. To serve: Dip the mould in warm water, and turn out on the dish. Garnish with parsley. Chicken Cutlets.—Season pieces of cold chicken or turkey with salt and pepper. Dip in melted butter; let this cool, then dip in beaten egg and in fine bread crumbs. Fry in butter till a delicate brown. Serve on slices of hot toast, with either a white or curry sauce poured around. Pieces of cold veal make a nice dish, if prepared in this manner.iSo AMERICAN DISHES. Broiled Liver.—Cut in slices and dip in melted butter, and lightly in flour. Broil over a bright fire eight or ten minutes. Liver, Fried in Crumbs.—Season slices with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten egg and very fine cracker crumbs. Fry six minutes in boiling lard. Liver and Bacon.—Cut in slices, season with salt and pepper, and cut again into small squares. Place on a skewer pieces of liver and bacon, alternating. Fry five minutes in boiling fat. Slip off of the skewer on to toasted bread, and serve immediately. Liver, Saut4.—Cut the liver in thin slices. Season with salt and pepper. Heat together in a small frying-pan two table-spoonfuls of butter and a large one of flour. Lay in the liver, and brown it on both sides. Add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of water, and one of wine. Taste to see if salt enough. Boil up once, and serve. Liver, Saut6, -with. Piquant Sauce.—Cut the liver in slices about one-third of an inch thick, and, if beef liver, let it stand in warm water ten minutes (calves’ livers will not need this). Drain dry, and put in the frying-pan with enough beef or pork dripping to prevent its sticking, and cooik very slowly for eight minutes, turning constantly. Take *ip on a hot dish and pour a piquant sauce over it. Serve immediately. Curry of Liver.—Cut the liver in small, thin pieces, and for every pound have four table-spoonfuls of butter, two slices of onion, two table-spoonfuls of flour, a speck of cayenne, salt, pepper, one teaspoonful of curry powder. Let the butter get hot; then cook the liver in it slowly for four minutes. Add the flour and other ingredients. Cook two minutes, and add, slowly, one cupful of stock. Let this boil up. Dish, and serve. Chicken Livers, Saut6.—Wash and wipe six livers. Put181 BREAKFAST AND TEA. two lable-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and, when hot, add a large slice of onion, which cook slowly ten minutes, and then take out. Dredge the livers with salt, pepper, and flour, and fry for ten minutes in the butter; add one teaspoonful of flour, and cook a minute longer. Pour in half a cupful of stock, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one of vinegar, and one-fourth of a spoonful of sugar, and boil up once. Serve with a garnish of toasted bread. Chicken Livers and Bacon.—Cut the livers in pieces the size of a two-shilling piece, and have thin slices of bacon of the same size. Nearly fill a small wire skewer with these, alternating. Place in the frying basket and plunge into boiling fat for about one minute. Serve on the skewers, or on toast, with thin slices of lemon for a garnish. Or, the skewers can be rested on the sides of a narrow baking-pan and placed in a hot oven for five minutes. Serve as before. The livers of all other kinds of poultry can be cooked the same as chicken. Chicken Livers in Papillotes.—Wash the livers and drop them into boiling water for one minute. Take them up ; and, when drained, split them. For eight livers put two table-spoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, and, when hot, add one table-spoonful of flour. Stir until smooth; then gradually add half a cupful of cold water. Stir into this two spoonfuls of glaze, if you have it. Season with pepper and salt, and stir into the sauce half a cupful of finely-chopped ham. Spread this mixture on the livers, place them in papillotes the same as cutlets, lay them in a pan, and put in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Have little squares of toast or of fried brown bread. Heap these in the centre of a hot dish, and arrange the livers around them. Serve very hot. Ham and Eggs on Toast.—Chop fine the trimmings from cold-boiled or roasted ham. Toast and butter slices of stale bread. Spread the ham on these, and place in the oven for182 AMERICAN DISHES. about three minutes. Beat six eggs with half a cupful of milk, a little pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Put this mixture in a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of butter, and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken. Take off, and beat for a moment; then spread on the ham and toast. Serve immediately. Ham Croquettes.—One cupful of finely-chopped cooked ham, one of bread crumbs, two of hot-mashed potatoes, one large table-spoonful of butter, three eggs, a speck of cayenne. Beat the ham, cayenne, butter, and two of the eggs into the potato. Let the mixture cool slightly, and shape it like croquettes. Roll in the bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg and again in crumbs, put in the frying-basket, and plunge into boiling fat. Cook two minutes. Drain, and serve. Canapees.—After cutting the crust from a loaf of stale bread cut the loaf in very thin slices, and toast to a delicate brown. Butter lightly, and spread with any kind of potted meat or fish. Put two slices together, and, with a sharp knife, cut them in long strips. Arrange these tastefully on a dish and serve at tea or evening parties. Sardines may be pounded to a paste and mixed with the yolks of hard- boiled eggs, also pounded to a paste, and used instead of potted meats. In this case the slices of bread may be fried in salad oil. Corn Pie.—Four ears of cold-boiled corn (canned corn can be procured in England), two eggs, one table-spoonful of butter, one of flour, half a cupful of milk, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, a little pepper. Cut the corn from the cobs. Mix the milk, gradually, with the flour. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and add them and the other ingredients to the flour and milk. The butter should be melted. Bake twenty minutes in two squash pie plates. This is a dish for breakfast. Hominy.—Wash a cupful of hominy in two waters; then183 BREAKFAST AND TEA. stir it into one quart of boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil from thirty to sixty minutes. The latter time is the better. Be careful that the hominy does not burn. It can be used more than oatmeal, as it is good with any kind of meat. It is appropriate for any meal, and is nice eaten warm or cold with milk. Oatmeal.—Oatmeal, Indian meal and hominy all require two things for perfection—plenty of water when put on to boil, and a long time for boiling. Have about two quarts of boiling water in a large stewpan, and into it stir a cupful of oatmeal, which has been wet with cold water. Boil one hour, stirring often, and then add half a spoonful of salt, and boil an hour longer. If it should get too stiff, add more boiling water; or, if too thin, boil a little longer. You can- not boil too much. The only trouble in cooking oatmeal is that it takes a long time, but surely this should not stand in the way when it is so much better for having the extra time. If there is not an abundance of water at first the oatmeal will not be very good, no matter how much may be added during the cooking. Cracked wheat is cooked in the same way. Strawberry Short-Cake.—One pint of flour, measured before sifting; one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, four of butter, one teacupful of milk. Mix the other dry ingredients with the flour, and rub through a sieve. Rub the butter into the mixture, and add the milk. Butter two tin squash-pie plates. Spread the mixture in them, and bake in a quick oven from eighteen to twenty minutes. Mash one quart of strawberries with three-fourths of a cupful of sugar. When the cakes are taken from the oven, split and butter them, and put half of the strawberries and sugar in each cake. Serve immediately. Sweet Strawberry Short-Cake.—Three eggs, one cupful184 AMERICAN DISHES. of sugar, two of flour, one table-spoonful of butter, one scant teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a small half-teaspoonful of soda. Beat the butter and sugar together. Add the eggs, well beaten. Mix the soda and cream of tartar with the flour, and rub through a sieve. Stir into the beaten egg and sugar. Bake in deep tin plates. Four can be filled with the quantities given. Have three pints of strawberries mixed with a cupful of sugar. Spread a layer of strawberries on one of the cakes, lay a second cake over this, and cover with berries. Or, a meringue, made with the white of an egg and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, may be spread over the top layer of strawberries. Muffins, No. 1.—One quart of flour, two cupfuls of milk, half a cupful of sugar, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, half a teaspoonful of salt, butter the size of an egg. Mix the other dry ingredients with the flour, and rub through a sieve. Melt the butter with four table-spoonfuls of boiling water. Beat the eggs light, and add the milk. Stir into the flour, and add the butter. Beat thoroughly. Bake in buttered muffin-pans from twenty- five to thirty minutes, in a quick oven. Muffins, No. 2.—One cupful of milk, one of flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, a scant half-teaspoonful of salt, two eggs. Beat the eggs light, and add the milk, salt, and sugar. Pour gradually on the flour. Beat till light and smooth. Pour into buttered muffin-pans and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Raised Muffins.—One pint of warm milk, half a cake of compressed yeast, or half a cupful of liquid yeast; one quart of flour, one table-spoonful of butter. Beat two eggs well, and add them and the salt, butter, and yeast to the milk. Stir gradually into the flour. Beat until the batter is light and smooth. Let it rise four hours in a warm place. Fill buttered muffin-pans two-thirds to the top with the batter,BREAKFAST AND TEA. 185 and let them stand until the batter has risen to the brim. Bake half an hour. Graham Muffins.—Into a bowl put one and a half pints of Graham flour, half a cupful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Into a sieve put half a pint of flour, a teaspoonful of saleratus, and two of cream of tartar. Mix thoroughly with the flour, and sift on to the material in the bowl. Mix all thoroughly while dry, and add two well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk. Fill muffin-cups about two-thirds to the top, and bake in a quick oven. Raised Graham Muffins.—These are made the same as Graham bread. Fill tin muffin-pans two-thirds to the brim and let the mixture rise to the top. This will take an hour. Bake in a rather quick oven for twenty minutes. Corn Muffins.—One pint of flour, one of Indian meal, one-third of a cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, two eggs, a pint of milk, one table-spoon- ful of melted butter. Mix the dry ingredients together, and sift them. Beat the eggs light, add the milk to them, and stir into the dry ingredients. Bake twenty minutes in buttered muffin-pans. Two dozen muffins can be made with the quantities given. Fried Indian Muffins.—One pint of Indian meal, one pint of boiling water, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one table- spoonful of sugar, one heaping table-spoonful of flour. Pour the boiling water gradually on the meal, salt, and sugar. Beat thoroughly, and set away in a cool place. In the morning add the eggs, well beaten, and the flour. Dip a table-spoon in cold milk, fill it with batter, and drop this into boiling fat. Cook ten minutes. Corn Cake.—One quart of milk, one pint of Indian meal, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, butter the size of an English walnut. Let the milk come to a boil, and gradually pour it on the meal. Add the butter and salt, and beatAMERICAN DISHES. 186 well, and set away in a cool place. Do this at night. In the morning beat thoroughly. Beat the eggs well, and add them. Pour the mixture into buttered deep earthen plates. Bake from twenty to thirty minutes. Success depends upon a good beating of the cake in the morning. Corn Cake, No. 2.—Two teacupfuls of corn meal, one of flour, three of sour milk, two eggs, one table-spoonful of sugar, or of molasses, if you prefer; one teaspoonful of soda, one of salt. Mix together the sugar, salt, meal, and flour. Beat the eggs light. Dissolve the soda in two table- spoonfuls of boiling water, and pour into the sour milk. Stir well, and add to the other mixed ingredients. Add the eggs, and mix thoroughly. Pour into buttered tins to the depth of about an inch and a half. Bake twenty-five minutes in a quick oven. Raised Corn Cake.—One pint of Indian meal, one pint and a half of boiling milk or water, one table-spoonful of sugar, two of butter, an egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one- fourth of a cake of compressed yeast, or one-fourth of a cupful of liquid yeast. Pour the boiling milk, gradually, on the meal; then add the salt, sugar, and butter, and beat well. Set away to cool. When blood warm add the com- pressed yeast, dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of cold water or the liquid yeast, and the egg, well beaten. Let the batter rise five hours. Turn into buttered pans to the depth of about two inches. Let it stand in a warm placefor half an hour, and then bake it from thirty-five to forty-five minutes. Thin Corn Cake.—One cupful of Indian meal, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, butter the size of an egg, one cupful and a half of boiling water, one teaspoonful of sugar. Pour the boiling water on the meal, sugar, and salt Beat thoroughly. Add the butter, and, when well mixed, spread very thin on buttered tin sheets. Bake slowly for about twenty minutes.187 BREAKFAST AND TEA. Rye Muffins.—One pint of rye meal, not flour; one pint of wheat flour, one pint of milk, half a cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one of soda, two of cream of tartar, and two eggs. Put the meal in a mixing bowl. Put the flour and other ingredients in a sieve, and mix thoroughly, and sift. Beat the eggs light. Add the milk to them and pour on the dry ingredients. Beat well. Butter the muffin-tins and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. The quantities given will make twenty-four muffins. To make a less quantity, divide the dry mixture after it is prepared (it can be used whenever it may be wanted if it is kept dry); then halve the other ingredients. Fried Rye Muffins.—One cupful and a half of rye meal, one cupful and a half of flour, one cupful of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, two generous table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt. Put the meal in a large bowl. Put the flour, cream of tartar, soda, sugar, and salt in the sieve, and rub through on to the meal. Beat the eggs well, add the milk to them, and stir into the dry ingredients. Fry the same as Indian muffins. Rice Muffins.—One pint of milk, one quart of flour, one pint of boiled rice, three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one of soda, two of cream of tartar. Mix the sugar, salt, soda, and cream of tartar with the flour, and rub through a sieve. Beat the eggs and add to the milk. Stir gradually into the flour. When a smooth, light paste, add the rice. Beat thoroughly. Bake thirty-five minutes in buttered pans. Three dozen muffins can be made from the quantities given. Raised Rice Muffins.—One pint of warm milk, two cup- fuls of warm-boiled rice, one quart of bread flour, one tea- spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of butter, one-third of a cake of compressed yeast. Mix the butter, rice, and milk together. Pour the mixture on the flour, and beat till aAMERICAN DISHES. 188 light batter is formed. Mix the yeast with four table-spoon- fuls of cold water, and add it and the salt to the batter, which let rise over night in a cool place. In the morning fill buttered muffin-pans two-thirds to the top, and set them in a warm place till the batter has so risen as to fill the tins. Bake thirty-five minutes. One-third of a cupful of liquid yeast may be substituted for the compressed yeast. Hominy Muffins.—A pint of milk, a quart of Haxall flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of butter, one- third of a cake of compressed yeast, or one-third of a cupful of liquid yeast; half a cupful of hominy, measured before cooking. Wash the hominy, and add a pint of boiling water. Boil one hour, stirring often. Then add the milk, salt, yeast, and butter. Pour this, gradually, on the flour, beating well. Let it rise over night. In the morning put in buttered muffin-pans and let rise from half to three- quarters of an hour. Bake thirty-five minutes. The muffins may be put to rise in the morning for tea. Gems.—One pint of flour, one of milk, an egg, half a tea- spoonful of salt. Beat the egg until light, add the milk and salt to it, and beat, gradually, into the flour. Bake twenty minutes in hot gem-pans. A dozen cakes can be made with the quantities given. Hominy Drop-Cakes.—One pint of fresh-boiled hominy (or, cold hominy may be used; if the latter, break into grains, as lightly as possible, with a fork, and heat in a farina kettle without adding water), one table-spoonful of water, two eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately. Stir the yolks into the hominy first, then the whites, and a tea- spoonful of salt, if the hominy has not been salted in cook- ing ; or, if it has, use half a teaspoonful. Drop, in table- spoonfuls, on well-buttered tin sheets, and bake to a good brown in a quick oven. Squash Biscuit.—One cupful and a half of sifted squash,BREAKFAST AND EA. 189 half a cupful of sugar, half a cake of compressed yeast, or half a cupful of liquid yeast; one cupful of milk, half a tea- spoonful of salt, four table-spoonfuls of butter, five cupfuls of flour. Dissolve the yeast in a scant half-cupful of cold water. Mix it and the milk, butter, sugar, salt, and squash together, and stir into the flour. Knead well, and let it rise over night. In the morning shape into biscuit. Let these rise an hour and a half, and bake them half an hour. Snow Pancakes.—Half a pint of milk, an egg, an apple, pared, quartered, and chopped very fine; a cupful and a half of flour, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, a bowl of snow. Beat the egg light, and add the milk to it. Pour gradually on the flour, and beat until smooth and light. Add the apple and salt, and at the last moment the snow. Drop by spoonfuls into boiling fat, and cook until a rich brown. Waffles.—One pint of sifted flour, milk enough to make a thin batter (about two-thirds of a pint), two eggs, beaten very light; a table-spoonful of melted butter, and a little salt. Gradually mix the milk with the flour until there is a smooth paste; then add the salt and butter, and lastly the eggs. Have waffle irons about as hot as a griddle for cakes, and butter them well, or grease with pork as you would a griddle. Pour in enough of the batter to cover an iron, and put the other side gently down upon it. Keep over the fire about half a minute; then turn over, and let the other ■ side remain to the fire the same time. Remove, and place the waffles where they will keep warm until enough are cooked to serve. Many people butter the waffles as they place them on the dish, and others add sugar. This is very well if known to be to the taste of the family, but it is always safe to let each suit himself at the table. Waffles, No. 2.—One pint of milk, two eggs, two table-AMERICAN DISHES. 190 spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, one scant pint and a half of flour. Mix the other dry ingredients with the flour, and rub through a sieve. Beat the eggs very light. Add the milk and the butter, which should be melted with two table- spoonfuls of boiling water. Stir into the flour. Raised Waffles.—One pint of milk, one pint and a half of flour, an egg, a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth of a yeast cake, or one-fourth of a cupful of liquid yeast. Dissolve the yeast in two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Have the milk blood-warm, and add to it the yeast, salt, and the egg, well beaten. Stir gradually into the flour. Cover, and let it rise four hours. Cook as usual. Indian Waffles.—Half a cupful of Indian meal, two cup- fuls of boiling milk, two eggs, one generous cupful of flour, one table-spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, half a teaspoonful of salt. Pour the boiling milk on the meal and butter. Beat well, and set away to cool. Mix the other dry ingredients with the flour, and sift. Beat the eggs, and add them and the flour to the cold mixture. Rice Waffles.—Stir two cupfuls of boiled rice into the mixture for waffles, No. 2. Hominy waffles can be made in the same way. Flannel Cakes.—One cupful of Indian meal, two of flour, three of boiling milk, one-fourth of a yeast cake, or one-fourth of a cupful of liquid yeast; one teaspoonful of salt, one table-spoonful of sugar, two of butter. Have the milk boiling, and pour it on the meal and butter. When cool, add the flour, salt, sugar, and the yeast, which has been dissolved in four table-spoonfuls of cold water. Let the mixture rise over night. Fry like griddle-cakes. Graham Griddle-Cakes.—Two cupfuls of Graham flour, one of flour, two and a half of milk, one table-spoonful ofBREAKFAST AND TEA. 191 sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, two eggs. Let half the milk come to a boil. Pour it on the Graham, and stir until perfectly smooth ; then add the cold milk, and set away to cool. Mix the other dry ingredients with the flour, and rub through a sieve. Add with the eggs, well beaten, to the Graham and milk. Rye griddle-cakes are made the same way. Squash Griddle-Cakes.—One pint of flour, nearly a pint of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half as much soda, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, two cupfuls of sifted squash. Mix the flour with the other dry ingredients, and rub through a sieve. Beat the eggs well, add them and the milk to the squash, and pour on the flour. Beat till smooth and light. This gives a thin batter. If the cakes are liked thick a little more flour may be used. Fry as usual. Indian Griddle Cakes.—One cupful of Indian meal, one of flour, three of boiling milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Have the milk boiling, and gradually pour it on the meal. Put the other dry ingre- dients with the flour, and rub through a sieve. When the scalded meat is cool, add to it the flour and the eggs, well beaten. Hominy Griddle-Cakes.—To a pint of warm-boiled hominy add a pint of milk or water and a pint of flour. Beat two or three eggs and stir into the batter with a little salt. Fry as any other griddle-cakes. They are delicious. Quaker Omelet.—A Quaker omelet is a handsome and sure dish when care is taken in the preparation. Three eggs, half a cupful of milk, one and a half table-spoonfuls of corn-starch, one teaspoonful of salt, one table-spoonful of butter. Put the omelet pan, and a cover that will fit closely, on to heat. Beat well together the yolks of the192 AMERICAN DISHES. eggs, the corn-starch, and the salt Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add to the well-beaten yolks and corn-starch. Stir all together very thoroughly, and add the milk. Put the butter in the hot pan. When melted, pour in the mixture. Cover, and place on the stove where it will brown, but not burn. Cook about seven minutes. Fold, turn on a hot dish, and serve with cream sauce poured around it. If the yolks and corn-starch are thoroughly beaten, and if, when the stiff whites are added, they are well mixed, and the pan and cover are very hot, there can hardly be failure. Fish Omelet.—Boil a shad roe twenty minutes in salt and water. Chop 'it fine, and add to it a cupful of any kind of cold fish, broken fine. Season with salt and pepper, and warm in a cupful of cream sauce. Make a plain omelet with six eggs. When ready to fold, spread the pre- pared fish on it. Roll up, dish, and serve immediately. Corn Omelet.—One pint of cold-boiled or canned corn, four eggs, half a cupful of milk, one teaspoonful and a half of salt, a little pepper, three table-spoonfuls of butter. Beat the eggs, and add to them the salt, pepper, milk, and corn. Fry like a plain omelet. Baked Omelet.—One pint and a half of milk, four eggs, one table-spoonful of flour, one of butter, one teaspoonful of salt. Let the milk come to a boil. Mix the butter and flour together. Pour the boiling milk on the mixture, which then cook five minutes, stirring all the while. Put away to cool. When cooled, add the salt and the eggs, the yolks and whites having been beaten separately. Pour into a buttered dish, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve at once. The dish should hold a little more than a quart. Dropped Eggs.—Have one quart of boiling water and one table-spoonful of salt in a frying-pan. Break the eggs, one by one, into a saucer, and slide carefully into the salted193 BREAKFAST AND TEA. water. Cook until the white is firm, and lift out with a griddle-cake turner and place on toasted bread. Serve immediately. Scrambled Eggs.—Four eggs, one table-spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs, and add the salt to them. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Turn in the beaten eggs, stir quickly over a hot fire for one minute, and serve. Spanish Eggs.—Cook one cupful of rice thirty minutes in two quarts of boiling water, to which has been added one table-spoonful of salt. Drain through a colander, and add one table-spoonful of butter. Spread very lightly on a hot platter. On the rice place six dropped eggs, and serve. Creamed Eggs.—Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of cream sauce. Have six slices of toast on a hot dish. Put a layer of sauce on each one, and then part of the whites of the eggs, cut in thin strips; and rub part of the yolks through a sieve on to the toast. Repeat this, and finish with a third layer of sauce. Place in the oven for about three minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Stuffed Eggs.—Cut six hard-boiled eggs in two. Take out the yolks and mash them fine. Add two teaspoonfuls of butter, one of cream, two or three drops of onion juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix all thoroughly. Fill the eggs from the mixture, and put them together. There will be a little filling left, to which add a well-beaten egg. Cover the other eggs with this last preparation, and roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling lard till a light brown. Scotch Eggs.—One cupful of cooked lean ham, chopped very fine; one-third of a cupful of stale bread crumbs, one- third of a cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, cayenne enough to cover a threepenny-piece, one raw egg, and six hard-boiled. Cook the bread and milk together until a smooth paste. Add to the ham, and add the season-194 AMERICAN DISHES. ing and raw egg. Mix thoroughly. Break the shells from the hard-boiled eggs, and cover with this mixture. Put in a frying basket, and plunge into boiling fat for two minutes. These are nice for lunch, tea, or picnics. Eggs, Brouille.—Six eggs, half a cupful of milk, or, better still, of cream; two mushrooms, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, three table-spoonfuls of butter, a slight grating of nutmeg. Cut the mushroom^ into dice, and fry them for one minute in one table-spoonful of the butter. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper, and cream together, and put them in a saucepan. Add the butter and mushrooms to these ingre- dients. Stir over a moderate heat until the mixture begins to thicken. Take from the fire and beat rapidly until the eggs become quite thick and creamy. Have slices of toast on a hot dish. Heap the mixture on these, and garnish with points of toast. Serve immediately.■x-.. INDEX. Apple Charlotte, 153 ; porcupine, 126; puddings, 115,116; souffle, 116. Asparagus, 102. Baked Beans, 105. Batter for fritters, 68. Beef, 49-51 ; salad, 87. Biscuit glac6, 150. Blanc-Mange, 132. Blanquette, 64. Boiled fowl, 41 ; turkey, 41. Boiling, 37. Bombe glace, 146. Bouillon, 18. Bread, 92. Breaded sausages, 177. Breakfast and tea, 177. Broiling, 39. Cabbage, Minced, 102. Cakes, 161, et scq. Canapees, 182. Cauliflower, 103. Celery, 90 ; stewed, 104. Charlotte russe, 153. Chartreuse, 57-59. Cheese souffld, 68. Chicken in jelly, 60, 179; cutlets, 179 ; chaud froid, 61 ; quenelles, 62 ; croquettes, 74; vol-au-vent, 75 ; pillau, 63 ; souffle, 64; fried, 64 ; blanquette, 64 ; stew, 45 ; salad, 84 ; pie, 54 ; chartreuse, 57 ; patties, 76. Chocolate pudding, in, 112; pies, in ; whips, 156 ; souffle, 151 ; blanc-mange, 133. Chowders, 14. Cod, Boiled, 18 ; salt, 22, 23 ; h la cr6rae, 24 ; matelote, 26. Cookies, 173. Corn soup, 15 ; oysters, 105, pudding, 105 ; pie, 182 ; cake, 185. Cream a la Versailles, 133 ; royal, 133 ; Bavarian, 136-139 ; ‘ice, 141- 145 ; meringues, 157. Croquettes, 71-74. Corn oysters, 105. Croustade, 67. Crust patties, 77. Custard, 156 ; souffle, in. Cutlets, 65, 66, Dessert, 132 ; Brier Hill, 158. Dominos, 170. / Eclairs, 174. Egg balls, 15 ; scrambled eggs, 193 ; plant fried, 104. Entrees, 49. Fanciionettes, 158. Fillet of tongue, 52. Fish, 16 ; boiled, 17, 18 ; baked, 19; broiled, 20 ; stewed, 21 ; fried, 21 ; fish balls, 22 ; salt, 23 ; escalloped, 25 ; augratin, 26. Flannel cakes, 190. Flour, 93. Fowl, boiled, 41. Fried bread for soups, 15. Fritters, 69, 70, 178 ; batter, 68, 69. Frosting, 175. Fruzen fruits, 149 ; pudding, 146. Fritit glac6, 159. Game and poultry, 41 ; pasties, 55 ; cutlets, 65. Gateau Saint Honore, 159. Gems, 188. Gingerbread, 172. Griddle cakes, 191. Haddock, Boiled, 18 ; la erfime, 24. Ham and eggs, 181 ; croquettes, 182. Hash, 177. Hermits, 173. Hominy, 94, 182, 188. Icing, 175. Indian meal, 93.196 INDEX. Jelly, Calf’s foot, 154; wine, 154; lemon, 155 ; orange, 155 ; currant, 155 j strawberry, 155; pineapple, 155 ; coffee, 156. Jelly roll, 171. Jumbles, 173. Kisses, 157. Kiss wafers, 157. Lady-fingers, 170. Liver, 180, 181. Lobster, 33 ; salad, 85 ; broiled, 34 ; broiled in shell, 33 ; breaded, 31 ; stewed, 34 ; curry of, 34 ; devilled, 35 ; escalloped, 35 ; cutlets, 36 ; canned, 36 ; croquettes, 72 ; vol- au-vent, 76 ; patties, 77. Lyonnaise tripe, 178. Macaroni, 98, 99. Mayonnaise dressing, 81, 82. Meat fritters, 178. Meats, 37. Mdringue, 145. Mince-pie meat, 109. Muffins, 184, 185, 187. Mutton rdchaufffi, 178. Oatmeal, 183. Okra, 104. Omelets, 152, 192. Onions, xoi. Oysters, 27-33 croquettes, 72; vol-au-vent, 75 ; patties, 77 ; corn, 104. Pancakes, 79, 189. Parsnips, 101, 102. Paste, for puffs, 107 ; chopped, 108 ; for raised pies, 108. Pasties, Game, 55. Patties, 76, 77. Pens, Green, k la Frampaise, 102. Pies, 107-110; chicken, 54 ; game, 55- Pigeon, Potted, 45 ; in jelly, 46. Polish salad, 87. Potato puffs, 95 ; riced, 95 ; & la royale, 95 ; a l’ltalienne, 95 ; fried French, 96 ; fi la Parisienne, 96 ; balls, 96. Potatoes, Broiled, 97 ; duchess, 97 ; housekeeper’s, 97 ; stewed, 97 ; creamed, 97 ; escalloped, 97 ; border, 67 ; fritter, 70 ; croquettes, 74 ; sweet, 98 ; pie, no ; French, 98 ; cold-boiled, 98. Poultry and game, 41. Puddings, in, 113-126, 146, 147. Puffs, German, 113. Quenelles, 62, 63. Rabbit, 47. Rice borders 67; croquettes, 73 ; pudding, 113. Rissoles, 68. Roasting, 37 ; in oven, 38, Roast turkey, 42 ; rabbit, 47. Rye meal, 94. Salads, 80, 84, 8 s, 87 ; dressing, 81-83. Salmon, 73, 75 ; salad, 85. Sandwiches, 178. Sardine salad, 86 ; dressing, 83. Sauces, 128-130. Sausages, 177. Shad roe croquette, 73. Sherbets, 147-149. Short-cake, 183. Souffles, 151. Soups, 4-13, 15 ; fried bread for, 15 ; egg balls for, 15. Spinach, Minced, 103. Sponge, 134, 135 ; drops, 171. Squash biscuit, 188 ; pie, 109. Steak, Stewed, 66. Stock, 2, 3. Sweetbreads, 75, 78, 79. Tomatoes, 99-101. Tongue, 52, 53. Tripe, Lyonnaise, 178. Turbot a la creme, 26. Turkey, 41, 42. Veal, 63, 178. Vegetables, 95. Venison, 47, 48. Vol-au-vent, 74. Waffles, 189, 190. Wheat, Cracked, 94. UNWIN BROTHERS, '/lyfRESIIAM rffS^^fHILWORTH AND LONDON LIBRARY o *\MCCALL’S PAY^ftNDli OX TONGU ES, In Tins of 2lbs. to 3lbs. each. Numerous Illustrations. Crown Zvo, paper covers, gd. HOW TO DETECT THE ADULTERATIONS OF FOOD. By the Author of “ Ferns and Ferneries.” “ The little work before us offers many useful hints to householders as to the detection of every-day adulteration.”—Pall Mall Gazette. “THE CUP THAT CHEERS” SERIES. Illustrated. Fcap. 8 vo, boards. i. A CUP OF COFFEE. »** Other volumes in preparation. Crown Zvo, limp cloth, gd. THE BATH AND BATHING. By Dr. J. Farrar, F.R.C.P.E. “ Dr. Farrar’s manual is not only cheap, but it is so clear, concise, and practical that no one need fail to carry out his instructions, or in deriving wise counsel and direction from his pages.”—Litci'ary World. London : T. FISHER UNWIN.Brown & Poison’s Corn Flour FOR THE NURSERY. In ordinary cases the only suitable food for young infants is milk. So soon, however, as some solid addition to the liquid food becomes desirable, there is nothing better for the purpose than BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR. Its principal function is to supply heat. It also contributes to the formation of fat, so essential to life at all stages, but especially to the earlier. Brown &Poison’s Corn Flour FOR THE FAMILY TABLE. In the hands of an accomplished cook there is no known limit to the variety of delicate and palatable dishes which may be produced from BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR. It is equally susceptible of plain and simple treatment for ordinary domestic purposes, and one of its chief recommendations is the facility with which it may be prepared. Boiled with milk, and with or without the addition of sugar and flavouring, it may be ready for the table within fifteen minutes; or, poured into a mould and cooled, it becomes in the course of an hour a Blanc-mange, which, served with fresh or preserved fruit, will be acceptable at any meal. Add sultanas, raisins, marmalade, or jam of any kind, and in about the same time it is made into an excellent Baked Pudding. To which may be added :—Take care to boil with milk, when so required, for not less than eight minutes. Brown & Poison’s Corn Flour FOR THE SICK ROOM. The properties of BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR are identical with those of arrowroot, and it is in every respect equal to the costliest qualities of that article. The uses of arrowroot in the sick-room are not only matter of tradition, but of every-day experience, and there can be but few persons who are not acquainted with its uses as an important ally to medical treatment. BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR claims to serve the same purposes, with at least equal acceptance and at considerably less cost, and therefore offers the facility of freer use to a larger public. It has received from medical and scientific authorities the highest testi- monials to its purity and serviceableness ; it is largely used in Hydropathic and other Institutions throughout the Kingdom, and its export to all foreign parts has long given it a world-wide reputation. 0r) ^ ■