f - : LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: mat) 06 01120 1323 THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS ETT ( Theodore Francis ) Classmark okery ■5 92Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530348_0004ARTISTIC DESSERT DISHES . N°1 Sliced Oranges Willi powdered Sugar, Sherry 6k Bay Leaves . N?2 Melon decorated with Gold Leaves & cut in portions 6c tied. N°3 Gilt Rustic Wood Centre, Ornament for mixed Fruit N°4 Walnuts Peeled 8:Placed back in their Shells,tied with Ribbon Anyone with a*little . taste 6c ingenuity ... - N? 5 Pine-Apple Cut & tied 8: dressed with powdered Sugar 8< own heaves N?6 Strawberries picked 8c clotted cream dressing on top. N?7 Red 8c white Currants , picked Raspberries . N°8 Cherries tied in bunches can make N?3-Centre. Gild with Gold Paint-THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OB' A Complete Dictionary of all pertaining to the Art of Cookery ahd Table Seryice. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD FURNISS, GEORGE CRUIKS HANK, W. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “ The Chef's Memoranda," “Plain and Artistic Cookery,” “ Little-known Foods," “Ice and Ice-Making," “ The Manufacture of British Wines, &sc.," “ Ball Suppers and their Service,” “ Wine Adulteration,” “ Savoury Suppers," “Muffins and Crumpets,” “Sandwiches,” “American Drinks,” “Confectionery,” "Notes on Curries,” “ Loving-Cups? “Antiquity of Cheese,” "Good Coffee I “Lives of Famous Cooks," and numerous other Serial and Special Papers in Technical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets; Sec. of the Original U.B'. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); And, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. CoRBLET, Chef de Cuisine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887; 1 st Gold Medal of ist Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. Fiorillo, Chef de Cuisine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 , ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal. 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cuisine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cinsine to Lord Harewood ; Silver Medal,Exposition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cuisine to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889 ; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cinsine, Great Eastern Hotel, London. C. WiLLlN, Chef de Cuisine, late of the Grand Hotel Bristol ; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division IV.—Gri to Mus. LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL. Sole Agent: A. W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C.LONDON: A. BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDSTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 721 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Stc., referred to, see under their special heads. Grilli n g—continued. A fork slionld never he used in grilling, for if the surface of the meat, or fish, or whatever it may he, should be perforated by the tines of the fork, the juice and steam of the interior would find vent, and the meat collapse, instead of being puffy, and possibly be hard and tough. All good grill cooks employ tongs (see Fig. 895), which they use with considerable dexterity and freedom. GRILSE.—A young salmon after its first return from the sea. Not being good for much else, they are usually potted, thus : Cut the heads off six Grilse, take out the bones, chop off the fins and tails, wash them well, and wipe dry on a cloth. Put |oz. of pepper (Jamaica), four cloves, a small piece of ginger, four allspice, Joz. of cayenne, and two chillies in a mortar, and pound them well. Put the fish, belly downwards, in a pie-dish, place the pounded spices, &c., tied up in a bag on the backs of the fish, sprinkle over with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and pour over Jib. of warmed butter. Cover the dish with several thicknesses of paper, tie down, and put it in a moderate oven for two hours. Take it out of the oven, let the fish get gold, remove the bag of spices, put the Grilse into a jar, cover with clarified butter, and they will be ready for use. See Salmon. GRISKIN.—The spine, chine, or backbone of a pig, which is cut away when preparing sides for bacon, and is considered by some to be a tid-bit when baked, grilled, or roasted. GROATS.—Dried grain, such as oats or wheat, hulled and coarsely broken or crushed. This is generally done in a mill that by the same action cuts the grain into coarse pieces. Sometimes they are known as Grits, or Grouts, the term having been originally derived from the Icelandic grautr, signifying what we now call por- ridge. There are many qualities of Groats in the market, some good enough for any purpose, such as the flat Embden Groats, and others not fit to feed pigs with. Out of sixteen samples recently analysed, only two were positively unadulterated and genuine. See Oatmeal. Tried Groats.—Bake the Groats, spread them out on a flat dish in a layer about jin. thick, and leave till next day ; then cut it into pieces of a convenient size, and fry them in boiling lard. Groat Gruel.— (1) Mix 2 dessert-spoonfuls of Groats in a basin with only sufficient water to form a cream, pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, stirring all the time, and keep it over the fire until sufficiently thick. When done, sweeten to taste, add either 1 wineglassful of white wine, brandy, or spirits, with a little grated ginger or nutmeg, and serve hot. (2) Put |lb. of Groats into a saucepan with £gall. of water and a blade of mace, put the pan on the fire, and boil until the Groats are quite soft; then add a little white wine and sufficient sugar to taste. Pour the gruel into a basin, and serve with sippets of toast. Groat Pudding’.—(1) Put 1 pint of Groats into a little cold water to soak for a few hours. Take them out, carefully remove the husks, tie them up loosely in a cloth, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil for three hours. Take them out, untie the cloth, sweeten with moist sugar, add 1 table- spoonful of well-washed currants, tie up the cloth very tightly, place the pudding in the pan again, and boil for another hour, when the pudding should be quite done. Turn it out of the cloth, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. (2) Take 1 pint of the juice squeezed from boiled rasp- berries or red currants, add an equal quantity of red wine and sugar to sweeten, and put the mixture in a saucepan over a moderate fire ; when the liquor begins to boil, sprinkle in 4oz. of Groats, and stir until it thickens. Pour it into a mould dipped in water, and when quite cold turn it out; pour fruit- sauce over, and serve. (3) Wash Jib. of Groats, tie them up in a cloth, leaving room for them to swell, put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and boil for two or three hours. When quite soft, turn the Groats into a basin, and mix with them J teacupful of weak gravy, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Press the whole firmly in a basin, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. GROCERY.—This term is used to signify all kinds of tea, coffee, sugars, dried fruits, spices, and other foods sold by Grocers, the word itself being probably an adaptation of the French grosserie, meaning wholesale; from which also we get our word gross. In the United States, Grocery is the popular name for spirit stores. GROG. — “It would scarcely be necessary,” says Kettner, “ to say anything about this, but that the French have seized upon the word, and given it a currency which it was fast losing in England.” The story of its invention is to the effect that there was once a certain Admiral Vemon who was called “ Old Grog ” by the sailors, because he was in the habit of wearing a surtout made of grogram, or grosgrain, a coarse stuff made of silk and mohair. To him the sailors were indebted for the practice of mixing their rum with water. Hence the term should be one of derision. GROSEILLES.—Fr. for gooseberries. GROUND RICE.—See Rice. GROUPER.—This fish is found chiefly in Florida and the Gulf of Mexico; the term being a corruption of the Portuguese Garrupa. There are some few varieties of it which are known as Red Grouper, or brown snapper, and Black Grouper. In California the name of Grouper is given generally to rock fish. GROUSE.—Although it is said that varieties of this bird are to be found in all parts of the world, even to the Arctic regions, there is only one kind of Grouse that is known under this name in kitchen parlance, and that is the Scotch Red Grouse, or Hazel Grouse as it is some- times called, which has probably more than once found a substitute in the ptarmigan, or White Grouse of Norway. The Scotch Grouse is shot extensively over the North British moors and heath lands from the middle of August to the end of January, those first coming to market being rarely so good as those of a later date. Whether young or old, the bird has a very fine flavour, which it is the pride of the cook to preserve and improve upon. Alexis Soyer is said to have entertained some very original ideas of the quality of Grouse, as shown in the following, which is attributed to him : “ Ah, Sir, Grouse to be well enjoyed should be eaten in secret; and take my experience as your guide : do not let the bird you eat be raw and bloody, but well roasted, and drink with it at intervals a little sweet champagne. Never mind your knife and fork; suck the bones, and dwell upon them. Take plenty of time; that is the true way to enjoy a game bird. Some gentle- men here (Reform Club) think they can teach me the mode of my art. I hear them; but they are as mere children in their methods of eating: they follow the super- stitions of their fellows. Bah! ” One of his favourite dishes was Grouse a la Rob Roy, which was simply a roasted Gi’ouse wrapped in slices of fat bacon and sprigs of heather. Fig. 896. Braised Grouse. Braised Grouse.--(1) Pluck, draw, and singe one or two Grouse, wash them inwardly with soda and water, rinse them, and wipe dry. Truss without stuffing them, and tie into shape. Put a few thin slices of fat salted pork 3 i722 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Grouse—continued. or fat ham at the bottom of a braising-pan, place the birds over them, sprinkle oyer chopped onion and parsley, season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar, cover with more pork or ham, and pour in pint of stock or water. Cover the pan, place it on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and let the Grouse cook gently until they are tender. Put the birds on a dish, garnish with watercress, strain the gravy, thicken it with browned flour, boil up once more, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. See Fig. 896. (2) Prepare and truss two Grouse. Put a layer of streaky bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, then put the Grouse in ; pack round them two or three pieces of celery, one onion stuck with six cloves, a bunch of parsley, some sprigs of sweet herbs, a few slices of carrot, and twelve peppercorns. Peel and slice a raw beetroot and one onion, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry; when brown, stir in £ pint of broth, and then pour this into the braising-pan with the Grouse. Drop in a tea- spoonful of brandy, cover the birds with buttered paper, put the lid on the braising-pan, with a few live embers on the top, and cook till tender. Take the Grouse out, place them on a hot dish, and stand it in the oven, leaving the door a little way open ; strain the liquor from the vegetables into another pan, skim off the fat, and reduce it to half glaze; pour in with it 1 teacupful of brown sauce and 1 table- spoonful of red wine, boil for seven minutes, then strain it over the birds ; cut the bacon into small pieces, garnish the dish with it, also chopped boiled carrots, and serve. Broiled Grouse.—(1) Singe, draw, and wipe three Grouse, split them in halves through the back without separating the parts, lay them in a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil. Koll them well in it, then put them over a brisk fire, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Put a finely-chopped shallot and 1 table- spoonful of butter in a small saucepan on the hot range, cook for one minute, add two chopped mushrooms, moisten with 1 table-spoonful of rich sauce, add 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, mix all together, season with salt and cayenne, and cook for one-minute-and-a-quarter longer. Pour the sauce on a hot dish, place the Grouse over it, decorate the dish with slices of broiled bacon, lemon and truffles, and serve very hot. (2) Singe, draw, and wipe two fat Grouse, split them in halves through the back without separating the parts, lay them on a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 table- spoonful of sweet-oil. Koll them well in it, and put them to broil on a brisk fire for seven minutes on each side. Place four pieces of hot, buttered toast on a hot dish, arrange the Grouse on them, mask with maitre-d’hotel butter, garnish with thin slices of broiled bacon, and serve. Fillets of Grouse Sautes.—(1) Cut each of the fillets of four Grouse into two slices, then trim and beat them lightly. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets with a small piece of glaze, season with salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice, and cook over a moderate fire, keeping them rather underdone. When done, drain the butter from the fillets, pour in 1 pint of half-glaze, and add some small forcemeat quenelles. Boil the sauce, take out the fillets, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, or else on a mound of mashed potatoes; put the quenelles in the centre, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fig. 897. Fillets of Grouse Sautes. (2) Koast some young Grouse; when cooked, cut the fillets carefully from the birds, and mask each one with some game forcemeat. Butter a saute-pan, put in the fillets, Grouse—continued. cover them with white stock, and simmer gently for ten minutes; cut some slices of bread jin. in thickness, 3in. long and lin. wide, and fry them in butter till lightly browned. Arrange the fillets and croutons of bread alter- nately on a hot dish, making a circle of them, pour some game half-glaze over them, and serve. See Fig. 897. Fried Grouse with Breadcrumbs.—Draw and singe three or four young Grouse, cut them lengthwise in halves, split the drum-stick, and thrust it inside the hip (see Trussing) ; beat each half slightly, skin them, roll them in clarified butter, dip them in breadcrumbs, and fry over a clear slow fire for twelve minutes, turning so that both sides shall be cooked equally. When they are done, arrange them on a dish, and serve with game sauce. Fried Grouse Cutlets. — Prepare three young Grouse and cut them lengthwise in halves ; split the drum-stick and thrust it inside the hip (see Trussing); beat each half slightly, skin them, roll them in clarified butter and breadcrumbs, .season with salt and pepper, and fry for twelve minutes over a moderate fire, turning them so as to cook both sides. Make a sauce as follows: Put a small bunch of herbs in a saucepan with 2 dessert-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and the juice of two lemons; boil for two minutes with the cover on the pan, add 1 teacupful of raw mushrooms cut in small squares, simmer till the liquor is reduced, then put in 1 breakfast- cupful of melted meat glaze. When boiling, move the stewpan from the fire, and stir in 5oz. of butter; when the butter is melted, without boiling, and the sauce well thickened, add a little vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of gherkins cut in small squares, 1 teaspoonful of tarragon-leaves chopped small, and 1 table-spoonful of soy. Dish the cutlets, and serve with the sauce poured over. Galantines of Grouse.—Bone two small Grouse, spread them thickly with game forcemeat, cover with strips of rabbit or hare, lean cooked ham, and fat bacon, placed alternately, having the strips the same length as the bird ; season with salt and pepper, and cover with another thick layer of forcemeat. Sew up the birds with thread, then roll them round in cloths. Put them in a stewpan with some vege- tables, cover with stock, and stew till tender. Wlien cooked, take the birds out of the cloths, put them" in fresh Fig. 898. Galantines of Grouse. ones, with their sewn parts at the top, and tie the cloths at each end. Put them in a deep dish, baste with half their cooking-liquor, place another dish over them with a heavy weight on it, and press till cold. Prepare a thin puree of Grouse, and leave it till nearly cold. Take the birds out of the cloths, and dip them into the Grouse puree, giving them a thick coating, then sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs fried brown in butter, and some chopped pistachios ; put them on a dish, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, slices of lemon, and parsley, and serve. See Fig. 898. Grouse Cromeskies. — Cut the flesh of two cold cooked Grouse into small pieces, pound it in a mortar, and when smooth pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put about 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, place it over the fire, and when melted put in the meat; season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and stir until hot. Next move the saucepan to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon; turn the mixture on to a dish and leave it until cool. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of oil mixed with 1 table-spoonful of water; next stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of tepid water to make a thin batter, then add the well-whisked white of one egg. Cut some thin723 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Grouse—continued. slices of bacon into 2in. squares, put a small quantity of the Grouse mixture on each, and roll them up tightly. Put a large piece of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling dip the cromeskies in the batter and put them in the fat. Fry until lightly browned, then take them out of the fat and drain for a minute on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cromeskies in a circle on it, fill the centre with fried parsley, and serve at once. Grouse Pie.—(1) Singe and draw three young Grouse, and cut off their feet, necks, and pinions ; divide their bodies each into three pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the pinions and some chopped bacon; fry them, and then put in Goz. of raw ham, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. When the ham is cooked, add about eighteen mushrooms cut in halves and 1 table-spoonful of chopped onion; pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, and reduce the liquor. Take the stewpan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Arrange the meat in a pie-disb, with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters amongst it, pour the gravy over through a conical strainer, and cover with puff paste : brush the crust over with white of eggs, and put in a quick oven till done. Take the pie out of the oven, lift the crust, pour in a little more thickened game gravy, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Clean and draw a brace of Grouse, cut each into five parts, and season with salt and pepper. Put a layer of game forcemeat at the bottom of a pie-dish, put the pieces of Grouse in upon it, and sprinkle a little powdered sweet herbs over them; put in here and there a few yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and cover all with slices of raw ham. Pour in 5 pint of good game gravy, and cover the pio with a puff paste; glaze the crust over with egg, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half. When ready to serve, stand the pie on a flat dish. Grouse Soup.—(1) Cut off all the meat from two or three roasted Grouse, reserving some of the fillets for special use. Put the bones in a stewpan with 2qts. of stock, and boil them for half-an-hour. Pound the flesh in a mortar. Cut two onions, one turnip, and half a carrot in slices, put them in a stewpan with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, six peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and £lb. of butter. Stir them over the fire for ten minutes, then pour in 1 pint of stock, and stew till tender; next put in the pounded flesh, the stock from the bones, -j pint of brown gravy, and sufficient broth to make 5qts. in all; thicken with 4oz. of flour, stir over the fire, and boil for twenty minutes Season the soup with a little salt and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Put some croutons of fried bread at the bottom of a soup-tureen, with the fillets of Grouse cut in thin slices; skim and strain the soup, boiling’ up again so that it may be very hot, then pour it in the tureen, and serve. (2) Put the bones of two roasted Grouse into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and let them simmer for four hours; at the commencement of the fourth hour put in three or four slices each of carrot and turnip, two large onions, two or three pieces of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves; strain the broth back into the saucepan, and add lqt. of stock. Cut the flesh of the breast of one Grouse into small pieces, and put it in with the soup. Fry 3 table- spoonfuls of flour together with 3 table-spoonfuls of butter till brown, then stir it in with the stock. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. When ready, skim off any fat there may be, turn the soup into the tureen, and throw in a few small croutons of fried bread. (3) Chop up the remains of any cold roasted Grouse ; put them in a stewpan with a few pieces of carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a moderate seasoning of salt and pepper, and a sufficient quantity of clear stock to cover. Simmer at the side of the fire for an hour, then strain the' liquor through a fine hair sieve. Cut all the meat from the bones of the Grouse, put it in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth ; then pass it through the sieve, and stir into the liquor. Put ljoz. of butter in a saucepan, melt it, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour; pour in the soup slowly, stirring it at the same time, and boil up again. Beat the I For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, S Grouse—continued. yolks of two eggs with the juice of half a lemon, and strain them; move the soup to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Cut some slices of bread into small squares, fry them in boiling butter until browned, then drain, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (4) Cut 21b. of leg of beef and 21b. of knuckle of veal into pieces ; put them in a stewpan without water, place it over the fire, and when the meat is warmed through, poiu- in 2qts. of hot water, and simmer for four hours. Cut up two Grouse, dividing the meat from the breast into four pieces, and cut each of the legs and wings into four pieces. Chop the bones, and pound them in a mortar ; then put them into the soup with two onions, a head of celery cut up, one carrot, one turnip, two or three bay-leaves, a sprig of marjoram, thi-ee or four cloves, a blade of mace, and eight allspice. Boil the soup for two hours longer, pouring in more hot water as the quantity becomes reduced. Strain the soup through a fine silk sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Grouse, and stew very gently for an hour. If not sufficiently dark in colour, add a little caramel. Pour it into a soup-tureen with the pieces of Grouse, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with it, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (5) Put the cold remains of some roasted Grouse into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a few slices of onion and carrot, and a bay-leaf; pour in sufficient clear stock to cover, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is almost in rags. Strain the liquor, pick the meat off the bones, put it in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth; then pass it through a wire sieve. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; next stir in the strained liquor and the pounded meat, continue stirring over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and a few drops of lemon-juice. Cut some slices of bread into small squares, and fry them in butter until browned. Put the bread in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. (6) Chop up the remains of two or three cold roasted Grouse, put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion and carrot cut into slices, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over sufficient stock or water to cover, and boil until the bones will easily come from the meat. Put the meat into a mortar, pound it, strain the liquor, and put all back into the saucepan; thicken with a lump of butter rolled in flour, stir well, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two or three eggs and a little lemon-juice (if not objected to), pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Fig. 899. Larded Grouse. (7) Cut the flesh off a brace of cooked Grouse, and put the bones in a saucepan with a knuckle of veal, a couple of old Grouse, 21b. of gravy-beef, a few peeled and sliced carrots and shallots, two or three sticks of celery broken into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and a moderate quantity of salt. Pour in 4qts. of water, and when boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer very slowly for six hours, keeping it well skimmed. Put the meat of the birds in a mortar, and pound it; mix with it a third of the quantity of grated breadcrumb, and rub through a coarse sieve, moistening’ the mixture with 3 I 2 auces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads.724 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Grouse—continued. a small quantity of the soup. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, and stir in the mince. Boil up again, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bi-ead. Larded Grouse. -Clean and wash a Grouse, and lard the breast and legs, putting a skewer through the legs and tail; rub some warmed butter over the breast, then dredge it over with a little salt and plenty of flour. Set it on a baking-dish, put it into a brisk oven, and cook for twenty or thirty minutes. Cover a hot dish with bread sauce, put the Grouse on it, and sprinkle over some fried breadcrumbs. Garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 899. Roasted Grouse.—(1) Pluck and singe a Grouse, draw it, and let it hang in a cool place for several days. Wipe it well inside without washing, chop off its head, and truss it; put a large lump of butter inside, place it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for from thirty to thirty- five minutes, basting frequently with butter. Put the liver of the Grouse into a saucepan of water with a small lump of butter and salt, and pepper to taste, boil until it is like a paste, take it out, spread it over a piece or pieces of toast on a dish, place the Grouse on the top, and serve with a sauceboatful each of hot rich gYavy and bread sauce. (2) Prepare and truss the required number of Grouse, tie a thin rasher of fat bacon over the breast of each, and roast them on a spit. Toast as many slices of bread as there are Grouse, cut oft' the crusts, arrange them on a dish, and when the Grouse are roasted serve them on the toast. (3) Pluck and singe a Grouse, making a small cut at the back of the neck to take out the crop ; let the head remain on, draw the bird, and wipe it well inside with a cloth. Pass the head under the wing’, run a trussing-needle with a piece of string attached through the wing and under part of the thigh, and through the body to the wing and thigh on the other side, press the feet close to the body, and tie tightly. Then pass the needle and string through the hollow of the back, just below the thigh, pass it again through legs and body, and tie tightly. Put the bird on a spit in front of a clear sharp fire, and cook for about thirty-five minutes, basting it well with flour and butter towards the end of the cooking. Put a round or two of toast on a dish, place the bird on it, pour round hot rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of bread sauce. (4) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two fine fat Grouse, place them in a roasting-pan with J breakfast-cupful of water, spread over each a little butter, and season with salt. Put them into a brisk oven, cook for eighteen minutes, taking care to baste frequently with their own gravy, and then untruss. Have a hot dish ready, place two bread canapes on it, arrange the Grouse over, and decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauceboat, and serve. (5) Take two fat Grouse, and pick, singe, draw, dry, and truss them, taking care to dry them well; place them in a roasting-pan, putting inside of each bird a piece of toast 4in. long and 2in. wide. Drip in on each toast, with a spoon, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine or sherry; season the Grouse with salt, spread over a little butter, put them in a brisk oven, and cook for eighteen minutes, basting frequently. Lay them on a hot dish, untruss, strain the gravy over, and decorate with a little watercress. Serve red-currant jelly separately. Salad of Grouse.—Cut a cold roasted Grouse into eight pieces; prepare in a salad-bowl a salad of lettuce, celery, mustard and cress, and any other vegetables that may be in season. Lay the pieces of Grouse on the salad with four hard-boiled eggs cut into halves lengthwise. Put 1 table- spoonful each of finely-chopped parsley, minced shallot, and caster sugar into a basin, add the raw yolks of two eggs, 1 teacupful of salad-oil, f teacupful of chilli vinegar, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and i teaspoonful of pepper. Stir the whole until well mixed. Whip ^ pint of cream to a stiff froth, add it by degrees to the sauce, and pour it over the salad. Serve directly it is prepared. Salmis of Grouse.—(1) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two Grouse; season with salt, place a few small pieces of butter Grouse—continued. over, put them in a roasting-pan in a brisk oven, and cook for eight minutes. Untruss, and cut away the wings, legs, and breasts. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with half a carrot cut in very small pieces, half an onion cut the same, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and six whole peppers, and fry to a good golden colour (it will take about five minutes). Hash the bodies of the two Grouse, and add them to the other ingredients. Moisten with 1 pint of Spanish sauce, \ wineglassful of sherry, £ breakfast - cupful of mushroom liquor, and the zest of a lemon, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cook for twenty minutes. Now put the wings, legs, and breasts into a separate sauce- pan, and strain the sauce over them, adding six minced mushrooms and two minced truffles. Cook for three minutes longer, dress them on a hot dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish. (2) Separate the birds at the joints ; put their trimmings into a stewpan with some stock, and boil for an hour. Strain the stock, skim off the fat, and pour it into a clean saucepan; thicken with a brown roux, season with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onion and shallot, and boil again. Half-an-hour before serving, put the pieces of Grouse into the stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep at the side of the fire until they are thoroughly hot through. Serve on a hot dish. (3) Proceed the same as for No. 1, omitting the mushrooms and truffles, and serving with bread sauce separately. (4) The same as for No. 1, but serving with a garnish of hot artichokes in place of the other garnish. Salmis of Grouse with Truffles.—Eoast two Grouse, and when they are done and while still hot, cut them into eight pieces each ; put them in a stewpan, and cover with a thin brown sauce. Put the cover on the stewpan, and stand it in a bain-marie till the pieces of Grouse are hot; in another Fig. 900. Salmis of Grouse with Truffles. stewpan have 1| pints of game sauce, stir it over the fire, and when reduced one-third, put in six truffles cut in small slices and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Arrange the pieces of Grouse in a pyramid on a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, pour the sauce over them, and serve. See Fig. 900. Stewed Grouse.—Take a brace of Grouse, and truss and stuff them. Put ^lb. of butter or good dripping into a frying- pan, and fry in it when it is quite hot, first one Grouse and then the other, turning- so as to brown all over. In the meantime, have -J- pint of good gravy heating in a small saucepan. When both birds are browned, put them in a large saucepan, pour the hot gravy over, put the lid on tight, and let them stew very gently till tender (they will take about an hour); then put them on a hot dish, and cover, to keep the flavour and heat in. Let the gravy cool a little, skim off the fat that rises, and sti’ain it. Put it over the fire again, stir in sufficient browned flour to thicken, and boil hard for five minutes; skim again, put the birds back into the gravy, and let them get quite hot, but do not let the gravy boil after they are put in. Place them on a hot dish, pour a very little of the gravy over them, and serve the rest in a small tureen ; also green peas and currant jelly separate. Stewed Grouse a l’Ailsa.—Cut two roasted Grouse into quarters, dividing them so that the two wings are with the breasts, and the legs with the backbones. Pound the backJ> ' LAGAN & CU ARTISTIC JELLIES. 6. Lemon Jelly wit* Preserved Cherries, and Orange or Lemon Pips: 7. Lemon and Orange Jelly, with Grapes and Chernes. 8. Orange, Re Vine, Lemon and Raspberry with CherneS inside. Lemon with Sliced Orange. Cherries and Greengage Rings, ' , Orange with Cherries only, Lemon with Preserved Rings and Cherries, 9 Jelly Bombs on dish1' of Crystallized Fruit. * 10. Lemon andWine Jelly Pyramid, Angelica and Preservedfherries round 'THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 725 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, sec under their special heads Grouse—continued. and trimmings, put them in a stewpan, pour in about 2 break- fast-cupfuls of game sauce, and boil for five minutes. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, put it in the stewpan again, season with a little salt and 1 dessert-spoonful of moist sugar; stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and continue stirring over the fire till the sauce is thick, but do not let it boil; Fig. 901. Stewed Grouse a l’Ailsa. then put in the pieces of Grouse, take the stewpan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Boil some potatoes, mash them, adding a little butter and salt, make a border of them round a dish, put the Grouse in the centre, pour over the sauce, cover with breadcrumbs, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When done, serve with a thick reduced game sauce. See Fig. 901. Supreme of Grouse a la Richelieu.—Singe, draw, and wipe three Grouse, removing the skin from the breasts. With a sharp knife make an incision on the top of each breast-bone from end to end. Carefully cut oft' the entire breasts on both sides, including the small wing-bone, taking care not to leave a particle of meat on the bones. Remove the small fillets found under the breasts, putting them on one side for after use. Make an incision in the breasts at the thinnest side, about 3in. long and lin. in depth, season the breasts inwardly with salt and pepper, stuff them with chicken forcemeat mixed with two truffles and four mushrooms, all finely sliced, and put them into a buttered saute-pan. Gently press the small fillets, using the fingers to give them a hollow shape. Make six slanting small incisions on top of each, and insert in them a small piece of smoked beef, iin. in diameter; moisten slightly the top of the breasts with water, place a fillet lengthwise on them, and sprinkle over a little clarified butter, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the meat, j wineglassful of Madeira wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup; lightly cover the pan, and place it in a hot oven for ten minutes. Arrange the supreme on a hot dish, and serve, with a little perigueux sauce boiled for three minutes with 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, in a sauceboat. GRUEL.—The name is of French origin, and is given to a sort of thin porridge, made of almost any kind of fine or coarse meal. The following receipts show that the term is in some way connected with our groats, through the German griitze. See also Oatmeal, Porridge, &c. English. Gruel.—Put a good table-spoonful each of rice, sago, and pearl barley in a saucepan, pour in 3 pints of water, and boil gently till the liquor is reduced to about lqt., stirring constantly to prevent it sticking. When cooked, have a fine hair sieve placed over a basin, through which pass the Gruel, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. Sweeten and flavour the Gruel to taste. To make the Gruel for serving cold, G table-spoonfuls of each of the ingredients should be used with the above quantity of water. When boiled and passed through the sieve, it should be turned into a mould, left till cold and set, then turned out like a jolly on to a dish, and served with preserves or sugar. German Gruel (Griitze).—The night before making the griitze, put lib. of sago to soak in plenty of cold water. On the following morning remove the stalks from 21,1b. of red currants and Jib. of raspberries, put the fruit into a saucepan with lqt. of cold water, and boil it until soft. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, pressing the fruit well to extract all the juice, return the liquor to the Gruel—continued. saucepan, and when boiling put in the soaked sago, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until quite cooked. The mixture must not be left for a moment, as it is likely to burn very quickly. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour in the mixture, and stand it on ice or in a cool place. When quite set and cold, dip the mould in hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Serve the griitze with cream or well- flavoured custard. Hamburg Gruel.— Put 26 fluid ounces of expressed red- currant juice into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Stir well over the fire until it boils, then add Soz. of soaked sago or lOoz. of ground rice, and boil for fifteen minutes longer, stirring all the while. Let it cool in moulds, or it may be poured on t© plates and eaten with sugar and milk. The juice from any acid fruit will answer the purpose, but that from currants is preferable. Norwegian Gruel.-- Put 2 pints of strained red-currant juice into a stewpan with lj pints of water, a few drops of essence of almonds, and loaf sugar to taste. When boiling, mix in gradually fib. of ground rice. Stir and boil the mixture for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, pour the Gruel into soup-plates, leave it until cool, then serve with cream and caster sugar. Scotch Gruel.—Rub 2oz. of oatmeal quite smooth in a little cold water, working with the back of a spoon against the side of the basin. Pour off the milky fluid into a saucepan as the coarse parts subside until you have about lj pints in all, and then boil slowly until the fluid is a thick mucilage. Water Gruel.— Mix quite smoothly 1 level table-spoonful of flour with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, taking care to have no lumps ; put it on the stove, add 1 level teaspoonful of salt, and boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. If desired, it may be sweetened and a little grated nutmeg added. GRUNTS.—The name of a species of American edible fish. It is so called because of the noise it makes when taken, but it is not very highly esteemed for kitchen purposes. GRUYERE CHEESE.—See Cheese. GUARANA.—In some of the states of South America a drink containing more theine than tea is made from the seeds of the Guarana (Paullinia sorbilis). The ripe seeds are pounded in a hot mortar, formed into a thick paste with water, and moulded into flat bricks or cakes, or formed into rolls like sausages. When dried, they are grated down, and then resemble powdered cocoa, being drunk as such with milk and sugar. GUARAPO .—A drink greatly in favour with the lower classes of Venezuela. It is made from the juice of the sugar cane, diluted with water, and allowed to undergo an alcoholic fermentation. GUAVAS. — The name given to this famous fruit by Europeans is probably a phonetic corruption of the native word Guayaba, pronounced very broadly. The tree (Psidimn Guava) upon which they grow is found wild in tropical America and the West Indies, and has been introduced and become naturalised in India and other Eastern countries. There are two kinds of Guava, commonly known as bearing delicious fruit; the one bears apple-shaped Guavas (see Fig. 902) and the other pear-shaped, the fruit resembling each other in other particulars. These are best known in Europe preserved as jellies, but they are sometimes produced in great profusion and good cpiality in British liot-houses. Guavas are described as having a thin, bright yellow rind, with a yellowish or reddish pulpy flesh, which has a pleasantly acid-sweet flavour, not unlike a combination of raspberries and strawberries. Unfortunately, all attempts to import the ripe fruit to this country have hitherto failed.726 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Guavas—continued. Guava Cheese.—Peel and cut into quarters about a hundred Guavas, wash them well in cold water, then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about two hours, or until they are perfectly tender. Strain off all the liquor (which can be used for making Guava jelly), rub the pulp or fruit through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add the juice of ten large limes and sugar to taste, and boil over a clear fire until the preparation is of such a consistence that the spoon will stand upright in it. Turn the cheese into a well-buttered mould, dry it in the oven, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. A slight colouring of cochi- neal is an improvement. Fig. 902. Apple-shaped Guavas. Guava Jelly.—Peel and cut into quarters a hundred or so ripe Guavas, plunge them into a bowl of water, wash thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about two hours, or until they are perfectly tender and break easily when touched. Strain through a fine sieve, pressing the fruit so as to obtain as much as will come through easily, letting it drip for a day or so if required. Pour the juice into a preserving-pan, and boil well, skimming frequently; add gradually sufficient sugar to sweeten, boil for a few minutes, squeeze in the juice of ten large limes, boil until all the scum has risen and the jelly clear, pour it while warm into jars, cover them over securely, and let it get cold. It is then ready for use. Imitation Guava Jelly.—(1) To make this a great quantity of medlars are required, as there is only a very little juice in them. Take them when ripe, and put them into a preserving-pan with just enough water to cover, and boil gently until they are quite soft. Turn it into a jelly-bag and let it strain, which will take a long time, as it must on no account be squeezed or the jelly will be thick. Measure the juice, and for every pint add lib. of sugar. Place these in a preserving-pan, boil them, stirring frequently, and skimming carefully as the scum rises. Pour the pre- paration into jars when it jellies, let them remain for a day, tie down, and put them in a cool place to keep until wanted. (2) Allow one part of quinces to two parts of apples; peel the fruit, and stew them separately, as the former Guavas—co ntinued. require longer cooking than the latter. When tender, drain the fruit, put them in a stewpan with an equal weight' of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil over a gentle fire until reduced to a mash. Strain the jelly into pots, put a small round of white paper, dipped in brandy, in each, and cover with parchment. Tie them down tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard. GUDGEON (Fr. Goujon ; Ger. Griindling; Ital. Gliiozzo).—A very small river fish (Gobio fluviatilis) (see Pig. 903), which is amusingly described as being “a carp by race, but a smelt by character.” Amongst French gourmets the Gudgeon is considered superior to all other small fish, and oftentimes a dish of them Fig. 903. Gudgeon. finds a place amongst the entremets of a courtly banquet. There are two or three kinds of Gudgeon, but the white, or silver Gudgeon, is reckoned to be the best, although it rarely finds its way into the market on account of its delicate nature. They are usually caught with hook and line. Pried Gudgeon.—(1) Clean and carefully wash a dozen or so Gudgeon, chop off their fins, dry them on a cloth, dust over with flour, and dip them into Joz. of warmed butter beaten up with the yolks of two eggs. Cover the fish with finely-sifted breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry gently for a few minutes, or until they are browned. Take them out, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Clean and wash the required number of Gudgeon, dip them into milk, dust over with flour, put them into a pan with butter, fry for four or five minutes, or until they are of a light colour, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Cut off the gills of about two dozen Gudgeon, and make a small cut in the sides to remove their insides. Clean them well, wash, and wipe them dry on a cloth. Steep them in milk, dip in flour, plunge them in a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Scrape and clean some Gudgeon, flour them well, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry until done. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve 1 with a little lemon-juice, cayenne, and salt. Matelote of Gudgeon.—Chop up an onion and two mushrooms, put them into a saucepan with a small piece of garlic, a sprig, of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and add a small quantity of salad-oil. Clean and wash a dozen or so Gudgeon, put them in a saucepan over the herbs, &o., pour over a teacupful of champagne, and cook gently over the fire for from fifteen to twenty minutes, or until the fish are done. Put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve as hot as possible. Great care must always be taken not to over- cook them, for being small fish they will not require much cooking. GUERNSEY- BUNS.—‘See Buns. GUERNSEY CAKE.—See Cakes. GUIGNOLETA liqueur resembling ratafia, made from the small black-heart cherry, deriving its name from the French guignes. It is said to have been first made by the ladies of the Convent Fidelite, and should therefore be especially esteemed by the fair sex.727 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. GUINEA FOWLS.—These are African birds intro- duced into Europe, where they thrive fairly well under care. That known to us (Numida meleagris) is of a dark gray colour, variegated with small white spots, and having a coloured, fleshy horn on each side of the head. As it is in season from February to June, when game is scarce, it makes a good substitute. The eggs are delicious, and subject to the same treatment as Plover’s Eggs, to which reference should be made for receipts. Braised larded Guinea Fowl served with Financiere Garnish.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Guinea Fowl, take out the breast-bone, and stuff the body with quenelle forcemeat mixed with two uncooked truffles cut into small pieces. Truss it, bringing the feet back to the tail, and lard with fine strips of bacon on the legs and fillets. Place the fowl on some pieces of bacon and vegetables at the bottom of a saucepan, add J pint of white wine, put the pan over a bright fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the liquor is Fig. 904. Braised larded Guinea Fowl served with Financiere Garnish. reduced to half-glaze; then add 1 pint of broth, and let it braise gently over a very slow fire; lastly, glaze it with its own cooking-stock when reduced. Prepare a financiere garnish of button-mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and quenelles, mixed together or put in groups, and masked with a little brown sauce reduced with some truffle trimmings and a -little white wine. Put the fowl on a dish in the centre of the garnish, put three attelettes, decorated with truffles and cocks’ combs, through the breast of the bird, and serve. See Fig. 904. Broiled Guinea Fowls.—Pluck, singe, and draw two or three Guinea Fowls, wash them well, and split down the backs; wipe dry, and flatten them slightly. Sprinkle salt and pepper over both sides, dip them in flour, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Brush over frequently with a little butter, and when they have been cooking for a- quarter-of-an-hour, put them on a dish, pour a rich gravy over, and garnish the dish with mashed potatoes. Guinea-Fowl Salad.—The remains of a cold roasted Guinea Fowl can be made into an excellent salad, as follows: Trim the flesh of all the skin, and cut it into equal-sized pieces. Thoroughly wash a lettuce, drain, and cut it into shreds ; put it in a salad-bowl with the pieces of meat, pour a mayonnaise sauce over, and serve. Guinea-Fowl Soup.—(1) Pick off all the meat from the whole or part of a cold roasted Guinea Fowl, put the bones, skin, trimmings, and stuffing (if any), into a saucepan with 2qts. of rich stock, and add a slice of raw ham, one onion, and drachm of bruised celery-seed tied up in a muslin bag. Put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for about two hours. Put the meat into a mortar, pound it well, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Strain the soup into another saucepan, add the pounded meat and 1 table-spoonful of ground rice mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and boil for about twenty minutes longer; then turn into a tureen, and serve with sippets of fried bread or toast. (2) Any remains of cold roast Guinea Fowl may be utilised as follows: Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with a shank-bone or a slice of lean ham, or the root of a Guinea Fowls—continued. dressed ox-tongue, one or two small onions, and two well- washed heads of celery, pour in 2qts. of stock, and place it over the fire. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side, and keep the contents simmering for two hours or a little longer. Afterwards, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan. Finely chop the flesh of the bird and pound it in a mortar, add it to the soup, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of ground rice mixed smooth with a little water. Boil the soup very slowly at the side of the fire for half- an-hour longer. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or oroutons of fried bread. If desired, some small game forcemeat quenelles can be poached and served in the soup. Boasted Guinea Fowl.—(1) Pluck, draw, and singe a Guinea Fowl, and truss it like a turkey. Tie some thin slices of bacon round, put it on a spit in front of a good clear fire, Fig. 905. Roasted Guinea Fowl. and roast until done. Place it on a dish, garnish with water- cress (see Fig. 905), and serve with rich gravy in a tureen. (2) Pluck and singe a Guinea Fowl, draw it without breaking the entrails, and wipe it with a wet towel ; if stuffing is desired, use any forcemeat highly seasoned with herbs, but not with sage. Roast the bird before an open fire, or bake it in a hot oven, seasoning, after it is brown, with salt and pepper. Cook till well done, and then serve hot, with plenty of red-currant jelly. Boasted larded Guinea Fowl. —Pluck, singe, and draw a Guinea Fowl, lard the breast with strips of fat bacon, and truss it like a pheasant. Put it on a spit in front of a clear fire and roast for about an hour, basting frequently with butter. Sprinkle it well with flour, cook for ten or fifteen minutes longer, put it on a dish, pour round a little rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of bread sauce. GUINEA PIGS (Fr. Cochons d’lnde; Ger. Meer- sckweinchen; Ital. Porcelli d’lndia; Sp. Cocliinos de Guinea).—These prolific little animals. (Cavia aparcea are better known in this country as pets than subjects for the kitchen. Nevertheless, it is asserted in an authori- tative volume (“ The Guinea Pig, or Domestic Cavy ”) that they form excellent dishes. The author informs ns that in the time of the Peruvian Incas, and before the semi-barbarous Spaniards began to exterminate the semi-civilised Peruvians, the Cavy (as it is called) must have constituted a very important food supply. Guinea Pigs can be cooked in various ways, and make excellent stock for soups. They are killed by breaking the neck, and must be opened, cleaned, skinned, and plunged into scalding water for a short time, then into cold, and dried for cooking. The following receipts, from the same authority, may be useful: Cavy en Gibelotte.—The Cavy, having been killed in a proper manner and scalded, should be cut up into joints, something as a rabbit is carved. It requires a sharp knife to do this, as the skin is thick and tough. The body will cut into three pieces. Procure a middling-sized eel, and having prepared it in the usual way, out it into lengths of 2in. Make a roux with flour and butter, saute the Cavy and eel in this, with the addition of mushrooms and little onions; moisten with white wine and double the quantity of stock; season with salt, pepper, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and little green onions. Then take out the pieces of eel and the little onions;728 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cLc\, referred to, see under their special heads. Guinea Pigs—continued. cook the Cavy fast until the sauce is reduced to two-thirds ; replace the eel and little onions, and finish cooking slowly. Skim off the fat, take out the bouquet, and serve hot. Cavy aux Pines Herbes.—Take a full-grown and fat hog Cavy, killed, scalded, and cleaned as previously described ; blanch it in 1 pint of boiling water, and cut into joints. Make the water thick with a white roux of flour and butter ; put it over the fire in a moderate-sized stewpan, stir till thick and smooth, add 1 table-spoonful each of parsley and green onions, or chives, chopped small, and pepper and salt to taste. Stew the Cavy in this for two hours, or until it is perfectly tender. If 1 pint of stock be used instead of the water, this dish will be much improved. Thicken with the yolk of an egg, and servo. GUISADO.—This is a Spanish dish which answers to our ragout. It is very highly esteemed and, prepared as follows, appears upon the most aristocratic tables: Clean and prepare a fowl, pheasant, rabbit, or hare, whichever is prefei'red, taking care to preserve the liver, giblets, and blood. Cut it up in pieces, and dry them (with- out washing) on a cloth. Brown a few slices of onions in a gill of boiling fat (lard for choice), turn them with the pieces of meat into an earthenware pan or pipkin that will stand the heat of the fire, add a seasoning of herbs, onions, garlic, a few chillies, salt and pepper, put in also a few thin slices of bacon, and pom- over all sufficient red wine and rich stock in equal proportions to moisten. Place the pian over the fire and bring the liquor slowly to the boil; skim and stir frequently, and let it simmer until the meat is quite tender. About thirty minutes before serving, put in the liver, giblets, and blood. When ready, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. GUMBO.—See Okra Gumbo. GUMS—There are not many Gums known by distinctive names in either confectionery or cookery, although it is possible that many are introduced as adulterants to those best known. Gum Arabic, Gum dragon or Tragacantli, are occasionally mentioned, the first for a few preparations to be hereafter described, the second as a prime constituent of Gum-paste, and an ingredient in marzipan. Then, again, there are a few varieties known to the confectioner as Turkey Gums, which are merely Gums Arabic in fancy dress, just as Mogador Gum is a high-sounding title for a mixture of inferior Gums, chiefly Arabic, imported from Morocco or Barbary. The following are a few uses to which Gum Arabic is applied: Gum Drops. —Dissolve |oz. of Gum Arabic in I pint of water, mix with .it |lb. of loaf sugar, put it in'a pan over a fire, and boil to a thick syrup). Have a shallow and wide box full of powdered starch, make it quite level, and then with a marble make indentations all over it. Flavour and colour the hot syrup), and fill the hollows in the box of starch with it. Dry the drops in a hot closet. Gum Milk.—Put loz. of picked Gum Arabic in a jar with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and let it remain for several hours. Put 5 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils piour it over the Gum, place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil, stirring frequently until the Gum is quite dissolved; it is then ready for use. A little sugar and flavouring are a great improvement. Gum Pastilles.—Put lib. of packed Gum Arabic in a jar with 1 pint of water, and when well soaked, strain it through a cloth into a sugar-boiler, and add 14oz. of caster sugar. Stir continually until it boils, and when of the small pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling) add | teacupful of orange-flower water, and mix well. Remove the boiler from the fire, skim, and pour the mixture into impressions previously made in starch powder with different small designs cast in plaster of Paris, and set upon )-in. square pieces of wood. When cold, they are ready for use. Gum Syrup).— Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler, and when it is of 21deg. (see Sugar-boiling) let it get cold, pour it into a basin, and mix in 1 teacupful of orange-flower water, Gums—continued. 2oz. of packed Gum Arabic dissolved in 1 teacupful of hot water, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Put it into bottles, cork and tie them down, and place them in a pan of cold water. Set the pan on a hot fire, and when the water has boiled for about six minutes, take out the bottles ; when they have cooled a little, cover the corks and mouths of the bottles with wax, and put them in a cellar in a leaning position until wanted for use. Gum Water.—Put loz. of packed Gum Arabic in a jar with 1 punt of water, and add 2oz. of sugar candy. Place the jar in a saucepan of water over a bright fire, and boil until all the Gum is dissolved, stirring frequently. It is then ready, and should be served very hot. With a little lemon-juice or paregoric added it is a capital drink to relieve a cough. GUM PASTE (Fr. Pastillage).—To the artistic con- fectioner Gum Paste has much the same meaning as clay and marble combined have to the sculptor. When well made it is so pliant, firm, and yet workable, that there is no form of decorative construction that cannot be undertaken and successfully carried out by those who understand the manner of its application. It may be rolled out flat to a smooth sheet of any thickness, or it may be pressed solidly into moulds. It may be stained with any colour in mass, or painted after it is worked up. The following are some good receipts for its preparation, the sugar being added as a matter of form rather than under the impression that the ornaments made are likely to be eaten, or even edible: (1) Wash 3oz. of gum dragon, p>ut it into an earthenware pan with just enough hot water to cover it, lay a sheet of paper over the pan to keep out the dust, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Then strain it through a coarse cloth, squeezing well, pmt it into a mortar, shake in as much powdered white sugar and powdered starch as the gum water will absorb, pound it well, and then strain again through a cloth into a pan. Keep it covered with a damp cloth till required for use. It may be coloured to any tint required by mixing it with the proper colouring material. (2) Put some picked gum dragon in a jar or basin, add sufficient cold water to cover, and let it remain for two or three days. Put it into a rather coarse piece of canvas or strong cloth, and twist it so that nearly all the gum will pass through the cloth Work in a mortar to make it white and stiff, adding icing sugar. When quite stiff, put it back into jars, and it is ready for use. If required to make ornaments, a little cornflour may be added to make it smooth and workable. (3) Soak a little more than loz. of gum tragacantli in water for twelve hours. When dissolved, squeeze the gum through a towel, put it in a basin, and mix with it, a small quantity at a time, jib. of the finest powdered sugar ; then add Jib. of corn-starch, working it well with a spatula or wooden spoon. Add a drop of liquid blue to whiten it. As the paste begins to stiffen while working in the starch, pull it out, then double it, pull it out again, and so on until all the starch has been used. Mould the paste into whatever shapes are required, then leave them till dry and hard. Colouring1 Gum Paste. This is done by adding any colour while the paste is in a liquid state, mixing it in with the hands. Pink and rose are made with carmine; brown with burnt umber; and the various shades of blue with indigo, cobalt, and ultramarine. Green shades are obtained by mixing yellow and blue or using spinach-green. The uses to which Gum Paste may be applied are almost indefinite; to any purposes of ornamentation it lends its supple consistence, requiring little more than the skilled hand to evoke a series of such exquisite productions that neither alabaster nor marble can excel in appearance. It admits of colouring, taking delicate tints and high tones (gold or silver) with equal facility, and when dried is stronger than potters’ clay. If Gum Paste were better known it would be more highly appreciated than it is; the great drawback to its use is the mistaken notion that ornaments made with it and sugar are represented as edible. Omit the sugar, and give the paste the credit only that is due to it,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 729 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Gum Paste—continued. and moulding or modelling in Gum Paste would soon become a fashionable and artistic amusement. Manu- facturers supplying confectioners’ wares now supply Gum Paste ornaments, fashioned with such skill and after such exquisite designs, at such low rates that it is generally considered waste of time to make them for oneself; but the artist-cook will not rest contented with the work of others, so a few suggestions will be acceptable, bearing in mind that it would be impos- sible to give moi-e than the merest outline of what may be said to constitute an art by itself. A special set of tools are required, to be obtained of any mould- maker, and these, when working, must be continually dipped in powdered starch. Borders in Gum Paste may be made in a variety of ways, but the most simple appears to be to roll the paste out to the required length and thickness on a sheet of paper, white or coloured, lying on another sheet. The border is then cut out with a metal stamp, made for the purpose, and when completed can be raised on the paper, and applied where and in what manner desired. A few patterns, specially designed for this Encyclopaedia by an expert confectioner, are shown at c on the Plate (No. 1), representing a military fruit- trophy. Such borders can be used for almost any purpose, and when coloured or gilt they resemble metal. Stands, vases, baskets, cups, fruits, and a variety of other useful and ornamental articles can be formed with Gum Paste; for instance, a very pretty stand ca.n be worked out on an inverted basin (see A on Plate No. 2, representing a basket for fruit) which has been previously oiled. When the stand has to carry any great weight, it is advisable to strengthen the legs and body with wooden skewers, as shown by the dotted lines. It is then advisable to mix Spanish white with the paste instead of sugar. Supposing this stand to be modelled and worked out satisfactorily, upon a larger basin or mould the bowl of a large vase can be designed, as shown at b. This should also be strengthened by a block of wood supplied with a wooden spike, which fits into the hole (A) in the stand. When these two are dry, the basins can easily be removed, and the vase turned up and fixed to the stand with more paste, producing a very pretty and useful utensil (see d, Plate No. 2), care being taken to set the plug in the hole prepared for it. When dried, this will hold as fast as any plaster or hardened clay, and may be carried about, especially if the legs be set on a flat wooden stand, also covered with paste, and surrounded by an ornamental border. It will be seen that these designs and the fulness of their execution are unlimited, provided moulds are at hand to carry them out. The greatest care must at all times be taken to use wooden blocks and iron or wire frames where strength is required, and the designs should be in harmony with the surroundings. When the basket or vase is used for fruits, it is advisable to set up in the middle a block made hollow out of the paste on a suitable shape, with stages if preferred, and a cup at the top to receive a pine (c) or melon. This stage may be painted green, and covered with leaves, which will, of course, be so arranged as to point between the fruits. So many beautiful designs for this kind of work have been produced by skilful confectioners and paste-workers, that a plate consisting of these and nothing else will be found amongst the pages of this Encyclopaedia, each design having the necessary blocks and supports shown in dotted lines. Some very useful ideas will be found under Moulding, especially as concerns flowers, fruit, and figures. GURNETS or GURNARDS (Fr. Rougets; Ger. Seehahn).—If it were possible to see these fish (the red variety) in their native sphere, the deep rocky parts of the sea, and watch them in their sporting gambols as Gurnets or Gurnards—continued. the sun shines upon them, a more beautiful and fanciful sight it would be scarcely possible to conceive. All the colours of a sunset are displayed in their unique colouring, reflected by glittering scales and huge spiny fins. Kettner, in his description of the fish, first con- fuses them with the gruntes, and then continues, “ The ancients called him a lyre, and supposed him to be under the special protection of Apollo; its shape and aq>pearance are suggestive of this instrument. Those who eat him can make a guess what flying-fisli is like —for the flying-fish, beloved of poets, is a Gurnard. So also are the sticklebacks, which engaged the philo- sophical mind of Mr. Pickwick.” The Gurnet is a sea-going fish of the genus Trigla, and is found chiefly along the British coasts, there being some varieties which frequent other European waters, the best known to us being the Red Gurnet (see Pig. 906), but about the coast of Cornwall a Grey Gurnet is found, and another fish of the same kind called a piper. Their heads are huge and unsightly, with long, broad, flat, foreheads and noses, defended on both sides by spines and plates of strong armour. The flesh is firm and well flavoured, and the fish can be cooked in various ways when fresh, or can be split open and dried. See Piping. Baked Gurnet. —(1) Scale and clean a Gurnet, and fill its belly with veal stuffing; sew it up (see Fish), and truss it with its tail in its mouth. Put a little butter in a saute- pan, and add 1 wineglassful of sherry and 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped shallots. Brush the fish over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and put a few pieces of butter over it. Place the fish in the pan, and put it in a hot oven for thirty minutes or so. Take it out when done, remove the packing, and place it on a dish. Add 12 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce to the liquor in the saute-pan, and 4 table-spoonfuls of good broth, table- spoonful of essence of anchovy, and i teaspoonful of moist sugar. Boil up quickly for five minutes, pour it on the dish round the fish, brown with a salamander, and serve hot. (2) Clean and scale a large Gurnet, chop off its head, and remove the inside. Mask a deep dish with butter, and put at the bottom a layer of mixed minced parsley, chives, and sweet herbs well seasoned with salt and pepper; then put in the fish, cover with another layer of the minced herbs, put small pieces of butter here and there on the top, melt this before the fire, then cover all with fine breadcrumbs, and bake to a good brown. Prepare a sauce with chopped parsley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms, seasoned with salt and pepper, moistened with broth, and simmered on a gentle fire. When the Gurnet is baked, thicken the sauce730 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gurnets or Gurnards—continued. with a liaison of flour and butter, pour it into a dish, carefully place the baked Gurnet in the centre, and serve. (3) Fry 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls each of finely-minced mush- rooms and shallots in butter. Mix them with plenty of bread- crumbs, and add finely-chopped sweet herbs and parsley to taste. Season with salt and pepper, and work the mixture into a paste with loz. of butter, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs, and a small quantity of milk. Stuff the Gurnet with this, and fasten it with packthread. Thickly butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with a few slices of carrot and onion, and lay in the fish. Add a few sprigs of parsley, a few cloves and peppercorns, and salt to taste. Pour round it £ pint of stock and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake the fish from half- to three-quarters-of-an-hour, according to the size, basting it occasionally with the liquor in the dish. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small saucepan, mix them smoothly ovei; the fire, strain in the cooking- liquor of the fish, and stir until smooth and boiling ; colour the sauce with a little burnt sugar, place the fish on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Garnet.—(1) Clean and truss a Gurnet, put it into a fish-kettle with salted water, place the kettle on the fire, and when the water begins to boil remove the pan to the side and let it simmer gently until the fish is quite done. Take it out, drain well, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauce-tureenful of caper sauce, some of which may be poured over the fish. (2) Clean and scale a Gurnet, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water over a moderate fire, and simmer for from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size. Place it on a napkin on a dish, surround it with parsley, and serve with a little anchovy sauce in a boat. (3) Scale and clean a Gurnet, opening it at the belly, stuff with veal stuffing, sew it up, and tie the tail and head together by passing a jiiece of string through the eye-holes and fastening it round the tail. If there is any roe, it may be either mixed up with the stuffing or boiled separately and served to garnish the dish. Place the Gurnet in a fish- kettle, add sufficient water to cover it, and boil for about thirty minutes. Take it out, put it on a dish (having removed the string), and serve with anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. Bed Gurnets are generally preferred, as they are showy, firm, white fleshed, of good flavour, and more digestible than grey Gurnets. Fillets of Gurnet a l’ltalienne.—Skin a couple of Gurnets, cut off the fillets, and put them into a saute-pan with a little butter; sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour over the juice of half a lemon. Place the pan on the fire, and cook the fillets until quite white. Take them out, and put 1 teaspoonful of chopped shallots in the pan with 2 table- spoonfuls of white wine; stir it over the fire for a minute, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of white sauce, C table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of veal broth, 1 tea- spoonful of" chopped mushrooms, | teaspoonful of parsley also chopped, a little lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Mix well, put the fish on a dish, and pour over the sauce. Fillets of Gurnet a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take off the skin, and cut off the fillets of four small Gurnets; put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and add a little salt, pepper, minced parsley, and lemon-juice to season. Place the pan over a slow fire for about five minutes; turn the fillets, and cook them on the other side for another five minutes; then put them in a circle on a dish. Add 12 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of white sauce to the liquor in the pan, sprinkle in a little more chopped parsley and lemon-juice, and boil over a quick fire for ten minutes ; then add a pat of butter, sugar, and salt, and mix in 4 table- spoonfuls of milk. Stir well, pour it over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Gurnet en Matelotes.—Remove the skin from four small fish and cut off the fillets, cut each one again in halves, dip them first in egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling oil, and fry until done and of a light brown colour. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, arrange the fillets in the centre, pour matelote sauce over them, and serve. Gurnets or Gurnards—continued. Fillets of Gurnet en Turban.—From a household loaf cut out a piece of the crumb in the shape of a cone, set it in a metal dish with the narrow end downwards (see Fig. 907), cover the cone with slices of fat bacon thickly spread with well-seasoned forcemeat, and stick round sufficient fillets of Gurnet to form a turban. Garnish with a few small Fig. 907. Fillets of Gurnet en Turban. rounds of truffles, moisten with warmed butter and lemon- juice, and cover over all the fish with more slices of fat bacon, then with pieces of buttered paper; put the turban into the oven, and bake until the whole is done. Carefully remove the paper and outside slices of bacon, pour a thick tomato sauce round the dish, and serve. Fillets of Gurnet Sautes served with Tomato Sauce.— Clean one or two Gurnets, wash them well and cut into fillets, and then into pieces about ^in. in thickness, keeping them of uniform size. Put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and toss over the fire for a few minutes until they are done. Take them out, drain, put them in a circle on a dish, fill the cavity with tomato sauce, and serve. Fried Fillets of Gurnet.—Skin a Gurnet, chop off the head, tail, and fins, cut the fish into fillets, and fry in plenty of boiling fat. Drain, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with crab sauce. HACHE.—Fr. for chopped up into small pieces, from which we derive our “ hash.” HADDOCKS {Fr. Aigrefins; Ger. Schellfisch).— Along the northern coasts of Europe and America these fish are very plentiful, but the best quality are those which are caught along the coast of Devonshire and Cornwall; those also caught in Dublin Bay being especially famous. They are allied to the cod, being marked with a similar lateral line, but differing in that they show a dark spot on each side of the body, just behind the gills, which are said to be the marks of the finger and thumb of St. Peter, indicating where he held the fish when he compelled one of its kind to disgorge the tribute money. A similar story is told of the John Dory. Scotland is especially famous not only for the mode of cooking Haddocks, but also for their preparation by drying and smoking. The rizzared (dried) Haddock is a Scotch national dish, but the “ Finnan haddie ” has spread culinary joy over Europe. Finnan, or Findon, is a hamlet about six miles from Aberdeen, and to the fishermen residing in that locality we are indebted for the best preserved fish in the market; although it is much to be feared that the name has extended to districts where considerably less care is exercised in the process of drying and curing, not a few Finnan Haddies, or Dickies, being cured in the slums of London, and that when the fish are not quite as fresh as they should be. Fresh Haddocks cannot be cooked too soon after catching, as from the extraordinary gummy character of their flesh and skin, decomposition quickly sets in. Before cooking, the Haddock should be thoroughly cleansed, its fins and tails cut close (see Fig. 908) with a pair of sharp scissors, and the interior dusted over731 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Haddocks—continued. or rubbed with salt. Small Haddocks are often skinned and trussed like whiting, with their tails in their mouths, but the trick is easily discovered by a careful examination of the fish. The Haddock is coarser and darker coloured than the whiting. Fig. 908. Fresii Haddock trimmed for Cooking. Baked Haddock.—(1) Clean a Haddock, remove the eyes, trim it, and pass its tail through the cavity of the eyes, or the tail may be tied to its mouth. Chop 2oz. of fat bacon and a little green parsley to a mince, mix these with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, a little salt and pepper, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and an egg to make it into a stiff paste. Stuff the fish with the mixture, and sew it up. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a basin, work into it 1 table- spoonful of water, pour on 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and mix in loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Pour this into a baking-tin, put the fish on it, place the pan in a moderate oven, and bake . for an hour, basting frequently, or until done, without it taking colour. It may be served in the baking-tin placed in a dish, or taken out and put on a dish ; but the fish requires very careful handling, or it will break to pieces when moved and thus spoil the appearance. The sauce can be poured round it. A few skinned shrimps, added to the sauce when it is about half cooked, are a great improve- ment, and the dish may be garnished with crayfish-tails. (2) Clean and draw a Haddock, and stuff it with the following: Put the crumb of a roll in a little milk, soak it well, and then squeeze as dry as possible by twisting it in a cloth; put it in a saucepan with Joz. of butter, set the pan over the fire, and work about until the contents are quite stiff; stir in the yolk of an egg, the juice and grated peel of a lemon, a little dried and sifted thyme, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, the same of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Sew up the fish, and put it in a baking- dish with a little sauce, made as follows: Put an onion into a saucepan with | pint of milk, and boil it for fifteen minutes; remove the onion, and stir in smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour to thicken the liquor, also 1 tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, or a handful of skinned shrimps, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour this over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes, basting frequently with the liquor, and taking care not to let the fish brown in cooking. Should the sauce get too thick, dilute it with a little hot water and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Lay the Haddock on a dish, but be careful that it is not broken in moving, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Clean and draw a Dublin Bay Haddock, stuff it with veal stuffing, sew it up, and tie its tail in its mouth. Bub over it £Ib. of butter, put it on a baking-sheet, place in a moderate oven, and bake for three hours. Lay it on a dish when done, pour fish sauce round, and serve. (4) Clean and thoroughly dry a Haddock, fill the inside with veal stuffing, sew it up, and curl it round by fasten- ing the tail into the mouth. Brush it all over with beaten egg, and cover with sifted breadcrumbs ; if sufficient bread- crumbs to cover it do not adhere at once, let it dry, egg a second time, and again dip it in the crumbs. Lay it in a buttered baking-tin, put it in a hot oven, and bake for half-an-hour or longer, according to the size of the fish. (5) Clean the fish, remove the scales and fins, and wash and dry it. Finely chop 2oz. of beef-suet, and mix it with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, { teaspoonful of mixed parsley, and a small quantity of mixed herbs, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Stuff the fish with the mixture, and sew it up. Dip it in well-beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs. Butter a baking-dish, lay the fish in it, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, plaoe it on a hot dish, over which has been Haddocks—continued. spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter sauce. (6) Clean and wash a large Haddock, stuff it with a mix- ture of highly-seasoned forcemeat, put it into a baking-dish in a hot oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes, basting frequently with rich gravy. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. Care must be taken in stuffing the fish not to fill it too full, or it may break and spoil the effect. (7) Bemove the tail and fins of a large Haddock, leaving the head on, and clean and dry it. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs into a basin with £ table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, a small quantity of chopped thyme, and a dust of salt and pepper, and bind the mixture with beaten egg. Stuff the fish with the mixture, and sew the sides together with thread. Butter a baking-disli, lay the fish on it, brusli over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, strew breadcrumbs over it, and bake in a moderate oven, basting it occasionally with butter. In about three-quarters- of-an-hour’s time the fish should be sufficiently baked; then lay it on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Boiled Haddock.—(1) Clean a fish, taking out the eyes, and put it in a dish with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar poured over it. Let it remain in this for an hour or so, turning it frequently. Put two onions, one turnip, and one carrot (all cut up small) into a saucepan with £gall. of water, and boil them, adding a little mace, twelve peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When it has boiled for an hour, strain, pour the liquor into a fish-kettle, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt. Put in the fish, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for thirty minutes or so, until it is quite done. It should on no account be allowed to boil, for if it does the skin will crack, and the fish be tough. Take the fish out on a strainer, put it on a hot dish, and serve with a little of the liquor in a tureen. (2) Truss the Haddock with its tail in its mouth, and secure it with string. Put it into a fish-kettle with some salted water, set the kettle on the fire, and when the water commences to boil take out the fish, for it is then probably done, drain it, and serve. It may also be tied in the shape of an S. A large fish may not be quite done when the water boils, but will require to be cooked a little longer. (3) Curl the fish round, after it has been well cleaned and wiped dry, fasten its tail in its mouth, and put it over the fire in a fish-kettle, with cold water sufficient to cover it; throw in 1 dessert-spoonful of salt and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and allow about three minutes’ boiling to each pound of fish. Serve hot, with oyster or shrimp sauce. (4) Clean a Dublin Bay Haddock, and make three or four transverse incisions in the sides about lin. in depth. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover it with salt, and leavo for twelve hours or so. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, plunge the fish in this, and simmer on the side of the fire for about thirty minutes. When done, put the fish on a napkin folded and spread on a dish, and garnish with plain boiled parsnips and parsley. Serve with egg sauce in a tureen. Boiled Haddocks with Crab Sauce.—Put the heads, fins, and skins of four Haddocks in a saucepan over the fire with igall. of water, together with a bit of veal, three peeled onions, a small bunch of parsley, a little black pepper, cayenne, and salt, the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, the strained juice of a lemon, and J pint of white wine, and boil gently for an hour. Make some forcemeat with the meat of a small boiled Haddock minced, and mixed with some chopped parsley, sifted breadcrumbs, grated nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and the beaten whites of two eggs. Boll this forcemeat into balls, and fry them a light brown in boiling lard. Strain the liquor, and put it back over the fire ; add 2oz. of butter, with flour kneaded in it, stir till it boils, and boil for ten minutes; draw it to the side of the fire, and stir in three well-beaten eggs mixed with £ pint of cream. Add and stir in the meat of a crab chopped fine and the forcemeat balls, and let the sauce get very hot, butTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 732 referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., Haddocks —continued. do not let it boil. Have the other three Haddocks boiled and just ready to dish, take them up, lay in a deep dish, pour the hot sauce over, and serve immediately. Boiled Haddock masked with Jelly.—Clean a Haddock, wash it carefully, and tie its tail in its mouth. Put 1 pint of water and ^ pint of vinegar in a saucepan, and boil with five or six slices of onion, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spice, and bay-leaf, pepper, and salt to taste When it has been boiling for a short time, put it on one side, and let it get quite cold. Put in the fish, boil it up, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Take out the fish, let it cool a little, and then brush it over with clear aspic jelly, repeating the operation as soon as one coating has set. Place it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. Boiled Haddock served with Lobster Sauce. Wash } the fish, then put it into a fish-kettle with boiling water to cover it, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil gently for about thirty minutes. Pick out the flesh of a small lobster, and cut it into small pieces; put the coral in a mortar, with loz. of butter, and pound it. Put 3oz. of butter in a small saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; then put in the pounded coral, and season with 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and a small quantity of cayenne. Pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Strain the sauce, return it to the saucepan, put in the pieces of Lobster, and boil up once. When cooked, drain the fish, being careful not to break it, put it on a hot dish, baste with a small quantity of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Boiled Haddock with Mushroom Sauce. —Clean a Had- dock, tie it in a circle, with its tail in its mouth, put it in a fish-kettle with a little water, and add two or three peppercorns, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and a little salt. Place the kettle on the fire, and boil until the fish is done. Put it on a dish, garnish with stewed mushrooms (see Fig. 909), and serve with mushroom sauce in a sauceboat. Fig. 909. Coiled Haddock with Mushroom Sauce. The sauce should be made as follows: Put half-a-dozen mushrooms in a saucepan with a pat of butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook until tender; cut them up small, put them, with their liquor, into a saucepan, with a little butter sauce, and simmer gently for two or three minutes. Let the mushrooms be large, or if small use double or treble the quantity. Broiled Haddock.— (1) Clean and wash a fresh Haddock, dry it on a cloth, rub it over with vinegar, and dust witli flour; put it on a well-greased gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for about fifteen minutes, turning frequently. When done, place it on a dish, and serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce. (2) Clean and wash a fresh Haddock, put it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let it remain until the skin begins to rise; then brush it over with egg, cover with, breadcrumbs, and lastly with flour. Place the fish on a hot, slightly-greased gridiron, put a small lump of butter on the top, and broil slowly for about half-an-hour. When done, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with any fish sauce. (3) Clean a fish, and cut it open to remove the bone, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, and hang it up Haddocks—continued. in a draughty place for about twelve hours. Brush it over thickly with butter slightly warmed, put it on a grid- iron, with the skin downwards, over a clear fire, and cook for twenty-five minutes, or until it is done. Brush over with a little more softened butter, and serve. (4) Clean a Haddock and cut it open, wipe it quite dry, and rub well with salad-oil. Dredge over with flour, place it on a gridiron over a brisk fire, and broil until done (it will take about twenty or twenty-five minutes, according to size). Work the juice of half a lemon into loz. of softened butter, and season it with \ table-spoonful of parsley, blanched, dried, and very finely minced. Put this on a dish, place the fish on it, and serve very hot. Fillets of Haddock Sautes.—(1) Season some fillets of Haddock with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry over a slow fire. Put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 scant table-spoonfuls of flour ; stir it by the side of the fire till mixed, then pour in 1 pint of water, and continue stirring over the fire till it commences to boil; add 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a little salt and pepper. Mix with the sauce 4oz. of butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and the juice of half a lemon ; stir it by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Separate the fillets from the bones of the Haddocks, rub the fillets well with flour, then dip them in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Pour some oil in a saute-pan, make it hot, put in the fillets, and fry. When browned, drain them, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy butter, melted, but not boiled. Fried Fillets of Haddocks.—(1) Skin and clean a Haddock, cut the flesh into fillets, trimming them into pieces about 6in. long, dip them into well-beaten egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs. Take care that they are well covered, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a rich colour, turning them over so as to cook both sides. Take them out, drain, put them on a cloth spread over a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of Dutch sauce. (2) Cut six fillets from a fresh Haddock, and dip them first into flour, then egg, and lastly breadcrumbs. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or oil, and fry until done. Place them on a napkin on a dish, garnish round with watercress, and serve with a little anchovy butter melted in a boat. The skin should not be removed when the fillets are cut off. Fried Haddock.—Cut open a good-sized Haddock, brush it over with egg, cover it with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, chives, lemon thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the fish into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done and of a good brown colour. Put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. Grilled Haddock.—Clean and wash a Haddock, wipe it dry with a cloth, brush over with oil, and flour it. Put it on a warmed gridiron over a clear fire, and broil, turning over so as to cook both sides. Place it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of any fish sauce or melted butter. Fig. 910. Haddock a la Mai the d’Hotel. Haddock a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean a Haddock, and cut it open at the back on each side of the bone, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip it in flour, place on a gridiron over aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ebe., referred to, see under their special heads. Haddocks—continued. clear fire, and cook for about twenty minutes, turning care- fully. Put 2oz. of maitre-d’hotel butter on tbe back of tlie fish, set it in the oven to melt the butter, then place the fish on a dish, pour round 2oz. more of the butter mixed with 6 table-spoonfuls of common butter melted in a saucepan over the fire, and made quite hot. See Fig. 910. Haddock a la Sir Walter Scott.—This receipt is given by Soyer as the mode in which he prepared a dish of Scotch fish for a banquet given in honour of the great Scotch author. Clean a large Haddock, and cut it into four equal-sized pieces. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup, Harvey sauce, and sherry, and 1 breakfast-cupful of liquefied butter. Set the pan on the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring well without ceasing; then drop in the pieces of Haddock, and cook them for about twenty minutes. When these are done, take them out, and arrange on a dish ; reduce the sauce a little, adding a little sugar and essence of anchovy, and pour it over the fish. Haddock Creams served with Mushrooms and Oysters. —Remove the skin and bones from a fresh Haddock, cut the flesh into small pieces, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put i table-spoonful of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; then stir in gradually 1 teacupful of milk. When the thickened milk boils, mix it with the fish, add 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a very small quantity of cayenne. Butter some dariole-moulds, fill them with the Cream, and tie pieces of paper over the top. Stand the moulds in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Boil the bones of the Haddock with about 1 breakfast-cupful of water to extract their flavour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, stir it till mixed, then add 1 teacupful of the strained liquor of the bones, the liquor of six oysters, I teacupful of liquor from tinned mushrooms, and a few drops of anchovy sauce. Stir the mixture over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. • Warm separately a few tinned mushrooms and half-a-dozen oysters. Turn the Creams out of the moulds on to a hot dish, put the oysters and mushrooms in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Haddock Pudding's.-—Skin and bone two moderate-sized Haddocks, put the flesh in a mortar, pound until smooth, then pass it through a fine sieve. Grate an equal quantity of stale bread, pour as much boiling- milk over as it will absorb, let it soak, then mix with the Haddock, and add a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley; pass the mixture through the sieve again, season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with three well-beaten eggs. Divide the mass into moderate-sized quantities, which mould into rolls with floured hands; put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. To make the sauce, the trimmings and bones of the Haddocks should be put into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, lj pints of water, an onion, a small piece of toasted bread, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Boil the water until well flavoured, then strain it into a clean stewpan, thicken it with flour and butter, and flavour with a few drops of mushroom ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, and a small pinch of cayenne pepper. As the sauce will take some time longer to prepare than the fish puddings, it should be made before the puddings are put in to boil. When cooked, put the puddings on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Haddock Soup.—(1) Separate the fillets from the bones of two large Haddocks, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, dust over with salt and pepper, and lay them in a buttered frying- pan. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish in a saucepan with 41b. of leg of beef cut into pieces, two or three onions, carrots, and turnips, a few allspice, and sufficient water to make the required quantity of soup, and boil gently at the side of the fire until well flavoured. Chop and pound in a mortar -jib. of lean ham with ilb. of butter, and season with moderate quantities of powdered thyme, marjoram, parsley, and basil; put the mixture over the fire in a stewpan, stir it for a few minutes, then dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of Haddocks—continued. flour, and stir until cooked. Strain the liquor from the beef and fish-bones, add it gradually to the mixture, stir until smooth, then boil for an hour longer; now mix with it 1 wine- glassful of red wine, and season to taste with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. Blanch and beard a few fine oysters, and mix them and their liquor in the soup. Fry the fillets of Haddock, and when lightly browned, drain them as free from fat as possible, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (2) Cut off all the flesh from a large fresh Haddock, put it into a mortar with 1 pint of skinned shrimps, and pound them well; add the crumb of a French roll and a little finely- chopped parsley, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Turn the whole into a saucepan, add one well-beaten egg, pour- in igall. of warmed rich broth, season to taste with mace, cayenne, salt, and pepper, place the lid on the saucepan, and boil slowly for half-an-hour. Rub the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add a thickening of butter well rolled in flour, boil for a few minutes, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve. Haddock Toasts.—Skin and bone a Haddock, and cut it up in small pieces. Cut some slices of bread, put them in a frying- pan with butter or clarified fat, fry till of a bright golden brown on both sides, and drain them on paper near the fire. Put the fish in a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a few drops of anchovy essence (or this may be omitted if objected to), and toss it about over the fire until hot. Spread the fish on the bread, and lean them against a fried bread crouton placed in the centre of the dish, then rub the yolks of one or two hard-boiled eggs through a wire sieve over them, and strew a small quantity of chopped parsley over also (see Fig. 911). Serve very hot. Dried Haddocks are first salted and then dried, and may he either smoked or not. The Scotch “rizzared” Haddock is merely salted and dried in the sun, and Sir "Walter Scott in his Waverley Novels ” alluded to it frequently; hut the finnan Haddock, or haddie, under- goes also a process of smoking, which gives to it a strong flavour that is widely appreciated. Baked Smoked Haddock.—Put the Haddock into a pan, pour some boiling water over, take it out, put it in another pan, mask with a little butter, pepper well, and bake in a hot oven for eight or ten minutes. It must be served quite hot. Boiled Dried Haddock.—(1) Take off the skin of a dried Haddock by holding it in front of the fire to warm, and then cut the fish lengthwise in halves, or it may be cut two or three times across. Put it into a saucepan with a little butter and 1 teacupful of water, cover over the pan, place it on the fire, and cook for a few minutes only, for it is quickly done. Take it out of the water, drain, lay it on a dish, and serve. (2) Put a dried Haddock into a flat saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, and cover over with a plate. Let it remain at the side of the fire where it will not simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Take it out, hold it in front of the fire for a few minutes, rub over with butter, and serve. (3) Warm the Haddock in front of the fire until the skin can be easily peeled off; cut the fish up into small pieces, put them into a hot basin with a bay-leaf and a few sweet herbs, cover with boiling water, and put a plate on the top. Stand the basin on the stove, and leave it for ten minutes. Work 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a small quantity of lemon-juice with 2oz. of butter. When ready,TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 734 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Haddocks—con tinned. drain the fish, place it on a very hot dish, spread the prepared butter over, garnish with parsley, and serve with as little delay as possible. Broiled Smoked Haddock.—Brush a fish over with butter softened by warming, sprinkle pepper over, place it on a gridiron over the fire, and broil until done, or it may be cooked in front of the fire. Serve hot. Dried-Haddock Brittens.— Put the fish in soak the night before it is wanted, then on the following morning scrape and wash it in plenty of water. Put Jib- of flour in a basin, and mix it smoothly with sufficient water to make a thin batter, put in it, in moderate quantities, some finely-chopped onion, parsley, and a small quantity of finely-chopped red peppers. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when boiling, drop about 1 teacupful of the batter into it, and lay a piece ol the fish in it; fry it until brown, then cover the fish with more batter and turn it over. When nicely fried on both sides, drain the fritters, and proceed the same with the remainder of the fish and batter. Pile them on a hot dish Fig. 912. Dried-Haddock Fritters. with a dish-paper or folded napkin on it (see Fig. 912). and serve. These fritters should be fried very slowly, to ensure the fish being properly cooked. Dried-Haddock Toasts.—Finely chop |lb. of dried Haddock and two gherkins, put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, season with pepper and salt, and stir them over the fire till hot. Cut some slices of bread, fry them till golden brown in butter, then drain them. Put a heap of the fish mixture on each of the toasts, sprinkle some over with lobster coral that has been passed through a fine hair sieve, some with finely-chopped parsley, and the remainder with finely-chopped white of hard-boiled eggs, and the yolk passed through a fine hair sieve. Arrange the croutons tastefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Dried Haddock with Tomatoes.—Soak a dried Haddock in cold water for several hours, then drain it, pour boiling water over, and leave it for about two hours longer. After- wards skin and bone it, and break the flesh into flakes with two forks. Peel and slice a moderate-sized onion, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry it. When the onion is cooked, put in a sliced ripe tomato, fry it for three or four minutes, then put in the fish, dust over with pepper, and strew in a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Toss the contents of the saucepan about over the fire until the fish is thoroughly heated, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Pried Smoked Haddock.—Soak a Haddock in olive oil for several hours, then put it in a frying-pan with the oil, and fry until done. Pepper well, and serve. HAGGIS.—This famous Scotch national dish is commonly regarded, excepting by the Scotch, as one of those mysterious concoctions that are rather to be avoided than courted. It has the merit, at any rate, of an ancient history, and lias been immortalised by Robert Burns as the “ Great Chieftain of the Pudding Race.” It will be seen hereunder that there is nothing mysterious about the manufacture, so perhaps there is a chance that its popularity may spread in time, especially Haggis—continued. as it is possible to manufacture a Haggis in Scotland and forward it to any part of the world. We are informed by a Scotch publication that “ a Haggis boiled for two hours may be kept for a week or two, and when cold gets so firm that Haggises are often sent from Scotland to distant countries. They must in this case be made very dry, and covered with oatmeal; nor will a Haggis keep so well if there is onion put to it.” It is satisfactory to learn that the Haggis can be served turned out of the sheep's paunch, if the shape of the pudding is not desired. The term Haggis is derived from the word hack, with which is associated the French hacher, to chop up, the Haggis consisting, as will be seen by the following receipts, in the chopping up of sheep’s fry and other parts, and has no reference whatever to the paunch, or pluck, in which the meat is contained. (1) This is the famous Meg Dod’s receipt: Clean a sheep’s paunch or stomach, washing it well in several waters. Soak it in salted water and let it remain for several hours, turn it inside out, and scald in a basin of boiling water. Scrape it well—taking care not to cut it or make any thin places in it, as they would burst in cooking— and put it in cold water until wanted for use. Clean a sheep’s pluck, and let the blood out of the liver and heart by pricking them all over. Put the liver and lights into a saucepan of water, and boil for fifteen minutes ; change the water, boil for forty- five minutes longer, add the rest of the pluck, and boil for another thirty minutes, making an-honr-and-a-half in all. Remove any part of the skin that is discoloured, take out the liver, cut it in halves, grate one half of it, and mince the other half with the remainder of the pluck. Mince lib. of beef-suet and two onions, and mix them in with 1 breakfast- cupful of well-dried oatmeal, 1 table-spoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, a little grated nutmeg and cayenne, a little lemon-juice, and 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy. When they are well incorporated, put the mixture in the paunch, sew it up, leaving room for swelling in cooking, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, boil up, place it at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three hours, pricking it a little when first cooking to let out the air and prevent it bursting. Immediately it is taken out of the saucepan it Fig. 913. Haggis. must be placed on a dish (see Fig. 913) and served. Sufficient gravy will be found inside as soon as it is cut without the addition of any more served with it. A little beef may also be used in the mixture, but it is not an improvement. If a lamb’s paunch is used, as it sometimes is, great care must be taken to see that all the thin places are sewn up. A calf’s paunch may be used if desired, but the sheep’s is the best. (2) If possible procure the stomach of a sheep, wash the bags in several waters, rubbing well with salt to purify them, then scald them in boiling water. Scrape the bags very carefully with a knife so as not to cut any part of the membrane. Prepare a strong brine, and soak the bags in it for twelve hours. Wash the lights, liver, and heart thoroughly, and hang them up to dry for twelve hours. Put the lights, heart, and liver into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil gently. Take the small bag with the windpipe attached, wash it free of the brine, put it into a saucepan by itself, leaving the pipe hanging outside the pan, pour in735 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Haggis—continued. plenty of water, and boil slowly; it will require about the same time for cooking as the lights, &e., the whole taking about two hours. Drain them when cooked, and trim off all the sinewy parts or gristle. Chop a third part of the liver, and rub it through a wire sieve into a basin; chop rather coarsely the heart, the small bag, and 6oz. or 7oz. of mutton-suet, mix them with the minced liver, and stir in 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of coarse Scotch oatmeal. It must be Scotch oatmeal, as English oatmeal would not answer the purpose at all. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with some of the liquor in which the lights, &c., were boiled, but do not make it too liquid— about 1 breakfast-cupful should be a sufficient quantity. Leave the mixture in the basin for half-an-hour or so, then stuff it into the large bag that has been soaking in the brine, and sew it up securely, using some very strong thread for the purpose. Plunge the Haggis into a large saucepan of boiling water, putting a plate underneath to keep it from sticking at the bottom. Boil it quickly for an-hour-and-a- half, pricking the bag occasionally with a skewer to prevent it bursting, and pouring in more boiling water as the quantity diminishes. Directly the Haggis is taken out of the saucepan, serve it on a hot dish. It will not require either garnish or sauce. (3) Prepare the heart, liver, and lights of a sheep, parboil them, chop up very fine, removing all the sinewy parts, and mix in ^lb. of finely-shred beef-suet, a few chopped onions, salt and pepper to taste, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of slightly- baked oatmeal. Make the whole into a paste by adding- reduced broth. Clean and wash the paunch, boil it in salted water for a few minutes, then stuff it with the heart and liver mixture, sew it up securely, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for about three hours. Take it out when done, and serve. If preferred, the paunch may be done without, and the Haggis may be fastened round with a stiff paste. (4) Clean and prepare the heart, tongue, and liver of a sheep, chop them up fine with a little more than half their bulk of fat bacon, and mix in the grated crumb of a French roll and the rind of a lemon, two anchovies boned and finely chopped, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Put the whole into a pan, add two well-beaten eggs and 1 wineglassful of wine, mix all thoroughly, turn the preparation into a basin or mould, tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about two hours. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (5) Finely chop the heart, kidneys, tongue, and a little of the liver of a sheep, mix with it a third of the combined weight in chopped fat bacon, and two anchovies, also the grated crumb of a French roll, a little grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper to taste, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 wineglassful of wine. When thoroughly mixed, put it into a mould or a clean calf’s caul, place it in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil for fully two hours. Serve hot. Hake—continued. cut root of this fin, that is if the part bearing it is left to denounce the fraud. Hake are seasonable at almost all times, and can be prepared in many tasty ways; especially as the backbone can easily be removed with the fingers when cleaning the fish, and practically there are few other bones to be in the way of the conversion of the flesh into almost any kind of fish dish, especially those suitable and prescribed for Cod. Pried Hake Cutlets.—Clean a large Hake, cut it lengthwise into cutlets, dry them with a cloth, dip them first into egg and then into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good brown colour. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried sprigs of parsley for garnish. Roasted Hake.—Clean a good-sized Hake, and stuff it with highly-seasoned veal stuffing ; sew it up, fasten its tail in its i mouth, and place it in a round baking-dish. Pour 1 gill of cream over it, place it in the oven, and roast until done. 1 Serve in the dish in which it was cooked, with a little butter sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and the liquor from the fish, mixed together and put in a tureen. Stewed Hake.—Put lib. of Hake, cut up in slices and rubbed well with flour, into a frying-pan, and fry to a light brown. Put a stick of celery and a very small chopped onion in a saucepan, fry them a little, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of stock with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour stirred in smoothly, a little lemon-peel, mace, peppercorns, parsley, and salt. Place the pan on the fire, boil up, put in the fish, remove the pan to the side, and let the contents simmer for about fifteen minutes. Place the pieces of fish on a dish, strain the gravy over, and serve. A little white of hard-boiled egg, finely minced, may be worked in the gravy just before serving, and the hard-boiled yolk grated over the dish for a garnish. Stewed Slices of Hake with Fried Mussels.—Clean a Hake and cut off three slices from the thickest part. Stew these in well-seasoned stock, with a little celery and onion, Imitation Haggis.—(1) Mix up mashed potatoes with an equal quantity of pieces of cold cooked beef cut up small, put this in a baking-dish with a little butter on the top, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and bake in a quick oven till done. (2) Mince up any beef or mutton, taking care to have plenty of fat, and mix it with half the quantity of coarse oatmeal well browned before a clear fire; add a few minced onions and a little salt and pepper, put the mixture in a pie-dish, place it in the oven, bake for thirty minutes, and serve. HAEE.—Ail authority on fish informs us that the flesh of the Hake (Merlucius vulgaris) is superior to haddock and plaice in flavour, digestibility, and nutri- tious qualities; but although eaten by the inhabitants of the coasts along which it is caught, it never finds its way inland. If this writer could visit some of the inland fish- markets he would see that Hake is frequently sold, and at a very low price ; and when cut up is sometimes palmed off upon the unwary for cod. The word Hake is a derivative of hook, in allusion to the peculiar hook-like fin just behind the neck (see Fig. 914), which is always cut away by the fishmonger when he desires to convert Hake into cod. A sharp or ex- perienced buyer would know a cod from a Hake by the Fig. 915. Stewed Slices of Hake with Fried Mussels. as for Stewed Hake. When done, arrange the slices on a dish, leaning one upon another; garnish the dish with fried mussels (see Fig. 915), and serve the gravy in a tureen. HALF-FISH.—A common name for a salmon when half-grown. HALF-GLAZE.—See Glaze. HALIBUT (Fr. Fletan; Ger. Heilbutte).—This fish takes its name from the Old English liali—holy, and but—a flounder, signifying therefore a holy-flounder, or one to be eaten on high days and holidays. It is known736 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Halibut—continued. amongst cooks as the “ workhouse turbot,” on account of its enormous size (some weighing as much as 3001b.) and the coarse quality of its flesh. By the Jews it is highly prized, having the reputation of being a very clean-feeding fish. Fig. 916. Halibut. The Halibut (see Fig. 916) is of the flounder tribe (Pleuronectidce), and is sometimes confounded with the American fluke, of which it is, perhaps, the European representative. It may be cooked in a variety of ways, the following modes being considered the more desirable, because of their strong seasoning : Baked Halibut.—(1) Take 31b. or 41b. of the fish, and remove the dark skin by dipping the part covered with it into boiling water, and scraping. Rub the flesh over with salt and pepper, put it in a baking-pan, and pour over milk to about the depth of lin. in the pan. Place the pan in the oven, and bake for about an hour, basting frequently with the milk. Take out the fish, remove the bone and skin, put it on a dish in its original shape, and serve with egg sauce, cream sauce, or plain drawn butter. Garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs; or it may be served with breadcrumbs sprinkled over, and tomato sauce in a tureen. (2) Lay the fish in layers in a deep pie-dish, strewing over each layer a small quantity of mixed spice, salt and pepper, and packing them down closely. For every pound of Halibut mix together 1 table-spoonful of light dinner- ale, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pour the mixture over the fish, place some small pieces of butter on the top, put the fish in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Take the fish out of the oven, and let it get cold before serving. Boiled Halibut.— Put a piece of Halibut weighing 21b. in a saucepan, and cover it with fresh water; add one sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a bouquet garni; season with 1 handful of salt, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put on the lid, and cook gently for five minutes after coming to the boiling-point; then lift out the fish, drain well, dress it on a hot dish, and serve with anchovy butter spread all over. Broiled Halibut. —Cut some slices from a Halibut, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put them in a dish, cover with warmed butter, and leave for thirty minutes. Roll them in flour, and broil over a very clear Are for twelve minutes. Place them on a dish with a garnish of parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. The slices of Halibut should be about lin. thick, and 3 table-spoonfuls of butter be used for every pound weight of fish. Broiled Halibut with Maitre-d’Hotel Butter.—Prepare and broil some slices of Halibut as for Broiled Halibut. When done, put them on a dish, mask with maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with parsley for garnish. Broiled Halibut Steak with Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce.— Wipe a piece of fresh Halibut weighing 21b., lay it on a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil. Roll well, lay it on a double broiler over a brisk fire, and broil for about eight minutes on each side. Place the fish on a hot dish, pour over 1 teacupful of maitre-d’hotel sauce, garnish with parsley, and serve. Fried Halibut Steaks.— (1) Cut some steaks from a Halibut, dip them in flour, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done. Put them on a dish, and serve with Robert sauce poured round, but not over, the fish. Halibut—continued. (2) Cut some steaks from a Halibut, dip them well in cornflour, put them in a frying-pan with bacon, and fry, turn- ing them over so as to cook both sides. Place the steaks on a dish, put a piece of fried bacon on the top, and serve with a thin slice of fried bread. Halibut Toasts.—Put lib. of Halibut into a saucepan with a little water, and boil. When done, take it out, drain, chop very fine, mix it up with eight well-beaten eggs, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and work in 1 breakfast-cupful Fig. 917. Halibut Toasts. of warmed butter; put it in a stewpan, and cook until quite done. Spread some pieces of toast with anchovy butter, arrange them on a dish, and serve with the Halibut mixture laid on them (see Fig. 917). Stewed Halibut Collops.—Cut a large piece of Halibut into collops, put the bones and any fish trimmings into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion cut in quarters, a few pieces of celery, and salt and pepper to taste; pour over sufficient rich broth to moisten, and cover for about ten minutes. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and cook for a few minutes longer. Put the collops of fish into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry for a few minutes, put them into the saucepan with the liquor, and stew gently for about half-an-hour. Place the pieces of Ash on a dish, add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a little mace to the liquor, pour it over, and serve. HAMS [Ft. Jambons; Ger. Scliinken; Ital. Pres- ciutfci; Sp. Jamons).—What we know as Hams are the bind legs of certain animals, notably those of the pig, which are preserved by curing, or pickling in brine, drying, and oftentimes smoking. It has been stated by cooks that the leg of any animal so treated would make a good Ham, and experience has proved this in the cases of legs of beef, mutton, and bear. See Beef and Mutton. Pork Hams are those of most general nse, being fre- quently cured together with the side of bacon; hence it Fig. 918. York Ham. follows that localities famous for bacon are also famous for Hams, the quality depending largely on the superiority of the meat, and in a measure also upon the principle and method adopted in the curing. In Wiltshire, Hamp- shire, and some parts of Yorkshire, lies ides other localities, the farmers are celebrated for their Hams; York Hams being especial favourites, being large, round, and plump, with pink meat, and delicate white fat with a slight pinky tinge. Westphalian Hams resemble York Hams (see Fig. 918) very closely, and are reckoned equally good.737 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Hams—continued. Small Hams cured in Ireland and sold as Irish Hams make capital breakfast or luncheon dishes; larger Hams being better suited for culinary service. Canadian Hams re- semble Irish Hams in some particulars; they are small, long, and generally quite as well cured as any, but the fat is not so white or marrowy as the larger York or Westphalian. The following receipts for pickling Hams are very reliable. They can be either smoked or not after drying, and wrapped in paper, or sewn up in canvas, to keep off the flies that usually infest our kitchens : (1) A peck of common salt is mixed up and pounded with 51b. of bay-salt and 2oz. each of saltpetre and sal-prunella. The Ham is first sprinkled with common salt, and laid down for twenty-four hours. It is then well rubbed with the above mixture, and left for three or four days in a cool place. The meat is then placed in the pickling-trough, and the brine boiled in 2galls. of water until it is sufficiently strong to float an egg—that being the test usually accepted as the proof of the strength of brine. When this pickle is cold, it is to be poured over the Ham in the trough, and the Ham left for a fortnight or three weeks to soak. At the end of this time take out the Ham, and having roughly wiped it and tied it up in paper to keep the flies off, hang it up over a fireplace to dry. (2) Make a brine by adding to every gallon of water Joz. of potash, 2oz. of saltpetre, lib. of sugar, and 41b. of salt, put it over the fire, and boil till all the dirt from the salt and sugar has risen to the top and been skimmed off, then pour into a tub and let it stand till cold. Pack the Hams into an iron-bound cask, laying clean bricks or stones over to keep them down; pour the brine over, when quite cold, till they are well covered, and let them remain for a month or five weeks ; then take out, drain, and dry. (3) Strew the Ham over with common salt, and leave it until the next day; then throw over it a mixture of 141b. of salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, 2oz. of pounded coriander-seeds, loz. of black pepper, lib. of coarse brown sugar, and 4oz. of treacle. Rub the Ham well with the mixture every day for three weeks. Afterwards, soak it for one night in cold water, then let it be dried in the usual way. When boiling the Ham, put Jib. of treacle and a bunch of sweet herbs in the water with it. (4) For a Ham weighing 141b. allow lib. of salt, lib. of dark brown sugar, 2oz. of sal-prunella, loz. of bay-salt, loz. of saltpetre, and 4oz. of pepper. Rub the Ham well with these. Leave the Ham in the pickle for a month, basting it well every day, then take it out and dry. (5) For a Ham weighing about lSlb. allow 41b. of common salt, fib. of bay-salt, and loz. of saltpetre; pound these ingredients together, and rub the Ham with them. Continue the rubbing once every day for a week, then take the Ham out of the pickle, pour lib. of treadle over, and leave it for a month, turning occasionally. Hams prepared in this way do not require soaking'. Dry in the usual manner. (6) American Mode.—Put in a large tub 1 peck and ljgalls. of fine salt, lflb. of saltpetre, lqt. of hickory ashes well sifted, lqt. of molasses, 1 breakfast-cupful of cayenne, and 1 teacupful of black pepper. The above quantities are sufficient for 5001b. of Ham. Mix these ingredients together, rub it into each Ham with an ordinary brick or something- rough to get the pickle well in, pack in a light clean tub, and press down by laying bricks over the Hams. Let the Hams soak for six weeks; then take them out and rub each one on the fleshy side with some black pepper. Hang them in the meat-house, and smoke with green hickory from ten to twelve hours a day for six weeks, not allowing the wood to blaze. In the spring of the year take them down, and pack in any well-slaked coal ashes or pine ashes. (7) Virginian Mode.—Rub 1 teaspoonful of saltpetre on the fleshy side of each Ham. Salt, not too heavily, for five weeks (if in frosty weather, for six weeks), then brush the Hams well, and rub them with hickory ashes; let them lie for one week, then hang and smoke them for six weeks with green-hickory chips. After brushing, pack them in hickory ashes. (8) Westphalian Mode.—Select two fine legs of dairy-fed pork, cut off the round knobs of the hip-bones, and then rub the flesh well with salt, and leave them in a large pan for For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hams—continued. three days, by which time the salt will have drawn the blood out; then take the Hams out of the brine. Mix together lib. of brown sugar, lib. of salt, and 2oz. of saltpetre, rub the Hams well with it, put them in a large vessel, leaving them for three days, then pour in lqt. of vinegar. It will take a month to cure them, and during that time they should often be turned in the brine. At the expiration of the month take them out, drain, and dredge some coarse flour over, and hang them in a dry place. If they are smoked they will not be so subject to infection by vermin, the smoke of wood being better than the smoke of coal. The Hams should be hung as far from the fire as possible, or else the fat will melt, and make the Hams dry and hard. For farther information on the subject of Curing, reference should be made to that heading. All experienced cooks agree that for culinary purposes Hams should not be too new—they are always better for a few months, keeping. It is usual, after smoking, to wrap Hams in paper, or sew them up in canvas, to keep off flies and dust, and then to hang them, by means of a string through the knuckle, on hooks or frames near the kitchen ceiling; but a dry pantry or dairy is a far better place to keep them, and then they should be laid, the cut surfaces uppermost, on shelves. In cookery, Hams are used for a variety of purposes; indeed, they are the very keystone to many dishes with which their names are not even associated. Continental cooks are especially indebted to Hams for their successes, hence they pay great attention to their treatment. The following is a very useful mode of preparing Ham for occasional use, the bone being removed and used for flavouring soups or sauces: With a sharp knife cut round the knuckle and lengthwise along and right down to the edge of the bone, until the aitch-bone is reached; then make a straight cross-cut right round, and the bone can be removed. Keep the Ham hung up in a dry place, and when any slices are required, say for frying or broiling, they are easily obtained, and the skin trimmed off. Baked Ham.— Put a Ham weighing about 101b. into a bowl with a good supply of water, and let it soak for twelve hours or so. Take it out, trim off all the rusty or uneatable parts from the underneath side, and spread it over thickly with a paste of flour and water. Put it in a baking-dish, set it in a well-heated oven, and bake for about four hours. When done, take it out, carefully remove the flour-and-water crust, skin, brush over with glaze or grate a little crust of bread over it, place a paper frill on the knuckle, and serve with a garnish of vegetables cooked and cut up into various shapes. By this mode of cooking a Ham, it is stewed in its own juice, loses nothing, and is very full of flavour. Baked stuffed Ham. -Boil the Ham till it can easily be skinned, take off the skin, and gash the Ham to the bone; fill up the cuts with a forcemeat of sifted breadcrumbs, finely- chopped parsley, a very little thyme, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and sufficient butter to mix these ingredients to a paste. Brush over the Ham with well-beaten yolks of eggs, sprinkle it with sifted breadcrumbs, and bake slowly till quite done. Or if a hot boiled Ham be served up, and but a little of it used, the space where the slices have been taken from may be filled with forcemeat, brushed over with beaten egg, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and put into the oven till browned, the Ham being already sufficiently cooked. Boiled Ham.—(1) Wash the Ham, put it in a saucepan, and cover with hot water ; simmer gently for five hours, then move the saucepan on one side, and let the Ham remain in the water for one or two hours longer. When nearly cold, take it out, skin it, and sprinkle over baked breadcrumbs and about 3 table-spoonfuls of fine moist sugar. (2) Select a freshly-smoked York Ham, soak it in cold water for a few hours, scrape it, put it in a kettle or a large sauce- pan, cover with water, and put in a few vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, two or three cloves and pepper- corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; simmer for three-and-a- half-hours, then take the kettle off the fire, and let the Ham remain three-quarters-of-an-hour in its liquor. When ready 3 K Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. UNIVERSITY LIBRARYTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 738 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. to serve, take it out, drain it, peel away two-thirds of the j rind, leaving the remainder at the knuckle end, and round I it nicely, smoothing the upper surface of the fat; cut out a | large piece from the centre of the Ham, cut it up in slices, I then ut them back evenly in the place they came from, j Put the Ham on a dish, fix a ruffle on the knuckle-bone, arrange j at the thick end a group of boiled French beans, at the other end some glazed carrots, and garnish both sides with rissoles and truffles. Reduce some Madeira sauce with trimmings of truffles, and serve in a sauceboat with the Ham. (3) If the Haim is very salt, it should be soaked all night; then clean and trim it, put it in a large saucepan or kettle, cover with water, and let it simmer slowly, allowing half-an- hour for each pound. Mix 1 teaspoonful of browned flour and | teacupful of moist sugar with a little port wine. Take the skin off the Ham when done, spread the paste over, and brown it in the oven. Put the Ham on a hot dish, wrap a paper ruffle round the knuckle, and serve with a brown sauce in which J- wineglassful of champagne has been mixed. (4) Put the Ham into cold water and let it steep from twenty-four to forty hours, changing the water two or three times; then wash it well, trim it, put it in a saucepan over the fire in plenty of cold water, together with onions, celery, carrots, garlic, bay-leaves, marjoram, thyme, parsley, cloves, mace (the quantities of these must depend on the size of the Ham and according to taste), and a bottle of sherry. Let the liquor come gradually to the boil, skim it carefully, and simmer from four to six hours. When it is done, remove it from the fire, but do not take it out of the liquor till nearly cold. Skin it, glaze it, and wrap a paper frill round the knuckle. (5) Select a fine freshly-cured York Ham weighing about 1 Gib., trim it, and steep it in cold water for twelve hours; tie in a cloth, put it in a boiler, cover with plenty of water, and boil gently for five hours. When cooked, drain the Ham and put it on a dish, rind downwards, to cool. Take the rind off when cold, trim the Ham, and glaze it. Dish it on a rice socle masked with Montpellier butter, place some cocks’ combs and truffles on silver skewers, stick them in the Ham, garnish with croutons of jelly, and serve. Fig. 919. Boiled Ham with Windsor Beans. (6) Select a lean Ham of about 71b. weight, steep it in cold water for twelve hours, take it out, lay it on a board or table, dry thoroughly with a cloth, put in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and let it boil for two hours; then remove from its stock, lift off the upper skin, trim it neatly, ornament the large end bone with a paper ruffle, and serve it with any kind of sauce desired. (7) Soak the Ham for two or three days in cold water, changing the water two or three times during the time. Wash and trim the Ham, put it into a large saucepan with plenty of cold water, 1 pint of sherry, a few carrots' and onions, three bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, a stick or two of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram tied together, a blade of mace, and half-a-dozen cloves. Place it over the fire until the water begins to boil, then skim carefully, draw it to the side, and simmer gently for four hours or so, according to the size of the Ham. When cooked, lift the saucepan away from the fire, and leave the Ham in its cooking-liquor until almost cold. Trim off the skin, brush the Ham over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, or strew finely-grated Hams—continued. and browned breadcrumbs over it. Fix a paper rill round the knuckle; if preferred, the Ham can be ornamented by piping over lard, coloured with cochineal or spinach-greening. (8) Saw the knuckle off a small Westphalian Ham, taking care not to splinter the bones; trim it, and soak for twelve hours in water, then boil it in plain water for four hours. When done, drain, take off the rind, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry the fat. When quite dry, glaze it, pour a rich brown sauce over, and serve. Boiled boned Ham.—Wash a Ham, put it in a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and boil for four or five hours, according to the size. Take the bone out, roll the Ham, and put it in a basin with a heavy weight on the top. When cold, put it on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Boiled Ham with Windsor Beans.—Boil and glaze a Ham. Boil some small Windsor beans, putting a little salt in the water. Mix a little veloute sauce with ^lb. of butter, a little winter savory, and chopped parsley. Drain the beans when tender, put them in the sauce, pour on to a hot dish, put the Ham on them, with a paper ruffle on the end, and serve (see Fig. 919). Boiled Slices of Ham. — Melt -V wineglassful of red- currant jelly in a saucepan, mix with it 1 teaspoonful of liquefied butter and some small thin slices of Ham, season with a little pepper, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Braised Ham.—(1) Put a trimmed Ham into cold water, and let it remain for two days ; then wrap it in a cloth, put in a braising-pan, cover well with water, and simmer till done ; drain, trim, and put it in another stewpan, with a bottle of Madeira wine poured over; place the cover on the stewpan, and simmer for half-an-hour. Take out the Ham and glaze it. Make a rice socle not quite as large as the Ham, put on a dish, place the Ham on it, and garnish round the socle with plain-boiled vegetables, such as carrots, onions, cabbage-lettuces, and French beans. Decorate five silver skewers with round discs of carrot and other vegetables, stick them in the thick meat of the Ham, and serve with Madeira sauce in a sauce-tureen. (2) American.—Select a lean Ham, partly bone it, without going to the first joint of the thin end, saw the shank- bone, trim the meat, and soak the Ham in water for twelve hours. Tie it in a cloth, put in a large saucepan, co.ver with water, and boil for four hours with a few cloves, pepper- corns, and sweet herbs, excepting bay-leaves. Take the Ham out when cooked, drain it, peel off the rind, put the Ham in a narrow braising-pan, pour a bottle of Madeira wine over it, put on the cover, and boil until reduced, being careful to baste the Ham frequently. Drain, put it on a hot dish, mix a little brown sauce with the cooking-stock, reduce it, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the Ham, and serve with vegetables. Braised Ham as in Milan.—Cook and dish a Ham as for Braised Ham, make some small paste croustades, and fill them with a preparation of cooked truffles, mushrooms, and macaroni, cut in small dice ; grate some Parmesan cheese over, and mix them up with Spanish sauce. Garnish the Ham with these croustades, and place two cocks’ combs and a large truffle on each of three silver skewers, and fix them tastefully in the Ham. Serve with Madeira sauce in a small sauce- tureen. Broiled Ham.—Either freshen a slice of Ham by soaking it in iced water over night, or by heating in enough water to cover it; then wipe dry, put it between the bars of a grid- iron, and brown slightly on both sides. Season with pepper, and serve plain or with fried eggs. Cold Boiled Ham with Aspic Jelly.—Select a freshly- smoked Ham, trim off the end of the knuckle-bone, and, after having soaked it for a few hours, boil it as for Boiled Ham (No. 2). When done, take the Ham out, drain it, cut the thigh- bone short, wrap the Ham tightly in a cloth, and let it cool. When ready to serve, take the cloth off, peel off the rind, excepting at the knuckle end, trim it neatly, glaze, fix a ruffle on the knuckle-bone, put a white paper on a dish, set the Ham on it, and garnish the base with chopped aspic jelly and truffles (see Fig. 920).TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 739 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. Devilled Ham.—Cut some thin slices of Ham, spread them with mustard mixed with oil and vinegar, put them in a baking-dish, and cook in the oven. Boil some potatoes, mash them, put a mound of them on a dish, arrange the pieces of cooked Ham against the mound, and serve. Tartar sauce is sometimes served with this dish. Fig. 920. Cold Boiled Ham with Aspic Jelly. Essence of Ham.—(1) Cut Gib. of lean Ham into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with eight peeled shallots and three bay-leaves, and moisten with a small quantity of water. Fix the lid firmly on the saucepan, and stand it at the side of the fire. When the Ham is a little more than half cooked, pour in 0 pints of boiling water, place over the fire until tender, then move it to the side, and simmer for one hour. Skim the Ham liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve, clarify it with whites of eggs, then strain it through a cloth. Pour the liquor into a clean saucepan, and boil it until reduced to 1J pints. Leave it until cold, skim, pour it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. This essence is a capital flavouring for sauces, and will keep for any length of time. (2) Cut lib. of raw Ham into small pieces, trimming off the fat; put them into a saucepan with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and 5 pint of white wine. Boil the liquor till the wine is reduced, then pour in lqt. of veal broth, and boil slowly at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Strain, skim, and bottle as for No. 1. (3) Cut 31b. or 41b. of lean Ham into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with slices of carrots, parsnips, and onions, and sweat them over a slow fire till they stick to the pan, but do not burn. Pour in gradually some veal gravy, add a few fresh mushrooms, some morels, leeks, and cloves, a bunch of parsley and basil, and a crust of bread. Put the lid on the saucepan, place it over the fire till the contents boil, then move it to the side, and simmer to reduce the liquor till thick. Strain the essence through a silk sieve, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Get the remains of a knuckle of Ham with the bone, cut off all the meat, chop it, break the bone into small pieces, and put all in a saucepan. Moisten to height with cold water, and simmer slowly at the side of the fire until the water is thick and well flavoured with the Ham. After- wards strain the liquor through a very fine sieve into a clean saucepan, mix with it an equal quantity of strong, well-seasoned veal gravy, and boil slowly until reduced one- third. When cold, pour the essence into small bottles, and cork them. Forcemeat of Ham.—Finely chop 21b. of cooked lean Ham, put it in a mortar, and pound well. Turn lib. of bread- crumbs and 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and boil the contents until the crumbs are smooth and soft; add a little cayenne, J pint of brown sauce, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Put it on one side to cool, and then make it into a mass with the yolks of four eggs. It is now ready for use, either as a border (put into a buttered border mould and steamed for three hours) or used in game pies or for quenelles. Fried Ham.—(1) Cut off a thick slice of Ham, put it in a saucepan over the fire with enough cold water to cover, and let the water come to the boil. Pour it off, put the Ham over the fire, and fry slowly until it is brown on both Hams—continued. sides. Then season with pepper and serve. Eggs are usually served with fried Ham (see Fig. 921). They can be fried in the same pan, or separately, in enough fat to prevent burning, seasoned with salt and pepper, and set round the dish and over the Ham. Fig. 921. Fried Ham with Eggs. (2) Cut the Ham into thin slices, trim off the outsides, make two or three incisions round the edges of the fat, and fry it in a frying-pan over a clear fire till the fat is crisp. Put it on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried in the Ham fat, and serve. Frizzled Ham.—Cut lib. of fat Ham into as thin slices as possible. Put a frying-pan over the fire, and let it get smoking hot ; then put in the slices of Ham, and fry for two or three minutes. Next dust them with dry flour, and cook until the flour is brown. While the flour is browning, mix 1 table-spoonful each of dry mustard and vinegar together. When the flour is brown, add the mustard and vinegar, and enough boiling water to cover the Ham. Boil gently for a moment, and serve. Eggs may be cooked with the Ham in place of the flour and water. Ham Cakes.—(1) Chop some cold Ham, using any dry pieces with the fat, put it in a mortar, and pound until smooth ; then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Also chop, pound, and pass through the sieve an equal quantity of cooked beef. Put the Ham and beef together in the mortar, seasoning to taste with pepper and powdered mixed spices. Pour in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of clarified butter and pound the whole again. Line a plain mould with white paper, fill it with the mixture, pressing down well. Cover with another sheet of paper, and put it into the oven. In about half-an-hour’s time take the cake out of the oven and leave it until cold. Before serving, stand the mould in hot water for a minute or two, then wipe it. Turn the cake out on to a dish covered with a fancy-edged dish-paper, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. It is better to make the cake the day before it is wanted for serving. (2) Put lib. of cooked Ham, one part fat to two parts lean, in a mortar, and pound it to a smooth paste. Boil a thick slice of bread in pint of milk, and beat it well with the Ham, adding one beaten egg. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into a mould, and bake. When set, proceed as for No. 1. Ham-and-Chicken Pie.—Trim off the skin of some cold remains of chicken, and chop the meat finely; mix with it an equal quantity of finely-chopped lean Ham and a small quantity of chopped shallot ; season the mixture with moderate quantities of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of white stock. Butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff paste, and put in the mixture; place a flat of puff paste on the top, trim it round the edges, moisten and press them together, make a small hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour a small quantity of hot cream through the hole at the top of the pie, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve hot or cold. Ham-and-Chicken Polonies.—Finely mince lib. of Ham and lib. of cooked chicken-flesh, mix them together with 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped button-mushrooms and 2oz. of butter, and mince the whole together for a few minutes, seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a small quantity of ground cloves. Dye some skins a bright red and fill them with the mixture, tying them at the ends. Steam the polonies for one hour, then take them out, and hang up until cold. 3 k 2740 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. K ams—continued. H am cooked in Cider.—Soak a Ham over night in sufficient cold water to entirely cover it; the next morning trim it neatly and put it in a saucepan over the fire with enough cold water to cover. Add 1 pint of cider and 1 teacupful of I rown sugar, cover the saucepan, and boil the Ham slowly for four hours, or until the skin peels off easily. When the Ham is cooked enough, take it out of the water, remove the skin, and lay the Ham in a dripping-pan; pour in 1 pint of cider, sprinkle the Ham plentifully with brown sugar, and place it in a moderate oven to bake for one hour, basting every fifteen minutes with the cider in the pan. When the Ham is cooked, take it from the pan, free the cider from grease, season it lightly with pepper, and use as a sauce for the Ham, which may be served either hot or cold. Ham Collops a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Cut a little Ham into collops about Jin. in thickness; put some butter in a frying-pan, and when melted, put in the collops and fry them on both sides. When done, drain them and put them on a hot dish. Melt some maitre-d’hotel butter, mix with it a little salt and lemon-juice, pour it over the collops, and serve. For breakfast these collops are very nice, and may be sparsely dusted with cayenne if desired. Ham Croquettes.—(1) Chop very small Jib. of Ham, then mix with it an equal quantity of boiled and mashed potatoes, two chopped hard-boiled eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, seasoning to taste ; then stir in the yolk of an egg. Flour the hands and shape the mixture into little balls; put some fat in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put the croquettes in and fry them an equal brown all over; put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. For a light luncheon or late supper dish, these croquettes are exceptionally suited; or they may be served for breakfast. (2) Chop finely sufficient cold cooked Ham to fill a breakfast-cup, put it in a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of mashed potatoes, 1 large table-spoonful of butter, two beaten eggs, and a very small pinch of cayenne; mix them well, shape the preparation into croquettes, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat for about two minutes; drain them, arrange on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Finely mince some cold Ham and mix with it two- thirds its bulk of mashed potatoes; season with pepper and moderate quantities of chopped parsley and sweet herbs. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted put in the mince, moisten it with a small quantity of stock, and stir until hot. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs, and stir them into the mince, with the pan off the fire. Spread the mince on a dish, let it get cold, divide it into small portions, mould them into the shape of corks, and roll them in beaten egg and then in finely-crumbled stale bread; put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan placed over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the croquettes and fry them a golden brown. Drain on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then pile them on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Peel and boil lib. of potatoes; when soft, drain them as dry as possible, and mash them quite smooth together with a lump of butter and two eggs ; mix well in 4oz. of grated Ham, and season to taste. Divide the mixture into small quantities, mould them to any shapes desired, and roll well in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when it runs to oil put in the croquettes and fry them until browned. Drain them as they are done on a sheet of paper, then put them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried narsley, and serve. Ham and Egg's.—Broil some thin slices of Ham, and poach as many eggs as there are slices of Ham. Put the Ham on a hot dish with an egg on each slice, and serve hot. Ham-and-Egg Toasts.—Chop finely some cold cooked Ham, toast some slices of bread, and butter them. Spread the Ham on the toast, and put them in the oven for three or four minutes. Beat six eggs in a teacupful of milk, and add a little pepper and salt. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, pour the beaten eggs in, and stir over the fire till thick, but do not let them boil. Arrange the Ham and toast on a dish, pour the eggs over, and serve at once. Hams—con tinned. Ham Fritters.—Finely mince about lib. of cold cooked Ham, using lean and fat in equal proportions; mix with it 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs and two well-beaten eggs, season- ing with white pepper. Cut a French roll into slices, and soak it in beaten eggs and milk. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt it, then put in the soaked slices, and fry them until of a pule golden colour; drain them, spread them on both sides with a thick layer of the minced Ham, sift grated breadcrumb over them, and fry again in butter to set the forcemeat. Drain the fritters, arrange them in a group on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, with small bunches of parsley here and there, and serve. Ham cooked in Madeira Wine.—Select a Westmoreland or Irish Ham, boil it in water for two hours, then drain it, take off the skin, and put it into a saucepan with a few thin slices of veal at the bottom; put two or three carrots, onions, bay- leaves, a few sprigs of parsley, and some spices in with the Ham, pour in 1 pint of stock and 1 bottle of Madeira, and simmer for two-hours-and-a-half. When the Ham is done, take it out, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot in the oven while the liquor is being reduced. Skim the fat off the liquor, and boil till reduced to the consistency of Spanish sauce; then pour it over the Ham, and serve. Ham cooked in Madeira Wine or Champagne.—Put a Ham into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for a day and night; take it out, drain, tie it up in a cloth, put it into a steamer or a saucepan of boiling water, and half cook it. Take it out, drain, put it into another saucepan, pour over 1 pint of Madeira wine or champagne, and cook gently until done. Put it on a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve hot with a g'arnish of cooked vegetables. Ham Omelets.—(1) Beat twelve eggs in a basin with a little water, season with pepper and salt; mince Jib. of lean Ham, and mix with it a little Spanish sauce. Out of this preparation Fig. 922. Ham Omelets make four or five omelets, each one to be cooked separately in boiling fat and sprinkled with the Ham before it is rolled. Serve on a dish, and garnish with parsley (see Fig. 922). (2) Beat up three eggs, mix with them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped Ham, a little chopped parsley and shallot, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put some butter in an omelet-pan, and when melted pour in the omelet and fry, turning it to cook both sides equally. When done, put the omelet on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Finely mince 2oz. of Ham, taking fat and lean in equal portions, put the mince in a basin with four eggs and white pepper to taste, and beat them up well. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it has melted, pour in the mixture. Hold the handle of the pan with one hand, and stir the omelet with a spoon held in the other ; when it begins to set, cease stirring, shake the pan for a few minutes until the under- side of the omelet is browned, then fold it over with the spoon. Turn the omelet on to a hot dish with a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Ham Pie.—Trim the cushion of a freshly-smoked Ham, leaving only the firm parts, which cut into lfin. squares. If very salt, the Ham should be previously soaked in milk-and-water for a few hours. Centre each of the squares with a small piece of raw truffle. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying-pan, melt it, then put in the pieces of Ham, and fry them for seven or eight minutes. Finely chop a piece of lean pork, an equal quantity of veal, and double this quantity of fresh fat bacon ; chop the trimming of the truffles, pound them in a mortar, pass them through a fine hair sieve, andTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 741 ices, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. mix with the mince. Chop finely a small quantity of lean, cooked Ham, and cut into small squares an equal quantity of fat bacon; add them to the mixture, and season highly. Butter a cold pie-mould, line it with short-paste, put a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom and round the sides of the paste, then fill it up with the fried Ham and forcemeat in alternate layers, building it in a dome; put some layers of fat bacon on the top. Before putting the paste in the mould, it should be placed on a baking-sheet with a sheet of paper spread over it. Boll out the remainder of the paste to a thin round flat, cover the pie with it, trim round the edges, moisten with a little water, and pinch them together; roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut some fancy leaves out of it, and arrange them on the top of the pie, first damping them a little underneath to make them adhere. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, put it into a moderate oven, leave it for ten minutes, cover it with paper, and bake for two hours. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and leave it for an hour, then pour in through the hole at the top 1 teacupful of tepid aspic jelly; an hour later, take the pie out of the mould, and leave it till quite cold. Serve on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Ham Puree.—Put l|lb. of Ham cut up small into a mortar, pound it well, and add a little stock to moisten, and 1 table- spoonful each of Spanish and soubise sauce ; rub the whole through a fine sieve info a saucepan, add about 3 pints of stock, warm it, and add 1 pint of Madeira wine. Stir gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, add a lump of butter, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. The saucepan should be put in the bain-marie and not on the fire while warming the liquor. Ham Quenelles.—Out three or four slices of Ham into small squares, put them in a stewpan with a minced onion and a piece of butter, and fry, but without burning them. Pour 1 pint of milk over the bacon, place it over the fire until boiling, then stir in gradually mashed potatoes and coarse oatmeal in equal quantities to make a stiff dough. Divide the mixture into equal quantities with a table-spoon, leaving the impression of the spoon on each, and dipping it in warmed butter every time it is used. Lay the quenelles on a buttered baking-dish, put them in a brisk oven, and bake until lightly browned. When cooked, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Ham Relish.—(1) Put some pieces of Ham-fat into a frying- pan with a few thin slices of mutton or veal, and fry them. When browned, drain the pieces of meat from the fat and put them on one side. Finely chop some cold cooked pota- toes and cabbage, put them in the frying-pan with the fat, and fry them. Put the vegetables at the bottom of a hot dish, lay the slices of meat on the top, grate lemon-peel over, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut off some slices of cooked Ham, sprinkle over a little cayenne, and broil them brown. Arrange them on a dish, spread a little mixed mustard over them, squeeze over a taste of lemon-juice, and serve at once. Ham Sandwiches.—(1) Cut off as many slices of bread from a tin-loaf as are required, having them about |in. thick. Take a sufficient quantity of butter to butter half the slices of bread, and work into it made mustard in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful of mustard to 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. Cut some slices of Ham and trim them, then butter half the slices of bread with the mixture of butter and mustard, and butter the rest of the bread with plain butter ; take a slice of bread-and-butter, cover it with a slice of Ham, place For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hams—continued. a slice of bread spread with the mixture of mustard and butter on top of this, and press them together. When all the sandwiches are made, pile up evenly one on top of the other as many as can easily be cut through, trim the edges even, removing the crust, and cut the sandwiches into oblong pieces about 4Jin. long and l£in. broad. Cut some others into squares, rounds, and triangles (see Fig. 923), lay a napkin on a dish, and arrange the sandwiches neatly on it. (2) Cut some very thin slices of bread from a tin loaf, butter them, trim off the crust, and put some thin slices of Ham on half of the slices, spread a little mustard over, lay the remaining slices over, buttered side next the Ham, cut them through into pieces 2^in. by ljin., arrange them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. (3) Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a mortar with 6@z. of lean cooked Ham, pound them well, add a dust of cayenne, 6oz. of butter, and a few drops of carmine to colour. Prepare some small rolls with brioche-paste, open them, fill them with the Ham mixture, pressing it through a forcing or biscuit-bag, and they are ready for use. (4) Finely grate the required quantity of cooked Ham, and season it with a small quantity each of cayenne and grated nutmeg; prepare some good puff paste, divide it into halves, roll them out very thinly and of an equal size, lay the pieces of paste on a baking-tin, and bake them in a brisk oven until lightly browned. When cooked, take the paste out of the oven, leave it until nearly cold, then spread it lightly over with fresh butter. Spread the grated Ham over one of the pieces of paste, and fold the other piece over it. Next, with a sharp knife, cut it into fingers. Spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper over a dish, arrange the sandwiches tastefully on it, garnish with sprigs of fresh green parsley, and serve. Ham Sauce.—When a Ham is nearly all used, pick the small quantity of meat still remaining clean from the bone, scrape away any uneatable parts, and trim any rusty bits from the meat; chop the bone very small, and beat the meat almost to a paste. But the broken bones and the meat together into a saucepan over a gentle fire, pour over them 5 pint of broth, and stir for about a-quarter-of-an-hour; add to it a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a seasoning of pepper, and £ pint of good beef stock. Cover the saucepan and stew very gently till well flavoured with the herbs, then strain it. A small quantity of this added to any gravy is an improvement. Ham Sausages.—Mince finely about 51b. of unsmoked Ham ; procure, if in the cold weather, lib. of inner pork fat or hog’s leaf, and cut it into small squares. Season the mince with 3oz. of salt, ^oz. of coarsely-ground black pepper, a few whole peppercorns, and J teaspoonful of saltpetre. Mix the seasoning well with the mince, and moisten it gradually with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of rum or port wine, then mix in the fat. Cover the mixture, and leave it for a few hours. Thoroughly cleanse and prepare some skins, tie them round the bottom, then pass the mixture into them through a funnel. When the skins are tightly filled, tie them into lengths about |yd. long. In about twelve hours’ time tie the sausages closer if possible, and bind them round from one end to the other with broad tape; fasten the tape securely at the ends. Hang the sausages for nearly a fortnight in cool smoke, then take them out of the smoke and hang them in a cool, dry place until wanted. Care should be taken when the sausages are filled that no air spaces are left; should there be any, they should be pricked through with a long, thin, iron skewer. Ham Steaks.—Cut some moderately thick slices of raw Ham, and put them in a frying-pan with a little water; let it boil, turn the steaks, and continue boiling till dry. Dredge them with flour, pour over a teacupful of milk, put in a small piece of butter, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and a little cayenne. When it boils, put the Ham on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Ham Toasts.—(1) Finely mince some Ham, with a moderate quantity of its fat, mix with it loz. of butter, a few drops of Harvey’s sauce, and a little cream; season to taste with salt and pepper, and work it up into a paste with the broad, flat blade of a knife. Toast some squares of bread, trim off the crusts, butter them, and spread some of the mixture over each. Strew finely-minced parsley and grated bread-742 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Hams—continued. crumbs oyer them, and put them in a brisk oven for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin on a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, and serve. (2) Put the required quantity of Ham into a mortar, pound well, mix in the yolks of eggs and cream to make it thick and rich, warm it in a pan over the fire, spread on slices of well-buttered toast, cut them into fingers, and serve on a napkin. (3) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced, cooked Ham into a stewpan, with a boned, washed, and chopped anchovy; stir in two well-beaten eggs, season with a small quantity each of pounded mace and cayenne, and stir the whole over the fire until hot, then stir in a small quantity of thick cream. Cut some small rounds of bread, fry them in boiling butter until browned, drain them, and spread a layer of the mixture over. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve. (4) Cut off five or six slices from a raw Ham, put them into a stewpan with a little water, and turn them about over the fire until all the moisture has dried up, and the slices of Ham are lightly browned. Dredge them over with flour, a small quantity each of dry mustard and cayenne, pour over them 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream and § tea- cupful of milk, and stir over the fire until the sauce boils. Cut some slices of bread, toast them a delicate brown, trim off the crusts, put them on a hot dish, arrange the slices of Ham on the top, pour the sauce over, and serve. (5) Mix jib. of finely-minced Ham with one boned and mashed anchovy, and add a little cayenne and pounded mace ; work in two beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten it, then stir over the fire till hot through. Toast some slices of bread, butter them, put them on a dish, spread the hot mince over, and serve. (6) Mix together 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked minced Ham, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, a seasoning of pepper and mustard, a little chopped parsley, 3 table- spoonfuls of veal gravy, and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Put this mixture in a small saucepan over the fire, and stir till quite hot. Spread it on squares of buttered toast, scatter over it fried parsley and fried breadcrumbs, and serve hot. Potted Ham.—Cut all the meat from the remains of a boiled Ham, and chop it very fine, taking care to remove all outside pieces and gristle ; pound it to a paste, measure it, and to each pint mix in 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard and a small pinch of cayenne, and if the Ham is very lean, 1 table-spoonful of butter. Pack this smoothly in small earthen jars, paste paper over them, and put on the covers. Stand the jars in a deep baking-dish, surround them nearly to the top with hot water, and steam slowly for two hours. When done, take the jars out of the pan, and let them cool with the covers on. When cold, remove the covers, pour a little melted butter in each jar, put fresh covers on, and keep them in a cool, dry cupboard till wanted for use. Ham potted in this way makes delicious sandwiches, and will keep for months. Potted Ham and Chicken.—Use cold cooked chicken; pick the flesh off the bones, and trim off all the skin. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with a small quantity of powdered cloves, mace, nutmeg, and white pepper. Place the stewpan over the fire, and when the butter runs to oil, put in the pieces of chicken and some small pieces of cooked lean Ham. Put in also 1 table-spoonful of glaze, and stir the mixture continually until hot. Mince it, place it in a mortar, pound until quite smooth, and press it into small jars, leaving a clear jin. space at the top. Pill the jars with clarified butter, and when it has cooled tie them over. Roasted Ham.—(1) Select a small Ham, soak it for one hour, pare the surface, put it in a large saucepan, and cover with cold water; when boiling, move the saircepan to the side of the fire and simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then drain the Ham, take out the thigh-bone, and peel off the rind. Put it in a basin, pour in sufficient cooked marinade to cover, and let it macerate for twenty-four hours, with the pan covered. Drain the Ham, mask it with a vegetable mirepoix (see Mirepoix), cover it with two or three buttered sheets of paper, place it on a cradle-spit, and roast before a clear fire, basting occasionally with fat. In three-quarters-of-an-hour’s Hams—continued. time mix some of the marinade in the drippings, and baste the Ham with it. Take the papers off the Ham in another hour’s time, and roast half-an-hour longer. When cooked, take it off the spit, and put it on a hot oval dish; strain the stock from the dripping-pan, skim off the fat, reduce some of it to half-glaze, mix with it 1 teacupful of brown sauce, stir it over the fire again for two or three minutes, then pour it over the Ham, and serve with vegetable croquettes in a separate dish. (2) Boil and skin a Ham. Mix together 3 breakfast-cupfuls of grated breadcrumb, 1 breakfast-cupful of grated cheese, Parmesan for choice, but other cheeses will do. Brown the Ham lightly in the oven, then take it out, and press upon it all the breadcrumb mixture that can be made to stick. Put it in the baking-pan again, and brown it in the oven, basting occasionally with a little of the fat that runs into the pan. Cheese mixed with the breadcrumbs gives the Ham a rich colour and pleasant flavour. The Ham can be eaten either hot or cold. (3) Wash a Ham, and boil it for three hours if it is a large one, and a little less if it is a small one. When the Ham has been boiled sufficiently, peel off the skin, put the Ham in a baking-pan, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When done, put it on a hot dish, sprinkle grated breadcrumbs over, and serve with champagne sauce. Slices of Ham a la Mayonnaise.—Cut some slices, not too thin, from the knuckle of a raw Ham, soak them in milk for one hour, then dry, and fry them in lard, turning so as to do both sides. When they are cooked, take them out of the fat, drain, and arrange them on a dish. Put 2 handfuls of rasped breadcrumbs in the pan with the fat, stir them over the fire for a few seconds, then pour in 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a little gravy ; boil the sauce for a few minutes, mix with it 5 saltspoonful of pepper and 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, pour it over the slices of Ham, and serve. Spiced Ham.—After the Ham has been salted for two days, put it in a keg with 1 table-spoonful of spice, 1 table-spoonful of black pepper, 1 pinch of saltpetre, and 1 teacupful of brown sugar. Lot it remain in this mixture for four days, turning it once a day, then hang it up. Steamed Ham.—Put a Ham into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for ten or twelve days; wash it well, and scrub it with a hard brush to remove the salt and smoke from the outside. Place it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, cover over the pan, and boil quickly until the Ham is done, allowing about twenty minutes to each pound. When done, take it out, skin it, cover over with grated bread, and serve either hot or cold. Steaming is considered the best way of cooking a Ham. Stuffed Ham.—(1) Select a small and fresh Ham, steep it for a fortnight in brine mixed with a little saltpetre, smoke it for two days, then wash it, peel off the rind, trim away any meat that is discoloured by the smoke, bone it, and put it in a basin with two shallots and onions, both sliced, a little marjoram, basil, and a pinch of thyme; pour in | pint of Madeira and 2 bottles of red wine; put a cloth on the top, and let the Ham soak for twenty-four hours. When soaked, take it out, drain it, fill the hollow left by the bones with some set moat glaze and three or four raw truffles, sew up the openings, and make the Ham its original shape. Soak a fresh pig’s bladder in water till soft, not inflated, then wipe it and blow it out till large enough to take the Ham. Put the Ham in the bladder, pass the liquor in which the Ham was soaked through a fine hair sieve, and pour 1 table- spoonful of it in with the Ham; close the opening securely, tie up tightly in another bladder, and wrap the whole in a cloth. Tie that up also, put the Ham in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for four hours, without touching it. When the Ham is cooked, take the saucepan off the fire, and let it remain for one hour in the liquor. When about to serve, drain the Ham, and take off the cloth and bladders, thicken the liquid in which it was cooked with a little kneaded butter, put the Ham on an oval dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. (2) Boil a Ham, skin it, make some holes right to the bone, and fill them with a stuffing made of the following in- gredients : Mix with jib. of grated crackers |lb. of butter,743 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. 8 teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of spice, cloves, grated nutmeg, mustard, ginger, and pounded mace; also a little celery-seed, or celery, and six beaten eggs. If the mixture is too stiff, stir in a little cream. When ready, put the Ham in the oven till browned; then put it on a hot dish, and serve. HAMBURG BITTERS.—See Bitters. HAMBURG FOWL.—See Fowls. HAMBURG POWDER.—-This well-known adul- terant of chicory is known in commercial circles as “ Hauibro’ Powder.” It is composed of roasted and ground peas, coloured with Yenetian red. See Chicory. HAMBURG STEAK.—See Beef. HAMPSHIRE PUDDING. -See Puddings. HANOVER BUNS.—See Buns. HANOVER PUDDING.—See Puddings. HANOVER SAUCE.—See Sauces. HARDBAKE.—This is a sweetmeat made by boiling coarse sugar or molasses with almonds, and orange or lemon flavouring. See Sugar. HARD DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. HARD-TACK.—A name given by sailors to sea- biscuits. HARES (Ft. Lievres ; Ger. Hasen; Thai. Lepri; Sp. Liebres).—The name of Hare seems to have been handed down from the Icelandic heri through the Anglo-Saxon Kara, being akin, in a sense, to the German hase. In America all animals of the genus Lepus are called rabbits, much to the confusion of cooks who are not versed in natural history; and from that country we are supplied annually with a great number of white Hares, more commonly known as prairie rabbits, or American mountain Hares, the two being scarcely distinguishable one from the other during the winter months, when both have coats as white as snow. The European Hare (Lepus timidus) is remarkable for its timidity (hence its name) and marvellous speed. Like all other kinds of the Hare and rabbit tribe, it is exceedingly prolific, bearing young two or three times in the year. The flesh is dark, differing from the flesh of the rabbit, which is white, and if kept long enough assumes a remarkably strong game flavour upon cooking. Hares are in season from August, when leverets (young Hares) are also plentiful, and continue to be prime during the winter months, losing their quality as the breeding season sets in—about March. Old Hares are generally used for making Hare soup, and sometimes for jugging; but for a roast it is quite imperative that the Hare should be yoimg and plump, with a substantial width in the back across the loins. A young Hare may be known by the tenderness of the ear, which should tear readily, by the compressibility of the lower jaw, and by the claws, which should break easily and not be long and worn. The cleft in the upper lip should be narrow, and when the Hare is fresh the body and limbs are stiff. To keep Hares and develop their game flavour, the insides should not be removed for a few days after killing, and they should be hung up by their fore-legs so that they may not lose their juices from the wound that caused their death. In four or five days’ time it is advisable to open them and remove all the paunch, reserving the liver and heart for sauce or stuffing. Let these be scalded, and wipe the insides every day with dry cloths, rubbing the lining with a mixture of ground pepper and ginger. The older a Hare is, the longer it should be hung, and the slower it will require to be cooked, in order to reduce the toughness of the flesh. Hares—continued. Before cooking a Hare it must be skinned, and if intended for roasting it must be trussed so as to give it a good effect. This is done as follows: Chop off the feet at the first joints, lift the skin from the back, and draw it first over the hind-legs and then over the fore-legs ; let the tail remain on with the hair; cut the skin from the head and ears, leaving the latter on, cut through the sinews of the legs, and bring the hind-legs forward, passing a skewer through both of them as well as the body, and bring the fore-legs back, passing a skewer through them also. Fix the head upright by means of a skewer thrust through the mouth to the back of the head and then into the back between the shoulders. Wipe the inside perfectly dry, stuff it, and sew it up. Pass a string round the ends of the skewers which fix the legs, drawing it over the back of the Hare so as to keep the legs well up close to the body. A very favourite mode of preparing Hares for cooking is to remove tlie bones, and make up the body in such a manner that it can be carved without difficulty. The mode of procedure for this boning is given as follows : The Hare should be fresh. Skin and clean it as directed, and then with a sharp knife commence cutting down along the crest of the backbone, and dissect the flesh off the ribs. Do not disconnect the flesh, but leave it hanging. Separate the backbone from the head at the first joint of the neck- bone, leaving the head on, then pass the knife very carefully under the flesh down the middle of the back until the whole of the bone is clear. The legs may either be cut off or dis- sected out. The hollow from where the spine and ribs have been taken should next be stuffed with forcemeat or well- seasoned bread stuffing, the belly sewn up, and the Hare fastened with string and skewers so as to bring it as nearly into its original shape as possible. In some of the receipts given hereunder the fillets, as they are called, are alone used These are merely the thick strips of flesh lying along the backbone, sometimes including the thick parts of the legs. The instructions given for boning will be sufficient guide to their careful removal—the great object being to remove the flesh evenly and not jagged or broken by awkward manipulation of the knife. Baked Hare. — Take two fine Hares, cut them into halves, separating the fore- from the hind-quarters. Bone the saddles down to the legs, but not the legs ; place them in a deep earthenware dish, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, and add one medium-sized sliced lemon, one peeled and sliced onion, and one sprig of thyme, seasoning with salt, pepper, and two cloves. Roll the saddles well several times in the seasoning, and put aside to steep for at least twelve hours. Take out the pieces, stuff the boned saddles with rich stuffing, give them a round shape, and tie so as to hold them firm. Place a piece of fat pork over each saddle, lay them in a roasting-pan with one carrot and one onion cut into slices and placed at the bottom of the pan, and pour over 1 pint of broth. Place the pan in a hot oven, and bake for forty-five minutes, taking care to baste frequently with the gravy that comes from them. Remove from the oven, untie, dress on a hot dish, strain the gravy over the saddles, decorate the dish with heart-shaped croutons, and serve. The fore-quarters can be utilised for civet or other dishes. Boudin of Hare.—Bone a Hare, cut it up into pieces, put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with two or three sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, two shallots, and 3 wine- glassfuls of sherry, and toss it over the fire until the moisture is reduced to a glaze; then pour in lqt. of clear stock, leave on the fire until boiling, move it to the side, and simmer for an-hour-and-a-half, keeping it well skimmed. When ready, strain the liquor through a broth- napkin into a basin. Boil lib- of streaky bacon until half cooked, then finely mince it together with the flesh of the Hare, pound in a mortar, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Chop lib. of button-mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter and a few drops of lemon-juice, and toss about over the fire for a few minutes;744 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. pour over them 1 teacupful of white sauce and 2 table- I spoonfuls of thick cream, and stir until the liquor is | thickly reduced; then rub them through a fine silk sieve, j Soak lj breakfast-cupfuls of grated breadcrumb in warm * water until soft, then squeeze, and put them in a stewpan | with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, 1 table- spoonful of the liquor from the bones, and a little salt, and stir the mixture over the fire until reduced to a paste; move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Spread this panada out on a plate, and leave it until cool. Boil ilb. or a little more of calf’s udder in stock; when cooked, leave until cool, trim, cut it into small pieces, pound them in a mortar, and rub it through a wire sieve. Put the pounded Hare, calf’s udder, and bread panada into a mortar, add the mushroom puree and a small lump of butter, and pound the whole together until thoroughly mixed Fig. 924] Boudin of Hare and smooth, seasoning the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg', and moistening with two beaten eg'gs and a small quantity of the liquor from the bones. Try a small piece of the mixture by poaching it in boiling water for three minutes, cut it, and if firm it is of the required consistency; but if it falls to pieces, add another egg or two to the mixture. Butter a copper mould, fill it with the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top; then stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half. Boil a sufficient quantity of the liquor from the bones until thickly reduced to make the sauce. When the boudin is cooked, turn it carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, garnish with mushrooms and potato croquettes (see Fig. 924), and serve. Boudins of Hare Forcemeat.—Cut an onion into small pieces, put it in boiling water to blanch, and drain it; when cool, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry, but without allowing it to take colour; then stir well for about ten minutes over the fire, and add it to some Hare forcemeat, made very stiff. Cut some pieces of paper 4in. long and 2jin. wide, butter them well, and put a layer of the forcemeat, 3.iin. long by 1 jin. wide and 1 jin. thick, on each. With the handle of a spoon cut out from the inside of the boudins all the forcemeat, so as to make a hollow fin. deep and the same in diameter. Have ready a salpi^on of truffles mixed with cooked fillets of Hare and ox-tongue, and reduced stiffly with a little German sauce. Put this in the hollows, but not quite enough to fill them, cover with a thin layer of forcemeat, so as to completely hide the salpi9on, put them in a saute-pan with a little stock, and simmer gently until the forcemeat is set (it will take about a-quarter-of-an-hour). Place them on a dish, pour over a j little reduced Spanish sauce, and the dish is ready for I serving. Boudins of Hare witli Olives.—Make a forcemeat with a j fillet of uncooked Hare and the cooked heart and liver, and when ready, cut it up into equal parts about the size of eggs. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, place the pieces on it, j and with the hand roll them into the shape of corks; now J flatten with a spatula or blade of a knife to make them into oblong shapes. When a dozen have been made, poach them in boiling salted water, take out, and drain. When quite cold, dip them first into beaten eggs and then into breadcrumbs, put them in a flat stewpan with a little butter, Hares—continued. and fry until done. Place them in a circle on a dish, with a little olive garnish poured in the centre, and serve. Braised Fillets of Hare with. Poivrade Sauce.—Skin the Hares, and cut off the fillets, the best way being to pass a knife along the backbone from the shoulder to the leg, keeping it as near the ribs as possible. When the fillets are cut off, remove the skin, cut them into halves, beat lightly on the table, and lard with fillets of bacon. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the fillets, with some onions, a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves ; moisten with broth, just sufficient to keep them from sticking to the pan, put on the lid, with some hot cinders on the top, and set the pan over a slow fire. Put a few slices of carrot, turnip, and onion in a stewpan with a leek, a small piece of Fig. 925. Braised Fillets of Hare. celery, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped lean ham, a few peppercorns, and 2oz. of butter, and toss them over a brisk fire till lightly browned; pour in 3 wineg'lassfuls of tarragon vinegar, and boil; then add 1 pint of brown sauce and \ pint of clear broth. When the sauce commences to boil, skim, and boil quickly till reduced to a thick cream. When tender, glaze the fillets of Hare, and brown under a salamander or in the oven. Arrange them on a flattened heap of mashed potatoes on a hot dish. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, pour it round the fillets, garnish with game croquettes (see Fig. 925), and serve. Braised Fillets of Hare a la Soyer.—Cut some fillets of Hare into halves, beat them lightly, trim to a neat shape, lard them, and put into a braising-pan lined with slices of fat bacon ; add a few sliced onions, a bunch of pai'sley, a small quantity of mace, and two or three cloves, and moisten with a little broth ; then put the lid on the pan, with some live ashes on the top, and set it over a slow fire. Peel about lib. of button-onions. Put in a saucepan 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, and stir about over the fire till it browns slightly; then put in loz. of butter and the onions, and toss them about over a slow fire till browned. Pour in 1 pint of brown sauce and barely -j- pint of broth, and simmer by the side of the fire till the onions are tender; then take them out, and boil the sauce till reduced to a thick cream. Cut some bacon into small squares, and cook them. Strain the reduced sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, add the onions and bacon, and keep it hot. The sauce should not boil again. When cooked, glaze, brown the fillets under a salamander, arrange them in circular order on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Broiled Hare.—Rub the shoulders and legs of a Hare with butter, lay them in a deep dish with one larg'e sliced onion, a small quantity of chopped thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, a moderate quantity of salt and pepper, 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and half that quantity of water. Cover the Hare with another dish, and let it macerate for two days. Drain the pieces of Hare, rub again with butter, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. When cooked, lay the pieces on a hot dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 926), and serve. Civet of Hare.—Skin and clean a Hare, taking care to keep all the blood; chop off the hind-legs, and cut them up into two or three pieces; divide the body also into equal parts. Cut |lb. of bacon into small pieces about lin. in thickness, and blanch in boiling water. Take them out, drain, and fryTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 745 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. in a stewpan witli a little butter until quite brown ; remove them from the pan, put in the pieces of Hare, and cook until they are quite firm. Lift them out, and mix in a little flour to thicken the gravy; then add lqt. of broth and 1 pint of red wine. Place the pieces of Hare back again, also the bacon, and add a bunch of parsley, a few onions, spices, pepper and salt to taste, and a little trimmings of mushrooms. Place the pan on the fire again, and boil for an hour. Skim off the fat, and put the pieces of Hare and bacon (one at a time) into a clean saucepan. Skim again, place it on the fire, and reduce until it is quite thick and will adhere to the Hare after having been passed through a fine sieve. Put a few onions fried in butter to a light brown in a saucepan with a little broth, and stew them; add a few mushrooms also fried in butter, and the blood and liver to thicken. Warm up, and let it remain on the side of the fire, taking care not to boil it, or the blood would be likely to curdle, when the sauce would not be of the required dark colour. Place the pieces of meat on a dish, and serve with the onion broth mixed with the sauce poured over the Hare. Fig. 926. Broiled Hare. Civet of Hare a la Bourgeoise.—Clean a Hare, and cut it into small pieces, saving the blood. Put 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until mixed; then put in the pieces of Hare, with a few slices of fat bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms and artichoke-bottoms, a few small onions fried brown in butter, and salt and pepper, moistening with \ pint of white wine and sufficient stock to cover. Stew the Hare until tender, and then put the pieces on a dish. Skim the sauce, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, add the crushed liver of the Hare and the blood, and boil again. Pour the sauce over the Hare, and serve. Civet of Hare a la Chasseur.—The following very elaborate dish is advocated by Dubois, but appears to possess un- necessary complications. Skin and draw a Hare, putting the liver, heart, and lungs in one basin, and the blood in another with a little vinegar and the juice of a lemon. Cut up the back, loins, and hind-legs, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and let them marinade in this for two or three hours. Prepare a light brown roux; drain and wipe the pieces of Hare, add them to the roux, and cook over a moderate fire, turning frequently, until a light brown. Put these into a stewpan, pour over sufficient red and white wine in equal quantities to cover the meat, also the liquor of the marinade, one onion, and a few sweet herbs, and boil for five or six minutes; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and cover the lid with hot ashes. Cut two large onions into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 5oz. of lard, and fry over a moderate fire until they ai'e light brown. Finely chop the liver, heart, and lungs, add them to the onions, sprinkle over a little cayenne and salt, and toss over the fire until they are well done; add a few table-spoonfuls of Madeira wine to moisten the mince, and reduce it over a slow fire; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of rich sauce, put the whole in a mortar, pound well, and pass it through a sieve. Have ready a dozen round paste croustades, fried and emptied, fill them up with the mixture, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in butter, and put them in a slow oven to keep hot. When the civet is nearly done, about fifteen minutes before serving, take each piece out of the pan, and arrange them in another stewpan; then slightly dilute the sauce with broth, strain, and pour it over the Hare; put in two dozen mushrooms, cover the pan, and complete the cooking. Set the Hare on a dish, pour the Hares—continued. sauce over it, and arrange the croustades in a circle round the meat. Put a few table-spoonfuls of rum in a sugar-pan, warm it a little, set it alight, and pour it over. This last should be done just as it is being served, and it will give a very pretty effect. Civet of Hare a la Franpaise.—Skin a good-sized Hare, draw it, preserving the blood if there is any, and also the liver, with the gall carefully removed. Place the blood and the liver on the same dish, and cut the Hare into twelve pieces; put these into a stone jar, seasoning with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, adding also one sliced onion, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and £ wineglassful of white wine; mix all well together, and steep for six hours. Lift out the pieces of Hare, put them in a saucepan witli loz. of butter, adding twelve glazed small onions and loz. of salted pork cut into small pieces, and cook on a brisk fire for ten minutes; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of red wine also 1 pint of white broth, and stir until it boils, seasoning again with salt and pepper. Cook for one hour longer, and fifteen minutes before it is done put in the blood, heart, and liver, both finely chopped and mixed together. Serve on a dish, with croutons of fried bread for garnish. Sssence of Hare.—Break up the bones of two or three Hares and put them with their trimmings into a saucepan ; add a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with three cloves, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Madeira. Boil till the moisture is reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth. When the broth boils, skim it, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer for an-hour-and- a-half. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin, and leave till cooled; then skim well, and bottle it for future use. Fillets of Hare with. Poivrade Sauce.--Clean two Hares, cut off the fillets, remove the skin, and lard them well, using a small needle. Put them in a deep dish, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, adding one onion, one carrot, cut in pieces, and G table-spoonfuls of white wine. Let all soak together for two hours, then transfer the whole to a baking- pan, with some scraps of pork rind placed at the bottom of the pan, and put this in the oven to cook. Place the fillets on a dish, pour in the pan 1 gill of hot broth, let it come to the boil, strain it over the fillets, and serve with poivrade sauce separately. Fillets of Hare to resemble Roebuck.—Cut off the fillets from three Hares, lard them equally with strips of fat bacon, and put them into a deep basin with a little parsley, two sliced onions, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, salt, and pepper, 1 wineglass- ful of vinegar, and half that quantity of water. Let them remain in this to steep for two days, then take them out, drain, and fry in a frying-pan with a little butter. Take out before they are quite done, and glaze them. Serve upon a dish, with poivrade sauce in a tureen. Fillets of Hare Sautes.—Trim the fillets, and lay them side by side in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. Put the bones and trimmings of the Hare in a saucepan with a little broth, season, and simmer for half-an-hour. Skim the fat off the liquor of the bones, pass it through a fine Fig. 927. Fillets or- Hare Sautes. hair sieve into a deep stewpan, mix with it 1 teacupful of vinegar and a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil until reduced to half-glaze. Take the bunch of herbs out of the sauce, add a small piece of lemon-peel and 2 table- spoonfuls .of red-currant jelly, and boil for five minutes; then put in 1 teacupful of dried currants that have beenTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 746 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. steeped in warm water for a few minutes. After boiling for five minutes longer, remove the sauce from the fire. Fry the fillets over a moderate fire; when cooked, drain, cut them in a slanting direction into thick slices, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 927. Fillets of Hare Sautes with Truffles.—Cut off the fillets from six Hares, contise them with truffles cut in slices, and roll the thin end round ; then place them in a saute-pan with a little butter, put thin slices of fat bacon over them, and cook in a moderate oven. Have ready a croustade filled with Hare-forcemeat quenelles, place it on a dish, put the fillets in a circle round it, and pour over Spanish sauce, reduced with a little claret; or they may be glazed after they are cooked, and served with a French sauce. Forcemeat of Hare’s Livers.—(1) Put the livers from two or three Hares into a mortar, and pound to a pulp with half their bulk of beef-kidney suet and bacon-fat in equal proportions ; season with a little powdered cloves, salt, and pepper. If sufficient Hare’s livers are not obtainable, a little of the flesh can be used. Add a little cream, and mix in the yolks of two eggs to make the forcemeat of the required consistence. Put it into a stewpan, and set it over the fire for ten or twelve minutes, stirring continually until it becomes quite stiff, when it will be ready to serve with game. (2) Parboil a Hare’s liver, cut it up small, and put it into a mortar with 4oz. of beef-suet finely minced and about 3oz. of lean bacon also chopped fine, and pound it well. H the ingredients are very finely chopped, they will not require to be pounded. Mix well, and add 6oz. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little marjoram, thyme, and grated nutmeg, with salt and pepper to taste ; add the yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs to bind the mass, and either stuff the Hare with it or make it into balls, and fry in a little butter until of a light brown colour. Serve this with roasted Hare. Fried Fillets of Hare a la Dubois.—Beat the fillets lightly, season them with salt and pepper, put them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry them, pressing the fillets against each other to keep them straight in frying. When cooked, drain them, and press them between two plates under a light weight till cool. Trim them to an equal size, giving them a slightly rounded shape, score them on the upper part, then mask them alternately with brown and white chaudfroid sauce, and leave them till the sauce has cooled. Cook some truffles, slice them thin, cut them into rounds with a tin cutter, and divide the rounds to make wedges. Mask the fillets slantwise with the remainder of the Fig. 928. Fried Fillets of IIare a la Dubois. sauce, then contise with the wedges of truffles. Fix a pain- vert on a dish, place in the centre a dome-shaped support cut out of bread and fried, then mask the whole with aspic jelly. Mask the fillets with aspic jelly, and place them on the dome. Garnish the top of the dome with a small subject cast in fat, and the base with cooked truffles in small cases, fixing them with aspic jelly. Garnish round the base of the pain-vert with croutons of aspic jelly; decorate four attelettes with large round truffles, and fix them on the dome. This dish may be set upon an elaborate stand, and the free use of chopped aspic and parsley sprigs would enhance the beauty of the garnish. See Fig. 928. Hares—continued. Fried Fillets of Hare a la Sicilienne.—Trim some fillets of Hare to the shapes of chicken fillets, season them with salt and pepper, put them in a basin with vinegar, and let them soak for several hours ; then drain and dry the fillets on a cloth, put them in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them over a quick fire. Cut some croutons of bread, and fry them in butter till lightly browned. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire till lightly browned; then pour in 1 tea- cupful of vinegar, and boil till the sugar is dissolved and the vinegar reduced to half its original quantity. Mix with the vinegar 1 teacupful of brown sauce, and boil it; then add 1 small teacupful of well-washed currants or dried Smyrna raisins and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped and dried almonds. When the fillets are cooked, drain the butter from them, and baste them with a small quantity of melted meat glaze. Arrange the fillets in a circle alternately with the croutons of fried bread on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fried Fillets of Hare with Quenelles.—Take two fillets of a Hare, trim them, cut them slantwise across into five pieces each, moisten and beat them a little, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Pour a little melted butter into a flat stewpan, and put in the fillets, arranging them side by side. Prepare a little game gravy with the bones and remaining parts of the Hare, adding a small quantity of thickened brown sauce. Prepare a forcemeat with the trimmings of the fillets, shape them into quenelles with a small spoon, and poach them in salted water. Put the pan with the fillets on the fire, and fry briskly, turning them over to cook both sides; take them out, drain them, pour 4 table-spoonfuls of the sauce over them, put them on a dish, and pour the remainder of the sauce over. Put the quen- elles round the dish, and serve. Fried Hare.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut it into good-sized pieces, dredge them well with flour, and season them with salt and pepper. Melt a large lump of butter in a flat stew- pan, put in the pieces of Hare, with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a small quantity of chopped chives, and fry them until evenly browned ; take them out of the pan, and put them on a hot dish. Mix a teacupful of stock and the strained juice of a lemon with the seasonings in the pan, and stir it over the fire until boiling; then pour the sauce over the Hare, and serve. Gibelotte of Hare.—Proceed the same as for Civet of Hare a la Franijaise, replacing the red wine by 1 pint of white broth, and adding twelve whole mushrooms five minutes before serving. Hare ail Cliaudron.—Skin and clean a Hare, and cut it into pieces on a dish, so as to catch the blood. Put ^lb. of sliced bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, put in the pieces of Hare, with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, one small onion stuck with three cloves, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, and 1J pints of red wine, and place the stewpan over Fig. 929. Hare au Chaudron. a clear wood fire, allowing the flames to spread round the pan until the wine catches fire. Leave it until the wine burns out; then put in tjlb. of butter kneaded with a little flour, stir it well, put the lid on the pan, and stew at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, dress the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve very hot. See Fig. 929. Hare a, la Minute.—Skin and draw a Ha.re, cut it up into joints, and put them in a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkling them over with salt and pepper and mixed spice.747 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Saxices, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. Place the pan on the fire and toss it; when the meat is firm, add a few mushrooms finely chopped, a little parsley, shallot, and 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir them well, add a little white wine and stock to moisten, and when it boils, pour it out on a dish, and serve hot. Hare’s Backs with Poivrade Sauce.—Remove the backs of a couple of Hares, lard them with strips of firm bacon-fat, wrap them round with buttered or oiled paper, place them on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast them until done. About five minutes before taking- them from the fire, remove the paper so as to glaze them with thin liquor, put them on a dish, and serve poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Hare Cheese (Pain de Lievre).—(1) To all intents and purposes this dish may be regarded as the king of a cold collation, whether luncheon or supper. It is clearly described by Dubois. Remove the meat from the shoulders and legs of a cooked Hare, pare off the skin, cut it up into pieces, put it into a frying-pan with some bacon, and fry till browned. Take it out, let it get cool, put it into a mortar, pound well, and add an equal bulk of raw fat bacon, finely chopped, and a little trimmings of truffles. Season it very highly, pass it through a sieve, and add a quarter of its bulk each of cooked bacon and raw truffles cut up into large dice. Butter a tim- bale mould, press into it the forcemeat, put a layer of bacon on the top, and place the mould in a saute-pan with water to about one-third its height. Put the pan in a moderate oven, bake for forty-five minutes, and then let it cool. Spread some of the cheese, when cold, on a baking- sheet to about 4in. in thickness, cut it into two equal shapes like cutlets, glaze them, place truffles on the thick part, and cover them all over with a layer (very thin) of aspic jelly. Place a low stand with a flat top in the centre of a dish, and on it pile a group of small round truffles, dipped in half-set jelly to fasten them together. Put a small bone in the narrow end of each cutlet, with a ruffle round it, and dish them up in a circle round the truffles. (2) Trim and cut into small pieces the fillets of a cooked Hare, also half the quantity of cooked chicken’s livers, pound them, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put the meat into a saucepan with a little over 4oz. of butter and 1 breakfast-cupful of brown chaudfroid sauce, and stir it quickly over the fire till the butter is quite dissolved and mingled with the rest. Turn the mixture into a dome-shaped cylinder mould, press it down tightly, then pack it into pounded ice and salt for an hour. Dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, then turn the contents out on to a pain-vert fixed on a dish. Fill the hollow with chopped aspic, and stand on the top a small shape of the same jelly. Garnish the base of the Hare pain with chopped and round the pain- vert with croutons of jelly (see Fig. 930). (3) Cut off the fillets from two Hares, divide each one in halves, trim them to the shape of a pear, lard them with strips of fat bacon, put them in a saute-pan, and add a little butter. Make a little forcemeat as follows: Cut off all the flesh from the parts of the Hare that are left, and pound it in a mortar with the small. or minion fillets and the large ones of six fowls. Rub this through a sieve, put it back in a mortar and add its equal bulk of calf’s udder, boiled, pounded, and passed through a sieve, and half the quantity of a panada made with breadcrumbs and essence of Hare, and put on a plate to cool. Sprinkle this over with a little salt and pepper and grated nutmeg, mix them well together, adding three For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hares—continued. eggs, one at a time, and making it of the required consistence with a little Spanish sauce reduced stiffly with a little essence of Hare. Take a border mould lOin. long by 2iin. wide, butter it well, fill it with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie without letting it boil. As soon as it has set, turn it out on to a dish, glaze it, arrange the fillets of Hare, also cooked and glazed, in a circle on the top, and serve with a little venison sauce in a sauceboat. A mixture of truffles and fat bacon may also be added to the forcemeat if desired. Hare-Liver Sauce.—Put the Hare’s liver into a saucepan with some good beef gravy, stew it till tender, take it out, finely chop it with a piece of shallot and a few pot-herbs, put all into another saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and £ teacupful of red-currant jelly, warm up, and serve. Or the liver, &c., after pounding, can be returned to the gravy to thicken, and the vinegar and wine added afterwards, and red-currant jelly served separately. Hare Pie (Pate de Lievre).—(1) This is a French dish, and cannot be made without an oval pate-dish or terrine. Skin a Hare, and cut it up into joints, putting the blood in a basin, or it may be cut into half joints, as it is more con- venient for serving in this way. Chop small lib. of veal, and mix with it an equal quantity of sausage-meat; chop fine two or three shallots, mix them with some finely-minced parsley and thyme, and dust them over with salt and pepper ; chop also some veal bones into very small pieces. Put a layer of the Hare-meat at the bottom of the pate-dish, then a layer of the sausage and veal mince, sprinkle them over with the parsley and shallots, and cover the whole with a few thin slices of bacon. When the dish is nearly full, add the blood and ^ pint of Madeira or any white wine; put three or four bay-leaves on the top, cover over with the lid, seal it hermetically with some paste made with flour and water, and bake it in a slow oven for ten or twelve hours. It is usually put in a baker’s oven after the bread has been taken out, and left there for the night. The veal bones should be added to the meat, and put about indiscriminately. (2) This is a very elaborate mode of preparing this dish ; but it has exceptional merit. Cut two fillets of uncooked Hare into long squares, add to them an equal quantity of slices of bacon, also cut in the same shapes. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and season very highly. Chop up the meat from the legs, mix it up with an equal bulk of calf’s liver, put them in a saucepan with a little melted bacon-fat, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, place the pan over a good fire, and fry until the meat sets. Take it out, and when it is quite cold, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a sieve, and mix it up with its equal bulk of fresh raw pork, minced and pounded in a mortar, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. Prepare about lib. of puff paste, roll it out Fig. 931. Hare Pie. to a long round-cornered wide strip, put a layer of force- meat in the centre, with the bacon and fillets in this, and cover over with another layer of forcemeat. Fold the edges of the paste over the meat, damp it a little, and cover it with a thin strip of the paste ; cover this over again with another strip of puff paste, in this make three small openings at a little distance from one another, brush it over with egg, and mark it with a knife. Put a strip of well-buttered paper round the base of the pie to keep it in shape, and bake it in a slack oven; as soon as it begins to colour, cover it over with buttered paper, and let it remain for two hours. When it is done, take it out, let it stand for twenty minutes, pour in through the holes at the top a few table-spoonfuls of melted aspic-jelly, and serve when it is quite cold. See Fig. 931. (3) Cut the thick flesh from the back and legs of a Hare into large pieces, lard them with fillets of bacon, and put748 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For deta'ls respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—con tinned. them in a deep dish ; pour over them some vinegar, and add a seasoning of herbs and three or four slices of onions. Put the bones and trimmings of the Hare into a saucepan with plenty of water and a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil them ) until all the goodness is extracted. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then .put in the larded pieces of Hare, put the lid on, and steam them until tender. When cooked, take out the pieces of Hare, strain the gravy back into the stewpan, and add sufficient of the marinade to season it. Finely mince the liver of the Hare with lib. of fresh pork and fib. of bacon, and mix them with fib. of grated bread, also a small quantity of fine herbs; season the mix- ture to taste, and bind it with three eggs. Put the forcemeat into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and stir it over j a slow fire until cooked. Line a buttered pie-mould with a J good pie-crust, spread in half of the forcemeat, then put in j the pieces of Hare, and cover with the remaining forcemeat. J Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trim it round the edges, moisten and press them together, and make a slight incision | at the top. Boll the trimmings of the paste out thin, and | cut imitation leaves out of it; damp them underneath with water to make them adhere, and arrange them tastefully on the top. Bake the pie for about two hours in a moderate j oven, covering it with a sheet of paper when it begins to j take colour, as it must not be too dark. Boil the gravy | until reduced to about half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and when the pie is cooked, pour it in with a funnel fixed in the top. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. (4) Cut off the meat from a Hare in large pieces, without any bone. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a bay-leaf, and a couple of shallots in a saucepan over a slow fire: when hot, put in the pieces of Hare, and fry gently for ten minutes ; then let them cool, and strain the butter. Make a forcemeat with the | liver of the Hare, £lb. of suet, |lb. of lean beef, and a couple | of shallots, all chopped very fine, and mixed with about 2oz. j of breadcrumbs, a seasoning- of salt and pepper, and three 1 beaten eggs. Line the bottom of the pie-dish with this, put in the cold Hare, season with salt and pepper, lay it on the forcemeat in the dish, packing- it in as closely as possible, | pour over it the butter it was fried in, and cover with fat bacon cut in thin slices. When baked, take off the cover, and serve red-currant jelly with it. Hare Shape.—Take any remains of cold jugged Hare, cut off all the meat, and pound it in a mortar. Warm a little of the gravy, and add 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, | ■joz. of gelatine, and 2 wineglassfuls of port, so as to make 5 gills in all. Decorate a suitable quart mould with small forcemeat-balls, kept in position by being dipped in aspic jelly, pour the gravy over the meat, and when it is nearly cold pour the whole into the mould. When it is quite cold j and set, turn it out on a dish, decorate it with rings of lemon and small pieces of parsley, putting here and there a few small pieces or croutons of aspic jelly, and decorate the top with chopped aspic. Hare Soup.- -(1) Chop 81b. each of beef and veal into small pieces, and add lib. of bacon, also cut up. Put them in a stewpan with two turnips, three onions, a bunch of parsley, a handful of thyme, a little basil, four bay-leaves, and three heads of celery. Pour in 1 pint of broth, set the pan on a moderate fire, add a Hare cut in pieces, and stir well until the meat is covered with a brown glaze. Then sprinkle in 12oz. of flour, and mix in 2gal. of clear broth or stock, and 1 pint of brown gravy. When the Hare meat is quite tender, take it out, cut off twelve fillets from the best parts, remove the rest from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Put it back in the liquor, pass it all through a sieve into another saucepan, place it on the fire again, and boil. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with four times the quantity of port wine, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and a pinch of cayenne, and stir it well, adding a breakfast-cupful of broth. Put it into the soup when about to boil, add the fillets, stir well, and serve very hot. A couple of heads of celery cut up small, dipped in butter, and boiled until tender, may also be added if approved of, and are considered a great improvement. (2) Skin and draw a Hare, and cut it up into joints; put the pieces, with the blood, into an earthenware vessel that Hares—continued. holds about 3qts., and add 21b. of lean beef, cut up small, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions cut into quarters, a little whole pepper and mace, and a few cloves. Pour in suffi- cient boiling water to nearly fill the vessel, tie it over with bladder, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for three or four hours. Strain off the soup, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of Worcester- shire or Harvey’s sauce; then boil it up again, and serve with Hare forcemeat-balls and a few of the best pieces of the meat from the Hare. (3) Skin a Hare, half roast it, cut away all the meat from the back in slices, and put it on one side for cooking other- wise than in soup. Put a carrot, turnip, a little celery, thyme, and parsley, a small blade of mace, six peppercorns, a slice of ham, a few bacon bones, and four onions cut in slices and fried, into a saucepan with the remainder of the Hare cut up in small pieces, and pour over igall. of stock. Place the pan on the fire, skim the stock well, cover the pan, and boil the contents gently for three hours; then strain, remove all the fat, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour to thicken it, and boil up again. Dissolve two lumps of sugar in a wineglassful of port wine, and pour it into the soup. Serve hot. (4) Skin and draw a Hare, and put the blood in a basin for after use. Cut the Hare into joints, and put them in a saucepan with a bunch of parsley, thyme, and basil, an onion stuck with two cloves, a little mace, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in Igal. of stock and f pint of red wine. Place the pan on the fire, boil up once, remove to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is done and quite tender. Strain off the soup, put a little bread- crumb in it to soak, squeeze it dry, and pound in a mortar with the meat cut off the bones of the Hare. When quite smooth, add it to the soup, a little at a time, strain it, and warm up again, without letting it boil. Just before serving, pour in the blood, and turn the whole into a tureen over a few pieces of fried bread. After the blood has been added, it must not boil, or it would be likely to curdle ; the heat of the soup being quite sufficient to cook the blood as much as is necessary. (5) Cut up a Hare into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with one onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, J pint of port wine, and a small quantity of cayenne. Stew the Hare very gently at the side of the fire for an hour, then pour in a sufficient quantity of boiling broth to make the soup, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Drain the pieces of Hare, cut the meat off the bones, put it in a mortar, and pound. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, with the crumb of two French rolls and the pounded meat. Scald the liver, rub it through a fine hair sieve into the soup, and keep it close to the side of the fire, where it will boil gently. In cutting up the Hare the blood should be saved, so that at the last it may be added to the soup ; it will improve the colour, but care must be taken that it does not curdle. Put some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve as quickly as possible. (6) Skin and clean a Hare, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with some trimmings of scrag or a knuckle of veal, a cow-heel, a few sliced onions and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of mace, and 5qts. of water. When boiling, move the soup to the side of the fire, skim it constantly, and simmer for two hours. Take out the back and legs of the Hare, strip them of their meat, and return the bones to the soup, which keep simmer- ing for an hour or two longer. Next strain the soup through a fine sieve, pour it into a clean saucepan, and mix in 4 wine- glassfuls of either red or white wine, and the pieces of meat from the legs and back cut into small square pieces. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes longer, then turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve at once, with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (7) Cut four or five large onions into quarters, put them into a saucepan containing salted water, and boil until nearly done ; then take thorn out, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a little water to finish cooking, adding a little sugar, salt, and pepper. Dust the onions over with flour, pour in ^ pint of broth to the liquor, reduce it over a moderate fire, and strain. Cut off the shoulders of a Hare, and put them in aTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 749 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—con tinned. saucepan with one or two of its legs, chopped in halves, and the neck and breast; put in also a pat of butter, a hunch of sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns ; then place the pan over a fire, and fry until the flesh is a light brown. Toss the pan frequently. Dust over again with flour, and pour in gradually a little warmed broth and 1 wineglassful of white wine. The gravy should be a little thick. Put the pan over the fire again, and as soon as it boils, remove it to the side and let it remain until the meat is quite done. Take out the meat, drain it, pound in a mortar, and pass it through a sieve. Remove the fat from the soup, mis in the pounded Hare, take the pan off the fire, add a little cayenne, pour it through a conical sieve into a soup-tureen, and serve with small croutons of fried bread. (8) Skin and clean two Hares, cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with -Jib. of bacon cut up small, and add ilb. of butter. Cook the pieces of Hare until browned, and let the whole of the preparation get cold ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of red wine, 2 pints of rich consomme, and a bunch of sweet herbs, also lqt. of mushrooms, \ two onions, two cloves, and cayenne, mace, and pepper to taste. ] Bring the liquor to the boil, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and cook gently, skimming frequently, until . the meat is done. Take out the meat, remove any projecting bones, put it with the pieces of bacon into another saucepan, : strain in the liquor, and boil up once more before serving-. This is supposed to resemble turtle soup. (9) Cut the Hare into joints as if for jugged Hare, and put them over the fire with 4db. of lean beef, a good slice of ham, four onions peeled and cut small, two carrots scraped, washed, and cut small, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of winter savory, a sprig of lemon-thyme, a little salt, whole black pepper and allspice, three blades of mace, and lgall. of water. Let it boil till lqt. of the water is evaporated; then take out the Hare, strain the soup, and add 1 pint of port wine. Boil the soup up again, pour it over the Hare in a tureen, and serve it very hot. Hare Soup with Quenelles.—Skin and draw a Hare, chop off the feet and legs, cut three of them up in small pieces, also the breast and neck, and divide the body in halves. Chop up an onion, put it in a stewpan with a little celery, a carrot cut in slices, and a little lard, set the pan over a fire, and fry them; add a few uncooked veal or poultry trimmings, a ham-bone, a few strips of bacon rind, or a calf’s foot boned and blanched, and lastly, the pieces of Haro (except the one leg), and fry for about twelve minutes; then add a little broth and § pint of white wine. Boil it, skim well, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, made up of marjoram, basil, thyme, and bay- leaf, and also add a few cloves and peppercorns. When this meat is nearly done, skim off all the fat, and thicken with a little potato-flour or diluted arrowroot. Let it remain on the side of the fire until the meat is quite done ; then take it out, drain, and let it get cold. Skim off the fat again from the liquor, pass it through a conical sieve, add a few table- spoonfuls of Madeira, place it back in the saucepan, and put the saucepan again on the side of the fire. Cut the meat from the back and fillets transversely into collops, replace them in the soup, sprinkle over a little cayenne, and add a few quenelles made with the remaining leg of the Hare. Skim off the fat again, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Fig. 932. Terrine for Hare. Hare and Veal Pate.—Cut off all the meat from a Hare, take an equal quantity of veal, chop separately, and season Hares—continued. with salt and pepper. Put a layer of the minced Hare at the bottom of a pate-dish or terrine (see Fig. 932), next a layer of veal, and then thin slices of bacon, and so on until the dish is nearly full, finishing with bacon. Cover it over with bay-leaves, pour in ^ teacupful of water, put on the lid, close it hermetically with paste, and bake in a slow oven for ten or twelve hours, or in a baker’s bread-oven, leaving it there all the night after the bread has been withdrawn. Imitation Hare.—Chop some cold veal or fowl, beef-suet, two or three slices of a Spanish onion, and a little parsley, and mix them together in a mortar with about 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, seasoning with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and 1 pinch of cayenne. Pound the ingredients together, adding a small quantity of powdered thyme or marjoram, and bind the mixture with one or two well-beaten and strained eggs. Spread the stuffing over a thick piece of steak, roll it, and bind with fine string. Roast the meat in front of a clear fire, allowing between fifteen and twenty minutes for every pound. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy round it, and servo with a sauceboatful of the same. Imitation Hare Soup. Clean a bullock's heart (one freshly taken from the animal if possible), removing all the fat, pipes, and outside skin, split it in halves without separating, and remove all the blood. Cut it in slices, put them in a jar (with a close-fitting lid), add a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, salt and pepper, three onions (one of them stuck with cloves), a largo slice of bread, and 3oz. or 4oz. of butter rolled in flour ; cover over with cold water, put on the lid, hermetically seal it with paste, place it in a saucepan with boiling water up to the neck, and cook for three or four hours, keeping the water replenished. Take out the bread and the heart when tender, pound them in a mortar, moistening with beef-broth free from fat, and rub them through a sieve ; strain the liquor into a saucepan, add the heart, &c., and pour in as much more rich beef broth as is required for the soup. Boil up quickly, season with salt and cayenne to taste, add a liaison of flour and butter to bring it to the consistency of cream, stir in 1 table-spoonful of sugar and 1 wineglessful of port wine, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Jugged Hare.—(1) Skin and draw a Hare, cut it up into joints, sprinkle with flour, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown. Put a layer of thin slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, put in the pieces of Hare, fitting- them close together, and cover with another layer of bacon; then add i pint each of claret and beef gravy, a few pounded cloves and peppercorns, and a little salt. Place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer for about an-hour-and-a-half, or until the meat is quite tender. Take out the meat and put it on a dish in front of the fire, or in a cool oven to keep warm. Pass the gravy through a sieve, remove all the fat, and reduce over a quick fire to half its original bulk ; then add 1 wineglassful of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and if the soup requires thickening-, stir in a little butter and flour. Sprinkle in a pinch of cayenne, put in the pieces of Haro, make it hot again, and it is ready to be served. (2) Skin a Hare, draw it, cut it up first into joints and then again in halves, and add to them lib. of rump steak, cut up into pieces about l|in. square. Put a few pieces of the steak (the fattest part) at the bottom of an earthenware jar, then a few pieces of the Hare, and fill the jar with the remaining pieces of meat; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put in at equal distances from one another the rind of a lemon, eight whole onions, two or three blades of mace, a few peppercorns, six cloves, two bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of parsley and thyme; then add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and | pint of water or stock, and cover over the jar. Put it in a saucepan of water not quite up to the top of the jar, and boil for six hours or so, or until the meat is tender. Pour it out on to a dish, garnish with game forcemeat balls, and serve. (3) Put an onion (stuck with six cloves) and a bunch of sweet herbs into an earthenware jar. Cut a Hare up into joints, dust each piece over with a little pounded mace, salt and pepper, put them in the jar, cover over with water, place the lid on, and stew in a moderate oven for two-hours-and-a-750 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. half or so. Take out the joints separately, and put them in a soup-tureen. Dredge a little flour and butter in the stock, boil up again, add 1 gill of port wine, pour over the Hare, and serve. (4) Skin a Hare, put it in a basin of water to soak, and let it remain for several hours, changing the water frequently. Chop it up, wash well, and put it on a strainer to drain. Place it in a jar with a sheep’s milt, and season with a little marjoram, mace, nutmeg, parsley, and lemon-thyme, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper. Cover the jar with a cloth, tie it down, put it in a saucepan with water up to its neck, and boil for three hours or so until the meat is done. Put a small quantity of flour in a basin with a little ketchup or soy, mix well, add it to the mixture in the jar, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. It is then ready to be served, and a few game forcemeat balls may be added if desired. (5) Skin a Hare, clean it, cut it into joints, and put them in an earthenware jar with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a little more water than will just cover the Hare. Cover the jar, put it into a moderately-heated oven, so that the contents may cook slowly, and stew till the meat is done enough. Uncover the jar, take out the pieces of Hare, and thicken the gravy, first picking out the herbs, onion, and spices. When the thickening is sufficiently boiled in the gravy, strain it through a sieve, season to taste with cayenne, soy, and ketchup, pour it while boiling over the Hare, add a few forcemeat balls, and serve. (6) Skin and clean a Hare, wipe it with a cloth dipped in boiling water, dry it, cut it into good-sized pieces, and dredge each piece well with flour. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until hot, then put in the pieces of Hare, and fry them, turning to brown all sides equally. Pack the pieces of Hare in an earthenware jug, with two onions with three cloves stuck in each, ^ table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and Worcester- shire sauce, and 1 breakfast-cupful of brown stock, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Tie a piece of stout brown paper over the jar, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and steam the Hare for three hours, adding more boiling water occasionally to keep up the original quantity, but taking care not to let the water enter at the top of the jar. Butter a large, rather deep dish, line it with a good flaky crust, and bake it for half-an-liour. When the Hare is cooked, arrange the pieces on the paste, strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve over it, and serve while very hot. (7) Leicestershire Style.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut it into pieces, wipe each piece on a dry cloth (but they must not be washed), season them well with salt and pepper, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned. Wash and bone a couple of anchovies, chop them, and mix with them a small quantity each of chopped thyme and parsley, grated nutmeg, mace, 1 tea- spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and J- teaspoonful of pounded Fig. 933. Jugged Hare (Leicestershire Style). cloves. Put a few thin slices of fat bacon in a large earthen- ware jar, then drain the pieces of Hare from the butter, and put a layer of them in the jar; strew some of the mixture over, and cover in turn with another layer of bacon. Proceed to fill the jar in this way, strewing the seasoning between the layers; moisten with f breakfast-cupful of ale, put the lid on I the jar, and solder it round the edg'es with flour-and-water paste. Stand the jar in a saucepan with cold water to about two-thirds its height, and boil it for about four hours, more Hares—continued. or less, according to the age of the Hare. When the Hare is tender, put loz. of butter and -J- table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them on the fire until mixed, then pour in 2 pint of port wine and a few drops of mushroom ketchup. Take the pieces of Hare out of the jar, and put them in the sauce ; dust in a small quantity of mushroom powder, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle and a small quantity of browning, and toss the whole over the fire until boiling. Arrange the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, garnish with fried bread sippets and potato croquettes (see Fig. 933), pour the sauce round, and serve. (8) Skin and clean a Hare, and cut it into moderate-sized pieces, reserving the blood ; lard the shoulder pieces and the best pieces from the back and thighs with thin strips of bacon, and put them into a large stone or earthenware jar with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, two or three finely-minced shallots, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 pint of claret. Put the lid on the jar, solder round the edges with flour-and-water paste, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water almost up to the top, and boil for four hours. As the water reduces, fill up again with boiling water. When cooked, turn the Hare on to a deep dish, strain its gravy over it, and serve. (9) Cut a Hare into joints and the carcase into small pieces, and fry them with some fat bacon until browned. Drain the pieces of Hare from the fat, dust them over with finely-powdered dried parsley, thyme, and savory, and a small quantity each of pounded mace and allspice, and put them into a large earthenware jar ; put in also two finely-minced shallots, sufficient brown stock to cover the meat, and salt and pepper to taste. Tic a piece of bladder over the jar, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and keep it boiling for three hours, or longer if the Hare is an old one. When tender, take the meat out of the jar, skim the fat off the gravy, strain it, thicken with a small quantity of flour, and boil up again. Arrange the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (10) Clean a Hare, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, and put them into a jar just large enough to hold them, with a bunch of sweet herbs, the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, the juice of a whole one, one onion stuck with four cloves, and 2 wineglassfuls of port wine. Tie a bladder tightly over the jar, making it perfectly air-tight, put it into a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and keep it boiling rapidly for three hours. More boiling water should be added as the quantity becomes diminished. Afterwards take the jar out of the water, strain the liquor from the Hare into a small saucepan, remove the fat, and thicken it with flour, stirring over the fire until boiling. Lay the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with red-currant jelly- Larded Fillets of Hare a la Minute.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut off the fillets, lard them, put them into a basin, season with ground mixed spice and salt, pour over sufficient oil to moisten, and let them soak for an hour. In the mean- time, pour some stock into a saucepan, and reduce it nearly to glaze; then add a large slice of fat bacon and the larded fillets, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and simmer gently for twelve minutes, by which time the fillets should be well cooked and glazed. Great care must be taken not to let the bacon burn, or the fillets will be spoilt. Put the fillets on a dish, add a little rich stock to the glaze, stir well, pour it over, and serve. Marinaded Fillets of Hare.—Cut six fillets of Hare into halves, beat them slightly, trim, and lard them. Put lqt. of vinegar and 1 pint of broth into a stewpan, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, three bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, about two blades of maco, Jib. of brown sugar, and a small lump of salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Put some slices of carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and leek into a deep dish, pour the boiling liquid over them, and leave till cold; then put in the fillets, covering well with the vegetables, and let them remain thus for three days. Drain the fillets, wipe with a cloth, put them in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook for twenty minutes. When done, glaze them, and brown lightly with a salamander.751 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respeotiwj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L‘C., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—go ntinued. Hare, cover it with slices of bacon, and tie it tightly over witli stout paper. Put the jar in a moderate oven, and leave it until the Hare is cooked (it will take about three hours), then take it out. On the following day take the fat and bacon off the top, put the pieces of Hare in a mortar, pound them to a smooth paste with jib. of butter, add more salt and pepper if necessary, and press it into small pots, leaving about §in. clear space at the top of each. Pour clarified butter in the jars, tie them over with wet parchment or stout paper, and pack away in a dry cupboard till wanted. (5) Let a Hare hang for four or five days, then skin and cut it into joints; put them in an earthen jar, dust over with salt, pepper, and beaten mace, put in lib. of butter, place the lid on the jar, solder it round the edges with flour-and-water paste, and put it in a good oven. When the Hare is tender, take it out of the oven, pick all the flesh off the bones, and put it in a mortar; then mix the cooking-butter in with it, and pound until quite smooth. Put the meat into small pots, leaving about jin. clear space at the top, and fill up with clarified butter. When the butter is cold, cover the jars with stout paper and tie down. Hares—con tinned. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and arrange the fillets on it. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the marinade into the saute-pan in which the fillets were cooked, pour in also about 1 pint of brown sauce, and boil till it coats the spoon, keeping well stirred. Put 1 teaspoonful of red-currant jelly and a small piece of glaze into the sauce, and stir till dissolved ; then pour it over the fillets, and serve. Minced Hare.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut off all the meat, mince it very fine, and add a finely-chopped onion and a seasoning of ground spice, salt, and pepper. Take small quantities of the mixture, roll them into balls, flour well, put them into a frying-pan with hot dripping, and brown slightly. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich broth, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for about half-an-hour. Pour the liquor into another saucepan, put in the meat collops, add a little flavouring of wine, and simmer gently until they are done (they will take from forty-five to sixty minutes). Skim well and frequently, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve, with thin slices of lemon and small pieces of toast for garnish. Potted Hare.—(1) Take some of the flesh of a Hare that lias been cooked as for Stewed Hare (No. 2), cut off all the flesh, and pound it in a mortar. When quite smooth, rub it through a sieve, press it into a jar, flattening the top quite level, cover witli paper, and place it in the oven. When hot, take it out, remove the paper, let it get cold, and then pour a little liquefied butter over to cover it and keep the air away. Cover again with paper, and it is then ready for use, and will keep for a long time. (2) Select a Hare weighing about 51b., take off the skin, draw, wash, and bone it, keeping the blood to mix in with the forcemeat. Cut off the meat from the shoulders, and half that of the legs, remove all the skin and sinews, and put this flesh into a mortar with 12oz. of veal without skin or gristle, and lib. of fat bacon, both cut up small; pound it, and whilst so doing add loz. of spiced salt and the blood. Lard the body with pieces of fat bacon, cut it in halves, dust it over well with about 2oz. of spiced salt, put it in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and fry for ten minutes. Put a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of a potting-pan to about lin. in thickness, then put in one-half of the body, sprinkling it over with another ounce of spiced salt, then more forcemeat, and so on, finishing up with a layer of forcemeat. Put a thin slice of bacon on the top, a bay-leaf on that, cover the pan, put it in a saucepan with 2in. depth of water, place the saucepan over the fire, and cook for three hours or so until done, which may be ascertained by piercing the flesh with a trussing-needlc, which should return clean. When done, let it get cold, cover with melted fat, and it is ready for use. It should not be used within a day or so of making; and if required to be kept for a time, pork should be used instead of the veal, and in the same proportion. (3) Cut off the meat from the shoulders and legs of a Hare, and put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of fresh bacon ; then sprinkle in a little seasoning, pound well, and rub it through a sieve. Cut half of a calf’s liver in slices, put them in a frying-pan with a little hog’s lard or butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and fry until set. Take them out, and when cold chop up, add them to the Hare forcemeat, pound well for ten minutes or so, and pass it through a sieve again. Cut the fillets of a Hare in small squares, add to them their equal bulk of bacon, blanched and cut in dice, and a few sliced truffles; season well, and mix them in with the forcemeat. Put some strips of bacon at the bottom of a potting-pan, put the forcemeat mixture over it, cover with slices of bacon, and again with a round of paste, put the pan on a baking-sheet in a rather slow oven, and bake from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. Take it out, and when cool it is ready for use. (4) Remove the head from the fore-part of a Hare, and cut the fore-part into small pieces. Line the bottom of a stone or earthenware jar with pieces of unsmoked bacon; put in the pieces of Hare, with one bay-leaf, two or three cloves, a piece of stick mace, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of red wine over the Roasted Hare.—(1) Select a Hare, and let it hang up for four or five days to make the flesh eatable, for if cooked fresh the meat is hard and tough. Skin and draw it, preserving the blood. Cut off the upper end of the body transversely under the fore-legs, and cut the breast its full length so as to disengage the back. Cut out or break all the hind-leg bones, chop off the feet, and pass one leg through the sinew of the other at the knuckle. Take off the sinewy skin of the fillets, and lard them with bacon, also the fleshy part of the legs (see Pig. 934), fixing them with skewers so that they will lie perfectly flat on a dish. Pass a long skewer right through the Hare, fix it on the spit, and moisten the larded parts with a little softened butter. Put a pan under the Hare to catch the drippings caused by the cooking, baste it frequently, and when it has roasted for forty-five minutes or so, sprinkle it over with salt. Take it off the spit, remove the skewers, put it on a dish, and serve with piquant sauce made with the blood and dripping in a tureen. (2) Let a Hare hang as long as possible, for it cannot be hung too long. It is better for not being paunched for a few days unless the weather is warm and muggy; and in no case is it advisable to paunch it when first killed. Keep the inside wiped dry, and well peppered. If the Hare is very old, soak it for a couple of hours in water-and-vinegar. Stuff the belly with plenty of well-seasoned stuffing made as below, put the Hare at some distance from the fire, and roast gradually, because being of a very dry and hardTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 752 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sc tecs, it:c., referred to, see under their special heads. H ares—continued. nature it requires being thoroughly done, and yet not dried up. When done, serve with gocd gravy or melted butter in the dish and gravy in a tureen, and accompany it with red- currant jelly. The stuffing is composed of the liver, scalded and minced, sweet herbs, parsley, breadcrumbs, and beef- suet, seasoned to taste. (3) Remove the skin of a small Hare, clean it, and stuff it with a stuffing made as follows: Take equal quantities of breadcrumbs and finely-chopped beef-suet, and mix into it 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, a small quantity of pepper, the grated rind of half a lemon, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Make it into a thick smooth paste by adding one egg j and 1 wineglassful or so of port wine. Sew up the Hare, J cover over the back with slices of fat bacon cut | in. [ thick, tie them on with string, and put the Hare in a roasting- I pan. Place it in the oven, baste frequently, and when nearly done, remove the bacon and finish cooking. When [ done (it will take about one hour), drain off the fat from the pan, and put the Hare in front of the fire, basting j frequently with a little butter tied up in a muslin bag j until it is well browned and frothed, or it may be simply basted with butter. Place it on a dish, pour round any [ gravy that is in the pan, and serve with a sauceboatful of j plain beef gravy, and another one of sauce made as follows: Put the heart, kidneys, and liver into a frying-pan with a ■ little butter, and fry until brown; then put them in a saucepan with 1 gill of strong gravy and one onion, and I cook until the liver is quite tender. Break it up small, rub it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and strain the ^ gravy over it; when it has boiled up, add sufficient red- currant jelly to taste, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a little cayenne. (4) Remove the skin from a Hare, and stuff it with a mixture made as follows : Take 1 handful of breadcrumbs J and mix them up with an equal quantity of finely-chopped beef-suet, then add a little salt, thyme, pepper, butter, milk, chopped parsley, two eggs, and one shallot. Sew up the J Hare, place the fore- and hind-legs under the belly, fastening [ Fig. 935. Roasted Hare. them with skewers, fix the head in an upright position with another skewer, place it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for forty-five minutes, when it should be quite done; then let the belly part be exposed a little while longer to the fire, to cook the stuffing. Place it on a dish with the gravy from it, and serve red-currant jelly sepa- rately. See Pig. 935. (5) Skin and clean a Hare, put it into a deep dish with a few slices of onions, two bay-leaves, and 1 table-spoonful of juniper-berries, dust it over with, black pepper, and baste with 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Leave the Hare in \ this marinade until ready to cook it, turning or basting | two or three times each day. Truss and lard it, put it into a baking-dish, dust over with salt and pepper, pour the marinade in, place it in the oven, and in twenty minutes’ time put a lump of butter over the Hare, and baste it continually until cooked. Twenty minutes before the Hare is taken out of the oven, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream over it, and continue basting. When cooked, put the Hare on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over, and serve. (6) Prepare a Hare, stuff it with well-flavoured veal force- meat, and sew up; wipe it over with a dry cloth, but do not wet it at all, or the Hare will be spoilt. Beat up four Hares—continued. eggs together with 1 pint of milk, then beat in gradually a sufficient quantity of flour to make a moderately thick batter. Fix the Hare on a spit, and put it before a clear fire, a little distance off at first; baste it continually with the batter, and as it begins to cook move it nearer the fire. The batter should be well browned, but care must be taken not to let it burn. When cooked, put the Hare on a hot dish, and serve with red-currant jelly and a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Roasted Rare a la Brochette.— Clean a Hare, and cut its flesh into small pieces, about the size of half an egg, all being of the same size. Cut also into pieces of the same size an equal quantity of loin of mntton. Season all with salt and pepper, and rub them well with finely-chopped parsley and onions. Cover the meat with a cloth, and leave it for two or three hours. Put the pieces of Hare and Fig. 936. Roasted Hare 1 la Brochette. mutton alternately on skewers, and wrap them round with thin caul, or if that cannot be obtained, some thickly- buttered paper. Turn them often in front of a clear fire, and when the gravy begins to drop, remove the paper and dredge them over with flour. When the meats are tender and well browned, arrange them, with the skewers still in, on a hot dish, strain the gravy from the dripping-pan over them, and serve. See Fig. 936. Roasted Hare a la Finnoise.—Chop up a few carrots, onions, turnips, laurel-leaves, and sweet herbs; put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of butter, and brown them. Skin and clean a Hare, lard it, put it into a deep dish with the browned vegetables, pour over sufficient stock and vinegar in equal proportions to moisten, cover the pan, and let the Hare remain in this pickle for fifteen or sixteen hours. Take out the Hare, put it in the oven, and bake until done, basting frequently with the liquor in which it was soaked. When done, put it on a dish ; strain the liquor, mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sour cream, pour it over the Hare, and serve. Roasted Hare a la Soyer.— Select a fine Hare, and truss it as for roasting. Chop the liver, and put it in a mortar with 4oz. of chopped beef-suet, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and thyme, and pound them all together. Season the mixture with a small quantity of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix it to a smooth paste with four eggs. Stuff the Hare with the forcemeat, put it on the spit, baste with a few table- spoonfuls of oil, and roast in front of a clear fire, dredging it occasionally with flour. Cut the fillets off three more Hares, skin them, “ lard with strips of bacon, put them in a frying-pan with a small piece of butter, and fry lightly, keeping them rather underdone. Fry in butter some evenly-shaped pieces of bread. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes, and turn it on to a hot dish ; cut the fillets into halves, and arrange them alternately with the heart-shaped pieces of bread on the potato border. Glaze the fillets and croutons. When the Hare is cooked, place it in the centre of the disli. Mix 1 table-spoonful of orange marmalade in H pints of poivrade sauce, pour it round the Hare, and serve. Roasted Hare with Cream Sauce.—(1) Prepare a Hare, and if it is an old one lard it with fine strips of fat bacon. Boil the liver, finely chop it, and mix half of it with a sufficient quantity of chopped bacon to make the stuffing; also add one washed, boned, and chopped anchovy, some grated breadcrumbs, a small quantity of chopped beef-suet,753 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hares—continued. herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and bind the whole together with beaten egg. Stuff the Hare with the mixture, sew it up, and fix it in front of a clear fire, putting it some distance off at first, and afterwards moving it closer. Baste continually with 3 pints of milk until half cooked, and then finish with butter. Prepare the following sauce for it: Pour the milk that the Hare was first basted with into a saucepan, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, let it stew at the side of the fire until within twenty minutes of the Hare being cooked, and then strain it. Put loz. of butter in the saucepan with 1 heaped table- spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, pour the milk in gradually, and stir until boiling; move it to the side of the fire, put in the chopped liver, and let it warm. When cooked, put the Hare on a hot dish, and pour a small quantity of gravy round it. Fill a sauceboat with the cream sauce, and serve with red-currant jelly. (2) Skin and draw a Hare, chop off the shoulders and the fore-part of the animal from the loins, remove the skin from the fillets and thighs, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. The bone should be taken out of the thighs so as to bring them close together, tying with string to keep them in their place, and then running a wooden skewer through. Put the Hare in a baking-dish, dust over with salt, put 5oz. or 6oz. of warmed butter over, and place it in a quick oven. Let it remain for twenty minutes, basting frequently, add 1 pint of sour cream, and finish the cooking. When done, put it on a dish, add 1 teacupful of gravy to the liquor in the pan, boil it up, stirring frequently until reduced to a light sauce, and pour it over the Hare. Double cream may be used instead of sour cream, and then the sauce will require 1 table-spoonful of kneaded butter, a few table-spoonfuls of meat glaze, and 1 wineglassful of vinegar added to it. In Germany, where this is a common mode of preparing Hare, a compote of bilberries is served with it. Salmis of Hare.—(1) Skin and clean a Hare, split it down the back, and cut off all the cutlets or fillets with their bones attached. Put the remainder of the Hare into a saucepan with a rich sauce, and stew until the meat will easily leave the bones; stew also the liver together with a little calf’s liver, and pound them in a mortar with butter and seasoning; pound also the stewed flesh of the Hare with more butter and seasoning, keeping them separate from the liver. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over 1 pint of boiling cream, put in a raw onion and a bay-leaf, cover over, and let it get cold. Remove the onion and bay-leaf, and work in a large lump of butter, a seasoning of mace, white pepper, and salt. Mix half of this with the liver and the other with the pounded Hare-meat. Put these two mixtures in alternate layers in a mould, and steam them for an hour. Put the cutlets on a dish with £lb. of hot melted butter poured over, let them soak, spread them out to cool, fry in butter, turn the contents of the mould out on to a dish, and arrange the cutlets round, leaning them against it. Pour round a rich sauce made from chopped truffles, red wine, and any bones of the Hare not otherwise used, seasoned to taste, and thickened with a roux. (2) Skin, draw, and truss a Hare, tie slices of fat bacon all round, and put it in front of the fire to roast, basting frequently. When it is nearly done, cut the meat up into small and regular pieces. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with lib. of gravy-beef cut up small and fried, add a turnip, a carrot, four fried onions, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, a slice of ham, a little sugar, and tgall. of water. Place the pan over a good fire, and boil the contents for three hours. Strain, and when the liquor is quite cool, skim off the fat. Put the gravy back in the pan, place it on the fire again, and boil until it is reduced to a pint; then stir in 2 wineglassfuls of port and the juice of a lemon. Put the pieces of Hare in it, let it remain for an hour without boiling, and t^is then ready for serving. Stewed Fillets of Hare.—(1) Cut off the fillets of some good-sized Hares, cut each fillet into halves, trim them, beat lightly, and lard with fillets of bacon. Lay some thin slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, put in the fillets, with three or four small onions, half a blade of mace, Hares—continued. a few sprigs of parsley, and one or two cloves ; pour in a small quantity of broth, but not covering the fillets with it, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it in a moderate oven. Peel and boil some potatoes, and when done mash them, adding a little milk and salt, put them into a border mould, and place it in a bain-marie. Cut as many pieces of bread as there are fillets, having them the same size, and fry in butter till brown, or toast them. When cooked, drain the fillets on a cloth. Turn the border of potatoes out of the mould on to a hot dish, arrange the fillets on it, alternating them with the pieces of bread, and serve hot. (2) Take the fillets from a Hare, and cut each into four pieces; put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, sprinkle with salt, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for twenty minutes or so ; take out, put them on a dish, and work 1 table-spoonful of flour into the butter to a smooth stiff paste; put in 1 wineglassful of claret or Burgundy, season with a little cayenne, and add a small quantity of glaze about the size of a chestnut; when this is dissolved, pour it over the Hare, and servo. Stewed Hare.—(1) Skin a Hare, draw it, wash off all the blood, and cut it in halves through the middle. Lard the Hare as thickly as possible, and put it in a saucepan covered at the bottom with slices of bacon. Put a large bunch of parsley in a muslin bag, with a few bay-leaves, a little thyme, spices, sweet basil, and a clove, and add, with four onions, two or three carrots, two calf’s feet, and a few pieces of bacon cut off the breast; sprinkle over a little pepper and salt, and add 1 pint of white wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of Fio. 937. Steweo Hare. broth. Put a round of well-buttered paper over the Hare to prevent it burning or getting dry, place the lid on the saucepan, close it hermetically by luting the rim and edge with flour - and-water paste, and cook very gently at the side of the fire for three hours. Take the lid off, remove the Hare, drain it, and put it on a dish. Skim the liquor, and pass it through a sieve. Put a little flour and butter in a saucepan, and when it is a light colour add the liquor from the Hare, boil it up, and serve with the Hare, but not poured over it. See Fig. 937. (2) Skin and clean a Hare and chop it up into pieces, such as the head, legs, shoulders, neck, and back, keeping the heart, liver, lungs, and kidneys on one side. Lard the pieces of Hare with strips of raw ham, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put them in a pan, add a bunch of sweet herbs and a little dry orange-peel, pour £ pint of white wine over, and let them macerate for a day. Cover the bottom and sides of an earthen pot with slices of bacon, and put a few small onions at the bottom, with two or three cloves of garlic; then put in the head, brisket, and shoulder and neck pieces, add a boned and blanched calf’s foot and a little piece of ham, and place the back and legs on the top. Pour over the liquor in which they were macerated, and cover with a large piece of fresh pork skin. Place the pot on the fire, and when the contents begin to boil, remove it to the side, cover with a piece of paper first, then a plate with a little water in it, putting a weight on the top to prevent the steam evapo- rating, let it remain for four or five hours, ascertain- ing if the meat is done before removing the pot, and about half-an-hour before it is quite cooked, put in the heart, liver, lungs, and kidneys. Take out the meat with a fork, and put the pieces in a deep dish. Skim the stock, pour it through a conical strainer over the meat, and serve 3 LTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 754 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. The foregoing method of stewing Hare is recommended by several of our best cooks, who have given it the fanciful title of “a la Daube.” (3) Wipe the outside of a cleaned Hare without washing it, cut off the legs, and split the back into four pieces, placing the Hare on a dish so as to catch the blood. Baste it with \ pint of red wine mixed with the blood, cover the dish, and set it in a cool place for two or three days. When about to cook, put the Hare into a stewpan in which a lump of butter has been melted, and turn it about over a brisk fire until browned; take out the Hare for a few minutes while 2oz. of flour is browned in the stewpan, then pour in about 1 pint of broth or water, and put the Hare back again, with two or three slices of lemon, 2oz. of finely-chopped fat bacon, two or three cloves, salt and pepper, and the marinade. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents gently at the side of the fire until the flesh is tender. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour the cooking-stock through a fine hair sieve over it, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (4) Skin a Hare, clean it thoroughly, and bone it, saving all the blood. Cut the meat into even-sized pieces, and lard them with thin fillets of bacon. Melt a lump of butter in a small saucepan, put in the pieces of Hare, dredge them with salt and pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and chives, a chopped clove of garlic, and 2 wineglass- fuls of brandy. Stew the whole very slowly until the liquor has almost all evaporated; then pour in the blood of the Hare, and warm without boiling. Place the Hare on a dish, arranging in its original form as nearly as possible, and pour the gravy over. This is to be served when cold. (5) Skin a Hare, draw, but do not wash it, cut it in pieces, put them into a stewpan with jib. of butter, cover it, put it over a slow fire, and stew till the blood is set; then add 1 pint of gravy, a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half-a-dozen cloves, a blade of mace, and a few grains of black pepper. When the flesh is done enough, take it out, strain the gravy, put it over the fire again, and thicken with flour; then put the pieces of Hare into it, sprinkle in a little salt, add a few chopped mushrooms and hard-boiled eggs, i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 dessert- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of port wine, and serve hot. Stewed Hare with NouiUes.—Remove the skin and sinews from the flesh of a cooked Hare, chop it up into small dice, and put it in a basin with its equal bulk of mushrooms, also ohopped small. Put a small onion cut in pieces in a frying- pan with a little butter, fry gently without letting it take colour, dust over with salt, and add gradually ^ pint of gravy to moisten it. Boil for seven or eight minutes, stirring continually, and add to it the Hare mixture, working them together; then sprinkle in more salt and cayenne, and remove from the fire. Put 1 handful or so of nouilles in a saucepan of salted water, and poach them. Take them out, drain, put them back into the saucepan, grate over a little nutmeg and Parmesan cheese, and pour over a little liquefied butter. Put half of these nouilles on a dish, make a space in the centre, place the Hare mixture in this, cover it with the Fig. 938. Stewed Hake with Nouilles. rest of the nouilles (see Fig. 938), dust with a little more Parmesan cheese, brush over with warmed butter, glaze them in the oven or with a salamander, and serve. Stuffed boned Hare.—Let the animal hang as long as possible; then skin it, wash thoroughly, being particularly Hares—continued. careful about cleaning the ears, remove the eyes, and bone it. Make a forcemeat of minced ham, veal, and brown bread- crumbs, season it with chopped shallot, laurel-leaf, thyme, and one or two chopped canned mushrooms, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste; add £ table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and 1 wineglassful of claret, also a beaten egg. Stuff the Hare with this, making it to its original shape as nearly as possible, and bind tightly round with a cloth; then put it into a large stewpan with brown stock to cover, and boil very slowly for one hour. Take out the Hare, and leave it until cold, then pour boiling water over, and remove the cloth. Brush the Hare with beaten yolk of egg, and roll it in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs, lay it in a large frying-basket, put it in the frying-kettle with plenty of fat, and fry until of a golden brown all over. Prepare a suflicient quantity of brown gravy sauce, mixing with it 1 wineglassful of red wine. Place the Hare on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a tureen and a dish of red- currant jelly. Terrine of Hare.—Line the bottom and sides of a terrine with slices of fat bacon cut very thin. Take off all the flesh of a Hare, mince it very finely with Jib. each of fresh pork- fat and veal, season with thyme, parsley, mace, laurel-leaf, salt, and pepper, mix in a few long thin strips of bacon, and pour over 1 table-spoonful of brandy; put the mixture into the terrine, cover with more slices of fat bacon, put on the cover, hermetically sealing it with a paste made of flour and water so as to keep in the steam, and bake in a moderate oven for four or five hours, setting the terrine in a pan of water while cooking. Take it out when done, remove the paste and cover, fasten a frill of paper round the terrine, and serve hot. Timbales of Hare.—Trim off all the skin of some cold cooked Hare, chop the flesh, put it in a mortar, and pound smoothly; mix with it a third of its quantity of grated breadcrumb, a little finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow, stir them in with the mixture, and add a few Fig. 939. Timbales of Hare. drops of clear gravy to bring the whole to the proper con- sistence. Butter some small timbale-moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and steam for about half-an-hour. Warm a little rich gravy, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of claret. When ready, turn the timbales out on to a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve. See Fig. 939. Leverets.—These are young Hares; but as the change from youth to maturity, and from maturity to old age, is not very easily defined, it is not always easy to distinguish a late Leveret from a Hare. Very young Hares are excellent food for invalids, and can be cooked as follows: Fried Leveret a la Bretonne.—Cut the back and legs of a Leveret into middling-sized pieces, removing as much of the bony part as possible, put them in a frying-pan with a little rasped bacon melted over a moderate fire, and fry them. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add one onion chopped fine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When the meat is done, drain off the fat, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, place the pan again on the fire, and as soon as the liquor is reduced pour over a little glaze, and roll the pieces of meat in it. Put these pieces in a pile on a dish, cover with a mince of onions thickened with brown sauce, and serve. Leveret cooked in Bavarian Style.—Skin and draw a Leveret, and chop off the fillets; bone the four legs, cutTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 755 Hares—continued. them up into small squares, lard them with pieces of raw truffles, and sprinkle with salt and spices. Cut ^lb. of fat bacon into small pieces, put it in a stewpan to melt, and pour the fat from it into an earthenware stockpot. Put first a layer of meat in the pot, and cover that with breadcrumbs ; then put in a layer of streaky bacon cut up small, and cover that also with breadcrumbs, continuing in this way until all the materials are used. Add a few sweet herbs and sufficient red wine to nearly cover, put the lid on the pot, seal up the rim with flour-and-water paste, and put it on the fire; when it boils, remove to the side, and put a shovelful of red-hot ashes on the lid. Let it remain in this way for four hours. Put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, strain it over the meat, and serve. Leveret Cheese or Fain with Aspic Jelly.—Cut off the flesh from a Leveret, and chop it up in pieces; cut also an equal quantity of fat bacon in small pieces. Put the bacon in a saute-pan on the fire, and when it has melted slightly, add the meat from the Hare, together with a bay-leaf, a little parsley and thyme, and sprinkle over a little pepper and salt. Place the pan back again on the fire, and fry for a few minutes, stirring frequently. Take out the mixture, chop up very small, pound it in a mortar, and mix in half its bulk of bread panada; when it is all well pounded and thoroughly incorporated, pass it through a sieve, and add £ pint of Spanish sauce, reduced with a little essence of Hare, and three eggs; work this well in, and add some truffles cut in small pieces. Take a small plain round mould and a plain round cylinder-mould, butter them well, fill them both with the forcemeat, and put them in a bain- marie to poach. When cold, turn them out on a dish, trim, and glaze with game glaze. Have ready a round rice socle, put it on a dish, mask it with Montpellier butter, put the large cake on the top, the smaller one on this, and a small aspic shape on the top of all, and serve with a garnish of aspic jelly. Leveret Saute.—Skin and draw a Leveret, cut it up into equal-sized pieces, and put them in a flat saute-pan with a little melted bacon-fat; add a few sprigs of parsley, half a clove of garlic, a few sweet herbs, and three small onions. Put the pan on a quick fire, and cook the mixture for seven or eight minutes; then remove tho pan to the side, cover tho lid with ashes, and let it remain until the meat is done. Pour 1 gill of white wine and a little melted glaze over them, and boil again until the liquor is greatly reduced. Take out the meat, and add four tomatoes, peeled and chopped and freed of their seeds, and lOoz. of soaked raw ham cut in dice, and cook again until the moisture has evaporated from the tomatoes; then pour in a few table- spoonfuls of brown sauce. Remove the onions and sweet herbs, sprinkle in a little ground pimento, put the pieces of Leveret on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Puree of Leveret with. Bice.—Cut off the legs and shoulders of a Leveret, and roast them in the oven ; remove the meat from tho bones, and pound it in a mortar together with a piece of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of cold brown sauce ; then season well with salt and pepper, and pass it through a sieve. Put 2 gall, of game soup in a saucepan on tho side of the fire, and simmer for twenty-five minutes; remove the fat, and stir into it tho puree previously worked up with a small quantity of the soup; pour it through a strainer into a tureen, mix in a few table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, and serve hot. Boasted Leveret (Turkish).— Clean a plump Leveret, cut it into small pieces, and steep them in cold water for three or four hours; then wipe the pieces with a cloth, rub well with salt and pepper, and leave them for half-an- hour. Put them on skewers or small spits, and place them in front of a clear fire, turning often to ensuro equal cooking. Peel four or five cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar, dust with salt, and pound them well. Put 4oz. of butter into a small saucepan, melt it, then stir in the pounded garlic and 2 wineglassfuls of vinegar. Continue stirring over the fire with a wooden spoon till hot, then take it off and keep it at the side. When the pieces of Leveret are about half cooked, baste them with tho garlic mixture; when three-parts cooked, take tho pieces off the skewers, beat them all with a thin cane, then put them on For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the skewers again, and finish cooking, basting as before. Put them on a hot dish, pour the basting-gravy over, cover the dish, and place it on a hot stove till nearly all tho moisture has been absorbed by the meat; then serve. Boasted stuffed Leveret.— Skin and draw a Leveret, lard it with thin strips of bacon, and stuff with forcemeat made as follows : Put the heart, lungs, and liver in a frying-pan with some bacon, parsley, onion, and sweet herbs, also salt and pepper to taste. Fry them, and when done, take them out and pound in a mortar; pass it through a sieve, and mix it up with double its bulk of breadcrumbs and an egg. Truss the Leveret, and roast it on a spit in front of the fire, basting frequently with butter; when done, sprinkle it well with salt, remove Fig. 940. Roasted stuffed Leveret. it from the spit, and put it on a dish (see Fig. 940). Put a finely-minced onion in a stewpan, add a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, bay-leaf, and wild thyme, also 5 table- spoonfuls of ham cut into small pieces, and moisten all with 1 wineglassful of white wine. Reduce this by one half, add a few table-spoonfuls of gravy or melted glaze, let it remain on the fire for two minutes, and add a little kneaded butter to thicken it. Stir well to dissolve the butter, and as soon as it shows signs of boiling, take it off the fire, remove the herbs and spices, stir in a little minced parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of capers, and a dust of pepper, and serve. Boasted Leveret a la Broche.—Take off the skin of a Leveret (leaving the ears on, which must bo scalded), and draw it, preserving tho heart, liver, and blood. Chop off tho first joints of tho legs, and bone the thighs. Have ready lib. of raw pork minced, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put it with tho heart and liver, and chop all up quite fine, with a small piece of onion and a little parsley and thyme. When ready, stuff tho Leveret with it, sew it up, and truss by bringing the fore-legs back to the breast, and the hind-legs forward to the stomach, and tying them round with string, and fix the head back with a skewer. Singe the meat of the fillets and hind-legs, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Put a thin spit lengthwise through the Leveret, place it in front of a clear fire, and roast for forty-five minutes, basting frequently. Put a few slices of bread in the dripping-pan, lay them on a dish, place the Leveret on them, and garnish with twolve small birds, such as larks or thrushes, larded with bacon and roasted, and serve with game sauce to which tho blood has been added. This mode of serving a Leverot is very much advocated by some of our high-class cooks. Stewed Leveret. — Skin and draw a Leveret, and put the heart, lungs, liver, and blood on one side. Put jib. of chopped bacon into a stewpan, place it over tho fire, and let it melt. Chop the Leveret into pieces of as near one size as possible, put them into the stewpan with the bacon, and add 8oz. of streaky bacon, blanched and cut into squares, and 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onion. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and add a bunch of sweet herbs. Place the pan over the fire for a few minutes, and when the meat is set remove it to the side of the fire and finish cooking, or until the meat is tender. Drain off the fat from the pan, and pour a little thickened gravy and a little wine over the meat; now add the liver and heart cut up small, as well as one dozen fresh mushrooms, each one trimmed and cut transversely into halves ; boil up again for ten minutes, then pour in tho blood, and finish by adding a little vinegar. Put the stew on a dish, and serve. dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. 3 l 2THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 756 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares —continued. Timbale of Leveret.—Skin and clean a Leveret, cut it up into rather small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little melted bacon-fat, and add Jib. of streaky bacon blanched and cut up into pieces, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion. Place the pan over a good fire, fry the meats until set, sprinkle over a little salt, and add a few spices to taste. Drop in fifteen or sixteen large mushrooms, each c ut in quarters, also 1 wineglassful of white wine, put the lid on the pan, and cook until the moisture of the mushroo ms has reduced; then remove the pan from the fire, and let the contents cool. Butter a timbale-mould, and sprinkle it all over inside with a few nouilles finely shredded; line the mould with thin layers of short-paste, and cover this with a mince made of lean pork and fat bacon in equal proportions; fill it up with the meat from the Hare, over this put a layer of the minced pork and bacon, cover this again with a flat round of the paste, and fix it to the sides. Put the mould on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Take it out, turn it on a dish, cut a small hole in the top, pour in a little brown sauce reduced with some mushroom trimmings, and serve. HARICOT—There seems to be a great deal of diffi- culty about this word, which has in our language at least two different and totally distinct culinary meanings. One is a sort of stew, and the other a bean. This is ingeniously explained by certain etymological professors, who accept the former as a German corruption of the French ragout—the r being pronounced by Germans as ha-ra and the g as c—thus making ha-ra-cout, the change to Haricot being then sufficiently simple. As regards the bean, we may accept with discreet reser- vation the explanation offered by Kettner. “ It means a snail. There has been a peculiar tendency to designate this kind of bean in a simile. The ancients called it Pliaseolus—a little boat, and Linnaeus has fixed this for the name of the tribe. We in England call it a kidney - bean, and the Portuguese called one of its varieties a caracol, or snail; the Italians, a caraco or caracolla. This is the word which the French have transfigured into haricot, and have allotted to the species.” See Mutton, Beans, &c. HARLEQUIN CAKE. —See Cakes. HARSLET.—See Haslet. HARTSHORN.—The shavings of stag’s horn, which may be obtained from turners. They are said to yield a very nutritious jelly ; but the nutritive qualities are much exaggerated, and originated in an exploded belief that the condition of the body was influenced by the hard and enduring quality of the Hart’s horn. A few receipts are appended. Hartshorn Creams.—Put Jib. of Hartshorn shavings and 3 pints of water in a stewpan, and boil till reduced to J pint. Strain through a jelly-bag, add to this 4oz. of powdered white sugar and 1 pint of cream, give it another boil, and put Fig. 941. Hartshorn Creams. it into cups to cool. When quite cold, turn the creams out, put them on a dish, stick some blanched almonds cut length- wise into strips on the top of each, and serve sugar and white wine with them. See Fig. 941. Hartshorn—continued. Hartshorn Jelly.—(1) Put Jib. of Hartshorn shavings in a preserving-pan with 2qts. of water, and boil slowly until the liquor is reduced to half its former quantity. Strain through a fine hair sieve, return it to the pan with the thinly-pared rinds of three oranges and two lemons, and boil again for a shoi't time. Move it off the fire, let it cool a little, then mix in the juice of the oranges and lemons, Jib. of crushed loaf sugar, and the well-whisked whites of six eggs. Boil the jelly three or four times without stirring, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and pour into glasses or jars. When cold, cover first with brandied papers, then with wet parch- ment, and keep them in a cool cupboard. (2) Put Jib. of Hartshorn shavings into a saucepan with Jgall. of water, and boil over a brisk fire until it is reduced to 1 pint. Add the juice of a lemon and sugar to taste. Pass it through a very fine strainer or jelly-bag into a mould, and let it set; then turn out and serve ; or proceed as for No. 1. (3) Put into a saucepan Joz. each of rice, sago, pearl barley, powdered cinnamon, and Hartshorn shavings, pour in 1J tea- cupfuls of water, and let the whole simmer very gently until dissolved. Next pour the jelly into a mould, and leave it until cold. It can afterwards be mixed with wine, brandy, or milk. HARVEY’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. HASH.—This word originates with the French liacher —to chop into small pieces ; but use has extended its mean- ing in this country to a sort of stew compounded of chopped meat and vegetables which have already been cooked. Some excellent receipts for Hashes will be found under various headings. HASLET.—This name (written also Harslet) is given by some cooks to the edible viscera, such as the heart, liver, kidneys, sweetbread, &c., of any animal. It is said to be derived from the Latin hasta—a spear; hence, a spit; but the connection between the internal viscera and the spit is more fanciful than real. HASTY PUDDING.—As the name infers, this owes its chief popularity to the expedition with which it can be prepared and served. It may be made from almost any meal, according to the following receipts. See also Cornflour and Oatmeal. (1) Mix lib. of flour with lqt. of cold fresh milk till quite smooth, put it over the fire in a saucepan, stir constantly till it boils, and boil for nearly a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring occasionally; then take it from the fire and let it cool. Beat up ten eggs ; blanch and pound ljoz. of sweet almonds, adding a little of the beaten egg to keep them from oiling. When Fig. 942. Hasty Puddings served in Basins. the boiled flour and milk is cold, mix into it the eggs and the pounded almonds, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour the pudding into small shallow basins or cups (see Fig. 942), bake, and serve hot with wine sauce. Before serving, ornament the top with shredded almonds. (2) Put 1J pints of milk into a saucepan over the fire ; when it boils, stir in as much flour as will make it quite thick, sprinkling the flour in with the hand ; boil it well for fifteen minutes. Serve hot, with either treacle or sugar and fresh butter. Grated nutmeg is sometimes added, and a squeeze of lemon-juice is a great improvement.757 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hasty Pudding—continued. (3) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, shake in 2oz. of flour, and stir till thick; turn it into a basin, mix in |oz. or loz. of butter, grate over a little nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. Leave it till cold, then work in three well-beaten eggs. Line a dish with a thin layer of light paste, mask the bottom with marmalade, pour in the Hasty Pudding, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk on to boil, and mix in sufficient flour to thicken, stirring continually. Turn the pudding into a dish, and serve with cold stewed fruit or jam. HATELETS.—See Attelettes. HAUNCH .—A word taken from the French handle, which probably originated from the German handle, signi- fying in each case the loin and leg taken together as one piece. See Mutton, Venison, &c. HAVI.—See Avi. HAVRE CAKE.—See Cakes. HAWTHORN. — The remarkably sweet-smelling dowers (see Fig. 943) of the Hawthorn {Crataegus Oxy- acantha) have something of the taste and smell of almonds. Fig. 943. Hawthorn Flowers. They are very little known or used in cookery or con- fectionery, and then generally in the form of an imita- tion. The following receipts give good results: Hawthorn Flavouring-.—(1) Put 6 breakfast-cupfuls of the flowers of Hawthorn into a jar with 2qts. of spirits of wine and igall. of syrup ; cork up, and let the jar stand for fourteen days. Bottle off after filtering. (2) Put lib. of Hawthorn-buds in a large bottle with lqt. of over-proof grain spirit, cork the bottle up tightly, and stand it in the cellar for a fortnight. Afterwards, filter the liquor through blotting-paper, and pour it into small bottles, which must be kept tightly corked. HAZEL-NUTS.—These are the fruit of a small tree of the genus Corylus. They are very plentiful in some parts, and possess a mild farinaceous taste, which is made useful for tiavouring biscuits or confectionery. Hazel-nut Cakes.—Put 4oz. of shelled and blanched Hazel- nuts and loz. of sweet almonds in a mortar, and coarsely pound them ; whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the almonds, also 6oz. of sugar and sufficient flour to form the whole into a paste. Roll the paste out as thinly as possible, and with a round tin cutter cut it into small cakes. Butter some baking-tins-, put the cakes on them a short distance from each other, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, leave the cakes until cold, then pack them in tin canisters. Hazel-nut Cream-Ice.—(1) Blanch and finely chop ilb. of Hazel-nuts (weighed without their shells), put them in a basin Hazel-nuts—continued. with 6oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of flour, and six well-beaten eggs. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan, place it over a moderate fire until on the point of boiling, then mix in gradually the other ingredients, and stir it at the side of the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but do not let it boil again or the eggs will curdle. Take the mixture off the fire, flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence, and turn into a fancy- shaped mould. When the cream has cooled slightly, pack the mould in pounded ice and salt, and leave it for an hour or two. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents at the side, and turn the cream on to a dish. (2) Take 2 table-spoonfuls of shelled Hazel-nuts, blanch them, and brown slightly in the oven. Put them in a mortar and pound quite smooth together with 1 dessert-spoonful of fresh cream. Mix with them 4oz. of powdered white sugar, one well-beaten egg, and 1 pint of cream. Stir the mixture in a saucepan over the fire till quite hot, but do not let it boil; add a flavouring of vanilla, then pour into a mould and let it cool. Put it in the freezer, and when frozen quite stiff turn it out. (3) Put loz. of gelatine into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of sugar and J pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved, then strain through a fine sieve and let it get cool. Crack the shells and take out the kernels of gib. of Hazel-nuts, butter a baking-dish, put the nuts in it, and place them in a moderate oven. Leave them until the skins can be easily removed, then rub one at a time with a cloth. Cut the nuts into fine shreds. Whip 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth, then mix with it the dissolved gelatine, sugar, and water, also 1 wineglassful of brandy and the nuts. Turn the mixture into a mould, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In two hours’ time the cream may be turned out of the mould on to a fancy dish and served, but the mould must first be dipped in warm water to loosen the contents. HEADS (Fr. Tetes; Ger. Kopfe).—These are described under various headings, such as Boar, Calf’s-head, Cod, Lamb’s-head, Ox-head, Sheep’s-head, &c., and will be found to contain some of the daintiest meats, including the tongues and brains. HEARTS (Fr. Coeurs; Ger. Herzen).—All birds, beasts, fishes, and reptiles endowed with a system of circulating blood, are possessed of Hearts, which act as pumps for receiving and ejecting the stream. These Hearts are recognised in cookery according to their size and quality, and are duly described under their different names, such as Calf’s-heart, Ox-heart, &c. They are not much valued by cooks for culinary purposes, although a baked calf’s Heart, stuffed with veal stuffing, has been found on the table of epicures. HEAT.—-A chemist of great repute informs us that Heat, or caloric, as it is termed in scientific language, is a state or condition of bodies, the precise nature of which is not known except by its effects. The practical cook understands the effects of Heat upon certain materials and under ascertained conditions, and the cook knows how to produce, increase, or diminish Heat, but beyond that lie knows no more than the chemist. Perhaps it may be reserved for the practical man to ascertain what scientists have sought for in vain. This has happened in other instances, and may happen again, and a cook after all might be the first person to define what heat really is. Several conjectures have been made, but all seem to fail in one point or another which is destructive to the theory. It is spoken of as a “subtle fluid whose particles repel one another, and are attracted by all other substances,” but it has no weight, which is rather against the theory of its materialism, and argues in favour of its being a physical force, something similar to electricity. Be this as it may, of one thing we are certain, we know how to produce it and utilise its presence in the kitchen. There are two kinds of Heat with which the cook has to deal—the one, radiant Heat, which is felt in spite of the draught of air that rushes to the stove ; and the other, conveyed Heat, or Heat that is carried away by the uprising stream of air. These may be one and the758 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Heat— continued. same, but experience leads us to believe that they are in a measure quite different; for radiant Heat, such as that felt from the rays of the sun, penetrates glass as easily as if it wei’e not even present, whilst j conveyed Heat can only make its presence felt provided there is some conducting material to convey it. But as we have yet to learn that radiant Heat cannot also be conducted, the question must be left to others to settle, so far as this Encyclopaedia is concerned. Several applications of Heat to cookery are described under the names of special culinary processes, to which reference should be made; also to Fuel, Stoves, and numerous other headings associated with the same sub- ject, including Air, Refrigeration, and Ventilation. These, one and all, depend upon certain principles which are under the control of the cook. Heat can be measured (see Thermometers) and conveyed at will wherever it may be required. Its power can be regulated to a nicety, and the laws by which its actions are governed are well known; for instance, a black uneven surface absorbs Heat, and a bright polished surface repels it; hence, in a black kettle water heats much quicker than in a bright one. Again, there are some materials which are bad conductors of Heat, such as woolly materials containing stationary air amongst their fibres. As these will not allow Heat to pass either in or out, they are excellent when wrapped round for keeping the body warm or ice from melting. Soot is a non-conductor, and so are many other things of a similar character. Wood is a bad con- ductor of Heat also, hence wooden handles are much used, and manufacturers endeavour to keep the metallic handles of teapots cool by intercepting the handle top and bottom with a wooden or ivory disc; but as these discs are kept in their places by iron screws passing through them from metal to metal, the metallic continuity is kept up, and the handle gets very neatly, if not quite, as hot as it would without them. See Heat-Conductors. HEAT-CONDUCTORS.—Since the abolition of old- fashioned spits from all but large kitchens, and the Fig 944. Heat-Conductors for Cooking (H. T. Tallack). introduction of closed stoves, cooks have experienced some difficulty in cooking joints or birds through to the centre without burning the outsides. The iron spit Fig. 945. Sirloin Transfixed. thrust through the centre conducted heat into the very heart of that which was roasting, and thus produced far more satisfactory results than can be obtained by any Heat-Conductors—continued. other system. The power that metal has of conducting heat is well known, and can be experienced by putting a poker in the fire, when in time the handle will become too hot to hold, or much hotter than its distance from Fig. 946. Leg of Mutton, Lamb, or Pork Transfixed the fire would otherwise warrant. An ingenious inventor has taken advantage of this knowledge to manufacture certain instruments (see Fig. 944), which, being based upon strictly scientific principles, can be made to take Fig. 947. Slice of Fisii Transfixed. the place of the spit in its heat-conducting properties. They consist of enlarged ends, or collectors, ball-shaped as A, cup-shaped for the sake of giving more space as b, and a small metal plate for boiling as c. The two former, A and B, are black and carbonised to induce absorption of dry heat, whilst the plate of c is plain metal. The rods are all made of the best conducting metal known, and their modes of application are almost Fig. 949. Heat-Conducting Cake-tin. interminable. Figs. 945 and 946 show the manner of transfixing joints for roasting or baking, and Fig. 947 shows a slice of fish, such as of cod or salmon, trans- fixed for boiling; while Fig. 948 shows yet another759 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Heat-Conductors—continued. adaptation of the same principle to baking small birds, these being transfixed through the neck. Another very clever use to which this conducting power of metal can be applied is shown at Pig. 949, where the cook’s fear that a cake may not be done in the centre is obviated by a metallic cone which enters and conveys heat into the heart of the cake without disfiguring the outward appearance. See Heat. HEATH-COCK.—See Blackcock. HECTOGRAM, HECTOLITRE. — See Weights and Measures. HEDGEHOGS (.Fr. Herissons; Ger. Igel; Ital. Spinosi). —Amongst what may be termed eccentricities of gas- tronomy Hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus) may be classed, although it is urged that the flesh when stewed is both savoury and tender. Gipsies are said to regard them as rare delicacies, and cook them by rolling them up in soft clay, and then leaving them in the ashes of the camp fire until wanted. By breaking open the clay shell when baked sufficiently, the skin peels off with it, and leaves the steaming flesh. HEELS.—See Cow-heels. HEIDELBERG BISHOP.—-See Bishops. HELENA PUDDING.—-See Puddings. HELOISE CAKE.--See Cakes. HERBS.—It is a most remarkable fact that whereas the great secret of tasty cookery is dependent upon the flavouring contributed by aromatics, there is no subject upon which cooks are more absolutely divided. Attempts have been made by famous chefs to establish some rules of classification and combination for different purposes, but as each individual acted without consulting his compeers, the confusion has become worse confounded. At one time we were favoured with a sort of dual classification, Herbs generally being divided into pot- Herbs and sweet or aromatic Herbs, and these are described in a celebrated book on gardening as: Pot-Herbs. — Parsley, Purslane, Tarragon, Fennel, Borage, Dill, Chervil, Horseradish, Indian Cress, and Marigold. Sweet Herbs. — Thyme, Sage, Savory, Clary, Mint, Marjoram, Basil, Rosemary, Lavender, and Costmary. Besides these, there are a large variety of Pot-Herbs amongst wild plants, and these are enumerated as Black Bryony, Charlock, Ox-tongue, Spotted Hawkweed, Burdock, Willow-Herb, Fat-hen, Sea-orach, Sea-beet, Sow-thistle, Stinging-nettle, Chickweed, Sauce-alone or Jack-by-the-hedge, and Wild-rocket. Some of these have occasionally been boiled and used as vegetables, or in salad. Modern usage has added all manner of vegetables to the list of Herbs, and these French cooks style Potageres, because they are used in making soups. Then again there is the Bouquet Garni, and the British cook’s Fagot, and lastly, the Continental Herbes Fines, or Fine Herbs, which may be considered as a genuine attempt made by a few, and followed by many, to establish a sort of fixed Herbal code for certain uses. These are described under their different headings, and contain other flavourings besides those usually described as Herbs. The number of aromatic Herbs in general use has greatly diminished, indicating another attempt of artistic cooks to simplify the preparation of savoury dishes and sauces. Most of these are grown in our kitchen-gardens, and may be gathered fresh in season, or dried and powdered for winter use as follows: The Herbs should be picked on a dry day, and just as they are about to flower; the roots must then be cut off, and the Herbs freed from dust and dirt, washing them if Herbs—continued. necessary. Put them into an oven in flat baskets, or lay them in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, leave them until they are quite dry and crisped, but in no way browned. Take off the leaves, rub them between the hands, then through a coarse sieve, and bottle. Or they may be tied together in bunches, put in paper bags to keep away the dust, and hung up until dry, using as required. But this latter plan should not be adopted when it is possible to dry them more expeditiously by heat. Fig. 953. IIerb-trav. In every kitcben there should be a tray for Herbs (see Fig. 950), which can be carried about according to the requirements of the cook. Some five or six com- partments will be ample, and in these should be kept always handy and ready for use—powdered dried thyme, mint, parsley, marjoram, rosemary, tarragon, and chervil, or any other Herb, according to taste. The following receipts are a few of those which apply generally to Herbs, but for special receipts it will be necessary to refer to special headings: Pried Herbs.—Wash in plenty of water a large bunch of spinach, with about one-third its quantity of parsley picked from the stalks. Chop the parsley, also 1 handful of green onions, and mix all together with the spinaoh. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in the Herb mixture, and season with salt. Toss the pan over the fire until the contents are hot, then stand it at the side, put the lid on, and stew until the Herbs are tender. When cooked, turn the Herbs on to a hot dish, put some fried rashers of bacon on the top with a fried egg on each rasher, Fig. 951. Fried Herbs with Bacon and Eggs. and serve very hot (see Fig. 951). This is delicious served with broiled calf’s-liver. Herb Beer.—Take a small bunch of all or part of the follow- ing : Sweet fern, sarsaparilla, winter-green, sassafras, prince’s- pine, and spice-wood. Boil them with 2oz. or 3oz. of hops to 3galls. or 4galls. of water, and two or three raw potatoes, pared and cut in slices. The strength of the roots and hops is obtained more thoroughly by boiling them in two waters, for when the liquor is strongly saturated with the hops, it will tend to bind up the roots rather than extract their juices. The Herb-roots should be boiled for five or six hours, the liquor strained, and lqt. of molasses put to 3galls. ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 760 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Herbs—continued. the beer. If the beer is required to be vei'y rich, brown ^lb. of bread before the fire, and put it into the liquor. If the liquor is too thick, dilute it with cold water. When just lukewarm, put in 1 pint of fresh yeast, or jib. of dissolved German yeast. Keep it in a moderately-warmed place covered over, but not so closely as to exclude the air entirely. When fermented, keep it in a tightly-corked cask or bottles. Herb Flavouring for Sauces, Soups, and Stews.— (1) Remove all the stalks from loz. each of dried thyme, marjoram, sweet basil, and bay-leaves, and pound them in a mortar with loz. each of grated nutmeg, ground mace, cloves, and white pepper. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, and bottle. (2) Take |oz. each of dried mint and dried sage, 1 drachm each of celery-seeds and allspice, and ^ drachm of cayenne. Pound them to a fine powder in a mortar, and rub through a fine sieve. This is useful for flavouring pea soup, or for flavouring gruel to imitate jiea soup. (3) Take jib. each of lemon-thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, and winter savory, 2oz. each of lemon-peel and sweet basil, |oz. of celery-seeds, and six bay-leaves. Remove the stalks from the Herbs (which should be gathered before they begin to flower), put them on paper, and dry in a slow oven. Dry the lemon-peel, and pound it; pound the celery-seeds, also the Herbs, but separately. Mix all together, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and bottle. Herb-and-Forcemeat Quenelles.—Mix together in equal quantities celery, chervil, parsley, and green onions, with a small quantity of tarragon, and double their united bulk of spinach-leaves. The latter should be washed in several waters to remove the grit. Put the Herbs in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, and boil for a few minutes. When soft, drain, put them in a bowl of cold salted water, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and chop them finely. Make about two-thirds of the quantity of veal or fowl forcemeat, season it highly, and mix with the Herbs. Shape the mixture into small, egg-shaped quenelles, using two tea- spoons for the purpose, dipping them into warm water each time. Throw the quenelles into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until firm. Drain them, and serve in a soup-tureen with any soup. Herb Fie.—(1) Boil together lqt. of oatmeal and three small onions, chopped fine. Boil for a few minutes in small equal quantities some lettuce, leeks, spinach, beetroot, and parsley, then drain and chop them; put them in a saucepan with the groats and onions, add about ilb. of butter and a few thinly- sliced apples, and stew for a few minutes. Line a buttered pie-dish with a crust, fill it with the mixture, bake for an hour, and serve hot. If preferred, a small quantity of drip- ping can be used in place of butter. (2) Pick off the leaves from some freshly-gathered parsley and half the quantity each of spinach and mustard-and-cress, a few leaves of white beet, and two hearts of lettuces; wash them and boil in water with 1 handful of chives for a few minutes, then turn them on to a sieve and press well to squeeze out all the water. Chop them finely and season with salt and pepper. Beat up two eggs in a small stewpan, together with 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream, sift in sufficient flour to make a thin batter, stirring it well all the time with a wooden spoon; if there are any lumps in the batter, strain it through a fine sieve. Mix the Herbs with the butter, and when it is ready pour all into a well- buttered pie-dish; cover the top with a good crust, bake in a moderate oven, and serve hot. Herb Pudding'.—Put 1 pint of coarse oatmeal in a basin with warm water to cover, and soak for an hour. Finely mince ^lb. of uncooked meat of any kind, and equal quantities each of leeks, spinach, and parsley, the two latter having been well washed in several waters and scalded. Strain the soaked oatmeal, mix the Herbs with them, also a finely-chopped onion. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, turn it into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Herb Soup.—Well wash and chop 2 handfuls each of spinach, chervil, and sorrel, put them in a stewpan with a few chopped sprigs of parsley and a small piece of butter, and steam by the Herbs—continued. side of the fire till the Herbs are soft; then mix in smoothly J teacupful of flour and 2qts. of clear stock, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, seasoning with salt and a little grated nutmeg. Boil some eggs till hard, peel them, cut each into four pieces, put them in a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve with sippets of fried bread. Herb Soup with Parmesan Cheese.—Wash in plenty of water a head of young celery, 1 handful each of chervil, chives, and sorrel, a few sprigs of parsley, and a small quantity of tarragon; drain the Herbs thoroughly, and cut them into pieces. Put them in a saucepan with 3 pints of clear broth, and boil gently till tender. Cut some slices, iin. thick, of stale bread or French rolls into pieces about the size round of a shilling, using a small tin cutter for the purpose, dip them in hot butter, and roll in finely-grated Parmesan cheese, giving them a good coating. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-tin, arrange the pieces of bread on it, and bake until lightly browned. Put the croutons in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Herb Tea.—Put 1 table-spoonful of mixed Herbs of all sorts in a basin, and pour over them pint of boiling water. Cover the bowl, stand it in a small saucepan containing boiling water, and let it steep for ten minutes. This tea can be sweetened if desired. A few sprigs of sage, burnet, balm, and sorrel, half a lemon sliced, with 3 pints of boiling water poured over it, sweetened to taste, and left closely covered till cold, make an agreeable medicinal drink. Herb Vinegar.—(1) Put 1 pint of tarragon-leaves in a stone or earthenware jar with one-quarter the quantity each of chives and chervil, pour in 2qts. of vinegar, and leave them for a fortnight. Strain the vinegar into small bottles, and cork them down. Pour another quart of boiling vinegar over the Herbs, and leave them for a month, putting a plate or cover over the jar. Strain the vinegar off the Herbs, and bottle as before. Keep the bottles of vinegar in a dry cup- board. (2) Put into a large wide-mouthed bottle or jar ljoz. each of shallots, chives, savory, and tarragon, and § teacupful each of the tops of mint and the tops of balm; pour over 2qts. of boiling vinegar, cork the bottle, and let it stand in the sun for a fortnight. Then strain through a cloth, squeezing the Herbs well. Let it stand for a day that the sediment may settle, run it through a filter or flannel bag, and put it into small bottles, corking them well. Puree of Herbs with Vegetables.—Wash a savoy-cabbage, slice it, and put it in a stewpan with two sliced leeks and a little butter; let them fry gently for one hour, then put in with them four sliced heads of cabbage-lettuce, one small sliced beetroot, 1 handful each of borage-leaves and sorrel, and 1 pinch of chervil. When the Herbs are done, sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in 2qts. of broth, and stir over the fire till the liquor begins to boil. Pass all through a sieve to make a puree, pour this into another stewpan, add some broth and a little sugar, and stir over the fire till boiling. Beat six eggs and j pint of cream, and stir it into the broth to thicken. Cut fib. of butter into little bits, and put it in the soup. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, garnish with potato quenelles, and serve. HEREFORDSHIRE PUDDING.—See Puddings. HERMITS.—See Cakes. HERMITAGE.—A very favourite after-dinner French wine, famous for its deep purple colour and dry nutty flavour. HERRINGS (Fr. Harengs; Ger. Haringe; Ital. Aringe; Sp. Arenques).—“One of those productions,” writes De Lacepede, a French naturalist, who lived in the early part of this century, “which decide the destiny of Empires—not much to look at, but as the sea-sand for multitude.” Certainly, the Herring has made the fortunes of Holland; and Amsterdam, its capital, is said to be built on Herring-bones. The common Herring (Clupea harengus) (see Fig. 952) derives its name from some very ancient source—it is called lisering in Anglo-Saxon, and probably inherited it from the word here—an army, because of the immense761 PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF Herrings—continued. numbers that go to make up a shoal. It is a smooth well- formed fish of a silvery colour, averaging from Sin. to 1-in. long, and embraces several varieties, some of whose habits of life differ in such a manner as to keep up a supply nearly all the year round, with the exception of spring. The common Herring, which is small, comes to our shores in April or May, and spawns at the end of October or begin- ning of November. There is another kind which is heavy with roe in January, and spawns in February; and then we have the glorious Scotch Loch Fyne Herrings, which are in season during only a very short time of the year. Unfortunately, the flesh of the Herring is very delicate when fresh ; but after a little keejnng becomes oily, and then preserves well if salted and dried—and better still if smoked. Soyer wrote of it as the “ poor man’s friend,” and in this he was more than ordinarily correct; for it is indeed, possibly on account of its strong satisfying flavour, found generally either salted or smoked in every cottage or small dwelling in the country, and oftentimes on the tables of the rich. The modes adopted for preserving Herrings differ in some degrees—in Holland and Germany it is usual to salt and dry them, the salt promoting absorp- tion of the oil. Smoking is much resorted to, and when excessively carried out gives the Herring a red metallic lustre, which has procured for these the name of red Herrings. Those which are only slightly salted and smoked are known as bloaters, and the preparation of these has brought great repute to Yarmouth. Kipper Herrings Fig. 952. Fresh Herring. differ from all others in their preliminary preparation. Bloaters and red Herrings are cured whole, whereas kippers are cut open and cleaned before salting, and then, after drying, they are as deeply smoked as red Herrings. Fresh Herrings.—These may be cooked in a variety of ways, the following being particulalry recommended. Soft-roed fish are considered best for most purposes. Baked Fresh Herrings.—(1) Clean one dozen or so Fresh Herring's wiping them but not washing them, cut off the heads and fins, and take out the hones. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, roll and tie them up tightly, put them into a baking-dish, and cover with a mixture in the proportion of 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar to 2 of water and 30Z. of whole pepper. Tie a piece of paper over the dish, set it in the oven, and bake the contents gently for about an hour. Let the Herrings get cold, pour over a little vinegar, and serve. (2) Clean and wash the Herrings, drain but do not dry them, dust over with powdered cloves, allspice, and salt, put them in a baking-pan with one onion finely shredded and a few bay-leaves, dust over with pepper, cover all with vinegar and beer in equal proportions, place a paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. Serve hot, with the onions for garnish. Should the Herrings be required to have a red appearance, rub them over with saltpetre the day before using. Boiled Fresh. Herrings.—Clean six or eight Fresh Herrings, put them in a saucepan with 2qts. of boiling water and Ub. of salt, let them simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour, take them out, and drain. Put a folded napkin or an ornamental paper on a dish, arrange the fish on this, and serve at once with either shrimp or anchovy sauce in a tureen. Boiled Fresh Herrings served with Cream Sauce.- Boil some Fresh Herrings as described above, and then make i the following sauce : Put 6 table-spoonfuls of thick cream in a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, stir it over the fire ' Herrings—continued. till boiling, then mix in 2oz. of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon. Arrange the fish on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Boiled Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce.—Choose half-a-dozen large fine Herrings, clean, and throw them into a pan of cold water. Put into another pan 1 handful of salt, pour fresh water upon it, drain the Herrings from the first water, and throw them into this. Put 2qts. of water in a saucepan with 1 pint of vinegar and 2oz. of salt; boil the Herrings in this, without letting them boil too fast, or they are apt to break, skimming the liquor from time to time. Fig. 953. Boiled Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce. Wash, bone, and mince an anchovy ; melt Jib. of butter, with a little vinegar and water, and a small dust of flour ; put in the anchovy, and stir it about; next put in an egg and shake it, so as to be well mixed; then take up the Herrings. Boil some fennel for garnish; lay some of this upon the Herrings, and on the sides of the dish; finish the sauce by adding mustard and squeezing in the juice of a lemon, and serve hot in a sauceboat. See Fig. 953. Broiled Fresh Herrings.—(1) Select eight or ten Fresh Herrings, scrape, clean, and wash them. Dredge salt and flour over the fish, put them in a frying-pan with a little oil, and broil over a slow fire, turning them when one side is done. They will take about seven or eight minutes to cook ; then arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with butter sauce, with a little mustard mixed in, in a sauceboat. (2) Select the required quantity of Fresh Herrings, cut off the heads, and thoroughly clean them; make three incisions on each side, dip them in flour, and broil over a moderate fire, turning so as to do both sides equally. When they are cooked, dust a little salt over them, arrange on a folded napkin on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of mus- tard, 2oz. of butter, and a little pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till boiling, then pour it into a sauceboat, and serve it with the fish. (3) Put the Herrings in milk to steep for two hours, then clean, dry, and flour them ; place them on a hot girdiron over a clear fire, and broil. They will only take a few minutes to cook, and must be served hot, with butter and mustard. Broiled Fresh Herrings a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Cut the Herrings down the belly and take out the insides and bones ; pour over a little olive oil, sprinkle well with finely-chopped parsley, and let them remain for about an hour. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil until done. Place them on a dish, with a few lumps of cold maitre-d’hotel butter spread over, and serve. Broiled Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce.— Select the required quantity of Herrings with soft roes, cut off the heads, and clean them, but do not open them ; dip them both sides in salad-oil, sprinkle pepper and salt over, and let them remain for an hour. Arrange the fish on a gridiron, stand it over a clear slow fire, and broil for about fifteen minutes, turning often till they are done. Mix 1 teaspoonful of mus- tard and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with cold water; when quite smooth, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock ; turn this into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling, then put in loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Arrange the Herrings on a hot dish, and when the butter is dissolved (the sauce should not boil again) pour it over the fish, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 762 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—continued. Curried Fresh Herrings.—Select ten large Fresh Herrings, drawing and cleaning them ; wash the soft roes and blanch them in water made acid with a little vinegar or lemon-juice. Slice an onion and fry it in butter in a flat stewpan ; sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then put in 1 pinch of chopped parsley, one bay-leaf, 1 pinch of salt, 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and a little fish broth. Put the Herrings side by side in the stewpan (there should be enough liquid to cover them), boil for two or three minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and let it remain for ten minutes. Take out the Herrings with a skimmer, and arrange them with the roes on a hot dish ; thicken the sauce with a liaison of yolks of eggs, pass it through a conical strainer over the fish, and serve. Fresh-Herring Balls. — Remove the skin from three Her- rings by parboiling them, pick oft' all the flesh from the bones, and mix it up with an equal quantity of the pulp of baked potatoes. Add sufficient warmed butter or cream to form the whole into a paste, shape it into balls, dip them in egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and brown. Take them out when done, drain oft all the fat, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Fresh-Herring Hoes.—Take out the soft roes of two-dozen- and-a-half Fresh Herrings, and wash and drain them. Put a small lump of butter in a saucepan, warm it, and add a few mushrooms, onions, shallots, and a little parsley, all finely minced ; warm them slowly over the fire without allowing them to take colour, then add the roes, and simmer for a second or two. Cover the inside of a paper case with fish forcemeat to about ^in. in thickness, oil it well outside, place it on the gridiron to warm the forcemeat, put in the Herring mixture, and bake in a slow oven until done. Take off the fat, place the case on a dish, pour over a little Spanish sauce mixed with vinegar, and serve. Fresh-Herring Salad. —(1) Scale and clean two or three large Fresh Herrings, cut off their fins, and split them lengthwise into halves ; rub a small quantity of salt and lemon-juice over them, and leave for a few hours. Wipe them on a cloth, brush over with a little warmed butter, and broil them over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. Boil two or three potatoes, taking care not to overdo them, Fig. 954. Fresh-Herring Salad. and cut them in slices. Lay the Herrings on a salad-dish with the slices of potatoes and a bunch of washed and care- fully-picked watercress on them, and arrange chopped capers and small bunches of watercress over and around the fish. Mix lj teacupfuls of salad-oil with 1 teacupful of vinegar, season with pepper and salt, pour it over the salad, garnish with some fillets of anchovies, and serve. See Fig. 954. (2) Dutch Style.—Procure soft-roed fish, skin and bone them, and divide into fillets, putting the roes on one side. Boil a couple of eggs till hard, and when cold and peeled separate the whites from the yolks, and well chop them. Mince finely and separately some shallots, parsley, and pickled beetroot. Arrange the fillets in a oircle on a dish, and put the other ingredients in the centre. Pound the roes of the fish in a mortar, and moisten them with oil and vinegar, using two parts of the former to one part of the latter; pour the mixture over the salad, being very careful not to dis- arrange it, and serve. Fried Fresh. Herrings.—(1) Clean and wipe the required quantity of Fresh Herrings, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and flour Herrings—continued. over them; put sufficient dripping in a frying-pan to cover the fish, and when it is boiling put these in and fry them for eight or ten minutes, according to their size, turning to do both sides. When done, drain them, arrange on a hot dish, and serve. It is not unusual to accompany these with a dish of mashed potatoes baked in a mould. (2) Clean and wipe a Fresh Herring, season it with salt and pepper, and dredge lightly over with flour. Put a large lump of dripping in a frying-pan, and when it boils put in the Herring (there should be sufficient fat to cover it), fry it over a brisk fire for eight or ten minutes, according to the size ; then drain it in front of the fire, so that as much of the fat as possible may run away, put the fish on a hot dish, and serve. A Herring being a very rich fish will be found indi- gestible unless properly fried; but if prepared carefully, even a delicate person may eat it with safety. (3) Soak the Herrings in milk for two hours, clean them, take out the roes, and if soft fry them separately. Cut a few onions in shreds, place them -in a frying-pan, then put in the Herrings, and fry. Should there not be enough liquor run from the Herrings, add a little butter to the pan. Serve hot, with the onions and soft roes for garnish. Grilled. Fresh Herrings.—Scale the Herrings very carefully, open and gut them, take out the roes, wipe the fish clean with a cloth, but do not wash them. Wipe the roes, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and replace them inside the fish, then cut off the heads and tails. Mix a seasoning of pepper, salt, olive oil, chopped onions and chopped parsley, and turn the Herrings over and over in this, oiling them well on both sides, and grill over a clear fire on a well-oiled gridiron. When done on one side, raise them from the gridiron, oil it again, and put the fish on to cook the other side. Serve hot with maitre-d’hotel sauce or mustard. Herring Pie.—(1) Soak 1 pint of split peas for one night, then drain them, tie loosely in a cloth, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender. Remove the heads and tails of three good-sized Fresh Herrings. Butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a thick layer of the peas, put in the Herrings, then cover with the remainder of the peas, smooth the surface over with the blade of a knife, and lay a few thin slices of very fat bacon on the top. Put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, remove the slices of bacon, and serve. (2) German.—Well wash and scrub 3|lb. of potatoes, and cut them into slices. Put a Herring into a basin of warm water, let it soak, and afterwards divide it into flakes. Mix the Herring and potato together with loz. of dripping, and salt and pepper to taste, and put them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Make a paste with lib. of flour, 3oz. of dripping, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient water ; cover the pie with this rolled out moderately thin, put it into the oven, and bake for two hours; then take it out, and serve. Herring Hoes an Gratin.—Wash fifteen fine soft roes in cold water, then plunge them into boiling water to get firm ; drain, and wipe them. Fry a minced onion in butter lightly so as not to colour it, and put in a few table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. When the butter is reduced, put in the soft roes, sprinkle salt, nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne over them, and warm gradually over the fire till the roes are set; arrange them in layers on a gratin-dish, and sprinkle over each layer a little grated breadcrumb and finely-chopped parsley. Mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with 1 table-spoonful of melted glaze, pour it over the gratin, sprinkle grated breadcrumb and chopped parsley over that, pour a little warmed butter over all, and bake for twelve minutes in a moderate oven. When ready, serve on the same dish. Herring-Roe-and-Mushroom Toasts.— Cut twelve rounds of bread about 2in. in diameter, and fry very lightly in butter the roes of six Fresh Herrings and twelve mushrooms. Toast the rounds of bread, and butter them thickly. Put half a roe on each piece of toast, and a mushroom on the top of that. Dust over lightly with salt and a small quantity of cayenne. Spread an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve.763 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—continued. Matelote of Fresh Herrings.—Take ten or twelve Fresh Herrings, half with soft and half with hard roes. Gut them through the gill opening. Cut off the heads and tails, and divide each Herring lengthwise into two fillets, removing the bones. Put a small quantity of butter into a frying-pan, dredge and stir in enough flour to nearly absorb it, and add a small quantity of chopped parsley and shallots; then lay the Herrings in the pan, sprinkle over them 3 wineglassfuls of red wine, and cook over a hot fire. Put them on a hot dish, lay over them one dozen very small fried onions and two dozen small fried mushrooms, garnish the dish with fried breadcrumbs, and serve hot. Potted Fresh. Herrings.—(1) Soak the required quantity of Herrings in boiling water, and then skin them, chop off their heads and tails, remove all the bones, and cut the flesh in small pieces. Pat these in a saucepan with a good supply of butter, season with mace and pepper or cayenne, set the pan on a slow fire, and cook very gently until the flesh is quite tender. Pound it in a mortar, put it into pots, cover over first with clarified butter and then with bladder, and pack away in a cool place. (2) Clean the Herrings and dry them, season to taste, and lay them in a baking-dish with two or three bay-leaves, some mixed spice, and a small quantity of butter. Let them bake in the oven, and when sufficiently cooked, take them out and let them cool. Bone, press the meat into pots, pour over enough melted butter or oil to cover, and use as desired. Rolled Fresh Herrings.—(1) Select whatever quantity is required of Fresh Herrings, clean them, and cut off their heads; split them, and take out the roes and bones, sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley over the fish, lay the roes on top, roll them up tightly, leaving the fins and tails outwards, and bind round with pieces of tape. Put the Herrings in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, season with pepper, salt, and a little vinegar, and simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes, according to the size of the fish. When cooked, take them out, drain, and put them on a hot dish; pour parsley - and-butter sauce over, and serve very hot. (2) Select the required quantity of Fresh Herrings (those with soft roes are the best), scrape them, cut off the heads, open and clean them, take out the bones carefully, sprinkle the fish with flour, pepper, and salt, lay the roes on them, and roll up tightly witli the skin outside. Put the Herrings in an earthenware pot with a lid, cover them with water, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. When the fish are cooked, drain off the liquor, cover them with vinegar, and sprinkle pepper and salt over. Herrings prepared in this way will keep good for some time. Rolled Fresh Herrings on Toasts.—Select a sufficient quantity of soft-roed Herrings, scrape and split them length- wise down the back, remove the roe, lift the backbone out carefully, season with salt and pepper, and strew some finely- chopped parsley over them; roll up tightly, and bind them round w:ih tape. Have some water boiling in a saucepan, put in a small quantity of vinegar, salt, and pepper, and the fish; let them simmer for ten minutes. Fry the roes in butter. Cut as many rounds of bread (about Jin. thick) as there are rolls of fish, and toast them a delicate brown on both sides. Butter and lay them on a hot dish. Drain the rolls of fish, put one on each piece of toast, garnish with the roes and some watercress, and serve. Soused Fresh. Herrings.—Solect the required quantity of Fresh Herrings with soft roes, chop off the heads, scrape and thoroughly clean the fish; put them in an earthen baking-dish, sprinkle over them pepper, salt, and a small pinch of allspice, pour in vinegar to three-parts their height, then fill up with water; a bay-leaf and shallot may be put in as well. Cover the dish, put it in the oven, and bake the Herrings slowly for two hours. When cold, wipe the fish, lay them on a dish, garnish round the edge of the dish and in between the fish with watercress, green celery-tops or parsley, and serve. Stewed Fresh. Herrings.—Select some large Fresh Herrings, cut off their heads and thoroughly clean them, put them in layers in an earthen pot, sprinkling pepper and salt over each layer. Mince some onions and carrots, and fry them in butter, with a few peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic; pour over the vegetables as much white wine as will Herrings—continued. cover the Herrings. When the liquid boils, move the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for lialf-an-hour. Strain the liquid through a fine hair sieve over the Herrings, put the cover on, and let the Herrings stew over a very slow fire for five hours; they should not be touched while cooking. They can be served either hot or cold, and make a very good supper or breakfast dish. Stuffed Fresh Herrings.—(1) Cut off the heads and tails of twelve or more Fresh Herrings, split them down the backs, and take out the bones and the soft roes ; fill the hollow of the Herring with fish forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs, add the soft roes, bring the Herrings to their original shape, wrap each in a strip of buttered paper, and lay them on a buttered baking-dish; put them in a moderate oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, take off the paper, put the Herrings on a hot dish, cover them with maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. (2) Take a dozen Fresh Herrings, clean them well, open them down the back, cut off the heads, and take out the bones. Lay a small piece of veal stuffing in each, and roll them up; lay little bits of butter over, put them into a baking-dish, set it in the oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Salted Herrings.—These are prepared hy immersing the fish just as they are caught in a mixture of common salt and saltpetre, the proportion differing according to custom. They are afterwards hung up to dry, and in Holland they are then packed in tubs and exported: hence the Salted Herring is generally called Dutch. They can be served in many ways; but in Germany they are usually eaten raw, the flesh being nearly transparent. Marinaded Salted Herrings.—Put the required number of Salted Herrings in a basin, cover with milk or water, and leave them for several hours to draw out the salt. When ready, open them lengthwise, and take the bones and roes out carefully; cut the Herrings'lengthwise into halves, then cut them slantingly into four pieces each. Put a layer of the fish at the bottom of a jar, then a layer of thinly- sliced onions and lemons with most of the peel removed, a bay-leaf cut in small pieces, a clove, and a small quantity of bruised peppercorns; over these ingredients place another layer of the fish, next a layer of onions, and the other ingredients as before, and continue in this way until the jar is full. Pour in cold vinegar to within fin. of the top of the jar, then fill it right up with salad-oil. The onions and seasonings should bo the last layer in the jar. In three days’ time the Herrings will be fit for serving, and will keep good for a long time. They are eaten raw. Salted Herrings served with. French Beans. -— Clean some recently-salted Herrings, cut off the heads, skin and cut them into slices, and arrange them on a small dish garnished with green leaves. Cut some French beans lengthwise into slices, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of broth, boil, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, Fig. 955. Salted Herrings served with French Beans. and simmer gently till tender. When the beans are cooked, the broth should be reduced. Work loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, then stir it in with the beans; season them with 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped winter savory and salt and pepper. Turn the beans on to a hot dish, and serve with the Herrings. See Fig. 955. Salted-Herring-Roe Sauce. — Boil two or three Salted Herrings, drain them, and carefully pick out the roes; put764 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tL'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—continued. these in a stewpan with of butter, 1 table-spoonful each of very finely-minced onion and parsley, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a small quantity of cayenne. Beat the whole over the fire for a minute or two, then take it oft', and it is ready for serving. This sauce is very good as an accompaniment for either broiled mutton chops or boiled fish. Salted-Herring Salad.—(1) This is a favourite dish amongst Germans. Cut off the heads and split down the backs of four or five Salted Herrings, take out the bones carefully, remove the fillets, and cut them into small pieces. Put some cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, in a deep dish with one raw apple and a little cold roasted veal also cut in dice. Mix with the fish some pickled beetroot, salted cucumber, and a few gherkins, all finely chopped ; put them in with the other in- gredients, sprinkle over salt, mustard, 1 pinch of chopped chives, and 1 handful of capers, and pour in some vinegar and oil. Thicken the salad with 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce with eggs, dish it in a dome-shape, smooth the surface with a knife, and mask it with more of the mayonnaise. Decorate it with gherkins, capers, anchovy fillets, and cherries in vinegar ; put a few lettuce-hearts in the centre, surround the base with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. (2) Wash the required quantity of freshly-salted Herrings, let them soak in milk for three or four hours, drain them, cut off the heads and tails, and split the body to remove the bones. Arrange on a dish, garnish with minced onions and thin slices of pickled gherkins, sprinkle a few whole capers round, pour a little oil and vinegar over the fish, and serve. (3) Pick the fillets off some Salted Herrings and cut them into small pieces. Boil some potatoes with their skins on, and when cooked (they must not be overdone) peel and cut them into small pieces; put the potatoes in a basin, cover with oil and vinegar in equal quantities, dust salt and pepper over them, and stir about to mix thoroughly. Chop two or three very sour apples and some gherkins, and mix them, with the Herrings, in with the potatoes. Add a small finely-chopped onion and some chopped pickled beetroot. Toss all the ingredients together for a few minutes to incor- porate them, then turn them into a salad-bowl, and serve. (4) For this salad the white Dutch Herrings are the best; put the quantity required in water or milk, and leave them for a few hours to draw out the salt as much as possible. Split them lengthwise down the back, open them flat, remove the bones (if done with care all the bones can be removed with the backbone), and cut the flesh of the fish into small thin slices. For two Herrings, boil lib. of potatoes till soft, but not over-cooked, then drain them, and when cold cut them into slices. Finely chop as much veal-, pork-, or poultry- flesh as there is Herring-flesh. Cut two large sour apples into small squares; put the fish in a salad-bowl; beat loz. of butter to a cream, and mix with it 1 teacupful of oil, f tea- cupful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, f teaspoonful of caster sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne, or if preferred white pepper. Stir the dressing in with the Herrings, then mix in the potatoes and apples; strew a small quantity of minced chives over the top. Serve the salad without delay. (5) Steep some Dutch Salted Herrings in water for a few hours, then trim off the skin, split them, and remove the backbone; cut the fillets into small pieces. Peel and boil about 21b. of potatoes, taking care not to over-cook them; when cooked, drain, and cut them into slices. Put the potatoes in a salad-bowl, pour over sufficient Rhine wine to moisten, and cover the bowl. When the potatoes are cold, put in the Herrings—continued. pieces of fish and the chopped yolks of four or five hard- boiled eggs. If hard-roed Herrings are used, pound the roes to a paste, adding gradually, while pounding, about lj tea- cupfuls of vinegar and some crushed peppercorns; pour the mixture over the salad, toss it about with a fork to mix well, and serve. (6) Wash the Herrings in warm water and dry them on a cloth; skin, and cut them slantwise into slices, then place them on a dish in their original form. Arrange in alternate groups round them some young onions and gherkins, then a circle of sliced salted cucumbers; mix in equal quantities salad-oil and vinegar, pour it over the Herrings, sprinkle a few capers over them, and serve. A few pickles may be placed on the dish if liked. If the Herrings are old it is best to soak them in milk for a few hours. See Fig. 956. Stewed Salted Herrings with Eddoes.—This is an ex- cellent dish, much used in Barbadoes, where it is a favourite. The required quantity of Salted Herrings are stewed with butter and any desired seasoning, and eaten with eddoes boiled until the skins will readily come off by gently pressing them. Smoked Herrings.—These are also known as bloaters (which see) and red Herrings—the difference consisting principally in the smoking. They can be prepared at home as follows: Clean the Herrings well, and let them lie for one night in salt with a small quantity of saltpetre mixed with it. Next day run a stick through the eyes, and in this way thread them all. Have ready a cask of sawdust with a red-hot heater in the middle of it: fix the stick over this so that the Herrings hang in a row in the smoke, and smoko them for twenty-four hours. Broiled Bed Herrings.—Double and fold a large sheet of paper into a case large enough to hold six red Herrings. Take half-a-dozen good-sized red Herrings, cut off their heads and tails, skin, split them lengthwise into two fillets, and remove the bones. Butter the paper case both outside and inside, place the fillets in it, laying between each a little bit of fresh butter with a mixture of chopped mushrooms, sweet herbs, shallots, pepper, and olive oil, sprinkle them pretty thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, and broil them slowly over a clear but not too hot fire, taking care the paper does not burn. When done, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over them, and serve in the paper case as hot as possible. Dressed Red Herrings.—Cut the red Herrings open, boil some small beer and pour it over them ; let them steep in it for thirty minutes. Drain dry, warm them in a Dutch oven before the fire, rub a little fresh butter over them, and serve with egg sauce and mashed potatoes. Fillets of Red Herrings.—Select the required quantity of red Herrings, cut off their heads and tails, skin and bone them, and cut them lengthwise into fillets; put these in a basin, cover with salad-oil, and let them steep for five hours ; then drain, put them on a dish, pour fresh oil over them, and serve. Mashed Red Herring (Indian Style).—Put a large onion and two hot green chillies, all cut up into slices, into a basin, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and soak for several hours. Roll up a red Herring in paper, broil or fry it, remove all the skin and bones, and bruise it in a mortar, adding gradually the onions, chillies, and the liquor in which they have been soaking. When the whole is well mixed, the preparation is ready for serving. Preserved Red Herrings.—Cut off the heads of twelve red Herrings, put them in a stewpan, cover with tepid water, let the water get hot gradually over the fire, then take the stew- pan off, put the cover on, and let it remain for half-an-hour. Drain the Herrings, remove their skins, put them in a large basin, with a plate on the top, and let them macerate for two days. They are then ready for eating. Red Herrings a la Dauphin.—Remove the heads and tails of the Herrings, and bone them. Brush over with yolk of egg beaten up with butter and finely-chopped savoury herbs, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and if not well covered with the breadcrumbs the first time, leave them for five minutes and then brush them again with the mixture of egg, butter, &c.,765 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—contimied. and roll them again in the breadcrumbs. Broil to a good brown over a clear but not too hot fire, lay them on buttered toast, sprinkle a very little cayenne over, and serve very hot. Red Herring's served as in Brussels. Put six red Her- rings on a gridiron, hold them over steam or hot cinders for a few minutes, skin and cut them up into fillets. Have ready a large paper case, well oiled. Put a little parsley, mixed herbs, garlic, and chives, a few shallots and mushrooms, all finely chopped, into a saucepan with a lump of butter, sprinkle over sufficient pepper to taste, and cook gently until done, stirring well all the time. Sprinkle the fillets with a little olive oil and grated bread, place them round the paper case alternately with the mixture, put the case on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Place the case on a dish, and serve with a garnish of thin slices of lemon. Red Herrings cooked in Flemish. Style. — Cut off the heads of some red Herrings, and slightly split them down the backs. Have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, put the Herrings on a gridiron, lay it over the stewpan, and keep the water boiling ; when the skins can be easily moved the Herrings are done. Remove the fish, peel off the skins, take out the soft roes, cut away the thin parts of the belly, and put the Herrings with the roes on a dish. Mix 1 table- spoonful of mustard with a little melted salted butter, pour it over the fish, and serve. Red-Herring Salad.— (1) Pare off the skin of two or more red Herrings, split them, carefully remove the bones, and then cut them into small fillets. Thoroughly wash and drain a cabbage lettuce, pull the leaves asunder, and put them in a salad-bowl ; put in the pieces of Herrings. Boil two eggs till hard, and when cold peel and chop them finely ; mix with the eggs 1 teacupful of vinegar and 1 teacupful of salad-oil; season the mixture with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. As the Herrings are naturally oily, less salad-oil can be used if preferred, or a remoulade sauce can be poured over. (2) Put three red Herrings on the corner of the stove for half-a-minute on each side, then pull off the skin, cut off the heads, split the Herrings into halves, remove the bones, and cut them up into small square pieces. Place them in a salad-bowl with a small chopped onion, two hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces, a cold boiled potato cut the same, and 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and 2 table-spoonfuls of oil. Mix well together, decorate the salad with cooked beetroot cut in slices, also a few capers, and serve. Red-Herring Sandwiches.—Pare off the skin of a red Herring, and cut off the fins and head. Split it into halves, and lift the backbone out carefully. Cut the Herring into even-sized pieces, squeeze lemon-juice over, and leave them for an hour or two. Cut some rather thin slices of bread, butter them, put the fish on half of them, drop a little Worcestershire sauce on each, and cover with another slice of bread-and-butter ; cut the sandwiches into halves or fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a dish, put a few small sprigs of parsley here and there, and serve. Red-Herring Soup.—Soak I 1 pints of split peas for one night, having first washed them. On the following day, put them in a saucepan with two finely-chopped carrots, three boned anchovies, one large onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and one red Herring; season with pepper and salt, pour in lqt. of cold water, and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, then put in the white part of a head of celery cut in slices, a small lump of butter, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup ; simmer for half-an- hour. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve with either fried bread or sippets of toast and a small dish of dried powdered mint. Scalloped Red Herrings.—Cut off the heads of some red Herrings, split them down the back, and carefully remove all the bones ; put the fillets and roes in a basin, cover with milk, and leave them for a few hours. Put some fine herbs in a frying-pan with mushrooms and a lump of butter, and fry them ; then mix in with them 1 teacupful of grated bread- Herrings—continued. crumb and about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Take the flesh and roes of the Herrings out of the milk, wipe them on a cloth, and peel off the skin. Place the roes and some of the fried herbs at the bottom of a gratin-disb, put in a layer of the Herrings, baste them with a few table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, then another layer of the herbs ; continue in this way till all are used, then cover the top with grated breadcrumb, moistening these also with a little butter. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When cooked, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve in the same dish. HET (HOT) PINT.—Tliis is a Scotch drink, made with ale, that is given to friends and visitors during the Hogmanay Festival, which takes place on the last day of the year. It is usually prepared as follows : Beat up a couple of fresh eggs together with 1 large table- spoonful of sugar, mix with this 1 teacupful of cold ale, and beat it up thoroughly. Into this pour 1 pint of boiling ale, and mix by pouring from one vessel to another. Put it again into the saucepan, and heat it to boiling; then serve it in half-pint glasses, adding 1 wineglassful of whisky to each, and a grating of nutmeg. These quantities may be altered to suit the taste. HICKORY-NUTS.—These are the fruit of a tree that grows very profusely in America. It is of the genus Cary a, and includes numerous varieties known by such names as Shag-bark Hickory, Bitter-nut, Pecan, Hog-nut, and others. The nut possesses a sweet pleasant flavour, is about as large as a walnut, and the husk divides into four equal parts. Not often met with in England, and rarely, if ever, used by British con- fectioners, although most common in the United States. Hickory-nut Cake.—Beat jib. of butter and |lb. of sugar to a smooth cream, mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 saltspoonful of cinnamon and nutmeg mixed, and 1 salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water; then add and mix in, in small quantities and alternately, the whites of three eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and Ub■ of flour, with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar mixed with it. Have ready mixed together and dredged with flour, jib. of raisins, stoned and chopped, and \ pint of Hickory-nut kernels. Mix them quickly into the dough, and bake at once. Hickory-nut Cream-Ice.—Remove the shells from sufficient Hickory-nuts to make lib. weight of the kernels. Place them in a mortar with a little sugar and water, and pound to a paste. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar in a pan over the fire, let it melt and brown a little, add water to dissolve it, and pour in lqt. of cream ; dissolve in this 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, add the nut paste, put all into the freezer, and freeze. Hickory-nut Flavouring.—Take a bushel of nuts, crush and put them in a bowl with 12galls. of alcohol at 95 per cent., and let them remain for a month or so. Strain through a fine sieve, filter, and the flavouring is then ready for use. HIFS.—The fresh fruits of the Dog-rose (Rosa canina) are known by this name. They should be gathered as soon as ripe, and can then be made into some sort of preserves, as follow: Hip Jam. -(1) Take the Hips when they are ripe, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil until they are quite tender; then pass them through a fine sieve. Weigh the pulp, and put it in a preserving-pan with its equal quantity of sugar, boil until done, and put the jam into stone jars. When any of it is required for use, it should be mixed with a little white wine and (if required) a little more sugar. (2) Cut off the tops of 3qts. of very red Hips, put in a bowl with 1 pint of vinegar, and leave them for three or four days. The berries should be stirred once or twice every day. When ready, pass the berries through a fine wire sieve, and weigh the pulp. Put 1-Ilb. of loaf sugar in a saucepan for every quart of the pulp, pour in just as much water as the sugar will absorb, and boil over the fire until small beads form at the top. Take the syrup off the fire, pour it over the pulp, and stir the whole until cold. Put766 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensil Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hips—continued. the jam in jars, cover them, and keep in a dry cupboard until wanted. Hip Marmalade.—(1) Cut off the tops of the required quantity of Hips. Put Jib. of lump sugar in a saucepan for every pound of fruit, pour in a small quantity of water, and boil; then put in the fruit, and boil the whole to a smooth thick mass, stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon. Cut a few ounces of preserved ginger into small pieces, and mix it at the last with the Hips. Turn the mar- malade into jars, leave until cold, then cover and tie down. (2) Put some ripe Hips in a bowl of water, wasli thoroughly, and put them into a saucepan with water in the proportion of J pint to every pound of fruit. Boil until they are quite tender, squeeze them through a sieve with the water, taking care to prevent any seeds passing through. Weigh this puree, and to every pound allow an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar; place these in a preserving-pan, and boil them until the syrup will set like a jelly. Let it cool a little, pour it into jars, and drop a little piece of preserved ginger into each. Cover over the pots before the marmalade is cold, and it is then ready for use when wanted. Hip Sauce.—Take all the seeds out of the Hips, which should be quite ripe, put the fruit in a small quantity of water, and boil until soft. Pass the pulp through a coarse wire sieve, return it to the saucepan with sufficient wine to make the required quantity of sauce, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Serve the sauce while hot. Water may be used in the place of wine if preferred. Hips in Vinegar.—Choose large red Hips, taking care that they arc not over ripe, cut off the stalks, leaving a very little on each berry, wash thoroughly, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover. Set the pan on the fire and boil the Hips until quite tender, but not broken, and then drain off the water into a basin. Cut off a little of the blossom end when they are cold, and take out the seeds with a knife or quill without damaging the Hips. Weigh them, and for every 21b. of berries take J pint of the strained fruit liquid in the basin, double that quantity of vinegar, loz. each of cloves and cinnamon, and 21b. of crushed loaf sugar. Place these in a preserving-pan, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then boil for a-quarter-of- an-hour, add the Hips, and boil until the syrup is thick, which will take about twenty or twenty-five minutes. Pour the mixture into jars or glasses, cover them over with parchment, put them in a cool place, and they will keep good for a long time. This preparation of Hips is sometimes used instead of red-currant jelly, especially with game, boar’s head, and roasted saddle of mutton; indeed, some cooks consider Hips to bo far superior to currants for making these jellies. Preserved Hips.—Procure the Hips as soon as ripened, cut the stalks to within lin. at the end of the berries, put them in a stewpan with plenty of water, and boil gently until tender. Drain the Hips beforo they break, cut a thin slice off tlio broad end of each berry, and with a thin pointed knife scoop out all the seeds. Put an equal weight of sugar as there is fruit in the preserving-pan, with a moderate quantity of cinnamon and a very small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Next put in the fruit, and boil gently until the syrup is thickly reduced. When somewhat cooled, turn the Hips with their syrup into glass jars, and when quite cold cover them with parchment and tic down. HIPFOCRAS. -This wine is said to have been named after the celebrated Hippocrates, because of his great fondness for it. It was formerly much used in England, and in one form or another still finds favour on the Continent. The original Hippocras is described as a mixture of Lisbon and Canary wines sweetened with sugar, and flavoured with ginger, cinnamon, and other aromatics. Take loz. of cinnamon, 2 drachms of ginger, and 1 pinch each of cloves and nutmeg. Pound together, and infuse them in lqt. of red or white wino; in this dissolve lib. of loaf sugar. HOARHOUND.—See Horehound. HOCK, or HOCKHEIMER—This is the name given to a wine manufactured along the banks of the Rhine. The word Hoch is the German exclamation of approval, equivalent to our hurrah; the additional word heimer alludes to the home manufacture of the wine, from the German lieim—home. The two together therefore may be accepted as excellent home-made wine. Hock is so largely manufactured that almost any German wine may accept the title, merely adding thereto the name of the village, town, or castle nearest to the vineyards. Hock wines are of a light alcoholic strength, acidulous, and with a peculiar aroma. At the commencement of a feast they are taken to create an appetite. As most of the lighter German wines are not very bright, it is usual to serve them in coloured glasses. Hock Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Hock into a large glass, add a very little old whisky, mix in 1 wineglassful of syrup, fill up with broken ice, put a little mint on top, also a few thin slices of orange and lemon, then place a thin slice of pine-apple over all, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and drink through straws. Hock Syrup.—This is obtained by mixing J pint of Hock with 1 pint of simple syrup. It is used in giving a flavour to aerated waters. HODGE-PODGE.—See Hotch-Potch. HOE CAKES.—These cakes are best known in the Southern States of America, where they are made of ground Indian corn, water, and salt. The name originated from the negro habit of cooking them upon the hoes used in the cotton-fields. See Cakes. HOG.—The male pig. See Boar. HOGFLUM. — The fruit of several tropical trees of the genus Spondias. It resembles a small plum in appearance, and is used to manufacture a liqueur by steeping the bruised fruit in rum and sweetening it. HOGSHEAD.—A cask containing 63galls. of wine, or 52J imperial gallons. See Weights and Measures. HOKEY-POKEY.—Although the popular name by which this sweetmeat is known gives to it somewhat of an unattractive character, if made as here described, it will be found a pleasing production, especially for children. Put 2oz. of gelatine into a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk or water, and lot it dissolve. Put lgall. of milk into a bowl with eight slightly-beaten eggs, ljlb. of sugar, the thinly-cut rind of two lemons, and 1 pinch of salt. Stir well, pour the whole into a bright saucepan, set it on a fire or stove, and stir continually until the cream thickens. Remove the pan from the heat, pour the contents into an earthenware pan, and stir until nearly cold; now mix in the dissolved gelatine, turn the preparation into a freezer, and work vigorously. Pack it in small boxes about 2in. wide by 3in. long, and sot it away in the ice-closet for future use. It may bo cut into shapes if preferred, and wrapped round with waxed paper. HOLLANDS.—The name given to a kind of gin made in the Netherlands. See Gin. HOLLAND SAUCE (st la Hollandaise). — See Sauces. HOLSTEIN SAUCE.—See Sauces. HOLSTEIN SOUP.—See Soups. HOME-MADE WINES.—See British Wines. HOMINY.—This is simply maize (Indian corn) hulled and then coarsely ground. It admits of numerous useful culinary applications, as will be seen hereunder. See also Cornflour, Maizena, &c. Boiled Hominy.—(1) Wash the Hominy in cold water, and soak for twelve hours in tepid water; then put it over a moderate fire with the water in which it has been soaking, and boil gently for from three to six hours, adding more water as767 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hominy—continued. required, to keep it from burning1. Use soft water, and do not add salt while cooking, as it hardens the Hominy. (2) The Hominy should be thoroughly washed to free it from all flour; put it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, stir over the fire till it boils again, then move to the side, put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer for two hours without touching it. Use 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water to each breakfast-cupful of Hominy. When cooked, mix some salt and milk with it. It can be served as a vegetable, and eats well with broiled liver or salted pork. (3) Well wash the Hominy in cold water, put it into a basin or earthenware pan, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, and let it soak all night. Then drain and put it over the fire with lqt. of water to every pint of Hominy (the water may be either hot or cold), and boil for five or six hours, stirring frequently ; then drain it quite dry in a colander or sieve, and serve hot in a deep dish. It is very nice eaten with pork, bacon, or beef, or almost any kind of meat. Any cold Hominy that is left may next day be made into cakes, with the addition of a little wheat- flour, and fried in boiling lard; or it may be boiled for an hour, and served as at first. (4) Wash 1 pint of Hominy in several waters, put it into a basin with boiling water to cover, and steep for ten or twelve hours. Next put the Hominy into a saucepan with lqt. of water; when boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours. When very tender, drain off all the water, toss it over the fire for a minute to somewhat dry it, then put in 2oz. of butter, broken into small bits, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the butter has dissolved, turn the Hominy on to a hot dish, and serve. Fried Hominy.—Take some cold boiled Hominy, and make it into a soft paste by stirring in one beaten egg, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, and a small quantity of milk ; stir the mixture over the fire until well mixed and hot, then turn it on to a dish and leave until cold. Divide it into small round cakes and dredge them lightly with flour; put a good- sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the cakes and fry until equally browned. Drain them, pile on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and serve with cream and sugar. Home-made Hominy.—Cover some white corn with weak lye water, and soak it for two days. If the lye is not available, mix 1 teacupful of baking-soda with twice as much water as will cover the corn, and soak it in that. Wash the Hominy in plenty of water before cooking. Hominy Blanc-mange.—Put a scant teacupful of Hominy into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a small quantity of salt; boil gently, and as it thickens stir in more milk to bring it to the desired consistency. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence. Binse out a mould with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and set it on ice or in a cool place. When quite cold and firm, turn the blanc-mange on to a fancy dish, pour any kind of stewed fruit round it, and serve. See Pig. 957. Hominy Cakes. (1) Boil lqt. of Hominy very soft, and add to it lib. of cornflour, loz. of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix into it three well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to make a thin batter. Boat the batter well for some time, then bake it on a griddle, dropping it on in large spoonfuls, and making them very thin; or they may be baked in waffle-irons. Serve For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hominy—continued. syrup with them. Yeast may be used instead of eggs, putting 1 table-spoonful in the batter and letting it stand for several hours in a warm place to rise. (2) Wash 1 teacupful of Hominy to free it from flour, then put it in a saucepan with water, and boil. When soft and dry, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot milk,l table-spoonful of warmed butter, | teaspoonful of salt, and the beaten yolks of two eggs; beat the whites of the eggs, and mix them in ; sift in while stirring sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. Make a griddle hot, and rub it well with fat; divide the Hominy mixture into small cakes, put them on the griddle, and cook, turning them over when done on one side. (3) Put in a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of fine uncooked Hominy, loz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and I tea- cupful of boiling water, and set it at the back of the stove until the Hominy has absorbed all the water. Put 1 scant breakfast-cupful of cornflour in a basin, with 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and stir gradually in with it £ pint of boiling milk. When quite smooth, mix the Hominy with the cornflour, and leave it till cold. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add them to the Hominy mixture, then put in the well- whisked whites of the two eggs, and 1 heaped teaspoonful of baking-powder. Butter some gem-pans, make them hot, pour the mixture into them, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the cakes out of the tins. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold, cooked, coarse Hominy in a mortar, and pound it; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, one egg, a lump of butter, and a little salt, and beat to a smooth paste. Divide the mixture into small portions, flatten them like biscuits with floured hands, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till lightly browned. Drain the cakes, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. (5) Hominy should be soaked all night in water. Boil a pint of Hominy, and when cooked mix with it 2oz. of butter, two beaten eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. Beat it till quite smooth, then divide into small portions, and proceed as for No. 1. (6) Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Hominy in a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 2oz. of warmed butter. Mix those well, then stir in two well-beaten eggs and a sufficient quantity of new milk, in which | table- spoonful of yeast powder has been dissolved, to make a rather thin batter. Divide the batter into cakes, and fry them in boiling lard or butter. When lightly browned, drain them as free from fat as possible, and serve hot. (7) Put H breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Hominy in a basin, and mix with it 1J breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, 2oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of moist sugar, 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, a small quantity of salt, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little warm water, and a sufficient quantity of beaten eggs to bind the whole. When perfectly smooth, divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions and bake them in a quick oven. Hominy Cheese Cakes.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Hominy into a basin, and stir in gradually with it 1 pint of new milk, mixing it perfectly smooth and free from lumps; add four well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of warmed butter, ilb. of well-washed currants, Jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until all the ingre- dients are well mixed. Butter some patty-pans, lino them with a short-paste, put some of the mixture in each, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Hominy Croquettes.—(1) Put 1 pint of cooked Hominy in a saucepan with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of hot milk, and stir it over the fire till hot. Take it off the fire, mix the beaten yolk of an egg with it, season to taste with salt, and leave till cool. Shapo the mixture into croquettes, then roll them in breadcrumbs, dip in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- crumbs again. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the croquettes, and fry them. When browned, drain them, put on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 958. (2) Soak jib. of Hominy in boiling water for an hour, then 1 put it into a lined stewpan with about lqt. of milk, and stewTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 768 Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hominy—continued. gently until tender. Put in loz. of butter and a beaten egg, season to taste with salt and pepper, mix it thoroughly off the fire, and turn into a basin. When cold, shape the Hominy into balls about the size of eggs, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put plenty of oil into a flat stewpan, place it oyer the fire, and when blue smote rises put in the balls, a few at a time, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As the balls are done, put them to drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange the croquettes in the centre, garnish them with a thick border of fried parsley, and serve with onion sauce. Fig. 958. Hominy Croquettes. (3) Put Alb. or so of Hominy into a saucepan with sufficient milk or water to moisten, boil slowly, and add a seasoning of onions, salt, and pepper. Form the paste into balls, roll them well first in breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, and lastly breadcrumbs again ; plunge them into a saucepan of boiling fat, and fry to a light golden colour. Take them out, drain, and they are ready for use. Hominy Porridge.—Put 11b. of Hominy into a basin, pour boiling water over, and let it soak all night. On the following morning put the Hominy into a lined saucepan with ly break- fast-cupfuls of milk, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling ; move it to the side, and simmer slowly for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Hominy into soup- plates, and serve with sugar and milk. Hominy Pudding.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked Hominy into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, l|oz. of warmed butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 1 teacupful of milk ; stir the ingredients together till well mixed and smooth. Butter a pie-dish, pour the Hominy mix- ture into it, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. Serve the pudding- while hot with a sweet sauce. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Hominy in water, and soak it all night. On the following morning, drain it, put it in a saucepan with lqt. of milk, and boil gently for two hours. When cooked, sweeten to taste, season with grated nutmeg, and mix the beaten yolks of two eggs with it. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, pour in the Hominy, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, serve the pudding hot with sweet sauce. (3) Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of Hominy all night in water, which should be boiling when poured over. Next morning put it into a lined stewpan with a little under 1 pint of milk, and stir over the fire ■with a wooden spoon until boiling. Move it to the side of the fire, let it simmer gently until quite cooked, then stir in two well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake until slightly browned. Serve hot. (4) Mix 1 scant teacupful of Hominy in 1 pint of new milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Beat two eggs with A pint of milk, and stir them in gradually with the Hominy ; add A table-spoonful of warmed butter, loz. of thinly-shred candied peel, and a small quantity of ground cinnamon. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, grate a little nutmeg over the top, bake in a moderate oven, and serve hot or cold as desired. (5) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, and beat them well; put about 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Hominy into a basin, and mix with it A table-spoonful of sugar, foz. of warmed butter, and a small quantity of salt; next stir in the beaten yolks, 1 pint of milk, and, when pei’fectly smooth, Hominy—continued. the whites of the eggs. Butter a pie-dish, pour the above mixture into it, and bake until browned on the top. Hominy Pudding- as a Vegetable.—Wash 1 breakfast- cupful of Hominy in plenty of water to free it from dust : put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of water and a small lump of salt, and boil it for one hour without stirring, but should it get too dry, 1 teacupful of milk can be added. When cooked, take 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the Hominy, and mix with it while still hot l|oz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Beat two eggs and 1 teacupful of milk, then mix with the Hominy; turn the whole into a shallow dish, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the Hominy as a vegetable. Hominy Soup.—Make as much clear soup as will be required, and season it highly. Add about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Hominy for every 3 pints of the soup, and boil for half-an-hour. Break three eggs into a soup-tureen, pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and beat them well. Pour the soup gradually over the beaten eggs, stirring continually, dust over a small quantity of finely-chopped chives and grated nutmeg, and serve. Stewed Hominy.—Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Hominy, put it over the fire in a saucepan with 2qts. of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, and boil it gently for about four hours, or until it is quite soft; then drain, and place it where the water will evaporate. Prepare a cream sauce as follows: Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan on the fire and partly melt it; when soft, gradually stir into it A pint of cream or an equal quantity of milk ; if cream is used, add it to the Hominy as soon as hot; if milk, take it off the ffre when hot, stir into it the yolks of two eggs, and mix with the Hominy. Serve the Hominy directly the milk or cream is added to it, remembering that the eggs used with the milk will curdle if the Hominy is allowed to boil after they are added to it. HONEY (Fr. Miel; Ger. Honig; Ital. Mele; Sp. Miel).—Up to the time of the juice of the sugar-cane finding its way into this country, Honey was used f01- all purposes of sweetening. It formed also the basis of fermented liquors known to the Anglo-Saxons as mead and metheglin (see Mead), and was considered of so much value and importance that bees were bred and tended with as much care as is now bestowed on cattle. Honey is described by Blytli as “a sweet substance obtained by the bee from the nectariferous glands of flowers, and is elaborated in the body of the bee, and ultimately deposited in the honeycomb.” An analytical examination of Honey shows that it contains grape-sugar, manna, gum-mucilage, extractive matters, wax in small quantities, pollen of flowers, and odoriferous substances. The sugar consists chiefly of grape-sugar, which crystallises, and may lie filtered out by straining through a cloth ; but there then remains an uncrystallisable sugar which has not been exactly defined. There are several varieties of Honey met with in our markets, which are classified as follows : Virgin Honey, or that which flows spontaneously from the cells of young bees that have never swarmed. Ordinary Honey, obtained by heat and pressure. English Honey, produced by bees which have mainly collected it from clover, furze, or broom flowers; and Narhonne Honey, gathered chiefly from rosemary, and other highly-scented flowers. There is another kind of Honey, known as Trebizonde Honey, which is poisonous to human beings, for it is gathered chiefly from poisonous plants; and there is a Hew Jersey Honey also, which possesses slightly intoxi- cating properties. Neither of these latter are met with in England. Honey is so frequently adulterated, if not fabricated, by unscrupulous dealers, that it has lost much of its ancient repute; treacle, potato-sugar, syrup, potato-flour, starch, and even wheat-flour, are amongst its adulterants; but happily pure Honey can be obtained by going for it to country bee-keepers.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 769 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Honey—continued. Although Honey has been almost entirely supplanted by sugar in confectionery and for other culinary purposes, there are yet some receipts to be found in which it is directly prescribed as a prime ingredient. Clarified Honey.—Pour 3qts. of water into a preserving-pan, then put in 251b. of Honey, set over the fire, and melt it. Beat 51b. of Spanish whiting till quite fine, then put it in with the Honey, and add the thinly-pared rind of three lemons. Stir the mixture well to prevent the whiting sticking to the bottom, put in 2j!b- of charcoal to clarify it, and continue stirring. Beat six eggs well, then mix them with 6qts. of water ; when the Honey is on the point of boiling, sprinkle well with the egg-water till it presents the appearance of sponge, then continue to pass it through a bag till clear. Honey Biscuits.—Put into a basin gib. each of cornflour and Honey, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange flowers, and J table-spoonful of pounded coriander-seeds. Mix these in- gredients well till they form a stiff paste, divide it into several equal portions, roll them into balls, then with a rolling-pin roll out to thin oval shapes, and dock. Butter a baking-tin, dredge flour over it, shake off the superfluous, lay the biscuits on the tin a short distance from each other Fig. 959. Honey Biscuits. (see Fig'. 959), and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the biscuits off the tin, leave them till cold, and, if to be kept any length of time, put them into tin canisters. Honey Cakes.—(1) Put fib. of butter in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until melted; then stir in gradually 2flb. of sifted flour, and continue stirring over the fire until lightly browned. Turn the flour out of the saucepan on to a paste-board, and make a bay in the centre; dissolve 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda in a small quantity of water, then pour it into the flour and mix well; stir in sufficient water to make a soft flexible paste. Knead the paste well, then divide it into small equal-sized portions, shape them round, make a dent in the centre of each with the tip of the finger, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake till coloured. Put fib. of Honey in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and stir it over the fire until reduced to a syrup. When the cakes are cooked, pour the syrup over, and put them again into the oven until it has well soaked in. Arrange the cakes tastefully on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put fib. of Honey into a lined saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and place it over the fire until on the point of boiling and the butter has dissolved, then turn it into a basin ; when it has somewhat cooled, stir in by degrees fib. of flour, 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a teaspoon barely full of pounded cloves. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a small quantity of water, and stir in with the other in- gredients at the last. Lay a cloth over the top of the basin and stand it in a cool place. On the following morning lay the paste on a board over which flour has been sifted, roll it out fin. thick, cut it into cakes about lfin. square, put a split almond in each corner, and a small piece of thinly-shred candied citron-peel in the centre of each cake, lay them on buttered paper spread over baking-sheets, cover them with a sheet of white paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and cold, the cakes should be kept in dry biscuit-tins. (3) Put lflb. of sifted flour on a dish and place it in a slow oven until very dry. Finely shred 4oz. of citron-peel and a very small piece of orange-peel. Put fib. of Honey into a saucepan with fib. of caster sugar, and stir it over Honey—continued. the fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar has dissolved. Mix the chopped peel with the flour, also 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger and powdered cinnamon, and then add the sugar and Honey. Work these until well mixed, then put the paste on to a floured table and roll it out thinly. With a small round tin cutter cut the paste into cakes, lay them on a floured tin, and bake in a brisk oven. (4) Put fib. of butter, loz. of ground cinnamon, and loz. of bicarbonate of soda into a basin, and work them until they are of a creamy consistence; then add fib. of Honey and 2 table-spoonfuls df orange-flower water. Mix well with a wooden spoon, and add three eggs, beat them all for ten minutes, and then add 20oz. of flour, and work for another ten minutes. Butter and sprinkle with flour some tin flat moulds, dust a little finely-powdered sugar over the mixture, fill the moulds with it, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, cover over the tops with orange icing. Honey Candy.—Mix and stir well together fib. each of sugar and Honey, f teacupful of rich sweet cream, and 1 dessert- spoonful of cold water, and let it stand for an hour. Put it over a moderate fire and cook, stirring gently till it is stiff enough to pull; then pour it into several buttered tins. When sufficiently cooled, pull each lot separately, forming them when done into squares. Honey Brink flavoured with Cloves.—Put lib. of Honey into a large jar, set it in a bain-marie or in a saucepan half full of boiling water, and let it remain until melted and quite thin; then add foz. of essence (or tincture) of cloves and 1 tumblerful of brandy or gin, and it is ready. Honey Bove Cakes (German).—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Honey into a saucepan with 12oz. of powdered loaf sugar, bring them gently to the boil, throw in 4oz. of almonds with their skins left on and cut into pieces, simmer for about five minutes longer, remove the pan from the fire, add 8oz. of candied peel cut up into small pieces, f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, half of a grated nutmeg, 1 drachm of ground cloves, Joz. of ground cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, and lastly 1 wineglassful of rum. The peel, &c., should not be added until the mixture has slightly cooled. Turn the dough out on to a board, and while still warm roll it out as thin as possible; now cut it into oblong shapes, 4in. long by 2in. wide, put them on well-floured baking-tins, and let them stand for twelve hours or so in a cool place. Put them into a moderate oven, bake them, taking care they do not brown, mask with sugar icing, and when this is set the cakes are ready for use. (2) Put 101b. of strained Honey into a bright copper basin, place it on the fire, and when the contents begin to boil add sufficient flour to form a stiffish dough. Let it get cold, and to each 51b. of dough add l|oz. of bicarbonate of soda and any spices desired ; mix well, and with it fill more moulds, pressing down firmly. Put them close together on a baking- sheet, and bake in a moderately-hot oven. When done, turn them out, wash over with a solution of gum or glue-water to give them a brilliant glossy appearance, let them get cold, cut up into shapes, and they are ready. Half Honey and half molasses may be used, and they can be further enriched by adding chopped almonds, citron, or raisins. Honey Nougat. — Put ljlb. each of sugar and strained Honey in a saucepan over a very gentle fire, and stir till it Fig. 960. Honey Nougats. is quite brittle, which can be ascertained by putting a little into cold water. Add the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and stir them well in. If a little of the mixture be rolled between the fingers and should not be sticky, stir in a flavouring of orange essence, and then mix in 1 Alb. of sweet 3 M770 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. H oney—continued. almonds, blanched and thoroughly dried; blend all well together, and spread it 2in. thick on oiled papers, lay it between two boards, put a heavy weight on top, and leave till quite cold. Then cut it into strips. See Fig. 960. Honey Sweetmeats.—Put VIb. of butter in a saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then mix in gradually lib. of flour mixed to a smooth batter with 1 pint of water, and add 11b. of the best white Honey. Stir the mixture over the fire until the butter begins to rise to the top, take it off the fire, and stir for a few minutes longer, pressing it to the sides of the pan with the back of the spoon. When ready, pile the sweetmeats in a pyramid on a hot dish, and serve. Honey Vinegar.—Dissolve Honey in water in the proportion j of lib. of Honey to lqt. of water, which must be put in a cask in a sunny place so that it is well exposed to the heat j of the sun. The bung-hole of the cask should not be covered except with a piece of coarse linen to keep insects from getting in. In about six weeks the liquor will have turned to very strong vinegar. Imitation Honey.—Put 51b. of the best white sugar in a lined pan with lqt. of water, and place it over a slow fire. When boiling, skim well, mix with it ioz. of pulverised alum, and move it from the fire. When somewhat cooled, stir in Joz. of cream of tartar and 1 table-spoonful of extract of roses. Pour the imitation Honey into jars, and when quite cold, cover the jars with parchment. HONOLULU PICKLE—See Pickles. HOPS (Fr. Houblons; Ger. Hopfen).—"What are com- mercially known as Hops are the catkins (see Fig. 961) of the female plant of the Humulus Lupulus, or common Hop; but these are not much used for culinary purposes, although the tops or shoots of the young plants are sometimes prepared and cooked as vegetables, and are highly prized by epicures, probably as much for the 1 difficulty of obtaining them as for their gustatory value. An enterprising manufacturer has been making ex- { tensive efforts to introduce Hop-flavours into tea, coffee, and cocoa, and presumably with good effect. As “ bitters ” there are few to equal those made from strong infusions of Hops. Boiled Hop-Shoots served as Asparagus.—Take the young shoots of the Hops, tie them in bundles, and boil them in | water with a little meat in it for twenty minutes. Lay a piece of toasted bread on a hot dish, put the Hops on it, and serve. Fried Hop-Shoots.—Slightly scrape some Hop-shoots, wash, and three-parts boil them in acidulated salted water; this done, drain them, sprinkle salt over, and let them get cold, j When about to serve, flour the shoots, dip them in beaten eggs, and fry in boiling fat. Arrange on a hot dish, sprinkle salt over them, and serve. Fried Hop-Shoots a la Poulette.—Select the required quantity of Hop-shoots, slightly scrape them, and boil in salted water with a little lemon-juice or vinegar added. When done, drain, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them for a few minutes; pour white sauce over them, thicken with a liaison, put in a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then turn them out and serve. Hops—continued. Hop Beer.— (1) Boil 6oz. of Hops in 5qts. of water for four hours ; strain the liquid and mix with it 4oz. of bruised ginger and 5qts. more of water; boil again for an hour, then strain and mix in 41b. of sugar ; leave it to cool, and stir in 1 pint of yeast. Let it remain for two days, then draw it off, and bottle. (2) Put Jib- of Hops in a large copper boiler with 4 table- spoonfuls of ground ginger and about 4Jgalls. of water. Boil for three hours, then strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a tub; "our in Jgall. of molasses, and mix * thoroughly with a wooden ladle. Put the beer into a barrel, fill it up to the bung with water, shake the barrel well so as to thoroughly blend the contents, and leave the bung open to allow the beer to work. The barrel should be filled up with water whenever it works over. When sufficiently fer- mented, draw the beer off, bottle it, and put 1 table-spoonful of molasses in each bottle. (3) Put 1 small handful of Hops into a pan with lqt. of water, and boil them for an hour ; then strain the water through a fine hair sieve, mix with it Jib. of treacle and sufficient water to make lgall. altogether. When nearly cold, stir into the liquor 5 teacupful of yeast, and let it stand for twelve hours. When ready, skim the beer, strain it care- fully without disturbing the sediment, pour it into bottles, cork them tightly, and stow away in a cellar. Hop Salad.—Procure the Hop-shoots before the heads are developed, and soak them in slightly-salted water for thirty minutes or more. Drain them, put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil for ten minutes. When boiled, plunge the shoots into a bowl of cold water, and when cooled, drain them, tie in bunches, arrange on a dish, and serve with a plain dressing or vinaigrette sauce. Hop-shoots are not only wholesome, but are a most excellent vegetable. In Hop-growing districts the surplus shoots are generally thrown away. Hop Tea.—Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of Hops in a jug, and pour 1J teacupfuls of boiling water over them. Cover the jug close with a cup (a cloth will not do), and let it stand for twelve hours. When ready, strain the tea through muslin, and for each wineglassful mix in 1 teaspoonful of sal volatile. Serve immediately. HOREHOUND.-It is chiefly as a medicine that this herb (Marrubium vulgare) finds favour, especially for the cure of coughs and colds. It grows wild in almost all parts of the British Isles. Horehotind Beer. -— Put Jib. of fresh Horehound into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil gently for about an hour; add lib. of loaf sugar and sufficient water to make lgall. in all, add a small quantity of soluble essence of lemon and gum extract according to taste, and about Joz. of tartaric acid, and if desired a little yeast to accelerate the fermentation; let it fine down until perfectly clear, bottle, and in two or three weeks’ time it will be ready for use. A small quantity of ground ginger and coriander- seeds may be put in to improve the flavour, and a little dark colouring should also be added. Horehound Candy.—(1) In the first place make a decoction of Horehound by putting loz. of the dried leaves of the herb into a basin with sufficient water to cover them, and boiling for ten or twelve minutes. Remove the basin from the fire, cover it over, let it get cold, and press and strain through a fine sieve. Put this into a quart measure, fill up with water, pour it into a saucepan on the fire, and add 41b. of granulated sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), pour the mass on to a slightly-greased marble slab, let it get nearly cold, turn in the edges, and cut the batch into bars by means of a cutter. When quite cold, the bars must be separated, and are then ready for use. (2) Make 1 pint of strong tea of Horekound-leavcs, strain it, and add to it 31b. of brown sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. When the sugar is melted, stir it well, and boil over a moderate fire till a little of it tried in cold water is brittle. Pour the candy on a well-oiled marble slab, and when cool cut it into squares. (3) Put loz. of herb Horehound into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil for about ten minutes; strain the liquor into771 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. Horehound—continued. a sugar-boiler, add 61b. of sugar, and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Eemove the boiler from the fire, and work the sugar against the sides with a spatula until it be- comes quite thick, which will take three or four minutes’ hard working. Add a few drops of oil of aniseed, stir in briskly, pour the whole on to an oiled slab, let it cool, form it into any desired shapes, and when quite cold it is ready for use. Horehound may be obtained in the extract or essence, but the infusion is far preferable. (4) Put 1 handful of Horehound-leaves in a saucepan with £ pint of water, and let them boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Strain the liquor over 21b. of brown sugar. When the sugar is quite dissolved, put it in a sugar-boiler over a moderate fire, and cook gently till quite brittle (see Sugar-boiling). If the candy is required for a cough, the Horehound-leaves may be dried, pounded to dust in a mortar, and sifted into the candy just before taking it from the fire. Pour it out on a buttered slab or tin, let it get almost cold, and then cut into squares. Horehound Lozenges.—Put loz. of gum dragon in a basin with 1 gill of very strong extract of Horehound, and soak for six or seven hours. Work it with the hand on a marble slab until it becomes quite white and elastic; add gradually l£lb. of fine icing sugar and a few drops of blue colouring to give it a clear whiteness. Sprinkle a little caster sugar on the slab, and roll out the paste to about ^in. in thickness. Cut out the lozenges with a small round tin cutter, put them on a baking-sheet sprinkled over with sugar, and place them in a cool place to dry. When quite hard and dry, put them in jars. Horehound Tea.—Infuse loz. of the herb in 1 pint of boiling water, and let it stand for an hour; by that time it will be ready for use, and can be taken either with or without sugar. HORLIES, HORLYS, or ORLYS. — By some strange freak or another the French orle, or or let, an architectural fillet, has been converted into the modern Horly. Any dish therefore dressed a la Horly, or Orly, may be taken to signify in fillets, such as of fowls or soles. HORNFISH.—See Garfish. HORS D’CEUVRES.—The literal meaning of these French words is “ outside the subject,” hence their signification in culinary matters may be said to signify certain little preparations that are not included in the menu. Amongst British diners they are not much ap- preciated, but a Continental dinner would not be complete without one or the other of them, consisting of prawns, olives, radishes, or something of a similarly simple description. Urbain Dubois, writing of hot Hors d’CBuvres in his work on artistic cookery, informs us that they are light dishes served at dinner immediately after the soup or fish, and may consist of pies, croustades, cases, croquettes, patties, and other small dishes. But modem custom has relegated most of these to the rank of entrees. HORSE-MACKEREL.—This name is applied to so many kinds of fish in various parts of the world that it would be difficult to give it an individuality. If there is any choice it would be in favour of the tunny. HORSERADISH (Fr. Raifort; Ger. Meerrettig; Ital. Rafano; Sp. Rabano).—This plant (Cochlearia Armoracia) grows wild throughout the British Isles, and in almost every climate that is of a sub-tropical character. The root-stock is the part used for culinary purposes, on account of its pungent flavour. Taken as a condiment it provokes appetite and assists digestion, but a famous old writer (Parkinson) declares that it ought to be styled “ Clown’s mustard, for it is too strong for any tender stomach.” It is said that aconite-root is sometimes eaten by mistake for Horseradish, but cases of such misfortune must be exceedingly rare, seeing that reports of such poisoning are almost unknown. Nevertheless, as there is some resemblance between the two roots, it may be as Horseradish—continued. well to know how to distinguish one from the other. Blytli tells us that the two roots present striking diffe- rences. “ The taste of the Horseradish is warm and pungent, approaching that of mustard, while aconite has a bitter taste and a disagreeable earthy odour, and after a few minutes contact with the mouth, tongue, and fauces, produces a feeling of numbness and tingling. Aconite- root is short and conical, tapering rapidly to a point, while Horseradish is long and cylindrical, and of the same thickness for many inches (see Fig. 962), and has a powerful pungent odour when scraped.” It is customary to scrape the fresh sticks of Horse- radish and use these as a garnish for roast beef; but a much more refined mode is to convert the root into a sauce. If it is desired to keep the root fresh for scraping it may be preserved for a long time buried in sand in a cool place; or it may be scraped, dried by setting in a slow oven, and then pow- dered. In this condition it is always available for sauces. Horseradish Butter. — (1) This is prepared by pound- ing grated Horseradish and butter, and adding salt to taste. The quantity of Horseradish to lib. of butter depends upon how strong the taste is required. (2) Pound in a mortar 1 teaspoonful of grated Horse- radish with loz. of butter, and season with about j salt- spoonful of cayenne. Hub it through a fine sieve, and keep it in a cool place. When this butter is added to sauces, they should not be boiled again. Spread over broiled steak it -is delicious. Horseradish Sauce.— (1) Put into a basin 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, 1 table-spoon- ful of ground mustard, 1 tea- cupful of grated Horseradish, and 1 teaspoonful of tur- meric ; season with pepper and salt, and mix the ingre- dients with 1 teacupful of vinegar or olive oil. When quite smooth, turn the sauce into a sauceboat, and it is then ready to be served. (2) Mix with 1 teacupful of scraped Horseradish 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, 1 saltspoon- ful of salt, and I teacupful of cider vinegar. It should always be freshly made. (3) Peel a . root of Horseradish, scrape it, and pound smooth. Mix it with ^ teacupful of cream, put it in a stewpan, then stir in 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, j saltspoonful of pepper, 1 pinch of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and the beaten yolk of one egg. Stir over the fire till hot, pour the sauce in a boat, and serve. Milk should be used instead of egg if the sauce is to be served cold. (4) Warm 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, and beat it with the hand till creamy ; then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered Horseradish, 1 table-spoonful of thick cream, and 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Keep it on ice till thick and cold, pour it in a sauceboat, and serve. (5) Peel and grate as finely as possible a large stick of Horseradish. Beat the yolks of two eggs with £ teacupful of cream, then mix in by degrees 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, beating at the same time to prevent the mixture curdling. 3 m 2 Fig. 962. Horseradish.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 772 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Horseradish—continued. Pour the sauce over the grated Horseradish, mix it well, and serve. (6) Scrape a root of Horseradish quite clean, and then grate it. Beat the yolks of two eggs well together with 3 table- spoonfuls of cream, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of made mustard and wineglassful of vinegar, stirring until thoroughly incorporated. Next add the Horseradish, and the sauce is ready for serving. (7) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; pour in i pint of milk, and continue stirring until boiling, then move it to the side of the fire. Scrape the skin off a stick of Horseradish, and grate the white part; when very fine, put it into the sauce with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil for five minutes. The sauce is then ready for serving. Breadcrumbs and Horseradish can be used in equal quantities if a milder sauce is preferred. (8) Peel and grate plenty of Horseradish, put it in a stew- pan with sufficient water to make a rather thick puree, season with salt, add tarragon vinegar to taste, and boil. When the Horseradish is ready, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 teacupful of milk, or half milk and cream. Stir the sauce a minute or two without letting it boil again, then serve. (9) Add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered or grated Horseradish to | pint of bechamel sauce, also i teaspoonful of powdered sugar, -J- teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and f teaspoonful of salt. Boil for five minutes. Should the sauce be too thick, add a little cream or milk and 3 drops of vinegar. (10) Scrape and chop the Horseradish as finely as possible, or grate it; put it in a saucepan with melted butter, and warm it, adding a little each of walnut and mushroom ketchups. It is then ready for use. (11) Put an onion into a saucepan with a little fish stock, cook it ixntil quite soft, beat it to a pulp, mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies and 1 teaspoonful of grated Horse- radish, stir over the fire, thicken with butter, and add lastly a little lemon-juice. This is excellent with halibut, turbot, or brill. Horseradish. Vinegar.—(1) Put 3oz. of finely-scraped "Horse- radish into a jar or bottle, add 1 drachm of cayenne, loz. of bruised onions, a little black pepper and celery-seeds, pour over lqt. of vinegar, and let it remain for fourteen days. Then filter off the liquor, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and the vinegar is ready for use. It can be employed to advantage in mixing mustard, or as a relish for cold meats, salads, &c. (2) Put 3oz. of scraped Horseradish, loz. of chopped shallots, and 1 drachm of cayenne pepper into a large bottle, pour on to it lqt. of the best vinegar, cork, and let it stand for a week or two. HOTCH-POTCH, or HOTCH-POT.—This remark- able Scotch stew is sometimes called Hodge-podge, but this is only by the ignorant Southerner, who is probably not aware that the word derives its existence from the Dutch hotsen—to shake, and pot, the latter having been converted into potch for the sake of euphony. In Prance a still further conversion has taken place, and the word becomes hoclie-pot; whilst in Germany a stew correspond- ing to Hotch-potch is found in misch-masch. The great secret of the real Scotch Hotch-potch is a superabundance of peas boiled to a mash, and the absence of barley ; but these points appear to have been overlooked or ignored. The first receipt is taken from Mrs. Dalgairn’s Cookery Book, and was endorsed by Sir Walter Scott: (1) Cut in dice a good quantity of young turnips and carrots, and boil them gently, with one or two lettuces cut small, the tops of some cauliflower, and 1 pint of full-grown peas, in 4qts. of boiling water for two hours. Cut in neat chops the loin or the best end of a neck of mutton, add them to the vegetables with salt, pepper, and some onions cut small, and let them boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Lastly, add 3 pints of green peas, and boil for half-an-hour longer, when it will be ready to serve. (2) Chop an ox-tail in pieces, and put it in a pan of water to steep for a few hours. Blanch, drain, refresh, and put it back again into the saucepan without the water, and add a few sweet herbs, a knuckle of veal, a ham-bone, a few chicken Hotch-potch, or Hotch-pot—continued. giblets, a little dripping, and one chopped onion. Put the pan over a moderate fire, and cook the contents to a light brown ; add lgall. of light broth, boil up, skim well, remove it to the side of the fire, and drop in a piece of blanched streaky bacon, two leeks and carrots, a root of celery, and a turnip. Let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half. then add three or four blanched lettuces and the heart of a cabbage, tied round with string so as to be easily removed when done. Continue to boil this until the meat is quite tender, then take it out with the bacon and vegetables, and cut them all up into small pieces ; strain the broth, skim off the fat, and pour it into a tureen. Add the meat and vegetables and a few slices of toasted bread. (3) This soup can only be prepared in the summer when there are fresh vegetables. Remove the bone from 31b. of beef and also half a leg of mutton, cut them up, and put them in a stockpot with 5qts. of water and a little salt. Place Ihe pot on the fire, boil, remove it to the side, and let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half. Skim frequently, and add any or all the fresh vegetables that are in season, such as onions, leeks, carrots, turnips, cabbages, green peas, &c., all cut up small. Put vegetables such as asparagus and peas in last, after the others have boiled a little, as they do not require so much cooking. When done, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. It does not require any thickening. (4) Peel and put into a saucepan with lgall. of boiling water six or eight young carrots and three turnips ; boil them until soft. Cut about eight carrots and four turnips into small squares, and put them in with the others while boiling. Afterwards add 41b. of neck of mutton cut into convenient- sized pieces, four peeled onions, and f peck of green freshly- shelled peas. Boil the whole until soft, adding before they are quite done a few young lettuces cut into small pieces. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. (5) Put 21b. or 31b. of ribs of lamb cut up into steaks in a stockpot with some water, add the grated outer rind of two or three young carrots in slices, and cut up also some onions, parsley, lettuce, and turnip, so that there shall be lqt. of them altogether, also 1 pint of green peas and cauliflower - sprigs. Boil well, skimming frequently, and when they are nearly done add another pint of the peas and cauliflower-sprigs, and season with salt and peppe". When the soup is thick, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve. (6) Put some carrots, turnips, and heads of celery, cut. up into cork-shaped pieces and blanched, into a saucepan with clear brown broth, and boil for an hour or so. Have a few boiled mutton chops ready, plung-e them in with thin slices of crust of bread cut into rounds, boil up once more, and serve. Ox-tails or cheek may be used, but care must be taken if cheeks are selected to have them boiled in water and strained, or the soup will have a taste like tripe. (7) Trim off all the fat from 31b. of neck of mutton, put the meat in a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Skim well, season to taste with salt, and put in the following vegetables: Half-a-dozen young turnips and two carrots, all peeled and cut into small squares, 2 break- fast-cupfuls of young and tender broad beans with their husks taken off, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of young green peas. Keep the saucepan at the side of the lire, and let the contents simmer gently for five hours; then put in 2 more breakfast- cupfuls of green peas, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Serve the Hotch-Potch very hot. (8) Take a neck of mutton, cut off the scrag, put it in a saucepan over the fire with lqt. of water and 41b. of green split peas, and boil for two hours. Strain through a hair sieve, put it back in the pan, set it over the fire with the rest of the neck cut into chops and all the fat cut off, also with a couple of carrots scraped, washed, and sliced, a couple of turnips peeled and washed, a couple of small onions peeled, a head of lettuce, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, salt to taste, and if in season 4 pint of fresh green peas ; if they are not, take another Ijlb. of dried green peas, simmer them in soft water till tender, and add them to the Hotch-Potch at least half- an-hour before it is done. (9) Peel and wash five turnips, wash and scrape five carrots, and cut four of each into slices. Take the best end of a neck of mutton, and cut it into cutlets. Put lgall. of water in a saucepan over the fire with the whole turnip, the whole773 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Hotch-potch, or Hotch-pot—continued. carrot, half the sliced turnips and carrots, and lib. of dried green peas which have been steeping in water the whole of the previous night. Let these vegetables boil together for two hours ; take out the whole turnip and carrot, mash them, and put them back again into the saucepan, adding the mutton cutlets, the remainder of the sliced carrots and turnips, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Let it boil gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Half-an-bour before serving, add an onion and a head of celery, both cut up small. (10) Put into 3qts. of boiling water 21b. of leg of beef, lib. of old peas that have been stewed tender, twelve medium- sized carrots scraped, washed, and cut small, and four onions peeled and sliced ; let this boil for an-hour-and-a-half, then add another lib. of old peas boiled tender and 21b. of mutton chops ; beans and turnips may also be added, but if the Hotch-potch be kept till the day after it is cooked (and some people consider it best), the turnips are apt to turn sour. After the second |lb. of peas and the mutton chops are added, the Hotch-potch should boil for another hour-and-a-half. When done it should be as thick as porridge. Serve the mutton chops in it, but take out the beef. HOT-CLOSETS.—Every kitchen should he furnished with one or more of these. The style generally in use in private kitchens is one that answers the purpose also Fig. 963. Hot-closet. of a roasting-screen (see Fig. 963). In large hotel- kitchens, where it is frequently necessary to keep hot joints, poultry, vegetables, tarts, and other foods for a prolonged service, specially constructed Hot-closets are necessary; but for all ordinary purposes that shown in the illustration answers admirably. HOT CROSS BUNS.—See Buns. HOT PINT.—See Het Pint. HOT-WATER DISHES— See Dishes. HOUCHEN.—This is a fresh-water fish, resembling a salmon with this exception, that it is more elongated in the body and nearly round, and its skin is dotted with black spots. It is to be met with in the Danube, in Styria, and in Bavaria, and weighs from 101b. to 251b. In South Germany it is very much esteemed for the excellence, whiteness, and palatableness of its fiesh. It should be boiled in a little court bouillon with white wine, and served with oyster sauce. The wine may be omitted, and crayfish sauce used instead of the oyster sauce. HOWTOWDIE.—This dish is very much in favour in Scotland, and is prepared as follows: Draw a young chicken, truss it as for boiling, and stuff with veal forcemeat. Put it in a saucepan with lib. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, six onions, one clove, three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and pour over them 1 breakfast-cupful of stock. Place the lid closely on the pan, and put on the side of the fire to simmer for an hour or so until done. When Howtowdie—continued. about half-done, turn it, and add another breakfast-cupful of stock. Roll some boiled spinach into the shape of balls, flatten them on the top, and put a poached egg on each. Put the Fig. 964. Howtowdie. fowl on a dish, and place the eggs or spinach round it; work a little flour thickening into the gravy, then pour it over, and serve with a few mushrooms. See Pig. 964. HUCKLEBERRIES.—See Bilberries. HUMBLES, or UMBLES.-Tlie internal organs of the deer. These are excellent when made into a pie, and have no doubt suggested the expression “ eating humble pie,” the viscera usually falling to the lot of the hunts- men’s servants. HUNGARIAN WINES.—Of these the most famous are Tokay, Red Carlow it/,, and Paluggy. HUNG BEEF.—See Beef. HUNTERS’ BEEF.—See Beef. HUNTERS’ SOUP.—See Soups. HUNTING PUDDING.—See Puddings. HUSSARD GARNISH.—See Garnishes. HYDROCHLORIC ACID.—The Hydrochloric Acid of commerce is a solution of Hydrochloric Acid gas, and is commonly called spirits of salts. It is very useful for cleaning culinary utensils, &c. HYDROMEL.—A drink made by dissolving honey in boiling water and cooling with ice. Greatly appre- ciated by fever patients. HYGIENE.—This is described as the art of pre- serving health, in which good cookery takes an active part. Practical Hygiene may therefore be considered as one of the chief studies of this Encyclopaedia. HYSSOP.—This is a small lusty herb (Hyssopus offici- nalis), growing in Southern Europe. The flowers are sometimes used medicinally when made into a tea, as follows : Put |oz. of dried Hyssop-flowers in a basin and pour 1 pint of boiling water over them. Cover the basin, and let it remain for fifteen minutes; pass the liquor through a strainer, mix in 1 teaspoonful of honey or sugar, and it is ready for use. ICE (Fr. Glace; Ger. Eis; Ital. Gliiaccio; Sp. Hielo).—Next to heat in importance to the cook is cold ; and this, which can be applied to so many purposes, is chiefly obtained by the use of Ice. The great bulk of Ice purveyed in this cpuntry comes from Norway, where what are called Ice-harvests provide a very considerable item of commerce. Wenham Lake Ice is estimated very highly for its purity, and gives its name to a good deal that is not so pure, although probably it is quite pure enough for refrigerating purposes. To the investigations of chemistry we are indebted for a knowledge, exaggerated in most cases, of the impurities contained in water obtained from various sources, and that these impurities exist in Ice we have every reason to believe; therefore, it is not774 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ice—continued. advisable to use melted Ice for drinking purposes unless we are first assured that the water frozen was to all intents and purposes suitable for drinking. The artificial manu- facture of Ice from purified water places a very useful commodity at the service of beverage concoeters ; but when Ice is manufactured on a large scale, it is more than probable that the purification of the water is to a great extent overlooked. In spite of the great advantages to be so derived from carefully made Ice, that which finds its way into our markets is principally naturally formed. In most cold countries there is an Ice-harvest every year. When the Ice on the lakes of North America or the fjords Fig. 965. Ice-pricker. of Scandinavia is about 1ft. thick, the snow and rough surface Ice are scraped off by an Ice-plane drawn by horses. A straight groove is next cut along one side of the Ice-sheet by means of a guide-plough directed by a tight cord, and then again along another at right angles to the first. Then by means of a swing-cutter with guide a series of rectangular grooves are marked out, the guide running in the previously cut groove, and keeping the line for the cutter. The guide is reversible, and can be turned over to either side of the cutter as may be required by the previous groove. The hand cutter is then worked along the grooves, cutting them several inches deep. When this cutting is completed, the blocks are ready to be separated, collected, and harvested. To prevent water entering the cut grooves and freezing them up again, snow is firmly driven into the crevices by means of a caulking-bar. When the two outside rows have been sawed out with a hand-saw the next blocks in succession are broken off by means of what are called striking-off and chisel bars, and the corners or uneven pieces trimmed off with a hatchet. They are next drawn together or moored by a hook- pick, and then lifted on to the Ice and into waggons by grapples and hoisting-tongs. When collected, Ice is stored in what are called Ice- houses, and may be preserved through the summer months in a drained well or excavation, somewhat of the form of an inverted sugar loaf, contained in a small shed or building situated if possible on a dry sandy soil on an eminence, with the door facing the north. The roof should be conical and thickly thatched with straw right down to the ground. H ,Numerous machines for artificially manufacturing Ice have been put before the public, the same principle of producing intense cold by the condensation of elastic vapours, variously applied, prevailing. See also Freezing, Ice—continued. Ices, and Refrigeration for the process of preserving foods by cold. Ice for general use can be prevented dissolving by wrapping it closely in some woolly material, such as Fig. 967. Cut-glass Ice-paii. (Adams and Son). blanketing or thick felt, the air contained amongst the fibres of the material exerting its non-conducting influence between the warm air and the cold Ice. To break lump Ice up into small convenient pieces an Ice-pricker (see Fig. 965) should be used, and the pieces can then be collected in a bucket (see Fig. 966), to be either mixed or pounded with salt for freezing purposes, or to be used for cooling drinks, or anything else that occasion may require. This Ice-bucket should be covered with a thick blanket. When Ice is served at table, it should be broken up small and put in what is called an Ice-pail (see Fig. 967), and a pair of tongs with claws (see Fig. 968) sent to table for its service. As may be seen from the illustrations, these utensils may be a very great addition to the ornamentation of the sideboard or table. ICED PUDDING.—See Puddings. ICELAND MOSS.—This is one of the lichen tribe (Cetraria islandica), found between the Arctic regions and the North Temperate zone. It is employed as a food for invalids, being considered both nutritious and demulcent. It should be scalded and then soaked for a time in cold water to extract something of the bitterness, aud then it can be boiled and the liquor strained off to form a jelly. ICES (Fr. Glaces; Ger. Eisses; Ital. G-elati; Sp. Hielos).—Under the head of Freezing, very complete Fig. 969. Ice Shapes for Garnishes. instructions are given for the preparation of Ices, so far as the congelation is concerned. The mixtures andTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 775 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Ices—continued. combinations subject to tbis treatment being so exceed- ingly numerous, they "will be found described under a very extensive assortment of names, especially those of Fruit. Water-Ices, Cream-Ices, or Ice-creams as they are commonly called, and fancy Ices moulded in the shapes of flowers, fruits (see Fig. 969), and other designs for garnishes, having specific names, are thereunder de- scribed. See Bomb and Neapolitan Ices, Cream, &c. The following receipts offer some variety from the ordinary Ice: Baked Ice.—Under this peculiar name the following eccentric dish is prepared. Make some Italian meringue with the whites of four eggs and syrup at 34deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Put some hard cream-ice in a pile on a very cold dish firmly packed in a flat stewpan filled with pounded Ice, cover the pile of cream-ice quickly with the meringue, being careful to completely cover the Ice down to the dish, decorate it with the cornet, and place the pan in a quick oven for a few minutes only, just to set the meringue and give it a light golden colour. Take it out and send the dish up to table without a moment’s delay, or the effect will be spoiled. Ice Cakes.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar and ^ pint of water in a sugar-boiler, and boil to a syrup (see Syrups). Put the yolks of eight eggs in a bowl standing in water, and beat them until light; pour the boiling syrup over, and continue to beat until the mixture is quite cold. Whip 1 pint of double cream to a froth, and mix it in lightly with the egg mixture, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla extract to flavour. Have ready some rice-paper cases, nearly fill them with the Ice cake, dust over with flour, and put them in the Ice cave for two or three hours, when they will be ready for use. Ice Cups.—Pack one dozen flat champagne-glasses, or very small tumblers, in a tub with pounded Ice and salt round them, and a little brine at the bottom of the tub is advisable. Pill these glasses with any fruit syrup, such as raspberry, strawberry, or cherry, cover the tub with a cloth, and leave for fifteen to thirty minutes, so that the syrup will be frozen to about jin. all round the sides of the glass. Pour out the unfrozen syrup and replace the glasses in the Ice for a few minutes longer to thoroughly set the inside of the syrup case ; turn these Ice cups out carefully and fill the cavity with curaqoa cream-ice, nut cream-ice, or any Ice of a different colour to the cups, and serve. Souffle Ices.—(1) Put 1 pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) in a basin and stir into it the yolks of fifteen eggs ; strain this into a copper egg-bowl made a little warm by pouring hot water into it and wiping dry afterwards, add to this 1 breakfast-cupful of maraschino, the same quantity of filtered strawberry-juice, and 1 pinch of salt. Whisk lightly but briskly, with the bowl standing about 6in. deep in very hot water, and when like creamy batter, remove it from the hot water arid continue to whisk for ten minutes longer. Place a souffle-case in Ice, stir in f pint of whipped cream to the mixture, and pour the whole into the case. Put a wide strip of cartridge-paper round the case, lAin. above it, so as to give the souffle plenty of room to rise like an ordinary souffle. When set and firm, turn it out on to a cold dish, sprinkle with finely-powdered and sifted brown-baked Savoy biscuits, and serve. (2) This is prepared as No. 1, excepting that 1 gill each of cura^oa. orange-flower water, the juice of oranges, and i pint of cream are used instead of the strawberry-juice, maraschino, salt, and cream. (3) Use i pint each of noyeau and cherry-juice, and 2oz. of bruised macaroons, in the place of the strawberry-juice, &c., as in No. 1, and | pint instead of | pint of cream; other- wise proceed the same. (4) Take f pint of filtered raspberry.juice, the juice of a lemon, £ pint of maraschino, 2oz. of chocolate drops, and i pint of cream. Proceed as for No. 1, adding the chocolate drops when the bowl is removed from the hot water. Sponge Ice.—Put 21b. of sugar in a sugar-boiler with 1 pint of water, boil to a syrup, and pour it into a basin containing the yolks of two dozen lightly-beaten eggs. Work the mixture until nearly cold, put it into the freezer, and work well, adding, a little at a time, 1 pint of kirschenwasser or £ pint of maraschino or cura9oa, and then the whites of six eggs Ices—continued. whipped to a froth. Beat until the mixture has the appear- ance of a sponge cake, put it in a charlotte-mould or in paper cases, and freeze. It is then ready for serving. Variegated Ice Bricks.—Put in a small brick-shaped mould in layers any kind of water- or cream-Ice (or both), such as vanilla, or pistachio cream, strawberry-water, &c., and freeze by packing in Ice ; when set, turn it out of the mould, cut in slices, and put them on a napkin or sheets of white paper on a dish, and serve. Variegated Ice Shapes.—Make and freeze separately equa, quantities of any water-ices, such as Madeira, rose, pistachio jessamine, claret, melon, &c. When all are frozen, pack them in a mould, varying the colours according to taste, close the mould, and pack it for an hour or two in Ice. When ready, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the Ice on to a fancy dish. ICING.—It would seem as though this term is peculiar to British confectioners, as in all other European coun- tries the name is associated with sugar, and in America is more frequently known as “ frosting ” Icing is the process by which confectioners cover and ornament cakes and other goods with concretable sugar, the coating itself being now recognised as “ Icing.” There are several kinds known to confectioners, some varying only in flavour and colour; all are exceedingly plastic in their fresh state and amenable to innumerable purposes, setting compara- tively hard and firm when dried, and being harmless and edible. Large surfaces are spread over with Icing by means of a piece of stiff cardboard or confectioner’s spatula. Oakes are placed on stands rather smaller round than the base of the cake, and the Icing is thus easily put on, any ornamentation being added after the coating has been set near a fire or in a drying-closet to harden. See Piping. The following receipts for making Icing have been contributed from various reliable sources, the simplest of all being that which is known as royal Icing: Sift by degrees lib. of the best white Icing sugar into a basin with the whites of three eggs, and beat them together, adding little by little the juice of half a lemon. Continue beating the mixture till it is light and frothy; it is then ready for use. If too stiff to work nicely, add another white of egg; or if too thin, add a little more sugar. Royal Icing may be said to have been almost invented by Alexis Soyer. Confectioners are in the habit of making sundry additions or modifications, dictated by economy or expediency, as will be seen hereunder: (1) Put the whites of six eggs into a deep bowl, sift in through a hair sieve a small quantity of Icing sugar, beat the white of egg, and keep on constantly adding more sugar till a thick smooth Icing is obtained. Add to it barely 1 tea- spoonful of dissolved gum arabic, a very small quantity of tartaric acid (hardly as much as will lie on a threepenny- piece), a few drops of indigo water, and lemon to taste ; con- tinue to beat till the mixture is very white and smooth. Cover the bowl with several thicknesses of damp, almost wet cloths, and let it stand all night. Next day beat it well, and if it requires it, add a little more sugar. (2) An Icing that will not break when the cake is cut is made of either dissolved gelatine or powdered gum arabic. Either needs only to be dissolved in hot water to make a mucilage, then beat up sugar in the mucilage just the same as if it were white of eggs. It is quicker to make than the egg Icing, and is very white. If too thick on the cakes, set them in a warm place, and the Icing will run down smooth and glossy. There is a kind of gelatine called granulated, which is very good for this purpose. (3) Sift together 4oz. of Icing sugar and ?oz. of cornflour. Beat the white of one egg till stiff, then gradually beat into it the sugar and cornflour until a smooth Icing is formed, which can be cut and spread with a flexible knife. Keep the Icing cool until it is required for use. (4) Put 5oz. of white loaf sugar over the fire in a sugar* boiler with 1 gill of cold water, and boil until it is thick776 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Icing—continued. enough to drop in fine threads from the spoon from which a little is poured. "While the sugar is thus being boiled to the thread degree (see Sugar-boiling), beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and when the sugar is ready pour it gradually into the egg, beating all the time, until the Icing is white and smooth. It is then ready for use. Francatelli was a great adept at making what he termed “ Transparent Icing,” flavoured with fruit juices or liqueurs, and coloured to suit. They were made as follows, hut their prime difficulty is the time and trouble required to prepare them: Put whatever fruit is intended to be used with the Icing in a fine hair sieve placed over a bowl, and press it well with a wooden spoon to extract the juice. Or it may be pressed in a mortar, and the juice afterwards strained through a fine hair or silk sieve. Measure the juice, and for every teacupful of it clarify lib. of fine Icing sugar, and boil it to the blow degree. Eemove the sugar from the fire, stand the pan in a bowl containing cold water, and leave it till the sugar has cooled a little; then mix the fruit juice in with it, and work it against the side of the pan with the back of the bowl of a spoon or spatula till the sugar grains. Some other special Icings are described under their appropriate headings, such as Almonds, Caramel, Chocolate, Coffee, Fruit, Raspberries, Tea, &c. ICING SUGAR. —A very finely - powdered white sugar, prepared specially for confectioners. IMPERIAL.—This is the name given to a very refreshing medicinal or summer drink, prepared as follows: (1) Put R>z. of cream of tartar, 2oz. of lump sugar, and a sliced lemon into a large jug, and pour in lqt. of boiling water. Let it stand until cold. It may be cooled with ice or refrigerated. (2) Slice up one lemon to 1 pint of boiling water, and sweeten with 1 dessert-spoonful of crushed sugar. (3) Same as No. 1, adding 1 teaspoonful of citric acid and lumps of ice. IMPERIAL BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. IMPERIAL CAKE.—See Cakes. IMPERIAL CREAM.—See Cream. IMPERIAL PUDDING.—See Puddings. IMPERIAL PUNCH.—See Punch. IMPERIAL WINE. — A French dry orange-wine made from fruit produced in January. INDIAN CAKE.- See Cakes. INDIAN CORN (Fr. Ma'is; Ger. Mais).—-In America, where this grows to perfection, it is commonly known as corn, whereas in most other countries it takes its popular name from the botanical one (Zea Mays). To us it is better known in its prepared form of cornflour, or corn- starch, hominy, maizena, polenta, and a variety of other preparations of it; but enterprising Americans have been preparing for use the corn itself, in such a manner that it can be supplied to us green, preserved, or dried. The following are some good receipts for its preparation: Boiled Green Corn.— (1) Choose short, thick ears of fresh green corn; remove all the husk except the inner layer; strip that down to remove all the silk from the corn and to permit the cutting away of any defective grains, and then replace it, and tie it at the upper end of each ear of corn. Have ready a large pot half-full of boiling water, put in the corn, and boil steadily for about twenty minutes if the ears are large, or fifteen minutes if they are of medium size; then take it from the boiling water, remove the strings, and serve hot at once. If it seems desirable to strip off the inner husk before sending to table, this must be done very quickly, and the corn covered with a clean napkin to pre- vent the escape of heat. Serve plenty of butter, pepper, and salt with the corn. Sometimes the butter, pepper, and salt Indian Corn—continued. are mixed by heating them together, and then served in a gravy-bowl. The fresher the corn, the sweeter it is; it seems to lose its most delicate flavour after having been gathered a few hours. (2) Eemove the outer leaves and silk of six young and tender ears of Indian Corn, and place them in a saucepan, covering with water. Add l breakfast-cupful of milk, Joz. of butter, and 1 handful of salt. Cook for twenty minutes, and serve on a folded napkin spread over a dish. Green corn preserved in tins should be cooked in the same manner. Corn Beer.—(1) Put 1 pint of Indian Corn into a saucepan containing water, and boil it till a little soft; then turn it into a 2gall. jar, add lgall. of water and 1 pint of molasses, shake well, set the jar in a warm place to ferment, and in about twenty-four hours the beer will be ready. When all this beer has been used, by adding more water and molasses to the corn, another quantity can be made. The corn will last for fully six months, and the beer will be fit for use in twelve hours after making by keeping the jar warm. It is far cheaper and more wholesome than cider. A little yeast will greatly assist the working. (2) Put into a jar 2qts. of hulled Indian Corn, and add 5qts. of lukewarm water, 1 pint of yeast, the same of molasses, and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of winter-green. This should be made early in the morning, bottled in the evening, and can be used the following day. The yeast used should be of the best. (3) Put 1 pint of Indian Corn in a saucepan, cover it with water, and boil till soft; pour it into a jar, add lqt. of molasses, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, lqt. of dried apples, 2oz. of pulverised ginger, and 1 breakfast-cupful of German yeast dissolved in a little warm water, and lastly pour in 3galls. of water. Keep the jar in a warm place if in the winter, or in a cool place if in the summer, let it ferment thoroughly, and then clarify with the whites of two eggs or gelatine. Draw off into a clean cask or bottles. (4) Put in a cask lqt. of Indian Corn, 2qts. of molasses, and 5galls. of water; shake well, and flavour with oil of lemon. It will ferment in a few days without yeast. Keep it bunged tight. The corn will do for several makings ; should it get sour, add more water and molasses in the proportions first used. When the fermentation has ceased, clarify with whites of eggs or gelatine, and rack off. Corn Chowder.—Scrape lqt. of raw sweet Indian Corn from the cob, put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover, and boil for twenty minutes. Skim out the corn as it floats on the top. Pare some potatoes, so that when cut into slices they will fill a pint measure, soak, and put them into hot water to scald. Fry an onion together with a piece of salted pork of about 2in. cube, and strain the fat into the saucepan with the corn-water. Put in the potatoes, corn, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, place the pan on the fire, and let the liquor simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour or until the corn and potatoes are tender; put in 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 pint of milk, and 1 pint of tomatoes, and boil up again. It must be served very hot with crisped crackers. Corn Pie.—Cut the corn from the cobs of four ears of cold boiled corn; mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour and 1 tea- cupful of milk, and when quite smooth add the yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten separately, 1 table-spoonful of butter, warmed to melting, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a little pepper; turn the mixture into two squash pie-plates, and bake for twenty minutes. This makes a very good breakfast dish. Dried Corn.—(1) Cut the grains from ears of tender Indian Corn, spread them on large sheets of paper in the sun, and dry thoroughly; or put them on pans in a cool oven, and dry ; after which keep them in a cool, dry place. When wanted for use, soak the corn overnight in enough water or milk to cover, and the next day boil in the same liquor till tender ; season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve hot. (2) Put 1 pint of clear wood ashes in a saucepan with 2qts. of cold water, set it over the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes ; then let the lye cool until the ashes settle at the bottom of the pan. Pour off the clear liquid and strain it. Use enough of the lye thus made, mixed with an equal quantity of cold water, to cover the dried corn placed in a saucepan over the fire, and boil until the hulls begin to777 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Indian Corn—continued. break off the corn; then drain the corn, throw it into cold water, and rub between the hands through several waters, until the hulls are all removed ; it will then be ready for use. (3) Cover 2qts. of dried corn with cold water, add 1 table- spoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia (saleratus), .and boil the corn until the hulls crack and begin to curl up. Wash the corn three or four times in cold water, rubbing between the hands to free it from husks or hulls, and after all the hulls are removed, boil it in salted water, or milk-and-water until tender ; season with pepper and butter, and serve either as a vegetable or with milk or cream and sugar. Fried Corn.—(1) Put j tin of Indian Corn in a bowl and mash it; add one egg, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, pepper and salt to taste, and mix well. Put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, shape the corn like oysters witli a table-spoon, and when the butter is melted, drop in the corn, flatten it, and fry on botli sides to a light golden brown. (2) Put 1 pint of grated green corn into a basin, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and one egg. Mix the ingredients together, drop small quantities at a time into melted lard, and fry. In taste they resemble fried oysters. They are an excellent relish for breakfast, and a good side dish for dinner. Grated Corn. — Put the required number of ears of Indian Corn into a saucepan of water, and boil them. Grate off the cob, add a little butter, salt, and cream, put the mixture into a dish, and serve like a vegetable. Grated Corn Pudding-.—To lqt. of grated boiled corn add the yolks of four eggs, 1 teacupful each of butter and milk, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, turn it into a buttered tin pan or dish, set it in the oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve. Green-Corn Cakes.—(1) Mix well together lqt. of green Indian Corn, rasped from the ear with a coarse grater, 2 teacupfuls of new milk, 1 teacupful of flour, and two well-beaten eggs ; season the batter with salt and pepper, and bake in cakes upon a griddle. The corn should be in a state most suitable for roasting or boiling. This is an excellent dish. (2) Remove the husk and the silky fibre from some green corn, put it in boiling water, cover with the clean inner husks, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When the liquor has thickened, strain off the corn, cut through each row of kernels with a sharp-pointed knife, and press out the pulp with the back of the knife, leaving the hull on the cob. To 1 pint of corn pulp add two well-beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. 1 pinch of pepper, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; shape the corn paste into small cakes, and cook them on a buttered griddle till dark brown on both sides. Servo hot. (3) Grate enough green corn to fill a pint measure, add to it 1 gill of milk, the yolks of two eggs, not beaten, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of pepper, and flour enough to form a medium stiff batter. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix them lightly with the batter, form the paste into cakes, and cook them on a griddle. Green-Corn Fritters.—(1) Prepare four fresh ears of green Indian Corn as for Boiled Green Coen (No. 2); after draining them carefully, place them in a bowl, season with salt and Fig. 970. Green-Corn Fritters. pepper, and add two eggs, ^lb. of sifted flour, and ^ pint of cold milk. Stir it vigorously (but do not beat it) with a wooden spoon for five minutes, and it will be sufficiently firm. Butter a frying-pan, put it on the fire, then take a ladle holding Indian Corn—continued. 1 gill, and with this put the preparation into the pan in twelve parts, being careful they do not touch one another, and let them get a good golden colour, cooking for four minutes on each side. Dress them on a folded napkin, and serve. See Pig. 970. (2) Remove the cob from a little more than a breakfast- cupful of green Indian Corn. Put 1 teacupful of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add an equal quantity of flour; stir well over the fire for a few minutes, then add the corn, salt and pepper to taste, and turn the whole into a deep dish, making it about lin. in depth. Cut it up into 2in. lengths, dip them into batter, and fry to a good colour in a frying-pan containing boiling lard. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish with a little sweet sauce under, and serve (3) Take eight ears of corn and boil them. Put pb. of flour into a basin, drop in the yolks of four eggs, pour in gradually J pint of milk, stirring meanwhile so as to mix the flour smoothly, then shake in 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and lightly stir them in. Take the corn from the cobs and stir it into the batter; then take up large spoonfuls of it, drop them into boiling-hot lard or clarified fat, and fry till they are brown all over, turning them constantly. When they are done, lift out of the fat with a strainer, let them drain for a minute on a sheet of paper, and serve on a hot napkin spread over a dish. Green-Corn Pudding-. —(1) Grate six large ears of green corn ; mix with it 1 piled teaspoonful of salt, 5 saltspoonful each of pepper and grated nutmeg, six eggs, and pints of milk; put the pudding into a buttered earthenware dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. (2) Mix with breakfast-cupfuls of grated green corn, 2qts. of milk, eight well-beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, one grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. When well mixed, turn the pudding into a pie-dish, and bake for an hour. When cooked, serve the pudding hot with sweet sauce. Green-Corn Saute au Beurre.—Proceed as for Green-Corn Saute a la Creme, adding- loz. of butter, but without the other ingredients; season, and cook for eight minutes, tossing it well. Place in a hot dish, and serve. Gi'een-Corn Saute a la Creme.—Take six ears of cooked green Indian Corn, prepared as for Boiled Green Corn (No. 2), drain, cut off the corn from the cobs with a sharp knife, being very careful that none of the cob adheres to the corn, and place it in a saute-pan with 1 teacupful of hot bechamel sauce, i breakfast-cupful of cream, and -J-oz. of butter ; season with salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Cook gently on the stove for five minutes, place it in a hot dish, and serve. Green-Corn Soup.—(1) With a very sharp knife scrape the thinnest possible shaving from six ears of sweet corn, and with the back of the knife scrape out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. Break the cobs if long, put them on to boil in cold water sufficient to cover, and boil for thirty minutes, then strain. There should be about 1 pint of water after straining. Put the corn-water on to boil again, and when boiling add the corn pulp. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of white pepper, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and 1 pint of boiling milk. Thicken with 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter, cooked together. Boil for five minutes, and serve at once. (2) Boil 1 pint of grated green corn and one large onion in 1 pint of water for thirty minutes. Put in another sauce- pan lqt. of milk, and boil it; mix 1 large table-spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, add a few table-spoonfuls of the boiling milk to mix smooth, then turn it into the rest of the milk and boil for eight minutes. Take out the onion, add the corn and a little salt and pepper, season to taste, and serve. (3) Put the required quantity of green corn into a saucepan with broth or water, and boil until quite soft; rub it through a fine sieve, add more vegetable broth if required, boil up quickly, pour it into a tureen, and serve with small pieces of toasted bread. To obtain a dark green colour, a few spinach- leaves may be boiled with it. (4) Put 1 pint of green corn into a saucepan of water, and boil until quite soft; drain the corn and pass it through aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 778 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Stc., referred to, see under their special heads. Indian Corn—continued. fine wire sieve. Put a few pieces of celery, a buncli of parsley and sweet herbs in a saucepan with 3 pints of clear broth, and boil for thirty minutes. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, put in the prepared corn, and boil up again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Green-Corn-and-Tomato Soup. —Put 21b. of beef, cut up into small pieces, into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil gently at the side of the fire for two hours. Skim the liquor, put in several larg'e tomatoes, and boil them for an hour. When cooked, drain and pass the tomatoes through a fine hair sieve, and return them to the soup. Boil a few ears of corn in salted water; when cooked, free the corn from the cob and put it in the soup ; put in also a small lump of butter, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the soup again, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Kentucky Green-Corn Pudding.—Put 1 pint of grated green corn in a basin ; mis with it 1 pinch of salt, a small quantity of warmed butter, and the yolks of three eggs beaten Fig. 971. Kentucky Green1-Corn Pudding. along with J pint of milk. Butter a pan, pour in the batter, and bake till set in the middle. It is to be served as a vegetable. See Fig. 971. New Bedford Corn Pudding.—Grate the corn from twelve ears; mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 1| pints of milk, and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie-dish and pour the mixture into it. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours, and serve hot. If the corn is old and dry, lqt. of milk should be used. Pickled Green Corn. - (1) Procure the corn while unripe and about the size of the little finger ; peel off the leaves, and lay the ears in a pickle-jar, with a few small pieces of basilicum and a few bay-leaves mixed in with them. Put a sufficient quantity of vinegar in a saucepan over the fire to cover, and when boiling pour it over the corn. When the vinegar has cooled, tie a piece of wet parchment or thick paper over the top of the jar, and leave for a fortnight or so before using the pickle. (2) Put the corn into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it for a minute; then drain, and pack it in a stone or earthenware jar. Put sufficient vinegar in a saucepan to cover the corn; flavour it with shallots cut into halves, bay- leaves, basilicum, and a few cloves and peppercorns. Boil the vinegar for ten minutes, then take it off the fire, and when cold, pour it over the corn. Sprinkle a few table-spoonfuls of mustard-seeds on the top, cover the jar with a piece of bladder, tie it round securely, and place it in a cupboard. Pop-Corn Balls.—Put the required quantity of pop-corn into a basin, and pour over syrup boiled to the feather degree (see Syrups). When the corn is thoroughly incorporated, form the mixture into balls with the hands, and put it into a press formed like a lemon squeezer. When compactly pressed, wrap the balls in tissue paper, and they are ready for use. The syrup may be flavoured with vanilla extract or lemon if desired. Pop-Corn Candy.—Put loz. of butter into a sugar-boiler with 1 breakfast-cupful of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and f tea- cupful of water, and boil to the candy degree (see Sugar- boiling) ; then mix in 3qts. of pop-corn, and stir until it is well covered with the sugar. Great care must be taken that it does not scorch. Take the pan off the fire, and con- tinue stirring the corn until it has cooled a little. Turn it on to a sheet of paper, and leave until quite cold and dry. Preserved Green Corn.—Choose very full ears of tender com, remove the husk and silk, cut the corn from the cob Indian Corn—continued. with the back of a knife, pack it in glass jars, filling them and pressing the corn down, and then close them with rubber and porcelain-lined covers. Put some laths across the bottom of a large boiler, and fill it with the jars of corn, laying a little straw or hay between each to prevent them knocking against one another during the boiling. Pour in enough cold water to half cover the jars, put the boiler over the fire, with a cloth and the cover over it, and boil the Corn steadily for three hours, taking care that there is water enough to furnish a full volume of steam. Take up the jars, and screw the covers as tight as possible. When the jars are cold, again screw the covers, and keep the Corn in a cool dark place. Puree of Green Corn.—Wash and drain lqt. of sweet corn; put it into a saucepan with 2qts. of boiling water, two or three small onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, one carrot, two or three cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil the corn until tender, then pour it on to a fine wire sieve, remove the onions, carrot, parsley, thyme, and cloves, and rub the corn through the sieve, using a wooden spoon. Return the corn to the saucepan with a small quantity of rich broth and 2oz. of butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Serve the puree very hot. Roasted Green Corn.—Husk one dozen ears of corn, and remove the silk ; rub them with butter, season with pepper and salt, lay them in a dripping-pan, and place the pan as close as possible to a clear hot fire. Occasionally turn the ears, and change their position in the pan so that all may cook evenly; when they are browned, serve hot. Stewed Green Corn.—(1) Remove the husks and silk from one dozen ears of fresh green corn; cut downwards through the centre of each row of grains, and then scrape them out of their skin with the back of a knife ; when all are cut, put them into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Mix to a smooth paste 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and when the corn has boiled add the butter and flour to it, together with J pint of milk, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; boil again for three minutes, and then serve. Cream may be used instead of the thickened milk if desired. (2) Put a saucepan containing water over the fire with a lump of salt; shell the corn, throw it into the water when boiling, and boil until nearly cooked. Drain the corn, put it into another saucepan, moisten with a small quantity of broth and rich meat gravy, and boil until quite cooked. Season the corn to taste with salt and pepper, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put a tin of corn into a saucepan together with the liquor in which it is preserved, and cook over a moderate fire until tender; drain the liquor, and mix with it enough milk to make up a pint. Stir together over the fire 1 table- spoonful each of butter and flour until they bubble, then gradually mix in the milk and liquor from the corn, add the corn also, let it boil once, season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. Stewed Green Corn and Tomatoes.—Put twelve tender ears of corn in salted water, boil them for about fifteen minutes, and then cut the corn off the cob. Peel about 21b. of tomatoes, cut them in small pieces, put in a saucepan with pepper, salt, and butter, stand the pan at the back of the range, and simmer the contents till reduced to two- thirds of the original bulk. Then mix the tomatoes and corn together, and serve as a vegetable or as a separate dish. INDIAN CRESS.—See Nasturtiums. INDIAN CURRY.—See Curry. INDIAN PICKLES.—See Pickles. INDIAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. INDIAN SAUCE l’Indienne).—See Sauces. INDIAN TARTLETS.—See Tartlets. INDIAN TOFFY.—See Toffy. INDIGO.—-A vegetable colouring, sometimes used | very sparingly in confectionery.the encyclopedia of practical cookery. 779 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tbe., referred to, see under their special heads. INFERNO.—A wine of Lombardy, manufactured in the Yaltellina, chiefly exported to Switzerland and the Tyrol. INFUSION.—The act of extracting the virtues of various substances by putting them in a heated vessel and pouring boiling water over, as in making tea or coffee. Infusions are sometimes useful in cookery. IRISH MOSS.—See Carrageen. IRISH ROLES.—See Bread. IRISH STEW.—The best description of this would be, neck of mutton, onions, and potatoes, stewed, the potatoes being the only thing Irish in the stew; for Irish Stew is not a national Irish dish, in spite of its Irish name. Circumstances and taste have occasioned some modification of the original ingredients, as may be seen by the following receipts: (1) Cut 2|lb. of loin of mutton into thick chops, and cut off the square ends of the bones. Peel a large quantity of potatoes and cut them into slices, also peel about lib. of small onions. Put the chops and vegetables in layers in a large iron saucepan, moisten to height with cold water, set the saucepan on the fire until the liquor begins to boil, Fig. 972. Irish Stew. then move it to th3 side, and keep it simmering gently for two hours. When the meat is tender, take it out and pile the potatoes, which should be thick, in the centre, arrange the chops rounl the centre pile, garnish the dish with whole boiled potatoes and a few button-mushrooms, and serve very hot. See Fig. 972. (2) Cut 21b. or 31b. of nei?k of mutton into chops; pare 31b. of potatoes, cut them into thick slices, and put them into a stewpan with lqt. of water and two or three carrots, turnips, or onions; salt and pepper the mutton, and add it to the vegetables. Boil or simmer gently for two hours, and serve very hot. (3) Cut in small square pieces 31b. of lean mutton, wash well, drain, and put the pieces in a saucepan, covering them with cold water. Let them come to the boil, then put into another pan. Clean the pieces again, return them to the saucepan, and cover with boiling water. Place the pan on the fire, and season the stew with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and £ teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add two carrots, two turnips, all cut up, six small onions, and a bouquet of sweet herbs. Let this cook for twenty-five minutes, then add i pint of potatoes cut in quarters. Work smooth 1 teacupful of flour in £ pint of water, strain it into the stew, stirring thoroughly, and cook again for twenty-five minutes. Remove the bouquet, and skim the stew before serving. (4) Cut off some slices of corned beef, put them into a saucepan with two or three large onions cut in slices, and pour over some stock or water. Add a few pared and washed potatoes and a little pepper, and cook gently until the potatoes are quite soft and have absorbed nearly all the gravy. Turn the mixture out on a dish, keeping the potatoes as whole as possible, and serve. (5) Boil the requisite quantity of potatoes, and when suffi- ciently cooked (they should not be too much done) cut them into slices; fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of tinned mutton and potatoes, putting here and there a few sliced onions, and seasoning with salt, pepper, and small quantities of finely-minced parsley; moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Cover the whole with a thick layer of mashed Irish. Stew—continued. potatoes, then pour over them some more gravy. Bake the stew in a moderate oven. When cooked, brown the stew under a salamander, and serve very hot in the same dish. (6) Peel and slice 31b. of large potatoes and lib. of onions, put them in a stewpan with stock to cover, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Cut 21b. of Australian tinned mutton in slices, put them in with the potatoes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew the whole until the vegetables are quite tender. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (7) Put 61b. of peeled potatoes into a saucepan with lib. of peeled and shred onions, pour in 2qts. of water, and boil for half-an-hour, then put in lib. of tinned mutton cut into small pieces. Season the stew to taste with salt and pepper, and thicken it with boiled rice or pea-flour. Serve the stew while very hot. ISINGLASS—This is a very refined form of gelatine, being essentially the dried bladders of certain fish, espe- cially of the sturgeon. The name is probably derived from the German hausenhlase—sturgeon-bladder, and cor- rupted by use. The bladders are dried just as they are removed from the fish, and to the shapes assumed by them in drying do they owe their names of classification: as, purse, pipe, lump, leaf, honeycomb, staple, and book Isinglass. All that is necessary for the cook to know is that from the best quality the best results are obtained. See Gelatine. ISINGLASSINE.—A preparation of Gelatine manu- factured by Messrs. Gridley and Co., for which consider- able merit is claimed on account of its purity and solubility. ITA.—This is the name given to a drink made from the Ita-palm, which abounds in the interior of Guinea. It is prepared by scalding and then scraping the fruit into the water, and sweetening to taste. ITALIAN BREAD.—See Bread. ITALIAN CAKES.—See Cakes. ITALIAN CREAM.—See Cream. ITALIAN FRY.—This is an odd medley in great favour amongst the Italian peasantry, and is composed of the following ingredients, which must all be dipped into batter, fried in lard, and served in the same dish: Ram’s kidneys which have been soaked in salted water, pieces of bread, tendons of veal, calf’s brains, sweetbreads, rice croquettes, pieces of cauliflower, egg-plant fruit, anchovies, and artichokes. ITALIAN PASTE.—See Pastes. ITALIAN FIE—See Pies. ITALIAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. ITALIAN RUSKS.—See Rusks. ITALIAN SALAD (A l’ltalienne).—See Salads. ITALIAN SAUCE (A l’ltalienne).—See Sauces. ITALIAN SOUP (A l’ltalienne).—See Soups. ITALIAN WINES.—Prom its climate, soil, and geographical position, Italy should rank second to none in its wine-growing, and indeed it may be truthfully said that it stands before any so far as exported wines are concerned, for it is a well-known fact that many of the French wines imported here are little else than Italian Wines doctored and reduced for the British market. Many attempts have been made by the Italian Govern- ment to introduce their native wines direct to us, but for ! some reason or other independent speculation has not succeeded in overcoming prejudice or breaking through the restrictions of commerce. Of the many good wines of Italy are the mild wines termed Abbocati, such as Muscatel, Aleatico, Yino Sante, i and Yernaccia. Then there are the wines of Piedmont,780 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to see under their special heads. Italian Wines—continued. known as Barbara, ISTebbiola, Barolo, Braccbeto, Gatti- nara, Grignolino, and Malvasia of Asti; Paparetta, Agliono, Caluso, and Moscata; Ligurian Dolcetto, Pignolo of Neive, and Malvasia of Grinzano and Dinazzono. In Lombardy are the San Colouibano, Monterobbio, Stradella, Bergamo, and Inferno of Valtellina. In Modena are Lambrusco, Piorano, and Scandiano. In Piacenza are Cisolo, San- giovesi, and Vino Sante. In Tuscany are Montepulciano, Alsatico, Montalcino, Broglio, Yalgiano, and Chianti. Besides these there ai-e many others, including Lacryma Christi of Naples and red and white Capri, all excellent wines, and greatly superior to many of the concoctions sent to us as French or Spanish. IVORY.—The dust obtained from Ivory-turners is sometimes used to make jelly. Extraordinary, and most probably fictitious, nutritive virtues are attributed to it. It is made as follows: (1) Put Jib. of Ivory dust or powder into a saucepan with Iqt. of water, place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Strain the liquid through a jolly-bag into a basin, and leave it until cold. Then turn the jelly into the saucepan, removing all the sediment there may be, and make it hot again. Mis Fig. 973. Ivory-dust Jelly. 1 wineglassful of sherry with it, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add any flavouring desired. Rinse out a jelly- mould with cold water, then pour in the jelly, and keep it in a cool place until it has set. When wanted, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a glass or fancy china dish, and serve. See Fig. 973. (2) Put 8oz. of Ivory dust into a saucepan with 3 pints of cold water, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity. Pour it into a basin and let it get cold; then put the clear jelly, without sediment, into a saucepan, warm it, add the juice of a lemon, half the grated peel, two or three cloves, and sugar to taste ; when the jelly is dissolved, strain it, and use as required. (3) Put Jgall. of water in a saucepan with Jib. of Ivory dust, and boil gently until it is reduced to 1 pint (it will take about ten hours). Pass through a jelly-bag, and it is ready for use. (4) Put Jib. of Ivory dust or shavings in a saucepan with 2qts. of water, and boil it gently for nine hours, then dissolve loz. of isinglass in it. Remove the jelly to the side of the fire, and mix in J pint of sherry, the peel of half a lemon, the juice of two lemons, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Boil the jelly for half-an-hour longer, then strain it through a jelly-bag, pour into a mould rinsed out with cold water, and set it in a cool place. When the jelly is firm, turn it out on to a fancy dish, and serve. It will keep for a week in the winter, but not longer than three days in the summer. (5) Put lib. of Ivory dust in a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and place it over the fire until boiling; then put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twelve hours, or until reduced to lqt. Afterwards strain the liquor through a jelly-bag until quite clear, mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and I vory—continued. sweeten and flavour to taste. Pour the jelly into a mould, and leave it until cold before serving. (6) Put 3 table-spoonfuls of Ivory dust into a jar with J breakfast-cupful of water; stand the jar in a saucepan pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and keep it over the fire until the Ivory dust is dissolved. Take the jar out of the water and leave until the contents are cold. Afterwards skim off the mucilage that will have risen to the top, being very careful not to disturb the sediment. This mucilage can be used in the preparation of jellies as a substitute for isinglass. It will require some decided flavour, or it will not be palatable. JACK.—See Pike. JACK.—See Roasting. JACK-SNIPE.—A small species of snipe; called also juddock, half-snipe, and other names. See Snipes. JAGG-ERS.—See Jiggers. JAM (Fr. Conserve; Ger. Conserve; Ital. Confet- tura; Sp. Conserva).—“One of the most unfortunate words ever introduced into the English language,” writes Kettner; “of foreign, probably Oriental origin (Arabian jamad—preserved fruit), it has been only too easy to confound it in meaning with the English word to jam, or crush together ”; upon this slender basis this enter- taining writer premises that from a mistaken idea of the origin of the word, English confectioners smash their fruit and “ jam ” it into fruit cheeses, instead of preserving the berries whole in their syrup. In making Jam the first consideration is the fruit, which should be clean and freshly gathered. Every bit of foreign matter must be carefully picked out, and the fruit should be as whole and sound as possible. The next requirement will be a preserving-pan, and this should lie full large for the amount required to be .made at one boil. The pan should be made of copper Fig. 971. Copper Preserving-pan. (see Fig. 974) or bell metal, and kept scrupulously bright. Stewpans made of iron, glazed inside, are also suitable for Jam-making, but tinned pans should be avoided, as they are apt to turn the colour of the fruit and sugar. A wooden spoon should be used for stirring and skimming. Put the fruit into a pan, and set the pan over a stove, standing it upon a small trivet, which will diminish the chances of burning. Next add the sugar in the quantity prescribed, and let the sugar be either loaf or best crystal. There is no profit in using cheap sugar called “pieces,” as it reduces the quality, deadens the colour, and loses weight in cooking. Raw sugar makes a very inferior Jam, and the addition of glucose, although practised in many large factories, should be entirely discarded from home-makes. Whether Jams are boiled over a fire or gas-stove, the latter for preference, they require a sharp heat, so as to save the colour of the fruit, which stewing destroys. The Jam must also be stirred continuously from the first heating, lest the Jam should catch the heat at the bottom of the pan and burn. This will be readily detected byTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 781 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. J am—continued. the smell and smoke coming up through the boiling Jam, and the only remedy is to take off the pan, empty out the Jam, clean the pan thoroughly, return the Jam, and continue boiling, but with more care and attention. The Jam is done when a little of it put on a cold plate sets, or “ jellies ” as it is called, and does not run. It may then be put into clean dry jars. Mr. E. Skuse, who may be considered one of the most experienced Jam-makers in the world, mentions the follow- ing improvements upon the old-fashioned manner of covering the pots after filling. He writes, “Jam, jelly, or marmalade, if properly boiled with its due proportion of sugar, will keep good for years, in either glass, china, or earthenware vessels, without the aid of vinegar, brandy, or spirits of any kind. The old style of dipping the paper, for covering over the preserves, in spirits is simply useless, and therefore a needless expense; if the Jam is required for keeping any length of time, the surface, when set, may be slightly oiled with the best olive or salad-oil, which will prevent any incrustation forming on the top. It is not necessary when covering to make them air-tight, as they will keep just as well without any covering at all, and the only benefit in covering is to keep the dust from the contents.” He further observes, “It is an exploded fallacy to suppose that Jam made from wet fruit will not keep, although dry fruit is always preferable.” Upon the subject of “Cheap Jams” Mr. Skuse makes some very appropriate remarks. He informs us that beginners in Jam-making, especially for wholesale pur- poses, are under the impression that there is something used by the trade besides fruit and sugar to increase the bulk and cheapen the product. “ Many of them commence a series of experiments with turnips, vegetable marrows, cornflour, ground rice, Irish moss,” &c., but as far as he has been able to learn, the result of such conglomeration has been a complete failure. His experience goes to prove that a mixture of vegetables and fruit ferments readily, and where farinaceous matter has been used the Jam becomes dry and sour. “ Although opposed,” he con- tinues, “ to the introduction of any foreign matter into the Jam-pan, I do not advocate that what may be termed our fine Jams, such as raspberry, black-currant, straw- berry, &c., should be made from the fruit and sugar only, as I am of opinion that these Jams are not only cheapened, but improved by the addition of apples.” These are added in the form of apple-jelly, so that the apple is not conspicuous, and the proportion of apple- jelly to other fruit should not exceed one-half. Receipts for making and using special Jams will be found under their various headings. The following are suitable for any kind: Jam Dumpling. — Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from lib. of beef-suet, chop it as finely as possible, and mix with lib. of flour. Dissolve I teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 saltspoonful of salt in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stir it into the flour until quite smooth, then mix in thoroughly 1 breakfast-cupful of any kind of Jam. Dip a pudding-cloth in boiling water, wring it out, spread it over a bowl, dredge with flour, and pour the pudding mixture into it. Tie the cloth round with twine, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the dumpling out on to a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Jam Plotters.—Cut some sponge cakes into halves, spread them over with Jam, moisten the edges, and stick them firmly together. Make a batter, using white wine in place of milk, add the well-whipped whites of three eggs, dip the cakes into it, and fry them in boiling butter. When well browned, drain the fritters, dredge over with icing sugar, and glaze them under a salamander or in the oven. Arrange the fritters on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Jam Ice.—Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Empty a pound pot of Jam into a basin with 1 pint of cream, and beat well; pass the mixture through a J am—continued. fine hair sieve, sweeten with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and strain in the juice of one lemon. When the isinglass is nearly cold, mix it with the other ingredients, and whisk them till they begin to thicken. Turn the mixture into a mould, pack it in ice, and leave it for a few hours. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn out the contents on to a fancy dish. Jam Pudding1.—(1) Cut three slices of stale household bread about lin. in thickness, trim off all the crusts, and cut the slices into small rounds with a tin cutter; spread half of them over with blackberry Jam and the remainder with apricot Jam, or any other kind may be used; place them in alternate layers in a deep dish. Put 1 wineglassful each of sherry and brandy into a basin, and mix with them the strained juice of one lemon, and sugar to taste. Pour the liquor over the bread, and leave until it is all absorbed. Beat well the yolks of five eggs, pour them in a saucepan with lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste, and stir over a slow fire until thickened; then move it off. Blanch about 2 table- spoonfuls of sweet almonds, and split them lengthwise each into three or four pieces. Stick the almonds over the top of the soaked bread, pour over the custard, and let it get cold before serving. Fig. 975. Jam Pudding. (2) Prepare a rich suet crust, butter a pudding-basin, line it with some of the crust, and roll the remainder out very thin. Spread a layer of black-currant or plum Jam at the bottom of the basin, then put in a thin flat of the crust; over that spread another thick layer of Jam, add another flat of paste, and so on till the basin is full, making the last layer of crust. Tie a pudding-cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil quickly for two or three hours, keeping up the supply of water. When cooked, untie the cloth, place a hot dish over the pudding, then quickly reverse the positions and take off the basin, thus leaving the pudding on the dish. Serve the pudding while hot. (3) Chop finely a sufficient quantity of beef-suet to fill a breakfast-cup, put it into a basin, and mix with it 1 break- fast-cupful each of flour, finely-grated stale breadcrumb, any kind of Jam, and 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Dis- solve 1 saltspoonful of salt and 1 heaped teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in I pint of milk, stir it in with the other ingredients, and work until they are all thoroughly incorporated. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height. Steam the pudding for two hours, taking care that the water does not enter at the top. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce. (4) Put loz. of soaked gelatine in a saucepan with J tea- cupful of milk, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Beat well three eggs and mix them with lqt. of cream and Jib. of caster sugar. Pour this mixture into a jug, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and place it over the fire until it thickens. Remove the cream from the fire, leave it until quite cold, then stir in gradually the dissolved gelatine, I pint of rum, and 1 breakfast-cupful of raspberry-and-cur- rant or other kind of Jam. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and pack in pounded ice and salt, or stand it in a very cold place until firm. When ready, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (5) Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with thinly-cut slices of bread-and-butter; then fill it up with layers of bread-and- butter and Jam. Beat two eggs with II breakfast-cupfuls of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a782 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utennils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Jam—continued. few drops of essence of vanilla or any oilier kind of flavouring preferred. Pour the custard over the bread, and let it soak for a short time. Tie a cloth over the basin, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (6) Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with thin slices of stale bread, putting a round slice at the bottom ; finely chop a little beef-suet, sprinkle a little at the bottom of the basin over the bread, then put in 1 table-spoonful of any kind of Jam. Continue in this way, putting first bread, then suet, and then Jam, till the basin is full, and place a round slice of bread as near the size of the basin as possible on the top. Beat an egg together with j pint of milk, sweeten to taste, and pour -it lightly over the pudding; tie a piece of thick paper over the basin, put it in a saucepan, pour boiling water round to more than half its height, taking care it does not come over the basin, and steam for kalf-an-hour. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a dish, and serve. Jam Puffs. — (1) Beat Jtlb. each of butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of five eggs, and beat well; then whisk the whites of the five eggs to a froth, and mix them in with the other ingredients, working in lastly jib. of self-raising flour. Lay this batter on a baking-tin in table-spoonfuls as nearly the same size as possible, and far enough apart to prevent them touching, put them into a hot oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Let them get cold, and then split Fig. 976. Jam Puffs. nearly but not quite all round with a sharp knife, leaving about lin. uncut at one side, pull them open a little way, slip in a spoonful of Jam, close them again, and sift powdered sugar over before serving. See Fig. 976. (2) Make some rich puff paste, roll it out about iin. thick, or rather thinner, and cut it into rounds with a small saucer or a tin paste-cutter; lay near one edge of each piece of paste some raspberry or strawberry Jam, stewed apples, or any kind of preserved fruit. Slightly wet the edge of the paste all round, fold the other side over the preserve, and press the edges. Or the paste may be cut into squares and folded diagonally over the preserves so that the puff is three- cornered. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Jam Puffs a la Ducliesse.— Put 2oz. of butter and 2 break- fast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan on the fire, bring them to the boil, remove the pan, and work in 6oz. of flour. Dry it over the fire for a few minutes, then add two eggs and the rind of a lemon very finely chopped. Boll out the paste, cut it up into pieces about 3in. in length, put them on a baking-sheet, keeping them apart, brush over with egg, put into a moderate oven, and bake slightly. It can be easily seen when they are done, as they will be firm to the touch. Take out, let them get cold, open at the sides, fill them with Jam, and serve. Jam Roll.—For four eggs, allow an equal weig'ht of caster j sugar, flour, and butter; slightly warm the butter and beat | it together with the sugar until creamy, then mix in the slightly-beaten yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and mix them with the other ingredients, then stir in the flour very smoothly. Squeeze in a few drops of lemon- juice, and work the whole until thoroughly mixed. Butter a shallow baking-dish, pour tho mixture into it, bake in a quick oven, and take out before it becomes crisp. Sift plenty of caster sugar over a sheet of paper, turn the paste on to it, spread over thickly with any kind of Jam, and roll ( it up carefully. Ornament the top with coloured sugar icing, j preserved fruits and comfits, and serve cold. Jam Roly-Poly Pudding’.—Make a common suet crust, roll it out thin, then spread Jam evenly all over, leaving about lin bare at the edges, excepting the edge which | will be the inner one. Boll the pudding up into a longish roll, I J am—continued. pinch the paste together at the ends, wrap it in a floured cloth, tie at each end, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours, keeping the water constantly boiling. Jam Sandwiches.—(1) Beat i-lb. of warmed butter to a cream, then mix with it the beaten yolks of twelve eggs and the grated peel of half a lemon; sweeten with ^lb. of caster sugar, and stir in gradually till well mixed 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour; whisk the whites of the twelve eggs to a light froth, then mix them with the other ingredients. Make four or five white paper plates with edges lin. deep, butter them, place them on baking-tins, put a thin layer of the mixture in each, and bake lightly in a moderate oven, taking care not to let them brown. When cold, pull the paper off, being very careful not to break the cakes, lay one on the top of the other with a layer of any kind of Jam between, using two or three kinds if liked, trim round the edges, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and it is then ready for serving. (2) Cut some puff paste into pieces about 3in. in length and ■jin. or jin. thick, lay each piece on its side upon the baking- sheet without paper, keeping them fully lin. apart, and having twenty-four pieces in all. When half baked, cover the pieces thickly with sifted sugar, then return them to the oven until slightly coloured. Take them out, hold a red-hot shovel at a distance over them until they are glazed by the melting of the sugar, then take them off and lay them upon paper on a dish; spread one piece with any sort of Jam, then place another on it, and so in pairs until all are used. Dish them on an ornamental paper. Jam Tartlets.—Make a good puff paste, line some buttered tartlet- or patty-pans with it, fill each pan with rice or flour, and bake till the paste is well risen and a light colour. When cooked, take the baked crusts out of the tins, shake out the flour or rice, fill them with any kind of Jam, and serve. This is better than baking tho Jam in the crusts, as it is apt to dry up and burn. JAMAICA PEPPER.—See Allspice. JAMUN.—A sub-acid fruit of an Indian tree (Syzy- gium Jambolanum). It is a sort of plum, and can be made to produce an excellent light red wine; or the fruit may be preserved. JARDINIERE, A 1A.—The literal meaning of this French term is “ after the style of a gardener’s wife,” and refers to a sort of medley of vegetables. JARGONEL PEARS.—See Pears. JAUNE-MANGE.—Literally a yellow food, as con- trasted with blanc-mange (white food), from which it differs but little except in colour, as shown in the following receipts : (1) Put foz. of gelatine and a small piece of lemon-peel into 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak all night. Next day put into a pint measure the strained juice of two lemons and 4 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and fill up the measure with raisin wine or sherry; pour this mixture over the gelatine, put all together in a saucepan, add the well-beaten yolks of seven eggs and sufficient lump sugar to sweeten,^set it over*'’ a gentlo fire, stir till it boils, take it from the fire, and strain. Let it stand till nearly cold, stirring now and then, pour it into a mould damped inside with cold water, and when quite stiff turn out. (2) Melt loz. of isinglass in % pint of boiling water. Beat tho yolks of six eggs together with i pint of raisin wine or sherry and the strained juice of a lemon, stir in the melted isinglass, and sweeten to taste with lump sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon. Put all together into a saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain, let it stand till nearly cold, and then put it into a mould damped inside with cold water. When quite firm, turn out. (3) Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water; add to it the strained juice of two lemons and 2|- wineglassfuls of sherry, then stir in gradually the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and sweeten with lump sugar rubbed on lemon-peel. Mix all together over tho fi.ro till it boils, strain, stir till it is nearly cold, and then pour it into a mould damped with cold water. When quite firm, turn it out.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 783 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fig. 977. .Telly-bag on Stand (Adams and Son). JELLIES (Fr. Gelees; Ger. Gallerten; Ital. Gelatine ; Sp. Jaleas).—There is evidently some connection between the word Jelly and the French geler—to freeze, probably due in a measure to the usual application of cold for the purpose of solidifying. Jelly can be obtained from so many materials that the term is somewhat loosely applied, though thoroughly understood in culinary parlance. For instance, Jelly can be made from starchy matters, such as arrowroot and tous-les-mois; also from linseed, sea-weed, moss, and a variety of other things ; that most generally in vogue being prepared from gelatine or calf’s feet. Receipts for producing the same will be found under their various head- ings, and a special savoury Jelly is described under Aspic. Before using a Jelly it is ad- visable that it should be quite clear and bright, and for obtain- ing this very important condition it is usual to boil it, and then pass it again and again through a Jelly-bag made of tammy-cloth or thick flannel. These bags are, for convenience of manipulation, usually fastened to a stand (see Fig. 977), as the liquid Jelly sometimes takes considerable time to pass through. The bag should first be soaked in hot water, and the Jelly being warm, it will be advisable to stand it near a fire, or in an en- closed box (see Fig. 978). When the Jelly runs through quite bright it can be coloured or flavoured as desired. So many beautiful and artistic designs can be executed in Jelly, that it would be impossible to describe more than a very few, leaving the artistic confectioner plenty^ of scope for his ingenuity. The following are extremely effective, special moulds being- required for their production: Imitation Bundle of Asparagus. —Fill in the tips of a mould (see Fig-. 979) representing a bundle of asparagus with Jelly coloured green with pistache, then set on ice; when firm, fill up to the under-side of the band or tie with any sweet Jelly coloured to imitate asphragus stalks. Prepare a little Jelly with apricot jam and isinglass or gelatine, and fill up that Fig. 978. Box for Jelly- bag (Adams and Son). Fig. 979. Imitation Bundle of Asparagus (Temple and Crook). portion only which forms the band, and set on ice. When firm, fill up the remaining part of the mould with the stalk Jelly. ’* Imitation Hard-boiled Eggs.—An imitation of the yolk of an egg must be formed in a small yolk-mould (see Fig. 980) J ellies—continued. of apricot jam with stiffened isinglass, set on the ice till firm, then turned out. Half-fill the top egg-shaped parts of the mould with clear Jelly or thin blanc-mange; when set, place on the yolks, fill up with clear Jelly to the base of the eggs, and set firm; then fill up the border which has been previously decorated with green angelica and pistachios. See Fig. 981. Jelly should always be set in ice to harden, and as an ice-cave is not always at hand, the mould may be packed in a basin (see Fig. 982) and surrounded with broken ice, or, if small, can be set in an ordinary biscuit-tin (see Fig. 983), when the same results can be obtained, and the mould filled and garnished according to the artist’s desire. Fruit Jellies are made by ex- tracting the juice of the fruit by squeezing in a towel (see Fig. 984); it is then boiled with sugar until the Jelly sets, and passed through a Jelly-bag again and again until quite bright and clear. Numerous receipts for Jellies of all kinds will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia under appropriate headings. Fig. 980. Yolk-mould (Temple and Crook). Fig. 981. Imitation Hard-boiled Eggs (Temple and Crook). The following receipts are more general in their appli- cation : Border of Sweet Jelly with Fruit.—Take one dozen pears, apples, apricots, or peaches, peel them, and remove the cores, or stones. Put them in a preserving-pan with the juice of two lemons, Jib. of fine sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of Fig. 982. Jelly in Mould Packed in Ice. water. Let them stew until done, then remove, and set them on a dish to cool. Take a rather shallow border mould, and set it firmly and perfectly level on pounded ice. Have ready about lqt. of sweet Jelly flavoured with any kind of liqueur, pour this into the mould to the depth of about lin., and let it set quite hard; then arrange the fruit upon the Jelly, and784 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sc., referred to, see under their special heads. Jellies—continued. when the remainder of the Jelly is quite cold and nearly ready to set, pour it over the fruit to fill the mould. When quite set, turn the border out upon an ornamental dish, and fill the centre with finely-chopped red Jelly. Fig. 983. Jelly-mould Packed in Ice. Danish Sweet Jelly. -Put in a large copper pan I pint each of sherry, brandy, and cherry-juice, f pint of claret, the juice and peel of one lemon, 6oz. of loaf sugar, and l®oz. of gelatine. The gelatine should have been previously soaked for twelve hours in cold water. Simmer gently until the Jelly is done, take it off the fire, let it cool, and turn into a mould packed in ice. When set, dip the mould in tepid water, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish ; garnish with a rich custard flavoured with vanilla. Fig. 984. Squeezing Juice out of Fruit. Dantzig- Sweet Jelly.—Clarify sixteen or eighteen leaves of French gelatine; when it is cold, mix with it nearly ^ pint of Dantzig brandy (paillette d’or), and add the syrup required to sweeten. When the Jelly is half set, put it on ice, and stir for a time, without letting it thicken ; then drop in 2 table- spoonfuls of pistachios cut in slices. Pack a cylinder mould in ice, pour the Jelly into it, and let it stand for one hour ; then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well all round, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. French Sweet Jelly. —Prepare lqt. of clear calfs-foot or gelatine Jelly, sweetened and flavoured with sherry. Select a fancy Jelly-mould, pour a small quantity of the Jelly in, and leave it to set for two hours. Choose some fine ripe fruit of any kind or kinds in season, wipe them, and pick off the stalks ; arrange the fruit tastefully round the edge of the mould, fixing them in their places with a little Jelly (if currants, they may be arranged in bunches), pour in more of the Jelly, and let it set, continuing in this way till the mould is full. When the Jelly is quite set, turn it on a fancy glass dish, garnish with crystallised fruits, and serve. See Fig. 985. Gloucester Jelly.—(1) Put loz. each of sago, rice, pearl barley, eringo-root, and hartshorn shavings into a saucepan with J ellies—continued. 3 pints of water, set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently until reduced to 1 pint. Let it get cold, and it will set. To use it, dissolve in hot broth, milk, or wine, and it will make a very nourishing drink. (2) Put in a saucepan -|oz. each of rice, barley, isinglass, and hartshorn shavings, pour in 1 pint of water, and boil until the liquid has reduced to almost half its original quantity. Strain the Jelly into a jar. When the Jelly is to be served, it should be dissolved in milk, sweetened to taste with caster sugar, and flavoured with a few drops of essence of lemon. This Jelly is very agreeable for invalids. Italian Jelly. — (1) Half fill a mould with clear calf’s-foot Jelly ; cut some slices of Gruyere cheese into small rounds with a tin cutter, lay them in circles round the Jelly, over- lapping one another in the mould, cover with more Jelly, and leave them till set. Fill up the mould with the rounds of cheese aud Jelly, proceeding as before, and allowing each layer of the Jelly to set before another is added. Pack the mould in pounded ice, and leave it for two hours. Then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Jelly out on to a fancy dish. (2) Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water, putting with it the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon. When the gelatine is soft, pour over it 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, and 1 pint of strained orange-juice. Strain through a Jelly-bag into a jug. Select a fancy-shaped Jelly-mould, damp inside with cold water, and pack it in ice. Put a layer of the Jelly ^in. deep at the bottom of the mould, and when it is set, arrange in a layer of candied fruits, or quarters of oranges, fastening each piece of fruit in place with a little Jelly. Then cover the fruit with a little more liquid Jelly (taking care the Jelly is not more than lukewarm), leave it to set, and continue in this way till the mould is full. When the Jelly is quite set and ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it round, and turn it out on to a glass dish. Jamaica Jelly.—Boil lib. of sugar together with 2oz. of clari- fied isinglass and 1 wineglassful of Jamaica rum until reduced to a clear Jolly. Binse a mould out with cold water, pour the Jelly into it, and stand it in a cool place. When firm and cold, turn the Jelly on to a glass dish, arrange some small bunches of grapes round it, pour over clotted cream, and serve. Jelly a la Constantine.—Cut half-a-dozen apricots in halves, remove the stones, put the apricots in a saucepan with a little syrup, and boil until done. Let them get cold, and cut each half into three pieces. Pack an ornamented fluted mould in ice, pour a little warmed sweet Jelly at the bottom, sprinkle in a little desiccated cocoa-nut mixed with shred pistachio-kernels, and pour over a little more Jelly when the other is set; then put a layer of the strips of apricots, then more Jelly, then cocoa-nut and kernels, and so on until the mould is full, allowing each layer to set before another is added. Turn it out on to a dish when set, fill the cavity with whipped cream mixed with more desiccated cocoa-nut and shred pistachio-kernels, and serve. Jelly Broth a la Palestine. Make lqt. of Jelly broth, strain, and keep it hot by the side of the fire. With a vegetable-scoop cut some balls from Jerusalem artichokes, blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of broth, and boil till tender and the broth reduced to a glaze. Boil 1 teacupful of well-washed rice in broth till tender. Put the artichokes and rice into a soup-tureen, mix J teaspoonful of sugar with the broth, pour it over the vegetables, and serve with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Jelly Broth with Macaroni.—Boil 6oz. of macaroni in salted water; when tender, drain, and cut it across into pieces about 1 jin. long. Have ready some boiling Jelly broth, and put in the macaroni. In about ten minutes’ time turn the broth into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plateful of grated Parmesan cheese. Jelly-Broth with Vegetables. Make about 2qts. of Jelly- broth with either veal or poultry ; strain it into a saucepan, and keep it by the side of the fire. Slice some young carrots, blanch them in salted water, then drain them ; cut into pieces the same size as the carrots some young turnips,ARTISTIC 1.—Corn Rick:, made of spun sugar and filled with chocolate creams. 3. Well, made of spun sugar, with bucket containing candied '■fruit or sweets. \ CONFECTIONERY. -•—Iceberg of real water ice, with sugar figures representing a'polar scene. Cups of coloured cream ice round base. 4'- Drat, made of pasteboard, wood, or sugar. Barrels of bonbons.785 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Jellies—con ti nned. a small piece of cucumber, and a white stick of celery. Blanch the vegetables separately in salted water, then finish cooking all of them in a small quantity of broth, which should be boiled till reduced to a glaze. A pinch of sugar should be put in the broth. Cook separately 1 breakfast- cupful of young green peas, a piece of cauliflower divided into branches, and some white asparagus heads. When all the vegetables are cooked, put them into a soup-tureen, pour the hot broth over, and serve. Jelly Cakes. — Beat together 8oz. of sugar and five eggs; then add Jib. of melted butter, 1 teacupful of milk, and 12oz. of flour to which has been added 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder. Spread the preparation as thinly as possible in Jelly-cake pans, and bake them ; when cooked, put three of these one on top of the other with Jelly in between, and serve. Jelly for Cake.—Peel and core one large apple, pound, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and the grated peel and strained juice of one lemon. When well mixed, put the ingredients in a jar, stand it in a saucepan, surround with boiling water, and let it steam till cooked. Jelly prepared in this way is used for spreading over sponge cake. Jelly for Cold Fish .—Take a small skate, clean it thoroughly, put it over the fire in a fish-kettle with a cow-heel or a calf’s- foot, a rasher of gammon of bacon, an onion, a stick of horseradish, a piece of lemon-peel, three blades of mace, and a little white pepper. Pour over 3qts. of water, and let it simmer till it is a Jelly. Strain, let it stand till cold, and take off the fat; take the Jelly up without the sediment, put it over the fire with a piece of lemon, the whites of four eggs, and a glass of sherry. Let it boil for a few minutes without stirring, then set it in a warm place, and let it stand half-an-hour. Strain through a sieve with a cloth in it, and cover the cold fish with it. Jelly for Invalids.—Take the bones of a knuckle of veal, cut and scrape all the meat off, and boil them in a saucepan with 2qts. of water for five hours; strain off the liquor, let it stand till quite cold, and then take off the fat and sedi- ment ; put it in a saucepan and melt it, adding a flavouring of raisin or other wine and lemon-peel, run it through a Jelly-bag, and let it stand till cold. Jelly Omelet.—Put a frying-pan over the fire with 1 tea- spoonful of butter. Beat the yolks of three eggs together with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and whisk the whites also to a stiff froth. When the butter is melted mix the whites and yolks gently together, and put them into the pan; as fast as the omelet cooks, lift the cooked portion with a fork and throw it upon one side of the pan, letting the uncooked part down upon the hot pan. When the omelet is cooked to the desired degree, put 1 table-spoonful of Jelly in the middle, fold the omelet together, and turn it out on a hot dish ; dust with powdered sugar, and serve. . Jelly Pudding's.—Scald f pint of milk (or use half cream and half milk), pour it over fib. of sifted breadcrumbs, and beat it up till nearly cold ; then stir in the beaten yolks of seven eggs, next the beaten whites, and lastly 1J saltspoon- fuls of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little boiling water. Half fill some breakfast-cups with this batter, put them in a hot oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Turn them quickly out of the cups when done, make a cut partly round each with a sharp knife, pull them open sufficiently to get the bowl of a spoon inside, slip 1 table-spoonful of any sweet fruit Jelly inside, and pinch the slit together again. Serve hot with cream and sugar. Jelly Roll. —Put 12oz. of butter and lib. of sugar into a basin, beat them to a cream, add eight eggs beaten to a froth, sift in lib. of flour, and work the whole to a smooth batter, adding the grated rind and juice of a lemon. Put a sheet of well-buttered paper into a baking-tin, spread the batter over this to about Jin. in thickness, and bake in a hot oven to a delicate brown. Take it out, mask the surface with thick Jelly, roll it up, and tie until it becomes set and fast. Take off the strings, brush the roll with white of egg beaten up with a little syrup, roll it in granulated sugar, and serve. See Fig. 986. Jelly Stock .—Soak ljoz. of gelatine, then put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water, Jib. of loaf sugar, the strained juice of two lemons, the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and Jellies—continued. 1 table-spoonful of whole mixed spices. Boil the ingredients slowly for half-an-hour, adding a little more water occasion- ally to keep up the original quantity of the Jelly. Filter the Jelly two or three times through a Jelly-bag till quite clear and transparent, then pour it into a basin, and set it by for use. This stock Jelly can be divided and made into as many different kinds as may be wished for. Lemon or orange extracts should not be used for flavourings, as they dim the transparent clearness of the Jelly and give it a cloudy appearance. Jelly Tarts.—Boll out Jib. of rich puff paste, cut it into rounds about 2 Jin. in diameter, damp the edges with water, pinch the paste so as to form shapes like three-cornered hats, put a small tin of the same shape inside each tart, and bake lightly in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, remove the tins, brush over the paste with egg and glaze, pipe round the sides, both inside and out, fill up with small squares of any kind of Jelly, over this place a heap of well-whipped cream, pipe over this again, and serve. Jelly Tartlets.—Bub 4oz. of butter into 6oz. of flour, and work in 4oz. of vanilla or lemon sugar, 2oz. of pounded blanched sweet almonds, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. When formed into a stiff dough, knead it well, roll out to about Jin. in thickness, cut it with an ornamental biscuit-cutter, put them in a circle on a dish, brush over with white of egg, dust with powdered loaf sugar, sprinkle slightly with water, put them into an oven and bake. Take out when done, cover the tops with any sweet or fruit Jelly, and serve. Fig. 986. Jelly Roll. Marbled Sweet Jelly.—Get a Jelly-mould, put some pieces of different kinds of Jelly at the bottom, over these pour some Jelly that has had milk or cream mixed with it to make it white, so as to form the veins of the marble ; the Jelly should be only just liquid, for if it is too warm it will melt the other Jelly, and spoil the effect. Let the Jelly get cool as quickly as possible, then proceed as before, continuing in that way till the mould is full; pack the mould in ice and leave it till the Jelly is quite set. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. Mosaic Sweet Jelly. —Pour J pint of boiling cream on the peel of either an orange or lemon, and when it is well flavoured with the peel sweeten to taste with a little caster sugar; beat the yolks of four eggs with the cream, pour all into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire to thicken ; then mix in some melted isinglass. Strain all through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand it on ice, and leave till firm. Select a mould, lightly oil the inside, using a brush, cut the white cream Jelly, with a knife first, and afterwards with small tin cutters, and fix them to the mould, doing the bottom first and the sides last. Stand the mould on the ice, pour in gently a little orange Jelly, and let it get thick. When that Jelly is set, pour more in, and continue in this way till the mould is full; cover and surround the mould with ice, and let it remain for two hours undisturbed. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a hot towel, and turn the Jelly on to a fancy dish. Great care must be taken in making this Jelly that the colours do not melt and intermingle. Pink Jelly.—Soak 2oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, then turn it into a saucepan, and add the peel and juice of two moderate-sized lemons and Jib. of caster sugar. Boil the whole until the gelatine has dissolved, then mix in 2 wine- glassfuls each of brandy and white wine, add a few drops of essence of ratafia, and boil up again. Strain the Jelly 3 N786 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, sec under their special heads J ellies—continued. through a Jelly-bag, and pour it into a mould rinsed out with cold water. On the following day, or when the Jelly has set quite firm, it may be turned out of the mould on to a glass or fancy dish, and served. Plain Sweet Jelly.—Pare very thinly the rinds off two oranges and one lemon, and put them in a saucepan with 1 break- fast-cupful of caster sugar, six cloves, £oz. of cinnamon broken in small pieces, a small blade of mace, the whites and broken shells of two eggs, l|oz. of gelatine, and 1| pints of water. Whisk all over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and simmer for ten minutes ; colour it with 1 teaspoonful of cochineal or caramel, strain two or three times through a Jelly-bag, pour it into a mould, and leave till set before turning out. Red Jelly.—To loz. of isinglass soaked in f pint of water add the eighth part of the well-beaten white of an egg, put it in a saucepan over the fire, and when nearly melted add lib. of lump sugar broken small and -J- table-spoonful of finely- powdered cochineal, and ten minutes before taking it from the fire add the grated rind of three lemons. Eemove the pan from the fire, and add the juice of four lemons and J pint of white wine. Strain through muslin, and if it looks thick boil up once. The saucepan should be kept covered while the Jelly boils. Let it stand to cool before pouring into a mould, which should be wetted inside with cold water. Restorative Jelly.—(1) Put into a jar 2oz. of isinglass, 2oz. of white sugar candy, |oz. of gum arabic, and 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Pour over these 1 j pints of port wine, cover the jar with a cloth to keep out the dust, and leave until the following day. Afterwards set the jar in a sauce- pan of hot water and simmer until all is dissolved, stirring occasionally. Take the jar out of the water, and keep it in | a cool place. The Jelly must not be strained. If the flavour of nutmeg is not liked it may be omitted, and other spices used in its place. (2) Well wash, separately, loz. each of pearl barley and rice, and slightly rinse loz. of sago; put them into a saucepan, which should be porcelain lined, add the thin rind and juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 4 breakfast- cupfuls of water, and boil for about three hours. Strain through flannel, and use hot or cold as required. When cold it will form a stiff Jelly, and is when hot a good substitute for gruel. Ribbon Jelly.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in ^ pint of cold water for four hours. Then add the strained juice of one and the grated rind of half a lemon, | saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and lib. of powdered white sugar; pour in 1 pint of boiling water and stir till quite dissolved, then add j pint of white wine and strain it through a Jelly-bag, but do not squeeze or shake the bag. When the Jelly has run through, divide it, and colour one half pink with prepared cochineal or with some red-fruit syrup. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water (it must be a mould that has a cylinder through the middle of it), and pour in the Jelly in alternate layers, letting each layer get firm before adding the next. When the Jelly is all in the mould, set it in a cold place and let it stand all night. When required for use, wrap a cloth dipped in boiling water round the mould for an instant, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. Have 1 pint of cream ready whipped to a froth with 2oz. of powdered white sugar and flavoured with vanilla. Fill the open place in the centre of the shape of Jelly with this, and pile it high over it. « (2) Prepare lqt. of calf’s-foot Jelly, and flavour it according to fancy; colour half with cochineal, and leave the remainder white. Soak a Jelly-mould in cold water for a few minutes, turn a small quantity of the red Jelly into it, and when set, pour in a thin layer of the pale Jelly, and continue in this way till the mould is full, taking care that each layer is set before the other is added. Leave till perfectly cold and firm, and when wanted to serve, turn it on to a fancy dish. This Jelly may be either savoury or sweet; the receipt gives plan of operation only. (3) Divide 1 pint of clear Jelly made with gelatine into two parts, one containing one-third and the other two-thirds of its bulk. To the one-third add 4 table-spoonfuls of rasp- berry- or strawberry-juice and a few drops of carmine to colour it, and to the remainder of the Jelly add a few table- Jellies—continued. spoonfuls of liqueur mixed in with a little white vanilla cream. None of these ingredients should be mixed with the Jelly until it has become nearly cold. Pack a cylinder-mould in ice, pour the white mixture in to about one-fifth the height of the mould, let it set, cover with an equal thickness of the red mixture, and continue in this way until the mould is full. The Jelly should not be poured in until the previous layer is quite firm, otherwise they will not bind, and be liable to disjoint when turned out. Let the Jelly remain for about forty-five minutes, turn it out on to a dish, decorate the top with a small aigrette of spun sugar, and the base with preserved fruits, and serve. Russian Jelly.—Dissolve fourteen sheets of French gelatine in rather more than 1 pint of hot water, pour it into a saucepan, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, add the juice of one lemon, the well-whisked whites of two eggs, and two liqueur-glassfuls of Cognac; whisk the whole over the fire with an egg-beater until it boils. Put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon at the bottom of a Jelly-bag, and pour the Jelly over, when it runs through quite clear, whisk it until very frothy. Fill a mould with the Jelly, pressing it down well, and stand it in a cold place. When the Jelly is quite cold and firm,- dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish, and serve. Russian Sweet Jelly.—(1) Make a light Jelly with gelatine, and when nearly cool mix with it 1 wineglassful of kirschen- wasser, pour it into a copper basin, and stir over ice till it begins to thicken. Pack a Jelly-mould in ice, pour a layer of the Jelly into it, and when set put a layer of preserved fruits, softened in water, stoned, and divided into small pieces, Fig. 987. Russian Sweet Jelly on the Jelly, put another layer of Jelly on the top, and con- tinue in this way till the mould is full; put the lid on the mould, place salted ice on the top, and leave for thirty-five minutes. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the Jelly out on to a fancy dish, and garnish with whole pre- served fruits (see Fig. 987). (2) Pack a Jelly-mould in pounded ice. Make sufficient clear Jelly to three-parts fill the mould, put it into a copper basin, and mix with it 1 wineglassful each of rum, brandy, and strained orange-juice; grate in a little lemon- and orange- peel, let it remain for five minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve ; put it in the copper basin again and whip over ice till it thickens but does not turn frothy. When the whipping is done mix with it 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of raw pine-apple cut in dice, turn all into the mould, and leave it to set for one hour. Dip the mould in tepid water, turn the Jelly out on a dish that has been standing on ice for a few minutes, and serve. (3) Dissolve ljoz. of the best gelatine in a little more than 1 pint of boiling water, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, mix with it the juice of a lemon, 2 liqueur-glassfuls of brandy, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and whisk the whole over the fire until boiling. Put the peel of half a lemon in a Jelly-bag, and strain the mixture two or three times through it until it turns out perfectly clear, then beat it with an egg-whisk to a stiff froth. Pack the frothed Jelly in a mould, and set it on pounded ice and salt, or in a cool place. When quite firm, dip the mould quickly into hot water, turn the Jelly on to a fancy dish, and serve.787 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Jellies—continued. (4) Make 1J pints of Jelly with isinglass and sweeten it with loaf sugar. Peel a pine-apple, ent it up small, put it in a mortar, mash well, and when all the juice is extracted pass it through a fine hair sieve. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the pine-apple juice and mix it with the Jelly; cham- pagne may he added, if liked. Have ready in ice a cylinder- mould provided with a lid, pour in a layer of the Jelly, and leave till set. Peel and slice a pine-apple, put a layer of the slices on the set Jelly, then pour in another layer of the Jelly. Continue in this way, leaving each layer of the Jelly to set before another is added, then close the mould and leave for one hour. Dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the Jelly out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (5) Clarify l|oz. of gelatine (see Gelatiee) with fib. of lump sugar and 1 pint of water by beating over the fire till it boils; strain two or three times through a Jelly-bag till quite clear, and add f pint of Madeira. Pour the Jelly into a copper whipping-bowl and whisk it over the ice for a few minutes ; take it off, and continue whisking for ten minutes ; turn the Jelly into a mould, pack in ice, and let it remain for one hour. When about to serve, dip the mould into tepid water and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. Savoury Jelly a la Mayonnaise. —Prepare lqt. of white meat Jelly (aspic will do), put it in a saute-pan with 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 1 pinch of mignonette-pepper ; whisk the Jelly for ten minutes, then set the pan on ice, and continue whisking till the mayonnaise is set; take it off, melt, then whip it over ice till it again sets. Warm it again, and strain through a Jelly-bag. It is ■ then ready for use. M. Jules Gouffe gives it as his experience that whipping the Jelly over the ice twice makes it smoother and whiter. Savoury Jelly for Turkey. — Strain lqt. of the broth in which a galantine of turkey has been cooked into a saucepan, thoroughly skim off all the fat, add loz. of soaked gelatine, and boil for five minutes. Put into another saucepan the whites of two eggs, adding the shells as well, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, adding wineglassful of Madeira wine, and a small piece of ice, the size of an egg, finely crushed. Beat all sharply together with a whisk. Place the broth on the table at hand near the eggs, &c., and with a soup-ladle in the left hand, and a whisk in the right, add a ladleful of broth, little by little, to the eggs, carefully and sharply stirring until all the broth has been added. Place on a very moderate fire, and let it gently come to the boil. Immediately strain through a flannel bag or a napkin into a clean bowl, and let it cool; it will then be ready for use. Sparkling Sweet Jelly.—Put l|oz. of gelatine in I tea- cupful of water and let it soak for half-an-hour, then put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water, 8oz. of sugar, the rind and juice of two small lemons, and the whites and shells of two eggs, taking care that the shells are quite clean. Set it over a clear fire, and whisk till boiling, then let it simmer gently for half-an-hour, and strain the Jelly two or three times through a Jelly-bag. When all has passed through, divide it in two small basins or cups, flavour with extracts, colour with cochineal, and three-parts fill some wineglasses with one lot. Stand the glasses in a cool place for the Jelly to set; beat the remainder in a bowl, mix with it the beaten white of egg, fill the glasses with the frothed Jelly, and leave them till quite cold before serving. Fig. 988. Sweet Crystal Jellies. Sweet Crystal Jellies. — Put loz. of isinglass in a sauce- pan with the rind of one lemon, and 1 pint of water ; when it boils, stir in lib. of loaf sugar and i pint of light wine. When the isinglass is thoroughly dissolved, strain through a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Jellies—continued. Jelly-bag and let it stand till cold. Squeeze the juice of two lemons in a cup, keeping back the pips. Grate the rind of one lemon in the juice, and let it remain for a short time. Strain the juice into the Jelly, whisk it till it begins to stiffen, then turn it into Jelly-moulds, and let them set. When ready to serve, turn the Jellies on a glass dish. See Pig. 988. Sweet Jelly ft la Earl of Fife.—Put 1| pints of lemon Jelly into a basin, and slightly warm it. Put about 3 table- spoonfuls of it into another basin, and add three leaves of beaten gold and the same amount of silver, working them in only just sufficient to break the leaves without frothing the Jelly more than possible. Put it into the basin with the plain lemon Jelly, stirring it in very gently with the basin placed on the ice, and as soon as it begins to set pour it into a fluted cylinder-mould, pack it in ice, and let it remain until quite firm. Turn the Jelly out on to a dish, fill the cavity with whipped cream mixed with shred pistachio- kernels, and serve. Sweet Jelly a la Princess Louise.—Put 1 breakfast-cup- ful of warmed lemon Jelly half into one basin and half into .another; whisk them both well, and colour one with cochi- neal. Pour 3 breakfast-cupfuls more of the warm lemon Jelly into a basin packed in ice, and when it begins to set drop small pieces of the whisked white and coloured Jellies into it. When all is added and the whole nearly set, turn it into a mould, pack in ice, and when quite set and firm turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Care must be taken to see that the Jelly is set sufficiently before being put into the mould, otherwise the whisked Jelly would rise to the top and the effect be quite spoilt. Sweet Jelly it la Princess Victoria.—Pour 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, and add the thin rind of half a lemon, a small lump of sugar, loz. of gelatine, a few bruised coriander-seeds, and a slight flavouring of vanilla or noyeau. Set the saucepan on the fire, and stir continually until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and divide into three equal quantities. Colour one of these with cochineal, and leave the other two white. Have ready an equal quantity of Jelly beaten up with gold-leaf. Pour half the white Jelly into a shallow round tin mould packed in ice, let it set, then pour over the cochineal-coloured Jelly, and when this has set, the gold-leaf or Dantzic Jelly, and lastly the remainder of the white or plain Jelly. Cover the mould over with a lid, pack ice on the top, and let it remain until the whole is quite firm. Take out the mould, turn out the contents, and cut it quickly into bands or strips; decorate the top and sides of a plain mould with these, fill the centre with any kind of fruit and Jelly, and pack the mould in ice. Turn the Jelly out on to a dish when set, and serve at once. Sweet Jelly a la St. Petersburg\h.—Warm 1 qt. of lemon Jelly, and pour half into one basin and half into another. Colour one of these with cochineal, and flavour the other with noyeau. When the cochineal Jelly is nearly set whisk it well, and throw into it the noyeau Jelly already nearly set and cut up into small pieces, and mixed up with a few pistachio-kernels chopped very fine. Put the whole into a fancy-shaped mould, pack in ice, cover over the top, put ice on it, and let it remain until quite firm. Dip the mould into warm water, wipe it dry with a cloth, turn the Jelly out on to a dish, and serve. Sweet Jelly made without Boiling. — Dissolve loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, letting it stand for an hour. Put in with it the juice of four lemons, 1 pint of light wine, 3 pints of boiling water, ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar, and cinnamon to taste; pour the Jelly into a mould, and stand it on ice till set. Turn it out on a glass dish and serve. Sweet Jelly with Fruit and Champagne. -Put in a stewpan the whites of three eggs beaten thoroughly, fib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of gelatine, the juice of one lemon, and lqt. of water; whisk it over the fire till it boils. Take the Jelly off the fire, let it cool, strain two or three times through a Jelly-bag till quite clear, and when cold stir in 1 pint of champagne. Make a mixed mince of pears and apples which have been boiled in syrup, and cut to olive shapes preserved , . 3 n 2 ices, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 788 For details respecting Culinary Processes, UtensilSy Saucest &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. J ellies—continued. apricots, greengages, and dried cherries. Pour a little ' Jelly at the bottom of a plain cylinder-mould, then a layer I of fruit, a layer of Jelly, and so on until the m'ould is j nearly full. Pack the mould in ice ; when set, fill the mould up with plain Jelly, put a baking-sheet with ice on it over i the mould, and let it freeze for two hours. Turn the Jelly out of the mould, and serve. Sweet Jelly with Macedoine of Fruits flavoured with Maraschino.—Procure a double-bottomed macedoine-mould, pack it in pounded ice, filling the double bottom also with ice. Prepare a clear Jelly, and when cool mix with it 1 wine- glassful of maraschino; fill the hollow of the mould round the double bottom with the Jelly, and leave it for half-an- liour to set. Prepare a macedoine with several kinds of raw or cooked fruit. Put some more maraschino Jelly in a copper basin, and stand it on ice till thick ; then mix in the mace- doine of fruit. Take the ice out of the double bottom of the Jelly-mould, fill it with hot water, then unhook the double bottom and lift it out at once, fill the hollow that is left with the macedoine, and leave it packed fast in the ice for one hour longer. Make a gum-paste stand, either red or | green, ornamented with white, turn the Jelly on to it, surround | the base with slices of raw pine-apple that have soaked in syrup or syrup and rum for an hour, and serve quickly. Sweet Jelly with Whipped Cream.- Prepare IV pints of clear Jelly, flavoured to taste. Binse the inside of a cylinder- [ mould with cold water, fill it with the Jelly, and stand it on ice till set. Whip f pint of thick cream together with a glass of white wine and a little sugar. When the Jelly is firm, turn it on to a dish, fill the centre with whipped cream, pour a little round the dish, garnish the Jelly with candied cherries, and serve. See Fig. 989. Venetian Jelly.—Put loz. of soaked gelatine into a saucepan with f pint of hot water, and place it over the fire until dis- solved ; then add the juice of three lemons and jib. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar. Beat the whites and shells of three eggs, stir them into the Jelly, and boil for five minutes longer. Take the Jelly off the fire, strain it, and mix in 3 wine- glassfuls of sherry and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Decorate the interior of a plain mould with small pieces of candied peel, dipping in the Jelly to make them stick, then half-fill the mould with the Jelly and leave it until set. Put Joz. of soaked gelatine in a saucepan with J- pint of milk and 2oz. of caster sugar, stir over the fire until dissolved, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Move the custard away from the fire and let it cool. Moisten jib. of sponge cakes with as much sherry as they will absorb, then lay them on the top of the set Jelly in the mould; when the custard has cooled sufficiently fill the mould up with it, and stand it on ice for an hour or two. When ready, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Whipped Sweet Jelly with Fruits.—Put a salpi?on of pre- served fruits in a large basin, and pour a little kirschen- wasser over them. Apricots, greengages, pine-apple, and whole cherries are the best fruits to use. Prepare a calf’s- foot Jelly, boiled a third less than is usually done, strain, pour it into a copper basin, and whip over ice until it begins to thicken, adding the strained juice of two lemons; take it off the ice, mix with it the salpi^on of preserved fruit, pour all into a cylinder-mould, surround with ice, and leave it to set for one hour. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it round, and turn the Jelly out on to a very cold dish. JENNY LIND PUDDING.—See Puddings. JERSEY WONDERS. —For these famous local favourites there is at all times a great demand; but with the usual increase of resources and advancement of trade competition those manufactured for public sale are not generally equal to the home-made production. The follow- ing receipts are given as authentic: (1) Work together with a spoon before the fire ilb. of caster sugar with fib. of best butter until they are thoroughly incorporated. Beat up thoroughly three or four eggs, ac- cording to size, and add these to the sugar and butter. Gradually sift in lib. of white flour and a grating of nutmeg. Knead this together for some time, cover it with a cloth, and set in a warm place to prove a little. Then cut the mass up into pieces about the size of a small apple, roll them round in the hand, using flour to prevent sticking, and then Fig. 990. Jersey Wonders. roll out each ball on a floured paste-board to an oval about tin. thick. Cut with a floured knife three parallel slits along the middle of each, but not through at the ends, cross the two slips with your fingers, and draw up the two sides between. Put your fingers through, and drop each wonder into boiling lard. They will rise as they are done, and can then be turned so as to brown them all over equally. Take them out with a fork, and lay them on a drainer, or folded paper, to drain. A very slight dusting of caster sugar is an im- provement. See Fig. 990. (2) Put 3oz. of butter into lib. of flour and mix in 3oz. of caster sugar, a small quantity each of grated nutmeg, lemon- peel, and ground ginger; then add four well-beaten eggs, and if desired a small quantity of brandy, and form the whole into a paste, kneading it well. Eoll it out to about l|in. in thickness ; from this cut off small pieces of equal size and roll them out to an oval shape, but taking care not to have them less than |in. thick. Cut two or three parallel slits down the centre of each, but not to the ends, fold the sides over, tucking one under each, and with the pieces in the centre forming a handle lift them up, plunge into a pan of boiling fat, let them cook for four minutes on one side and about two minutes on the other ; take out carefully with a skimmer, drain them of fat, and serve. They are very nice served hot with wine or jam sauce, or lemon and sugar. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.—See Artichokes. JESSAMINE. —An essence made from the flowers of this plant gives a pleasant flavour to some confections. It is made as follows: Put a pressed quart measureful of the fresh petals of Jessa- mine into a jar with 2oz. of coriander-seeds, and steep them in 2qts. of over-proof spirit and lqt. of distilled water. Let them remain for three weeks, drain off or filter, and bottle. Jessamine Water-Ice.—Mix the juice of seven lemons and the zest of three in a pan with 3 gills of syrup, a few drops of essence of Jessamine, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and a little water; pass it through a fine sieve into the freezer, put it in moulds, and serve. JESUITS’ TEA.—An infusion made in Chili of the leaves of Psoralea glandidosa. JEWFISH. — A huge fish, often weighing 5001b., caught along the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, and used 1 by the natives for food.789 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, X'c., referred to, see under their special heads. JHAL FREZEE —This is the name given by the natives of India to a sort of simple hash, in which the inevitable hot ingredients predominate: Put 2oz. of ghee or fat into a frying-pan, boil it, add about lib. of any cold cooked meat cut up into small pieces, twenty onions cut up in slices, £ teaspoonful of ground chillies, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and cook over a slow fire until the whole of the ingredients, especially the onions, are quite cooked and tender. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. JIGGERS.—A more correct name for these useful little pastrycook’s tools would be Jaggers, which was evi- dently the original intention; but the freedom of habit and carelessness has asserted itself once again in this instance, and left us the familiar Jigger. They are used in ornamenting pastry by cutting or notching it round the edges, and are made either of strong boxwood or of brass (see Fig. 991), the latter possessing not only a fluted wheel, but a pair of pincers stamped on the inside to pinch and mark round the edges of pies. JOHN DORY—As a British table-fish the John Dory (Zeus faber) is considered to be superior to any. It is caught along the southern coast from Beachy Head to Land’s-End, and occasionally farther east; but the best of all are those caught off the coast of Brighton and Plymouth. The name is an evident corruption of Jaune Doree, yellow and gold, owing to the extraordinary golden appearance of its skin. There are few fish so exceed- ingly ugly ; for it is apparently ill-shaped, flat, and Fig. 992. John Dory. broad (see Fig. 992), with a large head and staring eyes. On either side is a repulsive-looking black spot, to which two ^legends are attached—one, that they are the marks of St. Peter’s finger and thumb, where he held a Dory up to take the tribute money out of its mouth; and the other credits St. Christopher with the marks, being the spots where his finger and thumb pressed when he lifted a Dory up to amuse the infant Saviour. The Dory is in its. prime from September to January, and may be cooked in any of the ways described in the following receipts, after having been thoroughly washed and cleaned. Baked John Dory stuffed with Fish Forcemeat.—Select and clean a large-sized John Dory. Free from skin and bone the flesh of a whiting, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and pound them together. Season the mixture with a small, finely- minced, partially-boiled onion or shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and beat all together with the yolk of one or two eggs; lift the flesh off the backbone of the John Dory, stuff it with it, and tie round with a piece of string. Lay the fish in a buttered baking- tin with a couple of bay-leaves, strew a small quantity of John Dory—continued. finely-minced shallots over, moisten to height with white wine and white stock mixed in equal quantities, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake for about three-quarters-of- an-hour, more or less, according to the size of the fish; when cooked, remove the string, and place the fish on a hot dish ; strain the cooking-liquor that is left in the dish into a sauce- pan, put in it a small piece of butter kneaded with a small quantity of flour, see if it requires more seasoning, and stir over the fire until thickened. Garnish the fish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled John Dory.—(1) Clean a John Dory, put it, with a marinade of sweet-oil, salt, pepper, &c., such as used for fish, in a saucepan, and boil over a slow fire for about an hour. When done, serve on a dish garnished with parsley, and with caper, anchovy, or lobster sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Remove the fins of a good-sized fish, put it into a large fish-kettle with salted water (using 3oz. of salt to every g'allon of water), put the kettle on the fire, cover it over, and let the water boil up gradually. When it boils, remove the kettle to one side of the fire, and let it simmer until the fish is done (about twenty minutes, or longer if a large fish). In removing the fish from the kettle, care must be taken not to break the skin. Place it on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve with lobster, shrimp, or anchovy sauce or with melted butter. (3) Clean the fish, rub it over with salt and lemon-juice, put it in a fish-kettle with plenty of hot water and a lump of salt, and boil gently. Put 6oz. of butter into a sauce- pan with the yolks of three eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of salt and pepper, and stir quickly over a moderate fire till the butter is half dissolved; then move it to the side, and continue stirring till the butter is quite dissolved. Put the sauce over the fire again, and when it thickens mix with it lqt. of butter sauce (melted butter), and continue stirring till on the point of boiling. It must not quite boil, or the eggs will curdle and the sauce be spoilt. When the fish is cooked, put it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over through a fine hair sieve, and serve while very hot. (4) Clean the fish, wash it, put it into a fish-kettle with plenty of boiling' water and a small lump of salt, and let it boil gently. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, so that it will not fall to pieces, then slip it off the drainer on to a hot dish embellished with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, placing sprigs over any part of the fish that may happen to be broken, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (5) Wash the fish, place it in a fish-kettle with plenty of boiling- water and a lump of salt, and boil gently. Put 5oz. or 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, and melt it; then mix in the yolks of three eggs, ^ teacupful of tarragon vinegar, and a dust of salt and pepper, and stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens. Make in another saucepan 1 pint of butter sauce (melted butter), then mix the two together, and take them off the fire. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 5- table-spoonful each of chopped chervil and tarragon, and stir again over the fire. When the fish is cooked, drain carefully, slip it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled John Dory a la Soyer.—Clean and cook the fish in plenty of salted water. Peel about three dozen small onions, put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 4 table-spoonful of moist sugar, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes without colouring them ; then put in a bunch of parsley, a little more than 1 pint of bechamel sauce, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and boil gently till the onions are cooked. Next remove the bunch of parsley, and mix with the onions about two dozen mushrooms and half that quantity of blanched and bearded oysters. Add a few drops of essence of anchovies and about 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Drain the fish, slip it carefully on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, brown it lightly under a sala- mander, and serve. Boiled John Dory with Caper Sauce.—Draw and wash the fish, truss, and sew it up with packthread. Put it in a fish-kettle with a lump of salt and sufficient cold water to cover, and stand it over the fire till the water begins to bubble; then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently790 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Foi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. John Dory—continued. till the fish is tender. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed and browned; then stir in gradually 1J breakfast-cupfuls of clear skimmed stock. Season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then mix in a few table-spoonfuls of capers with it. When the fish is cooked, drain it, taking care not to break it, place it on a hot dish, pour over the caper sauce, and serve. Boiled John Dory with Cream Sauce.—Clean the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with plenty of hot water and a lump of salt, and boil. Pour J pint of thick cream into a small saucepan, set it over the fire till just on the point of boiling, and then mix 4oz. of butter with it. Stir the sauce or shake the saucepan till the butter is melted, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, keeping back the pips, and season with salt and pepper. When cooked, strain the fish carefully, put it on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauce- boat. Boiled John Dory stuffed with Fish Forcemeat.—Clean and wash a rather large fresh John Dory. Put some flesh of whiting without hones in a mortar, pound, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve; pound a third of the quantity of paste panada, pass it through the sieve, and mix with the pounded whiting; work loz. of butter in the mixture, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, using beaten yolks of egg to hind it. Chopped thyme and parsley may be added to the forcemeat if the flavour is liked. Stuff the fish with the forcemeat, tie it round with thread, and put it in a fish-kettle with one or two onions, carrots, turnips, a few pieces of celery, one bay-leaf, a bunch of thyme and parsley, three cloves, and a small lump of salt. Moisten the fish with 1 teacupful of vinegar and white wine, in equal quantities, and about 5 pints of water, set it over the fire till boiling, then move it a little to the side, and simmer for an hour. While cooking, prepare the following sauce for the fish : Put 8oz. of butter in a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a dust of salt and pepper ; stir the mixture over the fire till the butter dissolves and mingles with the eggs, then pour in slowly a little more than 1 pint of bechamel sauce and 1 table-spoonful of lobster butter (that is loz. of butter mixed with the same quantity of lobster spawn), pounded and passed through a fine hair sieve. Stir over the fire till it becomes red and thick, then mix with it a few drops of anchovy essence, a little cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Pass the sauce through a fine hair or silk sieve, return it to the saucepan, and mix with it some small squares of boiled beetroot and the same of gherkins. Keep it hot till wanted for serving. When the John Dory is cooked, drain it well, slip it off the drainer on to a hot dish, being careful not to break it, pour the sauce over, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Boiled John Dory with Prawn Sauce.—Put the fish in a fish-kettle with plenty of boiling water, and boil. Skin 1 pint of fresh prawns, pound them in a mortar together ■with Jib. of butter, and pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve. Put £ pint of bechamel sauce into a stewpan with an equal quantity of butter sauce (melted butter), and place over the fire till boiling; then mix the prawns and butter into the sauce, and stir till dissolved. Pick the meat out of a small lobster and chop it. When the fish is cooked, drain, place it on a hot dish, cover with the sauce, and then strew over the chopped lobster. Serve while very hot. John Dory with Holstein Sauce. — Clean and prepare the fish, being very careful in drawing it not to break the gall, as that would make the whole fish bitter, put it into a fish- kettle with a lump of salt and sufficient cold water to cover, leave over the fire until it commences to boil, then move to the side, and keep it simmering for ten minutes. Prepare the following sauce for it: Put ljoz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix them Well over the fire, then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of the cooking-liquor of the fish and J breakfast-cupful of white Rhenish wine ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and continue stirring until boiling ; then move off the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that John Dory—continued. has been beaten with the juice of a lemon and strained, also a small piece of butter broken into small pieces. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot oval- shaped dish, drain, and lay the fish carefully on it, garnish with fresh parsley, slices of lemon, and quarters of hard- boiled eggs, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat while very hot. Rechauffe of John Dory.— Pick over carefully some cold remains of boiled John Dory, and remove all the skin and bones. Mix lqt. of milk slowly with 4oz. of flour, keeping it smooth and free from lumps, and pour it into a saucepan. Tie together a bunch of parsley, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and put it into the saucepan with one or two shallots, a dust of grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire till thick and boiling; then take it off, and mix with it Jib. of butter and the yolks of two eggs. When the butter and eggs are blended with the other ingredients, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve. Mask the bottom of a gratin-dish with some of the sauce, put in a layer of the prepared fish, and then another layer of the sauce ; fill the dish in this manner, dusting a small quantity of salt and pepper between the layers, the last one being of sauce. Grate some bread and Parmesan cheese over the top, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. When cooked, brown the contents under a salamander, and serve on the same dish. Stewed John Dory.—Clean the fish, rub it well with flour, and put it in a fish-kettle with a few carrots, onions, and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a bay-leaf, a small lump of salt, two or three cloves, 2 wineglassfuls each of port wine and vinegar, and 5 pints of water. When the liquor boils, move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and stew the contents for an hour. Peel a quantity of button- onions, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, and toss about over the fire till browned; then pour in 1 wineglassful of wine, and stir them over the fire a few minutes longer. Pour lqt. of brown sauce and Fig. 933. Stewed John Dory. 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock over the onions, put them over a moderate fire, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim the sauce, and mix with it seventeen or eighteen fish forcemeat quenelles, the same quantity of heads of mush- rooms, 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey sauce, anchovy essence, and mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Blanch and beard about three dozen oysters, and put them in the sauce. Drain the fish very carefully when it is cooked, put it on a hot deep dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with the oysters and slices of lemon, and serve very hot. See Fig. 993. JOHNNY CAKES.—See Cakes. JOINTS. —This is the name given technically to those pieces of meat into which it is usual to cut up the whole animal. These are described under the headings of the animals to which they belong, and receipts are given thereunder for cooking them. JORUM.—An old-fashioned earthenware jar holding a large quantity of liquor. JOSEPHINE CAKE.—See Cakes.791 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. JOWL.—The cheek ancl jaw, as of a fish. JUBILEE BUNS.—See Buns. JUBILEE CAKES.—See Cakes. JUDITHA.—This name is given in Kosher cookery to the following very delicious dish : Cook about 1 pint or so of gooseberries in a saucepan with a little water, rub them through a fine sieve, and work in two or three well-beaten eggs and sufficient sugar to sweeten. In the meantime have ready any kind of cream ice, moulded and turned out on to a dish; cut off a crust or cover and scoop out a portion of the ice, fill the cavity with the gooseberry pulp, place over the lid, and serve. If desired, the gooseberry pulp may be mixed with the ice that was taken out, and then placed in the cavity. JUGS.—Vessels described as having large bodies and narrow mouths. Hare and other things cooked in a jar or jug were called jugged, the term having now a wider signification. JUGLANDINE.—The name given to a bitter liqueur made from the shells of walnuts combined with quinine. JUJUBES.—Correctly speaking these are the small plum-like fruit of an African tree (Zizyphus jujuba) from which “Jujubes” were made; but modern science has shown that the same medical results can be obtained from flavoured gum and water, hence the Jujube fruit is no longer in demand for this purpose. See Currants, Liquorice, and Raspberries. (1) Soak lib. of gum Arabic in 1 pint of hot water, then strain it in a sugar-boiler, put in 14oz. of caster sugar, and stir over a slow fire while boiling; reduce it to the small pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), then put in Joz. of essence of roses, and a few drops of prepared cochineal. Skim, pour it on to a smooth tinned baking-sheet, and put it to dry in the screen at a moderate heat; when dried so that when pressing it is elastic to the touch, take it out of the screen and let it get cold. Take the preparation out of the tin, and cut it with a pair of scissors in the form of diamonds. (2) Put Jib. of gum Arabic in a pan with 4oz. of caster sugar and lOoz. of rose-water; stir these at the side of the fire until dissolved, then strain through a fine hair sieve. Return the mixture to the pan, and boil gently for ten minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Brush over the interior of a shallow tin with oil, pour the mixture into it, and dry in a warm temperature for three days. Turn it out, and cut into lozenges. They should be kept dry in a bottle or tin. (3) To be able to make these, two pans, fitting one into the other, with a space in between, will be required. Place them together, with water in the cavity, put 3|lb. of sugar into the inner one, with 81b. of Turkey gum, and 3 pints of water. Boil until a thick mucilage is formed (it will take seven hours or so), then add a few drops of attar of roses, pour the mass into square tins, set them in the dry closet until quite stiff, cut them into shapes with a pair of scissors, and they are ready for use. Great care must be taken to have the gum stirred frequently, also all the scum removed, or it will spoil the clearness of the Jujubes. The water between the pans must be replenished as it evaporates. Too much flavouring must not be added, or it will spoil them. Several days will be required in drying. JUKES PUDDING.—See Puddings. JULEPS.—This is the common name in America for drinks composed of sugar and spirit in an aromatic water flavoured with fresh mint, and chilled with broken ice. The term is of Eastern origin, and was formerly applied to medicines. See American Drinks. JULIENNE.—The name given to a soup in which the vegetables are cut into small shreds. The origin of the term is very doubtful. See Soups. JUMBLES.—Under the heading of Brandy Snaps will be found a description of the not very important distinction between these and Jumbles. The latter should, when freshly baked, be curled round the finger or a piece of stick until they are cold, but modern usage has ordained some variation of this practice. (1) Beat three eggs till very light. Work Jib. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar to a cream. Put Jib. of sifted flour into a pan, and add to it, all at once, one grated nutmeg, 7 or 8 drops of essence of lemon, or else 1 table- spoonful of rose-water, the eggs, and the beaten sugar and butter, and stir all together with a knife. Sprinkle a paste- board with flour, then with the knife take up some of the dough, put it on the board, and roll it lightly into long thin rolls with floured hands; cut them into equal lengths, form into rings, and lay them carefully on a buttered baking-sheet, not very close to one another as they spread in baking. Put them into a quick oven, and bake for five minutes. The top of the oven may be almost red hot, as the Jumbles require very quick baking. When they are done, and before they are cold, curl them round the finger, and dredge white sugar over them. To prevent Jumbles running while they are in the oven, dip a linen rag in water, squeeze it, spread it over them, press gently, and then take it off. Fig. 994. Jumbles. (2) Cream 12oz. of warmed butter and lib. of brown sugar by beating it with the hand, then mix in eight eggs, one at a time; sift in gradually 21b. of flour, and flavour with either lemon or cinnamon extract. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, and knead the dough well on it; then let it rest a few minutes before rolling it out. When ready, roll the dough out to the thickness of a penny, sprinkle caster sugar over, cut out the cakes with a round tin cutter, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take them off the baking-sheet, curl, and put them in a biscuit-tin till wanted for use. They will keep for a considerable time. (3) Sift lib. of flour, and rub into it, until quite smooth, Jib. of butter; then mix in lib. of moist sugar, loz. of ground ginger, and the grated rind and strained juice of a large lemon or two small ones. Stir in sufficient treacle to mix the whole into a thin paste. Spread this paste out on baking-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, cut it at once into thin strips, and roll them round the fingers. When cold, keep the Jumbles dry in biscuit-tins. (4) Stir 2oz. of mixed spice into Gib. of flour, then rub in ljlb. of butter ; when quite smooth add 71b. of sugar and Gib. of golden syrup. Roll the dough out into sheets about Jin. thick, and cut it into rounds with a plain tin cutter 3in. in diameter. Arrange the cakes a short distance from each other on buttered bakfng-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. When baked, remove them from the tin, curl, and lay them on sieves in the baking-screen till they are hard. (5) Put 12oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work into it Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and ljlb. of flour. Add a little extract or essence of lemon, half a grated nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs. Ground cinnamon may be substituted for the lemon. Turn the paste out on to a board, roll it out to about Jin. thick, sprinkle over caster sugar, and cut the paste into rounds. Put them on a baking-sheet, make small holes in the centre of them, place in a sharp oven, and bake for about ten minutes. When done, take them out, curl them, and let them get cold before using. (6) Cream 1 Jib. of butter, mix in lib. of sugar well beaten up with three eggs, then add 1 Jib. of sifted flour, and 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. When thoroughly mixed, take up small quantities with a fork, drop them on a greased792 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Jumbles—continued. baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. They will curl easily before cooling. (7) Bub 2oz. of butter into 8oz. of flour, mix in 8oz. of sugar, one egg, 1 dessert-spoonful of ratafia, and form the whole into a paste. Should it be too thick, add a little cream, and proceed as for No. 6. (8) Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it well with 4oz. of caster sugar; when frothy, beat in one egg and a few drops each of essence of almonds and essence of nutmegs. When quite smooth, stir the beaten mixture into 6oz. of flour, and knead the whole lightly. Divide it into small pieces, and form into rings, rolling them in caster sugar. Lay them a short dis- tance from each other on tins, and bake in a good oven. When cooked and cold, put the Jumbles into biscuit-tins until wanted. (9) Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of finely-sifted flour until quite smooth, then mix in lOoz. of caster sugar, a few drops of essence of lemon, and two well-beaten eggs; if not suffi- ciently moistened, mix a small quantity of milk with the paste. Dredge caster sugar over a table, lay the paste on it, roll out as thinly as possible, cut into rounds with a tin cutter about 3in. in diameter, and bake. When done, curl them, and set to cool. (10) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with Jib. of treacle and set it over the fire until melted ; put lib. of finely-sifted flour in a basin with Joz. of ground ginger and 6oz. of brown sugar, mix in gradually the treacle and dissolved butter, and work the whole until quite smooth. Boll the dough out as thinly as possible, cut it into rounds, lay them on a baking- sheet, and bake quickly, curling them before cooling. (11) Mix Jib. of flour and Jib. of sugar into a smooth paste with a sufficient quantity of well-whisked whites of eggs, then work in 4oz. of butter, Jib. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and 1 teacupful of milk. When well worked and quite smooth, form the paste into thin cakes, and bake in a slow oven. Curl, and keep them in biscuit-tins. Pried Jumbles.—Warm Jib. of butter till quite soft, and beat it to a cream with Jib. of powdered white sugar. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 gill of milk and 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it, then beat eggs and milk into the creamed butter and sugar, with a seasoning of grated nutmeg; mix in quickly and lightly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in very quickly sufficient flour to make a soft dough, first mixing with the flour 1 dessert-spoonful of cream of tartar. Boll the dough out quickly to about lin. thick, cut it into small cakes, and fry at once in boiling lard. Lay them on kitchen-paper to drain, dredge powdered white sugar over, and serve hot. Norfolk Jumbles.—(1) Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds with five or six bitter ones, moistening them occasionally while pounding with a few drops of rose- or orange-flower water. Bub Jib. of butter until smooth in Jib. of flour, mix the almonds with the flour, also 6oz. of caster sugar, and one well-beaten egg, moistening if necessary with a small quantity of milk. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-sheet, and drop the mixture on it in small equal portions, leaving a clear space between them. Lay a sheet of paper lightly over the top of them, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, dust over with caster sugar. They must not be browned. (2) Warm 3oz. of butter and work it until creamy, then beat it up with Jib. of caster sugar, two eggs, the grated rind of two lemons, and the strained juice of one. When this mixture is sufficiently beaten, work in with it Jib. of finely-sifted flour. When quite smooth, drop the mixture in small quantities on a sheet of paper spread over a baking- sheet with lin. or so space between them. Bake until lightly browned in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave the Jumbles until cold, then pack them into dry tins. Wafer Jumbles.—Warm 14oz. of butter and beat it with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar till creamy ; beat in eleven eggs, two at a time, sift in gradually 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, and continue beating till quite smooth. Slightly butter some baking-tins, put the preparation into a paper cornet, and press it out in rings on the baking-tins ; bake them in a slack oven. They will run out flat and thin, and should be crisp and brown when baked. If the first lot of cakes lose the ring form altogether, thicken with a little more flour. As they are baked, take them off the bakingv sheets, curl them, and leave till cold, then pack in biscuit-tins. JUNIPER.—This name is given to a shrub (Juni- perus communis) which bears blue berries used for flavour- ing gin. They have a warm, pungent taste, which can be used for other purposes, as seen in the following receipts : Juniper-berry Ice.—Take about 1 teacupful of Juniper berries, and give them one boil in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, a small bit of cinnamon, and Jib. of sugar ; strain and pass through a sieve. Pour the juice into a mould, put it into a freezer, freeze, and turn out. Juniper-berry Ratafia.—Take 18grs. each of cloves, cinna- mon, anise, and coriander, and 3oz. of Juniper berries, bruise all well, put them into 3 pints of brandy, and let them steep in it for a month; strain and add to the liquor fib. of sugar dissolved in J pint of water. Stir this well in, then strain through a jelly-bag, bottle, and cork tightly. JUNK.—The name applied by sailors to salted beef. Probably a corruption of Chunk. JUNKET.—See Devonshire Junket. JUS.—A French term applied to gravy of meat, and meat when served with its own gravy is said to be served au jus. Jus lie is thickened gravy. KABOB.—As in the case of other Hindustani words converted into English, the spelling of this one is entirely at the mercy of the individual. Hence we find Cabob, Kebob, Kebab, Kibab, Kepap, and other varieties, the word signifying the same as the original Kabab, a roast, with sundry modifications. The modern accepta- tion of the term is a piece of meat i-oasted on a skewer or small spit, whereas the original Kabab was a leg of mutton and sometimes a whole sheep, boned, and stuffed with sweet herbs and herrings. The following receipts have been collected from several sources, and may be considered sufficiently representative of the various modes of preparation, including Turkish and Persian. In curry they are highly appreciated by Anglo- Indians. See Aiguillettes and Atteeeaux. Curried Nabobs.—(1) For this any cold cooked or raw meat can be used; it should be cut up into pieces about lin. in diameter, and placed on skewers alternately with onion and green ginger, also cut up small, and when all are ready, put the meat, skewers and all, into a saucepan with sufficient curry sauce to moisten, and cook gently until done. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve with hot boiled rice. (2) Cut 21b. of lean mutton into lin. squares ; peel and slice a few onions; arrange the meat and onions alternately on skewers, with a thin slice of preserved g-inger next to each slice of meat, and a few thin slices of apples here and there. Put about 3oz. of butter in a flat stewpan, warm it, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped garlic, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls Fig. 995. Curried Kabobs. according to strength, of curry powder. Season to taste with salt, and fry until brown ; then put in the skewers of meat, and when brown put in J teacupful of curd, and a small quantity of water. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for three-quarters of an hour, or until the meat is tender. When cooked, put the skewers of meat on a hot dish (see Fig. 995), and serve them with a separate dish of plain boiled rice.793 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,he,, referred to, see under their special heads. Kabob—continued. Hunter’s Kabob.—Procure a wliole lamb or sheep already cleaned, rub it over with onion-juice, season with salt and pepper, and wrap it up in sheets of paper. Prepare a large wood or charcoal fire, fix a pole across on two stakes fixed in the ground, a few feet from the fire, put the lamb on it, place a pan underneath to catch the dripping, turn it gently, and baste with the gravy, using a bundle of feathers. When half cooked, take the paper off the lamb, and turn it quickly till browned all over. When cooked, take the lamb off the pole, put it on a hot dish, dust it with powdered cinnamon, pepper, and salt, and serve quickly. Indian Kabobs.—(1) Finely mince some cold mutton together with a very small quantity of fat and one or two onions, season to taste with salt and pepper, and work it into a stiff paste with flour and water. Poll the mixture round some wooden skewers, lay them on a baking-dish, and put in a slow oven. When the gravy has dripped out of the meat, take the rolls off the skewers, and lay them on a hot dish; mix a small quantity of flour and butter with the gravy, stir it o-ver the fire until thickened and boiling, pour it over the Kabobs, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread browned in butter, and serve. (2) Cut 31b. of mutton, either from the loin or leg, into small pieces about liin. square, rub each piece well with finely-minced onion, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of ground cinnamon, and leave them in a cool larder for three or four hours. Squeeze out the juice from five or six tomatoes into a basin ; fill some skewers with the pieces of meat, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting constantly with the tomato-juice, and turning as they brown. When quite cooked, place the skewers of meat on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. If fresh tomatoes cannot be procured, tomato sauce may be used, mixing lj teacupfuls of the sauce with 3 teacupfuls of water. Persian Kabobs. —(1) Remove the bones from 21b. of beef, mutton, or veal, mark it into squares without cutting through, put it into a basin, and steep in a mixture of 2 table- spoonfuls of mustard-oil, 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, J tea- spoonful each of ground ginger and ground coriander-seeds, 5 teaspoonful of ground garlic, 1 i teaspoonfuls of salt, the juice of a lemon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of tyre or dhye. The latter is made by warming milk without boiling, stirring in a small lump of butter, and keeping it covered in a warm place for eight or ten hours. Turn the meat frequently until nearly all the mixture is absorbed, then cut it into pieces about 2in. square, let them remain in the mixture for about an hour longer, turning often, place them on skewers, and roast or broil over a charcoal fire until done, basting with fat so as to obtain a good brown colour without burning. When done, remove the skewers, and serve as hot as possible. Chappatee or hand-bread, which is a thin flat cake, made with flour and wrater, without leaven, and baked on a griddle, is usually served with it. (2) Remove all the skin and sinews from 21b. of fat beef, chop it fine, pound it to a pulp in a mortar, put it into a basin, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of ground onion, £ teaspoonful each of ground peppercorns and hot spices, \ teaspoonful each of ground chillies and ginger, and 1 table-spoonful of tyre or dhye (milk warmed without boiling, a small piece of butter stirred in, and allowed to keep warm for eight or ten hours before being used). Stir all the ingredients well together, add salt to taste, and a well-beaten egg, form the mixture into balls, keeping them of equal size, flatten them, run them on skewers, rub them over with fat, wrap them up in plain- tain-leaves, and broil or roast over a charcoal fire until done. Remove the skewers, place the meat on a dish, and serve as for No. 1. (3) Cut the meat from a loin of mutton in small squares, put them in an earthenware pan with an equal bulk of sheep’s- tail fat also cut in slices, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper to season, add some slices of onion and the juice of two or three lemons, and let it macerate for a few hours. Push a skewer through the slices of mutton, alternately with the slices of sheep’s-tail fat, bay-leaves, mint, and basil. Roast them in front of the fire until done, put them on a hot dish, and serve with a garnish of stewed celery. Kabob—continued. Turkish Kabobs.-—(1) Pare and core two or three apples, cutting them up so as to have slices of equal size ; serve two or three onions in the same way, then cut off eight pieces, about as thick as a penny and 2in. in diameter, from some streaky bacon, and an equal number of pieces from the lean part of a loin of veal or neck of mutton. Put the whole of these pieces—thirty-two in number—into a shallow dish, sprinkle with curry powder, ground ginger, and salt, and let them remain for a couple of hours. Now put them on one or two skewers, first meat, then onions, bacon, and apple, and so on, until all are used up. Cover with buttered paper, put them before the fire or in the oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Put the Kabobs, with their skewers (which should be silver or electro-plated), on a dish, and serve with a border of rice, and if desired, a sauce- boatful of curry sauce or a little of it poured over the Kabobs. Care must be taken not to have the Kabobs too hot with the curry powder. (2) Cut off some small squares, about lin. thick, from a neck or loin of mutton, and rub them well with a mixture of chopped onions and tomatoes. Put the mutton and the mixture into a basin, and let them remain for two or three hours. Run a skewer through about four of these pieces of mutton, brown them in front of a clear fire, baste well with tomato-juice, and sprinkle with flour. When done, place them across one another on a dish, pour round the drippings mixed with a little rich gravy, and serve. KADGIORI.—See Kedgeree. KAIL.—See Kale. KALE.—This is known more commonly as Scotch Kale, or Kail. Either way of spelling is accepted, there being a strong inclination towards the mode adopted in the heading. The word itself is of Gaelic origin, and signifies, broadly, a cole, or undeveloped cabbage, it being a characteristic of the Kale (Brassica oleracea fimbriata) that the leaves do not form a head. Kales are very hardy, and are well adapted for winter use, the better sorts forming an excellent vegetable. The leaves are curled, and form a kind of plumage on the stalk of the plant. There are several kinds of Kale worthy of cultivation, amongst the best being the Imperial Hearting, Dwarf Green Curled, Egyptian Kale, Purple Borecole, Melville’s Variegated Kale, Cottager’s Kale, Abergeldie Kale, and Ragged Jack. The Jersey Tree Cabbage, or Cow Kale, is of the same species, but not fit for human food. See Cabbages. It is usually cooked by plain boiling, but makes an excellent salad prepared as follows: (1) Pick the Kale over carefully, removing all the decayed leaves and stalks; wash well in several waters, then put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil for twenty minutes, keeping it uncovered. When cooked, drain the Kale in a colander, mix a lump of butter with it, and season with salt and pepper. Turn the Kale on to a hot dish, garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and serve while hot; or the Kale may be served when cold with a bacon-fat salad dressing (see Bacon) poured over it. (2) Separate the sprigs of Kale, wash them in plenty of water, and tie up in bundles. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, leave until the stalks are794 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, es, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Kale—continued. soft, lift out the bundles, and place them on a sieve. When somewhat drained, cover with a cloth, and put them into a hot screen for ten minutes or a-quarter-of-an-hour. By that time the bundles should be well drained and crisp; then untie the bundles, lay the leaves on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve with plain salad dressing in a sauceboat in the centre. See Pig. 996. Kale Brose.—See Brose. Fan Kale.—Put |- breakfast-cupful of washed pearl barley in a saucepan with 3oz. of dripping, a lump of salt, and 3qts. of cold water, and place it over the fire to boil. Wash, peel, and chop two leeks, one carrot, and one turnip; and wash, dry, and chop a bunch of Kale. Put the vegetables in with the barley-and-water, and boil until tender ; then put in two scraped and washed carrots, and boil for half-an-hour longer. When cooked, the mixture should be quite thick; serve it very hot. White stock may be used instead of water, and will be a great improvement. KANGAROO.—In Australia, the tail of the Kan- garoo or Wallaby is considered superior to our ox-tail for making- soups, and admits of the same treatment. The flesh also is as highly prized as venison. An enterprising manufacturer has found a market for tinned Kangaroo, which can be cooked as follows: Fried Tinned Kangaroo.—Drain off the gravy from a tin of preserved Kangaroo, and with a sharp knife cut the meat into moderately thick slices. Trim to a good shape, and egg-and-breadcrumb them on both sides. Put the gravy and trimmings of the meat in a stewpan with a small quantity of stock, and 1 scant table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Then mix with the sauce 1 wineglassful of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly ; season to taste, and simmer at the side of the fire. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the slices, and fry them until lightly browned. As each slice is cooked, take it out of the fat, and drain for a minute on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Arrange them when done on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Haricot of Tinned Kangaroo. —Stand a tin of preserved Kangaroo in a stewpan of boiling water, and leave it over the fire until the contents are hot through. Put 2oz. of butter into another stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire until well blended, then mix in gradually the gravy that will be found in the tin; put in also 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, add any other kind of flavouring that may be liked, and move the stew- pan to the side of the fire. Peel two moderate-sized carrots and turnips, slice, and cut them into small rounds with a circular vegetable - cutter ; put them into a frying- pan with some button-onions and a lump of butter, and fry. When' the vegetables are tender and browned, drain as free as possible of butter, and put them into the sauce. Take the meat out of the tin—which should have been left in the hot water—place it upon a hot dish, pour the sauce and vegetables round it, and serve while hot. KAVA. — The name given by the natives of the Pacific Islands to a beverage prepared by them from the root of the Kava, or long pepper (Macropiper methys- ticum). The mode of preparation is by chewing the root, and washing out the disintegrate portions with water, leaving them in the sun to ferment. KEBOB.—See Kabob. KEDGEREE.—One of those fanciful Indian pre- parations which appears to have undergone some peculiar transformations since its English adoption. The spelling of the name appears to be indifferently Kedgeree, Kadgiori, Kitcheeree, Kitcheree, or any other mode that serves to convey the whistling pronunciation of the native cook. By some it is supposed that a genuine Kedgeree should contain fish, but by others the fish seems to be a secondary consideration, as seen in some of the following receipts. Kedgeree—continued. (1) Put any pieces of cold cooked fish in a pan and warm over boiling water. Stir in an egg beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot milk and a pat of butter. Place the Kedgeree on a dish, put a garnish of boiled rice round it, and serve. (2) Pick off the flesh in flakes of any kind of cold boiled fish. For every pound of fish wash and boil 1 breakfast-cupful of rice in lqt. of white broth. When the rice is nearly done, put in the fish, stir up well, and finish the cooking, taking care to warm it thoroughly ; season with salt, pepper, and a nutmeg, beat in an egg, turn it on a dish, and serve with slices of lemon. (3) Boil 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice in 1 pint of water, and when it is well done strain off the water and put the rice in a stewpan with an equal bulk of cold cooked cleanly-boned fish. Over this sprinkle 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, two cleaned filleted and minced anchovies, three minced chillies, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix these well together, and soften with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter. Set the stewpan on the fire, let the Kedgeree get quite hot, and then serve with lemon, piquant, or tortue sauce. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice in a sauce- pan with a little water and boil until quite tender. In the meantime, boil four eggs until quite hard, let them get cold, shell, chop up small, and mix them with some minced cold cooked fish. Put this mixture with the rice into a saucepan, add a small piece of butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and cook until quite hot, taking care to stir frequently to jirevent it burning. It must not be too moist, or it will spoil the effect. Such fish as turbot, soles, halibut, pike, hake, skate, and codfish are all suitable for Kedgeree. (5) Put 4oz. of fat (ghee) into a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil plunge in twelve larg-e onions cut in slices, and cook to a light brown. Push the onions to the side of the pan, add f breakfast-cupful of rice and 1 tea- cupful of dal or split grain, or rice and dill in equal propor- tions, and continue to cook until all the fat is absorbed ; then add a few slices of green ginger, a few peppercorns, six bay- leaves, three or four cardamoms, and sufficient small sticks of cinnamon to flavour. Stir well to thoroughly incorporate the several ingredients, pour over only sufficient water to Fig. 997. Kedgeree. cover, put on the lid, which should fit closely, place the pan on a slow fire, and cook until the water is all absorbed, reducing the heat gradually. Great care must be taken not to let the rice burn, which can be easily prevented by giving the pan an occasional toss. Turn the whole, when done, out on to a hot dish, strew over a few fried onions, adding a little saffron or turmeric to the rice and dill at the time of frying to give it a good yellow colour. The flavour of the dish is in no way affected, but the appearance is more attractive. Garnish with boiled rice and croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 997), and serve very hot. (6) Put in a saucepan 1| teacupfuls of well-washed rice, four cardamoms, I teaspoonful of cloves, | table-spoonful of coriander-seeds, and a sufficient quantity of cold water ; boil the rice for fifteen minutes, then put in ^ teacupful of well- picked dal, and boil for five minutes longer. Drain off all the water, put in loz. of butter and a moderate quantity of salt, and keep the saucepan at the side of the fire with the lid off for fifteen or twenty minutes. Pile the Kedgeree on a hot dish, garnish with fried onions and hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (7) Soak Jib. of split peas in water, and when ready drain them; put them with Jib. of well-washed rice into a sauce- pan, and a small quantity each of mace, ginger, and salt, pour in a sufficient quantity of cold water, and boil until795 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kedgeree—continued. cooked ; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and dry off the moisture. Peel two or three onions, slice them, and fry brown in butter. Turn the Kedgeree on to a hot dish, garnish with the fried onions and hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, and serve. KENDAL PUDDING.—See Puddings. KERN-MILK—The Scotch term for butter-milk. KETCHUP—This sauce is of Japanese origin, as is also its name, spelled Kitjap, but, according to English notions, it may be either Ketchup or Catsup. Amongst modern Continental cooks Ketchup is known only as “ a piquant sauce made from mushrooms,” but the British cook has extended the idea to various uses, hence we have Ketchup of Anchovies, Barberries, Cockles, Cucumbers, Elderberries, Mussels, Oysters, Pepper, Tomatoes, Wal- nuts, and Wine. All of these are described under their various headings, but the following receipts admit of no special classification. Camp Ketchup.—(1) Put 2qts. of old beer and half the quantity of white wine in a saucepan with 4oz. of anchovies, place it on the fire, and when at boiling-point take it off, add 3oz. of peeled shallots and Joz. each of ginger, nutmeg, mace, and pepper, all well bruised, and let it remain for a fortnight, shaking it frequently. When settled, filter, bottle off the clear liquid, and it is ready for use. It will keep good for several years. (2) Put 1 pint of claret into a wide-mouthed bottle with 1 pint of any kind of Ketchup, and add Jib. of boned anchovies, loz. of very finely-cut lemon-peel, two finely- minced cloves of garlic, £oz. each of allspice, black and white pepper, ldr. of bruised celery-seeds, and 1 breakfast-cupful of liquor from any kind of pickle. Put a cover over the bottle, give it a shake every day for a fortnight, then strain, bottle off, and cork securely. Marine Ketchup.—Put lgall. of strong old beer in a sauce- pan with lib. of peeled and crushed shallots, ljlb. of anchovies, £oz. each of bruised mace, cloves, and mustard-seed, joz. each of pepper and ginger, also bruised, and lqt. each of vinegar and mushroom Ketchup. Place the pan on the fire, let the contents boil, and then pour off into bottles, shaking them frequently. Let the Ketchup macerate for a fortnight, strain through a very fine cloth, and put it back into bottles. It is then ready for use, and will keep good for a long time. Fontac Ketchup.—Put the required quantity of ripe elder- berries, picked free from stalks, into a stone or earthenware jar, pour over sufficient strong vinegar to cover, place the jar in the oven and cook until all the juice from the berries is extracted. While the liquor is still hot, strain it into a saucepan, add a seasoning of cloves, mace, allspice, pepper- corns, and shallots, boil until the ketchup is well-flavoured, then strain again, and return it once more to the saucepan ; add 8oz. of boned anchovies to each quart of liquor, boil until the anchovies are quite dissolved, then bottle and tie over with bladder. Seven-Years Ketchup.-—Put lqt. of very old beer into a saucepan with 1 pint of red wine, 6oz. of boned anchovies, ljoz. of peeled shallots, loz. of mace, -Joz. of cloves, and a little whole ginger-root, set the pan over a moderate fire, and boil until reduced by one-third. Kemove from the fire, let the ketchup get cold, pour it into an earthenware jar, cover, and leave for a week or so until the liquor is quite clear; then strain, add any flavouring desired, such as spice, vinegar, &c., boil up once more, let it get cold, pour it into small bottles, and tie over with bladder. KETTLES.—There is a great variety of these, those having special characteristics or uses being described under their special headings. KETTLE CAKE.—See Cakes. KHAT.— This is sometimes written Kat, or called Cafta. It is a shrub (Catha edulis) found in Arabia, the leaves and shoots of which are used for making a beverage like tea. It is more pronounced and agreeable in flavour than Chinese tea, and is generally prepared by boiling in milk and sweetening with honey. KHOOSH SITTERS.—The name given to a very widely-advertised tonic and appetiser, supposed to con- tain a large proportion of chiretta. The term “ Khoosli ” is Hindustani for “beautiful.” KHULASH. — This stew is very highly esteemed in Germany, and prepared as follows : Cut about 21b. of the head and fillet of beef into small- sized squares. Cut an onion up into small pieces, and fry it in a pan with a little butter, but not long enough to let it take colour; add the pieces of meat, fry them quickly for ten or twelve minutes, add a little salt and paprica (or cayenne pepper), remove the pan to the side of the fire, and cover the lid with hot ashes. Let it remain for forty-five minutes, when the moisture will all have evaporated, pour over a little gravy, and continue to cook for an-hour-and-a-half. Sprinkle over a little more paprica, pour over 2 table-spoon- fuls of brown sauce, and cook for another ten minutes or so. Cut some potatoes in small dice or squares, blanch in cold water for a few minutes, roll them well in the sauce, let them remain for five minutes, and serve. KICKSHAWS.—At one time this word was used as a term of contempt for French-made dishes. It is a cor- ruption of Quelques-choses (some things), but is not used now in any sense but that of banter. KID (TV. Chevreau).—The young of the goat, which is considered a delicacy if killed between six weeks and four months old; but after that time the musky odours of the goat begin to render themselves conspicuous, and detract from the flavour of the meat. Cooked as. follows Kid is very good eating : Curried Kid (Indian Style).—Put 2oz. of fat into a sauce- pan, boil it up, add a seasoning of 4 teaspoonfuls of onions, 1 teaspoonful each of turmeric and chillies, J teaspoonful of ginger, and \ teaspoonful of garlic, all ground; brown them slightly, add the fore-quarter of a Kid without bones cut up into sixteen or eighteen pieces, and salt to taste. Stir Fig. 998. Curried Kid and Rice. well until the ingredients have taken a slight colour, then pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water and simmer gently at the side of the fire for fully forty-five minutes, by which time the meat should be perfectly tender, and the liquor reduced by half. Turn the whole out on to a dish, garnish with rice, and serve. See Fig. 998. Kid a la Foulette.—Procure a very young Kid, put it in a deep dish with milk-and-water to cover, and soak for several hours. Dry the Kid, bind it round with some thin strips of fat bacon, and roast in front of a clear fire. When nearly cooked, take the Kid up and cut off the meat from the back into one or two pieces. Mix 2oz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, pour in 1 pint of clear veal stock, add a bunch of parsley, | blade of mace, a dozen button-mushrooms, and the pieces of meat from the back of the Kid ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently at the side of the fire for nearly an hour. Afterwards take out the pieces of meat and place them on a hot dish ; strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan, and boil quickly until reduced and thickened. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in the mushrooms again, and when it has slightly cooked stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up together with 1 table-spoonful of cream, and strained. Pour the sauce over the Kid, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Kid Country-Captain.—Partly roast or broil a quarter of Kid, then cut it up in about eighteen pieoes. Put 4oz. of796 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sa/uces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kid—continued. fat or butter into a saucepan, boil it, add 'about twenty onions cut up in slices, fry, take them out, put in I tea- spoonful of ground chillies, and \ teaspoonful of turmeric; brown them slightly, add the pieces of Kid’s meat and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and continue to cook until the meat is perfectly tender. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with the onions for garnish. Kid Cutlets.—Take some cutlets from a loin of Kid, and dust over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; roll them in beaten yolk of egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumbs, coating them well; put a large piece of butter or clarified fat into a deep frying-pan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry until nicely browned. As the cutlets are cooked, place them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain. Put 2oz. of flour into a stewpan with § table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Fry until it begins to brown, then dredge in | table- spoonful of flour, and stir for a few minutes longer over the fire, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water and boil for a few minutes. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Kid Pilau.—Cut up two legs of Kid into small slices, put them into a saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to cover them, and simmer slowly until done. In the meantime put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice into a saucepan, cover it with gravy strongly seasoned with onions, green ginger, salt, and spices, and continue to boil until the rice is quite soft. Then put the slices in the centre of a dish, and pour the rice mixture on them. Garnish over the meat and rice with fried onions, and round the dish with bits of fried bacon and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Cold cooked meat is frequently used to make this dish, or the slices of raw meat may be partly browned in a frying-pan before boiling. Ilinced Kid.—Cut the remains of any part of cooked Kid into thin slices ; put 1 pint of piquant sauce in a saucepan and place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and throw in the pieces of meat. Season well, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly. The sauce should not boil after the pieces are added. When the meat is hot, turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Boasted Kid.—(1) Procure a young Kid. Mix together 1 pint of vinegar, 1 pint of water, ^ pint of port wine, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 2 smaller table-spoonfuls of salt, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns. Pour this mixture over the Kid, and let it steep for several hours, turning occasionally. Afterwards hang the Kid up for two days, and wash over once or twice with its marinading liquor. When ready, roast it whole. Prepare the following sauce : Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed, then pour in | pint of clear veal stock, add half a blade of mace, one shallot, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for half-an- hour. Strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan, and boil up once; mix in 1 wineglassful of port wine, the strained juice of half a lemon, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and a small quantity of loaf sugar. When cooked, put the Kid on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. (2) Kid is commonly cooked in the following way in India : Clean a Kid, leaving on the head, stuff with stuffing the same as for sucking-pig, break the joints of the legs, and truss it in the same way as a pig. Put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, baste frequently with melted beef-suet mixed with hot water and salt, and let it remain until done. Put it on a dish, with a lemon or lime in its mouth, and serve. KIDNEYS (Fr. Rognons ; Ger. Nieren ; Ital. Arnioni; Sp. Rihons).—The word Kidney is of very ancient ex- traction, and originally referred to the womb or belly; but custom has conferred the title solely upon the glands which excrete urea and other waste products of the body. In using the word, it may be taken for granted that either sheep’s or lamb’s Kidneys are referred to, unless others are specified, although the Kidneys of other animals butchered for food are many of them very good and make excellent dishes. The following receipts are Kidneys—continued. applicable to any kind of Kidneys, but when a Kidney is specially named it will be found under the name of the animal to which it belongs : Broiled Kidneys. — (1) Put the Kidneys in boiling salted water, and let them soak for a few minutes. Take them out, dry on a cloth, cut in halves, but do not sever them, remove the skin, and fasten open with a skewer. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip into a little warmed butter, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Put them on a dish, pour over a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and a squeeze or so of lemon-juice, and serve. (2) Skin, wash, wipe, and split some small Kidneys, run a skewer through to keep them open, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip them first in softened butter and then in flour, put them in a double boiler, and cook over a clear fire for six minutes. Place them on a dish, and serve. Broiled Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Plunge the Kidneys into boiling water for an instant, split down the middle without cutting them right through, skin, and run a fine skewer through each to keep them open flat. Season well with pepper and salt, warm a little butter, and brush over with it. Lay them on a hot, well-greased gridiron, cut-side down- wards ; when that side is done, turn them over and cook the other side. Take the skewers out, lay the Kidneys hollow side up on a hot dish, put a bit of maitre-d’hotel butter on each, and serve immediately. Devilled Kidneys.—Remove the skin fi'om as many Kidneys as are required, parboil them in a little water, cut down the centre, and dip in warmed butter. Dust over with salt and pepper (and a little cayenne if desired), broil over a clear fire, and serve on a dish with some butter worked in with minced parsley, salt, and pepper. Fried Kidneys.—(1) Cut some Kidneys in halves down the centre, without severing, remove all the skin and fat, dust over with cayenne and salt. Put them in a heated frying- pan, pour a little clarified butter over, fry quickly, and serve upon pieces of toast. Add a little ketchup or sauce to the gravy, and pour it over before serving. (2) Take off the skin from half-a-dozen Kidneys, cut them in quarters, dip in flour, and fry in a little butter for five minutes, turning so that the flour will be well coloured on both sides. Add 4 wineglassful of white wine, a few mush- rooms, a little minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and cook for eight minutes longer. Stir well, and when all are done, serve very hot. (3) Cut the Kidneys into slices; make a thick batter with two well-beaten eggs, 1 pint of milk, and a sufficient quantity of flour, season to taste with salt and pepper, and if at all lumpy pass it through a fine sieve. Put a large piece of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises. Dip the slices of Kidney in the batter, coating them thickly, put them into the boiling butter, and fry a bright golden brown. Drain the slices on a sieve, or lay them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire for a minute, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Grilled Kidneys.—(1) Skin half-a-dozen Kidneys, cut or split them lengthwise, but do not cut right through, rub with a little warmed butter, and broil over a clear fire, cut side first, on a well-greased gridiron, which should be hot when the Kidneys are laid on it. When nicely done on both sides put them on a hot dish, and lay on each a piece of butter, a drop or two of lemon-juice, some fried parsley, fried chopped onion, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve very hot. (2) Take off the skin from two or three Kidneys, cut them down the centre, and dip first in egg beaten up together with salt and pepper and then into breadcrumbs. Put lfoz. of butter in a pan, and when melted dip the Kidneys in it and then in more breadcrumbs, grill them before a clear fire, and serve with a little piquant sauce. (3) Cut some Kidneys down the middle, put them on a skewer, and cook in a dish with a few slices of bacon, and when done, serve with the bacon. Kidneys a la Brocliette. — Remove the skin from some Kidneys, and cut them nearly through, keeping them in a spread-out position with small skewers. Dip in a little warmed butter, put them on a buttered gridiron, and cook for eightTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 797 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kidneys—continued. minutes, turning1 frequently. Put them on a dish, add a little chopped parsley, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper to the butter, pour it over, and serve. Kidney-and-Bacon Bolls.—Peel and finely chop a small onion, and mix with it 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a small quantity each of pepper and grated nutmeg. Slightly moisten the mixture with beaten egg, spread it over some thin slices of bacon, and place a small Kidney on each. Roll the bacon round the Kidney, and transfix with skewers. Arrange the rolls in a baking- dish, and bake them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Fin. 999. Kidney-and-Bacon rolls. When cooked, put the rolls on a hot dish (see Fig. 999), garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Or they may be left until cold, then served on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper. Kidney Balls.—Finely chop a Kidney, together with a little of the fat, add 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped onion or leek, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix all together with a beaten egg, roll the mixture into balls, and fry them. Serve hot. Kidney Fritter.—Put four eggs into a basin, beat them well, then add 1 teacupful of cream, a little finely-shred parsley and cloves and chopped mushroom, seasoning with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Finely mince the required quantity of Kidney, together with a little of the fat adhering to it, and mix this in with the egg mixture. Well butter a frying-pan, and set it on the fire ; when hot, pour in the mixture, and stir it until cooked, taking care not to spread it out too thin. Remove the pan from the fire, brown the surface with a salamander or by holding the pan in front of the fire, and serve at once. Kidney Gravy.—Cut four small or one large ox-Kidney into slices, sprinkle with flour, and put them in a frying-pan with 2jOz. of butter, half an onion cut up small, and a few sweet herbs. Toss the pan gently over a moderate fire for seven or eight minutes, add 1 pint of water, and simmer gently for about two hours, skimming frequently. Pass it through a fine sieve or strainer, and it is ready for use. Kidney Omelet.—(1) Boil a sheep’s or other Kidney, and when cooked cut it into thin slices. Beat six eggs together with 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 teacupful of milk, seasoning with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, pour in the omelet mixture, and stir it over the fire until set; then lay the slices of Kidney on the top, and fold it over. When cooked, slip the omelet on to a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve immediately. (2) Stew on the hot stove for three minutes three minced sheep’s, lamb’s, or pig’s Kidneys, together with ^ pint of Madeira sauce. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, as described under Omelets, put the Kidneys in the centre, fold the omelet over, and turn it on to a hot dish. Poui- more sauce round, and serve. (3) Chop a Kidney up very small, and fry it in a little butter together with a small quantity of minced shallot, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and add the Kidney mixture. Put ljoz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is quite hot beat the whites of three eggs lightly, add them to the beaten yolks, &c., and pour them in. Stir for two or three minutes, then serve. Kidney Pie.—Chop three Kidneys very finely together with their fat, and mix with them a moderate quantity of finely- Kidneys —continued. chopped sweet herbs and a little chopped celery ; season with grated nutmeg, pounded cloves and mace, and salt and pepper to taste, adding the chopped yolks of four hax-d-boiled eggs, and 1 scant bx-eakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, put in the above mixture, moisten with 1 or 2 table-spooxxfuls of slxerx-y, and cover the pie with a flat layer of pxxff paste; trim off evenly round the edges, moisten, and press them together. Make a slight incision in the top of the pie, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is cooked, stand the pie-dish oxx a flat dish, and serve while hot. Kidney Pudding.—(1) Split and soak a large Kidney. Make a common suet crust, roll it oxxt, and line a basin with soxxxe of it. Cut the Kidney in pieces, put it in, pour in a small quantity of water, cover with another piece of the crust, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for three or four hours. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and lay the Kidneys in it; put 1 teacupful of flour in a basin with 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped onion and chopped parsley, and 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and grated lemon-peel; stir in gx-adually 1 pint of milk and three well-beaten eggs, add 2 scant teacupfuls of vinegar, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated xxxxtmeg, using only a small quantity of this latter ingredient, pour the butter over the Kidneys, pxxt the pudding into a qxxick oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When the batter is fix-m a little butter should be put on the top. Take the pudding oxxt of the oveix when cooked, and serve while very hot. Kidney Sautes.—Skin some Kidneys, wash well, and dry; cut them up into round slices, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pxxt 1 table-spoonful of butter axxd half that qxxantity of flour into a frying-pan, and wlxeix it is hot place in the Fix;. 1000. Kidney Sautes. Kidneys, stir for two minutes, add 1 gill of water or stock, and boil it up, mixing in 1 teaspoonful of lenxon-juice. Pile 4 table-spoonfuls of mashed potatoes on a plate, arrange the slices of Kidney round the potatoes, and pour over and round the potatoes the gravy, which should be very thick, and garnish the dish with small pieces of toast (see Fig. 1000). Kidney Soup.—Chop four Kidneys, or exit them ixxto small squares, put them into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, and fry for a few minutes; then put in a peeled and clxopjxed onion and shallot, two or three chopped small sticks of celery, and a clove of garlic. Fry the whole until nicely browned, then dx-edge in 1 scant teacupful of flour, stirring that until browned, axxd pour in 5 pints of stock or broth, two wineglassfuls of sherx-y, a few sprigs of thyme, and 1 teaspoonful of peppex-corns. Continue stix-x-ing the soup over the fire xxntil boiling, then move to the side, and let it simmer for an hour or two. Skim the soup well, remove the pieces of thyme, turn the soxxp into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast, or croxitons of fried bread. Kidney Toast.—(1) Mince the Kidneys of a roast loin of veal together with half their fat, season well with pepper, salt, chopped shallots, parsley, and a small qxxantity of green, sweet basil, and bind with beaten yolk of egg. Cut some pieces of bread of an equal thickness, and any shape fancied, spread a layer of the mixtxxre over each piece with a knife dipped in beaten egg, and strew grated breadcrumb on the top. Line the bottom of a baking-dish with slices of fat bacon, lay the pieces of bread on them, and put into a brisk oven. When baked, drain the pieces of bread, lay them on a dish over which has beexx spread a folded napkin or aTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 798 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Kidneys—continued. fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with crisp fried parsley, and serve very hot. (2) Remove a little of the fat from some small Kidneys, mince them very fine, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, cayenne, and finely-grated lemon-peel. Put this mixture in a pan with a little butter, add one or two well-beaten eggs, and spread it on pieces of toast. Place them again in the oven to brown, and serve. (3) Finely mince the required quantity of Kidney, together with a little of the fat, pound it to a pulp, season with salt and pepper, and add a small boiled and finely-chcpped onion. Now add sufficient beaten white of egg to form the mixture into a mass, heap it on a slice of toast, cover with the beaten yolks of eggs, dust over thickly with breadcrumbs, and bake in a quick oven. Servo very hot. (4) Put the Kidneys in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry until three-parts cooked; then free the Kidneys from all the skin and hard parts, put them in a mortar, and pound until smooth. Season the Kidneys with salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and work into a smooth paste with beaten yolks of eggs. Cut some thin slices of j bread off a tin-loaf, toast a golden brown on either side, trim off the crusts, cut each slice into three fingers, and spread some of the mixture on each piece of toast. Put a lump of butter on a dish, place it in the oven, and when I the butter has melted lay the pieces of toast on it, and leave in the oven until very hot. Serve the toasts the j moment they are taken out of the oven. (5) Indian Style.—Fry the Kidneys in butter until half cooked, then trim off all the skin and hard parts, put them in a mortar with a moderate quantity of curry powder and salt to taste, and pound to a smooth paste, moistening with beaten yolk of egg. Cut some rather thin pieces of bread, about 1 Mn'. square, and fry them in butter until browned on both Fig. 1001. Kidney Toasts (Indian Style). sides; next drain them, place a portion of the above mixture on each slice, lay them on a dish, and put in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Prepare a sufficient quantity of sauce with a rich brown gravy, well flavouring it with chutney and tomato sauce, and boil it. When ready, pour the sauce round the toasts, and serve quickly while very hot. See Fig. 1001. Mock-Kidney Soup.—Put lib. of calf’s or other liver into a | saucepan with lgall. of water, and boil slowly for an hour. Take it out, and rub through a coarse grater. Cut another pound of liver into small pieces, and mix them in; put back into the saucepan, together with a carrot, turnip, and potato, all grated, and one onion very finely chopped. Cover the pan, and boil slowly or simmer for an-hour-and-a-half; add salt and pepper to taste, turn the whole into a tureen, and servo very hot. Stewed Kidneys.—(1) Pare, trim, and skin twelve Kidneys, cut them into slices, and cook for five minutes in a frying- pan with loz. of clarified butter, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Brown well, then add % pint of Spanish sauce and four cepes (mushrooms) cut into pieces. Warm without boiling, add the juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. (2) Cut some Kidneys in slices, and put them in a basin with sufficient cold water to cover, and leave for half-an-hour. Wash thoroughly, and put them in a saucepan with lqt. of stock or water, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of onion-juice, one clove, and a little salt and pepper. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for two hours. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into another saucepan, and when hot add an equal quantity of flour, and stir until it is brown Kidneys—continued. and smooth ; add it to the Kidneys with a few sweet herbs, and simmer for an hour longer. When done, take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and serve. (3) Cut three Kidneys in slices. Put 3oz. of butter into a frying-pan over the fire, and let it boil. Peel an onion, chop it fine, stir it into the heated butter, lay in the slices of Kidney, and fry for two minutes. Have a small saucepan on the fire containing 3 table-spoonfuls of brown gravy, 1 wine- glassful of claret, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, heated; drain the fat from the slices of Kidney, and add them to the hot gravy in the saucepan, together with a seasoning of salt and pepper; put the lid on tight, let them simmer for five minutes, and serve. (4) Divide the Kidneys in halves without quite separating, put them in a lined stewpan with 1 pint of water and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stew gently at the edge of the fire for four hours. When ready, place the Kidneys on a hot dish, and keep them near the fire for a few minutes while Fig. 1032. Stewed Kidneys. preparing the following gravy: Put into the cooking-liquor of the Kidneys loz. of butter kneaded together with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until thickened, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a few drops of Harvey sauce. Pour the gravy over the Kidneys, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1002. Tinned Kidneys.—To be perfection, Kidneys should be freshly cut out of the fat which envelopes them, but, with the view to preserve them for a prolonged period, they have been successfully treated by enclosing in her- metically-closed tins. Although decidedly inferior to fresh Kidneys, they arc very palatable if prepared ac- cording to any of the following receipts. Being already cooked, they require very little additional cooking. Baked Kidneys.—Put 1 teacupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, mix with them ) table-spoonful each of finely- chopped onion and chopped pickled gherkins, and about i table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; mix in also 1 tea- spoonful each of dry mustard and sugar, f teaspoonful of ground mace, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cut about one dozen tinned Kidneys lengthwise into halves, roll them well in the above mixture, lay side by side in a baking-dish, strew a few well-washed and dried currants over, and place one or two lumps of butter on the top. Put them into a brisk oven, and bake for about ten minutes. When baked crisp and brown, lay the Kidneys on . a hot dish, pour a little rich gravy round, and serve. Fried Kidneys.—Season 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs with about 1 table-spoonful each of onion, parsley, and pickled gherkin, all finely chopped, adding about 1 teaspoonful each of dry mustard and sugar, j teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, ground mace, and nutmeg. Mix these ingredients well, and bind them together with beaten egg and a small quantity of milk. Split some tinned Kidneys lengthwise, and roll them well in the mixture. Put a lump of butter into a frying- pan, place it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then put in the Kidneys, and fry until nicely browned. Drain them, arrange on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Kidneys and Eggs in Jelly.—Take about .V pint of gravy out of a tin of Kidneys, pour it into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 teacupful of water, foz. of gelatine, | saltspoonful each of ground cloves, mace, and nutmeg, and i table-spoonful each of chopped onion and mushroom. Stir the mixture overTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 799 Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see tinder their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Kidneys—continued. the fire, and boil until the gelatine has dissolved. Cut three hard-boiled eggs into thick slices, and split half-a-dozen Kidneys lengthwise into halves. Rinse a mould with cold water, lay the Kidneys and eggs in it, arranging tastefully, and pour the boiling jelly over. Place the mould in a cold Fig. 1003. Kidneys and Eggs in Jelly. temperature until the jelly has thoroughly set, then turn it out on to a dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few groups of parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1003. Kidney-and-Egg Patties.—Boil three eggs until hard, and mash them with a fork in a basin, add 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs, table-spoonful each of flour and finely-chopped onions and parsley, a few drops of chilli vinegar, and a dust of pepper. Mix the above ingredients well, using a small quantity of milk to bind them. Butter some small patty- pans, cover the bottom of each with a thin layer of the egg mixture, then open a tin of Kidneys and put ono in each of the pans. Cover the Kidneys with a little of the paste, strew finely-grated breadcrumb over, and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Put the patties in a brisk oven, and bake for ten minutes. When sufficiently baked, take the patties carefully out of the tins, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve hot or cold. Kidney-and-Oyster Pudding. — Put eight or ten tinned Kidneys into a stewpan together with 1 teacupful of their liquor, 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned oysters and 1 teacupful of their liquor, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions, and J saltspoonful of powdered mace ; season to taste with salt and pepper, stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently. Lino a well-buttered pudding- basin with a suet crust, put a cloth over, and tie it round the rim of the basin with string; roll out a round of the crust to fit the top of the basin, and lay it on the cloth, the ends of which bring up and tie over it. Put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour. At the end of that time take the cloth off the basin, put in the stowed Kidneys and oysters, fix the top on the pudding, tie the cloth over again, and boil for five minutes, then turn it out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Kidney Patties.—Prepare a light lard crust. Dredge flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it and roll out very thin. Divide the paste into pieces 3in. square, place a tinned Kidney on each of the pieces of paste, season them with salt and pepper and a small quantity of pounded mace, then bring the corners of the paste up so as to entirely envelop the Kidney, moisten the edges slightly with water, and press them together with the fingers. Put a good-sized lump of fat in a stewpan, place it over the fire until beginning to boil, then put in the patties, and turn them about in the fat until of a golden brown. When fried, take the patties out of the fat with a slice, and put them on a piece of paper to drain thoroughly. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, and serve. Kidney Pie.—Scrape the jelly off ten tinned Kidneys, and put it into a small stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onions, teaspoonful each of powdered cloves and nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste; and place over the Kidneys—continued. fire until hot. Put the Kidneys into a pie-dish, cover with thin slices of bacon and three or four sliced hard-boiled eggs on the top. Pour the gravy into the dish, put a short paste cover on the top, place it in a quick oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Serve the pie either hot or cold. Kidney Pilau.-—Wash thoroughly 1 breakfast-cupful of rice and 1 teacupful of currants ; put them into a saucepan with a sliced onion, 1 saltspoonful of saffron, ^ saltspoon- ful each of ground mace, ginger, cloves, and nutmeg, loz. of butter, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Boil the rice gently until tender. Empty a tin of Kidneys into a stewpan, and put in with them loz. of butter, J table-spoonful each of sugar and chilli vinegar, and 1 saltspoonful of mace, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until very hot. When the rice is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, put the Kidneys on it, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Kidney and Tomato Jelly.—Empty a tin of tomatoes into a stewpan, and put in with them a small quantity of finely- chopped onions and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, ^ salt- spoonful of ground mace, a very small quantity each of salt, cayenne pepper, and nutmeg, and loz. of soaked gelatine. Stir the mixture over a slow fire until the gelatine has dissolved. Put ten tinned Kidneys and a few pieces of cooked ham into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and pour the tomatoes over the Kidneys. Stand the mould in a cold temperature until the jelly is firm. When ready to serve, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper. KIDNEY-BEAN.—See Beans. KILDERKIN.—The name for a beer-cask in common use, holding 18galls. KILOGRAM, KILOMETRE, &c. See Weights and Measures. KIMMEL.—See Kummel. KINGFISH. — This is an American fisli of the Menticirrus genus, commonly known as surf-whiting. It is highly esteemed for cooking, and when full-sized (about 15in. long) is convenient for a small dish. In outward appearance the head closely resembles the mullet, and the body the European whiting, varying somewhat in the colour of the skin, which is in some kinds handsomely marked with transverse clouds (see Fig. 1004). The Kingfish can be cooked in any manner suitable for whiting. Boiled Kingfish.—Clean the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient clear fish broth to cover, and boil gently. When the fisli is cooked, strain it carefully, slip it on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and servo witli a sauceboatful of either brown or white sauce a la Normando. KIPPER.—The literal meaning of this word is “ to hatch,” and is used in zoology to describe a salmon after spawning. When salmon were caught in this condition in Scotland, it was usual to prepare them by splitting them open, salting, and smoking them; hence the term has been extended to the modg of preparation, and embraces other fish besides the salmon, such as Herrings.800 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. KIRSCHENWASSER, KIRSCHWASSER, or KIRSCH.—This valuable liqueur is made from cherries, crushed with their stones and kernels, and fermented. It is manufactured largely in Germany, Switzerland, the Yosges, Baden, and the East of France; but the best comes from the Black Forest, and is nearly colourless. In Algeria, a kind of Kirsch is prepared from the Japanese medlar; but in the northern part of Haute-Saone the cherry is extensively cultivated for the sole purpose of making Kirschenwasser. Fougerolles is especially famous for it, whilst Luxeuil and Yaldajot owe their reputation to the industry. Kirschenwasser is made from almost any kind of cherries, wild or cultivated, but the girotte, morello, or black cherry are chiefly employed in making the best qualities. It is used extensively by Continental cooks, and, being comparatively inexpensive, should find culinary favour in this country for its delicate flavour. It can be made as follows : Put the required quantity of ripe cherries into a large mortar and pound them, with their kernels, to a pulp; to every quart of the pulp add 1 pint of water, and about 3 gills of brandy. Mix well, and let it ferment for a fort- night. Squeeze it through a wine-press into a still, draw off the pure spirit, and distil again to rectify it. The cherry kernels always contain prussic acid, and are sometimes quite injurious, but if they were not used the peculiar flavour of the liqueur would be absent. Part of the kernels only may be used, and gooseberry brandy may be substituted for the brandy if preferred. Imitation Kirschenwasser.—Pour lgall. of plain spirit (over proof) into a jar or bottle, and mix in loz. of essence of cherries, foz. of essence of almonds, loz. of solferino, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cochineal colouring. When these are thoroughly mixed, stir in lgall. of syrup, let it remain for three days, filter, and bottle. Should the colouring not be deep enough, add more. Kirschenwasser Charlotte.—Cover the bottom of a charlotte- mould with finger-biscuits cut to a point and placed so as to form a rosette, cut across the centre with a paste-cutter and place the biscuit, cut straight, to the sides of the mould. Put any preserved fruits, such as apricots, cherries, green- gages, &c., in a basin with some Kirschenwasser, and let them soak for an hour or so. Spread a layer of ice plombiere with cream or fruits at the bottom of the mould, then a layer of preserved fruits, and so on until the mould is full. Place the mould on the ice to freeze, turn the charlotte out on a dish, surround it with a circle of preserved greengages, and serve. Kirschenwasser Cordial.—This is made by mixing foz. of oil of bitter almonds, dissolved in Ingalls, of pure spirits, with fgall. °f white syrup. Kirschenwasser Cream Ice.—Mix 2 wineglassfuls of Kirs- chenwasser with f wineglassful of cream, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, put it in the freezer (see Ices), and when it is sufficiently stiff put it in a mould packed in ice, freeze again, and it is then ready for use. Turn it out on to an orna- mental dish. Kirschenwasser Grlaces.—Whip the whites of six eggs to a froth, and add them to the yolks, beaten up together with fib. of caster sugar. Stir in 4oz. of flour, and when sufficiently mixed put it in a biscuit-bag and squeeze out on sheets of paper in rounds about lfin. in diameter. Sprinkle them over with a little sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Glaze them with some Kirschenwasser icing, made by boiling syrup to 40deg. and reducing it to 38deg. (see Syrups) by adding Kirschenwasser. Put them on a drainer for a few minutes in a quick oven to dry, turn them, and when quite cold they are ready for using. Kirschenwasser Jelly.—(1) Make f pint of clear sweetened jelly, then turn it into a basin and stir till somewhat cooled; flavour the jelly with 2 wineglassfuls of Kirschenwasser, pour it into a jelly-mould, pack it in ice and salt, and leave it till set. When the jelly is quite firm it may be served, but the mould should be dipped in tepid water and wiped before turning the jelly out. Kirschenwasser, Kirschwasser, or Kirsch—cont. (2) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with fib. of sugar; add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingredients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves, and one bay-leaf, and mixing well with the whisk for one minute. Stir the preparation, and when coming to the boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing ; stir while boiling for six minutes. Have ready a seamless jelly-bag, tie it on a jelly-stand, or if more handy, two kitchen chairs, one inverted on the other, will answer the purpose. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the stove, and pour the contents into the bag, immediately adding 1 gill of Kirschenwasser. Let the whole drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and pack it in the ice to harden for two hours. Dip the mould (not too near its edge) in warm water, take it up immediately, turn it on to a cold dish, and send to the table. Kirschenwasser Jelly with Cherries.—Put in some syrup boiled at 30deg. (see Syrups) lib. of morello cherries, and boil them for five minutes. Put in a stewpan 2oz. of gela- tine, the beaten whites of three eggs, fib. of caster sugar, 2f pints of water, and the juice of a lemon ; whisk it over the fire till it boils, turn it out, and add If teacupfuls of Kirschenwasser when it is cold. Crack about fifty cherry- Fig. 1005. Kirschenwasser Jelly with Cherries. stones, blanch and peel the kernels, drain the cherries, and put a layer, first of jelly then of cherries, and a sprinkling of the kernels, in a plain cylinder-mould, and so on till the mould is full. Cover the mould with a tin sheet, pack it in ice, put ice on the tin, and let the jelly freeze for two hours. Turn it out of the mould on to an ornamental dish (see Fig. 1005). The jelly may be garnished with crystallised fruits. Kirschenwasser Omelets.—(1) Make a sweet omelet with twelve eggs (see Omelets) ; when it is done and glazed, throw round a wineglassful of Kirschenwasser, and set the omelet on fire. Serve it while burning. (2) Beat ten eggs in a basin, and add 1 table-spoonful of Kirschenwasser, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a little salt. Put fib. of butter in a frying-pan, and when melted add the egg mixture, stirring well until it thickens. When sufficiently set, take it out, fold it in the shape of a purse, and put it on a dish. Dust over with sugar, glaze, and decorate its surface with a red-hot skewer. Put f wine- glassful of Kirschenwasser in a pan, heat it, mix in 3 table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, and pour it round. This omelet is considered excellent. Kirschenwasser Punch.—Put in a vessel fib. of powdered sugar with 1 pint of cold water, grate in the rind of a small lemon, squeezing in the juice of one-and-a-half good-sized ones, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes ; add 1 gill of Kirschenwasser, mix a little more, and strain through a sieve into a freezer. Put on the lid, and lay it in an ice-tub, filling the freezer all round with broken ice, mixed slightly with rock-salt, and turn the handle asTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 801 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifrc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kirschenwasser, Kirscliwasser, or Kirsch—cont. briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the punch from the sides and bottom of the freezer. Be-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more; uncover again, and detach the punch the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on, and repeat the same operations three times more. When ready, serve in six small punch-glasses. Kirschenwasser Sauce.—Pour in a saucepan 1 pint of cold water and ^lb. of granulated sugar, and place it on a hot stove. Mix loz. of cornflour in a cup with 1 gill of cold water, and when Ihe water in the saucepan is boiling, add the cornflour to it, stirring well for two minutes with a whisk. Take from the fire, add immediately £ gill of Kirschen- wasser, and mix again for one minute. Strain through a fine sieve into a sauceboat, and serve very hot. Kirschenwasser Sorbet.—(1) Mix lqt. of syrup at 35deg. with the same quantity of Chablis, and pass it through a silk sieve into a freezer (see Ices). Beat it well with a spoon or spatula, and when sufficiently frozen add tea- cupful of Kirschenwasser, stir well, put it in glasses, and serve. (2) Mix together 1 gill of lemon-juice, 1 pint of syrup at 35deg., and 1 pint of Chablis. When well mixed, strain it through a silk sieve, and put it into a freezing-pail sur- rounded with bay-salt and pounded ice. Keep stirring the mixture in the pail, and when well frozen stir in 1 table- spoonful of rum, and serve in glasses. KISHR.— The Arabian name for the coffee-husk, which is ground when dried, and made into Kishr coffee. According to Simmonds, the decoction is made as follows: A handful of husks are bruised and put into hot water in an earthen pan, and set over a slow fire. A few bruised car- damoms and a little dry cinnamon or ginger are added, the whole being allowed to simmer for about lialf-an-hour. It is then ready for serving. KISSES.—Small pieces of confectionery. See Sugar. KISSING CRUST—That portion of the crust of a loaf that has been touching another loaf during baking. KITCHENS (Fr. Cuisines; Ger. Kuchen; Ital. Cucine; Sp. Cocinas).—Our English word would appear to be a German corruption of the French, both pro- claiming their origin from the Latin coquere. Although a roomy, well-appointed Kitchen is an essen- tial to good cookery, it does not follow as a matter of course that the two are always associated ; for, very much to their discredit, employers of skilled labour not in- frequently expect that talent shall supply the place of tools and utensils. Let it be taken as a maxim, that a good cook cannot work without accessories which an ignorant cook would not understand the use of. The Kitchen should not only be roomy and well- appointed, but it should also be so situated, if possible, that the vapours arising from the different forms of cooking shall find an easy escape into the open air without filling the house with them some hours in advance of the dinner. “ Unfortunately,” says Gouffe, “ even in some of the wealthiest houses, where luxury and comfort have been so much studied, the Kitchen is often that part which is most neglected, and where the simplest teaching of experience and notions of progress have been discarded.” At one time it was the custom to build Kitchens out- side the house, as a separate part; but the modern architect has forsaken the good old plan, and squeezes the Kitchen in anywhere. Hotel Kitchens are now built at the tops of the buildings—a marked improvement upon the damp “catacombs,” as Favre calls them, which have been allowed for so long to disgrace the art or science of architecture. But it is no use having a well-appointed Kitchen if you have not a well-appointed staff to conduct it. Order Kitchens—continued. and cleanliness should be the great maxims of the place. It may be small and ill-lighted, but it should never be dirty. Every utensil should be scrupulously clean and bright, inside and out. The floor should be scoured daily and sprinkled with sawdust. Stoves and ranges should be washed, scraped, and blackleaded every day, either after the work is done or before it begins in the morning —the former for preference. All sinks should be scoured daily with soft soap and boiling water. When the work is over for the day, open all windows, for, as Gouff6 says, “ when the fires are out, a Kitchen should be as free from smell as the dining-room.” “ Let every Kitchen, large or small,” continues this famous chef, “ be provided with the best possible utensils; this is a rule which any sensible person, even if entirely wanting in practical knowledge of our profession, must admit; for it is un- reasonable to expect cooking to be well done without the necessary implements; therefore I have thought the following good advice to give to every housekeeper, even to the one who looks the closest to expense: ‘ Let your Kitchen contain every requisite; you will find it to your advantage, both as regards economy and successful results.’ The old adage that ‘ nothing is so dear as cheapness’ applies very generally to all provisioning.” See Air, Culinary Utensils, Fuel, Ovens, Ranges, and Stoves, &c. KITCHEN ACCOUNTS.—See Accounts. KITCHENERS.-Fanciful names given to close ranges; probably christened after the celebrated doctor of that name. KITCHEN UTENSILS.—See Culinary Uten- sils. KLIPFISH.—A common name for the dried cod imported from Norway; sometimes spelled Clipfish. KLOSSE.—A German name for small dumplings, usually served in soups. The following are excellent receipts for their preparation: (1) Mix lib. °f flour in a basin with a little salt, and work in a little warmed butter and four eggs; add sufficient milk to make it into a stiff, firm paste, and lastly 1 teacupful of the crumb of bread cut in small squares and fried in butter, when it should be of the consistence of panada; 1 handful of rasped breadcrumbs may be added if it is too soft and not of the required consistence. Take out a little at a time with a teaspoon, drop it on to a well-floured board, roll the pieces into ball shapes about the size of a walnut, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, cover over the pan, and boil quickly for eight minutes or so. Eemove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it remain for ten minutes longer. Take them out, drain well, put them on a dish, pour over a little nut-brown clarified butter, and serve. (2) Take the thick and solid parts of an uncooked fowl, chop up with it jib. of finely-shred beef-suet, and pound it in a mortar. In the meantime, soak three slices of bread in milk, take it out, squeeze dry, and add to the mixture in the mortar. Pound them well together, and sprinkle in a little grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and lemon-peel, and make them into a paste with two well-beaten eggs. Make this mass into the form of a Klbsse, and then boil it in broth. When done, serve. (3) Eemove the skin and bone from lib. of uncooked fish; chop the flesh up, and mince with it 2oz. of fat bacon; grate a little nutmeg over the mixture, and sprinkle in a pinch of salt with a little finely-chopped parsley. Put in a stewpan a lump of butter and a minced shallot; stir this over the fire till brown, adding gradually 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, | teacupful of cream, and two beaten eggs. Turn this preparation into a basin, and when cold mix with it the minced fish and ham. Shape it into balls with two spoons, drop them into boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, arrange them on a dish, and serve hot. 3 o802 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. KNEADING.—The process by which the ingredients of dough are thoroughly blended (see Bread). The word is of very early extraction, probably from the Icelandic Tcnoda. KNEADING-TROUGH—A trough used by bakers for making bread. KNICKERBEIN.—The literal translation of this German word is “weak-kneed.” It has been given to a “pick-me-up,” on account of its supposed nerve-giving powers. It should be made as follows, and swallowed at one gulp: Put the yolk of an egg at the bottom of a champagne- glass, pour over gently 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, and on top of this again 1 wineglassful of alkermis or curaijoa, taking great care to have the latter floating on the top, and without mixing with the brandy. KNIVES.—When these were first used or manu- factured dates so far back into the remote ages that it would be almost absurd to hazard a guess. They appear to have been introduced with civilisation, wherever and whenever that may have ensued; therefore, we have accounts of them in our earliest historical records, either for the kitchen or table. d Fig. 1006. Ancient Knives. The history of Knives is very entertaining. The first of which we have any record were the sharp edges of flint (see Fig. 1006, a, b, e, f, g), which were much used in sacrifices. The two a, b, are drawn from specimens transferred from Ancient Egypt to the Berlin Museum, and c will be recognised as the knife of Egyptian hieroglyphics, which was made of bronze, d shows the Egyptian butcher with his dismembering knife and steel stuck in the belt. The illustrations e, f, g, are from Assyrian Knives in the British Museum. Fi'om the very earliest ages of civilised history Knives of metal appear to have been used; but amongst savages they were, and are now to some extent, manufactured from bone, hard wood, shell, or stone. In the thirteenth century Knives were mentioned under the name of Mensaculse and Artavi, and later on they are called Kenivets, from which we get the old English Knif, and our modern Knife. See Fig. 1007. Knives—continued. The varieties of Knives in modern culinary use are very great, differing in shape and size according to the uses to which they are applied. Those made for special purposes are described under special headings, such as Boning, Carving, Choppers, Cooking, &c. Fig. 1007. Modern Table Knives. One of the great charms of a well-ordered table- service is sharp Knives, a matter that is worthy of the cook’s especial attention, for when the blade is blunt, the meat appears to be tough, an idea that is not easily discarded. Knife-blades should be as bright as possible, and the handles free from the least semblance of grease or other uncleanliness. After using they should be wiped on a cloth to remove solid matters that might be adhering, and especially grease, for the sake of the Knife-board or Knife-cleaner. The practice of standing table Knives in hot water cannot be too severely deprecated, as the water spoils the handles, and the heat loosens the blades. Knife-cleaners are of various Fig. 1008. Rotary Knife-cleaner (A. Lyon). kinds, the Rotary (see Fig. 1008) being far superior to the old-fashioned knife-board, even in its improved con- dition, the board being covered with a soft material, and emery powder being used instead of bath-brick. "When Knives are put away for future use, the blades should be rubbed with a cloth saturated with mutton- suet; this will prevent rusting. KNOT.—This is the name given to a kind of sand- piper (Tringa canutus), a small bird which when fat and cooked can scarcely be distinguished from the quail. King Canute is said to have been so fond of them that the Continent was searched far and near for them. The plumage is described as grayish or ashy above, white with dusky liars under the tail coverts, and pale brown on the breast. They are met in northern latitudes during the summer months. KNUCKLE.—This term is used in cookery, and refers to the lower part of a leg of veal.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 803 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. KOHL-RABI.— This plant is a curious variety of the cabbage, tbe edible part being the stem, which is swollen and enlarged to the shape and size of a turnip Fig. 1009. Kohl-Rabi. (see Fig. 1009). The name is a combination of Cole (cabbage) and Rape (turnip). It is not much cultivated, but can be turned to good account as follows: Kohl-Rabi Salad.—Select three Kohl-Rabi or turnip-rooted cabbages, wash them well, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain them, remove the outer layers, and cut the remainder into slices. Cut three boiled potatoes into slices, also two onions. Put all the ingredients into a salad-bowl with about 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped pickle, and pour over them a bacon-salad sauce. If preferred, mix together some oil and vinegar, the oil pre- dominating ; season the mixture with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad in place of the bacon sauce, and serve. Stewed Kohl-Rabi.—Peel a cabbage turnip in the same way that turnips are peeled, cut it into quarters, put them in a saucepan of salted water, and boil until tender. Pick out all the tender green leaves of the Kohl-Rabi, boil them in salted water until soft, then drain and chop them; put the chopped leaves in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and keep them hot at the edge of the fire. When the Kohl-Rabi is Fig. 1010. Stewed Kohl-Rabi. tender, cut it into small slices. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed, but not browned, then pour in gradually J pint of milk and continue stirring until boiling. Season the sauce with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, put in the slices of Kohl-Rabi, and boil them up. Arrange tbe green leaves in a circle on a hot dish, put the Kohl-Rabi in the centre, and serve. See Fig. 1010. KOKUM.—The small round acid fruit of this tree (Garcinia indica) cut into slices and dried is much used in Indian cookery. It grows extensively in the forests of Malabar and other parts of Southern India, and the kidney-shaped seeds furnish a useful fat called Kokum butter. KOLCANNON.—See Colcannon. KOSHER.—This is a term used in Jewish cookery, by which it is inferred that the foods marked “ Kosher ” have undergone special examination, and been stamped with the Rabbi’s seal. The meaning of the word is “ pure.” KOUMISS.—A sort of milk-wine made by fermenting mare’s, camel’s, or other milk. The word itself is of Mongolian origin, and the Koumiss made by Calmucs and Tartars forms a very important liquor amongst those people. It has recently been manufactured in England for the use of delicate persons, and has been especially recommended by physicians for the benefit of consump- tives. The following are receipts for its preparation from mare’s or other milk: (1) Fill a strong quart bottle with mare’s, or skimmed cow’s milk, and mix with it loz. of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of the best yeast. Cork the bottle, wire it, and put it in a cool dark cellar. Shake the Koumiss well every day for five days, after that time it will be ready for drinking. It may be kept good, if well corked, for three or four weeks. (2) Put any quantity of mare’s milk in a wooden vessel and mix in one-sixth its bulk of water. Add one-eighth the quan- tity of the sourest cow’s milk that can be obtained, cover over with a thick cloth, and put it in a warm place for a day, when a thick creamy substance will have gathered on the top. Beat this well with a stick like a churn staff until the thick part of the milk is thoroughly incorporated with the thin. Let it remain for a day longer, then pour into a long narrow vessel like a churn, when it must be well stirred again until thoroughly mixed. Every time it is required for use it must be well stirred. If it is kept secure from the air, it will last for two or three months, and is carried by the Tartars in leather bags when they are travelling any dis- tance. By distillation a spirit can be obtained from it, and this is called arke or arike, but has not a very pleasant taste, and is not generally esteemed by Europeans. KOURABIEDES.—These are a kind of cake made in Turkey, and very much beloved by the ladies of the harem. They are sometimes served in soups, and are manufactured as follows : Work Jib. of butter into the same quantity of flour, and mix in slowly Jib. of caster sugar and a little salt. Make it into a firm paste by adding sufficient orange-flower water, knead it a little, and form it into balls about the size of small oranges. Lay them between sheets of well-buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Remove the paper when they are done, and serve with sugar sprinkled over them. KRAMBAMBOLI.—See Crambamboli. KRAPPE1.—Ger. for Fritters. KRAFLEN.—These very tasty German cakes are manufactured as follows, and form an excellent dish for a tea-table: Put 1 pint of lukewarm milk in a basin, and mix in 21b. of flour, making the paste as dry as possible. Warm 2oz. of butter, rub it well in, and then add five well-beaten eggs, putting a little in at a time and kneading continuously. Then add 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of yeast and rose-water, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat well until air bubbles rise, and divide it into pieces about 3in. long, Jin. thick, and ljin. wide. Put them in a warm place to rise, and then bake on well-buttered tins in a moderate oven until they are of a golden colour. Take them out, and before they are cold sprinkle over with sugar and grated cinnamon, and serve. KREAT.—An infusion of Kreat (Andrographis pani- culata) makes an excellent tonic bitters, commonly known as the “ King of Bitters.” KREATINE.—The active principle of meat. KRINGLES.—A fancy name given to certain cakes made in the form of biscuits : Beat up Jib. of warmed fresh butter with eight yolks and two whites of eggs, and then work in lib. of sifted biscuit- flour and Jib. of caster sugar. Work into a stiff paste, roll out, and cut into biscuits. Dock them (see Biscuits), and bake on greased baking-sheets. 3 o 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 804 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., refe>~red to, see under their special heads. KROMESKIES —See Cbomeskies. KUFTE.—This is a Turkish dish, made up of meat in hard cakes shaped like small rolls, and served with brown butter sauce. KUMJVIEL. — The name of a famous Russian and German liqueur, sometimes spelled Kimmel. The name is derived from the German for cumin, coriander, caraway, and that class of aromatic seeds of which the liqueur is compounded. It is imported in this country mostly in Russian bottles bearing German labels, indicating the locality of the manufacture. The best Russian Klimmel as it ages forms crystals at the bottom of the bottles. Some very good imitations of it are made as follow : (1) Put loz. of cumin-seed in lqt. of spirits of wine, and let it infuse for a couple of days. At the end of that time sweeten to taste with clarified syrup, strain, and filter through paper. Pour it into bottles, cork tightly, and pack them in a cool cellar for use. (2) Put Jib. of sugar and 1 heaped table-spoonful of caraway- seeds in § pint of boiling water, mix them with lqt. of brandy, pour it into a bottle, cork tightly, and leave it for a week or ten days. Afterwards, filter the Kiimmel, and it is ready for use. (3) Put into a large wide-mouthed 2qt. bottle 3oz. of caraway-seeds, fill the bottle up with the best rectified spirit, and leave it for eight or ten days. At the end of that time strain the spirit through muslin, let it settle, then strain again through filtering-paper until perfectly clear. Boil a little under lib. of loaf sugar with a small quantity of water to prevent it burning, then mix it with the syrup, stirring carefully at the same time. When quite cold, pour the spirit into bottles, cork them tightly, and pack away in a cool cellar. In about three weeks’ time it will be fit for use. (4) Wholesale. — Digest in a cask pint of essence of caraway with joz. each of the oils of fennel and anise, 10 drops of oil of neroli, 2qts. each of syrup and mucilage of gum Arabic, and 30galls. of rectified spirits. In a few days this will be ready to filter and bottle. Kiimmel is a favourite liqueur in many parts of the world, but in this country it is not much consumed excepting for flavouring, as in the following receipt: Kiimmel Jelly.—Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with £lb. of granulated sugar, 2oz. of gelatine broken into small pieces, and the grated rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on a hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingredients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, add six cloves and one bay-leaf, and mix well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag tied on a stand. Stir the preparation, and when coming to the boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding 1 gill of Kiimmel. Let it drain into the vessel, then return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and drain again for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and then pack in ice to harden for two hours longer. Dip the mould into lukewarm water, turn the contents on to a dish, and send to the table. KUMQUAT.—A Japanese fruit (Citrus japonica) of the citron tribe. It is a very pleasing sweet sub-acid, with a strong orange flavour and odour, but is not mucli known in this country. LABRADOR TEA.—This is sometimes known as James’s tea, and is an infusion of the leaves of Ledum palustre. LACTIC ACID.—The acid of sour milk. LADY CAKE.—See Cakes. LADY’S DELIGHT.—This is the fanciful name given to a mild pickle which is supposed to give great satisfaction to refined female tastes, and is prepared as follows: Chop up coarsely 1-lb. of sour apples, 1-lb. of peeled small onions, 2oz. of green or red chillies, and pack them (mixed) in a pickle bottle. Boil 1 pint of white wine, or best malt vinegar, with 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and, before it cools, pour it over the pickles in the bottle; cork down, and in two or three days it will be ready for use. With a little salad-oil this pickle is very delicious. LADY’S FINGERS.—See Biscuits. LAGER BEER.—This is so called from the German word lager—a bed, signifying, therefore, beer that is stored or laid by for some time before it is offered for consumption. At one time Lager Beer was brewed solely in Germany ; but as it has gained favour for its bright, sparkling, almost effervescent qualities, it is in general demand all over the United States, the British Isles, and other countries; and the demand has tempted foreign brewers into the manufacture of this German speciality. Lager Beer is consumed chiefly in summer, the draught passing through an ice-chamber, and thus ensuring a refreshing drink suitable to the warm season. The brewing commences in October, and it is then stored in vats as fast as it is manufactured, each succeeding brewing being distributed amongst those preceding. In this way a uniform strength is guaranteed throughout the stock. For information concerning the brewing, see Beer. LAMB (Ft. Agneau; Ger. Lamm; Ital. Agnello; Sp. Cordero).—From fhe circumstance that Lamb does not change its Anglo-Saxon appellation for a Norman one when prepared for the table (as does its parent, the sheep, into mutton), it would appear that it was not a favourite dish amongst the followers of William the Con- queror. At the festive tables of Rome and in ancient Greece it was frequently served as a bonne-bouche; but the fact of its being chosen for sacrifice on the great feast of the Passover, under the name of the Pascal Lamb, may have influenced such impressionable people as the French, and led to their discarding Lamb-flesh until the prejudice could be in a measure overcome. Let it be observed that Lamb is not regarded with the same favour on the Continent as veal, which has not any sacrificial legend to influence its use. The sacrifice of the Pascal Lamb as performed by the Gauls of old, and kept up by some of the best French families to this day, has been to serve it roasted whole, to be eaten with unleavened bread. A very good account of the modern “ sacrifice,” translated from the French, is given as follows: If the Lamb is white, the head and tail are to be preserved, stripped of their wool, washed in soda-water, and left to dry in a warm spot. The Lamb is trussed whole, the legs being folded upon the belly; the inside is then filled with roasted stuffed pigeons, glazed chest- nuts, little grilled sausages, and cooked white Pied- montese truffles. When the Lamb is full of this farce, the holes through which it was inserted are closed, and the Lamb set down to roast on a spit. When done, it is set upon a very large dish, ornamented with attelettes, and then garnished with truffles instead of potatoes. This commanding dish is placed in the middle of the table, and the host, armed with a large knife, sacrifices the Pascal Lamb by piercing its flanks and cutting large openings in them. Out rolls a flood of pigeons, truffles, and chestnuts, spreading around a perfume that would seduce the most austere vegetarian and delights the guests with a most delicious foretaste. A pigeon, three truffles, a few chestnuts, and a little sausage are allotted to each guest, each portion being moistened with the gravy running from the victim. A slice of the Lamb,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 805 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. served with salad, closes the short course. Eggs in surprise, filled with ices or vanilla creams, terminate the sacred meal. There are two kinds of Lamb used in cookery—the one called house-Lamb, being reared sometimes as a pet, under protection of a roof, and killed about December; and the other is grass- or out-of-door-Lamb, which is in season at Easter. They are considered in primest condition when two months old, retaining much of their prime quality until six months have passed over their heads, when they are better reserved for mutton. The earliest Lamb in the market conies usually from Dorsetshire, the Southdown following later on. Both are excellent meat. The butcher cuts up Lamb into joints similar to the sheep (see Mutton), and the fore-quarter is considered the primest, being closely followed by the loin and leg. The freshness of Lamb can be ascertained by ex- amining the veins of the fore-quarter, which should be blue, and not turning at all green. The kidney fat should also be very fresh and white. When this has turned colour a little, and gives off a faint smell, the Lamb is not freshly killed. But the fulness, brightness, and glassiness of the eyes is the best guide of all. From the following receipts, contributed by the most famous modern chefs, it will be seen that Lamb is capable of being cooked in an indefinite number of ways, and that almost every part of the animal is good for food. Baked stuffed Lamb.—Procure a very small whole Lamb, with the liver and heart, put it into a very large saucepan, minus the heart and liver, cover with water, and boil for fifteen minutes. Finely chop the heart and liver ; put 12oz. of butter into a saucepan, with three finely-chopped onions, toss them about over the fire till beginning to brown, then put in 1 tea- cupful of well-washed currants, the same quantity of skinned pistachios, and the minced liver and heart. Wash 1)- break- fast-cupfuls of rice in several waters, put it in with the liver, &c., season with pepper, salt, and powdered cinnamon, pour in a small quantity of the liquor in which the Lamb was boiled, and cook it; add more of the liquor as that becomes absorbed. Drain the Lamb, and when the rice is soft, stuff it with the mixture. Truss the Lamb, sewing it up with packthread; baste it with a few spoonfuls of onion-juice, rubbing well in with the fingers, lay it on a large baking-tin, and put into a quick oven. When browned on one side, turn the Lamb over, that it may brown on the other side. When cooked, untruss the Lamb and put it on a hot dish with forcemeat balls Fig. 1011. Baked stuffed Lamb. (see Fig. 1011), and serve. It may be roasted, if preferred, but in that case it should be stuffed before boiling'. Baked marinaded Saddle of Lamb.—Dust a saddle of Lamb plentifully with pepper, and hang it as long as it will keep. When it is ready, prepare a mixture of finely-chopped shallots, green rosemary, and a small quantity of tarragon- leaves ; also pound together a few juniper-berries, and an equal quantity of cloves and peppercorns ; rub all the season- ings well into the meat on all sides, lay it in a deep dish, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful each of vinegar and red wine. Turn and baste the meat constantly every day for three days. At the end of that time, wipe off all the herbs with a clean cloth, lard the meat, put it in an earthen baking-dish, and Lamb —continued. put a few pieces of butter on the top. Turn the marinade mixture into a small saucepan, mix with it half its quantity of clear gravy, and let it come to the boil. Strain the marinade over the meat, dredge it with salt, and bake for an-hour-and-a- half, keeping it well basted with the liquor. Just before removing the meat from the oven, baste it with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of rich cream. When cooked, drain and put the meat on a hot dish, keeping it near the fire for a minute, while preparing the gravy. Skim the fat off the liquor in the baking-dish, pour it into a small stewpan, scraping off the crustings round the sides of the dish, dredge in a small quantity of flour, add more seasoning of salt and pepper if necessary, and stir over the fire until boiling. Remove the sauce to the side, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten with 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and strained. Garnish the meat with quarters or slices of lemon, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Baked Saddle of Lamb. —Having selected a nice saddle of Lamb, trim off all the pink and superfluous fat, remove the end of the ribs, the cord, and veins along the back, wipe and rub the inside with salt, roll the flank under on each side, and sew it across the middle. Sprinkle pepper, salt, and flour over, and put it in the baking-pan with the inside up in order to thoroughly cook the fat. Baste and dredge it frequently; when the fat is crisp and brown, turn the meat and cook the other part, having previously tied a buttered paper over it. When cooked, put the Lamb on a hot dish, and serve with rich gravy and mint sauce separately in sauceboats. Ballotins of Lamb with Peas.—Bone a shoulder of Lamb weighing about 2|lb., letting the end bone remain for a handle; season with \ table-spoonful of salt and the same quantity of pepper. Sew it up with string, fasten firmly, and boil for two or three minutes in the stockpot. After letting it cool, lard the top with a larding-needle as for a fricandeau, and place it in a saucepan with a piece of pork skin, a carrot, and an onion cut in slices. Brown slightly for six minutes, then moisten with 1 pint of broth and J pint of Spanish sauce, cook in the oven for forty-five minutes, take it out, and strain the sauce over 1 pint of hot boiled green peas. Cook for two minutes longer. Place the gar- nishing on a hot dish, lay the ballotin (after removing the strings) on the top of the garnishing, and serve. Barbecued Lamb.—In Italy, a young Lamb only six weeks or two months old is sometimes roasted whole. It must be skinned, the fry taken out, and the feet chopped off. The bones are like gristle, and can be eaten. Sometimes the Lamb is stuffed with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs, then roasted, and served with bread sauce, or more frequently with lemon- juice squeezed over it. Blanquette cf Lamb. — (1) Remove the meat from two shoulders of Lamb, cut it into moderate-sized squares, and steep them in water for one hour. Put the meat in a stewpan, cover it with a little water or broth and 1 teacupful of white wine. When the liquid boils, strain the broth through a sieve into a basin, and let it remain for a few minutes to settle. Put one chopped onion in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry till browned; then mix the meat with it, and fry them together for a few minutes. Sprinkle in a little flour, pepper, and salt, and pour in gradually sufficient of the broth to reach the top of the meat; add a few cloves and pepper- corns, some trimmings of mushrooms, a few sprigs of parsley, and a bay-leaf. Put the stewpan over the fire, and let the contents boil quickly for ten or twelve minutes, to reduce the liquor to one-fourth ; then move thef saucepan to the side of the fire, and finish cooking the meat. When done, skim the fat off the sauce, stir in three eggs that have been beaten with a little milk, and continue stirring over the fire till thick, taking care that it does not boil; grate in a little nutmeg, take the meat out of the stewpan with a fork, arrange it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, spi-inkle a little parsley on the top, and serve. (2) Cut some of the best part of breast of Lamb into about 2|in. squares, wash and dry them, and dredge with flour. Put 4oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of minced fat bacon and a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley; let it simmer over the fire for ten minutes, then put in the pieces of Lamb, with a finely-chopped onion, and salt806 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. uces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Lamb—continued. and pepper to taste. Simmer at the edge of the fire until the meat is tender, then stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, garnish with small croutons of bread delicately browned in butter, and serve. Soiled Leg of Lamb.—(1) Dust a leg of Lamb over with salt, put it in a bowl with sufficient soft water to cover, make the water acid with a few drops of vinegar or lemon- juice, and let the Lamb steep for an hour. Afterwards dry it, dredge with flour, wrap it in a piece of linen, put it in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs and water to cover, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half, more or less accord- ing to the size of the joint. When cooked, remove the cloth, place the Lamb on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and thin slices of lemon (see Fig. 1012), and serve. (2) Cut off the leg of a ewe Lamb (there being more fat on this), saw off the knuckle, trim it, and remove the thick skin on the back. Put it into a bowl of warm water, and soak for fully three hours; then put it into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil gently until done, the time required being determined by the size. When cooked, place the leg on a dish, and serve hot with white sauce poured over it. A leg of Lamb should not weigh more than 3|lb., and should be very fat. (3) Put a leg of Lamb into a saucepan with sufficient clear cold soft water to cover, and let it remain for half-an- hour, with ^ handful of salt thrown over it. Tie it up in a thin white cloth which has been floured, and boil in water sufficient to cover it. A good-sized bundle of sweet herbs should be added. It will be done in about an-hour-and-a-half, and should be served with spinach or French beans. If required cold, garnish with sprigs of parsley. (4) Wipe and trim off the fat of a leg of Lamb, put the meat in a saucepan, cover with boiling salted water, and let it simmer till done, allowing twelve minutes for each pound of meat. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with caper sauce. (5) Select a small, nicely-shaped leg of Lamb, put it in boiling salted water, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Prepare a sorrel puree, put it on a hot dish, place the leg of Lamb on it, and serve with caper sauce. Braised Breast of Lamb.—(1) Cut out the bones from a breast of Lamb with a sharp-pointed knife, season the meat well with salt and pepper, then roll it up and tie it tightly round with twine. Chop finely one onion, a slice of carrot, and a slice of turnip. Put them in a braising-pan with a lump of butter, and stir over a brisk fire for five minutes; then put in the Lamb, sprinkling it plentifully with flour. Put the lid on, and stand the stewpan where the meat will cook slowly for half-an-hour; then pour in lqt. of boiling water or stock, and let it cook slowly for one hour longer, basting it frequently. When ready, take the meat out, cut off the string, and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain the latter over the meat, and serve while very hot, with a sauceboatful of either tomato or bechamel sauce. (2) Line the bottom of a braising-pan with thin slices of beef and bacon; put in some shoes of carrots and onions, a few sprigs of thyme, two or three laurel-leaves, some mixed herbs, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and mixed spices. Put in two breasts of Lamb nicely trimmed, and cover them with the vegetable seasoning till the pan is full; place the lid on, and place a strip of flour-and-water paste all round the edge, to prevent the air getting in. Heap soma Lamb—continued. hot coals on the lid, and cook the meat till tender; then take the pan off the fire, and leave till the contents are cold. Take the breasts out, cut them in pieces, put in a sauce- pan with some clear stock, and boil till the gravy is reduced to a glaze. Arrange the meat in a circle on a hot dish, put Fig. 1013. Braised Breasts of Lamb with Asparagus. a fried slice of bread between each piece of Lamb, with plenty of stewed asparagus in the centre, and serve. See Fig. 1013. Braised. Breast of Lamb a la Milanaise.—Trim a breast of Lamb, and put it in a saucepan in which there is a layer of thin slices of fat bacon; put some slices of lemon on the breast, then cover it with more slices of fat bacon ; pour in ^ pint of stock, and pack in an onion cut in quarters. Place the lid on the saucepan, with a few live ashes on the top, and braise slowly by the side of the fire till the breast is done, glazing it when cooked. Put some dressed macaroni on a hot dish, lay the joints on it, pour over a rich brown gravy, and serve. Braised Neck of Lamb with Brussels Sprouts.—Trim a neck of Lamb to a nice square shape (see Fig. 1014), and braise it, keeping it as white as possible. Meanwhile prepare a puree of Brussels sprouts a3 follows: Trim off the out- side leaves, and wash thoroughly 31b. of Brussels sprouts, put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and plenty of boiling water, and boil. When tender, drain the sprouts, squeezing out as much of the water as possible, and finely chop them. Peel and thinly slice a moderate-sized onion. Fig. 1011. Neck of Lamb. put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss it about over a brisk fire for a few minutes; then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, a few sprigs of parsley, and the sprouts. Dredge lightly with flour, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white veal stock and the same quantity of milk, stirring at the same time to mix them very smoothly. Stir the whole over the fire until boiling, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and i teaspoonful of sugar. Pass the sprouts thorough a fine sieve on to a hot dish, place the Lamb upon it, and serve. Braised Neck of Lamb with Sweetbread.—Trim a neck of Lamb to a neat shape, and braise it. Procure six of each807 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. kind of Lamb’s sweetbreads, and blancb them. Lard tbe large sweetbreads, also the bottom of a flat stewpan, with slices of fat bacon, put in the larded sweetbreads, moisten to about 2in. high with stock, and place the stewpan over the fire till boiling; then put it in the oven and bake the sweetbreads for half-an-hour, or more if large ones. Cut the smaller sweetbreads into slices ; melt a small lump of butter in another stewpan, put in 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and the slices of sweetbreads, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and dust with small quantities of salt and pepper; place them over the fire for ten minutes, then pour in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce and half that quantity of white sauce, adding a small bunch of parsley. When boil- ing, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for twenty minutes. Put about one-and-a-half-dozen of prepared cocks’ combs into a frying- pan with a good-sized lump of butter, a sliced onion, and the juice of a lemon; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook over a gentle fire until tender. Take out the parsley from the stewed sweetbreads, put in the cocks’ combs, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs beaten together with £ teacupful of cream ; then glaze the larded sweetbreads. Pour the sauce on to a hot dish, place the neck on it, garnish round with the larded sweetbreads, and serve. Braised. Shoulder of Lamb. —(1) Bone a shoulder of Lamb, and lard it with lightly-seasoned strips of bacon-fat in the thick part of the shoulder; roll the joint to a good shape, tie it round, put it into a braising-pan with a lump of butter, and braise gently over a slow clear fire till browned all over. Put in seven or eight small onions, a bundle of chopped parsley, and lqt. of broth, keep the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the onions are tender. Put the meat on a hot dish, cut off the string, and garnish with the onions. Boil the cooking-liquor till reduced to a thick gravy, then pour it over the Lamb, and serve. (2) Remove the bone from a shoulder of Lamb, leaving only the knuckle-bone, sawing this off about 2in. below the knuckle. Tie the shoulder in a round shape, sprinkle it with salt, put it in a braising-stewpan, cover with mirepoix, and let it simmer till done ; then glaze it, place it on a layer of cooked mixed vegetables on a hot dish, and tie a paper frill round the knuckle-bone. Strain and reduce some good gravy, pour it in a sauceboat, and serve with the Lamb. (3) Stuffed.—Bone a shoulder of Lamb, leaving only the knuckle-bone; take out a little of the meat from the shoulder, trim, chop, and pound it, mix with it some veal stuffing and a few table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs ; fill the shoulder with this preparation, and sew it up, making it as round as possible. Spread the bottom of a long-shaped stewpan with some trim- mings of bacon and minced vegetables, put in the shoulder, season with salt and pepper, and moisten to a third of its height with wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities ; braize and baste it over a clear fire, giving it an even colour. When cooked, take the shoulder out, put it on a hot dish, and having trimmed the knuckle-bone put a paper ruffle round it. Pass the stock in which they were cooked through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, and reduce to half-glaze. Serve the sauce separately in a boat. Braised Shoulder of Lamb a l’Africaine.—Take a shoulder of Lamb weighing about 31b., season with 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and tie it up. Place it in a saucepan with one sliced onion and carrot, and brown for six minutes. Moisten with 1 pint each of broth and Spanish sauce, and cook for forty-five minutes. Skim all the fat from the gravy, remove the shoulder to a hot dish, and untie it. Garnish the dish with three stuffed egg-plants and £ pint of cooked okra gumbos. Strain the gravy over the shoulder of Lamb, and serve. Braised Shoulder of Lamb a la ITamande.—The same as for Braised Shoulder of Lamb a l’Africaine, serving for garnishing pint each of cooked carrots, turnips, and red cabbage, nicely arrange 1 in clusters round the dish. Braised Shoulder of Lamb served a 1’Italienne.—Procure two, shoulders of Lamb, and bone them without removing the thin end-bone, which is to be sawn below the joint of the leg; then spread the shoulders on the table, and sprinkle them plentifully inside with pepper and salt. Mix with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of finely-chopped streaky bacon one chopped onion, Lamb—continued. 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, and 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs, previously soaked in a little milk and well pressed; season this preparation highly, and when well mixed stir in two beaten eggs. Stuff the shoulders with the mince and sew them up. Put some slices of vegetables at the bottom of a saute-pan, put the shoulders in, and pour in broth to half their height; when the liquid boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and braize the shoulders, basting frequently. When cooked, take them out, drain, cut off the string, and put them on a hot dish. Boil their cooking-stock till reduced to half its ori- ginal quantity, mix with it a little tomato sauce, pour some of it in the dish, the remainder in a sauceboat, and serve very hot. Braised Shoulder of Lamb a la Kouennaise.—Braise a shoulder of Lamb as for Braised Shoulder of Lamb a l’Africaine. Cut three medium-sized turnips the shape of a large clove of garlic, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar sprinkled on the top. Place them in the oven, and leave in until they become thoroughly brown, tossing the pan frequently to pre- vent burning. Pour the gravy from the meat over the turnips, dish up the shoulder, arrange the turnips round, and serve. Braised Shoulders of Lamb resembling1 Bucks. — This fanciful mode of dressing shoulders of Lamb is described by Dubois, and is worthy of attention, especially from its in- genuity. Bone three shoulders of Lamb that have part of the foot adhering- to them, leaving the thin end bone, and sprinkle salt and pepper inside. Make some quenelle forcemeat with Lamb or veal, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it half its volume of salpi^on composed of Lamb’s sweetbreads, cooked ham, and mushrooms. Stuff the shoulders with the salpi90n, shape them to an oblong form, truss them with the thin end bone upright, shaping them as nearly like ducks as possible. Place them afterwards in a stewpan the same way they are to be served, cover with warm water, and let it gradually get hot till the skin is set; then drain the shoulders, steep them in cold water, wipe, and lard on both sides the part that is to form the body of the duck; surround the thin end bone of the shoulders with layers of bacon, put them in the bottom of the stewpan, prepared as for braising, support them in position with carrots, turnips, or any large vegetable, pour in broth to reach the top of the shoulders, and boil quickly for ten minutes. Move the pan to the side of the fire, place buttered paper over the Lamb, put the lid on, with hot ashes on the top, and finish braising, basting frequently. When braised to a good colour, take the shoulders carefully out, drain, remove the string, and cut them slightly underneath, thus giving them the required shape. Trim and pare the top of the bone, imitating the eyes with a tiny round of ham, put them back to back on a large hot dish, and garnish with groups of mushrooms and olives. Mix a little white wine with the cooking-stock, skim off the fat, and add the liquor of the mushrooms; boil till reduced to half, thicken with a little brown sauce, pour some of it in the dish with the shoulders, and serve, with the rest of the sauce in a sauceboat. Fig. 1015. Brochettes of Lamb. Brochettes of Lamb.—Take a raw leg of Lamb weighing about 31b., remove the bone and pare off the skin, then cut it into several pieces of equal size. Put them in a vessel with two very finely-chopped shallots, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, 1 teaspoonful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 808 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Add the juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg'. Let them steep for about two hours, stirring at times; then take the pieces out, run skewers through the centres, interlarding them with pieces of salt pork, dip the brochettes in bread- crumbs, and broil for four minutes on each side. Pour J pint of hot Colbert sauce into a dish, arrange the brochettes neatly on this, and serve (see Fig. 1015). Broiled Breast of Lamb.—(1) Heat a gridiron over a clear fire, grease it with a little suet or fat, lay the breast of Lamb on it, and when well done one side turn it and finish cooking the other. Warm 2oz. of butter, work in a little pepper and salt, then spread it over the meat. Put the joint on a hot dish, and serve with mint sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Put five or six slices each of carrot, turnip, onion, and a bunch of thyme and parsley at the bottom of a stew- pan, lay the breast of Lamb on the vegetables, sprinkle in a little salt, and pour in lqt. or more of water, according to the size of the joint. When boiling, move the stew- pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the breast is sufficiently tender for the bones to be easily removed; then drain it, draw the bones, season the meat with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and then in bread- crumbs, put it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil both sides till done. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour a little rich brown gravy round, and serve with tomato sauce. (3) Remove the skin and sinews from two breasts of Lamb, and boil them in a little broth from which the fat has not been skimmed; when tender, drain them, take away the rib- bones, and press the meat between two plates till cool. When ready to serve, sprinkle salt and pepper over, dip them in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear fire for fifteen minutes, turning to do both sides. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of hot ravigote sauce. (4) Boil three medium-sized breasts of Lamb in the stock- pot for fifty minutes, or until the bones detach themselves. Take out the meat, put it under a heavy weight, and let it cool; then pare neatly. Cut each breast into halves, place them on a dish, season with 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and moisten with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil. Roll them in breadcrumbs, and broil for four minutes on each side. Serve with 1 pint of hot jardiniere garnishing (a la Jardiniere) on the dish, and the breasts nicely arranged over it; or it may be served with a puree of peas (aux petits pois), or piquante or poivrade sauce. Broiled Lamb Chops.—(1) Trim the required quantity of chops that have been cut from a loin of Lamb (they should be about ljin. thick), put them on a heated girdiron, and broil over a clear fire. When nicely browned both sides, put a mound of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, lean the chops against it, and serve hot. (2) Select the required quantity of Lamb chops, trim them, and broil over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. When done, put them on a hot dish. Turn some green peas mixed with a little butter or cream sauce round them, and serve. Fig. 1016. Broiled Lamb Chop, in Paper. Broiled Lamb Chops, in Paper.—Trim the chops neatly, removing the skin and superfluous fat, dip them in warmed butter, then strew finely-chopped parsley and chives over. Lamb—continued. Wrap them separately in sheets of buttered paper (see Fig. 1016), put them on a girdiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, put the chops on a hot dish, pour a rich brown piquant sauce over, and serve. Broiled Lamb Cutlets.—(1) Cut some cutlets off a neck of Lamb, and trim them as for mutton cutlets ; beat the yolks of two eggs with a little warmed butter, dip the cutlets in the butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil on a gridiron over a clear fire; turn them when done one side and finish cooking them the other. Arrange on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a rich brown gravy. (2) Cut and trim the cutlets off two necks of Lamb, butter and breadcrumb them, and broil over a clear fire. Cut in |in. dice some pieces of foie gras, truffles, and mushrooms; reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of truffles; put a croustade on a hot dish, fill it with the mushroom and truffle salpicjon, arrange the cutlets round it, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Shoulder of Lamb.—The shoulder of Lamb should first be boiled, then scored crosswise about lin. square. Brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, and dried parsley over, put it on a heated gridiron, and broil over a clear fire till lightly browned both sides. Mix 1 tablespoonful of flour with 5 pint of water, stir it over the fire till boiling, then add a small lump of butter; when that is dissolved, mix in a little mushroom ketchup and the juice of half a lemon. Put the Lamb on a hot dish; pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. Curried Lamb.—(1) Cut some cooked leg of Lamb into middling-sized dice, and remove all the skin and gristle. Fry a chopped onion with a little butter in a stewpan till brown, then put in nearly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-washed and dried rice; stir for a few minutes over the fire, moisten to twice its height with broth from which the fat has not been skimmed, and boil the rice on a slow fire, adding more broth occasionally, so that it does not get too dry. When nearly tender, mix in 2 small table-spoonfuls of curry powder previously diluted with 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes ; then take it off, put in the chopped meat, place the lid on the saucepan, and stand it at the side of the fire for a few minutes to thoroughly heat the Lamb. Pour the curry on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Cut 31b. of shoulder of Lamb into pieces about 2in. square, wash well in fresh water, drain, put into a saucepan, and cover with fresh water. Let it boil, then strain through a colander, and wash again in water. Place the pieces again in the saucepan, covering them with boiling water, season with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, six small onions, and a bouquet of sweet herbs; put the lid on, and cook for forty minutes. Strain off the liquor into another saucepan containing ^ pint of white roux, stirring well until it boils, and then stand it at the side of the stove. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with the juice of half a lemon, add this to the sauce, dropping it in a little at a time, and stirring continually. Pour all over the Lamb, and sprinkle over it 1 pint of cooked asparagus-tops, being careful not to let it boil again. Serve with a border of hot boiled rice all round the dish. Epigrammes of Lamb.—(1) Boil two breasts of Lamb; when tender, drain and bone them, and keep the rib-bones, then press the meat between two plates till cool. Divide the breasts into eight pieces, trim them to the shape of cutlets, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Melt some butter in a frying- pan, put in the cutlets, and fry both sides till brown, sticking one of the rib-bones in each piece of breast, affixing it to the pointed end. In the meantime, trim eight Lamb cutlets, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry for twelve minutes in boiling fat, basting them with a little melted glaze; put a paper ruffle on the bone of each, and arrange them alternately with the pieces of breast on a hot dish. Pour into the pan in which the cutlets were fried 1 teacupful of white wine; when it boils, thicken with ^ pint of reduced bechamel sauce, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then mix in some cooked mushrooms, cooked Lamb’s brains cut in pieces, and a few small glazed Lamb's sweetbreads. When boiling, pour the809 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. sauce in the middle of the dish on which the cutlets have been arranged, and serve. (2) Saw off the breasts of two necks of Lamb, cut and trim the cutlets, remove the tendons of the breasts, tie the breasts together, put them in a stewpan with a little stock, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and braise them. When the meat is tender, drain it, and take out all the bones, keeping as many as there are cutlets to add to the breasts when trimmed; sprinkle a little salt over the meat, and press it between two plates till cold. Cut both the breasts of Lamb in pieces the size and shape of the cutlets, mask them well with reduced German sauce, dip them in breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, and bread- crumb them again. Point the bones at one end with a sharp knife, and stick them into each piece of breast to represent a cutlet. Put some lard or dripping in a frying- pan, and when hot, fry the pieces of breast till nicely browned all over; then fry the neck cutlets in clarified butter. Put a croustade (see Croustades) on a hot dish, fill it with asparagus peas, arrange the neck and breast cutlets alternately round it, and serve. The croustade can be filled with either a macedoine of vegetables, green peas, or cucumbers, whichever may be preferred. Lpigrammes of Lamb a la Macedoine.—Tie two breasts of Lamb together, and boil them in a stockpot for forty-five minutes. Drain well, then take out the bones, and press the meat down, placing a heavy weight on it. When quite cold, cut each breast into three heart-shaped pieces, dip them in oil or fat, seasoning with 1 table-spoonful of pepper, roll in breadcrumbs, and broil over a slow fire for four minutes each side. Take six broiled breaded Lamb chops, prepared and cooked exactly the same, and serve with J- pint of hot macedoine or any other garnishing that may be required, arranging the breasts and chops on the garnishing. Epigrammes of Lamb -with Asparagus Points.—Braise a small piece of breast of Lamb, and when cooked take it out of the pan, cut out the bones, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and leave until cold. Afterwards cut the Lamb into equal-sized pieces, trim them to a cutlet shape, and fix a bone in each like a cutlet. Trim an equal number of Lamb's cutlets, and fry them. Season the epi- grammes with salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon- juice, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs, giving a good coating. Put a piece of lard or butter in a frying- pan, and when melted put in the cutlets, and fry until a bright golden brown on either side, draining well as they are cooked. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cutlets with the epigrammes in a circle on it, put some boiled heads of asparagus in the centre, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 1017), and serve. Some bechamel sauce mixed with the heads of asparagus will be found an improvement. Fricassee of Lamb.—(1) Cut 21b. of breast of Lamb into square pieces, sprinkle salt and flour over, and brown in a little butter. Put them in a stewpan with one sliced onion, cover with boiling water, and simmer till the meat is suf- ficiently tender for the hones to slip out easily. Take the Lamb out, remove the bones, strain the liquor, and skim off Lamb—continued. the fat. Boil the liquor again, put in the meat with a little salt and pepper, and stew for a little while longer; then add lqt. of peas, and simmer for fifteen minutes. When ready to serve, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish. (2) Cut the required quantity of any part of Lamb into rather small pieces; dip each piece in curd, giving it a good coating, then put them into a frying-pan in which a lump of butter has been dissolved, and fry till browned. Take the pieces of meat out of the butter, put in two or three sliced onions, and fry them. Put the onions and meat in a stew- pan, season with salt and pepper, pour in sufficient water to cover, and simmer at the side of the fire till the meat is tender. Chop the heart and liver of the Lamb, season with salt, and fry in butter. Blanch and peel 1 tcacupful of pis- tachios, wash about half that quantity of currants, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Put the liver mixture in a saucepan with 2qts. of clear soup stock, and place it over the fire till boiling. Then move the saucepan to the side, add lib. of well-washed rice, put the lid on, and let it cook gently, adding occasionally, as the moisture becomes absorbed, some of the liquor in which the Lamb has been stewing. When the rice is tender (each grain should be separate), wrap a wet cloth over the lid to prevent the steam escaping, and leave it at the side of the fire till quite dry. Pile the rice in the shape of a dome on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Lamb over it, pour the gravy round, and serve. The appear- ance of this dish is greatly improved by the dome of rice. Fried Fillets of Lamb.—Procure a fine tender leg of Lamb, bone it with a sharp knife so as to detach the meat from the knuckle, beginning from the hip side downwards. Cut out from this six even steaks, lin. thick by 2Jin. in diameter, pare them, and with a small keen knife remove any sinews that may adhere. Lay them on a cold dish, and season with a pinch each of salt and pepper, rolling them well, so that the seasoning may be equally distributed. Put §oz. of butter into a frying-pan, set it on a brisk fire, add the steaks immediately, being careful that they do not lay one on top of the other, and cook very briskly for two-minutes-and-a-half on each side. Prepare i pint of bearnaise sauce, pour it on a hot dish, dress the six steaks, one overlapping the other, and serve immediately. Fried Lamb Chops.—(1) Pare six fine Lamb chops, and split them through the centre. Fill the insides with a very fine salpi^on, season with 1 pinch of salt and j pinch of pepper, close together, and dip in beaten egg, then in fresh bread- crumbs ; fry for four minutes on each side in 2oz. of clarified butter in a saute-pan, and serve with 1 gill of hot Montglas sauce, after arranging a curled paper at the end of each chop. (2) Pare neatly six Lamb chops, make an incision in each one, and insert therein a slice of truffle, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt and | pinch of pepper. Dip the chops in beaten eggs and then in fresh breadcrumbs, fry in a saute-pan with 2oz. of clarified butter five minutes on each side, and serve with six heart-shaped pieces of fried bread, each one covered with pate-de-foie-gras, and 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce poured round. Arrange a curled paper on the end of each chop. (3) Trim neatly, flatten, and season with ^ pinch each of salt and pepper, six Lamb chops. Put them into a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and fry on one side only for one minute. Let them cool, and then cover the cooked sides with a little pate-de-foie-gras. Take six pieces of fried bread the size of the chop, cut out the middles with a bread-cutter, fill in the space with pate-de-foie-gras, and lay it on the cooked side of the chops. Garnish all round with chicken forcemeat softened with cream, forced through a paper cornet. Place them on a buttered baking-sheet, put into a slow oven, and cook for seven minutes. Prepare 1 pint of hot Madeira sauce, pour it on a hot dish, arrange the chops nicely on top, with curled papers on their ends, and serve. (4) Select the required quantity of Lamb chops, and trim off all the skin and a little of the fat; make a frying-pan very hot, put the chops in, and fry them slowly, both sides alike. When nearly done, sprinkle a little salt on each side, and finish cooking. Drain them on paper, put them on a hot dish, and serve with either soubise or tomato sauce. A very pretty way of dishing Lamb chops is to pile mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish, lay the chops round them, and garnish between the chops with French beans.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 810 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see u .der their special heads. Lamb—continued. (5) Carefully trim the required quantity of Lamb chops, dip them first in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, fasten the flap ends round with a small slrewer, and fry them. When done one side, turn and finish the other side. When cooked, Fig. 1018. Fried Lamb Chops. drain, and having decorated the bones with frills, put the chops on a hot dish, resting on a prepared bed of mashed potatoes, and serve with a piquant sauce. See Fig. 1018. Pried Lamb Cutlets.—Trim the outer skin off two breasts J of Lamb, put them in a saucepan, cover with veal stock, and boil slowly. Prepare a veal forcemeat, seasoning highly with herbs and spices, and bind it with a raw egg. When the breasts of Lamb are tender, bone them, and spread the force- meat over the insides, laying them one on top of the other, the forcemeat sides together. Put them between two dishes with a heavy weight on the top, and leave for several hours. Take some small bones from the ribs, trim to the shape of cutlet-bones, and blanch them. Cut the cold breasts into pieces, and form them to the shape of cutlets. Beat three yolks and two whites of eggs well together with 2 table-spoonfuls of oiled butter, the butter being mixed in slowly drop by drop ; brush the cutlets over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten egg mixture, and roll them in fine white breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt, pepper, and, if liked, a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Leave the cutlets for twenty minutes or so, then egg-and-breadcrumb them again, proceeding as before; leave again for half-and-hour, then give a third coating of egg and breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the cutlets, and fry a nice brown. When done, drain the cutlets on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute ; stick one of the whitened bones in each, and fasten a small paper frill round them. Pile some mashed potatoes in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets leaning against them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with demi-glaze sauce. Hashed Lamb.—Fry two chopped onions in a saucepan with loz. of butter; add -|lb. of cooked hashed Lamb and 1 pint of cooked chopped potatoes, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and i teaspoonful of nutmeg. Moisten with I- pint of broth, and cook for ten minutes. Place the hash on a hot dish, and arrange six poached eggs on top. Serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. Lamb Chops a la Maintenon.—Take six well-trimmed and flattened Lamb chops, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, put them into a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and fry on one side only for one minute. Cover the cooked side with a chicken forcemeat. Sprinkle over them a very finely-minced truffle, place them on a well-buttered baking- dish, and put them in a slow oven to cook for four minutes. Put a paper frill on the end of each chop, and serve with § pint of hot clear veloute sauce poured on the dish, and the chops laid on that. Lamb Chops with Brown Sauce.—Cut some Lamb chops about jin. thick, trim nicely, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in a seasoning composed of finely-minced parsley, lemon-peel, a little salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying- pan over the fire, let it quite boil, then put in the chops and fry until nicely browned. Put 1 scant table-spoonful of flour and a small piece of butter into a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then pour in § pint of clear veal gravy, and stir until boiling; drain the chops, put them on a hot dish, mix Lamb—continued. v wineglassful of port wine with the sauce, strain it over the chops, and serve. Lamb Chops with Champagne Sauce. — Pare nicely and flatten six Lamb chops, season with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, fry slightly in a saute-pan with loz. of butter for one minute on each side, then let them cool. Cover the surfaces with chicken forcemeat, wrap them in crepinette (a skin found in the stomach of the pig), and dip in beaten egg, then in fresh breadcrumbs, and cook in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter for four minutes on each side. Arrange a paper frill at the end of each chop, and serve with § pint of hot champagne sauce on the dish and the chops on that. Lamb Chops with Perigueux Sauce. Pare neatly six chops, flatten them well, and season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Make an incision in each chop, and garnish the inside with a slice of truffle previously dipped in half- glaze, then dip the chops in beaten egg, roll them in fresh breadcrumbs, and put them into a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry for five minutes on each side. Pour £ pint of perigueux sauce on the dish, arrange the chops over it, with curled paper on their ends, and serve. Lamb Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop 31b. of raw Lamb ; peel and mince three onions, mix all together, and season with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into small quantities, and roll them into balls, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil. Put the yolks of four eggs in a saucepan with the strained juice of two lemons and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and beat them well; stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until they thicken, taking care to move them off the fire before they have time to boil, or they will curdle and be spoilt; then mix in gradually 1 teacupful of the liquor in which the meat balls were boiled. Stir the sauce at the side of the fire for ten minutes. Arrange the croquettes in a group in the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve while very hot. (2) Procure a piece of cold cooked leg of Lamb, remove all the sinewy skin, and cut the meat into dice; mix with it half its quantity of cooked artichoke-bottoms, also cut in dice. Keduce 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce in a stewpan, and mix with it 1 teacupful of thick cream and 1 teacupful of melted glaze. Stir over the fire till the sauce is thick and coats the spoon, then take it off, and put in the prepared Lamb and artichokes; grate in a little nutmeg, and add a sprinkling of salt; spread the preparation on a baking-sheet in a layer -£in. thick, and let it get thoroughly cool. Form the preparation into croquettes the shape of a large cork, roll them in breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in breadcrumbs. Put some fat in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling put the croquettes in, a few at a time, and fry till nicely browned. When all are cooked, drain them, put an ornamental paper on a hot dish, arrange boiled artichoke- bottoms over the dish (see Fig. 1019), and serve. Lamb Cutlets a l’Anglaise.— Cut the first chops off a neck of Lamb, take away the bone and fat, and divide the chops into slices; egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry both sides in clarified butter till brown, and dish them. Thicken a little beef gravy, flavour it with lemon-juice, pour over the cutlets, and serve very hot. Lamb Cutlets a la Bouchere.—Dip a dozen Lamb cutlets in clarified butter, roll them in breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and broil both sides over a clear fire. Glaze them when done with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and put a frill on the end of each bone. Cut up into slices half-a-dozen small gherkins, put them in a stewpan with811 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. double the quantity of boiled mushrooms, the same amount of ox-tongu3 and Lamb’s liver, all having been cut in slices and stamped in rounds. Thicken them with 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce with a little glaze added, and finished with a little cayenne pepper. Warm this without boiling, and when ready to serve, dish the cutlets in a circle, and pour the preparation in the centre. Lamb Cutlets en Crepinette.—Trim a dozen Lamb cutlets, keeping the rib-bone short, boat them lightly with a cutlet- bat, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put them in a flat stew- pan with a little clarified butter, and fry over a brisk fire, turning when nearly done. Sprinkle 1 teacupful of fine herbs over them, 1 teacupful of raw truffles cut in dice, and a few spoonfuls of Madeira; boil till the liquor is reduced to glaze, then take the cutlets out, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and put in with the herbs half their quantity of cooked forcemeat. Steep a pig’s caul, spread it on a cloth, divide it into squares, put a layer of the force- meat preparation over each, and wrap these round the cutlets so as to entirely cover them; dip them in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, pour some perigueux sauce over, and serve. Lamb Cutlets a la Duchesse. — Neatly trim the cutlets that have been cut off a neck of Lamb, scraping the top of the bone till clean, put them in a frying-pan together with a lump of butter, and fry them. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and leave them till cold. Put in a saucepan two or three mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, a finely-chopped onion, and a lump of butter; stir them over the fire till hot, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce, the juics of a lemon, a liaison of three well-beaten yolks of eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Stir the mixture by the side of the fire till of the consistency of thick cream, then dip the cutlets into it, coating them well with the sauce, and set them to cool. Brush the cutlets over with beaten yolk of egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in butter till lightly browned. Put a puree of green peas in the centre of a hot dish, arranging the cutlets round it in an upright position and slightly overlapping each other, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Lamb Cutlets a la Jardiniere.—Select a dozen or so Lamb cutlets, trim them to a similar shape and size, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay them at the bottom of a flat stewpan ; put a small lump of butter in with them, and fry over a clear fire. When done one side, turn them and cook the other. When the meat is done, strain the butter off the cutlets, put in a little melted glaze, and turn them about over the fire for two or three minutes. Mash some boiled potatoes, and form them in a border on a hot dish; arrange the cutlets in a circle on the border, fill the centre with a garnish of new vegetables, and serve with a sauce- boatful of gravy that has been thickened. Lamb Cutlets a la Monico.—Take a dozen outlets from a leg of Lamb, cutting them about gin. in thickness, trim them nicely, lay them side by side in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and a small piece each of mace and nutmeg, pour in sufficient milk to cover, and place the stewpan at >ne edge of the fire. Do not let the milk boil, bat only just simmer. In about an hour’s time, if the cutlets are tender, drain them, dredge lightly over both sides with cornflour, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten eggs, and roll in breadcrumbs, giving them a good Lamb—continued. coating. Melt a lump of butter, lard, or clarified fat in a flat saucepan, put in the cutlets, and fry them a nice brown on all sides. When taken out of the fat, drain the cutlets for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen paper. Strain the milk in which they were cooked, and return it to the saucepan; mix 1 teaspoonful of cornflour smoothly with a little cold water, stir it into the milk together with a lump of batter about the size of a walnut, stir over the fire until thickened and boiling, and season to taste with salt. Decorate the cutlets with a frill, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. A garnish of young green peas gives a pretty effect to the dish (see Pig. 1020), or if these are not in season, lentils may be used. A few chopped capers may also be added to the sauce. Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes.—(1) Eemove the fat and skin from some cutlets, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, and place it on the fire ; when it lias melted sufficiently, put in the cutlets, and fry them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; add 1 tea- spoonful each of finely-minced parsley and lemon-juice, and 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, sprinkle in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and cook for another five minutes. Remove the cutlets and add 4 table-spoonfuls of each of glaze and water to the liquor in the pan, stir well until the glaze is melted, and then cool. Fold as many sheets of paper as there are cutlets to the size of note paper, and cut them so that when they open they will be heart-shaped. Put them in warmed butter and let them stand for a little time. When the sauce is cold, spread it over the cutlets, and place them one by one on the side of the papers, with the bone3 turned toward the point of the heart. When they are all thus pre- pared, put them on a baking-sheet, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Arrange them on a dish in a circle, and fill up the cavity with fried potatoes. (2) Trim fifteen Lamb cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, and fry in boiling fat, turning when one side is done, and finishing the other ; sprinkle some fine herb3 over them as they are turned. When cooked, pour a little melted glaze over, and let them cool in the frying-pan. Cut fifteen pieces of paper the shape of large broad hearts, and lightly brush them over with oil ; sprinkle the cutlets both sides with a thin layer of sweet herbs, set them one by one on the oiled papers, with the bone to the pointed end of the heart, fold the paper over, and plait it all round so that the cutlet will be well wrapped up, then bake them in a slack oven, taking care that the paper does not colour. When ready to serve, arrange them on a hot dish in a circle. Limb Cutlets a la Parmesan.—Cut off the required number of cutlets from a neck of Lamb, flatten them with a cutlet- bat, trim neatly, season with salt and pepper, dip them singly first into oiled butter, then into beaten egg, and lastly into sifted breadcrumbs mixed up with grated Parmesan cheese, in the proportion of one part of cheese to three parts bread- crumbs, and fry in butter. Put them when done on a dish with a puree of mushrooms in the centre, pour round some Parmesan sauce, and serve as hot as possible. Lamb Cutlets a la Turque.—Cut the cutlets from a neck of Lamb or mutton, trim off the bone at the thick end, and flatten them by beating with a rolling-pin. Rub over a little finely-chopped sweet marjoram, salt, and pepper, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a moderate charcoal fire, turning them often. When cooked, put the cutlets on a hot dish, and serve. Lamb Cutlets a la Villeroy.—Trim the required quantity of Lamb cutlets, put them in a saute-pan with a lump of butter, and fry; when cooked, press them between two plates to cool. Trim the cutlets again, dip them in a little villeroy sauce, sprinkle some fine herbs over, put them on a cold baking-sheet, and let the sauce set. Breadcrumb over the sauce. Put some ''fitter or lard in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling put the cutlets in, and fry till nicely browned, doing both sides equally. Put a-folded napkin on a hot dish, drain the cutlets, put them on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Asparagus.—Cut the heads of a bundle of asparagus into Jin. lengths, also cut into pieces of the same length as much of the stalks as is eatable, and boil them separately in salt and water ; when cooked, drain, put them into separate frying-pans with a little butter, season to812 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred, to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. taste with salt and pepper, and toss them about over the fire. Trim the cutlets neatly, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in butter to a pale golden brown. When cooked, drain the cutlets on a sheet of paper in front of the fire for a second, then arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the asparagus in the centre, putting the heads on the top, and serve. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic Jelly.—Line the bottom of a stew- pan with rashers of bacon, sliced carrots, and onions; trim some cutlets neatly, put them in the stewpan with a few cloves and peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Moisten with 1 wineglassful of sherry and as much clear stock as will cover them, and simmer at the side of the fire with the lid on. When tender, leave the cutlets in their cooking-liquor until half cold, then drain, put them between two plates, and put a weight on the top. When quite cold, trim the cutlets neatly, pour a layer of liquid aspic jelly in a saute-pan, and when set lay the cutlets on it, cover with another layer of the jelly, and stand the pan on ice. When the jelly is quite cold and firm, procure a tin cutter the shape of a cutlet, and stamp the cutlets out with it, dipping it constantly in hot water. Boil some young green peas in water until cooked, then drain off all the water, put a little jelly in with them, and toss over the fire for a minute or two till well covered with it. Put a circle of chopped jelly on a dish, arrange the cutlets on it, and turn the peas in the centre. Garnish round the cutlets with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumber. — Peel a large cucumber, cut it into slices tin. thick, remove the seeds, cut each slice into quarters, dredge well with salt, cover with cold water, and leave for an hour or two. Drain the pieces of cucumber, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and let them simmer until nearly tender. Cut some Lamb cutlets to a nice even shape, dust over with salt and pepper, roll them in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb. In about half-an-hour’s time egg-and-breadcrumb the cutlets again, and fry until nicely browned in boiling lard. Drain the pieces of cucumber, put them into a saute-pan with a good-sized lump of butter and a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the cucumber up in the centre, arrange the cutlets round it, garnish with a border of fried parsley, and serve while hot. Lamb Cutlets with Mint Sauce.—Mix together 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped fresh mint, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar ; put two or three lean Lamb cutlets on this dressing or pickle, dust with pepper, let them stand for half-an-hour, and then turn. At the end of an hour put them, without wiping, between the bars of a buttered double-wire gridiron, and broil quickly over a hot fire. Meanwhile, turn the chopped mint from the dish into a saucepan with 2 more table-spoonfuls of sugar and 4 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, let these ingredients boil once, and then serve the sauce with the cutlets. The cutlets should be served hot, as soon as they are done, on a hot dish, with a little salt, pepper, and butter over them. Lamb Cutlets with Mushrooms. — Cut five cutlets, slant- wise, from three necks of Lamb, trim them, cut off the piece of bone at the back, and beat slightly with a cutlet-bat. Put them in a frying-pan in which there is some hot clarified butter, sprinkle a little salt over, and fry both sides over a brisk fire for twelve minutes; add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, reduce, dip a brush into the mixture, and glaze the cutlets with it. Place a ruffle round the end of each bone, put a puree of mushrooms in the centre of the dish, place the cutlets lengthwise on a border of potatoes round them, and finish with an outside border of small mushroom- heads. Lamb Cutlets with New Carrots.—Procure very small new carrots, and scrape and boil them until tender in salted water ; trim the cutlets nicely, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in finely-grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the cutlets, and fry them until delicately browned; take them out of the fat as they are cooked, and put them Lamb—continued. to drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Drain the carrots when cooked, and put in the saucepan with them a lump of fresh butter and a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley; squeeze over them half the juice of a small lemon, season to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity of caster sugar. Moisten the carrots with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of common stock, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pile the carrots in the centre, garnish with a border of fried parsley, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Peas Sautes. — Trim a dozen cutlets of Lamb, and season with pepper and salt; dip them in beaten eggs, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in clarified butter. Cook 1 pint of green peas in salted wa?er, drain them, put them in a stewpan with 3oz. to 5oz. of butter, and toss them over a fire. When the butter is melted, pour them into the centre of the cutlets, having previously arranged them on a dish in a circle, and serve very hot. Lamb Cutlets Sautes.—Cut two necks of Lamb into cutlets, trim them, sprinkle salt and pepper over, dip them in clarified butter, and fry in a saute-pan ; when nicely browned, drain them. Put a croustade full of French beans on a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round them, and serve with bechamel sauce separately in a small tureen. Lamb Cutlets with Spinach.—Cut a neck of Lamb into cutlets, trim them to a nice shape, brush over with warmed butter, and season with salt and pepper; put them in a double gridiron, and broil in front of a clear fire. Pick the spinach over, and wash it in several waters, as it is very gritty ; boil it, and when cooked, drain on a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a sauce- pan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; pass the spinach through the sieve into the butter, moisten with a small quantity of milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Pile the spinach in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Stewed Peas.—Cut the best part of a neck of Lamb into cutlets, and trim them; put 3 or 4 breakfast-cupfuls of young freshly-shelled green peas in a stewpan with a large lump of butter, dust over with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Tie a few lettuce-leaves up with a few sprigs of parsley, put them in with the peas, adding two or three small onions, and stew the whole until the peas are tender. Season the cutlets on both sides with salt and pepper, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, lay them on a double gridiron, and broil in front of a clear brisk fire. When the peas are cooked, remove the onions and lettuce, toss them up with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, and pile them in the centre of a hot dish. Arrange the cutlets round the peas, garnish the edge of the dish with fried parsley, and serve. Lamb Pie.—(1) A very elaborate method of making this is given as follows : Select two necks of fat Lamb, bone them, cut away all the sinewy part, divide the meat into squares about lin. thick, put it into a basin with a little blanched bacon and cooked ham also cut in squares, pour a little Madeira over, and let the meats soak for one hour. Cut the meat off two shoulders of Lamb, pare and chop it finely, and mix with it an equal quantity of fresh bacon, also finely chopped; sprinkle plenty of pepper, salt, and spices over, pound for a few minutes in a mortar, then turn all into a basin again. Take three parts of the prepared force- meat, and roll it out to an oblong, square-cornered flat. Put three parts of a prepared short-paste made with ljlb. of flour on a baking-sheet, spread a thick layer of the forcemeat in the centre, then put lengthwise the fillets of Lamb, bacon, and ham well mixed up ; cover the meats with a thin layer of the forcemeat, and continue thus, building the pie in a dome-like shape till all the meat is used, the last layer being forcemeat. Fold over it the four edges of the paste, and cover the top with a flat of puff paste, moistening the edges slightly so that one will adhere to the other; brush the pie over with beaten egg, score it with the point of a knife, make a slight opening in the top, and put the pie in the oven, covering it with paper after it has been in ten minutes. Bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When baked,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 813 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—con tinued. take the pie out of the oven, leave it for a-quarter-of-an- hour, then pour in J pint of cold liquid aspic jelly. Leave the pie till quite cold before serving-. (2) Bone the two sides of a loin of Lamb, cut the meat in slices, trim, pare, and sprinkle salt and pepper over them ; put some thin slices of raw ham at the bottom of a pie- dish, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper over them, then put in the pieces of Lamb. Cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, lay them on the top of the Lamb, pour in to half the height of the meat some rich cold gravy, cover the pie with either a puff or short-paste, put it in the oven for ten minutes, then cover it with paper; put it back, and bake for one hour. When ready to serve, take the paper off, and put the pie-dish on a flat dish. This is best eaten hot. (3) Cut the Lamb into thin slices, and rub each slice over with a mixture of sugar, salt, pepper, pounded mace, cloves, and nutmeg. Butter and line a pie-dish with paste, and put the meat in, in layers, placing between each layer a few raisins, currants, dates, pieces of candied lemon and citron peel, preserved barberries, slices of lemon, and the marrow of two or three bones ; put on the top about 6oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Cover the pie with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Prepare the following gravy for it: Beat up the yolks of three eggs together with J pint of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, pour them into a saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but not boiling, then move it off. When the pie is cooked, remove the cover, pour in the sauce, strew plenty of sugar on the top, and serve. (4) Cut some cold shoulder or leg of Lamb into neat pieces, and trim off some of the fat if there is too much; slice a couple of sweetbreads, blanch a dozen oysters in their own liquor, removing their beards, and make a few forcemeat balls. Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a good puff paste; put in the above articles in layers with a few sliced yolks of hard- boiled eggs, and dust over each layer small quantities of powdered cloves, pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg. Put a few small lumps of butter on tho top, cover with a flat of the paste, trimming it evenly round the edges, and moistening and pressing them together; make a small hole in the top of the crust, and bake the pie in a brisk oven for an-hour- and-a-half. Strain the liquor from the oysters into a small stewpan, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy and 1 wineglassful of port wine, season with grated nutmeg in moderation, and place it over the fire until boiling. Beat the yolks of two eggs well with 1 table-spoonful of cream, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and stir them in, stirring in one direction all the time. When the pie is cooked, filter the sauce in through the hole at the top, and serve. Lamb Salad.—Cut some cold roasted Lamb into small nice- shaped pieces. Wash and dry two heads of lettuces, tear the leaves apart, and arrange them in a salad-bowl ; then put in the pieces of meat and sprinkle some chopped capers over. Finely chop some hard-boiled eggs, and mix them with 1J teacupfuls of salad-oil and 1 teacupful of vinegar; season the mixture with pepper, salt, and about 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar ; stir well, pour it over the salad, and serve. See Fig. 1021. Lamb Saute with Tomatoes.—Divide a saddle of Lamb into moderate-sized squares, remove part of the bones, and put the meat into a flat stewpan with a clove of garlic not Lamb—continued. peeled, one onion, and a lump of butter; season well, and toss them about over the fire till nicely browned. Cut four tomatoes in halves, take out the seeds, and cut them into quarters. Put a little oil in a frying-pan ; when hot, put the tomatoes in, and fry over a sharp fire till the moisture is reduced; then turn them in with the Lamb, stir all over the fire for ten minutes, take the onion and garlic out, put the Lamb and tomatoes on a hot dish, and serve. Lamb Soup.—Cut a shoulder of Lamb into moderately large pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a sliced onion and a little butter ; fry them till nicely browned, then dredge in 1 table-spoonful each of flour and curry powder, stir all over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in 3qts. of broth, some trimmings of raw ham, and a bunch of parsley. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and continue simmering till the meat is cooked. When done, take the pieces of Lamb out, pass the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve or strainer into another stewpan, put in with it Jib. of boiled rice, and continue boiling gently for ten minutes. Bone the meat and put it in a soup-tureen; thicken the soup with the yolks of three eggs beaten together with a little cream, then strain it through a fine colander over the meat, and serve while hot, with sippets of toast or small dice of fried bread in a separate vessel, such as a dish or plate. Minced Lamb.—Finely chop two onions and fry in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter for five minutes ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring well for two minutes, moisten with 1 pint of broth and 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, add a bouquet of sweet herbs, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and § teaspoonful of nutmeg. Stir until it comes to the boil; then cut 21b. of cooked Lamb in small pieces (either from the shoulder or leg), mince finely, and add it to the sauce. Cook for twenty-five minutes, and serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. Minced Lamb with Poached Eggs. — Take some cold roasted Lamb, trim, chop it very fine, and season with a little pepper, salt, and finely-chopped mint. Make some gravy very hot in a saucepan, thicken it with browned Fig. 1022. Minced Lamb with Poached Eggs. flour, stir in the seasoned mince, and let it get thoroughly hot, but after the mince is added to the gravy do not let it boil. Make some triangles of buttered toast, lay a poached egg on each, pour the mince on to a flat dish, and garnish with the toast and poached eggs (see Fig. 1022). Pilau of Lamb.—Cut the meat off a leg of Lamb into small pieces, and make a little broth with the bones. Cut Jib. of streaky bacon in squares, and fry it in a stewpan with one chopped onion; put the pieces of Lamb in with it, sprinkle a little salt over, and fry over a brisk fire for ten or twelve minutes. Cover the Lamb with the broth that has been prepared from the bones. Skin and chop two ripe tomatoes after picking out the seeds, and put them in with the Lamb, adding- two pimentoes, a bunch of fine herbs, a sprig or two of parsley, and a pinch of saffron; when the broth has boiled for five or six minutes, throw in some rice (lib. of rice to 41b. of meat), having well washed and drained it; put the lid on the stewpan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew for twenty minutes or until the rice is quite tender. When ready to serve, turn the pilau out on a hot dish. Ragout of Lamb.—(1) Take a fine breast or a shoulder of Lamb, weighing about 31b., cut it into equal-sized square pieces, and fry them in a saucepan with loz. of butter orTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 814 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. fat. Add six small peeled onions, and when browned (it should take about ten minutes) dredge in about 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir well for two minutes, moisten with 3 pints of water or white broth, continue stirring, and add 2 pinches of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, two crushed cloves of garlic, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty-five minutes. Two minutes after it begins to boil, thoroughly skim it, remove the bouquet, and pour the ragout on a hot dish. Garnish with flageolets, cooked Lima beans, or any other vegetable garnish. (2) Trim off all the skin and remove the knuckle-bone of a fore-quarter of Lamb; lard the meat with thin strips of bacon, put it in a stewpan with one lump of lard, and fry until nicely browned. Next put it into a clean saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, and sufficient clear gravy to cover ; season to taste with salt and pepper, put the lid on the saucepan, keep the whole boiling gently for half-an-hour, then place the Lamb on a hot dish and keep it hot. Skim all the fat off the cooking-liquor, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of port wine, loz. of butter that has been kneaded with £ table-spoonful of flour, half-a-dozen mushrooms, and several oysters that have been blanched in their own liquor and bearded. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then mix in the strained juice of half a lemon, pour it over the mutton, and serve. Boasted Fore-quarter of Iamb.—(1) Cover a fore-quarter of Lamb with slices of bacon, and wrap it up in sheets of buttered paper. Boast in front of a clear fire or in the oven, and when' sufficiently cooked, raise the shoulder from the neck with a knife, fill the cavity with maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with its own gravy. (2) Stuffed.—Mix with the meat of two or three sausages an equal quantity of chopped bacon, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and a sprinkling of chopped mixed herbs; mix all well together, and moisten with the beaten yolks of eggs. Have ready a fore-quarter of Lamb, raise the shoulder with a knife without cutting the skin, stuff it with the stuffing, sew it up with a trussing-needlc and string, fix a sheet of buttered paper round it, and roast in front of a clear fire; take the buttered paper off five minutes before dishing, to brown it. When the Lamb is cooked, put it on a hot dish, and serve with Spanish sauce. Boasted Haunch of Lamb.— Trim the shank-bone of a haunch of Lamb, fold the loin underneath, fastening it with skewers, wrap some thickly-buttered paper round, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting continually with butter. When nearly cooked, take the buttered paper off the Lamb, sprinkle some stale breadcrumbs and a little salt over, baste with butter, and let the joint brown. Put the haunch on a hot dish, tie a ruffle round the bone, make a rich gravy, and serve it with the meat, also some mint sauce, both separately, in sauceboats. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb.—(1) Select a hind-quarter of Lamb (see Fig. 1023), trim the bone, fix the Lamb on an Fig. 1023. Hind-quauter of Lamb. iron spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting occa- sionally with butter ; when nearly done, sprinkle with bread- crumbs, continue basting, let them brown, and sprinkle salt over. When the Lamb is cooked, put it on a hot dish, surround with a little rich gravy, and serve with mint sauce. (2) Saw tho knuckle-bone off a hind-quarter of Lamb, and roast it before a clear fire, basting occasionally. When cooked, take it off the spit, put it on a hot dish, garnish round with watercress, and serve with poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Lamb—continued. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb with Celery.—Truss the joint, wrap a sheet of buttered paper round, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Clean and trim three or four fresh heads of celery, cutting off the tops and the outside leaves, put them for ten minutes in boiling water, then refresh them with cold water, and tie together in bundles. Put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of sliced carrot and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, 5 pint of chicken broth, ^ pint of water, and 1 teacupful of clarified poultry fat. Put a sheet of paper over the whole, put the lid on the saucepan, and keep the contents cooking gently by the side of the fire. When the Lamb is cooked, remove the sheet of paper, and put it on a hot dish; place the celery round, and serve with a sauceboatfnl of half-glaze. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb with Croquettes.—Boast the joint in front of a clear fire, keeping it covered with a sheet of buttered paper till nearly done, then remove the paper to give it more colour. For the croquettes, a mixture of cold cooked tongue, chicken truffles, and macaroni will be required, all of which arc to be used in equal quantities and cut into small squares. Boil some German sauce till stiffly reduced, then put the chicken, &c., in with it, together with 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Leave the mixture till cool, then divide it into small equal-sized parts, put them on a table strewn with breadcrumbs, and roll them into the shape of balls. Beat one or two eggs up with a little salad- oil, and season with salt and pepper. Dip the croquettes in it, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in a basket in a deep frying-pan with plenty of hot fat, and fry till nicely browned. When the meat is cooked, take it up from the fire, put it on a hot dish, and brush over with melted glaze. Arrange the croquettes round the meat, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Potato croquettes may be used if preferred. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb -with Tomatoes.—Truss the Lamb, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast in front of a clear fire, removing the paper ten minutes before taking it up, so that it may gain more colour. Select some large tomatoes of an equal size, cut off the stalks, and remove the seeds. Boil the requisite quantity of Spanish sauce till stiffly reduced, then mix some d’Uxelles sauce with it. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture. Put about 5oz. of butter in a deep baking-dish, melt it, then put in the tomatoes; sift some finely-grated breadcrumbs over, put them in a quick oven, and bake. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot oblong-shaped dish, arrange tho stuffed tomatoes round, and servo it with a sauceboatful of d’Uxelles sauce. Boasted Neck of Lamb a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Trim the neck to a nice shape, and roast it in front of a clear fire, bast- ing well with the drippings in the pan. Mix together 4oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and the strained juice of two lemons; work these ingredients well with the flat blade of a knife. Place the prepared butter in a small saucepan with 1 teacupful of thick cream, and stir it over the fire until boiling and the butter has dissolved. When cooked, place the Lamb on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boasted Neck of Lamb a la Soyer.—Select a white-looking neck of Lamb, and trim it to a neat square shape, running a skewer through to keep it firm. Cover a large stout sheet of paper with slices of carrots, turnips, onions, a leek, two or three bay-leaves, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, and a few pieces of celery. Wrap the paper and vegetables care- fully round tho Lamb, tie the paper round securely to keep the vegetables in, fix it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, keeping it well basted. Peel and turn to a nice shape an equal quantity each of young turnips, carrots, and onions, and boil them separately in white stock. Boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes to fill a border mould the same size as tho dish intended to be used, and when soft mash them together with a little butter, and press into the mould. Keep the mould hot in a bain-marie. About a-quarter-of-an- hour before taking the Lamb up from the fire, remove the paper and vegetables, so that it may take a little colour. When ready, turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, place the Lamb in the centre, arrange the stewed vege- tables tastefully on the potato border, pour a thin half-glaze sauce round tho meat, and serve very hot.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 815 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Roasted Neck of Lamb with Green Peas.—Roast a nicely- trimmed neck of Lamb in vegetables, and baste frequently ; boil lqt. of green peas in water, keeping them very green; when tender, drain them as free of water as possible, and mix with them 1 scant breakfast-cupful of bdcliamel sauce, two small onions, and a bunch of parsley. Season the peas to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and boil gently for ten minutes; then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, take out the onions and parsley, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten together with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. When the Lamb is nearly cooked, remove the vegetables, put it nearer to the fire, and brown nicely. Turn the peas on to a hot dish, place the Lamb on it, and serve at once. Roasted Saddle of Lamb.—(1) The saddle of Lamb is simply the two loins cut off before the carcase is split open down the back ; it is best when roasted before an open fire, but it may be cooked in a very hot oven. If of medium size it will cook in an-hour-and-a-half, but if large it will require nearly two hours. It should first be exposed to intense heat until browned, then seasoned with salt and pepper, and every fifteen minutes should be basted with the drippings which fall from it. About half-an-hour before the loin is done, make Fig. 1024. Roasted Saddle of Lamb. a sauce as follows : Peel two large cucumbers, cut them into thin slices, and let them fall into salted cold water. Peel and slice one medium-sized onion, put it into a saucepan with the cucumbers and enough broth or gravy to cover, and let them stew for fifteen minutes ; season highly with salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. When the Lamb is cooked, dish it on a hot dish, garnish with sliced cucumber and potato croquettes, and serve the sauce in a gravyboat with it. See Fig. 1024. (2) Put a saddle of Lamb on a spit, previously trimming it, and roast in front of a clear fire. When ready to serve, put it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and prepare either some mint or sharp sauce to serve with it. Roasted Saddle and Leg of Lamb.—Select the saddle and two legs of a small Lamb, cut on the middle of each leg a small rosette, lard them and also the fillets. Roast the whole, and glaze the larded parts. When cooked, put the Lamb on a hot dish, pour a rich brown gravy round, and serve with mint sauce in a boat. Roasted Shoulder of Lamb and Mint Sauce.—Select a shoulder of Lamb, wash it, dredge both sides with salt and flour, fix it on a spit over a baking-pan, with a little hot water, dripping, and salt in it, place before a clear bright fire, and roast steadily, basting occasionally till done. Put it on a hot dish, and serve witli mint sauce. Roasted Shoulder of Lamb with Sorrel Sauce.—Have the bone cut from a shoulder of Lamb without disfiguring it, stuff the cavity with breadcrumbs highly seasoned with salt and pepper, and sew or tie the shoulder so as to enclose the crumbs; put the meat on a spit, or into a pan just large enough to hold it, and either roast before a hot fire or bake in a very hot oven. When the meat is brown, season with salt and pepper, and cook to the required degree. About fifteen minutes to a pound will suffice to cook it. While the Lamb is being cooked, prepare some sorrel sauce as follows; and when the meat is done, remove the strings, and serve it on the sorrel sauce. For this sauce, either the large-leaved field sorrel, or the small trefoil of the wood sorrel, may be used. Thoroughly wash the herb, and put it over the fire in an earthen or porcelain-lined saucepan, with only the water which remains upon it after being washed, and 1 table- Lamb—continued. spoonful of butter to each pint of sorrel. Cover the sauce- pan and cook the sorrel until tender enough to be beaten to a pulp with a fork ; then season with salt and pepper, add enough butter to make it semi-liquid, and serve it on the dish with the Lamb. Another form of sorrel sauce is made by mixing smoothly over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter, then stirring with them 1 pint of boiling water, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled sorrel pulp, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Shoulders of Lamb to resemble Ducks.—The shoulders of small Lamb, boned from the inside so as to avoid breaking the skin, can be stuffed and larded, then either roasted or baked, garnished with olives and button-mushrooms, and heated in a brown mushroom sauce. Any good forcemeat or stuffing can bo used, and the lardoons protected with buttered paper while the shoulders are being cooked. To remove the bones, cut from the inside of the shoulder to take out the shoulder-blade, then cut the flesh away from the round bone, turning it away like a glove from the hand, until that part of the bone just above the foot-joint is reached; cut the bone here from the inside, and trim the end projecting from the flesh to resemble the bill of the duck ; after the shoulders are stuffed and larded, truss them as nearly as possible in the form of ducks, and then bake or roast them. Garnish as above, first removing the strings which confino the stuffing, and servo a brown gravy or a brown mushroom sauce with them. Stewed Breast of Lamb.—Cut a breast of Lamb into pieces, pepper and salt them well, and stew until tender in sufficient gravy to cover the meat. Thicken the sauce, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and servo on a dish of stewed mushrooms. Stewed Breast of Lamb with Green Peas.—(1) Cut a scrag or breast of Lamb into pieces, put them into a stewpan with water enough to cover, place the lid on, and simmer or stew for fifteen or twenty minutes. Skim well, add 1 table- spoonful of salt and lqt. of green peas, cover the stewpan again, and stew for half-an-hour longer. Work 1 table- spoonful of flour into jib. of butter, stir it into the stew, add 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Servo with new potatoes boiled. A blade of mace may bo added if liked. (2) Cut a breast of Lamb into pieces and remove the skin, lay the pieces in a stewpan, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, pour over just enough white stock to cover, and let them stew slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Then take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, let it boil for ten minutes, and pour it ovor the meat. Have ready 1 pint of boiled green peas, put them round and ovor the meat, and servo. A few stewed mushrooms may bo added if desired. Stewed Breast of Lamb with Tomatoes. — (1) Saw a breast of Lamb lengthwise through the bones, then divide it into pieces, wash, and put them in a saucepan with water or broth enough to cover. Cut into small squares sufficient carrot, turnip, and onion to fill a breakfast-cup, and boil them in water; when half done, strain off the water, and Fig. 1025. Stewed Breast of Lamb with Tomatoes. put the vegetables in the stew with two or three sliced tomatoes. Boil for half-an-hour longer, thicken the stew with a little kneaded butter, and season with salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. When ready to serve, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and surround with stuffed tomatoes and croutons of fried bread. This makes an especially nice dish for a hot lunch. See Fig. 1025.816 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—con tinned. (2) Select a shoulder and breast of Lamb, cut them up in moderate-sized pieces, put them in a shallow stewpan with a little butter, and fry quickly till nicely browned. Peel and cut in quarters some young Jerusalem artichoke-bottoms, carrots, and onions, fry them for a few minutes, pour in a little broth, sprinkle in salt and pepper, and boil till the broth is reduced to glaze. Cut two tomatoes in halves, free them from seeds, and put them in with the Lamb, and also a small sprig of mint. When the moisture of the tomatoes has evaporated, the Lamb should be done. Pour in the stew- pan 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce, stir it over the fire for five minutes, then turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of toast, and serve. Stewed Lamb a la Valencie.—Cut into moderate-sized pieces a breast and shoulder of Lamb, and fry them in a stewpan with a little butter; when nicely browned, put in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of raw ham cut in dice, one small chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of red pepper, a clove of garlic, and a little salt; fry the meat for a few minutes longer, then moisten to height with a little broth, let it boil for two or three minutes, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the Lamb is tender. Put in 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, and let it stew for twenty minutes longer (with the lid of the stewpan on), or until the rice is done. When ready to serve, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Stewed Lamb Chops.—Cut the chops about |in. thick and trim them, put into a stewpan with a piece of mace and lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and milk-and-water in equal quan- tities to cover, and boil very gently until tender; then drain, put them into a clean stewpan, and pour over a small quantity of clear veal gravy. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and J table- spoonful of mushroom powder in a basin, and mix smoothly together with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Pour this mixture over the chops, stir well, and toss them about over the fire until on the point of boiling. Put a few white mushrooms in the stew ; when they are hot, turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a golden brown in butter, and serve. Stewed Lamb with Rice.—Cut into moderate-sized pieces a shoulder or breast of Lamb, and fry them over a sharp fire till nicely browned; then mix with them two or three slices of raw ham cut in dice, two chopped onions, a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and a clove of garlic; fry till all are nicely browned. Pour in sufficient broth to cover, and let the liquid boil for five minutes; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents till the Lamb is nearly done ; put in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of rice, and boil the stew again for a-quarter-of-an-hour ; then stand the saucepan at the side, and let the contents stew gently till the rice is done. When ready to serve, turn the stew on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Stewed Leg of Lamb a la Fran^aise.—Select a leg of Lamb weighing about 81b., and place it in a small saucepan. Put in a muslin bag one small turnip, one onion, a few green celery-leaves, four sprigs of summer savory and the same of sweet marjoram, three or four cloves, and twelve allspice, tie the bag, and put it in the saucepan with the Lamb ; pour in 2qts. of boiling water, let it boil up, then stir in 1 teacupful of flour mixed with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, add also 2 table-spoonfuls of salt and a little cayenne pepper. Put the lid on, and stand the saucepan where the contents will simmer for four hours. Meanwhile prepare 1| pints of veal or mutton forcemeat, shape it into little balls, and fry them in boiling fat till browned. Boil six eggs hard. At the end of four hours, take the Lamb out of the saucepan, skim all the fat off the gravy, take out the bag of vegetables, and reduce the gravy by boiling rapidly for ten minutes. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till dark brown, being careful not to burn it, and mix it in with the gravy. Chop the whites and yolks of the hard-boiled eggs separately. Pour the gravy over the Lamb, make a hill of the whites of the eggs in the centre, cap it with some of the yolks, sprinkling the remainder of the yolks over the Lamb, arrange the forcemeat balls in groups round the dish, put a little parsley between each group, and serve. Stewed Leg of Lamb with Artichokes. — Select about eight young and tender artichokes, peel, and trim them Lamb—continued. carefully, cut lengthwise in two, and salt them. Slice the meat off a small leg of Lamb, cut it into small-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little bacon-fat, a sprink- ling of sage, salt, and pepper, and a clove of garlic, toss them about over a brisk fire till nicely browned, then put in the artichokes, well wiped, and 1 teacupful of white wine; put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently till done. Put in with the Lamb and gravy when cooked the juice of two lemons and a little chopped parsley. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with the bottoms or halves of artichokes, and serve. Stewed Loin of Lamb.—(1) Cut a loin of Lamb into steaks, remove the skin and part of the fat, put the steaks into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them. Pour off the fat, add boiling water sufficient to cover the meat, also a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas, and a small lettuce cut lengthwise in halves; cover over the pan, and stew gently for about half-an-hour or until the flesh is tender. Serve hot. (2) A loin of Lamb may be stewed whole or in steaks ; if the former, fasten the flap with a skewer, put the loin into a stewpan with |lb. of butter, and cover down close. Let it simmer for one hour, then turn it; simmer again for an- hour-and-a-quarter, and it will be done. Have ready hot rich brown gravy ; put the meat on a dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve with mint sauce in a sauceboat, and a lettuce, a few radishes, and spring onions for garnish. Stewed Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere.— Put into a stewpan two scrag ends of neck of Lamb, and with them a dozen each of spring carrots and young onions, and six turnips cut in quarters ; put the lid on the stewpan, stand it close to the fire, and let the meat cook slowly in its own juice; the meat should be turned in an hour’s time, then left to cook for another hour. When the vegetables are tender, take them out, put them on a dish, cover with a plate, and place them in the oven to keep hot. Take the meat out when cooked, pour J pint of cold water into the pan, and skim off the fat; sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste, and when this liquor boils thicken it with a little flour previously worked smooth in some of the gravy ; put the meat back in the gravy, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Chop the cooked vegetables up, put them in a frying-pan with two pats of butter, and toss them about to brown lightly. Put the meat and gravy on a hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, and serve. Fig. 1026. Stewed Shoulders of Lamb with Green Peas. Stewed Shoulder of Lamb.—(1) Bone a shoulder of Lamb, cut off a little of the flesh, chop it fine together with an equal quantity of fat bacon, and with this stuff the shoulder. Boll it up, put it into a braising-pan with vegetables and a very little stock, and braise slowly for about two hours over a moderate fire. Take it out, glaze it, put it on a hot dish, and serve with tomato or sorrel sauce. (2) Stuffed.—Bemove the bones from the under-side of a shoulder of Lamb, leaving the shank-bone ; stuff the shoulder with veal forcemeat seasoned with pepper, salt, and mace, and fasten the ends up. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the shoulder; cover with more fat bacon and some fine herbs, pour in 1 pint of veal broth, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour ; when cooked, put the Lamb on a hot dish. Pour 1 pint of brown gravy into a saucepan with one boiled sweetbread cut in dice and a few pickled mushrooms, boil them for a few minutes, then pour the sauce round the Lamb, put some slices of lemon round the dish, and serve. It is usual to garnish the dish with potato cro- quettes and French beans or peas, as well as the lemon.FLORAL TABLE DECORATIONS. 1- Targets, made up of different coloured flowers arranged in rings, with silver arrows, arranged round large fan- palm. Base formed of wreath of roses, with plates of fruit between targets. 2. —Glass Vase, from 3ft. to 5ft. high, filled with grasses, lilies, roses, and ivy. Base formed by vessel containing an arrangement of large roses. 3.—Continuous Floral Arches and electric lights, to be set 2ft. from edge of table, forming a sort of frame-work for each guest. The pillars may stand in crystal bowls. L—Union Jack, arranged in flowers in tin stand, fitted with damp moss or cotton-wool. May be used for many purposes. 5. This is a variety of No. 3, forming a chain round principal centre dishes.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 817 Lamb—continued. Stewed Shoulders of Lamb with Green Peas.—Cut two shoulders of Lamb into moderate-sized squares, and put them in a stewpan with three small onions, one carrot, a bunch of parsley, and a piece of butter; season with salt and pepper, put the stewpan on the fire, and fry the meat till half cooked and nicely browned, then put in ill), of bacon cut in squares, and 1 h pints of green peas ; put the lid on the stewpan with some live embers on the top and let the peas and meat cook gently till tender. When ready to serve, take out the parsley, thicken the stew with a little kneaded butter, pour all on to a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 1026. Lamb’s Brains.—It may be conjectured that of all animal’s brains used in the kitchen none are reckoned so delicately flavoured as those of the Lamb. They are very tender and marrow-like and well suited for invalid diet. They require careful cleaning, as described under Brains, and are especially adapted to the following dishes: Lamb's Brains Pilau.—Take the brains out of two or three cooked Lamb’s heads, put them in a basin and beat together with sufficient broth to make a thick cream; put 3 pints of broth into a saucepan with five or six pieces of gum mastic and 4oz. of butter, seasoning with pepper, salt, and ground cinnamon. Put the saucepan over the fire until the liquor commences to boil, then put in 1 jib. of rice that has been washed in plenty of water, move it to the side, and let it simmer until dry. When cooked, move the rice right to the back of the stove, leave it for fifteen minutes, then turn it in a dome shape on to a hot dish, mask it over with the brain mixture, and serve while very hot. Stewed Lamb’s Brains a l’ltalienne.— Select some large Lamb’s Brains, skin them without altering their shape, clean well, and blanch. Make sufficient mirepoix to cook the brains mixing some wine with it, and stew them gently till done. Make a border-shaped paste crou- stade and bake it till nicely browned; prepare sufficient forcemeat to fill the case, and poach it. Cut some pickled tongue into the shape of cocks’ combs, and prepare a puree of artichoke-bottoms. Turn the case on to a hot dish, fill it with the forcemeat, arrange the brains on it, alternating them with the pieces of tongue, first brushing them over with melted glaze; put the puree of artichoke- bottoms in the middle of the dish, and serve with a saucebcatful of veloute sauce. Lamb’s Bars.—These are very crisp and tender when fried. They should be scalded after being cut off the head, and skinned by rubbing in a cloth whilst still hot. Fried Lamb’s Ears.—Singe the ears, scald in boiling water, put them in a saucepan with sufficient stock broth to cover, and boil them. When cooked, remove the ears from the fire and leave them in their cooking-liquor till cool. Make some quenelle forcemeat and mix with it some chopped fine herbs. Drain the ears, trim them to a round shape, hollow out the insides with a column- tube, and stuff' them with the prepared forcemeat, also the exterior part of the ’ears; roll them in grated breadcrumb, dip in beaten eggs, then roll again in breadcrumbs. Put a good-sized lump of lard or butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the ears and fry. When nicely browned, drain the ears, and arrange them in a group on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve. Fried Lamb’s Ears with Villeroy Sauce.—Take fifteen ears, blanch, boil them in a little stock, let them remain in this until nearly cold, then take out, drain, and wipe dry on a cloth. Take a biscuit-cutter, scoop out the in- sides of the ears, stuff them with a little sweet herbs mixed with about one-third their bulk of breadcrumbs, and made into a mass with the yolks of eggs ; dip each ear in some hot villeroy sauce, and put them on a dish. When the sauce is cool, take up one at a time and dip them Lamb—continued. first in breadcrumbs, then in well-beaten egg, and then breadcrumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of boiling hog’s lard and fry until done; take out, drain, put them on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it, and serve. Lamb’s Feet.—These are infinitely more delicate than those of the older animal, the bones being more gelatinous, and the sinews and ligaments about them more amenable to the softening influence of boiling. They should be skinned and cleaned and the hoofs torn off after a little sharp boiling. When cooked as follows they are reckoned quite a delicacy: Boiled Lamb’s Feet Stuffed.—Trim the feet, removing the large bones, and boil them until tender; prepare some veal forcemeat, judging the quantity by the number of feet, and mix with it a small quantity each of chopped parsley and shallot and the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. When cooked, drain the feet, ami leave them until cold, when the hollow left by the large bone must be filled with the forcemeat. Put them in a saucepan with boiling stock to cover, and boil gently for twenty minutes longer. Put a bed of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, drain the feet, arrange them on it, pour some Dutch sauce over, strew a few chopped gherkins on the top, and serve. Broiled Lamb's Feet.—(1) Singe the feet, trim off all the shaggy parts, and clean thoroughly ; put them in a sauce- pan with plenty of salted water and boil. When the feet are tender, drain them, remove the leg-bone, keeping them in shape as much as possible, dust over with salt and pepper, anti rub them in warmed butter; sprinkle some chopped parsley over, and leave till quite cold. Roll the feet in grated breadcrumb, lay them side by side on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When nicely browned, arrange the feet on a folded napkin upon a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of ravigote sauce. See Fig. 1027. (2) Clean the feet, put them in a saucepan with white stock to cover, and boil until tender ; then place them on a cloth to drain thoroughly. Peel and chop one small onion and shallot, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain off as much of the fat from the onions as possible, pour in a breakfast-cupful of brown sauce, and boil for ten minutes. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in the feet, season with J table-spoonful each of chopped mushrooms and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, i teaspoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes, then take the saucepan off the fire and leave the feet in the sauce until cold. Cut as many pieces of cartridge-paper as there are Fig. 1027. Broiled Lamb’s Feet. feet, making each piece large enough to fold over a foot. Dip them in salad-oil, then lay a foot on each piece with some of the sauce and fold the paper over, in imitation of a cartridge. Lay them on a gridiron and broil over a clear, slow fire, turning when done on one side. Arrange the feet in a pyramid on a bed of fried parsley, garnish with more fried parsley (see Fig. 1027), and serve with a sauceboatful of rich clear gravy. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 pTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 818 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see u'nder their special heads. Lamb—con tinned. Casserole of Lamb’s Feet with Rice.—Blanch about twelve Lamb’s Feet, then remove the long bone. Put |lb. of chopped beef-suet into a stewpan, melt it, then put in two finely-chopped onions, one carrot, one turnip, a sprig of thyme, three bay-leaves, and a few cloves. Stir the above ingredients over the fire for ten minutes, then sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and when well blended mix in gradually 2qts. of white stock, add the feet, and season with a small quantity of salt. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer till tender. Put lqt. of white sauce and h pint of white stock into a stewpan, boiling till reduced to a thick creamy consistency. Drain the feet, put them in the sauce, with eighteen or twenty button-mushrooms and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, seasoning with salt and pepper. Mix with the above ingredients a liaison of two yolks of eggs beaten together with a teacupful of cream; stir them over the fire till on the point of boiling, then take the stewpan off and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Pour the mixture into a silver casserole, and serve. Curried Lamb’s Feet.—(1) Clean and scald some Lamb’s Feet, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, the inside of a lemon that has been freed of pips, seven or eight peppercorns, three cloves, and a lump of salt; dredge a small quantity of flour over, pour in sufficient water to cover, and keep boiling gently at the side of the fire. When the feet are tender, drain, trim, and remove the leg-bone ; put them in a Hat stewpan, dust salt, pepper, and curry over, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, and keep hot at the side of the fire. Make the requisite quantity of veloute sauce, skim and strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, and stir over a sharp fire till reduced, adding by degrees 1 teacupful of cream. Beat the yolks of two eggs together udtli 1 table-spoonful of curry powder and 1 table-spoonful of cream, then mix them in the sauce, and continue stir- ring at the side of the fire till thickened, but without boiling again. Put the feet on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Singe the feet, tie them together in pairs, and boil in white stock. When tender drain the feet, take out the leg-bones, and lay the feet in a saute-pan. Cook an equal quantity of mushroom-heads and small quenelles, put them in with the feet, and pour over some good curry sauce. Wash and boil till tender about fib. of rice; butter the interior of ten or twelve dariole-moulds, drain the rice quite dry, and turn it into the moulds ; stand them in a bain-marie and leave for ten minutes. Turn the rice out of the dariole-moulds (it must be very firm to keep it in shape), and arrange them in a circle upon a hot dish ; put the feet in the middle, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fried marinaded Lamb's Feet.—(1) Singe the feet and put them in a saucepan with plenty of boiling water and boil for five minutes; drain, leave till cool, then bone them, and cut an inch off" the end of each foot, including the hoof. Finely chop 4oz. of beef-suet, put it in a sauce- pan, and place it over the fire till melted, then sift in 4oz. of flour, add a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three sliced onions, a clove of garlic, h teacupful of vinegar, and three or four cloves. Pour in 2qts. of water, season with salt and pepper, put in the feet, and boil till tender (they should take from three hours to three-hours-and-a- half). When cooked, drain the feet, cut in halves, lay them on a dish, dust with salt and pepper, squeeze some lemon-juice over, and leave for a short time. Drain the feet, dip in frying-batter, put them in a frying-pan with plenty of hot fat, and fry over a brisk fire till crisp and brown. Drain the feet, arrange in a pile upon a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. (2) Prepare the feet and boil them in white stock until tender; drain, and split each in halves lengthwise. Put them on a dish with a few sprigs eacli of thyme and parsley and two bay-leaves, and cover with a few slices of onions ; dust well with salt and pepper, and moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls each of vinegar and salad-oil. Cover Lamb—continued. the dish with another one and leave the feet for three or four hours. Put lib. of flour in a basin and mix it smooth with cold water, then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter and the well-whisked whites of two eggs. Drain the feet well when sufficiently marinaded ; put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a stewpan and place it over the fire until boiling ; dip the halves of feet in the batter, giving a good coating, and put them in the boiling fat. Fry until nicely browned on both sides, then take them out of the fat and drain for a second or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the feet on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Fried Lamb’s Feet Stuffed.—Clean the feet and boil till tender in white broth; make sufficient veal forcemeat to stuff" the feet, and mix with it some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallots. Drain the feet, split them length- wise without quite separating them, and bone. The feet must not be overcooked, or they will break when being boned, and will then be useless for stuffing. Dust salt and pepper over the interior of the feet, stuff them with the forcemeat, put the halves together again, and bind them round with twine. Rub well with flour, then egg and breadcrumb them. Put a large piece of lard in a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put the feet in and fry till nicely coloured. Drain the feet, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Lamb’s Feet a la Tartare.—Wash a dozen Lamb’s Feet and boil them in some white stock, being careful not to overdo them or they will break. When tender, drain the feet, take out the leg-bone, but without altering their shape, dust over with salt and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, and let them cool. Beat two or three eggs, mix a small quantity of chopped parsley and shallots with them, roll the feet in the eggs, and then in grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating; baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, lay them side by side on a gridiron and broil over a clear but rather slow fire, turning when done on one side. Make sufficient mayonnaise sauce to serve with the feet, mixin'g with it 1 teaspoonful of the best mustard and a small quantity each of raw tarragon, chives, chervil, and parsley, ail finely chopped. When the feet are well browned, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with sprays of parsley (see Fig. 1028), and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Lamb’s Feet.—(1) Blanch half-a-dozen Lamb’s Feet, cut out the shank-bone, being careful not to break the shin, and soak them for several hours in cold water. Afterwards drain the feet, put them into a stewpan with fresh cold water, h teacupful of lemon-juice, and boil for ten minutes. Then refresh the feet in cold water, cut off the bones of the cleft part of the foot, also removing the piece of hair that lies in the cleft, return them to the stewpan adding clear broth to cover, and boil slowly at the edge of the fire until tender (this should take about three hours). Prepare a cucumber sauce; when ready, put the feet on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) Prepare and stew eight or ten Lamb’s Feet until tender. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce in a stew- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock and four or six button-onions. Boil quickly until reduced to half its original819 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Lamb—continued. quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Split the feet lengthwise, put them in a stewpan with about eighteen heads of mushrooms and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pour the sauce over, season with salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and boil the whole gently for seven or eight minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream and a small quantity of lemon-juice, then stir them quickly into the sauce, which must not boil after the eggs are added. Turn the whole on to a hot dish and serve. Lamb’s Heads.—These do not find their way to the table of the rich as often as they deserve, nor have first-class cooks paid as much attention to their prepara- tion as they ought, for the Lamb's Head is the best of all heads that are used in cookery. It must be carefully stripped of its wool, the eyes scooped out, and the tip of the snout cut off. After plunging for a short time into boiling water, it can easily be cleaned and other- wise prepared for cooking. Baked Lamb’s Head.—Put the head into a saucepan of water and parboil it, then rub it well all over with yolk of egg, cover with finely-chopped herbs, then with bread- crumbs, and lastly with Butter; put it in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire and cook it. Chop up the heart and liver as finely as possible, and stew them in gravy, with a flavouring of lemon pickle. Put this mince in the centre of a dish, place the head on it, garnish with force- meat balls and fried brain cakes, and serve with lemon in slices and hot pickles. Boiled Lamb’s Head.—(1) Soak the head with the liver and lights in cold water to disgorge the blood. Put the head into a stewpan with cold water to cover and boil gently until tender. Boil the liver and lights until three- parts cooked, then chop them up very fine. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire until mixed, and strain in some of the liquor that the liver and lights were boiled in. Put the mince in the sauce, season it to taste, and keep it simmering slowly at the side of the fire. When cooked, put the head on a hot dish, pour the mince round it, garnish with hrain croquettes (see Fig. 1029), and serve. (2) Wash thoroughly a Lamb’s Head and entrails, and skin and split the head open lengthwise; put all together in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, and let them simmer for half-an-hour. At the end of that time take out the heart, liver, and lights, and chop them up small; put them in a stewpan with H pints of clear veal or mutton broth, season to taste with salt and pepper and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and thicken slightly with a little cream; let it simmer at the side of the fire. When the head is nearly cooked, drain it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and strew it thickly with grated breadcrumb. Put it in a Dutch oven, and brown in front of a clear fire. Make some nicely- flavoured cakes with the brains, and fry them a bright brown in butter. \V hen all is ready, turn the mince on to a hot dish, put the head on it, garnish with the brain cakes and slices of lemon, and serve. (3) Clean the head and liver; put the head in a sauce- pan of water, and boil it till partly done, then put in the Lamb—continued. liver and finish cooking both together. Split the head into halves, cut the meat across without separating it from the bone, grate nutmeg over, and put it in a tin dish; cover with grated breadcrumb, sweet herbs, all- spice, and finely-chopped lemon-peel, and dust over flour and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Baste with warmed butter, and put it in the oven. Finely chop the lights, tongue, and half of the liver, put them in a sauce- pan, dredge over flour, moisten with gravy or water, and boil gently till tender. Strain the mince, put it on a hot dish, return the gravy to the saucepan, and mix with it what liquor may have run from the head, and loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Dust in salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till thick; then add J table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. Have the other half of the liver cut into small pieces with some bacon, and fried over a brisk fire. Put the head in the centre of the minced meat that is on the dish, garnish with the pieces of fried bacon and liver, alter- nating them with slices of lemon, pour the thickened gravy over, and serve immediately. Broiled Lamb’s Head.—Split the head into halves, and steep it in cold water for several hours. Afterwards remove the eyes, bind tlie^ead round with a piece of tape, put it into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover, and boil gently at the edge of the fire. When the meat is tender, move the stewpan away from the fire and leave the head in it until nearly cold. When sufficiently cooked, drain the head, remove the tape, and cut the meat off into neat slices. Peel and slice three onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned, pour in the broth from the head, thicken it slightly with flour, and boil for several minutes. Move it to the side of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, the brains (that should have been well mashed), a few drops of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the sauce at the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Dip the slices of meat in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb ; put a large lump of butter in a flat stew- pan, and when it boils put in the slices and fry them until nicely browned. Drain them, put them on a hot dish over a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fricassee of Lamb’s Head.—Clean the head and haslet, and partially boil them, with the exception of the liver. Drain the meats and cut them into slices. Put them in a saucepan until sufficient clear broth to cover and three or four slices of pork ; dust in salt and pepper, and stew them till tender. Cut the livers into slices, put them in a deep frying-pan until the sweetbreads and a few slices of bacon, and fry ; season with parsley. Thicken the fricassee with loz. of butter worked in loz. of flour, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with the fried pieces of liver, and serve. Lamb’s Head and Fry.—(1) Prepare the head and boil it until half cooked, then drain ; brush it over with a brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and cover thickly with a mixture of grated breadcrumb and finely-chopped herbs. Put it in a Dutch oven, baste well with clarified butter, and finish cooking in front of the fire. Stew the heart and liver in a small quantity of gravy, then mince them, adding a table-spoonful of lemon pickle. Make some brain cakes and forcemeat balls, and fry them all in butter until nicely browned. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, and when the head is cooked, put it on it. Garnish alternately with the brain cakes and forcemeat balls, putting between each a slice of lemon, and serve. (2) Skin and split the head, clean it well, taking out the tongue and brains. Wash and clean the liver, lights, and heart also, and let all soak in hot water for half-an- hour. Boil the head then for rather more than three hours. Boil the tongue and brains separately in a little stock. Mince the liver, lights, and heart very fine ; put them over the fire with sufficient veal stock to cover, add a little finely-chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of cream, a seasoning of pepper and salt, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 P 2TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 820 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Lamb—continued. and a bit of butter rolled in flour, and let them stew gently, stirring occasionally. When the head is boiled enough, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle with sifted breadcrumbs and finely-chopped herbs, baste with butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven before the fire. Put the head when nicely browned on a hot dish, lay the mince round it, and garnish with the tongue Fig. 1030. Lamb’s Head and Fry. cut in two lengthwise and the brains (see Fig. 1030). A little lemon-juice may be squeezed over the brains just before serving. Stewed Lamb’s Head.—Boil the lights for an hour, the head for three-quarters-of-an-hour, and the liver a-quarter- of-an-hour. When the head is boiled, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, dredge it well with sifted breadcrumbs mixed with chopped parsley, grated lemon- peel, a very small quantity of thyme, and pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste. Make a mince of the liver, lights, and heart, flavour it with a little chopped parsley, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Grill the head, lay it on a hot dish, put the mince round and a few forcemeat balls or brain cakes made as for Calf’s Head, pour some well-thickened brown gravy over, and serve hot. Lamb’s Kidneys.—When quite fresh, which may be told by the smell and colour of the fat, which should be white and not turning at all, these are de- servedly ascribed the first place amongst kidneys. Pre- pared and served as follows they are excellent, and sufficiently digestible to be given to invalids and dyspeptics: Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Bacon.—Proceed as for Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce, but do not roll them in breadcrumbs, and serve with six slices of broiled bacon and a gill of maitre-d’hotel butter. Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce.—Split open eight kidneys, skin them, place on a dish, and anoint them well with sweet-oil. Dust over them 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and J teaspoonful of nutmeg. Take eight silver skewers, run each skewer through the centre of a kidney (which should be split partly open), roll them in breadcrumbs, and put them to broil before a moderate fire for about four or five minutes on each side. Place them on a very hot dish, on which has been pre- viously poured J pint of hot colbert sauce, garnish with Fig. 1031. Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce. fried bread crofttons (see Fig. 1031), and send to table at once. Devilled Lamb’s Kidneys.—Skin and pare twelve kidneys, split them into halves, without separating the parts, and lain the skewers through as for Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce. Broil them slightly for one minute on each side, then mix together in a dish 1 teaspoonful of mustard with 2 table-spoonfuls of Parisian sauce, J tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little mignonette pepper. Roll the kidneys well in this, then in breadcrumbs, and finish by broiling them once more for three minutes on each side. Serve with a gill of maitre- d’hotel butter poured over. Fried Lamb’s Kidneys served with Crofttons of Bread. —Skin and trim the fat off the kidneys, cut each one into halves, lengthwise, put them in a frying-pan with one or two finely-chopped shallots and 2oz. of butter, dust over salt and pepper, and fry them. When the kidneys are cooked and the shallots nicely browned, take them off the fire, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Fry in hot fat a dozen or so crofttons of bread, and when browned and crisp, drain, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Put the kidneys on a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, garnisli with the crofttons of bread, and serve. Glazed Lamb’s Kidneys.—Remove all the skin and fat from a dozen Lamb’s Kidneys and cut them down the centre, but not to sever them. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter and fry until they are brown, sprinkle over with salt and pepper to taste and add a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze; roll them well in this and place on a dish. Cover with finely-minced parsley, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and serve with a garnish of crofttons of fried bread. Lamb’s Livers.—The greatest care is required when cleaning and preparing these for cooking that the gall-bladder and its appurtenances shall be cleanly cut away without leaving the slightest stain. Any part coming in contact witli the gall is certain to be bitter, even in the liver of so young an animal as a Lamb of only two months. The blood must be squeezed out of the liver under water, and the whole thoroughly washed; the fresher it is used the better. Broiled Lamb’s Liver.—(1) Cut the liver into thin slices, and let them macerate in oil and chopped parsley for half- an-hour. Drain the slices, dust them over with salt and Fig. 1032. Broiled Lamb's Liver. pepper, roll them in grated breadcrumb, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put 6oz. of butter in a saucepan, melt it, and mix with it the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season with salt and pepper. When the slices of liver are cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the butter over and serve. See Fig. 1032. (2) Wash the livers, cut them into slices, put them on a dish, dust over salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of oil. In twenty minutes’ time, drain the slices, roll them in plenty of breadcrumbs, and lay them side by side on a gridiron; broil over a clear fire, basting occasionally. with a small quantity of warmed butter. When cooked (they will take about eight minutes) put the livers on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Lamb’s Liver.—Thoroughly wash some Lamb’s Liver, cut it into thin slices, and nib them well on both sides with salt, pepper, and flour. Put a large lump of fat into a frying-pan, and make it hot. Dip the fillets into beaten eggs, plunge them into the fat, and fry. DrainTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 821 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. the slices of liver, dust a little salt over, put them on a hot dish that has been embellished with a lace-edged dish- paper or a folded napkin, garnish with quarters of lemon, and serve. Ragoftt of Lamb’s Liver.—(1) Choose a clean liver, wash it, arid boil till tender. Make a rich brown sauce and season it with spices and wine. Drain the liver, cut it into thin round slices, put them in the sauce, boil up again till thoroughly hot, then pour all on to a hot dish. Arrange some slices of hard-boiled eggs and lemon alternately round the dish, and serve at once. (2) Wash the liver, put it in a saucepan of salted water, and boil. When tender, drain, and cut the liver into thin slices. Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry it over a brisk fire till nicely browned; dredge in loz. of flour and stir it in the butter till well mixed, then add gradually 1 pint of stock; season highly with salt, pepper, and spices, stir it over the fire, and boil for five minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it the juice of half a lemon and 1 wineglassful of sherry, put in the liver, and make them hot again. Turn the ragoftt on to a hot dish, garnish with cut lemons and hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Salmis of Lamb’s Liver.—Boil the liver in plenty of water until tender, then drain and cut it into very thin slices. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stew- pan, and stir over the fire until well blended, then mix in smoothly 1 teacupful of water or clear gravy and 1 wineglassful of port wine. Continue stirring the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in two shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire for half-an-hour. Afterwards, strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan with the slices of liver, and keep them simmering slowly at the edge of the fire until hot, but not boiling. Squeeze the juice of a lemon in with the liver, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried cn nitons of bread, and serve. Lamb’s Pluck, or Pry.—All that can be con- sidered eatable of the Lamb’s internal organs may be included under this very comprehensive term, although by the butcher it is applied to the lungs, liver, and heart only, sweetbreads and kidneys having sufficient individual value to be treated separately. The pluck must be thoroughly cleansed before cooking, and all hard or stringy parts carefully cut away. Cooked as follows, Lamb’s Pluck is not to be despised: Boiled Lamb’s Pluck.—Wash and blanch the pluck, put it in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, the pulp of a lemon freed of pips, salt, cloves, and peppercorns, and sufficient water to cover. Place the saucepan over the fire till the water boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer till the pluck is done. Put two or three finely- chopped shallots into a saucepan with 3 wineglassfuls of vinegar, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Fig. 1033. Boiled Lamb’s Pluck. Pour f- breakfast-cupful of stiffly-reduced veloute sauce in with the shallots, and boil. Take the sauce off the fire and mix in gradually 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, 1 table- spoonful of made mustard, and 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped tarragon and burnet. When the pluck is cooked, j drain well, then place it on a hot dish, heart in the middle, I Lamb—continued. and other parts cut in pieces and put round (see Fig. 1033); pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Lamb’s Pluck with Ravigote Sauce.—Clean and blanch the pluck; put it in a stewpan lined with thin slices of bacon, add an onion stuck with four cloves and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, moisten to three-parts their height with white wine, season with salt and pepper, and cover with a few more thin slices of bacon. Stew very gently at the side of the fire for four hours. Finely chop three shallots ; put them in a small saucepan with 1 h tea- cupfuls of vinegar, put it on a brisk fire and boil until the vinegar is reduced to half its original quantity, then pour in 1| teacupfuls of thick veloute sauce and boil it up again. Move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in gradually 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and a small quantity each of chopped burnet and tarragon. When cooked, drain the pluck, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Curried Lamb’s Pluck.—(1) Clean two white Lamb’s Plucks; line the bottom of an earthen stockpot with thin rashers of fat bacon, put in the plucks, with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and a large onion stuck with two or three cloves, pour in white wine to three-parts the height of the meat, season with pepper and salt, and cover with layers of bacon; put the stockpot over the fire till the wine begins to bubble, then move to the side or on to some warm ashes, cover with a soup-plate, and stew the plucks gently for four hours. When cooked, drain the plucks on a sieve and arrange them on a hot dish; skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, mix a breakfast-cupful of rich gravy with it, and boil up. Work 1 table-spoonful of butter together with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it into the sauce with some curry powder, and stir till thick and cooked. Pour the sauce over the plucks and serve. (2) Clean and blanch very white two or three plucks; line a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, put in the plucks, with a large onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley, season with salt and pepper, and pour in white wine to three-parts the height of the plucks, covering them with slices of bacon. Place the stewpan over the fire until the wine begins to bubble, then move it to the side and cook the contents very gently for four hours. Put the plucks on a sieve to drain, place them on a dish, and keep hot. Skim the fat ort' their cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a smaller saucepan, mix with it an equal quantity of rich gravy, put in it a small piece of butter that has been kneaded with curry powder, stir it over the fire until thickened and on the point of boiling, then pour it over the plucks, and serve. Lamb’s Pluck a l’Anglaise.—Trim the sweetbreads to a nice shape, put them in a saucepan with an onion and some clear broth, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Take the sweetbreads out and put the brains in the liquor and boil fast till hard, then take them out and leave till cold. Cut the heart into slices and put them with the milt into the saucepan, and stew gently till tender; cut the brains into slices, dip them in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, and fry them and the sweetbreads in butter. Dust some flour over the slices of heart, the milt, and liver, and fry till brown; then cut the kidney into slices and fry them gently for a minute or two. When all the above articles are cooked and browned, arrange them in the middle of a hot dish. Dredge a small quantity of flour into the pan in which they were fried, and stir about till it begins to brown, then pour in gradually the cooking- liquor of the sweetbreads, &c., and stir it over the fire till boiling,- seasoning to taste. Pour the gravy over the fry, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lamb’s-Pluck Pie.—Clean the pluck, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes, then drain, and cut it into small square-shaped pieces. Clean the heart and liver, and cut them into pieces the same size as the pluck. Put some scraped fat bacon in a stewpan, place the pan over the fire till the bacon has dissolved, then put in the meats and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 822 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Finely chop an onion, two or three shallots and mush- rooms, and put them in with the meat ; dust in salt and pepper, and fry for five minutes longer. Make about 4lb. of good short-paste, roll it out and trim to a round shape. Lay the round of paste on a baking-sheet, and cover it with a layer of veal forcemeat, leaving a border of the paste all round, about ljin. wide; put the meat on the forcemeat, piling it in a dome, then spread another layer of forcemeat over. Roll out a piece of puff paste at five-and-a-half turns to Jin. in thickness, then cut a strip out of it about 1 Jin. wide. Gather up the remainder of the paste and roll it out to a thin round fiat, place it over the meats bringing the edges down to meet the border of the bottom fiat of paste; fix the strip of paste like an upright wall all round, fastening the two ends together, and using a paste-brush dipped in water to make it adhere. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut some imitation leaves out of it, moisten underneath with a little water, and arrange them tastefully on the top of the pie; make a small hole in the centre, and cover it with a paste flower. Dip the paste-brush in beaten egg, brush it over the pie, put in a slow oven and bake for an hour, covering with a sheet of paper after the first ten minutes. Boil about f pint of clear gravy till rather thickly reduced, then mix in some chopped cooked mush- rooms. When the pie is cooked, slip it on to a hot dish, remove the flower at the top, and pour the gravy in through the hole, then replace the flower, and serve. Ollapodrida of Lamb’s Pluck.—Take the liver, heart, kidneys, sweetbreads, and brains of a Lamb. Boil the sweetbreads in hot water for five minutes, then put them in l- pint of good broth and simmer for ten minutes; take them up and put in the brains and boil them, letting both brains and sweetbreads get cold when taken out of the gravy. Then slice the heart and stew it in the same gravy very gently for quite half-an-hour. Chop the liver, peel and chop a small onion (a young one), and when the slices of heart are stewed, put in the kidneys and let them stew for five minutes. Fry the chopped liver and onion in dripping, and fry the slices of heart afterwards in Fig. 1034. Ollapodrida of Lamb’s Pluck. the same dripping. Slice the sweetbreads and brains when cold, brush over with egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling butter ; fry the kidneys in the same butter for a bare two minutes. Arrange the slices of heart, the chopped liver, the kidneys, the sliced sweetbreads and brains on a hot dish ; dredge some browned flour into the fat in the frying-pan, stir it in, then pour in the gravy, season to taste with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, mix in a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, let it boil up, pour it over the sweetbreads, &c., anil serve immediately. See Fig. 1034. Stewed Lamb’s Pluck.—Clean the heart, liver, and lungs of a Lamb, and cut them into squares. Put a small chopped onion into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and fry over a brisk fire till lightly browned, then put in the pieces of meat, and fry them also. When the me it has nearly set, dredge in flour, salt, and pepper. Cover the meat with white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities, and boil till the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and serve. Stewed Lamb’s Pluck, Ears, and Peet.—Clean a Lamb’s Pluck, ears, and feet; cover with water in which 1 table- Lamb—continued. spoonful of flour has been mixed, put in a few peppercorns and cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, the pulp of a lemon, without peel or pips, and a little salt, and boil them gently till tender. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots, stir over the fire for two or three minutes but do not let them brown, sprinkle in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, continue stirring for two minutes, pour in gradually some cooking-stock, and an equal quantity of broth, stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, and let the contents simmer. In twenty minutes’ time skim the fat off and pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve or strainer; put it in the saucepan again, with twelve raw mushrooms that have been peeled and cleaned, and let it boil for ten minutes to reduce ; then thicken with the yolks of two eggs. Drain the pluck, feet, and ears on a towel, take the bones out of the feet, put the pluck in the middle of a hot dish, arrange the feet and ears round it, garnish round with the mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. Lamb’s Stones.—It is not often that these are collected for cooking; but when they are, the following will be found the best receipts for preparing them: Fricasseed Lamb’s Stones.—Skin, wash, and partially boil some Lamb’s Stones, drain, cut them in halves, and mb well with flour. Put a large lump of lard in a fry- ing-pan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the stones and fry them until nicely browned. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and a small lump of butter in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then stir in slowly about 1J breakfast-cupfuls of clear veal broth; continue stirring until boiling, then move it to the side and put in a slice of lemon, 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with J teacupful of cream and strained. Stir it at the side of the fire for a few minutes but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Put the fricassee on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fricasseed Lamb’s Stones and Sweetbreads.—Blanch and partially boil some Lamb’s Stones and cut them into slices. Cut three sweetbreads into two slices each, and rub them over with flour. Beard about a dozen large oysters and put the sweetbreads and stones into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry, putting in the oysters when they are about half done. When all are nicely browned, drain off the butter, put in some asparagus-tops cut into lin. lengths, a few finely-chopped chives, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear gravy; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and let it boil gently at the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs well with J teacupful of cold gravy, pour it in with the sweetbreads, and stir at the edge of the fire until thickened, but not boiling, or the eggs will curdle. Turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—These are of two kinds in all animals, the one lying under the heart, and called consequently the heart-sweetbread, and the other being the large gland that embraces the windpipe, and is therefore called the throat-sweetbread. They are both valued in cookery, the throat-sweetbread being the least familiar, although certainly the more delicate of the two. Invalids are especially partial to sweetbreads. They are best cooked as follow: Baked Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Clean the sweetbreads, washing them in plenty of water, then steep them in water for an hour or more. Drain the sweetbreads and blanch them in boiling water till firm, then boil slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. At the end of that tune, drain and wipe the sweetbreads on a cloth. Roll them in beaten yolk of eggs, then in plenty of grated breadcrumb, and put them in a quick oven till nicely browned. Boil \ pint of gravy with 1 wineglassful of sherry, arrange theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 823 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. sweetbreads in a group on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve without delay. Blanquette of Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—(1) Select the required quantity of Lamb’s Sweetbreads; steep them in cold water, blanch and drain them, and stew in some white stock. When done, drain and trim the sweetbreads, cut them into small oblong pieces called collops, and put them in a stewpan with sliced truffles. Pour some German sauce over them, and stir over the fire till hot. Make a potato border on a hot dish, fill the centre with the blanquette, and serve. (2) Take three dozen good Lamb’s Sweetbreads, wash well so as to get them white, and cook in plain water. When done, strain and throw them into cold water; and when cold, trim them well, being careful to remove all the pipe and other hard pieces. Cut up half of them into small squares, put them into a stewpan with 1 gill of white sauce, a little chicken glaze, and six yolks of eggs, season well with cayenne pepper and salt, bring to the boil, and pour this out upon a dish ; set the dish upon ice or in a cool place to get firm. When quite cold, roll it into balls about the size of nutmegs, pass them through breadcrumbs, then through whisked eggs, again into the crumbs, and then fry to a golden brown in hot lard. Put the remainder of the sweetbreads into a stewpan with a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt, and eighteen small collops of tongue, fyy these for about five minutes, drain off the butter, add 1 gill of white sauce, some small mushrooms, and sliced truffles; make thoroughly hot, dish up in the form of a dome in the centre of the dish, garnish with the croquettes (see Fig. 1035), mask the blanquette with 1 table-spoonful of white sauce, and serve. Boiled Lamb's Sweetbreads.—Wash the sweetbreads and leave them in water for an hour or two, then blanch them. Put them in a saucepan with a piece of mace, i pint of broth, and salt and pepper. Knead loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it in with the sweet- breads, and keep them boiling gently for thirty-five minutes. Beat three eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the sweetbreads are done, take them out of the saucepan, put them on a hot dish, and keep near the fire. Mix the beaten eggs-and-cream in with the sauce and stir it by the side of the lire till thick, but it must not boil after the eggs are added. Pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. Fricassee of Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Blanch two or three Lamb’s Sweetbreads, parboil them in broth or stock, and cut into slices. Flour them well and if the slices are too thick cut them in halves. Put them into a frying-pan with butter and a few bearded oysters and fry to a yellow colour. Now drain off' the butter, pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy, add a few asparagus-points, two or three finely-chopped chives or shallots, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, and simmer for ten minutes or so. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a basin, add a little of the broth, and then stir it in with the remainder, and replace the pan at the side of the fire and stir, without boiling, until the gravy is moderately thick. Serve on a hot dish with slices of lemon for garnish. Lamb—continued. Lamb’s Sweetbreads en Cassolettes.—Boil 1 breakfast-cupful of rice in 2i breakfast-cupfuls of broth. When the rice is tender, take it off the fire, and beat to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon; fill some small deep patty-pans with it and cut a round on the tops tin. deep with a plain 1 Jfin. cutter. Leave the rice to get cold, then take it out of the moulds, mask it lightly over with warmed butter, and bake till browned in a brisk oven. When done, take the covers off, scoop out the inside of the rice, leaving a wall Jin. thick. Fill these cassolettes with Lamb’s Sweetbreads that have been cooked and cut in small dice, pour a spoonful of reduced German sauce over the contents, and arrange the cassolettes on a hot dish, and serve. Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Cases.—Blanch, pare, and clean six Lamb’s Sweetbreads. Lay them aside to cool, then lard them with either fresh fat pork or truffles. Place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, adding 1 gill of chicken broth or 1 gill of Madeira wine. Cover with a buttered paper, and let them cook to a golden colour in the oven for ten minutes, then lay them on a dish. Put h gill of cooked fine herbs and 1 gill of well-reduced Spanish sauce into the pan, letting it cook for five minutes. Take six small buttered paper cases, pour a little of the gravy at the bottom of each, fill in with sweetbreads, and place them on a baking-dish; keep them for five minutes in an open oven, then serve on a folded napkin. Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Shells.—Boil sixteen Lamb’s Sweetbreads, taking care not to overdo them ; when cold, cut them into dice, and mix with them a third of their quantity of cooked mushrooms, and keep them covered. Pour into a saucepan a little bechamel sauce, let it re- duce, gradually introducing into it the cooking-stock of the Lamb’s Sweetbreads, so as to get half a brown sauce. When it thickens and coats the spoon, put the sweetbreads and mushrooms in with it, and take the preparation off the fire at once. Procure some large table-shells, fill them with the mixture, smoothing it on the top, sprinkle grated breadcrumb over, pour 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter in each, and bake till browned in a quick oven. Fig. 1036. Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Shells. Arrange the shells on a fancy paper over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 1036. Lamb’s Sweetbreads with Villeroy Sauce.—Select the required quantity of sweetbreads, blanch and put them in a stewpan, adding broth to half their height, boil till tender and the gravy is reduced. Put the sweetbreads between two plates, and let them be till cold. Cut each sweetbread in two, dip them in villeroy sauce, and put them on a baking-sheet. When the sauce has cooled on them, take them off the baking-sheet with the aid of a knife, roll them in breadcrumbs, dip them in beaten egg, then roll in breadcrumbs again, and fry in boiling fat; when nicely browned all over, drain, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Blanch the sweetbreads and steep them in cold water for half-an-hour, then put them in a stewpan with some button-onions, boiled asparagus- tops, and a small piece of mace; season to taste until salt and pepper. Knead loz. of butter with flour, put it in until the sweetbreads, and let them simmer at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with h teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonfulTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 824 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. of finely-chopped parsley, and stir them in with the sweet- breads. Grate in a small quantity of nutmeg, and stir the sauce at the side of the fire for a few minutes but do not let it boil again or the eggs will curdle. When ready, put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed larded Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Clean the sweet- breads, steep them in cold water for one hour, then partially boil them. Drain and leave them till cold ; out of some fat bacon cut some lardoons, and lard the sweetbreads down the middle with them; lard them down each side with strips of lemon-peel and at each end with a small piece of pickled cucumber. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and the same quantity of mushroom powder in a saucepan, and pour in gradually 1 pint of veal gravy; stir it over the fire till thickened and boiling, then put in the sweet- breads, season with a little lemon-juice and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and stew them gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. Timbale of Lamb's Sweetbreads.—Take a timbale-mould, line it with short-paste, having previously buttered it, and put a layer of forcemeat mixed with chives and a little finely-chopped lean raw ham inside. Blanch a score of Lamb’s Sweetbreads, and fry them over a clear fire in bacon- fat till nicely browned. Sprinkle salt and pepper over, take them off the fire, and let them cool. Put them in layers in the timbale-mould, alternating each layer with forcemeat. Put a layer of forcemeat on the top, cover the mould with a round of paste, fixing it carefully to the sides, put the timbale in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. When cooked turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, make a hole in the top, pour in a little thickened Fig. 1037. Timbale of Lamb’s Sweetbreads. gravy, put back the round that has been removed, garnish with mushrooms and parsley, and serve at once. See Fig. 1037. Lamb’s Tails.—As it is usual to leave these attached to the saddle, haunch, or hind-quarters, they are not usually met with in sufficient quantities to make a dish. Should there be enough at hand, they must first be skinned, and can then be prepared as follow: Lamb's-Tail Soup.—Cut the tails at the joints, and boil them until tender in sufficient water to make the soup. Put a small piece each of uncooked ham and veal into a stewpan with some mushrooms, an onion, a sprig of ; parsley, and half a blade of mace; stew the whole for an hour in a small quantity of water, then strain the liquor in with the tails. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour smoothly together with h teacupful of cream and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stir it into the soup. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, add the strained juice of a lemon, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen and serve it witli a plate of sippets of toast or crofitons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. Stewed Lamb's Tails.—Trim the tails ; line a stewpan with a layer of slices of bacon and some sliced carrots and onions. Put in the tails with a clove of garlic, also a sprig of thyme, two sprigs of parsley and a bay-leaf, tied together. Season to taste with salt, cloves, and pepper- Lamb—continued. corns; put the stewpan over the fire for ten minutes, then pour in 1 pint of water and \ pint of sherry. When boiling move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for nearly three hours. Afterwards take the tails out, strain their cooking-liquor, boil it until almost reduced to a glaze, and put in the tails to warm up again. Prepare a puree of spinach or sorrel, pile it in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the tails round it, pour their sauce over them, and serve. Lamb’s Tongues. — These are generally cooked and served with the head; but when available in sufficient quantity they form most excellent dishes if prepared as follow: Baked Lamb’s Tongues with Jerusalem Artichokes.— Boil the tongues for about two hours, then drain, plunge them into cold water, skin, and cut each tongue in halves lengthwise. Peel and boil some artichokes in salted water till tender, then drain, and cut them in halves. Lay the Fig. 1038. Baked Lamb’s Tongues with Jerusalem Artichokes. halves of tongues in a baking-dish, baste with a few table- spoonfuls of fat, and put them in a quick oven. When the tongues are browned and glazed, drain, put them on a hot dish in circular order, place the artichokes in the centre, pour a teacupful of rich brown gravy over the artichokes, and serve. See Fig. 1038. Boiled Lamb’s Tongues.—(1) Put half-a-dozen or so Lamb’s Tongues into a saucepan with sufficient salted water to cover and add the juice of half a lemon. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil the tongues well until tender; put them on a dish when drained, and serve either hot or cold ; if the latter, tartar sauce should accompany them. (2) Put the tongues in a saucepan with jdenty of salted water and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil. When quite tender, drain the tongues and leave till cold. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Put 1 table- spoonful of the best mustard in a basin, mix in with it 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 table-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and l wine- glassful of claret, stirring the sauce till quite smooth. Put the tongues on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Glazed Lamb's Tongues.—Put three or four corned Lamb’s Tongues (which should be of a good pink colour) into a saucepan of water and boil for two hours, take them out, skin, and cut them lengthwise in halves. Put them into a pan with a little meat glaze, cover well, and Fig. 1039. Glazed Lamb's Tongues. brown in the oven. Place them on a dish and serve with spinach and boiled artichokes for garnish (see Fig. 1039). Lamb’s Tongues a la Royale.—Use tinned Lamb’s Tongues, which should be cut into rather thin slices.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 825 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jbc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Blanch some Lamb's brains, disgorge them in salted water, by putting them in a saucepan over a gentle fire until the water comes to the boil, when it should be drained off and replaced by fresh. Stew the brains very slowly in white stock for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then drain, and leave until cold. Peel and mince finely three or four button- mushrooms and one or two stoned French olives, mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of very finely-grated breadcrumb, J table-spoonful of grated lemon- peel, and a small quantity each of powdered and sifted parsley, thyme, and chervil, bind- ing the whole together with beaten egg. Cut the cold brains into slices, and cover each slice, as well as the slices of tongues, with a layer of the stuffing; squeeze a small quantity of lemon- juice over each, roll round, securing them with small wire skewers, roll them in egg-and-breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling clarified fat until a golden brown. Drain the rolls, lay them on a hot dish, pour over a rich brown sauce mixed with a wineglassful of port wine, garnish with small crofitons of bread browned in butter, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. Lamb’s-Tongue Salad.—Have six cooked, pickled Lamb’s Tongues ; pare neatly, and cut them into very thin slices ; lay them in a dish, adding two cooked and sliced potatoes, 1 pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of sweet-oil. Mix the whole well together, then dress it in a bowl, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, decorate with a few small lettuce- leaves, and send to table. Pickled Lamb’s Tongues.—Put six or eight Lamb’s Tongues into a saucepan with sufficient salted water to cover, add the juice of half a lemon, and boil until they are tender; they should take about two hours. Take out, drain, put them into a jar, pour over sufficient hot spiced vinegar to cover, and let them remain for several days, when they will be ready for use. Stewed Lamb's Tongues.—(1) Put six Lamb’s Tongues into a saucepan of water and boil for an-liour-and-a-half ; take out, plunge them into cold water for a few minutes, take them out again, and skin. Put a little more than 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with an onion cut in slices, two slices of carrot and three of turnip, and cook gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Sprinkle in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir well until it is brown; pour in lqt. of stock, boil it up, put in the tongue, and sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of salt and a little pepper, and add a bunch of sweet herbs. Set the saucepan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for two hours. When done put the tongues in the centre of a dish, garnish with the vegetables, strain the gravy over, and serve. (2) Soak the tongues in cold water for an hour or so, then drain, plunge them into boiling water, drain again, and refresh them in cold water. Trim the tongues, put them in a saucepan with sufficient broth to cover, and boil gently for thirty minutes. Cut a few carrots, turnips, and onions into slices and line a stewpan with them; drain the tongues, trim off the white skin, and lay them side by side in the stewpan; pour in some Madeira and broth in equal quantities to three-parts the height of the tongues, and boil gently till the tongues are quite done. Peel and chop four or five large onions, put them in a small saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and fry over a brisk fire till nicely browned; dredge a small quantity of flour over the onions, dust with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, add a bunch of parsley, pour in gradually l pint of milk, and stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then let it simmer at the side of the fire for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream ; take the parsley out of the sauce, stir in the eggs, and grate in a small quantity of nutmeg. When the tongues are cooked, drain and glaze them, arrange in a circle upon a hot dish, pour the sauce in the middle, and serve. LAMB’S LETTUCE.—See Corn-Salad. LAMBIE.—The name given to a strong beer brewed in Belgium. LAMPREYS (Fr. Lamproies; Ger. Lampreten ; Ital. Lamprede; Sp. Lampreas).—These famous eel-like fish (Petromyzon marinus) (see Fig. 1040) take their name from the Latin lambere—to lick, and some add petra— a stone, from a habit they have of hanging by their mouths on to stones, roots of trees, or any other fixed substances under water, leaving the rest of their bodies to be washed about by the stream. There are two kinds known in England, which so closely resemble each other that it would be difficult to tell them apart, excepting by their size, the larger ones being known as Lampreys, and the smaller as Lamperns, the latter being generally used as bait for other fish. Both have seven openings on each side of the neck instead of the usual gills. The Lamprey visits certain rivers during the spring for the purpose of spawning, and remains there for a short time before it returns to the sea. It is in season during March, April, May, and the early part of June ; but after that it becomes so exceedingly scarce that a single Lamprey in winter is valued at a guinea; for which reason it may be supposed that the city of Gloucester has elected to send a Lamprey pie at Christmas to the Royal table. The best fish and the greatest numbers are caught in the Severn, those of the Thames being usually much smaller, and scarcer. The flesh of the Lamprey is soft and glutinous, and though esteemed a delicacy is extremely difficult of digestion; hence the story that attributes the death of King Henry I. to a surfeit of them. Lampreys should always be supplied alive, as they soon dry and lose flavour after death. The cook kills the Lamprey by making a cut at each side of the tail and letting it bleed, saving the blood for sauce; after a little time the head and tail can be cut off, the gristle or “ string,” which answers for a backbone, removed, and the fish thoroughly cleaned. Baked Lampreys.—(1) Skin and draw the fish, and split it lengthwise down the back, remove the string from the back, and truss it round. Put the fish into a saucepan with a lump of salt, water to cover, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and partially boil it. Drain, ieave until cold, then dust over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a pie-dish, line it with paste, put in the Lamprey, with a few well-washed currants, two or three peeled and sliced onions, four cloves, and two or three small lumps of butter; pour in i, pint of boiling claret, cover the dish with a flat of paste, trim it off neatly round the edges, moisten and press them together, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Remove the skin from a Lamprey, carefully draw it, split the back from mouth to tail, taking out the string at the back, and tie it round. Put it into a sauce- pan with salted water to cover, a seasoning of powdered herbs, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, and par- boil it. In the meantime, line a pie-dish with suitable paste, place a few lumps of butter at the bottom, then put in the parboiled Lamprey, with two or three onions cut up into pieces, and a few cloves and currants ; cover the dish with more of the paste, make a hole in the centre, fill up the dish with warmed butter, place the pie in the oven, and bake until done. Take it out and serve. Should it be desired, this fish may be baked in an earthenware jar, and if required to be kept for any length of time a seasoning of cloves, pepper, and salt should be added. When baked in this way no crust is required. Boiled Lamprey.—Cut the head and the end of the tail off a Lamprey, then divide the body in pieces, put them in a stewpan with cold water and vinegar, and let them grad- ually heat till the skin can be easily removed. Then drain Fig. 1040. Lamprey.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 82fi For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lampreys—continued. the pieces, sprinkle salt over them, and rah off the skin with a cloth. Wash, place them in a stewpan, cover with white wine, and put in a few sprigs of fine herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, a stick of cinnamon, and a sprinkling of salt; boil the liquid for ten minutes, then take the stew- pan off the fire. Put 6 table-spcpnfuls each of butter and flour into another stewpan, stir over the fire till browned, then pour in the liquor in which the fish was cooked, and a little rich gravy ; mix it over the fire till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine sieve, put it again in the stewpan, add 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and boil quickly to reduce and thicken it ; then put in the pieces of fish, 2 table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and .a little lemon-peel, and stand the stewpan over a moderate fire. Mix the blood of the Lamprey with a little vinegar, and thicken the sauce with it. Put some crohtons of toasted bread at the bottom of a hot deep dish, place the fish on them, pour the sauce round, and serve. Boiled Lamprey with Mushrooms.—Clean and remove the skin of a large Lamprey, cut it up into pieces, and sprinkle with salt. Put 4oz. each of butter and flour into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till nicely browned ; pour in 1 pint of white wine, continue stirring until it begins to boil, then having wiped the pieces of fish, drop them in, and with them a bunch of fine herbs and parsley. Boil the fish till three-parts done, then put in a dozen raw mushrooms, and continue boiling the fish slowly for twenty minutes longer. Take the Lamprey out, curl it round on a hot dish on which some slices of toasted bread have been arranged, and garnish with the mushrooms Fig. 1041. Boiled Lamprey with Mushrooms. and small glazed onions (see Fig. 1041). Skim the fat off the sauce, strain, and reduce it. Mix in the juice of a lemon, a pat of butter, and a little pepper; pour it over the fish, and serve. Fillets of Lamprey a l’ltalienne.—Select a nice-sized Lamprey, fillet it, and put it into a stewpan with two chopped onions, four heads of garlic (if liked), a little mixed herbs, 1 wineglassful of olive oil, and £ pint of Madeira; boil till the fish is cooked, then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and reduce the sauce. Put the fish and sauce on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Lampreys.—Select the required quantity of small, live Lampreys, cut off the heads and thin ends of the tails, and let them remain for a few minutes with salt sprinkled over them; wash and wipe well, sprinkle with plenty of flour, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry over a clear, brisk fire; When done, drain and put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve. Continental cooks usually prefer the living fish; but in this country it is not so easy to obtain them fresh caught. Fried Lampreys with Onions.—Select two moderately large Lampreys, kill and scald them, scrape off the skin, cut off the heads and tips of the tails, and divide the body into pieces. Cut an onion in slices, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, fry till nicely browned, then put in the jiieces of fish; season with pepper and salt, and fry for seven or eight minutes, turning occasionally; dredge over a little flour, then pour in sufficient red wine to cover. Stir all over the fire till boiling, then put in a few sprigs of herbs, two or three sprigs of parsley, and a few mushroom ' Lampreys—continued. trimmings ; place the lid on the stewpan, and simmer by the side of the fire. Peel two dozen very small young onions, put them in a flat stewpan with a little butter and a pinch of sugar, and fry till nicely browned; season, pear over a little broth, and reduce till the onions are nicely glazed. Put the fish on a hot dish, arrange the onions round it, skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine sieve over the fish, and serve. Jugged Lampreys.—Clean a Lamprey, cut off the head and tip of the tail, divide the body into large pieces, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till browned. Then put in some truffles and morels and fry them also. M hen nicely coloured, pour in 4 pint of red wine, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. When cooked, put the pieces of fish on a hot dish, garnish with cr.nitons of fried bread, pour over the cooking-liquor, and serve. Lampreys a la Neapolitaine. —Clean the Lampreys and stew them in red wine. When sufficiently tender, skin and chop them finely. Wash some sorrel and line herbs, chop, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and cook over a slow fire. Blanch about two dozen oysters, and fry in butter an equal quantity of crofitons of brown bread. Wash in warm water two dozen oyster shells, put a crouton of bread in each shell and over that a blanched oyster. Mix the sorrel and fine herbs with the Lamprey, and put a little of the mixture in each shell. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, arrange the shells on it, garnishing here and there with nicely picked parsley, and serve. Fotted Lampreys.—(1) Prepare twelve Lampreys, wash thoroughly in several waters, and wipe them dry. Leave for a day, then season with pepper, salt, ground mace, and cloves ; put the fish into a stone or earthenware pot, curling them round, pour over 21b. of clarified butter and 41b. of beef-suet, put a piece of paper over the pot, and bake in a moderate oven. Skim off the oil frequently, and take out of the oven when done. Now pour off as much of the butter and suet as possible, cover with more butter, and put away in a dry place. (2) When the Lampreys are prepared, rub into them a mixture of 6 drachms of cloves, 2 drachms of mace, each finely powdered, 4oz. of pepper, loz. of salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Let the fish stew gently for an hour in its own gravy, then cut up small, press it into pots, let it get quite cold, and then pour over sufficient butter warmed to oil to cover. (3) Prepare six large Lampreys, let the skin remain on, clean and well dry them, and leave to drain all night. Season the fish with 1 blade of powdered mace, loz. of white pepper, six ground cloves, and a little salt, mixed together; roll the Lampreys round and pack them in a large stone jar. Work up 4lh. of finely-chopped beef-suet, together with 4lb. of clarified butter, pour it over the fish, cover the jar with thick paper, and tie it tightly round to keep in the steam; stand the jar in a moderate oven, and bake the fish for three hours, hook at them constantly after they are potted, and skim off all the oil that rises to the top. Lampreys potted in this way will keep some time provided the butter is melted and drained off occasionally, and fresh clarified butter used. BiOasted Lampreys.—Mix with 2oz. of breadcrumbs half its quantity of minced fat bacon, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley and sage, 1 pinch each of pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and moisten it with the yolk of one egg. Skin, clean, and wash a large Lamprey, cut it open, and spread a layer of the forcemeat evenly over the inside; roll it up, beginning at the tail-end, fasten it with silver skewers, and tie round with twine. Butter the skin, roll it round the fish, fix it on a roasting-jack or spit, and roast in front of a clear fire for about half-an-hour or a little longer; take the skin off the Lamprey, brash over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and let it remain in front of the fire till browned. Put in a sauce- pan 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped capers and boned chopped anchovies, a piece of butter weighing between 4oz.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 827 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lampreys—continued. and 5 >z., \ teacupful of boiling water, and 1 table-spoonful of the vinegar that has been drained oil' the capers ; stir it over the lire till hot and well mixed. Put the fish on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Lampreys.—(1) Thoroughly clean the Lampreys in boiling, salted water, then drain, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of good cider, and stew gently for about half-an-hour. Pour some strong gravy in with the tisli, season with mace and pounded cloves in small quan- tities, salt, common pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Con- tinue stewing till tender, then take out carefully, put them on a hot dish, and garnish with horseradish. Mix 1 wine- glassful of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup with the cooking-liquor, dredge in a small quantity of Hour, and stir over the lire till thick. Either pour the gravy over the fish or serve it separately in a sauceboat with them. (2) Having selected a line fish, thoroughly cleanse it, remove the cartilage that runs down the back, and season with pepper, salt, mace, allspice and cloves. Put it in a stewpan with sufficient sherry and beef gravy, in equal quantities, to cover, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the fish stew till tender. When cooked, take it out, and keep hot while the gravy is being made as follows: Chop two boned anchovies very finely, and put them, with a lump of butter rolled in flour, in the liquor in which the fish was cooked; stir it over the fire till boiling, then strain through a hair sieve, mix in the juice of a lemon and_ 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, pour it over the fish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve with a plate of scraped horse- radish. (3) Skin and clean two Lampreys, season well with mace, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, roll them round, and fasten with skewers; put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it over the fire, then put the fish in with £ pint of rich gravy, one onion sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 wineglassful each of claret, white wine and cider, and stew the Lampreys over a slow fire, turning them occa- sionally. When quite tender (they should take about an- hour-and-a-half to cook), take out, put them on a dish, and keep hot while this sauce is being made : Put an anchovy, boned and chopped, in the cooking-liquor of the fish, thicken it with the beaten yolk of an egg, and pour it over the fish. Serve very hot. (4) Mix together 2 drachms of powdered mace, |oz. of pepper, 6 drachms of powdered cloves, a small quantity of cayenne, and nearly loz. of salt. Prepare the Lampreys, and rub the mixture of salt and spice well all over them. Take some very good stock boiled to a jelly and quite free from fat, melt as much of it as will be required, adding for every table-spoonful 1 table-spoonful each of rough cider and walnut and mushroom ketchups. Curl the fish round to a proper size to fit in the vessel in which it is to be cooked (it may be stewed in an earthen- ware jar placed in the oven, or in a stewpan over the fire), put it into the jar or stewpan, pour over enough of the mixture of melted stock, cider, and ketchup to cover, put in also an anchovy and a little lemon pickle, let it stew slowly for forty minutes, then add a small quantity of essence of mushrooms and a glass of port wine, and let it simmer for ten minutes longer. (5) Carefully clean the fish, then remove the cartilage found running down the back, and season the fish with ground allspice, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and pepper. Put it into a stewpan, cover with beef gravy, and sherry or Madeira, in equal quantities, place the lid on the pan, and stew until the Lamprey is tender. Take it out and keep hot; add to the liquor three finely-chopped anchovies and a liaison of flour and butter, strain through a fine sieve, add a little made mustard and lemon-juice, pour it over the Lamprey, and serve with crofltons of fried bread and scraped horseradish for garnish. Stewed Lamprey a la Bordelaise.—Select a large live Lamprey, make an incision at the end of the tail to bleed it, and keep the blood ; scald the fish, then scrape off the skin, cut off the end of the tail, and pull out the string. Cut the fish into medium-sized pieces, put them in a Lampreys—co ntinued. stewpan with some sliced mixed vegetables and fine herbs, pour in sufficient claret to cover, stand the stewpan on a sharp fire, and boil the fish for ten minutes. Take the Lamprey out, and pass the cooking-liquor through a hair sieve into a basin; put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and Hour into a stewpan, stir over the fire with a spoon till lightly browned, then pour in the cooking-stock of the Lamprey. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents boil for twenty minutes. Cut the white part, 2in. long, off’ a dozen large leeks, put them in a flat stewpan with a little fat, and toss over the fire till nicely coloured ; put in 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of raw ham cut in dice and a little pepper and salt; two minutes after, pour in the sauce, previously strSining and skimming off the fat, and boil till reduced to one half; then add the pieces of Lamprey and finish cooking them. Take the pieces of fish out carefully when done, put them on a hot dish, and garnish with the leeks. Skim the fat off the sauce, mix in a little gravy, stir it over the fire till boiling, pour in the blood of the Lamprey to thicken, pass it through a fine sieve over the fish, and serve. LANDRAILS.—See Corncrakes. LAFLAND BREAD.—See Bread. LAPWINGS (TV. Yanneaux; Ger. Kibitze).—These are small crested birds (Vanellus cristatus) of the plover family, which are very common in some parts of the British Isles, and are better known as Pewits. They are described as having long and broad wings with which they perform a rapid but very irregular flight. Their back is of a greenish or coppery bronze colour, and under the wings are broad markings of white. Their eggs are the Plover’s eggs of the London market, and are esteemed great delicacies. They may be cooked as j follows: Roasted Lapwings.—Truss and clean the required quantity of Lapwings, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and roast in front of a clear fire. When roasted, cut them in half, arrange them like a pyramid on a hot dish, pour a Fig. 1042. Roasted Lapwings. little strong meat glaze over, and serve with some clear gravy in a sauceboat. See Fig. 1042. Terrine of Lapwings.—Clean, draw, and take out the fillets of the required quantity of Lapwings ; put the fillets in a basin, with some salt and mixed spices over them, moisten- ing with a teacupful or two of Madeira. Fry the livers and entrails of the birds with some chicken’s livers, a little fat bacon, and a sprinkling of sweet herbs; cut the flesh off the legs into pieces, and put them by. Procure two legs of hare, trim and cut the flesh into pieces, put them in a stewpan with the flesh of the Lapwing’s legs and a little chopped bacon-fat, fry them over a clear fire, season, and let them cool; then pound them with the fried livers and entrails. Pass the prepared forcemeat through a sieve, line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin slices of fat bacon, then lay in, alternately, the forcemeat and fillets of Lapwings; cover the top with thin rashers of bacon, put a cover on the pie-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-lialf. When cooked, take the terrine out, and serve it when cold.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 828 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Larder—continued. communicating with the air outside. If used for storing this is the more important, because then unpleasant odours and microbes of decomposition are carried off almost as fast as they arise. The walls, shelves, and doors should be kept scrupulously clean, being scrubbed with scalding water and washing-powder repeatedly. If possible the walls should be tiled, and the shelves of slate or polished marble; but as these are not always conve- nient, the walls and ceiling should be lime-washed fre- quently, and the shelves scrubbed over with chloride of lime in water, care being taken to paint the shelves with this only, and then to carefully wash it all off. The door and windows should be fitted with perforated zinc, small enough to keep dies out and let air in. See Pantry. LARD (Fr. Saindoux ; Ger. Schweinfett).—This is, or should be, the white fat of the pig melted down and purided; but it is to be feared that Lard is subject to extensive adulterations; veal—and mutton-fat are frequently mixed with it, and beef—or' mutton-suet is sometimes added to give inferior Lard a greater con- sistency. Flour, water, starch, lime, alum, carbonate of soda, potash, and salt are also occasionally mixed in to give some character that the Lard lacked. The best Lard is that taken from the kidneys of the pig; but foreigners preparing Lard for the British markets do not seem to be very particular what fat they “ rend ” down, so long as it remains white after melting. In America, Canada, Hamburg, and Ireland the rending is performed by steam, thus preventing the fat from burning, and preserving its white appearance and its almost odour- less, firm characteristics. There are two kinds of Lard imported—bladder-Lard and keg-Lard, so called from the names of the vessels containing them. Bladder-Lard is usually the best quality, and consequently fetches the I highest prices. The kidney-fat is also known as Flead, J Flear, Flare, and Leaf Lard. Lard may be prepared at home as follows: (1) Directly the fat is removed from the pig it should be cut hi small pieces, washed, and all the water pressed out; put it in a pot to boil, with lgall. of water to a vessel holding 4galls. Boil quickly over a sharp fire till the cracklings begin to brown, then cook slowly to prevent burning. When the Lard is done, the cracklings will sink to the bottom. This is called leaf Lard. (2) Soak the fat procured from the entrails of a pig hi clear cold water for two or three days, changing it fre- quently, and throwing a handful of salt in the water to draw out the blood and impurities. When ready to rend, wash it hi warm water twice, and boil in more water than is done for leaf Lard. When all the cracklings sink to the bottom, the Lard is done. (3) All the skin should be stripped off the inner part of a pig; it should then be put in an earthen jar, and the jar put in a large saucepan with boiling water in it. Let it simmer gently by the side of the fire, and as the Lard melts, take it carefully from the sediment, put it into thoroughly clean bladders, and keep them hi a cool place till ready to use. The Lard should be kept quite free from air, or it will turn rank. Lard Cakes.—Rub 1 jib. of Lard and 6oz. of butter into 2lb. of Hour with h teaspoonful of salt mixed with it. Stir quickly to a stif paste with milk, and roll it out on a floured paste-board with a floured rolling-pin to fin. in thickness. Cut it into small cakes, and bake in a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Lard Pastry.—For lib. of flour allow fib. of Lard; cut the Lard into thin slices, and roll each slice in a little of the flour; continue thus until all the Lard and flour are used, then mix in gradually sufficient very cold water to make a soft paste. Lay the paste on a floured cloth, and keep it in a very cold place for half-an-hour. Afterwards put it on a floured paste-board, and roll it out with a floured rolling-pin to the thickness of lin. Put the paste again on the floured cloth in a cold place and leave it for lialf-an hour longer. Roll the paste out very thinly, doubling it over six times. The paste should be touched as little as possible with the hands. LARDER.—It is rather a difficult problem to dis- tinguish between the Larder and the pantry. According to its original meaning the Larder is that part of the culinary apartments set aside for preparing foods for cooking; but custom has extended this signification until it represents the store-room for meats, poultry, and fish. The pantry takes its name from pain—bread, and should therefore be reserved for that and pastry ; but to the French cook all these together constitute the “office,” and are known to the German as the speise- kammer. As the British Larder may be used for numerous purposes it should be in a very cool, airy position, with a good upper draught of air right through LARDING.—It has been suggested that larding is not for the poor, as it increases the cost of meat; but, as a matter of fact, larding enhances the nutritive value of fatless meat, and should rather be regarded as an addition to the economical working of the kitchen. The following instructions are very much to the point: Fig. 1043. Larding-needle. All that is required is a larding-needle (see Fig. 1043), which is a piece of steel from 6in. to 9in. long, pointed at one end and having four slits at the other to hold a small strip of bacon (lardoon) when put between them. Daubing is somewhat differently man- aged : A hole is made in the substance of the meat with Fig. 1044. Daubing-needle. a daubing-needle (see Fig. 1044), and a plug of bacon-fat is forced into the hole; this is only done in large joints. Cut some tliin even slices, parallel with the rind, off a piece of young salted pork. Cut the slices into narrow strips to fit the larding-needle. For beef, veal, turkey or chicken, the strips should be about as large as a lead pencil, and about 3Jin. long; for birds, sweetbreads and chops they should be about as large as a lucifer match. Three slices are all that can be cut from one piece of pork, as when cut more than lin. away from the rind, the fat is so tender that it will break in the needle. Put the strips in a basin and cover them with broken ice to harden. If veal or beef is to be larded, free it from all skin and gristle. Put a strip into the needle as far as it will go. With a sharp-pointed knife or a skewer, draw a line along both sides of the meat and along the upper- part. Thrust the needle into the meat at one of the side lines, and when it is about half-way through to the top of the piece, press the steel slightly with the thumb and fore-finger, to hold the lardoon in place till it has entered the meat. Then push the needle through to the top, and gently draw it out, leaving about jin. of the strip exposed at both the side and upper part of the meat. That part of the pork which is hidden should be Jin. under the surface. Continue until all the rows are filled with lardoons. Two rows are enough for a fillet of beef; if the strips are too large for the needle they will be pressed out when the needle enters the meat. LARDOONS (Fr. Lardons).—Strips of bacon-fat used in Larding. LARKS (Fr. Mauviettes or Alouettes ; Ger. Lerehen). —These birds, of the genus Alauda, are so highly esteemed for their “ singing in heaven’s vaults ” that the notionTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 829 Larks—continued. of converting them into culinary dishes is regarded with great disfavour. It may be a consolation to know that the great bulk of small birds sold in our shops as Larks, are not always sky-Larks, but more often field- Larks, fieldfares, and wheatears. They have been recog- nised amongst table delicacies from the days of Rome’s empire, and probably long before that; but it is to the French cook that we are indebted for the present perfec- tion of their cooking. Baked Larks.—Singe and cut the wings and legs of the required quantity of Larks at the first joint, and remove the gizzards. Run four small wooden skewers through each I,ark, put them in a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, sprinkle with a little salt, fry over a sharp fire for three minutes, then sprinkle breadcrumbs over them; place the cover on the stewpan, put some live embers on the top, and leave on a slow fire till cooked. Drain the Larks, take out the skewers, arrange in two rows on a hot dish, pour the breadcrumbs-and-butter over them, and serve. Baked stuffed Larks.—Clean and draw ten Larks, and prepare the following stuffing : Free the white flesh of a cold chicken from skin and bone, chop finely, and mix it with 2oz. of finely-chopped ham and raw fat bacon, a small quantity of chopped sage and pounded mace, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, stuff the birds with half of the forcemeat. Cut ten slices of bacon, spread over the remainder of the forcemeat, put a Lark on each, roll them up and bind round with tape, or secure the bacon with a small skewer. Lay them side by side in a baking-dish, cover, and bake in a moderate oven. Heat a sufficient quantity of rich veal gravy and flavour it with lemon-juice. When the Larks are cooked, place them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Ballotines of Larks.—Bone the required quantity of Larks (see BONING), fill them with chicken forcemeat, put a truffle turned to a ball shape in each Lark, and fold them round it. Tie each Lark up in a small cloth, and braise them in Madeira and mirepoix. Put a cake of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, take the cloths off the Larks, arrange them Fig. 1045. Ballotines of Larks. over the centre of the cake (see Fig. 1045), reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks, pour it over the Larks, and serve. Broiled Larks.—(1) Truss and prepare the required quantity of Larks ; brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with plenty of breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a very clear fire. Toast some slices of bread, lay them on a hot dish, place the Larks on them, pour a little rich brown gravy round, and serve. (2) Stuff the birds with a mixture of finely-chopped parsley and butter seasoned with salt and pepper, tie up at both ends, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning occasionally. Cut as many slices of bread as there are Larks, and trim them to an oval shape, removing all the crusts; put a large piece of butter or lard in a deep frying-pan over the fire, and when boil- ing put in the pieces of bread, and fry them until a bright golden brown, then drain, put them on a hot dish, and when the Larks are ready place one on each slice and serve quickly with a boat of butter sauce. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Larks—continued. Chaudfroid of Lark Galantines.—Clean and bone the re- quired quantity of Larks. Prepare some Lark forcemeat, mix in some chopped truffles, and stuff each Lark with a small piece of the forcemeat, making them a round shape. Butter the same quantity of dariole-moulds as there are Larks, place a Lark in each mould, breast downwards, stand the moulds in a saute-pan, pour a little water round them, put the pan in the oven, and bake the Larks till cooked. When done, take them out of the oven, and leave in the moulds till cold. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks. Take the Larks out of the moulds, wipe and dip them in the sauce, then leave on a dish till the sauce is cold. Trim the same quantity of small minion fillets of chicken as there are Larks ; contise them with truffles and put them in the oven. Prepare a socle of fried bread cut so as to form three tiers, put it on a hot dish, dip the Larks in some more of the sauce, arrange them in rows, one above the other round the bread, place a contised fillet between each Lark, put a border of croft tons of meat jelly round the dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. See Contising. Essence of Larks.—Break the bones of some Larks, having first removed the meat, and put them in a stewpan with the trimmings, one onion stuck with two cloves, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Madeira. Boil the above ingre- dients till the moisture has reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth. When boiling, skim the broth, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and- a-half; then strain the essence through a broth-napkin or a silk sieve. When a little cooled, strain off the fat, and put by for use. Pried Lark Cutlets.—Bone the required quantity of Larks, flatten them out as much as possible to the shape of cutlets, fill the hollows left by the bones with force- meat, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the Larks in it. When cooked, place the Larks on a hot dish, pour over any sauce preferred, and serve. Larks au Chasseur.—Singe, draw, and clean the required quantity of Larks. Put some small sausages and thin slices of lean ham in a saucepan, fry till brown, then put in the Larks, a few chopped mushrooms, and a sprinkling of flour, salt, and pepper, cover them with red wine, stand the saucepan over the fire till hot, then arrange the Larks, sausages, and slices of bacon on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over, and serve. Larks a, la Chipolata.—These are prepared as for Larks au Chasseur, with this difference, that a few peeled and roasted chestnuts are added to the stew. Larks au Gratin.—(1) Singe, draw, and truss twenty Larks. Put in a frying-pan a few chicken livers, an equal quan- tity of lean veal, and a small lump of butter; fry, and let them cool, then put them in a mortar with a little chopped fat bacon and a little piece of panada, and pound ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, pass all through a sieve, and mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and mush- rooms. Stuff the Larks with some of the preparation, put what is left at the bottom of a gratin-dish, and arrange the Larks in a conical form on it. Chop together some onions, mushrooms, and parsley, mix with them some breadcrumbs, and cover the Larks with it; pour a little clarified butter over, and bake the Larks for a-quarter-of- an-hour in a quick oven. When cooked, pour in a little slightly-thickened gravy, with the juice of a lemon squeezed in, and serve. (2) Bone twelve Larks, season them with pepper and, salt, stuff each with foie-gras forcemeat and a truffle' and roll them round. Butter a croustade-mouid, line with short-paste, put a layer of foie-gras forcemeat lin. thick at the bottom, and arrange the Larks in a circle round the mould. Cut a round slice of bread without any crusts, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, and put it in the centre of the Larks. Place a short-paste cover on the top of the croustade, pinch the edges together, dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush over the top of the pie, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 830 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Larks—continued. Larks—continued. and bake it in a moderate oven. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks. When cooked take the croustade out of the mould, cut out the cover, trim off the pinched edges, take out the round of bread, wipe all the fat out of the hollow with a towel, fill it with a ragoht of cocks’ combs and truffles, pour in the reduced sauce, put the cover on again, brush the croustade over with beaten egg, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Then take it out, and serve. Larks a la Portugaise.—Singe, clean, bone, and cut the wings and legs off one dozen Larks, put the bones and trimmings in a steAvpan with a small carrot and a small onion cut into slices, a bay-leaf, a feAv cloves, and a bunch of parsley, and cover the bottom of the stewpan with some sherry; allovv this to reduce, and then moisten AAnth 1 gill of good gravy. Let all simmer gently for an hour and then strain it. Prepare a chicken forcemeat in the ordinary Avay and put it into a biscuit-bag; also have ready cooked a dozen small black truffles, as round as possible, and no larger than a Spanish olive. With the forcemeat, stuff the Larks and put in the centre of them a small round truffle, roll the Larks very neatly and then wrap each in a piece of muslin, and tie them AATith a string. Put them in a stewpan with some bacon over the bottom, pour in a little strong gravy made as above, and bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Meamvhile prepare and cook one dozen large mushrooms; take \ pint of Spanish sauce, and put it into a saute-pan with the same quantify of tomato sauce, 6 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and a little essence of Larks, reduced to demi-glaze. Shape the mush- rooms Avitlx a plain round cutter lfin. in diameter, arrange them in a saute-pan, unAvrap, and place on each a Lark, sticking them Avith the remains of the chicken forcemeat, cover, and put into the 0ATen for one or tAvo minutes. Sauce them, dress them on a plain border made Avith chicken forcemeat or mashed potatoes, and pile in the centre some Patna rice cooked with Avhite stock. Pour a little of the sauce over the Larks, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Larks a la Royale.—Select twelve large black truffles, as round as possible, trim nicely, and put them in a steAvpan with J bottle of Madeira and a little salt, put the lid on, and boil the truffles for seA^en or eight minutes; drain and stand them up on their smoothest surface, IioIIoav each one out, then glaze the interior Avith a paste-brush, and keep them covered. Chop and pound the pieces of truffles that Avere cut out of the centre, mix in a pinch of spices and 2 table-spoonfuls of broAvn sauce, then put this pounded mixture in the stewpan, with the liquor in which the truffles were cooked ;• reduce, then pass it through a sieve, and fill the hollowed truffles with it. In the meantime, remove the pouch and gizzards from one dozen fat Avhite fiekl-Larks, cut off the legs and stuff them with a force- meat of foie-gras; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, sprinkle with salt, and fry for eight or nine minutes over a sharp fire; when cooked, drain off the fat, pour over the Larks a little melted glaze, drain, and put one in each of the hollowed truffles ; mask the bottom of truffles in melted glaze, arrange them on a dish, putting seven first, fixing them firmly, then four on these, and one on the top. Pour the remainder of the broAvn sauce in a boat, and serve. Larks in Cases.—(1) Pluck, singe, draw, and bone the Larks; stuff each bird xvith a mixture composed of three parts minced Avhite flesh of cooked chicken and one part ham and raAV bacon seasoned with chopped sage, salt and pepper, and a small quantity of pounded mace. Butter as many paper cases as there are birds, spread a layer of the same forcemeat in each, put the birds in the cases, place a slice of bacon over each, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove the bacon, pour a small quantity of rich gravy and a few drops of lemon-juice in each case, stand them on a hot dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish AAuth parsley and cut lemons, and serve. (2) Bone the Larks, keep the livers on one side, put the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with two or three carrots and onions-, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a few cloves, and some water; season to taste with salt and pepper, and, if convenient, add a feAv pieces of ham or bacon. Boil the liquor until nicely flavoured, and then strain it. Cut the livers of the Larks into small dice together AAuth an equal quantity of calf’s liver and half the quantity of fat bacon. Put a feAv chopped shallots into a frying-pan Avith a lump of butter, fry them for a feAv minutes, then add the chopped mixture with a moderate quantity of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and stir the mixture over the fire for a feAv minutes; then rub the Avliole through a fine sieve. Put a small quantity of the forcemeat in each Lark, and roll them up tightly. Oil some paper cases, spread a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of each, then place a Lark in each case Avith a thin rasher of fat bacon over it. Put them into a good oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes. Put loz. of butter in a small steAApan Avith 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire, then pour in the prepared gravy, and stir it until boiling, adding more seasoning if necessary. When the Larks are cooked, remove the bacon, pour some of the gravy in each case, streAv OArer some finely-chopped parsley, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve quickly. (3) Bone the Larks carefully; put the bones and trim- mings hi a saucepan, Avith some trimmings of ham or bacon, a feAv peeled carrots and onions, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, three or four cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. CoArer the ingredients with Avater or common stock, and boil until the liquor is AArell flavoured and reduced. Cut up the livers of the birds and some calf’s liver into small pieces, and mix Avitlx them half their quantity of bacon also cut into small pieces; put them in a steAvpan Avith a lump of hutter and a few chopped shallots, fry for a feAv minutes, and season to taste with salt and pepper, a small quantity of pOAvdered spices, and finely-minced parsley; ay hen sufficiently fried, pass the mixture through a fine sieve. Stuff the Larks Avith some of the forcemeat, and roll them up, binding round Avith thread. Oil the interior of some paper cases, put a layer of the forcemeat in each, lay the birds in the cases, one in each, and a thin slice of bacon over. Place them in a brisk oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor from the trimmings into a small clean saucepan, put in a lump of butter that has been worked up Avith 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened. When cooked, place the Larks in their cases on a hot dish, pour some of the gravy in each case, streAV finely-minced parsley over them, garnish Avith parsley, and serve. (4) Prepare some Larks and stuff them Avith forcemeat as for Lark Patties ; then cut some paper cases, 2in. in diameter, and brush lightly over Avitlx oil. Put a layer of the same forcemeat Avith which the Larks Avere stuffed Jin. thick at the bottom of each case, place a Lark in each, cover them Avith another layer of forcemeat, and bake in a moderate oAren for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, mop the top of the forcemeat very lightly to remove any fat, pour in some perigueux sauce reduced Avith essence of Larks, and serve. Larks in their Nests.—This fancy dish is attributed to Dubois, whose ingenuity and perseverance have added so much to the art of cookery. Singe, clean, and bone a dozen Larks, sprinkle salt and pepper inside, and stuff them AA'ith a gratin forcemeat, Avith a feAv chopped raw truffles and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of poultry livers ; fold the Larks to form a round, and Avrap each in a strip of buttered paper in such a manner that the shape shall be preserved; put them in a buttered saute-pan, pour in a little strong gravy, cover Avith slices of fat bacon, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take out the pan, and leave the Larks in it till cool; remove the paper, trim the Larks, and put them in another small steAA-pan; glaze them, and leave them where they will keep hot. Singe the heads of the Larks, glaze them, and keep hot. Cook about a dozen globe artichoke-bottoms, drain and trim to an equal size and arrange on a small baking-sheet, the IioIIoav side uppermost, fix the heads on the Larks Avith a little skeAver of A\-ood, and put one in each IioIIoav of the mushroom. Brush the Larks over Avith a little sauce, poach some small balls of forcemeat shaped likeTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 831 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c., referred to, see under their special heads. liarks—continued. eggs, and arrange them in a circle round each Lark. Put the baking-sheet in a moderate oven for a few minutes, Fig. 1046. Larks in their Nests. then take it out, arrange the Larks on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 1046. Lark Patties.—(1) Clean and bone eighteen Larks, open them, and season slightly ; mix some forcemeat with a little chopped truffle, put a little in each Lark, and roll them up in a round shape. Line eighteen small pie- moulds, 2in. deep and lfin. in diameter, with short-paste, put a layer of forcemeat at the bottom of each mould, place the Larks in them, spread another thin layer of forcemeat on the top, cover the patties with short-paste, pinching the edges to make them stick, egg the tops, then put a round of puff paste on each. The rounds should be cut with a ljin. fluted cutter. Egg the tops, put the patties in a hot oven, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, cut off the covers, and pour in 1 table- spoonful of Spanish sauce reduced with a little essence of Larks, put the covers on again, and serve. (2) Having - boned seven Larks (the heads should be preserved), stuff them with forcemeat; make them round, and tie up in a piece of buttered paper to keep them in shape ; braise with very little moisture, and let them cool; then take off the papers, trim, glaze them, using a paste- brush, then coat with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Butter seven small channelled pie-moulds, line them with short- paste, fill with flour, and bake. When done, take them out of the moulds, turn out the flour, and let them cool. Line the inside of the crusts with a puree of cooked livers moistened with a little chaudfroid sauce, half fill them with chopped aspic jelly, put a Lark in each crust, fix the heads on, previously cooked and glazed, place a folded napkin on a dish, stand the patties on it, and serve. Larks in the shape of Pears.—Singe the Larks and bone them, with the exception of one leg on each, which must be left; dust over inwardly with salt and pepper, put the entrails of the birds and a sufficient quantity of calf’s liver to stuff them with in a frying-pan with a lump of lard and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and fry. When cooked, chop, put them in a mortar with half the quantity of chopped fresh bacon, and pound well. Season the pounded mixture with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles. Stuff the birds with this mixture, rolling them up in the shape of pears, and passing the leg through the skin to form the stem, and sew up securely. Wrap each bird separately in a thin slice of bacon, lay them side by side in a stewpan, moisten with stock and white wine, in equal quantities, and cook gently over a slow fire until the moisture has somewhat reduced. When cooked, leave the Larks in the stewpan until cold, then take them out of the bacon and trim nicely. Prepare a frying-batter; put a good-sized lump of lard in a stewpan and place it on the fire ; dip the birds hi the batter, giving them a good covering, put them in the boiling lard, and fry until browned. When taken out of the fat, lay the birds on a sheet of kitchen-paper near the fire to drain for a minute or two, spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, and arrange the birds in a pyramid upon it, making the pointed ends stick outwards; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lark Pie.—(1) Singe a couple of dozen Larks if for a large Larks—continued. pie, less in proportion for a smaller pie. Cut off the necks and claws, and take out the gizzards; put them in a frying-pan with two or three slices of streaky bacon and a small piece of butter, and fry over a sharp fire for nine or ten minutes. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a few thin slices of veal or beef, drain the Larks and put them in it, pour a little gravy in the pan in which the Larks were cooked, thicken it with a little kneaded butter, stir over the fire for five or six minutes, then pour it over the birds. Moisten the edges of the ine-dish when the Larks are cool, put a strip of puff paste round it, roll out a thin round of puff paste, cover the pie with it, pinching it at the edges. Make a small hole in the top, and fix some leaves imitated in pastry round it; bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-liour-and-a-half, covering it with paper after the first quarter-of-an-hour. When ready to serve, stand the pie-dish on another dish. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and line the edges with puff paste. Pick, and stuff about one dozen Larks with a mixture com- posed of 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, the finely- chopped peel of half a lemon, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and moistened with one beaten egg. Lay at the bottom of the pie-dish 4lb. of beef and pb. of bacon cut in thin slices, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them; put the stuffed Larks on the top, sprinkle with more pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of stock. Make a cover with some puff paste rolled out thin, place it over the pie, fastening down at the edges by moistening it a little. Put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Soak a slice of stale bread in a teacupful of milk; then beat it up, add some sweet herbs and half the peel of a lemon, all finely minced, season with pepper and salt, add a piece of butter, and mix all well together with the hard-boiled whites of six eggs; put it in a saucepan, and stir over the fire till very stiff. Pick and clean twelve small Larks, and stuff them with the prepared forcemeat. Line the edges of a buttered pie-dish with some puff paste; lightly fry a piece of rump steak, season it with salt and pepper, put it at the bottom of the dish, place the Larks on it, cover them with the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and moisten with a little rich gravy; cover the pie with puff paste, damping a little at the edges to make it stick, make a hole in the top, then dip a paste-brush in beaten yolk of egg, brush over the pie, and bake it in a moderate oven for an-liour-and-a-half. Serve either hot or cold. (4) Pluck, draw, and singe about three dozen Larks, put them into a frying-pan with chopped onions and mush- rooms, and cook in butter. Let them cool without re- moving from the pan, take them out, and with their entrails and fine herbs prepare a forcemeat, seasoning to taste. Have ready a mould or dish lined with paste, mask it with the forcemeat, over this put one-third of the Larks, cover with more rich forcemeat, and continue in this way until the pie is full. Pour over the butter in which the Larks were cooked, cover with a round of the paste, and cook in a moderate oven for about an-liour-and- a-half. Take out the pie when done, mask it with thick Spanish sauce, let it get cold and the sauce set, and serve. (5) Singe, and draw twenty-four Larks; cut off their legs and necks, put the Larks in a stewpan with a little fat bacon, lard, and three or four thin slices of streaky bacon, and fry till lightly browned over a sharp fire, seasoning with a bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; then move the stewpan off the fire and let the Larks cool. Make some veal quenelle forcemeat, and mix with it some pounded cooked chicken livers; pass all the force- meat through a sieve, then add 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked and chopped mushrooms. Roll out 8oz. of short- paste, making it round and rather thick, put it on a round baking-dish, spread a layer of forcemeat in the centre, and arrange the Larks in a dome shape, filling in between with forcemeat, and cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and a short-paste crust over that completing the pie. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for one hour; when done, slip it on to a hot dish, make a circular incision in theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 832 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Larks—con tinned. centre, removing the top, and through this opening take out the bacon; pour inside a little thickened brown gravy that has been reduced with wine, put the cover on again, and serve. Lark Pudding.—Prepare six or eight Larks ; roll two or three very thin and very small beef-steaks round small pieces of fat. Make a common suet crust, roll it out, and line a pudding-basin with some of it. Put in the Larks and the rolled steaks, pour in a small quantity of water, cover with another piece of paste, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for three hours. Lark Raised Pie served Hot.—Clean, remove the gizzards, and cut off the necks and legs from two-dozen-and-a-lialf Larks; sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, put them in a sauti-pan with a little butter, and cook. Line a but- tered entree-mould with short-paste, fill it with flour, put a paste cover on the top, pinch the edges together, dip a paste- brush in beaten egg, glaze the top of the pie with it, and bake the crust; when done, cut out the cover tin. inside the edge, and shake the flour well out; take the crust out of the mould, brush it inside and out with beaten egg, and dry in the oven for four or five minutes. Drain the Larks when cooked, put them in the crust, finishing with a circle of them set close together, breast outwards, round the top of the pie, and fill the centre with turned mushrooms ; Fig. 1047. Lark Raised Pie. reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks, pour it in the pie, and serve. See Fig. 1047. Lark Scallops in a Croustade.—Cut the fillets off about thirty Larks; put them in a saute-pan with a piece of butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry them. Drain when cooked, and let them cool. Slice the same quantity of truffles as there are Larks. Reduce some partridge chaudfroid sauce with a little essence of Larks, and mix with it the cooked fillets of Lark and the sliced truffles. Prepare a fried bread croustade, put it on a hot dish, arrange the scallops on it, raising them in a pyramid shape, garnish the dish with crofttons of aspic jelly, and serve. Lark Soup.—Boil lOoz. of washed rice in broth till reduced to puree, adding occasionally a little more broth to keep it thin. Singe, draw, and clean three dozen Larks, fry them in a stewpan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, let them cool, then remove their fillets, and trim them neatly. With the bones and trimmings of the Larks prepare a little stock ; when made, pass it through a fine hair sieve into the rice puree. Put the fillets in the soup, warm them up again, then pour all into a hot dish ; add 1 pinch of chopped green mint, the juice of two pomegranates, and serve. Potted Larks.—Carefully pick, singe, and draw the required quantity of Larks ; diy them, sprinkle plentifully inside and out with pounded mace, pepper, and salt, put them in stone jars, with a piece of butter, tie down and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked take the Larks out of the gravy, put them into potting-jars, pour clarified butter over, cover them with stout paper, tie down tightly, and keep them in a dry store-closet till wanted for use. Roasted Larks.—(1) Clean and prepare the Larks, tie them up in thin slices of fat bacon and then in vine-leaves and roast in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with butter and turning the spit very rapidly. Serve hot. Larks—continued. (2) The Larks may be brushed over with egg, dipped in breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, and then roasted as above and served with green-grape sauce. (3) Singe, clean, and remove the gizzards from twenty- four Larks ; cut off the heads and legs, sprinkle pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg inside, dip them in beaten eggs then in breadcrumbs, run a large skewer through and fasten it on to a spit; roast them in front of a clear brisk fire, basting continually with butter. When cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot round- shaped dish ; have ready some breadcrumbs fried crisp and brown in a little butter, drain, and put them in the circle of Larks. Serve with butter sauce with a little lemon- juice squeezed in it. (4) Singe and remove the gizzards from eight Larks ; cut • eight slices of bacon 2£in. long and Din. wide, cover each Lark entirely with the bacon, pass a long thin skewer through them in such a way that the bacon is caught down each side (the Larks must not touch each other), fasten each end of the skewer to the spit, and roast the Larks in front of a clear fire, for eight minutes. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour a rich gravy over, garnish with watercress, and serve. (5) Cut some thin slices of bread, about ljin. long and lin. wide, toast them and place a slice of fat bacon on each; put the required quantity of Larks, side by side on a thin skewer, putting between each a piece of the toast and bacon. Tie the ends of the skewer to a spit, and cook the Larks in front of a very clear sharp fire. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve with a good game gravy in a boat. Salmis of Larks.—(1) Singe, pick, and take out the gizzards of twelve Larks, leaving their legs. Cut Jib. of streaky bacon into slices Ain. thick, divide them into pieces lin. long, put them into a stewpan holding about 2qts. with a small lump of butter, fry till lightly coloured, then put in the Larks and lqt. of mushrooms previously washed and cut in slices. Fry for eight minutes, then sprinkle with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and toss over the fire for a minute or two longer. Heat f pint of white sauce, sprinkle in a little pepper and salt, pour it gradually into the stewpan containing the Larks, stirring the while to prevent it getting lumpy, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; continue stirring over the fire for two or three minutes, then turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Singe, clean, and draw the required quantity of Larks, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and fry till well browned ; pour in an equal quantity of white wine and stock, add some chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, and boil gently till done. When ready to serve, pour the salmis of Larks on to a hot dish, and garnish with crofttons of fried bread. Stewed Larks.—Prepare two dozen Larks, cover each with a thin layer of fat bacon, fix them on the spit, and roast lightly in front of a clear fire. Cut the meat off six of them, pound it in a mortar with a few sweet herbs and a slice of stale bread soaked in milk, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and stuff the remaining Larks with the prepara- tion. Put them in a saucepan with the gravy from the Larks, sprinkle over a little flour, pepper, and salt, and let them stew gently by the side of the fire till done. Fry some pieces of bread, put them on a hot dish, place the Larks on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Larks a la Macedoine.—Clean and bone twelve Larks, stuff them with a forcemeat made with their chopped livers and a little veal and fat bacon in equal quan- tities, all well pounded in the mortar, and seasoned highly with chopped herbs and allspice; put them into a saucepan with a little rich gravy, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, fill up the centre with chopped cooked vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, &c., making a dome, arrange the birds round it, pour round the gravy, and serve. The Larins should be glazed before being served. Stewed Larks with Macaroni.—Put a dozen Larks into a pan with a good-sized lump of butter and fry slightly, together with a bay-leaf and a small whole onion. BoilARTISTIC SUPPER DISHES.N°1 N°i Shelled Prawns,Sliced Cucumber. Small made Salad with Chopped volk of Esg N°2 Sheeps Kidney on Water Cress.dressed with Champignons. N<?3 Plovers Eggs Prawns t Pickled) & Boned Anchovies . on Small Salad & Chopped yolk of E°'g N?4 Prawns same way as above with Cucumber. Small Salad & Chopped Ego N?5 Sweetbread, sliced Lemon.Champignons Truffles & Watercress .THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 833 Larks—continued. Jib. of macaroni in milk-and-water until it is swollen but not soft, sprinkle in a little salt, and drain. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add the macaroni, the Larks, the butter in which they were partly cooked (remov- ing the onion and bay-leaf), and stew very gently until they are cooked. Serve hot. Stewed Larks with Mushrooms.—Clean and prepare ten or twelve Larks, and fry them slightly in butter. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of button-mushrooms into a saucepan with an equal quantity of cream, and stew gently, adding a bay-leaf and salt anil pepper to taste. When done take out the bay-leaf, put in the Larks, and stew gently until tender. Serve hot on a dish garnished with croft to ns of fried bread. Stewed Larks with Rice.—(1) Having selected the required quantity of Larks, pluck, draw, and singe them; cut off the legs, put the Larks in a stewpan with Jib. of raw ham that has been previously steeped in water and cut in dice, and a little butter. Fry till lightly browned, then take out the Larks and ham with a skimmer; put in the stewpan one large onion, finely chopped, fry lightly but do not brown it, then add 12oz. of well-washed and dried rice, stir over the fire for a few seconds, put in a bunch of parsley, a sprinkling of cayenne pepper, and sufficient broth to cover the lice, place a lid on the stewpan, and boil for ten minutes; then put the Larks in again; pile some live embers on the lid, stand the stewpan over a slow fire and let the contents stew till the rice is done— it should be dry. Take out the Larks and bunch of parsley, pour a little tomato sauce in with the rice, then turn it into a hot deep dish, arrange the Larks on the top, glaze them, and serve. (2) Singe and draw twenty-four Larks, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, fry .over a sharp clear fire for seven or eight minutes, then take out and drain. Chop about 6oz. of raw ham into small squares, put them in the stewpan with the fat in which the Larks were cooked, fry for a few minutes, then add a little unwashed rice and sufficient broth to cook the rice in. When the liquid has boiled for five minutes, put in the Larks, 1 pinch of powdered pimento a bunch of sweet herbs with a little parsley mixed with them, and two tomatoes that have been peeled, freed of their seeds, and chopped up; put the lid on the stewpan, stand it at the side of the fire, and let the contents stew till the rice is done. Put the Larks mi a hot dish, take the bunch of parsley and herbs out of the rice, pour it on the dish with the Larks, and serve. Stuffed Larks in Croustade.—Bone some Larks and stuff them with a fat-liver forcemeat, roll up round, and put them separately into small moulds, and bake. Shape a round croustade about Gin. across out of some crumb of bread, and fry it in boiling fat till of a light golden colour. When the Larks are cooked, take them out of the moulds Fig. 1048. Stuffed Larks in Croustade. and arrange in the croustade (see Fig. 1048). Pour over some Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Larks and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Garnish round the dish with fat-liver forcemeat croquettes and parsley sprays. Timbale of Larks.—Prepare a thick batter with lib. of cornllour, pour it into a timbale-mould, steam it, and leave Larks—continued. till cold; then take it out of the mould and cut out the inside, leaving about Jin. thick at the sides and bottom; wipe the interior of the mould, butter it again, sprinkle in breadcrumbs, and put in the cornflour timbale crust. Singe and draw two dozen Larks, cut off the necks and legs, stuff them with a little raw pork-mince, having 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles mixed with it, put them into a stewpan with 6oz. of ham cut in dice and some rasped bacon, fry till lightly browned, then pour in a little white wine, and boil gently till reduced to glaze. Fry the necks and legs together with a few trim- mings of ham in a little lard, then sprinkle with a little Hour, pour in 1J pints of broth and 1 wineglassful of white wine, stir all over the fire till boiling, then stand the stew- pan at the side and let the broth simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the fat off this sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a flat stewpan, mix with it about twelve mushro ms cut in moderate-sized pieces, stir it over the fire till reduced, then thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, and pour the sauce in the stewpan with the Larks. Dust some flour over two dozen small quenelles, poach, and mix them with the above preparation ; pour all into the prepared timbale, put a cover of the batter rolled out round on the top, solder it with a little forcemeat, cover with paper, and bake. When nicely coloured, turn the timbale out on a hot dish, and serve. LAVENDER.—An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula, so called from having been used to perfume waters for bathing. An essence made from the oil of Lavender is sometimes used for flavouring confectionery. Lavender Drops.—Put some treble-refined coarsely-sifted sugar in a pan, flavour it with essence of Lavender, stir in slowly sufficient water to make it drop off the spatula ■without sticking, and colour the sugar with prepared cochi- neal; too much cochineal must not lie used, as the tint should be light and deli’ate. Put the paste in a small drop-pan, and place the pan on the stove on a ring that it just fits. Stir the sugar with a small spatula until it dissolves and makes a slight noise, but on no account must it boil. Remove it from the fire when at boiling- point, and continue stirring with the spatula till of the consistency that when dropped it will not spread too much. Should it be too thin, a little more of the prepared sugar should be added. Let the paste drop from the lip of the pan on to a smooth sheet of tin, cutting eacli drop off with a piece of wire when the right size. Leave them to dry for two hours, then take the drops off with a thin knife, and keep them in glass-stoppered bottles. Lavender Lozenges.—Dissolve lib. of gum Arabic in 1 pint of water. Sift some finely-powdered sugar over a marble slab, pour the dissolved gum into it, mix to a stiff paste, flavour with a little oil of Lavender, and colour it with a little cochineal and blue mixed. Dust a little powdered starch over the slab, then roll the paste out on it, about Jin. thick. Sprinkle starch powder and caster sugar over the surface, then rub it on with the hands—this prevents it from sticking. Cut out the lozenges with either round or oval cutters, and put them on trays in a warm temperature to dry. They should be kept in glass bottles. LAVER.—In the article on Alg.f this sea-weed was described in company with others; but by Kettner we are assured that it is worthy of considerable individual attention. This author writes : “ Many an old-fashioned English gentleman will be glad to see Laver men- tioned here, and to be reminded of its excellence with boiled mutton.” The reason of its decadence in popular estimation he considers to be due to the spread of French cookery. Continental cooks being unacquainted with the beauties of this islander's natural food. There are two sorts, which may be collected on any shore (see Figs. 1049 and 1050); but it is usually sold in pots ready for eating, having been boiled to a pulp. It is very nice when cooked as follows : Put the prepared Laver into an enamelled stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, squeeze in the juice of a lemon For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &x., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 Q834 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilsf Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Laver—continued. or orange, dust with a little pepper, and toss it over a gentle lire until hot. Cut one or two moderately thick slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast; butter them Fig. 1049. Common Laver. Fig. 1050. Green Laver. and Ivy them on a dish ; put the Laver on the toast, and serve. As the Laver should he very hot when eaten, it should be served on a hot-water dish. LAWN SLEEVE.—See Bishop. LAYER CAKE.—See Cakes. LEAP CAKE.—See Cakes. LEAMINGTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. LEAVEN.—See Yeast. LECH A. CREMA.—This is a favourite Spanish dish, partaking very much of the nature of a cream custard. The name signifies milk and cream. The following receipts have been contributed by a Spanish chef. See Cream. (1) Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix in the yolks of three eggs and ilb. of powdered sugar, then add Jib. of flour, 6oz. of almonds split into several pieces, 4 >z. of finely-cut candied lemon-peel, and |oz. each of gr rand coriander-seeds and cinnamon. When the pre- paration is thoroughly mixed, put it into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it out on wafer-paper in drops about the size of walnuts or a little larger, and bake in a slack oven. Take them out when done, brush the surfaces with thin white sugar icing, put a piece of green citron-peel upon each, dry well in the dry closet or screen, take them out, and they are ready for use. (2) Put 41b. of honey into a copper egg-bow l on the fire, make it quite warm, skim off the frjthv and at once add 6oz. of finely-shred almonds, hoz. each of ground cloves and cinnamon, half a grated nutmeg, and the grated rinds of two lemons. Mix well, put in 6oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 2oz. ca di of finely-chopped orange-, lemon- and citron-peels, a liqueur-glassful of kirschenwasssr, and about the same quantity of orange-flower water ; incorporate thoroughly, add 4 >z. of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of water, and lastly 14>z. of sifted flour. Work the whole together over a slow fire for about six minutes, turn the mixture out into a basin, cover, and set it aside in a co il place for about three days before using. Divide the paste into four equal parte, put them on a board with 2oz. more of the flour sprinkled over, roll out to about fin. in thickness, put them on well-buttered and floured baking-sheets, mark out the cakes, using the back of a knife, and making deep cute, in oblong shapes, about 24in. long by lin. wide. Take off all the flour adhering to them with the aid of a damp brush, bake in the oven until about three-parts done, cover with a thin coating of royal icing, bake to a light colour, take out, let them get cold, break where marked, put them in boxes in a co d dry place, and they will keep well for six or seven months. LEEKS (TV. Poireaux; Ger. Lauche).—At one time these plants (Allium Porrum) were so much grown in England that the name leac-tum was given to gardens, and gardeners were called leac-wards; but gardeners seem to have discarded them of late years, probably owing to the space occupied by their handsomely-flagged foliage (see Fig. 1051). The properties of the Leek may Fig. 1051. Leek. be said to be intermediary between the onion and garlic, which renders its use in cooking exceedingly valuable. Boiled Leeks.--(1) Select young green Leeks ; carefully wash them in cold salted water, trim away the ro ,ts and the broken tops, tie in small bunches, and put them over the fire in boiling salted water. Boil for twenty minutes, then drain. Have ready a slice of dry toast for each bunch, and 1 table-spoonful of butter melted together with 1 saltspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; lay the Leeks on the toast, pour the melted butter over them, and serve hot. (2) Trim off the roots, outer leaves, and green ends from some Leeks, cut the stalks into pieces about 6in. in length, tie up in bundles, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and half the quantity of salt, and boil until quite tender. Take out, drain, put them on pieces of toast on a dish, pour white sauce or melted butter over them, and serve. The Leeks should be quite young, and will require about forty-five minutes boiling. (3) Trim and wash the required quantity of Leeks; boil in water till nearly done, then take out, drain, and put them in a saucepan with a little brown or white sauce. Let them simmer till cook id, then turn them out on to a hot dish, and serve. Leeks au Gratin.—Trim off the fibrous roots, and cut o f the green stalks to within lin. of the white part of the Leeks. Put them into a basin of boiling water, and soak for ten minutes; then drain, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt, and boil for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Put loz. of butter into an itlier sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir over the fire until well mixed, then add {, pint of stock and 1 heaped table- spoonful of grated cheese; season to taste with pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir over the lire, and boil for two or three minutes. When the Leeks are cooked, drain, lay them in a gratin-dish, pour half of the sauce over, and strew thickly with grated cheese; dust a small quantity of cayenne over the top, and put the dish in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Take out the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce round it, and serve.835 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Leeks—continued. Leeks for Garnish.—(1) Wash the Leeks and trim them, cut- ting off the green close to the white. Put them into salted water, and parboil. Drain, dry in a cloth, and cut them up rather small; put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, just enough stock to moisten, and stew gently till done; then mix in a little cream or the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little milk. (2) Trim off the tops and most of the green part of the Leeks; wash in plenty of water, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover, and partially boil. Drain the Leeks, dry well on a cloth, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed, but not browned. Stir in slowly a small quantity of stock, and when it boils put in the Leeks, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them simmer gently until quite tender. Peat, up the yolks of two eggs in 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, stir them in with the Leeks, then move them o f the fire, and serve. Leek Salad.—Cut the white part of some young Leeks into small, equal-sized pieces. Scald a large tomato, pare off the skin, leave till cold, then cut it into slices. Wash a lettuce, break off the leaves, and arrange them in a fancy Fio. 1052. Leek Salad. dish; then put in the sliced tomato, and next the Leeks. Mix together some oil and vinegar, using more of the former, sprinkle in some salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad. Sprinkle over all a few tarragon-leaves, garnish round with small tomatoes, and serve. Sec Fig. 1052. Leek Soup.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of fine oatmeal with a little cold water; put it in a saucepan, stir in about Iqt. of boiling mutton hr itli, adding it gradually, then put in as many Leeks as are required, and boil until tender and the liquor of the consistency of cream. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little of the hrjth, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve. (2) Carefully wash three dozen Leeks, drain thoroughly, cut them into pieces 1 Ain. long, put them in a saucepan with 4qts. of beef stock, flavour according to taste, and let it boil gently. In an hour’s time put in a small fowl, and let it continue boiling for two hours. When ready to serve take out the fowl; pour the soup into a tureen, put some sippets of toast on a plate, and serve them with the soup. (3) For this only the very fresh green parts of the Leeks must he used. Put the required quantity into a bowl of cold water, and let them soak so as to he quite crisp. Cut them up into lengths from lin. to 2in. long, put them into a saucepan with as much rich stock as will be wanted for table, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil until quite soft and tender. Turn out into a bowl, and serve. The soup to be of proper consistency should he quite thick with the bulk of the Leeks usei, and not have only a few pieces floating in it. Puree of Leeks.—Trim and wash the required quantity -of Leeks, put them in boiling salted water, and boil till tender. Pass the Leeks through a fine hair sieve, put them hi a saucepan with a lump of butter, l pint of cream, and 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and flour. Stir over the fire, and boil till reduced, then thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, garnish with crohtons of fried bread, and serve. Leeks—continued. Stawed Leeks.—(1) Trim off all the green outside of the re- quired quantity of Leeks; wash them well in hot water, cut each in two, boil till tender, then drain and press out the water, ami chop up small. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, with 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, the Leeks, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Stir over the fire for three or four minutes, then mix with them the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. When done, turn the Leeks on to a hot dish, garnish with crofiti ns of fried hreal, and serve. (2) Turkish.—Wash about twenty Leeks, and cut off all hut the white parts, which cut into small pieces ; peel and mince four moderate-sized onions ; put \ pint of the best salad-oil into a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the onions ; when lightly browned, add the Leeks, together with 1 table spoonful of minced parsley, season to taste, and pour in 1 pint of hot water. Roil the Leeks slowly until tender, then remove them from the lire, and, when cold, serve. LEGUMES.-This word properly refers to pulse, or to any plant which bears Legumes (pods). French cooks, however, have adopted the term as applying to vegetables generally. LEICESTER PUDDING.—See Puddings. LEIGHTON CAKE. -See Cakes. LEMONS (Fr. Citrons; Ger. Citronen; Ital. Limone; Sp. Limons).—Of all the fruits this earth can produce there is none of such deep importance in the kitchen as the Lemon. Citrons, limes, bergamots, oranges, and others of this perfumed tribe have all their culinary value, but no successful attempt has ever been made Fig. 1053. Lemon-plant. to provide an artificial substitute for the true Lemon (Citrus Limonum). See Fig. 1053. The word is of Arabian extract, probably derived from the Hindustani limbu or limu, indicating an Indian origin. The plant is supposed to be a native of the forests of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 q 2836 THE ENCYCLOPJEPIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac,, referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Northern India, and found especially abundant in the valleys of Kumaon and Sikkim. At the present time it is planted in the gardens of many sub-tropical countries; but its cultivation as an article of commerce is chiefly confined to the Mediterranean coast between Nice and Genoa, and to Calabria, Sicily, Spain, and Portugal. The first record of its cultivation in Europe dates from the end of the fifteenth century. The bulk of the Lemons of commerce are brought into this country from Sicily, and to a smaller extent from the Riviera of Genoa, and from Spain; they are packed in chests, each fruit being wrapped up separately in paper. The principal varieties are those known as Imperial Lemons, Wax Lemons, and Gaeta Lemons, one being considered about as good as the other. The peel of the Lemon contains an aromatic bitter oil of great value in flavouring, being frequently used in cookery for the same purpose as Chablis or other good wines and with better effect. The juice partakes very slightly of the aroma, and is used in cookery for many purposes, not only on account of its acidity, being frequently used in preference to vinegar, but to bring out or intensify the flavours and whiteness of delicate white flesh such as veal and fish. Lemon-growers indulge in a variety of manufactures which in some cases might be better dispensed with, as the products have to pass through many hands before they reach us, and are consequently subject to considerable adulteration. Lemon-juice is frequently adulterated by the addition of slightly-sweetened water and citric acid; but the medicinal value is thereby lost or considerably modified, that consisting of a combination of potash with the citric acid. Essence and oil of Lemon are open to adulterations which deteriorate their aroma, but in the production of candied Lemon-peel the growers are rarely at fault. The best time to purchase Lemons for keeping is in the months of June and July, when they are freshly imported. A good stock can be laid by if the Lemons are carefully selected and picked over, wiped perfectly dry, and hung in nets in a cool, dry, well-ventilated room. Another mode of keeping them is to put them in a jar and cover with butter-milk, changing the butter-milk about once every two or three weeks; but the butter-milk might prove a difficulty for this purpose, as it is not always at command. The immense value that Lemons are to the culinary artist, whether for sweets or savouries, is shown in the following receipts, and in those which are to be found throughout this Encyclopaedia. The juice is used in great quantities for acidulating drinks, confectionery, and other purposes. It is best pressed from the Lemon Fig. 1054. Hand Lemon-squeezer. by mechanical means, such as the hand-squeezer (see Fig. 1054), or in a more convenient style by a fixed machine (see Fig. 1055), the foot of which is made fast Lemons—continued. to the table, or on a still larger and more extensive and complete scale, by a screw-press (see Fig. 1056). See also Bergamot, Citron, Limes, and Oranges. Baked Lemon.—Bake a Lemon for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When baked, cut it at one end and sc >op out the inside; it can be eaten with either sugar or molasses, according to taste. This is a splendid remedy for hoarseness. Candied Lemon-Peel.—(1) Cut the Lemons in halves, remove all the pulp, and put the skins into cold water. Let them remain for a fortnight without changing the water or adding to it, at the end of which time boil in the water they were steeped in till tender, strain, put them when nearly dry into a jar, and pour over a syrup made of loaf sugar and water boiled till clear; let them remain in this for a week or ten days and then boil gently in it till they look clear. When returned to the jar the syrup, after837 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. the bailing, may not be quite sufficient to cover them, if so cut the peels in halves or quarters and they will take up less space. (2) Cut the required quantity of Lemons in halves, scoop out all the insides, put the peels into strong salted water, and leave for six days; next j»ut them into a saucepan of spring water, boil till soft, then drain them. Prepare a thin syrup with 111), of sugar candy and lqt. of water (see Syrups), put in the peels, and boil for half-an-hour or longer until they look clear. Next put them into thick syrup, and boil in a saucepan over a slow lire until the sugar candies in the pan, take them out, dust over with powdered sugar, and place them to dry in a hot-closet or cool oven. (3) Cut the peels of six fresh thick-skinned Lemons in long thin strips, put them into strong salted water and let them remain all night. Next day take the strips of rind from the brine, wash in three waters, put them ever the lire in soft water and boil till quite tender, but do not let them get soft enough to break. When the peel is taken from the fire lay it in sufficient cold water (with about i saltspoonful of alum dissolved in it) to cover. Put f pint, of water over the fire, stir into it 21b. of loaf sugar and the strained juice of one and a hr If Lemons, and boil till the syrup is thick enough to pull as for candy. When the peels have been for two hours in the alum-and-water, put them into the syrup and boil very gently for half-an-hour, then take them nut and lay them on a sieve. Shake frequently and gently, now and then tossing up the peels, till they are nearly dry. Then sprinkle granulated sugar over, and spread them on a table covered with a clean cloth and placed so that a current of fresh air shall pass over them. When quite dry, pack them in a glass jar. Compote of Iiemons.—Pare the Lemons very thinly, turn- ing them spirally, make some transverse incisions on them, and cut out some fancy designs. Put the Lemons in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and bail gently for about twenty minutes. Drain the Lemons, put them into a sugar-boiler with some syrup, and simmer for twenty minutes longer. At the end of that time turn the Lemons into a basin with the syrup, and leave for several hours. When ready to serve arrange the Lemons in a compote- dish, and pour the syrup over them. Compote of Lemon Baskets.—Procure Lemons of an equal size, and with a sharp knife cut out two pieces from the upper part of the fruit, so as to leave a band measuring Jin. wide, thus forming a handle; pass the knife round the inside of the band, level it with the bottom pulp, and remove the pieces of Lemon; with a teaspoon remove the remaining pulp, without damaging the shape of the basket. As each basket is finished drop it into a basin of cold water, and when all are completed put them into a saucepan of boiling water and simmer over the fire for three or four minutes. Drain the peels, and with a tin perforating cutter, stamp them to represent Km. 1057. Compote of Lemon Baskets. open work, and scallop round the edges. When completed put the baskets into a sugar-boiler with some syrup boiled to 24deg. and simmer. Turn the peels into a basin with their syrup and leave till the following day. Strain the Lemons—continued. syrup off the baskets, boil up again, and pour it over the baskets. After the lapse of several hours, drain off the syrup and boil up again, then pour it back on the baskets, and leave them till cold. When ready to serve, drain the baskets, fill them with a macedoine of fruits mixed with a small quantity of lemon-jelly, arrange them in a glass dish (see Fig. 1057), pour some syrup flavoured with ccdrat over, and serve. Dried Lemon-Peel.—Select the required quantity of per- fectly sound large Lemons, cut them in halves, and remove all the pulp; boil them in plenty of water till soft enough for a straw to run through, drain, and finish as for Dried Lemon Slices. Dried Lemon Slices.—Cut some Lemons in slices about Jin. thick, put them in plenty of water, and b< il till the peel is rather soft; take the slices out, put them on a sieve to drain thoroughly, then let them simmer in some syrup at 28deg. for ten minutes, turn them into a white basin, and leave till the next day. Strain the syrup eff the slices of Lemon, boil it for ten minutes, then pour it over again; repeat this operation twice more, then dry the slices upon wire trays in a screen. Boil ljlb. of sugar to 35deg., add the strained juice of a Lemon, and with the bowl of a spoon work the sugar at the side of the pan until it becomes whitish ; then put in the slices of Lemon, tess them about gently, take out one by one with a silver fork, put them on the wire trays, a short distance from each other, and set the trays in the screen, moderately heated, and leave them for one hour. Quarters may be dried in the same manner. Essence of Lemon. (1) Mix 2 tumblerfuls of spirit essence of Lemon with loz. of citric-acid crystals, dissolved in 2 tumblerfuls of distilled wi ter, and an acid flavour is obtained. (2) Put Goz. of very thinly cut Lemon-peel (dried peel of commerce will do as well) without a particle of the white skin into a botlle, pour in 8oz. of spirits of wine, let it stand for several days, and it is then ready for use. (3) Take t drachm of the best oil of Lemon, and add very gradually loz. of the strongest rectified spirit. The spirit will kill and completely absorb the oil, having all the aroma and flavour of fresh Lemon-peel and will be found a perfect substitute for it. Lemon, Apple, or Pear Pudding.—Peel and core two large apples (or cooking pears), cut them in quarters, and boil to a pulp in just sufficient water to prevent them burning. Finely chop the rind of a Lemon, mix it with the apples, add the juice of half a Lemon, the beaten yolks of four eggs, £ wineglassful of brandy, 2oz. of fresh butter, and sugar to taste; stir the ingredients over the fire till well mixed, then move it off, taking care that it does not boil or the eggs will curdle. Butter a shallow dish, line it with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, the pudding can be served either hot or cold. Lemon Bavaroise.—Put the peel of two Lemons into H pints of boiling milk, and let them soak for one hour. Steep 1 toz. of gelatine in water for fifteen minutes, drain, and put it in a stewpan with lOoz. of caster sugar, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and the Lemon-milk. Flace the pan on the fire, stir till the egg begins to thicken, but do not let it boil, strain through a fine hair sieve, into a stewpan, which stand on ice, and stir the custard till it coats the spoon, adding 1 h pints of double whipped cream. Coat a mould with some Lemon-jelly that has not quite set, let it set in the mould, and pour in the Lemon cream. Freeze the lot for two hours. Lemon. Beer.—Put in a large stone jar one sliced Lemon, lib. of loaf sugar, 1 teacupful of yeast, loz. of bruised ginger, and Igall. of boiling water. Let it stand from fourteen to twenty hours, then bottle it off, and cork up. It will be ready for use in a day or two. Lemon Biscuits.—(1) Rub lib. of butter into 31,1b. of flour, mix in H breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and when quite smooth add 1 teacupful of honey-water, 6 drops of essence of Lemon, and sufficient milk to make a stiff' dough. Divide the dough, after breaking it smooth, into838 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. pieces about the size of a we 1 nut, flatten them, dock with a biscuit docker, put the biscuits on baking-sheets, and bake till lightly coloured in a steady oven. When ccoked leave the biscuits till cold, and keep them in a tin canister. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into ltlb. of well-dried flour ; when quite smooth, mix with it 1 lib. of caster sugar, the finely-chopped peel of three Lemons, and two eggs well beaten together with the strained juice of one Lemon. Mix all thoroughly to a stiff paste, then roll it out to about the thickness of a penny-piece and cut it into biscuits with a round biscuit-cutter. Sprinkle flour over some baking-tins, put the biscuits on them and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. When cold, pack the biscuits in a tin canister and keep them in a dry place till wanted for use. (3) Dissolve Jib. of carbonate of ammonia in a little cold milk. Rub lib. of butter into 31b. of flour and work in ljlb. of sugar; form a bay, break in six eggs, add essence of Lemon to taste and the dissolved carbonate of ammonia, and form into a stiflish dough with milk. Roll out, cut into shapes with an oval or other shaped cutter, bake to a good colour in a moderate oven, and the biscuits are ready for use. Lemon-Biscuit Drops.—Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream with a wooden spoon ; stir in gradually 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, the grated zest of four Lemons, eight eggs, working one well in before another is added, and lastly 14oz. of dried and sifted flour. Have ready the required number of small round tins slightly buttered, 1111 them with the mixture, put into a moderate oven, and bake; take them out when done, turn out, and use when cold. Lemon Blanc-mange.—Put ^-oz. of isinglass in f pint of hot milk, and when dissolved mix in four well-beaten eggs, the peel of two Lemons rubbed on a few lumps of sugar, and sweeten to taste; stir over a slow lire till on the point of boiling, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and pour all into a mould and leave till set. When ready to serve. turn the blanc-mange on to a dish, and garnish with any kind of preserve. See Fig. 1058. Lemon Bonbons.—Clarify lib. of the best loaf sugar and boil it to caramel, that is the degree of heat at which if a little of the boiling sugar be taken from the pan and cooled in cold water it will be quite brittle (see SUGAR- BOILING). Just before the sugar reaches caramel add the grated rind of half a Lemon. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, skim it if necessary till quite clear; take a spoonful of this hot butter and with the hand rub it all over a marble slab or a plate of copper and as soon as the sugar is boiled to caramel pour it on the buttered plate or slab. Have a long-bladed knife ready, and taking one end in each hand press lines about 1 in. apart all over the sugar as quickly as possible, and then very quickly press other lines across these so as to form squares; after the lines are made slip the blade quickly and carefully between the sugar and the plate or slab, and place the sugar on sheets of white paper. When the sugar is quite cold, separate the bonbons and wrap each separately in paper. They should be kept in a dry place. Lemons—continued. Lemon Brandy.—(1) Pare the rinds off two Lemons as thinly as possible, put them into a bottle of brandy, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. Boil 2oz. of loaf sugar in 1 gill of water, skim till clear, and let it stand till cold. Strain the brandy from the Lemon-peel, add this syrup to it, and bottle. (2) Put 1 jib. of loaf sugar, the juice of twelve and the thinly-pared rinds of six Lemons into a jar; pour in 3qts. of brandy, and lastly lqt. of boiling milk. Cover the jar well and stir every day for eight days, carefully replac- ing the cover after each stirring. After the eighth day run it through a jelly-bag to char. Bottle, and cork well. (3) Put in a large jar or pan, with a cover to it, 1J lb. of loaf sugar, the thinly-pared rinds of six and the strained juice of twelve Lemons, and 3qts. of brandy. Boil lqt. of milk, pour it grad rally in with the brandy, &c.; let it stand for eight days, stirring occasionally every day, then strain it through a jelly-bpg and bottle. It is then ready for use. (4) Put the juice of sixteen and the thinly-pared rinds of eight Lemons into 2galls. of pale brandy, sweeten with 21 lb. of loaf sugar, and mix in lqt. of boiling milk. Let it stand for a week, then strain the brandy through flannel, pour it into pint bottles, cork tightly, and store them in a warm place till wanted. Lemon-Butter Drops. -Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs; put 8oz. of granulated sugar and 1 teacupful of water with the yolks, and whisk them with an egg- whisk for ten minutes; then whip the whites to a stiff froth. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour with the yolks, and when quite smooth stir in the whites ; 111 a biscuit-forcer with the preparation, squeeze it out in round drops on sheets of paper, sprinkle caster sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the drops off the paper, and join them together in pairs with Lemon-butter. Lemon-Butter Sauce. Put 1 table-spoonful of cornflour and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a saucepan ; grate in the rind of one Lemon, mix them, then stir in 4 pint of boiling water, the juice of half a Lemon, and a small lump of butter; add gradually the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir it over the fire for a minute or two, taking care the eggs do not curdle. This sauce can be served with puddings, or, with the whipped white of an egg added, can lie used to fill paste-lined patty-pans for tarts or cheese cakes. Lemon Cake.—(1) Beat 4lb. of caster sugar together with the yolks of six eggs; when smooth, add the whites, previously whisked to a stiff froth, then stir in gradually 7 table-spoonfuls of flour and the grated peel of one large Lemon. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. (2) Beat the yolks of eighteen and the whites of twelve eggs separately for half-an-hour, then mix them together, and stir in gradually Jib. of flour that has been well dried, 14lb. of caster sugar, and the grated peel of four Lemons. Beat 1 ilb. of butter to a creamy consistence, stir all to- gether, and continue beating for a short time ; mix with the Fig. 1059. Lemon-Cake Moulds (Mathews and Son). preparation 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour it into a mould (see Fig. lOofh lined with buttered paper, and bake for an- hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 839 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. (3) Beat {lb. of butter together with fib. of caster sugar, ami when of a creamy consistency mix with it five eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, the juice anil grated rind of one Lemon, and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 5 teacupfuls of flour, then mix it with the eggs, Oic. Turn all into buttered shallow baking-tins, anil bake in a model ate oven. (4) Beat {jib. of butter till creamy, then mix with it {lb. of caster sugar and ten eggs; when all are beaten to a stiff froth, stir in the grated rinds of two Lemons, Mb. of Hour, and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Mix till quite smooth, pour all into small buttered moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out of the moulds when done. (5) Rub {lb. of butter in lib. of Hour, and add lib. of caster sugar, the grated rinds of two Lemons and four eggs. Mix well together, roll the paste out rather thin, cut into rounds with a cutter about the size of a penny, butter a baking-slieet, put the rounds on, and bake in a moderate oven. (6) Mix with the yolks cf six well-beaten eggs 1,1b. of caster sugar, the grated rind of one Lemon, amt 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-11 ower water. Beat well for some minutes, and then sift in gradually lib. of Hour, the whites | of the eggs well whisked, and the juice of one Lemon. Have ready some small buttered cake-tins and when well mixed pour the mixture in. Bake for about one hour. (7) Cream together lib. of butter and lib. of caster sugar; then add live eggs beaten separately, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, J pint of milk, the juice and grated rind of one Lemon, and 5 teacupfuls of Hour. Bake in small greased tins in a moderate oven. (8) Mix to a smooth paste with a little cream llh of Hour and 3oz. of caster sugar ; flavour with a little essence of Lemon, roll the paste out very thin, prick it over with a biscuit-docker, and cut the cakes out with a moderate- sized tin biscuit-cutter. Lust a baking-sheet over lightly with flour, put the cakes on it, and bake them for a fewr minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked take them off the baking-tin and leave till cold; pack them in tin canisters, and keep till wanted. (9) Put ‘11b. of butter to warm, cream it with 2Mb. of crushed loaf sugar, add a flavouring of essence of Lemon, stir in 4Mb. of dried flour, 2Mb. of finely-minced candied Lemon-peel, eighteen eggs, and sufficient lukew; rm milk to make a dough. Form it into cakes, put them in greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon Cakes, or King Henry's Shoe Strings. -Mix {lb. of flour smooth with b breakfast-cupful of milk, Hoz,. of butter, and the strained juice of a Lemon; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, pour it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Move the saucepan ( ff the fire, and mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and 2 table- spoonfuls of blanched and chopped sweet almonds. Let the mixture get cold, then stir in the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Spread it out on a buttered baking-tin, about Mm in thickness, sift it over with caster sugar, and bake for ten minutes in a slow oven. When cooked, cut the paste into strips lin. wide, arrange them tastefully on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 1000), and serve hot or cold. Lemon Candy.—(1) Boil some clarified sugar to the ball, flavour with essence of Lemon, and colour it yellow with Lemons—continued. a little saffron. Work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a spatula until it turns white. Oil some tins, pour the candy in, and leave it till cold. (2) Mix wrell together 31b. of loaf sugar, broken small, 1 h teaspconfuls of cream of tartar, I h saltspoonfuls of tart; ric acid, and H teacupfuls of cold water. Stir well and let it stand for an hour; then put it over a moderate fire, and when it becomes brittle stir in 1£ teaspconfuls of essence of Lemon and pour it out on a buttered slab. Pull a small quantity of the candy till it is white. Make the rest into sticks, twisting a little of the white candy round each stick. Lemon Caramels.—Cut some very dry preserved Lemon-peel into small square pieces, put these pieces each one on the point of a small stick, and dip them iiito sugar boiled to caramel (see Sugar-boiling), twisting them round re- peatedly that the s; gar may cover the peel equally all over. Have a slab ready with a small piece of butter rubbed well and evenly all over, lay the caramels on it, and when they are quite cold, take out the little sticks and wrap each in paper. Lemon Caramel Hock.—Dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in A- pint of water and 1 teacupful of filtered Lemon-juice; then add 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid and 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschenw&sser. Boil the above to the crack degree, then mix with it 4oz. of finely-chopped candied Lemon-peel. Oil a deep saute-pan, pour the caramel in, and leave till nearly set, then with the back of a knife mark over the surface in the shape of diamonds. When the suga)r is quite set and cold, snap where it is marked. Lemon Cheese Cakes.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, gently melt it, and work in 4oz. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar. Ti en add the yolks of two and white of one egg, the finely-chopped peel of three and the juice of one and a half Lemons, one crushed large Savoy biscuit, a few pounded blanched almonds, and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Line some patty pans with putt' paste, put a little of the Lemon mixture in each, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Warm M'J- °f butter till soft and mix with it Mb. of powdered white sugar; then add two Savoy biscuits pounded fine, about a dozen sweet almonds blanched and pounded, the rinds of half-a-dozen Lemons grated or chopped very fine, the beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, the strained juice of three Lemons, and 1{ wine- glassfuls of brandy. When all these are very well mixed, line some patty pans with putt' paste, put into each a good spoonful of the mixture, and bake. (3) Cream {lb. of butter, add {lb. of caster sugar, mix well with the butter, and then beat in the yolks of two eggs, a little milk, {lb. of washed and dried currants, and the juice and grated rind of one Lemon ; butter some patty- pans, line with puff paste, half fill them with the mixture, sift a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a hot oven. (4) Put lib. of caster sugar into a stewpan with the yolks of two and the whites of four eggs, three finger- biscuits grated, the juice and rinds of three Lemons (the rinds well rubbed with sugar), and lastly Mb- of good fresh butter. Put the pan over a rather slow' fire, and stir the mixture until it looks like transparent honey. Vanilla or cinnamon may be used to flavour. To use it some buttered tartlet-pans must be lined with light paste, then take 1 table-spconful of the mixture and stir it into 1 gill of newr milk, put a little of it into each tartlet, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. (5) Beat four eggs in a basin together with 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, mix in 1 teacupful of cream, 2oz. of wrrmed butter, the grated peel and the strained juice of one Lemon, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, anil beat the mixture well. Butter some patty-pans, line them with a good putt’ paste, three-parts fill them with the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the cn.kes out of the tins, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (6) Grate four stale Savoy biscuits into a basin and mix with them the grated rind and strained juice of two large840 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemons, 4oz. of moist sugar, and -jib- of butter. Beat four eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients. Turn the whole into a lined stewpan, and stir it over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, then move to the side. Butter some patty-pans, line them with a good puff paste, put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each, and bake in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. When cooked, put the cheese cakes on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve hot or cold. See Fig. 10G1. (7) Boil a Lemon until tender, then drain, put it in a wooden mortar, and pound, draining off all the juice ; mix with the Lemon Jib. of caster sugar and Jib. of butter. Beat the yolks of five eggs thoroughly, then mix with the above ingredients and beat the whole well together. Butter some small tartlet-tins, line them with puff paste, half fill each with the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven; they may be served either hot or cold. (8) Mix and gently melt Jib. each of sugar and butter; add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, the grated rinds of three and the juice of one and a half Lemons, one small Savoy or sponge biscuit, some ground almonds, and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Mix well, and bake in rich paste, either as an open tart or tartlet. Iietnon-Cheese-Cake Mixture.—Put Jib. of butter into a lined saucepan with 21b. of loaf sugar, the grated rinds of six and the strained juice of eight Lemons. Beat a dozen eggs well, pour them in with the ab >ve ingredients, and stir the whole gently over a slow fire until very thick. Turn the mixture into jars, leave it until cold, then cover with paper, and tie down. The above Lemon mixture may be kept between two and three years in a dry store-cup- board. Lemon Chips and Bings.—(1) Choose some Lemons with thick smooth peels, and cut off the rinds in small chips or rings with a sharp-pointed knife. The peel should be cut off as thick as possible without taking any of the fruit. Boil the peel till tender, then strain and put them in cold water. Pour the cold water off carefully, and place the peel on a sieve to drain. Boil sufficient syrup to the small thread to cover (see SUGAR-BOILING), and pour it while hot over the peel. Let them stand till the following day, then strain the syrup off and boil it to the large thread ; pour it over the chips again, repeat the operation on the third day, and on the fourth day boil the syrup to the large pearl, having mixed with it a little fresh syrup if any should have been required; put in the chips, and boil them up for the last time. These chips may be candied, in which case they should be well drained on a sieve. (2) Take some large Lemons with smooth rinds, and with a small knife cut off the rinds in small chips (it requires practice to do this properly); put these chips into salted water and let them remain in it all night. Next day drain, plunge them into boiling water, and boil till tender, then drain again and lay them in cold water. When they are cold, drain well, put them in an earthen- ware pan, and pour over sufficient boiling-hot clarified sugar to cover and let them stand in this for two days ; strain off the syrup, add more sugar, boil till quite thick, then put in the chips again and simmer for a few minutes. Remove from the fire, let them stand in the syrup for two days, and Iiemons—continued. proceed as before. Repeat this process once more, and the chips are fit for candying. The quantity of sugar required for this depends, of course, on the quantity of chips to be candied, lqt. of clarified sugar being sufficient for 31b. of chips. Boil the requisite quantity of clarified sugar to the blow degree, which is when if a skimmerful of sugar be taken up and blown through little bubbles appear (see Sugar-boiling). Drain the chips thoroughly, wipe them on a clean cloth, and, when the sugar is boiled to the re- quired degree, put them into it and keep stirring about with the skimmer till the syrup turns white, then lift the chips out with a couple of forks, lay them lightly on a wire sieve, and put them into the stove to dry. Lemon Conserve.—Take a piece of loaf sugar weighing about lib. and grate on it the rind of one Lemon, scraping off the surface of the sugar from time to time as it be- comes yellowed with the rind; when all the yellow rind is grated, and all the yellowed sugar scraped off the lump, cut the Lemon in halves, and add the strained juice of one half to the yellowed sugar. Boil the remainder of the lump of sugar to the degree of heat at which if a skimmerful be taken up and blown through large sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar boiling), take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and gently stir in the scraped yellow sugar and lemon-juice, and when it foims a kind of glaze on the top and is sufficiently cool, pour it into moulds. Lemon Cordial.—Macerate for one week 2oz. each of fresh and dried Lemon-peel and loz. of fresh orange-peel in 1 gall, of proof spirit. Filter this off and press the peel. Dissolve 31b. of loaf sugar in 1 gall, of distilled water and add this to the spirit. A little orange-flower or rose-water improves this cordial. Lemon Cream.—(1) Well beat the yolks of two eggs, add to them 1 pint of thick cream, Jib. of caster sugar, and the thin rind of a Lemon; turn all into a saucepan, boil up once, remove from the fire, and stir till cold. Squeeze the juice of the Lemon on a dish, pour over the cream, and serve. (2) Rub off the zest of a Lemon with lumps of sugar, put them into a bowl with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, whip until dissolved, and add more sugar and Lemon-juice to taste. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a little hot water and let it cool. When thick add it to the Lemon cream, turn all into a mould, and let it set before turning out. (3) Mix the grated peel of three Lemons with 1 pint of rich cream, then strain in the juice of the three Lemons and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the cream until very thick, then put it in a cool place for one night. The next day, put a few sponge cakes in the centre of a glass dish, and baste them with 3 or 4 wineglassfuls of white wine. When the cakes are well soaked with the wine, pour the cream round, and serve. (4) Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of arrowroot in a basin and mix it smoothly together with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling water. Pour the arrowroot into an enamelled saucepan and stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire. When boiled for a few minutes, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire and mix in the strained juice of half a Lemon, a small quantity of grated Lemon-peel, and loaf sugar to taste. Beat the-whites of six eggs well, but without frothing, mix them quickly in with the cream, stir for a few minutes, then strain the cream through a fine hair sieve. Serve it when cold in small glasses. (5) Beat the whites of two eggs and one whole one together, put them into a saucepan with J pint of water, Jib. of caster sugar, and the strained juice of two Lemons. When the ingredients are well mixed, place the saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir continually in one direction; when hot put into the cream the thinly-pared rind of one Lemon, stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling, then remove at once. Strain the cream into a basin and leave till cold. This cream is delicious eaten with either stewed fruit or fruit tarts. (6) Put 1 pint of thick cream in a lined saucepan with 4oz. of caster sugar and the thinly-pared rind of a Lemon,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 841 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. and place it over a gentle fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs, mix them with the cream, moving the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir until thickened. Squeeze the juice of a Lemon into a dish, strain the cream over it, and heat lightly until cold. The cream is then ready for serving. (7) Put the thinly-pared rinds of three Lemons into § breakfast-cupful of water and let them steep for an hour or two. Strain the juice of the Lemons and mix with it 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Beat the yolks of live eggs thoroughly, then mix with them the juice and sugar and the water from the peels. Strain the mixture into a lined stewpan and stir it over a gentle lire until thickened, but do not let it boil. When cold, serve the cream in small custard-glasses. (8) Empty a loz. packet of gelatine into a basin, cover with h pint of milk, and let it soak for three or four hours. Afterwards turn it into a stewpan, put in the thinly-pared rinds of two Lemons, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir the whole over the tire until the gelatine has dissolved. Next strain the milk, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and whisk gently until nearly cold, adding from time to time a little strained Lemon-juice. Pour the cream into a mould, and stand it in a cool temperature or on ice until quite cold and set. Before serving, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a dish. (9) Put 1 pint of water into a lined saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of a Lemon and boil until flavoured, then remove the Lemon-rind. Mix 1 heaped table-spoonful of cornflour with 1 teacupful of cold water, and stir in the boiling water. If at all lumpy, strain the mixture, pour it into the saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, then move it to the side. Beat two eggs well together with the juice of two Lemons, strain, mix them in with the cornflour, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir for a few minutes at the edge of the fire, but do not let it boil again. Leave the cornflour until somewhat cooled, then turn it into a glass dish and stand it in a cool place. When cold, this is an excellent cream to be served with stewed fruit, or it is very nice alone. (10) Thinly pare two larre Lemons, and put their peels in a stewpan with 2£ teacupfuls of caster sugar, joz. of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, 2oz. of isin- glass, and lqt. of new milk; boil over a moderate fire till the isinglass has dissolved (it will take from eight to ten minutes). Strain the preparation through a fine hair sieve into a jug, stir in the yolks of seven well-beaten eggs, then pour the mixture from one jug to another; when nearly cold, add the strained juice of two Lemons, mix thoroughly together, then pour it into an oiled mould. When ready to serve, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish (see Fig. 1062). (11) Steep the thinly-peeled rinds of two Lemons in h pint of boiling water; when it has stood long enough to draw the flavour from the peel, dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in it. When nearly cold, stir in the strained juice of two Lemons and three well-beaten eggs. Pour the preparation into .a jug, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it over the tire till thick ; then remove it and leave Lemons—continued. till cold, giving an occasional stir. This cream is better served on the following day. It should be turned either into glasses or into a glass dish. (12) Boil lqt. of cream and when half cold mix with it the beaten yolks of seven or eight eggs, and stir until quite cold. Pour the cream into a lined saucepan, put in ilb. of caster sugar and l table-spoonful of grated Lemon-peel, and stir it constantly over a gentle fire. When almost on the point of boiling, take the cream oil the lire and let it get cool. Serve the cream cold in small glasses. (1.3) Mix 1^ table-spoonfuls of arrowroot till smooth in a small quantity of cold water, and stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling water. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan and stir it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until thick ; boil for a few minutes, colour it lightly with a small quantity of safl'ron, add 1 teaspoonful of Lemon-juice and a small quantity of grated Lemon-peel, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and move it to the side of the lire. Beat the yolks of four eggs well and stir them quickly into the arrowroot. Continue stirring at the side of the lire a sufficient time to cook the eggs without letting them curdle, then move it away and leave until cold. Serve the cream in small glasses. (14) Dissolve ioz. of isinglass in i pint of white wine, then mix with it the juice of one large Lemon or two small ones and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and strain the mixture into a mould. When nearly cold, fill up the mould with cream, stir all well together, and pack in pounded ice and salt. When sufficiently frozen dip the mould in hot water, quickly removing it again, wipe, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (15) Rub the peel of two Lemons on loaf sugar. Put 12oz. of sugar in a stewpan with the Lemon-sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, 1£ pints of cream or milk, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and h saltspoonful .of salt, and stir the mixture over a slow fire till thick and on the point of boiling; then remove it at once, work all together vigorously, and pass it through a line hair sieve. Turn the cream into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen, or else put the lid on, with ice on that, and leave for an hour or more. Turn the frozen cream into moulds, close them, pack in ice, and leave for two hours. Previous to serving, dip the moulds in tepid water, to facilitate moving the cream, wipe them, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. (10) Put the yellow rinds of two and the juice of four large Lemons into a basin with 1 pint of hot water, and let them steep until the water is quite cold. Beat well the yolks of six eggs, the whites of three, and lib. of caster sugar. Strain the water oil' the peel in with the beaten eggs, turn the whole into a lined .saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until of the thickness of good cream, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle. When ready, strain the cream through a line sieve, and let it get cold before serving. (17) Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan and beat well, mix in 9oz. of caster sugar and 1 h pints of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire till hot; mix with it a piece of Lemon-peel, and continue stirring till thickened to the requisite degree. When cooked, strain the cream through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and serve either hot or cold. (18) Grate the rinds of two Lemons, squeeze and strain the juice over, then mix with it Alb. of caster sugar, 3 wineglassfuls of sherry, or any kind of pale wine, and 1 pint of thick cream. Leave the cream for one hour, then whip it for twenty minutes. Fill jelly-glasses with it, and serve. (19) Put the peel of three large Lemons in 1 pint of water, let it stand till the flavour is well drawn out (it will take from four to five hours), then take out the peel and put in the strained juice of four Lemons and 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth. Mix all together, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a lined saucepan, and stir in one direction over a slow fire until thick like cream, then take it off and continue stir- ring until cold. Pour it into a glass dish or basin, sprinkle over with chopped candied fruits (see Fig. 10G3), and serve.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 842 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemons— continued. (20) Put \ pint of water into a saucepan and when boil- ing put in the thinly-shred peel of two Lemons and let it simmer by the side of the lire for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then add 4lb. of caster svgar, boil for two minutes, strain it through a fine hair sieve, add three well-beaten eggs and the juice of two Lemons, pour the mixture into a copper pan, and stir until thick. In the meantime soak -joz. of gela- tine in a very little cold water. When quite thick, turn the cream into a basin; dissolve the gi latine in a little boiling water, and when nearly cold mix it with the cream. Put the whole into a mould and let it stand till set. When ready to serve, turn [it out of the mould on to an orm menial dish. (21) Boil 1 pint of cream together with 1 pint of new milk ; when boiling, throw in a small lump of sugar, l pinch of salt and the peel of one Lemon, and leave the cream for a time to draw the flavour out of the Lemon. Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs, mix them with the cream, strain two or three times through a jelly-bag, pour it into a mould, stand it in a saucepan, and surround with b( iling water ; the mould should he covered to keep the steam from drip- ping in. When cooked, take the mould out of the water, leave it till cold, then turn the contents on to a dish, and serve. Lemon-Cream Candy.—Steep the grated peel of half a Lemon in the juice of one for an hour, then strain it through a cloth squeezing well to get the flavour of the rind. Put 31b. of loaf sugar over the fire with f pint of water, stir till dissolved, and boil steadily till a little dropped into cold water hardens as it cools. Then stir the strained Lemon- juice into it, boil for one minute, and mix in 1 saltspoonful of dry bicarbonate of soda. Blend thoroughly, and turn the candy out directly into shallow dishes. As soon as it is cold enough to t< uch pull it out long and white, and when brittle cut it into lengths. Lemon-Cream Cheese Cakes.—Steep the thinly-pared rinds of six Lemons in 1J breakfast-cupfuls of water. Strain the juice of the Lemon and mix with it ^lb. of caster sugar. Whisk the whites of ten eggs well, and mix in with them gradually the juice-and-sugar, the water strained from the peels, and five or six finely-grated stale Savoy biscuits. Butter some pattv-pans, and line them with a good puff paste ; put a small quantity of the above mixture in each, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot or cold. Lemon Cream-Ice.—,1) Add to the juice of four Lemons the grated peel of one, \ pint of clarified sugar (see Sugar- boiling', and 1 pint of cream ; mix all these thoroughly together, then strain through a sieve into a mould or glasses packed in ice, and freeze. (2) Rub eff the rind of a Lemon with lumps of sugar, scrape it off the lumps as soon as they become charged with the essential oil of the fiuit, put it in a copper basin, add lqt. of cream, Jib. more sugar, and one egg; mix well, place the basin on the stove or fire, and stir well until it is about to boil. Remove from the fire, strain at once, let it cool, and then freeze. When frozen add the juice of a Lemon, stir well, and use as required. The juice must on no account he added befoie the cream is frozen, as it is apt to curdle and spoil. (3) Put Lib. of powdered sugar into a basin; grate in the rinds of two Lemons, add tiie whites of four eggs, mix well with a wire whisk for two minutes, add 1 pint of cold milk, and stir again for one minute. 1 lace the basin on the hot stove, stir briskly with the whisk, take it off when coming to tiie br.il, lay it on the table, and pour in l pint of sweet cream, mixing well for two minutes. Let it cool for half-an-hour, strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, put on the lid, lay the freezer in an ice-tub tilling in all round with broken ice mixed slightly with rock-salt, and turn the handle of the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the cream from the sides and bottom of the freezer, re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more; uncover and detach the cream as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on and repeat the operation thiee times more. The cream should by this time lie quite firm. Turn it out on to a cold dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and semi to table. (4) Grate the peel of six Lemons and tie it up in a piece of coarse muslin. Cut ep„ch Lemon in halves and squeeze the juice from them ; strain the juice anti soak the muslin bag of Lemon-peel in it, squeezing the bag fre- quently till the juice becomes highly flavoured and coloured, then stir in 2 teacupfuls of caster sugar; mix 2 breakfast- cupfuls of sugar in 1 gall, of cream, stir the Lemon-juice in slowly, whisk it to a froth, pour it into a freezing-pot, reserving a portion of the cream to pour in as it sinks in freezing. When the cream is frozen, put it into moulds, close them, and embed in ice. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents out on to a dish. (5) Boil 1 pint of milk; beat 1 teacupful of caster svgar and \ teacupful of flour together with two eggs, turn it into the boiling milk, and stir over the lire for twenty minutes. Pour it into a basin, and leave till cold, then mix with it another teacupful of svgar, 1 table-spoonful of Lemon extract, and lqt. of cream; put it in a freezer and work till frozen. Pill a fancy-shaped mould with the cream, place a piece of thick white paper over the ti p, put on the tin cover, and embed the mould in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (G) Boil 1 pint of water together with the strained juice of three Lemons and 14 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of eight eggs and 1 pinch of salt; pour the syrup in a basin, and stand it in a larger one containing hot water. Stir the yolks of the eggs into the syrup and beat rapidly for three minutes. Take the basin out of the boiling water, stand it in a pan of iced water, and heat until cold. Add the cream, pour all into a freezer, and work it till frozen. Finish as directed for Lemon Cream-Ice, No. 1. (7) Put in a stewpan 1| pints of milk or cream, 12oz. of sugar, the rinds of two Lemons rubbed on lumps of sugar, a small piece of cinnamon, 1 pinch of salt, and the beaten yolks of eight eggs; stir the preparation quickly over the fire till it thickens, but on no account letting it boil, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot, and freeze. Select some fancy ice-moulds, using a Neapc litan ice-spoon to fill them, close them when properly filled, and pack in ice. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents on to dishes. (8) Mix lqt. of milk with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 4lb. of caster sugar, the peel of half a Lemon, and. l°pint of thick cream; pour all into a lined stewpan, stir it with a silver spoon over a moderate fire till on the point of boiling, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Alien cold pour the cream into a freezing-pot, and freeze. Lemon-Cream Pies.—Line some small buttered plates with a good short-paste, and bake till lightly browned. Boil 1 pint of milk, then put with it 1 teacupful of erster sugar; mix together the grated rind of half a Lemon and 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, pour a little of the milk over gradually to make a thin paste, then mix all together and whisk itTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 843 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. over the fire. When the flour is cooked, add the juice of half a Lemon, a lump of butter about the size of an egg, and four well-beaten yolks of eggs ; continue stirring over the fire, but take care to remove it before the eggs curdle; Fiu. 1064. Lemon-Cream Pies. pour the cream into the plates of crust, and serve when cold. See Fig. 10b4. Lemon-Cream-Tarfc Meringue. —Boil 1 pint of water in a saucepan, put in another vessel 4uz. of pon dered sugar, mix with it loz. of corn-starch, grate in the rind of a Lemon, squeezing in the juice, and stir well with the spatula for one minute. Break in two whole eggs, beat all together for one minute, and add it to the boiling water in the pan, stirring sharply with a whisk until it comes to the boil, then take from the fire. Have ready a flat pie-dish lined with paste, put it in the oven, and bake for ten minutes, so that the crust gets a good golden colour. Remove from the oven, and pour the preparation into it, then let it get thoroughly cold. Beat with a whisk, in a copper basin, the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, mix in 3oz. of powdered sugar, and with a spoon lay half of it over the tart, using a knife to flatten it evenly on the top and sides. Pour the rest of the froth into a pastry-bag, decorate the top of the tart artistically, laying it in any fanciful design. Sprinkle over plenty of sugar, place the tart in a slow oven for ten minutes to let it get a pale brown colour, remove it, put it away to cool, slide carefully on to a dessert-dish, and send to table. Lemon Custard.—(1) Put into a saucepan lqt. of milk, the thin rind of a Lemon, two bitter almonds, and 41b. of sugar. Bring the milk to the boil, strain it gradi ally through a fine sieve into a saucepan over six well-beaten ' eggs, and stir well until it thickens. Pour it at once into custard-cups or glasses, and serve hot or cold as required. (2) Boil the peel of one Lemon till very tender, then rub it through a sieve into a stewpan; mix with it fib. of loaf sugar, the strained juice of two Lemons, the thinly- pared rind of one, and 1 pint of white wine. Boil all for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor and set them to cod, pouring the remainder into a dish; beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, and mix them with the cool liquor and peel; then strain them into a jug or basin, stir thoroughly, and set them over the fire in a pan of boiling water. When cooked, grate the peel of a Lemon on the top of the custard, brown it over with a salamander, and serve either hot or cold. Lemon Drops.—(1) Take a large piece of loaf sugar and with it grate off the yellow rinds of three large Lemons, scraping the surface off the sugar as it becomes yellowed. When all the rinds are grated and all the yellow sugar scraped off, add and mix vTell with it 1 table-spoonful of flour, and then beat it to a light paste together with the white of an egg. Drop it on white paper laid on a tin baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Make a mixture of powdered white sugar and strained Lemon-juice almost thick enough for a teaspoon to stand upright in. Put it over the fire in a deep pan and keep stirring till it is quite hot but do not let it boil ; then stir in a little more sugar, let it get hot, chalk the spout of the pan, and with a small stick make the sugar drop in small drops on tin or pewter plates. Let the drops get quite cold and then take them off the plates and put them on sieves into the stove to dry. Lemons—continued. Lemon Dumplings.—(1) Mince 4lb. of beef-suet very finely, then mix with it 4lb. of grated breadcrumb, jib. of caster sugar, and the grated peel of one Lemon ; mix all together with two well-beaten eggs. Form the preparation into dumplings, and boil them, tied in cloths, for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Serve while hot. (2) Sift 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and lib. of flour; add to it the juice and finely-chopped rinds of two Lemons and 41b. of caster sugar. Mix well, stir in two well-beaten eggs anti sufficient milk to make a stiff dough, form this into dumplings, tie separately in cloths, plunge them into a saucepan ot boiling water, and boil for an hour. Serve hot witn wine sauce. (3f F’inely grate lib. of stale crumb of bread ; free 41b. of beef-suet from skin, mince small, mix it with the bread- crumbs, and add 41b. of caster sugar, the grated rinds and strained juice of two Lemons, and bind the whole with four or five well-beaten eggs. Divide the mixture into equal portions, mould into dumplings, plunge them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. They should he well covered with water, and the lid should be kept on all the time. When cooked, take the dumplings out of the saucepan, put then on a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. They are very nice when accompanied by a Lemon sauce. Lemon Extract. —Cut the thinly-pared rinds of three Lemons into shreds. Put the peel into a bottle, pour on it 1 pint of brandy or whisky, and cork tightly. Shake the bottle frequently for the first four or five weeks. This extract will keep for years. Lemon Flavouring.—(1) Rub the rinds of four Lemons with 4lb. of lump sugar, put the sugar in a mortar with 2oz. of bitter almonds, blanched, pound them to a smooth paste, put it into small jars, tie paper over, and keep them in a dry store-closet till wanted for use. (2) Peel the rinds off two large Lemons and partially dry them in the open air ; bruise them in a stone mortar, pour over lqt. of spirits of wine, and shake oc •asionally until the colour is drawn out ; then add jpiz. of oil of Lemon, and let it stand. When clear, filter it. (3) Fill some wide-mouthed bottles with the thinly-pared rind of some fresh Lemons ; put in the blanched kernels of some plums or peaches, fill the bottles with brandy, and leave them for one month. Strain the brandy off, bottle it, and keep well corked till wanted. (4) Pare the rind very thinly oft' twenty-five Lemons, and put it into two bottles, each holding about lqt. ; fill up with unsweetened gin, cork them, and leave for a month, shaking occasionally di ring that time ; then drain the liquor off into small bottles. The peel can be used for any pur- pose and will keep for years. Lemon Fritters. -Beat up the yolks of five eggs together with jib. of powdered white sugar. Mix with them, when beaten quite light, 1 saltspoonful each of nutmeg and cinna- mon, and j- pint of cream; whip in lightly the whites of five eggs whisked to a froth, and then add fib. of self- raising flour, working it in as quickly and lightly as pos- sible; it should form a paste only just stiff enough to roll out. Take the rolling-pin and roll out the paste to a thick- ness of fin. Cut it into round pieces with a tumbler or a cake-cutter and fry in boiling lard; they ought to puli' up a good deal during the frying. Lay them on warm paper to drain. Serve liot with a sauce made of the whites of two eggs beaten as stiff as possible together with 1 glass of wine, 4 lb. of powdered white sugar, the grated peel of one Lemon and the strained juice of two. Lemon Froth. —Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine previously soaked in 1 pint of boiling water, then pour in 1 pint of cold water and add the rinds and strained juice of six Lemons. Let it stand till it begins to set, then take out the rinds and add the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a still' froth. When well-beaten into the jelly, turn it into a glass bowl, garnish with ratafias, and serve. See Fig. 1065. Lemon Granite-Ice. —Mix f pint of filtered Lemon-juice with 3 pints of syrup at 28deg., and freeze it into icicles844 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. in a freezing-pot (see Ices). The granite should be served in small glasses. Lemon Honey.—(1) Beat a dozen eggs till very light, add to and mix with them 2lb. of sugar, ilb. of butter beaten to a cream, and the strained juice of six Lemons, and set the mixture over a slow fire till it boils. Keep well stirred and be careful that it does not burn. This is a good remedy for a cough. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar into a saucepan, also the grated rinds and juice of three Lemons, and a piece of butter weighing about 2oz. Stir it over the fire till boiling, then add the beaten yolks of six eggs, and continue stirring till thick. This preparation can be used for tarts, or eaten on bread-and-butter; it makes a splendid substitute for jam, and is a general favourite. Lemon Honeycomb.—(1) Strain the juice of one or two Lemons into a glass dish, and add sugar to taste. Beat the white of an egg into h pint of cream, and whisk it to .a strong froth; as the froth forms lay it on the sweetened Lemon-juice in the dish, piling it high. When all the cream is frothed and piled on the dish lay over it lightly here and there a few small ratafias. (2) Strain the juice of two Lemons into a glass bowl, and sweeten it with 2oz. of caster sugar. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with H pints of cream, sweeten with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and whisk the whole, skimming off the froth and putting it on the Lemon-juice. When all the cream is frothed, stand the dish in a cool place, and serve it on the following day. Lemon Jelly.—(1) Steep 2oz. of gelatine in J pint of cold water for one hour; then mix with it 1J pints of boil- ing water, raisin or cowslip wine, the thinly-pared rind of one and the strained juice of three Lemons, and loaf sugar to taste. Boil all for five minutes, then take it off the fire and leave till cool; stir in quickly the crushed shells and beaten whites of two eggs, and boil the jelly up again without stirring. Let the jelly settle for two minutes, strain through a jelly-bag, and stir in A pint of sherry mixed with a little brandy; pour the jelly into a fancy jelly-mould and leave till set. When ready to serve turn the jelly on to a dish. (2) Cut the rind off one Lemon and put it in a basin, then squeeze the juice of six Lemons on to it, taking care to keep back the pips. Put jdb. of preserving-sugar into a stewpan with | pint of water and let it boil till it becomes a thick syrup, then take it off and mix in the juice and rind ; place the lid on the stewpan and put it over the fire again. Add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water, let it boil for another minute, then stir in Joz. of isinglass that has been dissolved. Strain it through a jelly- bag, mix in J pint of bucellas, pour it into a mould, put the cover on, and embed it in ice. When ready to serve dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Lemons—continued. (3) Put loz. of gelatine into a basin with a little water and let it soak for about three hours, then put it into a pan with 3 break iast-cupfuls of water together with the finely-chopped peel and strained juice of two Lemons, six cloves, J teaspoonful of coriander seeds, lin. of stick cinnamon, a little nutmeg (not grated', ^lb. of sugar, and the whites and shells of two eggs. Set the pin on the fire and whisk vigorously until the contents come to the boil ; let them boil for a few minutes or until they rise well in the pan, then strain through a fine cloth, stir in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and it is ready for use, either for moulding or any other desired style. (4) Put lqt. of calf's-foot jelly into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of Lemon-juice, 12oz. of loaf sugar, and the thin rinds of two Lemons ; boil well, then clarify with the beaten whites and shells of five eggs, and strain. The jelly should now be quite clear and can be moulded or used as desired. (5) Soak ljoz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water until soft, then pour it in a saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of a large Lemon, 1 teacupful of Lemon-juice, Jib. of loaf sugar, and the beaten whites and shells of five eggs. Stir the mixture over the fire, and boil for several minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag. Pour it into a mould and leave until quite cold and set before serving. (6) Put the thinly-pared rind of a Lemon and a half into a cup, pour over it $ pint of boiling water, cover up, and let it stand. Pour \ pint of cold water over loz. of gelatine and let it steep for lialf-an-hour; then pour over it h pint of boiling water and stir till the gelatine has completely dissolved, if it does not melt quickly stir it over the fire. When the gelatine has melted take it from the * fire, add to it the strained juice of three Lemons, the water in which the Lemon-peel has been steeping, and 1 pint of water with Coz. of sugar dissolved in it. Stir all well together and put it into a cool place to stiffen, either in the vessel it has been mixed in (in which case the jelly when cold must be broken up with a spoon or a knife and serVed in glasses, or used as a garnish for blanc-mange) or poured into a mould. (7) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for about three hours, then stir in the juice of six and the grated rinds of two Lemons, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Cover, let it stand for an hour, then pour in 1 pint of boiling water, and stir till the gelatine has co’mpletely dissolved; strain it, add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, strain it again through a flannel bag, pour it into a mould wetted inside with cold water, and let it stand all night. Turn it out next day on a glass dish. (8) Dissolve loz. of gelatine in § pint of water, then mix witli it the juice of two Lemons and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the above mixture, turn the whole into a lined saucepan, and continue whisking it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then put in the thinly-pared rinds of the two Lemons, and let them steep for ten minutes. Afterwards strain the jelly through a jelly-bag until quite clear, pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it on ice. When cold and firm, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (9) Soak loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of cold water for about ten minutes, then dissolve it over the fire. When dissolved add lib. of loaf sugar and the juice and rinds of two Lemons; stir till the sugar has dissolved, then let it come to the boil and boil for ten minutes. Strain, and put it into a mould wetted inside with cold water. (10) Peel as thinly as possible the yellow rinds of two small Lemons or one large one, put them into a jug with loz. of isinglass, Joz. of gum Arabic, -]lb. of loaf sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves. Pour over these ingredients 1 pint of port wine, cover the jug, and let them infuse for one night. On the following morning, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, place it over the fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the isinglass has dissolved. When ready, pour the jelly through a jelly- bag, strain until clear, pour it into a mould, and stand itTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 845 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Lemons—continued. in a cool place until firm. When ready to serve the jelly, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish. (11) With lOoz. of loaf sugar grate off all the rind of eight Lemons, add to it the strained juice of the eight Lemons and 1 pint of water, mix well, put it in a sugar- boiler and boil, skimming off all scum that rises, till char; then add a few drops of burnt sugar to colour, ljmz. of isinglass soaked and dissolved in % pint of water, and 1 wineglassful of gin or whisky ; strain it through a jelly- bag, pour it when nearly cold into a shape, and let it stand on ice or in a cold place till firm enough to turn out. (12) Put loz. of isinglass in a small saucepan with In- break fast-cupful of water, stir it over the fire until dis- solved, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it through a tammy-clotli into a basin. Put the thinly-pared rind of one Lemon into a basin, and squeeze the juice of five Lemons over it. Boil Alb. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of water till reduced to a syrup, then take it off the fire and put in the rind and juice of the Lemons. Place it over the fire again until boiling, then mix in by degrees 6 table-spoonfuls of water, and boil for a minute or two longer. Mix the dissolved isinglass with the jelly, and pass it through a jelly-bag until quite clear. It may be flavoured if liked with a small quantity of rose-water. Turn the jelly into a je iy-mould, and pack it in ice for two hours, or it may be put in a cold place and left until the following day. Dip the mould in warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, wipe it, turn it on to a fancy dish, and serve. If the weather is very hot, a larger amount of isinglass will be required than the above-mentioned quantity. Lemon-Juice.—Select a dozen large new Lemons, put them in a lined saucepan with some cold water, and let the water gradually come to the boil; simmer gently till the Lemons are soft, then take them out of the water, squeeze all the juice out into a basin, and strain it; mix in for every pint of juice 211). of caster sugar, stir, and boil it over a slow fire till the sugar has dissolved, then skim it carefully and keep it in bottles till wanted for use. This prepara- tion will be found very useful for many culinary purposes, or would make the foundation of a pleasant summer beverage. Lemon Julep.—Put into a large glass 1 wineglassful of Lemon cordial, with a very little cachou syrup, till up with ice, place a little mint and thin slices of Lemon on the top, put over this a very small bunch of grapes dipped in sugar, and serve. Lemon Kali.—(1) Mix with Alb. of caster sugar a little more than half the quantity of bicarbonate of potash and |lb. of drbd and powdered citric acid. Mix these ingre- dients in a mortar, then put the mixture into a bottle and keep it closely stoppered. When using, stir 1 tea- spoonful of the mixture into a tumbler two-thirds full of water. (2) Mix 50 drops of essence of Lemon with Alb. of caster sugar, then add rjlb. of powdered tartaric acid and lib. of bicarbonate of soda. Keep the mixture in closely-stop- pered bottles. When using, mix 1 teaspoonful in a tumbler- ful of water. Lemon Liqueur.—Cut the rind thinly off four Lemons, put it in a vessel with lqt. of pure colourless spirit and leave it for twelve days. Put lib. of lump sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until small trans- parent beads rise to the top, then take it off the fire and leave until cold. Filter the spirit through flannel, then mix with it the cold syrup and the juice of four Lemons. Bottle the liqueur and keep it tightly corked for use. Lemon Lozenges.—(l) Put 4oz. of dry gelatine in water to soak, and sift 16^1b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a slab or table making a bay in the centre. Put If lb. of glucose in a sugar-pan on the fire, bring it to the boil, remove from the fire, add the softened gelatine, and stir well until dissolved. Pour this into the sugar on the slab, add a flavouring of Lemon, and a yellow colouring. A little tartaric acid is a great improvement. Roll out the Lemons—continued. paste, cut it into shapes, dust over with corn-starch, dry in the hot closet, and pack away in boxes. (2) Work loz. of picked gum dragon previously soaked in a little tepid water with the doubled fist on a marble slab until it becomes elastic and white, then work in till perfectly smooth lAlb. of icing sugar, 2oz. of Lemon sugar, and a few drops of acetic acid. Dredge thickly some caster sugar over the slab, and roll the paste out on it with a ribbed rolling-pin, rolling it in cross directions to give the surface a diamond pattern ; procure a small round tin cutter about Ain. in diameter, and stamp the lozenges out with it. Sprinkle caster sugar over some baking-sheets, arrange the lozenges in rows upon it, anti put them to dry in a screen. Put the lozenges in well-stoppered glass jars and keep them in a dry place. Lemon-aud-Maraschino-Cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of gum Arabic, strain, and mix with it J pint of maraschino and sufficient icing sugar to make a stiff paste ; next prepare some royal icing with the whites of two eggs, loz. of Lemon sugar, and what is left of 21b. of icing sugar after the paste has been made. Procure a biscuit-forcer with a :}in. tube fitted to it, fill it with the maraschino paste, sprinkle caster sugar on some sheets of paper, and as the paste is forced out with one hand, with the other hand use a small knife to cut it off into pieces the size of small filbert kernels ; as each sheet of paper is filled with these drops, put it on a baking-slieet, and stand it in the screen for ten minutes to dry the surface of the creams. Take these up one by one on the tip of a fork and dip them into the Lemon icing. As each one is covered, put it on a wire tray, and when all are done, set the tray in the screen Fig. 1065. Lemon-and-Maraschino-Cheam Bonbons. and dry them for ten minutes. Serve on a small glass- dish (see Fig. 1066), or pack the bonbons carefully between sheets of paper in a cardboard box and keep them thus till wanted. Lemon Marmalade.—(1) Soak 61b. of Lemon-peel in brine for several days. Before preserving, soak the peels in pure water till all the taste of the salt is extracted, and boil till soft enough to pierce with a straw. Put in a copper preserving-pan 91b. of preserving-sugar and lqt. of water; when boiling, put in the Lemon-peel and 31b. of apples cut in slices. Stir all over the fire till very thick. AN hen done, turn the marmalade into jars, and leave till cold. Cover them down tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard till wanted for use. (2) Cut the rinds off and squeeze out the juice of sufficient Lemons to make 61b., weighing both together. Boil the rinds in plenty of water till quite soft, then drain, and put them into cold water to steep for three hours. Drain the peels on a sieve, scrape out the white pulp, and cut the rinds into straw-like threads. Boil 611). of preserving- sugar to the feather degree, then put in the peels and strained Lemon-juice; stir it while boiling for twenty minutes over the fire. When cooked, turn the marmalade into pots and leave it till cool. Cut some round pieces of paper the size of the pots, dip them in brandy, put them on the tops, cover with more paper, and tie down tightly. (3) Allow an equal weight of fruit and sugar, cut the Lemons into halves, squeeze out the juice, and strain it. Put the peels in a saucepan with plenty of water and boil. When quite tender drain the peels, scoop out as much of the insides as possible, and cut the yellow rinds into thin shreds. Put the juice of the Lemons into a preserving-846 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. lemons—continued. pan with the sugar and boil it to a syrup, then put in the shred rind and continue boiling until reduced to the proper consistency. Turn the marmalade into jars, and when quite cold put in each jar a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down with line twine. Keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. (4) Cut the Lemons in quarters, then thinly peel them, remove the white pith and seeds from the pulp, and slice it; cut the peel into thin shreds, weigh the pulp and peel, and for each pound pour over Iqt. of filtered water. .Let it steep for twenty-four hours, then put it into a preserving-pan with the pips and white pith tied up in a muslin bag. Boil the whole slowly for two hours, or until quite tender, then remove the muslin bag, weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow 1 Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar , return the whole to the preserving-pan, and boil gently lor about two hours. When perfectly clear, turn the marmalade into jars, let it get cold, then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, and tic down tightly. Keep lor use in a dry store-cupboard. (5) Cut the Lemons into thin slices and remove the seeds; weigh the Lemons and for each pound a1 low 3 pints of water; put them with the water into a vessel and let them staid for twenty-four hours. Afterwards turn the fruit and water into a lined pan and boil gently until a straw will easily penetrate the peel, turn them into the vessel, leave until the following day, then weigh the fruit, and for eaffli pound allow 14lb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar: boil the whole until the syrup has thickly reduced. Fill some jars with the marmalade, let it get cold, then put in each jar a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, tie down, and put them away in a cool dry store-cupboard. When the marmalade is cooked, the chips should be rather transparent. Lemon Marzipan.—Pound 1 Ooz. of blanched and peeled Jordan almonds, put with them lOoz. of caster sugar, the grated peel of one Lemon, and mix them to a stiff paste with the beaten white of an egg; sprinkle caster sugar on to some sheets of paper, and force the above preparation through a syringe with a Jin. star at the end on to the paper. Cut the paste into 3in. lengths, and shape each strip into a ring. Sprinkle caster sugar over some sheets of paper, put them on a baking-slieet, place the rings on, and bake in a very quick oven ; they should be coloured in four minutes. When cooked, take the marzipan off the paper, and put them on a sieve till cold. Lemon Meringue.—Soak 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs in Iqt. of new milk, then mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and the grated rind of one Lemon. Beat these ingredients till light, then pour into a buttered baking-dish, and bake like a custard, spreading some fruit jelly over the meringue. Beat the whites of the four eggs together with 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and the juice of one Lemon to a stiff froth, spread it over the top, and bake till brown. Serve either hot or cold. Lemon Mincemeat.—(1) Boil four ripe and thin-skinned Lemons in Iqt of water till the water is reduced to 1 pint, then squeeze and strain the juice of the Lemons into 21b. of caster sugar; mince the rind and pulp of the Lemons, taking care to pick out all the seeds, stone and chop lib. of raisins, and mince finely 21b. of suet; mix them with the Lemons, adding also 2lb. of currants well-washed and dried, loz. of mixed ground spices, J pint of brandy and port wine mixed in equal quantities, and the water that the Lemons were boiled in. The mincemeat should be kept in a jar, tightly covered, till wanted for use. (2) Mince Jib. of beef-suet very finely together with three large ajoples, then mix in Jib. of well-washed and dried currants and 1 teacupful of caster sugar. Squeeze all the juice out of a large Lemon, and boil the Lemon till tender, then strain, beat to a pulp, and mix it with the mincemeat; strain the juice that was squeezed from the Lemon over it, add loz. of finely-chopped mixed candied peel, put the mincemeat into a jar, tie stout paper over, and keep it in a cool dry place till wanted for use. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Lem ons-—continued. (3) Select eight large Lemons, and peel them as thickly as possible; boil the peel till soft, then strain, and pound it in a mortar. Stone ljlb. of raisins, and finely chop lib. of beef-suet; mix them with the pounded peel, also lib. of caster sugar, the strained juice of three Lemons, and J pint of brandy. When thoroughly mixed, put the mincemeat into a jar, tie some stout paper over the top, and keep it in a dry store-closet till wanted. (4) Squeeze and strain the juice of three Lemons. Boil the rinds and pulp in three or four waters till the bitter- ness is soaked out and they are quite tender, then put them into a mortar and beat well. When the pounded Lemon-peel and pulp is quite cold, mix with it lib. of powdered white sugar, lib. of suet skinned and chopped very fine, 111), of currants well washed and dried, and Jib. of raisins stoned and chopped; mix all well together and then stir in the strained Lemon-juice and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Lemon Mince Pies.—(1) Line some buttered patty-pans with thinly-rolled puff paste, half till them with Lemon mince- meat, put a round of paste on the top of each, press the paste together round the edges, dip a paste-brush in egg beaten together with a little wafer, brush the tops of the patties over, sift caster sugar on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take them out of the pans, put them on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Squeeze the juice out of a large Lemon, and boil the outside until it becomes soft enough to mash. Drain anil mash the Lemon-peel, and mix with it three large apples, peeled and finely-chopped, 4oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, the same quantity of sugar, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, a small quantity of finely-chopped candied fruit, and the strained juice of the Lemon. Butter some patty- pans, line with a good short-crust, fill them with the mixture, and cover with rounds of the same crust. Moisten Fig. 1067. Lemon Wince Pies. and press the edges of the paste together. Bake the pies in a quick oven, and serve either hot or cold. See Fig. 1067. Lemon Mirlitons. -Rub lib, of loaf sugar over the peel of a Lemon ; pound, and add to it Jib. of pounded macaroons, the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, stir well, then mix with it 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter, a small pinch of salt, and lastly the remainder of the whites stiffly whipped. Butter some tartlet-pans and line them with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, dust thickly over with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, lift the tartlets out of the moulds, put them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Lemon Mixture for Puddings.—Pare off as thinly as possible the yellow ri ids of four large Lemons, and mince them finely ; squeeze the juice out of six Lemons and strain it. Put Jib, of butter into a lined saucepan, melt it, then put in the peel and juice with 1 Jib. of loaf sugar, the beaten yolks of twelve and the whites of eight eggs, and stir the mixture over a very slow fire until thick ; then pour it into a jar, mix in 1 wineglassful of whisky or brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Lemon Omelets. -Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour with 1 teaspoonful of flour and J teacupful of milk or cream ; when quite smooth, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten eggs and 4- pint of boiling milk. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the above preparation. Butter four pudding plates, pour the mixture on them, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 847 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, efcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. dividing it equally, and Lake in a quick oven for ten minutes or until well set. When cooked, turn the omelets on to a hot dish, spread about 1 teaspoonful of Lemon honey over half of each omelet, fold them over, sift a little caster sugar ou the top, and serve while hot. Lnnon Paste.—Squeeze the juice out of some Lemons, then boil the rinds till very tender. Drain, scrape out all the pulp, put the rinds in a mortar, and pound them. Put the paste on to a sieve, press it through with a spatula into a preserving-pan, and reduce till thick; weigh the pulp, and for every pound use 2lb. of loaf sugar. C’la ify the sugar, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), then mix in the Lemon paste, and boil up again. Spread the paste on plates, put it in the stove for a day, then take it out, cut it into strips, and shape it into any form preferred. Lemon Pastilles.—Add to -Jib. of very finely-powdered white sugar the strained juice of three large Lemons or four small ones, and mix it well till it forms a paste thick enough to be taken up with a knife. If too thin add a little more sugar. When the paste is the required thick- ness, drop it in small flat drops, about the size of a six- pence, on to a sheet of paper. Dry them in a stove with a slow fire, and when quite dry take them off the paper. Lemon Patties.—Put the grated crumb of two stale penny loaves in a basin, and pour over them 4 pint of boiling milk. When cold, mix with them the grated peel of two Lemons, three well-beaten eggs, ^lb. of butter beaten to a cream, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Butter some small cups, fill them with the mixture, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn the patties on to a hot dish, pour some wine sauce over, and serve. Lemon Pie.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of corn-starch with 1 breakfast-cupful of hot water, pour it into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till boiling; then mix in the grated rinds and juice of two Lemons and fib. of caster sugar; when cool, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, line some buttered plates with a good rich crust, pour the mixture in, and bake until the crust is done. Beat the whites of the four eggs together with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and when very light and frothy pour it over the pies, put them in the oven again, and bake till slightly browned. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Mix 1 teaspoonful of corn Hour with 1 small teacupful of milk, then put it into a saucepan and stir over the lire till boiling. Take it off, let it cool, then add the yolks of two beaten eggs, 4 large table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and the grated rind and strained juice of one Lemon, and beat all well together. Butter a deep plate, line with short-paste, fill it with the above preparation, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-liour. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth together with 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, cover the pic with it, and brown slowly. (3) Put 1 teacupful of caster sugar in a saucepan, grate in the rind of one Lemon, squeeze in the juice, being careful to keep back the seeds, pour in 4 pint of water, and stand it over the tire; mix 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour with a little water, and stir it in with the sugar when boiling. Take the saucepan off, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs. (4) Grate the rinds of three Lemons in with 1 break- fastcupful of sugar, then squeeze in the juice. Beat the yolks of six eggs till light, mix with them 1 breakfast- cupful of rich cream, and stir in the Lemon-and-sugar. Line some buttered pic-clishes with puff paste • whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the Lemon cream, pour all into the pie-dishes, put a cover of the paste on, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, they should be very lightly coloured, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. (5) Put the grated rind, the juice, and pulp, freed of the pips and chopped, of a Lemon in a saucepan with 1 pint of water. Boil it, then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar and 1 teacupful of flour, previously mixed while dry; when Lemons—continued. half thickened take it off Line some buttered pie-dishes with puff paste, pour the above preparation in, cover with some more paste, pinch round the edges to fasten them together, ancl bake in a moderate oven till lightly coloured. These pies can be served either hot or cold. (6) Put 1 Alb. of ajiple sauce into a basin, add loz. of powdered loaf sugar and loz. of corn starch, grate in the peel of a me lium-sized Lemon, squeezing in the juice of two others, and mix the whole well together with a spoon for three minutes. Pour the preparation in a pie-dish lined with paste, damp the edges with beaten egg, cover with more paste, make a small hole in the top, and brush the surface over with more of the beaten egg. Place the pie in a moderate oven to bake for fifty minutes, remove it to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered sugar, melt this -in the oven for two or three minutes, take out the pic, and serve hot or cold as desired. (7) Grate the yellow rinds of three Lemons in a basin, then chop the pulp finely and mix it with the rind, add 3 table-spoonfuls of cornflour, and stir in gradually teacupfuls of cold milk, mixing it till quite smooth. Add 3oz. of caster sugar and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good pie-crust, pour in the Lemon mixture, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for nearly half-an-liour. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth together with 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar. When the pie is cooked, spread the beaten white of egg over the top, return it to the oven, and bake until the froth is lightly browned. Serve while hot. (8) Make a good paste, and line a deep pie-dish with it. Mix together the following ingredients: The grated rinds and juice of two Lemons, 1 breakfast-cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped fine, 1 teacupful of cracker-dust, 1 break ;ast-cupful of boiling water, and 14 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. Stir all these ingredients in a saucepan over the fire until they boil, and then fill the dish with them ; put an upper crust on the pie, wetting the edges to make it adhere, brush the surface with beaten egg, make two or three little cuts in it, and bake in a moderate oven until well browned. (9) Remove the seeds of two Lemons, and finely chop the rinds and pulps; mix them with 1 teacupful of flour, 1 4 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, loz. of butter, one beaten egg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Line a buttered pie-dish with short-paste, fill it with the mixture, cover the top with paste, trim off round the edges (which damp with water and pinch together), and bake the pie in a quick oven. When cooked, dust caster sugar over, stand the pie- dish on another dish, and serve. Lemon Points. —Cut fresh Lemons in thin slices; divide each slice into halves, then again into quarters, not quite dividing them in the centre for double points, quite divid- ing for single points. They are used for garnishing salads, minces, calls head, and other dishes. Lemon Posset.—(1) Squeeze and strain the juice of three Lemons into a large china bowl (one that will hold 2qts.), add sugar to the Lemon-juice till it is a syrup, and put 1 dessert- spoonful of brandy into it. Boil 14 pints of cream together with a small piece of Lemon-peel, and when the cream boils take it from the fire and let it stand till cold, taking out the bit of Lemon-peel. When the cream is quite cold, pour it from a jug held high over the bowl with the. Lemon- juice in it. Do not dash it in all at once but pour from the spout of the jug. Let it stand till the following day, and it is ready for use. (2) Trim off the crust of a penny stale French roll, grate the crumb finely, put it into a saucepan with the grated rind of a small Lemon, pour in breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil the mixture until thick. Next beat it up well with a wooden spoon and mix in the strained juice of the Lemon and 1 pint of light French wine. Blanch and pound 4oz. of Jordan almonds, add them to the above mixture, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Turn the mixture into a china bowl and serve with a dish of macaroons.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 848 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemon Pralines.—Cut {lb. of candied Lemon-peel into pieces lin. long and :] in. thick. Boil ]{lb. of pn serving- sugar to the half crack, throw in the peel, and stir it with a wooden spoon over a clear fire, turning the peel over and over to thoroughly coat it with the sugar; when a crackling noise is heard, the pan should he moved to the side of the fire; continue stirring till the sugar becomes grained almost like sand, then turn the peel out on a baking-sheet to cool. Pick out the peel, put the sugar again in the sugar-boiler with { pint of 32deg. syrup (see Syrups), add a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and boil to the small crack (see SUGAR-BOILING), then throw in the peel, stirring gently to give them another coating. Give the peel one or two more coatings in the same man- ner. When done, turn the pralines on a sieve to dry; then break asunder, put them in well-stoppered glass jars, and keep in a dry place. Lemon Preserve.—(1) Prepare the Lemon-peels as for Lemon Marmalade. When boiled soft, drain the peels, put them in a preserving-pan with a rich syrup, and boil for some time. Put them in a bowl till next day, then strain oft' the syrup, put it into the pri serving-pan again, and boil till very thick ; pour it over the Lemon-peels, and when cold it will he like jelly. (2) Put 2oz. of butter in a lined saucepan with {,1b. of caster sugar, three beaten eggs, and the grated rind and strained juice of one large Lemon ; stir all over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then pour it into a large jar, and keep it in a cool place. Pill some buttered patty- pans with a rich crust, hake them, take the crust out of the pans, and when cold fill them with the above preserve. Lemon Pudding. (1) Butter a pint pudding-basin, and line it with the crumb of a French roll cut in thin slices and thickly spread with Lemon paste. Make a custard with { pint, of new milk, two eggs, flavour with a little grated Lemon-peel, and sweeten to taste. Phil the basin with this custard, put on this some slices of the French roll also spread with the Lemon paste, tie a thick piece of paper over the top of the basin, stand it in a stevpan with boiling water to reach to half its height, put the lid on the stewpan, and let it steam for one hour. Great care should lie taken to keep the water just below boiling-point. When done, turn the pudding out, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with a sweet sauce poured round it. (2) Mix with Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs jib. of fincly- minced suet, add the grated rind and strained juice of one Lemon, jib. of caster sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and a very small pinch of salt. Butter a mould or basin, pour in the above preparation, tie a piece of thick paper over the top, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to nearly its height, and steam for three hours. A-quarter-of-an-hour before the pudding is done, make a sauce in the following manner: Mix 1 teaspoonful each of flour and cornflour with a very little cold water. Dissolve five lumps of sugar Fig. 1068. Lemon Pudding. in j pint of boiling water, stir the flour into it, squeeze in the juice of one Lemon, taking care to keep back the pips, stir it over the fire till boiling, and then mix in a small lump of butter. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, pour the sauce round, and serve. Lemons—continued. (3) Peel three Lemons, boil the rinds in water till tender, then strain and pound them in a mortar. Boil jib. of Naples biscuits in lqt. of milk ; beat eight eggs together with {lb. of caster sugar, then mix them with the milk and pounded Lemon rinds, adding lib. of butter and 1 wineglassful of rose-water. Stir all over the fire till quite thick, then squeeze in the juice of one large Lemon, taking care to keep back the pips. Line a dish with puff paste, pour the mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready to serve, strew some candied fruits over the top (see Fig. 1068). (4) Beat {lb. of butter together with 1 wineglassful of rose-water to a froth. Whisk {lb. of caster sugar and five eggs, then mix them with the butter and rose-water; add the grated rind of one Lemon and 1 wineglassful of orange- flower water. Line a buttered dish with puff paste, pour in the preparation, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Beat jib. of butter till creamy, then mix with it {lb. of caster sugar; when quite smooth stir in the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the grated rinds of two Lemons. June a dish with a rich pastry crust, pour in the above preparation, and partially bake it. Beat the whites of the eight eggs and 8 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar to a stiff froth, squeeze in the juice of two Lemons taking care to keep the pips back, pour this meringue over the pudding, and brown it quickly. Serve either hot or cold. (6) Rub 1 table-spoonful of butter into 1 table-spoonful of Hour; then mix with it 7 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, six eggs, 1 pint of butter-milk, and a few drops of Lemon extract, and beat well. Line a shallow dish with crust, pour in the preparation, and bake in a moderate oven. (7) Feel and core sufficient apples to fill a moderately large pie-dish, put them in a stewpan with a little caster sugar and water, and the finely-minced rind of a small Lemon ; if the apples are mealy and flavourless, squeeze in the juice of a Lemon, keeping back the pips. Put the lid on, and cook the apples over a slow fire till soft, then crush them with a fork and leave till cool. Butter the pie-dish, line it with thin puff paste, and bake it in a moderate oven till nearly done. Mix with the apple pulp three well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water, pour it into the d sh with the pie-crust, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take it out, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. (8) Mix with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale, sifted bread- crumbs 2 large table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a lump of butter the size of an egg. Pour 1 { pints of boiling milk over the bread, stir it well, then leave till cold. Beat seven eggs thoroughly, then mix them with the bread and the grated peel of one Lemon. Put the pudding into a buttered mould and bake in a quick oven for one hour. Turn it out on to a dish and serve either hot or cold. (9) Finely mince 6oz. of beef-suet, then mix with it jib. of breadcrumbs, 1 teacupful of brown sugar, and the grated peel and strained juice of two small Lemons. When thoroughly mixed, stir in three well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to make a stiff batter; pour it into a buttered basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for three- hours-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve with Lemon sauce in a sauceboat. (10) Put {lb. each of loaf sugar and butter and 1 pint of fresh milk into a saucepan over the fire, and stir till both butter and sugar are dissolved, taking care that the milk does not boil ; take it from the fire, and when cooled mix in six well-beaten eggs, the grated rinds of two Lemons, and a small quantity of the juice. Pour the pudding into a dish lined with paste, and bake. (11) Whisk the yolks of four eggs together with 4oz. of caster sugar. Put the thinly-pared yellow rind and the juice of one Lemon in a mortar, and beat to a paste; then mix it with the beaten eggs and sugar, and work in 5oz. of warmed butter. Grease a tart-dish, and line it with a light paste, marking it fancifully round the edges ; pour in the Lemon mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold.849 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. (12) Make a rich paste and line an earthenware dish with it. Rub some lumps of sugar on the rinds of two Lemons to absorb the oil from them, and then squeeze the Lemons and strain the juice. Melt 6oz. or table-spoonfuls of butter by gentle heat, beat the yolks of eight eggs to a cream together with Jib. of white sugar, and lastly whisk the eight whites to a stiff froth ; mix them lightly with the other ingredients, put the mixture into the dish lined with paste, set the pudding in a moderate oven to bake until done, and serve hot. (13) Peel four Lemons very thinly and boil them till soft; then nib the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Put a stick of cinnamon in lqt. of milk or cream, boil it, then pour it through a fine hair sieve over fib. of Naples biscuits, adding 2oz. of fresh butter and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and leave until cold. Mix the pul]) of the Lemons and eight well-beaten eggs with the biscuits, and sweeten to taste. Prepare a sufficient quantity of good puff paste, roll it out thin, and cut off some strips about 2in. wide; butter the edge of a pie-dish, line it with the strips of paste, joining them neatly at the ends, and pour in the mixture; cut the remainder of the paste into thin strips, which twist and place across the pudding lattice- like. Bake in a moderate oven and serve either hot or cold. (14) Rub Jib. of dripping into Jib. of flour until quite free from lumps, then mix in gradually sufficient water to make a stiff paste. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the table, put the paste on it, and roll it out into one long strip, about Jin. in thickness. Mix together the grated rind and strained juice of one Lemon, J dessert-spoonful of flour, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Work the mixture into a stiff firm paste, then spread it over the strip of paste. Roll it up, moisten slightly at the edges and press them to make the paste adhere ; tie the pudding up in a floured cloth, and plunge it into a sauce- pan of boiling water. Boil the pudding for two hours, adding- more boiling water as the other becomes reduced. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the cloth on to a hot dish, and serve. (15) Slightly warm 6oz. of butter and beat it till creamy together with Jib. of sugar; then mix with it two finely- powdered crackers, 1 teacupful of cream, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and the grated rinds of three and the juice of two Lemons. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, then pour them in with the above ingredients, and stir the whole until well mixed. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good tart-crust, pour in the Lemon mixture, cover it with a thin flat of the same crust, trim off round the edges with a sharp knife, damp them with milk or water, press them together, and bake the pie in a quick oven. When cooked, dust caster sugar over the top, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve. (16) Make a puff paste with 4oz. of butter and 5oz. of sifted flour, using as little water as possible. Roll it out into a round piece, thin in the centre and thicker towards the edges, and just the size to line a soup-plate; put it into a soup-plate, press it to shape, and with a sharp knife trim from the edges any superfluous paste, pressing down smooth and crimping or notching them. Leave the paste in a cold place till the pudding is ready. Put 4oz. of powdered white sugar into a pan or basin, and cut up into it 4oz. of fresh butter. If the butter is very cold and hard, put the pan or basin near the fire for a few minutes to soften the butter, but do not let it melt or the pudding- will be spoiled'. Beat the butter and sugar together with the back of a wooden spoon till it is quite light and of the consistence of cream. Whisk three eggs till they are about as thick as a boiled custard, add them by degrees, and stir them into the beaten butter-and-sugar. Mix together 1 dessert-spoonful of brandy, 1 dessert-spoonful of white wine, and 1 teaspoonful of rose-water, and stir this in by degrees to the other ingredients, adding lastly the strained juice and grated rind of one Lemon. Stir hard for a little while after all are mixed together, then put the mixture in spoonfuls carefully into the soup-plate lined with puff paste. Put the pudding into a moderately hot oven and bake for half-an-hour. It should not be baked too deep a brown but should be rather pale. Lemons—continued. (17) Soak half-a-dozen butter crackers in water, then strain the water off and crush them to a pulp. Chop the pulp of three Lemons very fine, removing all the skin and pips. Stir the chopped Lemon pulp into the crushed crackers, together with a very little salt and loz. of butter warmed very soft, then beat in gradually the grated rind of a Lemon and a half and Jib. of molasses. Line some patty- pans with tart-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake. (18) Finely chop Jib. of beef-suet and mix it with Jib. of finely-grated breadcrumb, 6oz. of sugar, the grated rind and juice of one Lemon, and the beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Mix these ingredients well, adding a little milk if not sufficiently moist; turn them into a buttered pudding-basin, and tie a cloth over. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and boil it for four hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a dish and serve with a good wine sauce, either in a sauceboat or poured over it. (19) Grate the rinds of four moderate-sized Lemons and squeeze and strain their juice; beat the yolks of ten eggs; warm and beat Coz. each of butter ami caster sugar ; mix the ingredients together, add Jib. of finely-grated bread- crumb, 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, and 1 wineglassful of rose-water. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good paste, pour the above mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. (20) Mix ljlb. of grated breadcrumb with Jib. of finely- shred beef-suet, and add the grated peels of two Lemons and the juice of one, also two well-beaten eggs, then stir in Jib. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar; turn the preparation into a greased basin, tie a cloth over, and boil for forty- five minutes. Turn it out when done and serve with sweet or wine sauce. (21) Put 6oz. of butter into a basin, melt it, mix in an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar and stir till cold. Grate in the rind of a Lemon, add the juice of two Lemons and eight well-beaten eggs. Line a pudding-basin with crust, fill up with the Lemon mixture, and bake. Serve with sweet sauce. (22) Prepare lqt. of Lemon jelly, pour some of it, making a layer about Jin. thick, in a mould holding 2qts., then stand it on ice and leave till set. Cut some candied cherries in two, arrange them on the top of the set jelly, pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cold liquid jelly to hold the cherries, then pour in enough to cover them. When the jelly is perfectly set, put a mould, holding lqt., in the centre of the large one, and fill the space between with jelly. Fill the small mould with ice, and set both in a basin of ice-and-water. When the jelly is again hard, take the ice out of the smaller mould, fill it with warm water, and lift it out carefully. Fill the cavity left by the small mould with a Lemon sponge and let it stand till hard. Turn the pudding on to a fancy dish, pour a Lemon- flavoured custard round it, and serve. (23) Mix in a basin with Coz. of finely-grated breadcrumb, Jib. of moist sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, the grated peel of three and the strained juice of two Lemons. Beat the ingredients well, pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. (24) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumb into a basin with the grated rinds of three large Lemons and 6oz. of butter, pour over them lqt. of boiling milk, put a plate over the top of the basin, and let the contents infuse until cold. Beat six eggs well and mix with them Jib. of sugar and 2 wineglassfuls of rum and stir this in with the breadcrumb mixture. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (25) Whisk Jib. of butter and Jib. of sugar till creamy, then beat in, two or three at a time, nine eggs; squeeze in the juice of three Lemons and add the peel very finely chopped. Butter a pie-dish, line the bottom with a thin layer of short-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. (26) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grated crumb of bread into a basin and pour over just as much hot milk as it 3 RTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 850 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, drc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemons—continued. will absorb; mix with tlie breadcrumbs the grated rind and strained juice of one large Lemon or two small ones, sweeten to taste, and beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon until all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated. Beat two eggs together with 1 teacupful of milk, strain, and add to the mixture. Butter a pie-disli, pour the mixture into it, put some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake until nicely browned in a brisk oven. When cooked, sift some caster sugar over the top of the pudding, and serve. (27) Put 1 teacupful of Lemon-juice in a basin with Jib. of loaf sugar and leave it until all the moisture has absorbed. Grate the rinds of the two Lemons, mix it with the sugar, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs; stir the mixture well until the sugar has dissolved. Butter a shallow dish, and line it with a good tart-paste. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the Lemon mixture, and spread it over the paste. Bake the pudding in a slow oven. Serve either hot or cold. (28) S ak ill), of sifted breadcrumbs in J pint of milk, then mix with them Jib. of finely-chopped suet; whisk four eggs together with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, then beat them well into the soaked breadcrumbs and chopped suet, and mix in the grated rind of half a Lemon and the strained juice of a whole Lemon, beating in, lastly, and as quickly as possible, 4 table-spoonfuls of self-raising flour. Turn the pudding directly into a buttered pudding-tin, cover it, and plunge it immediately into boiling water. Boil for three hours, and serve hot with wine sauce. (29) Peel the rind rather thickly oft’ one large Lemon or two small ones, put it in a saucepan with some cold water and boil until soft. Drain the rind, put it in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and pound it to a smooth paste. Remove the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet and mince it; mix it with the Lemon-peel, together with 8oz. of breadcrumbs, 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of flour, the strained juice of a Lemon, and five well-beaten eggs. Beat the whole until thoroughly -we11 mixed, then turn it into a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. (30) Mix with 6oz. of grated breadcrumb the grated rind of two Lemons, fib. of caster sugar, f pint of milk, and five well-beaten eggs. When these ingredients are well mixed, stir in gradually the juice of the two Lemons. Pour the pudding into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a cloth over, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When ready, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a wine sauce, either poured round or in a sauceboat. (31) Finely chop Goz. of suet, put it into a basin, and mix with it the crumb of three-parts of a quartern loaf, Goz. of loaf sugar, the juice of one large Lemon, and loz. of thinly-shred candied citron-peel. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add them to the above ingredients, together with the chopped peel of one Lemon, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped sweet almonds, 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry, and lastly the well-whipped whites of the three eggs. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height and steam the pudding for an-hour-and-a-half, taking care that the water does not enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (32) Boston.—Beat 3oz. of butter to a cream together with 6oz. of sugar; add and work into it the beaten yolks of five eggs, the grated peel of one and the strained juice of two Lemons; then, a handful at a time, Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, alternately with spoonfuls of the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of self-raising flour. Put the batter as quickly as possible into a buttered pud ding-tin, cover it, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and plunge it at once into boil- ing water. Let it boil continually for two hours. For the sauce, beat 3oz. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar to a cream; mix with it the strained juice of one Lemon, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all this very well together, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, pom- part of it over the pudding, and serve the rest in a small tureen. (33) Put into a saucepan 6oz. each of butter and powdered sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and the grated peel of a medium-sized Lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Set the pan on the hot stove, and with a wire whisk stir sharply for at least five minutes. Remove from the fire and lay it on the table. Beat in a copper basin six whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the other preparation, beating with the whisk thoroughly, but not briskly, for ten minutes. Butter and sugar well six pudding-moulds, fill with the preparation, steam them in a tin pan containing warm water, and serve with cream sauce poured over. Lemon Puffs.—(1) Whisk the yolks of three eggs together with Jib. of powdered white sugar, then beat in 3 table- spoonfuls of milk, arul sprinkle in a very little salt and the grated peel of a Lemon; whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and beat them in next, and stir in lastly Jib. of self-raising Hour. Pour the batter into mutfin- rings and bake in a quick oven. They should be baked immediately after the batter is mixed. (2) Grate the rinds of two large Lemons and mix w-ell with the grated rinds 1 Jib. of finely-powdered white sugar quite free from lumps. Beat the whites of three fresh eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the sugar and grated peel, and whisk all together for an hour, and then make it up into any fancy shapes. Lay it on buttered or oiled paper on tins and bake in a moderate oven. Do not take the Lemon puffs off the paper till they are quite cold. Serve on a fancy dish. Lemon Rice.—Thickly peel a large Lemon; cut the peel into shreds, and boil them in a little water till soft. Boil Jib. of well-washed rice in lqt. of new- milk with a little caster sugar added; when very soft, turn the rice into a mould and set it in a cold place. Strain the boiled Lemon-peel, pour over 1 teacupful of fresh water, put in a stewpan with the strained juice of one Lemon and caster sugar to taste, and let it stew gently for two hours. Turn the rice into a dish, pour the syrup and shreds of Lemon- peel over, and serve. Lemon Rings.—Cut some Lemons in slices, then with a knife carefully cut out all the pulp close to the white pith. Boil the rings in salted water and, when soft, finish as directed for Dried Lemon Slices. Lemon Rocks.—Rub Jib. of loaf sugar on the rind of two Lemons, then pound in a mortar, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix in the sugar and beat the whole for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Spread a sheet of buttered paper over a baking-tin, drop the mixture on it in small quan- tities with a table-spoon, leaving them just as they fall, and place them in a moderate oven until dry. Take the rocks off the paper while warm. Lemon Roll Cakes.—Slightly warm, without oiling, 2oz. of butter, and beat it together with 2oz. of caster sugar; dissolve 1 table-spoonful of dry yeast in about J teacupful of warm milk, then mix it and the butter in Jib. of Hour, adding as much more warm milk as will be required to form a light dough. Beat the dough thoroughly and mix with it the grated peel of one Lemon, a few pieces of finely- shred Lemon-peel, and two well-beaten eggs. Divide the dough into two equal-sized portions, put them on a floured paste-board, and mould them into long thin rolls. Place on a baking-sheet, put them in a warm place until well risen, then bake in a moderate oven. When cooked the rolls should be of a pale yellow colour. Dust lightly over with caster sugar, and serve. Lemon Sauce.—(1) Put 2oz. of sugar into a saucepan with the finely-chopped rind of a Lemon; pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, boil for five minutes, and serve as required. (2) Prepare 1 pint of butter sauce, and mix with it the juice and pulp of one large Lemon freed from seeds. Boil and finely pound a chicken’s liver and mix it with the sauce. This sauce is generally served with boiled fowl.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 851 Lemons—continued. (3) Mix 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot'smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in about 1 pint of boiling water, and pour it into a lined saucepan. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar that has been rubbed on the yellow rind of one Lemon, and squeeze in the Lemon- juice. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened and boiling, when it will be ready for serving. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowls.—(1) Select a large Lemon, peel it, cut it in slices, pick out all the pips, and cut each slice into small square pieces. Boil a fowl’s liver, chop and add it to the Lemon, pour h pint of hot melted butter over it, stir well, and serve in a sauceboat with the fowl. (2) Peel a Lemon, cut it in slices, and take out all the pips; put the liver of a fou l in a mortar and pound it, moistening with a few table-spoonfuls of good gravy. Put a lump of butter in a small stewpan, pour in the pounded liver and gravy, add the slices of Lemon and a small piece of the peel, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and serve. (3) Thinly pare the rind of a small Lemon, put it into a saucepan with a sprig of Lemon-thyme and a few white peppercorns, pour in 1 pint of thick cream, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till well flavoured with the Lemon-peel. Strain the cream through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in jib. of butter that has been worked with h table-spoonful of Hour, and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling; then mix in the strained juice of a Lemon, keeping it well stirred. When the fowls are ready and dished, mix a little hot gravy with the sauce, season to taste with salt, and serve with the fowls. Lemon Sauce for Fish.—Squeeze and strain the juice of a large Lemon into a lined saucepan ; put in with it jib. of buffer, and pepper and salt to taste. Beat it over the fire till thick and hot, but do not let it boil. When done, mix with the sauce the beaten yolks of two eggs. It is then ready to be served. Lemon Sauce for Buddings.—Boil 1 pint of water and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar for five minutes, then stir in 3 large teaspoonfuls of corn-starch previously mixed with a little cold water, continue stirring over the fire for eight or ten minutes, then add the grated rind and juice of one Lemon and 1 table-spoonful of butter. When the butter is melted, the sauce is ready to be served. Lemon Sherbet.—(1) Thinly pare one Lemon, and squeeze on the rind the juice of two, taking care to keep back the pips. Mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. When the sugar has dissolved (it will take about lialf-an-hour) pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Strain and use. It can be iced or not as preferred. (2) Soak 1 table-spoonful of gelatine in a little water ; pour lqt. of boiling water over it, and add the strained juice of five Lemons and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. When co< 1, turn it into the freezing-pot and freeze. (3) Squeeze the juice from twelve Lemons, then cut the rinds in slices and pour over them 6qts. of boiling water. Mix 31b. of caster sugar with the Lemon-juice, previously straining it. Add 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to lqt. of milk, stir it over the fire in a stewpan till boiling, then mix in the Lemon-juice and sugar. Strain the water from the sliced Lemon, put it in the freezing-pot, and when it begins to freeze stir in the thickened milk and the lightly-beaten whites of six eggs. (4) Boil lib. of sugar in 1 pint of water; grate the rinds of two large Lemons into a basin, squeeze the juice in, taking care to keep back the pips, pour the boiling syrup on them, and let it remain till cold. Mix 1 pint of cold water with the above preparation, strain it into a freezer, and freeze; when pretty well frozen, mix in the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and freeze again. (5) Squeeze and strain the juice of six Lemons. Make a thick syrup of 1 Alb. of loaf sugar and pour it hot over Lemons—continued. the Lemon-juice, then add sufficient boiling water to make 3qts. Stand it in ice water to cool, and then put it in the freezer. Beat the whites of two small eggs to a stiff froth and stir them well into the sherbet while freezing. When frozen quite hard, re pack with ice and cover till required for use. Lemon Shrub.—(1) Squeeze the juice of twelve Lemons into a bowl, and add the thin rinds of two, lib. of crushed loaf sugar, the well-whisked whites of two eggs, | pint each of rum and brandy, and 1 pint of water. Mix thoroughly, strain, and it is ready for use. (2) Squeeze the juice of sixteen Lemons into a bowl, and add 6oz. of the juice of barberries, loz. of loaf sugar, and 1 pint of white wine; mix well and strain before using. A little milk, if added, makes a light and refreshing drink, but must be used at once, as it will not keep long. (3) Squeeze and strain the juice of twelve Lemons. Mix with it lib. of loaf sugar the thinly-pared rinds of two Lemons, the well-whipped whites of two eggs, 1 pint of water, and h pint each of brandy and rum. When thoroughly mixed, strain, and it is ready for use. (4) Procure a dozen fresh Lemons, pare the rinds off thinly, then squeeze out the juice and strain it. To 1 pint of the juice add lib. of white sugar, broken into small pieces. Measure out for each pint of the syrup 3 table- spoonfuls of French brandy, and soak the rinds of the Lemons in it. Let the whole remain for a day, stirring up the Lemon-juice and sugar frequently. On the follow- ing day strain off the syrup, mix it with the brandy and Lemon rinds, put the whole in clean bottles, cork, seal them tightly, and keep in a dry, cool place. (5) Grate the yellow rinds of two Lemons and one orange ; pour over it 3 pints of brandy or whisky, and let it steep for two days. Then boil 31b. of loaf sugar in 3 pints of cold water to a thick syrup, let it cool, and when cold add the strained juice of six Lemons and the strained spirit that the grated peel has been steeping in. Stir well for five minutes and then bottle. Cork the bottles, seal the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. Lemon Snow.—(1) Put loz. of gelatine in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and place it over the lire until the gelatine has dissolved, then add lib. of caster sugar and the juice of six or seven large Lemons. Stir the mix- ture and boil it for ten minutes, then strain through a jelly-bag into a basin. Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and when the jelly is cold and beginning to thicken mix them in and whisk the whole until light. Pile the pudding in a fancy glass dish, leave it until quite cold, garnish with ratafias, and serve. (2) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in ^ pint of cold water for four hours, then add the grated peel of two Lemons, the juice of three or four, according to size, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and lib. of powdered white sugar, and let it stand for another hour. Pour in 1 pint of boiling water and stir till both gelatine and sugar are quite dissolved ; strain, and let it stand in a wide bowl to cool. When nearly cold add 4 table-spoonfuls of sherry, and when quite cold whisk in by degrees the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; continue to whisk till the snow is white and smooth and quite thick. Pour it into a mould, wetted inside with cold water, let it stand in a ccol place for at least eight hours, and then turn it out. Lemon Souffle.—(1) Stir into loz. of warmed butter 4oz. of flour ; when quite smooth, mix in j pint of milk, previously sweetened with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, grate in the rind of one small Lemon, and stir all over the fire until thickened. Take off tire saucepan, stir in gradually the beaten yolks of three eggs, beat the whites of four to a stiff froth, then mix them lightly with the rest. Butter a pudding-mould, tie a strip of buttered paper round the outside to prevent the souffle coming over as it rises, pour the preparation into the mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and let it simmer by the side of the fire until firm enough to turn out. Make a sauce with the following : Boil 2 table- spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar in 1 teacupful of cold water for ten minutes, then put in the strained juice of a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£•<■., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 R 2TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 852 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemon. Mix 1 teaspoonful of flour with 1 wineglassful of sherry, mix it with the syrup, and stir over the fire till thick. Turn the pudding out on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks and whites of eight eggs separately, then mix them, and stir in 4 lai’ge table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the thinly-peeled rinds of two Lemons, and the strained juice of one; pour it into a buttered souffle-dish, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Peel the rinds very thinly off three Lemons, and boil it in 1 pint of milk and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then take it off the fire and leave till cold. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat into it sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Take the peel out of the milk, add the strained juice of one Lemon, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the beaten butter and flour. Stir all over a clear tire for seven or eight minutes, then leave it to cool. Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth, stir them gradually in to the souffle, pour into a well-buttered souffle-dish, tie a wide strip of buttered paper round the top to prevent the preparation coming over as it rises, and bake for half-an- liour in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the paper off, and serve. Sec Souffles. (4) Separate the yolks and whites of twelve eggs, then beat the yolks together with the grated rinds and strained juice two Lemons and ill*, of caster sugar. Whisk the whites of of the eggs to a stiff snow, mix them in quickly with the above, and turn the whole into a mould that has been made hot and buttered. Bake the souffle in a brisk oven until well risen and slightly browned. When cooked, Fig. 1069. Lemon SouffliL serve it at once in the same mould with a napkin pinned round it (see Fig. 1069). (5) Warm Jib. of butter and beat it until soft; then mix in gradually the yolks of ten eggs, 1 teacupful of flour, J pint of cream, and the grated peel of two Lemons, sweetening to taste with caster sugar; whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff snow, stir them lightly in with the above mixture, and add at the same time the strained juice of the two Lemons. Thickly butter the interior of a souffle-mould, sprinkle in breadcrumbs, shaking out the superfluous, pour the mixture into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. (6) Select two large Lemons, wipe them with a damp cloth to remove any impurities, and rub their rinds off with a few lumps of sugar. Mix 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour smoothly with J pint of milk, turn it into a sauce- pan, add the Lemon sugar, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened. When some- what cooled, add to the mixture the strained juice of the Lemons, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of six whisked to a stiff froth. Turn the whole into a souffle- mould, and bake it in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes, or until well risen and nicely browned over the Lemon s—continued. top. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the souffle, and serve at once in the mould. Lemon Souffle Pudding.—Chop up 3oz. of butter and work it into rather more than Jib. of flour. Put IJ pints of milk in a saucepan, and when almost boiling, stir the butter and flour into it. Keep on stirring over the fire till it thickens, then beat up the yolks of seven eggs and 6oz. of sugar till very light, and stir them into tire" flour and milk ; pour the mixture into a shallow pan, whip well, and let it stand till cold, then beat in the whites of the seven eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Turn the pudding into a buttered mould, allowing plenty of room for it to swell, cover, and steam for an-hour-and-a-half, keeping the water under the steamer boiling continuously. When taken from the steamer, dip the mould into cold water for an instant, take it out, let it stand for a minute, and turn the pudding■ on to a hot dish. Serve brandy sauce with it. Lemon Sponge.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine for two hours in 1 teacupful of water. Pour the strained juice of four Lemons on 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar; beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with the remains of 1 pint of water, allowing for the quantity used to soak the gelatine, add the sugar and Lemon to this, and cook in the double boiler until it begins to thicken, then add the gelatine. Strain all through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand the basin in a larger one containing iced water, and whisk occasionally till the sponge has cooled but not hardened. Beat in the whites of the eggs, not previously beaten, and continue beating until the mixture is so thick that it is difficult to stir, then turn it into a mould, and set it away to harden. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a dish. Serve with powdered sugar and cream. (2) Dissolve Joz. of gelatine, previously soaked in a little cold water, in 1 teacupful of boiling water. Mix with it Jib. of loaf sugar and the peel of half a Lemon, simmer for half-an-hour, then strain it through a line hair sieve. When nearly cold, mix in the strained juice of one large Lemon, and whisk until perfectly white and thick. Damp the inside of a mould with a little cold water, drain it, pour the sponge in, and leave till set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a dish. (3) Soak 1 Joz. of gelatine in f pint of water for half-an- hour ; then pour it into a saucepan, and mix in the rinds of two Lemons rubbed on sugar, the juice of three, and about Jib. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling, then shift it to the side, and simmer for a few minutes ; move it from the fire, and add 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff' froth, and mix them in gradually with the con- tents of the saucepan, which should be somewhat cool. Continue heating the whole until a thick snowy mass is obtained, then put it away in a cool place. When firm, take the mixture up with a spoon, pile it in a rocky form on a fancy dish, and serve. (4) Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a very little boiling water, add the strained juice of twelve Lemons, and sugar to taste, and whisk all together till quite spongy. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the sponge into it, and when set turn it out. (5) Dissolve foz. of isinglass in a little milk. Whisk 1 pint of cream, the strained juice of three Lemons, and sufficient sugar to sweeten, to a froth; add the gelatine by degrees, continuing to whisk till all the gelatine is added. Pour it into a mould well wetted with cold water, and when well set turn it out. (6) Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan, pour over it 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak for ten minutes; then put it over the fire, and boil till the isinglass is quite melted. Strain it into a bowl, and let it stand all night. Add next day the juice of two Lemons and the grated peel of one. Warm 1 teacupful of raspberry jam before the fire, and rub it through a sieve, with the back of a wooden spoon, into the isinglass. Whisk all well together till quite spongy, put it into a mould, let it stand for a day in a cold place, and then turn out on to a glass dish.853 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Lemons—continued. (7) Steep loz. of gelatine in cold water for half-an-hour then turn it into a stewpan and place it on the fire until dissolved. Peel off very thinly the yellow rinds of two Lemons, put it in with the gelatine, adding the juice of three Lemons and |lb. of loaf sugar. Stir and boil the whole together foy three or four minutes, then strain it into a basin, and leave until nearly cold. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow, mix them in with the cooled mixture, and beat the whole until very light and frothy. Pile it up on a glass dish, and serve without delay. (8) Put loz. of gelatine in \ pint of water, let it soak for half-an-hour, then turn it into a stewpan and place it over the fire until dissolved. Add 6oz. of caster sugar, the strained juice of four Lemons, and one large orange. Con- tinue stirring over the fire, and boil for two or three minutes, then strain it into a basin, and whisk until nearly cold. Next turn the sponge into a mould, and stand it on ice or in a cool temperature. When quite cold and set, turn the sponge on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. (9) Rub fib. of loaf sugar over the yellow rinds of three Lemons, then dissolve it in § breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Strain the juice of the Lemons, anti mix it with the dissolved sugar. Separate the yolks and whites of eight eggs; beat the yolks, mix them with the above in- gredients, and beat the whole well together for a few minutes; then mix in gradually tlb. of sifted flour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them in lightly at the last. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, and sift in plenty of caster sugar. Pour in the mixture, which should only about three-parts fill the mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters-of-an- liour. When cooked, turn the sponge out of the mould. Lemon Sugar.—Rub the rinds off twelve Lemons on some lumps of sugar, then scrape the Lemoned sugar off on to a sheet of paper, put it on a plate, and dry in the screen. Put the prepared sugar in well-stoppered bottles, and keep in a dry place till ready for use. Lemon Sweetmeats.—Mix beaten yolks of eggs with mar zipan till it is thin enough to spread with a knife; flavour to taste with grated Lemon-peel, and mix well. Cut some wafer-paper into any shapes that may be desired, spread the paste over about Jin. thick, put them on a sheet of paper laid over a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. If they are to be glazed, boil some sugar and orange-flower water to the degree of heat at which, if a skimmerful be taken from the boiling sugar and blown through, tolerably large sparks of sugar will lie emitted (see SUGAR-BOILING). When the sweetmeats are taken from the oven, brush them over with this syrup, which will dry almost directly. Lemon Syllabub. -Sec Syllabubs. Lemon Syrup.—(1) Squeeze the juice from sufficient Lemons to make l pint, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Boil 2 pints of syrup to the little crack (see Sugar-boiling), then pour in the Lemon-juice, put the pan on the fire, and boil the syrup to the pearl. Skim off all scum as it rises. Take the pan off the fire, and bottle the syrup when quite cool. (2) Make a syrup with lib. of loaf sugar boiled to 30deg. (see Syrups), then mix with it the peels of four Lemons rubbed on pieces of lump sugar and scraped off, and l pint of strained Lemon-juice; stir all well together, then pour it into bottles, cork them, wire down tightly, stand the bottles in a saucepan of cold water, and heat the water gradually ; after a few minutes’ boiling take the saucepan off the fire, leave the bottles till cold, then dip the nozzles in bottle- wax. They should be kept in a reclining position till wanted. (3) Having selected the required quantity of sound new Lemons, grate off the peel, and mix with it an equal quan- tity of caster sugar ; squeeze and strain the juice from the Lemons, and to each pint of juice add 1 pint of water and the remainder of 3Mb. of sugar, that is, 3Mb. in- cluding that mixed with the rind ; pour all into a lined stewpan, and warm slowly until the sugar is dissolved, care being taken that the liquor does not boil. Strain the syrup, and it is then ready for use. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Lemons—continued. (4) Squeeze the juice out of the requisite quantity of Lemons, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and let it stand until well settled. Afterwards remove the thin skin that will be found at the top, filter the juice into the pan, and mix in for every 1\ pints 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and the grated yellow rind of half of the Lemons. Boil the whole gently until reduced to a syrup, then strain it and leave until cold. Bottle, and cork tightly. (5) Put 4Mb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a pan with a small quantity of water, and place it over the fire; when the sugar has dissolved, stir in 15 drops of essence of Lemons. Boil the syrup until quite clear, pour it into a bowl, and mix in l^oz. of citric acid in crystals. Stir the syrup until almost cold and the acid has dis- solved, then pour it into bottles and cork them. When serving the syrup, allow 4 table-spoonful of it for every tumblerful of cold water. (6) Beat the white of an egg to a firm froth, then put it in a saucepan with 31b. of caster sugar and lqt. of water, stir well until the sugar has dissolved, place it over the fire until boiling, then skim the syrup and mix with it H breakfast cupfuls of Lemon-juice, and boil for half a minute longer. Take the syrup off the tire, leave until nearly cold, then strain it through a silk sieve or a cloth, and bottle. Cork the bottle tightly, and put the syrup by for use. (7) Put the finely-grated rinds of the required number of Lemons into a mortar with a little sugar and beat them well. Put the mixture into a sugar-boiler, with the juice of the Lemons squeezed and strained, and to each pint add an equal quantity of water and 3Mh. of sugar, minus that already used. Warm over the fire until the sugar has dissolved, then strain and bottle. (8) Rub in a mortar twenty-five drops of oil of Lemons with 10 drachms of citric acid and a little syrup ; pour in lgall. of syrup, less the quantity previously used, mix well, and bottle. (9) Put 6 drachms of tartaric acid and loz. of gum Arabic in pieces into a bowl with lgall. of simple syrup, and let them dissolve. Add a flavouring of 1 h fluid drachms of best oil of Lemons, and bottle; or the flavour- ing may be made with saturated tincture of the peel in Cologne spirits. Lemon Tart.—(1) Butter a pie-disli and line it with a rich paste ; thinly slice four or live Lemons if small, lay them in the dish, dredge over 1 table-spoonful of flour, put in 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and pour in 1 pint of water. Cover the pie with a flat of the same paste, moistening it round the edges and trimming off neatly, put it into a brisk oven, and bake for nearly an hour. When cooked, dust caster sugar over the tart, and serve. (2) Cut the rinds thickly oft' two Lemons, and boil them till tender, changing the water once ; take the rinds out, beat in a mortar, and add £lb. of blanched and finely-shred almonds, an equal quantity of caster sugar, the juice of four Lemons, and a little grated Lemon-peel. Turn all into a saucepan, and simmer until a syrup is obtained, then put it into a shallow tart-mould lined with rich putt' paste, place a few strips of the paste on the top, and bake until the paste is done. Serve hot or cold. Lemon Tartlets.—Grate off the rinds of two Lemons, and remove what remains on the grater by rubbing with stale bread, using only just sufficient to remove the zest. Put all into a basin, mix in the juice of the two Lemons, two eggs, Mb- crushed loaf sugar, and j-B5- of liquefied butter, and beat well with a whisk. Line twelve tartlet- moulds with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, bake, and .serve hot or cold. Lemon Tea.—Peel as thinly as possible the yellow rind of one Lemon, put it in a jug with 1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar, pour over 1 pint of boiling water, and let it infuse until nearly cold. Stir 10 grains of cream of tartar into the liquor, and when quite cold strain it and serve. This makes a very pleasant, refreshing drink in the summer. Lemon Toast.—Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, and beat the yolks together with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 854 For details rcspcctinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, >tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, trim off all the crusts, dip them in the eggs-and-milk, put in a stewpan of boiling butter, and fry until lightly and equally browned. Strain the juice of a large Lemon on to 3 heaped table- spoonfuls of caster sugar; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff’ froth, mix them with the sugar and Lemon-juice, and whisk all together. Drain the slices as they are fried, lay all on a hot dish, pour the white-of-egg mixture over, and serve without delay, as they should he eaten very hot. Lemon Trifle.—Put Jib. of powdered white sugar into a basin, add to it the grated rind of one Lemon and the strained juice of two, and let them lie for two hours, then grate in a little nutmeg and mix in J pint of sherry. Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, together with sufficient sugar to well sweeten it. Strain the Lemon- juice, wine, &c, and then mix in by degrees the whipped cream. Serve immediately in jelly-glasses, with sponge cakes or Naples biscuits accompanying it. Lemon Turnovers.—Mix with 1J table-spoonfuls of flour J table-spoonful of caster sugar, and the grated rind of one Lemon. Mix the above ingredients to a smooth batter, adding a little milk, then stir in two well-beaten eggs and 2oz. of butter warmed and beaten to a cream. Butter some tin patty-pans, pour in the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When baked, take out of the tins, put them on a folded napkin on a dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. Lemon Wafers.—(1) Beat two eggs for about half-an-hour, then mix with them 3 table-spoonfuls each of caster sugar and flour, the juice of one Lemon, and the grated peel of half a Lemon. Stir the above ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then spread it in small thin cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, put them in a slow oven, and bake until lightly coloured. When cooked, take the cakes out of the oven, roll them, one at a time, round the handle of a wooden spoon, and slip them off. (2) Warm slightly 2oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, mix with it 2oz. of caster sugar, beat a few minutes longer, then work in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour and l teaspoonful of essence of Lemon. When quite smooth divide the mixture into small pieces about the size of a walnut; make a wafer-iron hot, rub it inside with butter, put in a piece of the dough, press the irons well together upon it, and bake a delicate brown. Proceed with the remaining pieces of dough in the same way. (3) Squeeze the juice of six Lemons into a basin, take out all the pips, mix with it lOoz. of caster sugar and the well-whipped white of one egg, and beat them all to- gether with a wooden spoon till thick. Put a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin plate, spread 1 table-spoonful of the paste over the paper with a knife, then cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick on a. hot stove, with the paste side upwards; when they are half curled, take them off very carefully, and put them endwise on a sieve, so that they may curl up; keep them on the hot stove for the rest of the day, or until they curl right round. They are then ready for use. Lemon Water.—(1) Cut off two thin slices of Lemon, put them into a pot with 1 table-spoonful of capillaire, pour over 1 pint of boiling water, and in two hours’ time the liquor will be fit for drinking. (2) Thinly peel the rind of one Lemon, put it in a jar with 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, and pour over lqt. of boiling water. When cold, strain off the liquor, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of sherry. It is then ready for use Lemon Water-Ice.—(1) Rub off the rinds of six Lemons with Jib. of loaf sugar, put it into a basin, and strain the jirice of the Lemons over; with this prepare a syrup, using 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water and another pound of sugar. Strain and clear, then add the whites of four eggs, well beaten together with loz. of caster sugar. Put it into the freezer, and work as required. (2) Put into a basin Jib. of powdered sugar with lqt. of cold water; grate in the rind of a large Lemon, or of Lemons—continued. two small ones, squeezing in the juice of three good-sized ones, or of four if small, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes. Place a syrup-weigher in the centre of the preparation, and if it records 21 deg. it is correct, if not add a little more powdered sugar; remove the weigher, mix a little more, strain through a sieve into the freezer, put on the cover, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish over which has been spread a folded napkin. (3) Put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until reduced to a syrup; then move it from the fire, and put in the thinly-pared rinds of three large Lemons and their juice. When quite cold, strain the mixture through a silk sieve, turn it into a freezing-pot, work it until frozen, and serve in glasses; or pack it in a mould, and bury in ice for an hour, then turn on to a dish, and serve. (4) Mix with 1 pint of warm syrup the juice of ten Lemons and the rinds of three; when the Lemon-peel has soaked in the syrup long enough to draw the flavour out, strain and pour the syrup into a freezing-pot (see ICES), and work it till sufficiently frozen; then add by degrees one white-of-egg meringue paste. Finish as for Lemon Cream Ice. (5) Put 5 breakfast-cupfuls of water in a saucepan, bring it to the boil, put in lib. of sugar, let it dissolve, remove from the fire, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Lemon-juice, set on the fire, and bring it again to the boil, skimming as required. Mix loz. of arrowroot in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, stir it into the boiling water, and continue to stir until it becomes quite clear. Remove the pan from the fire, add ten drops of essence of Lemons, let it then cool, and freeze. Lemon Whey.—(1) Boil J pint of new milk with J pint of water and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; when boiling pour in sufficient Lemon-juice to curdle. Serve it while hot. (2) Put lqt. of milk in a porcelain-lined pan with the thinly-pared rinds and juice of two Lemons; when boiling stand the saucepan at the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for five minutes. Strain through a fine strainer, sweeten to taste with sugar, and serve when cold. (3) Put the juice of a small Lemon into a bowl, pour over it 1 teacupful of boiling milk, then add sugar to taste, and dilute with cold water before serving. (4) Squeeze 1 breakfast cupful of Lemon-juice into a jar; pour over double the quantity of boiling milk, sweeten to taste with sugar, mix thoroughly, and strain before using. Lemon Whips.—(1) Whisk together till very stiff \ pint of sherry, lqt. of cream, the grated rind of one Lemon, the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, and Lemon-juice and sugar to taste. When quite stiff, let it stand for a short time, and then put it into glasses, piling high. (2) Rub 6oz. of loaf sugar on the yellow rinds of three Lemons, then put the sugar in a mortar and pound well; mix with it the juice of the three Lemons, lj pints of cream, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Whip the whole to a stiff froth, pile it on to a glass dish, and serve; or it can be served in custard- glasses. Lemon Wine.—To Jgall. of water allow 1 Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and two large Lemons; peel the yellow rinds off the latter as thinly as possible, and put it into a tub that will hold the desired quantity of wine; boil the sugar and the water together for twenty minutes, keeping it well skimmed, then pour it over the Lemon-peel. Squeeze the juice out of the Lemons, and put it, with lib. of loaf sugar for every pint, into a pan, and boil until reduced to a thick syrup. When ready, mix the syrup with the water and peel, and when the mixture is just lukewarm put in it a piece of toast thickly covered on both sides with yeast. Let it work for two days, pour it into a cask, close the bung, and let it remain undisturbed for three months. At the end of that time draw off the wine, put it into bottles, cork tightly, and pack away in a cellar. Lemonade.—(1) Put Joz. of tartaric acid in a jug with 6oz. of loaf sugar, and 4 or 5 drops of essence of Lemons.855 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, sec under their special heads. hemons—continued. pour over these ingredients lqt. of boiling water, cover the jug, and let it stand until cold. This makes an excellent summer beverage, very cheap, but not equal, perhaps, to that made of Lemon-juice. (2) Grate the yellow peel of half a Lemon into a bowl; add fib. of loaf sugar, pour over it the strained juice of a Lemon and a half, and let it stand for two hours, then add 1 wineglassful of sherry and immediately lqt. of boiling milk. Strain through a flannel bag, let it cool, and keep it on ice till served. (3) Put l|lb. of loaf sugar in a stewpan with f pint of water, and let it boil till the sugar is well dissolved ; skim, and leave to cool. When half cold, mix in luz. of citric acid and 20 drops of essence of Lemons, stir well together, and bottle till wanted for use. (4) Steep the thin yellow rinds of seven Lemons in lqt. of water for two hours, then add the juice of the Lemons, fib. of sugar, and 1 pint of white wine. Put 1 pint of fresh milk in a saucepan over the fire, and add it, boiling, to the lemonade. Let it stand for one hour, then strain it through a jelly-bag till clear. It is then ready for use. (5) Put the thin peel of two oranges and six lemons into a basin, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and let them steep for four or five hours. Prepare a syrup by boiling ljlb. of sugar in 3 pints of milk, skim well, mix up with the other liquor, add the juice of six oranges and twelve Lemons, stir well for a few minutes, strain the liquor through a flannel bag, ice it, and serve in glasses. (6) Put 41b. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water and stir it until dissolved, then mix with it 4oz. of tartaric acid, 2 drachms of acetic acid, and boil. Let the mixture get cold, then flavour with essence of Lemons. Procure some pint bottles, pour into each a little more than J pint of the lemonade, fill the bottles with water, put 30 grains of bicarbonate of soda in each, and at once cork them down tightly. Keep in a cool place till wanted for use. (7) Rub Jib. of loaf sugar on the rind of a large Lemon, and pound it in a mortar; put the sugar into a jar that will just contain it, and strain the juice of the Lemon over it. This preparation will keep for some considerable time. When wanted for drinking, dissolve 1 table-spoonful of it in a tumbler of cold water. A small quantity of citric acid added when taken will be found an improvement. (8) Cut off the thin rinds of six Lemons, put them in a bowl, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and leave for fully four hours; add the juice of the Lemons, together with fib. of loaf sugar, turn all into a saucepan, and simmer for an hour, skimming frequently. Add another quart of boiling water, mix in 1 teacupful of calf’s-foot jelly, strain through a jelly-bag, and use as desired. (9) Grate the rinds of two Lemons, and mix with them the strained juice of six Lemons, f pint of 32deg. syrup, and lqt. of clear cold water. Ice the Lemon, and in an hour’s time it will lie ready to use. (10) Grate the peels of six Lemons, pour lqt. of boiling water over, and let it stand from two hours to two-hours- and-a-half ; then add the strained juice of the Lemons, sweeten to taste with clarified sugar, strain through a jelly- bag, and it will be ready for use. Lemonade with Eggs.—Grate the rinds of ten Lemons and two oranges ; mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and rub the zest and sugar together with the back of a spoon ; squeeze the juice out of twenty-four Lemons and two oranges, strain it, and mix it with the grated peel, also 6 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the whites of eight eggs, and lqt. of water ; stir till the sugar has dissolved, then pour in 7qts. of water, and strain the lemonade into a large vessel containing ice. When serving, three-parts fill the glasses, put an empty one on the top of each, the rims close together, and give the lemonade a good shaking to make it foam. A capital drink for a party. Lemonade with Flax-Seed.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of whole flax-seed in a jug, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and let it steep for three hours. Squeeze in the juice of two Lemons, sweeten to taste, strain, add a little more cold water if too thick, and serve. Lemons—continued. Lemonade Liqueur. — Prepared as for Liqueur des Eveques (see Cordials and Liqueurs), with one lib. of finely-chopped Lemon-peel, 2oz. of ground cinnamon, Joz. of ground nutmeg, and 94qts. of spirits of wine. Then add 7qts. of water, and after straining mix in 4qts. of capillaire, a little pale yellow colouring, and 15 drops of oil of Lemons mixed with a little of the plain spirits, and all filtered together. Lemonade Powder.—Put 14lb. of loaf sugar into a mortar, drop Joz. of essence of Lemons in it, pound it to powder, and work in loz. of citric acid in crystals. Bottle and keep in a cool place. A teaspoonful in a tumblerful of water is sufficient. Lemonade Pudding.—Take 1 pint of lemonade made of Lemon-juice, sugar, and water, and a flavouring of the peel, add to it the strained juice of a Seville orange, stir it in well, and then put into the lemonade one or two French rolls, and let them steep in it till thoroughly soaked. Lay them on a dish, taking care not to break them, stick blanched almonds all over them, pour over some thin red-currant jelly, and serve. Pickled Lemons.—(1) Wipe two dozen Lemons, rub them well with salt, put them in a bowl, cover with salt, and let them remain for four or five days, giving them an occasional turn. Take them out, dry on a sieve in the sun, and pack in jars, sprinkling over evenly with 2oz. each of bruised white ginger and white peppers, Joz. of chillies, and 4oz. each of coriander and mustard-seeds. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, let them remain for three weeks, then add more vinegar to make up for the quantity absorbed, tie down, and the pickle will be ready for use in six weeks, but if left for six months will lie far better. (2) Pick out some large sound Lemons, rasp them a little, and nick at one end ; lay them on a dish with very dry salt to cover, and keep in a warm place for seven or eight days, then put them in fresh salt and leave for the same number of days. At the end of that time, wash them well, sprinkle with grated nutmeg, pour boiling vinegar over them, and add a full taste of mace and peppercorns. The Lemons' will not be tender for nearly a year. (3) Select fifty large Lemons, grate off the yellow rinds, cut off the ends, and pack in salt for eight days. Put them on dishes, set in a hot oven, turning them constantly till the salt candies on them. Put the Lemons in a large earthenware jar together with 2galls. of boiling vinegar, 21b. of white mustard-seed, 2 table-spoonfuls of mace, lib. of ginger, lib. of black pepper, 2lb. of sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of celery-seeds, and 1 handful of scraped horseradish. All the spices, with the exception of the mustard-seed, should be ground. (4) Put eight Lemons, Jib. of fine salt, 2qts. of vinegar, Joz. each of ground cloves, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne, a little garlic, and 2oz. of mustard-seed into a tight-covered jar set in a kettle of boiling water ; let it remain until the Lemons are tender. The pickle will then be ready. (5) Cut twelve Lemons into slices, rub them with salt, lay them in a stone jar, with 2oz. each of allspice and white pepper, Joz. each of mace, cloves, and cayenne, and 2oz. each of horseradish and mustard-seed. Pour over them 2qts. of hot distilled vinegar, and let them stand for a few days. Some garlic or shallots may be added if liked. (6) Remove the peels from six large Lemons, cut them into quarters, put them on a dish, dust over with about 4lb. of salt, and leave them for seven days, stirring daily. Put them into a stone jar with six cloves of garlic, 2oz. each of very thinly-shred horseradish and bruised mustard-seed (tied up in a bag), Joz. each of cayenne, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, and igall. of vinegar. Cover the jar, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, boil for ten or twelve minutes, then let it simmer for about two hours. Take out the jar, stir the contents daily for a few weeks, replacing the cover quickly, then let it remain for a few weeks longer, making six in all; pour off the clear liquor, strain it, and bottle. The Lemons may be used for mixing with other pickles if desired. (7) Grate the rinds of three dozen Lemons, and cut through each in four separate places, but without separating856 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectivp Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. them. Rub well, both inside and out, with fib. of salt, using the hands for the purpose. Spread a coarse cloth over a baking-tin, lay the Lemons on it, and put them in a very slow oven until all the juice has dried up. Make a muslin bag, and put in it 6oz. of mustard-seed, Goz. of garlic, 1 Joz. each of nutmeg and mace broken into small pieces, twenty-four cloves, and twenty-four dry chillies. Tie the bag up loosely, place it in a lined pan, pour in Ingalls, of white vinegar, and boil until v/ell flavoured with the contents of the bag. Pack the Lemons when dried in a large earthenware jar, and pour the boiling vinegar over them; put the bag of spices in also, cover the jar, and keep it in a very warm temperature, shaking once every day for a fortnight. At the end of that time the jar may be moved to a cooler place. Then pack the pickle into small jars and keep them closely covered till wanted for use. (8) Cut a dozen small Lemons into quarters, and put them in a lined saucepan with 3qts. of vinegar, six cloves of garlic, Joz. each of nutmeg, cloves, and mace, foz. of cayenne pepper, fib. of mustard, and lib. of salt. Boil the pickle for twenty minutes, then turn the whole into a large earthenware jar. Keep the jar closely covered, but shake the contents well every day. In about six weeks’ time the pickle will be ready for use. (9) Select middling-sized Lemons, and pass a skewer lengthwise through the centre of each; then push in as much salt as will go, lay them on a deep dish, dust lightly over with salt, and keep them in a cool dry cellar for a week, turning occasionally. At the end of that time put the Lemons in a jar with 2oz. each of horseradish and ginger, loz. of turmeric, J table-spoonful of mustard-flour, four shallots, Joz. of cayenne pepper, Joz. of Indian pepper, and sufficient wliito-wine vinegar to cover. Place bladder over the jar, and tie down tightly so as to render it perfectly air-tight. Keep the pickle in a dry cupboard. It will not be ready for use in less than a twelvemonth. The above quantities of spices are given for about eight Lemons. (10) Grate the yellow rinds of two dozen Lemons into a small quantity of vinegar. Cut the Lemons into quarters with- out quite separating them at the bottom, rub over equally Jib. of powdered salt, put them into a stone jar, and stand in a warm place near the fire until the juice has dried up. Then put in with them a blade of mace, a few cloves beaten fine, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, a clove of garlic, peeled and sliced, and J pint of mustard-seed, bruised. Pom- over the whole 2qts. of boiling vinegar, including that in which the peel was grated. Cover the jar closely and keep it in a warm temperature for a week, shaking the contents vigorously every day. At the end of that time, tie a piece of bladder tightly oA^er the jar and put by for three months. When ready, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, let it stand a day or tAVO until quite clear, then pour the pickle into bottles, and cork tightly. This is very good for flavouring steAvs, ragohts, fish, sauces, &c. (11) Wipe the Lemons carefully over Avitli a toAvel, put them in a jar, and pour over sufficient boiling salted Avater to cover Avell, allowing 1 breakfast-cupful of salt to lqt. of water. Stand a plate on the top of the jar, and let the Lemons steep for five days. At the end of that time, strain off the Avater, cover the Lemons AArith fresh boiling salted Avater, replace the plate, and let them steep for ten days longer; then pour all the Avater oft’ the Lemons, and put in Avith them plenty of cayenne pepper and powdered ginger, and a small quantity of finely-chopped shallot. Pour over sufficient boiling vinegar to cover Avell, leave it until cold, and tie a piece of stout paper or parchment over. Preserved Lemons.—Select sound and moderately thick- skinned Lemons, cut out a piece about Jin. in diameter from the stalk-end, and with a blunt knife scoop out all the insides. Place the peels hi spring water, leave them for a couple of days, changing the Avater twice or three times a day, then put them into a saucepan Avith more spring water and boil till quite tender, keeping the pan covered and boiling sloAvly. Prepare a syrup, using 21b. of sugar and 1 pint of Avater to each pound of fruit; add the juice of one Lemon, clarify the syrup, skim AA-ell, and let it get cold. Put in the peels, and boil for half-an-hour, or until quite clear. They are then reaily for packing aAA'ay Avith their syrup in bottles. Lemons—continued. Preserved Lemon-Juice.—(1) Select the required quantity of large fresh Lemons, squeeze the juice out, strain, and pour it into bottles, putting just enough olive oil hi each to cover the surface. Cork the bottles tightly, and keep them hi a dry cupboard till Avanted for use. (2) Squeeze and strain the juice from some Lemons, measure it, and for every J pint use Jib. of caster sugar. Mix them thoroughly together, then stir, Avith a silver spoon, over the fire in a lined saucepan till the sugar has dis- solved; pour the juice hito bottles, cork them, tie some bladder tightly over the top of each, and keep in a dry cupboard till Avanted for use. (3) When all the juice has been squeezed out of the Lemons, filter it through flannel, pour it into a brass preserving-pan, and place it over a sIoav fire. When at boiling-point, remove the juice from the fire, and AAhen cooled sufficiently, bottle, and cork them tightly. Lime- juice can be preserved hi the same AA-ay, and Avill keep for years. Preserved Lemon-Peel.—Scrape off the Avliite pith from some Lemon-peel, and put the yelloAV part hito a large, Avide-moutlied bottle; cover Ai’ith brandy, cork the bottle tightly, and keep hi a diy store-cupboard. Any pieces of peel that have been left after the juice has been squeezed out of the Lemons may be put in Avith the aboA-e, but must be first scraped clean. Preserved Whole Lemons.—Select the required quantity of Lemons, and peel very thinly. Cut a hole at the top of each Lemon about Jin. in diameter, and take out all the pulp and skin. Rub them Avith salt, putting each one in cold Avater as it is done. Let them remain in it for liAre days, then take them out, put them into salted Avater, and boil for fifteen minutes. Make a thin syrup Avith lqt. of Avater and lib. of loaf sugar, put the Lemons in it, and boil five minutes every day for six days. Then put them into jars, pour the syrup over, and let them stand for trvo months. At the end of that period, take the Lemons out of the syrup, and make a fresh syrup with double-refined sugar and only sufficient AA-ater to moisten. Put the Lemons in, and boil them sloAvly till clear. Place them in small jars, put paper dipped in brandy over them, then stouter paper on the top, and tie doAvn closely. Keep in a dry place till Avanted for use. Tincture of Lemons.—(1) Cut the rinds thinly from three dozen Lemons, put them into a boAvl Avith Jgall. of pure spirits of Avine, let them macerate for about three days, pour off the liquor, let it settle, and Avhen quite bright it is ready for use. The Lemons used should have, bright, thick skins, and as green as possible, providing the fruit is sound and full groAvn. The thin peel from tAvelve Lemons should weigh about 9oz. The spirits used must be 16ileg. over proof, which can be obtained by taking 3qts. of ordinary spirit of 55deg. over proof and adding sufficient Avater to make the Avliole up to lgall. (2) It is a good plan to have a Avide-mouthed pint or half- pint bottle, Avith a good cork or stopper, half filled Avith brandy, and Avhenever a Lemon is required for the juice alone, to pare off’ the yelloAv rind as thinly as possible and drop it into the brandy. Whisky or any other proof spirit may be used for this purpose instead of brandy. In a fortnight the spirit Avill lie strongly flavoured Avith Lemon- peel. If aLvays Avell corked, it Avill keep for a length of time. LENT PIE.—See Pies. LENT SANDWICHES.—See Sandwiches. LENT SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. LENT SOUP.—See Soups. LENTILS (Fr. Lentilles; Ger. Linsen; Ital. Len- ticchie; Sp. Lentejas).—These are the fruit of a legu- minous plant, Lens esementa. They are smaller than ordinary peas, and are shaped like a double convex lens. Lentils are largely cultivated for food on the Conti- nent of Eirrope and in many parts of Asia, and are the857 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lentils—continued. most nourishing of all forms of pulse. A preparation of it with barley, known as Revalenta Arabica, has been much used for invalids. Lentils are also ground to flour and sold in packets. Boiled Lentils.—Steep the Lentils in water for a few hours, then drain, put them in a stewpan with plenty of cold water to cover, and boil for half-an-liour. At the end of that time drain the water off the Lentils, put in with them a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with five or six cloves, and boiling water to cover, and boil gently at the side of the lire until quite tender. Drain the Lentils, put in with them a lump of butter and about 1 table-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss about over the fire for a few minutes. When ready, turn the Lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. They make a good vegetable. Cream of Lentils.—Soak 1 pint of Lentils for four hours in cold water; then put them in a saucepan, and boil with 2qts. of water, one carrot, one onion, 2oz. of salt pork, six whole peppers, a bouquet garni, the bones of one partridge, and ^ table-spoonful of salt. Cook for forty- five minutes, then nib through a sieve ; cut half the breast of a partridge in slices, lay them in the soup-tureen with loz. of butter, pour the puree over, and serve with a handful of fried sippets of bread, suppressing the bouquet. Lentils a la Maitre d’Hotel.— (1) Boil lqt. of Lentils, having previously washed them in 3qts. of water with 1 table-spoonful of salt dissolved in it. When soft, strain off the water, put the Lentils in a saute-pan with |Ib- of maitre-d’hotel butter and | teacupful of the liquor in which they were cooked, toss about till the butter is melted, then turn them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Thoroughly wash the Lentils, then put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, and an onion stuck with four or five cloves. Boil the Lentils gently until tender, keeping them well covered with water, then turn them into a sieve and let them drain. Melt a large piece of butter in a stewpan, put in the Lentils with a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley and the juice of half a Lemon, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for five or six minutes. Turn the Lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. Lentils and Bacon.—Wash the Lentils, put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, a bay-leaf and a blade of mace tied together, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and boil gently until soft, adding more boiling- water occasionally; when cooked, drain the Lentils. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry; when nicely browned, put in ^lb. of fat bacon cut into small squares, fry that also, and when cooked, put in the Lentils. Moisten with a small quantity of clear stock, add some finely-chopped parsley, and season to taste with pepper. Boil the whole gently by the side of the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small crofitons of bread fried a bright golden brown in butter, and serve. Lentil Curry.—(1) Chop three or four onions together with a clove of garlic and two green chillies, and pound them in a mortar. Wash Mb. of Lentils, picking them over care- fully to remove all impurities, put them in a frying-pan, toss about over the fire until browned, then put them into a saucepan with the pounded mixture, 1 teaspoonful of ground turmeric, a moderate quantity of salt, and cold water to cover, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain all the water from the Lentils, and add 2oz. of butter and two sliced onions fried a golden brown. Toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. (2) Slice three large onions and fry them in butter. Wash l pint of Red Lentils, and put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of water and the fried onions ; let them simmer gently till done. When the Lentils are soft, stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and turn all on to a hot dish. Garnish with crofitons of fried bread, and serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. Lentils—continued. Lentils with. Onions.—Pick carefully over the Lentils to remove any impurities, and wash well; put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water and boil until tender. Turn the Lentils when soft on to a fine sieve and let them drain thoroughly. Peel and cut into thin slices several onions, put them into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry. Put the Lentils in with the onions, season to taste with salt and pepper, moisten with a small quantity of clear stock, and let them simmer at the side of the fire for a few minutes. If stock is not convenient, moisten with a little of the cooking-water of the Lentils. When ready, turn the Lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. Lentil Pudding.—Put 4oz. of Lentil-flour into a basin With 1 hoz. of cornflour and 1 saltspoonful of salt; mix gradually in with these H pints of milk. When smooth, turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling ; let it get somewhat cool, then stir in four well-beaten eggs. Butter a basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil the pudding for an hour. When Fig. 1070. Lentil Pumiing. cooked, turn it out and serve while hot, with a sweet, fruit, or wine sauce poured over it. See Fig. 1070. Lentil Puree Soup.—(1) Put 1 pint of well-washed Lentils in a stockpot with 4qts. or 5qts. of warm water, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley and fine herbs. Boil till soft, then pass all through a fine hair sieve, pour the puree into a stewpan, stir till boiling, then move it to the side of the fire. Chop a leek and a small onion and fry till lightly browned, then add 1 handful of beetroot and lettuce-leaves, a few bits of sorrel and some white celery-leaves, all well minced; stir over the fire for ten minutes, then mix them with the puree; boil up again, add a lump of butter, and when the butter has dissolved turn all into a tureen and serve with sippets of toast. (2) Put two small pig’s ears, singed, washed, and scraped, in a small stockpot with a piece of raw ham, and pour in 3qts. or 4qts. of water; when boiling, move the stockpot to the side of the fire and let the ears simmer till half done, then add 1 pint of picked and washed Lentils, one onion, and a piece of celery. When the ears and Lentils are done, pass the Lentils through a fine hair sieve, turn the puree into a stewpan, pour the broth in, pass it again through the sieve, and stir over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, put the ears, cut in several pieces, in the saucepan, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Skim off the fat, turn the puree into a tureen, and serve with crofitons of fried bread. (3) Put the required quantity of Lentils in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, a pat of butter, a little salt, and sufficient water to cook them in. When soft, drain, and press them through a hair sieve. Put the puree in a glazing-stewpan with half its quantity of Spanish sauce, reduce, and strain through a fine hair sieve; finish the puree with butter and meat glaze, and serve while hot. (4) Wash 1 pint of Lentils, and put them in a saucepan with 3 pints of water, a small onion and carrot, a sprig of celery, and 1 dessert-spoonful of salt. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side and simmer the contents till the Lentils are done. When soft, drain the Lentils in a colander, reserving the liquor, then pass them through a fine hair sieve, pouring over them a little of the liquor now and again to help the passing. When done, put the Lentil puree in a stewpan and pour in a sufficient quantity of broth to make soup; let it simmer gently for half-an- liour, stirring often to prevent burning at the bottom of858 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ii'C., referred to, sec under their special heads. Lentils—continued. the stewpan. When ready to serve mix in Joz. of fresh butter, and when melted pour all into a soup-tureen and serve with sippets of toast. (5) Scrape four carrots, wash one lettuce, and cut them up; peel two onions and slice them. Put all these into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and let them stew for five minutes. Have 4 breakfast-cupfuls of Lentils ready soaked in cold water for two hours, and add them to the vege- tables in the saucepan together with 1 pint of stock, and simmer for half-an-hour ; add 3 pints more stock and boil for an hour. Put in the crumb of two French rolls, and when these are well soaked, mb vegetables, Lentils, and bread- crumb through a wire sieve. Return the soup to the sauce- pan, season with a moderate quantity, of pepper and salt, let it boil up once, and serve. Lentil Puree Soup au Maigre.—Soak 1 pint of Lentils all night; next morning, put them into a saucepan with some young carrots, turnips, and onions, and a head of celery, all prepared previously. Pour in 4qts. of cold water, and boil the whole gently until the Lentils are quite soft. Pass the soup through a fine hair sieve, rub- bing the vegetables and Lentils through with a wooden spoon; return it to the saucepan, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil up again. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, have ready a plate of sippets of toast or fried bread, and serve. Lentils with Rice.—The Lentils should be placed over- night to soak ; in the morning, drain, put them in a sauce- pan with 3 pints of water to every Alb. of Lentils, and boil gently for two hours. At the end of that time add 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, a small chopped onion, and about 2oz. of dripping, and continue the slow boiling until the rice is soft, adding more water if necessary. When quite soft, turn the Lentil-and-rice mixture on to a hot dish, and serve. Lentil Sorrp.—Prepare the required quantity of well-flavoured stock, and strain it well to remove all the fat; mix a few table-spoonfuls of Lentil-flour smoothly with a little of the stock, then stir it into the remainder of the stock. Boil the soup for ten minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. Lentil Soup au Maigre.—(1) Soak \ pint of Lentils for twenty-four hours, then put them into a saucepan with rgall. of water, and boil gently until quite soft, pouring in more boiling water occasionally to keep up tlio original quantity. When the Lentils are about three-parts done, put in with them a small stick of celery in convenient lengths, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread fri id br iwn in butter. (2) Mix 6 table-spoonfuls of Lentil-flour smoothly with a small quantity of nicely-flavoured vegetable stock, then stir it gradually into 5 pints of the same stock. Pour the whole into a saucepan, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring at the same time. Move the soup off the fire, put in 2oz. of butter, broken into small pieces, and when it has dissolved pour the soup into a soup-tureen. Serve while very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or small croft tons of bread fried brown in butter. Lentils with Tomatoes.—Wash the Lentils, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water and boil until tender. Next drain thoroughly, put them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of tomato sauce to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for a few minutes. When ready, put loz. of butter, broken into small pieces, in with the Lentils, and when it has dissolved turn them on to a hot dish and serve without delay. Rizzolletti of Lentils.—Boil 4l'>. of Lentils in salted water. When tender, drain off as much of the water as possible, and mix in with them the yolks of three eggs, well beaten up in about £ teacupful of white sauce; season with Lentils—continued. pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil, then turn it on to a dish and leave until cool. Next prepare a mince of any kind of cold meat, and flavour it well. When the Lentil mixture is cold, take up 1 table-spoonful of it, make a hollow in the centre, in which put about 1 teaspoonful of the mince, take another table-spoonful of the Lentil mixture, make a hollow as before, and turn it over on to the one containing the mince and press them well together. Roll them carefully hi beaten egg, and then hi finely-grated breadcrumb, leave them for a short time, then egg-and-breadcramb them again. Put a large lump of lard or butter into a deep frying-pan, and when it boils slip in the rizzolletti and fry to a golden brown. When cooked, take them out of the fat, and drain on a sheet of kitclien-paper. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the rizzolletti on it, garnish with fried parsley, ami serve. Stewed Lentils.—(1) Put the Lentils to soak in cold water the night before they are wanted. On the following day, put them hito a stewpan with a lump of salt and fresh water, ancl boil for half-an-hour. At the end of that time drain the water off the Lentils, put in with them 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of minced onion, a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, and moisten with a little clear stock. Stew the Lentils gently at the side of the fire until quite tender; when cooked, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut an onion into small dice and fry it in a little butter, then add twice as much fat bacon as onion, also cut into dice ; when the baco i is cooked, put in a quantity of Lentils that have been boiled in water with an onion, half-a-dozen cloves, a bay-leaf, and a blade of mace ; moisten with a little stock, add pepper and chopped parsley to taste, and let them simmer gently for two hours, adding a little more stock if they become too dry. (3) The night before the Lentils are wanted for use, soak them in plenty of cold water; on the following morning, drain, put them into a saucepan, cover with clear stock, and boil until tender. When cooked, dredge the Lentils lightly with flour, and add lAoz. or 2oz. of butter. Toss about over the lire for two or three minutes longer, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. LEOPARD CAKE.—See Cakes. LETTUCES (Fr. Laitues; Ger. Lattiche; Ital. Lat- tuge; Sp. Lecliugas).—If it were not for Lettuces the British cook would be almost at a loss for salad material; whereas the Continental cook would never fail to produce a salad so long as anything of a vegetable Fig. 1071. Cabbage Lettuce. character was to hand. Nevertheless, the sweet crisp leaves of freshly-cut Lettuces are difficult to sujaersede. Those grown for table purposes (Lactuca saliva) are of two kinds, the Cabbage Lettuce (see Fig. 1071) and theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 850 For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, l tensile, Sauces, iL'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Lettuces—continued. White Cos (see Fig. 1072), the name given to the latter being somewhat of a mystery. The Cabbage Lettuce is the best for cooking as in soups, and the White Cos best for salads. According to Herodotus, Lettuces were served at the royal tables of the Persians more than 400 years before the Christian era. In A.D. 200 they are mentioned as producing the opium of Galen, the celebrated Greek physician, a fact which led to the discovery of a mild narcotic drug contained in the juice of those which are bitter by age and overgrowth. This sedative power of the ordinary salad Lettuce is so small that it would be difficult to appreciate any such effect even after eating heartily of them. The name Lettuce is said to be a corruption of the French word lait, indicating their milky cjualities, and from this milk the medicinal lactucarium is produced by extraction. Besides the following numerous receipts for preparing Lettuce for the table, others in which Lettuces are used will be found distributed through this Encyclopaedia. Baked stuffed Lettuces.—Pick, clean, pare, and thoroughly wash six Lettuce-heads, parboil them for five minutes, drain well, and fill the insides with godiveau or sausage forcemeat. Tie each head, and put them in a saute-pan, laying down carefully, and add 1 gill each of Madeira sauce and white broth. Season moderately with salt and pepper, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, untie, pour the sauce over, and serve. Braise:! Lettuces.—Select some freshly-gathered Lettuces with firm white hearts, wash well in several waters, then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for five minutes. Take out the Lettuces with a skimmer, refresh them, then press well with the hands to extract as much of the water as possible; put some thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, fold the Lettuces, lay them in, season well, and cover with unskimmed broth. Put a sheet of greased paper over the Lettuces, and braise for an-hour-and-a-quarter on a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid of the stewpan. When the moisture is reduced to a glaze, drain the Lettuces, put them on a hot dish, pour over some brown sauce or rich gravy, and serve. Braised stuffed Lettuces.—Having selected the required quantity of Lettuces, trim, wash, blanch, and drain them; cut the middle leaves out very carefully, fill the hollow with a fowl-and-truffle forcemeat, then tie the Lettuces round with string; line a stewpan with some slices of veal, place in some chopped carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, put in the Lettuces, moisten to their height with stock, and braise. Warm some bechamel sauce together with the yolk of an egg, put the Lettuces on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce poured over them. Cream of Lettuce.—Wash thoroughly the green leaves of three good-sized heads of Lettuce; drain, chop, place them in a saucepan with lib. of butter, and cook for five minutes, stirring lightly. Moisten with 2qts. of broth, Lettuces—continued. season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, add a bouquet garni and 4oz. of well-cleaned raw rice, cover the saucepan, and cook for forty-five minutes; then remove the bouquet, and strain the soup through a fine sieve. Clean the sauce- pan well, replace the soup in it, and heat thoroughly, but do not let it boil, meanwhile stirring gently with a spatula. Pour in 1 pint of sweet cream, stir a little more, and turn it into a hot soup-tureen. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Fried stuffed Lettuces.—Clean and wash as many Lettuces as are required, open out the leaves, and stuff them with veal or any rich forcemeat ; tie the Lettuces round and boil, or boil before stuffing, and then stew them in gravy. Take out the Lettuces, drain thoroughly, dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, or into thick batter with 1 wineglassful of brandy mixed with it, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. Serve very hot. The batter (if used) should be made quite four hours before being wanted. Lettuce-and-Cheese Salad.—LTse any dry rich cheese, such as Parmesan, Roquefort, or Gorgonzola, about 2 heaped table-spoonfuls being sufficient for a head of Lettuce of medium size. Carefully wash the Lettuce, tear the leaves apart, and lay them in a salad-dish ; grate the cheese or break it in small pieces, and scatter it among the Lettuce- leaves ; pour over all a plain salad dressing, and serve. Lettuce Salad.—(1) Take two fine Lettuces, remove the outer green leaves, wash and wipe carefully, place them in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, 4 teaspoonful each of chopped chervil and tarragon, and season with 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper diluted in 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and K- table-spconfuls of oil. Cut up, mix thoroughly, and serve. (2) Wash six or eight cabbage Lettuces, trim off the coarse and outside leaves, and pull the good ones apart; leave the Lettuces in water for about half-an-hour, then drain, place them in a cloth, and swing till dry. Pull the leaves in pieces, not cutting with a knife, and put them in a salad-bowl. Mash the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste in a basin, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, H teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat the ingredients well together, then add by degrees a small quantity of finely-chopped tarragon, 1 dessert-spoonful of coarse white pepper, another table- spoonful of vinegar, and about li teacupfuls of Lucra or Provence oil. When thoroughly amalgamated, pour the mixture over the Lettuce, and toss it about well. Garnish the salad with some hard-boiled whites of eggs cut into slices, and serve. (3) Hot.-—Trim off the outside leaves of a nice-sized cos Lettuce, wash it in plenty of water, dry well, pull the leaves apart, and place them in a salad-bowl. Cut two thin rashers of streaky bacon into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a finely-minced onion, and fry slightly but without letting them brown ; pour vinegar over the bacon, season with salt and pepper, and pour the whole over the Lettuce. Stir the salad well with a wooden spoon and serve whilst hot. Lettuce Soup.—(1) Cool and press eat all the water from about two dozen blanched Lettuces, cut them down the centres without entirely separating, dust over with salt and pepper, put them into a saucepan with 4 pint of veal broth and the same of rich fou l consomme, add a small bunch of parsley, a clove or two, one onion and carrot, and a little each of thyme and bay-leaf. Cover with a sheet of well-buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and boil the Lettuces gently for fully two hours. Take them out, drain on a cloth, cut into halves or quarters, put them into a soup-tureen, pour in the strained stock in which they were cooked, together with 3 pints more boiling broth, and serve with pieces of toast floating on the top. (2) Wash the Lettuces and boil them in salted water; when tender, drain and chop them finely. Put about 14oz. of but;er and 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour into a sauce- pan, and stir over the fire until well incorporated; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, put in theTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 860 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lettuces—continued. chopped Lettuces, and boil for five minutes. Next pour in sufficient stock to make the requisite quantity of soup, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When boiling, move the soup to the side of the fire, stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs beaten up in the juice of half a lemon and strained, and add loz. of butter. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread. (3) Prepare 4qts. of broth as described for CroCte-AU-Pot, and when strained and skimmed keep it warm in a sauce- pan. Thoroughly wash two dozen cabbage Lettuces after picking off all the outside leaves, blanch them in boiling water, then rinse in cold water; take out and press them one by one between the two hands so as 'to thoroughly extract all the water. Place some thin slices of bacon and ham in a saute-pan, put in the Lettuces, pour in sufficient broth to cover, and braise them. Drain, and cut each transversely into three parts. Put some slices of toasted bread in a soup-tureen, put the Lettuces in, pour over the soup, and serve. (4) Wash some young Lettuces, blanch them in boiling- water, drain thoroughly, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of broth or stock, and let them simmer gently till done. Take them off the fire, mash with a wooden spoon, stand again over the fire, using more stock if necessary, simmer for a few minutes, then mix a little cream with the soup, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Lettuce-and-Tomato Salad.—Take a white head of Lettuce, pare off the outer green leaves, and core, wash, and drain in a wire basket; then split and cut the leaves into quarters and put them in a bowl. Have two fine firm peeled red Fig 1073. Lettuce-and-Tomato Salad. tomatoes, cut into thin slices, and place them over the Lettuce (see Fig. 1073). Season as follows: Mix 1 pinch of salt and l pinch of pepper in 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, add f l table-spoonfuls of oil, mix well, and pour it over the salad. Preserved Lettuce Stalks.—Cut the stalks of some large Lettuces into pieces about Sin. long, wash well, and leave them to soak in clear water for ten minutes. Put l^lb. of crushed loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with 11 table- spoonfuls of ground ginger and 3qts. of water. Boil for twenty-five minutes, then pour it into a basin over the stalks, and leave till the next morning. Repeat the opera- tion of boiling the syrup for five or six days; then drain the Lettuce-stalks free from moisture on a sieve. Make a rich syrup, adding 3oz. of slightly-bruised ginger ; put the Lettuces in the preserving-pan with the syrup and boil several times till the stalks are quite clear. When done, put them into jars, pour over the syrup, tie paper tightly over the top, and keep in a diy store-closet for use. Stewed Lettuces.—(1) Select the required quantity of Lettuces, trim off all the outside leaves, wash thoroughly, blanch hi boiling water, rinse them in fresh cold water, and tie together in twos and threes. Line a saucepan with buttered paper, put in the Lettuces with a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three small chopped onions, a little pepper and salt, and cover with stock. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for two hours. Take the Lettuces out, untie, and put them on a hot dish ; reduce the liquor in which they were cooked, strain Lettuces—continued. it through a fine hair sieve, and pour it over the Lettuces. Serve while hot. (2) Trim and wash half-a-dozen small heads of cabbage Lettuce, removing all outside leaves; plunge them into quickly-boiling salted water, and parboil them. Drain off the hot water, and put them into cold water; drain this off also, and diy the heads on a cloth. Line a saucepan with slices of bacon, put in the parboiled Lettuces together with an onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spices, pepper, and salt to taste ; add a small quantity of stock, and let them stew gently for nearly an hour. Cut half-a- dozen slices of bread, rather less than Jin. thick, about the size of a mutton cutlet and the shape of a pear, and fry them in butter a light brown. Pour a little thick nicely- flavoured gravy on a dish, arrange the pieces of fried bread on it, and lay carefully and neatly on each piece of bread one of the heads of Lettuce, and serve at once. Stewed Lettuces with Eggs and Potatoes.—Trim off the outside of about eighteen young cabbage Lettuces ; wash the Lettuces well, and blanch them in boiling water till tender. Refresh them in cold water, place them in a cloth, tie up, put them in a saucepan with a little stock, and braise over a moderate fire for thirty minutes. At the end of that time, drain the Lettuces, place them in a saute-pan, cover with some good demi-glaze, and push them into the oven. Poach a dozen fresh eggs ; prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the Lettuces and poached eggs alternately upon the border of mashed potatoes, pour some fine-herb sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve while very hot. Stewed stuffed Lettuces.—(1) Clean and well wash half-a- dozen cos Lettuces, tie each one round with tape or string, and boil in plenty of water. Take out, drain, let them cool, untie them, open out the leaves, and stuff’ with veal or any other forcemeat. Tie up again, put them into a stewpan over a few thin slices of bacon, carrots, onions, and a few sweet herbs, pour in sufficient gravy to nearly cover, boil well, skim off any fat, and when the Lettuces are done, take out, untie, put them on a dish, and keep hot. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, add 1 or 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine, reduce it, pour it hot over the Lettuces, and serve. See Fig. 1074. (2) Trim and wash about eighteen large young Lettuces, and blanch in boiling water for ten minutes; refresh them in cold water, press in a cloth, then cut out some of the hearts of the Lettuces, leaving a hollow in the middle of each. Chop about lib. of lean veal, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass it through a fine hair sieve ; finely chop and pound fib. of beef-suet, then mix it with 4oz. of panada and pound well together; pass the mixture through the sieve, and add the pounded veal with a small quantity of chopped mushrooms and some chopped parsley. Season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, then mix in gradually the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and then the whites, whisked to a stiff froth. Stuff the Lettuces with the forcemeat, tie them round, put them in a sauce- pan with a little broth, and cook gently for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Put 1 pint of brown sauce into a stewpan with 4 pint of broth, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and 4oz. of glaze, place it over the fire till boiling, then move861 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lettuces—continued. to the side and let it simmer, keeping well skimmed, and reduce till it adheres to the hack of the spoon. Arrange the Lettuces on a hot dish, pour the demi-glaze over, and serve while very hot. (3) Wash and thoroughly clean eight cabbage Lettuces, drain, and cut them in halves lengthwise. Take out the cores, iill the cavities with sausage-meat, close the halves again, and tie them round with string. Put a little butter in a stewpan, lay a few slices of veal to about lin. in depth at the bottom, and place the lettuces on these. Pour in sufficient stock to cover, and 1 breakfast-cupful of clarified fat, an onion with two cloves in it, and a faggot of herbs. Put the pan (covered) on the fire, boil the con- tents, and then let them simmer for two hours. Take out the Lettuces, drain, and lay them on a cloth. Cut out some croutons of breadcrumb, about J-in. in thickness and the same shape as the Lettuces, and fry in butter. Arrange them on a dish alternately with the Lettuces, in a circle, and pour over all some melted half-glaze. A very tasty and novel dish for supper. Stuffed-Lettuce Soup.—(1) Blanch twenty Lettuces, cool them, and strain off all the water, pressing them slightly. Cut them down the centre but without quite separating, put 1 table-spoonful of fowl forcemeat in the centre of each, tie up in their original shapes, put them into a saucepan with \ pint each of veal broth and fowl con- somme, and boil for two hours. Take out, put them into a soup-tureen, strain over their stock, and fill up the tureen with more rich soup. (2) Trim off all the outside leaves, and thoroughly wash eight cabbage Lettuces; blanch and divide them into halves, cut out the cores, sprinkle a* little salt inside the Lettuces, and bind together with twine. Melt a small lump of butter in a stewpan, then put in some slices of veal, and lay the Lettuces on the top; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two cloves, 1 breakfast- cupful of clarified fat, and suiticient stock to cover. When it boils move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer for two hours. Drain the Lettuces, and lay them open on a cloth; fill the hollow in each with some chicken forcemeat, and smooth it over with the blade of a knife. Fold the ends and sides of the Lettuces over so as to entirely cover the forcemeat, then put them in a saute-pan, cover with boiling broth, and let them simmer gently till the forcemeat is cooked. When done, drain the Lettuces carefully, put them in a soup- tureen, pour over 2qts. of boiling clear soup, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. LEVERET.—See Hare. LIAISON.—The literal meaning of this French word is a joining, conjunction, or association, and thus it has been extended to those materials which are added to sauces to give them a body. The British cook describes it more practically as “ thickening.” Grimod de la Reyniere has expressed his conviction that the judicious use of these Liaisons constitutes one of the greatest secrets of the culinary art. At one time the wildest notions were entertained of what these Liaisons should consist: calcined bones,burnt sugar, and torrefied juices were common; but modern experience has taught the cook how to make the sauces unctuous, and thus bind together all the parts of a ragout so that no one shall predominate. The following are those most generally used, and will be found to answer every purpose required. Liaison of Blood.—Used for game or poultry only. The blood, having been saved, is mixed in a little cooled sauce first, and then stirred in. Liaison of Butter.—This is merely the addition of a certain quantity of butter at the last moment of cooking the sauce. Liaison of Butter and Cream.—The same as Liaison of Butter, with the addition of cream. Beat the butter and cream together and stir into the sauce. Liaison—continued. Liaison of Eggs.—Beat up the yolks of eggs in some of the sauce, after cooling it, and then pour this in, stirring slowly. If the yolks were added to the hot sauce without first beating with the cooled liquor, they would be almost certain to set and curdle before they were well mixed in. Liaison of Flour.—Sometimes the sauce is thickened by dredging into it either flour, cornflour, or even arrowroot; but the better plan is to rub a little till smooth in water, milk, or broth, and then pour it into the sauce through a strainer. Liaison of Roux.—Put into a bright frying-pan twice as much flour as butter, and let them mix together as the butter melts, stirring continually with a spoon or fork until the flour turns red, but without burning (see Roux). Other Liaisons, such as those made of Caramel, Glaze, or reduced Gravies, need no further explanation than is given under those headings. LICORICE.—See Liquorice. LIEBIG’S EXTRACT.—See Extracts. LIGHTNING CAKE.—(See Cakes. LIGHTS.—The lungs of an animal, so called from their lightness. These are further described under the names of the animals to which they belong. LILIES OF THE VALLEY.—A very excellent wine is made in Germany from the flowers of this plant mixed with raisins. LIMA BEANS.—(See Beans. LIMES.—The fruit of the Citrus Limetta, which is closely allied to the lemon, but being rather sweeter and smaller. The juice, for which they are chiefly cultivated, is imported into England in a greater or less degree of purity, and is used for making cordials. It is supplied to sailors as a preventative of scurvy. Limes can be preserved as follows : (1) Select twelve large Limes, make some incisions in the rind of each, then rub them over with Jib. of common salt; put them on a dish, and keep in the screen near the fire for five days or until soft. Put the Limes in jars, cover with boiling vinegar in which has been boiled 2oz. of mustard-seed, 2oz. of bruised ginger, and Joz. of pepper- corns, and put a lump of salt in each jar. On the follow- ing day cork the jars, tie a piece of moistened bladder over the top, and keep them in a dry store-clcset till ready for use. (2) Weigh the Limes, then set aside double their weight in loaf sugar. Boil the Limes till a straw will easily pierce the rinds, changing the water two or three times while boiling. When cooked, take them out, drain, and leave till cold. Cut the Limes in slices, pick out all the pips, and put the slices in an earthenware vessel. Boil the sugar that has been weighed, using 1 pint of water to each 2Jlb. of sugar. Pour the syrup, while boiling hot, over the Limes, and let it stand for two days and nights. At the end of that time, boil the syrup and Limes together for fifteen minutes, then turn them into the jars, and leave till cold. Dip some rounds of paper in brandy, put them over the jars, then cover with paper dipped in the white of egg, tie tightly down, and keep in a dry store-closet till ready for use. (3) Prick the Limes, place them in cold water, and let them steep for several days. Then put them over the fire in a thick, clear syrup made of loaf sugar and water, and let them get thoroughly heated; then take from the fire and let them stand fill night. Next day boil up the syrup, add a little more sugar to it, pour it over the Limes, and again let them stand till next day. Repeat this, day after day, till the fruit looks quite clear; bottle the fruit and pour the syrup over it; or else diy it in confectioners’ sugar, and when dry enough to handle pack away in a dry place. Cooley says, with regard to Lime-juice: “We have examined the juice expressed from Limes sent from theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 862 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Limes—continued. West Indies, from Jamaica, and from Soutli Africa” (that from Jamaica having the highest percentage of citric acid, 8'6(3). “ The yield from Limes is very small, and the freshly-expressed juice contains a lot of pulp. This, however, on standing a few weeks, separates, and a clear sherry-coloured liquor is obtained.” Limes are, in most parts, usually gathered from September to the end of January; but the Montserrat plantations yield all the year round. The fruit is sliced and afterwards squeezed until all the juice has been expressed. The choicest yield is promptly headed eip in casks, so that it piay not suffer from exposure to the air; but inferior yields are boiled down for the use of the citric acid makers. The juice of the Limes as exported from Montserrat, one of the principal localities of its preparation, is not always quite so bright and clean as may be desirable. When this is the case it can be clarified as follows: Pour the Lime-juice into a bowl, and to every quart add loz. of well-burnt and finely-powdered animal char- coal. Let it stand for about twelve hours, filter it into small bottles, cork them down securely, and put in a co. 1 place. In a few days’ time a thick crust will form underneath the corks, and the mucilage will sink to the bottom. It is then ready for use. Lime-juice Cordial is or should be prepared from the juice of Limes, and has obtained great favour in this country as a refreshing, healthy beverage, especially for summer use. It is made as follows : (1) Put lib. of double-refined pounded and sifted sugar into a basin; pour in 1 pint of Lime-juice and stir well with a silver or plated spoon until the sugar has dissolved. Pour into a bottle, cork and seal it, and put away in a dry cool place until wanted for use. (2) Mix together in a large stone jar pints of strong syrup, 1 pint of Lime juice, 2 pints of water, 1 drachm of essence of Lemon, and 2oz. of triple orange-flower water. Let these blend together, shake the jar occasionally, and keep well corked. LIMPETS—If it were more generally known that these superabundant rock-fish (see Fig’. 1075) (Acmsea testudinalis) are very good to eat, it is just possible that their numbers would di- minish rapidly seeing that they are declared by epicures to be tasty, and capable of being cooked in any way that is suitable to oysters. LINEN.—See Table- Linen. LING.—This fish (Molva vulgaris) may be described as a very large species of cod, which frequents the seas of Northern Europe, and finds its way into our markets chiefly as “ salted cod.” As a rule the flesh is considered coarse and unpalatable, but if well treated by the cook gives good results. Ling Pie.—Cut cfF a piece from the thin part of a Ling, wash it well, and soak to extract the salt. Then put it into a saucepan with water and boil slowly until quite cooked. Take it out, skin and slice it, and put the pieces in a pie-disli, alternately with slices of hard-boiled egg, sprinkling over with chopped parsley, and putting a few bits of butter here and there; continue in this way until all is used, and the dish full. Pour in a teacupful or so of rich gravy seasoned with ground mace and pepper, put a crust of puff paste over the top, and bake. When done lift up the crust, pour in 1 teacupful of hot cream, and serve. Ling—continued. Ling Soup.—Clean about 31b. of Ling, cut the flesh into fillets, and put the bones into a stewpan with any other fish-bones that are obtainable; add also 61b. of leg of beef, cover with water, and boil. Add two each of onions, carrots, and turnips cut in pieces, also a few allspice, and continue to boil until all the goodness is extracted. Put jib. each of butter and lean ham into a stewpan on the tire, put in a little each of basil, marjoram, parsley, and thyme, let them sweat until cooked, and then add suili- cient flour to thicken the soup. When the soup is ready, strain it into the pan with the flour, mix until smooth, and boil for an hour. Strain through a very line sieve, add 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Cut the fillets of Ling into pieces about lin. square, having first removed the skin, fry them in butter, seasoning with salt and pepper, drain them free from fat, put them into a tureen, pour over the sou]), and serve. A few oysters added with their liquor are an improvement. Stewed Ling.—Have ready a frying pan warm cn the fire; into this put about lib. of Ling, cut up into slices and well rubbed with flour, and fry until well browned. Piemove this to the side of the pan and in it fry a small stick of celery and a small onion cut into slices or p eces; put these into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock; mix in j, table spoonful of flour, and add a small piece of lemonqieel, one or two sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, and salt to taste. Bring the liquor to the boil, add the fish, and simmer gently at the side of the fire or stove until the fish is done (it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes). Place the slices of fish on a hot dish, strain the liquor, pour it over them, and serve. Hard-boiled eggs, cut into slices, make a good garnish for this dish. LINSEED.—The seed of flax from which Linseed oil is obtained. It is exceedingly glutinous and slightly aromatic in flavour; hence it is much used for invalids, in the form of “ tea,” which may be prepared from any of the following receipts : Linseed Tea.—(1) Pour Iqt. of boiling water on foz. of bruised Linseed and ljoz. of sliced liquorice root; cover, and let it stand near the fire for four hours, then strain, and it is fit for use. (2) Boil 3 table-spoonfuls of Linseed in 1 pint of water for ten minutes. Strain the water into a jug, put two lemons cut in slices with it, 1 wineglassful of wine, either port or sherry, and sweeten to taste with moist si: gar. This makes a relishing drink for invalids. (3) Put 2oz. of Linseed in a saucepan, with loz. of barley sugar, a little finely-slired lemon-peel, and H pints of water. Let it simmer gently for two hours, flavour with a little lemon-juice, strain, and let it stand. It may be drank either warm or cold. (4) Put 1 teaspoonful of Linseed, the strained juice of half a lemon, ancl foz. of loaf sugar in a jug; pour over them 1 pint of boiling water, put a plate on the jug, and let it stand till cold. This drink is much used for coughs; more Linseed may be used if liked. LIQUEURS.—See Cordials and Liqueurs. LIQUORICE (Fr. Reglisse; Ger. Lakritze; Ital. Liquarizia; Sp. Regaliza).—Whether this word should be spelled as above or Licorice is an undecided question, it being a roundabout corruption of two Greek words (glukus and rhiza) signifying sweet root. The plant (Glycyrrhiza c/labra) grows wild in all sub-tropical climates, much of that used in this country either growing in it or being imported from Spain or Italy. The root is sometimes dried and powdered; but more generally an extract is obtained from the roots by slicing and boiling them. After a time the liquor is strained and made to evaporate until it becomes of a proper consistence. Large quantities of this extract, Lindley informs us, are imported from Spain, hence the term Spanish, or Spanish Liquorice. It reaches us Fig. 1075. Limpet.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 863 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Liquorice—continued. in rolls of Sin. or Gin. long, about tlie thickness of a man’s thumb (see Fig. 1076), and is packed in the leaves of the sweet bay. What is known as “ refined Fig. 1076. Spanish Liquorice. Liquorice ” is common Liquorice dissolved in water, strained, and again evaporated. Liquorice Drops.—(1) Mix together 6oz. of confectioners’ sugar and 2oz. of powdered Liquorice. Work them into a thick paste with gum Arabic dissolved in a little water, cut the paste into drops with a tin mould, and dry them in a clcset. (2) Dissolve Joz. of gum Arabic in \ pint of water, mix in loz. of powdered Liquorice and ^lb. of lump sugar, put them into a sugar-boiler, and boil to a thick syrup. Have a shallow and wide box full of powdered starch, make it quite level, and then with a marble make indentations all over. Fill the hollows in the starch with the hot syrup, and dry the drops in a drying-oven. Liquorice Jujubes.—Put lib. of picked gum Arabic in 1 pint of tepid water, and soak for an hour, then strain it into a sugar-boiler. Put 2oz. of Spanish Liquorice in a basin with 1 teacupful of boiling water, and stir till dissolved, then strain. Put 14oz. of coarsely-crushed sugar in with the strained gum, boil till reduced to the small pearl degree, and stir in the strained Liquorice. Skim the mixture, and move it off the fire. Have ready a fiat box containing starch imprinted in various shapes with plaster of Paris models, drop the mixture from the spout of the sugar-boiler into these impressions, sift a very little finely-powdered starch over, put the box in a moderately-heated screen, and leave for several hours. When the jujubes are diy, take them out of the starch, dust over with a soft brush, and pack in boxes between layers of white paper. Liquorice Paste.—Take Jib. of Liquorice-root, scrape, bruise, and boil it in a little water till reduced a good deal, then take it from the fire and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear liquor, and put into it loz. of gum dragon; when this is all melted, strain it through a piece of linen, and mix powdered sugar with it till it is of the consistence of paste; it may then be cut into any desired shapes. LITRE. -A measure of capacity in the metric system —equivalent to P76 English pints. See Weights and Measures. LIVER {Fr. Foie; Ger. Leber; Ital. Fegato; Sp. Hidago).—As the Liver plays so important a part in the gastronomic delectation of mankind it is no more than right that when cooked it should play an important part in the cuisine. Indeed, many persons devour it as a presumable cure for biliousness, but as it is deficient Fig. 1077. Liver. in carbonaceous matters, it is usually prepared with much fat. The Liver (see Fig. 1077) is described as a Liver—continued. large abdominal vascular gland through which blood passes in such large streams as to convince our forefathers that it was the keystone of life—hence its name, from the Anglo-Saxon lifer. Subsequent investigations show that the Liver not only creates bile but secretes sugar necessary for the combustion that takes place in the lungs and capillaries. The Livers of most animals, such as the calf, bullock, and pig; of fish, such as cod’s Liver with its nutrient oil; and of poultry, such as goose’s fat Liver, are capable of being converted into very tasty dishes. Most of these are described under their own headings, but there are some receipts in which almost any Liver will do .equally well, these being hereunder appended. Livers should be quite fresh, and of a rich brown colour; they will require to be cut into slices or strips and thoroughly washed in water before cooking. Broiled Liver.—Cut the required quantity of any Liver in thin slices, sprinkle over pepper and salt, dip them in melted dripping on a plate, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear lire, turning to do both sides equally. When cooked put the Liver on a hot plate, and serve. Broiled Liver and Bacon.—Fry some slices of bacon in a frying-pan, cut the Liver in slices, dip in the bacon-fat, then put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, sprinkling with pepper and salt while cooking. When done arrange the Liver on a hot dish, put a rasher of bacon on each slice, pour over a little hot brown gravy, and serve. Curried Liver-and-LTdder-Forcemeat Balls.—Parboil lib. each of Liver and udder, cut up small, put them into a mortar, pound to a pulp, mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and chopped sweet herbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, stir in a well-beaten egg, and make the whole into a thick mass by adding gravy or water. Form the mixture into balls and roll them well in more bread- crumbs. Put 4oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, add a curry composed of loz. of ground onions, I table- spoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, ^ teaspoonful each of ground ginger and peppercorns, and j teaspoonful of ground garlic. Fry these until brown, sprinkling over 1 table-spoonful of water, add the Liver-and-udder-force- meat balls, dredge over a little salt, fry until brown, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water or stock, and simmer gently, with the lid on the pan, for about two hours or until done. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Dried Smoked Liver for Relish.—Wash the Liver, let it remain in salt for four days, then have it smoked and dried (see Curing). When ready to cook the Liver, cut it in very thin slices, dip them in warmed butter, sprinkle with plenty of pepper, and broil over a clear fire; arrange the slices when done on a hot dish, anti serve. Fried Liver.—(1) Cut the required quantity of Liver into slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling put in the slices of Liver, and fry for six minutes, turning when done one side. Put them on a hot dish, pour over some rich brown gravy, and serve. (2) Wash a sheep’s, lamb’s, pig’s, or calf’s Liver, cut it into rather large pieces, and rub well with salt and flour. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the pieces of Liver and fry them. Peel and chop an onion, also a handful of parsley, and fry these after the Liver. Remove and drain the pieces c f Liver, arrange them in nice, order on a folded napkin or a lace,-edged dish-paper placed upon a hot dish, sprinkle the minced onions and parsley over, and serve. (3) Peel two moderate-sized onions and chop them finely ; put loz. each of lard and butter in a flat stewpan, drop in the onions with plenty of finely-chopped sweet herbs, and fry them. Coarsely chop lib. of Liver, put it in with the onions, and fry it for a few minutes only as the Liver does not require much cooking. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Liver and Bacon in Paper Cases.—Boil some calf’s or sheep’s Liver till tender and cut it into thin slices. Open a sheet of864 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Liver—continued. Liver—continued. common note-paper, and lay on one half of it a nicely- trimmed thin rasher of bacon; have ready and well mixed Joz. of sifted breadcrumbs and about 1 saltspoonful each of pepper, sifted herbs, chopped parsley, salt, and very finely- chopped onion ; sprinkle nearly 1 teaspoonful of this seasoning over the rasher of bacon, lay on it a slice of Liver, sprinkle this also with about 1 teaspoonful of the seasoning, lay on top another nicely trimmed thin rasher, fold the other half of the paper over, turn up the edges of the paper at the three open sides, and fry for a-quarter-of-an-hour, turn- ing once. Serve very hot. Liver Kabobs.—Cut some Liver into small equal-sized pieces, wrap in pieces of caul-fat, pass them on to skewers (see Fig. 1078. Liver Kabob. Fig. 1078), and roast in front of a clear fire, turning constantly. Peel a clove of garlic, put it in a mortar, and pound ; then mix in with it 1 breakfast-cupful of clear broth, 2 table-spoonfuls of wine vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the sauce into a small saucepan and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till hot, then take it off. Put the Liver on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Liver-and-Potato Pie.-—Peel 21b. of potatoes, wash, put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and place them over the lire until boiling, then drain and cut them into slices. Cut lib. of Liver into thin slices, and wash well in cold water. Cover the bottom of a rather broad and shallow baking-tin with slices of the potatoes, then put in a layer of the sliced Liver; strew over them a small quantity of finely-chopped onion and some pepper and salt, then put in two or three thin slices of bacon. Continue in this manner until all the ingredients are used, seasoning each layer with chopped onion, and salt and pepper, and making the top layer of potatoes. Pour in at the side 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, put the tin in a brisk oven, and bake for an-liour-and-a-half. Serve hot. Liver Pudding1.—Stew 21b. of Liver in a very little water for an-liour-and-a-half, then cut it into small squares and add some pieces of fat of beef, mutton, or bacon. Line a pudding-basin with a pudding-crust made of flour, dripping, and water, put in the Liver and fat well mixed together, pour in the liquor in which the Liver was stewed, cover with crust, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for two hours. Liver Quenelles.—(1) Steep a thick slice of bread in milk until well soaked, then squeeze, mix it with Jib. of finely- minced Liver, and season with parsley, chives, and lemon- peel, in small quantities and all finely chopped ; dust in salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and bind the mixture with beaten eggs, keeping it consistent. Divide it with a table-spoon into small quantities, mould them an oval shape by pressing in the bowl of the spoon, dip- ping the spoon in warm water each time it is used. Plunge the balls into a saucepan of boiling waiter, and boil for lialf-an-hour. Chop about 3oz. of bacon, put it in a frying- pan with a lump of butter and fry until crisp and brown. When the quenelles are cooked, drain, put them on a hot dish, pour the fried bacon and fat over them, and serve very hot. (2) Wash Jib. of either calf’s or sheep’s Liver, and chop it finely; mix in half its quantity of finely-chopped fat bacon and 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, and season to taste with salt and chopped herbs. Slightly warm 3oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, add four weli- beaten eggs, and stir it into the Liver' mixture. When well worked together, take a small portion of the mixture and poach it in boiling water, to see if it is consistent, if not, more grated breadcrumb should be mixed in, or more beaten egg as the case may be. Divide the mixture into small egg-shaped quenelles, using a table-spoon for the purpose, throw them into a saucepan of boiling broth, and boil gently for lialf-an-hour. When cooked, drain, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, on a hot dish, and serve. Liver Ragoht.—Take a Liver (any kind), wash, dry it in a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with a little water, and boil until quite tender ; take out, and cut it into thin slices. Put some rich brown sauce into a saucepan, season with spices, add a little wine, and stew the Liver in it until Fig. 1079. Liver RagoOt. quite hot. Then serve on a dish with slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs arranged alternately round (see Fig. 1079). Liver and Salt Pork with Gravy.—Cut three slices of pickled pork in halves, and fry both sides. When cooked, take out, put them on a hot dish, and keep in a warm oven. Cut six slices of Liver, put them in the pan with the fat, and fry, dusting over with pepper while cooking. When done, take out the Liver, and put it on the dish with the pork; dredge a small quantity of flour in the pan with the fat and gravy, stir it about over the fire till well mixed, then pour in 1 teacupful of water, let it boil up, then strain the sauce over the Liver and pork, adding more salt if necessary, and serve. Liver Sauce.—(1) Put a rabbit’s Liver or two fowls’ Livers into a saucepan containing water, with a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and boil until tender; take out the Liver and herbs, add to the liquor two boned anchovies, and let them dissolve in it. Mince the Liver, herbs, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and the white of one, pound to a pulp in a mortar, adding 1 saltspoonful of grated lemon-peel and salt and pepper to taste. Return it all to the saucepan, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, thicken with a liaison of flour and butter, and stir over the fire until done. Serve hot with roasted rabbit or poultry. Gravy can be used instead of the water, and then the butter may lie omitted from the thickening. (2) Procure some poultry Livers, blanch and chop them finely. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, mix them well, then add 1 table-spoon- ful of finely-minced shallots, and fry for two or three minutes, stirring at the same time. Pour in sufficient clear gravy to make the required quantity of sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, a moderate quantity of spices and powdered sweet herbs, then put in the minced Livers and 1 wineglassful of red wine, and boil the sauce gently for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. When ready, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add about Joz. of butter, broken into pieces, stir for a minute or two, and serve. (3) Finely pound a boiled rabbit’s Liver or a couple of boiled fowls’ Livers, season with salt, pepper, and plenty of chopped parsley, put into J pint of butter sauce, boil up once, and serve. (4) Cut up very fine the boiled Livers of fowls or rabbits, also a few slices of lemon, one or two hard-boiled eggs,WINE BOTTLES AND FLASKS. 11 1. —Old Crusted Post. 2. — Sherry. 3. —Claret. 4. —Champagne. 5. —Magnum op Champagne. 6. —Magnum op Still Hock. 7. —Chianti. 8. —Yesuvia. 9.—Liebfraumilch. 10. —Vermouth. 11. —Tintara.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 865 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Iiiver—continued. Liver—continued. and a little boiled parsley, add salt to taste, mix together with butter, boil up once, and pour it over roast rabbits or fowls. (5) Procure some Livers of either rabbits, hares, or any kind of poultry, and mince them finely. Rub the interior of a small saucepan with garlic, put in loz. of butter, and a scant table-spoonful of liour, and stir it over the fire until mixed ; then put in 1 table-spoonful of minced shallot, a third of that quantity of minced parsley, and a small quantity each of finely-powdered nutmeg, thyme, marjoram, and cloves, also a small quantity of salt and pepper. Pour in f pint or more of clear stock, and stir the sauce over the fire until boiling; then put in the minced Livers, and boil for a few minutes longer. When ready to serve, add to the sauce the juice of half a lemon, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Liver Sausages.—(1) Finely chop a raw pig’s Liver and rub it through a coarse wire sieve ; mix in half its quan- tity of finely-chopped boiled pork, and about a third of the quantity of fat bacon, cut into small squares. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded cloves or allspice; then stuff it into thick pig skins, and tie round securely. The skins should be well cleansed befoie the meat is put into them. Put the sausages into a sauce- pan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, drain, leave until cold, and then serve with a dish of bread-and-butter. (2) Smoked.—Boil about lib. of cuttings of pork and an equal quantity of sward in as small a quantity of water as possible. Put a pig’s lights into hot water, and keep at the side of the fire until firm, but without boiling. The sward will require longer boiling than the meat, so it should be put over the fire first. Cut up a pig’s Liver into very small pieces, then rub through a coarse wire sieve. Finely chop all the above-mentioned ingredients, and mix them with the Liver. Season with salt, pepper, a finely-chopped onion, the grated peel of half a Lemon, and a small quantity of grated ginger. Moisten the mixture with a few table-spoonfuls of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, taking care not to make it too soft, stuff it into well-cleaned skins, only about three- parts filling them, as room must be left for swelling, and fasten securely at the ends. Put the sausages into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, drain, and hang them for three days in cool smoke. Liver Saveloys.—(1) Scrape and finely cut up lib. of pig’s Liver; chop lib. each of fat bacon and lean pork, and mix all together. Season to taste with salt, saltpetre, spices, and a -small quantity of cayenne pepper. Fry three chopped onions in fat; when cooked, drain, add them to the above mixture, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of kirschemvasser. Chop the whole together for ten minutes. Have ready washed and soaked some pig’s guts, and fill them as full as possible with the mixture. Tie them up into 4in. lengths (see Fig. 1080). Hang up the saveloys until dry, then put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil very gently for an hour. Leave the saveloys in the water until half cold, then drain, and wrap them in cloths until quite cold. (2) Chop as finely as possible 41b. of raw pig’s Liver and 21b. of fat pork; mix them and chop again for a few minutes. Season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded cloves; stuff it well into some prepared guts, filling as full as possible. Tie up into equal lengths, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling- water. Boil the saveloys very gently, keeping them well covered with water. In an hour’s time, drain, and wrap them tightly in a cloth. When cold, the saveloys are ready for serving. Liver Saveloys with Truffles.—Cut Jib. of fat Liver into small squares, and put them in a basin; peel and cut into small pieces 41b. of truffles, place them in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, and boil for two minutes ; then put them in with the Liver, and season with salt and spices. Scrape and chop 1 ill), of pig’s Liver, and pass it through a fine wire sieve; cut into small squares ljlb. each of fresh fat bacon and neck of pork. Fry the pork in lard until cooked, let it cool, then mix all the ingredients together. Season the mixture highly, adding J table-spoonful of saltpetre and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stuff some pig’s guts with the mixture, having- well cleansed and soaked them, and tie round tightly in short lengths. Hang up the saveloys for a day to dry, then put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for an hour. At the end of that time, take the saucepan away from the fire, leave the saveloys in the liquor until nearly cold, then drain and wrap them in a towel. When quite cold, the saveloys are ready for serving. They may be cut into thin slices, or served whole. Liver Soup.— Cut Jib. of Liver in slices, dredge with flour, put them in a frying-pan with one onion cut in slices and a small lump of butter, anti fry till brown ; then pound the Liver, and put it in a saucepan with the onions, a French roll cut in slices, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, anil 3 pints of rich brown broth; boil for ten minutes, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and boil up again. Put two well-beaten eggs in a soup- tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. Liver Soup a la Turque.—Wash a Liver, and cut it into little squares; put them into a saucepan with a small lump of salt and a little water, and boil till nearly cooked, then pour in 4 pints of clear soup stock, and let it simmer gently till the Liver is quite done. Put the yolks of three eggs into a small saucepan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar and the strained juice of two lemons; beat them, then stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon till thick, but they must not boil. Mix the -sauce gradually into the soup, stirring it quickly at the same time to prevent the eggs from curdling. Pour the soup into a tureen, dust a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or small crofltons of bread fried in butter. Potted Liver.—Put the Liver (any kind), with a little highly-seasoned stock, into a stewpan and braise it. When done and quite tender, cut it up very fine and put it into' a mortar and pound to a paste, adding sufficient of the stock to moisten. Take Jib. of butter, melt, strain, add it to the paste, season with salt, pepper, ground allspice and mace, and rub the whole through a fine hair sieve ; then put it into jars, cover with melted butter, and put the jars in a cool place till wr nted. Poultry Livers may be treated in the same way; if truffles or mushrooms are added, they are very good imitations of foies gras. LIVERNAISE SAUCE—See Sauces. LOACH.—A small fish (see Fig. 1081) (Nemacheilus Fig. 1081. Stone Loach. barbatula) found in our rivers, and used as food I when caught in sufficient numbers. Cooked as Smelts866 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Loach—continued. or other small fish, the flesh is very sweet but abounds in bones. LOAF CAKES.—See Cakes. LOAF SUGAR.—See Sugar. LOAVES.—See Bread. LOBSTERS (Fr. Homards; Ger. Hummer; Ital- Gamberi Marini; Sp. Laugostas).—These epicurean shell-fish (.Homarus vulgaris) need little or no description, being sufficiently well known to even the most lowly. They are caught along rocky shores, and some of the very finest are caught around Jersey, and amongst the islands north of Scotland. Imported Lobsters are brought by steam from Norway, being delivered into the London fish-markets nearly, if not quite, alive, which accounts for the display made by fishmongers of the strange-looking blue-black creatures. As soon as the Lobster is boiled, the shell turns scarlet, which will happen whether the fish was alive or dead before being put into the water. The amount of life left in a blue Lobster can be shown by the amount of claw-motion following the pressing of the eye with the finger. It is not always easy to discover whether a Lobster has been freshly boiled or not, because some fishmongers have a trick of putting a little wooden skewer in the tail, so that when springiness of that extremity is tested it cannot be straightened, which might deceive the unwary. Lobsters are generally best from April to the end of October, and should then weigh heavy and feel solid to the sense. The cock, or male Lobster, is better for boiling than the hen, or female, as the flesh is firmer, and more tasty; he can be distinguished by the brightness of the shell, and the narrowness of the tail. The hen Lobster is much broader and generally loaded with coral (or eggs) under the hinder parts, and is generally preferred, on that account, for making artistic dishes; a large variety of these being hereunder described. Aspic of Lobster.—(1) Cut some boiled Lobster-tails in slices, put them in a basin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze lemon-juice over them. Put a thin layer of aspic jelly in a plain cylinder-mould, ornament it with some hard-boiled eggs anil Lobster spawn, and leave till set, then pour in another layer of aspic jelly, Jin. thick. Spread a layer of montpellier butter Jin. thick on a baking- sheet, and on another baking-sheet spread a layer of Lobster butter Jin. thick, and stand them both on ice. Cut the montpellier and Lobster butters, when quite firm, with a round tin cutter to the size of the Lobster slices. Arrange alternately in a circle the Lobster slices and montpellier butter in the cylinder-mould, pour in enough aspic to come Jin. above them, and leave till set; then arrange a circle of Lobster slices and montpellier butter, dressing them reverse to the first circle, pour in more aspic jelly, and when set continue the alternate circles of butter and Lobster slices. When the mould is full, cover Lobster—continued. with a baking-sheet, pack it in ice, and let it remain for two hours. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, mask it -with Lobster butter, turn the aspic out of the mould on to it, garnish with chopped jelly and crofitons of jelly (see Fig. 1082), and serve. (2) Pick the meat carefully out of the tail and claws of a boiled Lobster; cut the meat of the tail into collops, and put them in a basin with the meat of the claws not cut, pour a little vinegar and oil over, anil sprinkle a little salt in. Pack a plain cylinder-mould in ice, and decorate the bottom with poached whites of eggs and sliced gherkins (the mould should be previously coated with a thin layer of aspic jelly). Pour a thick layer of jelly over the eggs and gherkins, and leave it till set, then arrange in a circle on it the finest slices of Lobster, cover with more jelly, and let that set. Mix with some thick mayonnaise a few gherkins and anchovies cut in squares, and whole capers. Pour it in the mould with more jelly, and leave it till set; finish filling the mould with jelly and slices of Lobster. Leave it in the ice for an hour. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on a cold dish. Arrange the claws of the Lobsters round, garnish the bottom of the dish with small halves of decorated hard-boiled eggs, and serve with a boatful of mayonnaise sauce. (3) Pick the flesh as large as possible out of a Lobster, and cut it into about twenty equal-sized slices. Mix 1 wineglassful of tarragon vinegar with 1 pint of white sauce, and boil till reduced to two-thirds. Dip the slices of Lobster in the sauce, and leave them till co >1; pour a layer of clear aspic jelly in the bottom of a flat cylinder-mould, and arrange in various shapes on it some whites of hard-boiled eggs, cut to resemble leaves, stars, diamonds, crescents, &c.; cover them with a little more jelly, pouring it in very carefully, so as not to disarrange them, and leave till set. Lay the slices of Lobster, slant- ingly, in a circle on the jelly, then fill the mould to the top with jelly, and place it over ice. Prepare a small quantity of finely-chopped salad. Put a teacupful of melted aspic jelly in a basin over ice, and whisk it to a white froth ; then mix with it, by degrees and alternately, some salad- oil and tarragon vinegar, allowing the oil to predominate. Continue whisking the sauce till it has the appearance of a smooth white cream, then season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Dip the mould in warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, wipe it, and turn the con- tents out on to a dish; fill the hollow in the centre with the salad, pour the sauce over the salad without allowing it to run over the jelly, and serve. (4) Put three small Lobsters in a saucepan containing boiling salted water, and boil them. When done, take the Lobsters out, stretch their tails out, and let them cool thus. Sever the tails and claws from the bodies of the cold Lobsters, open the claws, take the flesh carefully out, coat it with aspic jelly, and put it back again into the shells. Split each tail in half lengthwise, pick the flesh out, and cut it in slices. Clean anil wipe the tail shells, place a layer of chopped aspic at the bottom, then put in the slices of meat again, the red part uppermost. Fix in the centre of a pain-vert a small wooden column, ornament the pain-vert, surround the column with parsley- leaves so as to form a base for the tails, fix it on a round dish, take the six halves of tails, bending in the same direction, and arrange them on the pain-vert with the pointed ends downwards, leaning them against the column and supported at the base with chopped jelly. Put some neatly-trimmed sprigs of parsley at the top, arrange the finest claws on it, using chopped aspic and parsley to support them. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with cr hitons of aspic. Stick some prawns on an attelette- skewer, and fix it in the top of the column. Fill a sauceboat with mayonnaise sauce, and serve with the Lobster. Baked Lobster.—Pick all the meat from a large Lobster, put it into a mortar, and pound very fine together with 2oz. of butter; season to taste with white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and then mix with it 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs. Beat up two eggs, and mix them with the breadcrumbs and pounded Lobster-THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 867 Lobster—continued. meat into a paste, reserving about 1 teaspoonful of the eggs to glaze it. Shape on the dish it is to be served in to the form of a Lobster, pound the red part and the spawn, and spread this over it. Brush over with the beaten egg reserved for the purpose, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot in the dish it was baked in, with the body shells laid over it and the small claws arranged at each Fig. 1083. Baked Lobster. side underneath it to make it look as like a Lobster as possible (see Fig. 1083), and garnish with parsley at each end. Bisk of Lobster.—Two pounds of Lobster boiled in the shell will be sufficient; pound the flesh in a mortar, and put it back into a saucepan with the same water the Lobster was boiled in. Add to this lqt. of white broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, J pint of raw rice, a little pepper, but no salt; boil for forty-five minutes, then strain through a fine sieve, adding J breakfast-cupful of cream. Let it warm up without boiling, and then serve with small fried dice of bread. Boiled Lobster.—(1) Fill a large saucepan, or a fish-kettle, with water, and when boiling fast put the Lobster in, head first, so that it may be killed at once. Place the lid on, and let the Lobster boil quickly for half-an-hour or more. Take it out with the tongs, and leave till well drained; then wipe off all the scum, and mb it over with a little piece of butter tied in a cloth. Lobsters should be boiled according to their size, allowing half-an-hour for lib., and so on. (2) Choose a live Lobster which seems heavy in propor- tion to its size. Have over the fire a large saucepanful of boiling water; put in a handful of salt, plunge the Lobster head first into the boiling water, which will kill it at once, and boil steadily for twenty minutes, or until the shell turns red. Take it up, and as soon as it can be handled break off' the claws and tail, and carefully remove the soft fins which lie close to where the legs join the body. An ordinary iron can-opener is very useful in breaking apart the shell of the Lobster. After the shell is separated, so that the flesh can be reached, save all the green fat and coral, and the white curd-like substance which lies close to the shell, remove all flesh from the claws and body, and cut it into Jin. pieces; split the shell of the tail, remove and throw away the intestine which runs through the centre of the tail, and save the flesh. The Lobster will then be ready to dress. (3) Tie the claws of a large hen Lobster with string, plunge it head first into a saucepan of boiling water, put some sliced carrots, turnips, onions, a little parsley, 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, and salt in with it, and boil from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to the size of the Lobster. When done, let the Lobster remain in the water till cold, then cut the strings which bind the claws, and drain on a, sieve. Remove the spawn out of the shells, sever the claws from the body, split the Lobster lengthwise, and empty the halves of the shell, setting the creamy sub- stance aside; take the halves of the tail-meat carefully out of the shells, and garnish the inside with parsley-leaves. hohstev—continued. Cut the tail of the Lobster in slices, put them back in the shells, the red side uppermost, and place them on a dish; open the shells of the claws, and range them on the sides at one end on a bunch of parsley, putting little sprigs of parsley in the hollow between the shells. Pound to a paste in a mortar the spawn and creamy substance, and the raw yolks of six eggs ; turn it into a basin, and stir in gradually 1 table-spoonful of mustard, f- pint of oil, and nearly 1 teacupful of vinegar; add 1 pinch each of raw shallot, parsley, and tarragon, all chopped, and a sprinkling of salt and cayenne. Serve the sauce in a sauceboat with the Lobster. Broiled Lobster.—(1) After the Lobster has been boiled, split it lengthwise, and carefully pick out all the uneatable parts; open it flat, put two or three small pieces of butter on it, and dust over with pepper; place the halves of the Lobster, just as they are in their shells, on a gridiron, and heat slowly over a clear fire. When done, put them with their shells, on a hot dish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. (2) Cover the meat of the tail and claws with soft butter, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over a little flour. Put it in a broiler and cook until a delicate brown. Turn out on a dish, pour bechamel sauce round, and serve. (3) Select three medium-sized, good, fresh Lobsters, split them into halves, take out the stony pouch and intestines, glaze slightly with sweet-oil, season with small quantities of salt and pepper, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Place them on a dish, moisten with 1 gill of good maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve. (4) Split a boiled Lobster right down, lay it open, and take out the uneatable parts. Sprinkle the meat with -white pepper, salt, and cayenne, moisten it with a little thin melted-butter sauce, place small pieces of butter over it, and put the halves of the Lobster on a gridiron over a clear fire till hot through. Serve them in their shells on a napkin spread over a hot dish. (5) Procure a large Lobster, and divide the tail into two parts, splitting lengthwise. Break the large claws in two, and free the body from the small claws and stomach. Put the body back in the shell, place the meat from the claws in half of their shells, and lay the other half of the shells where they will get hot. Put the Lobster into a double broiler with the meat side exposed to the fire, and cook for eight minutes ; then turn, and cook for ten minutes longer. Put it on a hot dish, sprinkle slightly with salt and cayenne, and season well with maitre d’hotel butter. Cover the claws with the hot shells, and garnish with parsley. Broiled Lobster a la Ravigote.—Cut three small raw Lobsters each into two equal parts, taking out the gravel from the head, season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, rub with a very little oil, and broil the pieces for ten minutes. Take them from the fire, remove the meat from the heads of the Lobsters, put it in a salad-bowl with J pint of ravigote butter, and mix well together ; take the remainder of the meat from the Lobster, dip it in the sauce, and return it to its shell ; warm again for two minutes in the oven, and serve on a folded napkin, garnish- ing the shells with parsley, and serving the sauce in a sauce-bowl. Buttered Lobster.—Pick out all the meat of a Lobster, and mince it finely; mix with the coral and green inside, leav- ing out the uneatable parts, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, Jib. of fresh butter, and 1 saltspoonful each of cayenne and made mustard ; put it in a stewpan with the chojiped meat, and stir over the fire till thoroughly hot through. Wash and cut in quarters three lettuces, arrange them round a dish, pour in the hot Lobster, put some quarters of hard-boiled egg over the top, and serve at once. Canapes of Lobster.—Spread with Lobster butter a few thin slices of bread fried in butter ; digest for two hours some large Lobster collops in a marinade of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Take them out, set them in the middle of the bread, put a row of capers round each piece of Lobster, and serve on a flat dish. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 s 2868 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—co ntinu ed. Croustades of Lobster.—Pick out the flesh of a large hen Lobster, cut it into small squares, and season to taste with salt, pepper, spice, and the smallest quantity of cayenne pepper. Put loz. of butter in a mortar with some of the Lobster spawn, and pound until quite smooth, then rub it through a fine hair sieve; put another ounce of butter in a stewpan with £ table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, stir in about 1 teacupful of white stock, and add the pieces of Lobster. Continue stirring over the fire until very hot, then mix in the pounded spawn, the strained juice of a small lemon, and 4 table-spoonful of finely- minced parsley, and move the saucepan to the edge of the j fire, where the contents will keep hot without boiling. Cut some slices 2in. thick off a stale loaf, and with a round tin cutter 2in. in diameter cut them into rounds without any crust; with a paste-cutter a size smaller cut a circle half-way through the centre of each round. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, and, when it boils, put in the rounds of bread and fry them a golden brown; drain when done, and scoop out a hollow within the marked circle. Pill the croustades with the above mixture, put j them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded I napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. Curried Lobster.—(1) Put the meat out of two small | Lobsters into a saucepan with 1 teacupful each of veal gravy and cream and half a blade of mace; mix 2 tea- spoonfuls of curry powder with 1 teaspoonful of flour and loz. of butter, put it in with the Lobster, and simmer at the side of the fire for one hour; then add the strained juice of half a lemon and a little salt. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Select a large cooked Lobster, pick out all the meat, | place the body in a small saucepan with 1 pint of broth, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. Put a small onion, cut in slices, in a stewpan with a lump of butter, a quarter of a lemon, and a bunch of parsley and | thyme; stand it over the fire till the flavour is extracted from the herbs, then stir in 2 dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder mixed with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour. When cooked, strain the gravy from the body of the Lobster and mix it gradually in with the onion, &c. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes, then pass it all through a fine hair sieve, add the strained juice of a lemon, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and the picked Lobster; put all in the saucepan, stand it by the side of the fire, and let the 1 contents stew gently for half-an-hour; then boil up, turn j it into a hot dish, and serve at once. (3) Pick out all the meat from two good-sized fine freshly-boiled Lobsters, and cut it up in lin. lengths. Have a saucepan on the hot range with loz. of butter in it, add the Lobster, and cook for five minutes, season- ing with 1 pinch of salt and 4 pinch of pepper. Place in a bowl 1 table-spoonful of Indian curry and 4 wine- glassful of white wine, mix well together, then pour it in with the Lobster. Cook for two minutes longer, add 2 gills of hot German sauce, and stir briskly for one minute longer. Make a border of fresh-boiled lice all round a hot dish, dress the Lobster in the centre, and serve hot. (4) Cut the thick part of the large claws and the tails of two medium-sized raw Lobsters into pieces. Put a chopped onion in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry till nicely coloured, then put in the pieces of Lobster and fry them for a few minutes ; sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, season to taste, pour in broth to half their height, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil till the liquid is reduced to half its original quantity. Cut into fine shreds sufficient cocoa-nut to fill a teacup, put it in with the Lobster, also some of the cocoa-nut milk, stir the curry over the fire for two or three minutes, then take it off, thicken with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, beaten in a little thick cream, and strain the juice of two lemons in with it. Turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. The rice should be well washed before boiling. (5) Pick the meat out of the shells of the Lobster and cut it into nice-sized pieces ; peel and slice two onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry Lobster—continued. until lightly browned; then dredge in 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and flour, stir until well mixed, adding more butter if necessary, pour in 1 pint of good gravy, put in the coral of the Lobster, pounded, and let the whole simmer for half-an-hour, stirring often. Afterwards strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Lobster with the juice of one lemon and salt to taste, and simmer gently for half-an-hour longer. At the end of that time, stir in 4 teacupful of thick cream, turn the Lobster on to a hot dish, garnish with a border of plain boiled rice, and serve. (6) Finely chop an onion, put it into a small saucepan together with 1 heaped table-spoonful of chopped thyme and parsley mixed, 1 table-spoonful of hot water, and Hoz. of butter. Cover the saucepan, and when the contents begin to simmer add | pint of strong veal or chicken broth, let this boil for five minutes, and then strain ; mix with it 1 table-spoonful each of cornflour and curry powder, put it over the fire and boil for ten minutes, stirring frequently. After it has boiled, stir in 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, all the meat of a large Lobster minced rather fine, and lastly the strained juice of one lemon ; then cover the saucepan, and put it into a large pan of boiling water over the fire for ten minutes, stir occasionally, but do not let the curry boil after the Lobster is in. Serve it in a deep dish with some very thin slices of hot buttered toast and pieces of lemon in a separate dish. (7) Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, shake about till it begins to colour, then put into it the meat of a Lobster picked from the shell and chopped small, and fiy till evenly browned. Then take out, and fry in the same butter three good-sized onions chopped fine ; when they begin to get tender, pour in 1 pint of good gravy, and either 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, or a large sour baking apple, peeled, cored, and sliced. Add also the heart of a small cabbage, and the hearts of two or three lettuces cut in fine shreds, a couple of tomatoes with all the seeds picked out, and three or four small pickled gherkins. Stew all these to a thick pulp ; should it get too diy stir in a little more gravy. Mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, and 3 teaspoonfuls of curry powder, put in the fish, and simmer for forty-five minutes or an hour. Serve on a hot dish with a border of boiled rice round it. Devilled Lobster.—(1) Open two Lobsters each weighing about 24lb., pick out the meat and cut it up rather fine. In opening be careful not to break the body or tail shells; wash these shells, wipe diy, and place them in the form of a boat so that they may hold the prepared meat. Put 1 pint of cream on to boil. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour, 1 table-spoonful of mustard, and a little pepper all together, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of the boiling cream. Stir all into the remaining cream, and cook for two minutes. Add the Lobster, a little salt and pepper, and boil for one minute. Fill the shells with the mixture, and place the in on a baking-sheet with ashes to keep them in position. Cover with 1 pint of breadcrumbs, and brown in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve on a long narrow dish, the body in the centre, the tails at either end. Garnish with parsley. (2) Take all the meat from a large Lobster, breaking the shell as small as possible. Pound the coral in a mortar, together with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, or mb to a smooth paste with the back of a wooden spoon. Mince the meat fine, stir into it nearly |lb. of butter well softened in front of the fire, a seasoning of cayenne pepper and salt, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard and the paste of coral-and-eggs. Put the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and stir till smoking hot. Have the shell ready washed in hot water, dried and warmed, and serve the devilled Lobster in it as hot as possible. (3) Cut into dice 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Lobster, season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, chopped parsley, onion- juice, mustard, and Worcestershire sauce, and mix in 1 tea- cupful of cream sauce. Fill the body-shells of two Lobsters with this mixture, put the two shells together on a dish with the tail ends out, to look like a canoe. Cover the meat with cracker crumbs moistened with melted butter,869 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. and bake till the crumbs are brown. Before serving lay the small claws over the sides to represent oars. Garnisli Fig. 1084. Devilled Lobster. both ends of the canoe with sprays of parsley (see Fig. 1084). Fried Lobster.—(1) Pick the meat carefully out of the tail and claws of a Lobster, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, and brush the meat with it, roll it in breadcrumbs, let them dry on, then repeat the operation. Put it in a frying-basket, plunge it in boiling fat, and fry till brown. Drain and put the Lobster- meat on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce. (2) Split the meat of the tail and claws, season well with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-basket, and fry in boil- ing fat till of a golden brown. Serve with Tartar sauce. (3) Put a large carrot and onion, chopped, in a stewpan with a piece of butter, fry till lightly browned, then pour in 1 pint of Madeira and a little broth, and add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. When boiling, plunge two live Lobsters into it, and continue boiling for twelve minutes. Leave the Lobsters to cool in the liquor, then drain, pick the meat from the tails and claws, cut it in slices, put it in a thickly-buttered frying-pan, and keep it warm near the fire. Strain the liquor in which the Lobsters were cooked, boil till reduced, adding a few table-spoonfuls of Madeira, finish with 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, a little butter, 1 pinch of cayenne, and the strained juice of one lemon. Put the slices of Lobster in the frying-pan over a brisk fire, turning occasionally, then arrange them Fig. 1085. Fried Lobster. on a hot dish, pour over the sauce (see Fig. 1085), and serve. Fried Lobster Balls.—Pick out all the meat of a hen Lobster, put it in a mortar with the coral and spawn, and pound ; sprinkle in a little salt and cayenne pepper, and mix with it two-tliirds its quantity of breadcrumbs. Warm 2oz. of fresh butter, put it with the Lobster mixture to bind it, and shape the preparation into balls about the size of a large duck’s egg, dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the balls over with it, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in boiling fat, and fry lightly. When cooked, drain on paper; place a folded napkin on a hot dish, put the balls on it, and serve while hot. Lobsters a l’Americaine.—Split two fine, good-sized, freshly- boiled Lobsters, remove all the meat carefully, and cut it up into pieces lin. in length. Have ready a pan on the hot range with h gill of good olive oil, and when the oil is very hot add the pieces of Lobster. Chop very fine one medium-sized peeled onion, one sound green pepper, and half a clove of peeled very sound garlic; add all to the Lobster—continued. Lobster, and cook for five minutes, gently stirring. Season with 1 pinch of salt and \ saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also J wineglassful of good white wine. Reduce for two minutes, add 1 gill of tomato sauce, and one medium-sized sound, red, peeled tomato cut into small dice- shaped pieces, and cook for ten minutes longer, stirring gently. Pour the whole into a very hot deep dish, or into a hot tureen, and serve. Lobsters a la Bordelaise.—(1) Select two nice-sized Lobsters, cut each into eight pieces, crack the claws without spoil- ing the shape, put them in a saucepan, and cover with some white wine, a little garlic, two laurel-leaves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, and a little pepper and salt; put the lid on the saucepan and let the mixture boil for twenty-five minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burn- ing. When cooked, take each piece of Lobster out, dry in a cloth, and put them in a clean saucepan. Fry a few slices of onions and shallots in butter, and when browned stir in a little Hour, cook it, then pour in some of the liquor (strained) in which the pieces of Lobster were cooked. Continue stirring over the fire for ten minutes, then mix in 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, 1 pinch of cayenne, the pieces of Lobster, and warm them again. Arrange the Lobsters on a hot dish in such a way that they will have the appearance of not being cut, put the claws round, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Break off the claws of a large uncooked Lobster, and cut the tail and body in four pieces ; saw the shell of the claws through in three places, but do not separate them. Put the Lobster in a saucepan with a slice of onion, a sprig or two of parsley, a little pepper and salt, and sufficient white wine to cover, and boil till done. Fry in butter till brown two or three carrots and onions, cut in very small dice, pour over them a little Madeira, and boil till reduced so as to glaze them; then add some Spanish sauce and the liquor in which the Lobster was cooked, strained through a fine sieve. Boil till reduced, then put in some chopped parsley and cayenne pepper. Arrange the Lobster on a dish, pour over the sauce, and I serve. Lobsters en Casserole.—Cut the tails of some boiled Lobsters into collops (small pieces) Jin. thick, and arrange them in a circle on a silver casserole. Fry some chopped shallots in a little butter for two or three minutes, then pour in a little Madeira, and finish cooking. When done, pour over the shallots some Spanish sauce and tomato puree mixed in equal quantities, stir and boil it for five minutes, and dust in a little cayenne pepper. Cut the meat of the Lobster claws in small dice, put it in the centre of the casserole, pour over the sauce, stand the casserole in the oven for ten minutes to warm the Lobster, and serve. Lobsters a la Chef de Cuisine.—Select three fresh Lobsters, each weighing 21b., boil in 'salted water for ten minutes, take out, and let them cool for about eighteen minutes. Split them lengthwise into halves, pick out all the meat, reserving the shells for further use. Chop the tail parts, coral, and claws into pieces Jin. thick by Jin. wide. Put a saute-pan containing Joz. of butter on the hot stove, add a chopped shallot, also the minced Lobster, and season with 1 pinch of salt, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and J wineglassful of white wine; let the whole reduce for ten minutes, stirring it meanwhile with a wooden spoon. Add 1 table-spoonful of tomato sauce, 4 table-spoonfuls of870 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'r,, referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. Spanish sauce, and six mushroom-stalks chopped up very fine. Cook well for ten minutes longer, and set the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm. Clean out the shells of the Lobsters, pare off the ends, and fill the shells vuth the prepared Lobster; lay them on a tin plate, and pour over the remainder of the sauce. Set them in the hot oven to bake for five minutes, remove them, put them on a hot dish over which has been piled some watercress, garnish with a few cooked mushrooms (see Fig. 1086), and send to the table. Lobster a la Creme.—Mince Mb. of Lobster-meat, put it into a basin with 1 gill each of white sauce and aspic jelly, 1 table-spoonful of mayonnaise sauce, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix well, let it steam in a saucepan of boiling water until quite hot, and serve in ramakin-cases with browned breadcrumbs sprinkled over. Lobster a la Liable.—Procure a large Lobster • put three finely-minced shallots in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and the brown meat of the crab; fry until the shallots are lightly browned, then pour in \ pint of milk, add \ table-spoonful of chutney, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. Stir the whole over the fire un il thickened; chop the meat of the Lobster and stir it into the sauce. Have ready a large metal table-shell, fill it wit the Lobster mixture, level it smoothly over the surface, strew a layer of grated breadcrumb over the top, baste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brown the top under a salamander or in a brisk oven. Spread Fig. 1087. Lobster 1 la Diable. a folded napkin over a dish, place the shell in the middle, garnish with fresh green parsley (see Fig. 1087), and serve. Lobster au Gratia.—(1) Put a live Lobster in boiling fish broth; when cooked, drain, and split it in halves length- wise, pick the meat out of the tail and claws, cut it into small dice, and mix in an equal quantity of mushrooms, also cut in dice. Put the coral of the Lobster in a mortar with a little butter, pound, and pass it through a fine hair sieve Put a few table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce in a stewpan with a little cream and melted glaze, stir over the fire till reduced one fourth, then mix with it the dice of Lobster and mushrooms, sprinkle in a little cayenne, and add the pounded coral. Clean the two shells of the Lobster, fill them with the preparation, sprinkle breadcrumbs on the top, pour a little warmed butter over each, and brown them under a salamander. Put a folded napkin on a dish, lay the shells of Lobster on it, and serve at once. (2) Split some small Lobsters lengthwise into halves; pick the meat out of the shells, and cut it into slices, reserving the shells for further use. Put a small chopped onion into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and stir over a quick fire for a few minutes, then pour in 1 pint of white sauce, and stir till boiled down to two-thirds its original quantity. Put the flesh of the Lobster in the sauce, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and essence of anchovies, stir it over the fire for a minute or so, then move it to the side, and mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs; it must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle. Clean out the shells of the Lobster, fill them with the mixture, cover each with a layer of grated breadcrumb, and brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten eggs. Place the shells in a quick oven for ten minutes, and brown under a salamander. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, garnish with a few neat sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve while very hot. Lobster—continued. Lobster a la Provenqale.—Cut a Lobster, uncooked, as for Lobster a la Bordelaise, No. 2, and put the pieces in a saucepan with an onion, a small clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, a small piece of thyme, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and a little oil. Cook the Lobster, and, when done, take the pieces out, drain, and put them in another sauce- pan. Put a little Madeira, brandy, and Spanisli sauce with the herbs in the saucepan, and boil till reduced; strain the sauce through a fine sieve on to the Lobster, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot again.. Arrange the pieces of Lobster on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Lobster a la St. Malo.—Split a cooked Lobster length- wise into halves, and pick out all its flesh. Cut the best part into collops, and put the remainder into a mortar with the coral and about 2oz. of butter, and pound until quite smooth; then rub the paste through a fine sieve. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy and £ te~- cupful of thick cream into a lined stewpan, and boil until somewhat reduced, then stir in well 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick tomato sauce and the pounded mixture, and season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Butter a shell, strew some finely-minced truffles at the bottom, dip the Lobster collops in the sauce, and put them in the shell; pour the remainder of the sauce over the top, and strew over hi moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley, shallot, and grated breadcrumb ; distribute a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake until nicely browned hi a brisk oven. Serve the Lobster while hot hi the shell. Lobster a la St. Stephen.—Select a fresh Lobster, and chop the meat into small pieces. Put it into a sautii- pan with 1 gill of salad-oil, and cook for five minutes; then pour oh' the oil, and put in 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, a little pepper, salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and garlic, and 2 table-spoonfuls of Chablis ; let this boil for about five minutes, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and boil for a few minutes longer. Dish up the Lobster, add loz. of butter and a little lemon-juice to the sauce, boil up again, pour it over the Lobster, and serve. Lobster Bouchees.—Pick the flesh from the shell of a Lobster, cut it into small pieces, and put them hito a saucepan with some Lobster sauce. Prepare some puff paste, give it six turns, then roll it out flat on a floured table. With a fluted cutter, 2in. in diameter, cut out eighteen rounds, put them on to a baking-sheet, rest them on ice for ten minutes, then brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. With a plain tin cutter, 1 jin. in diameter, cut through a third of the thickness of the paste, dipping the cutter in warm water every time—this will form the cover when baked. Put the bouchees in a quick oven, and bake them. When cooked, lift off the inner circle of the bouchees, scoop out a little of the soft paste inside, and smooth over the surface with the handle of a knife. Have the Lobster ready warmed, turn it into the bouchees, and put on the covers. Arrange them on a folded table-napkin, or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve. Lobster Brochettes.—Take ljlb. of the flesh of a freshly- boiled Lobster, cut it into 2in. squares, lay them in a bowl season with 1 good pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, j pinch of nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and871 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. mix all well together. Procure six silver skewers ; arrange in the centre of one a piece of Lobster, then a mushroom, another piece of Lobster, and another mushroom. Continue the same for the other skewers. Place them in the broiler, and broil for eight minutes, turning over carefully occa- sionally. Remove from the broiler, dress them on a hot dish on six slices of broiled bacon, pour over 1 gill of maitre d’hotel butter and serve very hot. See Fig. 1088. Lobster Butter.—(1) Take out the head and spawn of two boiled hen Lobsters, put them in a mortar, and pound; add an equal quantity of fresh butter, and pound them both together till thoroughly well mixed. Pass them through a fine hair sieve, and the butter is then ready for use. It is very handy for garnishing or making sandwiches. (2) Put the spawn of a cooked Lobster in a mortar, pound, then mix with it a little fresh butter and 1 tea- spoonful of mustard. Pass all through a fine hair sieve and it is ready for use. Lobster Cake.—Pick the meat out of two boiled Lobsters, put it in a mortar with half its quantity of chopped lean raw ham, and one-third of beef-marrow, and pound well; then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and a slice of crumb of bread soaked in a little cream, and season to taste with pounded mace, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; then mix in the Lobster spawn. Line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, put the mixture into it, pressing it down well, lay a few more slices of bacon on the toji, cover the mould, and bake for an-hour-and-a- half. At the end of that time take the cake out of the oven, and let it remain in the mould until cold. Turn it out of the mould, removing all the fat, on to a dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly and neat groups of washed parsley, and serve. Lobster Chowder.—Put lqt. of milk into a pan, and boil it. Then take three crackers, roll them very fine, mix them with 2oz. of butter and the green fat of a Lobster, and season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, h saltspoonful of pepper, and half the latter quantity of cayenne. Pour the boiling milk slowly over the paste, turn the whole into a double boiler, or a bain-marie, and put in lib. of the meat of Lobsters cut into small dice, boil up very fast, and serve. Lobster Cream.—(1) Pick the flesh out of a Lobster, and chop it small; put it into a saucepan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, moisten with J table-spoonful of vinegar and 1 teaspoonful of sherry, stir over the fire until hot, then dredge it lightly with flour, and add 2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of cream. Boil the mixture slowly for ten minutes, stirring it at the same time. Wash the body-shell of the Lobster, and dry well, then pour the mixture into it. Place a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper on a dish, put the Lobster on it, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Pick all the flesh out of two mo derate-sized Lobsters, cut it into small pieces, then put them in a mortar with the spawn, and pound until reduced to a smooth paste ; next rub through a fine hair sieve, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of thick cream Fig. 1089. Lobster Cream. to bring it to the consistency of a thick puree. Turn the mixture into a small lined saucepan, and stir over the fire until hot. Fill some small fancy paper cases with the mixture, and when quite cold stand them on a dish over Lobster—continued. which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, sprinkle some of the spawn on the top of each, also a small quantity of very finely-chopped parsley and serve. See Fig. 1089. (3) Take from a Lobster sufficient meat to fill 2 break - fastcups, and cut it fine; make 1 pint of white sauce, heat the Lobster in the sauce, and season with a little salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Serve on toast. Lobster Croquettes.—(1) Carefully pick out all the meat from a large boiled Lobster, mince it finely, then mix with it 1 heaped-up teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 table-spoonfuls oi thick cream, the strained juice of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and stir in a saucepan over the fire till very hot. Then take it off, mix in the beaten yolk of one egg, and leave till cold. Shape the Lobster preparation into little balls, brush over with beaten egg, plunge them in boiling fat, and fry. When cooked, drain, arrange the croquettes on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Procure from a Lobster sufficient meat to fill 2 breakfast-cups, cut it fine, season with 1 saltspoonful each of salt and mustard, a little cayenne, and mix it with a cupful of thick cream sauce. When cool, shape it into rolls, dip first in egg, and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on a paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Cook 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and | table-spoonful of flour together till they bubble; add \ teacupful of cream and the meat of a 21b. Lobster cut fine, a little salt and pepper, and when hot, an egg well beaten. When cool, shape, dip in heaten egg and cracker-crumbs, and fry. (4) Take a fine large Lobster, pound all that is eatable in a mortar, mix with it 1 teacupful of sifted bread- crumbs and a seasoning of pepper and salt; mix in then about 2oz. of butter warmed till very soft, and the beaten yolk of one egg. With floured hands roll the paste into pieces all the same size, brush them over with beaten egg, roll in sifted breadcrumbs, fry in boiling lard or dripping to a nice golden brown, and drain on kitchen-paper. Arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and garnish with a border of fried parsley. (5) Pick the meat out of a Lobster, cut it in dice, and mix with it an equal quantity of mushrooms, also cut in dice; measure the above, and for each breakfast-cui>ful use 1 teacupful of thin veloute sauce. Put the sauce in a stewpan, boil it till reduced, then thicken with a liaison of egg and Lobster butter. Mix the Lobster and mush- rooms in the sauce, then take it off the fire, and leave till cold. Shape the preparation when ready into equal- sized balls or corks, dip them in beaten eggs that have been mixed with oil, pepper, and salt, then roll them well in breadcrumbs. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when boiling, put in the croquettes, and fry them till crisp and lightly browned. When cooked, drain them on a cloth, sprinkle with salt, put a folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange the croquettes on it, and serve with tomato sauce. Perigueux or poivrade sauces can be used instead of tomato. (6) Pick the flesh out of the shell of a good-sized Lobster, mince finely, and mix with it about a quarter the quan- tity of finely-grated breadcrumb, seasoning with salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon-juice and anchovy sauce, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg. Moisten with cream, keeping it rather thick. Put the mixture into a stewpan, stir it over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until hot, move it to the side, stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, turn it on to a plate, and leave until cool. When ready mould the mixture into small egg-shaped pieces, brush them over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard. When nicely and equally browned, take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the croquettes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (7) Indian.—Pick the flesh out of a Lobster, and cut it into small squares; mix with them a moderate quantity ofS72 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. . For details respect inj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. finely-chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and a very little cayenne pepper. Put ljoz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until well blended, then put in the Lobster, moistening it with a small quantity of fish stock, but do not make it too liquid, and stir over the fire until hot. Beat and strain the yolks of two eggs, move the Lobster mixture to the side of the fire, and stir them in. Spread the preparation on to a plate, let it get cold, divide it into small equal-sized portions, which roll to the form of pears with a fancy top, dip them in beaten egg-and-bread- crumbs, lay on a dish, and set in a cool place for an hour. Afterwards egg-and-breadcrumb the croquettes again ; put a large piece of lard in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling, put in the croquettes, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As each oue is done, take it out of the fat and drain on paper in front of a fire. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish- paper over a hot dish, pile the croquettes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1090. Lobster Cutlets.—(1) Select one large hen Lobster and two smaller ones, pick out the meat, put it in a mortar with part of its coral, and pound, mixing with it a little powdered mace, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and cayenne; beat the yolks of two eggs and the white of one together with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; then mix them with the above ingredients. Roll the paste out 2in. thick, sprinkle a little flour over, and form it into cutlets ; dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the cutlets with it, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling butter. Put 1 pint of melted butter in a small saucepan with the coral and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and make it hot. When the cutlets are nicely browned, drain, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. (2) Choose a Lobster weighing from 21,1b. to 31b. ; take out the meat, cut it into small dice, and season with salt and pepper. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a sauce- pan near the fire, and when it. has melted, mix in 1 table- spoonful of Hour, and work it to a smooth paste; add 1 teacupful of good stock, a well-beaten egg,' and season with salt and pepper. Put it over the fire, and when it boils, add the Lobster, remove from the fire at once, and pour' it on to a buttered dish or platter to about lin. thick. Smooth it with a knife, and when cool cut it into shapes like cutlets, dip each one first into well-beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, taking care to cover all over, put them into the frying-basket, place in a frying- pan with boiling fat, and fry for two minutes, or until they are of a rich brown. Take them out, drain, and put a part of a small claw into the small end of each one to represent a cutlet-bone. Arrange them in an upright circle on a pain-vert on a hot dish, overlapping each other, put a _ bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and garnish with eight round timbales of Lobster in aspic jelly. See Fig. 1091. J (3) Finely chop the flesh of a fresh Lobster, put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, stir Lobster—continued. them over the fire until well mixed, pour in about § breakfast-cupful of water, and when it is quite smooth add | teacupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Stir the sauce over the fire until thick and boiling, then put in the Lobster and mix thoroughly. Spread the mixture out on a plate, leave it until quite cold, then divide it into moderate-sized pieces, which trim to the shape of cutlets, dredging them well with flour. Dip in beaten egg, cover them with finely-sifted breadcrumbs, put them into a flat stewpan of boiling fat, and fry to a bright golden brown. Take each cutlet out of the fat as it is done, and place it on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain for a minute or two. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cutlets on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Boil a Lobster; remove the meat, and cut it into small dice-shaped pieces, saving the coral and green fat. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a thick saucepan over the fire, and stir until they bubble; gradu- ally mix in b pint of milk or cream, add the Lobster, together with the coral and fat, and a rather high season- ing of salt and cayenne. Stir the mixture constantly until it is very hot, then take it from the fire and stir in the yolks of two raw eggs and 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine or sherry. Put the mixture into a dish to cool. When cold, make it up into the form of small chops or cutlets, shaping them with the hands damped with cold water, and, as the chops are made, lay them in a platter containing plenty of cracker-dust. Put a frying-kettle half full of fat to heat; beat two eggs till smooth, dip the choirs into the egg, and lay them again in the cracker- dust. When the fat begins to smoke, put the chops into it and fry. When they are a golden brown colour, take them out with a skimmer, lay on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, put a small Lobster claw in each one, and serve garnished with fried parsley. (5) Take about 4lb. of Lobster-meat and cut it small. Rub the coral through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Put the til), of Lobster-meat into a mortar, adding to it,, when partially pounded, loz. of fresh butter, nearly 1 dessert-spoonful of the coral after it has been rubbed through the sieve, nearly 1 saltspoonful of salt, and b saltspoonful of mixed cayenne and mace, and continue to pound and mix till all are beaten together into a very fine smooth paste; then taste it, and if not sufficiently seasoned add more cayenne and mace, but be careful not to overdo it. Form the paste into small cutlets about Jin. thick ; stick into the end of each one a short piece of the smallest claws; strew some coral (that has been rubbed like the other through a sieve) over them, arrange nicely on a dish, put them into a rather cool oven for eight or ten minutes just to make them hot through, taking care not to let the bright colour of the coral get spoiled, and serve. (6) Take a large hen Lobster, pick all the meat out of the shell, and pound it fine in a mortar, together with a small quantity of salt, cayenne pepper, and chopped parsley, and half the coral. Beat into it 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg beaten up with 1 table spoonful of anchovyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 873 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, sec under their special heads. Lobster—continued. sauce, and about ^lb. of flour. Mix the flour in very thoroughly, then roll the paste out about fin. thick. Cut this into strips about lin. wide and 3in. long; fry in boiling lard or dripping, and lay them on kitchen-paper to drain. Have ready in a small saucepan at the side of the fire J pint of butter sauce, and stir into this half the coral of the Lobster, pounded fine, and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; let it come nearly to the boil and then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream. Arrange the cutlets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Cutlets in Aspic.—Take out all the meat of a couple of Lobsters, put it into a mortar with a little cayenne and 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and pound well, adding a small lump of Lobster butter and 1 teacupful of warm aspic jelly. When these are well incorporated, turn the mixture out on to a flat dish, spreading it to about Jin. in thickness; let it get icy cold, and cut it up into the shape of cutlets, working the trimmings up and using them as well. Pour 1J pints of white sauce into a sauce- pan with the Lobster heads finely chopped or broken, reduce it, and add a little red Lobster spawn rubbed through a fine sieve, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and sufficient dissolved gelatine to make it set. Pass this sauce through a fine sieve into a basin packed in ice, stir it well until nearly cold, mask the cutlets with it before it is quite firm, and let it remain until wanted. Decorate the cutlets with truffles and the whites of hard- boiled eggs cut into various shapes, and cover them with more of the jelly. Pack a sufficient number of small cutlet-moulds in ice, pour in a little of the jelly slightly warmed, place the cutlets in carefully, and fill up the moulds with more of the jelly; turn them all out on to a dish when set, put a garnish of chopped lettuce, hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and small lumps of coloured aspic round them, and serve. Lobster-and-Egg Patties.—Boil two eggs until hard, then shell them and put them into a mortar with J teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and dry mustard, and a small quantity of pepper. Pound the mixture well, and moisten it with 1 table-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, and J table-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Butter some small patty-pans, and line them with the mixture. Fill each pan with either fresh-boiled or tinned Lobster chopped small, then cover with a layer of the egg mixture. Strew a small quantity of breadcrumbs over the top, put a small lump of butter on each, and place in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, turn the patties out of the tins on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Forcemeat.—(1) Fry an onion chopped very fine in loz. of butter until it is a golden colour, adding 1 table-spoonful of flour to make a roux. Moisten with J pint of stock, stirring well and continuously until the sauce hardens. Season with J table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of white pepper, the same of cayenne, 1 table- spoonful of English sauce, J teaspoonful of mustard, a j crushed grain of garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well, adding 21b. of cooked Lobster, cut up very fine, with twelve mushrooms, also chopped up small. Cook for thirty minutes in a saucepan, then put it back off the hot fire ; add the yolks of four eggs, stir again for a moment, cool, and use as required. (2) Take the flesh of a Lobster, the larger the better, and pound it in a mortar with half an anchovy, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a small piece of boiled celery, a little cayenne, and salt and pepper; add | pint of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, and two eggs to bind it. Form the forcemeat into small balls, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown colour. A few oysters, if added, are a great improvement, b or fisb, soups, or stews, these balls are excellent. Lobster Fricassee.—(1) Select two moderately large Lobsters and partially boil them. Pick the flesh out of the claws and tails, and cut it into small pieces; put it into Lobster—continued. a saucepan with nearly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bechamel sauce, and let the contents stew gently for ten minutes. Strain the juice of half a lemon in the fricassee, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Take all the meat of a large Lobster, cut it into pieces about Jin. square, put them over the fire in a saucepan together with J pint of good veal broth or chicken broth (the broth ought to be quite a jelly) and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let them simmer for five minutes ; then add 1 gill of cream, and when it is again at the point of boiling stir in loz. of butter; as soon as this is quite melted, take the saucepan from the fire, stir in quickly the strained juice of half a lemon, pour the fricassee into a covered dish, and serve. Boston crackers, split, toasted, and buttered hot, may be served with it. (3) Pick all the flesh out of the shell of a Lobster; put 1 table-spoonful of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, then pour in 1 teacupful of cream and 2 scant teacupfuls of milk ; continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, put in the Lobster-meat, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and let the contents boil gently for fifteen minutes. Squeeze in the juice of one Lemon, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, and serve. Lobster Fritters.—(1) Finely chop the meat of a Lobster and a few skinned prawns ; put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss over the fire until hot. Prepare some y 'ood paste, roll it out about Jin. in thickness, cut it into 'ounds with a tin cutter ljin. in diameter, put them into a flat stewpan of boiling lard or butter, and fry until nicely browned; drain them, pile some of the Lobster mixture on each, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Pick the meat from a boiled Lobster and cut it into collops as evenly as possible. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when this fat is boiling put in the collops, after dipping each piece into frying-batter in which has been mixed a few drops of essence of anchovies and a little cayenne pepper, and fry quickly. When cooked, drain them, arrange on a hot dish, and serve at once. Lobster Ketchup.—Take a Lobster that weighs 31b. or as near that weight as possible, pick out all the meat, and pound the coral in a mortar. When that is well pounded, add the meat, pound both together, and mix in 1 tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper. Open a bottle of sherry, use a little of it to moisten the meat during the pounding, and when all is pounded smooth add the remainder of the bottle of sherry, and mix it well in. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into two wide-necked bottles, putting on tbe top of each 1 table-spoonful of whole pepper; cork the bottles well, and tie leather over the corks. This ketchup will keep for a year. It tastes just like fresh Lobster sauce. One teacupful of it is sufficient to flavour a large sauce-tureenful of melted-butter sauce. Lobster Loaf or Cheese.—Take out the flesh from the claws of six Lobsters without breaking; pick the flesh out of the bodies of the Lobsters, and chop it finely. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it with a wooden spoon Then pour in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and continue stirring over tbe fire till boiling, keeping it very smooth ; season the mixture with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and 1 teaspoonful each of anchovy and Worcestershire sauces. Beat four eggs well, stir them into the above ingredients, moving the sauce- pan oft' the fire, and add the chopped body flesh of the Lobsters. Butter a cylinder-mould, pour the mixture into it, tie a sheet of paper over the top, put it in a saucepan, with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam gently for forty-five minutes. Put J table-spoonful of cornflour in a saucepan, mix in gradually J pint of clear brown stock, and stir it over the fire till boiling ; season this sauce with a squeeze of lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne pepper; put the legs of the Lobsters in, and warm them. Turn the Lobster out of the mould on to a hot dish, stick a head at the top and a pair of claws at theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 874 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. Lobster—continued. sides (see Fig. 1092), and pour the sauce round it. If there was any coral with the Lobster, it should be nibbed Fig. 1092. Lobster Loaf or Cheese. through a fine hair sieve over it, having washed and dried the whole beforehand. Garnish round with the legs. Lobster Mayonnaise.—(1) Take the flesh out of one or two Lobsters, and cut it into pieces of a convenient size. Have a border mould, and pour into it a layer (about Jin. thick) of pale-coloured aspic jelly just sufficiently melted. When tlie jelly begins to set, arrange round and over it some of the pieces of Lobster and a few tarragon-leaves, filling up by degrees with jelly. Put the mould in a cold place, and when the jelly is firmly set turn it out on a dish; fill the centre with lettuce cut into shreds, and mixed with the remainder of the Lobster seasoned with pepper, salt, tarragon vinegar, and oil. Heap the lettuce and Lobster high, and cover it with mayonnaise sauce laid on very evenly. Garnish the heap of salad and the top of the mould with capers, stoned olives, 'tarragon, chervil, and garden cress chopped very fine, slices of hard-boiled eggs, slices of truffles, anil the coral of the Lobster. (2) Having procured a large boiled Lobster, separate the tail from the body, split both in two, break the claws off, and crack them; arrange them on a dish, putting the body in the centre, and some little sprigs of fresh parsley round. Fill a sauceboat with mayonnaise sauce, and serve with the Lobster. Lobster Omelet.—(1) Take 6oz. of boiled Lobster-meat and cut it into small pieces ; put them into a saute-pan with 1 wineglassful of white wine and J'oz. of butter, moisten with J pint of strong, hot bechamel sauce, and let them cook for five minutes. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, and with a skimmer place the stewed Lobster in the middle, fold over the side opposite the handle, lay in more garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) Cut the flesh of a small Lobster into little pieces, and season it with salt and pepper. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, mix them well over the fire, then pour in 1 teacupful of stock; stir it until boiling, when put in the Lobster and the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the whole quickly without allowing it to boil. Make one or two plain omelets, spread the above mixture over them, and fold up. Put a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the omelets on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Patties.—(1) Pick the meat out of one or two Lobsters, and chop it very finely with the spawn; mix with it half its bulk of finely-grated breadcrumb, about 2oz. of butter, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sweet herbs. Bind the mixture to a smooth paste with the beaten yolk of one egg and a small quantity of white wine. Make some puff paste, roll it out to Jin. in thickness, and line some buttered patty-pans with it; put in each a lump of bread about the size of a walnut, then cover with flats of putt' paste, trimming them off neatly, and moistening and pressing them together round the edges. Brush lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. Put the Lobster mixture into a small lined saucepan, and stir it over the fire until hot; when the patties are cooked, lift the covers off, remove the bread, and fill them with the Lobster. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a dish, arrange the patties on it, garnish them with neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. (2) Pick all the meat from a Lobster, chop it small, and put it over the fire in a saucepan with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, a small quantity of lemon-peel, a little cream, and a bit of butter, and let them stew for two minutes. Line some small patty-pans with puff paste, put a small quantity of the Lobster-meat into each, cover with puff paste, and bake in a pretty quick oven. (3) Boil a Lobster in fish broth. When cooked, drain it, split the shell, pick out all the eatable parts, and clop very finely. Put it in a small stewpan with a little bechamel sauce, and when warm stir hi a little Lobster butter; line some patty-pans, previously buttered, with puff paste of six turns, glaze them with wuite of egg, cut some small rounds of the paste, put them on the top, glazing them also, and bake in a quick oven. When done, take the patties out, cut the covers off carefully with a sharp penknife, fill them with the Lobster preparation, arrange on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, put a few dainty sprigs of fried parsley here and there, and serve while very hot. (4) Cut eighteen pieces out of some Jin. thick rolled puff paste (see Pastes) of six turns with a fluted cutter 2in. in diameter, put them on a baking-sheet, and let it rest on ice for ten minutes. Dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush them over with it, dip a plain ljin. cutter in hot water, and cut through one-third of the thickness of the paste in the centre of each to form the covers when baked. Put these in a brisk oven, and when baked take off the covers, trim out the inside of the patties, and smooth them with the handle of a knife. Cut the flesh of a Lobster into Jin. dice, fill the patties with it, pour some hot Lobster sauce over them, put the covers on, arrange on a dish, and serve. Lobster Pie.—(1) Pick out all the eatable meat from a boiled Lobster, put it in a mortar, and pound well, seasoning with salt, mustard, cayenne pepper, and vinegar. Then mix with it Jib. of butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb. Line a small dish with puff paste, put the Lobster preparation in, place a cover of the paste over, ornament the top of the pie with some leaves and flowers cut out of the paste, put it hi a moderate oven, and bake slowly. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Pick the meat out of the tails of two or three Lobsters, previously boiled, and cut it into pieces; put the meat from the claws and the spawn in a mortar, and pound them, mixing with them 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 table- spoonful of essence of anchovies (see Anchovies), and a little pepper and salt. Warm Alb. of butter, mix with it the finely-sifted crumb of a small French roll and the well- beaten yolks of ten eggs, then mix all with the pounded spawn. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put the meat from the tails of the Lobsters in, place the other preparation over them, cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, and make a hole in the toil. Dip a paste-brusli in beaten egg, brush over the top of the pie, bake it for an-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Take out the flesh from the tails of two large or three small boiled Lobsters, cut them in halves, put them in a small dish together with the underneath part of the bodies,875 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, d-e., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobs ter—co ntinued. each cut into quarters and the uneatable parts removed, and add the flesh from the claws. Pound the spawn in a mortar, put it with the shells into a small saucepan containing water, vinegar, salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and boil until all the goodness is extracted. Thicken with a liaison of flour and butter, boil up for a minute or two, then strain into a pie-dish; sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, put a flat of paste over all, and bake slowly, taking out the pie when the paste is cooked. Lobster Pie with Oysters.—Pick out the meat from two large boiled Lobsters, and cut it into moderate-sized pieces. Line the edge of a buttered pie-dish with putt' paste, then put in, first a layer of Lobster, and then a layer of oysters, sprinkling breadcrumbs in at the same time; continue in this way till the dish is full, putting here and there small jiieces of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Put the spawn of the Lobster in a mortar, pound finely, and mix with it a little butter and some breadcrumbs ; shape into small balls, fry in boiling butter, then put them in the pie. In the meantime the shells of the Lobsters should have been boiled in 1 pint of water together with a little pepper and salt; strain, add the oyster liquor to it, thicken a little, and pour into the pie. Cover with a flat of puff paste, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven till the crust is done. Stand the pie on a folded cloth, arrange the heads and small claws on the pie (see Fig. 1093), and oyster shells round. Serve either hot or cold. Lobster Pilau.—(1) Put the trimmings of any large fish into a boiler with eight or ten full-grown, well-washed Lobsters and a seasoning of onions, sliced ginger, peppercorns, twelve bay-leaves, salt, and 1 table-spoonful of coriander-seeds. Pour over sufficient water to cover, and boil on a slow fire until all are quite done. Put Jib. of fat into a saucepan, boil it, add ten or twelve onions cut in slices, cook them, browning slightly, remove the onions, add 1 breakfast- cupful of rice to the fat, cook until the latter is absorbed, add a few cloves, five cardamoms, two blades of mace, 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, and six small sticks of cinnamon. Pour over sufficient of the fish liquor to cover, place the lid on the pan, and cook slowly until the whole of the liquor is absorbed, tossing the pan every now and then to prevent burning. Turn this out on to a dish, garnish with the Lobsters removed from their shells, strew over the fried onions, and serve. (2) Pick the meat carefully out of the tails of some boiled Lobsters, cut it into scallops, and warm them in a buttered saute-pan. Arrange a double row of the scallops on a hot dish in a circle, fill the centre with boiled rice, sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper, and pour some thin Spanish sauce over. Mix a little curry powder with some thin veloute sauce, stir over the fire till reduced, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a sauceboat, and serve with the Lobster. Lobster Pudding1.—Pound the meat and coral of a large Lobster to a paste. Mix with it lightly 1 teacupful of sifted breadcrumbs, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce or Harvey’s sauce, 1 table-spoonful of cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Line a pudding-tin with very thin slices of fat bacon or fat salted Lobster—continued. pork, pour the pudding in, cover with a thin slice of fat bacon or fat salted pork, and fit the lid on. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling con- stantly for an hour. By the time the pudding is done, have ready in a small saucepan J pint of butter sauce, mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, a small quantity of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and, lastly, a beaten egg. Stir over the fire till it begins to thicken, then put to the side where it cannot boil. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with pieces of lemon. Lobster Rissoles.—(1) Make a batter of flour, eggs, and milk, allowing to each egg 1 heaped teaspoonful of flour and 2 good table-spoonfuls of milk. Pound the coral of a boiled Lobster together with the yolks of one or two hard- boiled eggs until smooth ; take all the meat of the Lobster and chop it very fine, seasoning with cayenne, a little each of pounded mace and salt, and mix with it the pounded coral and egg. When the batter is well beaten and perfectly smooth, mix the Lobster into it by degrees till it is stiff enough to shape into rolls. Fry them in salad- oil, and serve either hot or cold on a folded napkin. If served cold, garnish with fresh parsley, if hot, with fried parsley. See Fig. 1094. (2) Take a large hen Lobster, pick all the meat from it, and pound fine in a mortar together with a small quantity of salt, cayenne pepper, chopped parsley, and half the coral. Beat into it 2oz. or 3oz. of butter and the yolk of an egg beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Flour the hands well and make this paste into egg-shaped balls, brush over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping to a light brown. Have ready at the side of the fire J pint of butter sauce in a small saucepan, stir into this half the coral of the Lobster, pounded fine, and 1 tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce ; let it come nearly to the boil, and then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream. Arrange the rissoles on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Rolls.—Pick the meiat out of a Lobster and cut it into small pieces, mixing the creamy substance from the body with it. Put 2oz. of flour in a saucepan with J pint of cream or milk, stir it over the fire till thick, then put in 2oz. of butter, and continue stirring until well mixed. Take the preparation off the fire, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a few drops of anchovy essence, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and the pieces of Lobster. Prepare a puff paste, divide it into equal portions, and roll each piece out 4in. square ; put 1 table-spoonful of the Lobster on each, fold them over so as to form a case, damp the edges and press them together, trimming round neatly. Sprinkle flour over a baking-sheet, put the Lobster rolls on it, and bake them for fifteen minutes. When done, put them on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Lobster Salad.—(1) Pick the flesh out of two freshly-boiled Lobsters, keeping the shells (which should be nicely washed, and reserved for further use) as whole as possible. Chop the flesh finely, and mix it with a good mayonnaise salad- dressing. Wash and cut some lettuces into thin shreds, p>ile them in the centre on an oval-shaped salad-dish, arrange round it a border of endive, and pour the mayon- naise mixture in the centre. Cut some white heart of celery into pieces of various sizes, and arrange in fan-876 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. shaped groups against the endive. Garnish round all with crohtons of aspic jelly. Place the shells of the Lobsters on the top, lengthwise, head to head, put across their Fig. 1095. Lobster Salad. hacks some rounds of cucumber overlapping each other, (see Fig. 1095) and serve. (2) Wash and thoroughly dry some endive and two large lettuces ; cut them finely with a silver knife, or else pull them in pieces with the fingers ; put them in a howl, with the pickings from the body of one hen Lobster, a little of the meat from the claws cut into small pieces, and some salad-dressing. Pass the coral of the Lobster and the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, and sprinkle them over the salad, arranging tastefully over it some sliced cucumber, beetroot, and radishes. Put a border of hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters round the salad, with some of the delicate leaves of the celery and endive between them. (3) Select a nice-sized boiled Lobster, and pick out all the meat; beat the yolks of two eggs with 3 table-spoon- fuls of salad-oil and 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, then mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a little salt, the soft part of the Lobster, and chilli vinegar to taste. Put the remainder of the Lobster in a salad-howl, and pom- the above prepara- tion over it. Cut up some lettuces, thoroughly wash and dry them, moisten well with the dressing, put them on the top of the Lobster, and serve. (4) Cut the meat of a Lobster in long thin strips, then cut these into dice. Place them in an earthenware howl and season with 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, and a little salt and pepper. Well wash a lettuce, and shake in a wire basket to free it of water. Put two or three leaves together in the form of a shell, and arrange these shells together on a flat dish. Mix one half of the mayonnaise dressing with the Lobster, put a little of this in each cluster of leaves, and pour over a little more of the dressing. Garnish the border of the dish with whole leaves. (5) This is prepared in the same way as for Salad of Fillets of Sole, or the Lobster may he dressed with- out any sauce. The shell should be broken, the body put in the centre, the tail cut in two on each side, and the claws at the ends. (6) This salad should be served directly it is made. Choose a medium-sized Lobster, heavy for its size, and quite alive; plunge it head first into a large pot half-full of boiling water, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until the shell is quite red. Cool the Lobster until it can be handled, then take it from the shell, using a can-opener to separate it; save all the coral, green fat, and the flesh of the Lobster. Throw away the intestine, which runs through the flesh of the tail, the “lady” or mem- branous sac, which lies at the back of the eyes, the “dead men,”'or soft fins, which lie under the small legs close to the body, and the shell, cutting the flesh of the Lobster into pieces about lin. square. While the Lobster is being prepared, boil two eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut the eggs into quarters; carefully wash and diy two medium- sized heads of lettuce, cut them into quarters, and keep in a cold place. Put into a saucepan 4 tabic-spoonfuls each of butter and vinegar, 1 mustard-spoonful of made mustard, 1 saltspoonful of salt, j saltspoonful of pepper, a dust of Lobster—continued. cayenne, and the Lobster, and place the saucepan over the fire; arrange the lettuce round the sides of a salad-bowl, stir the Lobster until it is hot, pour it into the salad-bowl, garnish with the hard-boiled eggs, and serve at once. The success of this salad depends upon the rapidity with which it is made and served. (7) Prepare the Lobster as above, arrange it on a dish with the lettuce, pour over a mayonnaise, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, the coral, and small claws. Capers, cold -boiled beets, olives, and the small lettuce-leaves may also be used to garnish the salad. (8) Rub a salad-bowl with garlic, and squeeze over a little lemon-juice; over this put a layer of rings of tomatoes, then slices of cooked potatoes and celeriac, and over this Lobster, seasoned with salt and pepper. Now arrange on this a few slices of truffles and capers, ornament with a little cress, slices of cucumber, lemon, and any other ingredient desired; pour over a mayonnaise dressing, and serve. (9) Beat two raw eggs together with 1 level teaspoonful of salt till they are quite smooth. Add nearly 1 dessert- spoonful of thick made mustard, and mix in carefully, and by degrees, 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil; when thoroughly and smoothly mixed, stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil; it ought to be perfectly smooth and so thick that a teaspoon will stand in it. Stir in sufficient vinegar to make it of the consistency of thick cream. Let it get quite cold, and then mix with it the coral of a boiled Lobster. Cut up into shreds some well-washed lettuce and other salad herbs, put a layer of them in a salad-bowl, on them lay some of the Lobster-meat cut small, more salad herbs, and over them the rest of the Lobster-meat cut small. Pour over all the salad-dressing, put on top some of the best of the salad-leaves, cut very fine, and make a border round the edge of slices of cucumber, radishes, small bunches of cress, &c. (10) Cut some lettuces into fine shreds, then mix into it with a fork the flesh of one or two Lobsters cut int® pieces of a convenient size. Some of the best pieces should, however, be reserved to garnish the salad with when finished. When the lettuce and Lobster are well mixed, pour over it a dressing composed of one part tarragon vinegar and three parts olive oil, the soft parts of the Lobster, a little mustard and pepper, and salt to taste. Garnish the salad with the pieces of Lobster reserved for the purpose, the coral, slices of hard-boiled eggs, and sprigs of chervil or tarragon (11) Put the tails of three boiled Lobsters cut into collops into a bain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour some vinegar over them. Fill a border mould with melted aspic jelly, drop in some ornamental patterns cut out of montpellier and Lobster butter, and leave the jelly to set. Then turn it out of the mculd on to a dish, put a ring of Lobster butter inside the border, arrange a circle of the Lobster collops on the butter, put a smaller ring of Lobster butter on the collops, and then a reversed circle of collops on that, continuing with alternate and decreas- ing rows of collops and butter; mix the worst-shaped pieces with a little mayonnaise sauce, and fill the centre with it; the salad should finish in a point. Half melt a little aspic jelly, and mix with it some vinegar and chojiped ravigote; pour it over the salad, place a small round pat of Lobster butter on the top, stick the heart of a cabbage lettuce in it, put a circle of capers round, and serve. Lobster Salad with Aspic Jelly.—Cut the tails off three middling-sized boiled Lobsters, pick the meat care- fully out, and cut it into slices; put it into a basin, sprinkle with salt, and pour a little oil and vinegar over. Take the meat out of the claws without breaking it, and put it with the tails. Put a plain border mould on ice, mask the bottom with a layer of aspic jelly, and ornament all round the inside with some halves of hard-boiled eggs alternately with little groups of vegetables of different shades; fill the mould gradually with aspic. Leave the mould on ice for an hour, then turn the border out on a round dish, fill the centre with a salad of chopped lettuce877 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. watercress, mustard and cress, and beetroot, dressed with mayonnaise. The salad should be dished in a pyramid Fig. 1096. Lobster Salad with Aspic Jelly. shape. Lean the slices of Lobster against the salad, in circles overlapping each other; put the meat of the claws on the top, and mask with half-set aspic jelly (see Fig. 1096). Fill a sauceboat with mayonnaise sauce with eggs, and serve it with the salad. Lobster Salad -with Caviare Sippets.—Pick all the soft parts out of a Lobster, put it into a basin, mixing with it 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced shallot, J teaspoonful of minced tarragon-leaves, the yolks of two eggs that have been nibbed through a fine sieve, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and mustard, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teacupful of oil, and a sufficient quantity of white-wine vinegar to thin without making it too sour. Break the firm pieces of the Lobster-flesh into small pieces, and mix them up with the above ingredients. Turn the mixture on to a dish, arrange some slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and strew chopped capers over. Toast some slices of bread, cut them into three-corner shaped pieces, butter them, and spread over with caviare. Arrange the pieces of toast round the dish, and serve. Lobster Salad -with Potatoes.—Cut the meat from a boiled Lobster into small dice, measure it, and mix with it an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes and two hard- boiled eggs, also cut in dice. Put all in a salad-bowl, pour a salad-cream over, stir about a bit to mix tho- roughly, then serve. Lobster Sauce.—(1) Take the meat from a large Lobster and cut it into jin. dice. Put the inner shells and scraggy parts into a saucepan with 1J pints of cold water and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain, and use the water in making 1 pint of drawn-butter sauce. Add the Lobster, the dried and powdered coral, a little cayenne pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. (2) Select a moderate sized cooked hen Lobster, pick all the meat out of it, and cut it into small pieces; mix the coral with it, and put them in a saucepan -with J pint of thick cream and a lump of fresh butter, and stir over the fire till hot. It is then ready for serving. (3) Take the meat out of a large hen Lobster, cut it into moderate-size 1 pieces, put them into a saucepan with J pint of rich gravy, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes. Pound the black unboiled spawn, mix it with the sauce, and stir over the fire till thick. Then pour in h pint of butter sauce, and serve. (4) Pick the meat carefully out of a cooke 1 Lobster and cut it into collops the size of a halfpenny. Put h pint of butter sauce in a saucepan, and when it is boiling put in the Lobster; stand the saucepan by the side of the fire and let the contents simmer slowly for ten minutes. When ready to serve, put in the sauce a small piece of Lobster butter, and stir till dissolved. (5) Procure a nice-sized hen Lobster, put some of the spawn in a mortar, and pound very fine; then mix with it a small piece of butter, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin; keep it covered with a cloth till wanted. Carefully break the Lobster, remove all the flesh, and cut it into middling-sized dice; warm the butter and red spawn, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of essence Lobster—continued. of anchovies, 2 tabla-spoonfuls of double cream, and a little salt and cayenne pepper. When well mixed, put in the meat and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil; it is then ready to serve. The sauce should be very red. (6) Take out the meat from one small Lobster, and cut it into dice. Pound the coral with 1 table-spoonful of butter. Rub 2 table-spoonfuls of flour together with 3 table- spoonfuls of butter to a smooth paste in a small stewpan, then add 1 pint of boiling water, the pounded coral, a little cayenne, and 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. Simmer for five minutes, then put in the Lobster. Boil up once, and serve. (7) Pick the meat from the tail and claws of a large Lobster. Put 1 pint each of white poivrade and veloute sauces in a stewpan, boil, take it oft' the fire, thicken - with | table-spoonful of Lobster butter and 1 table- spoonful of fresh butter, put in the cut Lobster with J table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and it is ready for serving. (8) Chop the body of a cold boiled hen Lobster into very small pieces, and rub them, together with the soft parts of the body and coral, through a fine sieve. The tail should be split and pounded with the coral. Cut the flesh from the tail and claws into dice, put all into a saucepan with about Jib. of butter, and bring it gently to the boil, then remove the saucepan from the fire ; if too much heated the colour and flavour of the sauce will be destroyed. Strain, add a seasoning of mace and cayenne, J wineglassful of white wine, and 1 teaeupful or so of cream to about 1 pint of the liquor. Serve very hot. (9) Take out all the flesh from a Lobster and cut it up into small pieces. Crush the shell, put it with the broken claws into a saucepan with 1J pints of water, boil till reduced to a little more than J pint, strain back into the saucepan, and thicken with a liaison of flour and water. Put the spawn from the tail into a mortar, pound it well, adding a little water, turn it into the saucepan with the liquor from the claws and shells, add about Jib. of fresb butter, put in the Lobster-meat, season with boned and pounded anchovies, cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice, and serve. (10) Pour 1 pint of Hollandaise sauce into a saucepan, place it on the hot stove, but do not allow it to boil. Chop the meat from the claw of a good-sized boiled Lobster into lozenge-shaped pieces, add them to the sauce, heat well for five minutes, stirring lightly, put in Joz. of Lobster butter, and serve. (11) Takeout all the meat from a boiled Lobster, cut it into small pieces, and rub the coral and fat smooth with a knife, mixing in a small piece of butter and 1 table spoon- ful of flour. Put h pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little cayenne into a saucepan, stir over the fire until about to boil, add the coral, mix well, then put in the Lobster-meat, and stir well until hot, but without boil- ing. Pour it into a hot sauce-bowl, and serve at once. (12) Procure a large hen Lobster, pick out the meat, put the spawn in a mortar, and pound it together with about loz. of butter. Put the shell of the Lobster in a sauce- pan with mace, peppercorns, and grated horseradish in moderate quantities, pour in J pint of veal stock, and boil for twenty minutes. Afterwards strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, or put it in a clean one, with 1 break- fast-cupful of thick cream, the juice of a small lemon, a few drops of anchovy sauce, the meat of the Lobster cut up into small pieces, and the pounded spawn. Stir the whole well at the side of the fire, and simmer for five minutes, but do not let it boil. The sauce is then ready for serving. Lobster Saute.—Pick the meat from the shell of a Lobster; take the large and solid pieces, and cut them to an even size, but not very small. Put a lump of butter about the size of an egg in a frying-pan, and when melted put in the pieces of Lobster; sprinkle pepper and salt over them, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and toss about over the fire till thoroughly hot. Toast some thin broad slices of bread, cut off the crust, butter them, and put them on a hot dish; pour the Lobster over, and serve at once. Lobster in Shells.—(1) Cut an equal quantity of Lobster- meat and mushrooms into dice. Boil some veloute sauce together with some essence of mushrooms till reduced,878 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. then thicken it with fresh butter and Lobster butter in equal proportions, and mix in the Lobster and mushrooms. Fill some table-shells with the preparation, sprinkle bread- crumbs on the top, pour a little warmed butter over, and bake in a quick oven till browned. Put the shells on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick out the flesh of a boiled Lobster, and cut it in dice, put them into a basin with one-third their quantity of cooked mushrooms, also cut in dice, and 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce ; boil till reduced, adding gradually a few table-spoonfuls of fish broth and oyster liquor. When done, take the sauce off the fire, mix with it the chopped mushrooms and Lobster, and a little cayenne pepper. Fill some table-shells with the mixture, sprinkle breadcrumbs on the top, pour over a little warmed butter, and brown under a hot salamander. Put the shells on a dish, with a fried oyster on each, and serve. (3) Put two finely-chopped shallots in a stewpan, add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, loz. of butter, and Hlb. of pieces of boiled Lobster ; moisten with 1 pint of veloutfi sauce, and season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and a very little nutmeg. Boil for ten minutes, and with this preparation fill six table-shells; on the top of each lay three slices of truffle and 1 table-spoonful of good bechamel sauce. Put 1 drop of clarified butter on each, and place them in the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot on a folded napkin. (4) Pick the meat from one or two cold boiled Lobsters, cut it into dice, and put them in a basin with a few table- spoonfuls of gherkins or pickled mushrooms also cut in dice ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour in a little oil and vinegar. Previously, prepare a small stand of fat, decorate it at the base, form it like steps, and fix it on the centre of a dish. Drain the Lobster on a sieve, put it into a basin, and mix in a few table-spoonfuls of mayon- naise with eggs, and a pinch of chopped tarragon. Fill a dozen silver shells with the above preparation, coat each with a layer of mayonnaise, and surround with chopped aspic. Arrange the shells on the stand, and serve. Lobster Souffle.—(1) Pick the meat out of the shell of a moderate-sized hen Lobster, and put it with some of the spawn into a mortar; pound it, work in an equal quantity of butter, and season to taste with salt, pepper, spiices, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the shells and trimmings of the Lobster into the mortar, first removing the above mixture, and pound slightly, then put them in a saucepan with some veal stock, and boil gently for half-an-hour, or until the stock is well flavoured until the Lobster, then strain it. Put the pounded meat into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a sufficient quantity of the strained liquor to bring the whole to the consistency of Lobster sauce. Stir it over the fire until well mixed and on the point of boiling, then move it off'. When the mixture has got nearly cold, stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and then the whites, which should have been whipped to a thick foam, pour the mixture into a souffle-tin, and bake. Serve the souffle directly it is cooked. (2) Cut sufficient meat off a cod or halibut to weigh Jib., and put it in a mortar with the coral from two hen Lobsters ; pound, then pass them through a wire sieve. Put loz. of butter and 2oz. of flour in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till the butter is melted, then pour in 1 teacupful of fish stock, and boil it well. Pound the meat of the body of the Lobster in a mortar, then mix with it the other fish meat and the sauce, and four eggs, one at a time; pass all through a wire sieve, then stir into it \ pint of whipped cream and a little cayenne pepper. Butter a plain souffle-mould, put a layer of the above preparation at the bottom of the mould, place a few pieces of the meat from the Lobster claws over it, put another layer of the mixture on the top, then some more Lobster meat, and continue thus till the mould is full. Trim evenly over the top, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, tie it down, set the mould in a saucepan of hot water, taking care the water does not come over the sides of the mould, and let it steam gently for half-an-hour. When Lobster—continued. done, turn the souffle out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour over b pint of white sauce, and serve. Lobster Soup.—(1) Select four small cooked hen Lobsters, pick out all the meat, put the small claws and the fins in a mortar, and beat them; then turn them into a saucepan with 2qts. of water and boil till all the flavour has been extracted from them. Put the spawn in a mortar with a piece of butter that has been rolled in flour, pound and pass them through a sieve; strain the stock, put it back into the saucepan, mix the pounded spawn and butter with it, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, then put in 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and the juice of half a lemon. Mince, and mix the Lobster flesh with the crumb of a French roll, sprinkle a little pounded mace, salt, and pepper over it, shape the prepara- tion into balls, moistening them with a little beaten egg, dip them in flour, then put them in the soup. When the balls are hot through, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Mix in a pan the meat of a small Lobster, chopped small, three crackers rolled fine, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt and pepper, and a speck of cayenne ; then add gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, stirring all the time. Boil up, and serve. (3) Break up the body of a small Lobster, and cut off' the scraggy parts of the meat. Pour over these and the body 3 pints of stock, and boil for twenty minutes. Cook 3 large table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour until smooth, but not brown, add it to the cooking-mixture, with a few grains of cayenne and a little salt and pepper, boil for two minutes, and strain into a saucepan. Take out the meat from the tail and claws, cut it up very fine, and add it to the soup. Boil up once, and serve. (4) Mix some fish broth (Court Bouillon), thickened with roux, with some soup stock, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Split the tail of a boiled Lobster in halves, cut the meat into small dice, put it in a basin, and keep it covered. Take out all the creamy part from the body shell, put the upper shell and small claws in a mortar, pound them, then mix with the soup. Let it simmer for a few minutes longer, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, flavour with a little Harvey’s sauce and cayenne pepper, put in the Lobster- meat, pour all into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. (5) Pick the meat from two small Lobsters, chop it finely, and put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of cream and 1 pint of milk ; let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour that has been previously mixed with a little cold milk, and season with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. When ready to serve, put in the soup 2oz. of butter cut in small pieces, stir until the butter is quite melted, then strain the soup into a tureen, and serve, while very hot, with sippets of toast on a plate. (6) Take three good hen Lobsters, split them, crack the claws, take out the coral and soft parts of the body, divide the coral into two portions, put one portion with the soft parts of the Lobsters, and lay the other portion aside. Take out the meat from the tails, and pound part of this with the soft parts of the Lobsters and a portion of the coral; season with grated nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, a little each of cayenne and anchovy sauces, and mix together with the beaten yolk of an egg. Make this paste into balls, and fry them. Bruise the small claws or legs of the Lobsters, and boil them together with the broken shells for twenty minutes in 3qts. of veal broth. Bruise the spawn in a mortar until very fine, adding a little butter and flour, and when the broth that the legs and shells have been boiled in is strained, thicken with this mixture. Pick the meat from the large claws of the Lobster, cut it, and all the Lobster-meat left from the balls, into rather small pieces, and add them, together with the re- maining coral, to the soup. Let it simmer very gently for ten minutes, but do not let it boil, or the colour of the soup will be spoiled ; pour it into a tureen, and add the strained juice of a lemon and a little essence of anchovy.879 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. (7) Take half-a-dozen small Lobsters, split them in halves lengthwise, crack the large claws, and pick out all the meat, keeping the meat of the tail separate from the rest. Then scrape the brown fur from the shells and the bag in the head, place the shells, tins, and the small claws into a mortar, and beat well; put them over the lire with two anchovies, a good-sized onion, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the crumb of a French roll; pour over 2qts. of water, boil all the goodness out of them, then strain the liquor. Beat the coral in a mortar with a little butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated ; mix into it gradually lqt. of cream, and add it to the liquor the Lobster-shells were boiled in. Take the meat of the bodies and claws of the Lobsters, mince it fine, mix with it a small quantity of sifted breadcrumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a very little powdered mace, and mix to a forcemeat with beaten yolk of egg; then form it into balls with a [little flour, and heat them in the soup after the cream and coral have been added. Cut the meat of the tails into pieces, give them a boil in the soup, pour it into the tureen, and serve. (8) Peel twelve medium-sized onions, and stew them in about loz. of butter, with a slice of lean beef and a slice or two of lean ham; when they are stewed quite soft, add to them, a little at a time, about 5 pints of rich stock ; let it boil up, and strain through a hair sieve, rubbing the onions through with a wooden spoon. Put this soup back in the saucepan, and let it boil, skimming well. Take the meat from the body of a large Lobster, the spawn also, and the meat of a boiled codling, and beat them fine in a mortar ; add this by degrees to the soup, stirring quite smooth ; let it boil again, and skim. Just before taking the soup from the fire, season with white pepper and cayenne; cut up the tail and claws of the Lobster, and add them together with 1 wineglassful of white wine. Forcemeat balls may also be added, made of the flesh and soft parts of a medium-sized Lobster, a good-sized piece of boiled celery, half an anchovy, and the yolk of a hard- boiled egg, all beaten together, seasoned with a little cayenne, salt, white pepper, and ground mace, and mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, two well- beaten eggs, 2oz. of butter melted to oil, and 1 table- spoonful of oyster liquor, and filed before being added. (9) Allow equal quantities of Lobster-flesh and butter, and twice the quantity of breadcrumbs; soak the crumbs in as much clear stock as they will absorb, pound the Lobster and butter together in a mortar, and when smooth add the breadcrumbs; pound again, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 heaped table- spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire ; put in the above mixture, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of clear stock to make a very thin puree. Stir the whole over the fire until boiling and thickened, skim the soup, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, and boil up again. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. (10) Plunge a large Lobster, or two of medium size, into a large pot half-full of boiling salted water, and boil until the shell is quite red : then take it from the water, coo] until it can be handled, and remove the flesh from the shell, rejecting the soft fins which lie close to the body under the legs, the stomach, which is enclosed in a rather hard membrane, back of the eyes, and the intestine which runs down the middle of the tail, saving all the coral and green fat. Cut the flesh of the Lobster in small pieces. Put over the fire a saucepan containing 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour, and stir them until they bubble; then gradually add 3qts. of boiling water, stir until very smooth, add the Lobster, prepared as already directed, season the soup rather highly with salt and red pepper, let it boil for two or three minutes, and serve hot. (11) Put 1 pint of stock into a saucepan with a carrot, turnip, small onion, a few pieces of celery, and six or seven peppercorns, and stew at the side of the fire for an hour. Strain through a fine sieve back into the saucepan, add a Lobster—continued. dessert-spoonful of cornflour, smoothly blended with a break- fast-cupful of milk, stir till the soup boils, and season with J teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and salt and pepper. Put the yolk of an egg in the soup-tureen, break it, stir in the soup, and mix in the chopped meat of a Lobster ; leave the soup for a few minutes, and serve. Tinned Lobster can be substituted for the Lobster-meat, but should not be used if the other can be obtained. (12) Pick the meat out of the tails, claws, and bodies of three or four large Lobsters, and pound the remainder in a mortar. Put the pounded Lobster in a saucepan with a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, three boned anchovies, and a small piece of lemon-peel; pour in 5 pints of water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire. Put the spawn of the Lobster in a mortar with loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and pound until smooth, then stir in slowly 1 pint of milk and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cream. Strain the Lobster liquor, add it to the above mixture, season with a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour into the saucepan; cut the flesh from the tails, &c., into small pieces, put them in the soup, and let it just come to the boil. When ready, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve, while very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or small crohtons of fried bread. (13) American.—Remove the meat from a boiled Lobster and cut it into small pieces; pound two or three plain biscuits or crackers, and mix them with the Lobster. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan with lqt. of water, sprinkle a little salt and pepper in, and when boiling stir in the Lobster, biscuit, and jib. of butter; put the lid on and simmer for half-an-hour. Turn it into a tureen, and serve while very hot with sippets of toast on a plate. Lobster Toast.—(1) Pick all the meat from the shell of a nice large Lobster and chop it finely; work 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of cream in with loz. of butter, then mix it with the chopped Lobster, adding a boned, washed, and chopped anchovy, and salt and pepper to taste. Work the whole together with the blade of a knife until thoroughly in- corporated, then mix in lightly 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of washed and chopped watercress. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. in thickness, trim off all the crusts, and toast them ; cut them into squares, butter them, and spread some of the Lobster mixture over each square. Strew finely- grated breadcrumbs over, and put them into a brisk oven for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the pieces of toast nicely on it, garnish with a border of well-washed and nicely-picked watercress, and serve. (2) Pick the meat from a boiled Lobster, chop it fine, and put it over the fire in a saucepan together with a small quantity of cream. Season with salt and cayenne pepper, let it stew till quite hot, then spread it on hot buttered toast, and serve. Lobster with Tomatoes.—Put two or three small live Lobsters in some slightly-acidulated water, and boil them. When cooked, drain the Lobsters, pick the meat out care- fully, cut that of the tails in two, but keep the meat of the claws whole, place them in a small stewpan with a little of their liquor, and keep warm. Put the creamy part of the bodies in a mortar and pound it; mix with it 6 table-spoonfuls each of brown sauce and tomato sauce, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper and salt in, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a 1 ain-marie. Infuse five or six allspice in a little broth, then 2>ass it through a sieve into the sauce. Cut six large tomatoes through the middle, pick out the seeds, sprinkle pepper and salt over the tomatoes, and fry them in a little butter. Drain and arrange the tomatoes in a circle on a hot dish, put the Lobster-tails and claws in the middle, and pour the sauce over. Have some rice boiled in fish broth seasoned with salt and nutmeg, putting in when done 1 pinch of sugar and a few drops of essence of green mint, and serve with the Lobster. Miroton of Lobster.—Pick out the meat from a large hen Lobster, and put it in a mortar with the spawn; pound and mix ■with it the crumb of a French roll that has been880 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. soaked in milk; when quite smooth, stir in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, and sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace in. Beat one egg to a stiff froth, and mix it with the above ingredients. Line a pudding-basin with some slices of fat ham, pour the Lobster preparation in, tie a cloth over the top, stand the basin in a saucepan, surround it with hot water, taking care that the water does not come over the top, and boil for an-hour-and- twenty-minutes. When cooked, turn the miroton on to a hot dish, take away the ham, pour some Lobster sauce round it, and serve. Potted Lobster.—(1) Procure a large cooked Lobster, or two small ones, pick out all the meat, and put it with the spawn in a mortar; pound to a paste, then mix with it Jib. of warmed fresh butter, a little pounded mace and cloves, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When well mixed, fill some jars with the preparation, press it down tightly, leaving about Jin. space at the top, and fill up with clarified butter. When quite cold, tie the jars over with white paper, and keep them in a diy store-closet till required for use. (2) Plunge the Lobsters, head downwards, into fast- boiling water, let them boil till half done, then crack the shells, and take out all the meat; cut it up small, season with white pepper, grated nutmeg, a very little powdered mace, and salt to taste; press it and the coral into a pot, cover with fresh butter, and bake for half-an-hour. Take it from the. oven, let it cool, and when quite cold empty the pot. Put the Lobster with some of the butter into small pots, pound the coral in a mortar with the rest of the butter, adding more butter to make it a sufficient quan- tity to cover the contents, strain, and pour it over. (3) Take out the meat from four or five Lobsters, keep- ing it as whole as possible, split the shells, and remove the intestines; if these are not too watery, add them, and season with ground mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves. Put a little butter at the bottom of a saucepan, arrange the Lobster smoothly over, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and, with a fork, put the pieces, with the season- ing, into jars, and when cold pour over clarified butter. It may be used the day after it is done, and if seasoned highly and thickly covered with butter will keep for some time. Potted Lobsters may be used cold, or as fricassee with cream sauce. Roasted Lobster.— Partially boil a Lobster, then drain, and split it open. Rub it well with butter, put it in a Dutch oven, and roast before a clear fire, keeping it con- stantly basted. Put the Lobster on a hot dish, pour melted-butter sauce over, and serve. Salpi<?on of Lobster.—Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from the claws of a cooked Lobster, cutting them all into dice. Thicken well, let it cook for five minutes, and serve. Scalloped Lobster.—(1) Procure a nice fresh hen Lobster, and pick out all the flesh; put the spawn in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound until smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mince the flesh of the Lobster, Fig. 1097. Scalloped Lobster. and season with pepper, salt, a moderate quantity of spice, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the mince into a stewpan, with J table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, the strained juice of half a lemon, a Lobster—continued. small lump of butter, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until very hot, then stir in the pounded spawn. Fill some scallop shells until the mixture, levelling it smoothly over the top, strew over plenty of grated bread- crumbs, and put a few small pieces of butter on them. Place the scalloped Lobster in the oven, and bake until nicely browned. Serve them on a folded napkin. See Fig. 1097. (2) Split a large fresh Lobster lengthwise, take out the spawn, pith, and coral, and pound them in a mortar together with a lump of butter; pass it through a sieve into a small saucepan, and stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of white sauce, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a little grated nutmeg, and a few grains of cayenne. Stir over the fire and let it boil for five or six minutes. Cut the meat of the Lobster into moderate-sized pieces, and mix it with the sauce. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and when thoroughly hot fill the tail and body-shells, previously ckansed, with it; sprinkle breadcrumbs over the top, pour a little warmed butter on each, brown them with a sala- mander, put a folded napkin on a dish, place the scalloped Lobsters on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Prepare and boil two or three Lobsters, and make 1 pint of white sauce. Grate a loaf of stale bread. Butter thickly a deep earthen dish, and put a Jin. layer of crumbs on the bottom and sides, then fill the dish with alternate layers of Lobster and breadcrumbs, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Just before putting on the top layer, which should be of breadcrumbs, fill the dish with the sauce; then add the breadcrumbs, dust them with salt and pepper, and put the dish into a quick oven until the crumbs are brown. Scalloped Lobster may be prepared in small dishes of china or in silver s jullop shells. (4) Pick the meat from a Lobster, chop it up, and mix with it a very small quantity of mustard, a little cayenne and black pepper, 1J teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce, h pint of milk, and about Joz. of butter. Butter some scallop shells, fill them with the mixture, cover the tops with sifted breadcrumbs, and bake them for three-quarters-of- an-hour in a moderate oven, brown them nicely, and serve hot. (5) Pound all the meat of a Lobster with loz. of butter and a seasoning of white pepper, salt, and cayenne. Split the empty shells, fill them with the pounded Lobster, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, put bits of butter over, and place them in the oven till hot through. Serve on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. (6) Take all the meat from a Lobster, cutting the shell in two lengthwise. Put the coral and the soft green part called the “pith” into a mortar, and pound them together, adding by degrees, and rubbing in loz. of butter. When pounded smooth, put this over the fire in a covered sauce- pan, shaking occasionally to prevent it burning; when very hot, take the lid off the saucepan, stir in a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and 1 gill of cream. Let it boil up quickly, put in the meat of the Lobster, and stir well over the fire till very hot; then stir in two well-beaten eggs, and remove the saucepan from the fire. Have ready the half shells, nicely washed, dried, and buttered inside, strew plenty of sifted breadcrumbs in them, moisten with a little cream, pour in the hot Lobster mixture, put a layer of sifted breadcrumbs over, moisten with a little cream, distribute little bits of butter over the top, and brown in the upper part of a brisk oven or in front of a good fire. Lay the shells on a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Lobsters.—(1) Cut the claws from the bodies of four small freshly-boiled Lobsters, and split them in two length- wise; pick the meat from the tails, trim it, and arrange the pieces in a circle on a hot dish, placing the claws in the centre. Put J pint of melted meat glaze in a small saucepan -with 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, boil, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Mix 3 table- spoonfuls of breadcrumbs with 6 table-spoonfuls of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a point of cayenne. Add this by degrees to the meat-glaze mixture, so as to thicken it; mix with this the creamy part that is taken from the body of the Lobster, pounded, passed through a sieve a dTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 881 Lobster—continued. worked up with 2 taLle-spoonfuls of vinegar. Pour this sauce over the Lobster, and serve at once. See Pig. 1098. Fig. 1098. Stewed Lobsters. (2) Put a chopped onion, carrot, and piece of celery-root into a stewpan with a little chopped bacon and ham, fry them, then add a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs (see Herbs) and parsley, a sprinkling of pepper and a few cloves, pour in 1 pint of white wine, and boil for a few minutes. Cut two middling-sized raw Lobsters across in pieces; put them and the large part of the claws in with the other ingredients, place the cover on the stewpan, and let the contents boil for twelve minutes. Take the Lobsters out, and arrange on a hot dish. Strain the cooking-liquor, and pour it into a small stewpan; stir in a roux made of butter and flour kneaded together, add a little meat glaze, the strained juice of two lemons, 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and a little cayenne pepper. Stir it over the lire for a few minutes, then take it off, stir in a little Lobster butter, pour it over the Lobster, and serve at once. (3) Choose one large or two small Lobsters, and pick the meat out of the shells in large pieces. Put the shells in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, a blade of mace, and some peppercorns, and boil for half-an-hour. Mix the coral and the rich part of the Lobster with 1 teacupful of butter sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Strain the liquor in which the shells were boiled, mix it with the coral, &c., put it in the saucepan again, add the picked meat of the Lobster, stir it over the lire till boiling, then turn it on a hot dish, and serve. (4) Heat 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and when hot, add 2 table-spoonfuls of diy flour; stir until perfectly smooth, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring all the time. Season to taste, add 241b. of Lobster-meat, heat thoroughly, and serve. (5) Pick the meat out of one large Lobster or two small ones, cut it into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of clear beef gravy, and boil gently for a few minutes. Knead about loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in with the Lobster, and add 1 table- spoonful of anchovy essence, the same quantity of walnut ketchup, a few drops of lemon-juice and 1 wineglassful of port wine, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, arrange round it the small claws of the Lobster, which should have been carefully picked out of the shells, and serve. (6) Pick the meat out of the shell of a boiled Lobster, and cut it into small pieces ; put them into a dish that has a cover, with a piece of butter, pour in 4 teacupful of clear gravy, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a few drops of walnut ketchup; season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and place it in the oven. When nicely warmed, take the Lobster out, and serve. (7) Pick the flesh out of the shells of the Lobsters, and put the shells into a saucepan with about 1 pint of water, a few peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and a small quantity of salt. Boil the water until it is well flavoured with the Lobster-shells, then strain it through a fine sieve. Cut the Lobster-flesh into small pieces, and mix with it a little cream or milk that has been thickened with flour. Pour the prepared gravy back in the saucepan, add to it f wineglassful of red wine and a few drops of lemon- juice, put in the Lobster, and stir over the fire until warm. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Lobster—continued. (8) Pick all the meat from a boiled Lobster. Hub the coral into a bit of butter, add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy, 1 table-spoonful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup or soy, and put all these in a saucepan over the fire, together with the meat of the Lobster cut into bits; add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, and stew till very hot, then serve. (9) Pick the meat from the shell of a boiled Lobster, put it into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, loz. of chopped suet, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and moisten with vinegar ami claret. Stew the Lobster almost dry, turn it on to a hot dish, pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter over it, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (10) Take a large Lobster, pick out all the meat, and cut it into jiieces lin. long and Jin. broad. Rub the coral into 2oz. of butter warmed before the fire. Put the meat, when cut up, over the fire in a saucepan, with seasoning to taste of cayenne pepper and salt, and J pint of good veal broth. Stir it till very nearly boiling, then add the coral and butter and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; continue to stir till again nearly boiling, then add a wine- glassful of sherry and the strained juice of half a lemon, serve. (11) Chop one nice-sized fresh Lobster into small pieces, put it in a fiat stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of salad- oil, and toss it over a brisk fire for a few minutes. Strain all the oil off, and pour over the Lobster 1 wineglassful of sherry and 1 wineglassful of Chablis; season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and cayenne pepper, and boil for a few minutes; then add 4 teacupful of Spanish sauce, and boil up again. Finish the Lobster with loz. of butter, and the juice of one lemon. Turn on to a hot dish, and serve. (12) Split two good-sized, fine, freshly-boiled Lobsters, pick all the meat out from the shells, cut it up into equal- sized pieces lin. in length, and put it into a saucepan on the hot range with loz. of butter. Season with 1 pinch of salt and 4 sa't; onful of red pepper, adding two medium-sized truffles cut into small dice-shaped pieces. Cook for five minutes, add 1 wineglassful of good Madeira wine, and reduce to one-half, which will take about three minutes. Have the yolks of three eggs in a bowl with J pint of cream, beat well together, and add it to the Lobster. Gently stir for two minutes longer, or until it thickens well, pour it into a hot tureen, and serve at once. (13) Pick the flesh out of a large Lobster, or two small ones, cut it up, and put it into a stewpan with a small quantity of water and ^ pint of sherry ; season mode- rately with powdered allspice, mixed mustard, and a small quantity of cayenne, and let it simmer gently until tender. When the Lobster is cooked, put a small lump of butter that has been kneaded with flour into the sauce, stir it over the fire until thickened, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Lobster a la Bordelaise.—Add to 1 wineglassful of red wine in a stewpan one chopped shallot and half of a small carrot, cut into exceedingly small pieces. Boil for five minutes, put in the meat from two boiled Lobsters cut into pieces, which should weigh about 141b., I pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and a very little nutmeg, and lastly J pint of velonte sauce. Stew well together for five minutes, and serve very hot. Timbales of Lobster. -Carefully pick out the white flesh of one or two Lobsters, according to the quantity required ; cut the flesh into small dice, and put them in a sauce- pan with some veloute sauce ; stir over the fire till on the point of boiling, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Vol-au-Vent of Lobster.—Rub together 4 table-spoonfuls of btitter and 14 table-spoonfuls of flour. Pour gradually on this 1 pint of boiling white stock, boil up, and add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt, a few grains of cayenne, the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little cold water, and the meat of two small Lobsters cut into dice. Stir for one minute over the fire. Fill a vol-au-vent case, put on the cover, and serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c., referred to, see under their special heads. d XTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 882 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. Tinned Lobsters.—These are imported from the Fisheries in Newfoundland, and although much inferior to the fresh fish, they can be made very nice, if it he borne in mind that the cheapest are not the best. Tinned-Lobster Cakes.—Put lib. of Tinned Lobster into a mortar with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled potatoes, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, \ saltspoonful each of ground mace and nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Pound the mixture well, divide it into small quantities, and with floured hands mould them into flat cakes. Season 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Brush the cakes over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then roll them in the seasoned breadcrumbs, giving a good coating; put a lump of butter into a frying- pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the cakes, and fry on both sides until nicely browned. As each lot of cakes are cooked, place them on paper near the fire to drain. Put the liquor of the Lobster into a stew- pan, mix with it 1 teacupful of milk, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Season the sauce with pepper, and stir it over the fire until thick and boiling. Arrange the cakes on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, pom- round the sauce, and serve. Turned salmon can be served in the same way. Tinned Lobster Scalloped.—(1) Tut 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, and stir in gradually the strained liquor from a tin of Lobster and 1 teacupful of boiling water. Turn it into a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and stir over the fire till thick. Flavour the sauce with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, put in the Lobster, first looking it over to pick out any pieces of shell or cartilage. Butter a tin baking- dish, put hi a thick layer of breadcrumbs, pour in the Lobster preparation, sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs, place several little bits of butter about, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time, take it out, and if not sufficiently coloured brown it with a salamander. Stand the tin dish on another, and serve the Lobster while hot. (2) Strain the liquor from a tin of Lobster into a basin, and mix with it 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, \ teacupful of milk, 1 table-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Stir the above ingredients until thoroughly mixed. Butter a pie-dish, strew it thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, then put in the flesh of the Lobster, spread the crumb mixture over it, cover with a thin sprinkling of dry crumbs, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and bake in a brisk oven. When the scallop is nicely browned on the top, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve. Tinned-Lobster Soup.—Empty a tin of Lobster into a mortar, pound, and pass it through a sieve. Put 2oz. of butter hi a saucepan with 1 teacupful of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then pour in, gradually at first, 2qts. of hot stock. Put in the Lobster, with a little cayenne and the strained juice of a lemon, and boil it up; then turn the soup into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast on a plate. Tinned Lobster on Toast.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and mix it until smooth with 1 teacupful of milk ; then pour in the liquor from a tin of Lobster, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until thickened. Turn the Lobster out of the tin into the sauce, and add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, l table-spoonful of butter, and a few drops of chilli vinegar, and continue stirring the mixture over the fire for ten minutes longer. Cut a few slices of bread, toast them, spread thickly with butter, lay them on a hot dish, and pour over the Lobster mixture. Serve without delay, as it should be very hot when eaten. If preferred, the Lobster mixture can be turned on to a hot dish without the toast, and garnished with crohtons of fried bread. LOCUSTS. The name given to the sweet pod, or bean, of the Carob-tree, from which a brandy called Locusts—continued. Locust brandy is distilled. Although the brandy is not very well flavoured, it is sometimes disguised with the flavour of juniper-berries and converted into palatable gin. LOGWOOD—At one time a colour prepared from this was largely used in confectionery ; but it has long since been discarded on account of its astringent character. Cheap wines and liqueurs are occasionally tinged with Logwood. LOIN.—That part of an animal which extends along the backbone between the ribs and tail. For special Loins, refer to their headings, such as Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Beef, Yeal, &c. LONDON BUNS.—See Buns. LOQUAT.—The fruit (see Fig. 1099) of the Japanese Medlar (Photinia japonica). It is about the size of a small plum, grows in clusters, and each fruit contains four or five large seeds. LOUIS PHILIPPE PUDDING.—See Puddings. LOUVAIN BEER.—A white beer of Antwerp, popular amongst the working-classes there. It is said by Englishmen to taste of water, beer, pitch, pine-wood, soapsuds, vinegar, treacle, and a few other things. LOVAGE.—The name given to a plant (Levisticum officinale), the roots of which are used in the manufacture of a cordial known by that name, made as follows : Macerate loz. of fresh Lovage-roots, and loz. each ol roots of celery and fennel, also fresh, in a gallon of spirits of wine. Distil before using. A small quantity each of oil of savin and valerian-root may also be added if desired. LOVE APPLES.—See Tomatoes. LOVE CAKES.—See Cakes. LOVE-IN-DISGUISE.—An old name for a calf's heart stuffed with veal stuffing, then wrapped round thickly with forcemeat, rolled in vermicelli, and baked. LOVING-CUPS.—The Corporation and Companies of the City of London ai-e famous for their “Loving-Cups”; many of them are of a very costly character, being manufactured in richly emblazoned gold or silver (see Fig. 1100). The cups are usually filled with spiced wine, called sack, and the ceremony of drinking from it is thus performed: Immediately after the dinner and grace, the masters and wardens of the company drink to their visitors a hearty welcome; the cup is then passed round the table, and each guest, after he has drunk, applies his napkin to the mouth of the cup before he passes it to his neighbour. The more formal practice is for “ the person who pledges with the Loving-cup to stand up and bow to his neighbour, who, also standing, removes the cover with his right hand, and holds it while the other drinks; a custom said to have originated in the precaution to keep the right, or ‘dagger hand’ employed, that the person who drinks may I be assured of no treachery, like that practised by Elfrida883 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Loving-Cups—continued. on the unsuspecting King Edward the Martyr, at Corfe Castle, who was slain while drinking : this was why the Loving-cup possessed a cover.” Fig. 1100. Loving-cup. The preparation of the cup depends upon the company or its chief steward, each having a particular receipt, of which the following are as good as any: (1) Two bottles each of sherry and Madeira, 1 bottle each of port and claret, the juice of six lemons, lflb. of loaf sugar, and ) qt. of water. Mix these, and then stir in 1 large table-spoonful of liquid spice and a grated nutmeg. Keep in an ice-closet until wanted for use. (2) Take fib. of loaf sugar and rub it over the rind of a lemon, extracting all the flavour possible. Pour into a large jug f pint of brandy over the peel of another lemon cut very thin. Dissolve the sugar in lqt. of warm water, and let this stand till it is cool. After the brandy has stood on the lemon-peel for an hour, pour on to it 1 pint of Madeira, grate in a whole nutmeg, and then add the sweetened water and 1 teacupful of capillaire. Tut this stand in the ice-cave until it is very cold, then stir in 1 large bottle of champagne cider, and pour it into the cup, which has also been standing in the ice-cave or chest. Have ready a handful in all of freshly-gathered balm and borage, plunge this into the cup stalks downwards, and in a very few minutes the cup will be ready to serve. (3) Ale may be used instead of cider, and the cup may be served warm in winter. LOZENGES.—The earliest use of this word is in association with heraldry, as a lozenge hatchment (see Fig. 1101), and the term has since been applied to small sweet or medicated tablets, bearing that and other shapes. Lozenges are prepared without heat, by powdering the ingredients very finely, mixing thoroughly, and then beating them into a stiff paste with gum. The mass is then rolled out very thin, cut into shapes with cutters, and stamped. After drying in a screen for a short time, they are ready for use. A famous maker recommends this mode of procedure : Break up small lib. of gum and dissolve it in 21b. of water; it will take about twelve hours. Squeeze it through a cloth into a basin. Put the required quantity of very finely-powdered sugar on a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, pour in the strained gum, and with a spatula commence to work it in. Should it be too soft and sticky, add more sugar; if too dry, more gum, mixing until a stiff paste is obtained. It is now ready to receive any desired colouring and flavouring, which must be well worked in. Dust the slab with starch powder, roll out the mass, lifting it up and Lozenges—continu ed. turning it over several times, always dusting with the starch powder and rubbing the slab with the ball of the hand to smooth the surface. When of the required thickness, handle it as little as possible, using a brush to do what is needful in smoothing. In cutting it into shapes great care must be taken to keep whatever is used quite clean. The following will be found useful and easily manu- factured, and other receipts will be found under special headings, such as Aniseed, Cayenne, &c. Antacid Lozenges.—To 101b. of the gum paste prepared as described above, work in lib. of powdered prepared chalk and (lb. of magnesia, and flavour with about 20 drops of oil of cinnamon. Antibilious Lozenges.—With (lb. of the prepared gum paste described above, work in 6 drachms of ground Turkey rhubarb, 6oz. of magnesia in powder, 1 foz. of bicarbonate of soda, and 20 drops of the oil of cinnamon to flavour. Cachou Lozenges.—Sift 141b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a table, and form a bay in the centre. Put lflb. of glucose into a saucepan on the lire to boil, remove it from the lire, add 4oz. of soaked gelatine, and stir well until thoroughly dissolved. Turn it into the sugar on the table or slab, add a little flavouring of cassia, mix well, colour with carmine, roll out, and cut into shapes. Dust them, as made, with a little corn-starch, put them on trays, also slightly d listed, and set them in the hot closet or drying- room until dry; pack away in boxes, and use as desired. Chalk Lozenges.—These are prepared in the same way as described above, using 12oz. of powdered prepared chalk and 4 drachms of ground nutmeg to Clb. of the gum preparation. Cough Lozenges.—Soak loz. of picked gum dragon in 2oz. of orange-flower water; in about six hours’ time squeeze ami wring the soaked gum in a cloth. Work the prepared gum on a marble slab with the hand till it becomes white and elastic, then work in, gradually, 21b. of line icing sugar and Hoz. of syrup of squills. When the above ingredients are well mixed, add 50 drops of paregoric and 20 drops of ipecacuanha. Sift a small quantity of caster sugar over the slab, roll the paste out to about jin. in thickness, then, if such a thing as a ribbed rolling-pin is available, roll over the surface of the paste with it in cross directions, thus imprinting it with a diamond pattern. Stamp out the Lozenges with a round tin cutter about (in. in diameter, and place each one as it is done on a baking-sheet that has been dusted over with caster sugar. When the baking-sheet is full of Lozenges, place it in a screen to dry. When quite diy, take the Lozenges off the baking-sheet, and keep them in well-stoppered glass jars in a dry store-cupboard. Ipecacuanha Lozenges.—Prepared the same as described above, using 10 drachms of ipecacuanha, (oz. of tartaric acid, and 8 drops of attar of roses to every 71b. of the prepared gum paste. Lettuce Lozenges.—Proceed as described above, working in 4 fluid ounces of extract of Lettuce to each 71b. of gum paste. Long-Life Lozenges.—Prepare 81b. of the gum paste as described above, work in 8oz. of Turkey rhubarb and half that quantity of powdered ginger, and proceed as for other Lozenges. Lozenges for the Chest.—Put 4oz. of gelatine in water to soak. Boil lflb. of glucose, remove from the fire, and stir in the soaked gelatine until dissolved. In the meantime melt lflb. of block juice in a saucepan placed in another one containing boiling water, and when it becomes quite liquid stir in the glucose and gelatine. Then turn the whole into a bay formed in lflb. of finely-crushed and sifted loaf sugar, add cayenne pepper, using only sufficient to make the Lozenges taste warm and not hot, and work the whole well into a paste. Should a dark colour be desired, add the required colouring. Roll out the paste, cut it with cutters into various shapes, dust them, as soon as cut, with corn-starch, dry them in the hot closet, and pack away in boxes or tins until required. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 t 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 884 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lozenges—continued. Motto Lozenges (Mixed).—Put 4oz. of gelatine to soak in water. Sift 141b. of sugar on to a table, making a bay in the centre ; boil up If lb. of glucose, add the soaked gela- tine, and stir well until incorporated ; pour this into the bay, and work into a stiffish paste. Divide into quarters, colouring one yellow and giving it a flavouring of lemon, another with carmine and rose or raspberry flavouring, another orange colour, flavouring slightly with cinnamon, anti the last should be left white but flavoured with mint. Roll out eacli piece separately, cut it into various shapes with cutters, dust over with corn-starch, put them on trays, also dusted over, and dry in the hot closet. Have ready the motto stamps, dip them in carmine colour so as to have only sufficient to make the impression after stamping, leave the Lozenges to dry until quite hard, put them all together into a box, and set aside in a cold place until wanted. Nitre Lozenges.—Work in 4oz. of powdered nitre with 71b. of the prepared gum paste, and add 1 drachm of essence of lemon to flavour. Paregoric Lozenges.—Prepare the gum paste as for Lozenges, and to every 141b. of it work in 0 drops of tincture of opium, 5 drachms of spirits of camphor, C drachms of tolu, and Uoz. of tartaric acid. These should be deeply coloured with carmine. Rose Lozenges.—These are prepared with the usual gum paste, using to each 141b. of it 4 drachm of attar of roses and foz. of tartaric acid, colouring to suit the taste with carmine. Should the flavour not be strong enough, double the quantity of rose and acid may be used. Tolu Lozenges.—Dissolve 3oz. of tolu (or balsam of tolu) in spirits of wine, and mix it into 141b. of the gum paste used for Lozenges, together with loz. of tartaric acid, and proceed as before. LUNCH BREAD.—See Bread. LUNCH CAKES.—See Cakes. LUNCHEON BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. LUNCHEONS.—The origin of this term is enveloped in mystery, certain etymologists believing that it has something to do with a hunch, as a hunch of bread and cheese, and is, therefore, a provincialism for the morning snack that the countryman partakes of in the fields between his breakfast and dinner. Failing any other more classical derivation, this one seems to be peculiarly appropriate, as the more refined Luncheon of modern times partakes of some of the irregularities and infor- malities of the countryman’s snack. The hour is not rigidly fixed as for dinner, invitations to the meal are short and informal, the mode of sitting down to it is un- restrained, and the positions at table are immaterial. Luncheons in the open air, such as at sporting meetings, partake of all these informalities in a marked degree, and form a decided connecting link between the Luncheon at home and the countryman’s hunch of bread and cheese or cold bacon. Cheese and cold bacon in the form of ham are notorious Luncheon dishes, and salads would certainly suggest freshly-gathered leaves. There are two forms of Luncheon to which it will be necessary to invite attention, the one in-door and the other out-door. In many respects they may be considered similar, such as in the way of cold viands; but the in-door Luncheon admits of the greater comfort of a well-laid table, and some little hot service, principally of those things that will not spoil by keeping hot, such as soup and cutlets, or filleted fish, that can be cooked a l’instaut. Soups are not often served at Luncheons; but they are erroneously excepted, and should be recon- sidered by the givers of Luncheons, as in cold weather they are exceedingly refreshing and agreeable. All cooks like the Luncheon service, because the dishes may be prepared at any time beforehand, and are Luncheons—continued. placed upon the table before the guests, who generally help themselves. Hence, the meats should be boneless, as in galantines, and the sweets should be chiefly for spoon and fork. Fruits are sometimes set upon the table, but more often they grace the sideboard; beer, sherry, claret, burgundy, still wines, or champagne are all admissible—champagne-and-oyster Luncheons forming a favourite bachelor festival. The style or mode of laying the table is not of the very greatest moment, provided the sideboard be well supplied, and this will, of course, suggest that it is at all times better for the guests that servants should be in attendance. It is strange that amongst no other people in the world is Luncheon treated with the same favour as it is by the British. In France and Germany it is the “ second breakfast.” French cooks, practising in England, having no adequate term for our Luncheon, have styled the meal “ dejeuner a la fourcliette,” which has not a single quality to recommend it for our adoption. Throughout this Encyclopaedia will be found numerous dishes that are suitable for Luncheons. MACARONI (Fr. Macaroni; Gee. Makaronie; Bp. Macarron).—A preparation of very fine wheat-flour and water, originally made in Italy, but, on account of the simplicity of its manufacture, now largely prepared in other parts of the world. It has been argued that the flour of Italy is better suited for making this paste than that of any other country, but the fact that such excellent Macaroni is produced in France and Great Britain controverts this idea. The term is probably derived from the ofd Italian maccare—to bruise or batter, to re- duce to pulp. In Italy various forms of Macaroni are produced, each having a special name given to it; but the kinds that885 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. find most favour in this country are the ordinary pipe Macaroni, sold in twists (see Fig. 1102) or in long straight pipes (lidelini) (see Fig. 1103), and the ribbon Macaroni (see Fig. 1104), known as lasagna. Vermicelli is a smaller kind of Macaroni, taking the Italian name of spaghetti, or little threads, and will be found described under its own heading. See also Pastes (Italian Paste) and Nudels. There are so many delicious dishes to which Macaroni lends itself, that considerable prominence is given to the subject, and a number of excellent receipts con- tributed by various chefs are hereunder appended. Baked. Macaroni.—Put 2oz. of Dutch cheese in a mortar with a peeled clove of garlic, a few basil-leaves, and a small quantity of pepper and powdered spices. Pound the mixture until smooth, and moisten gradually with olive oil until it assumes the consistency of cream. Boil Jib. of lasagna in salted water until tender, then drain it on a sieve and stir some of its cooking-liquor into the cheese mixture, making a rather thin sauce. Put layers of the lasagna in a deep dish with grated Parmesan cheese over eacli layer, pour over the sauce, cover the dish, put it in a slow oven, and hake for an hour. Serve the lasagna while hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Curried Macaroni.—(1) Put some Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water, and boil for twenty minutes ; take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan with some curry sauce, and simmer gently for five or ten minutes. Keep each piece of Macaroni separate, and do not allow it to he cooked to a paste. It must be served hot. (2) Peel and slice three medium-sized onions, fry them in dripping, and when lightly browned mix in 3 dessert- spoonfuls each of curry powder, sugar, and vinegar, 1 level teaspoonful of salt, one large baking apple, peeled, cored, and chopped small, 3 pints of water, and fib. of Maca- roni, and simmer till the Macaroni is quite soft. Serve very hot. German Imitation Macaroni.—Put Jib. of nudels in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil them until soft. Drain, and put them into a stewpan with a large piece of butter ; heat three eggs together with J pint of cream, pour them over the nudels, mix in gradually 1 breakfast- cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir the mixture at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Turn it on to a hot dish, strew a small quantity of grated cheese over the top, brown it lightly under a salamander, and serve. Imitation Lasagna.—Prepare a rather stiff paste with flour, warm water, beaten eggs (using twice as many yolks as whites), 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of saffron, this latter ingredient having been steeped in the warm water one hour before being used. When quite Macaroni—continued. smooth, roll out the paste to about jin. or a little less in thickness, and cut it into long strips Jin. wide. Lay the strips on a fine sieve, and keep covered with a cloth until ready to use them. They should not be kept longer than thirty-six hours, and are better if used on the day of making. Boil like ordinary Macaroni, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese and tomato sauce. Lasagna a la Neapolitaine.—Finely chop Jib. of rather fat bacon, and mix with it two chopped onions, one clove of garlic, and parsley, thyme, and basil to taste ; then mince the whole. Cut lib. of beef into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with the mince, and stir the mixture over the fire until the meat is well browned ; moisten with a small quantity of water, add a small bottle of conserve of tomatoes, and let the whole simmer gently for one hour. If too thick, add more water, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Next strain the liquor and skim off all the fat. Break lib. of flat broad Macaroni, called lasagna, into pieces about 2in. long, throw them into a large sauce- pan full of boiling water, add a lump of salt, and stir con- tinually over the fire until tender, being very careful not to break the pieces. When cooked, pour over the Macaroni a jugful of cold water, then thoroughly strain it. Cover the bottom of a deep dish with 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces, put in a layer of the lasagna, over that strew grated Parmesan cheese, then put in another layer, and so on until all is used. Pour in the sauce, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and cover plentifully with grated Parmesan cheese. Put in a brisk oven for ten minutes, then, if not sufficiently browned, pass the salamander over it. Serve, while very hot, in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni a la Bolognese.—Break some lasagna or Macaroni into convenient lengths, and boil in salted water. Tho- roughly wash sufficient spinach, using plenty of water, as it is very gritty ; plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender. Well drain the spinach, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and put it into a stewpan ; moisten with a small quantity of rich veal gravy, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. When the Macaroni is cooked, drain it, arrange on a deep dish in alternate layers with the spinach, strewing plenty of grated Parmesan cheese between each layer, cover the dish, and place it in a moderately hot oven for about three-quarters- of-an-hour. When ready, serve the Macaroni very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni a la Creme.—Boil in plenty of salted water for three-quarters-of-an-hour |lb. of Macaroni, adding Joz. of butter and one onion stuck with two cloves. Drain well, and put it back into a saucepan with Jib. each of butter, grated Gruyere cheese, and grated Parmesan cheese, J of a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of pepper. Moisten with J pint of white broth and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream. Cook all together for five minutes, stirring well, and when the Macaroni is soft and ropy, dish it up, and serve. Macaroni a la Genevois.—Boil half-a-dozen fresh pork sausages in stock; when cooked, drain, and let them get cold. Boil the required quantity of Macaroni in salted water, and when very tender turn it on to a sieve to drain. Cut the sausages in slices, and arrange them with alternate layers of the Macaroni on a deep dish, strewing grated Parmesan cheese between each layer. Pour over the contents of the dish some nicely-flavoured rich veal gravy, cover the dish, and put it in a slow oven for about one hour. Serve the Macaroni very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni au Gratin.—(1) Put 9oz. of Macaroni (not broken up) into a saucepan with boiling salted water, and when done, drain, put it into a stewpan, add a little pepper ami grated nutmeg to taste, and thicken with a few table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Warm this up on the fire for a few minutes, take it off, toss the pan, and add ^lb. of butter, 2oz. each of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheeses, and pour the whole on a gratin-dish. Sprinkle with a little more cheese, and gratinate for twenty or twenty-five minutes in the oven, then serve.88G TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. (2) Mix a little flour in 1 b teacupfuls of milk or cream, work in Joz. of butter and a little parsley and onion very finely minced, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Put this in a pan, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; then strain through a fine sieve. In the meantime boil .{-lb. of Macaroni in a saucepan with a little salted water, and when done, take it out, drain, and plunge it into some cold water to make firm. Take it out, drain again, and stir it in with the cream mixture, adding loz. each of grated Parmesan and Grayiire cheeses, and loz. of butter in small pieces. Put this in a well-buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with cheese, and pour over all a little butter made quite net. Put the dish in the oven, and bake until quite brown. (3) Put 3ioz. of Macaroni and 2l2 pints of milk or stock into a saucepan, and boil for about twenty minutes ; pour in a little cold water, remove the Macaroni, and drain thoroughly. Put it in a baking-dish in layers, with 3Joz. of grated Parmesan cheese spread over them, and loz. of butter (in small pieces) on the top ; place the dish in a moderate oven, bake until of a light golden colour (it should take about ten minutes), and serve very hot. (4) Put into a saucepan 2oz. of Macaroni broken in pieces and 1 pint of well-flavoured stock, and simmer gently at the side of the lire until quite tender. If there is sufficient stock to keep the Macaroni well covered, it will take about one hour; but it must be frequently tried, for if allowed to get pulpy it will be spoilt. Add a little butter, toss the pan (oil' the fire), sprinkle with salt and pepper, put the Macaroni on a dish, cover with fried breadcrumbs, and serve very hot. (5) Well wash the required quantity of Macaroni in slightly-salted water, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of broth, add a little each of salt and pounded mace, and simmer gently until the Macaroni is tender. Take out, drain, place it at the bottom of a dish, grate plenty of cheese over, cover witli very finely sifted bread- crumbs, pour over, through a small colander, some warmed butter, but without oiling, set the dish in a Dutch oven, and cook until the crumbs are well browned. Although this is a common way of serving Macaroni, the cheese is apt to get hard on the top, and give a slightly rancid taste to the whole. Macaroni a l’ltalienne.—(1) Boil fib. of Macaroni, place it in a saucepan with 1 gill each of tomato and Madeira sauces and fib. of grated Parmesan cheese, season with \ pinch of pepper and \ pinch of nutmeg, and cook slowly for ten minutes, tossing frequently. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve with grated cheese separately. (2) Boil fib. of Macaroni in water till tender, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and thicken with flour and water. Now add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, l teaspoonful of made mustard, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and cnyenne. Stir in fib. of grated Parmesan cheese, boil for a few minutes longer, and serve. Macaroni a la Milanraise.—Cut a piece of lean veal and 2oz. of raw ham into moderate-sized pieces, put them into a stewpan with a chopped onion and carrot and a sufficient quantity of butter, anil fry until nicely browned, adding 1 wineglassful of white wine and stock to cover. Put in a bunch of sweet herbs, including a few sprigs of parsley, a small bottle of tomato sauce, and a few chopped mushrooms. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and stew the contents gently for three hours. Next strain the gravy through a fine sieve; put the other ingredients, with the exception of the bundle of herbs, into a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste ; then return the mixture to the stewpan with the gravy, and boil it gently for twenty or thirty minutes longer. Boil the required quantity of Macaroni and drain it thoroughly; cut some ricotta (milk cheese) into slices. Strain the above gravy again into an- other stewpan, put in lfoz. of butter broken into small pieces, and keep it hot at the edge of the fire. Arrange the Macaroni and slices of ricotta in layers in a deep dish with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese over them, moisten with the above gravy, dust a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over the top, and cover the dish. Put it into a very slow oven, and leave for an hour. At the end of that Macaroni—continued. time, take it out of the oven, and serve while very hot in the same dish. Macaroni a la Neapolitaine.—(1) Have a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and put into it 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt; as soon as it boils up again, throw in lib. of Macaroni, let it boil for thirty minutes, and then drain in a colander. Grate 6oz. of cheese ; put a layer of the boiled Macaroni into a deep dish, sprinkle it with grated cheese, then add another layer of Macaroni, again sprinkle with cheese, and so on till the dish is full. Pour over it some hot gravy. Melt before the fire Jib- of fresh butter, pour it over the top, and serve as hot as possible. (2) Put a layer of boiled Macaroni at the bottom of a dish, season with salt and pepper, cover with a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, and continue in this way until three layers of each have been used, having the last layer of cheese. Pour round a rich brown gravy, warm up in the oven, and serve. (3) Put the required quantity of Macaroni into a sauce- pan with weak veal broth, slightly salted, and boil until soft ; take it out, drain, put it on a dish, grate over Par- mesan cheese, put a few lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in a hot oven, and bake for fifteen minutes, taking care that the cheese does not become hard. Serve hot. (4) Put a sweetbread in a little water to soak ; wash well, and boil it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover. When done, let it cool, and trim away all the skin and fat. Put it into another saucepan with 1 pint of water and a small minced onion, and boil slowly for an hour; then take it out, and cut it in small pieces. Remove all the onion from the stock, add Jib. of Maraeoni washed and cut up into pieces lin. in length, and boil for twenty minutes. Put in the chopped sweetbread, and add 1 table- spoonful of butter, lh saltspoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced parsley, and a little pepper. Cover the pan, cook for another five minutes, and serve. Macaroni a la Pontiffe.—Prepare and boil in equal quan- tities some potatoes and chestnuts, or, if the latter are not in season, use carrots. When the vegetables are cooked, turn them on to a sieve to drain, and cut into convenient- sized pieces. Boil some long strips of lasagna in salted water until tender, then thoroughly drain it. Butter a plain mould, twist the strips of Macaroni round and round the inside, lining it completely; fill the hollow space tastefully with the boiled vegetables, a few fried button- mushrooms, and some egg-balls that have been boiled in clear stock. Mix a small quantity of arrowroot smoothly with some of the cooking-liquor of the Macaroni, and stir over the fire until thickened and boiling; then pour it over the contents of the mould, and bake in the oven for a quarter-of-an-hour. When ready, turn the Maraeoni care- fully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with some clear rich gravy poured round. Macaroni a la Heine.—Boil Jib. of Macaroni in slightly- salted water until very tender ; put 2oz. of butter into a lined stewpan with 2oz. of grated Stilton cheese and f pint of cream, season with pounded mace and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until thickened and smooth. Drain the Macaroni, put it into the sauce, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes. Next, turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs over, and put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Brown it under a sala- mander, or in a brisk oven,* and serve while very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni-and-Almoud Pudding. (1) Break Mb. of Italian Macaroni into pieces lin. long, put them over the fire in 1 pint of milk, and simmer gently for half-an-hour ; then throw in ij saltspoonful of salt, stir in 2oz. of butter, take the Macaroni from the fire, and let it cool. Whip five eggs, beat into them Mb. of powdered white sugar, and mix in by degrees Iqt. of milk; when the Macaroni is nearly cold, stir this mixture in carefully without break- ing the Macaroni, add a flavouring of grated nutmeg, rose- water, and essence of ratafia, and stir in lastly Mb. of sweet almonds blanched and chopped up small. Bake in a moderate oven.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 887 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. (2) Put 4oz. of Macaroni, broken up into short pieces, into a saucepan; pour over lqt. of milk and 1 pint of cream, and let it soak fora few hours. Put the pan over a slow lire, add loz. of blanched and finely-chopped sweet and bitter almonds, and simmer the contents gently until the Macaroni is tender. In the meantime, beat six eggs, and add 1 ioz. of butter and lib. of caster sugar; mix this with the Macaroni mixture when sufficiently simmered, stir well, and pour it into a well-buttered pie dish. Sprinkle the top with a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, put the dish in a moderate oven for an hour to bake, and the Macaroni pudding Is then ready to be served. Macaroni Boiled in Sherry.—Put joz. of Italian Macaroni into a saucepan with j pint of sherry and water in equal quantities, and boil the Macaroni gently till tender and the moisture has evaporated. Put on a hot dish, sift over caster sugar and 1 pinch of ground cinnamon, and serve. Macaroni with Cheese.—(1) Put in a large saucepan plenty of water and a lump of salt, and place it over the fire ; when the water boils quickly throw in the Macaroni, first breaking it into moderate lengths. Stir frequently until tender, then pour in a jug of cold water, and drain the water off. Put about jib. of butter in a stewpan and place it over the fire until lightly browned ; turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, pour over the butter, strew plenty of grated Parmesan cheese on it, and serve. (2) Boil 5oz. or Goz. of Macaroni in salted water until tender, take it out, drain, and put it into a baking-dish. Chop 2oz. of cheese, add it, together with the same quantity of butter, to the Macaroni, pour over two eggs beaten up in l pint of milk, or milk-and-water, put it in the oven, and bake. In the meantime, boil j pint of milk, thicken it with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a little salt. When the Macaroni is so set that it will not mix, pour over the other mixture, close the oven, and bake until a yellowish-brown colour, then serve. This dish is very attractive, as the clieese- and-custanl mixture boils up in spots and appears amongst the white sauce and parsley. (3) Boil jib. of Macaroni till tender, strain off the water, put the Macaroni back into the saucepan, add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne, and stir in a small piece of butter and a small quantity of cream ; when quite hot, put it on a hot dish, lay some very thin slices of cheese on top, and leave it before the fire till the cheese is melted; then serve hot. Macaroni with Cockles.—Teel a quantity of tomatoes, cut them in slices, and remove the seeds ; put them in a stew- pan with a peeled clove of garlic, and keep simmering gently at the side of the fire for two hours, stirring frequently. Season with salt and pepper, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and boil for ten minutes longer ; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Put plenty of cockles in a saucepan, place over a brisk fire until their shells open, then pick them out, strain the liquor of the cockles through a piece of muslin, and mix it and the cockles with the tomatoes. Have ready boiled jib. of Macaroni, place it on a hot dish, pour the tomatoes and cockles over it, mix well with a fork, and serve. • Macaroni Croquettes.—(1) Boil 8oz. of Macaroni until tender in a. saucepan containing salted water, drain, and put it in a stewpan with 5oz. of butter, 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a few table-spoonfuls of pickled tongue cut in small pieces, and the same quantity of truffles. When these are all cooked and well mixed, pour out into a well-buttered saute-pan to about lin. in thickness. Cover with paper, place a weight on the top, and when cool cut it into rounds about lin. in diameter ; roll them in more grated Parmesan cheese, dip in well-beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in a little butter until of a light brown colour. Take them out, drain, put in a pile on an ornamental dish-paper laid over a dish (see Fig. 1105), and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of cold cooked Macaroni into a saucepan, and warm it up together with a little thick white sauce ; when hot, add 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and Macaroni—continued. the well-beaten yolk of an egg, with salt and pepper to taste. Let it cool, and shape it into rolls ; put them in crumbs, egg and then breadcrumb them again, fry in hot fat until done, then serve. Macaroni with Game.—Put jib. of Macaroni into a stew- pan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of stock and any required spices, and cook for an hour or so. When done, add 1 teacupful of red wine, 1 table spoonful of any kind of jelly, and two or three slices of lemon; mix well, then add lib. of finely-minced game, warm them all up together, sprinkle over 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, brown in the oven or with a salamander, and serve quickly. Macaroni with Gravy.—Prepare a little veal gravy, skim off the fat, and mix it with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, a little raw ham, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of pepper. Set this on the side of the fire where it will simmer gently until wanted. In the meantime, boil some Macaroni in a little salted water ; when tender, drain, and before it gets cold take up small quantities with a skimmer and put them in layers in a deep dish. Cover each layer with grated Parmesan cheese, moisten with a little of the gravy strained through a strainer and mixed with a little butter, and serve very hot. If the gravy is too thin, thicken it with a little meat glaze. Macaroni with Ham. Put2oz. of (Macaroni broken in pieces in a saucepan with 1 pint of highly-seasoned stock, and boil until quite tender ; add a little butter, salt, and pepper, and turn it out on to a dish with 2oz. of minced cooked fat ham or streaky bacon, sprinkle a few fried breadcrumbs over, and serve. Macaroni with Kidneys.—Boil jib. of Macaroni. Take tbe fat from six mutton-kidneys, or one ox-kidney, skin them, cut them open, setoson with cayenne, salt, and powdered mixed herbs, and fry in butter, browning nicely on both sides; then stir in j pint of gravy flavoured with Fio. 1106. Macaroni and Kidneys. tomatoes. Lay the kidneys on a hot dish, surround them with the hot boiled Macaroni (see Fig. 1106), pour over the gravy, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper and some chopped hard-boiled eggs, with a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese. Serve hot. Macaroni with Meat.—(1) Scald Goz. of Macaroni till tender, but not long enough to break or to let it stick together.888 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. Then make a nice brown mince of any cold meat, poultry and game that may he hi the house, together with a small piece of ham or bacon, both fat and lean. Season the meat with finely-chopped onion, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and moisten with gravy flavoured with ketchup and Worcestershire sauce. Thickly butter the inside of a pudding-basin ; cut the Macaroni into pieces Jin. long, and stick these pieces upright and very closely all over the inside of the basin, so that when turned out it will look like a honeycomb ; fill the basin with the mince, and lay the rest of the Macaroni on top. Tie over a floured cloth, and boil for about an hour. Take it out of the saucepan five minutes before turning out. Serve hot, with very little gravy in the dish, but a small tureen of good gravy with it. (2) Wash Alb. of Macaroni, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Then drain the Macaroni as dry as possible and leave until cold. Chop very finely 111), of any cold cooked meat, mix with it 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 1 scant dessert- spoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Thickly butter the interior of a basin; cut the Macaroni into pieces about lin. long, put a layer of it in the basin, next a layer of the chopped meat and crumbs, then a layer of Macaroni, and so on until the basin is filled. Pour in 1 teacupful of milk ; when that is absorbed, lay a sheet of paper over the top of the basin, twist the edges underneath the rim to fix them, stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil gently for an-hour- and-a-half. More boiling water may be poured in as the quantity diminishes, care being taken not to let it enter the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the shape out of the basin on to a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Cut into small pieces either some veal, mutton, or beef, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently for half-an-hour ; mix in a few table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and leave at the edge of the fire until tender. Put the required quantity of Macaroni into a saucepan contain- ing boiling water, boil quickly for twenty minutes, then drain the Macaroni and mix it with the meat; cut two or three slices off a tin loaf, remove the crust, and toast the bread lightly on both sides. Place the toast on a hot dish, turn the Macaroni and meat over it, and serve. Macaroni with. Oil (GERMAN).—Break the required quan- tity of Macaroni into convenient-sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of milk to cook them, and boil gently until tender. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and when ready turn it on to a sieve to drain. Put it into a lined stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of salad-oil and some grated Parmesan cheese, and toss it over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, garnish with a border of finely-grated tongue, and serve. Macaroni Omelet.—(1) Cut 2oz. of Macaroni into small pieces, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take them out,-drain, and put in a basin in a warm place. In the meantime, turn 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan, boil, and add it Fig. 1107. Macaroni Omelet. gradually to 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, worked to a smooth paste together with a little cold milk. Stir vigorously, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, two well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, 1 breakfast-cupful of Macaroni—continued. breadcrumbs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and lastly the Macaroni. Put it in a well-buttered pie-dish, bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, turn it out on a dish (see Fig. 1107), pour a little brown sauce over, and serve. Macaroni with Oysters.—Boil lib. of Macaroni, broken up small, into a saucepan of boiling salted water for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Strain in a colander, and place a layer of it at the bottom of a deep dish ; put 1A breakfast- cupfuls of bearded oysters over this, next 2oz. of butter in small pieces, and salt and pepper, then more Macaroni and oysters, and finish with Macaroni at the top. Mix 1 table- spoonful of flour to a smooth paste in a little of 1 pint of milk, then beat in two eggs and the remainder of the milk. Pour it over the Macaroni and oysters, and place it in the oven to bake until quite set and firm to the very centre of the dish. Macaroni Pie.—(1) Tut the required quantity of Macaroni into a saucepan with a little butter and water or broth, and stew it; strain, cut it in pieces, and place them at the bottom of a dish, intermixing with small balls made with pounded ham and butter. Cut off some fillets from any cooked game, and have ready a few blanched and stewed cocks’ combs or imitation ones cut out of ox- palates, also a sweetbread cut in dice, and some mush- rooms, all stewed separately in rich sauce. Put a layer of the cocks’ combs, sweetbread, and mushrooms over the Macaroni, which can have Parmesan cheese grated over it if desired, then a layer of the fillets, and continue in this way until all the ingredients are used up. Pour ovefr equal quantities of cream and gravy to fill up the dish, cover with short-paste, and bake. The paste can be done without, and the pie cooked in a Dutch oven. (2) Put a few small pieces of gravy-beef into a stewpan with a sliced onion ancl about loz. of butter, and fry until browned; next pour in a moderate quantity of tomato sauce and 1 wineglassful of sherry, add a bunch of sweet herbs, a sliced carrot, a few mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of mixed spices. Stew the whole gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a- half, then strain the liquor into a basin and skim off the fat. Have ready boiled the required quantity of Macaroni, drain it, put it into a saucepan with a good-sized lump of butter and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, cover with the above sauce, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Butter a plain mould and line it with a good short-paste, joining the edges with beaten white of egg. Fill the mould with the Macaroni, mixing with it some chopped and cooked mushrooms and truffles and small fillets of veal that have been fried lightly in butter, also strew in some grated Parmesan cheese. Cover the whole with a flat of paste, trimming oft' neatly round the edges, moisten them with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, press them together, and bake the pie for an hour in a moderately hot oven. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, being careful not to break it, place it on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put 4oz. of small Macaroni and an onion into a bowl, pour over sufficient milk to more than cover, and leave it until the Macaroni is sufficiently swollen. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish, grate over lightly some Parmesan cheese, put a few lumps of butter here and there, cover this with a very thin beef-steak, then with more Macaroni, next steak, and finish with Macaroni, cheese, and butter as before. Place the pie (without crust) into a moderate oven, bake, and serve hot. (4) Boil some large Macaroni in beef gravy, and when tender mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, seasoning to taste. Butter a plain mould and line it with a good short-crust. Fill the mould up with the Macaroni, some hard-boiled eggs, fried forcemeat halls and mushrooms, truffles and cocks’ combs, all previously cooked. Arrange the above ingredients tastefully in the mould, the Macaroni predominating, pour over a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and strew some grated Parmesan cheese on the top. Cover with a flat of the crust, ornament with leaves, trim off neatly round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. Bake the pie in a brisk oven, and serve either889 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. hot or cold on a mounted dish covered with an ornamental paper. See Fig. 1108. Fig. 1108. Macaroni Pie. (5) Break some Macaroni into convenient-sized pieces, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour in salted water; drain the water off the Macaroni, and put in with it an onion stuck with three cloves, 1 pint of boiling milk, and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, keeping it boiling gently until quite cooked. Butter a pie-dish, line it with short-paste, fill it with alternate layers of the Macaroni, slices of hard- boiled eggs, and cooked mushrooms, and pour over the whole some tomato sauce ; roll out a flat of the paste, cover the pie with it, trim neatly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the pie until the crust is cooked, and serve it while hot with mushroom sauce mixed with the juice of a lemon. (6) Put lib. of Macaroni into boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Trim off all the fat, skin, and gristle from lib. of raw beef-steak, and cut the meat into rather small pieces. Put a layer of the Macaroni at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of the meat, dust over with salt and pepper, and strew a small quantity of finely-minced onion over it. Put in another layer of Macaroni, next a layer of meat and seasoning, and so on until the dish is full; pour in a small quantity of water, and cover the whole with a good pie-crust. Make a small hole in the top, brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of • egg, and bake ; the oven should not be too hot, as the meat should cook before the crust browns. When ready, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve the pie while hot. (7) Italian.—Put Jib. of Macaroni into a saucepan, cover it with clear broth, and boil for fifteen minutes, or until somewhat swollen, but not soft, then turn it on a colander and drain. Warm 4oz. of butter, then beat it well, adding the yolks of six eggs one at a time. Finely mince about fib. of cold veal or chicken. Butter a pudding-basin and line it with puff paste; put at the bottom a layer of the Macaroni, then a layer of the minced meat, and continue thus until all the ingredients are used, making the last layer of Macaroni; season the beaten eggs and butter with a little salt, pour them over the contents of the basin, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and put the basin into a moderately hot oven. When cooked, turn the pie out on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. (8) Milanese.—Break some pipe Macaroni into con- venient lengths, and boil it in salted water ; when tender, strain off all the water, put in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese and a lump of butter, moisten with nicely-flavoured rich beef gravy, toss over the tire for a few minutes, then move it to the side. Cut some small fillets off a breast of fowl, lay them in a buttered tin, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook in the oven. Rub 5oz. of butter into lib. of flour, and when smooth mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a sufficient quantity of warm water to knead the whole into a rather stiff paste. Roll the paste out, and line a buttered plain round mould with it. joining the edges together with beaten white of egg. Fill the mould with Macaroni—continued. the Macaroni, fillets of fowl, truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs cut into small pieces and cooked in gravy, small squares of cooked ham, and a moderate quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, moistening occasionally with good veal gravy. Cover the mould with a flat of paste, trim off round the edges, brush these with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, press them together, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for about one hour. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Macaroni Pudding.—(1) Put 2oz. or so of small pipe Macaroni into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, flavour with a little lemon-peel and cinnamon, and simmer gently until the Macaroni is tender. Turn it all into a pie-dish, put in the yolks of two or three eggs and the white of one, also sugar and grated nutmeg to taste, and pour over 1 table-spoonful of peach-juice and J wineglassful of raisin wine. Place a rim of paste round the edge of the dish, and bake. (2) Break the Macaroni into convenient lengths, put it into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of milk, plenty of sugar, and any flavouring liked, and boil until tender. When cooked, strain the Macaroni, and leave it until nearly cold. Beat three eggs well, mix them with the cold Macaroni, turn it into a buttered basin that will just hold it, and tie a floured cloth over the top. Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (3) Put 3oz. or 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil until a dark brown colour; warm a plain mould and pour the sugar into it, turning about with the hands until the mould is coated all over. Sweeten 1 pint of milk to taste with sugar, place it over the fire in a stewpan until boiling, then put in 2oz. of Macaroni broken into convenient-sized pieces. When the Macaroni is tender, let it cool a little, then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour the mixture into the lined mould, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Boil 2oz. of Macaroni in a saucepan with lqt. of water ; when tender, drain off’ the water and add J gill of milk and 2oz. of caster sugar. Toss the pan frequently until the milk is absorbed, add a little ground cinnamon or grated nutmeg to flavour, and serve with stewed fruit. (5) Boil 6oz. of Macaroni in salted water until quite tender, taking care not to break it; take it out, and drain. In the meantime, beat in a basin the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, add 1 gill of cream, and pour it into a saucepan containing three thin slices of ham and the breast of a chicken, both well minced. Mix 3 table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese with half a blade of powdered mace, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, stir it into the egg mixture, add the Macaroni, and mix thoroughly. Pour it into a well-buttered mould, put the mould in a saucepan of water, but not sufficient to cover it, and boil for an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour some rich gravy over, garnish round with potato croquettes (see Fig. 1109), and serve. (6) Boil 3oz. of Macaroni in a little more than 1 pint of milk, and when cooked turn it into a pie-dish. Mix the beaten yolks of four eggs together with 1 pint of cream, sweeten with 2oz. of castor sugar, and flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Pour the cream over the Macaroni, and bake for twenty minutes in a good oven.890 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. When cooked, strew caster sugar and a small quantity of grated nutmeg over the top, and serve with fruit sauce. (7) Put ‘2oz. of pipe Macaroni into a saucepan with a small piece of lemon-peel, a piece of stick cinnamon, and 1 pint of milk, and let it boil gently until tender. Butter a pie-dish, line the edge with a light paste, and put in the Macaroni. Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, mis them with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with j- breakfast- cupful of raisin wine, 1 table-spoonful of peach-water, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Spread a layer of marmalade or strawberry jam over the Macaroni, pour the above mixture over, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. (8) Put 1 j pints of milk with the rind of half a lemon and 3oz. of sugar over the fire in a pan, and let it boil; drop in jib. of Macaroni, and let it boil gently till quite soft and swelled, hut do not let it break. If the milk dries away too much as the Macaroni swells, add a little more. When the Macaroni is done, pour it on a dish, pick out the lemon-peel, pour some boiled custard over the hot Macaroni, grate a little nutmeg over it, and when cold garnish with slices of candied citron. (9) Boil jib. of Macaroni in lqt. of milk for lialf-an-hour, let it cool a little, and then mix with it six eggs beaten up together with jll>. of powdered white sugar, nutmeg and lemon-peel to taste, or a few pounded almonds. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, cover, and boil or steam for an hour. Serve hot with wine sauce. (10) Put joz. of Macaroni in a saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful of white broth, and boil for an hour, when it should he quite tender and swollen. Pour a teacupful of boiling milk over a well-beaten egg, and mix it. Put the Macaroni at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour the cream mixture over, add a l'ttle seasoning, and hake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. A little grated nutmeg or cinnamon may he sprinkled over before baking if desired. Macaroni Ragoflt.—Boil about 4oz. of Macaroni: when tender, drain and chop it up into pieces about 2in. in length. Cut jib. of cooked tongue into short strips, put them with the Macaroni into a stewpan, with loz. of butter and 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, stir the mixture over the fire until hot, then move it to the side. Put loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour into another stewpan, stir them over the fire until browned, then pour in gradually f pint of clear gravy ; continue stirring, and boil for five minutes. Turn the meat mixture on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. Macaroni Rissoles.—Take jib. of Macaroni, selecting long pieces, and roll them up in a cloth, allowing room to swell and to keep their ends open and clear ; place it in a long pan, and boil in salted water for twenty-five minutes; take out, and let it cool. In the meantime, chop 3oz. of Parmesan cheese very small, and mix it with joz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk ; put this in a frying-pan to melt, but without boiling. Take each piece of Macaroni (there should be from eight to ten pieces) out separately, dip them in the melted cheese, covering well, then into egg beaten in a little water, and lastly into dried breadcrumbs ; plunge them into a frying-pan containing boiling lard, and fry until done to a light brown. Take them out, cut each one into lengths of about 2jin., put them on a dish, garnish with a border of grated Parmesan cheese, or with a little tomato sauce poured round, and serve very hot. Macaroni Salad.—Put jib. of Macaroni into a saucepan containing boiling water, with a lump of salt and some peppercorns, and boil for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the Macaroni, taking care not to break it, and leave till cold. Thoroughly clean 2 bleached heads of endive, and let them macerate in oil and vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper. Put the endive in the middle of a flat dish, arrange the stems of Macaroni round it, and pour over some remoula.de sauce. Garnish with slices of hard- boiled eggs and raw tomatoes, also with strips of cold meat, and serve. Macaroni—continued. Macaroni and Salmon.—Boil jib. of Macaroni till tender in milk-and-water (more milk than water) and the liquor out of a tin of salmon. Grease a pie-dish, and lay the pieces of salmon out of the tin in it; when the Macaroni is tender, turn it over the salmon. Sprinkle sifted breadcrumbs on the top, place small bits of butter here and there, put the dish in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Macaroni-and-Sausage Pie.—Break jib. of Macaroni into convenient lengths, put them in a stewpan with common stock to cover, and boil till tender. Cut lib. of sausages in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the meat. When the Macaroni is cooked, drain, place a layer of it in a pie- dish, next a layer of the sausage-meat, dust with salt and pepper, and strew over finely-chopped parsley; then put in another layer of Macaroni, and so on until all is used, seasoning each layer of meat as before. Pour in 1 tea- cupful of clear broth, cover the pie with a light pastry crust, trimming off evenly round the edges, and bake for lialf-an-hour. Serve the pie hot. Macaroni Souffle.—Have ready a saucepan containing boil- ing salted water, and throw into it 2oz. of fine Macaroni broken into convenient lengths. In twenty minutes’ time drain off all the water, and put in with the Macaroni a piece of cinnamon, loaf sugar to taste, and j pint of milk. Boil gently until dry, then remove the cinnamon. When the Macaroni is cold, stir in the beaten yolks of four and the well-whisked whites of six eggs. Pour the mixture into a mould, leaving a clear 2in. space at the top, dredge over with caster sugar, and bake in a brisk oven. When well risen and lightly browned, dust caster sugar over the souffle, and serve at once in the mould. Macaroni Soup.—(1) Put jib. of Macaroni into a saucepan with loz. of butter and an onion stuck with five cloves, and boil until the Macaroni is quite tender; take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan, and pour over jgall. of good gravy. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer the Macaroni gently for about ten minutes, taking care that it does not break or become pulpy. Add a little grated Parmesan cheese, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve. (2) Boil 8:>z. of Macaroni in a saucepan with lqt. of stock ; when tender, take it out, drain quite diy, and put half of it into another saucepan with another quart of stock, and boil to a pulp ; pass it through a sieve, add the 2qts. of stock, 1 pint of boiling cream, 8oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and the remaining half of the Macaroni. Put the pan at the side of the fire so that the soup will thoroughly warm without boiling, then pour it into a tureen, drop in the crust of a French roll cut up small, and serve very hot. (3) Break up 6oz. of Macaroni, and put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water (in which two or three bacon- bones and a large onion have been stewing for about one hour), loz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer gently for one hour until the Macaroni is tender, take it out, put it at the bottom of a tureen, and pour over lqt. of good vegetable soup thickened with Hour. Any white stock or broth may be used instead of the water with the bacon-hones, but care must be taken not to use any that will colour the Macaroni in the slightest, or the effect will be spoilt. (4) Put jib. of Macaroni in boiling salted water and scald it for a few minutes; then take out, drain, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, 2oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently until quite done. Grate in a handful of Parmesan and Gruycre cheeses in equal quan- tities, put the Macaroni at the bottom of the tureen, pour the milk soup over, and serve. (5) Fry in butter a finely-minced onion in a saucepan, and when a light golden colour add 6oz. of ham cut in small pieces, a bunch of parsley and fine herbs, and a few pepper- corns. Let these cook for a few minutes, then add eight large tomatoes, having the skin and seeds removed, cut in pieces, and drained quite dry. When the moisture from the tomatoes has reduced, pour in a little melted glaze and a little reduced brown sauce, cook for a few minutes longer, and pass all through a sieve. Boil 1 jib. of Macaroni in salted water; when quite tender, take it out, drain, and put it into a frying-pan with 6oz. of butter pulled in891 m.E ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTWAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. small pieces. When the butter is sufficiently melted, add a little pepper, and put the Macaroni in a deep dish in layers, with a handful of grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over, and a little of the sauce poured over each layer. Sprinkle a little more cheese over the top layer, mask with browned clarified butter, and serve with a good broth in a tureen. (6) Blanch about l'2oz. of Macaroni in boiling water, with a little salt and butter ; take out, strain, cut it up into any desired lengths, and put it into a saucepan. In the meantime, prepare a rich vegetable soup, strain it into a saucepan, add the white of an egg beaten up in a little cold soup to clarify it, then boil and skim free of fat. Strain it into the saucepan containing the Macaroni, and simmer at the side of the lire until nearly done, letting it remain till slightly firm. Prepare a liaison of twelve eggs, mixed with a little well-whipped cream, a lump of warmed butter, 6oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and pepper to taste ; stir this gradually into the soup, taking care that it is not boiling, pour it all into a tureen, and serve. The grated cheese may be served separately if desired. (7) Pour 4 pints of clear chicken broth into a stewpan, and boil, then put in Goz. of Macaroni broken into small pieces. Clean the hearts and livers of three or four chickens, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till half cooked; drain the hearts and livers and cut into small squares, then put them into the soup. When the Macaroni is tender, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, dust over a little pepper and powdered cinnamon, and serve while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast. Macaroni Soup with. Cream.—Pour about 5qts. of water into a stockpot, and add a fowl, a knuckle of veal, and a little salt. Put the pot on the fire, skim the liquor frequently, and when it boils remove the pot to the side, and add a carrot, an onion, a leek, and a root of celery. Simmer gently for four hours, then strain it through a fine sieve and skim off all the fat. Put Goz. of butter into a saucepan, and when melted mix in 2 table spoonfuls of flour ; let it remain on the fire for a few minutes, then pour in the broth. B >il up again, remove it to the side of the fire to simmer for twenty-live minutes longer, and strain again. In the meantime, boil Mb. of Macaroni in salted water, and when done, strain, and add it to the broth. Beat up the yolks of five eggs in a basin, add gradually 1 teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and 1 teacupful of cream. Stir this into the soup together with a little butter, and warm up without letting it boil. Pour it into a tureen, and serve hot. Macaroni with. Sweetbreads.—Put two blanched cold sweet- breads into a saucepan with a little butter, and add to this 1 breakfast-cupful of ham cut in small pieces. Place the pan over the lire, fry for a few minutes, add gravy and Madeira to about three-parts the height of the meat, the trimmings of two or three trullles, and reduce the liquor to half its original quantity. When the sweetbreads are done, take them out, drain, cut them in small slices, and mix with a few small slices of hot lean ham. Add to the stock a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, boil up, and strain through a sieve into another saucepan. Put in two or three truffles cut in slices, boil for five minutes longer, and pour it over the sweetbreads. Whilst this is going on, put Mb- of Macaroni, broken into 2in. lengths, in a sauce- pan of boiling salted water, cover the pan, and boil until the pipes are quite tender ; take out, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, a little of the liquid from the stew, and a small lump of butter. Simmer over a moderate lire for ten minutes, when they should be light brown ; add 3 or 4 teacupfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, pour it all into a deep dish in which the sweetbreads have already been laid, and serve very hot. Macaroni Timbales.—(1) Put Mb. of Macaroni into a sauce- pan of salted water, and boil until tender; drain, and cut it into pieces about 2in. in length. Reduce 1 wineglassful of bechamel sauce in a saucepan over the fire, stirring in gradually a few table-spoonfuls of gravy; when well flavoured, take it from the fire and pour it on the Macaroni, Macaroni—continued. together with 5oz. of butter and a little powdered cin- namon to taste. In the meantime, butter a timbale-mould, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and line it with sweetened tartlet-paste. Pour in the preparation, cover it with a flat of the paste, and put it in a moderate oven to bake. In about forty-five minutes (when it should be done), take out of the oven, turn it out on to a dish, sprinkle over with sugar flavoured with cinnamon, and serve. (2) Mix 4oz. of flour, loz. of butter, the yolks of three eggs, and a little sugar to the thickness of nouille paste; roll it out very thin and cut it into various fancy shapes with biscuit-cutters. Butter a timbale-mould, put these ..pieces of paste round the sides and at the bottom, and place the mould on the ice to set them. When quite firm, brush them over with a little water, and cover with a lining of puff paste, made by using lib. of flour to fib. of butter. Boil sufficient Macaroni in a little stock or gravy; when quite tender, take it out, drain on a cloth, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and sprinkle with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Let it get cold, fill up the mould with it, put a layer of the paste over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until quite done. Turn the timbale out on to a dish, cut out the top within I in. of the side, take out half the Macaroni, and fill up with a ragout made of fillets of fowl, tongue, and truffles, cut into collops, mushrooms cut in slices, and a few cocks’ combs, and well mixed with a little German sauce. Pile this up lfin. above the top of the timbale, pqt a cock’s comb in the centre, and garnish the top of the crust with twelve small fillets of fowl, larded, glazed, and set in a circle, and serve. (3) Boil sufficient Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water, and when tender take it out and drain thoroughly. Mix it with grated Parmesan and G my ere cheese in equal quantities and a little butter, and season with pepper. Butter a timbale-mould, line it with short-paste rolled out thin, fill it up with the Macaroni, cover with more paste, and put it in the oven. Put a sheet of paper over to prevent burning, and bake for about forty-five minutes. When done, turn it out of the mould on a dish, and serve. (4) Boil the required quantity of Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water with a few slices of carrot and one onion stuck with cloves; when quite tender, take it out and drain. Put equal quantities of grated Parmesan and Gray ere cheese in a saucepan with some gravy, and add a little common household cheese also grated, and a little minced breast of fowl. Warm these up, mix in the Macaroni, and pour the whole into a timbale-mould lined with tart paste. Cover with paste, make a hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour or so, according to the size of the mould ; pour in a little gravy, turn it out on to a dish, and serve hot. (5) Boil 4oz. of Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water for about thirty minutes, when it should be quite tender ; take it out, drain, let it get quite cold, then line a buttered mould or basin with it. Put an onion in a sauce- pan with a breakfast-cupful of milk, reduce to half its bulk over a quick fire, and thicken with a table-spoonful of flour mixed with a little milk ; stir well, grate a little nutmeg over, and sprinkle in a small quantity of minced parsley. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg and loz. of butter, and when well mixed add 2oz. of finely-minced tender part of a fowl, rabbit, or any game. Put this mixture into the basin or mould, cover with a little more of the Macaroni, tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water (not quite up to the top of the mould), and simmer gently at the side of the fire for forty-five minutes or so. Turn it out on a dish, pour a little gravy round, and serve. (6) Boil Jib. of Macaroni in white stock, and when cooked mix with it 2oz. or 3oz. each of grated Parmesan cheese and butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and leave until cold. Butter a timbale-mould, line with a good puff paste, fill it with the Macaroni, and bake in a moderate oven. Meanwhile prepare the follow- ing forcemeat: Chop some of the white flesh of a cooked fowl, and mix with it half its quantity of chopped cooked veal and the same of cooked ham; put them in a mortarTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. with a partially-boiled and chopped onion and a few cooked mushrooms, and pound until quite smooth. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and pounded mace, work in a small lump of butter, and moisten with beaten yolks of eggs, but not making it too liquid. Put the mixture into a stew pan with a small quantity of white stock and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of thick cream, and stir it at the edge of the fire until very hot, but not letting it boil. When the timbale of Macaroni is cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, cut oft the crust at the top, and remove some of the Macaroni; fill the space left with the above mixture, garnish it with truffles cooked in white wine, and serve. (7) Make some rich puff paste, roll out thin, cut it into narrow strips, twist the strips into a sort of cord, and coil this cord of paste into some well-buttered moulds so as to line them with it. Then fill each mould with boiled Macaroni, and cover them with grated cheese and sifted breadcrumbs mixed in equal quantities. Bake the timbales for three-quarters-of-an-liour, turn them out on a dish, and serve. (8) Well butter the insides of eight small timbale-moulds, and around these make circles with long pieces of boiled Macaroni, taking care to have the moulds well covered. Pill up the centres with minced lamb sweetbreads or veal forcemeat moistened with thick xvhite sauce, close the moulds, boil for half-an-li our, turn out carefully, garnish with parsley (see Pig. 1110), and serve. (9) Break Jib. of Macaroni into Jin. lengths, put them into a saucepan with salted water to cover, and boil until tender; pour the water off' the Macaroni and turn it on to a fine sieve to drain. Thickly butter the interior of a plain timbale-mould, line it with a sheet of buttered paper, and arrange the Macaroni in it in such a way that when turned out it will have the appearance of honeycomb. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, then pour in gradually J pint of boiling water ; dust hi a small quantity of salt, boil for a few minutes, then move it off the fire and stir in quickly a well-beaten egg. Turn the paste on to a plate and leave until cold. Chop lib. of lean veal that has been freed from all skin and bone, put it in a mortar with half its bulk of the above paste and 4oz. of butter, and pound until quite smooth. Season the paste to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Beat up the yolks of three eggs together with the white of one, 1 teacupful of milk, and J teacupful of cream ; stir them gradually in with the above mixture, and when quite smooth pour it carefully in the lined mould. Tie a sheet of paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Care must be taken to prevent the water entering the top of the mould. When ready, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, remove the paper, and serve it with a sauceboatful of truffle sauce. (10) Put 5oz. of Macaroni into a saucepan containing salted water, and boil, taking care to keep the pipes whole. When done, drain on a napkin, and cut up transversely in pieces about lin. long. Fill the hollow of the Macaroni with small pieces of truffle cut the shape to fit (see Fig. 1111), arrange these in a well-buttered timbale-mould, laying them close together, truffled end outwards, against the sides and bottom, and cover with a little quenelle Macaroni—continued. forcemeat. Prepare the fillets of twelve thrushes or other small birds, beat slightly to flatten them, and fry over a brisk fire, turning frequently ; add 8oz. of minced raw Fig. 1111. Truffles for Macaroni Timballs. truffles and salt and spices to flavour, and toss over the fire for a few seconds longer. Take the pan off' the fire, and add a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce reduced with a little wine, and trimmings of truffles. When cool, pour it into the timbale, cover the top with raw forcemeat, and put it in a bain-marie for forty-five minutes, to poach. Wipe the mould, turn out the timbale on to a dish, put an attelette, garnished with a truffle on the top (see Fig. 1112), and serve. A sauceboatful of the same sauce well reduced should also be served with it. This, if it is skil- fully prepared, makes a very fine dish. (11) Put Jib. of long pieces of Macaroni into a saucepan of water with a little salt and butter, and boil until tender. Strain off the liquor, and let the Macaroni get as diy as possible. Lay the pieces evenly in a buttered timbale- mould, cover with any forcemeat, fill up with pieces of game, fat bacon, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, mushrooms, and truffles, pour in sufficient rich sauce to moisten, cover the mould with a cloth, and steam for an hour. Turn out, and serve hot. (12) Boil Jib. of Macaroni in water for ten minutes, strain off the water, and return the Macaroni to the sauce- pan with loz. of butter; shake it over the fire for a few minutes, then add J pint of strained well-seasoned stock, and boil slowly till the stock is almost reduced. Mix with the Macaroni a small quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and a fricassee of chicken, stir all over the fire till quite hot, then pour it into a basin and let it stand till quite cold. When quite cold, butter a mould, dredge the inside of it rather thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, line it with half puff paste, and put in the Macaroni and chicken ; cover the mould, and bake in a slow oven. When baked, turn it out on to a hot dish, cut off the top, pour some white sauce ever and round it, and serve hot. (13) Put the required quantity of Macaroni into a sauce- pan with water, and boil fast until so soft that it can lie easily cut without breaking. Chop it into pieces ljin. long, arrange them inside a well-buttered mould, sticking the ends close together to give the appearance of a honey- comb ; cover these with a layer of quenelle forcemeat,893 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processcs) Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads, Macaroni—continued. fill up the mould with minced ox-palates, pickled or fresh button-mushrooms well moistened with white sauce, cover the mould, and boil for forty-five minutes. Turn out care- fully, and serve with thick white sauce and stewed mush- 10 mis. Macaroni with Tomatoes.—Break jib. of Macaroni in lengths of about 3in., plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for about twenty minutes or so until done. Take them out, drain, and put them in a baking-dish; mix in loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tea- cupful of tliick stewed tomatoes, the same quantity of brown meat gravy, a lump of butter, and s. It and pepper to taste. Put the dish in a slack oven, let the mixture simmer gently for thirty minutes, and serve. It need not be baked unless desired, and care must be taken that the flavour of the tomatoes is not too strong, and alio that it is not too much salted. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce.—(1) Break lib. of Macaroni into small pieces, and boil in salted water until done. Take out, drain, put it back again into the same sauce- pan, add jib. of butter and 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, double that quantity of melted glaze, a little cayenne, and four truffles cooked and shred fine. When done, put it on a dish, sprinkle with a little more grated Parmesan cheese, pour over some tomato sauce, and serve. (2) Have a saucepan of slightly-salted boiling water on the fire, and throw in lib. of Macaroni broken into con- venient lengths, care being taken that the water is quite boiling. Wash and dry some ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves, put them in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onion and the same of chopped celery, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a few cloves ; do not pour in any water. Cook the tomatoes at the side of the fire until reduced to a pulp, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Drain the Macaroni when sufficiently cooked (it should not be done too much), put it in a stewpan with a little less than jib. of butter and 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, stir over the fire until the butter and cheese have dissolved, then mix in the tomatol sauce, turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Macaroni with Wine.—(1) Rasp tiff all the outside crust of a French roll, letting it fall into a basin, pour over 1 pint of wine, and soak for half-an-hour, covering closely with a cloth. Boil ^oz. of Macaroni till soft, drain, put it into a saucepan with a little flutter and as much cream as it will absorb, grate over a good supply of Parmesan cheese, toss over the fire until it becomes like custard, pour it over the soaked roll in a dish, brown the top with a salamander, and serve. (2) Put jib. of parboiled Macaroni into a saucepan with 2 tumblerfuls of red wine, adding a little lemon-rind and a seasoning of cloves, coriander, and cinnamon; stew slowly until quite tender (it will take about an-hour-and-a- half), then put it on a hot dish, pour round the wine sauce out of the pan, dust over with Parmesan cheese, put a few' lumps of butter on the top, glaze in the oven or with a salamander, and serve very hot. Scalloped Macaroni.—Boil the requisite quantity of Maca- roni in salted water; when soft, turn it on to a sieve to drain, and leave until cold. Grate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese, mix it with the Macaroni, also 1 teacupful of rich gravy, and 4oz. of warmed butter. Stir with a Avooden spoon until all the ingredients are rvell incorporated, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and fill some scallop shells AA'itli it; sift grated Parmesan cheese on the top of each, then spread over a layer of sardine butter made by pounding boned sardines and butter to- gether. Put them in a quick oven, and bake until nicely browned. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve Avliile very hot. Stewed Macaroni.—Simmer jib. of Macaroni in sufficient water to cover with 1 teaspoonful of salt in it. Do not let it break or lose its shape, and Avhen quite tender take Macaroni—continued. it from the fire and strain off the water. Chop very finely all the Avliite meat of a fowl and three or four slices of ham, and season to taste Avith Avliite pepper, salt, and grated Parmesan cheese. Beat Avell the yolks of three eggs and the Avhite of one separately. Mix the minced foAAj and ham into the beaten yolks, stir in j pint of cream, then beat in lightly the frothed Avhite of egg, and carefully mix in the Macaroni. Butter a mould, put the mixture into it, cover it closely, and steam for an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour some good graA-y over, and serve hot. Stuffed Macaroni.—Partially boil half a calf’s sAveetbread, and cut it into small pieces; chop an equal quantity of cold breast of fowl, and moisten half the quantity of bread- crumbs AA'itli milk. Put all the ingredients in a mortar and pound Avell, mixing with them about 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a moderate quantity of minced parsley, and salt, pepper, and pow dered spices to taste: moistening the Avhole Avith beaten eggs. Procure some of the largest pipe Macaroni, break it into pieces about 2in. long, and boil them in salted Avater. When the Macaroni is tender, drain carefully, and stuff it with the aboA'e mixture; the Macaroni must not be too much done, or it Avill break, Avhen stuffed. Lay the pieces in a tin baking-dish, moisten with plenty of rich veal gravy, streAV grated Parmesan cheese OA'er the top, and cover Avith a sheet of Avell-oiled paper. Bake it for twenty minutes in a moderate oven ; and serve Avliile very hot in the same dish. MACARONIED BEEF.—See Beef. MACAROONS (Fr. Macarons; Ger. Makaronen ; Ital. Maccberoni; Sp. Almendiados).—The striking re- semblance that Macaroon bears to Macaroni pronounces it to be of the same origin (see Macaroni). According to Spanish ideas, these Macaroons (Almendiados) should be made principally of almonds; but, although almonds may, and probably did form the chief ingredient of the original Macaroons, experience has taught confectioners to use other kernels for flavouring, with excellent effect, as will be seen by the following receipts: Macaroons made with Almonds.—(1) Blanch and pound quite smooth jib. of SAveet and jib. of bitter almonds, adding a very little Avhite of egg to prevent them oiling; then if they can be allowed to stand all night, so much the better. Beat the Avhites of three eggs to a stiff froth, adding gradually, and in very small quantities, 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of poAvdered sugar; continue beating Avell, and stir in by degrees 1 teaspoonful of mixed mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon finely powdered, and 1 teaspoonful of rose-Avater; then add also by degrees the pounded almonds. The mixture should be of the consistency of soft dough— if too thick it Avill be heavy, and if too thin the cakes will run out of shape in the baking ; if it is not thick enough, pound a feA\- more almonds and stir them in. Butter a tin baking-sheet, flour the palm of the hand, take up lumps of the dough with a knife, and Avith the floured hand Avork them into round balls ; lay them on the buttered tin about 2in. apart, put into a moderate oven, and bake them a pale brOAvn (eight or ten minutes’ baking should be sufficient). Have the oven hotter at the top than at the Fig. 1113. Macaroon aiade avith Almonds. bottom. The Macaroons should in baking rise in the middle and the surface should crack. Split almonds laid on top before baking improve the effect. See Fig. 1113 (2) Mix 21b. of caster sugar in a mortar Avith jib. of ground sAveet almonds, adding a little orange-floAver Avater894 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroons—con tinued. and the white of an egg. When the mixture has been beaten well for ten minutes, take it out with a spoon, a little at a time, form it into balls, brush these over slightly with yolk of egg, roll them in nonpareils (“ hundreds and thousands”), and place on cartridge-paper. Let them remain for a day, and then bake in a cool oven. When done, decorate them with little spots of dried cherries and angelica, fixing these on with icing-sugar. When cold, they are ready for use, or storing. (3) Blanch Jib. of almonds, wash them well, dry, chop them up, spread on a board in a diy place, and leave them for a day or so. Found well, and mix in the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and Jib. of caster sugar. Put it out in teaspoonfuls on a sheet of paper spread over a baking-sheet, keeping them well apart, damp the tops slightly with a wet brush, put small shreds of almonds on the top, and bake in a slow oven until they are quite hard. When done, turn them over, damp the paper to remove it, and they are ready for use; or they can be preserved in tins or boxes. (4) Put the whites of four eggs into a whipping-bowl, beat them to a very stiff froth, squeeze in the juice of two lemons or limes, taking care not to let any pips go in, then add 41b. of caster sugar. When these are thoroughly mixed, add two more well-whipped whites of eggs, then an- other Jib. of the sugar, lib. of blanched and sliced sweet almonds, and lastly sprinkle over Jib. of flour. Place some pieces of wafer-paper over baking-tins, drop the mixture in table-spoonfuls on them, and bake in a very slow oven for two hours. (5) Put Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar and pound them, adding gradually 4 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add lib. of caster sugar, beat in the almonds, and lay the mixture in small lumps over sheets of wafer- paper placed on a baking sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. (6) Put Jib. of ground sweet almonds into a basin, and mix them well with lib. of caster sugar and a little grated lemon-rind (zest). Beat in the whites of two eggs, and when they are thoroughly incorporated add two more, working the mixture in a mortar. Put it into a biscuit-bag and squeeze it out on to some wafer-paper, keeping the Maca- roons a little apart. Set three or four pieces of sweet almonds on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven. They can be put in tins until wanted. (7) Take Jib. of sweet almonds and 2oz. of bitter almonds ; blanch and pound them, put them into a boxVl with 12oz. of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs, and mix thoroughly with a wooden spatula for at least five minutes ; then take a biscuit-hag, slide down to the bottom of it a No. 3 tube, and put the preparation into the bag. Lay a piece of paper over a baking-sheet; then with the two hands press the preparation down gently, dropping it care- fully on to the paper in small quantities, the size and shape of a two-shilling-piece, as near alike as possible, shaping them perfectly with wet fingers, and taking care that each is entirely separated from the others. Then place the plate in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Before lift- ing the Macaroons out, see that they are a bright golden colour. Let them cool. To remove the Macaroons from the paper, wet a table, lay the paper of Macaroons on this for two minutes, and they can be easily removed. Macaroon Basket.—(1) Put fib. of loaf sugar and 1 gill of water into a small saucepan, and place it over the fire until reduced to a syrup. Thickly grease the exterior of a cake-tin with butter, dip the Macaroons separately into the syrup, and cover the bottom of the mould with it. Arrange a row of the Macaroons round the sides of the tin, first dipping them in the syrup; let them get cold, then put in another row, and so on until the tin is well covered, putting them closely together. Leave the tin until the Macaroons have well set, then lift it gently off, and fill the Macaroon basket with crystallised cherries. Whisk J pint of thick cream to a snow ■with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Put Jib. of loaf sugar into a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water and a small quantity of gum water, and boil to the crack (see Sugar boiling). Brush a marble slab over with a little Macaroons—continued. oil, pour the sugar on to it, pull it out, cut it into four long pieces, and twist two together. This must be done quickly before the sugar gets cold. Take the handles thus formed, fasten one end of them to one side of the Maca- roon basket, bring the other end over and fasten it on to the other side, then drop the whipped cream over the cherries (see Fig. 1114). This makes a very pretty ornament to a dessert-table, and will be found sufficiently simple in its construction. (2) Dissolve 1 table spoonful of gum arabic in J pint of boiling water; when thoroughly melted, mix in Jib. of powdered white sugar. Stir it over the fire till the" sugar is quite melted, and then let it simmer till very thick. Take an ordinary cake-tin, turn it upside down, and butter well the outside both bottom and sides. Take about lib. of Macaroons, stand the melted gum and sugar in a pan of boiling water so that it will keep hot, and cover the bottom of the tin with Macaroons laid close together, first dipping their edges in the melted gum and sugar to make them adhere to one another ; then commence to build walls of them up the sides of the tin, sticking them together as before with the melted gum and sugar ; let each row of the walls get quite firm before adding the next, and be careful in adding the last row to make it adhere to the bottom of the basket as well as to the row it is laid on the top of. Let the basket remain on the tin till quite firm and hard, then lift it off very carefully. Make two rings of Macaroons and stick one on at each end to represent handles. Stand the basket on a flat dish and fill it with whipped cream, heaping it high. Ornament the cream with comfits or little bits of red jelly. Macaroon Cake.—(1) Warm Jib. of butter and mix it in with lib. of sugar, working them to a cream; add six eggs, two at a time, beat them in, then add 1 teacupful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and sufficient flour to make it of that consistency that it will roll out. About 21b. will be enough. Work the dough thoroughly on the table, roll out thin, and put it on a well-buttered baking-sheet. Pnt it in a moderate oven and bake slightly, as it will have to be baked again when used for Macaroon paste or such like. (2) Blanch and pound 2oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, moistening them occasionally with brown brandy whilst pounding. Beat the yolks of three eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with fib. of caster sugar and the pounded almonds. Blanch loz. of sweet almonds and cut them into thin fillets. Whisk three more eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the above mixture, then whisk the whole to a stiff batter. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Macaroon Cheese Cakes.—(1) Put 6oz. of Macaroons in a mortar with four blanched bitter almonds, and pound them smoothly; then beat them up with 3oz. of warmed butter, the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two, and caster sugar895 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. to> details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,be., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Macaroons—continued. to taste; beat the mixture thoroughly for ten or fifteen minutes. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with a rich puff paste, and fill with the above mixture. Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned. When cooked, take the cheese cakes out of the tins, arrange them on a dish garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and serve. (2) Blanch and dry 2oz. of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar. Work in 3oz. of sugar and the whites of two eggs, beating vigorously for ten minutes; add 1 table-spoonful of rice-flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Have ready some puff paste, roll it out to about Jin. thick, and line eight patty-pans with it; put a little of the mixture in each, brush the top over with water, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for ten minutes, when they will be ready for use. Macaroons flavoured with Chocolate.—(1) Take Jib. of ground sweet almonds, add Jib. of slightly warmed chocolate and Jib. of caster sugar, and mix them to a stiff paste with the whites of eggs. Shape the paste into round balls fin. in diameter, put them on sheets of paper, leaving a little space between each, sift over some caster sugar, and bake in a slow oven until they are of a golden colour. When done, take them out of the oven, turn the paper over and damp it a little, so that it can be easily taken off, then put the Macaroons on a sieve till wanted. (2) Grate 4oz. of French chocolate, and mix with it 12oz. of ground almonds, ljlb. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, and the whites of three eggs. When the mixture is worked into a stiff paste, shape it into short fingers, and lay them on a sheet of wafer-paper; bake in a moderate oven. Macaroons made with. Cocoa-nut.—Put 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and the whites of two eggs into a basin, beat them well for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then add another white and beat it in, next 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and, lastly, another white of egg. When these are well worked in, add Jib. of cocoa-nut, grated and beaten to a pulp in a mortar, drop the mixture on to a slightly-greased baking-sheet, place it in the oven, and bake until the Macaroons are done. A very slow oven should be used to bake them in, otherwise they will melt and spoil. Macaroons flavoured with Coffee.—Mix lib. of ground almonds and 1 Jib. of caster sugar in a basin with a little extract of coffee, and add the whites of three eggs to form it into a paste. Put it out on wafer-paper in the shape of fingers, and bake in a moderate oven until they are a light pale brown. Take them out when done, remove the paper by damping, and put them away in boxes or tins until wanted. Macaroon Cream Ice.—Take Goz. of Macaroons, put them into a tin pan, and place in a moderate oven to dry for ten minutes. Remove, lay them on a table to cool for twenty minutes, put them in a mortar, pound thoroughly, and sift them over a sheet of paper. Have ready a vanilla cream ice, add to it the sifted Macaroons, mixing thoroughly with the spatula for five minutes, and with this fill a three- pint mould, covering it tightly. Have ready a pail with broken ice and rock salt at the bottom, lay the mould in, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt. Let it freeze for two hours, and when ready to serve dip the mould into warm water, turn out the cream on to a dish with a fancy paper over, and send to the table immediately. Macaroon Custard.—Crush plenty of Macaroons with half their quantity of ratafias; beat the yolks of six e<ws together with 1J pints of cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with any essence liked; pour the custard into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling, when it should be instantly removed, or the eggs wid curdle. Mix the biscuits with the custard, and pile them on a Mass dish ; whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, spread them over the top of the custard, grate over a small quantity of nutmeg, and serve. Macaroons with Filberts.—(1) Crack Jib. of filberts and put them immediately into a pan over the fire, stirring Macaroons—continued. about with a wooden or silver spoon till they brown and their skins begin to peel off-; then turn out of the pan, and rub off the skins. When the nuts are quite cold, put them into a mortar and pound them with a little white of egg. Crack another Jib. .of nuts, and proceed as above. When the two Jib. are separately pounded, put them both together into the mortar with the white of an egg and Jib. of powdered white sugar, and beat them for ten minutes; then beat up lib. of powdered white sugar with the whites of three eggs, add this to the mixture in the mortar, and stir well together for fully five minutes ; the mixture ought to be firm enough not to spread, when laid on paper; it may, however, be too firm, and if so, add a little more white of egg. Wet the palms of the hands with cold water, and with them roll 1 teaspoonful of the mixture to the shape and size of a large damson. When all are done, wet the hands again with cold water, and rub them gently over the Macaroons to make them smooth and shiny. Lay them on paper lin. apart, and put them into a cool oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. (2) Put 8oz. of filberts into a pan, and place them over the fire with a little water to remove their skins; take them out, rub the skins off' in a cloth, and when they are cold put them in a mortar and pound well, adding by degrees the white of an egg to prevent them oiling ; work in the paste thus formed 4oz. of caster sugar, and continue pounding this until it is soft and smooth, using a little more white of egg, if necessary, to make it of such a consistency that if put on a board it will not run or spread. Take a little up in a teaspoon and form it into balls about Jin. in diameter, place these on a sheet of buttered paper about 2in. apart, dust over a little more sugar, and place them in the oven to bake gently. When they are a light golden colour, take them out, turn the paper upside-down so that the Macaroons rest upon the table, damp the paper with a brush dipped in water, and peel it off. Put The Macaroons on a sieve to dry, and then they will be quite ready for use. A few drops of essence of almonds may lie added with advantage, if desired. Macai’oons flavoured with. Lemon.—Beat up the yolks of four eggs very light together with lib. of powdered white sugar, and whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Beat into the beaten yolks and sugar the grated peel of one lemon, the strained juice of three lemons, and J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix in lastly, in small quantities and alternately, the frothed whites and Goz. of self-raising flour. Roll the mixture into small balls, rub over with butter, lay them on buttered paper, leaving a space of 2in. between each, and bake in a hot oven. Macaroon Mirletons.—Break into a powder Macaroons to make 3oz. in weight, put it into a basin with the yolks of four eggs and whites of two, stir in 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, Joz. of pounded candied orange-flowers, and a small sprinkling of salt. Mix for a few minutes, then add 2oz. of warmed butter and the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth. Have ready slightly buttered about two-dozen- and-a-half tartlet-moulds, 2in. in width and Jin. in depth, lino them with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, dust over with caster sugar, let it melt in the oven, then dust over coarser sugar, and bake to a light brown in a slack oven. When done, take them out, and serve either ’not or cold, as required. Macaroon Paste with Jelly.—Mix fib. of grated cocoa- nut in a basin with Jib. of caster sugar beaten up with the whites of two eggs and a little lemon extract to flavour. Have ready a square Macaroon cake Jin. thick, put it on896 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sce., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroons—continued. a baking-sheet, squeeze the paste out through a biscuit- forcer in long cords across the sheet of cake, and then again diagonally to form triangles. Bake in a slack oven without closing the door. When the top is done and well brown, take it out, let it get cold, drop spots of clear fruit jelly in the cavities between the ridges (see Fig. 1115), and serve. Macaroons made with Pistachio Kernels.—(1) Blanch and chop fine lOoz. of pistachios, put them into a basin with lOoz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, a little essence of noyau, and the whites of two eggs. Lay out small quan- tities, about the size of walnuts, on wafer-paper, keeping them Him or 2in. apart, and with a linger moistened with water slightly press down the centre so as to keep them round. But them in a moderate oven, and bake. Serve when cold. (2) Pound |lb. of blanched bitter almonds with the whites of two eggs, put it in a basin, and mix in fib. of caster sugar, 6oz. of finely-shred pistachio-kernels, and 1 table- spoonful of vanilla sugar. Put it into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it out on wafer-paper on a baking-sheet in pieces about the size of a walnut, and bake in a moderate oven without allowing them to take much colour. Take them wit, remove the paper by damping it with water, and they will be ready for use, or may be stored in tins. Macaroon Puddings.—Put lib. of Macaroons into a basin, and pour over them 1J pints of boiling cream. Leave until cold, then beat them up with a wooden spoon. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs, and mix them in with the Macaroons, adding sugar to taste and 1J wineglassfuls of pale brandy. Butter some small cups or moulds, till them with the mixture, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the puddings out of the cups on to a dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Macaroon Souffles with Chocolate.—Cut into shreds lib. of blanched almonds, mix them up with 4oz. of sugar, and work in a little egg so as form a coating. Place them on a baking-sheet, and colour them in a slack oven. Take them out, let them coal, put them into lib. of sugar, mixed for fifteen minutes with the whites of two eggs, and add Jib. of grated chocolate melted in a slack oven. Should the paste not be stiff enough, add a little white of egg, and mix well until the almonds are well and evenly covered. Take the mixture up, a little at a time, with a teaspoon, place on sheets of paper, slightly moisten their surfaces, put a few small pieces of sugar on each, press them down on more sugar so as to let it adhere to their bottoms, put them back on the paper, and bake in a slack oven until well coloured. Take them out, let them get cold, remove from the paper, and they are then ready for use. Macaroon Trifle (American).—Form a ring round the outside of a mould with lib. of Macaroons, dipping the edges of the Macaroons in sugar boiled to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Pour 1 pint of cherry jelly into a dome- shaped mould, and pack it in ice to set. Well whip 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, stir in loz. of ,gelatine soaked in 1 wineglassful of brandy and melted over a slow fire, and mix in half a tin of grated pine-apple ; pour this into a glass dish, place the ring of Macaroons on top, turn the jelly into the centre, and serve. The ring of Macaroons may be piped with sugar to give an artistic effect. Moist Macaroons.—Put 8oz. of blanched Jordan almonds in a mortar with a little orange-flower water, and pound them to a paste. Put this into a sugar-boiler, add 12oz. of caster sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the sugar comes to the thread. Remove the pan from the fire, and when the mixture is a little cool, add loz. of green angelica cut up fine, 2oz. of finely-chopped candied peel, and the whites of two eggs. Put this into a biscuit-bag, squeeze it out in small quantities on wafer-paper, and bake in a slow oven until done to a light brown colour. Store in a dry tin or box. Pyramid of Macaroons.—Place 8oz. of caster sugar in a basin with loz. of gum arabic and 2 table-spoonfuls of Macaroons—continued. water, and stir until it is dissolved. Put it over the fire, and stir again until it has the appearance of glue. Rub a little butier over the outside of a tin pyramid-mould to prevent the candy sticking to it, put it on a table, place row of Macaroons at the bottom, and cement them together with a little of the sugar mixture, which must be kept hot whilst being used ; when these are stiff and firmly stuck together, put another row, and so on until the mould is full. When all are fixed, remove the shape from the mould, and fill it with fruit or whipped cream. Spanish Macaroons.—Put Jib. of blanched and dried almonds into a mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding a little yolk of egg. Put lib. of powdered sugar into a saucepan with J pint of water, and boil to the blow (see Sugar-boiling). Add this to the almond-paste, togetiier with 1 table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon and the zest or grated rind of two oranges ; pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir well over the fire for about ten minutes to allow it to evaporate ; now add the yolks of twelve eggs, less the amount previously used in the pounding, and stir over a quick fire until it becomes compact and smooth. Remove the pan from the fire, turn the mass out on to a slab, let it cool, form it into balls of any desired size, using the hands slightly moistened with oil of almonds, lay them out on sheets of wafer-paper spread over baking- sheets, put them into a quick oven, and bake. Take out when done, and serve cold. Spiced Macaroons.—Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding a little white of egg to prevent them oiling. Mix together four cloves, finely powdered, 1 saltspoonful of cinnamon, 1 dessert-spoonful each of finely-chopped candied orange- and lemon-peel, the grated rind of a lemon, and lib. of powdered white sugar, and gradually add to the pounded almonds in the mortar. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, add to the mixture in the mortar, and beat all together for eight or ten minutes. Drop the paste in spoonfuls on wafer-paper laid on a tin baking-sheet, at least lin. apart, as they may spread in baking, sift a little sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. Swiss Macaroons.—(1) Blanch and chop lib. of sw eet and 4oz. of bitter almonds; put them on a dish or sheet of paper, mix Jib. of caster sugar with them, and put them into a cool oven. When lightly browned, put the almonds into a basin, and mix with them ljlb. more caster sugar and a sufficient quantity of well-whisked whites of eggs to knead the whole into a rather stiff paste. Spread a sheet of wafer-paper over a baking-sheet, mould the above mixture into small round cakes, dipping the fingers occa- sionally in water to prevent them sticking, and lay the cakes on the paper. Leave lin. clear space between each cake, as they will spread while baking. Put two or three thin fillets of almonds on each cake, brush them lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in water, and bake in a moderate oven, only lightly browning them. When cooked, leave the Macaroons until cold, and then trim the paper off neatly round the edges with a sharp pair of scissors. (2) Sift ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix in 4oz. of ground sweet almonds, a small quantity of grated lemon-zest, and about 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Turn the mixture into a mortal, and beat in suffi- cient ' white of egg to form a paste still' enough to be handled. Mould it into small halls about the size of walnuts, roll them in coarsely-sifted loaf sugar, put them on stiff paper spread over a baking-sheet, keeping them about ljin. or 2in. apart, and bake in a slack oven. Take out when done, and use cold. Victoria Macaroons.—Pound 8oz. of burnt almonds and loz. of candied orange-flowers in a mortar together with the whites of two eggs; when it is almost pounded to a pulp, add lOoz. of caster sugar, and mix thoroughly. Lay it out on wafer-paper in small oval shapes, and bake in a moderate oven until done. White Macaroons.—Sift lOoz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix in with a wooden spoon Goz. of blanched sweet almonds cut into shreds crosswise, 4oz. of groundTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 897 Macaroons—continued. almonds, a small quantity of essence of noyau, and, lastly, the whites of two eggs. Make these into a paste, and with a dessert-spoon lay out small quantities about the size of walnuts on sheets of wafer-paper, keeping them quite 2in. apart. Dip a finger into cold water, place it in the centre of each Macaroon to flatten them slightly, make them round, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake until they are a light brown. Take them out, and let them get cold before serving. MACDONALD CAKES.—See Cakes. MACE (Fr. Macis).—This spice is the irregular network, called aril, which covers the nutmeg (see Fig. 1116). It is very aromatic, and forms, either whole or Fig. 1116. Mace and Nutmeg. ground, an excellent basis for other and more delicate flavourings. The expressed oil of Mace is used to form an essence, and the essence is used to make a Mace- flavouring, but it is generally agreed amongst cooks that no preparation is equal to the real thing. MACEDOINE. —The English of this French term is Macedon, a word that has little or no meaning in a culinary sense. The French Macedoine is a sort of medley either of vegetables or fruit with sauce or syrup, Fig. 1117. Macedoine Moulds (Adams and Son). used generally for a garnish, or formed into shapes with jelly (see Fig. 1117). In this way they are very ornamental. MACKEREL (Fr. Maquereaux; Ger. Makrelen; Ital. Sgombri; Sp. Escombros).—These very beautiful fish frequent our coasts in great shoals from early Mackerel—continued. spring until late in the year, when the cold weather drives them into deep water. Along the south coast of Great Britain they may be caught in May, June, and July, when they are in their prime; after that they spawn, and then the flesh is comparatively poor. By October it is considered that most Mackerel have re- gained flesh and flavour. The common Mackerel (Scomber scombrus) is marked with blue-black over the back, falling in transverse Fig. 1118. Spanish Mackerel. stripes down the sides towards the silver Deny. The markings or bars on the back of the male are straight, whilst those of the female are wavy, a distinction it is well to be aware of, as the male is decidedly the finer flavoured of the two. There is another kind of Mackerel that frequents the shores of America, and is known as the Spanish Mackerel (see Fig. 1118). It is a white fish with yellow spots, rather deeper and thicker in the body than the blue-backed Mackerel previously described. Both are equally suitable for the table, the Americans giving preference to the Spanish fish. When selecting Mackerel, the buyer should choose those in which the eye is bright and full, and the coat glossy : there should also be a decided springiness about the body when handled, which will indicate freshness. The quality of the fish may lie reckoned by the time of the year, and depth of the fish from the shoulder downwards. Mackerel that have lost their roes before the proper time, “ shotten ” as it is called, are not at all good flavoured. Horse-Mackerel, a fish of quite a different kind, is not of any value for food, although eaten by the poor. When cleaning Mackerel it will be noticed that they have no scales, but a gelatinous skin, which decomposes readily when exposed to the sun. It is here that the poisonous qualities are generated, mostly by long keeping, or exposure to the sun. The fish should therefore be eaten almost as soon as caught, and the skins thoroughly cleansed with a stiff brush. Sometimes they are split open, salted, dried, and smoked; but there does not seem to be much demand for them prepared in this way. Baked Fillets of Mackerel.—(1) Select one dozen large Mackerel, open them, take out the roes, and carefully clean them. Cut off the fins, divide the fish down the middle, remove the backbones, and sprinkle the flesh plentifully with pepper, salt, and flour; put a piece of roe on each half of the fish, and roll it up tightly. Tie round with two or three hands of string, pack the rolls closely in a baking-dish, and put a small lump of butter on each. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of flour in a little cold water, then stir in \ pint of boiling water and 1 teaspoonful of essence of shrimps ; pour this sauce over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, sprinkle a little chopped parsley in with the sauce, and serve. If the sauce is not thick enough, drain it off before the parsley is put in, and boil it up again with a little more flour stirred smoothly into it. (2) Select three or four fine Mackerel, wash, clean, and cut them down the back and across, so as to make four fillets of each fish: put them into a pie-dish in layers, mixed in with half-a-dozen shallots cut into slices, four bay-leaves, 2 table-spoonfuls of peppercorns, I table-spoonful of pimento-berries, a little pepper, and nine or ten cloves, and pour over a sauce made with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 wineglassful each of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 ITTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 898 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. vinegar and claret, 1 table-spoonful each of Worcestershire sauce, soy, and Harvey and anchovy sauces. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake. When the fish is quite done, take it out of the liquor, put on a dish, and pour over the strained sauce; when cold it is ready to be served, and should have a garnish of sprigs oS parsley round the dish. Baked Mackerel.—(1) Clean two or three Mackerel, wash them in plenty of water, split them open down the back, cut across, making four pieces of each fish, and lay them in a pie-dish in layers, putting between each layer a few bay-leaves, cloves, peppercorns, and pimento-berries, and a few sliced shallots. Mix with h pint of stock perfectly freed of fat 1 wineglassful each of white wine and vinegar, \ wineglassful each of anchovy and Harvey sauces and mush- room ketchup, and ^ table-spoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and soy. Pour this mixture over the fish, cover it with a flat dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine sieve over them, and leave until quite cold. When ready to serve, arrange a few neat sprigs of parsley or fennel round the dish. (2) Chop off the head of a large Mackerel, split it down the back, and take out the bone. Prepare a stuffing with roasted chestnuts, butter, a few button-mushrooms, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, chopped fennel, and parsley (scalded and wrung dry). Place the stuffing in the belly of the fish, fold it over, secure it with tape, put it in a baking-dish, pour round a little white stock, cover the fish with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven until well cooked. In the meantime, well wash |gall. of sorrel, boil, drain, and chop it fine; season with salt and pepper, put it into a saute-pan with a lump of butter, warm up, put it on a dish to form a bed, place the fish on top, and serve with a fish sauce made with the soft roc or milt, which is usually retained for the purpose. (3) Make a stuffing of sifted breadcrumbs, onion, parsley, oysters or skinned shrimps, all chopped, and butter. Clean the Mackerel well, diy it thoroughly, put in the stuffing, sew up the fish, lay it in a baking-dish, spread a little of the stuffing over, and bake in a hot oven. (4) Clean and bone two or three Mackerel, and fill them with a mixture of butter, chopped shallot, parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; wrap eacli separately in well-buttered paper, and put them in the oven. When cooked, take off the papers, and put the fish on a hot dish. A good-sized Mackerel should take about twenty-five minutes, but the time will depend on the size of the fish and state of the oven, which should be moderately hot. (5) Clean two fine fresh Mackerel, make six small in- cisions on both sides, and place them in a buttered baking- dish with £ wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a finely-chopped shallot, I pinch of salt, and J pinch of pepper. Cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes; then place the fish on a dish. Pour the gravy into a stevpan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs, 1 pint of German sauce, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of butter, stir well until dissolved, and pour the sauce over the Mackerel when serving. (6) Oil three sheets of white paper a little larger than the length of the fish. Cut six thin slices of cooked lean ham, lay one slice on each piece of paper, and on top of these 1 table-spoonful of cooked fine herbs. Select three Mackerel, make four or five incisions on each side, season with a good pinch each of salt and pepper, divided evenly for each side of the fish, roll lightly, and lay them on the top of the fine herbs ; spread 1 table-spoonful more herbs over each Mackerel, and cover with a slice of ham. Then lift up the other side of the paper, and twist the edges together with the fingers. When ready, put them on a baking-sheet, place in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Have ready a hot dish, and after taking them from the oven use a cake-turner to lift the fish gently ; dress them on the dish, leaving the paper undisturbed, and they are then ready to be served. Baked Spanish Mackerel.—Scale about fifteen or twenty Mackerel, pull out the gills, and draw them without cutting Mackerel—continued. open. Wash thoroughly inside and out, dry on a cloth, stuff with some fish forcemeat, and put them in a pan with some butter at the bottom. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, sprinkle with salt, and add the juice of a c raple of lemons. Put the pan in a brisk oven, and bake the Mackerel for about half-an-hour, basting frequently with the liquor, which should be nearly dried up when the fish are done, and they should be glazed and well browned. Put them on a dish, and serve with some piquante sauce in a saucebcat. Baked stuffed Mackerel.—Cut the Mackerel down the backs, remove the backbones (without interfering with the heads), pepper them well inside, stuff' with fish forcemeat, put a -small lump of butter in each, tie up, flour w ell, put them into a Dutch oven, place small pieces of butter all over, and cook in front of a clear fire. When done, put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce made with fennel, parsley, and butter. This sauce should be made very thick, anil may be served poured over the fish. Boiled Mackerel.—(1) Prepare and clean three good-sized Mackerel, put them in boiling salted water, and boil till done. When cooked, drain the Mackerel, and put them on a hot dish (see Fig. 1119). Blanch some fennel in salted water, and when quite soft drain and chop it finely; put 1 table-spoonful in h pint of butter sauce (melted butter), and serve in a sauceboat with the fish. (2) Select the required quantity of Mackerel, chan them, leaving the rocs in, score them diagonally down the sides, tie up the heads with string, and boil gently for twenty minutes in salted water; season with an onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and a little pepper. When the fish are cooked, take them out carefully, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with either caper or mussel sauce in a beat. (3) Pick out half-a-dozen equal-sized Mackerel, chan, wash them in vinegar and water, dry, put them in a fisli-kettle, throw over a handful of salt, cover with cold water, and boil for twenty minutes. When done, take up carefully on the drainer, remove them one by one to a hot dish on which a folded napkin has been laid, garnish w ith parsley, and serve with parsley and butter sauce or gooseberry sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Put a small quantity of weak broth into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a few small onions or one large one, stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of su'eet herbs, and salt and pepper. Boil well for an hour, then put in the required number of well-cleaned and washed Mackerel, and boil until cooked, but without breaking. Take out the fish, drain, and keep them hot on a dish. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, boil until it thickens, add a little chopped parsley and fennel to give it a green appearance, cook for a few minutes longer, add 1 teaspoonful of any kind of fish sauce, and serve either poured over the fish or in a sauceboat. Boiled Mackerel stuffed with Green Gooseberries.—Snip the tops and stalks off some half-ripe gooseberries, and pick out all the seeds. Chop some pieces of fresh herring and sweet herbs (see Herbs), mix them with the gooseberries, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; stuff the Mackerel, pre- viously cleaned and opened, with the preparation, and boil them in salted water with sliced carrots, onions, and turnips. When cooked, drain the fish, put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of green gooseberry sauce.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 899 Mackerel—con tinu ed. Boiled Mackerel with. Walnut Sauce.—Clean and trim the Mackerel, put it in a fish-kettle with water to cover and a small lump of salt, and boil gently. When cooked, lift the Mackerel carefully out of the fish-kettle, and leave until cold. Peel the kernels of forty walnuts, put them in a mortar and pound to a smooth paste. Soak the crumb of a stale penny roll in as much milk as it will absorb, then put it in with the pounded walnuts and beat well together. Mix in gradually with the walnuts and bread 1 teacupful of the finest Lucca oil and the juice of one lemon; then season to taste with salt and pepper. Lay the fish on a dish, spread the sauce over it, garnish with stoned olives and slices of lemon, and stand it on ice until ready to serve. Boiled marinaded Mackerel.—Put sufficient weak broth in a fish-kettle fitted with a drainer to cover a dozen medium-sized Mackerel, add three or four small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 4 teacupful of vinegar, eight or ten cloves, with pepper and salt to taste, and boil all together for one hour ; then, having thoroughly cleaned the fish, put them in and cook. When done, take the fish out care- fully on the drainer, being careful not to break them, and put one by one on a hot dish, piling them methodically. Strain the liquor in which they were cooked (the marinade), put in some chopped parsley and hard-boiled eggs, thicken it, mix in some white gravy sauce, turn it into a sauce- boat, and serve with the fish. Broiled Fillets of Mackerel.—(1) Choose a good-sized Mackerel, clean it, remove the fillets, and put them in a saute-pan, skin side upwards, with £ teacupful each of oil and port wine, and a little salt and pepper ; boil over the fire for fifteen minutes, turning to do both sides. When cooked, take the fish out, cut each fillet in two, and put them round a hot dish. Pour 3 teacupfuls of bi-own sauce in the saute-prn, boil it for five or six minutes, then add 1 teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, a little lemon-juice, a pinch of sugar, and the chopped roe of the Mackerel ; stir over the fire for five minutes, then pour it on the fillets, sprinkle some browned breadcrumbs over, and serve very hot. (2) Remove the fillets from three Mackerel, cut each fillet in two, trim and pare them equally, and sprinkle salt and pepper over; dip them first in beaten eggs, next in breadcrumbs, then in clarified butter, and again in bread- crumbs ; broil till nicely browned over a clear fire, and serve when cooked, arranged overlapping each other in a circle on a dish, with a white, sharp sauce in the middle. Broiled Mackerel.—(1) Draw and wash the Mackerel, cut off their heads, mb over with salt, and leave for an hour. Rub a gridiron with olive oil, lay the Mackerel on it, and broil over a moderate charcoal fire. Put some chopped parsley and onions on a hot dish, and when the fish is cooked lay them on it, squeeze over lemon-juice, and serve. (2) Thoroughly clean a good-sized fresh Mackerel, open- ing it as little as possible, and make a long cut the whole length of the fish on each side of the backbone. Mix a little salt and cayenne with a few drops of the best salad-oil, and put it into the cuts with a feather. Wrap the fish in a well-buttered sheet of writing-p? per, and put it over a clear fire on a well-greased hot gridiron, loosening gently if it sticks to the gridiron; when one side is done, turn it and broil the other, then turn the back to the fire. Half an-hour’s broiling ought to cook it. (3) Clean the fish well, dry, split them along the back- bone, lay them open, and rub with finely-powdered mixed herbs, salt, and pepper, and broil on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. (4) Clean the Mackerel by splitting them down the backs, rub well inside with vinegar, pepper, and salt, dust over with plenty of flour, put them on a gridiron over a quick fire, and broil. Serve hot with either melted butter, parsley, fennel, or lemon sauce. (5) Split the fish open, wipe with a cloth, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and hang up in a cool place till the next day. Then dip the Mackerel in a little warmed butter, lay For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Mackerel—continued. them on a gridiron, and broil over a very slow fire, turn- ing and basting frequently with butter. Sprinkle finely- chopped parsley over them during the last two or three minutes of cooking, arrange on a very hot dish, garnish with five sprigs of parsley, and serve. Broiled Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel.—(1) Chop off the heads, fins, and points of the tails of five large Mackerel, and with a sharp knife make a cut about lin. deep from head to tail. Put them into a marinade for fish for an-hour- and-a-half, using about 1 breakfast-cupful of sweqt-oil, rub well frequently, take them out, wipe, put them on an oiled gridiron at a little distance apart, and broil until done and of a good colour, turning on their backs for five minutes towards the finish. Take them off, put on a dish, lift up the flesh from the backs, pour in a little warmed butter seasoned with lemon-juice, chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and serve. (2) Cut off the heads and tails of three Mackerel, split them down the backs, and take out the bones; then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Boil twelve small onions ; scald a bunch each of parsley and fennel, and a small cucumber, chop the two former, and cut the latter into dice. Put all these into a saucepan with a lump of butter, season to taste, cook for a very few minutes so as to thoroughly melt the butter, then turn the whole over the fish, already placed on a dish, squeeze over the juice of two lemons, and serve. Broiled Mackerel served with. Black Butter.—Cleanse half-a-dozen fine Mackerel, open and remove the bones (see Boning), spread a little butter, and sprinkle some pepper and salt over them. Put the fish on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put a pat of butter in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till richly browned, then squeeze in some lemon-juice. Put the fish on a hot dish, arrange some neat little sprigs of parsley round, pour over the butter, and serve while very hot. Broiled Mackerel in Flemish Style. -Choose large Mackerel, clean, and stuff them with butter mixed with finely-chopped chives, shallots, a little lemon-juice, salt, and pepper. Wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, tie up the ends, and broil over a slow clear fire for twenty-five minutes, turning occasionally so as to cook them equally all through. When cooked, take off the papers, put the fish on a hot dish, and serve. Broiled Mackerel served with Normandy Sauce. —Clean and marinade five or six Mackerel in oil, a slice of onion, and a few sprigs of parsley. The roes must not be taken out. Fill up with as much maitre-d’hotel butter as they will hold, wrap round with sheets of oiled paper, securing the ends with thread, place them on a gridiron over a. clear fire, which must be a slow one, and broil for forty minutes or so. When done, remove the paper, put the fish on a dish, mask them with Normandy sauce, and serve with crofltons of fried bread for grrnish. Broiled stuffed Mackerel served with Mushroom Sauce. —Clean and remove the roes and fins from six Mackerel, wash and dry them, stuff with fish forcemeat, and sew up. Put them into a marinade with sweet-oil for about an hour, and rub frequently; then take them out, drain, put them on a gridiron over a very slow but char fire, and broil, allowing from forty to forty-five minutes. Put them on a dish, pour over mushroom sauce, and serve. Mackerel broiled in this way will require a long time, so that the stuffing may be cooked as well as the fish. Broiled Salted Mackerel.—Clean a salted (Mackerel, divide it lengthwise, and put it on a gridiron, or toast before the fire, browning the inside part first. When done, put it on a dish with the skin uppermost, and serve with 1 table- poonful of melted butter poured over. It will take about live minutes to cook. Broiled Spanish Mackerel.—(1) Tl.is fish is very much scarcer than the common Mackerel, and can be cooked in the usual way, but is generally prepared as follows: Cut a fish weighing about lib. down the middle to take out all the bones, and then again into halves; dry the pieces well on a cloth, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 u 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 900 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see tender their special heads. Mackerel—continued. Put two yolks of eggs into a basin, and mix them up with an equal bulk of olive oil; dip the pieces of fish in this and then into breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear fire on a wire broiler. (2) Split a Spanish Mackerel down the back, take out the backbone, wash the fish in cold water, dry it on a clean cloth, put it between the bars of a buttered double wire gridiron, and lay the gridiron in a dripping-pan. Rake all the ashes from the fire, and set the dripping-pan in front of it where the heat will strike the fish. Melt 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, mix it with 1 table-spoonful of onion- juice or vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and £ saltspoonful of pepper, and use the mixture to baste the fish while broiling. As soon as it is brown on both sides, serve hot, with the drippings in the pan poured over. If more con venient to broil the fish over the fire, do not put the melted butter and seasoning on until it is dished. It should be quickly cooked, or it will become hard and dry. This dish is also excellent with maitre-d’hbtel butter, which is made by mixing together 1 tablespoonful each of chopped parsley and cold butter, I teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Cold boiled Mackerel with Green Mayonnaise Sauce.— Free some cold boiled Mackerel from skin and bones, flake the flesh with two forks, and pile the flakes up high in the centre of a dish. Prepare a thick mayonnaise sauce, and mix with it plenty of finely-chopped parsley or tarragon —if parsley, it should be first scalded. Pour the sauce over the Mackerel, garnish it with sprigs of parsley and fennel, and young crayfish, placing one right on the top of the Mackerel, and serve. Collared Mackerel.—(1) Clean a good-sized Mackerel, split it down the backbone, and take out all the bones ; dry, and then rub it well with a mixture of mace, allspice, cloves, pepper and salt, all very finely powdered ; then roll the fish up tight and bind it into shape with tape, boil in salted water, and when sufficiently boiled take the tape off and put the fish into vinegar. Let it remain in the vinegar for twelve hours, and it is then fit for use. (2) Cut off the heads of a dozen Mackerel; clean and cut them open, taking care not to cut through the tender flesh, sprinkle over the insides a little grated nutmeg, pounded mace, finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, tie each one separately in a cloth, and boil gently for twenty minutes in salted water in which a little vinegar has been mixed. Take the fish out at the expiration of that time, put them just as they are in a deep dish, pour some of the liquor over them, and leave till the next day. When wanted for serving, take the cloths off the fish, put them back in the dish with the liquor, add a little more vinegar, garnish with a few sprigs of fennel, and serve. Devilled Mackerel.—Divide the Mackerel into fillets, making two fillets of each side, remove the bones, trim them, season with salt and pepper, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over, and cover with a thin layer of freshly- mixed mustard. Lay the fillets on a dish, and keep them in a cool larder for two or three hours. Next brush over Fig. 1120. Devilled Mackerel. the fillets with a paste-brush dipped in warm butter, put them side by side on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Thicken h pint of rich gravy with flour and butter kneaded together, flavour with walnut or mushroom ketchup, add a few chopped capers, season to taste with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and let it simmer for a few minutes at the e 'ge of the fire. When the Mackerel—continued. fillets are cooked, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 1120), and serve. Fillets of Mackerel au Gratin.—Cut off the fillets from three fish, remove the belly part, skin them, and dust with salt. Sprinkle a little finely-chopped onion over a well- buttered oval gratin-dish, dust over a little dried parsley and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushro >ms, and pour in 4 table-spoonfuls each of white wine and brown sauce. Put in the fillets, dust over with a little fine herbs and breadcrumbs, baste well with melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, basting fre- quently. When done, serve in the dish in which they were cooked. Fillets of Mackerel a, d’lndienne.—Cut off both sides or fillets from a Mackerel, then cut each of these in halves, wash, and dry them thoroughly ; dust over with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry. Serve hot with hot Indian sauce. Fillets of Mackerel a 1’Italienne.—(1) Clean the Mackerel, cut off their heads and tails, split them lengthwise down the back, remove the bones, divide each Mackerel into half- a-dozen fillets, trim the skin off' each, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Rutter a baking-tin, put the fillets into it, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish into a stewpan with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, includi g a few sprigs of parsley, and a few cloves. Season to taste with salt and pepper, co.er with cold water, and let the whole simmer gently for an hour. Strain the liquor from the bones when sufficiently boiled, and put the fillets in the oven. Finely mince some shallots together with an equal quantity of mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of olive oil, and fry them. Moisten the shallots with l tea- cupful of white vinegar, and leave on the fire until the moisture has reduced one third. Next pour in the strained liquor, add a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, and stir over the fire until boiling. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Split open the Mackerel lengthwise down the back, and take the bone out carefully; cut off the heads and tails, and divide each Mackerel into half-a-dozen fillets. Skin each fillet, dust over with salt and pepper, lay them in a baking dish with plenty of butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, ami bake in a moderate oven. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce for the fish: Very finely chop three shallots, put them in a stewpan with a few table spoonfuls of olive oil, and fry until lightly browned. Next put in 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced mushrooms, and about half that quantity of minced parsley, and pour in, in equal quantities, sufficient white wine and clear stock freed of all fat to make the sauce. Stir the whole over the fire until boiling, then put in a bunch of sweet herbs tied together with a couple of bay-leaves, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire for half an-hour ; at the end of that time, take out the herbs and bay-leaves, put in loz. of butter kneaded with about \ table-spoonful of flour, and leave the sauce at the edge of the fire for a few minutes longer, stirring occa- sionally. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Fillets of Mackerel Sautes.—Clean the Mackerel, then pass the knife down the backbone, and lift the fillets from the bones. Spread a layer of butter in a saute-pan, then put in the fillets, the skin side upwards, with 1 wineglassful of port wine, and an equal quantity of oil, season with salt and pepper, and cook over a brisk fire, turning when one side is done. When the fillets are cooked, take them out of the saute-pan, cut them into halves, arrange in a circle on a dish, and keep hot. Pour f pint of brown sauce into the saute-pan in which the fillets were cooked, boil it up, then put in a small quantity of chopped mushrooms and parsley, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and h teaspoonful of sugar, and boil for a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. The roe of the Mackerel may be chopped and added to the sauce.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 901 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. Tillets of Mackerel Sautes a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Clean four Mackerel, take out the fillets, cut them in two, ami put them into a saute-pan with butter, salt, and pepper. Saute them on both sides, drain, take off the skin, put them on a hot dish, cover with maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Fried Fillets of Mackerel a la Venetienne.—(1) Clean and fillet the Mackerel, cut each fillet in halves, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, skin side downwards, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped shallots, and fry them over a slow fire for fifteen minutes; turn them when half done, and finish cooking the other side. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a hot dish in the form of a star. Put 2-i- tea- cupfuls of brown sauce in the saute-pan with 1 pinch each of chopped tarragon and chervil, 1 teaspoonful of chopped truffles, and 1 table-spoonful of port wine ; let it boil for four or five minutes, then pour it over the fish, and serve. Keep the fillets warm whilst preparing the sauce. (2) Cut off the fillets from three Mackerel, and cut each one again lengthwise into three pieces; put them into a basin, and pour over a little oil mixed with a few slices of onions, sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Let them remain in this for thirty minutes or so, take them out, drain them on a napkin, dip them in frying-batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain, put them in a heap on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a little tomato sauce, the latter served separately in a sauceboat. Fried Fillets of Mackerel served with Butch Sauce.— Clean and fillet four Mackerel, cut them in two, and trim them to a long pear shape. Put the fillets into a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour in a little clarified butter ; put a round of buttered paper on the top, and cook over a moderate fire. When the fillets are done, drain, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour Dutch sauce over them, and serve. Fried Mackerel.—(1) Cut the Mackerel down the back, and take out the backbone; wash and dry the fish, sprinkle them with crushed hard biscuits seasoned with finely- chopped sweet herbs, and fry them in plenty of boiling oil or lard. Take them out, drain them, and serve on a napkin on a dish. (2) Cut the flesh off one or two Mackerel in fillets, taking care not to have any bones. Wash and dry the fillets thoroughly, cover them with flour, dip them first into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat. Serve at once. (3) Clean the Mackerel, trim off their gills and ends of their tails, wash them in plenty of water, and dust them over with salt. Peel and chop three onions, and pound them in a mortar; beat the yolks of four eggs in with the onions, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons ; season the mixture with pepper, salt, and mixed spice, pour it over the Mackerel, and leave them for a few hours. Pour a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a deep frying-pan; Avhen it is hot, put in the Mackerel, and fry them till nicely browned, turning occasionally. When cooked, take them carefully out of the pan, using a slice for the pur- pose, well drain them, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over (see Fig. 1121), and serve. Grilled Mackerel.—Split the Mackerel lengthwise down the back, lay them open, and carefully lift out the bone; dust Mackerel—continued. over with salt and pepper, and roll them in olive oil. Lay the Mackerel on a double gridiron, place them over a clear fire, turn constantly, and broil for about ten minutes. When cooked, lay them, the cut part upwards, on a hot dish, over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or folded napkin, put a small lump of maitre-d’hotel butter on the top of each, garnish with cut lemons, and serve without delay. Mackerel a I'ltalienne.—Put the milt and roe of a large Mackerel into a stewpan with a little salt and 2 teaspoon- fuls of vinegar, and pour in water to cover them. Place the stewpan over a slow fire until the water boils, then drain the milt and roe, pound them in a mortar, together with half their quantity of butter, and season with 1 tea- spoonful each of minced parsley, grated lemon-peel, and lemon-juice, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Have some slices of black or German rye-bread, butter them, spread the mixture over, cut into strips, lay them on a dish that has been spread with a folded napkin or an or- namental dish-paper, and serve. A few sprigs of parsley here and there improve the appearance of the dish. Mackerel Bouchees au Laitance.—Put a lump of butter into a saute-pan, melt it, then put in the soft roes of two Mackerel, 1 teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and lemon-juice ; fry them over a moderate fire for five minutes, then turn, and fry the other side. When done, cut the roes into small squares, put them again in the saute-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce, J breakfast-cupful of broth, a small quantity of sugar, and about £ teacupful of cream. Stir the above mixture over the fire, taking care not to break the roes. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, then with a fluted tin cutter, about Him in dieamter, cut the paste into rounds. Sprinkle some water over a baking-sheet, lay the bouchees on it, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten eggs. Cut a circular incision in the centre of each round with a plain tin cutter, dipping the cutter in hot water each time. Bake the bouchees for about twenty minutes in a quick oven, keeping the door closed as much as possible. When cooked, lift the inner circle off each bouchee, and scoop out the soft paste, leaving them quite hollow. Fill them with the Mackerel roes, put the lids on again, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. A little parsley arranged on it improves the look of the dish. Mackerel Fricassee.—Clean and wash a Mackerel, and remove the skin by cutting through it round the head and pulling it off'. Cut off the fillets, trim them to an oblong shape, put them in a dish, and pour over a little sauce. In the meantime, put the fish-bones in a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, a few stalks of parsley, and a little water, and cook gently for about thirty minutes. Strain the bone liquor into the basin with the fillets. Arrange the fillets at the bottom of a saucepan, pour over the bone liquor, and simmer gently for from ten to fifteen minutes. When the fish is nearly done, sprinkle it over with a little salt and pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 gill of cream, and 2oz. of butter worked into 1 table-spoonful of Hour. Boil up, and add the juice of a lemon and the beaten yolks of two or three eggs; when it is all thoroughly warm, turn it out on to a dish, with a circle of mashed potatoes or boiled rice round, and serve. Care must be taken not to let the liquor boil after the eggs have been put in, or it will curdle. Mackerel Roes in Cases.—Use soft roes of Mackerel, and pour over them boiling salted water with a dash of vinegar in it; in five minutes’ time take them out of the water and drain on a cloth. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with a minced shallot, fry it for a few minutes, then put in three or four chopped mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and flour, the strained juice of half a lemon, and about 1 breakfast-cupful of stock; season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir the sauce over the fire until boiling and thickened. Oil the interior of some paper cases, put a small quantity of the sauce in each, then put in the roes, and cover with the remainder of the sauce. Put the cases for about ten minutes in a moderate oven,902 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. arrange the n on a hot dish, decorate tastefully with parsley (see Fig. 1122), and serve. Fig. 1122. Mackerel Roes in Cases. Mackerel Salad.—(1) Clean and wash three Mackerel, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender. Drain the fish, leave them till cold, then cut off the heads and separate the flesh from the bones, arranging the fillets of fish tastefully on a dish. Blanch and skin Mb. of almonds, put them in a mortar with three peeled cloves of garlic, and pound. Remove the crust from half a penny French roll, and soak the crumb in water; then squeeze it well, put it in with the almonds and garlic, and pound the whole together until quite smooth ; mix in 1 wine- glassful of vinegar and sufficient water to bring it to the consistency of thick cream. Pour the sauce over the fish, dust it over with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and serve. (2) Clean a fresh Mackerel, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil slowly for twenty-five minutes. When cooked, drain the Mackerel, leave it till cold, skin and remove all the bones, and flake the flesh of the fish with two forks. Wash the hearts of two lettuces, break them asunder, and put them in a Salad-bowl; put in the fish, and pour over it a remoulade sauce. Cut some hard-boiled eggs into quarters, bone and fillet some anchovies, arrange them as a garnish round the salad, and serve. Mackerel Soft-Roes.—These can be boiled in vinegar and ! salted water, and afterwards replaced in the fish when boiled. Or they may be cut up small, warmed in white sauce, and used for filling patties. Or again, they may be fried and used for garnish. Mackerel Soft-Roes in Cases.—Select six soft-roed Mackerel, and boil them till well done; then take out the roes, put them into small paper cases, sprinkle finely- chopped parsley and grated breadcrumb over, season with pepper and salt, and put a small piece of butter on each. Bake them in the oven until browned, and serve with white sharp sauce containing the juice of one lemon to the half-pint. Mackerel Soft-Roe Patties.—Select four Mackerel with soft roes; take out the roes, but do not wash them, put them in a baking-dish, cover with liquefied butter without salt, and bake. When they are cooked, take them out of the dish, being careful not to break them, and put on white paper to drain; sprinkle a little salt over, cut them into small dice, put them into patty-pans lined until paste, and bake lightly. Keep them hot whilst you mix with J tea- cupful of bechamel sauce a small lump of butter and a little pepper and salt. Refine this sauce with thick cream, and pour it when quite hot into the patties. The sauce should not be liquid enough to soak into the roes, but cover them like a cream. Serve very hot. Mackerel Soup.—Select three or four small fresh Mackerel, clean them, cut their heads off', and divide the fish hi pieces. Put them in a stewpan with a little butter, salt, and pepper, fry them till nicely browned, then put in some finely-chopped carrots, turnips, and onions, and a bunch of parsley ; pour in lqt. of boiling water, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When done, skim the fat off the liquor, pass all through a sieve, adi to it lqt. of fish broth (see Court Bouillon), stir the soup over the fire till boiling, then stir hi 1 breakfast- cupful of boiled rice, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and a small lump of butter. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Mackerel—continued. Pickled Mackerel.—(1) Boil the fish. Take some of the liquor it was boiled in, add one-third its quantity of vinegar, put in some whole peppers and one or two bay-leaves, boil it up, and pour over the fish. (2) Clean the fish well, split them right down, and take the bones out, cutting each side into two or three, according to the size of the Mackerel. Mix together for three large Mackerel a bare Joz. of pepper, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, two cloves, a little very finely-powdered mace, and one grated nutmeg. Make holes in eacli piece of fish, push some of the mixed spice in, nib it all over the pieces of fish, and fry them in oil. When quite cold, put the fried fish in a stone jar, and pour over vinegar enough to cover. If it is desirable to keep them long, cover the top of the vinegar with oil. Potted Mackerel.—Clean the Mackerel well, dry it, season to taste, lay it in a baking-dish with mixed spice, a couple of bay-leaves, and a small quantity of butter; bake it in the oven, and when done enough, take it out and let it cool. Then bone and lay the meat in pots, and pour over enough butter melted to oil to cover. Roasted Mackerel.—Cut the heads off some fresh Mackerel, and divide each into halves, or, if very large, into three equal-sized pieces. Wash them well in plenty of water, and dry on a cloth, ltub the Mackerel with finely- chopped parsley and fennel, season with salt and pepper, and leave for an hour or two. Fix the pieces of fish on skewers, putting a bay-leaf between each piece, place them in front of a clear but moderate fire, and turn them continually till equally browned. When cooked, put the pieces of fish on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and cut lemons, and serve. Rolled Mackerel.—Cut off the heads and thoroughly clean and wipe some soft-roed Mackerel; cut them open and remove the backbone, split the fish in halves, and put a roe on each half; sprinkle pepper, salt, and flour over, and roll them up tightly, the tails sticking outwards. Pack them closely in a deep baking-dish, pour some vinegar mixed with a little water over them, season with pepper and salt, cover with a plate, and bake in a moderate oven for an-honr-and-a-half. When cooked, arrange the fish on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor over them, with 1 table-spoonful of anchovy essence added, and serve either hot or cold. Salted Mackerel.—Select some freshly-caught Mackerel, and slit them down the back to remove the guts, livers, roes, and gills, taking great care not to burst the gall, and wipe them well both inside and out. In the meantime, put Jgall. of cold water into a deep pan, and add lib. of salt, Joz. of saltpetre, and Jib. of coarse sugar. Put the fish in this, and let them remain for abnut six hours or so, accord- ing to their size. Take out and stretch them between two laths put across the back of each one, wash them in the pickle, and hang up to diy. Let them remain for a couple of hours, then put them into hot smoke for an hour (see CURING), then into cooler smoke, and let them remain until they are of a dark chestnut colour, which will take about twenty hours or so. When they are quite cold, pack them, and put them into a diy room until wanted. The fish should be as fresh as possible, for if kept any time they lose their flavour and have a dark appearance. Scalloped Mackerel.—Clean the Mackerel and boil them ; when tender, drain, carefully remove all the skin and bones, and divide them into flakes with two forks. For each Mackerel allow 1 teacupful of shrimps, remove their skins, and mix them with the flaked fish. Put the trimmings of the Mackerel and shrimps in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and boil slowly for half-an-hour. Put 1 teacupful of milk in a stewpan with sufficient cornflour to make it thick, and stir over the fire until boiling. Strain the liquor from the fish-bones, and mix it with the thickened milk ; if at all lumpy, the whole should be strained through a fine sieve and returned to the stewpan; pour in a small quantity each of essence of soy and anchovies, and mush- room and walnut ketchups ; season to taste with salt and pepper, a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and lemon- peel, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. PutTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 903 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. the fish in the sauce, and stir until the ■whole is well mixed, squeezing in some lemon-juice at the same time. Fill some scallop-shells with the mixture, strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and pour about 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter over each. Put them into a brisk oven for ten minute a, and then, if not sufficiently browned, pass a hot salamander over them. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the shells on it, with groups of parsley between each, and serve. Soused Mackerel. -(1) Select the required quantity of Mackerel, cut off their heads, draw, and wipe them ; place them in a fish-kettle, cover with water, put in a little salt and vinegar, and boil about twenty minutes. When cooked, drain, and put them in a deep dish. Boil J pint of vinegar with three bay-leaves, a few peppercorns, cloves, and a little pepper and salt, add half the volume of olive-oil, boil the mixture for a few minutes, then pour it over the fish, and leave them for twenty-four hours. When ready to serve, dish the fish with their sauce, and garnish with slices of lemon. (2) Clean and bone six Mackerel, wash well, cut them up into fillets, and rub them well with a mixture of ] oz. each of white pepper and cayenne, four cloves, 1 saltspoon- ful of allspice, four blades of mace, and 1 table-spoonful of salt, all well pounded together. The fillets should be slightly scored to let the powder work well in. Have ready a frying-pan with boiling oil, plunge in tire fillets, and fry them till browned; put them when cold into an earthen- ware or stone jar, cover with vinegar, tie a piece of paper over the jar, and leave until wanted. Stewed Fillets of Mackerel.—(1) Take out the fillets from a Mackerel that has been thoroughly cleaned, and cut each fillet into halves. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with a little flour, stir it about for a few minutes, then put in the fillets, and season with cayenne pepper, salt, and the rind of half a lemon. Fry them for a few minutes, then pour in gradually nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of port wine ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, and 1 pinch of ground mace ; boil this, and then take the fish out carefully, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Clean two or three Mackerel, cut off all the fillets lengthwise, and roll them up. Put some highly-seasoned veal gravy or fish stock into a saucepan with a little each of chopped fennel and parsley, put in the fillets, and stew for about ten minutes. Take them out, put them on a dish, add a liaison of flour and butter to thicken the liquor, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour this round the fish, and serve with a garnish of pickles. Stewed Mackerel.—(1) Clean the fish, trim off the heads, tails, and gills, and wash them well; pick some parsley off the stems, and lay some of it in a stewpan. Dust over a small quantity of powdered gum mastic, then put in half of the fish, place parsley and gum mastic over that, then put in the remainder of the fish, and cover that also with parsley and powdered gum mastic; moisten with 1J bieakfast-cupfuls of water, season with salt and pepper, and put the pan over the fire until the water begins to boil; then move it to the side and let it simmer for twenty minutes. When the fish is cooked, put it on- a hot dish, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (2) Split the Mackerel down the back, take out the bones, and cut the flesh in quarters ; put these on a grid- iron over a clear fire, and half cook them. Put 2 break- fast-cupfuls of rich gravy into a saucepan with a little each of finely-chopped shallot, fennel, and parsley, add also 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, h teacupful of ketchup, and a small lump of flutter rolled in flour; stir well over the fire until thickened, season to taste with pepper, salt, and cayenne, then put in the fish, and stew gently until they are done. Now add more thickening to the gravy,, also 1 wineglassful of port wine, stir for a minute or two, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (3) Select half-a-dozen fine Mackerel, bene and clean them. Put 1 pint of gravy into a saucepan, with a little very finely-chopped parsley, fennel, and shallot, 2 table- Mackerel—continued. spoonfuls of ketchup, 1 table spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a small lump of butter that has been rolled in flour. When boiling, pour in 1 wineglassful of port, and let the fish stew in this for twenty minutes, turning them at the t nl of ten minutes. When cooked, take the Mackerel out very carefully so as not to break them, and put them on a hot dish. Mix with the stock 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, J wineglassful of port wine, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it up, pour it over the fish, and serve. Stewed Mackerel a la Turque.—Draw and clean the Mackerel, and blanch them in boiling water for three or four minutes ; drain them, and when cold remove the bones. Cut Jib. of onions into slices, put them in a frying- pan with some olive oil, and fry them till lightly browned; put half of the onions into a stewpan with what oil is left from the frying, add a small quantity of picked parsley and fennel, then put in the boned Mackerel and cover them with the remainder of the onions, sprinkling more picked parsley and fennel over them. Moisten with 2 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar and sufficient of the liquor in which the fish was scalded to cover, season with salt and pepper, and place the pan over the fire. After the liquor boils, let it simmer only till the fish is tender. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, dust it over with powdered cinnamon, and serve. Stewecl Mackerel with Green Peas.—Fry one chopped onion in a stewpan with a little butter, but do not let it brown. Clean some Mackerel, cut off their heads and tails, put the fish into the stewpan, season with salt and pepper, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in a bunch of chopped parsley, 1 pint of green peas, and a little flour ; fry for a few minutes longer, then cover the fish with hot water, and le‘ the liquid boil. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for a-quarter- of-an-hour. When done, take the fish out, and put them on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and serve with the fish. Stewed Mackerel with Mussels. Drain and wash two or three fresh Mackerel, and divide each fish into four pieces; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white sauce to cover, and flavour with a few drops of essence of anchovies and lemon-juice, a small piece of lemon-peel, salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stew the fish gently until tender. Open three dozen fresh mussels, trim away all the yellow part, wash them in their liquor, and blanch in the sauce. Place the fish on a hot dish, arrange the mussels round it, pour the sauce over, first removing the piece of lemon peel, and serve. MADE DISHES.—An almost obsolete term for entrees and other dishes supposed to be made up of scraps and kitchen oddments. MADEIKA.—The name given to a very fine, “generous” wine, manufactured in the vineyards of Madeira. Madeiras are generally of good body, and gain alcoholic strength, improving greatly by age, the best being that about five years and older. As might be supposed, the wines of Madeira are not all alike; indeed, they differ very materially, some being rich and costly, almost like liqueurs, and others light, dry, and palatable. The latter kind are those best known to us, being those which the cook prescribes for many culinary purposes, but rarely uses. Kettner writes in protest against the uses of Madeira in cooking. He observes: “ In all the world there is not Madeira enough for a week’s consumption of the filet an Madere in Paris,” and therefore advises the use of Marsala, which is infinitely cheaper, and answers every purpose required of wine for cooking. Madeira when new, is of a light claret colour, which gives way to amber as age advances. Simmonds, in his work on “ Popular Beverages,” assures ns that “ the great ad- vantage of Madeira wine now is, that it is absolutely pure, the Government (of Madeira) having prohibited the impor- tation of other wines, and of beet, potato, and similar spirits, which might be used to fortify the wines.”THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 904 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Uteimls, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Madeira—continued. There are some kinds of wine produced at Madeira which are known by special names, such as Malmsey and Tinta. The following receipts may he made with any other wine, although Madeira is specially indicated: Madeira Crusts.—Make a well or hay in the middle of lib. of sifted flour, put in i-oz. of German yeast and 4 tea- cupful of milk, mix it with the flour immediately surround- ing it (it takes about one-quarter of the flour to make the sponge), and stand the basin hi a warm place. When the sponge has risen to twice its original bulk, mix in with it two eggs and Jpint ,of warm milk; when these are well worked together, break in another egg ; mix that, then add fib. of butter warmed and beaten to a cream, Joz. of salt, Jib. of caster sugar, and 1 teacupful of warm milk, and continue working with a spoon, adding five more eggs, one at a time. Put the paste in a plain mould, Sin. hi diameter, and bake; when cold, cut the cake into slices, lay them on a baking-slieet, sprinkle with caster sugar, and glaze them in the oven; mask the tops with apricot- jam, and arrange them hi a circle on a dish. Put some pears cooked in syrup, some preserved cherries and an- gelica hito a stewpan, with 2 wineglassfuls each of Madeira and syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and when warm, turn them into the centre of the dish with the crusts round. Fig. 1123. Madeira Crusts. Boil \ pint of syrup at 36deg. and J pint of Madeira, pour it over the above, and serve. See Fig. 1123. Madeira Ice.—Grate the peel of two lemons hito a basin, strain in the juice, mix in ll pints of Madeira wine and \ pint of syr.ip. Stir the mixture well, then turn it into a freezer packed hi pounded ice and salt, and work it until frozen. When sufficiently frozen, put the mixture in a mould, close it, and pack in pounded ice and salt for two hours. Before serving, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, then turn the contents carefully out on to a fancy china or glass dish. Madeira Jelly.—(1) Make some good calf’s-foot jelly very thick ; after clarifying it, dissolve in lqt. of the jelly, while warm, and Joz. of gelatine;'add J pint of Madeira, a wine- glassful of brandy, and enough sugar to sweeten; then cool it hi moulds, and serve cold. (2) Dissolve 3oz. of gelatine and Jib. of lump sugar in lqt. of water, then strain through a fine hair sieve. Mix f h pints of Madeira wine with the strained liquor, turn the whole into a tinned copper whipping-bowl packed in ice, and whip the jelly well. In about twenty minutes’ time remove the jelly from the ice, and whip it for ten minutes longer; if it lias become too firm, stand the bowl in a large basin of hot water, and whip it for another minute or so. When beaten to a stiff froth, pour the jelly into a mould, pack it in ice, and leave for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents, then wipe the edges of the mould, and turn out the jelly. Madeira Julep.—Put a wineglassful each of Madeira wine and syr ip into a large glass, add a very little brandy, fill up with ice, arrange a little mint and a few slices of water melon on the top, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve. Madeira Sauce.—(1) Well beat the yolks of six eggs, pour them into a lined stewpan, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of one small lemon, and 2J wineglassfuls of Madeira wine. Whisk Madeira—continued. the mixture over the fire until of a thick yellow froth, then take it ott, and seiwe Avitli as little delay as possible. On no account must the sauce boil, or the eggs Avill curdle. (2) Put 11 table-spoonfuls of meat glaze into a small stev- pan Avith 1 teaspoonful of Madeira, dust in a small quan- tity of coarse black pepper, and boil until reduced to a quarter of its original quantity. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and stir over the fire Avitli a wooden spoon until nicely broAvned. Pour the reduced liquor gradually in Avith the browned butter, and let it boil gently for ten minutes, stirring at the same time; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for serving. (3) Put 1 large table-spoonful of meat glaze into a stew- pan, pour in 1 pint of Madeira Avine, add a small pinch of mignonette pepper, and boil until the liquid has reduced to half its original quantity. Pour lqt. of Spanish sauce in Avith the reduced Avine, and continue boiling until of a creamy thickness. Strain the sauce through a line hair or silk sieve, and serve. MADEIRA BUNS.—See Buns. MADEIRA CAKES.—See Cakes. MADEIRA PUDDING.—See Puddings. MADELINE CAKE.—See Cakes. MADONNA PUDDING.—See Puddings. MADRAS CURRY—See Curry. MADRID BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. MAGDALEN CAKES.-See Cakes. MAGNUM BONUM.—See Plums. MAHAYA.—The name of a Bombay spirit distilled from honey. MAHIA.—An Arabian spirit distilled from dates. MAIDS OF HONOUR.—The fanciful name given to certain rich and dainty cheese-cakes (see Fig 1124) manu- factured at Richmond-on-Thames. Visitors rarely leave Fig. 1124. Maid of Honour. this town without a visit to the Maids-of-Honour shop. The receipts following show how these delicacies may be prepared at home. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a basin, mix hi lOoz. of powdered sugar, loz. of bitter and 2oz. of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, the finely-grated rinds of four lemons, the strained juice of two, and two large potatoes, boiled and mashed. Put Agall. of milk into a basin with a piece of rennet, and let it remain until it curds; place the curds in a sieve to dry, crumble up, pass them through a sieve into a basin, and mix in 9oz. of warmed butter. Work well until the mixture is quite smooth, then add the sugar preparation and 4 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixture into tartlet-pans lined with rich puff paste, and bake in a quick oven until of a good colour; take them out, tqrn the cheese-cakes out of the pans, and serve either hot or cold.905 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fcr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. MAIGRE.—The French for thin, or poor, applied to a soup or sauce made without meat—au Maigre as opposed to au gras. \ MAINTENON, A LA.—A French term given to a particular mode of cooking cutlets and making sauces for them. It is not much used in these times, other names being substituted for that of the amiable lady who married Louis XIV. in his very old age, and super- intended the preparation of delicate foods suitable to his weakened digestive faculties. MAINTZ SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. MAITRE D’HOTEL, A LA.—A French term ap- plied to modes of serving that are noted for their simplicity, as should be for the steward of the household. MAITRE-D’HOTEL BUTTER.—See Butter. MAITRE-D’HOTEL SAUCE.—See Sauces. MAIZE.—See Indian Corn. MAIZENA.—A preparation of Indian corn in the form of a very fine flour. It is sold in packets, and has obtained a goodly reputation owing to the facility with which it can be converted into various tasty dishes. Maizena Bavarian Cream.—Dissolve a little salt in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, put it in a saucepan, and work in 3oz. of sugar slightly warmed; put the pan on the fire, and when the milk boils stir in 3oz. of Maizena and the yolks of three eggs whipped in 4 teacupful of milk, stir well for a few minutes, add a little lemon-peel or vanilla to flavour, and strain it into a mould. Put the mould on ice, and when the cream is set turn it out on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fruit syrup. Maizena Cake.—Mix 3oz. of Maizena with 4oz. of flour and 1 heaped table spoonful of baking-powder, and sift the whole through a fine sieve. Slightly warm 3oz. of butter, and beat it well together with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and f teacupful of milk. Stir the beaten mixture in with the flour, mixing the whole smoothly together, and flavour with 1 table spoonful of rose-water and 4 table- spoonful of essence of almonds; then whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the above mixture. Butter a cake-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin and cover it with the following: Mix the white of one egg with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 4 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and beat them well until light and frothy. Maizena Cream Tart.—Add 2oz. of caster sugar to a little less than 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and mix in 3oz. of butter and a little salt. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up in 1 wine- glassful of milk and ‘2oz. of Maizena. Put the pan back on the fire, and boil for five minutes longer, stirring con- tinually. Pour it into a bowl, whip until perfectly cold, pour it into a baked open-tart case, and serve. Maizena Fritters.—Put 8oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire, and when a little warm, add about loz. of sugar and \ wineglassful of water. When it begins to boil, add 2oz. of Maizena, mixed in a little water, and 24oz. of hour. Remove the pan from the fire, and let it remain for fifteen minutes for the paste to dry, and then mix in three eggs. If the paste is too stiff, add one more egg, so as to have it of the consistence of a stiff batter. Take it up in table-spoonfuls, put it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good colour. Take out, put them on a dish, and serve. Maizena Gruel.—Put some Maizena into a basin, pour over a little water, and let it soak for twelve hours or so; then put it into a pan with a little more water, and boil for thirty minutes, when it will be done. It is usual to eat this with milk and treacle. Maizena—continued. it over the fire until dissolved, then mix in 1 teacupful of Maizena that has been smoothly blended with a small quantity of cold water. Continue stirring over the fire for nine or ten minutes ; then pour the pudding into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it in a cool temperature. Sweeten J pint of cream with caster sugar and whip it to a stilt' froth. When the pudding is Fig. 1125. Maizena Jam Pudding. quite cold, turn it on to a dish, pour the cream over, and serve. (See Fig. 1125.) Maizena Omelet.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Maizena in 1 pint of milk or water, and stir in gradually the yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt and pepper. Work well, pour it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook over a very slow fire, with a salamander or hot shovel held over the top, so that the omelet will not require to be turned. When quite done, slide it gently on to a dish, and serve with a little warmed butter poured over. Maizena Pancakes.—Stir 3oz. of Maizena into 1 teacupful of milk, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, one egg, and 1 pinch of salt. When they are all thoroughly mixed, pour 1 table-spoonful at a time into a frying-pan containing boiling fat, and when done on one side, turn it over. Take them out carefully, sprinkle with a little sugar, roll them up in the shape of an omelet, and serve hot. Maizena Pudding flavoured with Lemon.—(1) Mix 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of Maizena smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in 14 pints of boiling water, pour it into a lined saucepan, and boil for seven or eight minutes, stirring all the time. Warm 3oz. of butter and beat it until creamy with 12oz. of caster sugar, then mix the Maizena with it and beat until nearly cold. Whip the yolks of live eggs and the whites of two, and stir them into the above mixture, also mix in the grated peel and strained -juice of three large lemons. Butter a shallow dish, line it with a rich crust, pour the Maizena mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Beat the whites of two eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar to a stiff froth. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven, spread over the beaten egg, and return it to the oven until lightly browned on the top. Serve cold. (2) Boil the thinly-pared rind of one lemon in 1 pint of milk until the milk is just flavoured with it ; mix § teacupful of Maizena smoothly with 1 teacupful of water, then strain in the boiling milk, return the whole to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for five or six minutes. Butter a plain mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cool place. When cold and set, turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve with jam sauce. MALAGA.—A Spanish wine of a dark brown colour, and generally very sweet and heavy. MALAKOPP.—The name of a Russian stomachic elixir. MALIC ACID.—An acid that occurs in many fruits, especially the green apple. MALLARD.—See Wild Duck. MALMA.—The name of a North American trout, known commonly as the Dolly Yarden trout. Maizena Jam Pudding.—Put 1 teacupful of red-currant jam into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, stirTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PPACTICAL COOKERY. £06 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ilc., referred to, see under their special heads. MALMSEY.—A kind of sweet wine, which, although numbered amongst those of Madeira, is prepared in large quantities in the Canary Islands and the Azores. A very good imitation can be made as follows: Imitation Malmsey Wine.—(1) Mix Ipgalls. of cold spring water with 3Jgalls. of ale, taken from the vat whilst fer- menting ; add 271b. of sugar, and stir well until the sugar is dissolved; turn it into a cask, set it in a warm place, and leave for about seven weeks, by which time it should have fermented. Finely chop 21b. of Malaga raisins, mix with them ilb. of blanched and chopped bitter almonds, put them into a wide-mouthed bottle, and pour in 1 pint of brandy. When the fermentation in the cask has ceased, pour in the brandy and raisins, bung up the cask tightly, and leave it for six or even seven months ; pour off the clear into another cask, add ioz. of gelatine dissolved in a little of the wine, leave it for one month longer, and bottle. (2) Put 15galls. of sweet-wort into a large bowl with j 22jlb. of loaf sugar, set the bowl on the fire, boil the liquor for half-an-hour, and before it is allowed to cool, j pour it into a cask with lib. of chopped Malaga raisins, j loz. of dissolved isinglass, and about 1 breakfast-cupful j of yeast, also ljoz. of hops. Stir well with a wooden j stick for fourteen or eighteen days, then lightly put in the j bung until fermentation ceases; next add lgall. of brandy, leave it for twelve months, then rack off and bottle. The longer it is kept, the better it will be; and for all culinary purposes it will be found excellent. MALT (Fr. Malt or Dreche; Ger. Malz).—A name j given to various kinds of grain, but chiefly barley, I which have become sweet from the conversion of their ! starch into sugar, the result of incipient fermentation, i There are various kinds of Malt, such as pure Malt, yellow, or pale amber Malt—amber Malts differing in j quality and character according to the temperature to which they have been exposed in drying. Good Malt has an agreeable smell and a sweet taste, is friable, and | when broken discloses a floury kernel. It is used chiefly in brewing and distillation, but sometimes occupies the attention of the caterer, who prepares a most nutritive tea from it by infusing a certain quantity in boiling water. The following preparations are very highly esteemed: Malt Wine.—(1) Mash 2 pecks of Malt together with 44galls. of water, and boil it for forty-five minutes with 6oz. of hops to make a strong sweet-wort. The first wort only must be used for making the wine. Boil 121b. of sugar in 4galls. of water for about thirty minutes. Skim it well, and pour it into a tub to cool; when lukewarm, add lgall. of the sweet-wort, of which the fermentation should have commenced. Let it remain for three days, put it into a cask, filling this up constantly until the fermentation has completely ceased. Take out sufficient to make room for 21b. of chopped raisins, 8oz. of brown sugar candy, 2oz. of bitter almonds, and Joz. of isinglass. Put the bung in the cask, but only very lightly, as the addition of the raisins, &c., veiy often causes a second fermentation. Should this occur, add 1 pint of brandy, and bung down securely. It should remain for two years at least before being used. (2) Put 91b. of sugar in a bovl, and pour over 6qts. of boiling water; let it get quite cold, and add 3qts. of sweet- wort ; mix thoroughly, pour it into a cask, and add 8oz. of chopped raisins, £ pint of brandy, and Joz. of isinglass. Let it remain until clear, then put it into bottles, and leave for a time before using. It will keep good for yews. Malt Extract or Food.—As this has become such a favourite food for invalids, and is frequently ordered by physicians, a description of its mode of preparation will be useful. Make an infusion by soaking 1 pint of amber Malt hi 2qts. of scalding hot water. Let this stand until cool, then strain off the bright liquor, put it into an open stewpan, and boil fast until the quantity of liquor is reduced about two-thirds. Then set this in a double boiler or bain-marie, and leave until the extract is quite thick and treacly. A Malt —continued. little gelatine may be added to make it set in a jelly, or lemon-juice and honey may be added to make the extract more palatable and tasty. MALVASIA — An Italian wine of no very great repute, sometimes confounded with Malmsey. MALVERN PUDDING.—See Puddings. MAMMEE APPLE.—The fruit of a lofty tree (Mainmea americana) growing in tropical America. It is about the size of a small melon, and is covered with a tough outer rind of a brownish-yellow, enclosing a fine yellow flesh. It has a pleasant taste and a sweet aromatic odour, and is known as the Wild Apricot. MANCHESTER PUDDING.—See Pud-dings. MANDARIN.—A small kind of orange supposed to be of Chinese origin. See Oranges. MANDOLETTI.—These delicious Italian sweet- cakes are so called from their being made principally of almonds (Mandola). They are made as follows: Blanch and cut into thin slices 3i>z. of hazel-nuts and 2oz. of almonds; beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with them 4lh. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the nuts and almonds. Spread some wafer-paper about fin. thick with the mixture, cover with another sheet, and cut the cake into strips about 4in. long and 2in. wide; lay them on a baking-sheet, and dry the biscuits in a moderately cool oven without colouring them. When cold, store in tin boxes. MANDRAM SAUCE.—See Sauces. MANGEL-WURZELS.—See Mangold-Wurzels. MANGOES (Fr. Mangues; Ger. Mangos).—“What the peach, apricot, and apple are to the European, the Mango is to the Indian, and those alone who have tasted it can form any idea of its exquisite flavour, it having been pronounced by competent judges incom- parably superior to any fruit the earth can produce.” These are the words of a very popular writer, and for that reason alone they claim our attention. The Mango-tree (Mangifera indica) is a native of Asia Fig. 1126. Mangoes. and its islands, and of some other parts of the world, but the Asiatic Mango (see Pig. 1126) is greatly superior to all others, both in size and flavour. In some parts of India, especially at Mazagong, the better kinds are so highly prized that guards are stationed over theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 907 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special h. ads. Mangoes—continued. trees during their fruiting, to preserve the fruit from depredation. The Mango is about the size and shape of a goose’s egg, and in its early stage is of a fine olive- green colour; some varieties continue green when ripe, but others assume a sort of orange tint. The smell is faint, yet pleasing, and the pulp melts in the mouth with a cool, refreshing sweetness that can hardly be estimated. In the heart of the pulp is a largish stone something resembling that of a peach, to which the pulp is firmly adherent. There are numerous varieties of Mangoes, the largest being the Mango-dodol, sometimes weighing 21b.; the choicest kind is the Muddah; some others are . quite unfit to eat. Unhappily the Mango is so perishable that it is very rarely imported into England; and the attempts made to rear the trees in this country have not as yet been sufficiently successful to give much hope of future crops. To us they are better known as a pickle. Dried Mangoes.—Remove the peel from two or three dozen (or as many as required) green Mangoes, cut them into quarters, dredge with salt, and put them in the sun to dry. As soon as they commence to curl up or dry, rub them well with a mixture of pounded dry ginger turmeric and chillies, dredge with more salt, place them in the sun again, and let them remain until completely dried up. Put them into bottles, cork down, and they are ready for .use. Mango Chutney.—(1) This can be prepared by using the refuse from tapp or Mango sauce, with the addition of a little thick syrup, a few dried dates, hot spices, and ground stoned raisins. Put the mixture into a saucepan and simmer gently for fifteen minutes, or until the syrup is absorbed and the chutney of the required consistence. Pet- it get cold, put it into bottles, cork down securely, and the chutney is then ready for use. (2) Put 81b. of sugar into a saucepan with 2qts. of vinegar, and boil to a syrup; now put in two hundred green Mangoes peeled and cut in slices, boil them until about half done, then add 41b. of salt, 31b. each of ground garlic and ginger, 11b. of finely-sliced chillies, half-a-dozen bay-leaves, and 41b. of stoned raisins. Stir well over the fire for a few minutes, and pour in another 2qts. of vinegar, as soon as the chutney begins to thicken, remove the pan from the fire and let it cool. Pour the chutney into bottles, cork down securely, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted for use. (3) Remove the peel from about one hundred green Man- goes, cut them up into thin slices, put them into a bowl, cover with about 21b. of salt, and let them remain for thirty or thirty-six hours. Drain off the salt liquor, put the Mangoes into a saucepan with 3qts. of vinegar, and boil. Let them get cool, put them into a preserving-pan, mix in 4lb. of stoned tamarinds, 21b. each of sliced ginger and stoned raisins, 1 dessert-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-pounded cinnamon. Simmer gently on a slow fire for balf-an-hour, pour in gradually a syrup made by boiling 61b. of sugar in 3qts. of vinegar, and stir well over the fire until all the syrup is absorbed and the chutney is as thick as required. Let it cool, put it into bottles, cork down securely, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. It will remain good for a long tune. (4) Peel and remove the. stones of 411). of green Mangoes, cut them lengthwise into quarters, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of vinegar, and boil very slightly. Pour all into a jar, and let it remain until quite cold. Put 21b. rf sugar into a saucepan with another pint of vinegar, boil it until of the consistence of thin syrup, and let it cool also. In the meantime, pound loz. of garlic, 2oz. of dried chillies, and lib. of green ginger cut in slices. Put the sugar mixture in a large bowl, add the Mangoes, ground spices, and 21b. of raisins picked and dried, loz. of salt and the same of yellow mustard-seed. When all are well mixed, put the chutney into bottles, place them in a cool oven (or expose to the sun), and let them remain for three days or so, when the chutney will be ready for use. Mangoes—continued. (5) Remove the peel from one hundred or so green Man- goes, cut them into slices, put them in a bowl, sprinkle well with salt, and steep for about twelve hours; then place them under a heavy weight for a couple of hours, so as to drain off as much of the liquor as possible. Put them into a saucepan, and mix in 21b. of stoned tamarinds, Jib. of bruised mustard-seed, and Jib. each of very fresh ground garlic, chillies, and ginger. Add a little more salt, stir well to thoroughly incorporate the ingredients, pour over sufficient warmed or cooked mustard oil to cover, and cook over a quick lire for twelve or fifteen minutes, or until quite done, or the preparation will lie spoilt. Let the mixture get cold, put it into bottles, taking care that the oil is several inches above the other ingredients, cork securely, and it is ready for use. Mango Fool.—(1) Peel half-a-dozen green Mangoes, cut into quarters, put them into cold water to steep, take out the stones, put the fruit into a saucepan with a little water, and boil until tender. Rub the vdiole through a fine sieve, add sugar to sweeten, and stir in gradually sufficient milk to bring the preparation to the consistence of custard. It is then ready for use, and should be served the day it is made in small custard-glasses, with a little nutmeg or cinnamon grated over. (2) This is prepared as No. 1, colouring it with beetroot boiled tender, bruised, rubbed through a piece of muslin, and mixed with the Mango pulp. It is an agreeable variety, but not much used. Mango Jelly.—Remove the peel from a hundred green Man- goes, cut them into quarters, remove the stones, and plunge them into a bowl containing weak lime-water, freed of all sediment. Put them into a saucepan, cover with water, and boil until quite tender. Strain off the liquor into a preserving-pan without pressing the fruit, boil, skimming frequently, add gradually sufficient sugar to sweeten, and continue to boil until no more scum rises and the jelly is quite clear. Try it by dropping a little on a cold plate; if it congeals, remove the pan from the fire, pour the jelly while slightly warm into bottles ; cork down when quite cold, and it is ready for use. Mango Marmalade. —This can be made from the Mango pulp after the liquor has been strained for making Mango jelly. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, without destroying the acidity of the fruit, and boil slowly over a slack fire until of such consistence that it will remain stiff in a spoon. Put it into bottles while warm, cork down when cold, and the marmalade is ready for use. It may be used for puddings or tarts, or for preparing Mango sauce. Mango Pickle.—Remove the peel from a hundred or so green Mangoes, cut them into quarters, put them into a bowl with salt sprinkled over, and let them steep for thirty- six hours. Take out the Mangoes, wipe dry on a cloth, put them into a preserving-pan with 21b. of sliced ginger and lib. of finely-sliced chillies, pour over a syrup made with lib. of sugar and 2qts. of vinegar, simmer for about fifteen minutes, let the pickle get cold, put it in bottles, cork down securely, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Mango Preserve.—Put a hundred middling-sized uninjured green Mangoes into a bowl of cold water to steep; grate off the outer coat or peel very finely, cut lengthwise to remove the stones, and throw them into weak lime-water. Put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover, parboil, skimming frequently, turn them out on to a sieve, and drain. Have ready a good quantity of syrup made with 81b. of sugar, put in the Mangoes, and let them simmer in this, removing all the scum, until the sugar commences to crystallise; then remove the pan from the fire, let the contents cool, put the Mangoes and syrup into wide-mouthed jars or bottles, and cork down when quite cold. Let them remain for two or three days, and, should the syrup be getting thin, reboil it, adding the Mangoes for a few minutes at the end of the boiling, and bottling again. This process, should be repeated until there is no further sign of fermentation, corking down when quite cold. This preserve will remain good for several years if kept in a908 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mangoes—continued. cool dry place. Sufficient syrup should he prepared at first, so that on the completion of the boiling there will he enough to cover the Mangoes. Mango Puree.—Peel a couple of Mangoes, cut them into halves, removing the stones, put them into a mortar, and bruise well. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar or sufficient to sweeten, \ teaspoonful of salt, and lastly ^ teaspoonful each of ground fresh mint-leaves and ground ginger, and d teaspoonful of ground chillies. When well pounded, the mash or puree is ready for use, and, in India, usually accompanies curry and rice. Mango Sauce.—Put Gib. of peeled and sliced Mangoes into a large earthenware jar or jars, and mix in 21b. each of salt and ground stoned raisins, 1 Alb. of ground ginger, lib. each of moist sugar and ground garlic, Jib. each of ground chillies and ginger, lqt. of lime-juice, and Gcjts. of vinegar. Place the jar or jars in the sun for from twenty to thirty days, strain off the liquor into a saucepan, boil for about fifteen minutes, let it get cold, put it into bottles, cork down, and the sauce is ready for use. The refuse or part left in the sieve or strainer can be used for making chutney. Pickled Mangoes.—(1) Remove the peel from as many Mangoes as required, cut them into halves to take out the stones, rub well with salt, and put them in the sun for two or three days. Wipe well with a cloth, and stuff each with a mixture of two cloves of garlic, two cloves, one small stick of cinnamon, a few slices of chillies and green ginger, and a few onion-seeds, pounded together in a mortar; fasten the halves together with thin thread or cotton, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, cork down securely, and put them in the sun for about twenty days. One or two table-spoonfuls of mustard oil, if poured over the pickle before adding the vinegar, will prevent it spoiling. The pickle will not be fit for use until it has been in the bottles for three or four months. (2) Cut a small piece off the end of each Mango, using as many as are requited, scoop out the ends, and mix this with an equal quantity of mustard-seed and a little very finely-sliced garlic. Stuff the Mangoes with this mixture, replace the pieces in the ends, bind round or sew tip with thread, and put them in a bowl, and pour over sufficient boil- ing vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, ginger, and any spices to cover ; leave for a day, strain off the vinegar, add a little more to allow for evaporation, boil again, and pour while hot over the Mangoes. Repeat this operation twice more (four times in all), but on the last day add a little ground mustard and scraped horseradish to the vinegar just as it commences to boil. Pack away in jars, and cover closely. Failing the genuine article, British ingenuity has been engaged in producing imitations of the pickles and chutney, for which some good receipts are appended. Imitation Mango Chutney.—Boil fib. of moist sugar to a syrup (see Syrups) ; pound to a powder 4oz. of garlic, 8oz. of onions, and 12oz. of ground ginger. Put 12oz. of mustard- seed in a little water, wash it well, and dry it (in the sun if possible). Pare and core thirty apples, and boil them in 1J pints of vinegar ; when done, take out, let them get cold, and mix in with the other ingredients, pouring over J pint of vinegar and adding 4oz. of dried chillies. Stir thoroughly, bottle it, cork down tightly, tie pieces of bladder over the corks, and it is ready for use. Imitation Mango Chutney Sauce.—Peel and core 4oz. of sour apples, and put them into a large jar. Pound in a mortar 4 >z. each of figs, raisins, tomatoes, brown sugar, and a little salt, add them to loz. of chillies (or cayenne), \oz. of ground ginger, Joz. of garlic, and 4oz. of fine fresh shallots. Mix all these well with the apples, and pour in 1 pint of lemon-juice and 3 pints of vinegar. Put the jar in a warm place (about 130 deg. Fahr.) and let it remain for a month, stirring once or twice a day. Pour off the thin liquor at the top and bottle it, put the thick part into wide-mouthed bottles, and it is ready for use. The thin liquor is used for flavouring fish sauce or gravies. Goose- berries may be used if sour apples are not available, but they do not answer the purpose so well. Mangoes— continued. Imitation Pickled Mangoes.—(1) Choose two dozen young musk-melons, cut oft one end, and scrape out all the inside ; tie on the end that was cut off, and put them in some strong brine for a day or so, then rinse them in fresh water and wipe dry. Put 1 pint each of the smallest green peppers, young cucumbers, onions, and green string beans into some brine, let them remain for a day or two, then put them in a saucepan over the fire; as soon as they begin to boil, take them out and drain dry. Add 2oz. of mustard-seed, j pint of shred horseradish, and 1 table- spoonful of red peppers to the cucumbers, &c. Stuff the melons with this mixture, tie on the ends again, and put them into a three-gallon jar. Pour 6qts. of vinegar into a saucepan, add 1 oz. each of cloves, allspice, and whole black pepper, and boil quickly; turn it over the melons, put the cover on the jar, and let it remain for a day. Drain off the vinegar, boil it up, and pour it again over the melons, and continue to do this twice more. When done, put the cover on the jar, and keep it in a cool place until wanted for use. (2) Select the musk melons as late in the season as pos- sible; if pickled early, they do not keep well. Cut a small piece from the under side, and take out the seeds, being care- ful not to wound the flesh. Soak the melons in salt and water for three or four days, then take them out of the water, sprinkle on the inside of the melons powdered cloves, pepper, and mil meg, and fill them with small strips of horseradish, cinnamon, and small French beans. Flag-root, nasturtiums, and radish-tops are also used to stuff' them. Fill any vacant spaces with mustard-seed. Replace the pieces of melon that were cut off, bind up tightly with white cloth, and sew it on. Lay the melons in a stone jar, having the side that was cut uppermost. Put alum, salt, and peppercorns into the vinegar to season it, boil up, and pour it over the melons. Cover the jar with a folded towel, and leave for one night; then drain off the vinegar, make it hot again, and pour it over, covering as before; repeat this scalding until the melons are a fine green, three times being generally sufficient. (3) For this pickle large cucumbers, small musk melons, or water melons pulled before they are ripe, may be used. Whichever are utilised must have the seeds scraped out and the hollows filled with salt; they should then be put into brine strong enough to float a fresh egg, covered well with vine or grape leaves, with a weight on toj> to keep them down, and left in it for three days. Mix together fib. of white ginger steeped in salt water till soft, Jib. of horseradish scraped and soaked for twelve hours, h pint of garlic soaked and dried, J pint of onions peeled and chopped small, loz. of long pepper salted and dried, Joz. of common black pepper, 2oz. each of black and white mustard-seed, loz. of celery-seed, 1 dessert-spoonful each of mace and cloves, and beat all these into a paste together with perfectly fresh butter or olive oil. When the melons or cucumbers have been three whole days in the brine, take them out, wipe quite dry, and fill them with this paste. Then put them into a stone jar, pour over J hint of mustard-seed, and fill up the jar with boiling vinegar. When cold, cover air-tight. MANGOID-WUEZEL- A large field beet, which is not of much use to the cook; nevertheless, it has been used upon occasions, as the following receipts will show: Boiled Mangold Leaf-stalks.—Peel and cut the stalks into pieces of an equal length ; put them into a saucepan con- taining boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, but not browned, then pour in gradually about 1 pint of clear broth, and continue stirring until it boils; season with salt and pejtper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When tender, drain the Mangold leaf stalks, put them on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Mangold-Wurzel Beer.—Take the required quantity of sound roots, wash, scrape, and pare them, and cut them up roughly into pieces. Put them into a big pan or boiler, fill it up with water, and boil for six hours, then drain1)09 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mangold-Wurzel—continued. gently without pressing, and measure. To every twenty gallons add 61b. of coarse brown sugar, 8oz. of mustard- seed, and 31l>. of hops. Boil for two hours longer, strain, and when cool work it with yeast, as for ordinary beer: let it remain for a day, skim off the dark froth, and pour the beer into barrels. MANGOSTAN.—This is sometimes spelt Mangos- teen ; it is the fruit of an Asiatic tree (Garcinia Man- gostana), aboirt the size of an orange, and resembling that fruit in the divisions of its pulp. The rind, which is brownish when ripe, is exceedingly thick, enclosing a juicy flesh with a flavour not unlike a mixture of grapes and strawberries, a pleasing mixture of acidity and sweetness. When eaten, the rind is pared off all round, and the pulp consumed whole. MANNA.—The name given to a dried exudation from a tree of the genus Fraxinus. The finest variety is known as flake-manna. It is sometimes added to food for children, being mildly laxative in its effect. MANNACROTJP.—A granular preparation of wheat deprived of bran, used as an article of food for children and invalids. MANNHEIM ROLLS.—See Bread. MANX CAKES.—See Cakes. MANZANILLA.—A kind of light pale sherry with a slightly bitter taste. MAPLE SUGAR.—See Sugar. MARASCHINO (Fr. Marasquin; Ger. Maraskino). —This famous liqueur is prepared chiefly in Italy and Dalmatia, from the kernel of the Marasca cherry. The principal place of its manufacture is Zara, but large quantities are made in France and Germany, from either cherries or plums, the nutty flavour being ob- tained from the kernels of the stones, to which are added a large proportion of peach-kernels. The best Maraschino is made by crushing together the fruit and seed of the Marasca cherry. One per cent, of honey is added to the juice, and the whole fermented together, distilled, and rectified. Sugar and water are added subsequently, and the liqueur is then stored to ripen and rid itself of empyreumatic flavours. An inferior quality is distilled from a mixture of cherries and the juice of liquorice-root. A very good Maraschino can be distilled as follows: Stone and pick off the stalks from 81b. of Morelia cherries, pour over them 5 pints of brandy, cover close, and let it stand for three days ; strain, and distil the liquor. Distil also tlb. of cherry-leaves in 3qts. of filtered water, which ought to yield about Jgall., dissolve in this 2Jlb. of loaf sugar, and add to the liqueur, together with 1 j pints of kirschenwasser, 10 drachms each of spirits of rose and orange-flowers, and 1 k drachms of spirits of jessamine. Stir all together, run it through a jelly-bag, bottle, cork, and seal it. Maraschino is famous for the beautiful flavours it contains, and these are very highly valued by artistic cooks, who use them for many excellent dishes. The first receipt gives a very useful flavouring, which can be used in any of those following: Essence of Maraschino.—Put lqt. of spirits of wine into a large bottle with 1 pint of Maraschino, h teacupful of essence of peach-stones, 3 drops each of essential oil of jessamine and roses, and double that quantity of orange- flowers. Shake the bottle well, let it stand for four days, pour off into small well-stoppered bottles, and it is ready for use. Maraschino Bavaroise.■—Put into a saucepan D,oz. of isinglass, the strained juice of two lemons, 4 table-spoonfuls Maraschino—continued. of loaf sugar, and \ pint of water, and boil till the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, then skim it care- hilly and pass it through a line silk sieve into a basin. When cold, stir in and thoroughly incorporate 4 wine- glassfuls of Maraschino and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and leave till on the point of setting; then mix 1 pint of well-whipped thick cream with it, and pour the whole into a mould. Pack the mould in ice, and leave it till the cream has set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the bavaroise on to a fancy or glass dish. Maraschino Cheese.—Melt a small quantity of isinglass in hot water; whip U- pints of thick cream to a stiff froth, and mix with it the dissolved isinglass, the strained juice of one lemon, and 3 wineglassfuls of Maraschino. Stir the above mixture over ice till well mixed and on the point of freezing, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice till quite firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cheese on to a fancy or glass dish. See Fig. 1127. Maraschino Conserve.—Mix some spirit of Maraschino with powdered white sugar till it is of about the thickness of pastille-paste, put it over the fire, warm gradually without letting it boil, and keep constantly stirred till it is very liquid. Pour it into funnel-shaped tin moulds, set the moulds on iron plates, and dry the conserve in a stove. Maraschino Cream.—(1) Put lqt. of thick cream, i pint of Maraschino, and 4oz. of sugar into a basin or bowl, and beat well with a whisk until of a stiff froth. Have ready some ice-glasses, pile up the preparation in them, put them on the ice, freeze, and serve. (2) Pick the stems from 1 pint of fresh strawberries, and dip the fruit singly into loz. of isinglass dissolved in a little boiling water, and then again into 4 table-spoonfuls of Maraschino. Put the strawberries in a mould, packing them as clo;ely together as possible, lill up the cavities with strawberry cream, and put the mould on the ice; when frozen, turn out on to a dish, and serve. Maraschino Cream-Ice. —Put 2qts. of cream into a pan over the fire. Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, then add the yolks of eight eggs beaten up with lib. of powdered white sugar; stir them lightly together, and when the cream boils add it by degrees, whisking j. 11 the time. Put the mixture over the fire, and let it boil two or three times, without ceasing to whisk: then run it through a sieve, stirring a little to help it through. When quite cold, mix with it 3 liqueur-glassfuls of Maraschino, put it into a freezer, cover immediately, and freeze it. Maraschino Glaces, or Biscuits with Maraschino Icing-. Beat the yolks of six eggs together with tlb. of icing sugar for five minutes, then mix hi gradually 4oz. of flour and the whites of the six eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mixture into a biscuit-forcer, and press it out in rounds,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 910 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Maraschino—continued. 2Jin. in diameter and about tin. thick, on sheets of paper; put them in a moderate oven, and bake them. Boil some syrup to the crack degree, and mix with it sufficient Maraschino to bring it down to 38deg. ; then take it off the lire, and work it with a spatula or wooden spoon till quite smooth. When the rounds are cooked, wet the paper at the back and take them off; melt some of the icing, and dip them into it, giving them a good coating; place them on a wire drainer, and when all are done, put the drainer in the oven for a minute or two; then take them out, and leave till cool. Maraschino Jelly.—Cut a calf's foot into convenient-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan in cold water, and boil for two minutes; then wash them in cold water, and again put them into a saucepan in lqt. of cold water; when boiling, move to the side of the fire and simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half, keeping well skimmed. Afterwards strain the liquor into a basin, and leave it until quite cold; take off all the fat, and wipe the top over with a cloth dipped in hot water. Turn the jelly out of the basin, scrape off the sediment, put the jelly into a stewpan, and melt it; then add the juice and rind of a small lemon, the whites of two eggs that have been well whisked, and loaf sugar to taste. Whisk the whole over the fire until boiling, then move it off; rinse a jelly-bag out with boiling water, put the lemon-rind at the bottom, and strain the jelly through. If not quite clear the first time, the jelly should be poured through the bag once or twice more. Flavour to taste with Maraschino, pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it on ice or in a very cold temperature. When quite firm, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a dish, ami serve. Maraschino Jelly with Peaches. —Blanch twelve peaches in boiling water for five minutes; peel, cut them in halves, put them in a basin, and cover with syrup. Tinned peaches will answer equally well. Clarify 2oz. of jelly, and add 4 pint of Maraschino. Fill a plain cylinder mould with alternate layers of jelly and peaches, having first drained the peaches, and let each layer of jelly set before adding the fruit. Pack the mould in ice for two hours, and when ready to serve, turn the jelly out of the mould on to an ornamental dish. Maraschino Meringues.—Put lib. of sugar into a saucepan, reduce it almost to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and let it cool. In the meantime, beat the whites of ten eggs to a froth and work them into the sugar, stirring well with a wooden spoon ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of Maraschino. Arrange equal-sized portions of the meringue on strips of paper, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven; | as soon as the top part is set, take them out, place two together, with the moist part left in them, put them in a ' hot closet to dry, and they are ready for use. Maraschino Nip.—Half fill a wineglass with Maraschino, j and fill up with orange bitters and brandy in equal J proportions. Maraschino Pudding.—(1) Dissolve 3oz. of gelatine in 1 breakfast-cupful of water; beat the yolks of ten eggs well together with lqt. of milk, pour them into a lined sauce- pan, and stir over a slow fire until thickened, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle ; then stir in the dissolved gelatine, and when somewhat cooled add 1 wineglassful of Maraschino. Pour the mixture into a mould, and keep it in a cool place for an hour or two. When ready to serve, turn the pudding on to a dish, and pour over it some whipped cream. (2) Put into a copper basin Jib. of powdered loaf sugar, two J eggs, grate in the rind of a quarter of a medium-sized lemon, and with a whisk beat the whole sharply for two minutes; put the basin over a moderate fire, and beat the mixture vigorously for five minutes longer. Remove from the fire, lay the basin on a table, and beat again slowly for two minutes ; then give the whisk a sharp shake, so that all that adheres to it falls into the basin. Now add Jib. of flour, and with a wooden spoon mix the whole slowly and carefully for two minutes. Cover a baking- Marascliino—continued. sheet with a piece of brown paper, pour the paste over it, spread it out to the thickness of £in., put it in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes; take it out, let it cool for about fifteen minutes, and remove from the baking- sheet. Place it on a table upside down, remove the paper, and with a knife cut the paste into small dice-shaped pieces, mixing with them loz. each of dried currants and finely- chopped candied citron. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, each capable of containing li gills, and fill them equally with the preparation. Put into a basin 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar with two eggs, beat well with a whisk for two minutes, add 1 pint of cold milk, mix again for one minute, strain through a sieve into another basin, add 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and stir lightly for one minute longer. Pour this slowly over the puddings a little at a time, so that it will be absorbed; lay them in a pin, filled to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, and place in a moderate oven to steam for thirty minutes; then remove from the pan, and lay them in a cool place for one hour, afterwards leaving on ice until ready to serve. Take 1 pint of whipped cream, put it in a basin, mixing in for two minutes 1 gill of Maraschino, and leave on the ice until ready. Run a thin knife down each pudding separately, from top to bottom, pass it carefully around the mould so as to detach them easily, pour the Maraschino sauce over, and serve immediately. Maraschino Punch.—Put lib. of sugar into a basin with lqt. of water, and add the juice of a lemon and an orange and 1 breakfast-cupful of Maraschino. When well mixed, strain into a freezer; when frozen, add the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and freeze again, when it will be ready for use. Maraschino Spongeacle. Put lOoz. of sugar into a pan with lqt. of whipped cream, and when melted add 1 teacupful of whites of egg and | pint of Maraschino ; pass it twice through a sieve, put if on an ice-box, and turn well for a few minutes, keeping it well covered ; then remove the cover, turn it again, and with the left hand ease it away from the sides and bottom. As soon as it begins to thicken, leave off turning, and with the sprtula work it well from the bottom to the sides. The spatula is quite sufficient to make the ice-box turn, and it must be worked from the top to the bottom of the mass. When the cream is soft and light, and double its original bulk, add gradually a little more Maraschino mixed with syrup, working it well; put it in ice-glasses, and serve. Maraschino Toast.—Cut some very thin slices of bread from a household loaf, and trim to about 2in. rounds. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light golden colour. Put a little apricot jam (cherry or plum if desired) into a saucepan with a little water and Maraschino, and when melted and thoroughly incorporated, let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few Fig. 1128. Maraschino Toast. minutes. Put the pieces of fried bread on a dish, pour over the mixture, and serve while still hot. See Fig. 1128. MARBLE CAKE.—See Cakes. MARBLE CREAM.—See Cream. MARCHPANE.—See Marzipan. MARE’S MILK.—See Koumiss. MARGARINE.—This is the name given to an imitation butter, which is largely used in cooking. It was originally manufactured by a Frenchman, who,911 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTTCAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, fauces, i-c,, referred to, see under their special heads. Margarine—continued. during the investment of Paris by the Germans, sought to provide a substitute for butter. This he succeeded in doing from the fat of beef, and styled the production “ Olio.” New York was the next to take up the idea, and Oleo Margarine resulted. By 1884 so great was the trade in this compound that it was estimated to supply one half of the “butter” sold in that city, and the fat used was what is known as the kidney- or caul- fat of almost any animal, mixed with oils imported from Italy and colouring matter. Large quantities are made in the Netherlands, but the Dutch Government prohibited the use of colouring, hence Dutch Margarine is white. By an Act of Parliament in this country, it is forbidden to sell Margarine as butter, hence it is compulsory for all retailers of it to see that this stock is plainly marked with the true name. Margarine when made of pure fats is harmless, and has the appearance and something of the taste of butter. Being sufficiently wholesome, it has obtained a large sale for kitchen and other domestic purposes. MARIEN CAKES.—See C AKES. MARIGOLDS.—The flowers of the common Mari- gold (Calendula officinalis) are sometimes used in preparing foods, special value being attached to them for colouring and scenting cheese. See Fig. 1129. Conserve of Marigolds. -Add to lib. of Marigold-flowers 2oz. of powder of pearl, and \oz. each of hyacinth and alkermes. Mix and bruise all these together with powdered white sugar, and add as much syrup of citron as will make them into a conserve. Marigold Cheese.—Mix the new milk of seven cows with the cream from the milk of seven more cows. Heat 1 gall, of water till scalding hot, add 3 or 4 handfuls of Mari- golds bruised a little, strain it into the tub containing the milk and cream, and put in some rennet, but not sufficient to make it very hard. Place the curd on a cloth over a sieve to drain ; do not break it, but, as the whey runs out, tie up the cloth, and let it drain for an hour. Then cut the curd in pieces, put it in a pan, pour over sufficient cold water to cover, and let it stand for Fig. 1129. Marigold. half-an-hour. Put part of it into a hoop nearly Gin. deep, and strew on it a very little salt; then put in the other part, lay a heavy weight on top, and let it stand for half-an-hour. Turn, and then place it under the press. Put fresh*wet, clean cloths round it every hour of the day. Next morning, salt it, and leave in the salt for a night and a day. Keep it swathed tight, till it begins to dry and coat, and let it be covered with a eh an cloth for a iong time. The month of August is the best time for making this cheese, and it should be kept a year before it is cut. It is said to be much nicer than Stilton cheese. Marigold Wine.—Put 1241b. of sugar into a saucepan with 21b. of honey, 5galls. of soft water, the whites of four well- Marigolds—continued. beaten eggs, and bo’l for one hour. Skim frequently, and pour it while still hot over 14 peeks of Marigold-flowers and 21b. of stoned raisins. Cover the vessel in which they are put, let them remain for a day, then stir for about fifteen minutes; put the cover on again, and let them remain for another day. Put the rinds of three oranges (Seville) into a cask with lib. of sugar candy, and pour in all but 2galls. of the liquor. Boil the 2galls. up again, pour it in, add 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast, cover the bunghole, and let the mixture work; when it has finished fermenting, add 1 h pints of French brandy and |oz. of isinglass dissolved in warm water. Bung up the cask securely, let it remain for about nine months, and the wine will be fit to bottle. MARINADE.—This is a French culinary term which signifies a souse, brine, or pickle, in which fish, flesh, or fowl may be soaked (marine) for a period preparatory to their being cooked. By this means a considerable addition is made to the natural flavour of the article marinaded. Marinades may be either cooked or raw, the former being used either hot or cold according to circumstances. The following receipts explain themselves, and may be used for general purposes unless otherwise specified: (1) Stew together a finely-sliced onion and four parsley- roots, adding 1 pint of vinegar and 4qts. of fresh water, also a quarter of a bunch of thyme, six bay-leaves, twenty- four whole peppers, and twelve cloves. Cook well for thirty minutes on a brisk fire, then put them in a stone jar and keep in a cool place for use. (2) Finely slice one medium-sized sound peeled onion, place it in an earthenware crock, with three slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, four cloves, three whole mace, and three sprigs of parsley-root, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and 1 pinch of salt. Place the meat or fish in this, and leave it to soak for about six hours. (3) Mix together a bunch of sweet herbs, 11 teacupfuls of vinegar, 4 teacupful of oil, 1 table-spoonful each of lemon- and onion-juice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a very small quantity each of pepper, ground clove, and cayenne pepper. This Marinade is to be sprinkled over the meat or fish, in which it should stand for ten or twelve hours. Any of the above-mentioned articles may be omitted if not cared for. Marinade for Basting Roasting Meats. —Chop up some pieces of fat bacon, mix in a clove or two of garlic and two or three chopped sprigs of parsley, season with salt and pepper, and mix hi vinegar and oil hi the proportion of one of the former to four of the latter. Marinade for Beef.—Put into a stewpan equal quantities of water and vinegar, the quantity depending on the size of the sirloin to be marinaded, add a few sliced onions and carrots, salt, peppercorns, and a clove of garlic. Set the pan on the fire, boil until all the goodness is extracted from the vegetables, then strain and let it get cold. The meat should be left for fully twenty-four hours to soak. Marinade for Beef or Mutton.—Cut into slices four large carrots and onions, put them into a saucepan with a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme and basil, two bay-leaves, 1 pinch each of ground mace and mignonette pepper, two cloves of garlic, and 8oz. of butter. Stir these well with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire, and as soon as they begin to colour pour in 1 break fast-cupful of vinegar and lqt. of beef stock or water slightly salted ; simmer gently for an hour, strain through a cloth, and it is ready for use. It must bo quite cold before the beef or mutton is put into it to marinade; it may also be used as stock for boiling fish. Marinade for Beef, Venison, and Game. —Cut six large onions and carrots into slices, put them into a basin with a few sprigs of parsley, a little each of thyme and basil, four bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, 1 table-spoonful each of ground pepper and mace, and 1 good pinch of salt; pour over 4 pints of vinegar and double the quantity of cold water, and it is ready for use. Leave the meat in itTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 9J2 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Marinade —continued. for seven or eight days. Should it be wished to marinade the article in the course of only a day or two, another pint of vinegar must be added. Marinade for Collared Meats.—Prepare a very thin oatmeal gruel, season with salt and pepper, and add a little port wine, say 1 wineglassful to each pint of the gruel. Put all into a saucepan, boil for half-an-hour, turn out, let it get cold, and it is then ready for soaking any collared meats. Marinade for Fish.—(1) Finely chop two carrots, three onions, six shallots, and a clove of garlic, put them all into a saucepan, add a bunch each of sweet herbs and parsley, and a little butter, let them cook slowly (sweat) over the lire for a few minutes, then pour in 2 pints of cider or any white wine, the former for preference, and boil for two or three minutes; next add two dozen pepper- corns and an equal quantity of allspice, two or three cloves, and 1 handful of salt, set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain, and the Marinade is ready for use. It is generally employed for the purpose of boiling fish, to which it gives a very pleasant flavour. It will last for some time and can be used on several occasions, taking care to strain it after the fish has been boiled and taken out. Any fish, especially small fresh-water fish, will have the advantage if boiled in this of their bones being softened and thus making them more agreeable in eating. (2) Proceed as for No. 1, substituting for the cider or wine lqt. of table or small beer, and 1 wineglassful each of ketchup, essence of anchovies, and soy. (3) The same as for No. 2, adding 1 pint of vinegar and a little each of chives, thyme, fennel, and bay-leaves. (4) Take a fish-kettle that will suit the size of the fish to be boiled and pour in enough water and white wine (using two parts of the former to one of the latter) to cover the fish when put in. Add a large lump of butter, pepper and salt, two or three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few stewed onions and carrots, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain the liquor, leave it till cold, and then it is ready for use. After the fish is boiled in this, it should be served with anchovy sauce with a squeeze of lemon in it. (5) The fish should first be cleansed and sprinkled with salt and pepper, then put into a bowl with an onion cut into slices, a bay-leaf cut in quarters, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and the juice of a lemon, and rubbed frequently with this mixture for the desired time. An- liour-and-a-half or two hours will generally be found quite long enough for fish such as soles, shad, whiting, &c. Oil is generally used with this in marinading. Marinade for Game.—Put into a saucepan 1 bottle of white wine, 1 pint of vinegar, lqt. of water, 1 handful of peppercorns, four bay-leaves, a few lumps of sugar, a slice or two of carrot and onion, and a root of parsley ; boil up well, turn the Marinade into an earthenware pan, and it is ready for use. All large game should be marinaded at least two days before cooking, and should be turned in it once or twice a day. MARJORAM (Fr. Marjolaine; Ger. Majoran ; Ital. Persa; Sp. Mejorana).—A plant of the genus Origanum, commonly known as sweet Marjoram, and at one time much used as a flavouring in cookery. By diluting the expressed oil with spirits an essence is made which is very useful when the fresh leaves cannot be obtained. Marjoram Conserve.—Bruise well the tops and tenderest parts of sweet Marjoram in a wooden bowl or mortar; boil double its weight of powdered white sugar in Marjoram- flavoured water till it is a thick syrup and then add the bruised Marjoram. MARKETING.—It does not follow that a good cook is necessarily a good marketer; indeed there is only too much reason to fear that the better the cook the greater is the inclination to be extravagant and reckless in the Marketing—continued. purchase of articles—not so much as to quality, for in that the good cook should be the best judge, but in the prices paid. It is a recognised principle that the cheapest goods are not the best, and it may be urged in addition that the best goods are not always the cheapest, or as cheap as they might be consistent with prime quality. The person to whom the buying of foods is entrusted should give the matter earnest thought and consideration, and should study, not only the methods of distinguishing good foods, but also the seasons when they are at their best, and the prices that ought to be paid. For instance, certain articles may be out of season : they are then not so good as when in season, and their price is much higher. Again, some tradesmen, relying upon a good reputation, charge extra, and it may be stated at once that in some localities the high price is not only justified by the reliance the pur- chaser can always place upon the seller, but also upon the freedom with which credit is given, often to a loss and generally covering a long time for the convenience of the consumer. Tradesmen in a small way of business occasionally try to compete with those who are long and firmly established; they sell under price for a time, but this rarely lasts, generally leading to a little trickery now and then, such as foisting inferior goods upon the buyer, and adding a little fiction to the weight. To market well the buyer should go to the shops, select the goods, see them weighed, pay cash for them, and bring them home. It is not necessary to explain the motives for such caution, as they are self-evident; but it may be believed that so long as the buyer depends upon the judgment of the tradesmen at low prices and credit, so long will he or she be swindled. The benefits of a cash principle have been illustrated to perfection by the estab- lishment of co-operative stores, best goods at low prices, and returning large profits to the store. What more can be required, excepting perhaps a co-operative store in every street, or tradesmen willing and bold enough to act on the same principle, and sell for ready cash alone. Directions for selecting foods are described under their special headings. See also Accounts, Economy in the Kitchen, Weights and Measures, Ac. MARLBOROUGH PUDDING.—Nee Puddings. MARMALADE (Fr. Marmelade; Ger. Marmelade; Ital. Cotognato ; Sp. Mermelada).—This is described as a preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit. It was originally a confection of quince, and was named after Mer- melo—the Spanish for that fruit; but custom has ordained that other fruits should be subject to the same conserva- tion which is illustrated in the numerous receipts given under their title. Special Marmalades are described under their various headings such as Apples, Apricots, Bar- berries, &c. See also Jam. Marmalade Pudding.—(1) Peel off the skin from 6oz. of beef-suet, and chop finely; put it into a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumb and f break- fast-cupful of Marmalade, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, and 4oz. of finely-shred mixed candied-peel. Beat two eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients. Turn the pudding into a well-greased pudding-mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for four hours. More boiling water should be added as it boils away, but care must be taken not to let it enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish and serve. (2) Mince 4oz. of beef-suet and mix it with Goz. of grated breadcrumb, 2oz. of caster sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of Marmalade, and the grated rind and strained juice of a small lemon. Beat two eggs well together with a small quantity of milk to which h teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been added, stir it in with the above ingredients, and mix thoroughly. Butter a mould, fill it with theO o P d ti 72 ^ 3 M ^ S’ St- s' ^ 2 H P-i 72 (D CD «<J Pj td g g« |l i §H-g £j ^h «3 « w S w P go M y k) o Pj" 6 E.-S- *§ 3 S ® ogS W | g ►3 72 P i-3 ,_, w 2 ^ i 5? ■3 Cj 72 M * 2 & > o 3 5 £ CD M P e*913 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Marmalade—continued. in the water, and let them soak for twenty-four hours; then turn all into a preserving-pan with the seeds tied up in a muslin bag, and boil until tender. On the following day remove the bag of seeds, weigh the fruit again, and put in with it 1 til), of coarsely-crushed preserving-sugar for each pound; boil the whole, stirring constantly wit h a wooden spoon, until the slices of orange are clear and the syrup reduced to a jelly. When ready, turn the preserve into jars, and let it get cold ; then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, tie down perfectly air-tight, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. The strained juice and grated rinds of two or three lemons added to the marmalade in the last boiling is an improve- ment. MAEMANBE.—A low-class French brandy. Marmalade—continued. mixture, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for three hours. Turn the Fig. 1130. Marmalade Pudding. pudding on to a hot dish when cooked, pour a Marmalade sauce over and round it (see Fig. 1130), and serve. (3) Warm 2oz. of lard, and beat it up well together with 2oz. of moist sugar and 1 teacupful of Marmalade ; whip one egg in 1 teacupful of milk, and beat it in with the other ingredients. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with Jib. of dour, and stir in the above mixture. Work the whole until well incorporated, then turn the mixture into a buttered mould, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and proceed as for No. 2. (4) Warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy together with Jib. of caster sugar; whip the yolks of five eggs well, and mix them and Jib. of Marmalade with the above ingredients. Butter a dish and line it with paste, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Put 4oz. of well-washed rice into a lined saucepan with lqt. of milk, and boil until quite tender and the moisture somewhat reduced. Warm 2oz. of butter, whip it well together with Jib. of caster sugar, then beat in one at a time four eggs; add this mixture to the rice, with 1 teacupful of Marmalade, a small quantity each of grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and salt, and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Mix the whole together until thoroughly incor- porated. Butter a mould, iill it with the mixture, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. A well-flavoured custard poured over is a good addition. (6) Grate 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread, and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar; put a thick layer of Mar- malade at the bottom of a pie-disli, and cover it with the breadcrumbs. Beat two eggs well, mix with 1 pint of milk, and pour them over the breadcrumbs. Bake the pudding for about an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. When cooked it should be lightly browned on the top. Serve hot. Marmalade Sauce.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Marmalade into a small saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and stir them over a gentle fire until very hot. Strain the sauce, and it is ready for serving. Brandy and water in equal parts can be substituted for the wine if preferred. (2) Put 1 teacupful of Marmalade into a saucepan with J pint of water, stir it over the fire until hot, pour in 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, strain, and keep it hot in the bain-marie until ready to serve. Mixed Marmalade. —Cut open about fifty plums, take out the stones, crack them, blanch the kernels, and pound in a mortar with a little orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. Peel and core two dozen each of apples and pears, put them with the plums and kernels into a jar, with a small quantity of sugar but no water, and bake till tender in a cool oven. Turn all out into a preserving-pan, crush the fruit with a spoon, stir in 31b. of crushed loaf-sugar, and boil for an hour. Pour the Marmalade into small deep dishes, place them in the oven, and after a time let the Marmalade cool gently to ensure its setting. Royal Marmalade.—Use Seville oranges; cut them into very thin slices, and remove all the seeds; weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow 3 pints of cold water. Put them MARQUE PUDDING.—See Puddings. MARROW.—See Ox-Marrow and Yegetable- Marrows. MARSALA.—This is the name of a rich amber- coloured wine exported from Sicily. It is shipped into Italy in large quantities, where it is said to undergo certain changes before being imported into France under another name, whence, also, it comes to the British markets still further transmogrified. The genuine Marsala imported into England, which is considerably in excess of 500,000 gallons yearly, is estimated to be about one-tenth of the Marsala, or concoction known by that name, sold in this victimised country. Imitation Marsala Wine.—Put 41b. of moist sugar into a pan with 24 galls, of water, and boil for from thirty to forty-five minutes. In the meantime, run 71b. of raisins through a mincing-machine into a tub, pour over the boil- ing liquor (wort as it is called), stir well until thoroughly mixed, cover with a thick cloth or blanket, stir well again for three days, then let it stand for three weeks. By this time it will be perfectly still. Skim, strain, pressing out all the liquor into a cask holding about 3 galls., do not bung up for a few days, add finings if required, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for bottling. If left for six months before bottling, the flavour will be far better, and more like the real Marsala. Marsala-Wine Jelly.—Put lqt. of cold water into a sauce- pan with Jib. of granulated sugar ; break in 2oz. of gelatine, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, put them in with the other ingredients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, and add six cloves and one For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 xTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 914 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Marsala—continued. Lay-leaf, mixing well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-hag tied in a jelly-stand. Stir the prepara- tion, and when coming to the boil, set it on a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir, while boiling, for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the lire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding J pint of Marsala wine and 1 teaspoonful of browned sugar. Let it drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel under- neath, and let it drain a second time. Pour the jelly from the vessel into a quart mould, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and afterwards pack it in ice to harden. Dip the mould almost to its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, and turn it out on to a cold dish; garnish with crystallised fruits and angelica points, and serve. See Fig. 1131. Marsala-Wine Soup.—Germans are famous for this dish. Put lqt. of Marsala wine and 1 pint of water into a sauce- pan with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to taste with sugar, and place it over the fire till boiling. Cut some slices of bread, toast them, cut into small pieces, roll them in sugar, then place in a quick oven until the sugar spreads over. Beat the yolks of four eggs, move the -wine soup to the side of the fire, and stir in the eggs quickly. Put the pieces of toast in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve while very hot. MARSBEIT CAKE.—See Veal. MARSEILLAISE BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. MARSH-MALLOW (Fr. Guimauve; Ger. Sammet- pappel).—The very demulcent properties of the juice of the Marsh-mallow root (Althaea officinalis) has brought it into great repute as a pleasing sweetmeat in cases of bronchial, laryngeal, or throat irritation. This has led confectioners to make several preparations, the greatest favourite of all being the French “pates guimauve.” The following receipts will be found very effective as medicine, and pleasant as simple confectionery: Marsh-Mallow Paste.—Pound lib. of gum arabic in a mortar until very fine, sift it through a fine hair sieve, put it in lqt. oc water in which 2oz. of finely-shred Marsh-mallow has been boiled, stir occasionally, and leave until quite dissolved. Strain the gum again through aline hair sieve, and mix it with \ pint of apple-juice and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup. Pour the mixture into a sugar- boiler, place it over a moderate fire, and stir until reduced to a paste. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in with the paste. Try the paste with the finger; if it does not stick, it is done. Mix a few drops of essence of neroli with it. Dust plenty of powdered starch over a marble slab, pour the paste on to it, and spread out with a knife. Leave the paste for several hours for it to become diy and set; cut it into any shapes liked, dust over lightly with starch to prevent sticking, and pack them between sheets of paper in boxes for use. The apple-juice is now generally used as a substitute .for Marsh-mallow root, owing to the disagreeable flavour given by the latter. Marsh-Mallow Syrup.—(1) Put loz. of finely-shred Marsh mallow roots into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until the water is reduced to 1 breakfast-cupful, then strain. Make a syrup of 32deg. strength with 1 lb. of sugar; dissolve loz. of gum arabic in 1 teacupful of hot water; mix the extract of Marsh-mallows and the dissolved gum arabic with the syrup and 2 table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water. Pour the mixture into bottles, cork well, and fasten them down with wire or string. Stand the bottles upright in a saucepan of cold water, putting a little straw round to prevent them knocking together and cracking, and boil gently. In seven or eight minutes’ time, move the saucepan away from the fire ; leave the bottles in the water until cold, dip the nozzles in bottle-wax, and pack in a cellar, where they should be kept in a reclining position until used. (2) Scrape and wash Alb. of Marsh-mallow root, cut it in small pieces, and put them in a saucepan over the Marsh-Mallow—continued. fire with 3 pints of water; when it is boiled enough, the water will be a thin jelly. Strain this liquor, put it over the fire with 41b. of sugar, and boil to a syrup (see Sugak- BOILING); clarify it with the white of an egg, and boil to the degree of heat at which, if a drop of the sugar be put on the tip of the thumb and touched until the tip of the forefinger, it will draw to a fine thread on separating the finger and thumb, and when the thread breaks a drop will be left on both finger and thumb. Take it from the fire, and when cold, bottle and cork it. Marsh-Mallow Toffy.—Put 31b. of gum arabic dissolved in lqt. of water in which 4oz. of Marsh-mallow root has been boiled, into a saucepan until 4Alb. of sugar, and boil until they become of a stiflish consistence; stir well, put in the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, and let the whole reduce until it is of the required con- sistence. Have ready a marble slab, with iron bars on it, placed at such a distance from one another as to give the thickness of the toffy required; dust the slab with powdered starch, pour over the syrup, let it cool, cut it into cubes, dust them with starch, wrap singly in waxed papers, and they are ready for use. Marsli-Mallow Twists.—Soak loz. of best gum dragon in 2oz. of orange-flower water ; cut into fine shreds 2oz. of Marsh- mallow roots, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until reduced to J pint. Place the prepared gum on a marble slab, and work with the hand until it becomes white and elastic ; work in with it lib. of the finest icing sugar and the extract of Marsh-mallows, and after that another pound of icing sugar and a few drops of wet cobalt blue. When the whole is worked into a rather soft elastic paste, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, roll out and twist them. Dust the interior of some cardboard boxes over with fine white sugar, put in a layer of the twists, dust them also with sugar, and continue thus until the boxes are full. The object of the sugar is to keep the twists from sticking together. MARTINOES.—The pods of the Martynia are known by this name in America. They are peculiar for being hard and woody when ripe, and possessed of two hooks at the end (see Fig. 1132), which has gained for them, on account of their mischievous tendencies, the name of the “ Devil’s finger-nails.” In Mexico, Martinoes grow wild abundantly, the hooks of the pods sometimes exceeding 4in. in length. Another name for them is the Unicorn- plant. Martino Salad.—Rub off the downy covering of the young pods of the martynia, or unicorn-plant, with a towel; cut the pods into slices, lay them in a dish, sprinkle with salt, pour over a few drops of vinegar, and let them stand for an hour. Line a salad-bowl with some blanched chicory, put in a sliced tomato, and then the martynia-pods, and sprinkle over some chopped spring onions. Mix some salad- oil and vinegar together, oil predominating, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. Pickled Martinoes.—Martinoes should be gathered early in the morning, when they are sufficiently tender to push theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 915 Martinoes—continued. head of a pin into them. Wash perfectly clean, and then let them lie in a brine of salt-and-water for three or four days. When taken out of this brine, put them into fresh water, and let them lie in it for twelve hours; then boil them for a few minutes in vinegar, with a seasoning of allspice and cloves. Four vinegar and all into a jar, and when cold cover it down, and let it stand for four or five weeks. The Martinoes are then ready for use. MARZIPAN.—There are several different modes of spelling this, such as Marchpane, Massepain, and some others; the origin and meaning of the first part of the j term is doubtful, hence it is impossible to say which is correct. Marzipan is the name given to a sort of almond paste that is much used by Continental confectioners for making edible table-ornaments and other things, the variety of application being almost unlimited. When properly made, Marzipan should he as plastic as potters’ clay. The following receipts will give some notion of the modes of preparing Marzipan, and its use: (1) Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, and a few bitter \ ones, put them in a mortar, and pound until smooth, add- ing a few drops of rose-water, to keep them from oiling. Put the almond paste into a lined saucepan, with lib. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until it will not stick to the fingers when touched by them. Dredge a paste-board well with caster sugar, spread the paste out on it as thinly as possible, and cut it into cakes of any desired shape or size. Cover a baking-sheet with white paper, dust it over with caster sugar, and lay the cakes on it. Put them into a slow oven, and bake until of a pale yellow colour. Store and keep the cakes dry in tins. (2) Prepare an almond paste by blanching ill), of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, and pounding them in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of orange- Fig. 1133. Marzipan. flower water to keep them from oiling. When the almonds are pounded to a paste, put them into a stewpan with Jib. of caster sugar, and stir them over the fire until of a smooth consistency. Strew caster sugar thickly over a paste-board, put the paste on to it, and knead it to an oval shape. When the paste is cool, roll it out as thinly as possible, and cut it into cakes with a round tin cutter 3in. in diameter. Cover a baking-sheet with a sheet of white paper, and put one of the cakes on it; coat it with a layer of preserve, of any kind, and put another on the top of that,' which also coat with a layer of preserve, and Marzipan—continued. so on until all the cakes are used. Do not put preserve on the top cake, but brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and decorate with the trimmings of the paste cut into small fancy shapes. Brash the cake over with the white of one egg beaten up together with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, ornament with coloured icing, lightly brown in a moderate oven, and garnish round the dish with dried cherries before serving. See Fig. 1133. (3) Put Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar, and pound them to a pulp, adding a little orange-flower water to prevent oiling. Put the almonds and Jib. of sugar into a preserving-pan, and stir well over a slow fire until it forms a mass round the spoon. Try it by pressing a finger on it, and if it does not stick it is done; but if the reverse, continue to dry it. Turn the preparation out on to a sheet of paper well dusted with sugar, flavour it with orange or lemon sugar, well work in, and form it into rolls Jin. in thickness; cut these slantwise into 4in. lengths, make them into rings, and put them on a wire sieve. Mask them with lemon-flavoured icing, let them drain, put them on pieces of paper spread over copper sheets, and bake in a slow oven until lightly coloured. Take them out, let them get cold, remove them from the paper, and they are ready for use. Any kind of flavour- ing may be used instead of the orange or lemon, but it must be well worked in. (4) Roll out some almond paste till nearly lin. thick, cut it into squares about 2in. each way, and press them down with a square piece of wood a little smaller, so that a border is formed all round. Bake these pieces of paste, anil when cold, pour into them any well-flavoured cream, filling them as high as the borders; cover with sugar icing, and brown with a salamander. MASATA.—A South American spirit distilled from bananas. It is now manufactured very largely in India. MASHING.—The difference between this mode of breaking up potatoes, turnips, &c., and the preparation of the puree, is that while Mashing is purely a British process, the puree belongs to the French. The object of Mashing vegetables is to render them soft and digestible:—it stands to reason, therefore, that all lumps, or hard pieces, which are apt to exist in potatoes; | turnips, parsnips, and other roots, should be carefully re- moved, not broken up, as their hardness indicates at once that the particles of which they are composed are tough and indigestible. The French cook speaks of Mashing as tripotage, which is literally a grinding to powder, pulverizing; and it would be much more accurate if British cooks spoke of the process as smashing rather than mashing, the term mash having quite a different signification in other industries, such as brewing, or in feeding horses. The good plain cook, or amateur, is apt to make a very great mistake in preparing a mash of any vegetable; with mashed potatoes, grease, such as dripping or butter, or milk is frequently worked in, but quite unnecessarily; indeed, mashed potatoes are spoiled in this way, the same observation applying to all others. Nothing is necessary beyond a seasoning of salt. The ingenuity of those who make ordinary apparatus has procured for us some very useful tools for Mashing, one is a metal perforated vessel into which potatoes are put, and then by bringing the handles together a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. 3x2916 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Mashing—continued. presser, fitting the vessel exactly, forces the potato through the holes and renders it beautifully light and floury. Other (see Fig. 1134) are wheels set on sticks, which break up the potatoes; turnips, &c., as they are forced rapidly down upon it. Failing the advantage of these instruments, mashing is usually accomplished with a fork against the side of a basin, or the saucepan in which the vegetable was boiled; the water being carefully strained. MASKING-.—A term frequently used by Continental cooks and confectioners, signifying painting over, or covering with any thickish fluid, especially jam or j sauce. • . MASTIC or MASTICH.—The resin which flows from the incised bark of Pistacia Lentiscus. It is very aromatic; and is much used in America for flavouring chewing-gum. A spirit, called Mastic Raki, is distilled from this gum in some parts of Asia Minor. MAT£.—Se,e Paraguay Tea. MATELOTE, A LA.—This term, of which .the literal meaning is “ sailor’s style,” is given to a sauce or stew prepared for and with fish; it is more often applied to fresh-water fish than to those from the sea. Several receipts for a Matelote will be found in this Encyclopaedia, the following being excellent types of the rest: Matelote Ragoftt or Relish.—Cut up 41b. of fish, of which there should be some variety, and put the pieces into a stewpan with two sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and season with pepper and salt. Put in suffi- cient broth and white wine (two-thirds of broth and one-third wine) to cover the fish. Cook this for twenty minutes or so over a brisk fire, then strain the liquor and keep the fish hot in the pan. Next put ill), of butter into a saucepan with two dozen small onions, and toss them until they are browned. Take out the onions and put in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; mix this with the butter, and cook it until it is all browned. Then pour in the strained liquor of the fish, the small onions, and about two dozen button-mushrooms, and continue cooking until the onions and mushrooms are quite done. Take out the mushrooms and onions, and garnish the dish round with them in heaps, after piling the fish in the centre. Reduce the stock by rapid boiling, and then pour it- over all. Garnish with crayfish and fried sippets of bread. Normandy Matelote.—This dish is said to have been first prepared by Langlais, late chef to M. Rocher de Cancale. Butter a silver dish and strew it with finely-chopped blanched onions. Season the fish (sole for preference; it is then called sole a la Normande) with pepper and salt, put it on the dish, cover it with white wine, and bake it. Meanwhile prepare a good supply of mussels, oysters, button-mushrooms, fried smelts, and hied breadcrumbs; add the liquor of the sole, and that of the mussels (well strained) to some mock veloute sauce, reduce it by boiling, and thicken with yollc of egg. Place the mussels, oysters, and mushrooms on or around the fish; pour the sauce over, set the dish in the oven, again to get quite hot, garnish with the smelts and crumbs, and serve. Some of the sauce can be served sepa- rately in a sauceboat if desired. White Matelote.—To the French cook this is Virgin’s Mate- lote (Matelote Vierge). Cut 21b. of fish (eels for choice) into 2in. or 3in. lengths, and if they are eels set them to boil for four or five minutes in salt and water, with 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar to the quart. Melt fib. of butter in a saucepan, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of flour; dilute them with 1 pint of white wine and broth, in equal propor- . tions, and season with pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the fish in with a few small onions and button- mushrooms, and let them cook foy twenty-five minutes; ■ then remove the fish, onions, mushrooms, and herbs, thicken the sauce with an egg beaten up in a small quantity of the cooled stock stirred in quickly, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. When quite hot, strain this over the fish, pile Matelote, a la—continued. on a dish, and garnish round with the onions, mushrooms, and fried bread sippets. See Fig. 1135. Fig. 1135. White Matelote. MATRIMONY SAUCE.—See Sauces. MATSO BREAD.—See Bread. MAUD’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. MAURITIUS CREAM.—See Cream. MAXIXE.—A Brazilian vegetable which has lately found its way into America, where it has become very popular. Jt resembles a cucumber, and is covered with thorny warts. Maxixe Salad.—Peel the rough skin off a Maxixe, and cut the vegetable crosswise into very thin slices; peel and slice a few spring onions, and put both, vegetables into a salad- bowl. Mix together some vinegar and oil, the oil pre- dominating, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, which should be lightly tossed with a fork to mix well, and serve. MAY DRINK (Ger.. Mai Trank).—This name has been given to a delicious drink, prepared in Germany as follows: (1) Gather several bunches of ripe wild strawberries, some ripe raspberries, and three or four vine-leaf buds. Put all together into a large bowl with sugar to taste, pour over 2 bottles of French white wine, cover the bowl, and leave for about twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Afterwards strain the wine into a glass bowl, put in a few pieces of ice, and serve. (2) Procu re one dozen each of the leaf-buds of strawberries, black Currants, and white currants; put them into a bowl with 1 large handful of woodruff, three or four vine-leaf buds, and sugar to taste, adding two or three slices of peeled cucumber. ’ Pour in 2 bottles of hock, cover the bowl, and let the contents steep for about half-an-hour. Break up some ice, put the pieces into a fancy china or glass bowl, strain the above liquor over them, and serve. (3) Pluck a good handful of woodruff, put it in a bowl, strew over 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and pour iu 1 bottle of light wine. Cover the bowl, and let the contents infuse for half-an-hour; then put in a thinly- sliced orange, and infuse for half-an-hour longer. Serve the wine, with the orange when ready. (4) ' Put into a china bowl 1 handful of woodruff, an equal quantity of balm, six or seven black-currant -leaves, a sprig of lemon-scented verbena, and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Pour in 1 bottle of any kind of light wine preferred, cover the bowl, and let the contents infuse for an' hour. When ready to serve, ladle the wine out into glasses. (5) Put the following freshly-gathered herbs into a large bowl: thirty leaves of balm, eight or ten sprigs of wood- ruff, fifteen leaves of peppermint, six or seven leaves of pimpernel, the same of garden geranium, the same quantity each of common yarrow and tarragon, four leaves each of basil, balsam herb, and black currant, two leaves of wormwood, six leaves each of balm mint and lungwort, and two sprigs of thyme. Put in with the herbs the thinly- pared yellow rind of one lemon and lib. of loaf sugar, and pour over 2qts. of wine. Cover the bowl, stand it in a cool place, and let the contents infuse for six or seven hours, stirring occasionally. Serve the punch the same day;917 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. . May Drink—continued. or strain, pour it into bottles, and keep closely corked until ready for use. MAYONNAISE.—There is no term in the language of cookery that seems to have such a very obscure deriva- tion as this. Kettner argues that it is misspelled, and that it should be Mahonnaise, from an old Provencal word, signifying a lady who fatigues, or thoroughly mixes a salad. At one time it was usual for the youngest and prettiest of the ladies to mix the salad and fatigue it with her dainty fingers. Hence it caipe to pass that the salad or its dressing was called by the word denoting the operator. This is a very unsatisfactory explanation ; but none better presents itself. See Sauces. MAZARIN CAKE.—See Cakes. MAZERS.—The name of certain pledge-cups, derived from the Scandinavian name for the maple-tree, of which hard wood they were frequently manufactured. “ Our ancestors seem to have been greatly attached to their Mazers,” writes Simmonds, “ and to have incurred much cost in enriching them. Quaint legends in English or Latin, monitory of peace and good fellowship, were often embossed on their metal rim and on the cover, or the popular but mystic Saint Christopher, engraved on the bottom of the interior, rose in all his giant proportions before the eyes of the wassailer, giving comfortable assur- ance that, on that festive day at least, no mortal harm could befall him.” See Loving-Cups. MEAD (Ft. Hydromel; Ger. Meth).—This is a liquor brewed from honeycombs after the honey has been drawn away. It was at one time very popular throughout the whole of Europe, but has now almost entirely fallen out of favour. The ancient sack-mead, called so most probably from the French sec—dry, was a beverage of this kind strengthened with brandy and flavoured with spices. The following are good receipts for the preparation of Mead: (1) Put loz. of cream of tartar in a pan with 2tgalls. of boiling water, and when dissolved let it settle, pour off the clear liquor, and turn it into a saucepan with 101b. of homey ; place the pan over the fire, skim the liquor frequently, and boil. When nearly boiled enough, add Aoz. of hops, leave for ten minutes, and pour off into a tub or large basin to cool. When the temperature is reduced to between 70 and 80deg. Falir., add a piece of toast covered with yeast. Put the tub or basin in a warm place, stir- ring frequently, and as soon as a head begins to form, put the liquor into a cask. Bung up the cask; leaving the vent-peg out, and when it has stood for a few days put in the peg and leave for a year, when it may be bottled and used. (2) Put lgall. of water into a saucepan with 31b. of strained honey, and boil for thirty minutes, adding 1 oz. of hops. Skim well, put the scum into a colander, and return to the pan all the, liquor that runs through. Remove the pan from the fire, and when the liquor is cool (about the warmth of new milk), mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast, put it into a cask, letting it work over, and replenish- ing it from the pan as the' fermentation lessens. Cover the bung-hole with a piece of stiff paper, and in a few weeks’ time it will be quite ready for use. It may be flavoured with any spices while boiling if desired, and is a very refreshing drink for the summer-time. (3) Put 5galls. of water into a saucepan, and add one lemon, cut in slices, a little dried ginger-root, and lgall. of honey. Mix them thoroughly and boil for thirty minutes, taking care to remove all the scum as it rises, and during the time it is boiling loz. of hops must be added. Take the pan from the fire, and when the contents are lukewarm add a little yeast ; pour it into a cask, and in a little less than a month it will be ready for use. (4) For every gallon of water add 41b. of honey, boil for an hour, then put it into a tub with yeast spread on toast, and cover over. If it ferments well after three or four days, draw it off clear, and put it into a cask with one Mead—continued. sliced lemon to every gallon ; add 1 bottle of brandy for every lOgalls. The rind of Seville oranges, cut very thin and suspended in the barrel, will greatly improve the flavour. It is best to rinse round the cask with part of the brandy before the liquor is put in. Those who like Mead to have an aromatic flavour may mix in elder, rosemary, and cardamoms, in various proportions, according to taste ; others put in a mixture of thyme, eglantine, rosemary, and marjoram, with various spices. (5) On 51b. of honey pour 5qts. of boiling water, and boil, skimming frequently until the scum ceases to rise ; then add loz. of the best hops, boil for ten minutes, put the liquor into a tub, and let it cool ; when almost cold, put in a small quantity of yeast spread on a slice of toasted bread, and let it stand in a warm room. When fei mentation sets in, pour the liquor into a cask, filling up as the froth runs out at the bung-hole. When the fermentation has quite ceased, bung down, but leave a peg-hole, which after a short time may be closed. The Mead may be bottled in less than a year. (6) Put water and honey, in the proportion of lgall. of the former to 4lb. of the latter, into a saucepan, and boil well for forty-five minutes, removing all the scum as it rises. Now put in loz. of hops for each gallon of liquor, boil for thirty minutes longer, remove from the fire, and leave for a day. Turn, it into a cask, add 1 pint of brandy to every 64galls. of liquor, and place a cloth or paper over the bung until fermentation has ceased, then bung up tightly, and keep it for a year before using. (7) Put into a saucepan 101b. of honey, 101b. of the best raisins, and lOgalls. of water, and boil for about ten minutes, keeping the liquor well skimmed ; then put it into a vessel to work, and add 4 pint of yeast, letting it work until the froth begins to subside ; rack off clear, stir it in with- the raisins, and throw into the cask lqt. of elder-flowers. Let it remain in the cask for twelve months, fine it with wine- finings, and bottle. (8) Nearly fill a thoroughly cleansed 36gall. barrel, with the head removed, with expressed apple-juice, add a good quantity of drained honeycomb to it, and stir fre- quently for about fourteen hours. Then add some honey, and continue the stirring until the liquor is of such a consistence that it will support an egg on its surface. Then pour the mixture into another barrel and allow it to ferment for three or four days, filling up night and morning, so that the froth will work out at the bung-hole; now bung up loosely and let it stand for five or six weeks. Draw off the clear liquor into a clean tub, and add the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten up with 1 pint of silver sand and lgall. of spirit to the liquor ; allow it to settle, then pour it carefully back again into the barrel in which it was originally, having cleaned it to remove the sediment only, and bung up tight. In twelve months’ time the Mead will be of good strength and excellent flavour. Mead Syrup.—Put five or six pieces of ginger-root into a saucepan together with five or six cloves, two blades of mace, ^oz. of stick cinnamon, and lqt. of water. Set them over the fire, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Let the water and spice stand till nearly cold, then strain, return it to the saucepan, and add lqt. of strained honey, set over the fire, and boil to a thin syrup. When cold, bottle it, and cork well. Sack-Mead.—Boil lgall. of the best honey in 5galls. of water for an hour ; keep it well skinmied, take it off the fire, and leave in a cool place. Bruise slightly three sticks of ginger, two nutmegs, and one stick of cinnamon, tie them in a muslin bag, and put them into the liquor while still hot. When nearly cold, put in with the above a sufficient quantity of ale yeast to make it work well, and remove it to a warm temperature. When worked, pour the Mead into a cask that will just hold it, and fix the bung in ,. tightly. In three months’ time, draw off the Mead into bottles, cork down securely, and keep in a cool dry cellar. Soda Cream Mead.—Put 2oz. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, cardamoms, and coriander-seeds into a saucepan with lqt. of Water, and boil for thirty minutes; then strain off into another saucepan, add 4lb. of honey, boil it up,918 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mead—continued. skimming frequently, and add 1 table-spoonful of powdered gum arabic, and it is ready for use. White of egg may be used instead of the gum if preferred, but it does not keep so well. This Mead is used in the proportion of 1 gill to 1 tumblerful of soda-water. ME AGUE (Fr. Maigre).—The name of a large fish common in the Mediterranean, where it grows to an im- mense size. The flesh is white, firm, and bloodless; it is esteemed by some, but is not much known on account of its scarcity. MEAL.—This may signify ground corn, grain, or pease, or a repast, in both cases the derivation being the same, although the applications are distinctly different. MEASURES.—See Weights and Measures. MEAT (Fr. Yiande; Ger. Fleisch ; Ital. Carne; Sjo. Yianda).—Although this word is frequently applied to food in general, it has become usual to confine its signifi- cation to what might properly be called flesh. It is found in the oldest English as mete, and probably with the present limited meaning of muscular tissue or flesh of the principal animals constituting the food of man. As this consists of the same proximate principles throughout all animals, Meat may be said to possess the same nutritive value in every case, provided that each and all kinds are equally digestible. Meat when digested provides the system with food for the muscles, and the fat with which the Meat is usually blended raises the heat of the body, at the same time as the muscles are nourished, in proportion to the fat present. Yery fat Meat therefore raises the temperature more than it nourishes, and all lean Meat nourishes with- out raising the temperature to any very great extent. As it is necessary for life that both nourishment and internal heat should be supplied, it stands to reason that all Meat should be fat and lean, preponderating according to the temperament of the individual. The following is given as the average composition of fresh beef: Water ... ... ... ... ... ... 73'4 Soluble albumen and hsematin ... . 2“25 Insoluble albuminous substances ... . 15'20 Gelatinous substances ... . . ... . 3'30 Fat ... 2-87 Extractive matter ... ■ ■■ 132 Creatin ... ... . . 0 06 Ash 16 What will occur to the observant reader is that water has a very strong position—nearly three-fourths. All the others, with the exception of a part of the insoluble albumen, may be considered digestible, and as supplying nourishment. The constitution of human flesh is so very nearly the same, that it stands to reason no other food is likely to suit as well as flesh for nourishing flesh—a very strong argument in favour of Meat-eating. But man is “ a cooking animal,” therefore it is necessary for the cook to consider the changes that Meat undergoes under the various processes. It may be hardened and therefore rendered comparatively indigestible, or it may be deprived of a part of the water, or some of the soluble ingredients may be washed out. All or any of these changes deprive Meat of a portion of its nourishing value. Blyth states that the ordinary loss in cooking Meat is from 20 to 30 per cent., but occasionally it is as much as 40 per cent. The loss in roasting is principally water, and that which escapes as gravy; in boiling the waste is soluble material, but this is found in the water or stock that the Meat is cooked in, and can therefore be utilised. The peculiarities of various kinds of Meat, and their selection, are described under their own headings ; it will suffice for us here to take a general survey of Meat, merely mentioning special kinds for the sake of comparison. Meat—continued. Thus, of the comparative values of animals so far as their nourishment-yielding qualities are concerned, we find that: Best-quality beef yields Percentage of Meat. 57 Percentage of Water, and 43 Second ,, ,, ., 54 „ 46 Third „ 51 „ 49 Milking Cows ,, 46 „ 54 Calves ,, 60 40 Sheep 50 50 This yield is either fat or lean, according to the animal and condition at the time of killing. A further reduction in it takes place with the cooking, and it is well to know that the flesh of young animals loses considerably more than that of adults, and that fresh Meat loses more than salted or cured Meat, because in the salting the outside sur- faces are hardened, this preventing the escape of the internal juices. Meat consists, or is made up, of a number of elongated Fig. 1136. Muscle Cell. cells or sacs, laced and bound together by a white fibrous tissue (see Fig. 1136), and these cells are made up of thin walls containing a soluble albumen. Every cook knows that at a temperature a little under that of boiling water (212deg. Fahr.) albumen coagulates A Fig. 1137. Muscle. and hardens, as seen in the albumen or white of an egg. When flesh is cut through (as from A to B, Fig. 1137) a number of these cells are divided, and consequently pour out their contents, which spread over the cut surface. An experienced cook takes advantage of this to form a hard film over the cut surface, by exposing it at once to a heat not less than that of boiling water, and in this way the internal juices of the Meat are shut in and secured during the remainder of the cooking. Other changes brought about by cooking are described under the heading of the various processes, such as Boiling, Broiling, Frying, Roasting, &c. To distinguish good Meat, the following instructions are given by Dr. Letheby in his work “ On Food.” “ 1st. It is neither of a pale pink colour nor of a deep purple tint, for the former is a sign of disease, and the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever. “ 2nd. It has a marked appearance from the rami- fications of the little veins of fat among the muscles. “ 3rd. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and should scarcely moisten the fingers—bad Meat being wet and sodden and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parchment. “ 4th. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagreeable, for diseased Meat has a sickly cadaverous smell, and sometimes a smell of physic.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 919 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. This is very discoverable when the Meat is chopped up and drenched with warm water. “ 5th. It should not shrink or waste much in cooking. “ 6th. It should not run to water, or become very wet on standing for a day or so, but should, on the contrary, dry upon the surface. “ 7tli. When dried to ash at a temperature of 212deg. or thereabout it should not lose more than 70 to 74 per cent, of its weight, whereas bad Meat will often lose as much as 80 per cent. “ Other properties of a more refined character will also serve for the recognition of bad Meat—as that the juice of the flesh is alkaline or neutral to test-paper, instead of being distinctly acid; and the muscular fibre, when examined under the microscope, is found to be sodden and ill-defined.” Having selected good and fresh Meat, the next consider- ation is how to keep it so. For the purposes of keeping Fig. 1138. Meat-safe. small quantities a safe like that shown in the drawing (see Fig. 1138) is excellent, possessing all the qualities pre- scribed by science. It is of metal, therefore easily cleaned; the walls and roof are of perforated zinc or wire net, per- mitting the freest ventilation, whilst preserving the Meat from the attack of flies and other vermin. All that is necessary is to provide a cool place in which to hang it. Wire dish-covers (see Fig. 1139), of various sizes, are obtainable almost everywhere. There are several ways of preserving Meat, such as Refrigerating, Curing, &c., which are duly described under these headings; the following also may be worthy of attention: Fig. 1139. Wire Disii-cover. i (1) Put the Meat into a stone jar, cover with sour milk, changing it about every three days, and it will remain Meat—continued. good for a week or so. When wanted for use, wash off all the milk and put the Meat in a basin with soda-water for a few minutes, to make it quite tender. (2) The Meat should be cut up iuto pieces of not more than 31b. in weight, and covered with Indian meal. Roll them up, and they will keep for five days even in the middle of summer. In spite, however, of the greatest care, Meat will occasionally, especially in warm weather, become what is called tainted, that is in parts. As a rule the flesh next to the bone is affected first; under any circumstances much difficulty will be experienced in its restoration even if this is possible. The following method is recommended as giving the best results: (1) Put the Meat into a saucepan of boiling water, and drop in two or three pieces of charcoal as large as eggs, made red hot in the fire ; as soon as the water has cooled, skim it to remove every particle of the charcoal floating upon it, take out the Meat, drain it, and use as required. (2) Put a few pieces of charcoal the size of eggs in the pan in which the Meat is to be boiled, and let it remain until the Meat is done. In giving an account of the various modes of cooking Meat, it has been deemed advisable to adopt some sort of classification, therefore the following receipts are divided into Raw Meat, Cold Meat that has been Cooked, and the famous Tinned Meat; Salted and Cured Meats are described under their special headings. Haw Meat.—See that this is perfectly fresh, accord- ing to the instructions given, and in trimming be care- ful not to cut away more than is absolutely necessary for the purpose desired. The pieces or trimmings should Fig. 1140. Coon's Knife (Mathews and Son). be placed in the stockpot for making gravy, if no better use suggests itself. A cook’s knife (see Fig. 1140) is very useful, but as any ordinary knife will Fig. 1141. Meat-saw and Knife Combined. answer for cutting up Meat, it is only necessary to provide an instrument for dividing bone. This may be combined Fig. 1142. Meat-saw. with a knife (see Fig. 1141), or the saw maybe of a much stronger character, suitable for a butcher (see Fig. 1142) ; Fig. 1143. Small Cleaver. a small cleaver (see Fig. 1143) is also exceedingly useful for quick work.THE ENCYCLOPAiDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 920 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. Curried Meat.—(1) Take l|lb. of any kind of fresh Meat, and cut it neatly into small square pieces. Mix together on a plate 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, 1 table-spoonful of flour or arrowroot, and a little salt. Peel and slice two onions and one apple, and fry them in 2oz. of butter or good dripping. Rub the squares of Meat in the mixture of curry powder, arrowroot, and salt so as to use it all up; turn the Meat into a saucepan and fry slightly, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of water or gravy, and simmer very gently for an-hour-and-a-half; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve in a dish with a border of plain boiled rice piled round it. If the Meat to be curried is fowl, instead of water or gravy use 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. (2) Peel an onion, chop it, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butier, and toss about over a brisk fire until lightly browned, then take it out. Cut into small pieces about 21b. of any kind of tender Meat; put them into the saucepan in which the onion was cooked, with more butter, and brown well all over. When the Meat is cooked, move ! the saucepan to the side of the fire and mix in 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, more or less, according to its strength. Peel a large apple, grate it on a coarse bread- grater over the curry, add 1A breakfast-cupfuls of white stock, season to taste with salt, and stir it over the fire until boiling; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put in the browned onion, and let the whole simmer gently for from an-hour-and a-half to two hours, keeping | the saucepan uncovered. Thoroughly wash 1A breakfast- cupfuls of rice, then drain, put it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and add a lump of salt. Put the saucepan over the fire with the lid fixed on tightly, boil the rice for five minutes, then remove the lid, and boil rapidly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When the Meat j is cooked and the liquor, reduced somewhat, mix with it \ teacupful of cream and the juice of half a lemon. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried crofitons of bread or sippets of toast, and serve with the rice in a separate dish. When cooked, the rice should be immediately thrown into a colander to drain free from water. (3) Persian.—Cut about 21b. of rather fat Meat of any kind into small pieces, and rub them lightly with salt. Put a good 4oz. of but;er in a stewpan, melt it, then put in three or four moderate-sized onions, peeled and cut into thin slices, fry quickly until crisp and brown, then take them out. Put in with the butter 1 table-spoonful of pounded onions, a minced clove of garlic, 1 teaspoonful each of ground corian ler-seeds and chillies, A teaspoonful of ginger, and a small quantity of cinnamon. Fry these in- gredients for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of Meat and fry them. When the Meat is brown, put in the onions, with a few cloves, peppercorns, cardamoms, two bay-leaves, and 1 breakfast-cupful of curds. Stir the whole until well mixed, then put the lid on the stewpan and simmer at the edge of the fire for nearly two hours. Look at the curry occasionally, and if it seems to be getting rather dry, pour in a small quantity of water. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve with plain boiled rice on a separate dish. Matelote of Meat.—Take a large slice each of pork, beef, mutton, and veal, and a small slice of leg of lamb. Cut all these into small pieces and put them into a saucepan, just cover with a mixture of stock and champagne in equal quantities and add salt and spice to taste. Cover the sauce- pan close, and keep it on hot ashes for six hours, then serve. Meat-ancl-Bread-and-Butter Pudding.—Butter a large pudding-basin, and line it with thin slices of hread-and- butter, lay over them a slice or two of any kind of fresh Meat, seasoning with finely-chopped onion and parsley, mixed herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Proceed as before until the basin is full of alternate slices of bread- and-butter and Meat, putting a small quantity of the season- ing between the layers. Beat three eggs together with A table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of gravy or broth, and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and pour it over the pudding. Let it soak for ten minutes, then stand the basin in a saucepan, with boiling water to three-parts its height, and ‘ Meat—continued. steam for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Meat Cakes.—Trim oil the fat and skin of some Raw Meat, and finely mince the lean ; mix with it about three finely- rninced onions, and season with pepper, salt, and cumin. Work the mixture well, then divide and mould it into small cakes. Grease a gridiron, lay the cakes on it, side by side, and broil over a clear but not too brisk' fire, turning them when browned on one side. When cooked, arrange the cakes tastefully on a hot dish, sprinkle with finely-minced onions and parsley, and serve. Meat Pricassee.—Cut off several slices of any kind of fresh Meat, dust over with salt, put them in a stewpan, cover with water, and boil gently for half-an-liour. Drain the slices of Meat, rub over with curds, put them in a frying- pan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned ; take out the Meat, put some sliced onions in the butter, and brown them. Put the Meat and onions in a saucepan with the liquor in which the Meat was stewed, place the lid on the pan, and let the liquor simmer at the side of the fire till reduced to a thick consistency, and the Meat quite tender. When cooked, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, and serve. Meat Gravy.—Cut off the rind from lib. of raw, lean ham, put it in a saucepan with a little butter, and add four onions, each cut up into four pieces. Put about 61b. of fillet of veal and the same of gravy-beef in the saucepan, add 1 pint of general stock put the pan on the fire, and reduce the liquor to a dark glaze, taking care not to let it burn. Now add 2galls. of stock, one fowl, a fagot of herbs, and Joz. of salt; boil up again, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for tlnee- hours-and-a-half. Strain through a cloth, remove the fat, and it is ready for use. It may be clarified for jelly, if necessary, with the whites of two eggs and lib. of pounded raw veal. Meat Jelly.—(1) Bone and blanch eight calf’s feet, and put them together with 61b. of fillet of veal, 21b. of boned knuckle of veal, three fowls (from which the fillets have been previously removed) and 4lb. of leg of beef, into a stockpot with 4oz. of salt; pour over 2£galls. of water, let it boil, then skim the liquor; allow it to cool, put in one double fagot of herbs, four onions (with four cloves stuck in one), four leeks, and four large carrots, whole. Place the sauce- pan at the side of the fire, let the contents simmer till the Meat is done, then take it out; as the calf’s feet will re- quire more cooking, they should be left in to stew till tender. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve into a large saucepan, boil up again, then remove it to the side of the fire and let it simmer, skimming till the jelly is quite clear; when reduced to the proper consistency, stand it on ice till cold. Pound the fillets of the fowls, put them in a saucepan, with 1 pint of French white wine and the whites of eight eggs, and season with a little pepper and salt. Put the jelly in with the fillets, whisk it over a brisk fire till boiling, then take it off and let it settle for two or three minutes ; strain through a jelly-bag till quite clear. Leave the jelly in a basin to cool, then set it on ice. It is ready for use when firm. (2) Put a good-sized piece of beef into a saucepan with a knuckle of veal, two calf’s feet, some trimmings of poultry or game, a few onions, cloves, shallots, carrots,5 a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, a bunch of green onions, a few small pieces of ham, and some mixed spices. Put the saucepan over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in some clear broth, and let it simmer very gently for five hours, keeping the lid on the sauce] >rn. At the end of that time, season the liquor with a little salt and pepper, skim off all the fat, and strain it through a fine hair or silk sieve. Put the liquor into a saucepan with the beaten whites of four eggs and 1 wineglassful of tarragon vinegar, stir over a moderate fire till it becomes very white, then move it to the side, put the lid on with some hot ashes on it, and leave till clear. Filter through a jelly-bag till very clear, and keep it in a basin in a cold place, or else on ice, till ready to use it. (3) Take lib. of lean beef, cut it in pieces, and put if into a saucepan, together with about lib. of hock of hamTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 921 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cC*c., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. and 41b. or 51b. of knuckle of veal; add a little salt and mace, and sufficient water to cover, then put it over the fire and stew for seven hours. Strain, set it to cool, and when perfectly cold take the fat off; clear the jelly with whites of eggs, and run it through a jelly-bag. Meat Lozenges.—Put 2oz. of gelatine into lqt. of extract of Meat, and soak it for two hours. At the end of that time pour the mixture into a stewpan, and place it over the fire. Skim the liquid until no more scum rises to the top, and boil until reduced to a stiff’ gummy consistency. Pour the liquid on to plates, leave it until cold, then cut into strips, and then across again into diamond-shaped lozenges. For preserving the lozenges any length of time, they must be packed in tins and kept in a cool diy place. Meat Pie.—(1) Lay in a pie-dish layers of any Meat, season well with salt and pepper, and put over each layer of Meat a layer of apple, peeled, cored, and sliced, and a little chopped onion. Sprinkle among it about loz. of sugar, pour in a small quantity of stock, cover the pie with short-crust, put it into a moderate oven, and let it bake rather slowly. (2) Turkish Style.—Sift lib. of flour upon a table, make a bay in the centre, and put in 1 teaspoonful of salt and an egg. Work the ingredients together, then stir in sufficient water to make a softish paste. Divide the £»aste into halves, roll them out to the size of the baking- Fig. 1144. Meat Pie (Turkish Style). dish in which they are to be cooked, sprinkle them with a small quantity of warmed butter, then fold over the edges of the paste, bringing them to the middle. Dredge a small quantity of flour over, roll out again, and repeat the same five times. Butter a baking-tin, and lay one of the pieces of paste in it. Prepare a piece of any kind of raw Meat, spread it over the paste in the baking-tin, and lay the other flat of paste on the top, Make several holes in the top of the pie, put it in a quick oven, and bake till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, slip the pie on to a folded napkin on a hot dish, cut it into squares (see Fig. 1144), and serve with a good gravy in a tureen. Meat Porcupine.—Finely mince lib. of raw pork, fat and lean in equal quantities, and lib. of beef. When very fine, season the mince with chopped shallot, salt and popper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; next mix with the mince ^oz. of gelatine that lias been dissolved in a small quantity of boiling water, and leave until cool, forming it in a smooth oval shape. Lard the mince thickly to give it the appearance of a porcupine; put a large piece of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until hot, then put in the meat, and cook slowly until nicely browned on all sides. In about an hour’s time, or when cooked, drain the Meat porcupine carefully, place it on a hot dish, \ pour some hot rich brown gravy round, and serve. If ] preferred served cold, brush the Meat over with brown glaze when taken out of the butter, leave until cold, then put it on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. Meat Soup.—Cut into small pieces lib. of lean Meat, either beef or mutton, or both in equal quantities, put it into a saucepan with 2qts. of water, and let it simmer very gently, skimming off any scum that rises, till the broth is reduced to 1 pint; strain, and season to taste with salt. Meat Stuffing.—For 41b. of white uncooked Meat allow |lb. of beef kidney-suet and 41b. of bacon. Chop the suet and bacon, and pound in a mortar ; chop the white Meat Meat—continued. finely, mix it with the pounded mixture, season to taste with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, and bind with beaten eggs and a few drops of water; if liked, a few chopped shallots, truffles, or mushrooms may be mixed in. Try the stuffing by poaching a small quantity of it in boiling water. Meat Tart (Turkish Style).—Prepare a thick paste with lib. of flour, a little salt, and water, roll it out, divide it into three parts, roll out two of them until quite thin, and set them aside. With the third part mix in eight eggs, roll it out until quite thin, divide it into eight parts, and plunge them, one at a time, into a saucepan of boiling water kept on the fire. Spread one part of the uncooked paste over a pie-dish, over this put half of the partly- cooked portions of paste, cover with minced fresh Meat, well seasoned and slightly browned in a frying-pan with butter, mixing in a little chopped parsley ; over this put the remaining half of the parboiled paste, and cover with the rest of the uncooked paste. Pour over a little butter, browned in a frying-pan, set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until done. This may be served either hot or cold. Meat Tea.—Cut lib. of lean Meat, such as chicken, mutton, or beef, into very small pieces, and put them into a jar with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Put the jar into a saucepan and fill up with water to nearly its height. Place the pan on the side of the fire, where it can simmer gently for about four hours, but without boiling. Turn the con- tents of the jar out on to a sieve over a basin, add a little salt and pepper to taste, and it is ready for use. A little cream or yolks of eggs beaten in is a great improve- ment, or it may be thickened with arrowroot or sago, according to fancy. Cold Meats.—It is generally considered that Meats that have already been cooked require warming only; this is best effected and with least injury to the Meat if it is finely divided. Some very useful instru- Fig. 1145. Novelty Meat-mincer. nients have been invented for this purpose, one of the best for family use being the Novelty Mincer (see Fig. 1145), which can be fastened to a table or dresser, and is worked by turning the handle. These increase in size Fig. 1146. American Meat-mincer. and power until we come to giants worked by steam for the wholesale manufacture of sausages. Other mincers specially designed, of which there are numerous kinds i manufactured (see Fig. 1146), or the big-bladed mincing-THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 922 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. knife (see Fig. 1147) that the French cook prefers, maybe used, all that is necessary in addition being a thick strong ' Fig. 1147. Mincing-Knife. board. Carefully remove every particle of sinew, skin, and other tough parts before commencing to mince. Cold Meat en Persillade.—Cut the Meat into slices and lay them on a dish, put some small pieces of butter over, and strew with finely-shred parsley and shallots; season with pepper, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of good clear gravy, and strew over a thick layer of rasped toast. Put the dish in a brisk oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and serve very hot on the same dish. Cold-Meat Boudins.—Any cold remains of Meat can be used. Mince the Meat, put it in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth, moistening occasionally with clear veal or game gravy. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve, return it to the mortar, and beat up with it loz. of butler, one egg, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of powdered mace. Butter some small plain moulds or cups, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and steam for fifteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour some nicely-flavoured tomato sauce over, and serve. Cold-Meat Boudinettes.—Take any cold "white Meat, and chop it very finely. Add either very fine breadcrumbs or mashed potatoes in the proportion of jib. to lib. of chopped Meat. Mix well together, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped herbs, and moisten with a little gravy. Butter well the insides of some cups, fill them with the moistened mince, and press it well in. Bake hi not too hot an oven for twenty minutes, then turn them out on a hot dish, pour some brown gravy round, and garnish each boudinette with a sprig of parsley. Cold-Meat Cakes.—(1) Mince 21b. of any cold cooked Meat, but pork for preference, and mix it up with some bread- crumbs soaked in wine, adding a little grated lemon-peel, and salt and pepper to taste. Shape the mixture into small balls, flatten and plunge them into a saucepan of butter, and fry until done and of a good colour. They may be either used as a garnish, or served on a dish. (2) Take some cold minced Meat, free it from all skin and gristle, add sifted breadcrumbs (about a quarter the weight of the Meat), a little pepper, salt, and parsley, and a few drops of essence of anchovy; moisten with egg. Flour the hands, roll the Meat into little balls about the size of a penny, flatten them, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry in butter until lightly broWned, and serve on a hot dish garnished with mashed potatoes and French beans if in season. Cold-Meat Croquettes.—(1) Trim off all the skin and fat from some c >ld Meat, and chop the lean part very finely. Put loz. of butter hi a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, then stir hi a small quantity of nicely-flavoured stock that has been quite freed from fat; put in the minced Meat, with a moderate quantity of chopped mushrooms, parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of powdered spices, stir over the fire until veiy hot, then stand the saucepan at the side; beat the yolk of an egg in the juice of half a lemon, strain them, and stir in with the above mixture. Turn the whole on to a dish, leave it until cold, then divide it into several equal-sized pieces, and mould them to the shape of cutlets; roll them in well-beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and leave them on a dish in a cold place for two or three hours. At the end of that time, egg-and-breadcrumb them again; put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a fiat stewpan, Meat—continued. place it on the fire, and when it boils put in the croquettes, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the cutlets as they are fried by putting them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire for a minute or two, then put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with plenty of fried parsley, and serve. (2) Any remains of cold boiled Meat may be used. Chop the Meat very finely and mix with it half the quantity of sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, and bread panada. Season to taste with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, bind the mixture with beaten eggs, shape it into small balls, and roll them hr finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, roll it, then put in the balls, and fry them until a bright golden brown. As the balls are cooked, take them out of the frying-pan, and lay them on paper near the lire to drain. When all are done, pile them up in the centre of a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquante sauce. (3) Any c >ld Meat minced will make croquettes. Take about one quarter of a half-quartern loaf of bread, soaked in water and squeezed dry; mix with the minced Meat and bread about 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 dessert-spoonful of ground ginger, three eggs, 1 pinch of ground mace, a little pepper and salt, and roll the paste into egg-shaped balls or croquettes. Have ready two or three well-beaten eggs in a basin, and Hour in another; first roll the croquettes in the Hour, then in the egg, fry in boiling dripping or lard, and serve hot. Cold Meat Curried Kabobs. -Peel and slice three or four pieces of green ginger, cut two onions rather thickly, chop 21b. of any kind of Cold Meat into pieces about Him square, and thread the Meat, onion, and ginger, two pieces alternately, on skewers about 2jin. long. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and fry a sliced onion in it till brown ; then add the skewers of meat, and fry all together; sprinkle 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder over the meat, stir over the fire for five minutes, add 2 teaspoonfuls of chutney, two chopped gherkins, and 1 good-sized pinch of salt. The curry will take about one hour to cook over a slow fire. Before serving, squeeze over the juice of a lemon. Cold-Meat Cutlets.—Chop and pound jib. of cold Meat, mix with it jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, loz. of butter, and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and ketchup. Work this mixture to a stifl’ paste with a beaten egg, put it on a floured paste board, and shape it into cutlets ; flour them well, and insert in the end of each a small piece of macaroni (not cooked) to represent the bone. Brash over with egg, roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, fry in boiling lard, and serve hot. Cold-Meat Fritters.—(1) Take any cold cooked Meat, cut it up into small pieces, and sprinkle it over with salt and pepper. Have some frying-batter ready; take a small quantity of the batter up in a spoon, and put a little of the Meat in the centre, cover it with more batter, put it gently into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and let it remain a minute. Take it out, drain on brown paper, and serve hot. (2) Cut some slices of cold Meat, trim them nicely, brush over with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, strew them thickly with a mixture of parsley, sweet herbs, lemon thyme, and onions all finely chopped, and fry them. Have a brown gravy ready flavoured with ketchup and a very little cayenne pepper, thicken it with butter and flour, and stir in the last thing a small quantity of cream. Lay the fried Meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and strew over some crumbs of bread fried crisp. Cold-Meat Jelly.—Cut some cold cooked Meat into small slices, and dust them over with salt and pepper; dissolve loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of clear boiling stock ; arrange the slices of Meat in a mould, with a few sliced hard- boiled eggs, and fill up the mould with the stock. Put it into the oven for lialf-an-hour, then take it out, and stand it in a cool temperature. When quite cold and set,923 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinarj Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. turn the je 'y out of the mould on to a dish, garnish with watercress, and serve. Cold Meat with Macaroni. -Any kind of cold Meat can he used; chop it, hut not too finely, mix with it some i chopped mushrooms, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil about Jib. of macaroni until quite tender, then drain it as dry as possible, and cut into pieces about Jin. in length. Make a paste, not very rich, line a buttered mould with it, ornamenting it round the edges according to fancy, till it with flour to keep it in shape whilst baking, and bake in a good oven. When the paste is cooked, turn out the flour, and fill it with alternate layers of mince and macaroni, dredging over each layer of maca- roni a small quantity of grated cheese. Pour in some hot thick well-seasoned gravy, and put the pie in the oven until thoroughly heated through. Take it out of the mould, stand it on a hot dish, and serve. Cold-Meat-ancl-Macaroni Pudding. -Put 2oz. of macaroni into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and boil it until tender. Chop well about lib. of cold cooked Meat, and mix with it J breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs and loz. of butter. When cooked, drain the macaroni, cut it into small pieces about lin. long, and mix them with the Meat-and-breadcrumbs, seasoning with salt and pepper. Mix in thoroughly one well-beaten egg, and sufficient broth to bind all the ingredients together ; thickly butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and pack down tightly. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour. At the end of that time drain the mould, turn its contents on to a hot dish, and serve. Cold Meat with. Mashed Potatoes.—Pare and boil six large potatoes, mash them very light and fine, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat it up light, and spread over a dish. Put over this a layer of Meat cut into very thin slices, and on each slice pour a little hot gravy, and pour a little more round the dish. Put it in the oven for live minutes to get warm, and serve with a garnish of parsley. Cold-Meat Mince.—Take any cold Meat, remove all the fat, sinew, and gristle, and chop up very small. Put it- into a saucepan with sufficient good gravy to cover, and add a finely-minced shallot and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Put the pan at the side of the fire, where the gravy will get hot without boiling, add a little sauce, such as Worcester, chutney, &c., and salt and pepper to taste. Turn it out on to a dish, and garnish with pieces of fried bread or toast, and a small sprig of parsley on each. Cold-Meat Mince with Breadcrumbs.—Chop the remains i of any kind of cold Meat as finely as possible; place a layer of breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper, in a pie-dish, put a few bits of butter over them, then add a layer of mince, then a layer of seasoned breadcrumbs, and so on until the dish is full, using plenty of butter. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream over all, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned on the top. Serve the mince while very hot in the same dish. Cold-Meat Mince with Potatoes.—Trim off the gristle and fat from some c >ld Meat, and mince the lean finely. Peel and partially boil some potatoes (there should be two- thirds potato to one third Meat), then drain, chop, and mix them with the Meat, season with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onion, and black pepper and salt to taste. Bind the mixture with a beaten egg, divide it into small portions, and with floured hands mould them into flat cakes. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, place it on the fire to melt, then put in the cakes, and fry until nicely browned on both sides. Drain the cakes, put them on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper spread over a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cold-Meat Olives.—Take 1 Jib. of floury cold boiled potatoes, rub through a sieve, and mix with them 6oz. of flour and ljoz. of butter. Mix and knead it to a paste, roll it out about Jin. thick, and cut or stamp it into rounds. On one I Meat—continued. half of each round piece of paste lay some small, thin slices of cold roasted Meat, shake a little salt and pepper over, and lay a piece of butter on the Meat; then double or fold the other half of the paste over it, slightly wet the edges, and press them together. Fry in boiling lard or dripping to a light brown, lay them on paper to drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve either with or without gravy. Cold-Meat Omelet. -Chop as finely as possible the remains of any kind of cold cooked Meat, together with a few onions and sweet herbs. Beat well six or eight eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of water ; add this to the Meat, stir well to thoroughly incorporate, then turn the mass into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light golden • colour. Serve at once. Cold-Meat Pie.—(1) Finely mince any cold remains of cooked Meat, removing any fat, put it into a stewpan with loz. of butter, about 1 teacupful of stock, and J table-spoonful of flour; season to taste with salt and pepper, add the juice of half a lemon, and stir the whole over the fire until thoroughly hot through. Butter a soup-plate, line it with a good paste, put in the mixture, and cover with a Hat of the paste : trim off evenly round the edges, moisten and press them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, and cut some imitation leaves out of it, moisten them slightly underneath, and arrange tastefully on the top of the pie ; brush the pie with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake. This pie can lie served either hot or cold, but it is better eaten hot. (2) Chop some cold cooked Meat into thin slices or small squares, remove all the fat (except the crisp outside fat) and sinews, arrange the pieces in a baking-dish, and pour over sufficient gravy or brown piquante or tomato sauce to cover. Spread a layer of mashed potatoes over the whole, sprinkle with bread- or cracker-crumbs, or it may be brushed over with egg, put it in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. (3) Take some very thin slices of cold veal, lamb, bacon, dressed calf’s head and some of the brains and tongue, and hard-boiled eggs. Arrange them in layers in a pie-dish, season each layer with cayenne, white pepper, salt, and ground allspice, lill the dish with good gravy, cover it with paste made of Hour and water only, and bake in a slow oven. Let the pie stand till perfectly cold, then take off the crust, turn the pie out into a dish, and garnish with parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs. (4) Tukicish.—Lay on a floured table several Hat, square pieces of paste; beat three eggs together with 3 table- spoonfuls of broth, then dip a paste-brush in it and brush over the pieces of paste ; fold each one in halves, and spread lengthwise over them any kind of minced cold Meat, fold the two side edges over and then the ends, thus making it into an oblong. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the pieces of paste and fry ; when cooked and nicely browned on both sides, drain, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. Cold Meat with. Polenta.—Free some cold remains of Meat from all skin, fat, and gristle, and finely chop it; mix in a small quantity of chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of mixed spice. Lay a chopped onion in butter until nicely browned, then put in the mince, moisten with a small quantity of gravy, and simmer at the edge of the fire. Have ready boiled a sufficient quantity of polenta, drain, put in with it a small lump of butter and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and mix it over the fire. Fry about half-a-dozen tomatoes in butter; form a wall with the polenta round a hot dish, turn the mince in tire centre, lay the tomatoes on the top, and serve. Cold-Meat Porcupine.—Chop up some cold cooked Meat such as lamb, fowl, veal, &c., and mix it with a quarter its quantity of bread- or cracker-crumbs, or mashed potatoes, and a little chopped bacon. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and cayenne, add a little lemon-juice, and sufficient egg924 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. beaten up in water or stock to make it a still’ paste. Form it into the shape of an oval loaf, and put it in a well-greased shallow pan. Make some holes all over it with a skewer, and insert some strips of fat bacon lin. Fig. 1148. Cold Meat Porcupine. long and |in. wide, leaving the ends out tin., and squeez- ing the meat firmly round the strips of bacon (see Fig. 1148). Put it in a quick oven and bake until quite brown, then take it out and serve. It will not require basting, as the bacon-fat will be quite sufficient. Cold-Meat-and-Fotato Salad.—Cut lib. of cold Meat into thin slices and then again into small squares, and mix with 1 pint of chopped cold potatoes. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a salad-bowl, cover with parsley and salad dressing, and continue in, this way until all the meat is J used up. Put the bowl in a cool place for a couple of hours, and the salad is ready for use. Cold-Meat Pudding.—Take any cold cooked Meat, cut it into rather small pieces, and remove all the fat and skin. Put till, of flour into a basin with 6oz. of suet, shred and not chopped, and make it into a stiff paste with about 1 teacupful of water. Flour the board or table, and roll out the paste. Line a quart basin with the paste, put in the Meat in layers, sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, and add two chopped onions boiled in 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Pour in the onion water, cover the basin with a round of the paste, fasten the edges, tie a cloth round the basin, and boil in a saucepan of water for two-hours-and-a- ) half or so, and it is ready to be turned out on a dish and served. Good gravy or stock may be used instead of the onion water if preferred, and if kidneys or mushrooms are used they must be placed on the centre layer of the Meat. A little gravy may also be served in a sauceboat if there is not sufficient in the pudding. Cold-Meat Quenelles.—Trim off the skin and fat from the remains of any cold cooked Meat or poultry, and finely mince the flesh; mix with it an equal quantity of bread that has been soaked in milk and well squeezed, 1 table- spoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and chopped chives, and stir in a beaten egg. Cut one or two rashers of bacon into small squares, put them in a stewpan, and fry lightly ; then put in the above mixture, and stir it over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Turn the whole on to a dish, leave it until cool, then stir in two more beaten eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Divide into small quantities with a table-spoon, leaving the impression of the spoon on each, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry. When browned, drain, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Cold Meat Ragofit.—Take some cold cooked Meat, remove the bones (if any), skin, and gristle, cut it up into small pieces about Jin. square, put them into a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to cover, place the pan at the side of the fire, and let the mixture simmer' gently for two or three hours; add a few finely-chopped mushrooms, 2 table- spoonfuls of white wine, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin with a little water, make it into a stiff paste, and stir it into the boiling liquor; if it does not make it brown enough, add 1 teaspoonful of caramel. Put the saucepan on the fire and boil the contents for ten minutes. Make a border Meat—continued. round a dish with some mashed potatoes, put the meat in the centre, and serve. Cold-Meat Ringlets.—A small piece of the white flesh of any kind of cold Meat can be used. The Meat must be finely minced and mixed with half its quantity of chopped cooked ham, and a third its quantity of finely-grated bread- crumbs ; season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; moisten it with a beaten egg and a little clear stock, taking care that it is not made too liquid. Cut in thin strips a few slices of tongue, and some French beans; butter some small cups or moulds, and arrange the slices of beans and tongue round them in alternate order; fill the moulds with the minced Meat, cover the tops with a sheet of buttered paper, stand them in a flat stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, put the lid on, and steam for half-an-hour. Avoid letting the water enter the top of the cups. When cooked, turn the moulds upside-down on a very hot dish, then draw them off carefully, leaving the ringlets on the dish. Pour a white bechamel sauce round, and serve. Cold-Meat Rissoles.—Finely mince any remains of cold Meat, put it in a mortar, pound well, moisten with cream, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices. Prepare some good short-paste, roll out, and with a tin cutter cut it into oval-shaped pieces. Put a small quantity of the above mince on each piece, double the paste over, moisten round the edges and pinch them together. Brush the rissoles over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and strew some vermicelli over them. Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the rissoles and fry until lightly browned. Drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper, pile them on a hot dish that has been covered with a fancy dish-paper, and serve. Cold-Meat Salad.—(1) Prepare a forcemeat with any cold cooked Meat such as fowl, veal, tongue, &c., and shape it with an egg-cup. Pile up a salad-bow l with any vegetables in season, decorate with the forcemeat and a few slices of cold cooked fowl, pour over a rich dressing, and serve. The bowl should be rubbed with garlic and a little lemon-juice squeezed over before the salad is put in, and the dressing poured over only a few minutes before serving. (2) Any kind of cold boiled Meat may be used; cut it into very small pieces, and mix with them a finely-chopped onion, also some chopped pickled beans, gherkins, and beet- root, and chopped boiled carrot. Put the mixture into a salad-bowl and season it with pepper. Beat an egg well, and mix with it by degrees 1 table-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, 1 small teaspoonful each of dry mustard and caster sugar, and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, pour the dressing over the meat, and stand it in a cool place for half-an-hour. When ready, arrange over the salad, in pretty order, some pieces of celery, watercress, and pickled red citbbage. Serve the salad while it looks fresh. Cold-Meat Souffle.—Put J pint of cream sauce into a basin, and season with a little onion-juice and finely-minced parsley; mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of any cold cooked finely-chopped Meat, such as veal, lamb, tongue, &c., and put it all into a saucepan over the fire; when quite hot, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, cook for a minute longer, and then put it into a basin to cool. When quite cold, mix in the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mixture into a well-buttered dish, bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, and serve hot. A little mushroom sauce served with it is a great improvement. Curried Cold Meat.—(1) Select a couple of any kind of birds, cut the flesh off’ the bones, wash well, put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, place the pan on the fire, cover it, boil the Meat until quite tender, skimming the liquor frequently, and when done take it out. Put Jib. of butter into another saucepan, let it brown a little, add two cloves of garlic and one large onion cut in pieces, and boil until they become quite brown, tossing the pan a little; put in the pieces of Meat, sprinkle with 3 table-spoonfuls of curry925 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. powder, cover the pan, and fry until the Meat is quite brown, giving the pan a vigorous shake every now and then to mix in the powder. Put it into the pan with the stock in which the pieces were cooked, boil for a few minutes longer, add a little lemon-juice, and serve very hot with a little rice on a separate dish. (2) Put in a frying-pan a little butter, and fry a minced . onion in it till brown ; then add some cold Meat cut in dice, stir together over the fire till the Meat is well heated, then sift over 1 teaspoonful of curry powder and salt to taste. When the powder is 'well mixed with the Meat, pour over it 1 table-spoonful of milk, and stir over the lire till the moisture has dried up. A squeeze of lemon- juice gives a pleasant flavour to the curry. (3) Peel an onion, cut it in slices, and fry in butter; then add, without draining off the butter, Mb. of Meat chopped very fine, 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, hoz. of butter, a slice of bread well soaked in milk, the strained juice of a lemon, eight sweet almonds, blanched and grated, and two eggs beaten up in J pint of milk; mix all these very well together. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. (4) Put £lb. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when brown add the heart of a small hard cabbage, and two large fried onions or a sour apple chopped up small. Add 1^ table-spoonfuls of curry powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, J teaspoonful of cayenne, and 1 teacupful of gravy. Put in any cold Meat cut up into small pieces, cover the pan, and simmer gently for about three hours, stirring frequently. Just before taking it oft" the fire, add the juice of half a lemon, turn all out on to a dish, and serve. (5) Boil lib. of rice, together with lqt. of water, 2 good table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, two good-sized finely-chopped onions, and two sour baking apples, peeled, cored, and also chopped fine. Mince about lib. of cold Meat, and mix with it chopped parsley to taste. When the rice is cooked, and while still hot, stir in the chopped Meat and parsley, mix in a beaten egg, and form into balls; roll these in flour, and fry in hot dripping, or bake in a well- greased baking-tin in a moderate oven. (6) Peel an onion, cut it into slices, fry in butter till a light brown colour, then add 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, J pint of good gravy, £ pint of water, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and let all this simmer together. Cut lib. of cold Meat into slices; put any trimmings or loose pieces of Meat into the saucepan until the curry and gravy, and let them stew in it; they will make the gravy richer. Ten minutes or so before the curry is served, add the slices of Meat, and let them get hot. (7) Indian.—Cut some cold Meat into middling-sized pieces, dredge with flour, and put them in a stewpan with two sliced onions and a lump of butter. Fry the meat and onions till browned, then put them in a stewpan, with 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and mushroom ketchup, one large chopped potato, one chopped apple, the strained juice of a small lemon, and about 2oz. of butter. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till well mixed, then add gradually 1 pint of rich beef gravy. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the curry out on to a hot dish, and garnish with crofitons or a rice border; or serve with rice in a separate dish. Curried Cold Meat with. Vegetables.—Cut up any remains of cold cooked Meat and vegetables into small pieces, and roll them in curry powder. Peel two moderate-sized onions, and thinly slice them ; put them into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, fry for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of Meat and vegetables, and fiy the whole until nicely browned. Next pour in sufficient water to cover the ingredients, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep simmering gently at the side'of the fire until tender. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice in with the curry, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. Meat—continued. Devilled Cold Meat.—(1) Mix together \ saltspoonful of cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, a little piece of butter, 1 teaspoonful each of good salad-oil, lemon-juice, and chilli vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls each of ketchup and Wor- cestershire sauce, and 1 wineglassful of claret. Cut slices of any cold Meat, lay them in a dish, and pour the above mixture over. Put it in a hot oven for a-quarter-of-an- hour, stirring occasionally. Serve mashed potatoes with it. (2) Mix together 2 dessert-spoonfuls of made mustard, loz. of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful each of curry paste, salt, vinegar, and ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cold gravy ; when this is all mixed quite smooth, dip some slices of cold Meat into the mixture, rub it all over them, and grill in front of a good fire. If any of the mixture the slices of Meat were covered with is left, make it very hot, and pour it over the Meat when dished. Tried. Cold Meat.—(1) Cut some cold Meat into rather small squares; any kind of Meat can be used, provided it is not too fat. Peel and slice two or three onions, put them in a flat stewpan with 2oz. of lard or dripping and two or three chillies, and fry for a few minutes ; then put in the Meat, dredge lightly with salt, and fry until the onions are tender, adding more dripping if required. Turn the Meat and onions on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Separate the yolk and white of one egg; put the yolk in a basin with 4oz. of flour, \ dessert-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, and 1 teacupful of milk. Beat the mixture thoroughly, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and mix it in last. Cut about Mb. of cooked meat into thin slices, and dip them in the batter. Put a lump of clarified fat in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the pieces of Meat and fry. When nicely browned, drain, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Hashed Cold Meat.—(1) Peel and wash two small carrots and one turnip, and boil them in salted water for twenty minutes. Cut about lib. of any kind of cold Meat into slices, and dredge well with flour. Peel and slice one large Spanish onion, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry until beginning to brown; then add the slices of Meat, toss about until lightly browned, moisten to height until stock, add \ table-spoonful each of Harvey sauce and mushroom ketchup, and leave it over the fire till on the point of boiling, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Thoroughly drain the carrots and turnips, and chop them. Turn the Meat and gravy on to a hot dish, pile the chopped carrot and turnip on the top, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (2) Cut any cold Meat into small pieces, removing all the fat, skin, and sinews, and put the pieces into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey and tomato sauces, and another of any other sauce desired, and mix them up with \ wineglassful of port wine, two capsicums cut very fine, cayenne, pepper, and salt to taste. Put the pan on the side of the' fire, pour in a little gravy, and simmer gently until the Meat is thoroughly warm. If not thick enough, add a little flour. Turn the hash when done on to a dish, and serve hot. (3) Take some cooked Meat and mashed potatoes either in equal parts or one-third Meat and two-thirds potatoes. Chop the Meat fine, remove the skin and gristle, and leave a little fat, say about quarter the total quantity of Meat. Mix the Meat with the potatoes, which should be quite hot, and add a little salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a spider, with sufficient water to cover the bottom, and place it over the fire; when the butter has melted, remove the pan to the side of the fire, put in the mince, and let it simmer gently until all the water is absorbed and a brown crust is formed. It must not be stirred. Fold it like an omelet, and serve. Potted Cold Meat.—Any cold roasted or boiled Meat can be used for potting. Trim away the gristle, skin, and fat, and cut the lean up small; put it in a mortar with a lump of butter, and pound to a smooth paste. Next mix with it a small quantity of stiffly-reduced gravy and a926 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. few drops of Worcester sauce. Put the mixture into small pots, press it down closely, and leave a little clear space at the top. Fill the jars up with clarified butter, cover, and tie down. Scalloped Cold Meat.—Chop some cold cooked Meat into rather large pieces, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and for every pint of Meat use 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs and 1 teacupful of gravy. Put a layer of the Meat in a dish, pour over some of the gravy, then a layer of breadcrumbs, and continue in this way until the Meat, &c., is used up and the dish full, having the breadcrumbs on the top. Put the dish in a hot oven for from fifteen to twenty minutes, and when the Meat is hot, serve. Stewed Cold Meat.—Any kind of cold cooked Meat can be used ; cut it into small thin pieces, put them in a sauce- pan with half a blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne; add a lump of butter, with a sufficient quantity of rich gravy to cover the Meat, and stew gently for fifteen minutes. Cut a lemon into slices, remove all the seeds, and put it in the stew. Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs in a basin together with ^ table-spoonful of unmixed mustard. Strain the gravy off the Meat and stir it in gradually with the yolks of eggs. When quite smooth, pour the whole over the Meat, and stir over the fire for a minute or two. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of bread fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Tinned Meats.—Under the heading of Austra- lian Meats will be found some important information concerning this particular industry. The following re- ceipts will be found to give excellent results, it being borne in mind that these Meats are already, if anything, over-cooked. Baked Tinned Meat.—Put two eggs into a basin with \ tea- cupful of milk, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, one small peeled and finely-chopped onion, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped parsley and chopped onions; season to taste with salt, pepper, powdered nutmeg, and cloves, and a few drops of anchovy sauce. Beat the ingredients until thoroughly well mixed. Cut lib. of tinned Meat into two or three thick slices, lay them on a dish, and spread the above mixture over them; put three or four lumps of fat out of the tin of Meat on the top, and place it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned over the top, serve the Meat. As it has to be served in the dish in which it was baked, one that will stand the heat of the oven must be used. Broiled Tinned Meat.—Take the Meat out of the tin, scrape off the fat and gravy, cut it into slices, and season with salt and cayenne pepper; grill it slightly over a clear quick fire. In the meantime, warm 1 breakfast-cupful of pickled mushrooms, and mince part of them. When the Meat is dished, strew them over it, arrange the whole ones round, and serve as soon as possible after taking the Meat olf the grill. Fried Minced Tinned Meat.—Chop 4oz. of bacon, put it in a frying-pan with a peeled and chopped onion and a small lump of butter, and fry them for a few minutes over a brisk fire. Chop lib. of tinned Meat, and mix with it a chopped pickled gherkin, | teacupful of the Meat jelly, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, grated lemon-peel, and chopped sweet herbs, a small quantity of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Put the Meat mixture into the pan with the bacon and onions, and stir over the fire until lightly browned, adding more butter when necessary. Put lib. of tinned tomatoes in a stewpan with \ table-spoonful of finely chopped onion, \ table-spoon- ful ea 'li of sugar and vinegar, loz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of mashed potatoes, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the tomato mixture over the fire until thick and boil- ing, then turn it on to a hot dish, put the fried mince on it, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Fried Tinned Meat in Paper Cases.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin with \ table-spoonful each of finely- chopped onion and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, Meat—con tinued. 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, 1 teaspoonful of chopped or powdered sweet herbs, and a small quantity each of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg. Stir the above ingredients until quite smooth together with \ teacupful of vinegar and water, mixed in equal quantities. Cut about 12oz. or 13oz. of tinned Meat into slices, and spread some of the above mixture over each slice, then wrap them up separately in well-greased sheets of white paper. Put a lump of lard or dripping in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the cases of Meat, and fry them. Drain the cases, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Tinned-Meat Fatties.—Chop Mb. of tinned Meat, and mix with it half the quantity of grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped onion and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Warm a little of the Meat jelly, then bind the above mixture with it. Roll out very thin a good short crust, divide it into pieces 3in. square, put a portion of the Meat mixture on each, and wrap the paste round. Fry the patties in boiling fat, browning them nicely all over ; drain, pile them on a hot dish over which has been laid a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Tinned Meat and Rice.—Wash \ breakfast-cupful of rice, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender. Peel and mince a moderate-sized onion, and chop about Mb. of tinned Meat. Put the onion in a frying-pan, with some of the fat of the Meat, and fry. Drain the rice, put it in with the onion, also the Meat; season with pepper, salt, a small quantity of pounded mace, and 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, dry mustard, and vinegar. Stir the mixture over the fire, and fry for about fifteen minutes, adding more fat occasionally. Turn the fry on to a hot dish, garnish with crofttons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Fried Tinned-Meat-and-Rice Balls.—Wash fib. of rice, put it into a saucepan with, 1 table-spoonful of chopped onion, pour in 1 pint of milk, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew the rice until tender. Chop about fib. of tinned Meat, the fat and jelly of which may be put in with the rice while cooking. Beat two eggs to a stiff' cream. When the rice is cooked, mix the eggs and Meat with it, then turn the whole on to a plate, spread it out, and let it cool. Roll the mixture into small balls, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Make a lump of lard or clarified fat hot in a frying-pan, put in the balls, and fry them until crisp and brown. As the balls are fried, put them on paper near the fire to drain off' the fat. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the balls on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear gravy. Minced Tinned Meat.—Finely chop lib. of tinned Meat, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of rich gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, add \ teacupful of tomato ketchup, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire. Boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, and when cooked drain and mash them well together with a small lump of butter; pack them into a border mould, and put this in the bain-marie for about ten minutes. Poacli in water the requisite quantity of fresh eggs, and cut them evenly round the edges with a round tin cutter. Turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, put the mince in the centre, arrange the poached eggs on the top, and serve without delay. Stewed Tinned Meat.—Peel 21b. of potatoes and lib. of onions, put them in a saucepan with some of the jelly from a tin of Australian Meat, and sufficient common stock to cover, and boil until tender. Cut the tinned Meat into small pieces, put them in with the vegetables, season to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer for about fifteen minutes longer. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve.927 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. Stewed Tinned Meat and Rice.—Scrape the fat and jelly off lib. of tinned Meat, and chop the Meat finely. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, some of the fat and jelly off the Meat, and 14 pints of milk. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of ground mace and nutmeg. Boil the rice until tender, then mix the chopped Meat in with it. Mash about 21b. of boiled potatoes, mixing butter and salt with them ; roll them into small balls, dip them in beaten egg, and then in a mixture of breadcrumbs and chopped parsley. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when it boils put in the potato balls, and fry them until nicely browned. As the balls are fried, put them on paper near the fire to drain. When the Meat is thoroughly heated, turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with the potato balls, and serve. Tinned-Meat Balls with Salad.—Finely chop |lb. of tinned Meat, and mix with it 1 heaped teacupful of mashed potatoes, J table-spoonful each of chopped onions and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and a small quantity each of salt, pepper, and cayenne. Moisten the mixture with 1 wineglassful of salad-oil and milk, mixed in equal quan- tities, and a few drops of vinegar. Roll the mixture into small balls on a floured table. Beat an egg with 1 tea- cupful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, and 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb ; dip the balls in it, then put them into a fiying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them over a brisk fire until well and equally browned. As the balls are cooked, put them on a piece of paper in front of the fire to drain as much of the fat off as possible. Put the Meat balls in the centre of a dish of nicely-dressed salad. Fig. 1149. Tinned-Meat Balls with Salad. place a few hard-boiled eggs that have been cut into halves lengthwise round (see Fig. 1149), and serve. Tinned-Meat-and-Bread Pudding.—Soak Mb. of any stale pieces of bread in cold water until quite soft, then drain them in a colander. Chop lOoz. or 12oz. of tinned Meat, and flavour it with powdered sage, salt, and pepper to taste. A finely-chopped onion may also be mixed with the Meat. Put the bread into a basin and beat it with a fork until quite smooth, then mix the Meat with it, and add 4 salt- spoonful each of pounded cloves, nutmeg, and mace. Beat two eggs with \ teacupful of flour, and stir them into the above mixture. Butter a dish, turn the mixture into it, put some pieces of butter on the top, place it in a brisk oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Serve the pudding very hot. Tinned-Meat Collops.—Peel two moderate-sized onions, slice them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry to a golden brown; then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 pint of stock, add a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf tied together, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste ; boil gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, strain the stock into a clean stew- pan, put in the Meat, which should have been cut into small nice-shaped collops, flavour with either walnut or mushroom ketchup and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and let the whole stew gently at the side of the fire for an hour. When ready, turn the collops on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Tinned Meat and Mashed Potatoes.—Peel and boil seven or eight large potatoes, and mash them; chop about lib. of tinned Meat and mix with the potatoes. Peel and chop a small onion, put it in a stewpan, with 1 scant tea- cupful of the fat and jelly of the Meat, 2 teaspoonfuls of Meat—continued. curry powder, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and vinegar, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Place the stewpan over the fire, and stir the contents until boiling, then mix the -whole with the Meat and potatoes. Pile the mixture in a pyramid on a dish on which it can be served and that will stand the heat of the oven. Strew grated bread- crumb over the pyramid, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and put it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, take the pyramid out of the oven, and serve while very hot with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Tinned.Meat-and-Oatmeal Pudding.—Put 1 heaped tea- cupful of oatmeal into a saucepan with 1 small peeled and finely-chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful each of anchovy sauce and grated lemon-peel, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour in 1 pint of water. Boil the oatmeal gently for half-an-hour, stirring it continually with a wooden spoon. Beat four eggs together with loz. of flour, and chop Mb. of tinned Meat and 4oz. of bacon. Mix the eggs, Meat, and bacon with the oatmeal, stirring the whole vigorously until well mixed. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and press down tightly; tie a well-floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, taking care that the water does not enter the basin, and steam the pudding for an-hour- and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Tinned-Meat-and-Oyster Pie.—Prepare a good Meat-pie crust, butter a pie-dish, and line it with it. Roll out a flat of the paste large enough to go over the dish and form a cover ; grease the interior of the crust in the pie- disli, then put in two jars of small cups, to prevent the cover falling in, which must be placed on the top. Trim off the paste neatly round the edges of the dish, and bake until lightly browned in a crisp oven. Meanwhile, prepare the following mixture : Put loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until mixed, but not browned, then pour in the liquor from a tin of oysters, add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quan- tity of powdered mace. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened. Chop about fib. of any kind of tinned Meat, put it with the oysters into the sauce, and boil all together for two minutes. When the pie-crust is cooked, take it out of the oven and turn it out of the pie-dish, first removing the jars. Pour the Meat mixture into the pie- crust, replace the cover, and put it in the oven again for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, stand the pie on it, and serve. Tinned-Meat Patty.—Sift h teaspoonful of baking-powder with 41b. of flour, then mb in 2oz. of butter, and when quite smooth stir in sufficient water to form a light dough; knead well on a floured table, and divide it into two equal portions. Roll out one portion of the paste, line a buttered baking-tin with it, cover it with thin slices of ham, and over those spread a layer of tinned Meat. Roll out the remainder of the dough, cover the Meat with it, trim round the edges, and moisten and pinch them together. Bake the patty for a little under an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, cut it into squares, and leave it in the tin until cold. Tinned-Meat Pie.—(1) Peel and slice a large onion (or two small ones), and put it into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, and l teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, and ground mace ; pour in 1 pint of milk or water, or milk and water mixed, and boil the rice gently until tender, having it rather dry when cooked. Chop 8oz. or lOoz. of tinned Meat, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and ground mace ; add 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, dry mustard, and chilli vinegar, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped herbs. Turn the rice into a pie-dish, and mix the Meat mixture with it; smooth the surface with the blade of a knife and strew grated breadcrumb over, put three or four small pieces of butter or fat from the Meat on the top, and bake it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top, serve the Meat while very hot.928 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—con t inned. (2) Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, but do not over-cook them ; when sufficiently done, cut them into slices. Boil a few onions, and when tender drain and chop them. Open a pot of tinned Meat and scrape off all the jelly, which put in a small saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, or more if it is for a large pie ; flavour to taste with salt, pepper, and tomato ketchup, and boil. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a layer of potatoes, over them put a small quantity of the chopped onion and some of the Meat cut into nice-sliaped pieces, seasoning with salt and pepper. Put in another layer of potatoes, and proceed as before until the dish is full, making the last layer of potatoes. Pour the boiling gravy in at the side of the dish, put it into a brisk oven, and bake the pie until nicely browned on the top. Serve while hot. Tinned-Meat Pie with Macaroni.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the jelly and fat out of a tin of Meat into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of macaroni, one peeled and chopped onion, and J pint of milk; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the macaroni gently until tender. Put about fib. of the tinned Meat into a pie-dish, dust it over with salt and pepper, put three or four sliced hard-boiled eggs on the top, and a few pieces of the jelly and fat. Pour the macaroni over the Meat and eggs, and cover the whole with a thin sheet of pie- crust. Bake the pie in a quick oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and serve while hot. If preferred, the macaroni can be covered with grated breadcrumb, and a few pieces of butter placed on the top; in that case the pie-crust will not be required. Tinned-Meat-and-Potato-Cakes.—Finely chop fib. of tinned mutton or beef, put it in a basin, and mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of mashed potatoes, h teacupful of milk, J teacupful of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked and chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and curry powder, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg in small quantities. Work all the ingredients until well mixed, then divide it into small equal-sized quantities, roll them into balls with floured hands, and flatten. Put a lump of clarified fat or dripping- in a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when it begins to boil put in the cakes, and fry them until browned all over. As each lot of cakes are cooked, put them on paper in front of the fire to drain while the others are being done. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cakes on it in a pyramid, garnish with filed parsley, and serve. Tinned-Meat-and-Potato Cheese or Pain.—Peel and boil lib. of potatoes, and when done, drain, and mash them; mix with the potatoes 1 table-spoonful of cooked onions, J table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and Jib. of chopped tinned Meat. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, and work it up with oil, vinegar, and milk, using only sufficient of the liquids, in equal quantities, to make it into a stiff’ paste. Turn it into a fluted mould and press well. Put a small plate inside the mould, with a weight on the top, and leave it for a few hours. When ready to serve, turn the cheese out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. Tinned-Meat-and-Rice Pudding.—Wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it. into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onion, a small lump of butter, and 1 pint of milk; season with small quantities of pepper, salt, powdered mace, and nutmeg, and stew it over a moderate fire until tender. Butter a pie-dish, and line the bottom with two or three thick slices of tinned Meat. Break two eggs in a basin, mix J table-spoonful of flour with them, and beat until creamy. When the rice is cooked, move it to the side of the fire, and stir the beaten eggs in quickly. Turn the rice over the Meat, smooth it with a spoon, and put a few pieces of the fat of the Meat on the top. Place the pudding in a brisk oven, and bake until beginning to brown. Serve very hot. This will be found an extremely simple and a very tasty dish. Meat—continued. Tinned-Meat Shape.—(1) Soak Joz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water; put it into a saucepan with a peeled carrot and onion, a few sprigs of thyme and marjoram, and lqt. of stock, and boil until reduced to two-thirds. Open a 21b. tin and cut the Meat into collops, trimming them to an even shape ; put them in a stewpan, strain the above liquor over, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a few drops of mushroom or walnut ketchup, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes to allow the Meat to get warm. Turn the whole into a mould, and stand it in a cool temperature. When cold and set, turn the shape out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace- edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Soak Jib. of breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb ; mince lib. of tinned Meat and 2oz. of suet, mix them together with the breadcrumbs, add pepper and salt to taste, and grated lemon-peel, chopped thyme, and parsley in small quantities. Bind the ingredients together with two well-beaten eggs, mixing them thoroughly. Butter a basin, fill it with the mixture, and tie a pudding- cloth over the top. Put it into a saucepan of boiling- water and boil for an hour. At the end of that time take the basin out of the saucepan and leave the contents until cold. When ready to serve, turn the shape out of the basin on to a dish, and garnish it with the jelly in the and a few sprigs of parsley. MECKLENBURG PUNCH.—See Punch. MECKLENBURG SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. MEDLARS (Fr. Nefles; Ger. Mispeln; Ital. Nespole; Sp. Nispei-as).—The fruit of the Medlar-tree (Mespilus (jermanica) is appreciated for its agreeable acidity, which sets in after the pulp has begun to decay. The skin of the Medlar is brown, and the flesh firm and austere, not at all fit to eat when first gathered, nor until disinteg- ration, or “ bletting,” as it is called, has set in. In this state the fruit will keep for a long time. The Medlar grows wild in many parts of Europe, but the cultivated kinds yield the best fruit. The small- fruited Nottingham Medlar is a great favourite with horticulturists, the large Dutch taking preference on account of the size of its fruit. Japanese Medlars are described under Loquats. Medlar Cheese.—Put some Medlars into an earthenware jar, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and keep it boiling gently over a slow fire. When the Medlars are quite soft, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and weigh the pulp, and for every pound allow 1 \ breakfast- cupfuls of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and J teaspoonful of allspice. Put all the ingredients together in the preserving- pan, and stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickly reduced, skimming occasionally. Turn the cheese into moulds, and keep them in a cold place. When ready to serve, turn the cheeses out of the moulds on to a dish. Medlars for Dessert.—To serve these artistically, first of all the hollow in the dessert-dish must be filled up, which can easily be done with fancy paper, made into a roll or into a bun shape (called a tampion), or paste-board may be employed cut to the size of the dish, having a support in the centre to keep it well raised. Cover with leaves or moss, trim off all the rough parts of the Medlars, and arrange them on the dish in the form of a pyramid or any other design, putting leaves or moss between them. Medlar Jelly.—(1) Procure very ripe Medlars, peel, put them in a stewpan with just enough water to cover, and stew gently, stirring frequently. When quite tender, pass the Medlar pulp through a fine hair sieve, weigh the pulp and juice, and for every pint allow ljlb. of loaf sugar. Boil all together until sufficiently reduced, then pass it through a jelly-bag. Turn the jelly into small jars, and when quite cold cover first with brandied papers and then with parchment, and tie down. (2) Procure the requisite quantity of ripe Medlars, put them in a jar, first bruising them slightly, cover with coldTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 929 Medlars—continued. water, and tie a piece of stout paper over the jar. Put it in a slow oven, and leave for twelve hours. At the end of that time, strain all the juice off the Medlars, hut with- out pressing, measure it, and for every breakfast-cupful of juice, allow 1 breakfast-cupful of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Put them together in a preserving-pan, and boil until reduced to a jelly, keeping it well skimmed and stirred. When ready, pour the jelly into glasses or jars, and leave until cold. Put a round of brandied paper in each jar, and cover with wet parchment, tying it down. (3) Put the Medlars into a preserving-pan with just sufficient cold water to cover, and boil until soft. After- wards mb them through a fine sieve, measure the pulp, and for every pint allow Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and h teaspoonful of allspice. Put all together into the preserving-pan, and boil gently for lialf-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed and stirred. When ready, turn the jelly into jars, let it get cool, then put in each jar a round of brandied paper; cover with, parchment, tie down, and pack away in a dry store cupboard. (4) Put some ripe Medlars into a jar, stand it in a saucepan, pour in boiling water almost to the height of the jar, but not enough to go over it, and simmer gently. When the Medlars are tender, take them out of the jar, and lay them on a silk sieve with a basin placed underneath to catch the drippings. When all the juice has run from the Medlars, measure it off, and for every breakfast-cupful allow an equal quantity of caster sugar. Put the juice of the Medlars in a lined preserving-pan, and when boiling stir the sugar in hy degrees. When the sugar has quite dissolved, take the pan off' the fire, turn the mixture into a jelly-mould, and leave till set. When ready for serving, dip the mould into lukewarm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, then wipe, turn it quickly over on to a dish, and serve. MEDOC.—A class of clarets produced in the district of that name in the province of Gironde. Amongst these [ are St. Julien, Margeaux, and Lafitte. MELILOT.—A plant of the clover tribe (Melilotus cserulea) of a somewhat aromatic character, used in Switzerland to flavour Sapsago (Schabzeiger) cheese. The stems, leaves, and flowers are crushed up and mixed with the curd, for which reason the plant is known in Switzerland, where it grows wild and profusely, as Zeiger-kraut, or curd-herb. MELISSE, EAU DE.-A liqueur made in Roumania, from Melissa officinalis. MELONS (Fr. Melons; Ger. Melonen; Ital. Poponi; Sp. Melons).—It is a remarkable fact that although the Melon (Cucvmis Melo) may be ranked amongst the Fig. 1150. Water Melon. choicest fruits of all warm countries where it is grown, and of colder countries into which it is imported, very little is known generally of the varieties and their distinguishing characteristics, although in flavour, appearance, and con- figuration they differ widely. Melons—continued. The Melon has been cultivated since the earliest times of which we have any record, especially in those parts of Asia famous for their early civilisation. It was intro- duced into Italy early in the first century, and is mentioned by Pliny (who died a.d. 79) with instruc- tions for the cultivation and modes of forcing. Of the varieties best known to us are Musk Melons and Water Melons (see Fig. 1150), there being many sorts of each and some kinds that it would be difficult to classify as either. In the colour of the flesh also they differ materially, some being white, others greenish, salmon, or red, the greenish being reckoned the best. Fig. 1151. Cantaloup Melon. The Cantaloup Melon (see Fig. 1151) is supposed to have been one of the first ever introduced into Europe; it has a very irregular surface, and both the skin and the Fig. 1152. Coulommier’s Melon. flesh are variable in colour. Coulommier’s Melon (see Fig. 1152) is only remarkable for its hardness and large Fig. 1153. Embroidered Market Melon. size; it is cultivated in the open fields in Normandy. The large Embroidered Market Melon (see Fig. 1153) For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 YTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 930 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Melons—continued. is smooth and nearly spherical, with orange or reddish- orange flesh; it is not very prominently ribbed. The Fig. 1154. Figari Melon. Figari Melon (see Fig. 1154) is not larger than a hen’s egg, smooth, and yellow; it exhales a decided Melon Fig. 1155. Persian Melon. odour, but is not edible, being used only for ornament, garnishing, &c. The Persian Melon (see Fig. 1155) is long, pear-shaped, yellow, marbled with dark-green, and Fig. 1156. Queen Anne’s Pocket or Dudaim Melon. its greenish-white flesh is very sweet. Queen Anne’s Pocket or Dudaim Melon (see Fig. 1156) is very small, orange or orange-yellow, marbled with brown; it has a very strong odour, but, like Figari, is not edible, Fig. 1157. Winter Melon. be in «■ used only for garnishing and other decorative purposes. The Winter Melon (see Fig. 1157) is the largest of the white-fleshed kinds, but is also one of the least desirable; it is long-elliptic or rarely nearly spherical, and varies in colour from dark green to creamy-white or yellow. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” gives the following limited selection of the best varieties of Melons. Green or White-fleshed.—Cashmere, Colston Basset Seedling, Eastnor Castle, Gilbert’s Green-fleshed, Golden Gem, Golden Queen, Hero of Lockinge, Queen Emma, Victory of Bath, and William Tillery. Scarlet-fleshed.—Blenheim Orange, Bead's Scarlet- fleshed, Scarlet Gem, and Scarlet Premier. Melons—continued. Baked stuffed Musk Melon.—Cut the stalk part off a Melon, leaving an opening about Sin. in diameter (the stalk part will afterwards be used as a lid), and scoop out all the seeds and part of the inside. Finely mince two onions and sufficient mutton to fill the Melon. Put the mince into a deep frying-pan, with a lump of butter, and fry till brown; then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of washed and dried rice, the same quantity each of blanched and skinned almonds and pistachios, 1 table-spoonful of washed currants, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then take it off and stuff the Melon with it, fix the stalk-part on again, and fasten it down with a few small wooden skewers or pins. Lay the Melon in a baking-dish, put it in a moderate oven, and when nicely baked serve on a dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Compote of Melons.—Peel the Melons, cut them into slices, remove the seeds, and trim them. Put the slices of Melon into a sugar-boiler with sufficient syrup to cover them, add a small piece of cinnamon, and let them simmer for a-quarter- of-an-hour over a slow fire. At the end of that time, move the boiler from the fire, and let the contents steep for several hours in the syrup. Arrange the slices in a compote-dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. Melon in Claret Jelly.—Soak loz. of isinglass in 1 tea- cupful of cold water for half an-hour, then put it into a lined saucepan with § pint of claret, the juice and thinly- pared yellow rind of a moderate-sized lemon, half a stick of cinnamon, a few cloves, and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Add the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, to- gether with the juice from a tin of Melons, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling; then move the saucepan to the side, put the lid on, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Cut the slices of Melon into small fancy-shaped pieces, and strain the jelly two or three times through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Thoroughly clean the interior of a mould, and arrange at the bottom a few pieces of Melon; pour over them a thin layer of the jelly, and let it set. Fill the mould in this manner with alternate layers of fruit and jelly, and stand it in a cool place for a few hours. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, and whisk it to a stiff froth. Dip the mould containing the jelly quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a fancy china or glass dish, pile the whipped cream up all round it, and serve. This is an extremely pretty dish. Melon-Seed Water-Ice.—Put Mb. of Melon-seeds in a mortar and pound them to a paste, pouring in gradually at the same timej 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, mix with it 1 pint of clarified syrup, and flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Pour the mixture into a freezing-machine, and when suffi- ciently frozen turn it into a mould, which must be closed, and pack in pounded ice and salt for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Melon Stew (German).—Peel one Melon, and cut it into very thin slices ; lay these in a glass dish, sprinkle them with plenty of crushed loaf sugar, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them. Stand the dish in a cool place, and leave it for two or three hours. Pour 1 pint of white wine and h pint of water over the slices of Melon, stir it round, and serve with a dish of sponge biscuits. Melon Water-Ice.—Pound 8oz. of ripe Melon in a mortar, and add 2oz. of orange-flower water, the juice of two lemons, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and 1 pint of clarified sugar. Stir the mixture thoroughly and strain through a fine sieve, put it into the freezer, and it is ready for use. Musk-Melon Pie (Turkish Style).—Select a small musk Melon, peel it, cut it into halves, and scoop out the seeds; put the Melon into a mortar, and pound it to a paste. Make 1 111), of flaky paste, roll it out very thin, and cut it into rounds between 5in. and Gin. in diameter. Butter a baking-tin of the same shape and diameter as the paste, lay in one of the rounds, and brush it over with a paste- brush dipped in warmed butter; then put in another round,931 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Melons—continued. brush that also with butter, and continue thus until all the rounds are used, spreading the prepared Melon over each round of the paste before laying on another. Put the tin into a moderate oven, and bake till of a light brown. When cooked, put the pastry on a hot dish, dredge caster sugar over, and serve while hot. Musk-Melon Salad.—Remove the rind from half a musk Melon, and cut the Melon into slices; put these into a basin, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour over 4 table spoonfuls of olive oil. Mix well, and add only sufficient vinegar to flavour without leaving any at the bottom. Put the slices of Melon on a dish, and serve. Pickled Melons.—Select some hard Melons when they are sufficiently ripe to have a good flavour, cut them length- wise into slices, and remove all the seeds; put the slices into a basin with salt over them, and let them remain for twelve hours or so. Take them out, wash them, wipe dry, and put them into a basin of alum water; when they have been left for an hour, take them out, and wash and wipe them again. Put them into jars, and pour over vinegar seasoned with cloves and cinnamon, and made syrupy by adding 31b. or 41b. of sugar to every gallon of vinegar and boiling until it is quite thick. Cover over the jars, and it is ready for use. Preserved Melons.—(1) Remove all the thin outside skin of a Melon, make a hole in one end, and remove all the seeds ; then plunge it into a bowl of cold water, and leave it for ten or twelve hours. Take it out, drain it, put it into a preserving-pan with a large lump of sugar, pour over suffi- cient water to cover, place the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly for an hour. Reave it for a day, then repeat the process three times. Prepare a thin syrup, drain the Melon, and put it into it; cover over the pan, and let the contents simmer slowly for thirty minutes a day for three days, adding the rind of one and the juice of two lemons on the last day. It can then be packed away in a large jar. Should a musk Melon be used, it will not require any additional flavour; but should a water Melon be used, the flavour can be improved by cutting a piece off the end, scooping out the seeds, and lilling up with sugar and water, or white wine; then replace the piece cut oil', tie it on, and leave the Melon in the sun for several days. (2) Put the Melons into a wide-mouthed jar, and cover them with a strong brine of salt and water. Place some cabbage-leaves on the top of the jar, cover them with paper, and stand the jar in a warm temperature until the leaves turn yellow. Pour the brine off the Melons, put them into a pan, and pour some fresh brine over them. Cover them with fresh cabbage-leaves, place the pan over a gentle fire with the lid on, and let the Melons warm gradually. Next take them out, put them into a clean jar, cover with cold water, and let them stand for two days, changing the water three times every day to remove as much of the saltness as possible; then prick them with a fork, remove the seeds, cut the large ones into convenient- sized pieces, and lay them again in fresh water. Prepare a sufficient quantity of syrup to cover the Melons, allowing for every lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar 1 teacupful of water, the yellow rind of a lemon, and loz. of bruised brown ginger. Boil the sugar and water, skim it well, and add the ginger and lemon. Boil the syrup until very thick, let it get cold, then put in the pieces of Melon. On the following day, take the Melon out, and boil the syrup up again, returning the fruit to it when it is quite cold. Boil the syrup up three times every week for three weeks, taking the fruit out each time, and not putting it in again until it is cold. Pack the Melons and their syrup in jars, cover them with paper, tie down securely, and put them away. (3) Select barely-ripened, medium-sized Melons, peel them, and press the pulp to extract the juice ; pour a little water over the pulp, which strain off and mix with the juice. Cut the Melons lengthwise into slices, lay them in a basin, cover with cold water in which has been mixed a small quantity of salt and vinegar, and let them soak all night. Put the juice of the Melons into a preserving- pan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in some loaf Melons—continued. sugar, allowing lib. to every breakfast-cupful of juice. Boil the sugar until reduced to a syrup, remove it from the fire, and leave it until cold. On the following day, strain the pieces of Melon, put them in the preserving-pan with the cold syrup, and place them over the fire. When the syrup commences to boil, move the pan to the side, and let the contents simmer gently for fifteen minutes, skimming frequently. Take out the slices of Melon, put them in a bowl, and pour the syrup over them.. Next day, strain the syrup off the fruit, boil it up, and pour it over again. Repeat this for the two following days, then put the Melons with the syrup into wide-mouthed bottles, and place a small quantity of bruised ginger in each. When the contents are cold, cover the bottles with bladder, and tie down perfectly air-tight. (4) Peel the Melons, and cut them into thick slices; make a sufficient quantity of syrup to cover them, allow- ing 1 pint of water for each pound of sugar, and boil it until clear and thick, keeping it well skimmed. Put in the pieces of Melon, and boil for ten minutes; take them out, and leave them until the following morning. Boil the syrup up again, put in the Melon, and boil until clear. Put the slices of Melon into glass jars, and when the syrup has somewhat cooled, pour it over them, tie down with parch- ment, and keep in a diy cupboard. (5) German.—Trim off the outer part of the Melon and remove the seeds ; cut it into convenient-sized pieces, put them into a dish with a few pieces of cinnamon and ginger and the thinly-pared rind of one or two lemons, and cover them with white-wine vinegar. Leave them for twenty-four hours, then strain off some of the vinegar, and prepare a syrup of it with some loaf sugar. Skim the syrup, and when cold, drain the pieces of Melon and lay them in it. In two days’ time take out the Melon anti boil up the syrup again, then allow it to get cold and put back the Melon. Repeat this operation once more, the last time boiling the syrup down until thick. Put the preserve into jars, cover, and tie down tightly. Preserved Melons to Imitate Ginger. —To every pound of Melon allow 4lb. of ginger. Scrape the ginger and keep the scrapings. Pour over the ginger lqt. of boiling water, and let it stand for two days. Put the scrapings into water over the fire, and boil up. Scald the Melon with the liquor, but do not soften it too much ; then cut it into pieces as much like preserved ginger as possible. Make a syrup of loaf sugar and water, in the proportion of lib. of sugar to lqt. of water (see Syrups), and boil the ginger in it; then let it stand till cold, and when quite cold, put the pieces of Melon into it, set it over the fire, and let it get very hot, but take it off before it boils. Take out the Melon, boil the syrup with the ginger in it, let it stand till cold, and pour it over the Melon. After doing this every day for a fortnight, put the Melon into a jar or jars ; boil a rich syrup, let it stand till nearly cold, then pour it over the Melon in the jars, and cover them air-tight. Preserved Winter Melons.—(1) Select some ripe winter Melons, pare them, remove the seeds, and cut them into slices. Weigh them, and to every 5lb. of Melon allow 2Ub. of caster sugar and 2 pints of vinegar. Put the vinegar and sugar into a saucepan, and boil them up ; pour the syrup over the Melons, strain it oft", and boil up again, continuing in this way for five times in all; then strain off, add 4oz. of cinnamon, the same of ginger-root, and a few cloves; boil, and pour over the Melon again. Put the whole into a saucepan, boil up once more for ten minutes, take out the Melon, and put it in jars; skim the syrup, pour it over, and it is then ready for use. (2) Scrape the skin off a few Melons, make a small hole in the stem end, and remove all the seeds. Let the Melons remain in water for a day, then put them in a preserving- pan, add 5oz. of sugar, cover them with water, and simmer slowly for thirty minutes. Continue in this way for three days, taking care never to allow it to boil. Drain the water from the Melons, and to every pint of water add 21b. of sugar ; boil this for a few minutes, remove it from the fire, add the Melons, cover the pan, and boil for thirty minutes. Repeat this every day for three days, then put the Melons into jars. Add the peel of a lemon cut very For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces,.etc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 y 2932 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Melons—continued. thin and the juice of two lemons to the syrup, pour it over the Melons, and let them get cold ; cover, and they are ready for use. (3) Peel the flesh of some Melons, weigh it, and to every pound of flesh allow lib. of sugar, one lemon, loz. of green ginger-root, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Pare the yellow rind off the lemon as thin as possible, scrape the ginger, and tie it together with the rind of the lemon in a muslin bag; squeeze the juice from the lemon, and strain it; put the sugar and water into a pan on the stove, and let it boil, keeping it well skimmed. When the syrup is clear, put in the peelecl flesh of the Melon, the bag of scraped ginger-root and lemon-peel, and the lemon juice, and boil till the Melon-flesh looks clear, taking off the scum as it rises. Then let the preserve cool in the pan, which must be removed from the stove when the Melon-flesh looks clear. When the preserve is sufficiently cooled, put it into jars, taking out the bag of lemon-peel and ginger unless their flavour be desired, in which case take it out of the bag and distribute it evenly on the top of the preserves. Water Melon with Brandy.—Have a large ripe water Melon, and with a knife cut out a piece in the centre 2in. square by 31 in. deep; remove the piece carefully, and pour gradually into the inside 1 pint of brandy ; replace the piece of Melon in its former position, and put the Melon in the ice-box for six hours to infuse ; set it on a dish, and send to the table, either whole or cut into slices, according to taste. Water Melon with Champagne.—Proceed as for Water Melon with Brandy, substituting lqt. of champagne for the brandy. Water Melon with Rum.—Prepared the same as for Water Melon with Brandy, pouring in 1 pint of rum instead of the brandy and proceeding as before. Water-Melon Fritters.—Cut a water Melon into strips, remove the rind and seeds, put the pieces into a basin, sprinkle with caster sugar and finely-chopped lemon-peel, and let them stand for an hour or so. Prepare a batter by mixing the yolk of an egg with 2oz. of flour and adding J table-spoonful of salad-oil, pouring in 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and mixing until quite smooth. Add the well- whipped whites of two eggs, and stiy lightly. Dip the pieces of Melon in this, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry to a light golden colour, or for ten or twelve minutes. Take them out, drain, pile them on a napkin spread over a dish, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve as hot as possible. MELT.—See Milt. MELTED BUTTER.—See Butter. MELTON-MOWBRAY FIES.—See Pork. MELTON VEAL.—See Veal. MENESTRA.—The Spanish name for a kind of stew or pottage which is of great repute in the provinces of Spain. A good receipt for its preparation is as follows: For this dish a variety of vegetables will be required. Peel and chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry it, without allowing it to brown. Cut Jib. of raw ham into small square pieces, put them in with the onion, dust over with flour, pour in 2 pints of broth, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire and put in any of the following vegetables obtainable : Lettuces, artichokes, asparagus, broad beans, green peas, French beans, truffles, and red peppers. The vegetables must be well washed and trimmed, and those that require longest cooking should be put in first. Add also a bunch of parsley and a bay- leaf, and season with salt and pepper. Keep the vegetables simmering gently until tender, then take them out of the stewpan, and keep them hot. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, and boil it until Menestra—continued. reduced to a creamy thickness; then put in 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of minced (Spanish) truffles, and boil them for a minute. Put the vegetables on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. MENESTRONE.—A favourite Italian stew, re- sembling Menestra, much approved of in Milan, where it is made as follows: Chop ilb. of bacon, wash and cut up a savoy cabbage, and put both into a stewpan with fdb of chopped raw ham and 1 breakfast-cupful of haricot beans. Pour in 5 or 6 pints of clear broth, and place the stewpan over the fire. After ten minutes, gentle boiling, add 1 teacupful of chopped celery, an equal quantity of haricot beans, and about 1 teacupful of cabbage-stalk cut into small squares. Boil these for ten minutes, then mix in 1 teacupful each of broad Leans, asparagus-heads, and green peas, fib. of un- washed rice, and two chopped smoked Milan sausages, and continue simmering gently at the side of the fire until the rice is tender. Grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese into a soup-tureen, and when the soup is cooked, pour it in, and serve it with a plate of crofitons of fried bread or sippets of dry toast. MENGAU.—A kind of gruel made in Brazil from green plantains. MENSCHENFREUND—The name of a favourite stomachic bitter prepared in Prussia. MENUS.—A dinner without a bill of fai’e is like a song without words—the music and execution may be ever so perfect, but the guest likes to know what the production is all about. A Menu is not necessary where the dishes are all served at once, for they are then before the guest, who knows as well as the host what there is for his delectation; but when courses are served one after another, it is only just and fair that the consumer should have some intimation of what is coming, that he may indulge in one, or reserve for another, as the inclination befits him. A good Menu, or bill of fare, that is to say one arranged with artistic care, is the triumph of the professional chef; he exhibits this evidence of his skill with great pride, and does not fail to call attention to the ornamentation of the card. A good cook bears in mind that a Menu is not merely a list of dishes, but a programme of the entertainment, showing the order in which the various dishes are to be served. Unhappily too much attention is paid by cooks to the classification of dishes and the division of the Menu into services; better would it be if a plain list were given of the order in which the dishes were to be served. Certainly some great reform is needed in the arrangement of Menus, and this will come to pass in due course. An experienced author writes: “ The theory of a Menu and of the composition of a dinner is simplicity itself; in general terms, it begins with an excitant, namely soup, satisfies hunger gradually by fish, savoury dishes, and roasts, with which latter a salad comes in to excite the digestion once more, and prepare the way for a vegetable, which will be followed by the dessert.” In composing your Menu, you must consult first of all the market, and secondly the number of guests to be served; in selecting the dishes, the chief things to avoid are such gross errors as the repetition of meats, or sauces, or the introduction at an early stage of highly- spiced viands. The order usually adopted in the Menu is : First course: Hors d’ceuvres, Soups, Fish, Removes, and Entrees. Second course: A Punch or Sorbet, Roasts, Vegetables, Sweet Entremets, Dessert, and Ices. Wines suitable for each service may be denoted at the side of the Menu, but it is usual to leave the selection to individual taste, some persons preferring to drink but one wine throughout the meal.933 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Menus—continued. A very vexed question amongst cooks is the language that should be used on the Menu, French being usually adopted, or a mixture of French and English, with some very amusing results. As a ride the cook should study the company to be provided for, and the character of the dinnei’—if purely English, the Menu should be in that language as far as possible; if French, then French throughout; and so also of German, Italian, or any other language. Such ridiculous medleys as beef roti, frontage, &c., instead of roasted beef and cheese, are unworthy a place amongst our culinary records. MERINGUES.—There is considerable doubt attend- ing the derivation of this word, and some very extravagant attempts have been made to find its origination, without sufficient success. By some it is supposed that it refers to the word white, but this requires such a very round- about process of explanation that it is not worth enter- taining ; the more probable origin being that of the inventor’s or manufacturer's name. Meringue consists essentially of whites of eggs beaten with caster sugar to a froth, and then set in a quick oven. This would naturally suggest numerous artistic adaptations of Me- ringue, and some of these are described hereunder; other Meringues being found under special headings, such as Almonds, Apples, &c. Florentine Meringues.—Cover the bottom of a baking- pan with a sheet of puff paste rolled out very thin, spread some jelly or any kind of preserve over it, and cover all with Meringue-paste mixed with finely-chopped almonds or desiccated cocoa-nut. Sprinkle it all over with caster sugar, bake gently in a moderate oven, and cut into squares. Iced Meringue.—Boil in a saucepan 1 pint of milk and half a vanilla bean ; put in a vessel Mb. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; add it to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin, placing it on a moderate stove to heat for five minutes, stirring at the bottom continually with the spatula, and being careful not to let it boil. Remove from the fire, place it on a table, and add immediately f pint of sweet cream, mixing it for two minutes ; let it cool for thirty minutes, strain through a sieve into a freezer, and freeze. Arrange over each two Meringue shells, so as to nearly enclose the cream-ice, and send to the table. Italian Meringues.—Put ljlb. of sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), and place A Fig. 1158. Italian Meringues. the boiler in a large basin of cold water to set the sugar. Work the sugar with the back part of the bowl of a table-spoon against the sides of the pan, taking it well from the bottom ; when nearly transparent, pour in the well-whipped whites of four eggs, then the juice of one lemon, and a liqueur-glassful of liqueur, and mix lightly but thoroughly. Have ready some strips of paper cut about 2in. wide, arrange them on a board, put on them small quantities of the paste taken up with a teaspoon and made in the form of half eggs (see Fig. 1158, A) and bake in a moderate oven (with the door open) until they begin to colour. Take out, turn them off the paper with the aid of a knife, and they are ready for use. Italian Meringues require to be dried rather than baked, and therefore the oven must not be hot enough to colour a piece of white paper. The paste previous to being used may be coloured Meringues—continued. either yellow with saffron, brown with chocolate, or a light rose pink with a few drops of cochineal. In making these Meringues more sugar is used than for the ordinary ones, therefore they do not require to be dredged with sugar before baking, but if they are required to imitate different coloured fruits or vegetables, then they must be covered with the coloured sugars to give the effect. They should be taken carefully oil' the paper on which they were dried, and put in the left hand and gently pressed together (see Fig. 1158, C), or they may be scooped out in the centre (see Fig. 1158, B), and before being put together they can be filled with cream, &c., or any kind of preserved fruit, and then left to harden without any more heat. They may also be covered with transparent icing by inserting a fork into them and dipping them in it, but for this they should be dried a little firmer than for the ordinary Italian Meringues. Meringues a la Delmonico.—Put into a sugar-pan lib. of granulated sugar with h pint of cold water, and place on the hot stove. Have 2qts. of ice-water in a bowl, and when the sugar comes to the boil, dip the fingers of the right hand into the ice-water and pass them quickly round the inside of the sugar-pan, after boiling for five minutes. Dip a wooden stick, similar to a pen-holder, in the ice-water, then quickly into the boiling sugar, and again in the ice- water, lifting up the stick to feel the sugar that adheres. If it is not sufficiently consistent to form into a ball, boil a little longer, then try once more; should it be a proper consistency, remove from the fire and set it on the corner of the stove, so that it no longer boils. While the sugar is cooking, beat the. whites of five eggs in a copper basin until they are a firm froth, and while beating, pour the prepared sugar very gradually into the egg froth; when all is added, lay the basin containing the preparation into a vessel half filled with ice-water. Remove the whisk, and, using a wooden spatula, mix gently for five minutes, adding 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Cover fig. 1159. the basin with a napkin, letting it rest Silk Bag or Poche for ten minutes. Butter and flour a baking- F0R MERINUI-E- sheet; slide a fancy tube (No. 3) into a silk bag (see Fig. 1159), fill the bag with the preparation, press it out on to the baking-sheet, in pieces about 2in. long by lin. wide, giving a C shape, and forming others like a letter D. Sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar, place in a very slow oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When baked, these cakes should be perfectly white. Remove from the oven, let them get thoroughly cold, dress on a glass stand (see Fig. 1160), and serve. Meringue Cream.—Put 1 table-spoonful of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water, and soak it for an hour, rut 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil stir the gelatine into it. When dissolved, strain the milk into lqt. of cream; add 1 breakfast-cupful ofTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 934 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under ti.eir special heads. Meringues—continued. granulated sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract. When the mixture has cooled a little, turn it into afreezing- pail, and work till frozen; then put it into a mould, seeing that it is full, smooth over the surface, close tightly, and pack in pounded ice and salt. The cream should be left in the ice for abrat an hour. Beat the whites of six eggs to a still" froth, then gradually mix in 6 table spoonfuls of caster sugar. Dip the mould containing the cream into warm water, then wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a dish. Mask the cream well with the Meringue, put it for a minute or two into a hot oven to brown, then take it out, and serve at once. Meringue filled with Chocolate Cream.—Make a chocolate cream by mixing ilb. of melted chocolate with 1 teacupful of syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and when cold stirring into it lqt. of well-whipped double cream. Fill some Mer- ingue shells with this cream, piling it some 3in. above the Meringue, and serve. Meringues filled with Coffee Cream.—(1) Whip the whites of ten eggs together with lib. of caster sugar; drop table- spoonfuls of the mixture on sheets of paper, in portions the shape and size of an egg, and sift over a little caster sugar; shake off the superfluous sugar, bake until a golden colour, and remove the paper. Take out a little of the inside of each Meringue with a small spoon, but be careful not to spoil the sluipe, sift a little more caster sugar over, and dry in a slack oven. Boil J pint of strong coffee and fib. of caster sugar, and when it forms a syrup registering 38deg. (see Syrups) take it off, and let it get cold ; then mix in the syrup some well-beaten double cream, and fill the hollowed Meringues with it, reversing one over the other. Pile them on a dish covered with an ornamental paper or a folded napkin. (2) Whip the whites of six eggs till very firm together with Mb- of caster sugar. Put the Meringue mixture in a paper funnel, and squeeze it out on to five rounds of paper, cut about 5 Mu. in diameter. Shape the Meringue rings 4Mn. in diameter, sift a little caster sugar over each ring, put them on baking-sheets, and bake till they are a pale golden yellow. Cut a circular si ib out of a Genoa cake, and cover it with orange flavoured icing (see Icing), then lay the five rings of Meringues on it. Boil f pint of coffee and fl'3- of caster sugar to a syrup at 36deg. (see Syrups), and when cold add lqt. of well-whipped double cream; fill the centre of the Meringues so that the cream reaches at least 2in. above the ring, and serve, garnished with piles of chopped orange jelly. Meringues filled with Cream.—(1) Separate the whites from the yolks of four eggs, put them in a basin with 4 r/.. of caster sugar, and beat to a stiff froth. Make a baking-sheet hot, then rub it over with white wax; take the mixture up in table-spoonfuls, and lay them on the waxed tin, giving them an egg shape, which is done by leaving the impression of the spoon on them. Sift a small quantity of caster sugar over each Meringue, and bake in a slow oven, giving them a very faint yellow colour. Whip about h pint of thick cream together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured sugar to a stiff snow. When the Meringues are taken out of the oven, scoop out any soft part that may be inside, being careful not to break them, and replace it with the whipped cream. Stick the Meringues together in twos, arrange them tastefully on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (2) Put the whites of twelve eggs into a bowl with a pinch of salt, and whisk to a snow; add 111), of sifted crushed loaf sugar and loz. of vanilla sugar or 1 teaspoon- ful of any desired essence. Lay this mixture out with a spoon in the shape of halves of eggs, putting them on sheets of paper spread over a board about 14 in. thick, the surface of the paper and board being well wetted. This is done so that the Meringues shall receive no bottom heat. Dust over with, caster sugar, and bake to a delicate fawn colour in a moderate oven. Take out, let them stand for two or three minutes, remove them from the paper, and with a spoon press in the underneath soft part so as to form a hollow. Put them, round side downwards, on a Meringues—continued. baking-sheet, return them to the oven for a few minutes to dry, take them out, fill with cream of any description, aqd serve at once. Meringues with Jam.—Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth ; add the grated rinds of six lemons, and 1 table- spoonful of sifted loaf sugar. Put a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderately- heated oven, taking care that they are done of a light colour. Put any kind of jam between two of these Meringues, stick them together, and lay them in a warm place or before the fire to dry. Meringue Kisses.—(1) Whisk the whites of two eggs to as stiff a froth as possible, then beat in very gradually, 1 teaspoonful at a time, M^- of powdered white sugar, add 6 drops of essence of lemon, and beat all very hard. Take a square tin pan, lay a wet sheet of paper at the bottom, and drop on to it, at equal distances, small spoonfuls of still" red-currant jelly. With a larger spoon take some of the beaten egg-and-sugar, and pile it over each lump of jelly so as to cover completely, dropping it on as evenly as possible so as to make the Meringues smooth and round. Bake them in a cool oven; as soon as they colour, take them out, and put two bottoms together so as to enclose the jelly. Lay them gently on a sieve, and put them in a cool oven till each two that have been placed together adhere to one another. (2) Whisk the whites of four eggs in an earthenware bowl together with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water to a stiff froth, then stir in very carefully 4oz. of powdered white sugar, and drop small pieces of this mixture on a sheet of white paper. Let each drop be about the size of and as high as a ratafia, and as little flattened as possible. Lay the paper with the drops on a piece of wood about lin. thick, and put it into a hot oven. As soon as the kisses begin to turn yellow, take them out of the oven very carefully, for they are very fragile, loosen them from the paper with a knife, then with a small spoon scoop out the moist part at the bottom, making a little hollow, and laying them on the paper hollow side up. Put them again on the wood into the oven, and let them remain only long enough to dry. If they are to be kept, lay them in boxes, and keep them in a very dry and rather warm place. If they are to be sent at once to table, fill the hollows with a little raspberry jam or whipped cream, lay them in couples on a dish, and serve. Meringues Panachees.—Prepare six Meringue shells, divide evenly into them 1 pint of vanilla cream-ice. Slide a fancy tube into a pastry-bag, and pour into it 1 pint of whipped vanilla cream. Press half of it into six other Meringue shells, and join them to the six containing the cream. Lay them on six cold plates, decorate the- joints with more of the cream, and send to table at once. Meringue Pudding.—Put 3 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a basin, blend it till smooth with a small quantity of water, then mix in gradually lqt. of boiling milk; sweeten Fig. 1161. Meringue PunDiNG. with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and turn it into a saucepan. Stir the cornflour over the fire with a wooden spoon, and boil for five minutes; then move it to the side, and stir in 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces. WhenTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 935 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Meringues —continued. the butter has dissolved, put in, one at a time, the yolks of four eggs, and beat them well. Butter a round pie-dish, put in 1 pint of tinned peaches, and pour the cornflour over them. Place the pudding in a brisk oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth together with 2 heaped table-spoon- fuls of caster sugar. When the pudding is cooked, spread over the egg mixture, raising to a point in the centre (see Fig. 1161), and put it back into the oven for three or four minutes to set the Meringue. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven and set it away until quite cold. Then decorate it with candied fruits and angelic i, serve on a flat plate, and surround it with a coloured paper frill. Meringues in Pyramid.—Put 8oz. of caster sugar into a basin, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and loz. of gum arabic, stirring well until dissolved. Put the basin over a slow fire and continue to stir until the mixture has the appearance of glue. Rub over the outside of a tin mould with butter to prevent the candy sticking, put it upside-down firmly on a dish or board, and commencing from tbe bottom put a row of Meringues round it, sticking them well together with the hot prepared sugar; and when this row is cold and quite firm, continue in the same way until the pyramid is formed. When done, take out the mould, fill the centre with whipped cream or fruit, and serve. Meringues with Rice.—Put 1 teacupful of rice into a saucepan, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the rice is quite soft. Add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Pour the mixture into a mould or tin, piling it up in the form of a pyramid, and mask it with apricot or other jam. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a still' froth, adding 1 teaspoonful of well-dried caster sugar, pour it over the jam, spreading it with a knife, dust over with a little more sugar, and decorate it with small drops of the white-of-egg mixture. Put it into a moderate oven with the door open, let it bake for twenty minutes, and serve it in the mould or tin in which it was cooked. Meringue Shells.—Prepare a Meringue mixture. Slide a tube down a pastry-bag, lay a piece of paper over a baking- sheet, and after putting the Meringue into the bag, press it out into the paper, giving an egg shape 2Ain. long by lin. high. There should be enough to make eighteen cqu d-sized shells. Be careful to keep them about lin. apart. Sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, and place in a very slow oven to bake for thirty minutes. Remove, set to cool for twenty-five minutes, turn the paper con- taining the shells upside-down on the table, and with a wet cloth or brush well moisten the paper ; turn it over again, and leave for two minutes, when the shells can be easily detached. With the finger press them gently, one by one at the bottom, into a perfect shell shape. Return to the baking-sheet, laying them upside-down, put into the oven to dry thoroughly for ten minutes, and leave to cool for thirty minutes longer. Keep them in a thy place either in a tin or paper box, and use when required. Meringue shells prepared in this way will keep well for at least twenty-five days. Meringue with. Strawberry Cream.—Mix a strawberry puree with |lb. of caster sugar, a few drops of prepared cochineal (see Colourings), and some whipped double cream. Fill some Meringue shells with the cream, and serve. Meringue Tarts.—Have ready some tarts made of any pre- served fruit or jam. In the meantime, whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, adding slowly 4oz. of sugar and a little lemon or vani'la flavouring; pour it over the tart to about lin. in thickness, smoothing it with a knife, put the tart in the oven for a few minutes to slightly colour the Meringue, and serve. It may be served either hot or cold, as desired. Swiss Meringue.—Have ready a Meringue preparation; slide a tube into a silk bag ; butter and flour a baking- sheet, make on it one design 8in. in diameter, another Meringues—continued. exactly the same shape, only Gin., and another of the same only 4in. Put the Meringue mixture into the bag, and press it out gently over and around the first design, making the paste fin. thick ; repeat the same for the second and third forms. Press some Meringue into the pan, making a little cone 4in. high, 2in. in diameter at the base, and tapering gradually to a point at the top. Sprinkle the whole lightly with powdered sugar, and place it in a very moderate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. Take out and let it thoroughly cool for lialf-an-hour. Meanwhile whip lqt. of vanilla cream, add to it A gill each of kirsch- enwasser and maraschino, and with a whisk beat the whole together for three minutes. Have ready a round dish with a fancy paper over, detach carefully the largest form from the pan, lay it on the dish, detach the second, lay it over the first, and fill the hollow with half of the cream ; now detach the third and the smallest piece and lay it over the others, filling it entirely with part of the cream, and finally detach the cone, and arrange it on top. Pour the remaining cream into the silk bag with the fancy tube, cement over the places where the rings join (see Fig. 1162), and send to the table. MERINGUE CAKES.—See Cakes. MERISSAH.—A fermented drink made in Berber, from dates. METHEGLIN.—A very ancient drink of this and other countries, brewed from honey and water, which, after undergoing fermentation, became somewhat more intoxicating than our modern ales. Although we cannot hope to rival our progenitors in the art of brewing Metlieglin, there are two or three receipts given here- under which will produce very pleasing beverages. Dissolve about 51b. of fresh honey in Igall. of water and stir frequently for a few days; then add a little yeast anil foz. of hops boiled in water. Allow the mixture to ferment, and when this has ceased, draw it off, add water if required, and bottle it. Red Metlieglin.—This is prepared in the same way as for White Metheglin, using 3 pints of red-currant juice and 2 pints of black or igall. of white-currant juice, with 4oz. of beetroot cut into thin slices. This is sometimes called red mead. White Metheglin.—Put igall. of white-currant juice into a tub, pour over 4galls. of boiling water, and add 7Alb. of honey and foz. of cream of tartar. Mix well, stirring for about a-quarfcer-of-an-hour, and let it stand to ferment. As soon as this has ceased and the liquor become clear, add lqt. of brandy, and bottle. Let it remain for a few months, by which time it will be fit for use, and will be quite effervescing and sparkling. Sometimes this is called white mead. MICHAEL PUDDING.—See Puddings. MIDZU-AME.—-A Japanese extract of barley-malt and rice, which is reduced to a thick treacly consis- tence. A table-spoonful stirred into a tumbler of new milk is a very nutritious food for invalids.936 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. MIGNONETTE PEPPER.—See Pepper. MIKADO SOUP.—-See Soups. MILAN CAKES—-See Cakes. MILAN SOUFFLE.—-See Souffles. MILANESE CROQUETTES.—-See Croquettes. MILDEW.—This and clean cooks should be strangers. In spite, however, of every care it will occasionally appear in damp cupboards when the circulation of air is insuffi- cient. Lime-washing will remove it from the walls, but when it has taken possession of foods, although the effect at first is merely superficial, its influence rapidly extends. This suggests the unhesitating destruction of the article affected. MILK (Fr. Lait; Ger. Milch; Ital. Latte; Sp. Leche). —Containing as it does all the elements that are required for the growth and maintenance of the human body, Milk is rightly regarded as the type of an alimentary substance (says Blyth in his “ Dictionary of Hygiene ”); and these are nitrogenous matters—fat, sugar, water, and salts. The fat is held in a very finely-divided state in the form of minute globules suspended in the fluid. These appear to be surrounded by an envelope of casein or albumenised matter, which during the process of churn- ing becomes broken up. Good Milk is a white homogeneous fluid secreted by the mammary glands of animals. Cow’s Milk is usually employed in this country; but in Sweden and Denmark, sheep’s Milk; in Switzerland goat’s Milk; in Lapland, reindeer’s Milk; and in Tartary, mare’s Milk is used. The Milk of goats and asses is occasionally used here, but unless otherwise stated, these observations apply to cow’s Milk. In India large quantities of buffalo Milk are used for dietary purposes, especially for the manufacture of Ghee. The composition of Cow’s Milk is very constant, showing in analysis much the same results whether obtained from an ill- nourished cow or the best Alderney, the only difference being in the proportion of fat. This fat rises and collects on the surface of the Milk after standing, and when skimmed off is called cream, the Milk underneath being known as separated, or skimmed Milk; from the cream we get butter, and from the separated Milk, which is deprived of the greater portion of its fat, may be obtained good curds for cheese. From this it will be understood that separated Milk, although deprived of its fat, contains a large proportion of nutrient casein. Unfortunately, Milk is subject to much adulteration at the hands of unscrupulous dealers. Water, starch, dextrine, or gum, and emulsions from seeds, have all been found in adulterated Milk, but in these days the Adulteration Act is so rigidly enforced concerning Milk that the worst adulteration to be met with nowadays is- water. This can be dis- covered by floating in the Milk an in- (Dairy Supply Co.), strument called a lactometer (see Fig. 1163). The specific gravity of good Milk varies between 1‘026 and 1'031. Anything below that would lead the examiner to suspect the addition of water. The lacto- meter takes its degrees from water, which is reckoned as l'OOO. But, it might happen that Milk containing a larger proportion of fat than usual might cause the lactometer to register even lower than water, fat being so much lighter than water. The milkman, however, usually lets down his Milk with sugar and water, which Fig. 1163. Lactometer. Milk—continued. gives a higher specific gravity, so that some other means besides the lactometer is necessary to test the quality of Milk with any degree of certainty. The next step is to ascertain the amount of cream contained in a given quantity of Milk. The proportion of cream can be tested by what is called a registering-stand (see Fig. 1164), which should be Fig. 1164. Registering-stand for Milk (Dairy Supply Co.). used by every conscientious retailer of Milk; lie would then be in a position to guarantee the proportion of nourishing properties contained by the Milk he sold. Fig. 1165. Registering-stand, Lactometer, and Thermometer (Dairy Supply Co.). If a stand of this kind be placed in a conspicuous part of the dairy, and one of the glasses filled at every milking, the public would see for themselves the layer of cream as it rises to the top. A very useful little arrangement made up of lactometer, thermometer, and registering glasses complete (see Fig. 1165), which is sold by the Dairy Supply Com- Fig. 1166. Block-tin Milk-bucket (Dairy Supply Co.). pany, must be of great value to all dealers who care to make sure of the quality of the Milk they sell. Full directions are given with each stand, and these are rendered sufficiently simple to be readily understood andOODDAHKD AND Sl’ICMD MMATS.937 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. milk—continued. practised. When Milk is first drawn from the cow it is conveyed to the dairy in an ordinary block-tin bucket (see Fig. 1166) and emptied through a strainer (see Fig. 1167) into a drum or receiver (see Fig. 1168), this drum being marked on the inside with a scale showing the number of quarts it contains; from Fig. 1167. Milk-strainer (Dairy Supply Co.). this it may be transferred to a can (see Fig. 1169) by means of a dipper (see Fig. 1170) and conveyed to any spot, or emptied into a churn fitted with a tight- fitting lock-lid (see Fig. 1171) for transport. When only small quantities are to be sent away by road or rail, Fig. 1168. Measuring-drum or Receiver for Milk (Dairy Supply Co.). it is usually enclosed in what is termed a bottle (see Fig. 1172), but when the distance is short a small can answers the purpose, and the best of these is one in- vented by Mr. Keen, the lid of which is fitted with a ventilator (see Fig. 1173). Fig. 1169. Can for Carrying Milk or Cream (Dairy Supply Co.). The above are what may be called dairy fittings, and are considered essentials of the trade. The various processes to which Milk is subjected for making Butter, Cheese, Cream, and Curds, are described under those headings. We have here to deal with Milk in its simple state, and as it forms at all Milk—continued. times a most nourishing and pleasing drink, it follows as a matter of course that in the heat of summer it will be more pleasant if iced; a very ingenious apparatus has been invented for that service (see Fig. 1174). This con- Fig. 1170. Dipper for Milk (Dairy Supply Co.). sists of a long cylinder filled with ice which is put into the Milk and allowed to remain until the required coldness is obtained; this also has the effect of preserving the Milk from decomposition. Fig. 1171. Milk-churn or Can (Mathews and Son). In winter it is usual to drink Milk that has been warmed; for this purpose, what are called Milk-warmers (see Fig. 1175) have been constructed, consisting of an inner pan made of earthenware, and an outer casing Fig. 1172. Milk-bottle (Dairy Supply Co.). of tin, containing water which is heated by a gas-burner underneath; the Milk is placed in the pan, and when sufficiently heated by the hot water is drawn through the tap as required. Milk heated in this way, even in theTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 938 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk—continued. height of summer, will keep better than in its natural state, owing to a hardening change that the albumen undergoes, but in this condition it is less easily digested. When boiling Milk, it is better to use a water-bath, or a double boiler (see Fig. 1176), because as the Milk reaches Milk—continued. air is absorbed. It must afterwards be stored in a cool place. Milk thus treated will keep good for years. Fig. 1175. Milk-warmers (Dairy Supply Co.). Another method known as Bethel’s patent consists of scalding the Milk, and when cold charging it highly with carbonic acid by means of a soda-water machine. A little Fig. 1173. Keen’s Ventilated Milk-can. the boiling-point, the bubbles formed in the albuminous Milk ride up over each other in such a manner that the saucepan is suddenly filled to overflowing and the Milk “ boils over ” almost without notice. As Milk requires a rather higher temperature than water to make it boil, the use of the water-bath raises the temperature of the Milk to that of boiling water without risk of boiling over or burning. The first sign of decomposition in Milk is acidity. This the cook frequently makes use of to produce ex- cellent dishes, but when Milk quite, or almost, free from acidity is required for any purpose, it is sometimes use- ful to ascertain not only the existence of acid (lactic acid), but the extent to which acidification has gone. Blue litmus paper exposes the presence of acid by turning red; but some such arrangement as that invented by a Mr. Stokes, which lie calls “Acidity pellets ” (see Fig. 1177), is necessary. The glass is filled up to a certain mark with the suspected Milk, and then a pellet (see Fig. 1177) is thrown in and dissolved by stirring the Milk with a glass rod shown in the measure. As soon as a faint pink is manifest in the Milk the degree of acidity is ascertained. Each pellet represents -jLth of 1 per cent, so that if ten pellets were dissolved before the pink stage was reached, that would indicate that the Milk contained exactly 1 per cent, of lactic acid. Condensed Milk is obtained by evaporating in a suitable apparatus a large proportion of the water of the Milk and adding to the remainder sufficient finely-powdered loaf sugar to give it a thick consistency. Chemists believe this preparation to be as nu- tritious as fresh Milk. It is preserved in hermetically sealed tins. Fresh Milk may be preserved by putting it into stout bottles which should be well corked and wired down, and heating it to the boiling-point of water in a water-bath; by this means the oxygen of the small quantity of enclosed Fig. 1174. ICE-CVLINDER FOR MlLK (Dairy Supply Co.). Fig. 1176. Double Boiler for Milk. bicarbonate of soda dissolved in the Milk will prevent it turning acid for several days. Artificial Milk.—Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, beat them together for five minutes, pour in 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, beat for five minutes longer, pour in gradually 1 teacupful of boiling water, stir well, and use immediately. Biestings.—The first two milkings of a cow newly calved are saved for the calf, but the third may lie used for making custards, and is much esteemed by country folk. Take the required quantity and add to it a little salt and sugar and any flavouring required. Have ready a few patty-pans lined with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake the custards in a moderate oven. When done, take them out, let them get quite cold, and they are ready for use; or the biestings may be scalded over a clear fire, stirring slowly until it thickens, and then it can be used as be- fore with the addition of a few currants if desired. Boiled Milk for Invalids.—The fol- lowing is a good substitute for cod liver oil, and agrees with a delicate stomach: Chop fine loz. of mutton-suet, put it into a saucepan with Ain. piece of cinnamon and a little grated Fig. 1177. Stokes’s Patent Milk Test (Dairy Supply Co.).THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 939 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk—continued. nutmeg, pour in 1 "breakfast-cupful of Milk, and boil for five minutes. Take out the piece of cinnamon, pour the Milk into a basin, let it cool, skim oft' the skin that will form on the surface, and serve either warm or' cold, with biscuits or pieces of dry toast. German Milk Nuts.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and stir in loz. of sugar and sufficient flour to thicken ; continue to boil until the mixture no longer adheres to the pan, pour it out into a basin, let it cool, and work in four well-beaten eggs. Put 3 more breakfast-cupfuls of Milk on to boil; cut out pieces from the mass with a spoon, droj) them into the boiling Milk and simmer gently for a few minutes. Turn them out on to a dish, cover with a few lumps of butter, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake the contents until of a pale brown colour; take them out, and serve very hot. Indian Milk Thickening' (Tyre or Dhye).—Put some Milk into a saucepan, make it warm without boiling, stir in a small quantity of stale butter, place the saucepan in a warm temperature, cover it over, let it remain for eight or ten hours, and the tyre will then be ready for use. Milk-and-Beer Soup.—Pour lqt. of Milk into a stewpan and boil it, then move it to the side, and stir in quickly with a wooden spoon the beaten yolks of six eggs; add the grated peel of a small lemon, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, which should first be mixed smoothly with a little cold Milk, 1 scant teaspoonful of grated ginger, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon or nutmeg, sugar to taste, and lqt. of beer. Whisk the whole over the fire with an egg- whisk until on the point of boiling, then turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with toasted slices of Milk rolls. Milk Biscuits.—(1) Rub lib. each of salt and butter into ’4qts. of the best wheaten-flour till quite smooth, add 1 pinch of salt, and stir the mixture to a paste with Milk. Divide the dough into small equal portions, shape them into balls, prick the tops with a fork, put them into buttered pans; and set in a warm temperature to rise for about an hour. When very light, put the biscuits in a moderate oven and bake. When crisp and cooked, take the biscuits out of the tins, and leave them till cold. If to be kept for any time, the biscuits should be put into biscuit-tins, as they will become sodden if at all damp. (2) Put 1J breakfast-cupfuls of Milk into a saucepan with Jib. of butter cut into small pieces and warm by the side of the fire. Sift 21b. of flour into a basin, stir the Milk and butter into it, add two well-beaten eggs and 2 wineglass- fuls of the best brewers’ yeast, and mix well with a knife. Sprinkle some flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it, and knead well; divide the dough into small equal - sized portions, shape them into round balls, prick the tops with a fork, lay them in buttered pans, and set in a warm temperature to rise. When quite light, put the biscuits into a moderate oven and bake. Milk Cakes.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter into fib. of flour, and add Jib. of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Then stir in sufficient warm Milk to make a dough, and knead well ; roll it into sheets, cut into round cakes with a biscuit-cutter, lay them on buttered tins, so as not to touch each other, and bake. (2) Rub 2oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, add 1 salt- spoonful of salt, J table-spoonful of baking-powder, and mix in smoothly a sufficient quantity of Milk to mould it int > a stiff paste. Dredge" a table or paste-board with flour, lay the paste on it, and roll it out as thinly as possible. Cut the paste into cakes with a round tin cutter, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake for an hour in a brisk oven. When cold, serve the cakes. Milk Crusts.—Thinly slice some French rolls, and lay them on a dish. Beat three eggs with J pint of Milk, sweeten to taste with white sugar, pour it over the rolls, and leave them until well soaked. Blanch and skin 2oz. of sweet almonds, and cut them into strips lengthwise. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pnn, make it hot, then put in the slices, and fry them until lightly browned on both sides. Drain the crusts, arrange them on a hot dish, stick the filleted almonds into them, pour over a sweet sauce, and serve. Milk—continued. Milk Dumplings (Nocken).—Beat 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter until creamy, then stir in the yolks of four eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the other ingredients, and work in sufficient flour to make a thick batter; add a small quantity of salt, and spread the mixture about Jin. thick on a dish. In about an hour’s time, divide the mixture into small egg-shaped pieces with a table-spoon, which should be constantly dipped in Milk. Place a saucepan of Milk over the fire, and when the contents boil, put in the dumplings, and boil until they rise to the top. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and stir over the fire until the sugar has dissolved. Drain the dumplings, put them into the stewpan, and leave until they are nicely browned at the bottoms and sides. Pour some of the Milk in which they were boiled into a small saucepan, and mix with it the beaten yolks of two eggs, sweeten to taste with sugar, and flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce at the side of the fire until thick, but without allowing it to boil. Put Fig. 1178. Milk Dumplings (Nocken). the dumplings on a hot dish, sift caster, sugar over, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (See Pig. 1178). Milk-and-Honey Cakes (Portuguese).—Fill a deep dish with slices of crumb of bread cut Jin. thick, cover with Milk, or cream and Milk in equal proportions, and leave until all the Milk is absorbed. Take out the slices sepa- rately, dip them into beaten egg, covering completely, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat (oil or lard), and fry to a golden brown. Serve hot with honey poured over. The slices of bread may be soaked in wine instead of Milk and proceeded with as above. Treacle may be sub- stituted for the honey, or they may be served with cinnamon and sugar, thickly sprinkled over instead of either the honey or treacle. Milk Jelly.—This is made with calf’s feet after they have been used for making jelly; put them in a saucepan with sufficient Milk to cover, and when they have cooked for several hours, strain off the liquor and flavour with nutmeg, vanilla, or lemon, adding sufficient sugar to sweeten. A little onion, celery, turnips, spice, &c., may be used if a savoury is desired, instead of the sweet flavouring, or a well-beaten egg may be added to make it more nourishing. Put it into a jar or jug, let it settle, pour it into a mould, and when set turn it out and serve, garnished either with whole-fruit jam or parsley. Milk Lemonade.—(1) Put the juice of three lemons and the thin rind of one into a basin with 2oz. of caster sugar, and pour over 1J pints of boiling water; cover the basin, and let it remain for twelve hours. Add 1 gill of milk, let it stand for ten minutes longer, strain all through a jelly-bag, and when clear it is ready for use. (2) Put 8oz. of caster sugar in a basin with lqt. of boil- ing water, and, when dissolved, add 1 breakfast-cupful of lemon-juice and J pint of sherry wine. Mix these well, and add about § pint of Milk. Stir well, strain it, and it is ready for use. (3) Put the peel of two lemons in a basin, squeeze the juice of them over It, and leave for twelve hours or so. Add 21b. of caster sugar, 3qts. of boiling Milk, and lqt. of white wine. Mix thoroughly, and pass it through a fine sieve or jelly-hag until quite clear, and when cold it is fit for use.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 940 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to. see under their special heads. Milk—continued. Milk-and-Onion Soup.—Peel the required amount of small onions, cut them into thin slices, put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry for a few minutes over a moderate fire, but without letting them brown. Pour Milk over the onions, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a lump of sugar, and boil gently until the onions are tender. Beat the yolks of three or four eggs in a soup-tureen, and when the soup is ready pour it over gently. Serve the soup while very hot. Milk Panada.—Put 1 pint of Milk in a saucepan, boil up, and let it get cold. Add some crumb of bread and boil for forty-five minutes or so, stirring frequently, and adding a very little salt. Remove from the fire, and it is ready for use. Milk Pie.—Put 6oz. of flour and 1 teaspoonful of salt in a basin, then stir in gradually 3 pints of Milk; break in five or six eggs, and beat the whole well together. Butter a baking-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake till nicely browned. When cooked, cut the pie into squares, and serve. Milk-and-Plum Porridge.—Stone about two dozen raisins, cut them into halves, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for twenty minutes; at the end of that time, drain off all the water, pour in 1 pint of Milk, and place the saucepan over the fire again. Mix 1 table- spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a very little cold Milk, and when the Milk boils stir it in and boil the whole for ten minutes longer, stirring all the time. Season the porridge with a little salt, then pass it through a strainer, and serve. Milk Porridge.—(1) Take 1 level table-spoonful of flour, mix it quite smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, taking care that there are no lumps left. Put this into a good thick saucepan, add to it 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk, 1 level teaspoonful of salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it on the stove, and keep stirring till it boils; let it boil for ten minutes, and it is then ready to serve. (2) Put 1 handful of oatmeal into a bowl of water, let it stand till clear, then pour off the water ; add fresh, stir well, leave it for a day, strain the liquor into a saucepan, pour in sufficient Milk to make the porridge, boil well, and serve. A very small quantity of water only should be used. Milk Pudding.—(1) Boil 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water in Iqt. of Milk, add a little salt and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir till it thickens, and simmer for ten minutes; if not sufficiently thick add more flour, and simmer for another ten minutes; then stir into it two well-beaten eggs, taking care that it does not boil after the eggs are added. Just before taking it from the saucepan stir in ^oz. of butter. Serve with red-currant jelly over it. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk and half the quantity of water into a saucepan, boil them, and mix in 2 break- fast-cupfuls of flour. Let the mixture cool slightly, add 3oz. of butter, and when quite cold mix in nine well-beaten eggs, lib. of sugar, a little each of ground cinnamon and mace, and 1 wineglassful of wine. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. Milk Punch.—(1) Put the thinly-pared rind and the juice of twelve lemons into a large jar with 21b. of loaf sugar, 24 pints of water, and three bottles of rum. Stir well until the sugar has dissolved, pour in lqt. of boiling Milk, and then cover the jar. Leave for twenty-four hours, strain the punch through a jelly-bag, pour it into pint bottles, cork well, and stow them away. (2) For 3 pints of whisky allow J pint each of brandy and rum, 1 pint of lime-juice, 1J, pints each of new Milk and thin syrup, loz. of tincture of St. Michael’s oranges, and Joz. each of tinctures of nutmeg and coriander. Mix the tinctures with the whisky, rum, and brandy, then add the lime-juice. Put the Milk over the fire in a lined saucepan, and directly it begins to boil mix it in with the other ingredients. Stir until thoroughly mixed, then strain the punch through a jelly-bag and afterwards through filtering-paper. When very bright and clear, mix the syrup with it, pour it into dark green glass bottles, cork tightly, and keep them in a cool cellar. Milk—continued. (3) Put 1 pint of Milk into a basin, mix in 2oz. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 wineglassful each of brandy and rum, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and stir well. Pour it into glasses, sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon, and serve. Should it be required hot the Milk must be nearly boiling before adding the other ingredients. The fresher and richer the Milk the better the punch will be. (4) Fill a bottle as full as possible with lemon-peel, and then add as much brandy as it will admit; cork down, stand it in the sun for two or three days, then pour out the brandy and mix with it 21b. of sugar, 4qts. more brandy, 2qts. each of water and boiling Milk (boiled with spice), and about 1 pint of lemon-juice. When this is cold strain till quite clear, and bottle it instantly. (5) Pare the rinds as thinly as possible off three oranges and three lemons, put them into J bottle of mm, cork it tight, and let the peels steep for twenty-four hours. Grate the peeled lemons and oranges with some lumps of sugar in order to obtain any flavour of rind that may be left on the skin. Take lib. of loaf sugar, including that used to grate the lemons and oranges, and add to it the strained juice of the oranges and lemons; pour over |gall. of boiling water, then stir the | bottle of ram into it, peels and all, and add 1 pint of boiling Milk. Stir the punch and let it ran through a jelly-bag till quite clear. Bottle at once and cork tightly. (6) Beat up the yolks of two eggs till very light together with 2oz. of powdered sugar. Put 1 pint of Milk, warm from the cow, over the fire, and let it boil; mix with the beaten yolks of eggs a glass of the best sherry, stir well, and then pour in the boiling Milk by degrees, stirring well all the time. Add cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, then pour the punch rapidly five or six times from one vessel to another. This punch if taken very hot is said to be a good remedy for a cold. (7) Thinly pare the yellow rinds off two lemons, put it in a jug with 1 pint of cognac, and infuse for four or five hours. Afterwards strain the brandy into another jug, mix with it 1 pint each of white rum and Milk, and let it stand. Soak Joz. of gelatine in a small quantity of Milk for two hours, then stir it over the fire until dissolved. Mix the gelatine with the contents of the jug, and whisk the whole well with an egg-whisk for ten or fifteen minutes, and add the juice of one lemon. Strain the punch through a jelly-bag, pour it into bottles, cork tightly, and keep in a dry cool cellar or store-cupboard for use. (8) Infuse sufficient green tea in boiling water to make 4 pint; strain it into a large jar and mix in \ pint of lime-juice and 1 scant teaspoonful each of essence of cloves, coriander, nutmeg, lemon, and pine-apple. Pour in 3 pints of thin syrup and 1 pint each of rum and brandy ; stir well, and add 1 4 pints of boiling Milk. Rinse a jelly-bag in hot water, strain the punch through it, pour it into bottles, cork them, and pack in a cool cellar for use. (9) Peel the rinds as thinly as possible oil' six lemons, one bitter orange, and one Tangerine ; put the rinds into a wide- mouthed bottle with the juice of the lemons, lib. of caster sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon ; pour in 4 pint of ram, cover the bottle, and let the contents stand for two days. At the end of that time add to the above mixture 1 pint of water, 4 pint of brandy, and 4 pint more rum. Shake the bottle well, pour in 1 pint of boiling Milk, and leave it for two or three hours. Strain the punch through a jelly-bag, pour it into smaller bottles, and cork tightly. (10) Put the peels of twelve lemons and two oranges in 2qts. of ram and infuse for twelve hours or so, add (.gall, of water, 1 pint of lemon-juice, 1 pint of strong green tea, lib. of sugar, 1 gill of maraschino, 1 pint of Madeira, and one nutmeg finely grated. When well mixed, add 1 pint of boiling Milk, let it remain for six hours or so, strain through a jelly-bag, put it hi bottles, and it is then ready for use. . . (11) Dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in a basin with \ pint of boiling water, and add the rind of half a lemon, the zest of an orange, and the juice of three lemons, also a little cinnamon, a few cloves, and a few grains of coriander.941 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk—continued. Mix all well, and add 1 gill each of ram, Milk, arrack, and tea infusion. Strain the liquid through a fine sieve into a basin, freeze it on the ice, put it into glasses, and serve. (12) Put igall. of Milk into a basin, and mix in half the quantity of brandy, 6oz. of caster sugar, and the juice of six lemons and six oranges. Mix well, and strain through a jolly-bag in which the rinds of two lemons have been placed. Pour it into bottles, and it will keep good for a long time. (13) Beat four eggs in a china bowl, and add £ pint of noyau, then the same quantity each of ram and brandy, and lastly h pint of all of them mixed. Pour over igall. of boiling Milk, with loz. of sugar dissolved in it, mix thoroughly, grate a little nutmeg over, and it is ready for use. Milk-Punch Syrup.—Put 1 pint of simple or plain spirit into a bottle with 8oz. each of brandy and Jamaica rum and mix thoroughly ; 2 teaspoonfuls of an extract prepared by macerating 2oz. of ground nutmeg in 8oz. of alcohol may be added to flavour. When used with soda-water, the required quantity of the syrup is poured into a glass, an equal quantity of cream syrup added, and the aerated water poured over and served at once. Milk Rolls.—Scald h pint of Milk without letting it boil, then let it cool, and when cool add and stir into it Jib. of flour and 1 table-spoonful of sugar mixed with 2 table- spoonfuls of yeast. Put Jib. of flour and a very little salt into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, and pour in the mixture; cover, and let it stand in a moderately warm place all night. Next day work in loz. of butter warmed quite soft and let it stand for six hours in a warm place. Fig. 1179. Milk Kolls. Form the dough into oblong rolls, lay them in a corru- gated baking-tin, too far apart from one another to run together, and let them stand for three hours longer, then bake in a quick oven, and glaze with white of egg. See Fig. 1179. Milk Soup.—(1) Mix h teacupful of flour smoothly with 2qts. of Milk, pour it into a lined saucepan, put in three or four peach-leaves, and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon, boil for five minutes, then move it to the side. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat the yolks, and stir them into the soup ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stitt' froth together with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, drop the whisked whites in small table-spoonfuls on the top of it, dust over a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and serve. (2) Put 2lb. of peeled potatoes and a couple of leeks or onions in a saucepan with igall. of water and boil until tender. Pass them through a sieve and put them all back as a puree into the saucepan. Add 2oz. of butter, and, when melted, pour in 1 pint of Milk, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture frequently while over the fire, and when it boils add 6 table-spoonfuls of powdered tapioca ; boil for ten minutes longer, and it is ready for use. (3) Put a cow-heel or knuckle of veal into a saucepan with a chopped onion, carrot, and turnip, pour over Agall. of Milk, and season with whole pepper and mace. Let the soup simmer gently for two hours, strain it into another saucepan, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of cornflour mixed smoothly with a little cold Milk, then add salt to taste. Cut off all the meat from the cow-heel, chop it into small squares or dice, put them into the soup, and serve ; or the cow-heel may be served separately with parsley-and- butter sauce. Milk—continued. (4) Make a good strong stock of veal or an old fowl, strain, set it to cool, and then skim off the fat. Put it over the fire again and boil in it a little rice, macaroni, or vermicelli: add, when this is boiled soft, a lump of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Mix the beaten yolks of five eggs with 1 pint of Milk or cream, warm it over the fire till it begins to thicken, then add to the stock, pour it into the tureen, and serve. (5) Blanch and pound half-a-dozen bitter almonds, put them into a saucepan with 2qts. of Milk, and boil; sweeten to taste, and add a small pinch of salt. Whisk the whites and yolks of four eggs separately, then mix them; remove the saucepan containing the boiling Milk from the fire, and as soon as the bubbling ceases, whisk in the eggs until a froth appears. Pour it at once into a bowl, and serve. Sweet sponge biscuits should accompany this. (6) Peel and wash three large potatoes, put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and place them over the fire until the water boils, then pour it off. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of dripping in with the potatoes, and place the saucepan over the fire ; stir until the dripping lias melted, then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, pour in H pints of boiling water, add 2 saltspoonfuls of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and stew the potatoes for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, rub the potatoes and their cooking-liquor through a fine wire sieve; return all to the saucepan with f pint of Milk, and stir in 2oz. of seed-sago. Place the saucepan over the fire and continue stirring the contents until boiling, then move it to the edge and boil slowly for fifteen minutes. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or crofttons of bread fried brown in butter. (7) Dutch Style.—Blanch and pound loz. of bitter almonds, put them in a saucepan with 2qts. of Milk, and boil. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 saltspoonful of salt; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stitt' snow, and mix them with the yolks. When the Milk boils, move it to the side of the fire, leave for two minutes, then whisk in the eggs until it froths. Put seven or eight small sponge biscuits in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve without delay. (8) German Style.—Put lqt. of Milk in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until boiling. Beat one egg together with a small quantity of salt and sufficient flour to make a still' batter, then drop it in small quantities into the boiling Milk. Let the soup simmer at the side of the fire for four or live minutes, season to taste with salt or powdered cinnamon and sugar, turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve while hot. (9) Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, then stir in gradually 3 pints of Milk and the beaten yolks of two eggs; put in a small piece of lemon-peel or two peach- leaves, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sweeten to taste. Stir the above ingredients over the fire until on the point of boiling ; beat the whites of the two eggs to a stitt' froth, together with a small quantity of crushed loaf sugar. When ready, turn the soupi into a soup-tureen, then pour in the beaten white of eggs in table-spoonfuls, dusting each table-spoonful with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Serve without delay. (10) Put 2qts. of Milk into an enamelled saucepan with 1 saltspoonful of salt and loaf sugar to taste ; colour it with a small quantity of saffron, and boil for two or three minutes. Break two eggs in a basin and beat them with a knife, dredging in at the same time as much flour as will make a stitt' paste. Chop the paste into very small pieces, and put them into the boiling Milk. Boil the soup for ten or fifteen minutes longer, then turn it into a soup-tureen and serve. The sugar may be omitted if desired, in which case more salt should be used. Milk Soup A la Royale.—Boil Jgall. of Milk, and add a little salt and sugar, and a liaison of the yolks of twelve eggs diluted with cream. Cut thirty-six crottons of the crumb from a household loaf, put them on a gridiron, dust over with sugar, and glaze in the oven. Put them in a tureen, pour over the Milk soup, and serve hot.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 042 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk —continued. Milk—continued. Milk Soup flavoured with Almonds.—With a tin cutter Hin. in diameter, cut about t .verity rounds of bread with- out any crust, put them flat on a baking-sheet, sift over caster sugar, and put them in the oven till glazed and lightly browned. Blanch and peel 4oz. of sweet almor.ds and loz. of bitter ones ; put them in a mortar and pound, pouring in occasionally a little Milk to prevent them oiling, then rub them through a fine wire sieve. Boil lqt. of Milk, season it with a small quantity of salt and sugar, and mix the pounded almonds with it; the Milk must not boil after the almonds are added. When nicely browned, put the pieces of bread in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve while very hot. Milk Soup with Egg’s.—Put 3 pints of Milk into a sauce- pan, add a little cinnamon and 1 teacupful of sugar, boil it up, then remove it to the side of the lire. Put three eggs in a basin, work them with a spoon, and add gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of flour and :}lb. of melted butter; work it into a p>aste and add a little seasoning. Put a small colander having rather large holes over the pan containing the Milk, pour tlu^pg mixture into it, so that it will drop in the boiling liaKr. When it has all passed through, remove the pan m the side of the fire, cover it, leave for ten minutes, but without letting it boil, and it is ready to be served. Milk Spatzen.—Prepare a sti.T batter with flour and Milk, mixing a small quantity of salt with it, and beat it well. Pour Milk into a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then drop in flakes of the batter, cut with a knife, which should be constantly dipped in water. Boil the spatzen for five minutes, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and mix in a small piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs ; stir it at the side of the fire for five minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Milk with. Suet.—Finely chop loz. of mutton-suet, put it in a sauce >an with lqt. of Milk, and boil for thirty minutes. Add a little lemon-peel or cinnamon to flavour, strain it through a jelly-bag, sweeten with caster sugar, and serve while warm. Milk Toast.—(1) Toast slices of stale bread to a delicate colour; meantime heat to the boiling-point sufficient Milk to saturate the toast, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of butter to each pint of Milk. When the Milk boils, pour it over the toast, and serve hot at once. The boiling Milk may be thickened with a little flour or cornflour. (2) French Style.—Cut some slices about Jin. thick off a stale loaf, trim off all the crusts, and lay the slices on a deep dish. Beat an egg up in J pint of Milk, mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and pour it over the bread. Butter a gridiron, lay the slices carefully on it before they are too soft, put them over a clear lire, and brown nicely on both sides. When ready, spread the toast with butter, put it on a hot dish on which lias been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-peper, and serve without delay. Sour-Milk Biscuits.—Mix 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda with lqt. of sifted flour; rub loz. of Fig. 1180. Sour-Milk Biscuits. butter in with the flour till quite smooth, then mix in gradually 1 pint of thick sour Milk, using a broad knife and moistening a small part of the flour only with each addition of the Milk. When the dough is stiff enough to be handled, not kneaded, cut it through with the douglnknife; it should look spongy in the cuts if properly mixed, and seem full of air. Dust plenty of flour over a paste-board or table, put the dough on it, and toss it about with a knife till well floured ; roll the dough quickly and lightly till Jin. in thickness, then cut it into rounds. Butter a baking-tin, put the rounds on it, and bake in a quick oven. Sec .Fig. 1180. Sour-Milk Brown Bread.—Mix 1 pint of corn-meal with an equal quantity of fine flour, add 1 teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt, and sift and mix altogether ; pour in slowly 1 pint of sour Milk and 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses or treacle, and beat well. If not moist enough to pour, add a little warm water. Pour it into a well- greased mould to two-thirds the height of the mould, and cover with a tight-fitting lid also greased. Steam it for three hours in a steamer, or put the mould in a saucepan half-full of water. Keep the water simmering, and as it boils away replenish to keep it at the same level. Remove the cover, and place the mould in the oven for fifteen minutes to dry the crust. Thickened Milk.—(1) Put 1 pint of Milk into a saucepan and boil it together with a small piece of lemon-peel. Mix 1 table-spoonful of wheat flour to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water,then stir it in the boiling Milk, and continue stirring till it thickens. The .above mixture can lie served either with sugar or treacle, according to taste. (2) Beat up an egg in a basin, and pour over it 1 break- fast-cupful of boiling Milk ; add a little vanilla, nutmeg, or lemon-peel to flavour it, and when quite cold put it in a glass, and serve. MILKWEED.—A term applied to plants of the genera. Asclepias and Acerates. Their steins abound in a warm-tasting sweet milky juice, which makes them a favourite for salads in America, where they grow wild. The following is a good receipt: The young shoots of the Milkweed should be gathered and thoroughly washed in cold water. Break off the few leaves that have appeared (or if preferred they may be cooked with the shoots), tie the shoots into small bunches, and boil for twenty minutes in slightly salteel water. When cooked, drain the Milkweed, and put it on a dish. Serve with a plain salad dressing or a melted-butter sauce. MILLE-EEUILLES CAKE.—See Cakes. MILLET.—The small round seeds of Panicum rnilia- ceum (see Fig. 1181), a plant which is extensively culti- vated in many parts of the world; they are estimated to be about equal to rice in their nutritive qualities. There are several varieties, all being equally valuable for food-—that which is usually sold in our corn-shops hanging in large elegant plumes (see Fig. 1182). Millet-seeds make very nice pud- dings if prepared as follows: (1) Put 1 teacupful of well- washed Millet-seeds into an ena- melled saucepan with lqt. of milk, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; boil until tender, then take it oft' the fire and leave until somewhat cooled. Beat the yolks of four eggs thoroughly to- gether with the whites of two and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stir them in with the Millet, adding loz. of butter in small pieces, and brown sugar to taste. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, grate a small quantity of nut- meg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve while hot. (2) Wash 1 teacupful of Millet, and mix it with lqt. of new milk, 4oz. of butter broken into small pieces, 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Thickly butter a pie- dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for an-hour-and-a- lialf in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve. Fig. 1181. Millet-plant.943 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see wider their special heads. Fig. 1182. Bunch of Millet-seed. Millet—continued. (3) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of new milk into a saucepan, boil it, stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of Millet, which should have been thoroughly cleaned, sweeten to taste, flavour with lemon-peel, cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, work in four eggs, turn the mixture into a dish lined with puff paste, and bake slowly. Serve hot. MILT.—The soft roe of a fish, The spleen of an animal is some- times erroneously called Milt or Melt, as it was believed to corre- spond with a fish’s soft roe. MILTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. MINCEMEAT.—This word evidently takes its culinary origin I from the French emincer, and sig- j nifies anything that is minced or , chopped up finely. From the fol- lowing receipts it will be seen that Mincemeat may be prepared according to a variety of formulas, most cooks having a special re- ceipt of their own fancy, from which they make their Mince pies. (1) Mix together lib. each of cleaned currants, Valencia raisins, pippins, boiled pickled ox-tongue, and flesh from calf’s feet, all finely chopped, also Jib. each of chopped beef-suet and can lied peel, Jib. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spice, and moisten with 3 tumblerfuls of wine and brandy in equal proportions, and the strained juice of two lemons. (2) Finely chop 12oz. of the lean part of boiled beef, mix in 21b. of shred beef-suet, about lib. of apples, peeled and cored, the grated rind of a lemon, lib. each of moist sugar and cleaned currants, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and mixed spice to flavour; when these are thoroughly incorporated, moisten with 1 wineglassful of port and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and pack away in jars. (3) Mix together 21b. each of stoned and chopped raisins, cleaned currants, sultana raisins, apples, and shred beef- suet, also 12oz. of sugar, Jib. of mixed spice, 2oz. each of chopped candied citron- .and lemon-peels, the finely-minced rind of one lemon, and moisten with the juice of two lemons, and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. (4) Cut off about 21b. from the inside of a boiled sirloin of beef, free it from skin, add 4Jlb. of beef-suet, and mince finely. Now add eight apples, peeled, ’cored, and chopped, 61b. of cleaned currants, the grated crumb of a small loaf (twopenny one), ljlb. of sugar, loz. of grated nutmeg, Joz. of cloves, the grated peels of an orange and lemon, and moisten with the juice of six oranges and two lemons, and 2 tumblerfuls each of brandy and port wine. Pack away in jars. (5) Put six moderate-sized lemons into a saucepan with plenty of water and boil them. When soft enough for a straw to go easily through their skins, drain and weigh them, and allow an equal weight each of pared and cored golden pippins, stoned and chopped raisins, washed and dried currants, thinly-shred candied orange- and citron-peels together in equal quantities, finely-minced beef-suet, and a quarter the weight of moist sugar. Remove the pips and chop the lemons as small as possible. Mix all the ingredients together and pass them through a mincing-machine. Add to the mixture a small grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 scant teaspoonful each of ground mace and ginger, and 3oz. of crushed macaroons. Pack the mixture into small jars, cover, and keep them tied down tightly for use. (6) Mince very fine 1 Jib. of beef boiled very tender, the same quantity of suet, 21b. of stoned raisins, and J peck of peeled and cored apples; mix all these together Mincemeat—continued. and add loz. of powdered cloves, ljoz. of powdered cin- namon, the juice and grated rinds of three oranges and two lemons, a little finely-chopped citron, and sufficient sugar to make the Mincemeat very sweet; add whisky and hard cider to taste. When this Mincemeat is made into piies, serve with them a sauce made of butter, cider, and sugar, or butter, lemon- or orange-juice, and sugar. (7) Peel, core, and chop fine 51b. or 61b. of tart juicy apples, also 41b. of boiled beef, and lib. of beef-suet. Mix in 21b. each of stoned raisins and well-washed currants, Jib. each of finely-chopped candied citron- and orange-peels, the grated yellow rinds of three lemons together with the juice, season with powdered cloves, cinnamon, mace, and grated nutmeg, using about Joz. of each, 1 Jib. of powdered sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Add sufficient hard cider to moisten and also brandy to give it a flavour. (8) To 21b. of chopped beef-suet add an equal quantity each of pared and minced apples, well-wcshed and pricked currants, and stoned and choprpred raisins, Jib. each of moist sugar and citron, Jib. each of candied lemon- and orange-peels both cut fine, two nutmegs grated, Joz. each of salt, ginger, allspice, and cloves, all ground, and the juice of one lemon, with the grated rind. Mix all these well together with J print of brandy and the same of white wine. Put all into a jar, and keepr it in a cool prlace until wanted for use. (9) Stone and chop 2lb. of raisins; wash and thoroughly dry 2lb. of currants and cliopr half of them. Trim off tire skin and finely chop ljlb. of fresh beef-suet; peel, core, and cliopr lib. of aprples. Mix the above ingredients with fib. of mixed chopped candied preel, the grated rinds and juice of two lemons and one Seville oiange, 1 Jib. of moist sugar, and small quantities each of grated nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, ginger, and cloves. Pour in 1 print of brandy, stir the mixture well with a wooden spoon, prack it into jars, cover and tie them down closely, and keepr in a cool dry cupboard for use. (10) Procure four ripre and thin-skinned lemons, put them in a saucepran with lqt. of water, and boil until the water lias reduced to 1 print. Put 21b. of moist sugar into a basin, and squeeze the juice of the lemons over it; remove all the seeds from the puilpr of the lemons, and chop it well together with the rinds; trim off the skin and any dis- coloured prarts from 21b. of beef-suet, and cliopr it finely, dredging over a little flour to prrevent it sticking ; stone and cliopr lib. of raisins and wash and diy 21b. of currants. Mix all the above ingredients together, add 1 table-spoonful of mixed ground sprices, 1 breakfast-cupful of the water in which the lemons were boiled, and 2 wineglassfuls each of brandy and prort wine. Stir the Mincemeat well with a wooden sproon, and prack it into jars: cover with stout paper or parchment, tying down tightly, and keep in a dry store-cupboard for use. (11) Mince lib. of cooked tongue, ljlb. of beef-suet, 211/ of well-washed and dried currants, and 1 Jib. of apipdes. Put the thinly-pared yellow rinds of three oranges and three lemons in a saucepan with plenty of water and boil. When tender, drain the rinds, mince small, and mix it with the other ingredients ; add Jib. of stoned but not choppred raisins and 1 small table-spoonful of ground mixed spices, and moisten with J print of brandy and 3 prints of cider. Work the mixture until all the ingredients are well incor- porated, then prack it in a large earthenware or stone jar, and keepr closely covered until wanted. The Mince- meat is better if kept for a month before it is made up into pies. (12) Finely chop 21b. of boiled beef, 21b. of beef-suet, 611r. of peeled aprpdes, ljlb. of stoned raisins, and fib. of candied citron-peel. Mix all these ingredients well together with 21b. of raw sugar, 1 print of molasses, and season to taste with ground cinnamon, cloves, allsprice, and nutmeg. Pour in as much wine as is liked, and stir the mixture well. Pack it in jars, leaving about Jin. spiace at the topr, which fill up with clarified butter. Cover the jars -with stout paprer, and tie down securely. Keep them hi a cool dry cupboard. (13) Stone and finely chop 31b. of raisins, lib. of dates, and lib. of French prlums ; put them in a basin and mixTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 944 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mincemeat—continued. in 31b. of ivell-wasliecl and minced currants, an equal quantity of peeled and minced apples, Jib. of chopped candied lemon- and orange-peels, and the minced pulp of six lemons and three oranges. Add also 31b. of raw sugar, A table-spoonful each of ground ginger and mixed spice, A pint each of brandy, sherry, and Marsala, 1 table-spoon- ful of curacoa, and the grated peels of three lemons and two oranges. Stir these ingredients until thoroughly well mixed, then pack the Mincemeat closely into jars, cover with rounds of paper dipped in brandy, and tie down securely with stout paper. Keep the Mincemeat in a coni dry store-cupboard. The pulp of the oranges and lemons should have all the white skin and pips removed before it is chopped. (14) Take lib. each of currants, chopped apples, moist sugar, and well-chopped suet, Jib. of raisins, stoned and chopped small, the juice of four oranges and two lemons, and the rind of one lemon shredded fine, nutmeg and mace to taste, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mix all together, put it in a pan or jar, and keep closely covered until wanted. (15) Use equal parts of boiled beef and tongue. If the tongue is hard and dry, soak it overnight in plenty of cold water; in the morning put it over the fire in a large saucepan nearly full of cold water, and let the water gradually reach the boiling-point. When the water begins to boil, pour it off, and replace it with fresh cold water; again heat the water with the tongue in it to the boiling- point, and boil steadily and slowly for one hour. At the end of an hour put in with the tongue 31b. of lean beef cut from the neck or round, add 1 table-spoonful of salt to the liquor, and continue the boiling by a very gentle heat for three hours longer; then uncover the pot, set it off the fire, take out the tongue, skin it and then return it to the pan, and let both tongue and beef cool in the liquor. When cold free the beef from all skin and gristle, and chop it fine. Cut off from the tongue the fleshy parts about the roots, rejecting the gristle, and add to them enough of the trimmings from the tongue to make 21b.; chop this fine, and put it with the beef. Remove the membrane from 31b. of fresh beef-suet, chop it fine, and add it to the chopped beef and tongue. Next add to the meat and suet the following ingredients: 41b. of chopped apples, weighed after they are pared and cored; 4lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, but not too fine; 21b. of currants, picked over, well washed, and then nibbed dry in a clean towel, and sifted to free them from stalks; lib. of citron cut into small thin slices; Jib. each of candied lemon- and orange-peels, sliced thin; lib. of sweet and 2oz. of bitter almonds, weighed after the shells are removed— blanch the almonds by pouring over boiling water after they are shelled, then rubbing the skin off with a clean towel, and chop them, not too fine—and the grated yellow rinds and juice of four lemons and four oranges. Sweeten the Mincemeat with 41b. of moist sugar, season with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mace, and two medium-sized grated nutmegs. Next add to the Mincemeat lqt. of Madeira wine, J pint of brandy, and sufficient sweet cider to moisten it. Mix the Mincemeat thoroughly, taste it, and add, if required, more sugar, salt, and spice, remember- ing that in Mincemeat no one flavour should predominate, and that it should have a rich, even taste. Mix thoroughly, and let it stand for at least one day before using it. Mincemeat carefully made in this way will keep all the winter, if covered and placed where it is cool. (16) Use 21b. of lean beef from the neck or shoulder ; boil it gently until tender in enough boiling water to cover it, and when quite tender cool and chop it. Prepare the following ingredients, and add them to the meat: lib. each of suet, raisins, and currants, Jib. of citron, 4lb. of apples, 21b. of raw sugar, two grated nutmegs, 2 table-spoon- fuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mace, 1 table-spoonful of essence of lemon, \ pint each of wine and molasses, lqt. of sweet cider, and 1 gill of brandy. Moisten the Mincemeat with some of the liquor in which the beef was boiled, adding to it the fat which forms on the top of the liquor when cold. Mincemeat—continued. Make the seasoning of the Mincemeat palatable, and keep it for a day or two before using. Mincemeat for Banbury Cakes.—Thoroughly wash and dry Jib. of currants, and mix with them 2oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, Jib. of finely-shred mixed candied peel, 3oz. of crushed ratafias, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When well mixed pack the Mincemeat into small jars, and cover tightly for use. Mincemeat for small Patties.—Pound 2oz. of lean ham in a mortar together with double the quantity of veal or white chicken-meat, and one hard-boiled egg; season with three powdered cloves, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper. It is then ready, and when about to be used mix in 4 table-spoonfuls each of rich gravy and cream, and loz. of butter. Mincemeat Pudding.—Cut two stale penny rolls into slices about Jin. thick; butter a pudding-basin and line the bottom with a thin layer of Mincemeat, dip a few of the slices of roll in milk, then lay them on the Mincemeat; put in another layer of Mincemeat, then slices of roll dipped in milk, and so on until the basin is full. Beat four eggs in J pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and pour it Fig. 1183. Mincemeat Pudding. over the contents of the pudding-basin. Let the pudding soak for lialf-an-hour, then cover the basin with a sheet of paper; put a plate over it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the pudding for an-hour-and-a-half. More boiling water should be poured into the saucepan as the quantity diminishes, but care should be taken that it does not enter the basin. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put the yolks of six eggs in a small lined saucepan with 6 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat them well, then mix in J pint of white wine. Place the saucepan over a moderate fire and stir the sauce until it thickens, then move it to the side and beat well. Do not let the sauce boil or the eggs will curdle. When the pudding is cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a hot dish, stick a circle of half-cherries round the upper part (see Fig. 1183), pour the sauce round it, and serve without delay. MINCE PIES.—Some very interesting details are given of the origin of these mider Christmas Fare. They are usually made in small patty-pans, dusted over with caster sugar, piled on a dish covered by a folded napkin, and garnished with bits of holly (see Fig. 1184). The following receipts are contributed by one of the most famous pastrycooks in this country. Any of the Mince- meats given under that heading may be used in these.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 945 Mince Pies—continued. (1) Prepare some puff, short- or tart paste, and roll it out on a floured table to the thickness of Jin. Butter some large patty-pans and line them with the paste; fdl each one with mincemeat, cover with rounds of the paste, trim round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake for from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a brisk oven. Beat some white of egg to a stiff froth; take the pies out when cooked, dip a paste-brush in the beaten egg, and brush them over with it. Sprinkle sugar over each, and put them in the oven again for two or three minutes to glaze. Arrange the pies on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper placed on a dish, garnish with sprigs of holly, and serve while very hot. (2) The pies are made the same as No. 1; then put some punch syrup in a small saucepan, and place it over the fire until hot. When cooked, take the pies out of their tins, pour through a funnel 1 table-spoonful of the syrup into each, sift over caster sugar, place them on a dish, and serve. (3) Take Jib. of puff paste, cut off a piece of about 3oz. in weight, roll it into a flat round lOin. in diameter, and lightly butter a large jilate. Arrange the paste on the plate and put the mincemeat in the centre, flattening it evenly, and leaving lin. space clear round the edge of the paste; take the remaining 5nz., roll it out round the same as the former, fold it, and with a knife make incisions in the centre, of Jin. each. Moisten the edge of the paste with a little beaten egg, then cover with the paste, pressing down with the hand all round the edge so as to enclose the mince- meat entirely, and brush over the top with beaten egg. Place in a moderate oven and bake for fifty minutes; remove it to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered sugar, and return it to the oven, closing the door for two minutes to melt the sugar. Then slide it carefully on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. MINCING.—See Choppers. MINERAL WATERS.—See Aerated Waters. MINION FILLETS.— A term applied to the small delicate under-fillets cut from the breasts of birds. MINNOWS—Very tiny river-fish (Phoxinus Icevis), which are often raised to the dignity of the table under Eig. 1185. Minnow. the guise of whitebait, from which it is very difficult to distinguish them (see Fig. 1185). The posterior ventral fin of the whitebait is narrow, and extends along the body towards the tail, as in the herring, of which it is the young. MINT (Fr. Menthe; Ger. Munze; Ital. Menta; Sp. Mcnta).—This is one of the most powerful herbs (Mentha viridis) used in cookery. Lindley informs us that the name mentha is derived from the Greek Mintha, a daughter of Cocytus, who was metamorphosed into a Mint- plant by Proserpine, doubtless from motives of jealousy. So powerful and characteristic is the flavour of Mint, that cooks almost fear to venture its introduction into anything other than a vinegar sauce for lamb ; but that it is capable of many other uses is shown by the following receipts. It should be used fresh if possible (see Fig. 1186), for when dried it loses much of its flavour. See Peppermint. Cream of Mint Liqueur.—Put lqt. of spirits of wine into a large bottle, add 25 drops of oil of Mint and 3 drops of oil of citron, shake the bottle vigorously, pour in lqt. of syrup, and sufficient green colouring to give a light green tint. Strain the liquid through filtering-paper, put it into small Mint—continued. bottles, cork down, and keep them in a dry cool place until wanted. Mint Beer.—(1) Bruise a small bunch of freshly-gathered Mint- leaves, put them into a jar, pour over 1 pint of iced beer and J pint of iced lemonade, stir in 4oz. of crushed ice, strain the liquor into glasses, and serve. (2) Bruise 1 handful of Mint-leaves, put them into a large jar, pour in 2 tumblerfuls of water and Jgall. of beer, stir well, strain, add crushed ice to cool, pour it into glasses, and serve. If preferred, crushed ice may lie served in the glasses, or the water and beer may be made icy cold before being poured on to the Mint-leaves. By some this drink is preferred to Mint julep. Mint Chutney.—Procure a quantity of freshly-gathered Mint, pick out all the dead leaves and stalks, and chop the remainder very finely. To 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the Mint allow Jib. of caster sugar, J breakfast-cupful of vinegar, two small cloves of minced garlic, and four or five green chillies. Mix the above ingredients well together, put the mixture into a bottle, cork tightly, and stand the bottle near the fire for a fortnight. It will be found a delicious relish for cold meats, but should only be made in small quantities. Mint Cordial.—Pick the leaves from some Mint, pour a little water over them, and then drain. Put 2 handfuls in a jar and pour over lqt. of brandy, cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Take out the Mint carefully, add the same quantity again to the liquor, and let it remain also for a day ; repeat this operation once more, and then add jgall. of water and lib. of sugar to the brandy. Mix thoroughly, and when it has settled, pour it off into bottles for use. Mint Juice.—Pick off the leaves from six stalks of fresh Mbit, clean well, and pound in a mortar, adding gradually J table spoonful of brandy or water; squeeze out all the liquor through muslin, put it in a bottle, and it is ready for use. A second quantity may be extracted in the same 'way, bruising the leaves as before, and straining. Mint Julep.—(1) Pull off about twelve young sprigs of Mint, put them into a tumbler, add 1 table-spoonful of peach liqueur and the same of brandy, fill up with pounded ice, and serve. See American Drinks. (2) Put 1 wineglassful each of brandy and syrup into a large glass, and fill up with crushed ice; dip a few sprays of Mint in rum, dust with sugar, put them on the top of the ice, float a few small pieces of orange- and lemon-rind on top, and serve with straws. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 zTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PEACTICAL COOKERY. 946 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mint —continued. (3) Take half-a-dozen sprigs of fresh Mint, bruise or crush the tops with a spoon in an ordinary tumbler in 1 table-spoonful of sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of water, put into the tumbler H wineglassfuls of brandy, take out the Mint, and fill up the tumbler with pounded ice ; put the Mint in again, the stems downwards, and on the top of the ice arrange either a few freshly-gathered berries, or a slice or two of orange or lemon, or one or two pieces of pineapple. Serve at once, with straws to drink it through. Mint Sauce.—(1) Finely chop (quickly) some fresh well- washed Mint-leaves, put them inline liately into a sauce- tureen, pour over just sulficient vinegar to float the chopped leaves, add enough sugar to sweeten the vinegar, and let it stand for a-quarter-of-an-hour. (2) Take 4 handful of Mint-leaves, finely mince them, moisten with 4 breakfast-cupful each of water and broth or consomme, add 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, and £oz. of sugar; stir well, and serve in a sauceboat. (3) Put 4 pint of vinegar into a saucepan with ioz. of brown sugar, and reduce it. Add 1 pint of water, boil for one minute only, mix in 1 table spoonful of very finely- minced Mint, and serve. Mint Vinegar.—Fill loosely a large wide-mouthed bottle with fresh clean Mint-leaves, pour in sufficient vinegar to cover, cork down the bottle securely, let it remain for two or three weeks, then pour off the vinegar into another bottle, and keep it well corked until wanted for use. This is a capital substitute when fresh Mint cannot be obtained, and should be served with lamb. Or it may be prepared by soaking the Mint-leaves in the vinegar for about fifteen days, then straining off the liquor into a bottle with fresh vinegar and leaves, and steeping for ten or fifteen days longer, before being poured into bottles for using. MINUTE PUDDING.—See Puddings. MIREPOIX.—This is the name given to a flavouring used for savoury stew. It is that of a duke who lived in the reign of Louis XV., and who became somewhat noted on account of the favour with which his duchess was treated by the king. “ It is probable ” says Kettner, “ that one of these days the common sense of mankind will rise in rebedion against this word and abolish it.” The best receipts are as follows: (1) Take two carrots, two onions, two shallots, two bay- leaves, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, and mince them together with 1,1b. each of fat bacon and raw ham. Toss these in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter and salt to season. Stew with 4 pint of red or white wine, and add to stock or sauce as required. (2) Stew in a saucepan 2oz. of fat, two carrots, one onion, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, six peppercorns, three cloves, and, if available, a liam-bone cut into pieces. Add two sprigs of celery and half a bunch of paisley-roots, cook for fifteen minutes, and use as required. Scraps of baked veal may be added if there are any at hand. MIREPOIX SAUCE.—See Sauces. MIRIN.—A Japanese alcoholic sweet liqueur. MIROTON.—Fr. for a kind of dish made up of cold meat; but as the derivation is doubtful, some of our cooks have applied the term to preparations of Apples, Beef, Flounders, Lobsters, Peaches and Veal. MISERABLES.—A popular name for the husks of cocoa-beans, which are sometimes used by the very poor to make a miserable concoction. MITES.—These are described under various headings, such as Cheese, Flour, and Sugar. They are regarded as natural destroyers of the foods they affect. MIXED PICKLE.—See Pickles. MIXED SAUCE.—See Sauces. MJODR.—The Swedish name for Mead. MOCHA.—See Coffee. MOCK.—Some cooks are fond of exercising their skill and ingenuity in preparing certain imitations of favourite dishes, usually employing for the purpose different ingredients to those used in the original. French cooks used the word moque in the same sense. In this way we have Mock Brawn, Mock Turtle, Mock Venison, (Mutton), &c. \ MODE, A LA.—The word Fran9aise is here under- stood, signifying “ in the French style.” See Beef a la Mode. MODENA CAKE.—See Cakes. MOIST SUGAR.—See Sugar. MOISTEN.—A tei •m frequently used by cooks, meaning to put upon meat or anything else as much fluid —whether water, broth, or stock—as will stew it. MOLASSES {Fr. Melasse; Ger. Melasse).—A dark- coloured, thick, viscid, uncrystallisable liquid which drains off sugar in the course of its preparation and refinement. It is a great favourite in America, where the finer kind, called sugar-house Molasses, is the best. See Treacle. The following are some of the uses to which it is applied: Molasses Beer.—(1) Put 4oz. of hops into a large pan with 2galls. of water, and boil for half-an-hour. Put 2qts. of coarsely-ground malt into a tub with 31b. of brown sugar and ] 4 pints of re-boiled Cuba Molasses. At the end of the half-hour, pour the boiling hops over the ingredients in the tub, stir up well, then leave them for an hour. When ready, strain the liquor carefully into a keg without disturbing the sediment. Pour another 2galls. of boiling water over the malt, &c., remaining in the tub, leave it until cold and settled, then strain it in with the other liquor. Proceed the same with another lgall. of water, adding at the same time 4 pint of brewer’s yeast. When the liquor in the keg is almost cold, strain the yeast water into it, let it ferment in the keg for two or three days according to the temperature, then cork it tightly. The keg should be full to the bung, so that the yeast during fermentation may work out and ran off. When fermentation lias ceased, draw the beer off into bottles, and cork them tightly. In a mor.th or six weeks’ time the beer will be fit for drinking. (2) Put into a large vessel I lb. of raw sugar, lib. of Molasses, loz. of bruised ginger, and ioz. of hops, pour in 3qts. of water, and boil for several minutes. Strain the liquor, and add 5qts. of water and 1 table-spoonful of yeast. Let the beer work for one night, then bottle it. Molasses Cake.—(1) Put 7 breakfast-cupfuls of flour into a large basin, and rub in until quite smooth ill), of butter ; then mix with it £lb. of sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of Fig. 1187. Molasses Cake. ground ginger. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 2 table-spoonfuls of warm water, then mix it with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour milk, and stir it into the above ingredients together with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Molasses. Work the dough well; if too stiff a little more947 T11E ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Molasses—continued. water can be added, or if not stiff enough a little more flour. Put the dough in a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a rather quick oven. When cut, the interior should be quite dark. See Fig. 1187. (2) Rub ill), of butter into 6J pints of flour, add lib. of stoned raisins, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and lqt. of Molasses, and mix in six well-beaten eggs. Dissolve Joz. of alum in J pint of boiling water, and when cool, mix it with J pint more water, and stir in with the other in- gredients. Make into a dough, put it into greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Put 6oz. of butter into a large basin, stand it near the fire until warmed, then mix with it 6oz. of moist sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of Molasses; beat them together for a few minutes with a wooden spoon, and add two eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Mix 1 teaspoon- ful each of powdered cinnamon and ginger with 1 Jib. of flour, then stir in gradually the beaten mixture, and work the whole until quite smooth. Butter a cake-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. This cake is better if left for a day before being served. (4) Stone and chop Jib. of raisins, and wash and thoroughly dry Jib. of currants. Rub 3oz. of butter into fib. of flour until smooth, then mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 teacupful of Molasses, and the fruit. Dissolve J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teacupful of sour milk, beat it well together with one egg, pour it over the above ingredients, and work the whole with a wooden spoon until •well mixed. Butter a shallow tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, cut the mixture into squares. (5) Beat 6oz. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar to a cream. Warm fib. of treacle and stir it in, together with J saltspoonful each of grated nutmeg and powdered ginger, and 1 saltspoonful each of powdered cloves and cin- namon. When the spice and Molasses are well stirred in, add the beaten yolks of three eggs ; whisk the whites of the three eggs to a still' froth, and mix them in, in small quantities, alternately with fib. of flour, added also in small quan- tities. Then stir in 1 piled saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water, and add lib. of raisins, stoned, cut into pieces, and well floured. Continue beating and stirring for a few minutes after all the ingredients are mixed in. Bake this cake slowly in well-buttered tins, taking care that it does not burn. Molasses Candy.—(1) Mix well together 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J pint of water, and 21b. each of moist sugar and Molasses; when thoroughly mixed, pour this mixture into a clean pan (carefully wiping the edges with a soft damp cloth or sponge), fit the lid on, set it over a moderate fire, and let the contents cook gently till they begin to thicken. Put a little into cold water, and if when cooled it is brittle, the candy is done enough. Then stir into it ljoz. of butter, take it from the fire, and turn it into buttered tins. When cool enough to touch, cut it, and pull into any desired shape. (2) Put over the fire in a sugar-boiler 2qts. of Molasses, 2Jlb. of brown sugar, and 2oz. of butter; let them boil till they candy well, then pour the candy into well-buttered dishes, and pull it till very white. (3) Put 41b. of West Indian Molasses into a preserving- pan, mix in lib. of brown sugar, set it over the fire, and boil for three hours, stirring frequently and taking care that it does not burn. When it has been boiling for two-hours-and-a-half, add a small quantity of very finely- grated lemon-rind and the strained juice of two lemons, and continue to boil for about half-an-hour longer ; when quite done, it will cease boiling, and should be crisp and brittle when it cools ; if not done, it will be tough, and will have to be boiled again. If desired, some blanched ground nuts, or some blanched almonds, cut in pieces, may be stirred in gradually a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. When done, pour it into buttered tin pans and let it cool. It may be made yellow by being pulled backwards and forwards in a thick string while still warm, and then twisted into sticks. It requires a good deal of pulling to make it yellow. Molasses—continued. (4) Boil 1 pint of Molasses in a sugar-boiler, or large enamelled stewpan, over a slow fire, stirring to prevent it running over. When it has boiled for some time, try it by putting a little in a saucer ; if brittle and hard when cold, it is done. Flavour with essence of lemon or other essence ; or pull it with the hands, after having first nibbed them over with butter to prevent the candy adhering during the process. When cool, mark it into shapes, let it get cold, break where marked, and it is ready. Molasses Pudding1.—(1) Warm |lb. of butter, and beat it well together with |lb. of moist sugar; then mix in two eggs and 1 scant breakfast-cupful of sour milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Put lib. of flour in a basin with fib. each of well-washed and dried currants and stoned chopped raisins, and any kind of ground spices that may be desired ; add the beaten ingredients and f breakfast-cupful of Molasses, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Butter a pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, put it into a saucepan with water to three- parts its height, and steam for three hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy together with 4oz. of raw sugar ; then whip in four eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of Molasses. Mix 1 table-spoonful of ginger with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour and a small quantity of warmed milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, and stir in the beaten mixture, making it quite smooth. Pour the mixture into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for one-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. (3) Warm slightly 2oz. each of butter and lard, and beat them well together with three eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of Molasses. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a scant breakfast-cupful of butter-milk, mix this with the other ingredients, and stir in sufficient flour to make a rather stiff' batter. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a rather brisk oven. Serve the pudding while hot. (4) Warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix it with nine beaten eggs and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of Molasses. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good tart-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, serve the pudding while hot. Molasses Roll Pudding.—Mix fib. of flour with rather more than :f- pint of cold water and about J saltspoonful of salt. Bet the dough be very soft, knead it a little, and roll out quickly; place on it in little pieces 3oz. of lard or butter, fold the paste in three, roll it out, sprinkle over 1J saltspoonfuls of baking-powder, fold up, and roll it out; again sprinkle with 1J saltspoonfuls of baking-powder, fold, and roll it out. Repeat the folding and rolling once again but without sprinkling with either baking-powder or iard, spreading over instead 1J gills of Molasses mixed with 3 dessert-spoonfuls of flour and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; the dough should be rolled out very thin before spreading this mixture over it. When the Molasses mixture is spread on the dough, roll it up, put a floured cloth round, pin it in the centre, and tie the ends. Boil the pudding for one hour, plunging it into boiling water, and keeping it at a fast boil all the time. When taken from the boiling water dip the pudding for an instant into cold water before taking oft' the cloth. Serve plain sauce with it. Molasses Tart.—Beat the yolks of three eggs, and mix with them 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Molasses and 1 table- Fig. 1188. Molasses Tart. spoonful of warmed butter; then whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces, d’c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 Z 2THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 948 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L’c., referred to, see under their special heads. Molasses—continued. others. Butter a tart-dish, ancl line it with a rich short- paste; pour the mixture into it, and ornament across with twisted strips of the same paste (see Fig. 1188). Bake in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. Molasses Toffy.—Put into a saucepan 21b. of brown sugar, 2qts. of Molasses, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil them to the ball degree (see SUGAR-BOILING). Add lOoz. of butter, stir well until dissolved and thoroughly, in- corporated, add a few drops of oil of lemon, and continue to boil to the crack degree. Turn the whole on to a buttered marble slab, let it cool, turn in the edges, cut it into tablets, let them get quite cold, and use as required. Molasses Vinegar.—To 3galls. of boiling water add 2qts. of Molasses, put it into a tub, and leave till cool. W hen milk-warm, stir in \ pint of yeast, put it into a cask, and stand it by the fire for twenty-four hours; after that let it remain in a warm place with a bottle in the bung-hole. In three months it will be lit to bottle. MOLE.—This is a very delicious Mexican ragout, which deserves a place at any table. Cut the flesh off a small turkey or half a large one, and chop it into small pieces; put the meat in a saucepan with broth to cover, and stew until tender. C hop four tomatoes, and put them in a stewpan with two pounded pickled cap- sicums ; take the pieces of turkey out of the liquor, put them in with the tomatoes, and strain the liquor through a line hair sieve over them. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a clove of garlic. S few the Mole gently for twenty minutes, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. A small quantity of pounded coriander-seeds, added when cooked, will be an improvement. MONACO SOUP.—-See Soups. Moor Fowl—continued. dignified with the name of moor game. They do not often find their way to the table. Moor-Fowl Pie.—Singe and draw about half-a-dozen Moor Fowl, then wash and dry them; mix together some pounded cloves, salt, Jamaica pepper, and black pepper, anti season the birds with it. Roll some butter in the remainder of the seasoning, and put a small piece in each bird. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with puff paste, and put in the birds side by side. Moisten them with 1 breakfast- cupful of rich brown stock and 1 wineglassful of port wine, cover with puff paste, trimming and pinching the edges together, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Roasted Moor Fowl.—Clean and prepare the birds, and stuff them with a mixture of breadcrumbs and butter, but without filling their crops ; place them on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast, basting frequently with butter to prevent them becoming dry. Serve on a hot dish with bread sauce or breadcrumbs fried in butter. After the birds are stuffed, they must be trussed with their heads tucked under their wings. Stewed Moor Fowl.—Truss the birds, drawing the legs within the body, and keep on the heads. Rub some flour and a little pepper and salt into a piece of butter, and put a little of this mixture inside each bird. Brown some flour arid butter, add to it two pounded cloves, a little salt, pepper, mace, and some good gravy, and put this over the fire. In the meantime, fry the birds in butter till they are nicely browned, and as soon as the thickened gravy in the sauce- pan boils, put them in, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the birds stew slowly till they are tender. If the birds are young, an hour’s stewing will be sufficient; if they are old they may require two hours. Half-an-hour before they are done add nearly 1 gill of port wine, and five minutes before dishing them add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. MONGOL WINE.—An Asiatic wine made by fermenting skimmed milk. The flavour and odour are equally insipid. MONK FISH.—See Angel Fish. MONKEY NUTS.—-See Pea-Nuts. MONMOUTH PUDDING.—-See Puddings. MONTALCINO.—A Tuscany wine not much known in this country. MONTBLANC CAKE.—See Cakes. MONTEFIA.SCONE.—The name of an Italian wine produced from the vineyards of Umbria and the Marshes. MONTEFULCIANO.—A famous wine of Tuscany. MONTEKOBBIO.—A wine produced in Lombardy. MONTGLAS. —Fr. for a preparation of meat, mush- rooms, and truffles cut up into rather large pieces. Urbain Dubois calls Montglas a kind of big “julienne. ” Several receipts for it will be found under various headings. MONTMORENCY CAKE.—See Cakes. MONTPELLIER BUTTER.—-See Butter. MONTREAL PUDDING.—See Puddings. MONTROSE CAKE.—See Cakes. MONTSERRAT LIME-JUICE.—See Limes. MOOLOO.—See Fish Mooloo (Indian). MOOR FOWL.—The red-legged ptarmigan (Lagopus scoticus) is known by this name. They are more often spoken of as moor cock, or moor hen, and are sometimes MORBADELLA.—An Italian sausage made of a good many things, and eaten cold. MORELS (Fr. Morilles; Ger. Morellen; Ital. Morelle; Sp. Crespillas).—When mushrooms and other edible fungi are scarce, the cook can always fall back upon the Morel (Morchella esculenta) for flavouring soups and sauces. In Germany large quantities are collected and dried, and they are retailed here by our oil and colourmen. In Cashmir also they are exceedingly pro- lific, as well as in some parts of this country. They grow in many different shapes, some conical, others strawberry shape, and others quite round (see Fig. 1189), the bulbous part being deeply reticulated. When cut open they are hollow, with thick fleshy walls. Morels a lTtalienne.—Blanch twelve Morels; put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of chop led paisley; melt it, then put in the Morels, and toss them for a few minutes over the fire. Moisten with white wine, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew them gently for half- an-hour. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 heaped table spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until browned; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, and continue stirring until thickened and boiling. When the Morels are cooked, pour the thickened stock over them, add the juice of half a lemon, and a small piece of chicken glaze about the size of a walnut, and boil until the glaze has dissolved. Put the Morels on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve. Fig. 1189. Morel.949 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fec., referred to, see under their special heads. Morels —continued. Stewed Morels.—(1) Trim the ends of the stems and split lib. of Morels crosswise, wash them thoroughly, then put them into boiling water that lias been slightly acidulated with vinegar or lemon-juice. Drain at once ; put them in a saucepan with a good-sized lump of butter and the juice of a lemon, place the lid on, and stand it over the lire until the butter has reduced. When cooked, turn the Morels on to a hot dish, and serve them either plain or with any sauce liked; or they may be served as a garnish. (2) Put lib. of Morels quite dry into a cloth, and shake for a-quarier-of-an hour to free them from sand; then put them into a small bowl with a seasoning of pepper and salt, 1 dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and 2oz. of butter. Cover the bowl and steam them for fifteen minutes. This may be done by taking the lid oft' a kettle of boiling water and fitting in the bowl of Morels in place of the lid. Serve thin slices of bread-and-butter with them. (3) Wash lib. of Morels, and cut the very large ones into quarters, leaving the small ones whole. Put them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of sherry, and sufficient gravy to cover, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of beaten mace, put them over the fire until the liquor boils, then move them to the side and stew gently for f.n hour. Knead loz. of butter with 1 table spoonful of flour, and when the Morels are cooked, put it in with them, add 1 table spoonful of lemon-juice, and stir over the fire until the gravy is thick and boiling. Turn the Morels on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve while very hot. Stuffed Morels.—After cleaning the Morels, cut them at the bottom far enough to admit a forcemeat of cold chopped meat and bread, highly seasoned, or of partly-cooked sausage-meat; close them with a wooden or small metal skewer, lay them on small slices of bread, and place in a moderate oven to bake for about ten minutes, or until tender. Serve on the toast, very hot. MORELLOS.—See Cherries. MOBET.-A wine formerly made of honey—it is not manufactured now. MORINGA.—A tree (Moringa pterygosperma) that grows wild in Jamaica and other warm climates. The root of it is extensively used for culinary purposes in the countries where it grows, and for that reason it is popularly known as the horseradish tree. MOROCANELLA.—One of the sweet wines of Cyprus. MOSCATA.—The name of an Italian wine produced j in Piedmont. MOSELLE.—The name of a well-known German wine, which is produced from the grapes that flourish on the banks and slopes of the Moselle. Sparkling Moselle is said to dei-ive its characteristic flavour from the intro- duction of elder-flowers during the fermentation. Moselle Cup.—(1) Boil a little loaf sugar in a very small quantity of water to a thin syrup. Empty a bottle of Moselle into a jug, and mix with it 1 teacupful of water, two slices of cucumber, and a small quantity of borage, and leave it for two hours. At the end of that time, strain the Moselle through a fine sieve, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry and half a liqueur-glassful of maraschino with it, and add the syrup. Pack the jug containing the Moselle in pounded ice and a very small quantity of salt, and leave till frozen. Serve in small glasses. (2) Cut three brandied peaches into halves, put them without their stones at the bottom of a howl, pour overl wine- glassful each of maraschino and curapoa, then add 1 bottle of iced Chablis, next f breakfast-cupful of crushed ice, stir well to mix, but taking care not to move the peaches at the bottom, pour in lastly 1 bottle of iced Moselle, give one stir, and serve at once. MOSS.—See Carrageen and Iceland Moss. MOULDING.—See Gum Paste. MOULDS (Fr. Moules).—These are made either of tin copper, or earthenware, and are as various (see Pig. 11901 Fig. 1190. Moulds. as the articles requiring their use. Those which are manu- factured for special purposes will be found described under special headings. MOUNTAIN ASH.—See Ashberries. MOUNTAIN CAKE.—See Cakes. MOUSSE.—Fr. for froth or foam, and applied to some forms of culinary preparations, such as Chestnut Mousse, Chocolate Mousse, Coffee Mousse, Strawberry Mousse. &c. MOUSSELINE CAKE.—See Cakes. MOXIE.—A nerve-food beverage manufactured in America. The preparation and ingredients are secret. MUFFINS.—It has been claimed for the British baker that he alone can make a Muffin; but it is almost to be feared, if this ever were so, that the prestige has passed over to America, where Muffins are made of various Hours, and so light and digestible that it is a question if they are not rather an American dish. The word “ Muffin ” is said to be derived from muff, because they are puffy and warm ; but this derivation is apparently too far-fetched to be worthy of much attention. Charles Dickens has immor- talised Muffins as well as their allies crumpets, in his writings although it scarcely needed such advocacy to make them the favourite British tea-cake. Prom the following receipts it will be seen that there is a variety of ways of making Muffins—all that is required in the way of apparatus being a bowl for the batter, a whisk, a ladle, set of muffin-rings, and a baking-sheet or hot plate to set them on. See Crumpets. (1) Put 1. breakfast-cupful of milk that has been boiled into a basin, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, the yolk and white of an egg beaten separately, and i teacupful of yeast, adding sufficient flour to make a light drop batter. Put the basin in front of the fire so that the batter may rise, leave it there for five or six hours, then add It table-spoonfuls of wrrmed butter, and mix well. Have ready some Muffin-rings, two- thirds fill them with the batter, let them rise again for a- quarter-of-an-hour, and then bake in a hot oven until done. They may also be baked in Muffin-rings on a griddle, in which case the melted butter must be added at the first, and the rings and griddle well greased. Take up a spoonful of the batter without letting any of the air bubbles escape, fill up the rings, and when the Muffins are cooked brown, and have well risen, turn the Muffin with the ring, and brown on the other side. They should be pulled asunder and not cut when wanted for use. (2) Put 1 pint of Hour into a basin, and mix in 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Break the yolks of two eggs in a basin and pour in 1 teacupful each of milk and warmed butter. Pour these two mixtures into one basin, mix well, and add the beaten whites of two eggs. Two-thirds fill some Muffin- rings, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Turn them out when done, and serve. Two table-spoonfuls of950 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Muffins- continued. sugar may be added to the flour mixture if desired, and a little less of the butter and milk may also he used. (3) Put lqt. of flour into a basin, and mix in 3 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda. Add two well-beaten eggs and sufficient butter-milk to make it into a stiff batter, put it into hot Muffin-rings, and bake until done. They must be baked as soon as they are made. (4) Put the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four and a half into a basin, beat them well, and add as much flour as will absorb them. Then add milk and flour alternately until three pints of flour are used. Beat in 5 table spoonfuls of yeast and 2oz. of warmed butter. Put the mixture into warmed Muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. (5) Beat six eggs well together with 1 pint of milk, and mix with it 2oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of sugar, 1 table- spoonful of baking-powder, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; sift in slowly, stirring at the same time, a sufficient quan- tity of flour to make a nice light batter. Bake the Muffins in round tins, and when nearly cooked brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk. (6) Butter 1 dozen earthenware cups, and arrange them in a dripping-pan. Mix to a smooth batter 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk ; beat four eggs to a light froth, then beat the eggs with the batter, and half fill the cups with it. B tke them at once in a very hot oven for about twenty minutes, or until they are nicely browned all over. Serve hot. (7) For lqt. of flour use 4 gill of liquid yeast, or half a small cake of compressed yeast dissolved in h lueak fast- cupful of lukewarm water ; mix with the flour 1 tea- spoonful of salt, the yeast, and cold water enough to make a soft dough, using the hands ; when the dough is as soft as it can be handled, cover the bowl containing it with a folded towel, set it in a moderately warm room, and let it rise overnight. The next morning heat a griddle moderately hot—that is just hot enough to colour dry flour, which must be sifted on it ; then beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, add it to the dough, and at once bake the Muffins on the floured griddle in large tin rings, slightly buttered. These Muffins are used hot, or toasted on the outside. (8) Put lqt. of milk and 2oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire to warm, and throw in 1 teaspoonful of salt; mix in five eggs beaten very light, and then either 2 good table-spoonfuls of bakers’ yeast, or 4 table-spoonfuls of home-made yeast, and lastly, sifted flour enough to make a stiff batter. Cover and let it stand in a warm place for three hours to rise. When it has risen well, grease the baking-iron and theMuffin-rings, put them on the baking- iron, and pour the batter into them; when baked do not cut them, simply pull them open and butter. Cutting would make them heavy. Muffins made with Cornflour.—(1) Boil 2oz. of butter or lard in 4 pint of water, and pour it while boiling into 1 breakfast-cupful of white cornflour to scald it. Add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and mix in H pints of cold milk, 4oz. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat well up with a wire egg-whisk. Butter or lard some Muffin-rings, and bake. If the rings are used, they and the baking- sheet must be made hot, or the batter will run under the rings. The Muffins are best when the mixture is quite thin. Buttermilk and bicarbonate of soda may be used instead of the milk and baking-powder. These Muffins can be made with yeast, but they take longer to rise. (2) Put 1 pint of white cornflour into a basin, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and soda, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled rice. Break an egg into a basin, beat it up together with 1 pint of sour milk and 1 table-spoonful of dripping or warmed butter, pour it into the dry mixture, and stir well. Put the mass into hot Muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. (3) Boil a good-sized piece of butter in 4 pint of boiling water, and pour it over 1 large breakfast-cupful of white cornflour, to scald it; add 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 Muffins—continued. teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and f pint of cold milk. Beat these up well with an egg- wliisk. Grease some Muffin-rings, stand them on baking- sheets, and make them hot; pour the batter in, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Mix together overnight 1 breakfast-cupful of corn- flour, 1 teacupful of sugar, and 1 small teaspoonful of salt; put it in a double boiler, or bain-marie, add 1 table-spoon- ful of butter and 2| pints of boiling water, stir till smooth, and cook for one hour. Turn it into a basin, and pour over it 2 table-spoonfuls of water to prevent a crust from forming. Beat it next morning till soft and smooth. Mix together 3 teacupfuls of fine yellow cornflour, 3 tea- cupfuls of white flour, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; mix these with the meal, and add 1 well-beaten egg. Butter some Muffin-rings and set them on a greased baking- sheet. Pour the mixture into the rings, and bake in a hot oven. (5) Mix with 1 pint of warm milk 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 2 dessert spoonfuls of moist sugar, loz. of German yeast, and 2 saltspoonfulS of salt, adding enough cornflour to make a thin batter. Let it rise till the next morning, and then add a pat of warmed butter and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little warm water; beat all well until quite smooth. Butter some Muffin-rings, set them on a greased baking-sheet, pour the mixture into them, and bake slowly. Muffins made with Cream.-—Whisk the yolks and whites of four eggs separately, mix them together, and stir them into 1 pint of cream and loz. of warmed butter. Stir in gradually 1 pint of flour, put it into Muffin-rings, and bake quickly in a hot oven. Muffins made with Dough.—(1) Take about lib. of dough from some light bread that was set to rise overnight, and work in 2oz. of warmed butter, 1 gill of milk, loz. of sugar, two yolks of eggs or one whole egg (the milk and eggs having been previously beaten together, and the sugar dis- solved in the milk), 1 teaspoonful of flour, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat the batter on the side of the pan until it is quite elastic and smooth. Put it to rise for one hour. Grease some Muffin-rings and pour in the batter, which should be made thin enough to run but not thin enough to run under the rings. Put it to rise for half-an-hour, and bake ten minutes in a hot oven. (2) Put lib. of light dough into a deep bowl or basin, and add without mixing 2 table-spoonfuls of warm butter, 1 table spoonful of molasses, two or three eggs, a little sal-t, and 1 teacupful of lukewarm milk. Put the bowl in a warm place to let the dough rise a little, and then beat them all together for several minutes. Half-fill some well- greased Muffin-rings with the mixture, let it rise again for a few minutes until the rings are full, put them in a hot oven, and bake for eight minutes. When done, brush them over with a little hot water and butter, and they are ready for use. Muffins in Trench Style.—Dissolve a medium-sized cake of yeast in warm water; put loz. of butter into a saucepan with \ pint of milk and warm them ; beat four eggs till frothy, then stir them in with the milk. Mix the yeast with the eggs and milk, and stir in gradually lqt. of flour. Grease some Muffin-rings and set them on a greased baking- dish, pour some of the batter into each, and set them to rise in a warm place. When well risen, bake the Muffins lightly in a moderate oven. If they are to be served hot with butter inside them, they should be pulled apart, as cutting them with a knife will make them heavy. Muffins made with Graham-Flour.—Mix 41b. of Graham- flour with half its quantity of white flour, and stir in 3 teacupfuls of milk mixed with a little yeast while luke- warm, and then add 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, one beaten egg, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Put this mixture into a pan, smooth it over the top with the bowl of a spoon dipped in melted lard, and put it in a warm place to rise. Let it remain for about twelve hours, beat it up again, put it into Muffin-rings, let it rise again for lialf-an-hour, and then bake in a hot oven until done.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 951 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Zc., referred to, see under their special heads. Muffins—continued. Muffins made with Granulated Wheat.—Put 3 teacupfuls of granulated wheat into a basin, and mix in, in this order, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, one well-beaten egg, 1 breakfast cupful (or a little less if desired) of milk, and 1 teacupful of water. When thoroughly mixed, turn it out into hot Muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes; turn them out, and they are ready for use. Muffins made with Hominy.—(1) Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled hominy into a basin with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, and beat them together until smooth with a wooden spoon ; add 3oz. each of warmed butter and sugar, a small quantity of salt, and four well-beaten eggs. Dredge in 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of Hour, and continue beating until the mixture is perfectly smooth; then add a small quantity of hot water in which has been dissolved 1 heaped teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. When thoroughly beaten, pour the batter into Muffin-tins, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot with butter. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled hominy into a basin, and mix smoothly with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, f teacupful of warmed butter, 14 table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat two eggs well, add them to the above mixture with a good 4 teast^oonful of bicarbonate of soda that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water, and work in f break- fast-cupful of Hour. When quite smooth, cook the Muffins in the ordinary way. The mixture must be thoroughly beaten and cooked quickly, the Muffins are then excellent. (3) Wash 1 teacupiul of hominy and boil it for an hour in 1 pint of water, stirring frequently. When cooked, mix with it 1 pint of milk, 4 breakfast-cupful of liquid yeast, 2 table spoonfuls of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix gradually lqt. of Haxall-flour with the hominy, beating it well at the same time, and let it rise overnight. On the following morning, butter some Muffin-pans, fill them with the mixture, and let it rise for three-quarters-of-an- hour. Put the Muffins in a quick oven, and bake them for thirty-five minutes. Muffins made with Potato-Flour.—Peel four large potatoes weighing altogether about lib., put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are quite soft; then take them out and mash. Put the pulp into a basin and work in 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a small quantity of salt, and pour in suffi- cient lukewarm water to give the mixture the ap>pearance and consistence of cream. Now add two well-beaten eggs, stir them in, and dredge in gradually six breakfast cupfuls of flour that has been dried and sifted. When all are well mixed, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful more of warm water, then add 1 teaspoonful of soda, and lastly 1 gill of yeast. Place a cloth over the basin and put it in a warm place for ten or twelve hours. When it is sufficiently risen, turn it into well-buttered Muffin-rings, place them on a griddle, and cook until done. Take them out of the rings, and they are ready for use. Muffins made with Rice.—To 1 pint of soft-boiled rice add 4 pint of milk, six well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of butter, and flour enough to stiffen it to the consistency of pound-cake batter. Drop the Muffins into the baking- pan at such distances from each other that they will not touch, put them into a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes. Muffins made with Rye-Flour.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of rye-flour hi a basin with 4 teacupful of sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Beat up an egg, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Stir it quickly into the flour mixture, put it into hot Muffin- rings or gems, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, when they will be done. Toasted Muffins.—Take some Muffins, pull open the sides (never cut them), and toast them before a clear fire. When done, pull them apart, when both halves should be of an equal thickness. Put a little butter on each piece, close them together again, put them on a hot plate with muffins —continued. a cover, cut them into quarters (see Fig. 1191), and serve very hot. A\ e The following are a few selected receipts for a cake and puddings made with Muffins : Muffin Cake.—Make a syrup with lib. of loaf sugar and lqt. of water; cut the Muffins open, put them in the syrup, and leave for a few minutes. Take the halves of Muffins out carefully, and lay half of them on a baking-dish; blanch and pound 2oz. or 3oz. of almor.ds or pistachios, sift them over the Muffins, spread a layer of clotted cream on the top, sift more pounded almonds over that, then put the remainder of the Muffins on the top ; pour about 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup over them, put them in a slow Fig 1192. Muffin Cake. oven until the syrup has nearly i.ll soaked in, then set the Muffin cake on a glass dish (see Fig. 1192), and serve either hot or cold. Muffin-and-Crumpet Pudding.—For this two Muffins and three crumpets will be quite sufficient. Open the Muffins, put thin slices of sweet apple or jelly inside them, place them alternately with the crumpets in a buttered earthenware jar, pour over some rich batter, tie over the jar with a cloth, and boil. Serve hot, with or without sweet sauce. Muffin Pudding.—(1) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, with 4 teaspoonful of sugar and a little cinnamon, boil, and strain it over the beaten yolks of six eggs. Put a stale, lightly cooked muffin into a basin, pour over 1 g'H of boiling milk, and let it stand until quite cold. Put a piece of well-buttered paper at the bottom of a round mould, scatter over a few raisins, put the well saturated muffin in the mould, and pour over the eggs and cream, which have been well beaten. Put the pudding in a colander over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for an-hour-and-a-half.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 952 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Muffins—continued. When done, turn it out on to a dish, pour wine sauce over, and serve very hot. (2) Sweeten 1 pint of milk to taste with loaf sugar, and hoil it for a few minutes together with a piece of lemon- peel and a bay-leaf. Break up three Muffins in a pudding- basin, and when the milk is nicely flavoured with the lemon- peel, strain it over and let them soak until it is quite cold. Mash the Muffins well, taking care that there are no lumps left, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of ground almonds, 1 teacupful of preserved cherries, two well-beaten eggs, a few drops of orange-flower water, \ wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter the edges of a shallow dish, and border them with puff paste; spread the Muffin mixture in it, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Thickly butter the interior of a mould, and arrange in it, in any design, some dried cherries and pieces of candied angelica, pressing them well to make them adhere to the mould; pull three or four Muffins into small pieces, and put them in the mould, mixing plenty of dried cherries with them. There should be about 2in. clear space left at the top of the mould. Beat four eggs well, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste until caster sugar, and whisk over the fire until on the point of boiling; they must not quite boil, or the eggs will curdle. Take the custard off the fire, whisk it until somewhat cooled, then flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and pour it carefully over the contents of the mould. Cover the mould with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a sauce- pan with boiling water a little more than half its height, and steam for an-liour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve it with a wine sauce, either poured round it or in a sauce- boat. It should be served while very hot. (4) Cut four stale Muffins into thin slices, put them in a basin, pour lqt. of boiling milk over, and let them soak until cold. Stone ill), of raisins, and blanch and chop 2oz. of sweet almonds. Thickly butter the interior of a large pudding-basin, and place some of the almonds and raisins all over it, pressing to make them adhere; then fill the mould with the soaked Muffins, strewing over them occa- sionally some almonds and raisins. Mix six beaten eggs with what milk the Muffins did not absorb, sweeten it with 41b. of sugar, and add 1 wineglassful of brandy and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Pour the custard mixture over the Muffins, cover the top of the basin with a sheet of paper, and put a plate on it; stand the basin in a baking- tin, which half fill with water, and put it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, pour 1 teacupful of curafoa round, and serve. MUGUET DES BOIS.—See Asperule Odorants. MULBERRIES.—The fruit of the Moms nigra, or Black Mulberry. This tree is cultivated more for the sake of its leaves as food for silkworms than for the fruit, which is sweetly acid and fruity in flavour, but is only fit to eat when quite ripe, and then it decomposes or mildews so readily that it is almost impossible to in- clude them in the usual market produce. Several very delicious dishes can be prepared with them. Mulberry Compote.—For every pound of Mulberries, put in a preserving-pan fib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of claret. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and boil until the sugar has dissolved. Pick the Mulberries carefully, removing all pieces of leaf or stalk, then put them into the syrup, with the juice of one or two lemons according to the quantity of fruit, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and leave the Mulberries in the syrup until cold ; then pile them hi a deep glass dish, and strain over their syrup. Strew caster sugar lightly over the top, and serve. A plate of sponge biscuits is a very nice accompaniment to this compote. Mulberries for Dessert.—Fix a conical piece of paste- board firmly in the centre of a dish with gum, over that arrange a thin bed of moss, and cover that again with small Mulberries—continued. vine-leaves. Having picked over the Mulberries, pile them up all round the piece of pasteboard, placing moss here Fig. 1193. Mulberries for Dessert. and there so as to raise the pyramid firmly. The pointed ends of the Mulberries should all be arranged upwards. See Fig. 1193. Mulberry Jam.—(1) Carefully pick over the Mulberries, and put them in a preserving-pan with 41b. of coarsely crushed loaf sugar and the juice of half a lemon for each pound of fruit. Place the pan over a slow fire, and boil the contents for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When ready, turn the jam into jars and tie over while hot. Purple or white Mulberries can be used in the same way. (2) Put the required quantity of Mulberries into a jar, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and as the juice of the Mulberries is extracted pour it off'; put it into a preserving-pan with 21b. of loaf sugar to each pint, and stir well until the latter is dissolved ; let it boil for five minutes, constantly stirring and skimming, then add the fruit without any bruised berries, hi the proportion of 211). of fruit to each pint of juice, remove the pan to the fire, and let the jam simmer for half an-liour. Set it aside to cool for a day, boil it up again until it is quite stiff, pour it into pots, cover them, and keep in a dry place until wanted. (3) Tress the juice out of sufficient Mulberries to make 12 pints, and put it into a preserving-pan with 121b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir until the sugar has dis- solved, then boil it for five minutes longer. Have ready 121b. of ripe Mulberries that have been carefully picked over, and put them into the boiling juice ; boil the whole quickly for half-an-hour longer, keeping it well stirred at the same time. If the jam is not sufficiently reduced at the end of that time, boil it for fifteen minutes more. When ready, turn it into jars, and stand them in a cool place. When the jam is quite cold, put in each jar a round of white paper soaked in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down. Keep them hi a dry store-cupboard until wanted. Mulberry Jelly.—(1) Pick and clean lib. of Mulberries, put them into a preserving-pan with 1 breakfast cupful of water, place the pan on the fire, leave until the contents begin to simmer, put it into a fine sieve, and press out all the juice. Put fib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), then add the Mulberry-juice, skim frequently, and after about fifteen minutes’ quick boiling the jelly will be of the required consistence. Pour it into pots or jars, and when set cover with pieces of white paper dipped in brandy, and put hi a cool place.953 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <he., referred to, see under their special heads. Mulberries—continued. Let them remain for a day or two, cover the jars, and the jelly will then he ready for use. (2) Squeeze out all the juice from some Mulberries, put it together with the pulp into a jar, set it in the oven, and let it remain for several hours. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and to every pint add ] Ub. of sugar; boil these in a preserving-pan for forty-five minutes, remove the pan from the fire, add a little lemon-juice, pour the jelly into moulds, and turn out when set. Mulberry Salad.—Pick the fruit carefully and arrange it in a compote-dish, then sift caster sugar over it. Put into a basin 1 wineglassful of Chartreuse, 1 table-spoonful of ginger syrup, and the strained juice of an orange. Stir the mixture till well mixed, then pour it over the Mulberries, and serve. See Fig. 1194. Mulberry Smash. -In a half-pint glass mix 1 table spoonful of syrup with 1 wineglassful of strained Mulberry-juice, fill up with ice, put a few berries of any kind of fruit on the top, and serve with straws. Mulberry Syrup.—(1) Remove the stalks from some ripe berries, put them in a tub, and bruise well with a wooden spoon to extract all the juice. Let them remain for three or four hours, and then strain through a flannel bag or fine strainer. Measure the juice, and for every gallon add 3oz. of water in which 4oz. of citric acid has been dissolved, and 141b. of loaf sugar. Pour the syrup into a preserving- pan, add the sugar and acid, and simmer gently without boiling at the side of the fire until all the sugar has dis- solved. Remove the pan from the fire, and when the syrup is quite cold pour it into bottles, cork them up, and it is ready for use. If loo thick, a little water may be added to bring it to the required consistence. (2) Put some Mulberries into a jar with a cover over, place it in a saucepan of water, and boil up, and as the liquor rises from the berries pour it off. Measure the juice, and to every 4 pint use 41b. of caster sugar. Put the juice and sugar into a saucepan over a clear fire, boil until it becomes like cream, skim well, let it get cold, put into bottles, and it is ready for use. Mulberry Water Ice.—Extract the juice from the Mulberries by putting them in a cloth and squeezing it with both hands; for every pint of the juice allow lqt. of syrup and the strained juice of two lemons. Mix them together, put them into a freezing-pot, and work until frozen. Afterwards place the mixture in a fancy mould, close it securely, pack in pounded ice and salt, and leave for about a couple of hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, and turn the ice on to a glass or other kind of fancy dish. MULL.—This term is derived from the Old English mold—such as mold-ale, or ale that was served at a funeral banquet. It is now used to signify a drink, especially wine or beer that has been heated by boiling, spiced and sweetened, or “ mulled ” as it is called. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP.—The name is a slight corruption of the Tamil Mila-gu-tamur, which signifies pepper water. See Soup. MULLER.—A vessel used for mulling. This may be merely a common saucepan, or an elaborate electro-plated apparatus fitted to the counter of a public bar. MULLET (Fr. Mulet; Ger. Meerbarbe).—There is a good deal of confusion usually existing amongst foreign cooks on the score of these famous fish. Those known to us are of two kinds—the Gray Mullet (Mugil ceplialus), and the Red Mullet, or Sur-Mullet (Mullus barbatus), the latter being remarkable for its brilliant colours and a sort of bearded appendage. When cleaning the Red Mullet it is only necessary to scrape it well and pull out the gills, with which all will come that is necessary to re- move of the inside; the liver, which is an especial delicacy, remaining. The roe of the Gray Mullet is most highly esteemed, and is prepared by drying, salting, and forming into a sausage. The following receipts are considered to be a description of the very best methods of cooking these fish; Gray Mullets.—These being river fish should be cooked j almost as soon as caught. They are not considered in Fig. 1195. Gray Mullet. any way equal to the red Mullet, and must be scraped, emptied, and thoroughly cleaned before cooking. See Fig. 1195. Baked Gray Mullet. -Scale and wash the Mullet well, lay it on a dish, dredge with salt, and leave it for an hour or two. Peel four onions, cut them into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a few table spoonfuls of olive oil, and fry until nicely browned. Spread half of the onions over the bottom of a deep baking-dish, lay the Mullet on them, strew over plenty of chopped parsley, cover with a layer of sliced tomatoes, then the remainder of the onions, and lastly some more chopped parsley. Pour over the oil in which the onions were fried, 1 teacupful of water, h teacupful each of tomato sauce and French vinegar, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. When cooked, leave the fish until cold, then lay it on an oval-shaped dish, put the slices of tomatoes and onions round it, and serve. Boiled Gray Mullet.—Clean a Gray Mullet, and put it in a fish kettle with sufficient salted water to cover ; place the kettle on the fire, and when the fish boils remove it to the side. Lift the fish up with a strainer, and let it drain (with the cover over it) over the kettle until wanted; then put it on a hot dish, and serve. Boiled Gray Mullet with Dutch Sauce.—Clean a Gray Mullet, and boil it in a saucepan of salted water for about twenty minutes. Put it on a dish, pour over some Dutch sauce, and serve. Boiled Gray Mullet in Jelly.—Scale and wash a Gray Mullet weighing about 51b., put it in a fish-kettle. pour over enough water to cover, and add two onions with a few cloves stuck in them, a little allspice, the juice of954 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mullet—continued. six sweet and three bitter oranges, also of a dozen lemons, ayd 1 wineglassful of sherry. Put the kettle over the fire, and boil the fish gently until done. Take it out with a strainer and put it upside-down into a deep dish ; then add loz. of isinglass to the stock, simmer gently until dissolved, strain it through a fine sieve over the fish, and let it remain for a day or so, when the jelly should be quite firm. It is then ready to be served. Garnish round the dish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 1196). Boiled Gray Mullet with White Sauce.—Put the fish in a fish-kettle until a lump of salt and plenty of water, and leave it on the fire until boiling, then move the kettle to the side and keep the fish simmering until it is cooked. Put a pat of butter in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire ; when mixed, pour in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk and stir until thickened. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of half a lemon and strain them; move the sauce off the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Drain the Mullet carefully, put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Gray Mullets.—Clean and marinade four or five Gray Mullets as for Broiled Gray Mullet a la Maitre d’Hotel, put them on a buttered strainer in a fish-kettle, add lqt. of mushrooms, a blanched shallot, and 2 table- spoonfuls of parsley all finely chopped; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour in 1 pint of white wine. Bring the liquor quickly to the boil, remove the kettle to a slow fire, baste the fish frequently, and cook for about thirty minutes. Put them carefully on a dish, pour part of the liquor and herbs over (see Fig. 1197), and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Broiled Gray Mullet.—Scale and clean the Mullet, put it into a deep dish with a sliced onion and two or three sprigs of parsley, dust over with salt and pepper, cover with olive oil, and let it macerate for an hour. Put the fish on a greased gridiron and broil it over a clear but slow fire. When cooked, put the fish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of green sauce. Broiled Gray Mullet a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Select a Gray Mullet weighing 21b., scale and clean it, and cut it on each side about a dozen times, nearly jin. deep. Put it on a dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of oil. Leave it. in this marinade for two or three hours; then take it out and at once place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil for fifteen minutes, cooking on both sides. Put it on a dish, pour over 41b. of maitre d’hotel butter, and serve hot. Billets of Gray Mullets Sautes.—Clean the fish, then fillet them by passing a sharp knife between the bones and the flesh, and cut each fillet into halves. Butter a saute-pan, put in the fillets, sprinkle some salt, pepper, and chopped parsley over them, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add 1 wineglassful of sherry. Cook the fillets over a brisk fire, turning them carefully when cooked on one side. Drain and lay them on a bed of mashed potatoes that has been prepared on a hot dish. Put 4 pint of melted butter in the saute-pan with 1 teacupful of milk; season with salt and a small quantity of sugar, stir it over the fire, Mullet —continued. and boil for three minutes. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. Gray Mullet a la Matelote.—Clean a Gray Mullet, and chop it up in pieces ; put them in a saucepan, and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a little salt, a few peppercorns, and sufficient red wine to cover it. Put the saucepan on the lire, add a few pieces of well-kneaded * butter, and boil quickly for five minutes or so. Have ready fifteen small onions, separately glazed, put them into the pan with the Mullet, &c., and complete the cooking very gently. Put some crotitons of bread at the bottom of a dish, place the fish on it, and serve. Gray Mullet Soup a la Turque.—Clean about 31b. of Gray Mullet, and rub it over with salt. Put 6 table-spoonfuls of the best olive oil into a stewpan, with 3 or 4 finely-chopped onions and some salt; fry them over a brisk fire till lightly browned, then add 1 table-spoonful each of finely- chopped mint and parsley, and toss them about over the fire for a feu- minutes longer. Pour in with the onions 1 pint of vinegar and 3 pints of water, and boil them for three quarters-of-an-hour. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in the fish, and let it simmer gently till the fish is tender. Take the fish out of the soup, separate the flesh from the bones, cut the flesh into small pieces, and put them into a soup-tureen ; strain the soup through a broth-napkin, and return it to the sauce- pan. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and mix the juice of two lemons with them ; colour 4 teacupful of water with a small quantity of saffron, mix it with the eggs, and beat them well. Mix the eggs in gradually with the soup, and stir it by the side of the fire with a Avooden spoon for ten or tvrelve minutes, but without allowing it to boil. Pour the soup over the fish, dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper and poAvdered cinnamon into it, and serve. Stewed Gray Mullet.—Clean ami Avash some small Gray Mullets, rub them Avell Avith salt, and leave them for an hour. Put in a stewpan loz. of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and Avhen hot put in tAvo sliced onions and steAv them at the edge of the fire AAdthout broAvning. Lay the fish on the top of the onions, moisten to half their height Avith Avater, and boil gently for half-an-liour. Just before moving the fish from the fire, put in 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, the strained juice of tAvo lemons, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Lay the Mullets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. The above is an excellent Avay of cooking these fish. Red Mullets.—These being sea-fisli are generally better keepers than fresh-water fish; but should be used as W Fig. 1198. Red Mullet. freshly caught as possible, or they soon deteriorate. The Red Mullet (see Fig. 1198) is called the seas woodcock, but that is from an idea that the trail should not be drawn, concerning which other cooks and epicures entertain varied opinions. Baked Red Mullet.—(1) Clean the Mullet and divide it into fillets; butter a dish, lay the fillets on it, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, and season Avith salt and pepper; cover the fish with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in a moderate oven. When cooked, drain the fillets,955 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mullet—continued. lay them on a hot dish, pour Italian or other sauce over them, and serve. This dish is usually named after the sauce used—as h l’ltalienne, h l’Espagnole, &c. (2) Clean eight or nine Red Mullets, put them into a gratin-dish with salt and pepper to season, and pour over a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Mix a little chopped parsley with breadcrumbs, sprinkle it over the fish, add a small quantity of pounded fennel-seeds, baste the fish with oil, put the dish in the oven, and cook the fish, basting frequently with their own liquor. When quite done, put the gratin-dish on another one, and serve very hot. (3) Clean the required quantity of Red Mullet, removing only the gills and leaving the trails and livers intact ; put them into a dish in a moderate oven, and bake for half- an-hour. Take out the dish, dust the fish with salt and pepper, and cover with chopped chives or truffles, mushrooms, ami shallots, also a little parsley and a few sweet herbs. Pour over some rich brown gravy, add 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of red or white wine, set the dish in the oven again, and bake until done. When serving, squeeze over a little lemon-juice. (4) Thickly butter the interior of a baking-dish, and lay the fish in it side by side ; strew over finely-chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake for half-an-hour or more in a good oven. When cooked, remove the paper, and serve in the dish in which they were cooked. (5) Clean a Red Mullet, put it in a moderate oven, and bake until done ; a little time before taking it out of the oven, mix in with the liquor from it a piece of butter rolled in flour and 1 wineglassful of sherry. When done, put the fish on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve quite hot. (6) Put 2oz. of butter in a dish which can be sent to table, place it in the oven, and when the butter is melted add one or two well-pounded anchovies, and sprinkle with pepper. Put in the fish with a few small pieces of butter .on it, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes or until done, when it will be ready for serving. (7) Clean three Red Mullets, put them in a baking- tin in a moderate oven, pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce (see ANCHOVIES), and sprinkle with a .little salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots into a deep saute-pan, and add 1 table-spoonful each of parsley and mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of claret, and a small piece of glaze about the size of a chestnut. Put the pan over the fire, and cook the contents well. When the fish is done, take it out, put it on a dish, pour over the sauce, and se.ve. Baked Red Mullets with. Olives.—Put a sufficient quan- tity of breadcrumbs into a basin to stuff the Mullets, pour over as much warm milk as they will absorb, and leave until well soaked. Beat the crumbs up together with loz. or 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, bind it with the beaten yolk of an egg, and stuff the fish with it. Dust the Mullets with salt and pepper, lay them in a baking-dish with plenty of olive oil, and bake them in the oven. Chop some shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned ; dust over with Hour, pour in as much clear stock as will make the requisite quantity of sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until boiling. Stone and partially boil plenty of Spanish olives, lay them in a stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and simmer at the edge of the fire for ten minutes. When the Mullets are cooked, lay them on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Baked Red Mullets en Papillote.—Fold each Mullet sepa- rately in well-oiled paper, tie the ends, passing the string once or twice round the fish (see Fig. 1199), and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes; lay them on a hot dish, mix the gravy from them with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of port or sherry, the strained juice of half a lemon, a lump of butter, and sufficient flour to thicken ; boil this sauce, and serve it in a small tureen. Cut the string from the fish, Mullet—continued. but serve them in the paper wrapper in which they were baked. Baked Red Mullets with Tomatoes.—Prepare the Mullets and nib them over with salt and pepper; thickly butter a baking-dish, lay the Mullets in it, side by side, strew over plenty of finely-chopped parsley, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Cover the fish with a sheet of paper saturated with olive oil, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove the paper, and serve the fish in the dish hi which they were cooked while very hot. Baked Stuffed Red Mullets with Olives.—Prepare the following stuffing: Soak in milk a sufficient quantity of breadcrumb, then squeeze them dry; mix with them 2oz. of butter, a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and work in well the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. Stuff the Mullets with this mixture, lay them in a baking-dish, dust with salt and pepper, pour over plenty of olive oil, and bake in a moderate oven. Slice a couple of shallots, put them in a saucepan with a little olive oil, and fry until nicely browned. Dredge the shallots with flour, pour in a sufficient quantity of clear stock quite free from fat to make the sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and stir over the fire until boiling. Stone and partially boil a quantity of olives; strain the sauce, return it to the saucepan with the olives, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Place the (Mullets on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Red Mullets a la Momie.—(1) Remove the gills from four or five Red Mullets, leaving their insides intact; dust over with salt and pepper, squeeze over lemon-juice, and let them stand for an hour or so. Cover to about lin. in thickness with fish forcemeat mixed with crayfish butter, smoothing it with a knife dipped in warm water; put the fish on a well-buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, add a mirepoix moistened with 1 pint of champagne and passed through a cloth, set the kettle on the fire, baste the fish frequently with the liquor, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour or until the Mullets are done. Take out, put them on a dish, reduce the liquor to half-glaze, pour it over, and serve with any kind of fish sauce. (2) Clean, marinade, and cover with forcemeat four or five Red Mullets as for No 1. Brush their surfaces with white of egg, and ornament them with slices of truffles cut 4in. in width and the shape of half-moons, so as to give the appearance of scales. Press them with a knife to make them firm, then cook, and serve as for No. 1. Boiled. Red Mullets with. Caper Sauce.—Scale and clean two middling-sized fish, cut oft' the fins, and wash them inside. Dry thoroughly, score them slightly, and put them in a saucepan with a little court bouillon and white wine, and boil over a moderate fire. When it boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let them remain for ten minutes or so. Drain free from the liquor, put them on a dish, cover with caper sauce mixed with a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, and serve. Braised Red Mullets.—Clean and draw eight Red Mullets, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour, and put them in a saucepan with butter spread thickly over, and sprinkled with a little chopped shallot. Put the pan on the fire, add a little white wine, and when it boils cover the pan, putting live coal on the lid, and complete the cooking. Put the fish on a dish, and prepare the following sauce: Add to the liquor in the saucepan 4 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, boil up, and pass it through a fine sieve into another956 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t rejerred to, see under their special heads. Mullet—continued. saucepan, adding 5 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree. Boil up again, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire and add 3oz. of butter pulled in small pieces, the juice of a lemon, and a little finely-chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the fish, and serve hot. Broiled Red Mullets.-—(1) Dry three fish on a clean cloth, season them with salt and pepper, and strew grated parsley over and a few drops of lemon-juice; wrap each fish separately in a sheet of well-oiled paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Chop finely two shallots, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of salad-oil, and fry ; next pour in with the shallots 1 wineglassful of sherry and § pint of Spanish sauce, more or less according to the quantity required; a few chopped mushrooms may he mixed in the sauce if liked ; also add b table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley and the juice of half a lemon. Boil the sauce gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Remove the fish from the paper, and lay them carefully on a hot dish ; skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over the Mullets, and serve. (2) Scale and clean a few Red Mullets, haste them well with oil, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil well on both sides. Fry 2 table spoonfuls of minced shallots in a saucepan with a little butter, and when it has been cooking for five minutes add 1 breakfast-cupful of melted glaze. Boil up again, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add a little maitre d’hotel butter, stirring well until it has dissolved; now add the juice of one lemon, and complete the cooking. Put the Mullets on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve very hot. Broiled Red Mullets in Cases. -Clean and prepare the Mullets; marinade them well, wrap them up in well-oiled paper cases made of a size only sufficient to hold the Mullets with 1 table-spoonful of fine herbs under and over them, set the fish on a gridiron over a slack fire, cook for twenty minutes, then turn them over and cook the other side. Remove from the cases when done, put them on a dish, pour over a thick maitre-d’hdtel sauce mixed with the liquor in the cases from the fish, and serve. Broiled Red Mullet d la Maitre d’Hbtel.—Clean four Red Mullets, remove the gills, score them on the sides, and dip them into water; wipe dry on a cloth, and put them on a dish. Cover with 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, one onion cut in very thin slices, and chopped parsley and a little salt and pepper. Let them remain for an hour or so, then drain, remove all the parsley and onion, put them on a gridiron over a very sharp fire, and broil for five minutes on each side. Pour Jib. of maitre-d’hotel butter on a dish, put the fish on it, and serve hot. A little white wine may lie used instead of the maitre-d’hotel butter if desired. Garnish with fried parsley. Broiled Red Mullet en Papillote.—(1) Clean the required number of fish, wipe them dry both inside and out, dust over with flour, rub them with warmed butter, and season with salt and pepper. Butter as many half-sheets of writing- paper as there are fish, and dust them with salt and pepper ; place the fish on them, fold up, fastening the ends, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for twenty minutes. When done, serve hot in the paper cases with melted-butter sauce in a tureen. (2) Clean, cut off the fins, and draw three Red Mullets; wash them in a little water, and dry on a cloth. Oil a piece of paper, put a layer of reduced d’Uxelles sauce on it about the size of the fish, put the Mullets on it, then another layer of sauce, fold the paper over, closing the two edges so as to form a papillote. Place them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil until done ; put them on a dish, and serve hot. (3) Dry the fish on a clean cloth ; lay each one on a sheet of white paper that has been dipped in salad-oil, strew finely-minced parsley over, and season with salt and pepper ; fold the paper over the fish so as to completely enclose it, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, and when the fish are cooked lay them on it, leaving them in Mullet—co ntin ued. their papers; garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. (4) Put two well-cleaned Mullets into a saute-pan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, and 1 wine- glassful of wine. Put the pan in the oven, and bake the Mullets gently for ten minutes. Place them on a dish, strain the liquor, and add to it four trulHes, a little parsley, six mushrooms, a small quantity of shallots, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a little grated nutmeg and flour. Put the whole into a saucepan, and boil slowly for about seven minutes ; then mix in a liaison of three eggs well beaten in 1 table spoonful of cream. Place the Mullets on oiled paper, cover with a good quantity of the sauce, roll the paper over them, and fasten the edges together. Put them over a clear fire, and broil slowly until warm on both sides, without burning the paper; and as soon as they are done, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve very hot. (5) Remove the gills from four or five Mullets, do not draw them, scale lightly, chop off the fins, and wash and wipe them well. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour sweet-oil over them, and rub frequently for thirty minutes or so. Oil some sheets of paper on both sides, wrap the fish up in them, and broil over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Remove the paper, put on fresh, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Place them, when done, on a dish, mask with fish glaze, pour round maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve with more sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Stuffed.—Trim oft' the gills of the Mullets, boil with- out removing any of the inside, make an incision from the throat half-way down the belly of each fish, and prepare the following stuffing: Finely crumble some stale bread, mix with it a quarter of its quantity each of finely-minced shallots and mushrooms that have been fried in butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped thyme and parsley in moderate quantities, work in a small lump of butter, and bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg. Stuff the Mullets with this mixture, sew up the incisions, wrap each one separately in a sheet of buttered paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. When the fish are 'cooked, lay them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Broiled Red Mullets with Italian Sauce.—Wipe the fish dry, dredge them over with salt and pepper, and squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juice. Oil with salad-oil as many sheets of note-paper as there are fish, and wrap one of the Mullets up in each sheet. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Finely chop three shallots, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of salad-oil, and fry ; next put in a few minced mushrooms, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and a sufficient quantity of vegetable stock to make the sauce. Add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the strained juice of half a lemon, and let it simmer gently at the side of the lire for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the fish out of the paper, and lay them on a hot dish. Skim the sauce, pour it over them, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. Fried Red Mullets.—Clean some Red Mullets, dry them well, dip them into beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs seasoned with chopped sweet herbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. Put the livers into a saucepan with sufficient water to make the sauce, boil them well, stir in a lump of butter, and the sauce is ready. Set the fish on a hot dish, and serve the sauce in a sauceboat. Ragodt of Fillets of Red Mullet in a Paper Case.— Put some fillets of Red Mullet in a saute-pan with oil, and sautii them; when cooked, drain the fillets, and put them in reduced veloute sauce, with chopped cooked fine herbs. Fill a paper case with a block of bread cut to fit it, then turn it over on to a dish; procure a double plaited case, and stand it on the other. Whip the whites of some eg^s in very hot, but not boiling, bechamel sauce till firm. Put a layer of the prepared ragoftt in the case, next a layer of cooked soft roes, then a layer of oysters, andTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 957 Mullet—continued. another layer o' the ragoftt; proceed in this manner till the case is full, then put a layer of the whipped bechamel sauce and eggs over the top, smoothing it with the blade of a knife; sift over grated breadcrumb or Parmesan cheese, and brown it under a hot salamander. Keep this entree at the mouth of a slow oven for ten minutes, then serve it while very hot, with a sauceboatful of veloute sauce reduced with some fish broth. Red Mullet a l’ltalienne.—Wipe the fish on a dry cloth, and lay it on a sheet of well-buttered paper; squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over it, strew with finely-minced parsley, salt, and pepper, and fold the paper up over it. Chop two shallots, put them in a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, and fry them. Put in with the shallots 1 teacupful of finely-minced mushrooms; 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and the strained juice of half a lemon, and boil gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Place the fish on a gridiron, and broil it over a clear fire ; when cooked, remove the paper and place the Mullets on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. Red Mullets a la Provenpal.—Prepare a stuffing of the hard-boiled yolks of eggs mixed with some chopped parsley, a little butter and garlic, and made of the required con- sistence with well-beaten eggs. Clean and draw three Red Mullets, fill them with the stuffing, wrap them up in well- buttered papers, and broil over a moderate fire until done. Take off the papers, put them on a dish, pour over maitre- d’hotel butter mixed with a little garlic butter, and serve hot. Red Mullets in Cornets.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and shallots into a saucepan with a little oil, and fry to a light colour; add 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushrooms, reduce their moisture, and put in a few table- spoonfuls of capers, and a little parsley and pieces of anchovy chopped together. Clean six Red Mullets, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and baste them with oil. Cut some pieces of paper in triangular form, oil them on one side only, and make them into cornets, according to the size of the Mullets. Cover each side of the fish with a little of the onion mixture, put them into the cornets, fold these over, and put them on a gridiron with a thick piece of oiled paper under to prevent them burning. When hot on both sides, put them on a dish and serve. This method of serving Mullets is advocated by Dubois. Stewed Red Mullets.—(1) Clean the fish, wash them well, and trim off their gills. Peel and chop three onions, put them into a mortar, pound them, season with salt, pepper, and mixed spices, mix in the yolks of three eggs and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and beat well with a wooden spoon. Put the Mullets into a deep dish, pour over the mixture, and let them macerate for two or three hours. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of olive oil, and toss it about over the lire till hot; then pour in 4 pint of water, season with salt, and keep it over the fire till beginning to boil. Put the Mullets in the stewpan with the parsley, &c., and stew them gently till tender. When cooked, drain the Mullets, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Clean three Red Mullets, put them into a shallow stewpan, pour over 2 wineglassfuls each of sherry and broth, and add a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip, a little parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, two slices of lemon, and salt and pepper as desired ; set the pan on a moderate fire, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Place the Mullets on a dish, strain the liquor back into the pan, add a liaison of flour and butter to thicken, pour it over the fish, and serve. (3) Seale the fish, wash and trim nicely, dust well with salt and pepper, lay it in a flat stewpan with chopped mushrooms and shallots, baste with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of sherry, and place it over a slow fire. Turn the fish occasionally, and moisten the top of it now and again with the liquor in the pan. When cooked, lay the Mullet very carefully on a hot dish. Pour 4 tumblerful of sherry into a small stewpan, strain the gravy from the fish into it, add 4 table spoonful of chopped parsley and a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Mullet—continued. few drops of anchovy sauce, and boil the whole for a few minutes; then pour it over the fish. Serve with cut lemon. MULLIGATAWNY.—See Mullagatawny. MUM.—This name originated with Christian Muinme, a German brewer, who first brewed this very strong beer in 1492. It is sometimes made with spruce. Pope wrote : The clamorous crowd is hushed with mugs of Mum, from which quotation it is easy to associate the word Mum with silence. MUSCATEL^See Raisins. MUSCLES.—See Mussels. MUSCOVITE CREAM.—See Cream. MUSCOVITE PUNCH.—See Punch. MUSH.—A sort of porridge made with Indian-corn meal, and much favoured by the poorer classes of the United States for its satisfying and nourishing qualities. Made according to the following directions it is fit for any table. Other receipts will be found under Cornflour, Gluten, and Rye. (1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 4 pint of Indian- meal and 1 saltspoonful of salt, wet it with a little cold water, plunge it into lqt. of boiling water, and let it boil slowly for half an-hour, stirring every few minutes for the first quarter-of-an-hour, and constantly for the last quarter- of-an-hour. Serve it in a deep dish with milk or cream; do not cover it. (2) Put the required quantity of water into a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils shake in gradually suffi- cient corn-meal to make it thick, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon ; add a small quantity of salt, move the saucepan to the. edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, mix with the Mush a small lump of butter, and serve it with sugar and cream. MUSHROOMS.—To deal with this subject thoroughly or exhaustively would require volumes; at the very most all that can be given here will be a description of those which are edible and those which are not. The term Mushroom is a modification of the Old English rnuscheron, the first syllable being very probably allied to or extracted from the same root as the word moss; in any case, the term is applied to nearly all the edible fungi; but in France and other parts of the Continent they have various names, such as Champignons, Cepes, &c. Using the term Mushrooms as applying to all edible fungi of that particular class, we have still left Morels and Truffles, as differing essentially from Mushrooms; I these are described under those headings, as well as Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads.958 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. Champignons, Chantarelles, and Cepes. This renders the classification of Mushrooms very simple, and leaves us those only which aff%»ommonly sold under that name. Of these we have the common meadow Mushroom (see Fig. | Fig. 1201. St. George’s Mushroom. 1200) (Agaricus campestris), the St. George’s Mushroom (.Agaricus gambosus) (see Fig. 1201), and the Button or Horse Mushroom (Agaricus arvensis) (see Fig. 1202). The edible boletus (Boletus edulis) (see Fig. 1203) is sold in many parts of the Continent, cut into thin slices or hung on strings and dried, but it is little esteemed in England. There are numerous other kinds of fungi, some of which are edible and others poisonous. The best mode of distin- Fig. 1202. Button or Horse Mushrooms. guishing one from the other is given in a few rules drawn up by Prof. Bentley. They are as follows: edible mushrooms. 1. Grow hi diy airy places. 2. Generally white or brownish. 3. Have a compact brittle flesh. 4. Do not change colour by the action of the ah when cut. 5. Juice, watery. 6. Odour agreeable. 7. Taste neither bitter, acrid, nor astringent. POISONOUS FUNGI. 1. Grow in clusters hi woods and dark damp places. 2. Usually with bright colours. 3. Flesh fibrous, soft, and watery. 4. Acquire a brown, green, or blue tint when cut and exposed to the air. 5. Juice often milky. 6. Odour commonly powerful and disagreeable. 7. Have an acrid, astringent, acid, salt, or bitter taste. Another eminent writer on the subject informs us that no general rule can be given for the determination of the question whether fungi are or are not poisonous. Colour is quite indecisive, and some of the most dangerous fungi, and amongst them the Agaricus phalloides, are void of any unpleasant smell when fresh; the most wholesome may be Mushrooms—continued. extremely offensive when old. Experience is the only safe test, and no one should incautiously try species with whose character he is not thoroughly acquainted. Under these Fig. 1203. Boletus Edulis. circumstances it is perhaps better to trust to the green- grocer who sells them. Baked Mushrooms.—(1) Cut off the stalks of some Mush- rooms, remove the outside skin, and put them on a buttered plate ; sprinkle them with salt and pepper, cover with another plate, put them in a moderate oven, and bake until done, using the liquor that comes from them to baste with : they are then ready to be served. (2) Carefully cleanse the Mushrooms, and cut as many slices of bread as there are Mushroom-tops, trimming off the crusts and leaving each slice about 2in. square. Lay ' these in a baking-pan, spread each slice with butter, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, and on each put one large Muslnoom-top, so as to nearly cover the bread. Set the pan in a hot oven for five minutes, then season the Mushrooms with salt and pepper, put a piece of butter as large as a hazel-nut on each, return the pan to the oven, and finish baking. The Mushrooms should be served on the bread as soon as they are done. Baked Stuffed Mushrooms.—(1) Select Mushrooms of a medium size, and cutout all the stalks; wash the stalks, and chop them finely ; mince two shallots, put them in a flat stewpan with plenty of butter, and fry ; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and the minced stalks. Add a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, moistening with a small quantity of stock. Fill the hollow part of each Mushroom with the above mixture ; butter a baking-disli, lay the Mushrooms side by side in it, the open part upwards, strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb over, and put them in a brisk oven for a- quarter-of an-hour. Arrange the Mushrooms carefully on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Select large flat Mushrooms, wash and dry them, remove the stalks, and trim evenly. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, toast them, trim off the crusts, butter thickly, lay the slices in a dish, put the Mushrooms on them, cover closely, and put them in a moderate oven until three-parts cooked. Meanwhile finely chop the stalks and a few shallots, add grated breadcrumb, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and work them up into a paste with beaten yolk of egg ; fill half of the Mushrooms with this mixture, place the remaining half on top, replace the cover of the dish, and return them, to the oven for ten minutes longer. Heat some rich brown gravy, pour it over the Mushrooms, and serve. (3) Take a couple of dozen Mushrooms, remove the stalks, wash them, scrape out a little of their insides,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 959 For details respecting Culina/ry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. sprinkle slightly with salt, and put them on a colander to drain. Put a few table-spoonfuls of chopped shallot and onion into a stewpan with a little oil or butter, fry gently, and add gradually the trimmings of the Mushrooms and a few small Mushrooms cut in pieces. When the moisture has evaporated, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and finely- chopped parsley, and cook for two minutes; add some sweet herbs, the same quantity of rasped breadcrumb, and 2 table- spoonfuls of brown or tomato sauce; remove the pan from the fire, and thicken the mixture with a few well-beaten yolks of eggs. Stuff the Mushrooms with this, smooth- ing the top, dust over a few breadcrumbs, put them on a baking-sheet, baste with oil or liquefied butter, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Baked Mushrooms in Cups.—Peel and cut off the stalks of a dozen or more large flat Mushrooms, and chop them finely. Put the trimmings in a stewpan with some water or clear gravy, and boil well. When nicely flavoured, strain the liquor, return it to the stewpan with the Mushrooms and a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently at the side of the fire for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour. Beat four eggs well in b teacupful of thick cream, and strain. When the Mushrooms are ready, move the stewpan away from the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Butter some small cups or moulds, fill each with the above mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. Prepare some white sauce. When baked, turn the Mushrooms out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Boiled Mushrooms in Cream.—Peel and trim the required quantity of Mushrooms. Put some cream in a pan over the fire with pepper and salt; as soon as it comes to the boil, rub the Mushrooms with salt and pepper, put them in the cream, and boil for four minutes. Serve very hot. Broiled Mushrooms.—(1) Wash the Mushrooms in plenty of cold salted water, trim off all defective or bruised por- tions, cut off the roots, and if there are plenty of Mush- rooms, separate the stems and caps. Lay the caps on a dripping-pan or baking-sheet set on top of the stove with the gills uppermost, put a small piece of butter and a little Fig. 1204. Broiled Mushrooms. pepper and salt in each cap, and leave them over the fire until the butter melts; then serve (see Fig. 1204). (2) Trim the required quantity of very large Mushrooms, put them, stalks upwards, on a hot gridiron well nibbed with beef-suet to prevent them sticking to it, dust over with salt and pepper, and broil until they are done and begin to steam. Brash over with butter, place them on a dish, sprinkle with more pepper and salt, and serve. (3) Select large Mushrooms, peel them, remove the stalks, lay them carefully on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Beat up a lump of butter together with some finely-minced parsley, strained lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Mushrooms on it, the hollow side up, put a lump of the prepared butter in each, and serve at once. (4) Pare the required quantity of large open Mushrooms, leaving the stalks on, cut these to points, wash well, and leave them on the back of a sieve to drain. Put into a stewpan 2oz. of butter, a little chopped parsley and onions, and fry until the butter is melted. Put the Mushrooms, stalks upwards, in a pan, pour over the butter, &c., salt, pepper well with black pepper, and put them over the fire to broil. When done, add a little stock, give them a warm Mushrooms—continued. up, take out the Mushrooms, and set them on a dish. Add a little more stock to the gravy in the pan, warm that also, and stir in 1 wineglassful of 1^:1 wine; pour this liquor over the Mushrooms, and serve very hot. Broiled Mushrooms with Kidneys.—Split open four kidneys, season with salt and pepper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, basting with a little butter. Select eight large flat Mushrooms, remove their stalks, trim neatly, and broil them also. When cooked, put a small piece of butter inside each Mushroom, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and place half a kidney on each. Cut some slices of bread rin. thick, then with a tin cutter a little larger in diameter than the Mushrooms cut eight rounds out of the slices; fry them in butter until nicely browned, then drain and place a Mushroom on each. Spread a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the rounds on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Broiled Mushrooms on Toast.—Trim off the stalks of some large Mushrooms, peel, score them once across the top, lay them on a gridiron, and grill over a slow fire, turning when done on one side. Cut some slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them nicely on both sides. Cut out of the slices of toast some rounds the same size as the Mushrooms, butter them, and place a Mushroom on each. Put a small lump of flutter in each Mushroom, and dust over with salt and pepper. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts nicely on it, garnish with ^ried parsley, and serve. Croustades of Mushrooms.—Peel an onion, chop it very fine, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown colour. Stir frequently, add 4oz. of finely-cut Mushrooms, and simmer gently until they are about three-parts done. Put two soaked anchovies in a mortar and pound them, adding gradually I teaspoonful of mustard and 3 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce; put this in with the Mushrooms, and boil for two or three minutes longer, or until they are done. Have ready some croustade cases, fill them up with the mixture, and serve. Devilled Mushrooms.—Cut off the stalks even with the head, and peel and trim the Mushrooms neatly. Brush them over inside with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, and season with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, put the Mushrooms on a hot dish, and serve. Dried Mushrooms.—After carefully cleansing the Mush- rooms, by washing them in plenty of cold salted water, and trimming off the defective portions, spread them on sheets of stout paper laid in dripping-pans, set the pans in the sun, or in a cool oven, and gradually dry the Mushrooms until all the moisture has evaporated. After the Mushrooms are dried, pack them in a tin can with a tight cover, and keep in a cool dry place until wanted. Essence of Mushrooms.—Wash 2lb. of Mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon- juice and 4 table-spoonful of salt, put the lid on, and set it over the fire for a few minutes. Pour lqt. of chicken broth in with the Mushrooms, boil it for ten minutes, then strain through a broth-napkin. Leave the essence till cooled, then bottle it for use. Forcemeat of Mushrooms. -Take Jib. of button Mushrooms, peel off the upper skin, cut off the stems, and put them, after pounding in a mortar, into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter ; put in the Mushrooms, and stew slowly for seven or eight minutes, adding a little cayenne and ground all- spice. Put them on a plate, leaning against one another so that the fat will drain, and let them get cold ; then chop them up fine, add Jib. of breadcrumbs, season with a little grated nutmeg, cayenne, mace, and salt, add a little butter, and mix the whole with the yolks of two eggs to make the mass firm, and pour in sufficient of the gravy from the Mushrooms to make it of the desired thickness. Form it into balls, and either poach them six minutes for soup, or fry them for seven minutes in butter, and use them to garnish roast poultry.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 960 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. Fricassee of Mushrooms.—Select large Mushrooms, peel, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until the outsides are brown. Now put them into a stewpan with a little milk, stew for ten minutes, then add 2 or 3 table spoonfuls each of white wine and browning, thicken with a liaison of Hour and butter, turn all out on to a hot dish, and serve with croft tons of fried bread. Fried Mushrooms.—Trim off the stalks and remove the skins from some very large Mushrooms; put them, the hollow, side up, in a frying-pan with a little butter or lard, dust over with salt and pepper, and fry them very gently until quite tender. Put the Mushrooms on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Fried Mushrooms on Toast. -Clean the Mushrooms, chop them very finely, put them in a stewpan with a good- sized lump of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, pounded mace, and a small quantity of cayenne, and toss about over the fire. Cut two or three slices of bread off a tin-loaf, and toast them a delicate brown on both sides; butter them while hot, cut into quarters, put them on a hot dish, cover with the Mushrooms, and serve. Fumet of Mushrooms.—This is much usod by artistic cooks. It is prepared as follows: Clean some Mushrooms, and chop them up very small. -Put them into a flat stew- pan with some salt over them, the juice of one lemon to every Jib. of Mushrooms, and a piece of fresh butter as large as a fowl’s egg. Let the contents of the pan, with the lid on, stew very slowly at blood-heat only, and in the course of a little time a very strongly-flavoured juice will have exuded from the Mushrooms. Artistic cooks use this fumet in preference to the best ketchup ever made. Imitation Mushrooms.—Put some Italian meringue paste in a biscuit-forcer, and squeeze it out in the shape of long corks and in round drops to represent the head of the Mush- rooms. Dust over very lightly with grated chocolate, and dry them in a hot closet or mouth of the oven. Put two of the long pieces together to represent the stalks and push the thin end into the inside part of the heads. Dip the broad end of the stalk into the white of egg and then in grated chocolate to give it a more natural colour, and they are then ready, anti can be served at once. Mushrooms a la Bordelaise.—Pour oil on a baking-dish, dust it over with breadcrumbs and minced parsley, then put a layer of peeled and cleaned Mushrooms, then more oil, parsley, and breadcrumbs, next more Mushrooms, and lastly Fig. 1205. Mushrooms i la Bordelaise. oil, parsley, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Put the dish in a moderate oven, bake the Mushrooms for thirty minutes or so, and serve hot. See Fig. 1205. Mushrooms en Croustade.—Procure some fresh and very firm hot-bed Mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and wash the heads with a sponge dipped in clear water; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, dredge with salt and pepper, fry till all the moisture has evaporated, then pour in some white sauce, and move them to the side of the fire. Cut a croustade out of bread, mask it well with butter, using a paste-brush for the purpose, place it oh a gridiron, and dry in the oven. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a little cream, mix them with the Mushrooms, stir over a sIoav fire till thickened (they must not boil), then move them to the side, and add the juice of a lemon and a small lump of butter. Put the croustade on a hot dish, pour in the Mushroom mixture, and serve. Mushrooms—continued. Mushrooms au Gratin.—(1) Select a dozen Mushrooms of about 2in. in diameter, cut oft' the stalks, wash thoroughly, and drain on a cloth. Put loz. of butter and Joz. of flour into a saucepan, stir gently over the fire for two minutes, pour in 1 joint of broth, mix well, and boil quickly until reduced to half its original quantity. Pare the stalks, chop them up, drain on a cloth, and add them to the sauce, with 3 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot, and a little salt and pepper. Place the pan over a brisk fire, and boil the contents quickly for eight minutes. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of oil in a saut6-pan, turn the Mushrooms into it, stalk side uppermost, fill them with sweet herbs, and sprinkle over with a little bread crust raspings. Cook quickly for ten minutes, put them on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Clean and chop six or seven moderate-sized Mush- rooms, put them into a sma’l saucepan, mix with them 1 table-spoonful each of scraped fat bacon and grated lean ham, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of finely-chopped thyme. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Procure some large flat Mushrooms, cut off their stalks, peel them, and trim neatly round the edges with a sharp knife. Put about 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each Mushroom, and strew over them some grated stale bread, levelling with the flat blade of a knife. Thickly butter a baking-dish, lay the Mushrooms on it, and put them in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Prepare some rich brown sauce, season it with chopped Mushrooms, shallots, a small quantity of thyme, and a bay-leaf, also mix in f wineglassful of white wine. When the Mushrooms are cooked, arrange them nicely in a pyramid on a dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, and garnish with a border of fried parsley; strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve all together while very hot. (3) Chop a few Mushrooms finely together with half their quantity of parsley and a moderate amount of lean ham and fat bacon ; mix all these together, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of chopped thyme, put the mixture into a stewpan, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes ; then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two or three eggs. Skin and remove the stalks from some large flat Mushrooms, trim them neatly round the edges, and fill each with some of the above mixture; lay them side by side in a baking-dish, strew over them some finely-grated breadcrumb, put a small jnece of butter on each, and place them in a brisk oven. In about fifteen minutes’ time, or when nicely browned over the top, arrange the Mushrooms on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Remove the skins and stalks from lib. of small Mushrooms, and chop) them; put them into a stewpan with Jib. of ham, two or three shallots, and a moderate _ , quantity of parsley all chopped, season with salt and peppier, and fry. Beat the yolks of three eggs, stir them in with the above mixture, and move it away from the fire. Remove the skins and stalks from some large flat Mushrooms, and stuff them with the above mixture. Butter a baking-dish, lay in the Mushrooms, strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb over them, and bake in a quick oven for about a-quarter-of-an-hour, or until nicely browned. Prepare a sauce as follows: Finely mince a few small white Mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a chopped shallot, a few sprigs of thyme and a bay-leaf tied together, and J table-spoonful of salad-oil. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in a small wine- glassful of French white wine, and boil until reduced to half its former quantity. Next add a moderate quantity of white sauce, boil it up, skim off all the oil, and remove the thyme and bay-leaf. When the Mushrooms are ready, arrange them nicely on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, garnish with sippets of toast or small crofttons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Mushrooms a la Poulette.—Prepare and trim lgall. of Mushrooms, and put them into a saucepan with Joz. of flour mixed in 1 teacupful of water and strained. Put, : ••• '